passage, so far as they were themselves mother-birds, or sometimes
only maiden-birds. The day had not ended before they began to hold her
off by slight liftings of their wings and rufflings of their feathers,
by quick, evasive flutterings, by subtle ignorances of her approach,
which convinced no one but themselves that they had not seen her. She
sailed with the sort of acquaintance-in-common which every one shares
on a ship leaving port, when people are confused by the kindness of
friends coming to see them off after sending baskets of fruit and
sheaves of flowers, and scarcely know what they are doing or saying.
But when the ship was abreast of Fire Island, and the pilot had gone
over the side, these provisional intimacies of the parting hour began
to restrict themselves. Then the Mother-Bird did not know half the
women she had known at the pier, or quite all the men.

It was not that she did anything obvious to forfeit this knowledge.
Her behavior was if anything too exemplary; it might be thought to
form a reproach to others. Perhaps it was the unseasonable band of
violets around her hat-brim; perhaps it was the vernal gaiety of her
dress; perhaps it was the uncertainty of her anxious eyes, which
presumed while they implored. A mother-bird must not hover too
confidently, too appealingly, near coveys whose preoccupations she
does not share. It might have been her looking and dressing younger
than nature justified; at forty one must not look thirty; in November
one must not, even involuntarily, wear the things of May if one would
have others believe in one's devotion to one's children in Dresden;
one alleges in vain one's impatience to join them as grounds for
joining groups or detached persons who have begun to write home to
their children in New York or Boston.

The very readiness of the Mother-Bird to give security by the mention
of well-known names, to offer proof of her social solvency by the
eager correctness of her behavior, created reluctance around her. Some
would not have her at all from the first; others, who had partially or
conditionally accepted her, returned her upon her hands and withdrew
from the negotiation. More and more she found herself outside that
hard woman-world, and trying less and less to beat her way into it.

The women may have known her better even than she knew herself, and it
may have been through ignorance greater than her own that the men were
more acquiescent. But the men too were not so acquiescent, or not at
all, as time passed.

It would be hard to fix the day, the hour, far harder the moment, when
the Mother-Bird began to disappear from the drawing-room and to appear
in the smoking-room, or say whether she passed from the one to the
other in a voluntary exile or by the rigor of the women's unwritten
law. Still, from time to time she was seen in their part of the ship,
after she was also seen where the band of violets showed strange and
sad through veils of smoke that were not dense enough to hide her
poor, pretty little face, with its faded blue eyes and wistful mouth.
There she passed by quick transition from the conversation of the
graver elderly smokers to the loud laughter of two birds of prey who
became her comrades, or such friends as birds like them can be to
birds like her.

From anything she had said or done there was no reason for her lapse
from the women and the better men to such men; for her transition from
the better sort of women there was no reason except that it happened.
Whether she attached herself to the birds of prey, or they to her, by
that instinct which enables birds of all kinds to know themselves of a
feather remained a touching question.

There remained to the end the question whether she was of a feather
with them, or whether it was by some mischance, or by some such stress
of the elements as drives birds of any feather to flock with birds of
any other. To the end there remained a distracted and forsaken
innocence in her looks. It was imaginable that she had made overtures
to the birds of prey because she had made overtures to every one else;
she was always seeking rather than sought, and her acceptance with
them was as deplorable as her refusal by better birds. Often they were
seen without her, when they had that look of having escaped, which
others wore; but she was not often seen without them.

There is not much walking-weather on a November passage, and she was
seen less with them in the early dark outdoors than in the late light
within, by which she wavered a small form through the haze of their
cigars in the smoking-room, or in the grill-room, where she showed in
faint eclipse through the fumes of the broiling and frying, or
through the vapors of the hot whiskies. The birds of prey were then
heard laughing, but whether at her or with her it must have been
equally sorrowful to learn.

Perhaps they were laughing at the maternal fondness which she had used
for introduction to the general acquaintance lost almost in the moment
of winning it. She seemed not to resent their laughter, though she
seemed not to join in it. The worst of her was the company she kept;
but since no better would allow her to keep it, you could not
confidently say she would not have liked the best company on board. At
the same time you could not have said she would; you could not have
been sure it would not have bored her. Doubtless these results are not
solely the sport of chance; they must be somewhat the event of choice
if not of desert.

For anything you could have sworn, the Mother-Bird would have liked to
be as good as the best. But since it was not possible for her to be
good in the society of the best, she could only be good in that of the
worst. It was to be hoped that the birds of prey were not cruel to
her; that their mockery was never unkind if ever it was mockery. The
cruelty which must come came when they began to be seen less and less
with her, even at the late suppers, through the haze of their cigars
and the smoke of the broiling and frying, and the vapors of the hot
whiskies. Then it was the sharpest pang of all to meet her wandering
up and down the ship's promenades, or leaning on the rail and looking
dimly out over the foam-whitened black sea. It is the necessity of
birds of prey to get rid of other birds when they are tired of them,
and it had doubtless come to that.

One night, the night before getting into port, when the curiosity
which always followed her with grief failed of her in the heightened
hilarity of the smoking-room, where the last bets on the ship's run
were making, it found her alone beside a little iron table, of those
set in certain nooks outside the grill-room. There she sat with no one
near, where the light from within fell palely upon her. The boon birds
of prey, with whom she had been supping, had abandoned her, and she
was supporting her cheek on the small hand of the arm that rested on
the table. She leaned forward, and swayed with the swaying ship; the
violets in her bolero-toque quivered with the vibrations of the
machinery. She was asleep, poor Mother-Bird, and it would have been
impossible not to wish her dreams were kind.




                                  XI

                              THE AMIGO


His name was really Perez Armando Aldeano, but in the end everybody
called him the amigo, because that was the endearing term by which
he saluted all the world. There was a time when the children called
him "Span-yard" in their games, for he spoke no tongue but Spanish,
and though he came from Ecuador, and was no more a Spaniard than they
were English, he answered to the call of "Span-yard!" whenever he
heard it. He came eagerly in the hope of fun, and all the more eagerly
if there was a hope of mischief in the fun. Still, to discerning
spirits, he was always the amigo, for, when he hailed you so, you
could not help hailing him so again, and whatever mock he put upon you
afterward, you were his secret and inalienable friend.

The moment of my own acceptance in this quality came in the first
hours of expansion following our getting to sea after long detention
in the dock by fog. A small figure came flying down the dock with
outspread arms, and a joyful cry of "Ah, amigo!" as if we were now
meeting unexpectedly after a former intimacy in Bogotá; and the
amigo clasped me round the middle to his bosom, or more strictly
speaking, his brow, which he plunged into my waistcoat. He was clad in
a long black overcoat, and a boy's knee-pants, and under the peak of
his cap twinkled the merriest black eyes that ever lighted up a
smiling face of olive hue. Thereafter, he was more and more, with the
thinness of his small black legs, and his habit of hopping up and
down, and dancing threateningly about, with mischief latent in every
motion, like a crow which in being tamed has acquired one of the worst
traits of civilization. He began babbling and gurgling in Spanish, and
took my hand for a stroll about the ship, and from that time we were,
with certain crises of disaffection, firm allies.

There were others whom he hailed and adopted his friends, whose legs
he clung about and impeded in their walks, or whom he required to toss
him into the air as they passed, but I flattered myself that he had a
peculiar, because a primary, esteem for myself. I have thought it
might be that, Bogotá being said to be a very literary capital, as
those things go in South America, he was mystically aware of a common
ground between us, wider and deeper than that of his other
friendships. But it may have been somewhat owing to my inviting him to
my cabin to choose such portion as he would of a lady-cake sent us on
shipboard at the last hour. He prattled and chuckled over it in the
soft gutturals of his parrot-like Spanish, and rushed up on deck to
eat the frosting off in the presence of his small companions, and to
exult before them in the exploitation of a novel pleasure. Yet it
could not have been the lady-cake which lastingly endeared me to him,
for by the next day he had learned prudence and refused it without
withdrawing his amity.

This, indeed, was always tempered by what seemed a constitutional
irony, and he did not impart it to any one without some time making
his friend feel the edge of his practical humor. It was not long
before the children whom he gathered to his heart had each and all
suffered some fall or bump or bruise which, if not of his intention,
was of his infliction, and which was regretted with such winning
archness that the very mothers of them could not resist him, and his
victims dried their tears to follow him with glad cries of "Span-yard,
Span-yard!" Injury at his hands was a favor; neglect was the only real
grievance. He went about rolling his small black head, and darting
roguish lightnings from under his thick-fringed eyes, and making more
trouble with a more enticing gaiety than all the other people on the
ship put together.

The truth must be owned that the time came, long before the end of the
voyage, when it was felt that in the interest of the common welfare,
something must be done about the amigo. At the conversational end of
the doctor's table, where he was discussed whenever the racks were not
on, and the talk might have languished without their inspiration, his
badness was debated at every meal. Some declared him the worst boy in
the world, and held against his half-hearted defenders that something
ought to be done about him; and one was left to imagine all the darker
fate for him because there was nothing specific in these convictions.
He could not be thrown overboard, and if he had been put in irons
probably his worst enemies at the conversational end of the table
would have been the first to intercede for him. It is not certain,
