the silver birch woods that they had any news of Halkett.
A squadron of hussars was already bivouacked there; their wagons were
coming across the fields from the Dreslin road; officers, men, and
horses had taken advantage of the woods to escape observation from
air-scouts; and three batteries of artillery were parked in the Forêt de
Saïs, where the cannoniers had already begun to cover everything with
green branches.
As they passed through the Forêt de Saïs, out of which a shepherd with
his shaggy dogs was driving his flock, they overtook an officer of
hussars on foot, sauntering along the same path, a lighted cigarette
between his white-gloved fingers.
He stepped aside into the bracken, courteously, in deference to Sister
Eila, and lifted his hand to his shako in salute.  But when he caught
sight of Warner he stepped forward with a quick, boyish smile and held
out his hand.
"Do you remember me?—D’Aurès?  This is Monsieur Warner, is it not?"
They exchanged a handclasp; Warner presented him to Sister Eila.
"This is exceedingly nice," said the American cordially.  "We—Sister
Eila and I—are returning to the Château.  I hope you will come with us."
"If I may venture to pay my respects——"
"You will be welcome, I know."  He added, laughing: "Also, the ladies
will be most interested in the fate of their horses and their
automobiles."
The Vicomte d’Aurès reddened, but laughed:
"The Countess was most gracious, most patriotic," he said.  "But one
could expect nothing less from a De Moidrey.  Nevertheless, I felt like
a bandit that evening.  I left them only a basket wagon and a donkey."
"Which have been greatly appreciated, Monsieur," said Sister Eila,
smiling.  And she told him about the removal of Captain Gray from the
school to the Château.
"Oh, by the way," exclaimed D’Aurès, "we have a British aviator with
us—a friend of yours, Sister Eila, and of Mr. Warner."
"Halkett!"
"Yes, indeed.  It appears that Captain Halkett has specialized in this
region, so he has been assigned to us.  I have the honor of a personal
acquaintance with him."
"Where is he?" asked Warner.
"He is near here somewhere.  His machine, a Bristol, is to be parked
with ours on the plateau yonder.  I think they are erecting the hangars
now."
They entered the wicket of the lodge gate and advanced along the drive
toward the house.
Warner said:
"All this movement means the invasion of Alsace-Lorraine, I take it."
D’Aurès nodded.
"Could you give me an idea of the situation as it stands, Captain?"
"I can only guess.  Briefly, we are moving on Strassburg from the Donon
peaks to Château-Salins.  As I understand it, our armies now stretch
from the Sambre to the Seine, from the Meuse to the Oise.
"I can tell you only what is gossiped about among cavalry officers.  We
believe that we are leading a great counter-offensive movement; that it
is our General Joffre’s strategy to drive the Germans out of upper
Alsace, block Metz and Strassburg, and, holding them there in our steel
pincers, let loose our army on their flank and rear."
"And Longwy?  And this drive just north of us at Ausone?"
D’Aurès smiled.
"Can you still hear the cannonade?"
They halted to listen; there was no longer that deadly rumor from the
north.
"Verdun and Toul are taking care of that raid, I think," said D’Aurès
pleasantly.  "It comes from Metz, of course.  Verdun must look out for
the country between it and Longwy, too.  That is not our route. Ours
lies by Nancy toward Vic and Moyenvic, and through Altkirch to
Mülhausen, and then—" he laughed—"it does not become a Frenchman to
prophesy or boast.  There were too many dreamers in 1870.
"I am telling merely the gossip of our camps.  It is human to gossip
when the day’s work is over.  But for the rest—route step and plod
ahead!—That is what counts, not bragging or splendid dreams."
When they reached the terrace Warner fell back to speak to Asticot.
"I’ve arranged for you at the Golden Peach.  Madame Arlon knows."  He
handed Asticot a key.  "There’s plenty to do in my studio down there.
Get some wood and make cases for my canvases.  Cover the chassis with
toile and prime them with white lead.  Use an ivory palette knife and
let them have the sun when there is any and when there is no wind and
dust.  That will keep you busy until I send for you.  Do you
comprehend?"
"Yes, M’sieu’....  May I not walk behind M’sieu’ when he takes the air?"
Warner scowled at him, but he looked so exactly like a shiftless,
disreputable and mongrel dog who timidly desires to linger, yet is
fearful of a kick, that the American laughed.
"A fine bargain I have in you!" he said.  "You prefer rambling to work,
it appears!"
"I prefer the vicinity of M’sieu’," said Asticot naïvely.
"Go back to the inn and see if you can do an honest hour’s work!"
retorted Warner; and he turned and rejoined Sister Eila, who had taken
D’Aurès up the steps of the terrace.
It appeared that the ladies were on the north terrace. On the way
through the hall, Sister Eila excused herself and mounted the stairs for
a look-in on Gray. At the same moment, Peggy Brooks came out of the
billiard room, saw D’Aurès, recognized him.
"Oh," she said, extending her hand, "I am so glad you have come back!
How is my Minerva runabout?"
"I’m sorry I don’t know," he replied, blushing; "I didn’t steal it for
myself, you see."
"You didn’t steal it!  It’s a gift.  It’s mine to give. I give it to
you!  My sister took all the credit of giving away the horses and
cars.  But I insist on your having my Minerva runabout.  It’s a charming
car.  You’ll fall in love with it if they let you drive it.  Come out to
the terrace and speak to my sister and to my dearest friend, Philippa
Wildresse."
Warner, much amused to observe the capture of this young man, followed
them out to the south terrace.
He certainly was an ornamental young man of enchanting manners, and his
popularity was immediate.
To Warner Philippa came presently:
"Where have you been?" she asked.  "And couldn’t you have taken me?"
"Dear child, I was out before sunrise prowling about the hills with that
vagabond at my heels—Asticot."
"What did you see?"
"Uhlans on Vineyard Hill, across the Récollette. Wildresse was with
them."
"He!"
"Yes, the miserable spy!  If he’s not gone clear away some of D’Aurès’
men had better try to round him up and get rid of him....  After that,
Sister Eila and I went to the school.  More Uhlans came sniffing around,
but they cleared out in a hurry when our cavalry appeared.  Our
artillery shelled the Germans out of the Esser quarries—you must have
heard the firing?"
"Yes.  We all thought that the Germans had arrived.  Poor Mr. Gray
looked so disgusted!"
"Philippa, Halkett is here somewhere."
"Oh!" she exclaimed happily.
"He’s here with his machine—an aëroplane of sorts—Bristol, I believe.
No doubt he’ll come up to the house when he has a chance.  I suppose
Sister Eila has gone up to tell Gray."
They had strolled around to the eastern parapet and now stood looking
out over the tree tops.
"What has happened at Ausone?" she asked.  "The cannon have stopped
firing."
"I saw Ausone burning from Vineyard Hill.  It’s all knocked to pieces,
Philippa.  What I think has happened is this: troops from Verdun and
Toul—perhaps from Chalons—have entered Ausone in time to save the fort.
I suppose our infantry are intrenched along the Récollette and that
there is going to be more fighting in Ausone Forest, which must be full
of Germans."
"You don’t think they’ll come here?"
"I don’t know.  The army which you see below us everywhere in the valley
is probably on its way to invade Alsace.  D’Aurès thinks so.  I suppose
this line will be defended.  We shall hear more cannonading, I fancy.
Anyway, they are digging trenches to fall back on."
"Where?"
"Along the Récollette."
From where they were leaning on the stone balustrade, they could see
pontoons spanning the river. Across them troops and wagons were passing;
through every ford cavalry were splashing; the quarry bridge and road
were packed with motor trucks escorted by cavalry; and on the Saïs
highway artillery was still passing toward Ausone.
Her cheeks framed by her hands, elbows on the parapet, Philippa gazed at
the moving host below.  She wore a thin white gown; a scarf fell from
her shoulders; her thick, beautiful hair was full of ruddy gleams,
accenting the snowy neck and throat.
"If I set up my easel will you let me have a try at you?" he asked.
"Yes, but you’ve had no luncheon.  I’ll bring you something, and you can
arrange your canvas while I’m gone."
But they found Sister Eila had arranged for him to lunch with Gray, so
he sat with that battered and patient Englishman, chatting, watching the
troops in the valley from the open window, and lunching comfortably.
Sister Eila glanced in, smiled, then went lightly away toward the
eastern wing of the house, where fresh consignments of bandages were to
be sterilized and stored in Red Cross boxes—gauze rolls, plugs for
bullet wounds, body bandages, fracture bandages, arm slings, rolls of
unbleached muslin, of cotton, of gauze.
As she passed the open door of the chapel, she halted, faced the altar
and made her reverence.  Then, crossing herself, she rose erect, turned
to continue her way, and encountered Halkett face to face.
A bright flush leaped to her cheeks; his own face reddened to his hair
under the bronze coat of tan.
"I am so glad to see you," she said steadily, offering her hand.  "We
heard you were in Saïs with your aëroplane.  How did you happen to come
into the east wing?  It must have been closed when you were here
before?"
"I have never before been in this house.  I saw you cross the court as I
mounted the terrace steps."  He tried to ease the constraint in his
voice.  "I wanted to speak to you—first of anybody—in Saïs....  Are you
well?"
"Perfectly.  And you, Captain Halkett?"
"You seem thinner.  You do not spare yourself."
"We scarcely have time to think of ourselves," she said, smiling.  "I am
trying to fit up a little hospital here; Madame de Moidrey offers the
house."
"I understand that my friend, Captain Gray, is here?"
"Poor boy!  I must not detain you any longer. You will desire to pay
your respects to Madame de Moidrey and her sister and to the beautiful
Miss Wildresse——"
"Philippa!  Here?"
"You know her?  Is she not lovely?  I find her charming.  And—so should
all young men," she added with a little laugh.  "Therefore—I shall no
longer detain you, Captain Halkett——"
"May I—hope to see you again?"
"I hope so, indeed," she replied cheerfully.  "Do you remain for a while
in Saïs?"
"For a while, I think."
There fell a silence, which became a little strained. Sister Eila looked
up at him from lowered eyes; then her face went white and she laid her
hand flat against the chapel wall beside her, as though for support.
"Then—if I may hope to see you again—inspect your hospital, perhaps——"
She nodded, still leaning on the chapel wall.
So he went away swiftly, very straight in his field uniform, and she saw
him cross the court, head erect, looking directly before him as though
he saw nothing.
