he who was responsible for the chaise getting home. She 
had said good-by with a ceremonious courtesy to Clara 
and left her in quite a twitter, as if an honor had been 
done her, and she talked to Abial all the way down the 
drive about the beauty and dignity of the place and the 
glory of his name. He stood and looked absently after 
her while the chaise went wavering along the road. Ac- 
tually he was thinking neither of her nor of Larry whom 
he cotdd have cursed, but no more warmly than he cursed 
him every day for being a vagabond of a man, desirous 
of neither power nor place. Something had waked in him, 
not the love of good or the repudiation of ill. It was 



 

something that took back to the men of an elder time 
andy standing there in the sunlight, he was afraid. Not 
of God. His god was a cast-iron deity who resided in 
the Old Testament and was appropriately interpreted to 
him by the Reverend John Peterson who saw heaven and 
hell like charted maps. But he was, for that minute, 
afraid of his father who had told him to share with Larry, 
and he was afraid of the story of Tabbie's lot. 


When Hugh came up to his mother, waiting for him, he 
smiled into her eyes a little grimly, perhaps meaningly 
too, in a way that made her feel he was taking the right to 
challenge her decisive wisdom, and asked: 
Mum, don't you think we're plain silly? " 
Why? " asked Mary, though she knew. 

" Building a fence round Ellen, when I've got less than 
a week to see her in." 

" Hugh," said she, bent, though despairingly, on forc- 
ing him back with her to the safe, decent standards, 
" don't you realize Ellen was married yesterday? " 

" Well, no," said Hugh, " I don't suppose I do. Any- 
how, it's grotesque. It's a silly piece of business. It 
can't stand. It isn't going to." 

"Anyway you can't go and make love to her," said 
Mary, plucking up spirit to combat her clever boy who 
now, with words pat to their purpose, was bewilderingly 
dififerent and hard to cope with. 

"I hadn't thought about that particularly," said 
Hugh. " There are quite a lot of things besides making 
love. But I'd like to feel I was sitting in the same room 
with her. Come on over, mother, if it's going to dis- 
tress you to have me go alone. Let's go and sit in the 
same room with Ellen." 

Mary yielded helplessly. What could she do, her ador- 
ing mind asked her, with a son who could argue her down 
and, when that failed, charm her into following? Ellen 

saw them coming, and met them at the door. She had 

 

ideas about taking them into the sitting-room where Ar- 
delia had kissed Peleg, and if she led them through to the 
kitchen that would be queer. 

" Let's go into the orchard,'' said she. " The old 
seat's there still, Hugh." 

He smiled at her, and she smiled back, with the same 
thought : that he had been gone so long things might have 
changed or been swept away. When they hadn't, it wsls 
wonderful. She came down the steps, and they went 
across to the orchard, Mary leading and the two behind 
her hand in hand. Mary was bewildered by the audacity 
of their assumption that the path was clear before them 
or that it could be made clear. She was angry, too, in 
a worried way, and this with Ellen. Again she asked her- 
self the question she had been asking all that day: if 
Ellen could have foimd out, all in an instant, that there 
was nobody for her but Hugh, couldn't she have guessed 
it at least a day before? To that there was no answer. 
There never, to her mind, would be one. At the old seat 
under the gilliflower tree they stopped, each with a smile 
for her. Ellen's was a wistful,, pleading one. She knew 
she had done a thing her world would find abominably 
wrong, and she was sorry: chiefly for Mary Neale. She 
hadn't got to herself yet. Lideed, it didn't seem of the 
greatest importance about her share in it, because the 
really overwhelming thing had already happened. Hugh 
had come home. 

" No, I'm not going to sit down," said Mary, in despair 
of bringing them to her uneasy fears, and not actually 
knowing what she wanted them to do. For she would 
have defended Ellen against going back to Ben. That 
" Never! never! " was ringing in her ears. " And I can't 
stand here as if I wanted to watch you," she exclaimed, 
suddenly beyond her patience. " Hugh, if your brother 



 

finds you here under the trees, looking as you dp • — poor 
Ben ! " she ended miserably .- 

They were a sight to drive a jealous heart far, stand- 
ing there, not hand in hand now, but side by side, as if, 
Mary angrily thought, they were waiting before her to 
be married. The sun rays struck through the trees and 
made a flicker on them. They were beautiful with the 
movingness of youth, and Mary, who had seen the romance 
of her own love go down in hungry endurance, knew again 
that here was the true fire and that she warmed her hands 
at it. She felt herself drifting with them, and reached 
out mentally for something to stay their course. The 
something she vaguely had in mind was what she called 
bringing them to a realizing sense. But Ellen had caught 
herself back. Mary Neale's face was drawing her, the 
distress on it, the perplexity already marking its fair 
surface. Ellen thought, with a quick rebound, she had 
no right to bring such a look to Mary Neale's face. In 
the passionate impetuousness of youth she declared to 
herself she'd rather die. But what could she say and 
where could she go? She was the first to see Larry com- 
ing along the road from AbiaPs, and she knew he would 
go in by her gate and home along the lane. 

" There's Larry," said she. " Let's all walk down with 
him across the woods." 

Mary Neale thought it was a silly thing to do, when 
they might go into Ellen's and sit down, if they'd got 
to talk impossible things over prematurely, with no one to 
advise, from outer standpoints; but she wasn't going to 
desert and hear afterward that they had met Ben on the 
wood path and the brothers' struggle had been renewed. 
Larry, who was exhilarated from his own encounter with 
queer things, seemed not to be surprised at their electing 
to trail him home, and Ellen left Hugh and went on with 



 

him, and Mary and her son followed. And now Mary 
was briefly comforted because Hugh took her hand and 
they were the ones to walk in that childish intimacy. 
They didn't talk, beyond absent comments on the en- 
croachments of little wood-citizens, " ivories '' and tril- 
lium and the rest, that seemed always to be pressing into 
the path, to court crushing from the foot of man, and she 
noticed Ellen and Larry didnt speak at all. Only when 
they got to the point where the other path led off to the 
violet bank, Ellen called to Hugh over her shoulder in a 
voice Mary could not read in the light of anything she 
knew, and he called back : 

" Yes, dear, I remember." 

Larry knew what it meant and, with a sudden savage 
desire toward the completion of happy destinies, wished 
they would turn aside and go back to the old battle- 
ground and kiss and plight themselves unlawfully. But 
they all walked on, now in silence, to his house, and he 
opened the door for them and they went in and sat down, 
Mary suddenly, weakly, as if she felt the weariness of 
her part. And immediately Ellen pulled herself together, 
as she had determined to do, on the way, and spoke. She 
was not now trembling and flushed with happiness, but 
deeply grave. 

" I*m not going to trouble anybody," said she. 

" No,'' said Larry. " We know that." 

" But," said Ellen, " if what I'm going to do is wrong, 
I shall do it just the same." 

Mary watched her with a dull intentness, conscious 
chiefly of her tired head. What was she going to 
do? Something that would tire everybody's head still 
more? 

" I don't know where I'm going," said Ellen. " I can't 
think." 



 

That was it, Mary thought. None of them could 
think. 

" But,'' said Ellen, in a voice that now made its way 
clearly, "I sha'n't stay with Ben. Not ever. Not as 
