something again glimmers — the possibility of 
making Book 9 quand meme Cissy and Horton 
and Gray; twisting out, that is, some admirable 
way of her being participant in, "present at", 
what here happens between them as to their own 
affair. I say these things after all with the sense, 
so founded on past experience, that, in closer 
quarters and the intimacy of composition, pre- 
noted arrangements, proportions and relations, 
do most uncommonly insist on making themselves 
different by shifts and variations, always im- 
proving, which impose themselves as one goes 
and keep the door open always to something 
more right and more related. It is subject to 
that constant possibility, all the while, that one 
does pre-note and tentatively sketch; a fact so 
constantly before one as to make too idle any 
waste of words on it. At the same time I do ab- 
solutely and utterly want to stick, even to the 
very depth, to the general distribution here 
imagined as I have groped on; and I am at least 
now taking a certain Tightness and conclusiveness 
of parts and items for granted until the intimate 
tussle, as I say, happens, if it does happen, to 
dislocate or modify them. Such an assumption 
for instance I find myself quite loving to make 
in presence of the vision quite colouring up for 
me yesterday of Book 9 as given to Gray and 

35° 



 

Horton and Cissy Together, as I may rudely 
express it, and Book 10, to repeat, given, with a 
splendid richness and comprehensiveness, to Ro- 
sanna, as I hope to have shown Book I as so 
given. Variety, variety — I want to go in for 
that for all the possibilities of my case may be 
worth; and I see, I feel, how a sort of fond fancy 
of it is met by the distribution, the little cluster 
of determinations, or, so to speak, for the pleasure 
of putting it, determinatenesses, so noted. It 
gives me the central mass of the thing for my 
hero's own embrace and makes beginning and 
end sort of confront each other over it. 

Is it vain to do anything but say, that is but 
feel, that this situation of the Three in Book 9 
absolutely demands the intimate grip for clear- 
ing itself up, working itself out ? Yes, perfectly 
vain, I reflect, as at all precluding the high urgency 
and decency of my seeing in advance just how 
and where I plant my feet and direct my steps. 
Express absolutely, to this end, the conclusive 
sense, the clear firm function, of Book 9 — out of 
which the rest bristles. I want it, as for that 
matter I want each Book, with the last longing 
and fullest intention, to be what it is "amusing" 
and regaling to think of as "complete in itself"; 
otherwise a thoroughly expressed Occasion, or 
as I have kept calling it Aspect, such as one can 
go at, thanks to the flow of the current in it, in 
the firmest possible little narrative way. The 





 

form of the Occasion is the form that I somehow 
see as here very particularly presenting itself and 
contributing its aid to that impression of the 
Three Together which I try to focus. Where, 
exactly, and exactly how, are they thus vividly 
and workably together? — what is the most- 
"amusing" way of making them so ? It is funda- 
mental for me to note that my action represents 
and embraces the sequences of a Year, not going 
beyond this and not falling short of it.' I can't 
get my Unity, can't keep it, on the basis of more 
than a year, and can't get my complexity, don't 
want to, in anything a bit less. I see a Year right, 
in fine, and it brings me round therefore to the 
early summer from the time of my original Ex- 
position. With which it comes to me of course 
that one of the things accruing to Gray under 
his Uncle's Will is the house at Newport, which 
belonged to the old man, and which I have no 
desire to go into any reason whatever for his 
heir's having got rid of. There is the house at 
Newport — as to which it comes over me that I 
kind of see him in it once or twice during the 
progress of the autumn's, the winter's, the spring's 
events. Isn't it also a part of my affair that I 
see the Bradhams with a Newport place, and am 
more or less encouraged herewith to make out 
the Scene of Book 9, the embracing Occasion, of 
the three, as a "staying" of them, in the natural 
way, the inevitable, the illustrative, under some 





 

roof that places them vividly in relation to each 
other. Of course Mrs. Bradham has her great 
characteristic house away from N.Y., where any- 
thing and everything may characteristically find 
their background — the whole case being com- 
patible with that lively shakiness of fortune that 
I have glanced at; only I want to keep the whole 
thing, so far as my poor little "documented" 
state permits, on the lines of absolutely current 
New York practice, as I further reflect I probably 
don't want to move Gray an inch out of N.Y. 
"during the winter", this probably a quite un- 
necessarily bad economy. Having what I have 
of New York isn't the question of using it, and 
it only, as entirely adequate from Book 4 to 8 
inclusive ? To keep everything as like these 
actualities of N.Y. as possible, for the sake of 
my "atmosphere", I must be wary and wise; 
in the sense for instance that said actualities 
don't at all comprise people's being at Newport 
early in the summer. How then, however, came 
the Bradhams to be there at the time noted in 
my Book 1 ? I reflect happily apropos of this 
that my there positing the early summer (in 
Book 1) is a stroke that I needn't at all now take 
account of; it having been but an accident of 
my small vague plan as it glimmered to me from 
the very first go-off". No, definitely, the time- 
scheme must a bit move on, and give help there- 
by to the place-scheme; if I want Gray to arrive 





 

en plein Newport, as I do for immediate control 
of the assault of his impressions, it must be a 
matter of August rather than of June; and noth- 
ing is simpler than to shift. Let me indeed so 
far modify as to conceive that 15 or 16 months 
will be as workable as a Year — practically they 
will count as the period both short enough and 
long enough; and will bring me for Nine and 
Ten round to the Newport or whatever of Au- 
gust, and to the whatever else of some moment 
of beauty and harmony in the American autumn. 
Let me wind up on a kind of strong October or 
perhaps even better still — yes, better still — latish 
November, in other words admirable Indian 
Summer, note. That brings me round and makes 
the circle whole. Well then I don't seem to want 
a repetition of Newport — as if it were, poor old 
dear, the only place known to me in the coun- 
try ! — for the images that this last suggestion 
causes more or less to swarm. By the blessing 
of heaven I am possessed, sufficiently to say so, 
of Lenox, and Lenox for the autumn is much 
more characteristic too. What do I seem to see 
then ? — as I don't at all want, or imagine myself 
wanting at the scratch, to make a local jump 
between Nine and TSn. These things come — I 
see them coming now. Of course it's perfectly 
conceivable, and entirely characteristic, that Mrs. 
Bradham should have a place at Lenox as well 
as at Newport; if it's necessary to posit her for 





 

the previous summer in her own house at the 
latter place. It's perfectly in order that she may 
have taken one there for the summer — and that 
having let the Lenox place at that time may 
figure as a sort of note of the crack in her financial 
aspect that is part, to call it part, of my concern. 
All of which are considerations entirely meetable 
at the short range — save that I do really seem to 
kind of want Book 10 at Lenox and to want Nine 
there by the same stroke. I should like to stick 
Rosanna at the beautiful Dublin, if it weren't 
for the grotesque anomaly of the name; and after 
all what need serve my purpose better than what 
I already have? It's provided for in Book i 
that she and her father had only taken the house 
at Newport for a couple of months or whatever; 
