feed it, clip its hair to the skull, and then, having 
burned the rags of arrival, dress it in clean substantial 
clothes. While I was in Paris Mr. Jaccaci and Mrs. 
Hill were meeting these trains ; and, when the smaller 
children arrived frightened and tearful they took 
them in their arms and consoled them all the way to 



 

the Relief Depots. The result was that they needed 
the same treatment as the children. 

It was generally the Cure or the Mayor of the 
bombarded towns that had rounded up each little parentless army and headed it toward Paris. When the 
larger children were themselves again they all told the 
same bitter monotonous stories. Suddenly a rain .of 
shrapnel fell on their village or town. They fled to 
the cellars, perhaps to the one Cave Voutee (a stone 
cellar with vaulted roof) and there herded in inde- 
scribable filth, darkness, fear, hunger for weeks and 
even months at a time. The shelling of a village soon 
stopped, but in the larger towns, strategic points desired of the enemy, the bombarding would be incessant. Mothers, or older children, would venture out 
for food, returning perhaps with enough to keep the 
pale flame of life alive, as often as not falling a 
huddled mass a few feet from the exit of the cellar. 
Mothers died of typhoid, pneumonia, in childbirth; 
others never had reached the cellar with their own 
children in the panic; one way or another these children arrived in Paris in a state of orphanhood, al- 
though later investigations proved them to have been 
hiding close to their mother (and sometimes father; 
for all men are not physically fit for war) by the 
width of a street, in a town where the long roar of 
guns dulled the senses and the affections, and the constant hail of shrapnel precluded all search for anything 
but food. 

Moreover, many families had fled from villages 



 

lying in the path of the advancing hordes to the 
neighboring towns, and there separated, crowding into 
the nearest Caves Voutees. Most of these poor women 
carried a baby and were distraught with fear besides ; 
the older children must cling to the mother's skirts 
or become lost in the melee. 

When one considers that many of these children, in 
Rheims or Verdun, for instance, were in cellars not 
for weeks but for months, without seeing the light 
of day, with their hunger never satisfied, with corpses 
unburied for days until a momentary lull encouraged 
the elders to remove the sand bags at the exit and 
thrust them out, with their refuge rocking constantly 
and their ear-drums splitting with raucous sounds, 
where the stenches were enough to poison what red 
blood they had left and there were no medicines to 
care for the afflicted little bodies, one pities anew those 
mentally afflicted people who assert at automatic 
intervals, "I can't see any difference between the 
cruelty of the British blockade and the German sub- 
marines." The resistant powers of the human body, 
given the bare chance of remaining alive, are little 
short of phenomenal. But then, when Nature com- 
pounded the human frame it was to fling it into a new- 
born world far more difficult to survive than even the 
awful conditions of modern warfare. 

Some of these children were wounded before they 
reached the cellars. In many cases the families remained in their homes until the walls, at first pierced 
by the shrapnel, began to tumble about their ears. 




Then they would run to the homes of friends on 
the other side of. the town, staying there until the 
guns, aided by the air scouts, raked such houses as 
had escaped the first assault. Often there were no 
Caves Voutees in the villages. The mothers cowered 
with their children under the tottering walls or lay 
flat on the ground until the German guns turned elsewhere; then they ran for the nearest town. But during these distracted transfers many received wounds 
whose scars they are likely to carry through life. The 
most seriously wounded were taken to the military 
hospitals, where they either died, or, if merely in need 
of bandages, were quickly turned out to make room 
for some poilu arriving in the everlasting procession 
of stretchers. 

Sometimes, flat on their stomachs, the more curious 
and intelligent of the children watched the shells sailing overhead to drop upon some beautiful villa or 
chateau and transpose it into a heap of stones. Where 
there were English or Americans in these bombarded 
towns, or where the Cures or the Mayors of those 
invaded had not been shot or imprisoned, the children 
were sent as quickly as possible to Paris, the mothers, 
when there were any, only too content to let them go 
and to remain behind and take their chances with the 
shells. 

One little Belgian named Bonduelle, who, with two 
brothers, reached Paris in safety, is very graphic: 
"We are three orphans," he replied in answer to the 
usual questions. "Our uncle and aunt took the place 



 

of our dear parents, so soon taken from us. . . . It 
was towards the evening of Wednesday, 6th Septem- 
ber, 1 9 14, that I was coming back to my uncle's house 
from Ypres, when all at once I heard shrieks and 
yells in the distance. I stopped, for I was like one 
stunned. On hearing behind me, on the highway, German cavalry, I ran into a house where I spent the 
night. I could not close my eyes when I thought of 
the anxiety of my uncle and aunt and of the fate of 
my two small brothers, Michael and Roger. Early 
the following day I rushed to our house. Everybody 
was in the cellar. We shed tears on meeting again. 
I found two of my cousins wounded by a shell which 
had exploded outside our door. Soon another shell 
comes and smashes our house. I was wounded. Dazed 
with fear, my cousin and myself got out through a 
window from the cellar, we ran across fields and 
meadows to another uncle, where the rest of the 
family followed us soon. We remained there the 
whole winter, but what a sad winter! We have not 
taken off our clothes, for at every moment we feared 
to have to run away again. 

"The big guns rumbled very much and the shells 
whistled over our heads. Every one heard : 'So-and- 
so is killed' or 'wounded, by a shell.' 'Such-and-such- 
a-house is ruined by a shell.' 

"After having spent more than seven months in 
incredible fear, my brothers and myself have left the 
village, at the order of the gendarmes, and the Eng- 



 

lish took us to Hazebrouck, from where we went to 
Paris." 

In some cases the parents, or, as was most generally 
the case, the mother, after many terrifying experiences in her village, passed and repassed by the Ger- 
mans, having heard of the relief stations in Paris, sent 
their children, properly tagged, to be cared for in a 
place of comparative safety until the end of the war. 
"Young Bruno Van Wonterghem told his experience in 
characteristically simple words: 

"Towards the evening of September 6th, 1914, the 
Germans arrived at our village with their ammunition. One would have thought the Last Judgment was 
about to begin. All the inhabitants were hiding in 
•their houses. I was hiding in the attic, but, desirous 
to see a German, I was looking through a little window 
:in the roof. Nobody in the house dared to go to bed. 
Jt was already very late when we heard knocks at the 
door of our shop. It was some Germans who wanted 
to buy chocolate. Some paid but the majority did not. 
They left saying, 'Let us kill the French.' The following morning they marched away toward France. 
In the evening one heard already the big guns in the 
distance. 

"Turned out of France the Germans came to St. 
Eloi, where they remained very long. Then they advanced to Ypres. The whole winter I heard the 
rumbling of the big guns, and the whistling of the 
shells. I learned also every day of the sad deaths of 
&he victims of that awful war. I was often very 



 

frightened and I have been very happy to leave for 
France with my companions." 

While I was in Paris the refugee children, of course,, 
were from the invaded districts of France; the Belgian stream had long since ceased. Already twelve 
hundred little victims of the first months of the war, 
both Belgian and French, either had been returned to 
their mothers or relatives by the Franco-American 
Committee, or placed for the educational period of 
their lives in families, convents, or boys' schools. The 
more recent were still in the various colonies established by Mrs. Hill and the other members of the 
Committee, where they received instruction until such 
time as their parents could be found, or some kind 
people were willing to adopt them. 

It was on my first Sunday in Paris that Mr. Jaccaci 
and Mrs. Hill asked me to drive out with them to 
Versailles and visit a sanitorium for the children 
whose primary need was restoration to health. It was 
