  

the great square wainscotted room, like several 
perhaps in which he had seen a sort of life led 
at home, only fairer and finer than those; with 
handsome objects and four or five portraits rather 
largely interspaced, and a daylight freshness in 
possession, the air at once of an outer clearness, 
of an emptier world looking in, and of windows 
unembarrassed to match, multiplied panes, one 
would say, but withal a prim spare drapery ? It 
wouldn't have been that the world was emptier 
than he had known it beyond the sea, but that 
the scene itself, as it appeared for the ten seconds 
that challenged memory and comparison, would 
have worn its other face with a difference, con 
fessing somehow to thicker shadows and heavier 
presences, the submission to a longer assault. 
Such matter of record, even on the part of a 
young man of the highest sensibility, is at the 
best elusive enough, however, and Ralph's gen 
eral awareness was at once swallowed up in the 
particular positive certainty that nobody in all 
his experience in the least answered to the young 
lady seated near one of the windows before a 
piece of fine tense canvas framed and mounted 
on slim wooden legs, through which she was in 
the act of drawing a long filament of silk with 
the finest arm in the world raised as high as her 
head. He himself so far answered to something 
in her own intelligence .that at sight and sound 
of him she slowly got up from before her work, 
with never a hint of interruption or confusion, 
and smiled across at him as if knowing all about 
him. She kept in this movement her arm still 
aloft she might have been just balancing her 
self or wishing not to loosen her stitch; he was 
to remember afterwards how the crook of her 
little finger, in the raised hand, caught his eye 
at the distance, and how this helped him in a 
manner at once to take in that the arm itself, its 
sleeve shortened to very near the shoulder, was 
of the most beautiful rounded shape. That light 
of her knowing all about him doubtless helped 
to flood his own mind with the assurance imme 
diately needed: he felt at this stage, in the most 
wonderful way, that things came to him, every 
thing a right carriage required for the closer per 
sonal relation, in the very nick of being wanted, 
and wore thus, even under the gasp of a slight 
danger escaped, a certain charm and cheer of 
suddenness. That he was to make love, by every 
propriety, to Molly Midmore, and that he had 
in fact reached his goal on the very wings of that 
intention, this foretaste as of something rare had 
for days and days past hung about him like the 
scent of a flower persisting in life; but the sweet 
ness of his going straight up to her with an offered 
embrace hadn't really been disclosed till her re 
cognition, as we have said, breathed upon it with 
force and filled him at once with an extraordinary 
wealth of confidence. 





  

He had stepped straight into that with his 
stepping into the room, and while he stood but 
long enough to know himself lifted and carried 
the taking in of what she was through all his 
senses completed the splendid Tightness. Nothing 
might have been stranger than so repeated a 
jump, so flying a leap, to firm ground which 
hadn't been there before in any measurable 
manner but which his feet just felt beneath them 
at the crisis of need. Was it going to be enough 
simply to do the thing, whatever it might be, for 
it to "come" right, as they said, and for him 
above all to like it, as who should also say, after 
the fact ? Surprising perhaps that questions of 
so comparatively general a kind should press 
with their air of particular business into an active 
apprehension unconditioned and absolute enough 
to forestall any conceivable lapse; yet nothing 
could well be pleasanter than such a quickening, 
and this even under the possibility that he might 
after a little get used to it. The young woman 
there in her capacious corner was admirably, 
radiantly handsome, and all the while still kept 
the posture she had at once risen to kept it as 
for fear of his loss of the pleasure by her breaking 
it ever so little. The case was of course really 
that a mere moment sufficed for these enormities 
of attestation; the air roundabout them was 
prodigiously clean and clear, and so favoured 
happy certitude that by the time he had advanced 





  

a trifle further he was, in addition to everything 
else we have indicated, aware that, modest as 
she would indubitably prove, she was neither 
awkward nor shy, and was in fact quite as in 
spired and inflamed as himself. She came out 
from behind her frame, to which she had given 
a light push, and then it was that her splendid 
fairness, a complexion white and pink, and that 
her friendly laughing eyes and full parted lips 
and thickness of loose brown hair, helped the 
dress of sprigged muslin which kept as clear of 
her neck as it did of her elbows to tell him about 
her, from head to foot and she was more than 
middling tall everything that most pressingly 
concerned him. There played round him before 
he took her to his arms the glimmer of a com 
ment kindled at some other flame than that of 
desire, the wonder of her being rather more imaged 
for him, and ever so typically, than likely to be, 
whatever fulness of reality awaited them, pos 
sessed by him; which pair of contradictions, how 
ever, melted together in the tide of happy in 
telligence that next flooded and seemed verily 
almost to drown them. That he should thus 
on the instant have clasped to his heart and his 
lips a young woman with whom in all his life 
he had never yet exchanged a word settled the 
relation for each alike as soon as it had been so 
nobly and freely sketched; which was again a 
case of that felt security after the fact already 





  

noted by him, as we have seen, and scarce open, 
of a truth, to more vivid illustration. The se 
curity was felt just as much by herself: this made 
the harmony full, -this acted to keep it still quite 
possible for him that the comparatively super 
ficial commerce, the inquiry and explanation that 
might have figured as preliminary, should follow 
at a lower level what had just taken place, and 
do so without either casting absurdity back on 
the passage or their themselves incurring ridicule. 

"I reached London but last night so you see 
I haven't lost much time. Perhaps I should first 
have asked your mother's leave," Ralph said; 
but she had already at the word taken him up. 

"Oh she would certainly have given it!" And 
he at once saw from the tone of this that what 
she referred to as so licensed was the plunge into 
intimacy just enacted. It put .him a trifle out of 
tune that the most he himself, had meant was 
that he might have inquired of his cousin's con 
venience as to presenting himself; and to feel 
his deference to that propriety or to almost 
any, it might seem so swept away reminded 
him afresh that he couldn't, by every appear 
ance, be too bold, since he plainly created in 
others, straight off and by his presence, the live 
liest dispositions and allowances. If it was true 
that Mrs. Midmore, as he had figured her, would 
have smiled upon his silent rush at her daughter 
from their very threshold, what could this signify 








  

but that the house and the whole circle contained 
a treasure of welcome on which he was infinitely 
to draw ? Well, it was still then in the highest 
degree agreeable to find everyone so understand 
ing him as to help him to understand himself; 
no example of which felicity could be greater 
than such a promise of ease with the lady of Dry- 
down, given the forms of deference he had tried 
to prepare himself to pay her. "You mustn't 
speak as if we have been thinking of you in the 
least as a stranger; for how can that be," Molly 
asked, "when everything was so made up between 
us all by your father's writing in that way to 
mamma so shortly before he died, wasn't it?" 
Her fine expressive eyes, he at once recognised, 
