given him some money. This brother had plenty of 
money, so Edstrom could be taken to the hospital ; or, if he 
preferred, Mary could stay near here and take care of 
him. They turned to the landlady, who had been stand- 
ing in the doorway; she had three boarders in her little 
home, it seemed, but if Mary could share a bed with the 
landlady's two children, they might make out. In spite 
of Hal's protest, Mary accepted this oiler; he saw what 
was in her mind — she would take some of his money, 
because of old Edstrom's need, but she would take just as 
little as she possibly could. 

John Edstrom of course knew nothing of events since his 
injury, so Hal told him the story briefly — though without 



 

mentioning the transformation which had taken place in 
the miner's buddy. He told about the part Mary had 
played in the strike ; trying to entertain the poor old man, 
he told how he had seen her mounted upon a snow-white 
horse, and wearing a robe of white, soft and lustrous, like 
Joan of Arc, or the leader of a suffrage parade. 

" Sure," said Mary, " he's forever callin' attention to 
this old dress ! " 

Hal looked; she was wearing the same blue calico. 
" There's something mysterious about that dress," said he. 
" It's one of those that you read about in fairy-stories, that 
forever patch themselves, and keep themselves new and 
starchy. A body only needs one dress like that ! " 

" Sure, lad," she answered. " There's no fairies in 
coal-camps — unless 'tis meself, that washes it at night, 
and dries it over the stove, and irons it next mornin'." 

She said this with unwavering cheerfulness; but even 
the old miner lying in pain on the cot could realise the 
tragedy of a young girl's having only one old dress in her 
love-hunting season. He looked at the young couple, and 
saw their evident interest in each other ; after the fashion 
of the old, he was disposed to help along the romance. 
" She may need some orange blossoms," he ventured, 
feebly. 

" Go along with ye ! " laughed Mary, still unwavering. 

" Sure," put in Hal, with hasty gallantry, " 'tis a blos- 
som she is herself! A rose in a mining-camp — and 
there's a dispute about her in the poetry-books. One tells 
you to leave her on her stalk, and another says to gather ye 
rosebuds while ye may, old time is still a-flying! " 

" Ye're mixm* me up," said Mary. " A while back I 
was ridin' on a white horse." 

" I remember," said Old Edstrom, " not so far back, yon 
were an ant, Mary." 

Her face became grave. To jest about her personal 
tragedy was one thing, to jest about the strike was an- 



 

other. " Yes, I remember. Ye said I'd stay in the 
line ! Ye were wiser than me, Mr. Edstrom." 

" That's one of the things that come with being old, 
Mary." He moved his gnarled old hand toward hers. 
" You're going on, now ? " he asked. " You're a unionist 
now, Mary $ " 

" I am that ! " she answered, promptly, her grey eyes 
shining. 

" There's a saying," said he — " once a striker, always 
a striker. Find a way to get some education for your- 
self, Mary, and when the big strike comes you'll be one of 
those the miners look to. I'll not be here, I know — the 
young people must take my place." 

" I'll do my part," she answered. Her voice was low; 
it was a kind of benediction the old man was giving her. 

The woman had gone downstairs to attend to her chil- 
dren ; she came back now to say that there was a gentleman 
at the door, who wanted to know when his brother was 
coming. Hal remembered suddenly — Edward had been 
pacing up and down all this while, with no company but a 
" hardware drummer ! " The younger brother's resolve to 
stay in Pedro had already begun to weaken somewhat, and 
now it weakened still further ; he realised that life is com- 
plex, that duties conflict ! He assured the old miner again 
of his ability to see that he did not suffer from want, and 
then he bade him farewell for a while. 

He started out, and Mary went as far as the head of the 
stairway with him. He took the girl's big, rough hand in 
his — this time with no one to see. " Mary," he said, " I 
want you to know that nothing will make me forget you; 
and nothing will make me forget the miners." 

" Ah, Joe ! " she cried. " Don't let them win ye away 
from us ! We need ye so bad ! " 

" I'm going back home for a while," he answered, " but 
you can be sure that no matter what happens in my life, 
I'm going to fight for the working people. When the big 



strike comes, as we know it's coming in this coal-country, 
I'll be here to do my share." 

" Sure lad," she said, looking him bravely in the eye, 
"and good-bye to ye, Joe Smith." Her eyes did not 
waver; but Hal noted a catch in her voice, and he found 
himself with an impulse to take her in his arms. It was 
very puzzling. He knew he loved Jessie Arthur; he re- 
membered the question Mary had once asked him — could 
he be in love with two girls at the same time ? It was not 
in accord with any moral code that had been impressed 
upon him, but apparently he could ! 



 He went out to the street, where hie brother was 
pacing up and down in a ferment. The " hardware 
drummer" had made another effort to start a conversa- 
tion, and had been told to go to hell — no less ! 

"Well, are you through now?" Edward demanded, 
taking out his irritation on Hal. 

" Yes," replied the other. " I suppose so." He real- 
ised that Edward would not be concerned about Edstrom's 
broken arm. 

" Then, for God's sake, get some clothes on and let's 
have some food." 

" All right," said Hal. But his answer was listless, 
and the other looked at him sharply. Even by the moon- 
light Edward could see the lines in the face of his younger 
brother, and the hollows around his eyes. For the first 
time he realised how deeply these experiences were cut- 
ting into the boy's soul. " You poor kid ! " he exclaimed, 
with sudden feeling. But Hal did not answer; he did 
not want sympathy, he did not want anything! 

Edward made a gesture of despair. " God knows, I 
don't know what to do for you ! " 

They started back to the hotel, and on the way Edward 
cast about in his mind for a harmless subject of conver- 



 

sation. He mentioned that he had foreseen the shutting 
up of the stores, and had purchased an outfit for his 
brother. There was no need to thank him, he added 
grimly ; he had no intention of travelling to Western City 
in company with a hobo. 

So the young miner had a bath, the first real one in a 
long time. (Never again would it be possible for ladies 
to say in Hal Warner's presence that the poor might at 
least keep clean!) He had a shave; he trimmed his 
finger-nails, and brushed his hair, and dressed himself as 
a gentleman. In spite of himself he found his cheerful- 
ness partly restored. A strange and wonderful sensation 
— to be dressed once more as a gentleman. He thought 
of the saying of the old negro, who liked to stub his toe, 
because it felt so good when it stopped hurting ! 

They went out to find a restaurant, and on the way one 
last misadventure befell Edward. Hal saw an old miner 
walking past, and stopped with a cry : " Mike ! " He 
forgot all at once that he was a gentleman ; the old miner 
forgot it also. He stared for one bewildered moment, 
then he rushed at Hal and seized him in the hug of a 
mountain grizzly. 

" My buddy ! My buddy ! " he cried, and gave Hal a 
prodigious thump on the back. " By Judas ! " And he 
gave him a thump with the other hand. " Hey ! you old 
son-of-a-gun ! " And he gave him a hairy kiss ! 

But in the very midst of these raptures it dawned over 
him that there was something wrong about his buddy. 
He drew back, staring. "You got good clothes I You 
got rich, hey ? " 

