
Troy was not sure if she recognized him, though his name had evidently
called up some vague association. He saw that most things had grown far
off to her, and that for the moment her whole mind was centred on the
painful and humiliating effort of putting her case to this strange young
woman who snapped out questions like a machine.

"Do you know her?" asked Miss Batchford, surprised.

"I used to, I believe," Troy answered.

"You can't think what she wants--just everything! They're all alike. She
wants to borrow five hundred francs to furnish a flat for herself and
her sister."

"Well, why not?"

"Why, we don't lend money, of course. It's against all our principles.
We give work, or relief in kind--that's what I'm telling her."

"I see. Could I give it to her?"

"What--all that money? Certainly not. You don't know them!"

Troy shook hands and went out into the street to wait for Mme. Gantier;
and when she came he told her who he was. She cried and shook a great
deal, and he called a cab and drove her home to the poor lodging where
she and her sister lived. The sister had become weak-minded, and the
room was dirty and untidy, because, as Mme. Gantier explained, her
lameness prevented her from keeping it clean, and they could not afford
a charwoman. The pictures of the four dead sons hung on the wall, a
wisp of crape above each, with all their ribbons and citations. But when
Troy spoke of old M. Gantier and the daughter Mme. Gantier's face grew
like a stone, and her sister began to whimper like an animal.

Troy remembered the territorial's phrase: "You may say: there's a
family wiped out." He went away, too shy to give the five hundred
francs in his pocket.

One of his first cares on getting back to France had been to order a
head-stone for Paul Gantier's grave at Mondement. A week or two after
his meeting with Mme. Gantier, his ambulance was ordered to Epernay, and
he managed to get out to Mondement and have the stone set up and the
grave photographed. He had brought some flowers to lay on it, and he
borrowed two tin wreaths from the neighbouring crosses, so that Paul
Gantier's mound should seem the most fondly tended of all. He sent the
photograph to Mme. Gantier, with a five hundred franc bill; but after a
long time his letter came back from the post-office. The two old women
had gone....




VIII


In February Mr. Belknap arrived in Paris on a mission. Tightly buttoned
into his Red Cross uniform, he looked to his son older and fatter, but
more important and impressive, than usual.

He was on his way to Italy, where he was to remain for three months, and
Troy learned with dismay that he needed a secretary, and had brought
none with him because he counted on his son to fill the post.

"You've had nearly a year of this, old man, and the front's as quiet as
a church. As for Paris, isn't it too frivolous for you? It's much
farther from the war nowadays than New York. I haven't had a dinner like
this since your mother joined the Voluntary Rationing League," Mr.
Belknap smiled at him across their little table at the Nouveau Luxe.

"I'm glad to hear it--about New York, I mean," Troy answered composedly.
"It's our turn now. But Paris isn't a bit too frivolous for me. Which
shall it be, father--the Palais Royal--or the Capucines? They say the
new revue there is great fun."

Mr. Belknap was genuinely shocked. He had caught the war fever late in
life, and late in the war, and his son's flippancy surprised and pained
him.

"The theatre? We don't go to the theatre...." He paused to light his
cigar, and added, embarrassed: "Really, Troy, now there's so little
doing here, don't you think you might be more useful in Italy?"

Troy was anxious, for he was not sure that Mr. Belknap's influence
might not be sufficient to detach him from his job on a temporary
mission; but long experience in dealing with parents made him assume a
greater air of coolness as his fears increased.

"Well, you see, father, so many other chaps have taken advantage of the
lull to go off on leave that if I asked to be detached now--well, it
wouldn't do me much good with my chief," he said cunningly, guessing
that if he appeared to yield his father might postpone action.

"Yes, I see," Mr. Belknap rejoined, impressed by the military character
of the argument. He was still trying to get used to the fact that he was
himself under orders, and nervous visions of a sort of mitigated
court-martial came to him in the middle of pleasant dinners, or jumped
him out of his morning sleep like an alarm-clock.

Troy saw that his point was gained; but he regretted having proposed
the Capucines to his father. He himself was not shocked by the seeming
indifference of Paris: he thought the gay theatres, the crowded shops,
the restaurants groaning with abundance, were all healthy signs of the
nation's irrepressible vitality. But he understood that America's young
zeal might well be chilled by the first contact with this careless
exuberance, so close to the lines where young men like himself were
dying day by day in order that the curtain might ring up punctually on
low-necked revues, and fat neutrals feast undisturbed on lobster and
champagne. Only now and then he asked himself what had become of the
Paris of the Marne, and what would happen if ever again----But that of
course was nonsense....

       

Mr. Belknap left for Italy--and two days afterward Troy's ambulance was
roused from semi-inaction and hurried to Beauvais. The retreat from St.
Quentin had begun, and Paris was once again the Paris of the Marne.

The same--but how different!--were the tense days that followed. Troy
Belknap, instead of hanging miserably about marble hotels and waiting
with restless crowds for the communiqués to appear in the windows of the
newspaper offices, was in the thick of the retreat, swept back on its
tragic tide, his heart wrung, but his imagination hushed by the fact of
participating in the struggle, playing a small dumb indefatigable part,
relieving a little fraction of the immense anguish and the dreadful
disarray.

The mere fact of lifting a wounded man "so that it wouldn't hurt"; of
stiffening one's lips to a smile as the ambulance pulled up in the
market-place of a terror-stricken village; of calling out "Nous les
tenons!" to whimpering women and bewildered old people; of giving a lift
to a family of foot-sore refugees; of prying open a tin of condensed
milk for the baby, or taking down the address of a sister in Paris, with
the promise to bring her news of the fugitives; the heat and the burden
and the individual effort of each minute carried one along through the
endless and yet breathless hours--backward and forward, backward and
forward, between Paris and the fluctuating front, till in Troy's weary
brain the ambulance took on the semblance of a tireless grey shuttle
humming in the hand of Fate....

It was on one of these trips that, for the first time, he saw a
train-load of American soldiers on the way to the battle front. He had,
of course, seen plenty of them in Paris during the months since his
arrival; seen them vaguely roaming the streets, or sitting in front of
cafés, or wooed by polyglot sirens in the obscure promiscuity of
cinema-palaces.

At first he had seized every chance of talking to them; but either his
own shyness or theirs seemed to paralyze him. He found them, as a rule,
bewildered, depressed and unresponsive. They wanted to kill Germans all
right, they said; but this hanging around Paris wasn't what they'd
bargained for, and there was a good deal more doing back home at Podunk
or Tombstone or Skohegan.

It was not only the soldiers who took this depreciatory view of France.
Some of the officers whom Troy met at his friends' houses discouraged
him more than the enlisted men with whom he tried to make friends in the
cafés. They had more definite and more unfavourable opinions as to the
country they had come to defend. They wanted to know, in God's name,
where in the blasted place you could get fried hominy and a real
porter-house steak for breakfast, and when the ball-game season began,
and whether it rained every day all the year round; and Troy's timid
efforts to point out some of the compensating advantages of Paris failed
to excite any lasting interest.

But now he seemed to see a different race of men. The faces leaning from
the windows of the train glowed with youthful resolution. The soldiers
were out on their real business at last, and as Troy looked at them, so
alike and so innumerable, he had the sense of a force, inexorable and
exhaustless, poured forth from the reservoirs of the new world to
replenish the wasted veins of the old.

"Hooray!" he shouted frantically, waving his cap at the passing train;
but as it disappeared he hung his head and swore under his breath.
There they went, his friends and fellows, as he had so often dreamed of
seeing them, racing in their hundreds of thousands to the rescue of
France; and he was still too young to be among them, and could only
yearn after them with all his aching heart!

After a hard fortnight of day-and-night work he was ordered a few days
off, and sulkily resigned himself to inaction. For the first twenty-four
hours he slept the leaden sleep of weary youth, and for the next he
moped on his bed in the Infirmary; but the third day he crawled out to
take a look at Paris.

The long-distance bombardment was going on, and now and then, at
irregular intervals, there was a more or less remote crash, followed by
a long reverberation. But the life of the streets was not affected.
People went about their business as usual, and it was obvious that the
strained look on every face was not caused by the random fall of a few
shells, but by the perpetual vision of that swaying and receding line on
which all men's thoughts were fixed. It was sorrow, not fear, that Troy
read in all those anxious eyes--sorrow over so much wasted effort, such
high hopes thwarted, so many dear-bought miles of France once more under
the German heel.

That night when he came home he found a letter from his mother. At the
very end, in a crossed postscript, he read: "Who do you suppose sailed
last week? Sophy Wicks. Soon there'll be nobody left! Old Mrs. Wicks
died in January--did I tell you?--and Sophy has sent the children to
