way, and finally sauntered into the library wearing a vague scowl.

The weather had turned colder, and there was an open fire there, and a
convenient armchair and the evening papers.

Perhaps the young gentleman had read them down town, for he shoved
them aside. Then he dropped an elbow on the table, rested his chin
against his knuckles, and gazed fiercely at the inoffensive Evening
Post.

Before any open fire any young man ought to be able to make up
whatever mind he chances to possess. Yet, what to do with a winter
evening all his own seemed to him a problem unfathomable.

Perhaps his difficulty lay only in selection--there are so many
agreeable things for a young man to do in Gotham Town on a winter's
evening.

But, oddly enough, young Shotwell was trying to persuade himself that
he had no choice of occupation for the evening; that he really didn't
care. Yet, always two intrusive alternatives continually presented
themselves. The one was to change his coat for a spike-tail, his black
tie for a white one, and go to the Metropolitan Opera. The other and
more attractive alternative was not to go.

Elorn Sharrow would be at the opera. To appear, now and then, in the
Sharrow family's box was expected of him. He hadn't done it recently.

                  *       *       *       *       *

He dropped one lean leg over the other and gazed gravely at the fire.
He was still trying to convince himself that he had no particular plan
for the evening--that it was quite likely he might go to the opera or
to the club--or, in fact, almost anywhere his fancy suggested.

In his effort to believe himself the scowl came back, denting his
eyebrows. Presently he forced a yawn, unsuccessfully.

Yes, he thought he'd better go to the opera, after all. He ought to
go.... It seemed to be rather expected of him.

Besides, he had nothing else to do--that is, nothing in
particular--unless, of course----

But that would scarcely do. He'd been there so often recently....
No, that wouldn't do.... Besides it was becoming almost a habit with
him. He'd been drifting there so frequently of late!... In fact, he'd
scarcely been anywhere at all, recently, except--except where he
certainly was not going that evening. And that settled it!... So he
might as well go to the opera.

                  *       *       *       *       *

His mother, in scarf and evening wrap, passing the library door on her
way down, paused in the hall and looked intently at her only son.

Recently she had been observing him rather closely and with a vague
uneasiness born of that inexplicable sixth sense inherent in mothers.

Perhaps what her son had faced in France accounted for the change in
him;--for it was being said that no man could come back from such
scenes unchanged;--none could ever again be the same. And it was being
said, too, that old beliefs and ideals had altered; that everything
familiar was ending;--and that the former things had already passed
away under the glimmering dawn of a new heaven and a new earth.

Perhaps all this was so--though she doubted it. Perhaps this son she
had borne in agony might become to her somebody less familiar than the
baby she had nursed at her own breast.

But so far, to her, he continued to remain the same familiar baby she
had always known--the same and utterly vital part of her soul and
body. No sudden fulfilment of an apocalypse had yet wrought any occult
metamorphosis in this boy of hers.

And if he now seemed changed it was from that simple and familiar
cause instinctively understood by mothers,--trouble!--the most ancient
plague of all and the only malady which none escapes.

She was a rather startlingly pretty woman, with the delicate features
and colour and the snow-white hair of an 18th century belle. She
stood, now, drawing on her gloves and watching her son out of
dark-fringed deep blue eyes, until he glanced around uneasily. Then he
rose at once, looking at her with fire-dazzled eyes.

"Don't rise, dear," she said; "the car is here and your father is
fussing and fuming in the drawing-room, and I've got to run.... Have
you any plans for the evening?"

"None, mother."

"You're dining at home?"

"Yes."

"Why don't you go to the opera to-night? It's the Sharrows' night."

He came toward her irresolutely. "Perhaps I shall," he said. And
instantly she knew he did not intend to go.

"I had tea at the Sharrows'," she said, carelessly, still buttoning
her gloves. "Elorn told me that she hadn't laid eyes on you for
ages."

"It's happened so.... I've had a lot of things to do----"

"You and she still agree, don't you, Jim?"

"Why, yes--as usual. We always get on together."

Helen Shotwell's ermine wrap slipped; he caught it and fastened it for
her, and she took hold of both his hands and drew his arms tightly
around her pretty shoulders.

"What troubles you, darling?" she asked smilingly.

"Why, nothing, mother----"

"Tell me!"

"Really, there is nothing, dear----"

"Tell me when you are ready, then," she laughed and released him.

"But there isn't anything," he insisted.

"Yes, Jim, there is. Do you suppose I don't know you after all these
years?"

She considered him with clear, amused eyes: "Don't forget," she added,
"that I was only seventeen when you arrived, my son; and I have grown
up with you ever since----"

"For heaven's sake, Helen!--" protested Sharrow Senior plaintively
from the front hall below. "Can't you gossip with Jim some other
time?"

"I'm on my way, James," she announced calmly. "Put your overcoat on."
And, to her son: "Go to the opera. Elorn will cheer you up. Isn't that
a good idea?"

"That's--certainly--an idea.... I'll think it over.... And, mother, if
I seem solemn at times, please try to remember how rotten every fellow
feels about being out of the service----"

Her gay, derisive laughter checked him, warning him that he was not
imposing on her credulity. She said smilingly:

"You have neglected Elorn Sharrow, and you know it, and it's on your
conscience--whatever else may be on it, too. And that's partly why you
feel blue. So keep out of mischief, darling, and stop neglecting
Elorn--that is, if you ever really expect to marry her----"

"I've told you that I have never asked her; and I never intend to ask
her until I am making a decent living," he said impatiently.

"Isn't there an understanding between you?"

"Why--I don't think so. There couldn't be. We've never spoken of that
sort of thing in our lives!"

"I think she expects you to ask her some day. Everybody else does,
anyway."

"Well, that is the one thing I won't do," he said, "--go about with
the seat out of my pants and ask an heiress to sew on the patch for
me----"

"Darling! You can be so common when you try!"

"Well, it amounts to that--doesn't it, mother? I don't care what busy
gossips say or idle people expect me to do! There's no engagement, no
understanding between Elorn and me. And I don't care a hang what
anybody----"

His mother framed his slightly flushed face between her gloved hands
and inspected him humorously.

"Very well, dear," she said; "but you need not be so emphatically
excited about it----"

"I'm not excited--but it irritates me to be expected to do anything
because it's expected of me--" He shrugged his shoulders:

"After all," he added, "if I ever should fall in love with anybody
it's my own business. And whatever I choose to do about it will be my
own affair. And I shall keep my own counsel in any event."

His mother stepped forward, letting both her hands fall into his.

"Wouldn't you tell me about it, Jim?"

"I'd tell you before I'd tell anybody else--if it ever became
serious."

"If what became serious?"

"Well--anything of that sort," he replied. But a bright colour stained
his features and made him wince under her intent scrutiny.

