that he could afford to be forgiving, so he went to the telephone
and called up Sadie and said: “I want you to know that I’m not going
to say anything about this story; it won’t become known except thru
you.”

There were half a dozen people whom Sadie must have told. Miss
Nebbins was icy-cold to Peter the next time he came in to see Mr.
Andrews; also Miriam Yankovich lost her former cordiality, and
several other women treated him with studied reserve. But the only
person who spoke about the matter was Pat McCormick, the I. W. W.
boy who had given Peter the news of little Jennie’s suicide. Perhaps
Peter hadn’t been able to act satisfactorily on that occasion; or
perhaps the young fellow had observed something for himself, some
love-glances between Peter and Jennie. Peter had never felt
comfortable in the presence of this silent Irish boy, whose dark
eyes would roam from one person to another in the room, and seemed
to be probing your most secret thoughts.

Now Peter’s worst fears were justified. “Mac” got him off in a
corner, and put his fist under his nose, and told him that he was “a
dirty hound,” and if it hadn’t been for the Goober case, he, “Mac,”
 would kill him without a moment’s concern.

And Peter did not dare open his mouth; the look on the Irishman’s
face was so fierce that he was really afraid for his life. God, what
a hateful lot these Reds were! And now here was Peter with the worst
one of all against him! From now on his life would be in danger from
this maniac Irishman! Peter hated him--so heartily and genuinely
that it served to divert his thoughts from little Jennie, and to
make him regard himself as a victim.

Yes, in the midnight hours when Jennie’s gentle little face haunted
him and his conscience attacked him, Peter looked back upon the
tangled web of events, and saw quite clearly how inevitable this
tragedy had been, how naturally it had grown out of circumstances
beyond his control. The fearful labor struggle in American City was
surely not Peter’s fault; nor was it his fault that he had been
drawn into it, and forced to act first as an unwilling witness, and
then as a secret agent. Peter read the American City “Times” every
morning, and knew that the cause of Goober was the cause of anarchy
and riot, while the cause of the district attorney and of Guffey’s
secret service was the cause of law and order. Peter was doing his
best in this great cause, he was following the instructions of those
above him, and how could he be blamed because one poor weakling of a
girl had got in the way of the great chariot of the law?

Peter knew that it wasn’t his fault; and yet grief and terror gnawed
at him. For one thing, he missed little Jennie, he missed her by day
and he missed her by night. He missed her gentle voice, her fluffy
soft hair, her body in his empty arms. She was his first love, and
she was gone, and it is human weakness to appreciate things most
when they have been lost.

Peter aspired to be a strong man, a “he-man,” according to the slang
that was coming into fashion; he now tried to live up to that role.
He didn’t want to go mooning about over this accident; yet Jennie’s
face stayed with him--sometimes wild, as he had seen it at their
last meeting, sometimes gentle and reproachful. Peter would remember
how good she had been, how tender, how never-failing in instant
response to an advance of love on his part. Where would he ever find
another girl like that?

Another thing troubled him especially--a strange, inexplicable
thing, for which Peter had no words, and about which he found
himself frequently thinking. This weak, frail slip of a girl had
deliberately given her life for her convictions; she had died, in
order that he might be saved as a witness for the Goobers! Of course
Peter had known all along that little Jennie was doomed, that she
was throwing herself away, that nothing could save her. But somehow,
it does frighten the strongest heart when people are so fanatical as
to throw away their very lives for a cause. Peter found himself
regarding the ideas of these Reds from a new angle; before this they
had been just a bunch of “nuts,” but now they seemed to him
creatures of monstrous deformity, products of the devil, or of a God
gone insane.




Section 28


There was only one person whom Peter could take into his confidence,
and that was McGivney. Peter could not conceal from McGivney the
fact that he was troubled over his bereavement; and so McGivney took
him in hand and gave him a “jacking up.” It was dangerous work, this
of holding down the Reds; dangerous, because their doctrines were so
insidious, they were so devilishly cunning in their working upon
people’s minds. McGivney had seen more than one fellow start fooling
with their ideas and turn into one himself. Peter must guard against
that danger.

“It ain’t that,” Peter explained. “It ain’t their ideas. It’s just
that I was soft on that kid.”

“Well, it comes to the same thing,” said McGivney. “You get sorry
for them, and the first thing you know, you’re listening to their
arguments. Now, Peter, you’re one of the best men I’ve got on this
case--and that’s saying a good deal, because I’ve got charge of
seventeen.” The rat-faced man was watching Peter, and saw Peter
flush with pleasure. Yes, he continued, Peter had a future before
him, he would make all kinds of money, he would be given
responsibility, a permanent position. But he might throw it all away
if he got to fooling with these Red doctrines. And also, he ought to
understand, he could never fool McGivney; because McGivney had spies
on him!

So Peter clenched his hands and braced himself up. Peter was a real
“he-man,” and wasn’t going to waste himself. “It’s just that I can’t
help missing the girl!” he explained; to which the other answered:
“Well, that’s only natural. What you want to do is to get yourself
another one.”

Peter went on with his work in the office of the Goober Defense
Committee. The time for the trial had come, and the struggle between
the two giants had reached its climax. The district attorney, who
was prosecuting the case, and who was expecting to become governor
of the state on the strength of it, had the backing of half a dozen
of the shrewdest lawyers in the city, their expenses being paid by
the big business men. A small army of detectives were at work, and
the court where the trial took place was swarming with spies and
agents. Every one of the hundreds of prospective jurors had been
investigated and card-cataloged, his every weakness and every
prejudice recorded; not merely had his psychology been studied, but
his financial status, and that of his relatives and friends. Peter
had met half a dozen other agents beside McGivney, men who had come
to question him about this or that detail; and from the conversation
of these men he got glimpses of the endless ramifications of the
case. It seemed to him that the whole of American City had been
hired to help send Jim Goober to the gallows.

Peter was now getting fifty dollars a week and expenses, in addition
to special tips for valuable bits of news. Hardly a day passed that
he didn’t get wind of some important development, and every night he
would have to communicate with McGivney. The prosecution had a
secret office, where there was a telephone operator on duty, and
couriers traveling to the district attorney’s office and to Guffey’s
office--all this to forestall telephone tapping. Peter would go
from the headquarters of the Goober Defense Committee to a
telephone-booth in some hotel, and there he would give the secret
number, and then his own number, which was six forty-two. Everybody
concerned was known by numbers, the principal people, both of the
prosecution and of the defense; the name “Goober” was never spoken
over the phone.

After the trial had got started it was hard to get anybody to work
in the office of the Defense Committee--everybody wanted to be in
court! Someone would come in every few minutes, with the latest
reports of sensational developments. The prosecution had succeeded
in making away with the police court records, proving the conviction
of its star witness of having kept a brothel for negroes. The
prosecution had introduced various articles alleged to have been
found on the street by the police after the explosion; one was a
spring, supposed to have been part of a bomb--but it turned out to
be a part of a telephone! Also they had introduced parts of a
clock--but it appeared that in their super-zeal they had introduced
the parts of two clocks! There was some excitement like this every
day.




Section 29


The time came when the prosecution closed its case, and Peter was
summoned to the office of Andrews, to be coached in his part as a
witness. He would be wanted in two or three days, the lawyers told
him.

Now Peter had never intended to appear as a witness; he had been
fooling the defense all this time--“stringing them along,” as he
phrased it, so as to keep in favor with them to the end. Meantime he
had been figuring out how to justify his final refusal. Peter was
eating his lunch when this plan occurred to him, and he was so much
excited that he swallowed a piece of pie the wrong way, and had to
jump up and run out of the lunch-room. It was his first stroke of
genius; hitherto it was McGivney who had thought these things out,
but now Peter was on the way to becoming his own boss! Why should he
go on taking orders, when he had such brains of his own? He took the
plan to McGivney, and McGivney called it a “peach,” and Peter was so
proud he asked for a raise, and got it.

This plan had the double advantage that not merely would it save
Peter’s prestige and reputation, among the Reds, it would ruin
McCormick, who was one of the hardest workers for the defense, and
one of the most dangerous Reds in American City, as well as being a
personal enemy of Peter’s. McGivney pulled some of his secret wires,
and the American City “Times,” in the course of its accounts of the
case, mentioned a rumor that the defense proposed to put on the
stand a man who claimed to have been tortured in the city jail, in
an effort to make him give false testimony against Goober; the
prosecution had investigated this man’s record and discovered that
only recently he had seduced a young girl, and she had killed
herself because of his refusal to marry her. Peter took this copy of
the American City “Times” to the office of David Andrews, and
insisted upon seeing the lawyer before he went to court; he laid the
item on the desk, and declared that there was his finish as a
witness in the Goober case. “It’s a cowardly, dirty lie!” he
declared. “And the man responsible for circulating it is Pat
