
     "Feel not offended; feel free. Come to me if it pleaseth you; and,
     if you come not, there is in me that which shall pardon all you do,
     or leave undone, as long as ever I shall live on earth.

     "PENELOPE GRANT."

When Snips had powdered me and had tied my club with a queue-ribbon of
his proper selection, he patched my cheek-bone where a thorn had torn
me, and stood a-twirling his iron as though lost in admiration of his
handiwork.

When I paid him I bade him tell Burke to bring around my horse and fetch
my saddle bags; and then I dressed me in my regimentals.

When Burke came with the saddle-bags, we packed them together. He
promised to care for my rifle and pack, took my new light blanket over
his arm, and led the way down stairs, where I presently perceived Kaya
saddled, and pricking ears to hear my voice.

Whilst I caressed her and whispered in her pretty ear the idle
tenderness that a man confides to a beloved horse, Burke placed my
pistols, strapped saddle-bags and blanket, and held my stirrup as I
gathered bridle and set my spurred boot firmly on the steel.

And so swung to my saddle, and sat there, dividing bridles, deep fixed
in troubled thought and anxiously concerned for the safety of the
unselfish but very stubborn girl I loved.

       

I had said my adieux to Jimmy Burke; I had taken leave of the Commandant
at the palisades jail. I now galloped Kaya through the town, riding by
way of Butlersbury;[42] and saw the steep roof of the Butler house
through the grove, and shuddered as I thought of the unhappy young man
who had lived there and who, at that very moment, might be hanging by
his neck while the drums rolled from the hollow square.

[Footnote 42: A letter written by Colonel Butler so designates the place
where the ancient Butler house is still standing. The letter mentioned
is in the possession of the author.]

Down the steep hill I rode, careful of loose stone, and so came to the
river and to Caughnawaga.[43]

[Footnote 43: Now the town of Fonda.]

All was peaceful and still in the noonday sunshine; the river wore a
glassy surface; farm waggons creaked slowly through golden dust along
the Fort Johnson highway; fat cattle lay in the shade; and from the
brick chimneys of Caughnawaga blue smoke drifted where, in her cellar
kitchen, the good wife was a-cooking of the noontide dinner.

When presently I espied Douw Fonda's great mansion of stone, I saw
nobody on the porch, and no smoke rising from the chimneys, yet the
front door stood open.

But when I rode up to the porch, a black wench came from the house, who
said that Mr. Fonda dined at his son's that day, and would remain until
evening.

However, when I made inquiry for Penelope, I found that she was
within,--had already been served with dinner,--and was now gone to the
library to read and knit as usual when alone.

The black wench took my mare and whistled shrilly for a slave to come
and hold the horse.

But I had already mounted the stoop and entered the silent house; and
now I perceived Penelope, who had risen from a chair and was laying
aside her book and knitting.

She seemed very white when I went to her and drew her into my embrace;
and she rested her cheek against my shoulder and took close hold of my
two arms, but uttered not a word.

Under her lace cap her hair glimmered like sun-warmed gold; and her
hands, which had become very fine and white again, began to move upward
to my shoulders, till they encircled my neck and rested there, tight
linked.

For a space she wept, but presently staunched her tears with her laced
apron's edge, like a child at school. And when I made her look upon me
she smiled though she still breathed sobbingly, and her lips still
quivered as I kissed her.

       

We sat close together there in the golden gloom of the curtained room,
where only a bar of dusty sunlight fell across a row of gilded books.

I had told her everything--had given an account of all that had
befallen my little scout, and how I had returned to Johnstown, and how
so suddenly my fortunes had been completely changed.

I told her of what I knew of the battle at Oriskany, of the present
situation at Stanwix and at Saratoga, and of what I saw of the fight at
the Flockey, where McDonald ran.

I begged her to persuade Mr. Fonda to go to Albany, and she promised to
do so. And when I pointed out in detail how perilous was his situation
here, and how desperate her own, she said she knew it, and had been
horribly afraid, but that Caughnawaga folk seemed strangely indifferent
to the danger,--could not bring themselves to believe in it,
perhaps,--and were loath to leave their homes unprotected and their
fields untilled.

But when I touched on her leaving these foolish people and, as my wife,
travelling southward with me to the great fortress on the Hudson, she
only wept, saying, in tears, that she was needed by an old and feeble
man who had protected her when she was poor and friendless, and that,
though she loved me, her duty still lay first at Douw Fonda's side.

Quit him she utterly refused to do; and it was in vain I pointed out his
three stalwart sons and their numerous families, retainers, tenants,
servants, and slaves, who ought to care for the obstinate old gentleman
and provide a security for him whether he would or no.

But argument was useless; I knew it. And all I obtained of her was that,
whether matters north of us mended or grew worse, she would persuade Mr.
Fonda to return to Albany until such time as Tryon County became once
more safe to live in.

This she promised, and even assured me that she had already spoken of
the matter to Mr. Fonda, and that the old gentleman appeared to be quite
willing to return to Albany as soon as his grain could be reaped and
threshed.

So with this I had to content my heavy heart. And now, by the tall
clock, I perceived that my time was up; for Schenectady lay far away,
and Albany father still; and it was like to be a long and dreary journey
to West Point, if, indeed, I should find Lord Stirling still there.

For at Johnstown fort that morning I was warned that my General Lord
Stirling had already rejoined his division in the Jerseys; and that the
news was brought by riflemen of Morgan's corps, which was now swiftly
marching to join our Northern forces near Saratoga.

Well, God's will must obtain on earth; none can thwart it; none
foretell----

At the thought I looked down at Penelope, where I held her clasped; and
I told her of the vision of Thiohero.

She remained very still when she learned what the Little Maid of
Askalege had seen there beside me in the cannon-cloud, where the German
foresters of Hainau, in their outlandish dress, were shouting and
shooting.

For Penelope had seen the same white shape; and had been, she said,
afeard that it was my own weird she saw,--so white it seemed to her, she
said,--so still and shrouded in its misty veil.

"Was it I?" she whispered in an awed voice. "Was it truly I that the
Oneida virgin saw? And did she know my features in the shroud?"

"She saw you all in white and flowers, floating there near me like mist
at sunrise."

"She told you it was I?"

"Dying, she so told me. And, 'Yellow Hair,' she gasped, 'is quite a
witch!' And then she died between my arms."

"I am no witch," she whispered.

"Nor was the Little Maid of Askalege. Both of you, I think, saw at times
things that we others can not perceive until they happen;--the shadow of
events to come."

"Yes."

After a silence: "Have you, perhaps, discovered other shadows since we
last met, Penelope?"

"Yes; shadows."

"What coming event cast them?"

After a long pause: "Will it make his mind more tranquil if I tell him?"
she murmured to herself; and I saw her dark eyes fixed absently on the
dusty ray of sunlight slanting athwart the room.

Then she looked up at me; blushed to her hair: "I saw children--with
yellow hair--and your eyes----"

"With your hair!"

"And your eyes--John Drogue--John Drogue----"

The stillness of Paradise grew all around us, filling my soul with a
great and heavenly silence.

We could not die--we two who stood here so closely clasped--until this
vision had been fulfilled.

And so, presently, her hands fell into mine, and our lips joined slowly,
and rested.

We said no word. I left her standing there in the golden twilight of the
