I did not know what he was doing. I liked the way he rejected the cash I
gave him; the way he scorned to trade upon the name. He went clean. Why? I
don't know. Oh, yes, he got hilariously drunk once in a while, but he had
his fling in clean places. I had agents watching him."
"Why did he run away?" asked Jane.
"No man can tell another man; a man has to find it out for himself--the
difference between a good woman and a bad one."
"I play that statement to win," interposed Cunningham without opening his
eyes.
"There was a woman?" said Jane.
"A bad one. Pretty and clever as sin. My fault. I should have sent him to
college where he'd have got at least a glimmer of life. But I kept him
under the tutor until the thing happened. He thought he was in love, when
it was only his first woman. She wanted his money--or, more properly
speaking, mine. I had her investigated and found that she was bad all
through. When I told him boldly what she was he called me a liar. I struck
him across the mouth, and he promptly knocked me down."
"Pretty good punch for a youngster," was Cunningham's comment.
"It was," replied Cleigh, grimly. "He went directly to his room, packed,
and cleared out. In that he acted wisely, for at that moment I would have
cast him out had he come with an apology. But the following day I could
not find him; nor did I get track of him until weeks later. He had married
the woman and then found her out. That's all cleared off the slate,
though. She's been married and divorced three times since then."
"Did you expect to see him over here?"
"In Shanghai? No. The sight of him rather knocked me about. You
understand? It was his place to make the first sign. He was in the wrong,
and he has known it all these seven years."
"No," said Jane, "it was your place to make the first advance. If you had
been a comrade to him in his boyhood he would never have been in the
wrong."
"But I gave him everything!"
"Everything but love. Did you ever tell him a fairy story?"
"A fairy story!" Cleigh's face was the essence of bewilderment.
"You put him in the care of a lovable old dreamer, and then expected him
to accept life as you knew it."
Cleigh rumpled his cowlicks. A fairy story? But that was nonsense! Fairy
stories had long since gone out of fashion.
"When I saw you two together an idea popped into my head. But do you care
for the boy?"
"I care everything for him--or I shouldn't be here!"
Cunningham relaxed a little more in his chair, his eyes still closed.
"What do you mean by that?" demanded Cleigh.
"I let you abduct me. I thought, maybe, if I were near you for a little I
might bring you two together."
"Well, now!" said Cleigh, falling into the old New England vernacular
which was his birthright. "I brought you on board merely to lure him after
you. I wanted you both on board so I could observe you. I intended to
carry you both off on a cruise. I watched you from the door that night
while you two were dining. I saw by his face and his gestures that he
would follow you anywhere."
"But I--I am only a professional nurse. I'm nobody! I haven't anything!"
"Good Lord, will you listen to that?" cried the pirate, with a touch of
his old banter. "Nobody and nothing?"
Neither Jane nor Cleigh apparently heard this interpolation.
"Why did you maltreat him?"
"Otherwise he would have thought I was offering my hand, that I had
weakened."
"And you expected him to fall on your shoulder and ask your pardon after
that? Mr. Cleigh, for a man of your intellectual attainments, your stand
is the biggest piece of stupidity I ever heard of! How in the world was he
to know what your thoughts were?"
"I was giving him his chance," declared Cleigh, stubbornly.
"A yacht? It's a madhouse," gibed Cunningham. "And this is a convention of
fools!"
"How do you want me to act?" asked Cleigh, surrendering absolutely.
"When he comes to, take his hand. You don't have to say anything else."
"All right."
From Dennison's lips came a deep, long sigh. Jane leaned over.
"Denny?" she whispered.
The lids of Dennison's eyes rolled back heavily.
"Jane--all right?" he asked, quickly.
"Yes. How do you feel?"
He reached out a hand whence her voice came. She met the hand with hers,
and that seemed to be all he wanted just then.
"You'd better get your bathrobe, Mr. Cleigh," she suggested.
Cleigh became conscious for the first time of the condition of his pyjama
jacket. It hung upon his torso in mere ribbons. He became conscious also
of the fact that his body ached variously and substantially.
"Thirty-odd years since I was in a racket like this. I'm getting along."
"And on the way," put in Cunningham, "you might call Cleve. I'd feel
better--stretched out."
"Oh, I had forgotten!" cried Jane, reproaching herself. Weakened as he
was, and sitting in a chair!
"And don't forget, Cleigh, that I'm master of the Wanderer until I leave
it. I sympathize deeply," Cunningham went on, ironically, "but I have some
active troubles of my own."
"And God send they abide with you always!" was Cleigh's retort.
"They will--if that will give you any comfort. Do you know what? You will
always have me to thank for this. That will be my comforting thought. The
god in the car!"
Later, when Cleve helped Cunningham into his bunk, the latter asked about
the crew.
"Scared stiff. They realize that it was a close shave. I've put the fools
in irons. They're best there until we leave. But we can't do anything but
forget the racket when we board the Dutchman. Where's that man Flint? We
can't find him anywhere. He's at the bottom of it. I knew that sooner or
later there'd be the devil to pay with a woman on board. Probably the
fool's hiding in the bunkers. I'll give every rat hole a look-see. Pretty
nearly got you."
"Flint was out of luck--and so was I! I thought in pistols, and forgot
that there might be a knife or two. I'll be on my feet in the morning.
Little weak, that's all. Nobody and nothing!" said Cunningham, addressing
the remark to the crossbeam above his head.
"What's that?" asked Cleve.
"I was thinking out loud. Get back to the chart house. Old Newton may play
us some trick if he isn't watched. And don't bother to search for Flint. I
know where he is."
Something in Cunningham's tone coldly touched Cleve's spine. He went out,
closing the door quietly; and there was reason for the sudden sweat in his
palms.
Chance! A wry smile stirred one corner of Cunningham's mouth. He had
boasted that he had left nothing to chance, with this result! Burning up!
Inward and outward fires! Love beads! Well, what were they if not that?
But that she would trust him when everything about him should have
repelled her! Was there a nugget of forgotten gold in his cosmos, and had
she discovered it? She still trusted him, for he had sensed it in the
quick but tender touch of her hands upon his throbbing wounds.
To learn, after all these years, that he had been a coward! To have run
away from misfortune instead of facing it and beating it down!
Pearls! All he had left! And when he found them, what then? Turn them into
money he no longer cared to spend? Or was this an interlude--a mocking
interlude, and would to-morrow see his conscience relegated to the dustbin
out of which it had so oddly emerged?
                   *       *       *       *       *
When Dennison opened his eyes again Jane was still holding his hand. Upon
beholding his father Dennison held out his free hand.
"Will you take it, Father? I'm sorry."
"Of course I'll take it, Denny. I was an old fool."
"And I was a young one."
"Would you like a cup of coffee?" Cleigh asked, eagerly.
"If it won't be too much trouble."
"No trouble at all."
A hand pressure, a few inconsequent phrases, that is always enough for two
strong characters in the hour of reconciliation.
Cleigh out of the way, Jane tried to disengage her hand, but Dennison only
tightened his grip.
"No"--a pause--"it's different now. The old boy will find some kind of a
job for me. Will you marry me, Jane? I did not speak before, because I
hadn't anything to offer."
"No?"
"I couldn't offer marriage until I had a job."
"But supposing your father doesn't give you one?"
"Why----"
"You poor boy! I'm only fishing."
"For what?"
"Well, why do you want to marry me?"
"Hang it, because I love you!"
"Why didn't you tell me that in the first place? How was I to know unless
you told me? But oh, Denny, I want to go home!" She laid her cheek against
his hand. "I want a garden with a picket fence round it and all the simple
flowers. I never want another adventure in all my days!"
"Same here!"
A stretch of silence.
"What happened to me?"
"Someone hit you with a wine bottle."
"A vintage--and I never got a swallow!"
"And then your father went to your defense."
"The old boy? Honestly?"
"He stood astride your body until Mr. Cunningham came in and stopped the
mêlée."
"Cunningham! They quit?"
"Yes--Flint. I didn't dream it wouldn't be safe to go on deck, and Flint
caught me. He was drunk. But for Cunningham, I don't know what would have
happened. I ran and left them fighting, and Flint wounded Cunningham with
a knife. It was for me, Denny. I feel so sorry for him! So alone, hating
himself and hating the world, tortured with misunderstanding--good in him
that he keeps smothering and trampling down. His unbroken word--to hang to
that!"
"All right. So far as I'm concerned, that cleans the slate."
"I loved you, Denny, but I didn't know how much until I saw you on the
floor. Do you know what I was going to demand of your father as a
reparation for bringing me on board? His hand in yours. That was all I
wanted."
"Always thinking of someone else!"
"That's all the happiness I've ever had, Denny--until now!"
CHAPTER XXI
A good deal of orderly commotion took place the following morning.
Cunningham's crew, under the temporary leadership of Cleve, proceeded to
make everything shipshape. There was no exuberance; they went at the
business quietly and grimly. They sensed a shadow overhead. The revolt of
the six discovered to the others what a rickety bridge they were crossing,
how easily and swiftly a jest may become a tragedy.
They had accepted the game as a kind of huge joke. Everything had been
prepared against failure; it was all cut and dried; all they had to do was
to believe themselves. For days they had gone about their various duties
thinking only of the gay time that would fall to their lot when they left
the Wanderer. The possibility that Cleigh would not proceed in the
manner advanced by Cunningham's psychology never bothered them until now.
Supposing the old man's desire for vengeance was stronger than his love
for his art objects? He was a fighter; he had proved it last night.
Supposing he put up a fight and called in the British to help him?
Not one of them but knew what the penalty would be if pursued and caught.
But Cunningham had persuaded them up to this hour that they would not even
be pursued; that it would not be humanly possible for Cleigh to surrender
the hope of eventually recovering his unlawful possessions. And now they
began to wonder, to fret secretly, to reconsider the ancient saying that
the way of the transgressor is hard.
On land they could have separated and hidden successfully. Here at sea the
wireless was an inescapable net. Their only hope was to carry on.
