courteous as his one reliable friend, Mrs. Mortimer 
Dwight. 



 

IV 

During the first winter and spring while his pupils 
were still fairly regular in their attendance, he was both 
incensed and grimly amused by their various idiosyncrasies. He soon became accustomed to their vanity boxes 
and their public application of powder and lip stick, 
the frank crossing of their knees that exhibited more 
diaphanous silk than he had ever seen in his life before, 
the polite excitement that any new article of attire worn 
by one seemed to induce in all, the wicked but on the 
whole good-natured baiting of Aileen Lawton and Polly 
Eoberts, the alternate insolence and Circean glances of 
Mrs. Bascom, who amused herself "practicing on him," 
and the constant smoking of most of them. 

But what he could neither understand nor accept was 
their attitude toward one another. They would all rush 
at the hostess of the day as they entered, or at late comers, with the excited enthusiasm of loved and loving intimates who had not met for months; and Kirkpatrick, 
who missed nothing, knew that they met once a day if 
not oftener. 

In spite of their intimacy their warm enraptured 
greetings carried a patent measure of admiration and 
even respect. It was always at least fifteen minutes before they would settle down for "work," and meanwhile 
they chattered about their common interests, but always 
with the air of relating long-delayed information and a 
frank desire to give of their best. He could have understood "gush," and sentimentalism, but this attitude of 
which he had neither heard nor read bothered him until 
one day he had a sudden flash of enlightenment. 



"Is it class-consciousness?" 

He asked the question of Gora, who dropped in upon a 
class at Alexina's or Aileen 's sometimes on a free afternoon, and with whom he was walking down to the trolley 
car. 

"Something like that. Caste they would call it if 



 

they thought about it at all, which to do them justice 
they don't. ... It used to be the fashion in San Francisco for everybody to 'knock' everybody else. Then 
came a revulsion and everybody began to praise and 
boost. You see it in all circles, but the way it has taken 
that crowd is to show their intense loyalty to one another 
by a constant reminder of it in manner, and in refraining from criticism of one another, no matter how much 
they may gossip about others outside of their particular 
set. Once, just to try my sister-in-law, I told her that 
in my nursing I had stumbled across evidence of an 
illicit love affair going on between one of her friends and 
a married man, the husband of my patient. My sister 
became so remote that I had the impression for a few 
moments that she really wasn't there. Once it would 
have infuriated me, but I have improved my sense of 
humor and developed my philosophy, so I merely turned 
the conversation, as she wouldn't speak at all. She had 
quite withdrawn — still further into the sacred preserves, 
I suppose. . . . 

"They are not only loyal but really seem to have the 
most exalted admiration for one another because they 
are all of the same heaven-bom stock. . . . That is not 
all, however. The truth of the matter is that they get so 
bored out here they would go frantic if they did not 
cultivate as many kinds of excitement and indigenous 
admirations as their wits are equal to. When they can, 
they vary the monotony of life with summers in Europe 
and winters in New York — or Santa Barbara, where they 
meet many interesting people from the East or England ; 
but some of them won't leave their busy husbands or the 
husbands won't be left; or parents are not amenable; so 
they try to create an atmosphere of high spirits and sheer 
delight in youth and one another, and the result is almost a work of art. I rather respect them, but I envy 
them a good deal less than before I knew them so well. ' ' 
' ' Oh, you envied them ? They should envy you. ' ' 
"Well, they don't! Yes, I envied them because it is 
my natural right to be one of them and fate slammed the 
door before I was bom. It embittered my first youth, 
and it might have become an obsession after my brother 



 

married into society if I had not found the right kind of 
work. That and the boring Sundays I've spent at Rincona, and the experiences I have had with that young 
set, who are always at Mrs. Dwight's more or less; be- 
sides a profound satisfaction in accomplishing literary 
work that not one of them could do to save their lives — 
all this has routed a good deal of my old bitterness of 
spirit. I am not sorry that I had it and mdulged it, 
however. Discontent and resentment put spurs on the 
soul. Anything is better than smugness." 

" It 's made you different enough from these others, all 
right. Even from Mrs. Dwight, who is different herself. 
... I'd rather you'd stayed discontented. The whole 
scheme's all wrong and you know it. You've suffered 
from it. You should be the last to tolerate it. When 
they're jabbering away about their ninny affairs they 
pay as little attention to you as they do to me. They 
forget our existence. We don't belong, as they say. 
There isn't one of them except Mrs. Dwight that I 
wouldn't give my eye teeth to see hanging out the wash 
or running a machine in a factory. ' ' 

Gora turned to him with a smile. At this time she 
was as nearly happy as was possible for that insurgent 
too aspiring spirit. 

"Nevertheless, they've made you over in a way — Oh, 
don't flame! I don't mean your principles . . . other 
ways that won't hurt you in the least. You cut your 
hair differently. You wear better shoes. You have your 
clothes pressed — the suit you wear up here anyhow. 
You've reformed your speech somewhat, and you know 
a good deal more about many things than you did a few 
months ago. I am expecting any day to see you wearing 
a 'boiled' shirt." 

"Oh, no, not that! It'd never do. It's true enough 
I got to feeling self-conscious about my rough clothes 
and boots, especially after I met that dude brother of 
yours one day in the hall and he gave me a once-over 
that made me feel like a tramp." 

"Oh! . . . But he was snubbed himself not so very 
long ago, and I suppose it gives him a certain pleasure 
to snub some one else. I am ashamed of him. . . . But 



 

tell me, don't you like them rather better than you expected? Find them rather a better sort? You must 
see that there is practically no leisure class as far as the 

men are concerned " 

"They have time enough to go chicken chasing- 



' Well, aside from that? At least they do work. And 
the younger women? You knew before that they were 
frivolous because they had too much money and too few 
responsibilities. Many of the older women have a serious 
and useful side, even if they do waste an unholy amount 
of time at cards." 

"Well, if you ask me, their manners, when they remember to use 'em, are better than I expected. Only that 
Miss Thorndyke is cold and haughty, but perhaps that's 
because she's poor (for her), or is covering up some- 
thing, or is just plain stupid. . . . Mrs. Dwight's man- 
ners are always perfect. She 's my idea of a lady — just ! 
And in the new system there'll be a long sight more ladies than is possible now, only no aristocrats. . . . Yes, 
they're decent enough considering they're rotten poisoned by money and thinkin' themselves better 'n the 
mass; and I like their affection for one another. But 
they could be all that in the socialist state and more too. 
They'd have to cut out drink and gambling, and a few 
other diversions some of 'em'll drift into, if one or two 
of 'em haven't already — just through being bored to 
death." 

"Do you honestly think socialism means universal 
virtue ? ' ' 

"No, I don't. I'm no such greenhorn ; though there's 
some that does, or pretends to. . . . But I mean there'd 
be no drifting into vice like there is now, no indulgence 
of any old weakness because temptation was always fol- 
lowing them about or just round the comer. That's 
the trouble now. . . . But in the most perfect state some 
would be watching out for their chance, just because the 
old Adam was too strong in spite of the fact that all the 
old reminders had disappeared. ' ' 

"More likely they'd all murder one another because 
they were some ten thousand times more bored than that 
poor little group whose brains you are addling." 



 

"I don't like to hear you talk like that, Miss Gora. 
You ought to give that pen of yours to socialism. There 
would be all the revenge you could want — and it's what 
you're entitled to. Then I could call you Comrade 
