quarter of the city, and finding a woman railing at a butcher
because of “alleged extortion,” had begun a speech, inciting a mob,
so that the police reserves had to be called out, and a riot was
narrowly averted. From there the prophet had gone to the Labor
Temple, announcing himself to the reporters as “fresh from God,”
 with a message to “Mobland,” his name for what he prophesied America
would be under his rule. He had then healed a sick boy, the
performance being carefully staged in front of moving picture
cameras. The account of the “Times” did not directly charge that the
performance was a “movie stunt,” but it described it in a mocking
way which made it obviously that. The paper mentioned T-S in such a
way as to indicate him as the originator of the scheme, and it had
fun with Mary Magna, pawning her paste jewels. It published the
flash-light picture, and also a picture of Carpenter walking down
the street, trailed by his mob.

In another column was the climax, the “red riot of talk” at Grant
Hall. James, the striking carpenter, had indulged in virulent and
semi-insane abuse of the rich; after which the new prophet had
stirred the mob to worse frenzies. The “Times” quoted sample
sentences, such as: “Do not think that I am come to bring you ease
and comfort; I am come to bring strife and disorder to this world.”

I turned to the editorial page, and there was a double-column
leader, made extra impressive by leads. “AN INFAMOUS BLASPHEMY,” was
the heading. Perhaps you have a “Times” in your own city; if so, you
will no doubt recognize the standard style:

“For many years this newspaper has been pointing out to the people
of Western City the accumulating evidence that the men who
manipulate the forces of organized labor are Anarchists at heart,
plotting to let loose the torch of red revolution over this fair
land. We have clearly showed their nefarious purpose to overthrow
the Statue of Liberty and set up in its place the Dictatorship of
the Walking Delegate. But, evil as we thought them, we were naive
enough to give them credit for an elemental sense of decency. Even
though they had no respect for the works of man, we thought at least
they would spare the works of God, the most sacred symbols of divine
revelation to suffering humanity. But yesterday there occurred in
this city a performance which for shameless insolence and
blasphemous perversion exceeds anything but the wildest flight of a
devil’s imagination, and reveals the bosses of the Labor Trust as
wanton defilers of everything that decent people hold precious and
holy.

“What was the spectacle? A moving picture producer, moved by blind,
and we trust unthinking lust for gain, produces in our midst an
alleged ‘prophet,’ dressed in a costume elaborately contrived to
imitate and suggest a Sacred Presence which our respect for religion
forbids us to name; he brings this vile, perverted creature forward,
announcing himself to the newspapers as ‘fresh from God,’ and
mouthing phrases of social greed and jealousy with which for the
past few years the Hun-agents and Hun-lovers in our midst have made
us only too sickenly familiar. This monstrous parody of divine
compassion is escorted to that headquarters of Pro-Germanism and red
revolution, the Labor Temple, and there performs, in the presence of
moving picture cameras, a grotesque parody upon the laying on of
hands and the healing of the sick. The ‘Times’ presents a photograph
of this incredible infamy. We apologize to our readers for thus
aiding the designs of cunning publicity-seekers, but there is no
other way to make clear to the public the gross affront to decency
which has been perpetrated, and the further affronts which are being
planned. This appears to be a scheme for making a moving picture
‘star’; this ‘Carpenter’--note the silly pun--is to become the
latest sensation in million dollar movie dolls, and the American
public is to be invited to pay money to witness a story of sacred
things played by a real ‘prophet’ and worker of ‘miracles’!”

“But the worst has yet to be told. The masters of the Labor Trust,
not to be outdone in bidding for unholy notoriety, had the insolence
to invite this blasphemous charlatan to their riot of revolutionary
ranting called a ‘protest meeting.’ He and other creatures of his
ilk, summoning the forces which are organizing red ruin in our city,
proceed to rave at the police and the courts for denying to mobs of
strikers the right to throw brickbats at honest workers looking for
jobs, and to hold the pistol of the boycott at the heads of
employers who dare to stand for American liberty and democracy! We
have heard much mouthing of class venom and hate in this community,
but never have our ears been affronted by anything so unpardonable
as this disguising of the doctrine of Lenin and Trotsky in the robes
of Christian revelation. This ‘prophet fresh from God,’ as he styles
himself, is a man of peace and brotherly love--oh, yes, of course!
We know these wolves in sheeps’ clothing, these pacifists and lovers
of man with the gold of the Red International in their pockets, and
slavering from their tongues the fine phrases of idealism which
conveniently protect them from the strong hand of the law! We have
seen their bloody work for four years in Russia, and we tell them
that if they expect to prepare the confiscation of property and the
nationalization of women in this country while disguising themselves
in moving picture imitations of religion, they are grossly
underestimating the intelligence of the red-blooded citizens of this
great republic. We shall be much mistaken if the order-loving and
patriotic people of our Christian community do not find a way to
stamp their heel upon this vile viper before its venom shall have
poisoned the air we breathe.”



XXXVII


Then I picked up the “Examiner.” Our “Examiner” does not go in so
much for moral causes; it is more interested in getting circulation,
for which it relies upon sensation, and especially what it calls
“heart interest,” meaning sex. It had found what it wanted in this
story, as you may judge by the headlines:

MOVIE QUEEN PAWNS JEWELS FOR PROPHET OF GOD

Then followed a story of which Mary Magna was the centre, with T-S
and myself for background. The reporter had hunted out the Mexican
family with which Carpenter had spent the night, and he drew a
touching picture of Carpenter praying over Mary in this humble home,
and converting her to a better life. Would the “million dollar
vamp,” as the “Examiner” called her, now take to playing only
religious parts? Mary was noncommittal on the point; and pending her
decision, the “Examiner” published her portraits in half a dozen of
her most luxurious roles--for example, as Salome after taking off
the seventh veil. Side by side with Carpenter, that had a real
“punch,” you may believe!

The telephone rang, and there was the voice of T-S, fairly raving.
He didn’t mind the “Examiner” stuff; that was good business, but
that in the “Times”--he was going to sue the “Times” for a million
dollars, by God, and would I back him in his claim that he had not
put Carpenter up to the healing business?

After a bit, the magnate began apologizing for his repudiation of
the prophet. He was in a position, just now with these hard times,
where the Wall Street crowd could ruin him if he got in bad with
them. And then he told me a curious story. Last night, after the
meeting, young Everett, his secretary, had come to him and asked if
he could have a couple of months’ leave of absence without pay. He
was so much interested in Carpenter that he wanted to follow him and
help him!

“Y’ know, Billy,” said the voice over the phone, “y’ could a’
knocked me over vit a fedder! Dat young feller, he vas alvays so
quiet, and such a fine business feller, I put him in charge of all
my collections. I said to him, ‘Vot you gonna do?’ And he said, ‘I
gonna learn from Mr. Carpenter.’ Says I, ‘Vot you gonna learn?’ and
he says, ‘I gonna learn to be a better man.’ Den he vaits a minute,
and he says, ‘Mr. T-S, he told me to foller him!’ J’ ever hear de
like o’ dat?”

“What did you say?”

“Vot could I say? I vanted to say, ‘Who’s givin’ you de orders?’ But
I couldn’t, somehow! I hadda tell him to go ahead, and come back
before he forgot all my business.”

I dressed, and had my breakfast, and drove to St. Bartholomew’s. It
was a November morning, bright and sunny, as warm as summer; and it
is always such a pleasure to see that goodly company of ladies and
gentlemen, so perfectly groomed, so perfectly mannered, breathing a
sense of peace and well being. Ah, that wonderful sense of well
being! “God’s in His Heaven, all’s right with the world!” And what a
curious contrast with the Labor Temple! For a moment I doubted
Carpenter; surely these ladies with their decorative bonnets, their
sweet perfumes, their gowns of rose and lilac and other pastel
shades--surely they were more important life-products than women in
frowsy and dowdy imitation clothes! Surely it was better to be
serene and clean and pleasant, than to be terrible and bewildered,
sick and quarrelsome! I was seized by a frenzy, a sort of
instinctive animal lust for this life of ease and prettiness. No
matter if those dirty, raucous-voiced hordes of strikers, and others
of their “ilk”--as the “Times” phrased it--did have to wash my
clothes and scrub my floors, just so that I stayed clean and
decent!

I bowed to a score or two of the elegant ladies, and to their
escorts in shiny top hats and uncreased kid gloves, and went into
the exquisite church with its glowing stained glass window, and
looked up over the altar--and there stood Carpenter! I tell you, it
gave me a queer shock. There he was, up in the window, exactly where
he had always been; I thought I had suddenly wakened from a dream.
There had been no “prophet fresh from God,” no mass-meeting at Grant
Hall, no editorial in the “Times”! But suddenly I heard a voice at
my elbow: “Billy, what is this awful thing you’ve been doing?” It
was my Aunt Caroline, and I asked what she meant, and she answered,
“That terrible prophet creature, and getting your name into the
papers!”

So I knew it was true, and I walked with my dear, sweet old auntie
down the aisle, and there sat Aunt Jennie, with her two lanky girls
who have grown inches every time I run into them; and also Uncle
Timothy. Uncle Timothy was my guardian until I came of age, so I am
a little in awe of him, and now I had to listen to his whispered
reproaches--it being the first principle of our family never to “get
into the papers.” I told him that it wasn’t my fault I had been
knocked down by a mob, and surely I couldn’t help it if this man
Carpenter found me while I was unconscious, and made me well. Nor
could I fail to be polite to my benefactor, and try to help him
about. My Uncle Timothy was amazed, because he had accepted the
“Times” story that it was all a “movie” hoax. Everybody will tell
you in Western City that they “never believe a word they read in the
‘Times’”; but of course they do--they have to believe something, and
what else have they?

I was trying to think about that picture over the altar. Of course,
