The only blot on the aristocratic landscape was 
a low brown restaurant kept by a Frenchman, 
known as " Old Blazes." It was a resort for 
gay parties that were quite respectable and for 





 

others that were not. Behind the public rooms 
was a row of cubicles patronized by men when 
on a quiet spree (women, too, it was whispered). 
There were no cabinet particuliers. Old Blazes 
had his own ideas of propriety} and no mind to 
be ousted from Lake Merritt. 

Madeleine had found Sally Abbott's society 
far more endurable, when she paid her round of 
visits after Masters' departiu-e, than that of the 
older women with their watchful or anxious 
eyes, and she had no suspicion that Sally had 
guessed her secret long since. If love had been 
her only affliction she would have been grateful 
for her society and amusing chatter, for they 
had much in common. But in the circumstances 
it was unthinkable. Not only was she terrified 
once more by the prospect of being "cured," 
but her shattered nerves demanded far more 
stimulation and tranquilizing than these small 
daily doses of brandy afforded. 

Her will was in no way affected. She controlled even her nerves in Sally's presence, 
escaped from it twice a day under pretext of 
taking a nap, and went upstairs immediately 
after dinner. She had a large room at the 
back of the house where she could pace up and 
down unheard. 



 

She pretended to be amiable and resigned, 
played battledoor and shuttlecock in the hall, 
or on the lawn when the weather permitted, 
sang in the evenings with Sally and Harold, and 
affected not to notice that she was locked in at 
night. She refused to drive, as she would have 
found sitting for any length of time unendur- 
able, but she was glad to take long walks even 
in the rain — and was piloted away from the 
town and the railroad. 

Sally wrote jubilant letters to Dr. Talbot, 
who thought it best to stay away. The servants 
were told that Mrs. Talbot was recovering from 
an illness and suspected nothing. 

It lasted two weeks. Sally had inexorably 
diminished the doses after the seventh day. 
Madeleine's mind, tormented by her nerves, 
never ceased for a moment revolving plans for 
escape. 

As they returned from a walk one afternoon 
they met callers at the door and it was impossible to deny them admittance. Madeleine ex- 
cused herself and went up to her room wearing 
her coat and hat instead of handing them to 
Sally as usual. She put them in her wardrobe 
and locked the door and hid the key. At dinner 



 

it was apparent, however, that Sally had not 
noticed the omission of this detail in her daily 
espionage, for the visitors had told her much 
interesting gossip and she was interested in imparting it. Moreover, her mind was almost 
at rest regarding her captive. 

Madeleine, some time since, had found that 
the key of another door unlocked her own, and 
secreted it. She had no money, but she had 
worn a heavy gold bracelet when her husband 
and Sally dressed her and they had pinned her 
collar with a pearl brooch. Sally followed her 
to her room after she had had time to undress 
and gave her the nightly draught, but did not 
linger; she had no mind that her husband 
should feel neglected and resent this interruption of an extended honeymoon. 

Madeleine waited until the house was quiet. 
Then she went down the heavily carpeted stairs 
and let herself out by one of the long French 
windows. She had made her plans and walked 
swiftly to the restaurant. She knew "Old 
Blazes," for she had dined at his famous hostelry more than once with her husband or 
friends. 

There was a party in the private restaurant. 



 

She walked directly to one of the cubicles and 
rang for a waiter and told him to send M'sieu 
to her at once. 

^ Old Blazes " came immediately, and if she 
expected him to look astonished she was agreeably disappointed. Nothing astonished him. 

She held out her bracelet and brooch. " I 
want you to lend me some money on these," 
she said. " My husband will redeem them." 

" Very well, madame." (He was far too discreet to recognize her.) " I will bring you the 
money at once." 

"And I wish to buy a quart of Bourbon, 
which I shall take with me. You may also 
bring me a glass." 

" Very well, madame." 

He left the room and returned in a moment 
with a bottle of Bourbon, from which he had 
drawn the coric, a glass, and a bottle of Napa 
Soda. He also handed her two gold pieces. 
He had been a generous friend to many patrons 
and had reaped his reward. 

" I should advise you to leave by the back 
entrance," he said. "Shall I have a hack 
there — in — " 

" Send for it at once and I will take when 



 

I am ready. Tell the man to drive on to the 

boat and to the Occidental Hotel." 
"Yes, Madame. Good-night, Madame." 
He closed the door. Madeleine left the 

restaurant three quarters of an hour later. 



XXXIV 

COLONEL BELMONT, Alexander 
Groome, Amos Lawton, Ogden Bascom 
and several other worthy citizens, were returning from a pleasant supper at Blazes', They sat 
for a time in the saloon of the ferry boat El 
Capitan with the birds of gorgeous plumage 
they had royally entertained and then went outside to take the air 3 the ladies preferring to nap. 

" Hello ! What's that? " exclaimed Groome. 
" Something's up. Let's investigate." 

At the end of the rear deck was a group of 
men and one or two women. They were 
crowding one another and those on the edge 
stood on tiptoe. Belmont was very tall and 
he could see over their heads without difficulty. 

" It's a woman," he annoimced to his friends. 
"Drunk — ^or in a dead faint — " 

A man laughed coarsely. " Drunk as they 
make 'em. No faint about that — Hi ! — 
Quit yer shovin' — " 

Belmont scattered the crowd as if they had 

 

been children and picked up the woman in his 
arms. 

" My God ! " he cried to his staring companions; and as he faced them he looked about 
to faint himself. " Do you see who it is ? 
Where can we hide her ? " 

" Whe-e-ew ! " whistled Groome, and for 
the moment was thankful for his Maria, 
'' What the — " 

" I've got my hack on the deck below,' said 
one of the gaping crowd. "She came in it. 
Better take her right down, sir. I never seen 
her before but I seen she was a lady and tried 
to prevent her — " 
