dad's money!" And, "Oh--oh--oh!!" she sobbed, collapsing in his arms
and clinging to him convulsively as he carried her to her tumbled bed
and laid her there.

He said: "I couldn't risk following anybody now, after what has happened
to you. I can't leave you alone here! Don't cry, Eve. I'll get your man
for you, I promise! Don't cry, dear. It was all my fault for leaving
this room even for a minute----"

"No, no, no! It's my fault. I sent you away. Oh, I wish I hadn't. I wish
I had let you come back when you wanted to.... I was waiting for you....
I left the door unbolted for you. When it opened I thought it was you.
And it was Leverett!--it was Leverett!----"

Stormont's face grew very white: "What did he do to you, Eve? Tell me,
darling. What did he do to you?"

"Dad's money was under my pillow," she wailed. "Leverett tried to make
me tell where it was. I wouldn't, and he hurt me----"

"How?"

"He pricked me with his knife. When I screamed for you he tried to choke
me with the pillow. Didn't you hear me scream?"

"Yes. I came on the jump."

"It was too late," she sobbed; "--too late! He saw the money packet
under my pillow and he snatched it and ran. Somehow I found your rifle
and fired. I fired twice."

Her only bullet had torn his campaign hat from his head. But he did not
tell her.

"Let me see your neck," he said, bending closer.

She bared her throat, making a soft, vague complaint like a hurt
bird,--lay there whimpering under her breath while he bathed the blood
away with lint, sterilised the two cuts from his emergency packet, and
bound them.

He was still bending low over her when her blue eyes unclosed on his.

"That is the second time I've tried to kill you," she whispered. "I
thought it was Leverett.... I'd have died if I had killed you."

There was a silence.

"Lie very still," he said huskily. "I'll be back in a moment to
rebandage your feet and make you comfortable for the night."

"I can't sleep," she repeated desolately. "Dad trusted his money to me
and I've let Leverett rob me. How can I sleep?"

"I'll bring you something to make you sleep."

"I can't!"

"I promise you you will sleep. Lie still."

He rose, went away downstairs and out to the barn, where his campaign
hat lay in the weed, drilled through by a bullet.

There was something else lying there in the weeds,--a flat, muddy,
shoeless shape sprawling grotesquely in the foggy starlight.

One hand clutched a hunting knife; the other a packet.

Stormont drew the packet from the stiff fingers, then turned the body
over, and, flashing his electric torch, examined the ratty visage--what
remained of it--for his pistol bullet had crashed through from ear to
cheek-bone, almost obliterating the trap-robber's features.

       

Stormont came slowly into Eve's room and laid the packet on the sheet
beside her.

"Now," he said, "there is no reason for you to lie awake any longer.
I'll fix you up for the night."

Deftly he unbandaged, bathed, dressed, and rebandaged her slim white
feet--little wounded feet so lovely, so exquisite that his hand trembled
as he touched them.

"They're doing fine," he said cheerily. "You've half a degree of fever
and I'm going to give you something to drink before you go to sleep----"

He poured out a glass of water, dissolved two tablets, supported her
shoulders while she drank in a dazed way, looking always at him over the
glass.

"Now," he said, "go to sleep. I'll be on the job outside your door until
your daddy arrives."

"How did you get back dad's money?" she asked in an odd, emotionless way
as though too weary for further surprises.

"I'll tell you in the morning."

"Did you kill him? I didn't hear your pistol."

"I'll tell you all about it in the morning. Good night, Eve."

As he bent over her, she looked up into his eyes and put both arms
around his neck.

It was her first kiss given to any man, except Mike Clinch.

After Stormont had gone out and closed the door, she lay very still for
a long while.

Then, instinctively, she touched her lips with her fingers; and, at the
contact, a blush clothed her from brow to ankle.

The Flaming Jewel in its morocco casket under her pillow burned with no
purer fire than the enchanted flame glowing in the virgin heart of Eve
Strayer of Clinch's Dump.

Thus they lay together, two lovely flaming jewels burning softly,
steadily through the misty splendour of the night.

Under a million stars, Death sprawled in squalor among the trampled
weeds. Under the same high stars dark mountains waited; and there was a
silvery sound of waters stirring somewhere in the mist.




EPISODE SEVEN

CLINCH'S DUMP


I

When Mike Clinch bade Hal Smith return to the Dump and take care of Eve,
Smith already had decided to go there.

Somewhere in Clinch's Dump was hidden the Flaming Jewel. Now was his
time to search for it.

There were two other reasons why he should go back. One of them was that
Leverett was loose. If anything had called Trooper Stormont away, Eve
would be alone in the house. And nobody on earth could forecast what a
coward like Leverett might attempt.

But there was another and more serious reason for returning to Clinch's.
Clinch, blood-mad, was headed for Drowned Valley with his men, to stop
both ends of that vast morass before Quintana and his gang could get
out.

It was evident that neither Clinch nor any of his men--although their
very lives depended upon familiarity with the wilderness--knew that a
third exit from Drowned Valley existed.

But the nephew of the late Henry Harrod knew.

When Jake Kloon was a young man and Darragh was a boy, Kloon had shown
him the rocky, submerged game trail into Drowned Valley. Doubtless Kloon
had used it in hootch running since. If ever he had told anybody else
about it, probably he had revealed the trail to Quintana.

And that was why Darragh, or Hal Smith, finally decided to return to
Star Pond;--because if Quintana had been told or had discovered that
circuitous way out of Drowned Valley, he might go straight to Clinch's
Dump.... And, supposing Stormont was still there, how long could one
State Trooper stand off Quintana's gang?

       

No sooner had Clinch and his motley followers disappeared in the dusk
than Smith unslung his basket-pack, fished out a big electric torch,
flashed it tentatively, and then, reslinging the pack and taking his
rifle in his left hand, he set off at an easy swinging stride.

His course was not toward Star Pond; it was at right angles with that
trail. For he was taking no chances. Quintana might already have left
Drowned Valley by that third exit unknown to Clinch.

Smith's course would now cut this unmarked trail, trodden only by game
that left no sign in the shallow mountain rivulet which was the path.

The trail lay a long way off through the night. But if Quintana had
discovered and taken that trail, it would be longer still for him--twice
as long as the regular trail out.

For a mile or two the forest was first growth pine, and sufficiently
open so that Smith might economise on his torch.

He knew every foot of it. As a boy he had carried a jacob-staff in the
Geological Survey. Who better than the forest-roaming nephew of Henry
Harrod should know this blind wilderness?

The great pines towered on every side, lofty and smooth to the feathery
canopy that crowned them under the high stars.

There was no game here, no water, nothing to attract anybody except the
devastating lumberman. But this was a five thousand acre patch of State
land. The ugly whine of the steam-saw would never be heard here.
