the house and wandered through the booth in 
the court, where the people were dancing and 
singing and eating and gambling as if with the 
morrow an eternal Lent would come, and 
Hence through the silent town to the pleasure- 
grounds of Casa Grande, which lay about half 
a mile from the house. He had been there 
but a short while when he heard a rustle, a 
light footfall ; and, turning, he saw Chonita, 
unattended, her bare neck and gold hair gleam- 
ing against the dark, her train dragging. She 
was advancing swiftly toward him. His pulses 
bounded, and he sprang toward hef, his arms 
outstretched ; but she waved him back. 
" Have mercy," she said. "I am alone. I 
brought no one, because I have that to tell you 
which no one else must hear." 
He stepped back and looked at the ground. 
'* Listen," she said. '* I could not wait un- 
til to-morrow, because a moment lost might 
mean — might mean the ruin of your career, and 
you say your envoy has not gone yet. Just 
now — I will tell you the other first. Mother of 
God ! that I should betray my brother to my 
enemy ! But it seems to me right, because 
you placed your confidence in me, and I should 
feel that I betrayed you if I did not warn you. 
I do not know — oh, Mary ! — I do not know — 
but this seems to me right. The other night 
my brother came to me and asked me — ay ! 
do not look at me — to marry you, that you 
would balk his ambition no further. He 
wishes to go as diputado to Mexico, and he 
knows that you will not let him. I thought my 
brain would crack, — an Iturbi y Moncada ! — 
I made him no answer, — there was no answer 
to a demand like that, — and he went from me 
in a fury, vowing vengeance upon you. To- 
night, a few moments ago, he whispered to 
me that he knew of your plans, your intentions 
regarding the Americans : he had overheard a 
conversation between you and Alvarado. He 
says that he will send letters to Mexico to-mor- 
row, warning the government against you. 
Then their suspicions will be roused, and they 
will inquire — Ay, Mary ! " 
Estenega brought his teeth together. 
" God ! " he exclaimed. 
She saw that he had forgotten her. She 
turned and went back more swiftly than she 
had come. 
Estenega was a man whose resources never 
failed him. He returned to the house and 
asked Reinaldo to smoke a cigarito and drink 
a bottle of wine in his room. Then, without a 
promise or a compromising word, he so flattered 
that shallow youth, so allured his ambition and 
pampered his vanity and watered his hopes, 
that fear and hatred wondered at their exist- 
ence, closed their eyes, and went to sleep. 
Reinaldo poured forth his aspirations, which 
under the influence of the truth-provoking vine 
proved to be an honest yearning for the pleas- 
ures of Mexico. As he rose to go he threw his 
arm about Estenega's neck. 
"Ay ! my friend! my friend! "he cried, 
"thou art all-powerful. Thou alone canst 
give me what I want." 
"Whydidyou never ask me for what you 
wanted ? " asked Estenega. And he thought, 
" If it were not for Her, you would be on your 
way to Los Angeles to-night under charge of 
high treason. I would not have taken this 
much trouble with you." 
XXIV. 
A RODEO was held the next day, — the last of 
the festivities ; — Don Guillermo taking 
advantage of the gathering of the rancheros. It was 
to take place on the Cerros Rancho, which 
adjoined the Rancho de las Rocas. We went 
early, most of us dismounting and taking to 
the platform on one side of the circular rodeo- 
ground. The vaqueroswere already galloping 
over the hills, shouting and screaming to the 
cattle, who ran to them like dogs ; soon a herd 
came rushing down into the circle, where they 
were thrown down and branded, the stray
cattle belonging to neighbors separated and 
corralled. This happened again and again, the 
interest and excitement growing with each 
round-up. 
Once a bull, seeing his chance, darted from 
his herd and down the valley. A vaquero 
started after him ; but Reinaldo, anxious to 
display his skill in horsemanship, and being 
still mounted, called to the vaquero to stop, 
dashed after the animal, caught it by its tail, 
spurred his horse ahead, let go the tail at the 
right moment, and, amidst shouts of '*Coliar ! " 
"Coliar ! " the bull was ignominiously rolled in 
