man's mind. But for Daisy he would not have made even 
this advance. 
"Have you anything to say to me Lily?" He swal- 
lowed a good deal of pride as he pronounced the name, 
sorely tempted as he was to call her Miss Bertrand. 
It was not a tone very inviting to penitence. Lily's face 
flushed hotly, and her eyes fell beneath his steady gaze. 
She had persuaded herself that he was selfish and tyrannical. 
Neither did she feel suflicient need of his love to render her 
humble. 
"Nothing." The tone was low, but he heard it dis- 
tinctly. 
" Very well. Perhaps it will be better to make no ex- 
planations until you return home. I will inform your 
brother." 
She bowed indifferently. O, how sweet, how winsome, 
she was, even now ! A word would have brought him back. 
She did not utter it, however, although she could not help 
feeling grateful that he should thus postpone the unpleasant 
announcement. 
Daisy kept her secret. Lily filled the two succeeding 
days with all the pleasure that could be crowded in them. 
She would not think. A bright life was before her, and she 
resolutely determined not to shadow it by any misgiving. 
Love was easy to win. And yet she put something in her 
demeanor towards Fred that made him understand the real 
distance between them, and that his flatteries were as noth- 
ing in her eyes. He should not boast that she had broken 
her engagement on his account. 
 
The excursion had heen highly satisfactory, save to Lily 
and Mr. Auchester. And she proudly persuaded herself 
that she did not care. He fancied he felt truly thankful 
that the rupture had come so soon. Since she was un- 
worthy of his love, this wound, bitter as it was, could be 
endured, and was to be preferred to a lifetime of uuhappi- 
ess. 
 
CHAPTER XXX. 
O, Love! unconquerable in the fight. Thee shall neither any of the im- 
mortals escape, nor of men, the creatures of a day. 
SOPHOCLES, Trans. 
So with this. 
The lines have under meanings, and the scene 
Of self-forgetfulness and indecision 
Breaks off, not ends. 
FESTUS. 
ON his return to Rothelan, Richard was met by a letter 
from Mr. Auchester, announcing the fact of the broken 
engagement. He was too gentlemanly to indulge in any 
severe animadversions on Lily's conduct, but simply stated 
the case, and gave Richard full credit for his foresight and 
good judgment. He allowed, in a most graceful manner, 
that he had been mistaken in regard to himself, as well as 
to Lily. 
The thought that he had predicted it afforded Richard 
small satisfaction. The spirit of Mr. Auchester's letter did 
not intimate that the disagreement was at all trifling, or to 
be easily overcome. He undertook to question Lily, but she 
was haughty, and not disposed to discuss the subject. He 
could not discern the slightest regret in her manner, and 
this set him at ease with regard to her. 
" I don't know what I could have been about for the last 
fortnight, not to see how matters were going," he said, a 
little self-reproachfully. 
"No, Dick/' Mabel returned, warmly, "you shall not 
blame yourself for this. If I, who by right should have 
been most watchful, could not gain her confidence, or 
 
influence her, the fault is clearly her own waywardness. Mr. 
Auchester has acted commendably throughout, and Lily has 
lost a regard she may never find again. I regret that this 
sorrow should fall upon him ; but she needs a lesson. She 
is too thoughtless and trifling." 
Philip took the affair more seriously. Like Daisy, he felt 
convinced they had loved each other. He held Mr. Auches- 
ter in the highest esteem, and scolded Lily roundly for 
coquetry. Yet this did not punish her as did Richard's 
grave tones, and the implied condemnation in his eyes. 
Philip and Mabel insisted that Lily should remain at 
Rothelan. Indeed, the former cherished a hope that a 
reconciliation might yet be effected. Mrs. Suydam had 
gone directly to New York with the Auchesters, from whence 
in a few days they were to start for Virginia, while she was 
to shop, and prepare for the journey with her husband. 
Daisy agreed to the arrangement, for she felt Richard's 
home would be happier without Lily. Her tender little heart 
questioned itself as to whether there was anything selfish in 
desiring his comfort above all else. 
The dear old house at Newark greeted them with a familiar 
welcome, as inanimate things often touch our hearts more 
closely than words. Daisy was soon settled in her former 
quiet life, after the rare holiday summer. Indeed, about ten 
days later, when Archie left them for a preparatory school, 
she found it necessary to make some effort to keep them 
from drifting into absolute loneliness. Yet she had never 
been happier. Lily's first letter was so gay and good- 
humored that she read it aloud to Richard. 
She had been at home a fortnight, perhaps, when one even- 
ing Ann startled her by announcing that " Mr. Auchester 
