Ada could no longer endure the sight of Mr. De 
Castro's attention to another. She called him to ex- 
plain to them the name of some tropical flower, and 
then she and Julie exerted their charms to the utmost. 
She might venture to deal more generously with Julie, 
as that young lady was so soon to leave the city. 
Mrs. Henriques changed her seat, and Kathie was 
left alone. Every one in the room seemed happy and 
engrossed except herself. And then the little French 
clock on the mantel struck the half-hour. At nine 
she must go home. 
The moments were long and wearisome. She 
counted the seconds and prayed for them to go faster. 
She did not dare to leave her seat, for a feeling of 
awkwardness chained her to it. Mr. Meredith, glan- 
cing up suddenly, took in the position of the droop- 
ing and dispirited face, and brought his argument to 
a rather abrupt close. 
" My dear child/' he said, approaching her, " you 
should not let such a trifling mischance cloud your 
evening. After all, it was of very little account." 
" I should like to go home," she made answer, in a 
tremulous voice. " Aunt Euth told me to come at 
nine." 
"Which gives you fifteen minutes' grace. Shall 
we go over and talk to Ada and Julie ? ' 
" I would rather go home " ; and this time her voice 
was full of tears. 
" My child, you shall do as you like. It is a fine 
night, so suppose I walk with you, instead of send- 
ing you in the carriage ? ' 
Kathie gave him a bright, grateful look. 
" Very well. Make your adieus then." 
That was a great trial. She had half a mind to 
slip unnoticed out of the room, but Mr. Meredith 
smoothed the way for her by announcing her de- 
parture to the girls and to Mrs. Henriques, who was 
in their vicinity. 
" What makes you go so soon ? ' : ' asked Ada, lan- 
guidly. 
Mrs. Henriques kissed her warmly, and this broke 
the spell of reserve. 
 
" I am sorry about the singing," said Madame 
Hernadez, in a low tone. " If we were not going to- 
morrow, I should ask to have the visit repeated." 
That comforted Kathie a good deal, the tone in 
which it was spoken being so frank and pleas- 
ant. 
Kathie thought she ought to make some apology 
to Mrs. Meredith, but although that lady dismissed 
her very graciously, there was an air about her that 
showed the child she still felt offended. 
" Will you order the carriage, Edward ? " she asked 
of her brother-in-law. 
He nodded and left the room. Ada, as a matter of 
courtesy, followed her friend. 
" It was a shame for you to spoil the evening, 
Kathie," she began. 
" Hush," said Uncle Edward. " It was right for 
Kathie to honor her mother as well in her absence 
as in her presence." 
Kathie hurried on her wrappings and uttered her 
good-by, but Ada was not very cordial, it must be 
confessed. 
It was so good to get out in the fresh air that 
Kathie drew a long breath of rapture. The moon 
was shining at its brightest, albeit it was a midwinter 
moon, and the atmosphere keen and frosty. 
" My dear little friend," Mr. Meredith began, pres- 
ently, " I regret so much that your visit has been 
spoiled. If you thought singing the song wrong, no 
one should have urged you." 
" I am afraid Mrs. Meredith considered me rude 
and foolish about it. I did not mean that I 
thought myself better than the others ' : 
" My dear Kathie, we could not suspect you of 
that. As for Mrs. Meredith, on sober consideration 
she will see that your course was right, even if the 
virtue was a little overstrained." 
Kathie's heart beat rapidly. Must she lose his 
good opinion also ? 
" Why did you think it so very wrong ? " and Mr. 
Meredith gave a light little laugh, which showed that 
he treated it as a matter of small importance. 
Kathie was a good deal troubled. What could she 
say to make him understand her feelings ? And as 
she was casting about in perplexity, the best of all 
reasons came into her mind. 
" Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy." 
Her voice was low but earnest, and something in it 
touched Mr. Meredith. 
 
" Mamma, and Aunt Eutli, and Uncle Eobert would 
have felt very sorry to hear of my singing such a 
song on Sunday evening. I don't know as the other 
was quite right. I did not have hardly time to think 
of it." 
" You were right in not doing a thing of which 
you felt certain they would disapprove." 
