Forriner and see if I like him."
Winifred laughed.
"No, no, but I mean business -- what you are going to
Mannahatta for -- what will be the first thing?"
"To shew myself to Mr. De Wort."
"Who's he?"
"He is a lawyer in Mannahatta."
"Do you know where he lives?"
"No, Winnie; but other people do."
"What are you going to see him for, Governor?"
"To ask him if he will let me read law in his office."
"Will he want to be paid for it?"
"I don't know."
"Suppose he should, Governor?"
"Then I will pay him, Winifred."
"How can you?"
Her brother smiled a little. "My eyes are not far-sighted
enough to tell you, Winnie. I can only give you the fact."
Winifred smiled too, but in her heart believed him.
"Did you ever see Mr. De Wort?"
"Never."
"Then what makes you choose him?"
"Because he is said to be the best lawyer in the city."
Winifred put her fingers thoughtfully through and through the
short dark wavy brown hair which graced her brother's broad
brow, and wondered with herself whether there would not be a
better lawyer in the city before long. And then in a sweet
kind of security laid her head down again upon his breast.
"I'll have a house for you there, by and by, Winnie," he said,
as his arm drew round her.
"O I couldn't leave mother, you know," she answered.
Her mother called her at this instant, and she ran off,
leaving him alone.
He had spoken to her all the while with no change on his
wonted calm brow and lip; but when she left the room he left
it; and wandering down to some hiding place on the rocky
shore, where only the silent cedars stood witnesses, he wept
there till his strong frame shook, with what he no more than
the rocks would shew anywhere else. It never was shewn. He was
just as he had been. Nobody guessed, unless his mother, the
feeling that had wrought and was working within him; and she
only from general knowledge of his nature. But the purpose of
life had grown yet stronger and struck yet deeper roots
instead of being shaken by this storm. The day of his setting
off for Mannahatta was not once changed after it had been once
fixed upon.
And it came. Almost at the end of November; a true child of
the month; it was dark, chill, gloomy. The wind bore little
foretokens of rain in every puff that made its way up the
river, slowly, as if the sea had charged it too heavily, or as
if it came through the fringe of the low grey cloud which hung
upon the tops of the mountains. But nobody spoke of Winthrop's
staying his journey. Perhaps everybody thought, that the day
before, and the night before, and so much of the morning, it
were better not to go over again.
"Hi!" sighed old Karen, as she took the coffee-pot off the
hearth and wiped the ashes from it, -- "it's a heavy place for
our feet, just this here; -- I wonder why the Lord sends 'em.
He knows."
"Why he sends what, Karen?" said Winifred, taking the coffee-
pot from her, and waiting to hear the answer.
"Oh go 'long, dear," said the old woman; -- "I was quarrelling
with the Lord's doings, that's all."
"He knows!" repeated Winnie, turning away and bending her face
down till hot tears fell on the cover of the coffee-pot. She
stopped at the door of the keeping-room and fought the tears
with her little hand desperately, for they were too ready to
come; once and again the hand was passed hard over cheeks and
eyes, before it would do and she could open the door.
"Well, mother," said Mr. Landholm, coming back from a look at
the weather, -- "let's see what comfort can be got out of
breakfast!"
None, that morning. It was but a sham, the biscuits and
coffee. They were all feeding on the fruits of life-trials,
struggles and cares, past and coming; and though some wild
grown flowers of hope mingled their sweetness with the harsh
things, they could not hide nor smother the taste of them.
That taste was in Mr. Landholm's coffee; the way in which he
set down the cup and put the spoon in, said so; it was in
Winthrop's biscuit, for they were broken and not eaten; it
seemed to be in the very light, to Winifred's eyes, by the
wistful unmarking look she gave to everything the light shined
upon.
It was over; and Mrs. Landholm had risen from the tea-board
and stood by the window. There Winthrop parted from her, after
some tremulous kisses, and with only the low, short, "Good
bye, mother!" He turned to meet the arms of his little sister,
which held him like some precious thing that they might not
hold. It was hard to bear, but he bore it; till she snatched
her arms away from his neck and ran out of the room. Yet she
had not bid him good bye and he stood in doubt, looking after
her. Then remembered Karen.
He went into the kitchen and shook the old shrivelled hand
which was associated in his memory with many an old act of
kindness, many a time of help in days of need.
"Good bye, Karen."
"Well -- good bye, --" said the old woman slowly, and holding
his hand. "I sometimes wonder what ever you were brought into
the world for, Mr. Winthrop."
"Why, Karen?"
