on account of some interference with his strong 
self-will. The moment the boy saw his mother, 
his countenance changed, and a look of confusion 
took tlje place of anger. 

" Come over to my room, Clarence," she said 
in a low voice; there was sadness in its tones, 
that made him feel sorry that he had given vent so 
freely to his ill temper. 



''What was the matter, my son?" Mrs. Hartley 
asked, as soon as they were alone, taking Clarence 
by the hand, and lookmg steadily at him. 

" Aunt Mary wouldn't help me when I asked 
her." 

" Why not .?" 

" She would help Henry first." 

" No doubt she had a reason for it. Do you 
know her reason ?" 

" She said he was youngest." Clarence pouted 
out his lips, and spoke in a very disagreeable tone. 

" Don't you think that was a very good reason ?" 

" I've as good a right to be helped first as he 
has." 

" Let us see if that is so. You and Marien and 
Henry came in from school, all hungry and anx- 
ious for your dinners. Marien is oldest — she, one 
would suppose, from the fact that she is oldest, 
would be better able to feel for her brothers, and 
be willing to see their wants supplied before her 
own. You are older than Henry, and should feel 
for him in the same way. No doubt this was 
Aunt Mary's reason for helping Henry first. Had 
she helped Marien ?" 

" No ma'am." 

' Did Marien complain ?" 

 'No ma'am." 


" No one complained but my unhappy Clarence. 
Do yon know why you complained ? I can tell 
you, as I have often told you before. It is be- 
cause you indulge in very selfish feelings. All 
who do so, make themselves miserable. If, instead 
of wanting Aunt Mary to help you first, you had, 
from a love of your little brother, been willing to 
see liim first attended to, you would have enjoyed 
a real pleasure. If you had said — ' Aunt Mary, 
help Harry first,"" I am sure Henry would have said 
instandy — ''No, Aunt Mary, help brother Clarence 
first.' How pleasant this would have been ; how 
happy would all of us have felt at thus seeing two 
little brothers generously preferring one another," 

There was an unusual degree of tenderness, even 
sadness in the voice of his mother, that affected 
Clarence. But he struggled with his feelings. — 
When, however, she resumed, and said — 

'' I have felt quite sick all the morning. My 
head has ached badly — so badly that I iiave had to 
lie down. I always give you your dinners when 
you come home, and try to make you comfortable. 
To-day I let Aunt Mary do it, because I felt so 
sick. But I am sorry that I did not get up, sick as 
I was, and do it myself — then I m.ight have pre- 
vented this unhappy outbreak of my boy's unruly 
temper, that has made not only my head ache 


ten times as badly as it did, but my heart ache 
also " 

Clarence burst into tears, and throwing his arms 
around his mother's neck, wept bitterly. 

" I will try and be good, dear mother !" he said. 
" I do try sometimes, but it seems that I can't." 

" You must always try, my dear son. Now dry 
lip your tears, and go out and get your dinner. 
Or, if you would rather I would go with you, I 
will do so." 

''No, dear mother!" replied the boy, affection- 
ately — " You are sick. You must not go. T will 
be good." 

Clarence kissed his mother again, and then re- 
turned quietly to the dining room. 

" Naughty boy !" said Aunt Mary, as he entered, 
looking sternly at him. 

A bitter retort came instantly to the tongue of 
Clarence, but he checked himself with a strong 
effort, and took his place at the table. Instead of 
soothing the quick tempered boy. Aunt Mary chafed 
him by her words and manner during the whole 
meal, and it was only the image of his mother's 
tearful face, and the remembrance that she was 
sick, that restrained an outbreak of his passionate 
temper. 

VViien Clarence left the table, he returned to his 



 

mother's room, and laid his head upon the pillow 
vhere her's was resting. 

' I love you, mother," he said, affectionately — 
"You are good. But I hate Aunt Mary." 

" O no, Clarence. You must not say that you 
hate Aunt Mary, for Aunt Mary is very kind to 
you. You musn't hate any body." 

" She isnU kind to me, mother. She calls me a 
bad boy, and says every thing to make me angry 
when I want to be good." 

" Think, my son, if there is not some reason for 
Aunt Mary calling you a bad boy. You know, 
yourself, that you act very naughtily sometimes, 
and provoke Aunt Mary a great deal." 

" But she said I was a naughty boy, when I 
went out just now ; and I was sorry for what I had 
done, and wanted to be good." 

"Aunt Mary didn't know that you were sorry, 
I am sure. When she called you Miaughty boy,' 
what did you say ." 

''I was going to say, 'you're a fool!' but .I 
didn't. I tried hard not to let my tongue say the 
bad words, though it wanted to." 

" Why did you try not to say them ?" 

'' Because it would have been wrong, and would 
have made you feel sorry. And I love you.' 
Again the repentant boy kissed her. Plis eyes 

