that the little her mother could eat was prepared for her in 
the nicest possible manner ; she knew her hands made it 
taste better ; her mother often said so. 
But this evening other thoughts had driven this important 
business quite out of poor Ellen's mind. Now, however, 
Then her eyes fell upon the little kettle, she recollected her 
mother had not had her tea, and must want it very much ; 
and silently slipping off the sofa she set about getting it as 
usual. There was no doubt this time whether the kettle 
boiled or no ; it had been hissing for an hour and more, calling as loud as it could to somebody to come and make the 
tea. So Ellen made it, and then began the toast. But she 
began to think too, as she watched it, how few more times 
she would be able to do so — how soon her pleasant tea-mak- 
ings would be over — and the desolate feeling of separation 
began to come upon her before the time. These thoughts 
were too much for poor Ellen ; the thiek teal's gathered so 
fast she could not see what she was doing ; and she had no 
more than just turned the slice of bread on the fork when 
the sickness of heart quite overcame her ; she could not go 
on. Toast and fork and all dropped from her hand into the 
ashes ; and rushing to her mother's side, who was now lying 
down again, and throwing herself upon her, she burst into 
another fit of sorrow ; not so violent as the former, but with 
a touch of hopelessness in it which went yet more to her 
mother's heart. Passion in the first said, " I cannot ;" despair now seemed to say, " I must." 
But Mrs. Montgomery was too exhausted to either share 
or soothe Ellen's agitation. She lay in suffering silence ; 
till after some time she said faintly, " Ellen, my love, I 
cannot bear this much longer." 
Ellen was immediately brought to herself by these words. 
She arose, sorry and ashamed that she should have given occasion for them; and tenderly kissing her mother, assured her 
most sincerely and resolutely that she would not do so again. 
In a few minutes she was calm enough to finish making the 
tea, and having toasted another piece of bread, she brought 
it to her mother. Mrs. Montgomery swallowed a cup of tea, 
but no toast could be eaten that night. 
Both remained silent and quiet awhile after this, till the 
clock struck ten. " You had better go to bed, my daughter," 
said Mrs. Montgomery. 
" I will, mamma." 
" Do you think you can read me a little before you go ?" 
" Yes, indeed, mamma ;" and Ellen brought the book ; 
" where shall I read ?" 
"The twenty-third psalm." 
Ellen began it, and went through it steadily and slowly, 
though her voice quavered a little. 
" ' The Lord is my Shepherd ; I shall not want.' 
" ' He maketh me to lie down in green pastures ; He leadeth me beside the still waters.' 
" ' He restore th my soul ; He leadeth me in the paths of 
righteousness for his name's sake.' 
" Though I walk through the valley of the shadow of 
death, I will fear no evil ; lor Thou art with me ; thy rod 
and thy staff they comfort me,' 
" ' Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of 
mine enemies ; Thou anointest my head with oil ; my cup 
runneth over.' 
" ' Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days 
of my life, and I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever.' " 
Long before she had finished Ellen's eyes were full, and 
her heart too. " If I only could feel these words as mamma 
does !" she said to herself. She did not dare look up till 
the traces of tears had passed away ; then she saw that her 
mother was asleep. Those first sweet words had fallen like 
balm upon the sore heart ; and mind and body had instantly 
found rest together. 
Ellen breathed the lightest possible kiss upon her forehead, 
and stole quietly out of the room to her own little bed. 
CHAPTER II. 
Sorrow and excitement made Ellen's eyelids heavy, and 
she slept late on the following morning. The great dressing- 
bell waked her. She started up with a confused notion that 
something was the matter ; there was a weight on her heart 
that was very strange to it. A moment was enough to 
bring it all back ; and she threw herself again on her pillow, 
yielding helplessly to the grief she had twice been obliged to 
control the evening before. Yet love was stronger than 
grief still, and she was careful to allow no sound to escape 
her that could reach the ears of her mother, who slept in 
the next room. Her resolve was firm to grieve her no more 
with useless expressions of sorrow ; to keep it to herself as 
much as possible. But this very thought that she must keep 
it to herself, gave an edge to poor Ellen's grief, and the convulsive clasp of her little arms round the pillow plainly 
showed that it needed none. 
The breakfast-bell again startled her, and she remembered 
she must not be too late down stairs, or her mother might 
inquire and find out the reason. " I will not trouble mother — I will not — I will not," she resolved to herself as she 
got out of bed, though the tears fell faster as she said so. 
Dressing was sad work to Ellen to-day ; it went on very 
heavily. Tears dropped into the water as she stooped her 
head to the basin ; and she hid her face in the towel to cry, 
instead of making the ordinary use of it. But the usual du- 
ties were dragged through at last, and she went to the 
window. " I'll not go down till papa is gone," she thought, 
"he'll ask me what is the matter with my eyes." 
Ellen opened the window. The rain was over ; the lovely 
light of a fair September morning was beautifying everything 
it shone upon. Ellen had been accustomed to amuse herself a good deal at this window, though nothing was to be 
seen from it but an ugly city prospect of back walls of houses, 
with the yards belonging to them, and a bit of narrow street. 
But she had watched the people that showed themselves at 
the windows, and the children that played in the yards, and 
the women that went to the pumps, till she had become pretty 
well acquainted with the neighborhood ; and though they 
were for the most part dingy, dirty, and disagreeable — wo- 
men, children, houses, and all — she certainly had taken a 
good deal of interest in their proceedings. It was all gone 
now. She could not bear to look at them ; she felt as if it 
made her sick ; and turning away her eyes she lifted them 
to the bright sky above her head, and gazed into its clear 
depth of blue till she almost forgot that there was such a 
thing as a city in the world. Little white clouds were chasing across it, driven by the fresh wind that was blowing 
away Ellen's hair from her face, and cooling her hot cheeks. 
That wind could not have been long in coming from the place 
of woods and flowers, it was so sweet still. Ellen looked 
till, she didn't know why, she felt calmed and soothed, — as if 
somebody was saying to her softly, " Cheer up, my child, cheer 
up ; — things are not as bad as they might be : — things will be 
better." Her attention was attracted at length by voices be- 
low ; she looked down, and saw there, in one of the yards, 
a poor deformed child, whom she had often noticed before, and 
always with sorrowful interest. Eesides his bodily infirmity, 
he had a further claim on her sympathy, in having lost his 
mother within a few months. Ellen's heart was easily touch- 
ed this morning ; she felt for him very much. " Poor, poor 
little fellow !" she thought ; " he's a great deal worse off 
than I am. Mis mother is dead ; mine is only going away 
for a few months — not forever — oh, what a difference! and 
then the joy of coming back again !" poor Ellen was weeping already at the thought — " and I will do, oh, how much ! 
while she is gone — I'll do more than she can possibly expect 
from me — I'll astonish her — I'll delight her — I'll work harder 
than ever I did in my life before — I'll mend all my faults, 
and give her so much pleasure ! But oh ! if she only needn't 
go away ! Oh, mamma !" Tears of mingled sweet and bitter 
were poured out fast, but the bitter had the largest share. 
The breakfast-table was still standing, and her father gone, 
when Ellen went down stairs. Mrs. Montgomery welcomed 
her with her usual quiet smile, and held outlier hand. Ellen 
tried to smile in answer, but she was glad to hide her face 
in her mother's bosom ; and the long close embrace Vas too 
close and too long ; — it told of sorrow as well as love ; and 
tears fell from the eyes of each that the other did not see. 
** Need I go to school to-day, mamma ?" whispered Ellen. 
" No ; I spoke to your father about that ; you shall not 
go any more ; we will be together now while we can." 
Ellen wanted to ask how long that would be, but could 
not make up her mind to it. 
" Sit down, daughter, and take some breakfast." 
" Have you done, mamma ?" 
'' No ; I waited for you." 
" Thank you, dear mamma," with another embrace, " how 
good you are ; but I don't think I want any." 
They drew their chairs to the table, but it was plain 
neither had much heart to eat ; although Mrs. Montgomery 
with her own hands laid on Ellen's plate half of the little bird 
that had been broiled for her own breakfast. The half was 
too much for each of them. 
" What made you so late this morning, daughter ?" 
" I got up late, in the first place, mamma ; and then I was 
a long time at the window." 
" At the window ! were you examining into your neigh- 
