account; and now, there being nothing more to gain, he had nothing more
to yield. When, therefore, after the design of marrying Florence to a
man of "good family" had failed, the first effort on the part of his
mother to exercise control over him was met in a very decided way. His
wife, likewise, showed a disposition to make her keep in her own place.
She was mistress in the house now, and she let it be clearly seen. It
was not long before the mother's eyes were fully open to the folly she
had committed. But true sight had come too late. Reflection on the
ungratefulness of her children aroused her indignation, instead of
subduing her feelings. An open rupture ensued, and then came a
separation. Mrs. Linden left the house of her son--but a short time
before it was her own house--and took lodgings in the family of an old
friend, with a heart full of bitterness toward her children. In
Antoinette she had been miserably disappointed. A weak, vain,
passionate, selfish creature, she had shown not the slightest regard
for Mrs. Linden, but had exhibited toward her a most unamiable temper.
When it was communicated to Antoinette by her husband that his mother
had left them, she tossed her head and said--"I'm glad to hear it."
"No, you must not say that," was William's reply, with an effort to
look serious and offended.
"And why not? It's the truth. She has made herself as disagreeable as
she could, ever since we were married, and I would be a hypocrite to
say that I was not glad to be rid of her."
"She is my mother, and you must not speak so about her," returned
William, now feeling really offended.
"How will you help it, pray?" was the stinging reply. And the
ill-tempered creature looked at her husband with a curl of the lip.
Muttering a curse, he turned from her and left the house. The rage of a
husband who is only restrained by the fear of disgrace from striking
his wife, is impotent. His only resource is to fly from the object of
indignation. So felt and acted William Beauchamp. A mere wordy
contention with his wife, experience had already proved to him, would
be an inglorious one.
Fearing, from his knowledge of his brother's character and disposition,
a result, sooner or later, like that which had taken place, Charles
Linden, although he had no correspondence with any of his family, had
the most accurate information from a friend of all that transpired at
P--.
One evening, on coming home from business and joining his wife and
sister, between whom love had grown into a strong uniting bond, he
said--"I have rather painful news from P--."
"What is it?" was asked by both Ellen and Florence, with anxious
concern on both their faces.
"Mother has separated herself from William and his wife."
"What I have been expecting to hear almost every day," Florence
replied. "Antoinette has never treated mother as if she had the
slightest regard for her. As to love, she has but one object upon which
to lavish it--that is herself. She cares no more for William than she
does for mother, and is only bound to him by external consideration.
But where has mother gone?"
"To the house of Mrs. R---."
"An old friend?"
"Yes. But she must be very unhappy."
"Miserable." And tears came to the eyes of Ellen.
"In the end, it will no doubt be best for her, Florence," said the
brother. "She will suffer acutely, but her false views of life, let us
hope, will be corrected, and then we shall have it in our power to make
her last days the best and happiest of her life."
"Oh, how gladly will I join in that work!" Mrs. Linden said, with a
glow of pure enthusiasm on her face. "Write to her, dear husband, at
once, and tell her that our home shall be her home, and that we will
love her with an unwavering love."
"Not yet, dear," returned Charles Linden, in a voice scarcely audible
from emotion, turning to Ellen and regarding her a moment with a look
of loving approval. "Not yet; the time for that will come, but it is
not now. My mother's heart is full of haughty pride, and she would
spurn, indignantly, any overtures we might make."
Much conversation passed as to what should be their future conduct in
regard to the mother. Ellen was anxious to make advances at once, but
the husband and his sister, who knew Mrs. Linden much better than she
did, objected.
"Time will indicate what is right for us to do," her husband said. "Let
us keep our hearts willing, and we shall have the opportunity to act
before many years pass by."
"Years?" said Ellen, in an earnest, doubting voice.
"It may be only months, dear, and yet it may be years. It takes time to
break a haughty will, to humble a proud heart; but you shall yet see
the day when my mother will love you for yourself alone."
"Heaven grant that it may come soon!" was the fervent response.
Many months passed away, and yet the mother and son remained as
before--unreconciled. He had kept himself accurately informed in regard
to her--that is, accurately informed as it was possible for him to be.
During that time, she had never been seen abroad. Those who had met
her, represented her as being greatly changed; all the softness of
character that had been assumed in her intercourse with the world had
been laid aside; she was silent, cold, and stern to all who met her.
Deeply did this intelligence afflict Charles, and he yearned to draw
near to his mother; but he feared to do so, lest, in her haughty pride,
she should throw him off again, and thus render a reconciliation still
more difficult, if not impossible.
While in this state of doubt, affairs assumed a new feature. Charles
received a letter from a friend, stating that the banking institution,
in the stocks of which his mother's entire property was invested, had
failed, and that she was penniless.
"O Charles, go to her at once!" was the exclamation of Ellen, the
moment her husband read to her the intelligence. "It is time now; all
else has failed her."
"I do not know," he said, doubtingly. "This circumstance will make
William sensible of his duty; he will, no doubt, restore her a part of
the property received from her hands. This is the least he can do."
Florence differed with her brother. She did not believe that either
William or his wife would regard their mother in any way; both were too
selfish and too unforgiving. Much was said all around, but no clear
course of action was perceived.
"I'll tell you what you can do," spoke up Mrs. Linden, her eyes
sparkling. A thought had flashed over her mind.
"What is it, Ellen?" asked her husband.
"You can send her, under a blank envelope, a thousand dollars or more,
and thus keep her above the bitter feeling of dependence. More can be
sent when more is required."
"True! true!" was the husband's quick reply. "And I will do it."
When the news of the failure of the bank in which the little remnant of
her property was contained reached the ears of Mrs. Linden, her spirits
sank. Pride had kept her up before; but now her haughty
self-dependence, her indignation, her bitterness of feeling toward her
children, gave way, and, in conscious weakness, she bowed her head and
prayed for oblivion. She felt deserted by all; but indignation at this
desertion was not the feeling that ruled in her heart; she felt weak,
lonely, and powerless. From a high position, which she had held with
imperious pride, she had fallen almost suddenly into obscurity,
desertion, and dependence. A week passed, and she began to think of her
children; none of them had yet come near her, or inquired for her. The
thoughts of William and his heartless wife caused old feelings of
indignation to awaken and burn; but when the image of Charles and
Florence came up before her mind, her eyes were ready to overflow. It
was now that she remembered, with changed emotions, the cruel manner in
which she had spurned Charles and the wife of his bosom. A sigh
struggled up from her heart, and she leaned down her face upon the
table before which she was sitting. Just at this time, a small sealed
package was handed to her. She broke it open carelessly; but its
contents made her heart bound, coming as they did just at that crisis.
Under cover was a bank-bill amounting to one thousand dollars, and this
memorandum--"It is yours."
Quickly turning to the direction, she read it over two or three times
before satisfying herself that there was no mistake. Then she examined
the writing within and without closely, in order to ascertain, if
possible, from whom the timely aid had come, but without arriving at
any certain conclusion.
This incident caused a new train of thoughts to pass through the mind
of Mrs. Linden. It brought before her, she could not tell why, the
image of her son Charles with greater distinctness than ever; and with
that came thoughts of his wife, and regret that she had thrown her off
with such cruel anger. Acute pain of mind succeeded to this. She saw
more clearly her own position in that act, and felt deeply the wrong
she had committed.
"I will write to my son at once and ask his forgiveness, and that of
his wife, whom I have wronged," she said, with a suddenly formed
resolution. But pride rushed up instantly.
"No, no," it objected; "not now. You should have done this before: it
is too late; they will not believe you sincere."
A painful conflict ensued, which continued with increasing violence
until, in consequence of prolonged mental excitement, a slow nervous
fever took hold of Mrs. Linden's physical system, and in a short time
reduced her to a very critical state. Intelligence of this was conveyed
to her son William, but, for some cause or other, neither himself nor
wife visited her. At the end of a week she was so low as to be
considered in great danger; she, no longer recognised the person of her
attendant, or appeared to be conscious of what was passing around her.
A letter from a friend, through whom he was kept informed of all that
occurred to her, apprized Charles Linden of his mother's critical
