How vainly she waited and watched! The twilight was lost in darkness,
and yet her eagerly listening ear failed to note the well-known sound
of her husband's footfall on the pavement, as she stood, listening at
the open window.

"Oh! what can keep him so long away!"

How often did these words come sighing from her lips, yet there was no
answer. Alas! how to the very winds were flung the pleasant hopes she
had cherished--cherished with a sense of fear and trembling--during the
afternoon.

Night closed in, and the time wore on steadily, minute by minute, and
hour by hour, until the poor wife was almost wild with suspense and
anxiety. The dainties she had so thoughtfully and lovingly prepared for
her husband remained untasted, and had now become cold and
unpalatable--were, in fact, forgotten. Food she had not, herself,
tasted. Once or twice a servant had come to know if she would have tea
served; but she merely answered--"Not until Mr. Wilkinson returns."

Nine--ten--eleven o'clock; still Mrs. Wilkinson was alone. Sometimes
she moved restlessly about her chamber; or wandered, like a perturbed
spirit, from room to room; and, sometimes in mere exhaustion, would
drop into a chair or sink across the bed, and sit or lie as motionless
as if in a profound sleep.

Ah! could her husband have looked in upon her, but for a few moments;
could he have seen the anguish of her pale face; the fixed and dreamy
expression of her tearful eyes; the grieving arch of the lips he
loved--could he have seen and comprehended all she suffered and all she
feared, it must have won him back from his selfish folly. And how many
wives have suffered all this, and more! How many still suffer! Errant
husband, pause, look upon the picture we have presented, and think of
the many, many heart-aches you have given the tender, long-suffering,
loving one who clings to you yet so closely, and who, for your sake,
would even lay down, if needful, her very life.

Happily for Mrs. Wilkinson, her child lay in a sound sleep; for, with
the appearance of the edges of two teeth through her red and swollen
gums, the feverish excitement of her system yielded to a healthy
reaction.

Twelve o'clock was rung out clearly upon the hushed air of midnight;
and yet the poor wife was alone. One o'clock found her in a state of
agonized alarm, standing at the open street-door, and hearkening,
eagerly, first in one direction and then in another; yet all in
vain--for the absent one came not.

It was nearly two o'clock, and Mrs. Wilkinson, in the impotence of her
prolonged and intense anxiety and fear, had thrown herself, with a
groan, across her bed, when a sound in the street caught her ear.
Instantly she started up, while a thrill ran through every nerve. Feet
were on the door-steps; a key was in the lock--a moment more, and the
door opened and shut, and a familiar tread that made her heart leap
echoed along the passage. Her first impulse was to fly to meet the
comer, but a hand seemed to hold her back; and so, half reclining, she
awaited, with her heart beating violently, the appearance of him whose
strange absence had cost her so many hours of bitter anguish. A moment
or two more, and then an exclamation of surprise and almost terror,
fell from her lips. And well might she be startled at the appearance of
her husband.

Pale, haggard, covered with dust, and with large drops of perspiration
on his face, Wilkinson stood before his wife. With a grieving look he
gazed upon her for some moments, but did not speak.

"My husband!" exclaimed Mrs. Wilkinson as soon as she could recover
herself; and, as she uttered the words, she threw her arms around him,
and buried her weeping face on his bosom.

But Wilkinson tried to disengage her arms, saying, as he did so--

"Not this!--not this, Mary! I am unworthy of even your feeblest regard.
Speak to me coldly, harshly, angrily, if you will. That I deserve--but
nothing of kindness, nothing of love. Oh, that I were dead!"

"My husband! my husband! you are dearer to me than life!" was whispered
in reply, as Mary clung to him more closely.

Such evidences of love melted the strong man's heart. He tried to brace
himself up against what, in his pride, he felt to be a weakness, but
failed, and leaning his face downward until it rested upon the head of
his wife, sobbed aloud.




CHAPTER IX.


WILKINSON, on leaving the presence of the man who, under the guise of
friendship, had so basely led him astray, and robbed him--it was
robbery, in fact, for Carlton had not only enticed his victim to drink
until his mind was confused, but had played against him with trick and
false dealing--passed, not by the bar-room of the hotel, but through
one of the passages, into the open air, and with hurried steps, and
mind all in a whirl of excitement, started on foot for home. He was not
in a state to consider exactly what he was doing--he did not reflect
that he was at least ten miles from the city, and that it would take
him hours to walk that distance. His predominant feeling was a desire
to escape from the presence of the man who had so basely betrayed and
almost ruined him.

It was a calm, clear, summer night; and the full moon, which had
reached the zenith, shone with an unusual radiance. Not a leaf moved on
the forest trees, for even the zephyrs were asleep. All was stillness
and tranquil beauty.

Yet nature did not mirror herself on the feelings of Wilkinson, for
their surface was in wild commotion. The unhappy man was conscious only
of the folly he had committed and the wrong he had sustained; and
thought only of his culpable weakness in having been drawn, by a
specious villain, to the very verge of ruin.

Onward he strode, toward the city, with rapid pace, and soon his
thoughts began to go forward towards his home.

"Poor Mary!" he sighed, as the image of his wife, when she said to
him--"I count the hours when you are away," arose before his eyes.
Then, as the image grew more and more distinct, his hands were clenched
tightly, and he murmured through his shut teeth--

"Wretch! cruel wretch, that I am! I shall break her heart! Oh, why did
I not resist this temptation? Why was I so thoughtless of the best, the
truest, the most loving friend I ever knew or ever can know--my Mary!"

Rapid as his steps had been from the first, the thought of his wife
caused Wilkinson to increase his pace, and he moved along, the only
passenger at that hour upon the road, at almost a running speed. Soon
the perspiration was gushing freely from every pore, and this, in a
short time, relieved the still confused pressure on the brain of the
alcohol which had been taken so freely into his system. Thoroughly
sobered was he, ere he had passed over half the distance; and the
clearer his mind became, the more troubled grew his feelings.

"What," he repeated to himself, over and over, "what if our dear Ella
should be in convulsions again?"

So great was the anguish of the unhappy man, that he was all
unconscious of bodily fatigue. He was nearly half way to the city when
overtaken by Carlton. The latter called to him three or four times, and
invited him to get up and ride; but Wilkinson strode on, without so
much as uttering a word in reply, or seeming to hear what was said to
him. So Carlton, finding that his proffer was disregarded, dashed ahead
and was soon out of sight.

At what hour Wilkinson reached his home, and how he was received, has
already been seen.

Too heavy a pressure lay on the mind of the unhappy man, as he met his
wife at the breakfast table on the next morning, for him even to make
an effort at external cheerfulness. There was not only the remembrance
of his broken promise, and the anguish she must have suffered in
consequence of his absence for half the night--how visible, alas! was
the effect written on her pale face, and eyes still red and swollen
from excessive tears--but the remembrance, also, that he had permitted
himself, while under the influence of drink, to lose some two thousand
dollars at the gaming table! What would he not endure to keep that
blasting fact from the knowledge of his single-hearted, upright
companion? He a gambler! How sick at heart the thought made him feel,
