and made up her mind to take the first good opportunity of
getting there.

She went down to dinner with no traces of either tears or
unkindness on her sweet face, but her nerves were quivering
all the afternoon  she could not tell whether Mrs. Evelyn and
her daughters found it out; and it was impossible for her to
get back even her old degree of freedom of manner before
either Mr. Carleton or Mr. Thorn, all the more, because Mrs.
Evelyn was every now and then bringing out some sly allusion,
which afforded herself intense delight, and wrought Fleda to
the last degree of quietness. Unkind  Fleda thought now it
was but half from ignorance of the mischief she was doing, and
the other half from the mere desire of selfish gratification.
The times and ways in which Lot and Abraham were walked into
the conversation were incalculable, and unintelligible, except
to the person who understood it only too well. On one
occasion, Mrs. Evelyn went on with a long rigmarole to Mr.
Thorn about sea-breezes, with a face of most exquisite delight
at his mystification and her own hidden fun, till Fleda was
absolutely trembling. Fleda shunned both the gentlemen, at
length, with a kind of nervous horror.

One steamer had left New York, and another, and still Mr.
Carleton did not leave it. Why he staid, Constance was as much
in a puzzle as ever, for no mortal could guess. Clearly, she
said, he did not delight in New York society, for he honoured
it as slightly and partially as might be; and it was equally
clear, if he had a particular reason for staying, he didn't
mean anybody should know it.

"If he don't mean it, you wont find it out, Constance," said
Fleda.

"But it is that very consideration, you see, which inflames my
impatience to a most dreadful degree. I think our house is
distinguished with his regards, though I am sure I can't
imagine why, for he never condescends to anything beyond
general benevolence when he is here, and not always to that.
He has no taste for embroidery, or Miss Ringgan's crewels
would receive more of his notice  he listens to my spirited
conversation with a self-possession which invariably deprives
me of mine! and his ear is evidently dull to musical
sensibilities, or Florence's harp would have greater charms. I
hope there is a web weaving somewhere that will catch him  at
present he stands in an attitude of provoking independence of
all the rest of the world. It is curious," said Constance,
with an indescribable face  "I feel that the independence of
another is rapidly making a slave of me!" 

"What do you mean, Constance?' said Edith, indignantly. But
the others could do nothing but laugh.

Fleda did not wonder that Mr. Carleton made no more efforts to
get her to ride, for the very next day after his last failure
he had met her driving with Mr. Thorn. Fleda had been asked by
Mr. Thorn's mother, in such a way as made it impossible to get
off; but it caused her to set a fresh seal of unkindness to
Mrs. Evelyn's behaviour.

One evening, when there was no other company at Mrs. Evelyn's
Mr. Stackpole was entertaining himself with a long
dissertation upon the affairs of America, past, present, and
future. It was a favourite subject; Mr. Stackpole always
seemed to have more complacent enjoyment of his easy chair
when he could succeed in making every American in the room sit
uncomfortably. And this time, without any one to thwart him,
he went on to his heart's content disposing of the subject as
one would strip a rose of its petals, with as much seeming
nonchalance and ease, and with precisely the same design, to
make a rose no rose. Leaf after leaf fell under Mr.
Stackpole's touch, as if it had been a black frost. The
American government was a rickety experiment  go to pieces
presently; American institutions an alternative between
fallacy and absurdity, the fruit of raw minds and precocious
theories; American liberty a contradiction; American character
a compound of quackery and pretension; American society
(except at Mrs. Evelyn's) an anomaly; American destiny the
same with that of a cactus, or a volcano  a period of rest
followed by a period of excitement; not, however, like the
former, making successive shoots towards perfection, but, like
the latter, grounding every new face of things upon the
demolition of that which went before. Smoothly and pleasantly
Mr. Stackpole went on compounding this cup of entertainment
for himself and his hearers, smacking his lips over it, and
all the more, Fleda thought, when they made wry faces;
throwing in a little truth, a good deal of fallacy, a great
deal of perversion and misrepresentation; while Mrs. Evelyn
listened and smiled, and half parried and half assented to his
positions; and Fleda sat impatiently drumming upon her elbow
with the fingers of her other hand, in the sheer necessity of
giving some expression to her feelings. Mr. Stackpole at last
got his finger upon the sore spot of American slavery, and
pressed it hard.

"This is the land of the stars and the stripes!" said the
gentleman, in a little fit of virtuous indignation;  "this is
the land where all are brothers! where 'All men are born free
and equal!' "

"Mr. Stackpole," said Fleda, in a tone that called his
attention; "are you well acquainted with the popular proverbs
of your country?"

"Not particularly," he said. He had never made it a branch of
study.

"I am a great admirer of them."

He bowed, and begged to be excused for remarking that he
didn't see the point yet.

"Do you remember this one, Sir," said Fleda, colouring a
little; " 'Those that live in glass houses shouldn't throw
stones?' "

"I have heard it; but, pardon me, though your remark seems to
imply the contrary, I am in the dark yet. What unfortunate
points of vitrification have I laid open to your fire?"

"I thought they were probably forgotten by you, Sir."

"I shall be exceedingly obliged to you if you will put me in
condition to defend myself."

"I think nothing could do that, Mr. Stackpole. Under whose
auspices and fostering care was this curse of slavery laid
upon America?"

"Why, of course  but you will observe, Miss Ringgan, that at
that day the world was unenlightened on a great many points;
since then, we have cast off the wrong which we then shared
with the rest of mankind."

"Ay, Sir, but not until we had first repudiated it, and
Englishmen had desired to force it back upon us at the point
of the sword. Four times "

"But, my dear Fleda," interrupted Mrs. Evelyn, "the English
nation have no slaves, nor slave-trade; they have put an end
to slavery entirely, everywhere under their flag."

"They were very slow about it," said Fleda. "Four times the
government of Massachusetts abolished the slave-trade under
their control, and four times the English government thrust it
back upon them. Do you remember what Burke says about that, in
his speech on Conciliation with America?"

"It don't signify what Burke says about it," said Mr.
Stackpole, rubbing his chin  "Burke is not the first
authority; but, Miss Ringgan, it is undeniable that slavery,
and the slave-trade too, does at this moment exist in the
interior of your own country."

"I will never excuse what is wrong, Sir; but I think it
becomes an Englishman to be very moderate in putting forth
that charge."

"Why?" said he, hastily: "we have done away with it entirely
in our own dominions  wiped that stain clean off. Not a slave
