him one of the soundest men in the city."
"I am pained to hear that you are so deeply involved," said Mr.
Watson. "But, do not let it trouble you too much. I will defer my
building intentions to another time, and let you have whatever money
you may need."
Mr. Johnson made no answer. His eyes were upon the floor and his
thoughts away back to the time when he had suffered the great
disappointment of seeing his daughter marry the slow, plodding
Watson, instead of becoming the wife of the enterprising Mortimer.
"I will try, my son," said he, at length, in a subdued voice, "to
get through without drawing upon you too largely. Ah, me! How blind
I have been."
"You may depend on me for at least twenty thousand dollars," replied
Watson, cheerfully; "and for even more, if it is needed."
It was soon known that Mortimer had committed extensive forgeries
upon various persons, and that he had left the city. Officers were
immediately despatched for his arrest, and in a few days he was
brought back as a criminal. In his ruin, many others were involved.
Among these was his father-in-law, who was stripped of every dollar
in his old age.
"Slow and sure--slow and sure. Yes, Watson was right." Thus mused
Mr. Johnson, a few months afterwards, on hearing that Mortimer was
arraigned before the criminal court, to stand his trial for forgery.
"It is the safest and the best way, and certainly leads to
prosperity. Ah, me! How are we drawn aside into false ways through
our eagerness to obtain wealth by a nearer road than that of patient
industry in legitimate trade. Where one is successful, a dozen are
ruined by this error. Slow and sure! Yes, that is the true doctrine.
Watson was right, as the result has proved. Happy for me that his
was a better experiment than that of the envied Mortimer!"
THE SCHOOL GIRL.
"WHERE now?" said Frederick Williams to his friend Charles Lawson,
on entering his own office and finding the latter, carpet-bag in
hand, awaiting his arrival.
"Off for a day or two on a little business affair," replied Lawson.
"Business! What have you to do with business?"
"Not ordinary, vulgar business," returned Lawson with a slight toss
of the head and an expression of contempt.
"Oh! It's of a peculiar nature?"
"It is--very peculiar; and, moreover, I want the good offices of a
friend, to enable me the more certainly to accomplish my purposes."
"Come! sit down and explain yourself," said Williams.
"Haven't a moment to spare. The boat goes in half an hour."
"What boat?"
"The New Haven boat. So come, go along with me to the slip, and
we'll talk the matter over by the way."
"I'm all attention," said Williams, as the two young men stepped
forth upon the pavement.
"Well, you must know," began Lawson, "that I have a first rate love
affair on my hands."
"You!"
"Now don't smile; but hear me."
"Go on--I'm all attention."
"You know old Everett?"
"Thomas Everett, the silk importer?"
"The same."
"I know something about him."
"You know, I presume, that he has a pretty fair looking daughter?"
"And I know," replied Williams, "that when 'pretty fair looking' is
said, pretty much all is said in her favor."
"Not by a great deal," was the decided answer of Lawson.
"Pray what is there beyond this that a man can call attractive?"
"Her father's money."
"I didn't think of that."
"Didn't you?"
"No. But it would take the saving influence of a pretty large sum to
give her a marriageable merit in my eyes."
"Gold hides a multitude of defects, you know, Fred."
"It does; but it has to be heaped up very high to cover a wife's
defects, if they be as radical as those in Caroline Everett. Why, to
speak out the plain, homespun truth, the girl's a fool!"
"She isn't over bright, Fred, I know," replied Lawson. "But to call
her a fool, is to use rather a broad assertion."
"She certainly hasn't good common sense. I would be ashamed of her
in company a dozen times a day if she were any thing to me."
"She's young, you know, Fred."
"Yes, a young and silly girl."
"Just silly enough for my purpose. But, she will grow older and
wiser, you know. Young and silly is a very good fault."
"Where is she now?"
"At a boarding school some thirty miles from New Haven. Do you know
why her father sent her there?"
"No."
"She would meet me on her way to and from school while in the city,
and the old gentleman had, I presume, some objections to me as a
son-in-law."
"And not without reason," replied Williams.
"I could not have asked him to do a thing more consonant with my
wishes," continued Lawson. "Caroline told me where she was going,
and I was not long in making a visit to the neighborhood. Great
attention is paid to physical development in the school, and the
young ladies are required to walk, daily, in the open air, amid the
beautiful, romantic, and secluded scenery by which the place is
surrounded. They walk alone, or in company, as suits their fancies.
Caroline chose to walk alone when I was near at hand; and we met in
a certain retired glen, where the sweet quiet of nature was broken
only by the dreamy murmur of a silvery stream, and there we talked
of love. It is not in the heart of a woman to withstand a scene like
this. I told, in burning words, my passion, and she hearkened and
was won." Lawson paused for some moments; but, as Williams made no
remark, he continued--
"It is hopeless to think of gaining her father's consent to a
marriage. He is pence-proud, and I, as you know, am penniless."
"I do not think he would be likely to fancy you for a son-in-law,"
said Williams.
"I have the best of reasons, for knowing that he would not. He has
already spoken of me to his daughter in very severe terms."
"As she has informed you?"
"Yes. But, like a sensible girl, she prefers consulting her own
taste in matters of the heart."
"A very sensible girl, certainly!"
"Isn't she! Well, as delays are dangerous, I have made up my mind to
consummate this business as quickly as possible. You know how hard
pressed I am in certain quarters, and how necessary it is that I
should get my pecuniary matters in a more stable position. In a
word, then, my business, on the present occasion, is to remove
Caroline from school, it being my opinion that she has completed her
education."
"Has she consented to this?"
"No; but she won't require any great persuasion. I'll manage all
that. What I want you to do is, first, to engage me rooms at
Howard's, and, second, to meet me at the boat, day after to-morrow,
with a carriage."
"Where will you have the ceremony performed?"
"In this city. I have already engaged the Rev. Mr. B---- to do that
little work for me. He will join us at the hotel immediately on our
arrival, and in your presence, as a witness, the knot will be tied."
"All very nicely arranged," said Williams.
"Isn't it! And what is more, the whole thing will go off like clock
work. Of course I can depend on you. You will meet us at the boat."
"I will, certainly."
"Then good by." They were by this time at the landing. The two young
men shook hands, and Lawson sprung on board of the boat, while
Williams returned thoughtfully to his office.
Charles Lawson was a young man having neither principle nor
character. A connection with certain families in New York, added to
a good address, polished manners, and an unblushing assurance, had
given him access to society at certain points, and of this facility
he had taken every advantage. Too idle and dissolute for useful
effort in society, he looked with a cold, calculating baseness to
marriage as the means whereby he was to gain the position at which
he aspired. Possessing no attractive virtues--no personal merits of
any kind, his prospects of a connection, such as he wished to form,
through the medium of any honorable advances, were hopeless, and
this he perfectly well understood. But, the conviction did not in
the least abate the ardor of his purpose. And, in a mean and
dastardly spirit, he approached one young school girl after another,
until he found in Caroline Everett one weak enough to be flattered
by his attentions. The father of Caroline, who was a man of some
discrimination and force of mind, understood his daughter's
character, and knowing the danger to which she was exposed, kept
upon her a watchful eye. Caroline's meetings with Lawson were not
continued long before he became aware of the fact, and he at once
removed her to a school at a distance from the city. It would have
been wiser had he taken her home altogether. Lawson could have
desired no better arrangement, so far as his wishes were concerned.
On the day succeeding that on which Lawson left New York, Caroline
was taking her morning walk with two or three companions, when she
noticed a mark on a certain tree, which she knew as a sign that her
lover was in the neighborhood and awaiting her in the secluded glen,
