
"I 'mind to know!" said Barby, transferring her hand to
Fleda's, and giving it a good squeeze. "She's growed a fine
gal, Mis' Plumfield. You ha'n't lost none of your good looks 
- ha' you kept all your old goodness along with 'em?"

Fleda laughed at this abrupt question, and said she didn't
know.

"If you ha'n't, I wouldn't give much for your eyes," said
Barby, letting go her hand.

Mrs. Plumfield laughed too at Barby's equivocal mode of
complimenting.

"Who's that young gal, Barby?" inquired Mrs. Elster.

"That's Mis' Plumfield's niece, mother."

"She's a handsome little creetur, aint she?"

They all laughed at that, and Fleda's cheeks growing crimson,
Mrs. Plumfield stepped forward to ask after the old lady's
health; and while she talked and listened, Fleda's eyes noted
the spotless condition of the room  the white table, the nice
rag-carpet, the bright many-coloured patchwork counterpane on
the bed, the brilliant cleanliness of the floor, where the
small carpet left the boards bare, the tidy look of the two
women; and she made up her mind that she could get along with
Miss Barbara very well. Barby was rather tall, and in face
decidedly a fine-looking woman, though her figure had the
usual scantling proportions which nature or fashion assigns to
the hard-working dwellers in the country. A handsome, quick,
gray eye, and the mouth, were sufficiently expressive of
character, and perhaps of temper, but there were no lines of
anything sinister or surly; you could imagine a flash, but not
a cloud.

"Barby, you are not tied at home any longer, are you?" said.
Mrs. Plumfield, coming back from the old lady and speaking
rather low;  "now that Hetty is here, can't your mother spare
you?"

"Well, I reckon she could, Mis' Plumfield, if I could work it
so that she'd be more comfortable by my being away."

"Then you'd have no objection to go out again?"

"Where to?"

"Fleda's uncle, you know, has taken my brother's old place,
and they have no help. They want somebody to take the whole
management  just you, Barby. Mrs. Rossitur isn't strong."

"Nor don't want to be, does she? I've heerd tell of her, Mis'
Plumfield  I should despise to have as many legs and arms as
other folks, and not be able to help myself!"

"But you wouldn't despise to help other folks, I hope," said
Mrs. Plumfield, smiling.

"People that want you very much, too," said Fleda; for she
quite longed to have that strong hand and healthy eye to rely
upon at home. Barby looked at her with a relaxed face, and,
after a little consideration, said she guessed "she'd try."

"Mis' Plumfield," cried the old lady, as they were moving 
"Mis' Plumfield, you said you'd send me a piece of pork."

"I haven't forgotten it, Mrs. Elster  you shall have it."

"Well, you get it out for me yourself," said the old woman,
speaking very energetically  "don't you send no one else to
the barrel for't, because I know you'll give me the biggest
piece."

Mrs. Plumfield laughed and promised.

"I'll come up and work it out some odd day," said the
daughter, nodding intelligently, as she followed them to the
door.

"We'll talk about that," said Mrs. Plumfield.

"She was wonderful pleased with the pie," said Barby, "and so
was Hetty; she ha'n't seen anything so good, she says, since
she quit Queechy."

"Well, Barby," said Mrs. Plumfield, as she turned and grasped
her hand, "did you remember your thanksgiving over it?"

"Yes, Mis' Plumfield," and the fine grey eyes fell to the
floor; "but I minded it only because it had come from you. I
seemed to hear you saying just that out of every bone I
picked."

"You minded my message," said the other, gently.

"Well, I don't mind the things I had ought to most," said
Barby, in a subdued voice  "never!  'cept mother  I aint
very apt to forget her."

Mrs. Plumfield saw a tell-tale glittering beneath the drooping
eyelid. She added no more but a sympathetic strong squeeze of
the hand she held, and turned to follow Fleda who had gone on
ahead.

"Mis' Plumfield," said Barby, before they had reached the
stile that led into the road, where Fleda was standing, "will
I be sure of having the money regular down yonder? You know, I
hadn't ought to go otherways, on account of mother."

"Yes, it will be sure," said Mrs. Plumfield, "and regular;"
adding quietly, "I'll make it so."

There was a bond for the whole amount in aunt Miriam's eyes;
and, quite satisfied, Barby went back to the house.

"Will she expect to come to our table, aunt Miriam'? said
Fleda, when they had walked a little way.

"No, she will not expect that; but Barby will want a different
kind of managing from those Irish women of yours. She wont
bear to be spoken to in a way that don't suit her notions of
what she thinks she deserves; and perhaps your aunt and uncle
will think her notions rather high  I don't know."

"There is no difficulty with aunt Lucy," said Fleda; "and I
guess I can manage uncle Rolf  I'll try. I like her very
much."

"Barby is very poor," said Mrs. Plumfield; "she has nothing
but her own earnings to support herself and her old mother,
and now, I suppose, her sister and her child; for Hetty is a
poor thing  never did much, and now I suppose does nothing."

"Are those Finns poor, aunt Miriam?"

"O no  not at all  they are very well off."

"So I thought  they seemed to have plenty of everything, and
silver spoons and all. But why then do they go out to work?"

"They are a little too fond of getting money, I expect," said
aunt Miriam. "And they are a queer sort of people rather  the
mother is queer, and the children are queer  they aint like
other folks exactly  never were."

"I am very glad we are to have Barby, instead of that Lucy
Finn," said Fleda. "Oh, aunt Miriam! you can't think how much
easier my heart feels."

"Poor child!" said aunt Miriam, looking at her. "But it isn't
best, Fleda, to have things work too smooth in this world."

"No, I suppose not," said Fleda, sighing. "Isn't it very
strange, aunt Miriam, that it should make people worse instead
of better to have everything go pleasantly with them?"

"It is because they are apt then to be so full of the present,
