
"That is bad! Poor man! He is unfortunate with his children."

Andrew, as he spoke, felt that he was unfortunate, and an emotion of
pity stirred along the surface of his feelings.

"Indeed he is!" said Winters, who was disposed to be communicative.
"But I presume it is a good deal his own fault. They say that his
harsh treatment drove his oldest son from home."

"Ah?"

"Yes. He was a wild sort of a boy, and his father didn't show him
any mercy. The consequence was, that instead of leading him into the
right way, he drove him into the wrong way. He ran off from home a
great while ago, and has never been heard from since. It is thought
that he is dead. I once heard father say that, with all his faults,
he was the best of the bunch."

Something interrupted the conversation of the two young men at this
point, and they separated. A couple of hours afterward, as Andrew
walked along one of the streets of Santa Fe, musing over the
intelligence he had gleaned from young Winters, a fellow soldier,
whose time of service had also just expired, met him, and said--

"You're not going back to the States, are you?"

"Such has been my intention," replied Andrew.

"I'm not going."

"I thought you were."

"I've altered my mind. A party sets off to-morrow for the gold
regions of California, and I'm going with them."

"Indeed! That's a sudden change of resolution. But you don't believe
all the stories you hear of this El Dorado?

"No, not all of them. But if even the half be true, there's a golden
harvest to be reaped by all who put in the sickle."

"Yes, the half is encouraging enough," said Andrew, in a tone of
abstraction. The fact is, since he had heard from home, his desire
to return immediately was lessened. News of his father's altered
circumstances had softened his feelings toward him very much, and
created a strong desire to aid him in the extremity to which he had
been reduced. But he had no ability to do this. All he possessed in
the world was about two hundred dollars, and it would take at least
half of this to pay his passage home. Already had his thoughts been
reaching Westward, as the only point where, by any possibility, he
could better his fortunes to an extent that would enable him to help
his father. But there was so much of apparent romance in the stories
that reached his ears, that he had many strong doubts as to even the
main facts reported.

"You'd better join us," remarked the comrade.

"How many are going?" inquired Andrew.

"Seven. And we'd very much like to add you to the number."

"I'm really half-inclined to go with you," said Andrew, speaking
with a good deal of animation in his voice.

"You'll never regret it," said the other. "Not only are the stories
about an abundance of gold authentic, but I have good reasons for
believing that the half has not been told. I talked with a man last
night, who says that he knew of several instances where lumps of the
precious metal, weighing several pounds, have been picked up. One
man collected ten thousand dollars worth of lumps of pure gold in a
week."

"That's a large story," replied Andrew, smiling.

"Perhaps so; but it is not all a fabrication. At any rate, I am off
to this region, and my advice to you is, to join our little party."

"When do you start?

"To-morrow morning."

"I'll think about it," said Andrew Howland.

"You must think quickly," was answered. "There is no time to spare.
It is but two hours to nightfall; and we are to be in the saddle by
sunrise. So, if you conclude to join our party you have but small
space left for preparation."

Andrew stood with his eyes upon the ground for nearly a minute; then
looking up, he said, in a firm voice--

"I will go."

"And, my word for it, you'll never repent the decision. Gathering up
lumps of gold by the peck is a quicker way to fortune than
dragooning it at five dollars a month--ha?"

"My anticipations lie within a much narrower circle than yours," was
quietly answered to this; "but one thing is certain, if gold is to
be had in California for the mere digging, you may depend on Andrew
Howland getting his share of the treasure."

"That's the spirit, my boy!" said the other, clapping him on the
shoulder--"the very spirit of every member of our little party. And
if we don't line our pockets with the precious stuff, it will be
because none is to be found."

On the next morning, Andrew Howland started on his long and perilous
journey for the region of gold, with a new impulse in his heart, and
a hope in the future, such as, up to this time, he had never known.
But it was not a mere selfish love of gold that was influencing him.
He was acted on by a nobler feeling.




CHAPTER XII.


FROM the shock of his son's failure, Mr. Howland did not recover. In
arranging with his own creditors, he had arranged to do too much,
and consequently his reduced business went on under pressure of
serious embarrassment. He had sold his house, and two other pieces
of property, and was living at a very moderate expense; but all this
did not avail, and he saw the steady approaches of total ruin.

One day, at a time when this conviction was pressing most heavily
upon him, one of the creditors of Edward, who had lost a good deal
by the young man, came into the store, and asked if he had heard
lately from his son.

Mr. Howland replied he had not.

"He's in Mobile, I understand?" said the gentleman.

"I believe he is," returned Mr. Howland.

"A correspondent of mine writes that he is in business there, and
seems to have plenty of money."

"It is only seeming, I presume," remarked Mr. Howland.

"He says that he has purchased a handsome piece of property there."

"It cannot be possible!" was ejaculated.

"I presume that my information is true. Now, my reason for
communicating this fact to you is, that you may write to him, and
demand, if he have money to invest, that he refund to you a portion
of what you have paid for him, and thus save you from the greater
difficulties that I too plainly see gathering around you, and out of
which I do not think it is possible for you to come unaided."

"No, sir," was the reply of Mr. Howland, as he slowly shook his
head. "If he have money, it is ill-gotten, and I cannot share it. He
owes you, write to him, and demand a payment of the debt."

"I am willing to yield my right in your favor, Mr. Howland. In your
present extremity, you can make an appeal that it will be impossible
