will let you live here longer, that you may get ready."
"How can I get ready without you to help me, Mary? My angel child!"
"Haven't I tried to help you, father, oh, so many times?" said Mary.
"Yes--yes--you've always tried."
"But it wasn't any use. You would go out--you would go to the tavern.
It seemed most as if you couldn't help it."
Morgan groaned in spirit.
"Maybe I can help you better, father, after I die. I love you so much,
that I am sure God will let me come to you, and stay with you always,
and be your angel. Don't you think he will, mother?"
But Mrs. Morgan's heart was too full. She did not even try to answer,
but sat, with streaming eyes, gazing upon her child's face.
"Father. I dreamed something about you, while I slept to-day." Mary
again turned to her father.
"What was it, dear?"
"I thought it was night, and that I was still sick. You promised not to
go out again until I was well. But you did go out; and I thought you
went over to Mr. Slade's tavern. When I knew this, I felt as strong as
when I was well, and I got up and dressed myself, and started out after
you. But I hadn't gone far, before I met Mr. Slade's great bull-dog,
Nero, and he growled at me so dreadfully that I was frightened and ran
back home. Then I started again, and went away round by Mr. Mason's.
But there was Nero in the road, and this time he caught my dress in his
mouth and tore a great piece out of the skirt. I ran back again, and he
chased me all the way home. Just as I got to the door. I looked around,
and there was Mr. Slade, setting Nero on me. As soon as I saw Mr.
Slade, though he looked at me very wicked, I lost all my fear, and
turning around, I walked past Nero, who showed his teeth, and growled
as fiercely as ever, but didn't touch me. Then Mr. Slade tried to stop
me. But I didn't mind him, and kept right on, until I came to the
tavern, and there you stood in the door. And you were dressed so nice.
You had on a new hat and a new coat; and your boots were new, and
polished just like Judge Hammond's. I said: 'Oh father! is this you?'
And then you took me up in your arms and kissed me, and said: 'Yes,
Mary, I am your real father. Not old Joe Morgan--but Mr. Morgan now.'
It seemed all so strange, that I looked into the bar-room to see who
was there. But it wasn't a bar-room any longer; but a store full of
goods. The sign of the 'Sickle and Sheaf' was taken down; and over the
door I now read your name, father. Oh! I was so glad, that I awoke--and
then I cried all to myself, for it was only a dream."
The last words were said very mournfully, and with a drooping of Mary's
lids, until the tear-gemmed lashes lay close upon her cheeks. Another
period of deep silence followed--for the oppressed listeners gave no
utterance to what was in their hearts. Feeling was too strong for
speech. Nearly five minutes glided away, and then Mary whispered the
name of her father, but without opening her eyes.
Morgan answered, and bent down his ear.
"You will only have mother left," she said--"only mother. And she cries
so much when you are away."
"I won't leave her, Mary, only when I go to work," said Morgan,
whispering back to the child. "And I'll never go out at night any more."
"Yes; you promised me that."
"And I'll promise more."
"What, father?"
"Never to go into a tavern again."
"Never!"
"No, never. And I'll promise still more."
"Father?"
"Never to drink a drop of liquor as long as I live."
"Oh, father! dear, dear father!" And with a cry of joy Mary started up
and flung herself upon his breast. Morgan drew his arms tightly around
her, and sat for a long time, with his lips pressed to her cheek--while
she lay against his bosom as still as death. As death? Yes: for when
the father unclasped his arms, the spirit of his child was with the
angels of the resurrection!
It was my fourth evening in the bar-room of the 'Sickle and Sheaf'. The
company was not large, nor in very gay spirits. All had heard of little
Mary's illness; which followed so quickly on the blow from the tumbler,
that none hesitated about connecting the one with the other. So regular
had been the child's visits, and so gently excited, yet powerful her
influence over her father, that most of the frequenters at the 'Sickle
and Sheaf' had felt for her a more than common interest; which the
cruel treatment she received, and the subsequent illness, materially
heightened.
"Joe Morgan hasn't turned up this evening," remarked some one.
"And isn't likely to for a while" was answered.
"Why not?" inquired the first speaker.
"They say the man with the poker is after him."
"Oh, dear that's dreadful. Its the second or third chase, isn't it?"
"Yes."
"He'll be likely to catch him this time."
"I shouldn't wonder."
"Poor devil! It won't be much matter. His family will be a great deal
better without him."
"It will be a blessing to them if he dies."
"Miserable, drunken wretch!" muttered Harvey Green who was present.
"He's only in the way of everybody. The sooner he's off, the better."
The landlord said nothing. He stood leaning across the bar, looking
more sober than usual.
"That was rather an unlucky affair of yours Simon. They say the child
is going to die."
"Who says so?" Slade started, scowled and threw a quick glance upon the
speaker.
"Doctor Green."
"Nonsense! Doctor Green never said any such thing."
"Yes, he did though."
"Who heard him?"
"I did."
"You did?"
"Yes."
"He wasn't in earnest?" A slight paleness overspread the countenance of
the landlord. "He was, though. They had an awful time there last night."
"Where?"
"At Joe Morgan's. Joe has the mania, and Mrs. Morgan was alone with him
and her sick girl all night."
"He deserves to have it; that's all I've got to say." Slade tried to
speak with a kind of rough indifference.
"That's pretty hard talk," said one of the company.
"I don't care if it is. It's the truth. What else could he expect?"
"A man like Joe is to be pitied," remarked the other.
"I pity his family," said Slade.
"Especially little Mary." The words were uttered tauntingly, and
produced murmurs of satisfaction throughout the room.
Slade started back from where he stood, in an impatient manner, saying
something that I did not hear.
"Look here, Simon, I heard some strong suggestions over at Lawyer
Phillips' office to-day."
Slade turned his eyes upon the speaker.
"If that child should die, you'll probably have to stand a trial for
man-slaughter."
"No--girl-slaughter," said Harvey Green, with a cold, inhuman chuckle.
"But I'm in earnest." said the other. "Mr. Phillips said that a case
could be made out of it."
"It was only an accident, and all the lawyers in Christendom can't make
anything more of it," remarked Green, taking the side of the landlord,
and speaking with more gravity than before.
"Hardly an accident," was replied.
"He didn't throw at the girl."
"No matter. He threw a heavy tumbler at her father's head. The
intention was to do an injury; and the law will not stop to make any
nice discriminations in regard to the individual upon whom the injury
was wrought. Moreover, who is prepared to say that he didn't aim at the
girl?"
"Any man who intimates such a thing is a cursed liar!" exclaimed the
landlord, half maddened by the suggestion.
"I won't throw a tumbler at your head," coolly remarked the individual
whose plain speaking had so irritated Simon Slade, "Throwing tumblers I
never thought a very creditable kind of argument--though with some men,
when cornered, it is a favorite mode of settling a question. Now, as
for our friend the landlord, I am sorry to say that his new business
doesn't seem to have improved his manners or his temper a great deal.
As a miller, he was one of the best-tempered men in the world, and
wouldn't have harmed a kitten. But, now, he can swear, and bluster, and
throw glasses at people's heads, and all that sort of thing, with the
best of brawling rowdies. I'm afraid he's taking lessons in a bad
school--I am."
"I don't think you have any right to insult a man in his own house,"
answered Slade, in a voice dropped to a lower key than the one in which
he had before spoken.
"I had no intention to insult you," said the other. "I was only
speaking supposititiously, and in view of your position on a trial for
manslaughter, when I suggested that no one could prove, or say that you
didn't mean to strike little Mary, when you threw the tumbler."
"Well, I didn't mean to strike her: and I don't believe there is a man
in this bar-room who thinks that I did--not one."
"I'm sure I do not," said the individual with whom he was in
controversy. "Nor I"--"Nor I" went round the room.
"But, as I wished to set forth," was continued, "the case will not be
so plain a one when it finds its way into court, and twelve men, to
each of whom you may be a stranger, come to sit in judgment upon the
