SHELLEY.
The dawn had fairly broken, but that was all, when Winthrop
and old Mr. Cowslip met on the little wharf landing which
served instead of courtyard to the house. The hands clasped
each other cordially.
"How do you do? Glad to see you in these parts!" was the
hearty salutation of the old man to the young.
"Thank you, Mr. Cowslip," said Winthrop, returning the grasp
of the hand.
"I don't see but you keep your own," the old man went on,
looking at him wistfully. "Why don't you come up our way
oftener? It wouldn't hurt you."
"I don't know about that," said Winthrop. "My business lies
that way, you know."
"Ah! -- 'tain't as good business as our'n, now," said Mr.
Cowslip. "You'd better by half be up there on the old place,
with your wife and half a dozen children about you. Ain't
married yet, Governor, be you?"
"No sir."
"Goin' to be?"
"I don't know what I am going to be, sir."
"Ah! --" said the old miller with a sly smile. "Is that what
you've got here in the sloop with you now? I guessed it, and
Hild' said it wa'n't -- not as he knowed on -- but I told him he
didn't know everything."
"Hild' is quite right. But there are two ladies here who are
going up to Shahweetah. Can you give us a boat, Mr. Cowslip?"
"A boat? -- How many of you?"
"Four -- and baggage. Your boat is large enough -- used to be
when I went in her."
"Used to be when I went in her," said the old skipper; "but
there it is! She won't hold nobody now."
"What's the matter?"
"She took too many passengers the other day, -- that is, she
took one too many. Shipped a cargo of fresh meat, sir, and it
wa'n't stowed in right, and the 'Bessie Bell' broke her heart
about it. Like to ha' gone to the bottom."
"What do you mean?"
"Why, I was comin' home from Diver's Rock the other day -- just
a week ago last Saturday -- I had been round there up the shore
after fish; -- you know the rock where the horse mackerel
comes? -- me and little Archie; lucky enough we had no more
along. By the by, I hope you'll go fishing, Winthrop -- the
mackerel's fine this year. How long you're goin' to stay?"
"Only a day or two, sir."
"Ah! -- Well -- we were comin' home with a good mess o' fine
fish, and when we were just about in the middle of the river,
comin' over, -- the fish had been jumping all along the
afternoon, shewing their heads and tails more than common; and
I'd been sayin' to Archie it was a sign o' rain -- 'tis, you
know, -- and just as we were in the deepest of the river, about
half way over, one of 'em came up and put himself aboard of
us."
"A sturgeon?"
"Just that, sir; as sound a fellow as ever you saw in your
life -- just the length of one of my little oars -- longer than
I be -- eight feet wanting one inch, he measured, for the blade
of that oar has been broken off a bit -- several inches, -- and
what do you think he weighed? -- Two hundred and forty pound."
"So it seems you got him safe to land, where you could weigh
him."
"And measure him. I forgot I was talkin' to a lawyer," said
the old man laughing. "Yes, I didn't think much how long he
was at the time, I guess! He came in as handsome as ever you
saw anything done -- just slipped himself over the gunwale so --
and duv under one of the th'arts, and druv his nose through
the bottom of the boat."
"Kept it there, I hope?"
"Ha, ha! Not so fast but there came in a'most water enough to
float him again by the time we got to land. He was a power of
a fellow!"
"And the 'Bessie' don't float?"
"No; she's laid up with three broken ribs."
"No other boat on hand?"
"There's a little punt out there, that Hild' goes a fishin' in
-- that'd carry two or three people. But it wouldn't take the
hull on ye."
"There's the sloop's boat."
"She leaks," said the miller. "She wants to be laid up as bad
as the 'Bessie.'"
"Have you any sort of a team, Mr. Cowslip?"
"Yes! -- there's my little wagon -- it'll hold two. But you
ain't wanting it yet, be you?"
"As soon as it can go -- if it can go. Is there a horse to the
wagon?"
"Sartain! But won't you stop and take a bit?"
"No sir. If you will let some of the boys take up the punt
with her load, I'll drive the wagon myself, and as soon as you
can let me have it."
"Jock! -- tackle up the wagon! --that 'ere little red one in the
barn," shouted the miller. "Hild' 'll see to the boat-load --
or I will, -- and send it right along. I'm sorry you won't
stop."
Winthrop turned back to the sloop. Elizabeth met him there
with the question, "if she might not go now?"
"As soon as you please. I am going to drive you up to
Shahweetah. The boat will carry the rest, but it is too small
to take all of us."
"I'm very glad!" -- Elizabeth could not help saying.
She granted half a word of explanation to Mrs. Nettley, her
bonnet was hastily thrown on, and she stood with Winthrop on
the wharf before the little wagon was fairly ready. But Jock
was not tardy neither; and a very few minutes saw them seated
and the horse's head turned from the Mill.
The dawn was fresh and fair yet, hardly yielding to day. In
utter silence they drove swiftly along the road, through the
woods and out upon the crest of tableland overlooking the bay;
just above the shore where the huckleberry party had coasted
along, that afternoon years before. By the time they got
there, the day had begun to assert itself. Little clouds over
Wut-a-qut-o's head were flushing into loveliness, and casting
down rosy tints on the water; the mountain slopes were growing
bright, and a soft warm colouring flung through all the air
from the coming rays of the coming sun. The cat-birds were
wide awake and very busy; the song sparrows full of gladness;
and now and then, further off, a wood-thrush, less worldly
than the one and less unchastened than the other, told of
hidden and higher sweets, in tones further removed from Earth
than his companions knew. The wild, pure, ethereal notes
thrilled like a voice from some clear region where earthly
defilement had been overcome, and earthly sorrows had lost
their power. Between whiles, the little song sparrows strained
their throats with rejoicing; but that was the joy of
hilarious nature that sorrows and defilement had never
touched. The cat-birds spoke of business, and sung over it,
ambitious and self-gratulatory, and proud. And then by turns
came the strange thrush's note, saying, as if they knew it and
had proved it,
"WHEN HE GIVETH QUIETNESS, THEN WHO CAN MAKE TROUBLE?"
The travellers had ridden so far without speaking a word. If
Elizabeth was sometimes weeping, she kept herself very quiet,
and perfectly still. The sights and sounds that were abroad
entered her mind by a side door, if they entered at all.
Winthrop might have taken the benefit of them; but up to the
bend of the bay he had driven fast and attentively. Here he
suffered the horse to slacken his pace and come even to a
walk, while his eye took note of the flushing morning, and
perhaps the song of the birds reached his ear. It was not of
them he spoke.
"Do you mean to begin upon the first chapter of Matthew?" he
said, when the horse had walked the length of some two or
three minutes.
"Yes! -- I do" -- said Elizabeth, turning her face towards him.
"According to the rules?"
The answer was spoken more hesitatingly, but again it was
'yes.'
"I am glad of that," he said.
"Mr. Winthrop," said Elizabeth presently, speaking it seemed
with some effort, -- "if I get into any difficulty -- if I
cannot understand, -- I mean, if I am in any real trouble, --
may I write to you to ask about it?"
"With great pleasure. I mean, it would give me great pleasure
to have you do so."
"I should be very much obliged to you," she said humbly.
She did not see, for she did not look to see, a tiny show of a
smile which spread itself over her companion's face. They
drove on fast, till the bottom of the bay was left and they
descended from the tableland, by Sam Doolittle's, to the road
which skirted the south side of Shahweetah. Winthrop looked
keenly as he passed at the old fields and hillsides. They were
