able importance, and the alleged offence against the 
peace and dignity of the State of Maine was duly 
heralded to the inquiring public as a " daring rob- 
bery." The reporter who furnished the facts in the 
case for publication was not entirely devoid of that 
essential qualification of the country item writer, a 
lively imagination, and was obliged to dress up the 
particulars a little, in order to produce the necessary 
amount of wonder and indignation. It was stated 
that one of the two young men had been prowling 
about the place for several days, ostensibly for the 
purpose of selling books, but really with the intention 
of stealing whatever lie could lay his hands upon. It 
was suggested that the boys were in league with an 
organized band of robbers, whose nefarious purposes 
would be defeated by the timely arrest of these young 
villains. The paper hinted that further depredations 
would probably be discovered, and warned people to 
beware of ruffians strolling about the country in the 
guise of pedlers. 
The writer of this thrilling paragraph must have 
had reason to believe that he had discharged his 
-whole duty to the public, and that our hero was duly 
branded as a desperate fellow. No doubt he believed 
Bobby was an awful monster; for at the conclusion of 
his remarks he introduced some severe strictures on 
the lenity of the magistrate, because he had made the 
> entence two years, instead of five, which the writer 
thought the atrocious crime deserved. But, then, the 
justice differed from him in politics, which may ac- 
count for the severity of the article. 
Mr. Bayard read this precious paragraph with min- 
gled grief and indignation. He understood the case 
at a glance. Tom Spicer had joined him, and the 
little merchant had been involved in his crime. He 
 
was sure that Bobby had had no part in stealing the 
money. One so noble and true as he had been could 
not steal, he reasoned. It was contrary to experi- 
ence, contrary to common sense. 
He was very much disturbed. This intelligence 
would be a severe blow to the poor boy's mother, and 
he had not the courage to destroy all her bright hopes 
by writing her the terrible truth. He was confident 
that Bobby was innocent, and that his being in the 
company of Tom Spicer had brought the imputation 
upon him; so he could not let the matter take its 
course. He was determined to do something to pro- 
cure his liberty and restore his reputation. 
Squire Lee was in the city that day, and had left 
his store only half an hour before he discovered the 
paragraph. He immediately sent to his hotel for 
him, and together they devised means to effect Bob- 
by's liberation. The squire was even more confident 
than Mr. Bayard that our hero was innocent of the 
crime charged upon him. They agreed to proceed 
immediately to the State of Maine, and use their in- 
fluence in obtaining his pardon. The bookseller was 
a man of influence in the community, and was as well 
known in Maine as in Massachusetts ; but to make 
their application the surer, he procured letters of in- 
troduction from some of the most distinguished men 
in Boston to the governor and other official persons 
in Maine. 
We will leave them now to do the work they had 
so generously undertaken, and return to the Reform 
School, where Bobby and Tom were confined. The 
latter took the matter very coolly. He seemed to 
feel that he deserved his sentence, but he took a ma- 
licious delight in seeing Bobby the companion of his 
captivity. Pie even had the hardihood to remind him 
of the blow he had struck him more than two months 
before, telling him that he had vowed vengeance 
then, and now the time had come. He was satisfied. 
" You know I didn't steal the money, or have any 
thing to do with it," said Bobby. 
" Some of it was found upon you, though," sneered 
Tom, maliciously. 
'' You know how it came there, if no one else 
does." 
' Of course I do ; but I like your company too well 
to get rid of you so easy." 
 
" The Lord is with the innocent," replied Bobby ; 
" and something tells me that I shall not stay in this 
place a great while." 
" Going to run away ? " asked Tom, with interest, 
and suddenly dropping his malicious look. 
" I know I am innocent of any crime ; and I know 
that .the Lord will not let me stay here a great while." 
" What do you mean to do, Bob ? ' 
Bobby made no reply ; he felt that he had had 
more confidence in Tom than he deserved, and he 
determined to keep his own counsel in future. He 
had a purpose in view. His innocence gave him 
courage ; and perhaps he did not feel that sense of 
necessity for submission to the laws of the land 
which age and experience give. He prayed earnest- 
ly for deliverance from the place in which he was 
confined. He felt that he did not deserve to be 
there ; and though it was a very comfortable place, 
and the boys fared as well as he wished to fare, still 
it seemed to him like a prison. He was unjustly de- 
tained ; and he not only prayed to be delivered, but 
he resolved to work out his own deliverance at the 
first opportunity. 
Knowing that whatever he had would be taken 
from him, he resolved by some means to keep posses- 
sion of the twenty dollars he had about him. He 
had always kept his moiiey in a secret place in his 
jacket to guard against accident, and the officers who 
had searched him had not discovered it. But now 
his clothes would be changed. He thought of these 
things before his arrival ; so, when he reached the 
entrance, and got out of the wagon, to open the gate, 
by order of the officer, he slipped his twenty dollars 
into a hole in the wall. 
It so happened that there was not a suit of clothes 
in the store room of the institution which would fit 
him ; and he was permitted to wear his own dress till 
another should be made. After his name and de- 
scription had been entered, and the superintendent 
had read him a lecture upon his future duties, he was 
permitted to join the other boys, who were at work on 
the farm. He was sent with half a dozen others to 
pick up stones in a neighboring field. No officer was 
with them, and Bobby was struck with the apparent 
freedom of the institution, and he so expressed him- 
self to his companions. 
" Not so much freedom as you think for," said one, 
in reply. 
"I should think the fellows would clear out." 
" Not so easy a matter. There is a standing re- 
ward of five dollars to any one who brings back a 
runaway." 
" They must catch him first." 
" No fellow ever got away yet. They always 
caught him before he got ten miles from the place." 
This was an important suggestion to Bobby, who 
already had a definite purpose in his mind. Like a 
skilful general, he had surveyed the ground on his 
arrival, and was at once prepared to execute his de- 
sign. 
In his conversation with the boys, he obtained the 
history of several who had attempted to escape, and 
found that even those who got a fair start were taken 
on some public road. He perceived that they were 
not good generals, and he determined to profit by 
their mistake. 
A short distance from the institution was what ap- 
peared to be a very extensive wood. Beyond this, 
many miles distant, he could see the ocean glittering 
like a sheet of ice under the setting sun. 
He carefully observed the hills, and obtained the 
bearings of various prominent objects in the vicinity, 
which would aid him in his flight. The boys gave 
him all the information in their power about the 
localities of the country. They seemed to feel that 
he was possessed of a superior spirit, and that he 
would not long remain among them ; but, whatever 
