the sticks, till a circular pile from ten to twenty feet 
in diameter is formed, and two tiers in height. ItH 
shape is that of a cone, or sugar loaf. It is then 
covered with turf and soil. Fire is communicated 
to the wood, so that it shall smoulder, or burn slow- 
ly, without blazing. Just enough air is admitted to 
the pit to keep the fire alive. If the air were freeij 




tdnr'ttcd, the pile would burn to ashes. Sometimes 
the outer covering of dirt and sods falls in, as the 
wood shrinks, permitting the air to rush in and fan 
the fire to a blaze. "When this occurs, the apeiture 
must be closed, or the wood would be consumed ; 
and it is necessary to watch it day and night. The 
rabin had been built for the comfort of the men who 
did this duty. 

Harry's heart was filled with gratitude when he 
discovered the rude nut. If it had been a palace, it 
could not have been a more welcome retreat. It 
Is true the stormy wind had broken down the door, 
and the place was no better than a squirrel hole ; yet 
it suggested a thousand brilliant ideas of comfort, 
and luxury even, to our worn-out and hunted fd 
gitive. 

He entered the cabin. The floor was covered 
with straw, which completed his ideal of a luxurious 
abode. Raising up the door, which had fallen to the 
ground, he placed it before the aperture — thu- ex- 
cluding the cold air from his chamber. 

" I'm a lucky fellow," exclaimed Harry, a° he 
threw himself on (he straw. "This place will be a 

palace beside Jacob Wire's house. And I :an etaj 
here a month, if I like." 

Nestling closely under the side of the hu', he 
pulled the straw over him, and soon began to feel 
perfectly at home. Only one consideration troubled 
him. The commissary department of the establish- 
ment could not be relied on. There were no puik 
and potatoes in the house, no well-filled grain chest, 
no groceries, not even a rill of pure water at hand. 
This was an unpromising state of things ; and he 
began to see that there would be no fun in living in 
the woods, where the butcher and the baker would 
not be likely to visit him. 

Various means of supplying the deficiency sug- 
gested themselves. There were rabbits, partridges, 
and quails in the woods ; he might set a snare, and 
catch some of them. But he had no fire to cook 
them ; and Dr. Kane had not then demonstrated the 
healthy and appetizing qualities of raw meat. The 
orchards in the neighborhood were accessible ; but 
prudence seemed to raise an impassable barrier be- 
tween him and them. 

"While he was thus considering these matters, he 




dropped asleep, and forgot all about his stomach 
He was completely exhausted ; and no doubt the 
owls and bats were astonished as they listened to 
the sonorous sounds that came from the deserted 
cabin. 

Long and deep was his sleep. The birds sang 
their matin songs on the tree tops ; but he heard 
them not. The sun rose, and penetrated the chinks 
of the hut ; but the little wanderer still slumbered. 
The Rockville clock struck nine ; and he heard it 
not. 

I think it was Harry's grumbling stomach that 
finaUy wak^d him; and it was no wonder that neg- 
lected organ grew impatient under the injury put 
upon it, for Harry had eaten little or. nothing since 
his dinner at the poorhouse on the preceding day. 

Jumping out of the heap cf straw in which he had 
" cuddled " all night scarcely svithout moving, he left 
{he hut to reconnoitre his position. So far as security 
was concerned, it seemed to be a perfectly safe place. 
He could see nothing of the village jf Rockville, 
though, beyond the open space, he saw the top ot a 
chimney ; but it was at least half a mile distant 




Just then he did not feel much interested in th? 
scenery and natural advantages of the position. His
stomach was imperative, and he was faint from th ? 
want of food. There was nothing in the woods t"> 
eat. Berry time was past; and the prospect of sup- 
plying his wants was very discouraging. Leaving 
the cabin, he walked towards the distant chimney 
that peered above the tree tops. It belonged tt 
a house that " was set on a hill, and could not be 
hid." 

Alter going a little way, he came to a cart path, 
which led towards the house. This he followed, 
descending a hill into a swamp, which was covered 
over with alders and birches. At the foot of the 
declivity he heard the rippling of waters ; but the 
bushes concealed the stream from his view. 

He had descended nearly to the foot of the hill 
when the sound of footsteps reached his ears. His 
heart beat quick with apprehension, and he paused 
to listen. The step was soft and light ; it was not a 
man's, and bin courage rose. Pat, pat, pat, went tha 
steps on the leafy ground, so gently that his fears 
were conquered ; for th° person could be only a 
thild. 





Suddenly a piercing shriek saluted his ears 
a thing had occurred to alarm the owner of 
the fairy feet which made the soft pat, pat, on the 
gl nd Another shriek, and Harry bounded down 
tb roa I like an antelope, heedless of the remon- 
strances of his grumbling stomach. 

"Mercy! help!" shouted a voice, which Harry 
perceived was that of a little girl. 

In a moment more, he discovered the young lady 
running with all her might towards him. 

" Save vie ! " gasped the girl. 

" What ii the matter ? " 

But Harry had scarcely asked the question before 
ne saw whit had alarmed her. Under other circum- 
stance;, he would have quailed himself; for, as he 
apjKe, a gteat black snake raised his head two or 
three fret from the ground directly in front of him. 
He was at ugly-looking monster, and evidently in- 
tended to i\?rck him. All the chivalry of Harry's 
nature was ciWed up to meet the emergency of the 
occasion. Scmci; \ Ht f lo stick that lay in the path, 
he struck Btuury vigi uvjj blows at the reptile 
which, however, jin'^x". ^ vndy to madden, without



