nothing of an occasional sculpin, which boys still persist in calling
"crahpies," or "crahooners," used to furnish abundant sport to a motley
group of youngsters wherein the sons of merchants mingled
democratically with the dirty, ragged children of the "Ten-footers" in
the vicinity. The pier was neutral ground, and Frederic Augustus made a
friend of Michael or Dennis, and probably neither was much damaged by
this free companionship; for Michael or Dennis often proves to be more
of a gentleman in his rags and dirty face than Frederic Augustus in his
broadcloth and white linen.

Katy walked as fast as her little feet would carry her, till she came
to a court leading out of Essex Street. The bells were ringing for one
o'clock as she entered the grocery at the corner and purchased the
two-cent roll which Tommy Howard's bounty enabled her to add to her
feast. Elated with the success of her mission, she quickened her pace
up the court to a run, rushed into the house and up-stairs to her
mother's room with as much enthusiasm as though she had found a bag of
gold, instead of having obtained a very simple dinner.

"O, mother, I've got a lot of flounders and some bread for you!"
exclaimed she, as she bolted into the room.

"Then you have money," said a cold voice in the chamber; and Katy
perceived, standing near the bed on which her mother lay, a man who was
no stranger to her.

It was Dr. Flynch; but let not my young reader make a mistake. He was
no good Samaritan, who had come to pour oil and wine into the wounds of
the poor sick woman; not even a physician, who had come to give
medicine for a fee, to restore her to health and strength. It is true
he was called a doctor, and he had been a doctor, but he did not
practice the healing art now. If he had failed to make a physician, it
was not because his heart was so tender that he could not bear to look
upon pain and suffering. He was the agent of Mrs. Gordon, a widow lady,
who owned the house in which Katy's mother lived. He collected her
rents, and transacted all her business; and as far as dollars and cents
were concerned, he had certainly been a faithful servant. Dr. Flynch
was a prudent and discreet man, and did not hurt the feelings of the
good lady who employed him by telling her about the difficulties he
encountered in the discharge of his duty, or by describing the harsh
and even cruel means to which he was sometimes obliged to resort, in
order to obtain the rent of poor tenants.

"Mrs. Redburn," said Dr. Flynch, when he had heard the exclamation of
Katy, "you have told me a falsehood. You said you had no money, not a
cent. Where did you get that roll, child?"

"At the store at the corner of the court," replied Katy, abashed by the
cold dignity of the agent.

"Precisely so, Mrs. Redburn; but you do not buy bread without money.
You have attempted to deceive me. I have pitied you up to the present
time, and indulged you in the non-payment of your rent for over a week
I can do so no longer, for you have told me a falsehood."

"No, sir, I have not," pleaded the sick woman.

"Your child buys bread."

"I did not give her the money."

"Where did you get the money to buy that roll with?" demanded Dr.
Flynch, turning sharply to Katy.

"Tommy Howard gave it to me."

"Who is Tommy Howard?"

"He lives on the other side of the court."

"Very probable that a dirty, ragged boy gave her the money! This is
another false-hood, Mrs. Redburn. I lament that a person in your
situation should have no higher views of Christian morality than to lie
yourself, and teach your child to lie, which is much worse."

The poor woman burst into tears, and protested that she had told the
truth, and nothing but the truth; declaring that Katy was a good girl,
that she had eaten nothing that day, and would not tell a lie. Dr.
Flynch was a man of method, and when a tenant did not pay the rent, it
was his purpose to get rid of that tenant in the quietest way possible.
In the present case there was a difficulty, and public opinion would
not justify him in turning a sick woman out of the house; but if she
lied, had money concealed, and would not pay her rent, it would alter
the matter. As he wished to believe this was the case, he had no
difficulty in convincing himself, and thus quieting his poor apology
for a conscience.

Besides being a man of method, Dr. Flynch was a man of upright walk and
conversation; at least, he passed for such with those who did not know
anything about him. If Mrs. Gordon should happen to hear that he had
turned out the sick woman, he could then inform her how feelingly he
had pointed out to her the wickedness of her conduct, which he thought
would sound exceedingly well.

"Mrs. Redburn," he continued, "I will give you till this time to-morrow
to get out of the house; if you are not gone then, I shall be under the
painful necessity of removing your goods into the street. Good
morning;" and Dr. Flynch turned upon his heel, and walked out of the
room.

"My poor child! what will become of us?" sobbed the sick woman, as she
grasped Katy's hand, and pressed it to her bosom with convulsive energy.

"Don't cry, mother; something can be done. I will go and see Mrs.
Gordon, and beg her to let you stay here."

"You must not do that; Dr. Flynch told me, if I troubled her about the
house, I should not stay in it another minute, even if I paid the rent."

"He is a bad man, mother; and I don't believe Mrs. Gordon knows what he
does here."

"There is one thing more we can do, Katy," continued Mrs. Redburn,
wiping away her tears, and taking from under her pillow a heavy silver
watch. "This was your father's; but we must sell it now. It is all we
have left."

"I should hate to have that sold, mother."

"We must sell it, or pawn it."

"We will pawn it then."

"How shall we do it? I have not strength to rise, and they will cheat
you if you offer it."

"I will tell you what I can do, mother; I will get Simon Sneed to go
with me to the pawnbroker's shop. He is very kind to me, and I know he
will. He comes home to dinner at two o-clock."

This plan was agreed to, and Katy then went to work to clean and cook
the flounders.



CHAPTER II.

THE HISTORY OF THE SILVER WATCH.

Katy Redburn was only eleven years old, and not a very accomplished
cook; but as the children learn faster in the homes of the poor than in
the dwellings of the rich, she had a very tolerable idea of the
management of a frying-pan. The operation of cleaning the flounders was
the greatest trial, for the skin of the fish has to be removed. She cut
her fingers with the knife, and scratched and pricked her hands with
the sharp bones; but she was resolute, and finally accomplished the
task to her entire satisfaction. An occasional direction from her
mother enabled her to cook the fish properly, and dinner was ready.
There were still a few small stores left in the closet, and Katy made a
cup of tea for her mother, and with it placed the delicate little
flounder by the side of the bed. The invalid had no appetite, but to
please Katy she ate a portion of the fish and bread though it was very
hard work for her to do so. The little girl, gladdened by this unwonted
sight, made a hearty meal, without a thought of the trials and sorrows
which the future might have in store for them.

When she had put away the dishes, and placed everything in order, she
washed herself, combed her hair, sewed up a great rent in her dress,
and otherwise attempted to make herself as tidy as possible for the
mission she was about to undertake.
