
‘Thou art my Saint Catherine,’ said Verginie, rising up, excited by
Mary’s enthusiasm, ‘and hast the sword as well as the palm; but, dear
saint, don’t think so very, very badly of him,—he has a noble nature;
he has the angel in him.’

‘The greater his sin,’ said Mary; ‘he sins against light and love.’

‘But I think his heart is touched,—I think he is sorry. Oh, Mary, if
you had only seen how he looked at me, when he put out his hands on the
rocks,—there were tears in his eyes.’

‘Well there might be,’ said Mary; ‘I do not think he is quite a fiend;
no one could look at those cheeks, dear Verginie, and not feel sad,
that saw you a few months ago.’

‘Am I so changed?’ she said, rising and looking at herself in the
mirror. ‘Sure enough, my neck used to be quite round,—now you can see
those two little bones, like rocks at low tide. Poor Verginie! her
summer is gone, and the leaves are falling; poor little cat;’—and
Verginie stroked her own chestnut head, as if she had been pitying
another, and began humming a little Norman air, with a refrain that
sounded like the murmur of a brook over the stones.

The more Mary was touched by these little poetic ways, which ran just
on an even line between the gay and the pathetic, the more indignant
she grew with the man that had brought all this sorrow. She felt a
saintly vindictiveness, and a determination to place herself as an
adamantine shield between him and her friend. There is no courage and
no anger like that of a gentle woman when once fully roused; if ever
you have occasion to meet it, you will certainly remember the hour.




CHAPTER XXXII.


MARY revolved the affairs of her friend in her mind during the night.
The intensity of the mental crisis through which she herself had just
passed, had developed her in many inward respects, so that she looked
upon life no longer as a timid girl, but as a strong, experienced
woman. She had thought, and suffered, and held converse with eternal
realities, until thousands of mere earthly hesitations and timidities,
that often restrain a young and untried nature, had entirely lost
their hold upon her. Besides, Mary had at heart the Puritan seed of
heroism,—never absent from the souls of true New England women. Her
essentially Hebrew education, trained in daily converse with the
words of prophets and seers, and with the modes of thought of a grave
and heroic people, predisposed her to a kind of exaltation which,
in times of great trial, might rise to the heights of the religious
sublime, in which the impulse of self-devotion and protection took
a form essentially commanding. The very intensity of the repression
under which her faculties developed seemed as it were to produce a
surplus of hidden strength, which came out in exigencies. Her reading,
though restricted to few volumes, had been of the kind that vitalized
and stimulated a poetic nature, and laid up in its chambers vigorous
words and trenchant phrases, for the use of an excited feeling—so that
eloquence came to her as a native gift. She realized, in short, in her
higher hours, the last touch with which Milton finishes his portrait of
an ideal woman:—

    ‘Greatness of mind and nobleness, their seat
     Build in her loftiest, and create an awe
     About her as a guard angelic placed.’

The next morning, Colonel Burr called at the cottage. Mary was spinning
in the garret, and Madame de Frontignac was reeling yarn, when Mrs.
Scudder brought this announcement.

‘Mother,’ said Mary, ‘I wish to see Mr. Burr alone; Madame de
Frontignac will not go down.’

Mrs. Scudder looked surprised, but asked no questions. When she was
gone down, Mary stood a moment reflecting; Madame de Frontignac looked
eager and agitated. ‘Remember and notice all he says, and just how he
looks, Mary, so as to tell me; and be sure and say that “I thank him
for his kindness yesterday;” we must own he appeared very well there;
did he not?’

‘Certainly,’ said Mary; ‘but no man could have done less.’

‘Ah! but Mary, not every man could have done it as he did; now don’t
be too hard on him, Mary; I have said dreadful things to him; I am
afraid I have been too severe. After all, these distinguished men are
so tempted; we don’t know how much they are tempted; and who can wonder
that they are a little spoiled; so, my angel, you must be merciful.’

‘Merciful!’ said Mary, kissing the pale cheek and feeling the cold
little hands that trembled in hers.

‘So you will go down in your little spinning toilette, ma mie; I
fancy you look as Joan of Arc did when she was keeping her sheep at
Doremi. Go, and God bless thee!’ and Madame de Frontignac pushed her
playfully forward.

Mary entered the room where Burr was seated, and wished him good
morning, in a serious and placid manner, in which there was not the
slightest trace of embarrassment or discomposure.

‘Shall I have the pleasure of seeing your fair companion this morning?’
said Burr, after some moments of indifferent conversation.

‘No, sir; Madame de Frontignac desires me to excuse her to you.’

‘Is she ill?’ said Burr, with a look of concern.

‘No, Mr. Burr, she prefers not to see you.’ Burr gave a start of
well-bred surprise; and Mary added:—

‘Madame de Frontignac has made me familiar with the history of your
acquaintance with her; and you will therefore understand what I mean,
Mr. Burr, when I say that, during the time of her stay with us, we
would prefer not to receive calls from you.’

‘Your language, Miss Scudder, has certainly the merit of explicitness.’

‘I intend it shall have, sir,’ said Mary, tranquilly; ‘half the misery
of the world comes of want of courage to speak and to hear the truth
plainly, and in a spirit of love.’

‘I am gratified that you insert the last clause, Miss Scudder; I might
not otherwise recognize the gentle being whom I have always regarded
as the impersonation of all that is softest in woman. I have not the
honour of understanding in the least the reason of this apparently
capricious sentence, but I bow to it in submission.’

‘Mr. Burr,’ said Mary, walking up to him, and looking him full in the
eyes with an energy that for the moment bore down his practised air
of easy superiority, ‘I wish to speak to you for a moment, as one
immortal soul should to another, without any of those false glosses
and deceits which men call ceremony and good manners. You have done a
very great injury to a lovely lady, whose weakness ought to have been
sacred in your eyes. Precisely, because you are what you are,—strong,
keen, penetrating, able to control and govern all who come near you;
because you have the power to make yourself agreeable, interesting,
fascinating, and to win esteem and love,—just for that reason you ought
to hold yourself the guardian of every woman, and treat her as you
would wish any man to treat your own daughter. I leave it to your own
conscience whether this is the manner in which you have treated Madame
de Frontignac.’

‘Upon my word, Miss Scudder,’ began Burr, ‘I cannot imagine what
representations our mutual friend may have been making. I assure you,
our intercourse has been as irreproachable as the most scrupulous could
desire.’

‘Irreproachable! innocent! Mr. Burr, you know that you have taken
the very life out of her; you men can have everything, ambition,
wealth, power; a thousand ways are open to you; and women have nothing
but their hearts, and when that is gone, all is gone. Mr. Burr, you
remember the rich man that had flocks and herds, but nothing would do
for him but he must have the one little ewe lamb which was all his poor
neighbour had. Thou art the man! You have stolen all the love she has
to give, all that she had to make a happy home; and you can never give
her anything in return without endangering her purity and her soul,
and you knew you could not. I know you men think this is a light
matter; but it is death to us; what will this woman’s life be? one long
struggle to forget; and when you have forgotten her, and are going
on gay and happy, when you have thrown her very name away as a faded
