"Did you know him afore he come here, doctor?"

"I had not that honour, sir, till I came here myself."

"Well I never saw anybody as did," said Squire Deacon.--"I s'pose he
comes from somewhere."

"I doubt it," said Dr. Harrison with the slightest possible elevation
of his eyebrows for an instant. Squire Deacon, however, was not just
the fool Dr. Harrison took him for; of which fact a little gleam in his
eyes gave notice.

"'Taint extraordinary you don't like him, doctor," he said
carelessly. "Mr. Linden's a fine man, but 'most any pair o' wheels is
one too many in some roads."

"I never followed a wheelbarrow, sir," said the doctor. "I suppose,
from your allusion, you have. May I be honoured with your further
commands?"

"Wheelbarrows have only one wheel, mostly," said Squire Deacon
composedly.

"You know better than I, sir. Might I enquire why you are anxious about
the state of Mr. Linden's health?"

"Don't know as I said I was anxious--" said Squire Deacon. "When a
man's lived in a place as long as he has, it's nothing wonderful if
folks ask whether he's going to hold on. All the women in my house
think he's dead and buried, now."

"Ah! He's a favourite in that line, is he?"

"Other lines just as much--for all I know," said the Squire. "Can't say
I ever just went in for all Mr. Simlins says nor all Parson Somers
says, neither,--can't help that, doctor, if he is one o' your folks."

"What have you against him?"

"I don't say nothing against him," said Squire Deacon,--"except he's a
fine man. Maybe you think that is."

"Is there anything further you would like to say on any subject, sir?"

"Not much, I guess, if that's the time o' day," said Squire Deacon
looking at him with a queer little bit of a smile. "'Taint useful to
get stirred up that way, doctor, just because a man wishes you a good
journey. But I can just as easy wish you another overturn--I s'pose
you're pretty sure to get one or t'other out o' the horses. It's all
one to me--and I dare say it is to everybody else."

"What is your name, sir?" said the doctor standing and looking at him
in a sort of mazed consideration.

"My name's Sam Deacon,"--said the Squire with his peculiar sort of
sullen composure. "Your father and I've always been friends, anyhow."

"Then Mr. Deacon will you have the goodness to under stand that I am
not an agent for the transaction of Mr. Linden's affairs; but as I am a
friend of his, I will inform him that you are interested in the
subject. That is all, sir?"

"I'll go bail for the first part of that!" said Squire Deacon. "But
it's your affairs I'm talkin' of--not his'n. And I s'pose I've as good
a right as all the rest of Pattaquasset--and give no offence, neither.
I was goin' to make you my compliments, doctor--that's all; and if you
don't think you'll ever want 'em, why there's no harm done--and enough
said. All I want to know is, what do you get so stirred up for?"

"Is that all?" said the doctor, as if he had a mind to know the whole
before giving an answer.

"All what?" said Squire Deacon.

"All that you wish to communicate?"

"I haven't communicated anything yet," said the Squire. "I guess you
knew all that before."

"Well," said the doctor, half laughing, though his expression had
changed more than once during the last five minutes,--"then my answer
is easy. In the first place, Mr. Deacon, I have no affairs--therefore
it is impossible to talk about them. In the second place, when I am in
want of your compliments I will send you mine. In the third place,--I
declare I am at a loss how to answer you; for the only thing I ever get
stirred up for, is my breakfast! Good afternoon!--"

Staying no more civilities, the doctor made the best of his way to Mrs.
Derrick's. Faith was ready for him, and more gently with her he set out
on the road back again. It was not a time of day to meet people--one
familiar face however they did meet,--Squire Deacon. His eye did not
seek Faith's face, but rested on the doctor with full effect.

Arrived at the Judge's house, the doctor led her to the library, and
there unlocked the door of a little cabinet room. On a table in the
window, standing in the full sunshine, was the object of their visit.
It was simply a fine little Aquarium. More delightfully new to Faith's
eyes nothing could be; as the same eyes shewed. While they explored the
wonders of the box, the doctor at his ease proceeded to unfold to her
the various meanings of them. He enlarged upon the habits and
characters of the several inmates of the Aquarium; he explained to her
the philosophy of keeping the balance of vegetable and animal life and
thereby preserving both; he told which creature lived upon which other;
what office they severally, some of them, performed for the small
section of Ocean in which they lived and its vitrified shores; and then
taking up the subject of Sea anemones, the doctor told stories, of
natural truth, that with these living specimens before her entranced
Faith out of all knowledge of place or time. Dr. Harrison asked no
more. He gave her what she liked, and with admirable tact abstained
from putting himself forward; any further than a quick eye, excellent
speech, and full and accurate mind must make themselves known, and most
gentle and graceful attention make itself felt.

"Do you suppose," said he, when Faith was absorbedly watching the
Anemones feed,--"that Mrs. Derrick would give this thing house-room?"

Faith looked, but half comprehending.

"I am not always here," said the doctor carelessly, as he was supplying
another bit of flesh to the voracious flower,--"and I should like to
have it somewhere that it would be taken care of. If I left it to Sophy
for a week, I should expect to find on my return that the vegetables
and fishes had eaten up each other. Don't you admire that crab?"

"Very much," said Faith. "This little fish is just like some of the
shells down on the shore."

"He came from the shore somewhere," said the doctor,--"little monster!
The ocean world isn't much better than the world of earth, apparently,
Miss Derrick."

"Do you think the earth-world is like that?" said Faith.

"Don't you?"

"I don't know what it is like."

"If you will permit me to say so, I hope you never will--any further
than as you choose to make this a miniature of that. And things in
miniature--are much less," said the doctor abstractedly, looking at the
Anemone. "Would you like to have this little ocean box in your house
for awhile, Miss Faith?--it could just as well as not. Indeed it would
be rather a benefit to me."

"O I should like it!" said Faith. "But I should be afraid of its
getting broken, Dr. Harrison."

"I am not afraid," said he. "It would be in less danger there than
here. As I told you, Sophy neither knows nor cares anything about such
things; and she would either kill them with kindness or forget them
altogether--most likely do both alternately. But with you they would be
safe, for the simple reason that you love them."

The sunbeams had left the window before Faith was at all aware of the
passing away of the afternoon. And then, for once to her joy, Miss
Harrison could not be found. They set out to walk home, and had got
half way when a little rush of footsteps came up behind them, and
Reuben and Sam passed by, arm in arm; or rather half by--then paused
and said good evening.

