from the county court-house quite a fashionable practice 
with the young men for twenty miles around. Facing her 
sat Virginia Shore, Tom's sister, an intimate friend of the 
cousins and a gay-spirited rattle ; next her, Robert Lay, 
and beside him, his betrothed, Helen Gardner, looking very 
much as Aleck's yearning heart was then picturing her in 
his fireside visions, only with a richer maturity, a ripeness 
of womanhood upon her, that Miss Ruth may have had in 
her mind, when she essayed to describe the change that had 
taken place in the girl since her engagement. Robert was 
a trifle shorter than his brother, but still a well-made, tall 
figure, with pleasant hazel eyes, light hair, clear complexion, a mouth that betokened sweetness _of disposition 
and delicate sensibilities, a voice at once manly and gentle, 
and a full, curling auburn beard. He was a handsome 
fellow; companionable to a charm; easy-tempered to a 




fault ; and universally beloved by high and low. By unanimous acclamation, he was chosen reader of the party ; and 
in his manner of collecting the folded slips, as each writer 
pronounced his or hers ready, there was a frank, smiling 
courtesy, so natural and customary with him, that he was 
unaware of its manifestation, but which wrought its effect 
upon those he addressed. 

" Are you ready, Miss Helen ?" he said to his right-hand 
neighbor, when all the others had given in their contributions. 

" Not quite ! I am stupid to-night !" 

"I believe you are!" retorted Lily, with a slight spice 
of pettishness in her manner. " You have been behindhand 
in every round. If you will write what you are dreaming 
about it will interest us, I have no doubt." 

"Never mind! There is time enough, and to spare," 
observed Robert, kindly, as Helen bent down, her face 
crimsoning with shame or impatience, and scribbled away 
desperately at the limited space remaining for her to fill. 

He pretended, further to relieve her, to be busied in 
sorting the narrow strips of paper deposited in his care. " 

"There!" Helen pushed hers towards him, and threw 
herself back in her chair. " My invention is exhausted ! I 
shall retire at the next round." 

" Do as I do, and write whatever nonsense first occurs 
to you," replied young Lay. "I should never progress 
beyond a single line if I attempted to be brilliant !" 

The game of " Consequences," I may as well state, for 
the information of those who, from the misfortune of 
ignorance, or the wilfulness of superior wisdom to such 
frivolous amusements, need enlightenment upon the subject, 
is conducted after this wise. A half sheet of note-paper is 
furnished to each person who desires to take part in the 
entertainment, and he or she writes at the top of this a 




character or personal description applicable to a lady as 
"the fair and witty," or the "homely and shrewish" folds 
this down so carefully that part of the writing is visible, 
and passes it to the one sitting next the said him or her, on 
one side, receiving at the same moment a similarly prepared 
page from the neighbor on the other hand. Next comes 
the lady's name, usually that of some friend or acquaintance 
of the writer ; then, a description masculine, and a name ; 
the place of meeting ; what he said, and her reply ; the con 
sequence of the interview, and, as a finale, the world's opinion upon the matter. The best fun of the performance is 
the marvellous and oftentimes ludicrous coherence of the 
narrative, written piece-meal by so many hands, each scribe 
being perfectly ignorant of a single word that precedes his 
own addition to the story. There were a few blushes and a 
great deal of laughter upon the present occasion, as various 
good hits and strikingly appropriate allusions were given to 
the auditors in the reader's best style. 

At length came a tale that awoke different sensations in 
the breasts of all, that was felt acutely by at least one mem- 
laer of the company : 

" The graceful and winning Miss Lily Calvert and the refined and chivalrous Mr. Robert Lay met in Colonel Floyd's 
parlor. He said, 

" How happy could I be with either, 
"Were t other dear charmer away! 

" She answered, weepingly, 

" The moon looks on many brooks ; 
The brook sees but one moon. 

"The consequence was, .that the loss of her wits followed 
upon that of her heart, and his comfort and happiness were 
not at all damaged thereby. The world said c Poor thing ! 
what else could have been anticipated from her antece 
dents ! " 



One or two tried to raise a spasmodic laugh, and nobody 
looked at Lily, whose forced mirth jarred upon every ear, 
while her taper fingers interlaced each other tightly on the 
table. 

" Bah !" said Helen. " That is the flattest thing we have 
heard yet ! Give us another, if you please, Mr. Lay." 

No one, unless it were himself, in their private interviews, 
ever heard her call him "Robert" now-a-days. 

"This looks racy!" remarked he, catching a glimpse of 
the names heading the one he was unfolding. 

" The witty and accomplished Miss Helen Gardner, and 
the learned but cynical Mr. Alexander Lay, met behind a 
turkey-blind. He said False as fair ! did you not plight 
your troth to me ? Was not this ring the seal ? She said 
Alas! it is too late! They told me you loved another! 
The consequence was that she married his brother, and he 
lived and died a crusty, rusty, fusty old bachelor. The 
world said It is dangerous, this playing with edge- 
tools ! " 

Robert's smile was free of all unpleasant meaning, as he 
flashed a merry glance at his betrothed. 

" Reefs ahead " he said, in a playful " aside," inaudible to 
others, amidst the chattering that succeeded the reading of 
this, the last paper. "I must be on the look-out! You 
know that we expect this dangerous rival of mine in the 
course of a week or two, do you not ?" 

" No I had not heard ! Let me look at that nonsense !" 

She took the slip he was twisting between his fingers, 
perused it scrutinizingly, probably to assure herself that no 
two sentences were penned by the same individual, cast it 
down contemptuously upon the pile with the rest, arose, 
and left the room. 

The entrance of a servant with a tray of refreshments diverted the attention of the others, and Robert was not long 


in finding and improving a favorable opportunity for following Helen. They often met, when there was company in 
the parlor, in the dining-room just across the hall, where the 
fire was never suffered to go out in cold weather ; and since 
he had signified to her, earlier in the evening, his wish to see 
her alone by-and-by, it argued no unreasonable vanity on 
his part that he fully expected to find her there awaiting 
him. But the room was deserted. The fire had been're 
cently replenished, doubtless by some sagacious servant, in 
anticipation of the conference he hoped for, and the ruddy 
shine showed him distinctly every object in the spacious 
apartment. An unlighted candle was on the table ; two 
comfortable chairs were set in affectionate and suggestive 
