tell you where yer regiment is," added he, turning to Tom, who was edging
towards the door.

"I'm very much obliged to you for my supper," said the fugitive,
nervously. "I reckon I'll be moving along."

"Wait half a second, and my son will tell you just where to find your
regiment."

"The Seventh Georgia?" said the captain of cavalry, entering the room at
this moment with nothing but his pants on. "There's no such regiment up
here, and hasn't been. I reckon you're a deserter."

"No, sir! I scorn the charge," replied Tom, with becoming indignation.
"I never desert my colors."

"I suppose not," added the officer, glancing at his uniform; "but your
colors desert you."

Tom failed to appreciate the wit of the reply, and backed off towards the
door, with one hand upon the stock of his revolver.

"Hold on to him, father; don't let him go," said the officer, as he rushed
back into his chamber, evidently for his pistols or his sabre.

"Hands off, or you are a dead man;" cried Tom, as he pointed his revolver
at the head of the farmer.

In another instant, the captain of cavalry reappeared with a pistol in
each hand. A stunning report resounded through the house, and Tom heard a
bullet whistle by his head.




CHAPTER XXII.

THE PICKET GUARD.


It was sufficiently obvious to Tom that, on the present occasion, the
suspicions of his host were awakened. It is possible that, if he had
depended upon his impudence, he might have succeeded in deceiving the
Confederate officer; but his evident intention to retire from the contest
before an investigation could be had, proved him, in the estimation of the
captain, to be either a spy or a deserter, and shooting him was preferable
to losing him.

The officer fired quick, and with little attention to the important matter
of a steady aim; and Tom had to thank his stars for the hasty shot, for,
though it went within a few inches of his head, "a miss was as good as a
mile," and the brains of our hero remained intact and complete. But he was
not willing to be the subject of any further experiments of this
description, and without waiting further to express his gratitude to the
host for the bountiful supper he had eaten, he threw open the door, and
dashed off at the top of his speed.

The revolver he carried was a very good implement with which to bully a
negro, or an unarmed farmer; but Tom had more confidence in his legs than
in his skill as a marksman, and before the captain could transfer the
second pistol from his left to his right hand, he had passed out of the
house, and was concealed from his pursuers by the gloom of the night. He
felt that he had had a narrow escape, and he was not disposed to trifle
with destiny by loitering in the vicinity of the house.

He had not proceeded far before he heard a hue and cry behind him; and if
the captain of cavalry had not stopped to put on his boots, it is more
than possible that our humble volume might have contained a chapter or two
upon prison life in Richmond. Undoubtedly it was quite proper for the
officer to put on his boots before he went out; a decent regard for his
individual sanitary condition, and a reasonable horror of ague and
rheumatism, would have induced him to do it, even at the risk of losing a
Federal prisoner, or a rebel deserter, as the case might be. At any rate,
if Tom had known the cause of the delay, he would freely have forgiven him
for wasting his time in healthful precautions.

The fugitive retraced his steps to the river by the same route he had
taken in approaching the hospitable roof of the farmer. As nearly as he
could judge by the sounds that reached him from the distance, the officer
and his father were gathering up a force to hunt down the fugitive. Tom
jumped into the bateau, and pushed off. Keeping under the shadow of the
bank of the river, he plied his paddle vigorously, and by the time his
pursuers arrived at the river, he was a couple of miles from the spot. He
could hear a shout occasionally in the deep silence of the night, but with
the distance between him and the enemy, he felt entirely secure. The
danger had passed, and he floated leisurely on his voyage, buoyant as his
light bark, and hopeful as the dream of youth.

Hour after hour, in the gloom of the solemn night, he was borne by the
swift tide towards the lines of the loyal army. The day was dawning, and
he was on the lookout for a suitable place to conceal himself, until the
friendly shades of night should again favor his movements. After the
experience of the former night near the ford, he was very cautious in the
selection of a hiding place. It is not always safe to be fastidious; for
while Tom was rejecting one location, and waiting for another to appear,
the river bore him into a tract of very open country, which was less
favorable than that through which he had just been passing.

The prospect began to make him nervous; and while he was bitterly
regretting that he had not moored the boat before, he was startled to hear
a sharp, commanding voice on the bank at his left.

"Who comes there? Halt!"

Tom looked up, and discovered a grayback, standing on the shore, very
deliberately pointing his musket at him.

"Who comes there?" demanded the picket; for at this point were stationed
the outposts of the rebel force in the Shenandoah valley.

"Friend!" replied Tom.

"Halt, then!"

"I would, if I could," answered Tom, as hastily as possible.

"Halt, or I'll fire!"

"I tell you I can't halt," replied Tom, using his paddle vigorously, as
though he was trying to urge the bateau to the shore. "Don't fire! For
mercy's sake, don't fire."

Tom appeared to be intensely frightened at the situation in which he was
placed, and redoubled his efforts apparently to gain the bank of the
stream; but the more he seemed to paddle one way, the more the boat went
the other way. However much Tom appeared to be terrified by the peril that
menaced him, it must be confessed that he was not wholly unmoved.

"Stop your boat, quick!" said the soldier, who had partially dropped his
musket from its menacing position.

"I can't stop it," responded Tom, apparently in an agony of terror. "I
would go ashore if I could."

"What's the matter?"

"The water runs so swift, I can't stop her; been trying this two hours."

"You will be inside the Yankee lines in half an hour if you don't fetch
to," shouted the picket.

"Gracious!" exclaimed Tom, redoubling his efforts.

But it was useless to struggle with the furious current, and Tom threw
himself into the bottom of the boat, as if in utter desperation. If
Niagara Falls, with their thundering roar and fearful abyss, had been
before him, his agony could not have been more intense, as judged from the
shore.

By this time, the sentinel on the bank had been joined by his two
companions, and the three men forming the picket post stood gazing at him,
as he abandoned himself to the awful fate of being captured by the
blood-thirsty Yankees, to whose lines the relentless current of the
Shenandoah was bearing him.

When Tom was first challenged by the grayback, the boat had been some
twenty rods above him; and it had now passed the spot where he stood, but
the rebels were still near enough to converse with him. Tom heard one of
them ask another who he was. Of course neither of them knew who he was, or
where he came from.
