which Adam lost is half re-entered again; the moral victory is won over
"the works of the devil" which Christ came to destroy. The body is
dead, no doubt, because of sin; but the spirit is life, because of
righteousness. The air of that garden is peace; no hurricanes blow
there; the sunshine dwells therein; the odours of sweet things come
forth, and make known all abroad whose garden it is.

Eleanor had sat awhile very still, very busy looking over into the sea,
when she heard a step near her on the deck. She looked up, and saw a
man whom she recognized as the master of the vessel. A rather
hard-featured man, tall and strong set, with a pair of small eyes that
did not give forth their expression readily. What there was struck her
as not pleasant.

"So you've got up!" said he, in a voice which was less harsh than his
looks. "Do you feel better?"

"Much better, thank you."

"Hearty, eh?"

"Pretty well," said Eleanor smiling, "since I have got this salt air
into my lungs."

"Ah! you'll have enough of that. 'Tother lady is down yet, eh? She has
not got up."

"No."

"Are you all going to the same place?"

"I believe so."

"Missionaries, eh?"

"Yes."

"Think you'll get those dark fellows to listen to you?"

"Why not?" said Eleanor brightly.

"It's all make-believe. They only want to get your axes and hatchets,
and such things."

"Well, we want their yams and potatoes and fish and labour," said
Eleanor; "so it is a fair bargain; and no make-believe on either side."

"Why don't you stay in the Colonies? there is work enough to be done;
people enough that need it; and a fine country. Everything in the world
that you need; and not so far from home either."

Eleanor made no answer.

"Why don't you stay in the Colonies?"

"One can only be in one place," said Eleanor lightly.

"And that must always be the place where somebody else is," said the
captain maliciously. "That's the way people will congregate together,
instead of scattering where they are wanted."

"Do you know the Colonies well?" said Eleanor coolly, in answer to this
rude speech.

"I ought. I have spent about a third of my life in them. I have a
brother at Melbourne too, as rich in flocks and herds almost as Job
was. That's the place! That's a country! But you are going to Sydney?"

"Yes."

"Friends there?"

"I have one friend there who expects me."

"Who's he? Maybe I know him."

"Egbert Esthwaite is his name."

"Don't know him, though. And so you have left England to find yourself
a new home in the wilderness?"

"Yes."

"Pretty tough change you'll find it. Don't you find it already?"

"No. Don't you know," said Eleanor giving him a good look, "when one's
real home is in heaven, it does not make so much difference?"

The captain would have answered the words fast enough; but in the
strong sweet eye that had looked into his so full, there was something
that silenced him. He turned off abruptly, with the internal
conviction--"That girl thinks what she says, anyhow!"

Eleanor's eyes left contemplating the waters, and were busy for some
time with the book which had lain in her lap until her colloquy with
the captain. Somebody came and sat down beside her.

"Mr. Amos! I am glad to see you," said Eleanor.

"I am glad to see you, sister," he replied; "and glad to see you able
to be here. You look well again."

"O I am."

"Mrs. Amos cannot raise her head. What are you doing?--if I may ask so
blunt a question upon so short an acquaintance."

"This is the first time I have been on deck. I was studying the sea, in
the first place;--and then something drove me to study the Bible."

"Ah, we are driven to that on every hand," he answered. "Now go on, and
tell me the point of your studies, will you?"

There was something in the utmost genial and kind in his look and way;
he was not a person from whom one would keep back anything he wanted to
know; as also evidently he was not one to ask anything he should not.
The request did not even startle Eleanor. She looked thoughtfully over
the heaving sea while she answered.

"I had been taking a great new view of the glory of creation--over the
ship's side here. Then I had the sorrow to find--or fear--that we have
an unbeliever in our captain. From that, I suppose, I took hold of
Paul's reasoning--how without excuse people are in unbelief; how the
invisible things of God from the creation of the world are clearly
seen, being understood by the things that are made; even his eternal
power and Godhead. And those glorious last words were what my heart
fixed upon."

"'His eternal power and Godhead.'"

Eleanor looked round without speaking; a look full of the human echo to
those words; the joy of weakness, the strength of ignorance, the
triumph of humility.

"What a grand characterizing Paul gives in those other words," said Mr.
Amos--"'the King eternal, immortal, invisible, the only wise God.' Unto
him be honour and glory forever!"

"And then those other words," said Eleanor low,--"'The eternal God is
thy refuge.'"

"That is a good text for us to keep," said Mr. Amos. "But really, with
that refuge, I don't see what we should be afraid of."

"Not even of want of success," said Eleanor.

"No. If faith didn't fail. Paul could give thanks that he was made
always to triumph in Christ,--and by the power that wrought with him,
so may we." He spoke very gravely, as if looking into himself and
pondering his own responsibilities and privileges and short-comings.
Eleanor kept silence.

"How do you like this way of life?" Mr. Amos said presently.

"The sea is beautiful. I have hardly tried the ship."

"Haven't you?" said Mr. Amos smiling. "That speaks a candid good
traveller. Another would have made the first few days the type of the
whole."

