friend whom Jamie loved and that tie drew her toward him as to an
elder brother to whom she turned for help, unconscious then how
great his own need was.

“I never knew of this before, Bess; you kept your secret well” he
said, trying to seem unchanged.

The color deepened in her cheek; but she answered simply, “I never
spoke of it, for words could do no good, and Jamie grieved silently
about it, for he thought it a great sacrifice, though I looked on it
as a sacred duty, and he often wearied himself to show in many
loving ways how freshly he remembered it. My grateful little Jamie.”

And her eyes wandered to the green tree-tops tossing in the wind,
whose shadows flickered pleasantly above the child.

“Let me think a little, Bess, before I counsel you. Keep a good
heart and rest assured that I will help you if I can,” said Walter,
trying to speak hopefully.

“But you come to tell me something; at least, I fancied I saw some
good tidings in your face just now. Forgive my selfish grief, and
see how gladly I will sympathize with any joy of yours.”

“It is nothing, Bess, another time will do as well,” he answered,
eager to be gone lest he should betray what must be kept most
closely now.

“It never will be told, Bess,--never in this world,” he sighed
bitterly as he went back to his own room which never in his darkest
hours had seemed so dreary; for now the bright hope of his life was
gone.

“I have it in my power to make them happy,” he mused as he sat
alone, “but I cannot do it, for in this separation lies my only
hope. He may die or may grow weary, and then to whom will Bess turn
for comfort but to me? I will work on, earn riches and a name, and
if that hour should come, then in her desolation I will offer all to
Bess and surely she will listen and accept. Yet it were a generous
thing to make her happiness at once, forgetful of my own. How shall
I bear to see her waiting patiently, while youth and hope are fading
slowly, and know that I might end her weary trial and join two
faithful hearts? Oh, Jamie, I wish to Heaven I were asleep with you,
freed from the temptations that beset me. It is so easy to perceive
the right, so hard to do it.”

The sound of that familiar name, uttered despairingly, aloud, fell
with a sweet and solemn music upon Walter’s ear. A flood of tender
memories swept away the present, and brought back the past. He
thought of that short life, so full of pain and yet of patience, of
the sunny nature which no cloud could overshadow, and the simple
trust which was its strength and guide.

He thought of that last night and saw now with clearer eyes the
sacrifices and the trials silently borne for love of Bess.

The beautiful example of the child rebuked the passion of he man,
and through the magic of affection strengthened generous impulses
and banished selfish hopes.

“I promised to be kind to Bess, and with God’s help I will keep my
vow. Teach me to bear my pain, to look for help where you found it,
little Jamie;” and as he spoke, the young man gazed up at the
shining cross, striving to see in it not merely an object of the
dead boy’s love, but a symbol of consolation, hope, and faith.

“It is a noble thing to see an honest man cleave his own heart in
twain to fling away the baser part of it.”

These words came to Walter’s mind and fixed the resolution wavering
there, and as his glance wandered from the gray tower to the
churchyard full of summer stillness, he said within himself,--

“This is the hardest struggle of my life, but I will conquer and
come out from the conflict master of myself at least, and like
Jamie, try to wait until the sunshine comes again, even if it only
shine upon me, dead like him.”

It was no light task to leave the airy castles built by love and
hope, and go back cheerfully to the solitude of a life whose only
happiness for a time was in the memory of the past. But through the
weeks that bore one lover home, the other struggled to subdue his
passion, and be as generous in his sorrow as he would have been in
his joy.

It was no easy conquest; but he won the hardest of all victories,
that of self, and found in the place of banished pride and
bitterness a patient strength, and the one desire to be indeed more
generous than a brother to gentle Bess. He had truly, “cleft his
heart in twain and flung away the baser part.”

A few days before the absent lover came, Walter went to Bess, and,
with a countenance whose pale serenity touched her deeply, he laid
his gift before her, saying,--

“I owe this all to Jamie; and the best use I can make of it is to
secure your happiness, as I promised him I’d try to do. Take it and
God bless you, Sister Bess.”

“And you, Walter, what will your future be if I take this and go
away to enjoy it as you would have me?” Bess asked, with an
earnestness that awoke his wonder.

“I shall work, Bess, and in that find content and consolation for
the loss of you and Jamie. Do not think of me; this money will do me
far more good in your hands than my own. Believe me it is best to be
so, therefore do not hesitate.”

Bess took it, for she had learned the cause of Walter’s restless
wanderings and strange avoidance of herself of late, and she judged
wisely that the generous nature should be gratified, and the
hard-won victory rewarded by the full accomplishment of its
unselfish end. Few words expressed her joyful thanks, but from that
time Walter felt that he held as dear a place as Jamie in her
grateful heart, and was content.

Summer flowers were blooming when Bess went from the old home a
happy wife, leaving her faithful friend alone in the little room
where Jamie lived and died.

Years passed, and Walter’s pen had won for him an honored name.
Poverty and care were no longer his companions; many homes were open
to him, many hearts would gladly welcome him, but he still lingered
in the gloomy house, a serious, solitary man, for his heart lay
beneath the daisies of a child’s grave.

But his life was rich in noble aims and charitable deeds, and with
his strong nature softened by the sharp discipline of sorrow, and
sweetened by the presence of a generous love, he was content to
dwell alone with the memory of little Jamie, in the shadow of “the
cross upon the tower.”




THE DEATH OF JOHN.

This is not a tale, but a true history.--ED.

FROM “HOSPITAL SKETCHES.”


HARDLY was I settled again, when the inevitable bowl appeared, and
its bearer delivered a message I had expected, yet dreaded to
receive:--

“John is going, ma’am, and wants to see you, if you can come.”

“The moment this boy is asleep; tell him so, and let me know if I am
in danger of being too late.”

My Ganymede departed, and while I quieted poor Shaw, I thought of
John. He came in a day or two after the others; and, one evening,
when I entered my “pathetic room,” I found a lately emptied bed
occupied by a large, fair man, with a fine face, and the serenest
eyes I ever met. One of the earlier comers had often spoken of a
friend, who had remained behind, that those apparently worse wounded
than himself might reach a shelter first. It seemed a David and
Jonathan sort of friendship. The man fretted for his mate, and was
never tired of praising John,--his courage, sobriety, self-denial,
