"Yes, but I am. I would like it better. And Nora would like to be Queen
Esther, I know."

"I dare say she would! Like it! Of course. No, Daisy; Queen Esther is
yours and nobody's else. What has put that into your head?"

"Preston, I think Nora would like it; and you know, they said she was
most like a Jewess of all of us; I think it would be proper to give it
to her."

"I shall not do it. We will be improper for once."

"But I am going to do it, Preston."

"Daisy, you have not liberty. I am the manager. What has come over you?
You played Esther beautifully only this morning. What is the matter?"

"I have been thinking about it," said Daisy; "and I have concluded I
would rather give it to Nora."

Preston was abundantly vexed, for he knew by the signs that Daisy had
made up her mind; and he was beginning to know that his little cousin
was exceedingly hard to move when once she was fully set on a thing. He
debated within himself an appeal to authority; but on the whole
dismissed that thought. It was best not to disgust Daisy with the whole
affair; and he hoped coaxing might yet do the work. But Daisy was too
quick for him.

"Nora," she said at the next meeting, "if you like, I will change with
you in the fainting picture. You shall be the queen, and I will be one
of the women."

"Shall I be the queen?" said Nora.

"Yes, if you like."

"But why don't you want to do it?"

"I would rather you would, if you like it."

"Well, I'll do it," said Nora; "but Daisy, shall I have all the dress
you were going to wear?"

"Yes, I suppose so."

"Because, if I don't, I won't. I must have just exactly what you were
going to wear."

"Why you will of course, I suppose," said Daisy, a good deal astonished.

"Every bit," said Nora. "Shall I have that same white satin gown?"

"Yes, I suppose so. Of course you will. It is only you and I that
change; not the dress."

"And shall I have the ornaments too?"

"Just the same, I suppose; unless Mrs. Sandford thinks that something
else will look better."

"I won't have anything else. I want that same splendid necklace for my
girdle--shall I?"

"I suppose so, Nora."

"You say 'I suppose so' to everything. I want to know. Shall I have
that same pink silk thing over my hair?"

"That scarf? yes."

"And the red necklace on it? and the bracelets? and the gold and
diamonds round my neck? I won't be Esther if I don't have the dress."

"I suppose you will have the dress," said Daisy; "of course you will.
But if you say you do not want to be Esther, they will make me do it."

A hint that closed Nora's mouth. She did not say she did not want to be
Esther. Mrs. Sandford was astonished at the change of performers; but
Daisy's resignation was so simply made and naturally, and Nora's
acceptance was so manifestly glad, that nobody could very well offer any
hindrance. The change was made; but Preston would not suffer Daisy to be
one of the attendants. He left her out of the picture altogether and put
Jane Linwood in Nora's vacated place. Daisy was content; and now the
practising and the arrangements went on prospering.

There was a good deal of preparation to be made, besides what the
mantua-maker could do. Mr. Stilton was called into the library for a
great consultation; and then he went to work. The library was the place
chosen for the tableaux; the spectators to be gathered into the
drawing-room, and the pictures displayed just within the wide door of
communication between the two rooms. On the library side of this door
Mr. Stilton laid down a platform, slightly raised and covered with green
baize cloth, and behind the platform a frame-work was raised and hung
with green baize to serve as a proper background for the pictures. A
flower stand was brought in from the greenhouse and placed at one side,
out of sight from the drawing-room; for the purpose, as Preston informed
Daisy, of holding the lights. All these details were under his
management, and he managed, Daisy thought, very ably indeed. Meantime
the dresses were got ready. Fortitude's helmet was constructed of
pasteboard and gilt paper; and Nora said it looked just as if it were
solid gold. The crown of Ahasuerus, and Alfred's six-foot bow were also
made; and a beautiful old brown spinning wheel was brought from Mrs.
Sandford's house for Priscilla. Priscilla's brown dress was put
together, and her white vandyke starched. And the various mantles and
robes of velvet and silk which were to be used, were in some way
accommodated to the needs of the young wearers. All was done well, and
Preston was satisfied; except with Daisy.

Not that Daisy did not enter into the amusement of what was going
forward; for perhaps nobody took so much real share in it. Even Mr.
Stilton's operations interested her. But she was not engrossed at all.
She was not different from her usual self. All the glory of the tableaux
had not dazzled her, so far as Preston could see. And daily, every
morning, she stepped into that little pony chaise with a basket and
drove off--Preston was at the pains to find out--to spend a couple of
hours with Molly Skelton. Preston sighed with impatience. And then in
the very act of dressing and practising for the pictures, Daisy was
provokingly cool and disengaged. She did her part very well, but seemed
just as much interested in other people's parts and as much pleased with
other people's adornment. Queen Esther in particular was Daisy's care,
since she had given up the character; and without putting herself
forward she had once or twice made a suggestion to Mrs. Sandford, of
something that she either thought would please Nora or that she felt
called for by her own tastes; and in each case Mrs. Sandford declared
the suggestion had been an improvement.

But with a pleasure much greater and keener, Daisy had seen the pot
containing the 'Jewess' geranium taken up out of the ground, and set,
with all the glory of its purple-red blossoms, in Molly's poor little
room. There it stood, on a deal table, a spot of beauty and refinement,
all alone to witness for the existence of such things on the earth. And
heeded by Molly as well as by Daisy. Daisy knew that. And all the
pleasure of all the tableaux put together could give nothing to Daisy
equal to her joy when Molly first began to read. That day, when letters
began really to be put together into words to Molly's comprehension,
Daisy came home a proud child. Or rather, for pride is a bad word, she
came home with a heart swelling with hope and exultation; hope and
exultation that looked forward confidently to the glory to be revealed.




CHAPTER XVII.


The great day came, and the evening of the day; and June dressed Daisy
for the party. This was a simple dressing, however, of a white cambrick
frock; no finery, seeing that Daisy was to put on and off various things
in the course of the evening. But Daisy felt a little afraid of herself.
The perfected arrangements and preparations of the last few days had,
she feared, got into her head a little; and when June had done and was
sent away, Daisy kneeled down by her bedside and prayed a good while
that God would help her not to please herself and keep her from caring
about dress and appearance and people's flatteries. And then she got up
and looked very wistfully at some words of the Lord Jesus which Juanita
had shewed her first and which she found marked by Mr. Dinwiddie's
pencil. "The Father hath not left me alone; for I do always those
things that please him."

Daisy was beginning to learn, that to please God, is not always to seek
