which were circulated in the South to keep up the 
courage of the people. 

"Let that pass, then. Really, Allan, I am very glad 
to see you. You must go to the house with me. Sue 
will be delighted to meet you. She talks about you a 
great deal ; and I can insure you a warm welcome/' 

" I think I cannot stop to call now ; but I will try to 
come over in a few days," replied Somers, embarrassed 
beyond measure at the idea of facing Sue and the rest 
of the family. 

; - Xot stop ! " exclaimed Mr. Raynes, holding up his 
hands with surprise. 

Xot now, sir : I am in no condition to appear before 
ladies," he added, extending his arms so as to display his 
tattered garments to the fullest advantage. "You know 
a young man is rather particular about his appearance 
when he is going into the company of ladies, and especi- 
ally into the presence of some ladies. The fact is, I tore 
my uniform all to pieces after I passed through the 
Yankee lines." 

" Xever mind your uniform, my boy. It looks as 
though it had seen service ; and that is the best recom- 
mendation a young man can have to the girls in these 
times. You must go, Allan." 

" Indeed, sir, I hope you will excuse me for a fe\v 
days," pleaded Somers. 




" Come. Allan ! this is not kind of you. Sue has been 
dying to see you for & year. She was terribly dis- 
appointed when you did not come up -with your regi- 
ment, and again when she heard you had joined without 
calling upon us. If it had been Owen, she could not 
have felt worse when you were captured. Now you 
want to disappoint her again," 

" You need not mention that you have seen me, Mr. 
Rayiies," suggested Somers. 

" Not tell her that you have escaped, when she is fret- 
ting about you every day of her life ! That would be 
too bad." 

" You can tell her as much as you please without in- 
forming her that you have seen me." 

" I could not tell a lie, Allan. It would choke me/' 
said the old man solemnly, " You must go with me.' 

" Let me get another uniform, and it would surprise 
her when I come." 

" No more words, young man. You must go. It is 
only a short distance," replied Mr. Raynes passing his 
arm through that of Somers, and walking towards his 
house. " It will be the happiest day for Sue which she 
has seen for a year." 

" Happier for her than it will be for me," thought 
Somers, who was disposed to break away from the old 
man, and make his escape. 

By this time, Sue had become an awful bugbear to the 




poor fellow. In these days of photographs, it was more 
than probable that she had a picture of the original Allan 
Garland, and the cheat would be discovered the moment 
he showed his face. He was deliberating a plan for 
breaking away from his persistent friend, when a young 
lady of eighteen stepped out from the bushes by the 
roadside, <md hailed the old man. 



 



CHAPTER XI. 



THE VIRGINIA MAIDEN. 




have you been, father?" said the 
young lady iu a very sweet and gentle tone, 
which, however, sounded like the knell of 
doom to poor Somers. " I have been waiting 
for you half an hour." 

But then, perceiving a stranger with her father, she 
drew back, abashed at her own forwardness. 

" Come here, Sue," said the old man. " Come here : 
I want to see you." 

She advanced timidly from the bushes where she had 
been partially concealed from the gaze of the passers-by. 
She was certainly a very pleasant and comely-looking 
maiden ; but, if she had been the " Witch of Endor," 
she could not have been any more disagreeable to 
Somers. He was as fond of adventure as any young 
man : and if he could have forgotten that poor Owen 
Raynes, the son and the brother, was at that moment 
lying in the mud of the swamp ; his manly form no 
more to gladden the hearts of those who stood before 
him ; his voice hushed in death, no more to utter the 

Accents of affection to the devoted father and his loving 


sister, if he could have forgotten his relations with the 
dead Owen, he might even have enjoyed the exciting 
situation in which he was placed. 

Sue, with a blushing face and half -averted gaze, 
stepped out into the road, and stole a few timid glances 
at the young lieutenant. It was quite evident that she 
did not have a suspicion of the identity of the young 
soldier before her. Her father appeared to have a vein 
of romance in his character, and was disposed to torture 
her for a time with the torments of suspense, before he de- 
clared to her the astounding truth, that the young soldier 
was her well-known but hitherto unseen friend from 
Alabama, the bosom companion of her brother Owen, 
and, if every thing worked as the loving conspirators in- 
tended, the future husband of the affectionate maiden 

She did not like to ask who the stranger was ; and 
she thought it was very provoking of her father not to 
tell her, when she was so fearfully embarrassed by her 
position. She continued to blush ; and Somers felt so 
awkward, that he couldn't help joining her in this inter- 
esting display of roses on the cheeks. 

"Don't you know him, Sue?" demanded the farmer, 
when he had tantalized her as long as the circumstances 
would warranto 

" Why, of course I don't, father I " stammered the Vir 
ginia maiden 



 

