resolute mind, which was under the discipline of sound, 
good sense, ardent but not blindly impulsive feelings, a 
cheerful disposition, and a warmly affectionate nature. 
She had a round full face, complexion dark, eyes black, 
full of light, and all alive when she spoke. You would 
not call her features regular, but would say " How 
beautiful ! " at the first glance. Lena was a charming 
young woman, the favorite of all who knew her, and 
the tenderly loved wife of an appreciative husband. 

We may always know something of people's charac 
ters, by the things with which they surround themselves. 



 

Swedenborg says, that, in heaven, the scenery and 
objects by which angels are surrounded, and even the 
garments they wear, are representative of their states, 
and change always as their states change. The same 
thing is true of men and women in this world, only the 
changes here do not take place immediately, but by 
gradual progressions mind acting but feebly on the 
hard substances of nature, and moulding them to its 
ideal shapes by slow degrees. In a man's dress in 
his house and furniture in all material things, that he 
selects and arranges as the ultimate forms of his thought 
and affection, we see images of himself, and comprehend 
therefrom the quality of his mind. As his character 
changes, we see corresponding changes in his exterior 
things. 

In the furnishing of Adam Guy's house, the man's 
character was clearly illustrated. Love of money was 
his ruling desire, and to this everything had to be 
subordinated. Mere ornament, in his eyes, was a 
superfluity a useless waste and so only the plainest 
and least costly articles were bought. There was noth 
ing, out toward which taste could go, and rest in tranquil 
delight. 

Let us see how it is with Doctor Hofland. An in 
grain carpet is on the floor of his small parlor, but it 
cost ten cents a yard more than that of Adam Guy, the 
extra ten cents having been paid in consideration of a 
finer quality and more tasteful pattern. The chairs, in 
stead of being solid " Windsor," are " cane-seat," black, 
with ornamental gilding. Instead of a cheap mantle 
glass there is a small French clock ; and in place of th e 



 

two glass lamps, a pair of neat china vases, that rarely 
miss their burden of fragrant flowers. A pair of card 
tables stand on opposite sides of the room ; and in front 
of the fire-place, with its shining fender and andirons, is 
a small center-table, covered with books. Three or four 
choice engravings ornament the walls. How clearly 
does every article, as well as the style of arrangement, 
indicate the mental quality of the directing mind or 
minds. Here, husband and wife acted in sweet harmony, 
and their home gives expression to their mental states. 
In the other case, Guy's will governed in the selection of 
nearlv every article, and in his home you saw an outbirth 
of his state and character only. In the things by which 
he had surrounded himself and wife, Lydia's mind did 
not rest in calm content. Taste and feeling went out 
in a restless search for objects in fuller correspondence 
with themselves, and came back weary and dissatisfied. 
A few seemingly unimportant changes in the style of 
their furniture a trifling, and not costly addition here 
and there, a little more of the " uselessly ornamental," 
and it would have made all the difference in the world 
to her. But Adam Guy saw in all this but weakness 
and folly. The useful only had attractions for his eyes ; 
and what he meant by the useful referred to the mere 
wants of natural life, as the basis of effort toward worldly 
accumulation. Whatever came not in this category was 
superfluous, and to be rejected. He could subsist on 
husks, but not so the more delicately organized nature 
of his wife. On the fare that would sustain him she 
would feel the tooth of a perpetual hunger, and her life, 
only half-developed, beat about in restless, weary, un- 



 

satisfied consciousness of defect halting, astray, and 
stumbling in weakness and sadness to the very end. 

A lamp was burning cheerfully on the centre table in 
Doctor Hofland's little parlor, and his wife sat by it 
sewing, when the doctor came in from a professional 
call. Tea had been waiting for some time. 

{ ' You are late, dear," said Lena, as she received her 
young husband's fond kiss on almost bridal lips. 

" Yes ; I went to see a poor woman on Fell's Point. 
I am attending a Mrs. Helme in Exeter Street, and she 
told me about her mother down on the Point, who was 
very ill, and begged me to go and see her ; and I could 
not, of course, refuse. God's poor are always with us, 
and we cannot turn from them, when they stretch their 
hands toward us, and be conscience-clear at least as 
a physician, I cannot." 

The tea-bell rang at this moment, and they went to 
the dining-room, where, their single domestic having 
supplied everything for the table, they were alone. 

" I didn't tell you that I called to see Lydia this 
morning," said Mrs. Hofland, as she handed her hus 
band a cup of tea. 

" No ; how is she ? " 

" Very well." 

" And happy as the da}' is long," remarked the doc 
tor. 

" I don't know about that," replied Lena, a slight 
change in the sunny glow of her face. " I can't think 
it possible for a woman of Lydia's peculiar character 
to be happy with a man like Adam Guy." 

" He was never a favorite of yours." 



 

" O dear, no ! His sphere has always chilled me. 
My freedom is gone in his presence. I feel like a 
blossom shrinking in a frost-breath." 

" But, Lydia found in him a congenial spirit. All are 
not alike." 

' I cannot but feel," said Lena, " that, in wooing 
Lydia, Guy assumed a character not in agreement with 
his true quality ; and to-day I thought I could detect 
signs of an awakening to a hard realization of the fact 
that their lives were not, and never could be, in harmo- 

y." 

" Adam loves money," said the doctor. 

" And means to accumulate it. Lydia said that his 
salary had been advanced to twelve hundred dollars." 

" Ah ! I'm pleased to know that. The doctor spoke 
with genuine pleasure. 

