"That accounts for it," said Mr. Hackleford, musing. "Didn't you
recognize Mr. Pillgrim's voice?"

"No, sir; I think he changed it; though the two tones were so similar
that I might have recognized it, if I had suspected they were the same
person."

Mr. Hackleford asked other questions, which Somers answered with strict
regard to the truth, rather than with the intention of removing the
first lieutenant's doubts. He wanted only facts himself, and he was
careful not to distort them, in order to confirm any theory of his own
or of his superior officer.

Mr. Hackleford went on deck, and Somers turned in. He was in condition
to sleep now, and he improved his four hours below to the best
advantage.

After general quarters, when the crew were dismissed, he went down to
his state-room, prepared to meet Mr. Pillgrim. He was surprised to know
how little curiosity he felt to learn what the traitor wanted and
expected of him. Punctual to the appointed time, which exhibited the
interest he felt in the expected interview, the treacherous second
lieutenant made his appearance. Somers received him as one officer
should receive another, though it was hard work for him to disguise the
contempt and detestation with which he regarded the traitor.

"Well, Somers, now I am to tell you what I want of you. It isn't much,
as I warned you before; and I am very glad to see that you are in such a
happy frame of mind."

"I am ready to hear you, and do the best I can," replied Somers,
carefully following the instructions of Mr. Hackleford with regard to
matter and manner.

He had been cautioned to be ready enough in listening to the chief
conspirator, but not too ready, so as to betray his object.

"Good! I think you understand me now."

"I think I do, sir."

"I am sorry to do it, but it is necessary for me to remind you again
that your fate is in my hands; that a word from me would subject you to
a trial by court martial for treason, and probably to more hemp rope
than would feel good about your neck."

"Though I don't think I am in so much danger as you represent, I will
grant your position."

"Don't grant it, if you think it is not correct;" and Mr. Pillgrim
minutely detailed the evidence which could be brought to bear against
him.

Somers appeared to be overwhelmed by this array of testimony. He
groaned, looked hopeless, and finally granted the traitor's position in
full.

"I am in your power. Do with me as you will. Of course the moment I put
my foot on a rebel deck I am ruined."

"You can do as you please about going into the Confederate service. What
I want of you will not compromise you as a loyal man in the slightest
degree."

"What do you want of me?"

"Not quite so loud, if you please, Mr. Somers," said the lieutenant,
glancing at the door. "To me, Somers, you have been a thorn. You lost me
the Snowden, and the valuable cargo of the Theban."

"I only did my duty," pleaded Somers.

"Bah! don't use that word to me again. Through you a fortune slipped
through my fingers. I should have got the Snowden into Wilmington, if
you had not meddled with the matter. I have lost eighty thousand dollars
by you."

"Of course I had no ill will against you personally."

"Very true; if you had, you would have been a dead man before this time.
Phil Kennedy was a fool, but he was my best friend. I have his bond for
forty thousand dollars, which is waste paper just now. Phil fell by your
hand."

"It was in fair fight."

"Nonsense! What matter is it to me how he fell, whether it was in fair
fight or foul? He is dead; that is all."

"What has all this to do with me?" asked Somers, with seeming
impatience.

"Much, my dear fellow. Phil was to marry Kate Portington; was to pocket
her fortune. You have cut him out. You will marry her, and in due time
come into possession of a million. The commodore is apoplectic, and will
not live many years. Do you see my point?"

"I do not," answered Somers, disgusted with this heartless statement.

"As you cheated me out of the Snowden, as you killed Phil Kennedy, as
you will marry Kate Portington, I propose that you assume and pay Phil's
bond."

"I?"

"Certainly--you; Mr. Somers; Kate's prodigy," laughed Pillgrim.

"Never!" exclaimed Somers, jumping to his feet.

"You speak too loud, Mr. Somers."

"Am I a dog, or a snake, or a toad, that I should do such an unclean
thing?"

The traitor took from his pocket the oath of allegiance, opened it, and
in silence thrust it into his companion's face.

"I have sold myself."

"You have, Somers. Think of it. If I have to make out a case against
you, of course you will never see Kate again. Let me add, that the
commodore sets his life by me. We were old friends before the war. You
may marry his daughter with my consent, but not without it."

"I never thought of such a thing."

"Perhaps not. We waste time. Will you sign the bond?"

"The bond is good for nothing. No court--"

"That is my affair. If you agree to it, I will run all risks. I trouble
no courts. If you don't pay, I have only to speak, and hang you then."

"I am lost," groaned Somers.

"No, you are not. Sign, and you have found fortune and a friend."

"I dare not sign."

"You dare not refuse."

Somers walked up and down the state-room, apparently in great mental
agony.

"Shall I sign?" said he, in a loud tone, as though he were speaking to
the empty air.

"Not so loud, man!" interposed Pillgrim, angrily.

At that instant two light raps were distinctly heard.

"What's that?" demanded the traitor, greatly alarmed.

"I will sign it," promptly added Somers, to whom the two raps seemed to
be perfectly intelligible.

"What was that noise?" asked Pillgrim, fearfully. "Is there any one in
Garboard's state-room?"

"I think not."
