to see the President, and what do you think? Father says there are ever
so many mules in Washington. Won't I sit at the windows and see 'em go
by!"

Thursday, Friday, Saturday passed; Sunday began and ended in a
rain-storm; Monday came like a dream, with warm, sweet winds, and
dewdrops quivering in a blaze of unclouded light. Like a dream it seemed
to the girls to be hurrying away at five o'clock, from an unfinished
breakfast, from Mrs. Breynton's gentle good-bye, Tom's valuable
patronage and advice, and Winnie's reminder that he was five years old,
and that to the candid mind it was perfectly clear that he ought "to go
too-o-oo."

Very much like a dream was it, to be walking on the platform at the
station, in the tucked skirts and new brown feather; to watch the
checking of the trunks and buying of the tickets, quite certain that
they were different from all other checks and tickets; to find how
interesting the framed railway and steamboat guide for the Continent, on
the walls of the little dingy ladies' room, suddenly became,—at least
until the pleasing discovery that it was printed in 1849, and gave
minute directions for reaching the Territory of California.

More like a dream was it, to watch the people that lounged or worked
about the dépôt; the ticket-master, who had stood shut up there just
so behind the little window for twenty years; the baggage-master, who
tossed about their trunks without ever thinking of the jewelry-boxes
inside, and that cologne-bottle with the shaky cork; the cross-eyed
woman with her knitting-work, who sold sponge-cake and candy behind a
very small counter; the small boys in singularly airy jackets, who were
putting pins and marbles on the track for the train to run over; the old
woman across the street, who was hanging out her clothes to dry in the
back yard, just as if it had been nothing but a common Monday, and
nobody had been going to Washington;—how strange it seemed that they
could all be living on and on just as they did every day!

"Oh, just think!" said Gypsy, with wide open eyes. "Did you ever? Isn't
it funny? Oh, I wish they could go off and have a good time too."

Still like a dream did it seem, when the train shrieked up and shrieked
them away, over and down the mountains, through sunlight and shadow, by
forest and river, past village and town and city, away like an arrow,
with Yorkbury out of sight, and out of mind, and only the wonderful,
untried days that were coming, to think about,—ah, who would think of
anything else, that could have such days?

Gypsy made her entrance into Boston in a very distingué style. It
chanced that just after they left Fitchburg, she espied the stone pier
of an unfinished bridge, surmounted by a remarkable boy standing on his
head. Up went the car-window, and out went her own head and one
shoulder, the better to obtain a view of the phenomenon.

"Look out, Gypsy," said her father uneasily. "If another train should
come along, that is very dangerous."

"Yes, sir," said Gypsy, with a twinkle in her eye, "I am looking out."

Now, as Mr. Breynton had been on the continual worry about her ever
since they left Yorkbury, afraid she would catch cold in the draft, lose
her glove out of the window, go out on the platform, or fall in stepping
from car to car, Gypsy did not pay the immediate heed to his warning
that she ought to have done. Before he had time to speak again, puff!
came a sharp gust of wind and away went her pretty turban with its new
brown feather,—over the bridge and down into the river.

"There!" said Joy.

"Gypsy, my dear!" said her father.

"Well, anyway," said Gypsy, drawing in her head in the utmost
astonishment, "I can wear a handkerchief."



So into Boston she came with nothing but a handkerchief tied over her
bright, tossing hair. You ought to have seen the hackmen laugh!

The girls made an agreement with Mrs. Breynton to keep a journal while
they were gone; send her what they could, and read the rest of it to her
when they came home. She thought in this way they would remember what
they saw more easily, and with much less confusion and mistake. These
journals will give you a better account of their journey than I can do.

They wrote first from New York. This is what Joy had to say:—

New York, June 17,—Tuesday Night.

"Oh, I'm so tired! We've been 'on the go' all day. You see, we got into
Boston last night, and took the boat, you know, just as we expected to.
I've been on so forty times with father; he used to take me ever so
often when he went on business; so I was just as used to it, and went
right to sleep; but Gypsy, you know, she's never been to New York any
way, and never was on a steamer, and you ought to have seen her keep
hopping up in her berth to look at things and listen to things! I
expected as much as could be she'd fall down on me—I had the under
berth—and I don't believe she slept very much. I don't care so much
about New York as she does, either, because I've seen it all. Uncle
thought we'd stay here a day so as to look about. He wanted Gypsy to see
some pictures and things. To-morrow morning real early we go to
Philadelphia. You don't know what a lovely bonnet I saw up Fifth Avenue
to-day. It was white crape, with the dearest little loves of
forget-me-nots outside and in, and then a white veil. I'm going to make
father buy me one just like it as soon as I go out of mourning.

"I expect this isn't very much like a journal, but I'm terribly sleepy,
and I guess I must go to bed."

GYPSY'S JOURNAL.

"Brevoort House, Tuesday Night.

"Mother, Mother Breynton! I never had such a good time in all my life!
Oh, I forgot to say I haven't any more idea how to write a journal than
the man in the moon. I meant to put that at the beginning so you'd know.

"Well, we came on by boat, and you've no idea how that machinery
squeaked. I laughed and laughed, and I kept waking up and laughing.

"Then—oh, did Joy tell you about my hat? I suppose you'll be sorry,
but I don't believe you can help laughing possibly. I just lost it out
of the car window, looking at a boy out in the river standing on its
head. I mean the boy was on his head, not the river, and I had to come
into Boston tied up in a handkerchief. Father hurried off to get me a
new hat, 'cause there wasn't any time for me to go with him, and what
do you suppose he bought? I don't think you'd ever get over it, if you
were to see it. It was a white turban with a black edge rolled up, and a
great fringe of blue beads and a green feather! He said he bought it
at the first milliner's he came to, and I should think he did. I guess
you'd better believe I felt nice going all the way to New York in it.
This morning I ripped off the blue fringe the very first thing, and went
into Broadway (isn't it a big street? and I never saw such tall
policemen with so many whiskers and such a lot of ladies to be helped
across) and bought some black velvet ribbon with a white edge to match
the straw; the green feather wasn't nice enough to wear. I knew I
oughtn't to have lost the other, and father paid five dollars for this
horrid old thing, so I thought I wouldn't take it to a milliner. I just
trimmed it up myself in a rosette, and it doesn't look so badly after
all. But oh, my pretty brown feather! Isn't it a shame?

"Father took us to the Aspinwall picture-gallery to-day. Joy didn't care
about it, but I liked it ever so much, only there were ever so many
Virgin Marys up in the clouds, that looked as if they'd been washed out
and hung up to dry. Besides, I didn't understand what all the little
angels were kicking at. Father said they were from the old masters, and
there was a lady with a pink parasol, that screamed right out, and said
they were sweet pretty. I suppose when I'm grown up I shall have to
think so too. I saw a picture of a little boy out in the woods, asleep,
that I liked ever so much better.

"We've seen ever so many other things, but I haven't half time to tell
you about them all.

"We're at the Brevoort House, and I tell you I was frightened when I
first came in, it's so handsome. We take our rooms, and then just go
down into the most splendid dining-hall, and sit down at little tables
and order what we want, and don't pay for anything but that. Father says
it's the European plan. Our rooms are beautiful. Don't you tell anybody,
but I'm almost afraid of the waiters and chambermaids; they look as if
they felt so grand. But Joy, she just rings the bell and makes them
bring her up some water, and orders them around like anything. Joy
wanted to go to the Fifth Avenue Hotel, but father said it was too
