account." 

" But the Bible does not say it was a heathen temple, sir." 

" I think history does, Liph, by implication. I told you 
the Babylonian temple-towers were all built on the same 
plan ; and they had the double purpose of the study and the 
worship of the heavenly bodies. And, furthermore — there 
are ruins of others of them, nearly or quite as old as the very 
tower of Babel, stUl remaining on the sites of old cities farther down the river, at Warka and Mugheir; and they were 
heathen temples, we know ; one of them was dedicated 



to the moon-god. In them there is the very masony of 
Nimrod's time ; but they had only two, or at the most four, 
stages or platforms." 

" There most have been a nice view of the earth, as well 
as of the sky, from Nebuchadnezzar's tower, uncle Sam." 

" In those days — yes, Tiny. There is a grand view from 
the top of it now ; a view of waste and desolation ; a view of 
God's judgments and promises. But we shall have a great 
deal more to say about that by and by — when we come back 
to Babylon again. We have not done with the plain of 
Shinar now. There is a view of a wide spread of marshes — 
with little villages or huts of the Arabs scattered about on 
island spots in the distance, I could just see them — and 
Arab boats flying about over the water, and flocks of black 
bnfioes, where the morass was firm enough to bear them. 
That, where there used to be the riches and the beauty of 
Babylon— the palms and the com of the plain of Shinar. So 
much for pride. They said, ' Go to, let us build us a city and 
a tower, whose top may reach unto heaven ; and let us make 
us a name.' Well, so they did." 

" Was their mortar, that the Bible calls ' slime,' the same 
kind that Nebuchadnezzar's builders had ?" 

" No ; his builders used real lime mortar, and knew how 
to make it. No ; but in the ruins at Warka and Mttgheir, 
we have the true work of the time of BabeL The Warka 
temple is built of sun-dried bricks laid in mud mortar, with 
layers of reeds put in from time to time to hold the mass 
together. At Mugheir there is the very thing described in 
the Bible. The mass is of sun-dried brick ; and outside of 
it is a wall coating of ten feet thick, made of burnt brick laid 
in bitumen. You know they said, ' Go to, let us make brick 
and bum them thoroughly.' The bricks are small and inferior, such I suppose as the builders of the tower of Babel 
used. They knew something about writing even in those 
early times, for these little bricks are stamped with the name 
and titles of the king." 

"What is bitumen, uncle Sam ?" 

" You know, Tiny, in setting about their great undertaking the people had to nae sadi materials as they could get 
Now, no wood grows in that country, except pahn trees, and 
they are much too loedons even if they would do for the 
world. There is no stcme to be found, either ; and those old 
boilders probably did not know how to make lime mortar. 
But they had excellent day for brick making, and a furious 
hot sun to dry the bricks ; and it seems they had the art of 
burning bricks in kilns, for the outside and more exposed 
work where sun-dried bricks would not be sufficiently 
durable. Then they had slime for mortar. And that means, 
bitumen. It is a black, slimy, viscous substance, found in 
pits and qraings coming up out of the earth ; when it is 
cold it becomes hard, and dry, and brittle, but it melts easily 
enough. The bricks were laid in hot bitumen' It is not 
equal to good mortar by any means." 

"Where could they get enough of it ? " said lipL. 

" Close at hand, in their own country. There is plenty of 
it there. Above at Hill on the Euphrates, there are and 
always have been bitumen springs; in other parts of the 
country there are pits of it The Arabs have a way of setting 
fire to them when they are passing by; and that makes 
bonfires that would satisfy you boys. Hie smoke can be 
seen for miles oK Then they throw stones in to break the 
crust which the burning makes on the surface ; and the jets 
of fire leap up into the smoke in beautiful style." 

" What do they do that for, sir ? " 

" For fun, I suppose ; precisely the same reason that would 
make you do it" 

" Then people do not use the bitumen now ? " said Dan. 

" Yes, they da These very Arabs coUect it and carry it to 
Mosul, and sell it there for building purposes, and for lining 
boats, and for other uses. People do in the East just what 
they used to do thousands of years aga It is said that old 
boats plastered with bitumen, like those they have now, are 
found sometimes buried up under the soil in Babylonia." 

" Why do they bum it, if they want to sell it ?" I asked. 

" It keeps coming, Tiny. It only bums for an hour or so 

a time ; bat there comes a fresh supply, babbling up out of 




"We threw ouraelves down in the ahade of some trees.' 





crevices in the earth There is some wonderful manufactory 
of it underground. In Palestine, near Hasbeiya, there are 
wells of bitumen which have been dug for ages; but the 
bitumen is always there. Down, more than a hundred feet 
below the surface, there is a stream, or a stratum, of the black 
stuffi fifteen feet thick in some places— sometimes only five. 
I might call it a stream, for it must flow from somewhere. 
Then there is a manufactory of it under the Dead Sea. From 
time to time great masses of it, cooled by the water, come 
-up and float on the siurface, and the Arabs collect it carefully. 
In Babylonia and Assyria the natives use it for fuel when it 

is dry." 

" I should think stone and mortar were a great deal better 
than brick and shme," said Priscilla. 

" Undoubtedly, Prissy. And yet, in that climate, those 
old piles of unbaked bricks and reeds stand yet, and have 
stood as long as any pieces of stronger masonwork that I am 
acquainted with." 

" You said they had a furious sun to dry their bricks 
uncle Sam." 

"Yes, it 's the chmate. It keeps things dry. I ought to 
know about the heat of the sun ; for I made an excursion 
once with an EngUshman, a fellow-traveUer, there, to see if 
we could trace out any remains of the great wall of Babylon. 
It was in July— when the thermometer stood at 117° in tbe 
deepest shade we could get ; and in the sun it was 1.35 and 
140" We rode, I suppose, twenty miles under that sun, and 
had Hke to have died. Our water-bottles gave out ; the sun 
crlared at us from the yellow sand; and every now and then 
when a blast of the hot north-west wmd came, we just 
lilently wheeled about and took it on our backs. I shall 
never forget that day We had gone out and we had to get 
Sack again. At last, when we were almost dead, we saw a 
S of green in the distance. We had been going over 
Nothing but sand and rums and broken pottery, where the 
X of Babylon once covered the ground ; and now we came 
to little enclosed garden, where was an old dervish taking 

re of a small sanctuary erected to ' Solomon the sou of 
care ' 


