
" I think he means to act in good faith. We want the 
house valued, and I am to lend him the amount, taking his 
part as security. He has promised to sign off as soon as 
his birthday comes. But I want everything securely ar- 
ranged, so that he will not be able to dispute any point, in 
event of my death." 

Since Dr. Bertrand's death the place had increased in 
value somewhat, and Richard was too honorable to defraud 
his brother of a penny. Robert appeared to be in a most 
amicable mood, and acceded willingly to every suggestion. 
His extravagances since leaving college were deducted from 
his part, and the remainder was left subject to his order. 

" Give me a check for a thousand," he said. " I want to 
engage my passage and make a few purchases." 

Richard filled it out and handed it to him. He just paused 
to say, " I shall be home this evening," and bowing to both 
gentlemen, walked off in his jaunty, independent fashion. 

" I am glad for your sake that this troublesome business 
will soon be over," Mr. Guilford remarked. 

Richard sighed. He was thinking just then of another 
prodigal, who took his portion and went into a strange 
country. He could not feel quite at ease. 

It was midnight ere Robert returned. The next morning 
found him in charming spirits. He scarcely left Mabel's 
side, and evinced the warmest interest in her future. In- 
deed, he won her over completely ; and after school he rowed 
the children a long way up the river, amusing them with 
songs and stories. And on Friday, his last day home, there 





was a menagerie in the city, and a very fine concert to be 
given in the evening ; so he persuaded Richard to allow him 
to take the children to both. They were wild with delight. 
The grave elder brother looked after them as they set off. 
What bright, happy faces ! Even Robert's was glad and 
smiling, and he felt self-condemned at having unjustly sus- 
pected him of wrong doing. 

" O, is that you, Doctor Richard ? " Ann asked, as he let 
himself in with his latch-key. " Will you have dinner now, 
or wait until the children come ? " 

" Wait, by all means ; I'm in no hurry. Any calls ? " 

" There are two people in the office, who have been wait- 
ing this hour to see you and Master Robert." 

He drew off his gloves deliberately, entered the library, 
and walked through to the office. The " two people " were 
a stout, business-looking man, and a tall, hard-featured 
woman, whose face indicated shrewdness and determination. 
Neither was very prepossessing. He merely gave them a 
glance, and said, courteously, " You wished to see me ? 
Doctor Bertrand." 

" Yes," responded the woman. " Your brother's goin' to 
Californy isn't he ? " 

" He expects to." 

The woman gave her companion a significant nod, and 
then said, "He sails to-morrow doesn't he ?" 

The answer was in the affirmative. 

" I want to see you both together, when he comes in," the 
woman said, settling herself back in her chair. 

More puzzled than he cared to show, he rang the bell, and 
ordered Robert to be sent to him as soon as he returned ; 
then took up a paper, and from behind it cast furtive glances 
at his visitors. The woman was undeniably coarse and mas- 
culine, her dress a strange mixture of ill-taste and glaring 
color. She had a rough, weather-beaten look, yet did not 
Beem old, although her black hair was slightly grizzled. 
What could she want of them both? 



 

Presently a host of gay voices sounded in the hall. Robert
opened the door with, " What did you want of me, Dick ? " 
and before his brother could reply, the woman confronted 
him. He sank into the nearest chair, the brilliant face fad- 
ing into pale ashen gray, while a quick gleam of fear and 
hate shot out of the astonished eyes. 

" So, my fine bird, you hav.en't slipped out of my hands 
as easy as you thought for ! " 

The taunt seemed to reanimate him. A blazing ray of 
passion brought the color back to his face, and he ground 
his white teeth together with a half-suppressed oath, as he 
demanded, " What in the fiend's name brought you here ?" 

She laughed triumphantly, took a cool survey of the face, 
absolutely distorted with rage at having been thus foiled in 
his schemes, and said, in a tantalizing tone, 

" Keep your temper, my young gentleman ! There's lots 
of business to be settled afore I stir out of this house. You 
w? goin' to dodge me all so fast, but you've found I could 
be right spry when I started. You ain't in Californy yet ! " 

Robert was too angry and excited to speak. Richard 
turned to him, saying, calmly, " What does this woman want 
with you ? If she has claims upon you, settle them imme- 
diately." 

She turned her eyes steadily upon him, and exclaimed in 
a high, shrill tone, 

" Yes, I've got claims upon him, and I ain't goin' to be 
bullied out of 'em either. You rich folks think you're lords 
of the world, and kin do what you like ; but you won't do it 
here. I'm bound to have satisfaction ! I've got law on my 
side, and some money that I ain't afeard of spendin'. Mebbe 
your young man 'd rather tell his own story, though." 

" Tell it yourself. Your tongue is glib enough," was the 
sullen rejoinder ; and Robert buried his face in his hands. 
If he could have spared Richard the coming pang, he would 
have undergone any torture at that moment. Shame, anger, 
and a bitter sense of defeat rankled in his heart. 


"He married my gal last Feb'uary, or at least pretended 
go ; and now he's goin' off without leavin' a dollar for her or 
the baby that's to come. My friend here's an officer, and 
you'll pay han'somely for this piece of work, or you'll go to 
jail. That's the long and the short of it." 

The dinner bell rang at this juncture. Richard opened 
the door, and bade Mabel not wait for them, then shut it 
carefully, and closed the window. " Now," said he, with 
quiet authority, " I am ready for your story. Tell it briefly 
as possible." 

" You needn't be so uppish ! " and the woman bridled 
angrily at his calmness. " I shall tell the truth, which is 
more 'n he's in the habit of doin', I guess ; " and she nodded 
her head towards Robert. " He'd been comin' to my place 
a spell, with a lot of young bloods, when one night he saw 
my gal. He took to followin' her home from school, and 
bein' mighty pleasant with her. I didn't put her in his way, 
nor ask him to fall in love with her ; but he kept hangin' 
round, sendin' her books and sich, until I see she begun to 
like him. The gal was too young, and innocent, and pretty, 
to be fooled with. So I told him, plump and plain, if he 
