wood knows something about this job. If I mistake 
not, I've seen that lantern at his house." 
" But slipping the cables looks just as though they 
intended to have her smashed up on the shore," added 
Lawry- " The anchors are not here, and of course 
 
they are on the bottom of the lake. I don't see 
through this business." 
" Nor I either ; but one thing we can see through : 
the steamer is safe, with the water all pumped out of 
her. We may as well go to work, and get her over 
to the ferry." 
This was good counsel, and without losing any 
more time in attempts to fathom what was dark and 
strange, they commenced the labors of the day. 
 
CHAPTER XIII. 
GETTING UP STEAM. 
A . SURVEY of the position of the Woodville 
showed that she was slightly aground at the stern; 
but Ethan was confident that a few turns of the 
wheels would bring her off. The boys then tried 
the pumps ; but after less than a hundred strokes 
they refused to yield any more water. They then 
carefully examined every part of the interior below 
the decks. 
" She's all right," said Lawry, who was in a state 
of hopeful excitement which made his step quick, 
and his speech rapid. "What shall we do now?" 
" Get up steam," replied Ethan. " I have a couple 
of hours' work to do on the engine ; but we will 
start the furnaces at once." 
" Can't I make the fire ? " asked Lawry. 
" Yes, if you know how " 
 
" You can show me. I don't know much about 
steam boilers and enguaes." 
" We will get our dry wood out of the wherry, 
and I will help you start the fire. While I am at 
work on the engine, you will have to overhaul your 
steering gear, and see that it is all right. The 
chains and pulleys will need to be oiled." 
Lawry got into the wherry, and threw the dry 
wood on deck. Ethan had not expected to kindle 
the fires till night, when he hoped the water would 
be below the furnaces. It was a grateful surprise 
to be able at once to go to work on the engine. 
He was enthusiastic in his fondness for machinery, 
and that of the Woodville was his particular pet. 
He was even so absurd as to call it " his dear," and 
no boy was ever more devoted to his dog or his 
pony than Ethan was to the beautiful little engine 
of the steamer. 
After he had tried the valves on the boiler, and 
assured himself that it contained the proper supply 
of water, the fires were started in the furnaces. 
There was plenty of wood and coal on board, though 
the former was so wet that it would not burn with' 
 
out some assistance, which was furnished by the dry- 
fuel brought off in the wherry. In a little while 
the furnaces were roaring with the blaze from the 
wood, and the coal was shovelled in. Ethan, hav- 
ing dried a quantity of the wet packing, commenced 
rubbing down and oiling the machinery. He was 
in his element now, and never was a young man in 
a higher state of keen enjoyment. 
While he was thus engaged, Lawry overhauled 
the steering apparatus, rubbed down the wheel, 
oiled the pulleys, and satisfied himself that every- 
thing was in working order. The situation and the 
work were in the highest degree exhilarating. It 
was not labor to clean and adjust the gear ; it was 
a pleasure such as he had never realized from the 
most exciting sports. He could hardly repress the 
rapture he felt when he saw the black smoke from 
the pine wood pouring out of the smoke-stack. 
" This is my steamer," said he to himself. " I 
am the owner of her," 
The thought made him laugh with joy. He stood 
up at the wheel, and though he could not turn it, 
because the rudder was fast in the sand, he knew 
•exactly how he should feel when he stood in this 
position with the Woodville gliding swiftly over the 
bright waters of the lake. 
The steering gear was in perfect order, so far as 
he could judge without using it, and Ethan was still 
busy at the engine. Lawry could not deny himself 
the pleasure of a survey of the steamer, for the pur- 
pose of admiring her comforts and conveniences. 
He walked up and down the main deck, entered 
the saloon and the cabin, visited the fore hold, and 
opened the doors of the various apartments forward 
of the paddle-boxes. It is true, everything was in 
a state of " confusion worse confounded." Carpets 
were soaked with water, curtains were drabbled and 
stained, sofas and chairs upset in the cabin and sa- 
loon ; while in the kitchen and store-rooms, shelves 
and lockers had been emptied, and their contents 
strewed in wild disorder about the apartments. 
But Lawry knew how order could be brought out 
of chaos, and the derangement of furniture and uten- 
sils did not disturb him. It would be a delightful 
occupation to restore harmony to these shelves and 
lockers, to bring order and neatness out of the con- 
 
fusion which reigned in every part of the steamer. 
When he had completed his survey, he went to the 
engine-room, and offered his services to Ethan for 
duty in his department. As the engineer had noth- 
ing for him to do, he returned to the kitchen, and 
busied himself in putting things to rights there, 
foreseeing that this apartment would soon be needed. 
He made a fire in the galley, in order to dry the 
room more speedily, and then occupied his time in 
picking up the tins and the kettles, and putting 
them in their places. 
While he was examining the lockers and shelves, 
he found part of a leg of bacon, and some pota- 
toes, which had been left from the stores used by 
the crew on the passage from New York up to the 
lake. There were coffee and tea in the canisters, 
sugar in the buckets, butter and salt in the boxes ; 
though all these articles had been more or less 
soaked in the water, depending upon the tightness of 
the vessels that held them. There was a good fire 
in the stove, and a bright thought entered Lawry's 
excited brain : he and his companion would break- 
 
 
fast on fried ham and potatoes, flanked with hot 
coffee ! 
Lawry was a cook of no mean accomplishments, 
and he immediately went to work in carrying out 
his brilliant idea. Somehow, it is a singular fact 
that boys have a special delight in " getting up 
something to eat " in the woods, on the water, and 
generally in all out of the way places. A dinner 
at Parker's or Delmonico's is not to be compared 
with baked potatoes and roasted ears of corn in the 
woods, or with fried fish and potatoes in a boat or 
on an island. The young pilot was no exception 
to the common rule, and in a state of rapture known 
only to the amateur cook of tender years, he put 
on the tea-kettle, pared and sliced the potatoes, and 
put a quantity of the brown mud from the canis- 
ter into the coffee-pot. 
Things were hissing and sizzling on the stove in 
the most satisfactory manner, and Lawry presided 
over the frying-pan with a grace and dignity which 
would have been edifying in a professional cook. 
"While the ham was cooking, he wiped the dishes 
with a cloth he had dried at the fire, and set the 
 
table on the broad bench at the end of the kitchen. 
The meat and the potatoes were " done to a turn," 
but the coffee had a suspicious look, owing to the 
absence of the fish-skin, or other ingredient, for set- 
tling it. The contents of the basket brought from 
home were tastily disposed in dishes on the table, 
