
“About a year old, madam.”

“And how long since was it?” asked the lady, bending forward with
breathless interest.

“Eight years since. She is now nine.”

“It must be,” said the lady, in a low voice. “If it is indeed so, how
will my life be blessed!”

“Did you speak, madam?”

“Tell me under what circumstances your family adopted Ida.”

Jack related, briefly, the circumstances, which are already familiar to
the reader.

“And do you recollect the month in which this happened?”

“It was at the close of December, the night before New Years.”

“It is--it must be she!” ejaculated the lady, clasping her hands while
tears of happy joy welled from her eyes.

“I--I do not understand,” said Jack.

“My young friend, our meeting this morning seems providential. I have
every reason to believe that this child--your adopted sister--is my
daughter, stolen from me by an unknown enemy at the time of which
you speak. From that day to this I have never been able to obtain the
slightest clew that might lead to her discovery. I have long taught
myself to look upon her as dead.”

“It was Jack’s turn to be surprised. He looked at the lady beside him.
She was barely thirty. The beauty of her girlhood had ripened into the
maturer beauty of womanhood. There was the same dazzling complexion--the
same soft flush upon the cheeks. The eyes, too, were wonderfully like
Ida’s. Jack looked, and what he saw convinced him.

“You must be right,” he said. “Ida is very much like you.”

“You think so?” said Mrs. Clifton, eagerly.

“Yes, madam.”

“I had a picture--a daguerreotype--taken of Ida just before I lost her.
I have treasured it carefully. I must show it to you.”

The carriage stopped before a stately mansion in a wide and quiet
street. The driver dismounted, and opened the door. Jack assisted Mrs.
Clifton to alight.

Bashfully, he followed the lady up the steps, and, at her bidding,
seated himself in an elegant apartment, furnished with a splendor which
excited his wonder. He had little time to look about him, for Mrs.
Clifton, without pausing to take off her street-attire, hastened down
stairs with an open daguerreotype in her hand.

“Can you remember Ida when she was brought to your house?” she asked.
“Did she look like this?”

“It is her image,” said Jack, decidedly. “I should know it anywhere.”

“Then there can be no further doubt,” said Mrs. Clifton. “It is my child
whom you have cared for so long. Oh, why could I not have known it? How
many sleepless nights and lonely days would it have spared me! But God
be thanked for this late blessing! Pardon me, I have not yet asked your
name.”

“My name is Crump--Jack Crump.”

“Jack?” said the lady, smiling.

“Yes, madam; that is what they call me. It would not seem natural to be
called by another.”

“Very well,” said Mrs. Clifton, with a smile which went to Jack’s heart
at once, and made him think her, if anything, more beautiful than Ida;
“as Ida is your adopted sister, that makes us connected in some way,
doesn’t it? I won’t call you Mr. Crump, for that would seem too formal.
I will call you Jack.”

To be called Jack by such a beautiful lady, who every day of her
life was accustomed to live in a state which he thought could not be
exceeded, even by royal state, almost upset our hero. Had Mrs. Clifton
been Queen Victoria herself, he could not have felt a profounder respect
and veneration for her than he did already.

“Now Jack,” said Mrs. Clifton, “we must take measures immediately to
discover Ida. I want you to tell me about her disappearance from your
house, and what steps you have taken thus far towards finding her out.”

Jack began at the beginning, and described the appearance of Mrs.
Hardwick; how she had been permitted to carry Ida away under false
representations, and the manner in which he had tracked her to
Philadelphia. He spoke finally of her arrest, and her obstinate refusal
to impart any information as to Ida’s whereabouts.

Mrs. Clifton listened attentively and anxiously. There were more
difficulties in the way than she had supposed.

“Do you think of any plan, Jack?” she asked, at length.

“Yes, madam,” said our hero. “The man who painted the picture of Ida may
know where she is to be found.”

“You are right,” said the lady. “I should have thought of it before. I
will order the carriage again instantly, and we will at once go back to
the print-store.”

An hour later, Henry Bowen was surprised by the visit of an elegant lady
to his studio, accompanied by a young man of eighteen.

“I think you are the artist who designed ‘The Flower-Girl,’” said Mrs.
Clifton.

“I am, madam.”

“It was taken from life?”

“You are right.”

“I am anxious to find out the little girl whose face you copied. Can you
give me any directions that will enable me to find her out?”

“I will accompany you to the place, if you desire it, madam,” said the
young man. “It is a strange neighborhood to look for so much beauty.”

“I shall be deeply indebted to you if you will oblige me so far,” said
the lady. “My carriage is below, and my coachman will obey your orders.”

Once more they were on the move. A few minutes later, and the carriage
paused. The driver opened the door. He was evidently quite scandalized
at the idea of bringing his lady to such a place.

“This can’t be the place, madam,” he said.

“Yes,” said the artist. “Do not get out, madam. I will go in, and find
out all that is needful.”

Two minutes later he returned, looking disappointed.

“We are too late,” he said. “An hour since a gentleman called, and took
away the child.”

Mrs. Clifton sank back, in keen disappointment.

“My child, my child!” she murmured. “Shall I ever see thee again?”

Jack, too, felt more disappointed than he was willing to acknowledge.
He could not conjecture who this gentleman could be who had carried away
Ida. The affair seemed darker and more complicated than ever.



CHAPTER XXV. IDA IS FOUND.



