from Bob Hale, and I hastened to my room at the hotel to read it.

It was a long letter, full of warm and generous feeling towards me--it
was just like Bob. He informed me that my uncle was apparently as well
as usual; he had gone to the cottage, and inquired of old Betsey. There
had been a great deal of talk about my going off; but no one knew
anything about the real circumstances. Mrs. Loraine had taken pains to
"hush up" the facts in regard to Kate.

"When my father came home," wrote Bob, "I told him your story, as you
wished me to do. He shook his head, and said it was a foolish story, and
he feared you were a bad boy, after all. But when I showed him your
father's will, and he had read it, he caved in like an avalanche. He
told me he thought, from your uncle's singular life, that something
ailed him, and your story explained it perfectly. He was sorry you had
not come to him, instead of going away. I told him you wanted to find
your mother, and cared more for her than you did for the money. He
praised you then, and hoped you would find her. He put the will in his
safe, and you may be sure it will be forthcoming when you want it."

Bob related all the news about the fellows in Parkville, and wished me
to answer his letter immediately. I did so that night, giving him all
the incidents of my trip to New York, and the events which occurred
after my arrival, with my plans for the future. When I went to bed I
could not sleep, I was so excited by the fact that I was going to
England the next day. I trembled when I thought of my mother, and of
what might happen to prevent my finding her. I heard the clock on
Trinity Church strike three before I went to sleep.

It was eight o'clock when I awoke, and I was to be on board the steamer
at ten. I ate my breakfast, paid my bill, and left the hotel with my
valise in my hand. A stage up Greenwich Street carried me nearly to the
ferry, and I reached the steamer half an hour before the appointed time.
I found the state-room which I was to share with "E. Dunkswell," where I
left my valise, the evidence of my respectability, and then went on
deck. Mr. Loraine and Kate soon appeared, and I spent the time with them
until those not going in the ship were required to leave. Kate cried
then; I took her hand and kissed her--I could not help it. We parted as
brother and sister would part, and I watched her on the wharf until she
could no longer be seen. The ponderous wheels of the great ship
revolved, and we moved slowly down the harbor.

I was excited by the scene and its surroundings, by the thought that I
was leaving the land where I had lived from my childhood, and more than
all by the reflection that I was going to seek and find my mother.
Everything was new and strange to me. I wandered through every part of
the ship open to a passenger. I gazed at the shores, and I studied the
faces of my fellow-voyagers. Off Sandy Hook the pilot was discharged,
and the prow of the noble steamer pointed out to the middle of the great
ocean that rolled between me and my mother. The excitement on board
began to subside; the passengers went below to arrange their state-rooms
for the voyage.

When I first went on board I entered the dining saloon, where I found a
few passengers selecting their seats at the tables. Mr. Solomons had
told me in travelling to do as others did; so I took a couple of cards,
wrote my friend's name on one and my own on the other, and pinned them
to the table-cloth, as near the head of the captain's table as I could
find two vacant places. This secured us pleasant seats for the voyage,
and Mr. Solomons was pleased with my thoughtfulness, as he called it.
Before we reached Sandy Hook, he proposed to his room-mate to exchange
berths with me; but when Mr. Dunkswell was pointed out to him as the
person whose state-room he was to share, he politely but regretfully
declined to do so, leaving his reasons to be inferred, for he did not
give them.

When the gong sounded for lunch, at twelve o'clock, I found to my
surprise that Mr. Dunkswell had taken the seat next to mine. I was
rather prejudiced against him; partly because he refused to exchange
berths with my friend, and partly because Mr. Solomons' room-mate did
not like him well enough to exchange with me. He was very polite to me,
and seemed to be strongly inclined to cultivate an intimacy with me. I
could not do less than be civil to him. He invited me to drink wine with
him at lunch, and to smoke his cigars afterwards, neither of which I
could do.

At four we dined, and Mr. Dunkswell renewed his efforts to be intimate
with me; and the more he persevered, the more he didn't accomplish
anything. I did not like him, and I could not like him. At dinner he
drank more wine than his head could bear, and this did not make him any
more agreeable to me. After dinner, Mr. Solomons and myself took seats
upon the hurricane deck. He mentioned that he had called to see Kate
the preceding evening, and this afforded me an opportunity to tell my
story, to which my friend listened with the deepest interest.

He assured me that I had done right; that it was my duty to find my
mother; that the fact of my uncle's misapplying my father's fortune
justified me in taking the money and the papers from the safe. He
commended me for my spirit, and for my devotion to my mother. If I had
not felt sure of his approbation beforehand, I suppose I should not have
had the courage to tell him my history. At half past seven we went down
to tea; and this time Mr. Dunkswell did not make his appearance.

After a promenade on deck till nine o'clock, I found myself tired enough
to retire, and more inclined to sleep than I had been before since I
left Parkville. I went to my state-room, and found the door locked on
the inside. I knocked, but Mr. Dunkswell, politely but in rather muddled
tones, requested me to wait a moment. I did wait a moment, and was
admitted. My room-mate was tipsy, but not enough so to make him anything
more than silly. He was lying in his berth, with his clothes off Having
occasion to open my valise, I found the contents in a very confused
state, and not as I had left them. I was somewhat startled, and hastened
to examine further. I had put my letter of credit, and about two hundred
dollars in bank bills, in my money belt. The letters I had taken from my
uncle's safe I had deposited in my valise. They could be of no value to
any one on board but myself, and I thought they would be safe in the
state-room.

They were not safe; to my astonishment and dismay, they were not to be
found. I had placed them under my best suit, and they were certainly
gone. The confusion in my valise indicated that they had been stolen.




CHAPTER XXIII.

IN WHICH ERNEST FINDS THAT E. DUNKSWELL IS A DISAGREEABLE ROOM-MATE.


I WAS vexed, and almost disheartened, by the loss of the letter
addressed to Bunyard. My plan to find my mother rested mainly on the
possession of it. I had placed the letters in the valise after I came on
board, and they must have been taken out after the steamer discharged
her pilot. There was not much room for a mystery, for I immediately
jumped to the conclusion that E. Dunkswell was the person who had robbed
me.

E. Dunkswell was at that moment in his berth, at least half drunk, and a
bottle labelled "Old Bourbon" stood on his wash-stand. The odor in the
state-room was quite equal to that of a third-class bar-room. Why had E.
Dunkswell taken those letters? In what manner did they concern him?
This was an interesting, and rather exciting question to me, and it
suggested other pertinent inquiries. He had not taken his passage till
after I applied for mine. He had practically insisted that I should
occupy the same state-room with him. Why did he refuse to exchange
berths with Mr. Solomons? Why did he labor so hard to become intimate
with me?

The answer to all these questions was plain enough to me after a little
consideration. He was an agent of Tom Thornton. He had been sent to worm
himself into my friendship, and take from me the will, which Tom
probably supposed I carried in my pocket, and the other papers which
would enable me to find my mother. Force and violence had failed, and
Tom had resorted to cunning and stratagem.

E. Dunkswell had drank too much wine at dinner, and too much whiskey
after dinner. Perhaps the frequent libations he had taken increased his
zeal, but they diminished his discretion in a corresponding ratio. He
had begun his work too soon, and had done it in a very bungling manner.
If whiskey was a curse to him, it was a blessing to me, for in his sober
senses he would not have exposed himself and his plans by robbing my
valise so early on the voyage.

My blood was up; and while I sat on the sofa debating whether or not I
should take E. Dunkswell by the throat, and "have it out" with him, he
got out of his berth, and took another pull at the bottle. It was plain
that he had no intention of keeping sober, and I concluded to wait and
let the whiskey help me do my work.

