brought the Adieno to a stand-still, and our cruise was ended.
Vallington let off steam, and we formed in a body, intending to march
ashore as compactly as possible, in order to feel the full force of
the bond of association.
With Vallington at the head of the procession, we landed. Some of the
crowd hooted at us, others laughed, and a few steamboat owners berated
us roundly. We heeded none of them, but made our way through the mob,
up the pier. Before we reached the street, it suddenly occurred to me
that I had left the Splash made fast to the stern of the steamer. I
had forgotten her in the exciting whirl of events. When I told Bob
Hale and Tom Rush that I must return for my boat, they volunteered to
accompany me.
"Robert," said a stern voice, as we moved down the wharf.
We halted, and Bob's father confronted him.
"What does all this mean?" demanded Mr. Hale. "Are you one of those
who ran away with the steamer?"
"I am, sir," replied Bob, squarely, but with due humility.
Mr. Hale bit his lips with chagrin. Probably he had hoped that his son
was not one of the reckless fellows who had taken possession of the
Adieno. But Bob was a noble fellow, and seldom gave his father any
cause to complain of his conduct,--so seldom that he appeared to be
appalled at the magnitude of the present offence.
"Robert was opposed to taking the steamer from the first," I
interposed, hoping to save him from some portion of his father's
displeasure.
"I went with the rest of the fellows, and I am willing to bear my
share of the blame."
"What does all this mean? What possessed you to do such a thing?"
asked Mr. Hale.
"We could not endure the injustice of Mr. Parasyte any longer; that
was the beginning of it. And when he came in the steamer to Pine
Island, and took away our provisions, we ran off with the steamer
rather than be starved out," answered Bob.
"What business had you on Pine Island?"
"We have been breaking away."
"Breaking away! I should think you had! Were you concerned in these
disgraceful proceedings, Robert?"
"I was, sir. I am willing to own that I have done wrong."
Mr. Hale's stern look softened down, and I ventured to ask him to take
a seat in my boat, and go over to the Institute, where he would have
an opportunity to hear the whole story of the "breaking away," and
judge for himself. During this conversation, a crowd had gathered
around us, curious to know what had happened; and the charge we made
against Mr. Parasyte was publicly proclaimed. Mr. Hale accepted my
invitation, and we shoved off from the Adieno just as the Champion
came up to the pier.
"Stop them! Stop them!" shouted the captain of the Adieno, as I was
hoisting the jib.
No one ventured to stop a boat in which Mr. Hale, the most important
person in the county, was seated.
"We want those boys!" called the angry captain again. "They are the
ones who ran off with the boat."
"Captain Woelkers," said Mr. Hale, mildly.
"Ah, Mr. Hale!" exclaimed the captain, as he recognized the principal
owner of the steamer he commanded.
"By whose authority did you take the Adieno to Pine Island to-day?"
"Mr. Parasyte wanted her, and I let him have her," stammered the
captain.
"Did you consult the agent?"
"No, sir; he was not at home."
"Do you generally leave your boat with steam up without an engineer?"
"I never did before, but we needed every man to bring off the things
on the island," replied Captain Woelkers, his confusion crimsoning his
face.
"It appears that you have used the boat without authority, and
permitted her to be taken from you by a parcel of boys. I will see you
at my house this evening. You may fill away, Ernest, if you are
ready."
Mr. Hale did not say another word, and I ran the Splash over to the
Institute pier. I landed my passengers, and we all walked up to the
school-room, where the rebels had by this time assembled.
"Henry Vallington, I am sorry to see you engaged in such a disgraceful
affair as this," said Mr. Hale, when he met our leader.
"I am very glad you have come, sir, for I feel that we need counsel,"
replied Vallington. "Perhaps you will not consider the affair so
disgraceful, after you have heard the whole truth."
"Nothing can justify your conduct in running away with the steamer. It
is a miracle that you were not blown up, or sunk in the lake."
Vallington handed our distinguished guest one of the circulars he had
procured at the printer's on his way up to the Institute, the "copy"
of which had been given out before the "breaking away."
CHAPTER XXVI.
IN WHICH ERNEST FINDS A CHANGE IN THE MANAGEMENT OF THE INSTITUTE.
Mr. Hale put on his spectacles and read the circular, which had been
carefully prepared by several of the best scholars in the school; but
he was already familiar with the facts it contained. He knew that Mr.
Parasyte was a tyrant, and that he was very unpopular with the boys.
It was a fact that only a few of the students remained at the
Institute for any considerable length of time, and that its numbers
had never equalled its capacity.
He had hardly finished reading the circular before Mr. Parasyte,
followed by Poodles, Pearl, and the rest of the deserters, entered the
hall. All of them had been passengers on the Champion, and of course
they didn't feel very good after being beaten by the Adieno. Mr. Hale
was evidently glad to see the principal of the academy, for he did
not seem to know what to do after he had finished the circular.
"I am glad you have come, Mr. Parasyte," said he; "it seems these boys
have been running away with one of our steamers."
"They have; and I hope you will punish the ringleaders as they
deserve," replied Mr. Parasyte, wiping his brow, as he was wont to do
when excited.
"My son is one of them," added Mr. Hale, with a smile.
"Not one of the ringleaders, sir--by no means. Thornton, Rush, and
Vallington are the leaders in this enterprise."
"No more than myself, father. I have done as much as they have, and I
am willing to bear my share of the blame," said Bob.
The boys clapped their hands at this interposition. Bob was not a
fellow to shirk when the time of settlement came.
"My boy behaves like a man, and I honor him for that," replied Mr.
Hale, proudly; "but he shall be punished if the others are. Mr.
Parasyte, things seem to be at rather loose ends in the Institute just
now."
"Yes, sir; I am sorry to say they are. One bad boy can stir up a
whirlwind of mischief," answered Mr. Parasyte, looking at me.
"These boys seem to be pretty well agreed in this matter."
"But this trouble has all been made by one boy--and that one is Ernest
Thornton. I expelled him once; but out of regard for his uncle, to
whom I am under great obligations, I reversed my sentence, and
endeavored to reduce him to proper subjection."
"Have you seen this paper, Mr. Parasyte?" continued the visitor,
handing him the circular. "It seems to be signed by nearly all the
students in the Institute."
Mr. Parasyte took the printed document, and proceeded to read it. When
he had gone far enough to comprehend the nature of the paper, he
turned red; and when he came to the long array of signatures, he
became very pale.
"May I inquire the object of this paper?" demanded the principal, with
quivering lips.
"I'm sure I don't know. I never saw or heard of it till I entered
this room," replied Mr. Hale "I see that it is addressed to the
parents of the students."
"I need not say that the statements contained in this circular are,
without a single exception, infamous falsehoods and slanders. I think
you know me well enough, Mr. Hale, to understand that justice and
fairness have always characterized my dealings with my pupils."
Mr. Hale did not so understand it. He knew that the reverse of this
statement was the truth. Mr. Parasyte then insisted on relating the
facts connected with the "breaking away." He told the story of my
misconduct, as he termed it, and embellished it with sundry flourishes
about his own impartiality and magnanimity. He said that after it had
been fairly proved that I had assaulted my schoolmate, in
consideration of my previous good conduct, he had only required that I
should apologize in private to the one I had injured. Forbearance
could extend no farther than this; but I had even refused to make this
slight reparation for the offence I had committed. Then I had openly
disobeyed and insulted him in the presence of the whole school.
"Of course, after this," continued Mr. Parasyte, "I could do nothing
more for him. My gentleness was not appreciated; my leniency was
despised. My mistake was in treating him too kindly--in not resorting
to the strong arm in the beginning. Then, as I might have expected of
such an obdurate boy, I was subjected to a personal assault."
"But all the boys seemed to be on his side," said the matter-of-fact
Mr. Hale.
"Very true. Thornton keeps a boat, and almost any boy may be bought or
sold with a boat. He has sailed them on the lake, and won them by his
arts."
"Isn't it possible that there was some mistake in the matter of the
quarrel between Thornton and Poodles?"
"It is quite impossible that there should have been any mistake,"
replied Mr. Parasyte, with a look of injured innocence. "I
