haven't any better reason." 

" Mais ! I have one reason," said Made 
moiselle, in a low tone. " Helas ! Pauvre moi ! 
pauvre moi ! " 

Gypsy watched the French teacher in com 
passionate wonder. What was she " poor " 
for? Did she need anybody to be sorry for 
her, too? " I wonder," she said softly. 

" I go to tell you," said Mademoiselle, 
squeezing her handkerchief into her eyes, " I 
go to tell you in a minute. II fait mal aux 
yeux, this writing. Voila! You care to hear 
then about poor Mademoiselle, you? I think 
nobody care to hear about Mademoiselle." 

Gypsy turned upon the pillow restlessly. 

" It is one little story," said Mademoiselle, 
half under her breath. " One tres little story. 
I tell it in not many words. I have one petite 
sceur one little sister; just one little sister. 
I have no thing else. I leave la mere et le 
pere in two graves at Havre. La petite sceur. 
she is all there is left. We come to Amerique 



deux ans, two years ago. La petite soeur 
look like you hair, eyes, mouth she 
look like you. I love la petite soeur, I 
love you." 

"And where is she, the little sister? " asked 
Gypsy, waiting for more. " Why didn't she 
come here with you? Is she dead?" 

" Ah, mon Dieu, non," said Mademoiselle, 
very low. " If it were that she were dead, I 
go not to cry so many tears in the dark. 
Pauvre petite ! She have one fine voice, elle 
aime chanter et danser; she not let me pay 
monaie for the books and clothes here at the 
school. She go to to what you call it? 
to support herself at the Ope&gt;a. I write the 
letters to her. She write to me. Last winter 
I write tres manier lettres, but I nevaire hear 
one word. I go to Boston to the Op^ra, and 
they tell me she have gone. She have run 
away. I nevaire find her. I nevaire see her 
any more. Pauvre petite sceur ! I am tire 's 
lonely. Nobodie speak to me or cry with me. 
Mademoiselle Bruce is ver kind, ver kind, but 
I tell not her about la petite soeur. I tell not 
anybodie. Mais ! que c est triste, cela ! " 

Gypsy 's pillow was wet and salt, and Gypsy 's 
face was hidden. 

" Mademoiselle?" she said softly. 

" Well, my dear." 

" I want you to kiss me." 

Mademoiselle climbed upon the bed, and put 
her arms about Gypsy 's neck, and kissed her 
sobbing. 

" Make believe I am la petite sceur, all good 
and safe and happy, just for a minute, Made 
moiselle. Come, I will kiss you. Did she 
kiss you so? " 

Poor Mademoiselle cried very hard, and 
Gypsy let her, thinking it was best. By and 
by, when she grew quiet, Gypsy lay back wea 
rily upon the pillow and said, 

" Mademoiselle, would you please to forgive 
me! " 

" Forgive ! Ma che re, I have no thing to 
forgive, moi ! " 

" Yes, you have," said Gypsy, decidedly."



"I know, if you don t. I know that if I 
hadn't been just a selfish old thing, bent on 
having a good time, I might have made you 
tell me about the petite soeur long ago, and I 
might have gone up and cried with you in the 
dark, and you 'd have felt better, wouldn't you, 
Mademoiselle? Yes, I know you would, and 
now it 's all over and gone, and too late, and 
everything, and perhaps I shan't come back to 
the Golden Crescent, and oh, dear ! Made 
moiselle, will you write to me, and let me write 
to you, and let me try to make up ever so 
little bit?" 

Poor Mademoiselle tried with grateful tears 
to speak, but Mrs. Breynton came in just then, 
and the talk was broken up. 

Gypsy said nothing about it to any one for 
a while, but one day, one of the cooler days 
in which her strength came fast, finding her 
self alone for an hour with Jane, she intrusted 
to her confidence the story of the poor little 
sister who " have run away." 

"Poor Mademoiselle, poor Mademoiselle! 



And to think I never noticed nor thought ! It 
just fits in with Phoebe, under that Finger that 
kept pointing before I was sick. Jane Bruce, 




I wonder what has been the matter with me 
this year?" 

Jane kissed her, smiling, but did not answer. 

" And here you come on top of it all," said 



Gypsy, trying to laugh, but winking savagely. 
" You you blessed old dear ! I should call 
you a saint, only I never had but one saint, 
and that was my poor Peace Maythorne, long 
ago at home; such a sweet, lame girl, Jane, 
and she is dead, you know, so nobody else can 
be just that. But you are a blessed old girl, 
and I 've been all the whole year finding it out. 
I was so taken up with Maude Clare, and you 
didn't say much ; why didn't you talk to me, 
as you did with some of the others?" 

" I thought you did not care about it, you 
know; I did not want to be in the way," said 
Jane, in a tone of quiet self-respect. Gypsy 's 
pale cheeks crimsoned faintly. 

" The little vil " 

But Jane kissed away the rest of the word. 

" Well, I ve found you out now, and if I 
ever let you go again, you 'll know it ! And so 
many nights as I left you to walk by yourself, 
