If the air was cold, it was also pure. 

We now drew in sight of Fozza, and, at the last 
moment, just before parting with Brick, we learned 
that he had passed a whole year in Venice, where he 
had brought milk from the main-land and sold it in 
the city. He declared frankly that he counted that 
year worth all the other years of his life, and that he 
would never have come back to his native heights 
but that his father had died, and left his mother and 
young brothers helpless. He was an honest soul, 
and I gave him two florins, which I had tacitly ap- 
pointed him over and above the bargain, with some- 
thing for the small Brick-bats at home, whom he 
presently brought to kiss our hands at the house of 
the Capo-gente. 

The village of Fozza is built on a grassy, oblong 
plain on the crest of the- mountain, which declines 
from it on three sides, and on the north rises high 
above it into the mists in bleaker and ruggeder ac- 
clivities. There are not more than thirty houses in 



 

the village, and I do not think it numbers more than 
a hundred and fifty souls, if it numbers so many. 
Indeed, it is one of the smallest of the Sette Com- 
muni, of which the capital, Asiago, contains some 
thousands of people, and lies not far from Vicenza. 
The poor Fozzatti had a church, however, in their 
village, in spite of its littleness, and they had just 
completed a fine new bell tower, which the Capo- 
gente deplored, and was proud of when I praised it. 
The church, like all the other edifices, was built of 
stone ; and the village at a little distance might look 
like broken crags of rock, so well it consorted with 
the harsh, crude nature about it. Meagre meadow- 
lands, pathetic with tufts of a certain pale-blue, tear- 
ful flower, stretched about the village and southward 
as far as to that wooded point which had all day been 
our landmark in the ascent. 

Our train drew up at the humble door of the Capo- 
gente (in Fozza all doors are alike humble), and, 
leaving our mules, we entered by his wife's invita- 
tion, and seated ourselves near the welcome fire of 
the kitchen welcome, though we knew that all the 
sunny Lombard plain below was purple with grapea 
and black with figs. Again came from the women 
here the wail of the shepherds : " Ah, lords I is it not 
a miserable land ? " and I began to doubt whether 
the love which I had heard mountaineers bore to their 
inclement heights was not altogether fabulous. They 
made haste to boil us some eggs, and set them before 
us with some unhappy wine, and while we were eat- 
ing, the Capo-gente came in. 



 

He was a very well-mannered person, but had, of 
course, the bashfulness naturally resulting from lonely 
life at that altitude, where contact with the world 
must be infrequent. His fellow-citizens seemed to 
regard him with a kind of affectionate deference, and 
some of them came in to hear him talk with the 
strangers. He stood till we prayed him to sit down, 
and he presently consented to take some wine with 
us. 

After all, however, he could not tell us much of 
his people which we had not heard before. A tradi- 
tion existed among them, he said, that their ances- 
tors had fled to these Alps from Marius, and that 
they had dwelt for a long time in the hollows and 
caves of the mountains, living and burying their dead 
in the same secret places. At what time they had 
been converted to Christianity he could not tell ; 
they had, up to the beginning of the present century, 
had little or no intercourse with the Italian popula- 
tion by which they were surrounded on all sides. 
Formerly, they did not intermarry with that race, 
and it was seldom that any Cimbrian knew its lan- 
guage. But now intermarriage is very frequent ; 
both Italian and Cimbrian are spoken in nearly all 
the families, and the Cimbrian is gradually falling 
into disuse. They still, however, have books of re- 
ligious instruction in their ancient dialect, and until 
very lately the services of their church were per- 
formed in Cimbrian. 

I begged the Capo to show us some of their books, 



 

and he brought us two, one a catechism for chil- 
dren, entitled " Dar Kloane Catechism vor z' Belose- 
land vortraghet in z' gaprecht von siben Komiinen, 
un vier Halghe Gasang. 1842. Padova." The other 
book it grieved me to see, for it proved that I was 
not the only one tempted in recent times to visit 
these ancient people, ambitious to bear to them the 
relation of discoverer, as it were. A High-Dutch 
Columbus, from Vienna, had been before me, and I 
could only come in for Amerigo Vespucci's tempered 
glory. This German savant had dwelt a week in 
these lonely places, patiently compiling a dictionary 
of their tongue, which, when it was printed, he had 
sent to the Capo. I am magnanimous enough to 
give the name of his book, that the curious may 
buy it if they like. It is called " Johann Andreas 
Schweller's Cimbrisches Worterbuch. Joseph Berg- 
man. Vienna, 1855." 

Concerning the present Cimbri, the Capo said that 
in his community they were chiefly hunters, wood- 
cutters, and charcoal-burners, and that they prac- 
ticed their primitive crafts in those gloomier and 
wilder heights we saw to the northward, and de- 
scended to the towns of the plain to make sale of 
their fagots, charcoal, and wild-beast skins. In Asi- 
ago and the larger communities they were farmers 
and tradesmen like the Italians ; and the Capo be- 
lieved that the Cimbri, in all their villages, num- 
bered near ten thousand. He could tell me of no 
particular customs or usages, and believed they did 


 

not differ from the Italians now except in race and 
language.* They are, of course, subject to the Aus- 
trian Government, but not so strictly as the Italians 
are ; and though they are taxed and made to do mili- 
tary service, they are otherwise left to regulate their 
affairs pretty much at their pleasure. 

The Capo ended his discourse with much polite re- 
gret that he had nothing more worthy to tell us ; 
and, as if to make us amends for having come so far 
to learn so little, he said there was a hermit living 
near, whom we might like to see, and sent his son to 
conduct us to the hermitage. It turned out to be 
the white object which we had seen gleaming in the 
wood on the mountain from so great distance below, 
and the wood turned out to be a pleasant beechen 
grove, in which we found the hermit cutting fagots. 

* The English traveler Rose, who (to my further discomfiture, 
I find) visited Asiago in 1817, mentions that the Cimbri have the 
Celtic custom of waking the dead. " If a traveler dies by the 
way, they plant a cross upon the spot, and all who pass by cast a 
stone upon his cairn. Some go in certain seasons in the year to 
high places and woods, where it is supposed they worshiped their 
