On our sixth day it rained in torrents, and I hauled up at the bank of a
river, and made fast to a tree. It was not comfortable to stand on the
platform, wet to the skin, and steer. Sim and I slept nearly the whole
day, while Flora read the books and newspapers which I had bought at the
towns. I had done all the work I could find to do on the raft, and had
fitted up the house to my mind. I had an easy time of it.
At one of the large towns I found what was called "A Panorama of the
Mississippi River," which I bought and put up in the house. After this
we knew just where we were, for the Panorama was a kind of chart, with
all the towns on the river, the streams which flowed into it, and the
distances from place to place, indicated upon it. With a good breeze we
made about a hundred miles in twenty-four hours, and when we could not
use the sail, the current carried us sixty miles.
When we reached the mouth of the Missouri, the prospect seemed to me,
who had never seen a considerable body of water, to be like a great
inland sea. Flora was appalled at our distance from the land, and Sim
shouted, "Hookie!" Our raft, which had seemed so large on the stream
where it had been built, now loomed puny and insignificant. Great
steamboats, three times as large as any I had ever seen, and looming up
far above the water, dashed by us. Huge flat-boats floated lazily down
the river, and the scene became more lively and exciting as we advanced.
A new world had opened to us.
From the broad river we saw the great city of St. Louis, and we gazed
with wonder and astonishment at its dense mass of houses, its busy
levee, and the crowds of steamboats which thronged it. We had never seen
the great world before, and we were overwhelmed with surprise. Flora was
silent, and Sim cried "Hookie" a hundred times within an hour.
The swift current and the steady breeze carried us away from this stormy
scene into the quiet of nature; for the great river has its solitudes,
though many times in the day we saw steamboats going up and down, or
encountered other craft voyaging towards the Gulf.
On the tenth day we approached the mouth of the Ohio. Again the expanse
of waters increased, till it seemed to my narrow vision to be almost an
ocean. It was nearly dark, and the weather was as pleasant as a maiden's
dream. We had advanced about seven degrees of latitude towards the
south, and Nature was clothed in her brightest green. We had stepped
from the cold spring of Wisconsin to the mild summer of the South. Ten
days before we had been among leafless trees; now we were in the midst
of luxuriant foliage. Flora sat in her arm-chair, near the platform,
enjoying the scene with me.
"If you are tired of the raft, Flora, we will go the rest of the way in
a steamboat," I said, after we had spoken of the changing seasons we had
experienced.
"I am not tired of it--far from it," she replied.
"We have over a thousand miles farther to go."
"I think I shall only regret the river was not longer when we get to New
Orleans."
"I wonder what Captain Fishley thinks has become of us," I added,
chuckling, as I thought of the family we had left.
"He and his wife must be puzzled; but I suppose they won't find out
where we are till we write to them."
"They will not know at present then. We have got rid of our tyrants now,
and I am in no hurry to see them again."
"Twig the steamers!" shouted Sim, from the roof of the house, where he
had perched himself to observe the prospect. "They are having a race."
I had seen them before, and I wished they had been farther off, for one
of them seemed to be determined to run over the raft, in her efforts to
cut off her rival. Our craft was in the middle of the channel, and one
of the steamers passed on each side of us, and so close that we were
nearly swamped in the surges produced by their wheels. I breathed easier
when the boats had passed, for I knew how reckless they were under the
excitement of a race. I could hear them creak and groan under the
pressure, as they went by.
We watched them as they rushed forward on their course. They were just
rounding into the Ohio, on their mad career, when we saw one of them
suddenly fly in pieces, torn, rent, shivered, the atmosphere filled with
fragments. Then came a terrific explosion, like the din of an
earthquake, shaking the raft with its violence. The boiler of the
steamer had exploded.
CHAPTER XIX.
AFTER THE EXPLOSION.
When the explosion occurred, the wind was nearly dead ahead, and we were
floating with the current, which was the particular reason why we had
come so near being run down by the contestants.
"What's the matter?" asked Flora, alarmed by the noise, but unable to
explain the cause of it.
"One of those steamers has burst her boiler. Didn't you see the pieces
fly?" I replied.
"But where are the people we saw laughing and talking as she went by?"
continued she, with a shudder.
"A good many of them will never laugh and talk any more."
"Hookie!" shouted Sim, as soon as he comprehended the nature of the
disaster. "That's wus'n fallin' in the river."
"Get out the sail, Sim!" I added, sharply.
"What you want the sail for?" inquired he. "The wind ain't right for
it."
"Up with it, and we will talk about that afterwards."
Letting go the steering oar, I hastened to Sim's assistance, while the
raft whirled in the current as she went down the mighty river. We
hoisted the sail, hauled in the braces, and I took my place on the
platform again. After no little labor at the steering oar, I succeeded
in putting the raft before the wind, thus heading her up the river.
"What are you going to do, Buckland?" asked Flora, who was watching the
scene of the accident with the most painful interest.
"Hundreds of those poor people have already perished, and more will be
drowned, unless they have some help," I replied, much excited. "I am
going to try and get up there, so as to be of some service."
"O, I hope you will! But there are boats out picking them up already,"
added she, wringing her hands, as she realized more vividly the nature
of the terrible catastrophe.
"I'm going to do all I can," I replied, thrilled by the exciting scene,
which, though a mile distant, we could understand and realize.
I expected the hull of the steamer would float down the river with the
swift current, bringing with it all its fearful surroundings; but in her
haste to outstrip her competitor, she had run into the shallow water,
and when riven by the explosion, had sunk. The awful scene, therefore,
did not come down the stream, as I anticipated. In a few moments, three
steamboats, besides the one which had been engaged in the race, were
hovering about the wreck, and at least a dozen boats were busy in
picking up the sufferers.
I found that it was utterly impossible to make any progress against the
current with the raft. Though the wind was tolerably fresh from the
southward, and the sail drew well, it barely held its own. The wreck and
the raft remained about the same distance apart as at the moment of the
explosion. But it was a consolation to know that our services were not
absolutely needed, so abundant was the assistance afforded from the
shore, and from the passing steamers.
In a short time parts of the wreck began to come down the river. We
picked up a broken door, and other pieces of the wood-work, but nothing
of any great value. We kept a sharp lookout for any survivors who might
have been overlooked by the boats about us; but as yet we saw none, or
even any who had been killed. Finding we could be of no service, I was
about to turn the raft, and resume our voyage, when Flora called my
attention to an object floating at some distance from us.
"It's a woman, Buckland!" exclaimed she, clasping my arm with convulsive
energy.
"So it is," I replied, with my heart almost in my throat.
We were all too young and inexperienced to behold a human being
apparently at the gates of death without a tremendous sensation of
horror.
"Hookie!" gasped Sim, after he had gazed an instant at the object, his
breath collapsing as he uttered the favorite expression.
"Can't you save her?" cried Flora, in trembling tones.
"I will if I can."
"O, do save her. It's terrible."
"She is clinging to a piece of wood, and has her head quite out of
water," I added, as I turned the raft.
The unfortunate person was still some distance farther up the stream
than the raft. I told Sim to trim the sail, and I hoped to get my clumsy
craft in such a position that the current would bring the woman towards
it, so that we could intercept her.
"Help! Help!" called the sufferer, in faint and fearful tones, as we
came nearer to her.
"Hold on a few moments longer," I replied.
"I can't!" she answered, evidently chilled by the cold, and exhausted by
her fruitless struggles.
"Only a moment," I added.
That moment was a fearfully long one, and at the end of it came failure.
The raft disappointed me. The current was bearing the helpless female by
it, but not more than fifty feet distant. It might as well have been a
mile, so far as our capacity to overcome the space between us was
concerned.
"Down with the sail, Sim!" I shouted, sharply.
"Hookie!" gasped Sim, still standing with his mouth wide open, gazing at
the poor woman.
"Down with it!" I repeated, giving him a kick to sharpen his wits.
He stumbled to the sail; but his fingers were all thumbs, and he could
not untie the halyard. I was obliged to do it myself, for the sail had
filled aback, and it was retarding the progress of the raft.
"Help! Save me!" cried the unhappy person again, but fainter than
