Mr. Lincoln was the Whig candidate for Speaker, and once lacked only
one vote of being elected. Mr. Lincoln's eight years' service in the
State Legislature was busy and useful, and gave him an assured and high
position in his party. The work done was usually of a local character,
of course, its most important departments being that of the improvement
of internal communication by railroad and canal, and that of education.

But even on the question of slavery, the one significant occasion for
utterance which arose was promptly improved, and in such a manner as
to show both the settled feelings and convictions of Lincoln's mind
on the subject, and his characteristic practice of restricting his
official utterances strictly to the exigencies of the case. His dislike
of slavery was not only the consequence of his inborn sense of justice
and kindly feelings, but was his direct inheritance from his parents,
who left Kentucky and settled in Indiana expressly to bring up their
family on free instead of slave soil. In March, 1839, some strong
pro-slavery resolutions were passed by the Legislature of Illinois,
and by large majorities in both houses. This, the few anti-slavery
members could not prevent. But Mr. Lincoln and Mr. Dan Stone took the
most decided stand in their power on the other side, by putting on
record on the House journals a formal protest against the resolutions.
In this protest, they declared views that would to-day be considered
very conservative, about legal or political interference with slavery;
but they also declared in the most unqualified manner, and in so many
words, their belief "that the institution of slavery is founded on both
injustice and bad policy."

At the end of his fourth term, Mr. Lincoln declined a further
nomination, finding it absolutely necessary to devote more time than
hitherto to his own private affairs. When he thus left the Legislature
of his own accord, he was virtually the leader of his party in the
State, having reached that creditable and influential though unofficial
position by his own good qualities, in the eight years of his life
ending with his thirty-fifth. It was a great achievement for a man no
older, and so destitute of outside help.

For four years Mr. Lincoln now remained a hard-working lawyer,
although he did a good deal of political work besides, particularly in
"stumping" Illinois and Indiana in the Presidential canvass of 1844.
In this campaign Mr. Lincoln made many strong and effective speeches
for Henry Clay, and though his candidate was beaten, his own reputation
as a politician and speaker was much increased. In 1846 he was elected
to Congress as a Whig, and his extreme popularity at home is shown
by the fact that his own majority on this occasion was 1,511 in the
Springfield district, while Mr. Clay's had been only 914.

During this congressional term, Mr. Lincoln met the grinding of the
great question of the day--the upper and nether millstone of slavery
and freedom revolving against each other. Lincoln's whole nature
inclined him to be a harmonizer of conflicting parties, rather than a
committed combatant on either side. He was firmly and from principle an
enemy to slavery, but the ground he occupied in Congress was in some
respects a middle one between the advance guard of the anti-slavery
army and the spears of the fire-eaters. He voted with John Quincy Adams
for the receipt of anti-slavery petitions; he voted with Giddings for
a committee of inquiry into the constitutionality of slavery in the
District of Columbia, and the expediency of abolishing slavery in that
district; he voted for the various resolutions prohibiting slavery in
the territories to be acquired from Mexico, and he voted forty-two
times for the Wilmot Proviso. On one occasion, he offered a plan
for abolishing slavery in the District of Columbia, by compensation
from the national treasury, with the consent of a majority of the
citizens. He opposed the annexation of Texas, but voted for the bill
to pay the expenses of the war. He voted against paying for slaves as
property, when that question came up in the celebrated Pacheco case,
and thus recorded his denial of the right of owning men, or of its
acknowledgment by the nation.

During this term of service in Congress, Mr. Lincoln was a laborious
and faithful public servant; always present to vote, and always ready
for business; and his speeches, homely and rough as they were, showed
so much broad strong sense, natural rectitude, sincerity, and power of
reasoning, as to give him a good position as a debater. He declined a
re-election; tried for but did not obtain the commissionership of the
Land Office at Washington; declined appointments as Secretary and as
Governor of Oregon Territory; returned to his home and his work; was
unsuccessful as candidate for the United States Senate in the Illinois
Legislature of 1849-50; and labored industriously at his profession,
until the repeal of the Missouri Compromise, the Kansas Nebraska Bill,
and the violences and iniquities connected with them, called him once
more into public life.

He now took the field, heart and soul against the plot to betray
our territories into slavery, and to perpetuate the power of that
institution over the whole country. Henceforth he was all his life a
public man; first a prominent champion in the decisively important
state of Illinois, and afterwards the standard bearer and the martyr of
Freedom in America.

That contest in Illinois, in which the political doctrines of Mr.
Douglas were the central theme of discussion, and in which he himself
on one side and Mr. Lincoln on the other, were the leading speakers
and the controlling minds, was an important act in that great drama
of emancipation which culminated in the Rebellion. In Mr. Lincoln's
life it was if possible still greater in comparative importance; for
his debates with Douglas determined his reputation as a speaker and a
public man, and lifted him to the position from which he stepped into
the presidential chair.

During other previous and subsequent portions of his life, other traits
of Mr. Lincoln's character were often and clearly exemplified. But at
no time was he nearly as plainly and strikingly prominent as a power,
as during his contest with that bold and energetic politician and
remarkably ready and forcible debater, Stephen A. Douglas.

Their first great public duel, as it may be called, was at Springfield,
in October, 1854, just after the passage of the Nebraska bill. The
country was all aflame with excitement. Every fibre of justice, honor,
honesty, conscience that there was in the community was in that
smarting and vibrating state which follows the infliction of a violent
blow, and Douglas had come back to his own state to soothe down the
irritation and to defend his wicked and unpopular course before the
aroused tribunal of his fellow citizens.

He was to defend his course and conduct to a great audience assembled
at the State fair, and Mr. Lincoln was to answer him.

Never was there a greater contrast between two men. Douglas might be
called a brilliant impersonation of all the mere worldly forces of
human nature. He had a splendid physique, with all the powers of
the most captivating oratory, the melody of a most astonishing voice
which ran with ease through every gamut of human feeling, grave, gay,
pathetic, passionate, enthusiastic; now rising with irresistible
impetuosity, now mocking with gay and careless defiance, and with
this voice and this person, he was master of all those shadings and
delicacies of sophistry by which the worse can be made to appear the
better reason. He knew well how to avoid answering a telling argument
by a dazzling glitter of side issues--to make a plain man believe
he had got his difficulty solved, when he had been only skilfully
bewitched, and made to forget where it was. In a popular audience he
had something for every one. Gaiety, gallantry and compliments for
ladies, assured confidence for doubters, vehement assertions for timid
people, stormy brow-beatings, and lion roars of denunciation, to finish
with a grand sweep the popular impression which his sophistries and
assertions had begun. Of truth, he made that very sparing use which
demagogues always do. A little blue line of steel makes a whole heavy
headed iron axe go through the wood,--and so Douglas just skilfully and
artistically tipped the edges of heavy masses of falsehood with the
cutting force of some undeniable truth.

Of moral sensibility Douglas had not enough in his nature, even to
understand that kind of material in others, and to make allowance for
it. Nothing could be more exactly the contrary of Lincoln's scrupulous
careful self-education, in pure questions of the right and the wrong of
things, than Douglas' glittering, careless, reckless, defiant mode of
treating all these subjects. Lincoln had trained himself always to ask,
What is it right to do? Douglas, What can I do? Lincoln, to enquire
What course ought they to take? Douglas, What course can I make them
take? Lincoln, to ask, What is the truth--Douglas, What can be made to
seem truth. His life question was an inquiry, pure and simple, how
much can I get, how much can I do, without losing my hold over men and
being turned out of society?

The pure moral aspects of political questions, he flouted and scoffed
at as unworthy the attention of a practical politician. The rights of
human beings, the eternal laws of rectitude, he treated as a skilful
conjurer treats so many gaily painted balls, which he throws up and
tosses and catches, simply to show his own agility; he played with them
when they came in his way, just as he thought he could make them most
effective for his own purposes.
