might be the mischief to pay at Vincennes. On reflection, I
don't see how I could take care of myself, either. Then you do
not bid me go?" he asked again.

"You remember our words one day about insignificant lives?"

"Yes!" he cried eagerly; "and I have been longing ever since
to ask you to explain more fully what interested me so much. I
never could get a chance. I assure you, I have felt to the
bottom of my heart what it is to have one's existence really
worth nothing, to anybody. How may it be better? My life has
to do with nothing but insignificant things."

"But you must define insignificance," I said.

"Is it needful?"

"I think so. What makes things insignificant? Not their being
small, - or common?"

"What then, Miss Randolph?"

"Small things, and common things, are often to the last degree
important, you know, Mr. Marshall."

"Yes; but however small and common, I cannot feel that I am
important, in any degree," he said, half laughing.

"We were talking of lives, and things."

"Yes. Excuse me. Well?"

"I think I see the crowns of two hats, down below, which
belong to some people that we know."

"Is it they?" he exclaimed; - "and I wish they were farther
off. Finish what you were going to say, Miss Daisy! Do not
leave me in ignorance now, after bringing me so far."

"I can only tell you what I think," I said.

"And that is precisely what I want to hear," he answered
earnestly.

"You will not agree to it, though, and I do not know that you
will even understand me. Mr. Marshall, I think that nothing is
insignificant which is done for God; and that everything which
is not done for Him, directly or indirectly, is insignificant
or worse."

"I do not understand -" he said thoughtfully. "In what sense
can a thing be 'done for God?' Unless it is building a church
or founding a hospital."

"Very few churches have been built for God," I said. "At
least I think so."

"Why, the old monks -" Mr. Marshall began. But just then our
missing companions came up, and he stopped. They had been
lured aside from the way by the sight of some game. We had no
more private talk; but Hugh Marshall was sober and thoughtful
all the rest of the day.

He sought such talks with me now whenever he could; and seemed
to enter into them like a man, with an earnest purpose to know
the truth and to do his work in the world if he could find it.
I grew, in a way, very fond of him. He was gentle, well-bred,
happy-tempered, extremely careful of my welfare and pleasure,
and regardful of my opinions, which I suppose flattered my
vanity; well-read and sensible; and it seemed to me that he
grew more agreeable every day.

The accounts from the seat of war in America were not very
stirring just then; nothing great was done or expected; and
the question of our young men's return to take part in what
was going on, was suffered for a time to fall out of sight.
Meanwhile we left Lucerne and went to Geneva. There was more
society, in a quiet way; and there was a fresh harvest of
pleasure to be reaped by me and for me in the domains of
nature.

CHAPTER XI.

A VICTORY


"Daisy, - you are very happy!" my father said one day when I
was sitting with him. We were looking out upon the lake, which
our windows commanded; but I found papa's look had come back
from the window to me.

"You are very happy!" he said.

"Yes, papa, - pretty happy."

"Pretty happy?" said he, putting his hand under my chin and
turning my face again round to him, and then kissing me.
"Pretty and happy, you mean."

"No, papa," I said laughing; - "I don't mean that."

"It is true, though," said he. "There was a bit of a smile
upon your mouth just now - before I spoke; - what were you
thinking of?"

"Papa, it is so glorious, - the lake and its shores in this
sunlight."

"That was all?"

"No, not quite all, papa."

"I thought not. What was the rest of it, Daisy?"

"Papa, I was thinking with joy, that I belong to the wonderful
One who made all that; and so, that the riches of his power
and glory are in a certain sense mine; - just as everything
good in you is mine, papa."

He folded me in his arms and kissed me again, very fondly.

"There is not much good in me, Daisy."

"Yes, papa, - for me."

"But there is a great deal in you, - for somebody."

"For you, papa."

"Nobody else, Daisy?"

He was holding me close in his arms and looking down into my
face. I believe the colour must have come into my cheeks.

"Ah, I thought so!" he said. "Even so soon, Daisy, you are
leaving me for somebody else."

"Papa!" I exclaimed, hiding my face in his neck, - "I will
never leave you, till you say so."

"Till I say so? I will not be over selfish, my dear child. I
do not mean that."

"Who is it to be, Daisy?" my mother's voice said behind us.

I started up in absolute terror. What had I said? and what did
she mean? I looked at her, speechless.

"Well?" she said laughing, "what is the matter? You need not
turn white about it. Is your father the only one to be in your
confidence? I will withdraw then."

"Stop! - Mamma!" I cried; "what are you saying? There is no
confidence. What are you talking about?"

"I only asked, who it was to be, Daisy? I thought you were
talking of leaving us, and naturally concluded it was to be
with somebody."

"Mamma - oh, mamma, I was speaking only in the abstract."
