money, on the basis of twelve guilders to the pound. Mr. Fluxion put
down twenty-four guilders, and the students twelve guilders each; for no
one was willing to be behind the others.

Mr. Lowington returned to the ship; and when dinner was over, most of
the Josephines turned in, for there was a fearful gaping on board as
soon as the excitement had subsided. Hardly any of the crew had closed
their eyes during the preceding night, and all of them were very tired.

At five o'clock, the white flag containing a blue cross, which is the
signal for divine service, appeared on the Young America. The service
had been postponed, to enable the Josephines to obtain a little needed
rest: it was never dispensed with except at sea, in very heavy weather.
Though the religious exercises were made unusually impressive by Mr.
Agneau, after the storm and the wreck, it must be confessed that some of
the consort's company went to sleep during the hour; but they were
forgiven, even by the chaplain, when their zealous labors to save life
and property were considered.

For some reason of his own, Mr. Lowington invited the Dutch skipper and
his family to attend the service, and a boat was sent for the party.
They came on board, and were regarded with deep interest by the crew,
though doubtless they were not much edified by the exercises, as they
knew not a word of English.

"Captain Kendall," said the first lieutenant of the schooner, when they
returned to their cabin, "I think I have money enough to build a new
galiot for Captain Schumblefungus, or whatever his name is. I don't
wonder that a man with such a name as that should be cast away,
especially if the mate had to speak it before he let go the halyards."

"How much have you?" asked Paul.

"I don't know," replied Terrill, producing a whole bundle of money
orders, with which the students had paid their subscriptions. "Mr.
Lowington made a speech to the Young Americans after he returned on
board. He told them what we had done, and what we intended to do. The
fellows in the ship wanted to have a finger in the pie; and I believe
every one of them has put down his twelve guilders."

"I am very glad to hear that; for I pitied the Dutch captain from the
bottom of my heart," added Paul.

"All the professors gave twelve guilders, except old Hamblin--"

"Professor Hamblin," interposed Paul, gently rebuking his friend for
using that disrespectful appellative.

"Professor Hamblin; but I have no respect for him, and I can't always
help speaking what I think. He is a solemn old lunatic, as grouty as a
crab that has got aground."

"We will not speak of him," said Paul, mildly.

"Well, they all subscribed except him; and I'm sure I've got more than
twelve hundred guilders. Why, even the cooks and stewards gave
something."

"I'm glad you have been so fortunate."

"Captain Spunkenfungle's eyes will stick out a foot or two when he hears
what we have done for him."

"And I'm sure we shall be as happy as he; for such gifts, you know, are
twice blessed."

The sums on the subscription papers were added up by Terrill and Pelham.

"Sixteen hundred and fifty-four guilders!" exclaimed the former, when
the result had been reached.

"Four hundred and fifty-four guilders more than the sum required," added
Paul, delighted by the intelligence.

"Shall we give it all to the skipper?" asked Pelham.

"I don't know. We will leave that to Mr. Lowington," replied Paul.

"I don't think we ought to give him any more than enough to make up his
loss. That would tempt him to wreck his galiot again, if there was an
American flag in sight," said Terrill.

"I see no reason why he should be left any better off than before the
disaster," continued the captain. "We can keep the money as a charity
fund; and I have no doubt we shall soon find a chance to make good use
of it."

The embarrassment of having a surplus was better than that of a
deficiency would have been, and the sleepy officers of the Josephine
were not likely to be kept awake by it. All hands turned in at an
earlier hour than usual. The anchor watch were as sleepy as the others;
but the discipline of the vessel was rigidly adhered to, for the
principal did not believe in neglecting any necessary precaution simply
because the crew were tired. As seamen, the students were taught to
realize that fatigue and want of sleep on shipboard would not justify
any disregard of their regular routine duty.

In the morning everything went on as usual. It had not been the
intention of Mr. Lowington to put into Flushing, and no one was allowed
to go on shore. The wind was fortunately fresh from the westward; the
pilots were still on board; and the signal for sailing was hoisted on
board of the Young America. Just before the squadron weighed anchor, Mr.
Fluxion went on board of the galiot, and informed the skipper that all
the expenses of the repairs of his vessel would be paid by the students
of the institution. The professor reported that the poor man was beside
himself with joy when he received this intelligence. He expressed his
gratitude in extravagant terms, which had no English equivalents. Mr.
Fluxion gave him eighty pounds in gold, and promised to see him again
before the repairs were completed.

Orders to weigh anchor were given, and the two vessels stood out of the
port of Flushing into the broad river. At Paul's invitation, Dr.
Winstock came on board for the passage up the river. Mr. Hamblin still
remained a guest of the ship, and the surgeon volunteered to take his
place, though he acknowledged that his Greek roots were little better
than decayed stumps in his memory.

There is nothing picturesque on the Scheldt; and it was no great
hardship for the students to be compelled to attend to their lessons in
the steerage half the time during the trip. The country is very
low--some of it below the level of the sea; and there was little to be
seen on shore, though the students on deck found enough to interest
them.

Mr. Hamblin was the only unhappy person in the squadron, even the
Knights of the Red Cross finding enough in this new and strange land to
occupy their time without plotting mischief. The learned gentleman did
not like the way in which the principal appeared to be "sustaining" him.
Mr. Lowington had called the crew together, and told them what the
Josephines had done, praising them in what seemed to the professor to be
the most extravagant language. He did not like it: it was hardly less
than an insult to commend the student against whom he had preferred
charges of disobedience and insubordination.

He was vexed that no notice was taken of his complaints--that the matter
had been deferred a single hour. In his opinion, Captain Kendall should
have been promptly suspended. The moral effect of such a course would
have been grand. Mr. Hamblin had spoken; and he felt that he had spoken.
If he was not sustained, he could not return to the Josephine. He had
spoken; and it was the principal's place to speak next.

Mr. Lowington did not speak. He was busy all the morning; and when the
vessels sailed, not a word had been said in allusion to the topic which,
in Mr. Hamblin's estimation, overshadowed all others. If the principal
did not think of it all the time, he ought to do so; for the academic
branch of the institution would be a failure if discipline was not
enforced. The ship stood on her way before the fresh westerly breeze,
and still Mr. Lowington did not mention the matter. The professor waited
till he felt he was utterly ignored, and was sacrificing his dignity
every moment that he permitted the question to remain unsettled.

"Mr. Lowington," said he at last, with a mighty effort,--for it was the
principal's duty to speak first,--"I made a complaint to you yesterday.
Thus far no notice whatever seems to have been taken of it."

"Perhaps the longer we wait the easier it will be to settle the
question," replied Mr. Lowington, pleasantly, though he dreaded the
discussion that must ensue.

"If I am not to be sustained in the discharge of my duties, it is
