tervals. A ledge of rock ran through it, threaded by a 
small rivulet, whose trickle made a pleasant melody. I 
believe that spot was my birthplace. No matter where 
my mortal eyes first saw the light, my soul sprang into 
existence there, baptized in floods of solemn glory, and my 
natal hymn chanted by winds that blew "gales from 
heaven." 

After this comes a picture of a dark, gloomy house, with 
great eaves shadowing the windows; trees, tall and 
straight; old-fashioned flower-beds, stiff and formal, unlike the freedom and grace of nature. I wonder now if 
they never felt tempted to rebel? I did when my opportunity came. 

The place was roomy, but only three apartments were 
in general use. Once a year, when the clergyman came 
to tea, the parlor was opened. The furniture was all 
heavy and dark, every article kept strictly in its place. 
Here I lived with my two great-aunts and a serving man. 
The former were maiden ladies, always old to me, reticent 
to sternness, yet not harsh. They were invariably dressed 
with the utmost neatness ; they never talked loud or fast ; 
went about the house quietly, and performed the same 
tapir".

Aunt Mildred was a trifle the smaller. I think, too, she 
had a gentler nature ; and though I never clung to her, I 
had a different feeling concerning her. Children soon 
learn to make distinctions. They were not tender women. 
Neither ever caressed me. I did not miss it, for all those 
early years my life must have been mere negation. 

One day an incident occurred that changed the tenor 
of my thoughts. A lady visited us, bringing a little girl 
of my own age. I was shy at first, but she most gracious. 
Golden-haired and fair as a lily, I took her at once as a 
type of the angels of my Bible stories. But, alas ! she was 
vain, self-willed, imperious in temper, and full of petty 
deceit. My creed up to this time had been very simple, 
and the child astonished me. Her mother kissed and 
petted her continually, and there came to my heart a 
strange want. 

Being a novice in the art of entertainment, I took her 
to my nook in the woods, and I certainly must have 
amazed the poor child by my eloquent description. 

"Is it your play-house?" she asked. " Have you dollies 
and dishes in it ? Why doesn't your aunt give you some 
cake and sweetmeats to take there?" 

" It's like a cathedral," I returned, though I confess my 
notions on the subject of cathedrals were exceedingly 
vague. " If I had a doll I shouldn't take it. Dolls can't 
see nor think." 

"I'm afraid," she said, shivering. "There are ghosts 
and witches in such dark places. I don't want to go." 

" It's so beautiful ! " I returned. " And I never saw a 
ghost. I don't believe there are any." 

We trudged on. I half carried her, in spite of her de- 
sire to return. At length we reached the summit of the 
rock, and I waited for her to be entranced with the weird 
beauty. She stared around with a look of blank wonder. 



 

"I don't see anything but rocks and trees," she ex- 
claimed, pettishly, "It's a dismal place, and I want to go. 
home." 

Taking her in my arms, I walked down with an indig- 
nant heart. It seemed sacrilege to let her feet so much as 
touch a dead leaf. Ah ! I did not know then that some 
souls were born deaf and blifid, except as to material 
wants. And when, a few days after, as I was enjoying 
the grandeur of a summer shower, with its vivid lightning 
and heavy tread of thunder, she buried her face in her 
mother's lap, and shrieked with terror until the shutters 
were closed, the measure of my contempt for her was full. 

Yet that brief visit worked a great change in my child- 
ish ideas. My mother was dead. I had seen her grave in 
the churchyard ; but I had never heard my father spoken 
of. I speculated a while, and one day, as I sat sewing, I 
said, suddenly, 

" Aunt Mildred, where is my father ? " 

She let her work fall, and started in surprise ; but aunt 
Hester answered sternly, 

"He is dead." 

"Why. is he not buried with my mother?" 

" He did not die here," aunt Mildred said, recovering 
herself. Then, carelessly, " Sydnie, run, find Peter, I 
want to see him before he goes to the village." 

My errand did not detain me a moment. Crossing the 
hall I heard aunt Hester say, in a louder key than 
usual, 

" I tell you she shall be brought up to despise her father 
as much as her silly, infatuated mother loved him." 

" You forget that in two years she can have her choice 
to go or stay." 

"She shall hear my story first, I mean to keep this 
girl. She is the last of our family, and who has a better 



 

right ? Her father and grandfather have caused us suffer- 
ing enough." 

When I entered they subsided into their usual gravity, 
I was afraid to ask any further questions ; but that even- 
ing, meeting Peter in the garden, I said, eagerly, 

" Did you ever see my father, Peter ? " 

" What do you know about him ? " the man asked, in 
surprise. 

" I know that my mother loved him," was my confident 
reply ; and love was no longer an idle term with me. 

" Poor child, it would have been better for her if she 
had never seen him." 

" Why ? " was my importunate question, " Is he really 
dead ? and why did he go away when my mother loved 
him?" 

" It's no story for little girls. Your aunts will tell you 
about it some day." 

I had to content myself thera Trained to habits of 
implicit obedience, I had not the confidence to venture 
upon any overt act, and there really seemed nothing to do. 
So I wondered what would happen in two years. It was 
like a lifetime. But I went on with the old routine* 
Studying and sewing at stated hours, reading aloud, ram- 
bling about the woods, taking occasional drives with my 
aunts, and going to church on Sundays, were the events 
of my life, I began to realize that I was shut away from 
the world, as it were, the world that I learned about in 
my books, and I longed for some change with an inten- 
sity that fairly exhausted my strength. Aunt Mildred 
grew tenderer towards me ; but I needed more than pas- 
sive kindness. 

