"I always heard that was very wild indeed," said Miss Pinshon.
"The sloth cannot be tamed, can it?"
"Being stupid already, I suppose not," said Preston.
"Daisy looks pale at any rate," said my aunt.
"A little overdone," said Miss Pinshon. "She wants regular
exercise; but irregular exercise is very trying to any but a
strong person. I think Daisy will be stronger in a few weeks."
"What sort of exercise do you think will be good for her,
ma'am?" Preston said, with an expression out of all keeping
with his words, it was so fierce.
"I shall try different sorts," my governess answered,
composedly. "Exercise of patience is a very good thing, Master
Gary. I think gymnastics will be useful for Daisy, too. I
shall try them."
"That is what I have often said to my sister," said aunt Gary.
"I have no doubt that sort of training would establish Daisy's
strength more than anything in the world. She just wants that,
to develop her and bring out the muscles."
Preston almost groaned; pushed his chair from the table, and I
knew sat watching me. I would give him no opportunity, for my
opportunity I could not have then. I kept quiet till the
ladies moved; I moved with them; and sat all the evening
abstracted in my own meditations, without paying Preston any
attention; feeling indeed very old and grey, as no doubt I
looked. When I was ordered to bed, Miss Pinshon desired I
would hold no conversation with anybody. Whereupon Preston
took my candle and boldly marched out of the room with me.
When we were upstairs, he tried to make me disobey my orders.
He declared I was turning to stone already; he said a great
many hard words against my governess; threatened he would
write to my father; and when he could not prevail to make me
talk, dashed off passionately and left me. I went trembling
into my room. But my refuge there was gone. I had fallen upon
evil times. My door must not be locked, and Miss Pinshon might
come in any minute. I could not pray. I undressed and went to
bed; and lay there, waiting, all things in order, till my
governess looked in. Then the door was closed, and I hear her
steps moving about in her room. I lay and listened. At last
the door was softly set open again; and then after a few
minutes the sound of regular slow breathing proclaimed that
those wide-open black eyes were really closed for the night. I
got up, went to my governess's door and listened. She was
sleeping profoundly. I laid hold of the handle of the door and
drew it towards me; pulled out the key softly, put it in my
own side of the lock and shut the door. And after all I was
afraid to turn the key. The wicked sound of the lock might
enter those sleeping ears. But the door was closed; and I went
to my old place, the open window. It was not my window at
Melbourne, with balmy summer air, and the dewy scent of the
honeysuckle coming up, and the moonlight flooding all the
world beneath me. But neither was it in the regions of the
North. The night was still and mild, if not balmy; and the
stars were brilliant; and the evergreen oaks were masses of
dark shadow all over the lawn. I do not think I saw them at
first; for my look was up to the sky, where the stars shone
down to greet me, and where it was furthest from all the
troubles on the surface of the earth; and with one thought of
the Friend up there, who does not forget the troubles of even
His little children, the barrier in my heart gave way, my
tears gushed forth; my head lay on the windowsill at Magnolia,
more hopelessly than in my childish sorrow it had ever lain at
Melbourne. I kept my sobs quiet; I must; but they were deep,
heart-breaking sobs, for a long time.
Prayer got its chance after a while. I had a great deal to
pray for; it seemed to my child's heart now and then as if it
could hardly bear its troubles. And very much I felt I wanted
patience and wisdom. I thought there was a great deal to do,
even for my little hands; and promise of great hindrance and
opposition. And the only one pleasant thing I could think of
in my new life at Magnolia, was that I might tell of the truth
to those poor people who lived in the negro quarters.
Why I did not make myself immediately ill, with my night's
vigils and sorrow, I cannot tell; unless it were that great
excitement kept off the effects of chill air and damp.
However, the excitement had its own effects; and my eyes were
sadly heavy when they I opened the next morning to look at
Margaret lighting my fire.
"Margaret," I said, "shut Miss Pinshon's door, will you?"
She obeyed, and then turning to look at me, exclaimed that I
was not well.
"Did you say you could not read, Margaret?" was my answer.
"Read"! no, missis, Guess readin' aint no good for servants.
Seems like Miss Daisy aint lookin' peart, this mornin'."
"Would you like to read?"
"Reckon don't care about it, Miss Daisy. Where'd us get books,
most likely?"
I said I would get the books; but Margaret turned to the fire
and made me no answer. I heard her mutter some ejaculation.
"Because, Margaret, don't you know," I said, raising myself on
my elbow, "God would like to have you learn to read, so that
you might know the Bible and come to heaven."
"Reckon folks aint a heap better that knows the Bible," said
the girl. "Pears as if it don't make no difference. Aint
nobody good in this place, 'cept uncle Darry."
In another minute I was out of bed and standing before the
fire, my hand on her shoulder. I told her I wanted her to be
good too, and that Jesus would make her good, if she would let
Him. Margaret gave me a hasty look and then finished her fire
making; but to my great astonishment, a few minutes after, I
saw that the tears were running down the girl's face. It
astonished me so much that I said no more; and Margaret was as
silent; only dressed me with the greatest attention and
tenderness.
"Ye want your breakfast bad, Miss Daisy," she remarked then in
a subdued tone; and I suppose my looks justified her words.
They created some excitement when I went down stairs. My aunt
exclaimed; Miss Pinshon inquired; Preston inveighed, at things
in general. He wanted to get me by myself, I knew; but he had
no chance. Immediately after breakfast Miss Pinshon took
possession of me.
The day was less weary than the day before, only I think
because I was tired beyond impatience or nervous excitement.
Not much was done; for though I was very willing I had very
little power. But the multiplication table, Miss Pinshon said,
was easy work; and at that and reading and writing, the
morning crept away. My hand was trembling, my voice was faint;
my memory grasped nothing so clearly as Margaret's tears that
morning, and Preston's behaviour the preceding day. My cheeks
were pale of course. Miss Pinshon said we would begin to set
that right with a walk after dinner.
The walk was had; but with my hand clasped in Miss Pinshon's I
only wished myself at home all the way. At home again, after a
while of lying down to rest, I was tried with a beginning of
calisthenics. A trial it was to me. The exercises, directed
and overseen by Miss Pinshon, seemed to me simply intolerable;
a weariness beyond all other weariness. Even the
multiplication table I liked better. Miss Pinshon was tired
perhaps herself at last. She let me go.
It was towards the end of the day. With no life left in me for
anything, I strolled out into the sunshine; aimlessly at
first; then led by a secret inclination I hardly knew or
questioned, my steps slowly made their way round by the avenue
to the stables. Darry was busy there as I had found him
yesterday. He looked hard at me as I came up; and asked me
earnestly how I felt that afternoon? I told him I was tired;
and then I sat down, on a huge log which lay there and watched
him at his work. By turns I watched the sunlight streaming
along the turf and lighting the foliage of the trees on the
other side of the dell; looking in a kind of dream, as if I
were not Daisy nor this Magnolia in any reality. I suddenly
started and awoke to realities as Darry began to sing 
"My Father's house is built on high,
Far, far above the starry sky;
And though like Lazarus sick and poor,
My heavenly mansion is secure.
I'm going home, 
I'm going home, 
I'm going home
To die no more!
To die no more 
To die no more 
I'm going home
To die no more!"
The word "home" at the end of each line was dwelt upon in a
prolonged sonorous note. It filled my ear with its melodious,
plaintive breath of repose; it rested and soothed me. I was
listening in a sort of trance, when another sound at my side
both stopped the song and quite broke up the effect. It was
Preston's voice. Now for it. He was all ready for a fight; and
I felt miserably battered and shaken and unfit to fight
