Fosdick picked it up, and to his inexpressible amazement ascertained
that it was a check on the Park Bank for the sum of one thousand dollars
made payable to Richard Hunter, or order.

"A thousand dollars!" repeated Dick, overwhelmed with astonishment;
"you're only foolin' me. P'r'aps it's ten dollars."

"No, it's a thousand dollars. Read it yourself if you don't believe it."

"I wish you'd pinch me, Fosdick," said Dick, seriously.

"Certainly, if you wish it."

"That's enough," said Dick, hastily. "I only wanted to make sure I
wasn't dreamin'. I can't believe I'm worth a thousand dollars."

"You're a lucky fellow, Dick," said Fosdick, "and you deserve your luck.
I'm heartily glad of it."

"About the best luck I ever had was in meeting you," said Dick,
affectionately. "I'm goin' to give you half the money."

"No, you're not, Dick. Thank you all the same," said Fosdick, decidedly.
"It was meant for you, and you must keep it. I'll get along well enough.
If I don't, I know you'll help me."

"But I wish you'd take half the money."

"No, Dick, it wouldn't be right. But your new watch says it's getting
late, and we had better go to bed."

It was some time before Dick fell asleep. His good luck had so excited
him that he found it difficult to calm down sufficiently to sink into a
quiet slumber.




CHAPTER VI.

MR. GILBERT IS ASTONISHED.


When Dick woke up in the morning the first thing he thought of was his
watch, the next the check which he had received from Mr. Rockwell.

"I'll go to the bank this morning, and get my money," said he.

"How are you going to invest it, Dick?" asked Fosdick.

"I don't know," said Dick. "I'll put it in the savings bank till I
decide. That'll make more'n eleven hundred dollars. I didn't use to
think I ever'd be worth that, when I slept in boxes and old wagons."

"Eleven hundred dollars at six per cent. interest will yield you
sixty-six dollars a year."

"So it will," said Dick, "and all without working. I tell you what,
Fosdick, at this rate I'll soon be a man of fortune."

"Yes, if you can make a thousand dollars a day."

"I wonder what old Gilbert'll say when he sees it," said Dick.

"Who's he?"

"He's the book-keeper. He aint very fond of me."

"What has he against you?"

"He thinks I don't treat him with proper respect," said Dick. "Besides
he tried to get his cousin Roswell Crawford in, but he couldn't."

"Then it seems both of us have interfered with Roswell."

"He's got a place now. I guess he's the senior partner by the way he
talks."

The breakfast-bell rang, and the boys went down to breakfast. Clifton
was down already, and was standing in front of stove. Being an observing
young man he at once noticed Dick's watch-chain.

"Halloa, Hunter!" said he; "I didn't know you had a watch."

"I didn't know it myself till last night," said Dick.

"Where did you get it?"

"It came from Ball & Black's," said our hero, willing to mystify him.

"That's a nice chain,--solid gold, eh?"

"Do you think I'd wear anything else?" asked Dick, loftily.

"Will you allow me to look at the watch?"

"Certainly," said Dick, drawing it from his pocket, and submitting it to
Clifton's inspection.

"It's a regular beauty," said the young man, enthusiastically. "Do you
mind telling how much you paid for it?"

"How much do you think?"

"A hundred dollars?"

"It cost all of that," said Dick, confidently. "If you see one for sale
at that price, just let me know, and I'll buy it for a speculation."

"You must be getting a pretty good salary to buy such a watch as that."

"Pretty good," said Dick, carelessly.

Mr. Clifton was rather a shallow young man, who was fond of show, and
had a great respect for those who were able to make it. When Dick first
came to the boarding-house he looked down upon him as a boy; but now
that he proved to be the possessor of an elegant gold watch and chain,
and might, therefore, be regarded as in prosperous circumstances, he
conceived a high respect for him. The truth was that Clifton himself
only got two dollars a week more than Dick, yet he paid eight dollars a
week for board, and spent the rest in dress. His reputation among
tailors was not the best, being always more ready to order new clothes
than to pay for them.

While they were talking the rest of the boarders entered, and breakfast
commenced. Miss Peyton was there, of course.

"How did you find your friends in Madison Avenue last evening, Mr.
Hunter?" she inquired.

"They were all up and dressed," said Dick. "They sent their partic'lar
regards to you."

"Oh, you wicked story-teller!" simpered Miss Peyton; "just as if I'd
believe such nonsense. Have they got a nice house?"

"Beautiful," said Dick. "I haven't seen any like it since I called on
Queen Victoria last year."

"How is the house furnished?"

"Well," said Dick, "as near as I can remember, there's diamonds worked
in the carpet, and all the tables and chairs is of gold. They'd be
rather hard to set on if it twan't for the velvet cushions."

"Aint you afraid to tell such stories, Mr. Hunter? Mr. Fosdick, you will
have to talk to your friend."

"I am afraid it wouldn't do much good, Miss Peyton, if you fail to cure
him."

"Mr. Hunter has just been investing in a handsome watch," remarked
Clifton, passing his cup for a second cup of coffee.

"Oh, do let me look at it! I dote on watches," said Miss Peyton.

"Certainly," said Dick; and he detached the chain from his button-hole,
and passed the watch across the table.

"It's a perfect little love," said Miss Peyton, enthusiastically. "Isn't
