and we haven't done any. I am in favor of fighting it out in this
manner to the end."

"It is a milk-and-water affair as it is now, and won't amount to
anything."

"What's the reason it won't?" demanded the champion of the mild party.

"Suppose the main hatch were opened, and the boatswain should call all
hands--how many of us do you suppose would be left? There are a dozen
of your chickens that would back down so quick it would make your eyes
smart," added the champion of the intense party, pointing to the group
which had collected around Hyde, who appeared to be forming a party of
his own. "And the next time the call was made, a lot more would slump.
Before long we should be so reduced in numbers that the brig would hold
us all, and a few of us would have to stand the punishment for the sins
of the crowd. You led us into the scrape; now you must help us out of
it."

"Who led you into it?" asked Raymond, indignantly.

"You and your fellows, of course," retorted the heavy champion.

"I don't see it."

"Don't you? Then you are as green as a tame pigeon," continued Howe,
smartly. "Our fellows--of course you know I mean those who ran away in
the Josephine--are under the ban already. Did you suppose we were going
into an affair like this alone? Not much! We went in because you did;
to back up your movement. Now we are in it, you want to back out, and
let your fellows show the white feather."

"I don't mean to back out," protested Raymond.

"But those fellows out there do," added the wily rogue.

"Well, there are thirty of us here, who will stick to the end. What do
you say, fellows?"

"Of course we will," replied several, very mildly.

"Will you agree, upon your word and honor, to stick as long as any one
does?"

"That depends upon circumstances," interposed Lindsley.

"I suppose it does," sneered Howe. "It isn't fair to leave us to bear
the brunt of the whole."

"All we ever proposed to do was simply to refuse to do duty till we had
explained our position to the principal," added Raymond.

"And kiss the rod, whether you get fair play or not," replied Howe.

"We can't do anything more than that. When the principal understands
that over forty of us are dissatisfied, we have gained our point."

"Have you indeed!" flouted Howe. "Then I fancy you have already gained
it, for he has found out that you are dissatisfied by this time."

"Well, what do you want to do?" demanded Raymond.

"It's no use to mince the matter. We have made a failure of it so far.
The lambs on deck are having a good time, laughing, cheering, and
carrying on--making game of us, no doubt, while we are shut up here as
prisoners," replied Howe, rolling up his sleeves, as though he intended
to do something savage. "We ought to make ourselves felt, which we
haven't done yet, for the rest of the ship's company seem to regard our
movement as a good joke, and to think we are having the worst of it.
Well, I think we are; and we must make ourselves felt."

"Do you call it making yourselves felt when you are pounded on the head
with belaying pins, as you were in the Josephine?" inquired Lindsley,
dryly.

"We raised a breeze there, and we are bound to do it here."

"A breeze that first knocks you down yourself. I would rather have the
wind blow another way," added Raymond.

"I don't mean to get up a fight, or anything of that sort."

"Well, what do you mean?" asked Raymond, impatiently.

"We have plans of our own; but we are not going to disclose them till
we have some assurance that the other fellows will stand by us,"
answered the cautious leader of the intense party. "We are going to
make ourselves felt."

"We are not going to agree to anything without knowing what it is,"
said Lindsley.

"And we are not going to let on to fellows that may go to the
principal, and blow the whole thing. I will say this: If your fellows
will pledge themselves, word and honor, to stand by us to the end, I
will agree that the ship shall return to Havre, or some other port in
France, within twenty-four hours, and that the tables shall be turned
in our favor."

"How are you going to do it?" asked Lindsley.

"Leave that to me. I have a plan which cannot fail. Do the fair thing
by us, and we will get you out of the scrape."

"I will agree to this, and nothing more: I will stand out till we have
a chance to be heard," replied Raymond, who began to have some hope of
the mysterious movements of Howe. "I will do nothing but stand out."

"We don't ask you to do anything else. We will do the rest, if you back
us up."

"We don't back you up, for we don't even know what you are going to
do."

"We will tell you what we are going to do."

"Hold on! Perhaps we had better not know anything about it," interposed
Raymond.

"No, you don't!" exclaimed Howe. "We will tell those who will take the
oath."

"The oath!" ejaculated Lindsley. "Are we joining the Knights of the
Golden Fleece?"

"No, no! I mean the promise," answered Howe, impatiently. "Word and
honor--that's all I want."

The runaway portion of the rebels were doubtless already familiar with
the extraordinary means which was to turn the ship back to the ports of
France. The others, who attended the meeting, were largely influenced
by curiosity. They were intensely mortified at the defeat, which they
were unwilling to acknowledge. It would afford them immense
satisfaction to have the tables turned in their favor; but they were
utterly unable to imagine what powerful machinery Howe and his
associates could bring to bear upon the obdurate principal; how they
were to compel him to put the ship about, and return to France.

The mild party retired to consider whether it would be prudent for them
to enter into a compact of this description with such dangerous
characters as the runaways. They were prejudiced against the measure,
but victory in the undertaking, in which they had engaged, was so
earnestly coveted, that they were tempted to join hands even with Howe,
Little, Wilton, and other desperate fellows. When a person has once
gone astray, the inducements to go farther increase. But Raymond and
his friends were not quite willing to pledge themselves in advance to
measures which they were not allowed to understand; and they finally
agreed to bind themselves to secrecy, in regard to the nature of the
scheme, if Howe would explain it on these terms, and then engage in it
if it were not too wicked. The party returned to the foremast, and
Raymond stated their position.

"That won't go down," promptly replied Howe, with his bullying,
self-sufficient air. "We are to tell you what our plan is, and let you
adopt it or not, as you please! No, sir!"

"We pledge ourselves beforehand to keep your secret, whether we join
with you or not."

"We won't trust you."
