upon their strange visiters, and seemed as if 
they would move no more. 

" Them girls is come to get you to their 



 

Sunday school," said the mother. "Don't 
you want for to go ? " 

No answer, and no move of the black eyes. 
Matilda certainly thought they looked as if 
they feared the lifting of no mortal hand, 
their mother's or any other. 

" Would you like to go to Sunday school ? " 
inquired Maria politely, driven to speak by 
the necessities of the silence. But she might 
as well have asked Mrs. Dow's wash tub. 
The mother laughed a little to herself. 

" Guess you might as well go along back 
the road ye come ! " she said. " You won't 
get my Araminty Jemimy into no Sunday 
school o' yourn this time. Maybe when she's 
growed older and wiser-like, she'll come and 
see you. She don' know what a Sunday 
school's like. She thinks it's some sort of a 
trap." 

" I ain't afraid ! " spoke out black eyes. 

" I didn't say you was," said her mother. 
" I might ha' said you was cunnin' enough to 
keep your foot out of it" 




It is not a trap," said Matilda boldly. It 
is a pleasant place, where we sing, and learn 
nice things." 

" My children don't want to learn none o' 
your nice things," said the woman. " I can 
teach 'em to home." 

" But you don't! " said black eyes. " You 
don't never learn us nothing I " 

There was not the slightest sweet desire 
of learning evidenced in this speech. It 
breathed nothing but defiance. 

" Alexander, won't you come ? " said 
Matilda timidly, as her sister moved to the 
door. For Maria's courage gave out. But 
at that question the young urchin addressed 
set up a roar of hoarse laughter, throwing 
himself down and rolling over on the floor. 
His mother shoved him out of her way with 
a push that was very like a kick, and his 
sister seizing a wringing wet piece of clothes 
from the wash tub, dropped it spitefully on 
his head. There was promise of a fight ; and 
Matilda and Maria hurried out. They hastened their steps through the garden, and even 
out in the high road they ran a little to get 
away from Mrs. Dow's neighborhood. 

" Well ! " said Maria, " what do you think 
now, Tilly? I hope you have got enough 
for once of this kind of thing. I promise you 
I have." 

" Hush ! " said Matilda. " Some one is 
calling." 

They stopped and turned. A shout was 
certainly sent after them from the gate they 
had quitted ; " Girls, hollo ! Sunday 
school girls, hollo ! " 

Do you hear ? " said Matilda. 

" Sunday school girls ! Come back ! " 

" What can they want ? " said Maria. 

" We must go see," said Matilda. 

So they went towards the gate again. By 
the gate they could soon see the shock head 
of Alexander ; he had got rid of the wash 
tub and his mother and his sister all three ; 
and he was waiting there to speak to them. 
The girls hurried .up again till they con- 




fronted his grinning face on the other side 
of the gate. 

" What do you want ? " said Maria. 
What do you call us back for? " 

" I didn't call you," said the boy. 

" Yes, you did ; you called us back ; and 
we have come back all this way. What do 
you want to say ? " 

Alexander's face was dull, even in his 
triumph. No sparkle or gleam of mischief 
prepared the girls for his next speech. 

" I say ain't you green ! " 

But another shout of rude laughter followed 
it; and another roll and tumble, though these 
last were on the snow. Maria and her sister turned and walked away till out of hearing. 

" I never heard of such horrible people ! " 
said Maria ; " never ! And this is what you 
get, Matilda, by your dreadful going after 
Sunday scholars and such things. I do hope 
you have got enough of it." 

But Matilda only drew deep sighs, one 



 

after another, at intervals, and made no 
reply. 

" Don't you see what a goose you are ? " 
persisted Maria. " Don't you see ? " 

No," said Matilda. I don't see that." 

" Well, you might. Just look at what a 
time we have had, only because you fancied 
there were two children at that house." 

Well, there are two children." 

Such children ! " said Maria, 

" I wish Mr. Richmond would go to see 
them," said Matilda. 

" It would be no use for Mr. Richmond or 
anybody to go and see them," said Maria. 
" They are too wicked." 

" But you cannot tell beforehand," said 
