for her husband. The plea is made vigorously and ably, and with an
air of indignant severity, as of an honest advocate who is thoroughly
convinced that he is pleading the cause of a wronged man who has been
ruined in name, ship-wrecked in life, and driven to an early grave, by
the arts of a bad woman,--a woman all the more horrible that her malice
was disguised under the cloak of religion.

Having made an able statement of facts, adroitly leaving out
ONE,[28] of which he could not have been ignorant had he
studied the case carefully enough to know all the others, he proceeds
to sum up against the criminal thus:--

[Footnote 28: This one fact is, that Lord Byron might have had an open
examination in court, if he had only persisted in refusing the deed of
separation.]

 'We would deal tenderly with the memory of Lady Byron. Few women have
 been juster objects of compassion. It would seem as if Nature and
 Fortune had vied with each other which should be most lavish of her
 gifts, and yet that some malignant power had rendered all their bounty
 of no effect. Rank, beauty, wealth, and mental powers of no common
 order, were hers; yet they were of no avail to secure her happiness.
 The spoilt child of seclusion, restraint, and parental idolatry,
 a fate (alike evil for both) cast her into the arms of the spoilt
 child of genius, passion, and the world. What real or fancied wrongs
 she suffered, we may never know; but those which she inflicted are
 sufficiently apparent.

 'It is said that there are some poisons so subtle that they will
 destroy life, and yet leave no trace of their action. The murderer
 who uses them may escape the vengeance of the law; but he is not the
 less guilty. So the slanderer who makes no charge; who deals in hints
 and insinuations: who knows melancholy facts he would not willingly
 divulge,--things too painful to state; who forbears, expresses pity,
 sometimes even affection, for his victim, shrugs his shoulders, looks
 with

        "The significant eye,
  Which learns to lie with silence,--"

 is far more guilty than he who tells the bold falsehood which may be
 met and answered, and who braves the punishment which must follow upon
 detection.

 'Lady Byron has been called

  "The moral Clytemnestra of her lord."

 The "moral Brinvilliers" would have been a truer designation.

 'The conclusion at which we arrive is, that there is no proof whatever
 that Lord Byron was guilty of any act that need have caused a
 separation, or prevented a re-union, and that the imputations upon him
 rest on the vaguest conjecture; that whatever real or fancied wrongs
 Lady Byron may have endured are shrouded in an impenetrable mist of
 her own creation,--a poisonous miasma in which she enveloped the
 character of her husband, raised by her breath, and which her breath
 only could have dispersed.

  "She dies and makes no sign. O God! forgive her."'

As we have been obliged to review accusations on Lady Byron founded
on old Greek tragedy, so now we are forced to abridge a passage from
a modern conversations-lexicon, that we may understand what sort of
comparisons are deemed in good taste in a conservative English review,
when speaking of ladies of rank in their graves.

Under the article 'Brinvilliers,' we find as follows:--

 'MARGUERITE D'AUBRAI, MARCHIONESS OF BRINVILLIERS.--The
 singular atrocity of this woman gives her a sort of infamous claim to
 notice. She was horn in Paris in 1651; being daughter of D'Aubrai,
 lieutenant-civil of Paris, who married her to the Marquis of
 Brinvilliers. Although possessed of attractions to captivate lovers,
 she was for some time much attached to her husband, but at length
 became madly in love with a Gascon officer. Her father imprisoned
 the officer in the Bastille; and, while there, he learned the art of
 compounding subtle and most mortal poisons; and, when he was released,
 he taught it to the lady, who exercised it with such success, that,
 in one year, her father, sister, and two brothers became her victims.
 She professed the utmost tenderness for her victims, and nursed them
 assiduously. On her father she is said to have made eight attempts
 before she succeeded. She was very religious, and devoted to works
 of charity; and visited the hospitals a great deal, where it is said
 she tried her poisons on the sick.'

People have made loud outcries lately, both in America and England,
about violating the repose of the dead. We should like to know what
they call this. Is this, then, what they mean by respecting the dead?

Let any man imagine a leading review coming out with language equally
brutal about his own mother, or any dear and revered friend.

Men of America, men of England, what do you think of this?

When Lady Byron was publicly branded with the names of the foulest
ancient and foulest modern assassins, and Lord Byron's mistress was
publicly taken by the hand, and encouraged to go on and prosper in her
slanders, by one of the oldest and most influential British reviews,
what was said and what was done in England?

That is a question we should be glad to have answered. Nothing was done
that ever reached us across the water.

And why was nothing done? Is this language of a kind to be passed over
in silence?

Was it no offence to the house of Wentworth to attack the pure
character of its late venerable head, and to brand her in her sacred
grave with the name of one of the vilest of criminals?

Might there not properly have been an indignant protest of family
solicitors against this insult to the person and character of the
Baroness Wentworth?

If virtue went for nothing, benevolence for nothing, a long life of
service to humanity for nothing, one would at least have thought, that,
in aristocratic countries, rank might have had its rights to decent
consideration, and its guardians to rebuke the violation of those
rights.

We Americans understand little of the advantages of rank; but we did
understand that it secured certain decorums to people, both while
living and when in their graves. From Lady Byron's whole history, in
life and in death, it would appear that we were mistaken.

What a life was hers! Was ever a woman more evidently desirous of
the delicate and secluded privileges of womanhood, of the sacredness
of individual privacy? Was ever a woman so rudely dragged forth,
and exposed to the hardened, vulgar, and unfeeling gaze of mere
curiosity?--her maiden secrets of love thrown open to be handled by
roués; the sanctities of her marriage-chamber desecrated by leering
satyrs; her parents and best friends traduced and slandered, till one
indignant public protest was extorted from her, as by the rack,--a
protest which seems yet to quiver in every word with the indignation of
outraged womanly delicacy!

Then followed coarse blame and coarser comment,--blame for speaking
at all, and blame for not speaking more. One manly voice, raised for
her in honourable protest, was silenced and overborne by the universal
roar of ridicule and reprobation; and henceforth what refuge? Only this
remained: 'Let them that suffer according to the will of God commit the
keeping of their souls to him as to a faithful Creator.'

Lady Byron turned to this refuge in silence, and filled up her life
with a noble record of charities and humanities. So pure was she, so
childlike, so artless, so loving, that those who knew her best, feel,
to this day, that a memorial of her is like the relic of a saint. And
could not all this preserve her grave from insult? O England, England!

I speak in sorrow of heart to those who must have known, loved, and
revered Lady Byron, and ask them, Of what were you thinking when you
allowed a paper of so established literary rank as the 'Blackwood,' to
present and earnestly recommend to our New World such a compendium of
lies as the Guiccioli book?

Is the great English-speaking community, whose waves toss from Maine
to California, and whose literature is yet to come back in a thousand
voices to you, a thing to be so despised?

