derstand her so well. Mr. Meredith's manner had 
pained her somewhat, and she wondered if any one 
ever appreciated the great effort a person must make 
continually to be good. Even tender and generous 



 

Charlie Darrell had once called her queer when she 
had just made a sacrifice of her own pleasure. And 
it seemed now that she wanted mamma more than 
ever, for she felt utterly friendless and forlorn. 

So it was a great relief to confess on the next day, 
and receive a little comfort. Kathie was not at all 
given to exaggeration, but told a story in a simple, 
straightforward manner. 

"I am afraid Mrs. Meredith thought me imper- 
tinent and obtrusive, but I did not mean to be," 
Kathie said, deprecatingly. " I am very sorry that I 
went, for we looked over the ball-dresses and pretty 
things, and talked about them until it seemed quite 
like a week-day." 

" And this is why I disapprove of Sunday visiting 
in most cases, though it would have appeared rather 
discourteous to refuse. I do not see how you could 
well have done differently, and I am thankful that 
you had the courage to confess the truth. It is hard 
to suffer ill consequences when one has taken the 
only right course, but you must bear it patiently." 

" I don't suppose they will ever ask me again. I 
believe I don't love Ada very much, Aunt Ruth, for 
she so often makes me uncomfortable ; but they have 
all been very kind to me." 





" So they have, my dear, and I regret a rupture. 
There are a good many trials in this life, Kathie, and 
so far your stay here has scarcely been shadowed from 
any outside cause. You must try to be just as happy 
as usual, let the result be what it may." 

She might have been a trifle more grave, perhaps, 
but no one save Aunt Ruth knew of her secret trouble. 
The matter was not to end there, however. Some 
days afterward Mrs. Havens called, and hough she 
was always fond of Kathie, her greeting now was 
quite extravagant. 

" My dear little girl," she exclaimed, " I heard an 
incident about you that filled my heart with joy,-- the 
occurrence at Mrs. Meredith's last Sunday evening. 
I am glad to know that you are not ashamed to bear 
witness for the truth." 

Kathie colored painfully. 

" We had talked the subject over and dismissed it," 
explained Aunt Euth. " It was rather an unfortu- 
nate affair." 

" Nay, I do not think so. Of course the Cuban 
party were accustomed to such entertainments, but 
Mrs. Meredith said that although she was vexed at 
the moment, and much disappointed at having her 



 

guests miss the song, she honored Kathie for not be- 
ing persuaded to do what she did not consider right. 

" Did she say that ? "' exclaimed Kathie, in amaze, 
her sweet face flushing with delight. 

" Yes, my dear, and much more. Don't allow it to 
make you vain, for there is no charm like perfect 
simplicity." 

" I am so glad that she is not angry. But I wonder 
if Mr. Edward Meredith " 

"You will not lose in his estimation by such an 
act, I assure you." 

It seemed to Kathie then that she was perfectly 
happy. And when, on the following Sunday morning, 
she received a basket of lovelv hot-house flowers with 



a card attached, on which was written, " with the kind 
regards of Mrs. Emily Meredith," Kathie felt that it 
was a peace-offering, and if one hard thought had 
Lingered she would have banished it then. Uncle 
Edward made a flying trip to Cedarwood, and when 
he returned, with loads of love and the best of news, 
he was doubly welcome to Kathie. 

February came in quite mild. The snow nearly all 
melted away, and for several days there was a bright, 
warm sun. Aunt Euth improved rapidly. She was 





allowed to walk around a little, though still compelled 
to use her crutch, as Dr. Markham thought it hardly 
safe to bear so much weight on her yet enfeebled 
limb. One of these bright days he proposed to take 
her out in an easy carriage. 

Kathie was delighted. That really looked like 
getting well. And though Aunt Euth was bundled 
up and carried down stairs, she came back with a 
faint tinge of pink in her cheeks, and the brightest 
light in her eye that had been there for a long time. 

Kathie wrote home a most glowing letter. It had 
the effect of bringing Uncle Eobert at once, though 
he declared that his principal errand was to see if 
Kathie was in possession of her senses. 

" To think that we can go home in a month if 
Aunt Euth doesn't have any relapse ! " she said, 
dancing round. " Dear old Cedarwood, and Eob, 
and Fred, and everybody ! " 

" And that 's all my reward ? " growled the doctor. 
" If you were real generous you would propose to 
stay a month at least with me ! " 

Kathie's bright face grew suddenly grave. " I 
don't know how I could stay away from mamma," 
she said, pleadingly. 



 

" Wouldn't Mrs. Markliam make a good mamma, 
I want to know?" 

" But she would not be quite your own, - - would 
she, Kathie ? ' ; exclaimed Mrs. Markham, with a 
sweet smile. 



Kathie nestled lovingly at her side. She had 
made many dear friends during this stay, - - friends 
