like Uncle Rob, for he had a full beard and eyes that 
sparkled with fun. He picked up the shawl and drew 
Kathie’s hand just through his arm with the utmost 
ease and grace, leading her through the hall and up 
 
the wide stairs that were soft as a cushion. She felt 
quite lost as she entered the parlor, for a deep glass 
coming nearly down to the floor showed her herself 
and Mr. Meredith, and one opposite gave back the 
same picture. 
“ This is my sister, Miss Conover,” Uncle Robert 
said as soon as she was seated in a great crimson arm- 
chair, “ and this my niece, Miss Kathie Alston. My 
friend, Mr. Meredith, Ruth, whom I met in Europe.” 
“ I ’in right glad to see you, Conover, and if I can be 
of the slightest service, command me to the utmost. 
It will be a charity to find me some employment.” 
Kathie couldn’t help smiling. Mr. Meredith’s 
voice had such a merry ring, and he shrugged his 
shoulders so oddly. 
“ You can entertain the ladies while I find a room. 
I hope^ we shall not have to go up to the skylight.” 
“ You can step in the elevator and come down,” re- 
joined Mr. Meredith, “or enjoy yourself like the 
German student who lived in the first story if you 
entered by the chimney.” 
“ Scaling the roofs beforehand ? I ’ve turned quiet 
and sensible.” 
“ The excuse that is generally made for laziness.” 
 
Uncle Robert bowed liimself away, and Mr. Mere- 
dith began to talk to Kathie, who told him very 
frankly that this was her first visit to the city, 
although she had been born there. 
“There will be a great many things to entertain 
you then. I shall petition for the situation of escort 
several times. I hope we shall get on famously 
together. I have a niece just about your age, and we 
have gay times.” 
“ Does she live here ? ” asked Kathie, timidly. 
“ Only awhile in the winter. My brother’s resi- 
dence is a short sail up the Hudson. I ’ll try and 
persuade Mr. Conover to go there some day. Do 
you like to sail ? ” 
“ I don’t know,” Kathie answered, a little doubtfully. 
Uncle Robert came back presently. He had secured 
two very nice rooms, and their trunk, having arrived, 
had been sent up already. 
“ Oh Uncle Robert, I don’t believe I ever could find 
my way around this place,” Kathie said, amazed at 
the stairs and halls. 
“ I ’ll have to hire a guide as they do in the Cata- 
combs.” 
The rooms were very cosey, and to Kathie’s inexpe 
 
rienced eyes extremely elegant. Aunt Ruth was so 
tired that she begged to be laid on the bed at once. 
“ You must be housekeeper and settle the things,” 
she said to Kathie. 
Uncle Rob unlocked the trunk and helped Kathie 
unpack. They hung up the dresses in the wardrobe, 
and laid the smaller articles in the drawers. Kathie 
was so neat and handy that she quite surprised Uncle 
Rob. In a few moments they were all in order. 
“ What can be done for you, my dear, tired sister ?” 
Uncle Robert asked. 
“ I wish you would order me some tea and toast, 
and if Kathie will help me to undress, I shall be more 
comfortable. Every bone in my body aches.” 
She did look very pale and tired. Uncle Rob went 
to his own room, and then Kathie bathed Aunt Ruth’s 
face and hands, brushed her hair smooth, put on a 
nice fresh night-dress and arranged the pillows. 
“ It seems so odd to go to bed in the afternoon,” 
she said, with a smile. 
“ I can rest better in this manner.” 
The toast and tea came up. Aunt Ruth didn’t 
seem much hungry ; but Kathie fed her just as 
mamma used to feed Rob when he was sick, and 
presently she declared herself quite refreshed. 
 
“ You are a most charming little nurse, Kathie, ’’ 
said Uncle Robert ; “ I shall be tempted to fall ill 
some time.” 
“ Not here,” returned Kathie, entreatingly ; “ I 
should get lost the first time I ventured into the 
hall.” 
Aunt Ruth sipped her tea until she began to feel 
rather sleepy ; then she told Kathie to get ready for 
dinner and go down with Uncle Rob, and during the 
quiet she might manage to get a nap. 
So Kathie brushed out her shining hair and put on 
a white dress. Uncle Robert tied her blue party 
sash after he came in, and then, kissing Aunt Ruth 
many times, they went down to the parlor. 
“ Here ’s a veritable fairy ! ” exclaimed Mr. Mere- 
dith. “ Will you sit here by the window ? How is 
your sister, Conover ? ” 
“Very much fatigued. I brought her to New 
York for medical advice. A number of years ago she 
had a bad fall, which crippled her ; but having known 
some wonderful cures myself, I have faith to believe 
that she can be helped. I should like to meet a 
skilful and honorable physician, and learn just what 
could be done, for I shouldn’t want her subjected to 
any unnecessary suffering.” 
 
“ I have an old uncle who is held in high repute 
by medical men generally, and I ’d like you to see 
him, Conover. You may be sure that he will tell 
the truth. He doesn’t attend to anything hut 
office practice except sometimes for an old friend ; 
yet I think he could be persuaded to come here 
and see her.” 
“ Very kind of you, indeed. I feel rather strange 
here now, and the people I used to know have 
mostly forgotten me. A great many changes occur 
in ten years.” 
“ Have you been away that long ? ” 
“ Nearly eleven years ; but I realize the lapse 
of time more by the alterations in all I see here 
than in my own experience there. I regret deeply 
that I did not return sooner ; hut for a long, long 
while I never heard a word from home.” 
Mr. Meredith was a good deal interested and began 
to question his friend. As travelling acquaintances 
in Germany they had learned very little of each 
other’s past life, though much pleased with the 
chance encounter. 
Kathie looked out of the window, greatly amazed 
at the sight. A procession of people appeared to be 
going up both sides of the street, and in the middle 
an interminable confusion of carriages, omnibuses, 
drays, express-wagons, and, it seemed to her, every- 
thing that could he put upon wheels. Occasionally a 
brave pedestrian ventured across the street, running 
between the horses, in imminent danger of having 
his head bitten off or being trodden under foot, she 
thought. Then a strange, sharp clang sounded 
through the rooms, making echoes everywhere. 
She sprang up and glanced at Uncle Eobert. 
“ Only the gong,” he answered, laughingly. “ Now 
we will go to dinner, for I dare say you need yours.” 
With her hand in Uncle Eobert’s she went to the 
long dining-hall. The children’s supper at the Dar- 
rells was nothing in comparison. Kathie was too 
well bred to stare about or show her surprise. To be 
sure, the tall waiter standing behind, bowing and 
asking rapid questions, rather disconcerted her. 
Uncle Eobert took pains to make her comforta- 
ble, and Mr. Meredith was very agreeable. Kathie 
stole a glance now and then at the long rows, — 
ladies very handsomely dressed and fine-looking men 
chatting gayly. It was like a story. 
“ What a little lady that child is ! ” Mr. Meredith 
 
said in a low tone to Uncle Robert. “You must 
certainly go up the river with me one day. I want 
Ada to see her.” 
Uncle Robert looked very much gratified. He ran 
