give him a third of the profits after paying expenses."

"And you think that you can make a thousand dollars a year?"

"Yes, I feel sure of it."

"That's a good offer," said Rufus, meditatively.

"I'm willing to make it. At that rate I shall make fourteen dollars a
week, and I have never been paid but twelve for clerking it. Besides, I
should be my own master."

"You might not make so much."

"If I make less I can live on less. There's a small room in back, where
I can put in a bed, that will save me room-rent. My meals I can buy at
the restaurants. I don't believe it will cost me over three hundred and
fifty dollars to live."

"So that you could save up money."

"Yes, I should be sure to. After a while I could buy out the whole
business."

Rufus was silent for a moment. He had five hundred dollars. Why should
he not set up George Black in business on the terms proposed? Then,
instead of getting a paltry thirty dollars' interest for his money, he
would get two or three hundred dollars, and this would abundantly make
up what he needed to live in good style at Mrs. Clayton's, and afford
Rose and himself occasional recreation. Of course a good deal depended
on the honesty of George Black. But of this young man Rufus had a very
good opinion, having known him for two or three years. Besides, as
partner he would be entitled to inquire into the state of the business
at any time, and if anything was wrong he would take care that it was
righted.

"What are you thinking about?" inquired the young man, observing his
silence.

"How would you like me for a partner?" asked Rufus, looking up suddenly.

"I'd just as lief have you as anybody, if you had the money," said
George Black.

"I have got the money," said our hero.

"You don't mean to say you've got five hundred dollars?" asked Black, in
surprise.

"Yes, I do."

"How did you get it? You didn't make it selling papers in the street."

"You may bet on that. No; I found part of it and the rest I had given
me."

"Tell me about it."

Rufus did so.

"Where is the money?"

"I keep it in a savings-bank."

"I'll tell you what, Rufus," said George, "if you'll buy out the shop
for me, and come in as my partner, I'll do what I said, and that'll be
a good deal better than the savings-bank can do for you."

"That's true; but there'll be more risk."

"I don't think there will. I shall manage the business economically, and
you can come in any time and see how it's going on. But I never thought
you had so much money."

"If you had, maybe you'd have thought more of me," said Rufus.

"Maybe I should. 'Money makes the mare go' in this world. But when will
you let me know about it? I've only got two days to decide in."

"I should like to see the shop myself," said Rufus, with commendable
prudence.

"Of course; that's what I'd like to have you do. When will you come
round with me and see it?"

"I can't come now," said our hero, "for it would make me late at the
office. Is it open in the evening?"

"Yes."

"Then I'll tell you what. I'll meet you there this evening at eight
o'clock. Just give me the number, and I'll be sure to be there."

"All right. Have you got a pencil?"

"Yes; and here's one of our cards. You can put it down here."

The address was put down, and the two parted.

George Black went round to the shop at once to say that he would
probably be able to make an arrangement. In the evening, at the
appointed hour, the two met at the periodical store.

Rufus was favorably impressed on first entering. The room was small, but
it was very neat. It had a good window opening to the street, and it
appeared well filled with stock. A hasty survey satisfied our hero that
the stock was really worth more than the amount asked for it.

The proprietor seemed a sickly-looking man, and the plea of ill-health,
judging from his appearance, might readily be credited.

"This is the capitalist I spoke of this morning," said George Black,
introducing Rufus.

"He seems young,", said the proprietor, a little surprised.

"I'm not very aged yet," said Rufus, smiling.

"The main thing is, that he's got the money," said Black. "He's in
business in Wall Street, and is looking about for an investment of his
spare funds."

Rufus was rather pleased with this way of stating his position. He saw
that it heightened his importance considerably in the mind of the owner
of the shop.

"He'll do well to invest here," said the latter. "It's a good stand. I
wouldn't sell out if my health would let me hold on. But confinement
doesn't suit me. The doctor says I shan't live a year, if I stay here,
and life is better than money."

"That's so."

"How long has this shop been established?" asked Rufus.

"Five years."

"It ought to be pretty well known."

"Yes; it's got a good run of custom. If the right man takes hold of it,
he'll make money. He can't help it."

"What do you think of it, Rufus?" asked George Black, turning to our
hero. "Isn't it as I represented?"

"Yes," said Rufus. "I should think a good business might be done here."

"If I get hold of it, a good business shall be done here," said Black,
emphatically. "But it all depends on you. Say the word, and we'll close
the bargain now."

"All right!" said Rufus, promptly. "I'll say the word. We'll take the
shop."




CHAPTER VIII.

THE NEW BOARDING-HOUSE.
