A hard, dogmatic, purse-proud woman, who had hunted 
up some needy relatives to swell the list of her worshippers, and 
add to the insense on the shrine of her self-love. 
" HE has answered my prayer at last, and raised up friends 
in our need," she went on, in a low, grateful tone, that was 
thanksgiving in itself. 
Victor looked at the saint-like face. How much she had 
borne, and how meekly. Was there, of a truth, an under 
current that he knew nothing about that sometimes saw God 
face to face ? 
 
"I was not aware that you had any connections living," 
he said, presently. 
"I knew not whether they were living or dead. I remem 
ber that Mrs. McRae came to our house once, sometime 
before my father died, and that the two had a dispute, 
parting bad friends. My father was hot and unreasonable 
when roused. They were distant cousins, and she married 
one of the relatives. The family never was large." 
"But rich," Victor said, in a half-repressed contempt. 
"They were thrifty, hard-working people ;" and she sighed a 
little. Her father had never troubled himself about the small 
details of economy or management in any shape. 
" I like Doctor Trewartha. Can he be a relative?" 
"I hardly think so." Then she turned and studied her 
son's face. 
"Victor," she began again, falteringly, "whatever good 
or pleasure may come out of this visit, whatever friendship 
may be proffered, do not refuse. For what Janet McRae gives 
she gives ungrudgingly." 
She looked so worn and weary, so tired with the buffetings 
of many storms, that his heart was moved with infinite pity. 
" Mother," he cried, thrusting down a great wave of passion 
that in another soul might have made tears, "God knows that 
I have brought you pain enough following my own devices. 
I have never been the comfort that a son should be. I thought 
myself so much wiser than he" nodding to the closed room 
beyond, "and went to meddling with souls as well as bodies, 
and have failed miserably. Nothing that I ever touched pros 
pered. And since I have shown myself so weak, so easily led 
astray, I will take the destiny of no other human creature in 
my hands. If Janet McRae chooses to befriend you and my 
father, no word of mine shall anger or frustrate good inten 
tions. Let her come as she will. I have dragged you nearly 
to starvation." 
She noticed that he left himself out. Yes, he would be too 
 
proud to live on Mrs. McRae's money, if it ever came to that ; 
and somehow the cordial clasps of the hand had meant a good 
deal to her, gone to the depths of her soul. It would be as 
well, perhaps, for him to carve out his own fortune if he 
could ever find the right place. 
"We all make mistakes ;" with pathetic submission. 
" But mine was such a senseless blunder. And yet I think I 
had a little right on my side, at all events. I was true to my 
order at last ;" with a kind of scornful pity. 
Was it his order? John Hurst, in the narrowness of human 
wisdom, had put him there, but the soul would go on strug 
gling and beating the bars until it found liberty and space to 
cleave the air with its wings. 
All she could do was to pray, for she had returned to the 
God-given centre of faith after all her wanderings and unbelief. 
God would send the right in His own good time. 
Meanwhile Doctor Trewartha pulled the lap-robe over his 
companion's feet, although the coach was closed. She settled 
herself with her strong, independent air, and looked quite a 
queen in the dim light of the lamp. 
"Well," he said, "are you satisfied ?" And there was a quiet 
curl of amusement around the bearded mouth. 
"If I had expected to regret it I should not have come." 
"There is quite a space between satisfaction and regret;" 
gravely, still smiling. "And first impressions sway you." 
"Which matters little, since they do not need to be of 
unalloyed pleasure. But you are never satisfied, Doctor 
Trewartha, until one is turned inside out for your delectation. 
Well, Anah Hurst is a good deal changed ; has become a weak, 
religious enthusiast, which is just so much better than a strong 
one. She needs fresh air, generous food, walks and rides, and 
some society of the right kind, to give her moral strength and 
largeness of purpose and idea. I never did fancy women fed 
exclusively on a diet of sermons." 
"Unless you had to preach them yourself." 
 
She laughed this time ; she was used to his sharp thrusts. 
"Yes, I like my own preaching. It is a weakness of human 
nature, I cling to a few in order to keep myself womanly." 
"And the young man ?" when she had made a long 
pause. 
"The face is too handsome. It brought up a shadowy 
something that eludes my memory ; but there is passion and 
ambition in it, a strong side of feeling and but half-grown 
brain, or he wouldn't have thrown himself into that gulf yon 
der, poor fool ! He's been fed on a mush of transcenden 
talism, and rights, and wrongs, until he hardly knows where 
he stands, and yet he has the face of an aristocrat. It's the 
contradiction I like," growing vehement; "the weak side 
of inconsistency, the rapid moods travelling from heaven to hell 
in a moment of space, and the mouth that shuts in hopes, 
aims, and desires, like a vice. He would never utter weak, 
blatant cries when fate had him at her worst." 
"You have been studying him pretty well," said the Doctor 
in some surprise. 
"My eyes were for him, my ears for his mother. And, 
Frank Trewartha, I mean to take them home with me. If he 
suits me on farther acquaintance, I shall make him heir of 
Cragness. I'd like to go to my grave with the thought of 
a McRae reigning after me. Though he has but little of the 
blood there never was a handsome one in the whole race. I 
mean that he shall have the name, however. " 
Doctor Trewartha sat and mused. "She should have had 
a son," he said to himself. 
CHAPTER XV. 
THE morning came in with a storm : a dreary leaden sky 
and a bitter wind scurrying the pellets of snow about and drift 
ing them into nooks and crannies, corners of stoops, and the 
ground edge of fences. Anah Hurst tidied up her simple 
room, bathed her husband's face and hands, and put on his 
gray woollen dressing-gown. Victor lifted him into the arm 
chair and dragged him in front of the fire. 
There was something in the wasted and melancholy figure 
and the indescribable pathos of the eyes that touched Victor 
singularly this morning, especially as they followed him round 
with that haunting, longing look. You could see that the 
brain had gone a little astray, in the effort he made to think, 
to recover his own identity and that of those around him, or 
perhaps some subtle sense of the secret he considered his, 
and felt that he must still hide. A wandering, wavering light, 
unsubstantial as dreams, and a childish longing for the love 
he had deemed it his duty to thrust aside, when the march oi 
life was hurried. Heaven knows it was slow enough now. 
"Are you going away?" reaching out the hand that shook 
visibly, something beyond a mere nervous tremble. 
"I was not." 
He came a little nearer and took the wasted fingers in his, 
tried to smile soothingly into the apprehensive eyes. 
" I thought you were going ;" in a vague way, as if trying to 
remember. "We should be all alone, Victor, two poor old 
people. I used to think if God ever gave me a son it 
vanishes so fast, like the light playing over the water. I meant 
to do the best. You were a pretty little boy, Victor I used to 
  
carry you in my arms to church when your hair was like threads 
of gold. What is it ? a sword to pierce through thine own 
heart ! She loved you so well, better than God, I was afraid, 
and after her prayers she used to go and kiss you in the cradle. 
Sometimea in the night I would miss her, and I could see her 
standing there like a white phantom. God forbade idols, you 
know." 
Anah knelt down and leaned her cheek against her husband's 
knee. Perhaps the poor old man had fought a jealous demon 
in his own heart as well. 
"There are no idols," she said, in her sweet, clear voice. 
"God bade us love and comfort one another. If He gave 
Himself for the world, ought not we to give ourselves to love 
and good works for His sake ?" 
"I wanted him saved ;" his long lids dropping dreamily. 
" It would have been so hard for her not to find her little boy 
in heaven. Could any one have comforted her ?" 
Victor turned his eyes to his mother's, dimly understanding 
what temporal or spiritual loss would be to her. 
