was only the wreck of a man, and it would have been strange indeed
if his moral perception had not been impaired by his long course of
dissipation. I hastened to the place which had been described to me by
the bar-tender. The establishment had a bar-room on the lower floor,
with a private staircase to the apartments above, where games of chance
were played.
I went into the bar-room, and saw well-dressed gentlemen passing
through the private door to the stairs. I looked about the place a
short time. If my father was in the building, he was up stairs, and I
decided to attempt the passage. At the foot of the stairs a man stopped
me, and told me that no boys were allowed in the rooms above. I was
willing to believe that, considering the character of the house, this
was a very wholesome regulation; but I wished to find my father. I
asked the sentinel if Mr. Farringford was up stairs. He did not know;
if he was I couldn't see him. I inquired for Lynch then, but could
obtain no satisfaction. I insisted upon seeing one or both of these men
with so much zeal that the inside sentinel ordered me to leave the
premises. I gently and respectfully remonstrated; but the fellow took
me by the arm, and walked me out into the street. As I had no rights
there, I did not resist.
I was rather indignant at this treatment, though I ought not to
have expected decent conduct on the part of the officials of such
an establishment. I decided not to abandon my purpose, though any
satisfactory result was rather hopeless just then. I planted myself on
the opposite side of the street, and watched the house, taking note of
every one who went in or came out. I meant to stay there till midnight
if necessary, for I judged from the answers of the inside sentinel that
the persons for whom I had inquired were there.
My patience held out till the clock struck eight, when a policeman,
by some strange fatality, happened to pass the place. He was on the
other side of the street, and glanced into the bar-room as he passed.
I determined to walk at his side, and tell him my story, so far as it
related to the loss of my money. I crossed over for the purpose of
joining him, hoping to induce him to enter the gambling-house with me.
As I reached the front of the establishment, two men came out, both
of them making use of rather sharp language. Their voices attracted my
attention.
One of them was Lynch, and the other was Farringford.
"I will not have my steps dogged by such a fellow as you are?"
exclaimed the former, angrily.
"Don't make a noise, Lynch," said Farringford. "If you do, I'll refer
the matter to a policeman, and send for the boy."
"Nonsense! I've told you I know nothing about the boy or his money,"
added Lynch, moving down the street in the direction of the river.
Deeply interested in the discussion, I followed the parties closely
enough to hear every word they spoke. From what Lynch said I learned
that they had already discussed the subject at the gambling-house; and
I judged that the robber had fled in order to escape the importunity of
the other.
"The boy speaks the truth, and if you don't give his money back I will
make St. Louis too warm for your comfort," retorted Farringford,
warmly.
"I don't want to be bored with this matter any more," said Lynch. "If
you will clear out I will give you a dollar to get drunk upon."
"I ask no man to give me anything. That won't do; I want the money for
the boy."
"Why should you bother your head about the boy?"
"He's my boy, and I won't see him wronged by any one."
"Your boy!"
"Yes, my boy! He's my son," persisted Farringford.
"Nonsense! You have lost your wits."
I thought I had lost mine too. I could not believe that Farringford
intended to speak the truth when he said I was his son. He could not
possibly have known that I was his son. But my heart leaped up into
my throat when it flashed upon my mind that my father had opened the
bureau drawer in my room, where I had placed the locket and the little
clothes I had worn when I was picked up on the Missouri River. Yet this
was not probable, for I had locked the drawer, and put the key in a
safe place. I was more inclined to think that Farringford called me
his son in order to explain his interest in my affairs. I followed the
two men to the levee, where they suddenly halted near a street lamp. I
dodged out of their sight, and kept walking back and forth near them;
but, as I was a boy, they did not seem to notice me, or at least to
consider my presence of any importance.
"I am willing to get rid of you, Farringford, at any reasonable price,"
said Lynch. "I will not be dogged another foot farther."
"Then give me back the ninety-seven dollars and a half you stole from
my boy," added Farringford.
"Don't say that thing again to me. I will give you five dollars if you
will bore me no more."
"No; I want the whole."
"Once for all, then, will you clear out, or not?"
"Once for all, I will not till you give up the money you stole from my
boy."
"Then take the consequences," said Lynch, as he sprang upon the
tottling Farringford.
My blood boiled then, and leaping upon Lynch, I bore him to the ground.
He released his hold upon my father when he felt my grasp upon him.
"Police!" I shouted, as I lay upon my victim.
He struggled to shake me off; but I held on, for I knew that I must
keep the advantage or lose my man.
  CHAPTER XIII.
  IN WHICH PHIL HAS ANOTHER MISHAP, AND IS TAKEN TO A POLICE STATION.
I had measured the form and estimated the muscle of Lynch before I
paid my respects to him. He had threatened me when I met him on the
preceding day, and I came to the conclusion that, after passing through
one Indian campaign, I should not run away from such a puny fellow as
he was. As a boy I was strong, as a man he was weak, and having him
under me I had all the advantage. He struggled but a moment, and then
changed his tone.
"Don't make a row, Phil," said he, panting under the exhaustion of his
efforts.
"You do know me, then," I replied, puffing not less than he.
"I do. Let me up, Phil, and I will give you your money."
"I don't think I shall take your word again," I added, with a candor
becoming the exciting occasion.
"Let me up, Phil; there will be a crowd around us in a moment."
"No matter; I won't let you up till you give me some security for your
good behavior."
"Better let him up as quick as possible," interposed Mr. Farringford.
"There are some men coming down the street."
"I will hold on to him till he makes it safe for me to let him go," I
replied.
"Put your hand into my breast pocket, and take out my pocket-book. It
contains over two hundred dollars," said Lynch.
I followed his directions; but I was not satisfied in regard to the
contents of the pocket-book. It might be stuffed with brown paper for
aught I knew, for I had read about some of the tricks of swindlers in
great cities, in the newspapers, since I came to St. Louis.
"Take it, Mr. Farringford, and see what is in it," I added, handing it
to my father.
"Let me up, Phil," pleaded Lynch.
"Not yet, Mr. Lynchpinne."
"If you are not satisfied, take the purse out of my side pocket. It
contains fifty or sixty dollars in gold."
I took the purse from his pocket, and it was heavy enough to be filled
with gold.
"Now let me up, Phil. Don't get up a row here."
I was not quite satisfied that we had a sufficient security for the
money I had lost, and I wished my father to examine the purse after he
had reported on the contents of the pocket-book.
"What's the row?" demanded a couple of men coming out of the street by
which we had reached our present position.
"Let me up, Phil," said Lynch, in a low tone.
"Let him up," said my father, in a tone so earnest that I could not
disregard it.
Lynch sprang to his feet, and began to brush the dirt from his clothes.
"What's the trouble?" repeated the two strangers.
"No trouble," replied Lynch. "Come, we will go up to Forstellar's and
settle the matter."
Without waiting to have the matter discussed, Lynch started at a
rapid pace, and my father and I followed him. The two strangers, who
manifested a strong interest in the proceedings, again demanded an
explanation; and as they received none, they came up the street after
us.
"I'm not going to any gambling-house to settle the matter," said I,
placing myself at the side of Lynch.
"Where will you go?" demanded he, impatiently.
"Come to my boarding-house."
"No; I am not going to be led into any trap."
"There is no trap about it. You will see no one but a woman."
"I don't care about going to a private house."
"And I don't care about going to a gambling-saloon."
"You have all my money. Do you mean to keep the whole of it?"
"If I should it would be serving you right; but I don't intend to take
any more than belongs to me. Will you go to the Planters' Hotel?" I
asked.
"Why not go to Forstellar's? It is nearer, and I am in a hurry."
"I won't go into such a place if I can help it."
"You need not go up stairs--only into the bar-room."
