"Yes, and has been for four hours. The tables are turned."

"Untie me, Phil. I am in great pain."

"If I can do anything to relieve your pain, I will, but I will not
untie you."

He pleaded and begged for me to release him, but I dared not do so. He
complained bitterly of his head, and made me various offers to let him
go. I assured him that I should hand him over to the police the next
day; until then, I would do anything I could to make him comfortable,
except to give him his liberty. I brought up the bedding and pillows
belonging to one of the berths in the cabin, and prepared an easy couch
beneath him. I directed Peter to give him his supper, and to feed him
like a child. He said he was comfortable then, but begged for whiskey.
I refused to honor this demand; and finding that Peter was boozing more
than I deemed best, I emptied all the bottles into the lake, with the
hope that the fish would not be harmed by it.

Marian retired at an early hour; but she came on deck in the middle of
the night, and insisted upon taking the helm; yet I dared not sleep,
for the wind was freshening, and we spent the rest of the night in
talking. At daylight I discovered the steeples of Chicago in the
distance. We had a stiff breeze then, and at six o'clock I ran the
Marian into the river.




CHAPTER XXVII.

IN WHICH PHIL VISITS MR. COLLINGSBY AGAIN, AND IS A HERO IN SPITE OF
HIMSELF.


Having run the Marian into the river, I brought her alongside the pier
at her usual landing-place. I was very tired, and my head still ached
severely. I had hardly touched the pier before a man stepped on board
without any invitation, and came aft to the standing-room where I was.

"Who runs this boat now?" demanded he.

"I have been running her for the last few hours," I replied.

"What's her name?"

"Her name is the Marian now. Formerly it was the Michigan."

"All right, then. I attach her, and take possession, in the suit of
Washburn versus Waterford."

"I'm willing; I have no further use for her," I replied. "But what's
the trouble?"

"Mr. Waterford's gone up."

"Gone up where?"

"Failed, and those that can get hold of anything are doing so. I have
got hold of this boat."

"I thought Mr. Waterford was a rich man," I added, glancing at Marian.

"Most people thought so; but he is a bankrupt now. He made some ten or
twelve thousand dollars, they say, in a lucky speculation, and on the
strength of that has had the reputation of being worth a hundred
thousand. He and Mr. Whippleton have been making some bad speculations
in lands, which will not fetch what they paid for them. While they were
looking over the affairs of Mr. Whippleton, who ran away, they found
that Waterford was as deep in the mud as he was in the mire. I have
been on the lookout for this boat since night before last."

"What has been done about Mr. Whippleton's affairs?" I asked, with no
little curiosity.

"His partner has been overhauling his business, and finds that he has
been terribly swindled. Officers have been on the lookout for him since
he left, and telegrams have been sent in every direction. They can't
find him, or even hear of him. He went off in his boat, and they think
now that he has made his way into Canada. Where have you been all this
time with the boat?"

"On a cruise. Are you an officer?" I asked.

"Certainly I am. How could I serve a writ if I were not?"

"Do you know where there is another one?"

"I can find a policeman, I suppose. What do you want of him?"

"I have a prisoner I wish to put into safe keeping."

"Who is he?"

"Mr. Charles Whippleton."

"You don't say so!" exclaimed the officer.

I pulled off the blankets in which the late junior partner had enfolded
himself, and exhibited my prisoner.

"What's the matter with him? Is he sick?"

"He has a sore head. But please to get another officer, and a
carriage."

"Let him get two. I want one," said Marian.

"I don't know you; but I begin to think you are the clerk that
disappeared," added the man.

"I am; I was in the employ of Collingsby and Whippleton."

"Nobody knew what had become of you; but Mr. Whippleton's mother said
you had run away with all her property. The officers are on the lookout
for you also."

"I am at their disposal whenever they want me," I replied, choking at
this disagreeable information.

"Mr. Collingsby thinks you have gone with Whippleton, and that you were
concerned with him in the frauds."

"Does he?"

"Is this lady Miss Collingsby?"

"It is."

"Her father and mother believe she has run away with Mr. Waterford.
There's all sorts of stories floating about. I suppose, if I bring one
of the police, they will arrest you."

"No matter for that; bring him along. If I had been guilty, I should
not have brought Mr. Whippleton back."

The officer departed, and I lowered the mainsail. I told Peter to put
the yacht in good order.

"Can't you untie me now, Phil?" asked Mr. Whippleton.

"Not till the officers come. I don't intend to make any more blunders."

"You have wound me up completely," said he, bitterly, as he glanced
towards the city. "I suppose I must take things as they come."

"Your mother accuses me of running away with her property. How could
that be if she gave you an order for the package?" I inquired.

"I dare say you will get at the whole truth in due time. It is not
necessary for me to say anything more."

And he did not say anything more. He was in pain bodily; but I am sure
his sufferings mentally were infinitely more intense. As I looked at
him, reclining on his couch, I could not help thinking that his mother
was even more to blame for his misfortunes than he was himself. Instead
of filling his mind with Christian principles, she had fed him with the
dry husks of worldly wisdom. She had taught him to get money; that it
was shrewd and praiseworthy to overreach and deceive. His father had
died when he was young, and his mother had had the whole training of
