Maybe she means to use him as a poultice for her bruised heart. In that
case, insipidity would be no objection.”
Mabel had not the air of one whose heart is bruised or torn. That she
had gained in queenliness within the past year was not evidence of
austerity or the callousness that ensues upon the healing of a wound.
The Ayletts were a stately race, and the few who, while she was in her
teens, had carped at her lack of pride because of her disposition to
choose friends from the walks of life lower than her own, and criticised
as unbecoming the playful familiarity that caused underlings and
plebeians--the publicans and sinners of the aristocrat’s creed--to
worship the ground on which she trod--the censors in the court of
etiquette conferred upon her altered demeanor the patent of their
approbation, averring, for the thousandth time, that good blood would
assert itself in the long run and bring forth the respectable fruits of
refinement, self-appreciation, and condescension. The change had
come over her by perceptible, but not violent, stages of progression,
dating--Mrs. Sutton saw with pain; Rosa, with enforced respect--from the
sunset hour in which she had read her brother’s sentence of condemnation
upon her then betrothed, now estranged, lover. After that one evening,
she had not striven to conceal herself and her hurt in solitude. Neither
had she borrowed from desperation a brazen helmet to hide the forehead
the cruel letter had, for a brief space, laid low in the dust of
anguished humiliation.
If a whisper of her disappointment and the attendant incidents
crept through the ranks of her associates, it died away for want of
confirmation in her clear level-lidded eyes, elastic footfall and the
willingness and frequency with which she appeared and played her part
in the various scenes of gayety that made the winter succeeding her
brother’s marriage one long to be remembered by the pleasure-seekers
of the vicinity. She had not disdained the assistance of her
sister-in-law’s judgment and experience in the choice of the dresses
that were to grace these merry-makings, and, thanks to her own naturally
excellent taste, now tacitly disputed the palm of elegant attire with
that lady. Her Christmas costume, which, in many others of her age,
would have been objected to by critical fashionists, as old-maidish and
grave, yet set off her pale complexion--none of the Ayletts were rosy
after they reached man’s or woman’s estate--and heightened her distingue
bearing into regal grace. Yet it was only a heavy black silk, rich and
glossy as satin, cut, as was then the universal rule of evening
dress, tolerably low in the neck, with short sleeves; bunches of
pomegranate-blossoms and buds for breast and shoulder-knots, and among
the classic braids of her dark hair a half-wreath of the same.
She had the valuable gift of sitting still without stiffness, and not
fidgetting with fan, bouquet, or hand-kerchief, as she listened or
talked. Rosa’s mercurial temperament betrayed itself, every instant, in
the bird-like turn of her small head, the fluttering or chafing of her
brown fingers, and not unfrequently by an impatient stamp, or other
movement of her foot that exposed fairy toe and instep. Contemplation
of the one rested and refreshed the observer; of the other, amused and
excited him. Mr. Dorrance’s phlegmatic nature found supreme content in
dwelling upon the incarnation of patrician tranquillity at his right
hand, and he regarded the actions of his frisky would-be tormentor very
much as a placid, well-gorged salmon would survey, from his bed of
ease upon the bottom of a stream, the gyrations of a painted dragon fly
overhead.
A lull in the general conversation--the reaction after a hearty laugh at
a happy repartee--gave others besides Mabel the opportunity of profiting
by his learned remarks.
“But does not that seem to you a short-sighted policy,” he was urging
upon his auditor, with the assistance of a thumb and forefinger of one
hand, joined as upon a pinch of snuff, and tapping the centre of
the other palm; “does not that appear inexcusable profligacy of
extravagance, which fells and consumes whole surface forests of
magnificent trees--virgin growth--(I use the term as it is usually
applied, although, philosophically considered, it is inaccurate)
giants, which centuries will not replace, instead of seeking beneath
the superficial covering of mould, nourishing these, for the exhaustless
riches, carboniferous remains of antediluvian woods, hidden in the
bowels of your mountains, and underlying your worn-out fields?”
Rosa was shaking with internal laughter--she would give no escape except
through her dancing eyes.
Indeed, Mr. Dorrance’s was the only staid countenance there, as Mabel
said, pleasantly, moving her chair beyond the bounds of the ring, “I,
for one, find the combustion of the upper forest growth too powerful,
just at this instant. This is a genuine Christmas-storm--is it not?
Listen to the wind?”
In the stillness enjoined by her gesture, the growl of the blast in the
chimney and in the grove; the groaning, tapping, and creaking of the
tree branches; the pelting sleet and the rattle of casements all
over the house brought to the least imaginative a picture of out-door
desolation and fireside comfort that prolonged the hush of attention.
Tom Barksdale’s pretty wife slipped her hand covertly into his tight
grasp, and their smile was of mutual congratulation that they were
brightly and warmly housed and together. Rosa, preternaturally grave and
quiet, lapsed into a profound study of the mountain of red-hot embers.
Several young ladies shuddered audibly, as well as visibly, and were
reassured by a whispered word, or the slightest conceivable movement of
their gallants’ chairs nearer their own.
“I think we have the grandest storms at Ridgeley that visit our
continent,” resumed Mabel thoughtfully. “I suppose because the house
stands so high. The wind never sounds to me anywhere else as it does
here on winter nights.”
Yielding to the weird attraction of the scene invoked by her fancy, she
arose and walked to the window at the eastern extremity of the hall,
pulling aside the curtain that she might peer into the wild darkness.
The crimson light of the burning logs and the lamp rays threw a strongly
defined shadow of her figure upon the piazza floor, distinct as
that projected by a solar microscope upon a sheeted wall; sent long,
searching rays into the misty fall of the snow, past the spot from
which she had her last glimpse of Frederic Chilton, so many, many months
agone, showing the black outline of the gate where he had looked back to
lift his hat to her.
What was there in the wintry night and thick tempest to recall the
warmth and odor of that moist September morning, the smell of the
dripping roses overhead, the balmy humidity of every breath she drew?
What in her present companion that reminded her of the loving clasp that
had thrilled her heart into palpitation? the earnest depth of the eyes
that held hers during the one sharp, yet sweet moment of parting--eyes
that pledged the fealty of her lover’s soul, and demanded hers then and
forever? His conscience might have been sullied by crimes more heinous
than those charged upon him by her brother and his friends; he might--he
HAD--let her go easily, as one resigns his careless hold upon a
paltry, unprized toy; but when her hand had rested thus in his, and
his passionate regards penetrated her soul, he loved her, alone and
entirely! She would fold this conviction to her torpid heart for a
little while before she turned herself away finally from the memories
of that love-summer and battle-autumn of her existence. If it aroused
in the chilled thing some slight pangs of sentiency, it would do her no
hurt to realize through these that it had once been alive.
She saw a shadow approaching to join itself to hers upon the whitened
floor without, before Mr. Dorrance interrupted her reverie by words.
“The fury of the tempest you admire proves its paternity,” he said, with
a manifest effort at lightness. “It emanates from the vast magazines of
frost, snow, and wintry wind that lie far to the north-east even of my
home, and THAT is in a region you would think drear and inhospitable
after the more clement airs of of your native State.”
“We have very cold weather in Virginia sometimes,” returned Mabel, still
scanning the sentinel gate-posts, and the pyramidal arbor-vitae trees
flanking them.
Her gaze was a mournful farewell, but she neglected none of the
amenities of hospitality. She was used to talking commonplaces.
“We feel it all the more, too, on account of the mildness of the greater
part of the winter,” she subjoined.
“Allow me!” said the other, looping back the curtain she had until now
held in her hand. “Whereas our systems are braced by a more uniform
temperature to endure the severity of our frosts, and high, keen
blasts.”
“I suppose so,” assented Mabel, mechanically, and unconscious as himself
that meaning glances were stolen at them from the fireside circle, while
the hum and conversation was continuous and louder, for the good-natured
intent on the speakers’ part to afford the supposed lovers the chance of
carrying on their dialogue unheard.
“But our houses are very comfortable--often very beautiful,” Mr.
Dorrance persevered, keeping to the scent of his game, as a trained
pointer scours a stubble-field, narrowing his beat at every circuit;
“and the hearts of those who live in them are warm and constant. It is
not always true that
    “‘The cold in clime are cold in blood;
     Their love can scarce deserve the name.
“I have thought sometimes that that feeling is strongest and most
enduring, the demonstration of which is guarded and infrequent, as the
deepest portion of the channel is the most quiet.”
If his philosophical and scientific talk were heavy and solid, his
poetry and metaphors were ponderous and labored. Yet Mabel listened to
him now, neither facing nor avoiding him, looking down at her hands,
laid, one above the other, upon the window-sill, the image of maidenly
and courteous attention.
Why should she affect diffidence, or seek to escape what she had
foreseen for weeks, and made no effort to ward off? She had come to the
conclusion in October that Herbert Dorrance would, when the forms he
