his mouth into the street.
"What's the matter?" demanded the waiter, struggling to keep from
laughing.
"What abominably nasty stuff!" exclaimed Laybold. "It's just like fish
slime."
"Don't you like it, Laybold?" asked Scott, coolly.
"Like it? I don't like it."
"Everybody in Sweden eats it," said the waiter.
"What's the matter with it? Is it like defunct cat?" asked Scott.
"More like defunct fish. Try it."
"I will, my lad," added Scott, taking a liberal bite of one of the
sandwiches.
"How is it?" inquired Laybold.
"First rate; that's the diet for me."
"Very good," said the waiter.
"You don't mean to say you like that stuff, Scott."
"The proof of the pudding is the eating of the bag. I do like it, even
better than 'finkel.'"
"I don't believe it. No one with a Christian stomach could eat such
stuff."
"You judge by your own experience. I say it is good. Yours isn't a
Christian stomach, and that's the reason you don't like it."
"You are a heathen, Scott."
"Heathen enough to know what's good."
"Some more finkel, sir?" suggested the waiter.
"No more finkel for me," replied Scott, whose head was beginning to
whirl like a top.
"Better take some more," laughed Laybold, who was in the same
condition.
"I can't stop to take any more; I'm hungry," replied Scott, who
continued to devour the various viands on the table, till his
companion's patience was exhausted.
"Come, Scott, we shall be late at the landing."
"We won't go home till morning," chanted the boozy student.
"I will go now;" and Laybold stood up, and tried to walk to the
door--a feat which he accomplished with no little difficulty.
"Don't be in a hurry, my boy. Come and take some finkel."
"I don't want any finkel."
"Then come and pay the bill. I shall clean out this concern if I stay
any longer."
"How much, waiter?" stammered Laybold.
"One riksdaler."
"Cheap enough. I should have been broken if they charged by the pound
for what I ate."
"That's so," added Laybold, as he gave the waiter an English
sovereign, and received his change in paper.
"Now, my boy, we'll go to sea again," said Scott, as he staggered
towards the door. "See here, Laybold."
"Well, what do you want?" snarled the latter.
"I'll tell you something, if you won't say anything about it to any
one."
"I won't."
"Don't tell the principal."
"No."
"Well, then, we're drunk," added Scott, with a tipsy grin.
"You are."
"I am, my boy; I don't know a bob-stay from a bowling hitch. And you
are as drunk as I am, Laybold."
"I know what I am about."
"So do I know what you are about. You are making a fool of yourself.
Hold on a minute," added Scott, as he seated himself on a bench before
a shop.
"Come along, Scott."
"Not for Joseph."
"We shall be left."
"That's just what I want. I'm not going to present myself before the
principal in this condition--not if I know it."
Laybold, finding that it was not convenient to stand, seated himself
by the side of his companion. Presently they discovered a party of
officers on their way to the boats, and they staggered into a lane to
escape observation. The two students, utterly vanquished by "finkel,"
did not appear at the landing, and the boats left without them.
CHAPTER XI.
ON THE WAY TO THE RJUKANFOS.
"What may the Rjukanfos be?" asked Clyde Blacklock, after his courier
had started on his return to Christiania.
"O, it's a big thing," replied Sanford. "You can bet high on it."
"Doubtless I can; but is it a mountain, a river, or a lake?"
"'Pon my word, I don't know. Here, Norway!" he shouted to Ole, who was
with the rest of the party.
"I'm here, Mr. Coxswain," replied the waif.
"What's the Rjukanfos? You told me we ought to go there; but I'll be
hanged if I know whether it's a lake or a river."
"Neither a lake nor a river," replied Ole. "It's a big waterfall.
Fos, on the end of a word, always makes a waterfall of it. There's
another, the Vöringfos; but that's too far away."
"How far is it?"
"I don't know; but it's a long distance," added Ole. "All the other
fellows think we are going to Christiania in the morning."
"All but Stockwell and Rodman," answered Sanford, who had told Ole
about the new recruit.
"So you are going to play it upon them--are you?" laughed Clyde.
"Just a little. We don't want to leave Norway without seeing something
of the country, and the rest of the fellows won't go. So we are going
to take them along with us."
"Excellent! That will be a magnificent joke," exclaimed Clyde. "I'm
with you. I suppose you all ran away from the ship when you found the
tyranny was too much for you."
"O, no! We didn't run away. We wouldn't do that. Somehow, by an
accident, our boat was stove, and we were carried off by a steamer.
Then we couldn't get back to Christiansand before the ship sailed, and
we were obliged to come across the country to Christiania, you see."
"I see," replied Clyde, knowingly. "But you don't mean to go back to
the ship--do you?"
"Certainly we do," protested Sanford.
"Then you are bigger spoonies than I thought you were."
"But we are afraid the ship will be gone before we can reach
Christiania."
"O, you are afraid of it."
"Very much afraid of it."
"You wouldn't cry if you found she had gone--would you?"
"Well, perhaps we should not cry, for we think we ought to be manly,
and not be babies; but, of course, we should feel very bad about it."
"O, you would!"
"Certainly we should; for if we were caught running away, staying
away longer than is necessary, or anything of that sort, our liberty
would be stopped, and we should not be allowed to go on shore with the
rest of the fellows."
"You are a deep one, Mr. Coxswain," added Clyde.
"O, no! I'm only a simple-minded young man, that always strives to do
his duty as well as he knows how."
"I dare say you think it is your duty to visit
the--what-ye-call-it?--the waterfall."
"You see it is just as near to go that way as the other."
"Is it?"
"Well, if it isn't, we shall not know the fact till after we have been
there."
"I think I understand you perfectly, Mr. Coxswain; but I don't intend
to return to the ship under any circumstances."
"You can do as you please, but if we should happen to miss the ship,
why, we shall be obliged to travel till we find her."
"Exactly so," laughed Clyde.
"But don't understand me that we mean to run away, or to keep away
from the ship any longer than is absolutely necessary; for we are all
good boys, and always mean to obey our officers."
"I don't mean to do any such thing. After I hear that the ship has
left Christiania, I shall go there, find my mother, and travel where I
please."
The next morning the party started on their journey, and by the middle
of the afternoon arrived at a station between Lysthus and Tinoset,
where the road to the Rjukanfos branched off from that to the
capital. They were compelled to wait an hour here for a change of
horses. Rogues rarely believe that they are suspected, and Sanford
was confident that his companions, with the exception of Rodman and
Stockwell, had no idea of his intentions. Burchmore had not failed to
notice the repeated conferences between those who were plotting the
mischief. He was not quite satisfied with the delay which had enabled
the party to catch that solitary salmon at Apalstö. He was one of the
first to enter the station-house where the carioles stopped. On the
table he found "The Hand-book of Norway," which contained a large map.
He was anxious to possess this book.
"Hvor?" said he, using a word he had learned of Ole, which meant
"how much," at the same time holding up the book, and exhibiting his
money.
"Tre," replied the woman in the room; by which he understood her to
mean three marks, for at the same time she laughingly held up three
fingers.
Burchmore paid the money, and put the book into his pocket. Retreating
behind the stable with Churchill, who rode in the cariole with him, he
produced the volume, and spread out the map. Without much difficulty
