to do; and for that Mr. Wharncliffe had promised his help. She must
wait. In the meanwhile she studied carefully the question, what it was
best for her to give to her sisters and the members of her immediate
family circle; and very grave became Matilda's consideration of the
shops. Her little face was almost comical now and then in its absorbed
pondering of articles and prices and calculation of sums. An incredible
number and variety of the latter, both in addition and subtraction,
were done in her head those days, resolving twenty dollars into an
unheard of number of parts and forming an unknown number of
combinations with them. She bought the bronze obelisk for Mrs. Laval;
partly that she might have some pennies on hand for the street
sweepers; but then came a time of fair weather days, and the street
sweepers were not at the crossings. Matilda purchased furthermore some
dark brown silk braid for Norton's watchguard, and was happy making it,
whenever she could be shut up in her room. She dared not trust Judy's
eyes or tongue.

One day she was busy at this, her fingers flying over the braid and her
thoughts as busy, when somebody tried to open her door, and then tapped
at it. Matilda hid her work and opened, to let in Judy. She was a good
deal surprised, for she had not been so honoured before. Judith and her
brother were very cool and distant since the purchase of the liqueur
stand.

"What do you keep your door locked for?" was the young lady's
salutation now, while her eyes roved over all the furniture and filling
of Matilda's apartment.

"I was busy."

"Didn't you want anybody to come in?"

"Not without my knowing it."

"What were you doing then?"

"If I had wanted everybody to know, I should not have shut myself up."

"No, I suppose not. I suppose you want me out of the way, too. Well, I
am not going."

"I do not want you to go, Judy, if you like to stay. That is, if you
will be good."

"Good?" said the other, her eyes snapping. "What do you call good?"

"Everybody knows what good means, don't they?" said Matilda.

"I don't," said Judy. "I have my way of being good--that's all.
Everybody has his own way. What is yours?"

"But there is only one real way."

"Ain't there, though!" exclaimed Judy. "I'll shew you a dozen."

"They can't be all good, Judy."

"Who's to say they are not?"

"Why, the Bible." The minute she had said it the colour flushed to
Matilda's face. But Judy went on with the greatest coolness.

"Your Bible, or my Bible?"

"There isn't but one Bible, Judy, that I know."

"Yes, there is!" said the young lady fiercely. "There's our Bible,
that's the true. There's yours, that's nothing, that you dare bind up
with it."

"They both say the same thing," said Matilda.

"They DON'T!" said the girl, sitting upright, and her eyes darted fire.
"They don't say a word alike; don't you dare say it."

"Why Judy, what the one says is good, the other says is good; there is
no difference in that. Did you ever read the New Testament?"

"No! and I don't want to; nor the other either. But I didn't come to
talk about that."

"What do you call goodness, then?"

"Goodness?" said Judy, relapsing into comparatively harmless mischief;
"goodness? It's a sweet apple--and I hate sweet apples."

"What do you mean?"

"I mean that. Goody folks are stupid. Aren't they, though!"

"But then, what is your notion of real goodness?"

"I don't believe there is such a thing. Come! you don't either."

"I don't believe in goodness?"

"Goodness!" repeated Judy impatiently, "you needn't stare. I don't
choose to be stared at. You know it as well as I. When you are what you
call good, you just want the name of it. So do I sometimes; and then I
get it. That's cheap work."

"Want the name of what?"

"Why, of being good."

"Then goodness is something. You wouldn't want the name of nothing."

Judy laughed. "I haven't come here to be good to-day," she said; "nor
to talk nonsense. I want to tell you about something. We are going to
have a party."

"A party! when?"

"Christmas eve. Now it is our party, you understand; mine and
Norton's and David's; mamma has nothing to do with it, nor grandmamma,
except to prepare everything. That she'll do; but we have got to
prepare the entertainment; and we are going to play games and act
proverbs; and I have come to see how much you know, and whether you can
help."

"What do you want me to know?" said Matilda. "I'll help all I can."

"How much do you know about games? Can you play 'What's my thought
like?' or 'Consequences?' or anything?"

"I never played games much," said Matilda, with a sudden feeling of
inferiority. "I never had much chance."

"I dare say!" said Judy. "I knew that before I came. Well of course you
can't act proverbs. You don't know anything."

"What is it?" said Matilda. "Tell me. Perhaps I can learn."

"You can't learn in a minute," said Judy with a slight toss of her
head, which indeed was much given to wagging in various directions.

"But tell me, please."

"Well, there's no harm in that. We choose a proverb, of course, first;
for instance the boys are going to play 'It's ill talking between a
full man and a fasting.' This is how they are going to do it. Nobody
knows, you understand, what the proverb is, but they must guess it.
Norton will be a rich man who wants to buy a piece of land; and David
is the man who owns the land and has come to see him; but he has come a
good way, and he is without his dinner, and he feels as cross as can
be, and no terms will suit him. So they talk and talk, and disagree and
quarrel and are ridiculous; till at last Norton finds out that Davy
hasn't dined; and then he orders up everything in the house he can
think of, that is good, and makes him eat; and when he has eaten
everything and drunk wine and they are cracking nuts, then Norton
begins again about the piece of land; and the poor man is so
comfortable now he is willing to sell anything he has got; and Norton
gets it for his own price. Won't it be good?"

"I should think it would be very interesting," said Matilda; whom
indeed the description interested mightily. "But how could I help? I
don't see."

"O not in that you couldn't, of course; Davy and Norton don't want any
help, I guess, from anybody; they know all about it. But I want you to
