and went straight to Mr. Richmond's study. 
That was peace itself. It was almost too 
pleasant, to Matilda's fancy. A cool matting 
was on the floor; the light softened by green 
hanging blinds ; the soft gloom of books, as 
usual, all about; Mr. Richmond's table and 
work materials and empty chair telling of his 
habitual occupation ; and on his table a jar 
of beautiful flowers, which some parishioner's 
careful hand had brought for his pleasure. 
The room was sweet with geranium and lily 
odours ; and so still and pure-breathed, that 
 
the flowers in their depth of colour and 
wealth of fragrance seemed to speak through 
the stillness. Matilda did not ask what they 
said, though maybe she heard. She came a 
little way into the room, stood still and looked 
about her a while ; and then the child flung 
herself down on her knees beside a chair and 
burst into a passion of weeping. 
It lasted so long and was so violent that 
she never heard Mr. Richmond come in. And 
he on his part was astonished. At the first 
sound of his voice Matilda stopped crying 
and let him raise her from the floor ; but he 
did not put her into a chair. Instead of that 
he sat down himself and drew her to his side. 
Of course he asked what the matter was. 
Also of course Matilda could not tell him. 
Mr. Richmond found that out, and then took 
another road to his object. He let Matilda 
get quite quiet ; gave her a bunch of grapes 
to eat, while he seemed to busy himself 
among his books and papers ; at last put 
that down and took Matilda's plate from her. 
" You do not come to church in the evening 
lately, I observe, Tilly," he remarked. 
" No, sir. Aunt Candy does not like me to 
go." 
" And you have not been to the prayer 
meeting either, or to the meetings of our 
Commission. The ' Band ' is called our 
* Christian Commission,' now." 
" No, sir." And Matilda's eyes watered. 
" For the same reason ? " 
" Yes, sir." 
" Not because you have lost pleasure in 
such meetings ? " 
" O no, Mr. Richmond ! Did you think I 
had ? " she asked timidly. 
" I could not know, you know," said Mr. 
Richmond, " and I wanted to ask you. I 
am very glad to hear it is no bad reason that 
keeps you away." 
" I didn't say that, Mr. Richmond," Ma 
tilda answered slowly. " Could it be a good 
reason ? " 
" Why it might," said Mr. Richmond cheerfully. " You might be not well enough ; or 
you might have more important duties to do 
at home ; or you might be unwilling to come 
alone ; and all those might be good reasons 
for staying away." 
" It was no such reason," said Matilda. 
There was silence. 
" You wanted to talk to me, you said," 
Mr. Richmond observed. 
" Yes, Mr. Richmond, I do ; if I only knew 
how." 
"Is it so difficult? It never used to be 
very difficult, Matilda." 
" No, sir ; but things are different." 
" You are not different, are you ? " 
" I don't know " said Matilda slowly ; 
" I am afraid so. I feel very different." 
" In what way ? " 
" Mr. Richmond,," she went on, still slowly, 
and as if she were meditating her words, 
" I don't see how I can do just right." 
" In what respect ? " said the minister very 
quietly. Again Matilda paused. 
" Mr. Richmond is it always wrong to 
hate people ? " 
" What things should make it right for us 
to hate people ? " 
" I don't know" said Matilda in the same 
considering way ; " when there isn't the 
least thing you can love them for, or like 
them?" 
" What if the Lord had gone by that rule 
in dealing with us ? " 
" O, but he is so good." 
" And has commanded us to be just as 
good, has he not ? " 
" But can we, Mr. Richmond ? " 
"What do you think, Tilly, the Lord 
meant when he gave us the order? " 
" He meant we should try." 
" Do you think he meant that we should 
only try ? do you think he did not mean that 
we should be as he said? " 
" And love hateful people ? " 
What do you think, Tilly ? " 
" O Mr. Richmond, I think I'm no't good." 
 
" What is the matter, my dear child ? " Mr. 
Richmond said tenderly, as Matilda burst into 
quiet tears again. " What troubles you ? " 
" That, Mr. Richmond. I'm afraid I am 
not good, for I am not like that ; and I don't 
see how I can be." 
" What is the hindrance ? or the difficulty?" 
" Because, Mr. Richmond, I am afraid I 
hate my aunt Candy." 
Mr. Richmond was quite silent, and Ma 
tilda sobbed awhile. 
" Do I understand you aright ? " he said at 
last. " Do you say that you hate your aunt ? " 
" I am afraid I do." 
" Why should you hate her ? Is she not 
very kind to you ? " 
" I do not call her kind,!' said Matilda. 
" In what respect is she not kind ? " 
The child sobbed again, with the unspoken 
difficulty; stifled sobs. 
" She is not cruel to you ? " said Mr. 
Richmond. 
" I think she is cruel," said Matilda ; " for 
she does not in the least care about doing 
things that I do not like ; she does not care 
at all whether I like them or not. I think 
she likes it." 
"What?" 
"Just to do things that I can't bear, Mr. 
Richmond ; and she knows I can't bear 
them." 
" What is her reason for doing these 
things?" 
" I think the greatest reason is because she 
knows I can't bear them. I think I am 
growing wicked." 
" Is it because you displease her in anyway, that she does it for a punishment ? " 
" I do not displease her in any way," said 
poor Matilda. 
" And yet she likes to grieve you ? " 
" She said I wanted putting down. And 
now, I suppose I am put down. I am just 
in prison. I can't do anything. I can't go to 
Mrs. Laval's house any more. I must not 
 
go to Lilac lane any more. She won't let 
me. And oh, Mr. Richmond, we were going 
to do such nice things ! " - 
" Who were going to do such nice things ? " 
" Norton Laval and I." 
" What things were they ? " 
" We were going to do suck nice things ! 
Mrs. Laval gave me money for them, and 
Norton, he has money always ; and we were 
going to have Mrs. Eldridge's house cleaned, 
