
In the mean time there passed through the mot- 
ley crowd, not so much a cry as a sensation of 
" They've found her, they've found her I " and then 
the one terrible picturesque fact, " She was stand- 
ing upright ! " 



 

Upon this there was wilder and wilder clamor 
among the people, dropping by degrees and almost 
dying away, before a flight of boys came down the 
street with the tidings, " They are bringing her — 
bringing her in a wagon." 

The contributor knew that she whom they were 
bringing in the wagon, had had the poetry of love 
to her dismal and otherwise squalid death ; but the 
history was of fancy, not of fact in his mind. Of 
course, he reflected, her lot must have been obscure 
and hard ; the aspect of those concerned about her 
death implied that. But of her hopes and her fears, 
who could tell him anything ? To be sure he could 
imagine the lovers, and how they first met, and 
where, and who he was that was doomed to work 
her shame and death ; but here his fancy came upon 
something coarse and common : a man of her own 
race and grade, handsome after tliat manner of 
beauty which is so much more hateful than ugliness 
is ; or, worse still, another kind of man whose deceit 
must have been subtler and wickeder ; but whatever 
the person, a presence defiant of sympathy or even 
interest, and simply horrible. Then there were the 
details of the affair, in great degree common to all 
love affairs, and not varying so widely in any con- 
dition of life ; for the passion which is so rich and 
infinite to those within its charm, is apt to seem a 
little tedious and monotonous in its character, and 
poor in resources to the cold looker-on. 

Then, finally, there was the crazy purpose and its 
fulfillment : the headlong plunge from bank or 




bridge; the eddy, and the bubbles on the current 
that calmed itself above the suicide ; the tide that 
rose and stretched itself abroad in the sunshine, 
carrying hither and thither the burden with which it 
knew not what to do ; the arrest, as by some ghastly 
caprice of fate, of the dead girl, in that upright pos- 
ture, in which she should meet the quest for her, as 
it were defiantly. 

And now they were bringing her in a wagon. 

Involuntarily all stood aside, and waited till the 
funeral car, which they saw, should come up toward 
them through the long vista of the maple-shaded 
street, a noiseless riot stirring the legs and arms of 
the boys into frantic demonstration, while the women 
remained quiet with arms folded or akimbo. Before 
and behind the wagon, driven slowly, went a guard 
of ragged urchins, while on the raised seat above sat 
two Americans, unperturbed by anything, and con- 
cerned merely with the business of the afiair. 

The vehicle was a grocer's cart which had per- 
haps been pressed into the service; and inevitably 
the contributor thought of Zenobia, and of Miles 
Coverdale's belief that if she could have foreboded 
all the postmortem ugliness and grotesqueness of 
suicide, she never would have drowned herself. 
This girl, too, had doubtless had her own ideas of 
the effect that her death was to make, her convic- 
tion that it was to wring one heart, at least, and to 
strike awe and pity to every other ; and her woman's 
soul must have been shocked from death could she 


have known in what a ghastly comedy the body she 
put off was to play a part. 

In the bottom of the cart lay something long and 
straight and terrible, covered with a red shawl that 
drooped over the end of the wagon; and on this 
thing were piled the baskets in which the grocers had 
delivered their orders for sugar and flour, and coffee 
and tea. As the cart jolted through their lines, the 
boys could no longer be restrained ; they broke out 
with wild yells, and danced madly about it, while 
the red shawl hanging from the rigid feet nodded to 
their frantic mirth ; and the sun dropped its light 
through the maples and shone bright upon the flooded 
flats. 


 

I BELIEVE I have no good reason for including 
among these suburban sketches my recollections of 
the Peace Jubilee, celebrated by a monster musical 
entertainment at Boston, in June, 1869 ; and I 
do not know if it will serve as excuse for their 
intrusion to say that the exhibition was not urban 
in character, and that I attended it in a feeling of 
curiosity and amusement which the Bostonians did 
not seem to feel, and which I suspect was a strictly 
suburban if not rural sentiment. 

I thought, on that Tuesday morning, as our horse- 
car drew near the Long Bridge, and we saw the Col- 
iseum spectral through the rain, that Boston was 
going to show people representing other parts of the 
country her Notion of weather. I looked forward 
to a forenoon of clammy warmth, and an afternoon 
of clammy cold and of east wind, with a misty night- 
fall soaking men to the bones. But the day really 
turned out well enough ; it was showery, but not 
shrewish, and it smiled pleasantly at sunset, as if 
content with the opening ceremonies of the Great 
Peace Jubilee. 

The city, as we entered it, gave due token of ex- 
citement, and we felt the celebration even in the 



 

air, which had a holiday quality very different from 
that of ordinary workday air. The crowds filled the 
decorous streets, and the trim pathways of the Com- 
mon and the Public Garden, and flowed in an orderly 
course towards the vast edifice on the Back Bay, pre- 
senting the interesting points which always distinguish 
a crowd come to town from a city crowd. You get so 
used to the Boston face and the Boston dress, that a 
coat from New York or a visage from Chicago is at 
once conspicuous to you ; and in these people there 
was not only this strangeness, but the different oddi- 
ties that lurk in out-of-way comers of society every- 
where had started suddenly into notice. Long-haired 
men, popularly supposed to have perished with the 
institution of slavery, appeared before me, and men 
with various causes and manias looking from their 
wild eyes confronted each other, let alone such 
charlatans as had clothed themselves quaintly or 
grotesquely to add a charm to the virtue of what- 
ever nostrum they peddled. It was, however, for 
the most part, a remarkably well-dressed crowd ; 
and therein it probably differed more than in any 
other respect from the crowd which a holiday would 
have assembled in former times. There was little 
rusticity to be noted anywhere, and the uncouthness 
which has already disappeared from the national face 
seemed to be passing from the national wardrobe. 
