captain, first, second, third, and fourth lieutenant of each vessel."

"Mr. Chairman," said Beckwith, who had been selected to second the
motion, "I rise--"

"No, you don't," interposed Scott; "you haven't got up yet."

"I rise--"

"You were up before," persisted Scott; and a round of applause followed
the interruption.

"Mr. Chairman, I second the motion," said Beckwith, who, however, was
unable to make the little speech he had arranged in his mind favoring
the proposed change, for the laugh and the applause which followed
Scott's sally had sadly disconcerted him.

The chairman stated the motion, and the question upon its adoption was
fairly before the meeting. Several of the officers spoke in favor of
it, and even the commodore, the captain, and the first lieutenant gave
it the weight of their powerful influence. Two of the "short jackets"
also briefly addressed the meeting in favor of the plan; and thus far
the agitators had it all their own way.

"Question!" called some of the ring.

"Mr. Chairman!" shouted Scott, in a tone loud enough to be heard at
the farther side of the island, where the adults of the squadron were
enjoying the quiet beauty of the scene.

"Mr. Scott," replied the chairman, recognizing and bowing to the joker.

"Question! question!" shouted some of the officers, who were inclined
to retaliate upon the joker by using his own tactics.

"Mr. Scott has the floor," interposed the chairman.

"Thank you, Mr. Chairman; but I'm not to be floored so easily. Every
fellow that knows me knows that I go in for fair play."

"That's so," cried the crowd of his supporters, with a round of
applause.

"And what I give to others I ask for myself," continued Scott. "I'm
a modest fellow." (Tumultuous applause.) "I'm a modest fellow, Mr.
Chairman, and it gores my soul to feel compelled to speak of my own
merit; but this whole thing is a conspiracy against my rights."
("Hear, hear.") "I have belonged to the ship about a year; I haven't
the purser's books in my trousers' pocket, and can't say to a day how
long, but about a year. I have faithfully discharged every duty, and
even done a great many things that were not required of me. I have
eaten my grub with untiring fidelity, except when I was seasick at
the beginning." (Applause.) "I have slept my eight hours out of the
twenty-four with exemplary diligence and punctuality; and even done
more than this, when the emergency seemed to require it, without
grumbling." (Applause.) "I have kept my watch below without flinching."
(Applause.) "I have worn my pea-jacket in cold and heavy weather
without deeming it a hardship." (Applause.) "I have never objected to
going on shore to see a city, or to take a tramp in the country, or
to go 'on a time' of any sort." (Applause.) "Indeed, I have always
been willing to make myself as comfortable as the circumstances would
permit. And I have tried to use every fellow about right, the officers
as well as the seamen. I have helped the fellows spend their money,
when they needed my assistance" (applause), "for I don't like to be
selfish about these things. When a fellow had any cake, fruit, or
other good thing, I have taken hold like a man, and helped him eat it."
("That's so," shouted several.) "I have always been willing to let
any fellow get my lessons for me, or do my share in holy-stoning the
deck. When any petty officer, having a soft thing in the way of duty,
such as coxswain of a boat, on a long pull, was sick, I have always
been willing to take his place, and not charge him anything, either."
(Applause.) "It's my nature to be unselfish; and I would do as much for
the captain, or any other officer, as for a seaman."

"Mr. Chairman, I rise to a point of order," interposed Beckwith.

"Will the gentleman state his point?"

"That the gentleman is not speaking to the question," snapped the first
master, who was determined, if possible, to get even with Scott.

"The speaker stated in the beginning that the proposed measure, and
the action of this meeting in connection therewith, were a conspiracy
against his rights; and the chair decides that he is in order," said
the chairman, with dignity.

"But, sir, must we listen to his biography?" demanded Beckwith.

"Mr. Chairman, it is as painful for me to rehearse my own virtues
before this large audience as it is for him to hear me; and the
sacrifice which I make in doing so ought to be appreciated by the
gentleman on the other side." (Applause.)

"I appeal from the decision of the chair," said Beckwith.

"First Master Beckwith appeals from the decision of the chair,"
continued Cantwell, who proceeded to state the point at issue, and,
taking advantage of the privilege of his position, gave his reasons at
length for ruling that Scott was in order.

Most of the seamen of the ship and of the consorts enjoyed the fun,
and wished Scott to go on. When the question of order was put, a large
majority sustained the decision of the chair. Cantwell began to feel
that he had a host of friends, and that the plot of the officers would
be defeated.

"Mr. Scott has the floor, and may proceed with his remarks," said he,
when the vote was declared.

"I trust I have shown conclusively that I am a good fellow," continued
Scott. (Hearty applause.) "Now, to apply what I had said when I was so
ungenerously interrupted, if I am a good fellow, I deserve to be the
captain, or at least one of the lieutenants, of the ship" (rapturous
applause), "provided I get a greater number of merit marks than any
other fellow; of course I don't expect to wink the marks out of
sight. Not long since I made a little excursion through Sweden with
some friends of mine, without exactly running away. The fact was,
we couldn't find the ship, though we searched diligently for her."
(Applause, and cries of "Finkel.") "I hear 'Finkel.' Finkel was there,
and had a finger in the pie. Now, no one can tell how many merits I
got for that excursion, and for my struggles to find the ship; nor how
many I got for the glass of finkel I drank, which, I grant, deranged my
ideas. Then I was caught asleep on the anchor watch, and neither you
nor I know how many merit marks I had for that. We are not permitted to
examine the record books of the instructors, and therefore we cannot
know how high we are marked for any recitation or exercise; but, Mr.
Chairman, I got high this month" (violent applause), "and therefore
I ought to have a high office. At any rate, Mr. Chairman, the highest
office lies between you and me; and I think all present, who have
considered the matter, will agree that it belongs to one of us" ("Hear,
hear"), "and my modesty does not permit me to indicate which one. And
now, Mr. Chairman, within three days of the end of the month, when the
prize of a noble ambition is almost within my grasp, comes this cruel
conspiracy to rob me of reward!"

Scott was trying to imitate Forrest, or some other great tragic actor
whom he had seen, in the last clause of his speech, and the students
were convulsed with laughter at his deep tones and wild gestures. He
continued a few moments longer in the same strain, being frequently
interrupted by applause and other demonstrations.

"And now, Mr. Chairman, I have done. If my shipmates will thus sting me
to death when I am almost at the pinnacle of a noble ambition, I can
only yield, as the noble Caesar did when he declared that Brutus ate
two slapjacks for his breakfast. I shall fall, not by my own fault,
but, like Caesar, by the madness of ambitious office-seekers. But I
shall fall free from the taint of dishonor--scot-free."

The orator wiped his brow with his coat sleeve, having left his
handkerchief in the pocket of his pea-jacket, while the applause of the
seamen rang through the island groves and over the silent sea.

De Forrest was angry when he saw that the proceedings of the meeting
were turned into a farce, and he made haste to reply to Scott's
effective speech. The only point he made was, that the last speaker
had no expectation of obtaining the lowest cabin office, or even of
being the coxswain of the fourth cutter, and therefore his argument was
simply ridiculous.

"I should like to ask the third lieutenant if I did not say that the
