feel that I have unduly thrust myself into a place 
that must always have a peculiar sacredness to him." 
" Aunt Euth," she said, after a long silence, " isn't 
it a little strange that some of the happiness that 
comes into one person's life seems to be taken out of 
another's ? Is there not enough to go all round ? ' 
" It is God's way of making us share our joys and 
blessings with one another, and to keep us from be- 
coming selfish. If his love was great enough to take 
us all in, shall not ours, in copying that, go out to 
those around us ? " 
" Yes," she answered, softly. 
Aunt Euth began to gather up her sewing, and 
Kathie put the books in their places. Then Uncle 
Eobert returned, and they had to talk a little about 
the matter that interested them so deeply. 
 
" Mr. Meredith had no idea that it was so positively 
hopeless until he went down. His brother feels very 
much disheartened, arid that is one reason Edward 
wishes to remain. Besides, he could not put his 
money in the business and travel in the manner that 
he desires. It is very sweet in Jessie to give up her 
pleasures so willingly. Last summer Mrs. Meredith 
believed all the favors and benefits to be within her 
power, and perhaps had Jessie taken instructions of 
her worldly wisdom she would hardly have been as 
generous now." 
It is getting late and you must run off to bed, 
Kathie," said her mother. 
The next afternoon Kathie paid her friend a visit. 
Jessie had been spending nearly a month in New 
York, and the letters had been chatty epistles of pic- 
tures and concerts and small tea-drinkings, rather 
than the more serious matters of life. So there was 
a great deal to tell. 
" It was all Edward's goodness,' declared Jessie. "At 
first I felt as if I really could not make the sacrifice. 
Mrs. Meredith treated me last summer as if I was a 
kind of underbred interloper in the family, of whom 
she felt almost ashamed " ; and Jessie colored warmly. 
" I am so glad that I did not go to Saratoga with 
them, and the seaside did Edward so much good. 
But when he came to explain the matter, and I saw 
what a point of conscience it was with him, I yielded 
at once." 
" I am so sorry that you had to give up the pleasure." 
" It may come by and by. He really shamed me 
by his nobleness, Kathie, and I know, too, that he 
doesn't like the confinement and routine of business. 
And I could not help pitying Mrs. Meredith and Ada, 
they are so utterly heart-broken and despairing. The 
auction is to be this week, and I felt that I could not 
stay to witness their sorrow. It is very hard to give 
up that elegant house with all its luxuries. I think 
it would pain any one, so I do not blame their grief 
at parting with it." 
" Poor Ada ! " 
" Poor foolish Ada ! Her head lias been so filled 
with the frivolities of fashionable life, and turned by 
the admiration she has received, that she is blindly 
unreasonable and helpless. O Kathie, be thankful 
that your mother has 'better sense ! " 
" What are they going to do ? " 
 
" Board for a few weeks until they can suit them- 
selves. Edward advised that they should take a 
house immediately, and proposed the one next to 
ours, but Mrs. Meredith thought it altogether too 
small. It will be very pleasant and pretty, Kathie, 
and I must confess that it looks quite grand to me " : 
and Jessie laughed. " I shall expect a visit from you 
during the holidays." 
" And I shall be delighted to come. I have not 
been to New York since the winter with Aunt Euth." 
" How odd that Aunt Euth is to be married ! I 
like General Mackenzie so much. But you should 
have seen Dr. Markham when Edward told him. 
'Didn't I predict that she would be dancing on 
the green one of these days ? ' said he ; ' and here 
she has carried off the very man that half the women 
I know have been setting their caps for these dozen 
years or more.' And then he went on with that 
touch of sweet gravity which comes now and then in 
his voice : ' But, after all, little Kathie was the best 
doctor among us. I don't believe I could have 
brought her through but for the child.' : 
The tears of tender remembrance shone on the 
drooping lashes hiding Kathie's eyes. 
"It seems to me as if everybody put something 
sweet and pleasant into my life," she said, softly. 
" Because you are always doing it as well " ; and 
Jessie looked up with a bright, answering smile. 
" That is the grand secret of life. I don't wonder 
it is called the ' Golden Eule.' And you do try ear- 
nestly, I know." 
And fail often," was the low, humble reply. 
We all do. I suppose if we did not we should 
get too proud and self-reliant, and stray away from 
our loving Shepherd. But, after we have wandered, 
it is so good to get back to his strong arms." 
Kathie was thinking it over in her simple child's 
fashion, that always made anything so real to 
her. 
" When is Aunt Ruth to be married ? ' Jessie 
asked, presently. 
" In about a fortnight." 
" How oddly events come about ! Only the other 
day I was a girl like you, and Charlie a little boy ; 
and here you will soon be a woman, marrying like 
the rest of us, I dare say. But Aunt Ruth's is like a 
romance, a May after the summer is ended. And 
that I should never suspect, though Edward de- 
 
clares he did. What are you going to do without 
her ? " 
" I don't know. I feel a little selfish sometimes, 
only General Mackenzie is so so ' 
" Splendid ! " declared Jessie, laughing. " Why 
can't we use the word once in a while ? You will 
miss her so much ! ' : 
Ah ! Kathie knew that, and her heart had ached 
more than once. 
" Now I must tell you about my house. It is only 
a short distance from the park, not very large, they 
all say ; but I don't know how I am to live every- 
where in it. We are going to furnish very simply, 
for Edward thinks we shall go abroad in three years 
at the latest, but it will be fresh and pretty and 
home-like. Yet it seems queer to think of my keep- 
ing a house." 
" Does it ? " and Kathie smiled oddly. 
" I used to think, that, when I was married, I should 
go directly to a home of my own and settle down at 
once. It was not to be very far from here, where 
Charlie would run in every day, father and mother 
come to tea once a week, and grandmother stay a 
month at a time and knit stockings for my husband 
 
Instead, I have been picnicking round in hotels and 
hospitals and sea-sides until I almost wonder if I 
be I." 
Kathie laughed heartily at that. 
" But now we shall be old-fashioned orthodox peo- 
ple. I hope everybody will pay us a visit. We shall 
have a guest-chamber always ready, and I will do my 
best at the small, sweet courtesies of life. We are to 
begin with one servant, and I wish it was not neces- 
sary to have any. I should like to try my skill for a 
little while ; but it would be dreadfully unfashionable, 
and ruin the softness of my hands." 
" Which would be sad indeed," declared Mr. Mere- 
dith, entering. " How much have you packed since 
dinner ? ' 
" I am all through for the present. To-morrow 
will finish." 
" I ought to go back in the morning, if you do not 
mind being left here for a few days. Kathie, will 
you keep her safely ? ' 
" I should like to have her to keep," Kathie re- 
