
"Kitten," he began, presently, "I have been thinking this good while,
and thinking slowly. A great many things puzzle me, and all my
perplexities have culminated at last in one grand step; but whether I am
quite prepared for it--"

The sentence was a labyrinth to Kathie, and she was not quite sure that
she held the clew.

"I am going to enlist--at least, I am going out for three months--with
my regiment. They have volunteered, most of them."

"And what troubles you?" in her sweet, tender voice, and glancing up
with an expression that no other eyes save Kathie Alston's could have
had.

"Child," he asked, "how did you stand fire last winter when you were so
suddenly brought to the front? About the singing, I mean."

She understood. He referred to the Sunday evening at Mrs. Meredith's
when she had refused to join Ada in singing songs. The remembered pain
still made her shiver.

"There is something about you, Kathie, just a little different from
other children,--other girls. You often carry it in your face; and for
the life of me I cannot help thinking how the wise virgins must have
been illuminated with their tiny lamps while the others stood in
darkness. Is it a natural gift or grace?"

She knew now what he meant. She was called upon to give testimony here,
and it was almost as hard as in Mrs. Meredith's grand drawing-room. She
felt the warm blood throbbing through every pulse.

"You did a brave thing that night, little girl. I shall never forget
it--never. Can you answer my question? What is it?"

She could only think of one thing, one sentence, amid the whirl and
confusion of ideas and the girlish shrinking back,--"The love of Christ
constraineth us."

"It wasn't merely your regard for your mother or Uncle Robert?"

"It was all,"--in her simple, earnest fashion.

"I'm going out there, Kathie," nodding his head southward, "to stand
some pretty hard fire, doubtless. I am not afraid of physical pain, nor
the dropping out of life, though existence never was sweeter than now;
but if, in the other country, the record of my useless years rises sharp
against me, what shall I answer? I have never tried to do anything for
the glory of God! Child, you shame all our paltry lives!"

"O, don't!" with a suggestion of pain in her voice; "what I can do is
such a very little."

She would never know how the simple acts of her life, springing from the
hidden centre that was deeper even than her every-day thought, was to
bear fruit on wide-spread branches.

"And yet we--I--do nothing. I should have to go empty-handed."

She cast about for some words of comfort. As girl or woman Kathie Alston
would never be able to realize all the frivolousness, to say nothing of
vanity, selfishness, and deeper sins, crowded into this man's life,
which still looked so fair by outward comparison with others.

"Ever since Mr. Morrison offered to go in Uncle Robert's place this
verse has been lingering in my mind: 'Greater love hath no man than
this, that a man lay down his life for his friends.' It seems to me that
it doesn't mean physical life altogether, but all the times and places
when we take something precious out of our own lives and put it into
that of others. And every man who goes now may be called upon to suffer
in some other's stead. If he do it bravely, is it not a little of the
good fruit? I can't explain all I mean, only just as the Saviour loved
us we ought to love every one else."

Edward Meredith had listened to many an eloquent sermon, and dissected
it in a purely intellectual fashion, his heart never warming with any
inward grace, or hungering after the true bread. But he understood now
the secret of this little girl's life. Not doctrine, not so much creed,
or form, or rule, "but the taking something precious out of her daily
existence and noiselessly placing it in that of others." And the same
love which enabled her to do this rendered her brave, pure, and sweet. A
child's religion, that a year or two ago he would have sneered at, and
now he had come to learn of her because he was too proud to ask others,
and perhaps ashamed.

"But you had a substitute!" she said, presently, bethinking herself.

"Yes. He has served his time out honorably, has had the good fortune to
come home without harm of any kind. You remember how Mackenzie bantered
me last winter, though he was in dead earnest. But the country is at her
extremest need now; if Grant, Sherman, and our other generals, are
strengthened by good reinforcements, it seems to me that in six months
we might have peace. I have done a good deal of holiday soldiering in my
life, but this is to be sober earnest."

He looked as if it might be.

"When will you go?"

"We start for Washington on Saturday morning."

"So soon! Does--Miss Jessie know?" Kathie could not help but ask it,
though the lids trembled over her shy, downcast eyes.

"She should have received my note this morning. I suppose she did not,
or she would have been at home. Kathie, I ought to thank you for your
rare delicacy in keeping our secret. There are some matters that one
does not like to have talked about."

What would Miss Jessie say? Of course she loved Mr. Meredith very much.
Kathie's heart ached a little in silence, but this was one of the
burdens that could not be borne by another.

On they went through lovely scenery, now and then catching a glimpse of
the river that wound around like a silver cord through its bed of green.
Here in the stillness they heard the chatter of squirrels and the sound
of dropping nuts, or an autumn-tinted leaf went floating on the air like
some gorgeous bird with his wings all aflame. Golden-rod and great
clumps of purple Michaelmas daisies starred the roadside, with frequent
clusters of scarlet sumach, pendent bitter-sweet berries with the still
glossy green leaves, and the dark tint of spruce and fir.

Kathie began to realize how her heart and intellect had expanded. She
was no longer a little girl. How she had grown within and without was a
great mystery, as well as how her soul had enriched itself with drawing
near to others, and going forth again with the sweet, half-comprehending
sympathies of girlhood.

"I have been a dull companion," Mr. Meredith said, at length. "But,
Kathie, I shall never forget the happy days I have spent at Cedarwood.
To have known you is one of the bright events in my life."

They were coming up the avenue, and saw Uncle Robert standing on the
broad porch. She might never have another opportunity to speak, and he
had been so peculiarly serious this afternoon.

"O Mr. Meredith, you won't forget--when you are out there--that there is
another service, and another Captain--"

"Pray for me, Kathie, that I may be one of His faithful soldiers to my
life's end."

She ran up stairs afterward, and the two gentlemen had a long talk in
the library. After supper Mr. Meredith said good by, as he expected to
leave the Darrells' to take the early morning train.

"I do believe everybody is going to war!" exclaimed Rob, rather
ruefully. "I wonder if we shall ever have such good times again."

Rob spent the next forenoon in packing.

"How all these things are to be gotten into one trunk I cannot imagine!"
he exclaimed, in despair.

"I fancy that you had better put the clothes in first, and leave the
'things,' as you call them, until the last," said Aunt Ruth, with a
quiet smile.

"But I shall want them all, I'm sure."
