Bobtail, evasively.

The skipper of the packet accepted the invitation, and looked over the
Skylark. He was critical in his observations, and did not believe that
any of these fancy craft amounted to much in heavy weather. She was
"fixed up smart," and was "handsome's a picture;" but "he'd rather have
his homely boat when it blowed than a thousand sech highflyers." They
could "chalk a line up in to the wind in light weather, but they wan't
nothin' in a sea."

Bobtail did not indorse these critical remarks, for he had tried the
Skylark in a sea, and knew that she was equal to anything.

"I hope you'll find the owner, and I ca'late you'll make somethin' out
of the job," said the skipper, as he returned to his vessel.

Bobtail did not particularly hope so, for even if he made something out
of the job, he was afraid he should never be satisfied with the old tub
in which he had sailed the day before, if he bought her, now that he had
realized the glories of the Skylark.

"Shove her off, Monkey," said he, as he resumed his place at the helm.

Running along close to the wharves, he answered several hails of persons
who wished to know about the boat. It would soon be all over town that
he had picked up the yacht; and having in this manner sufficiently
advertised her, he stood off towards the open bay, passing between the
Spindles off the point.

"Where are you going to now, Bob?" asked Monkey.

"We will take a little sail, just to see how the boat works."

"She works fust rate, and no mistake," added Monkey, with admiration.

"I'd give more to own this boat than I would to be one of the
selectmen," continued Bobtail. "She's a tip-top sea boat. Take the helm,
Monkey, and see how nice she steers."

The Darwinian opened his mouth from ear to ear with pleasure as he
complied with the request. Of course he fully agreed with all the
skipper said. Bobtail walked forward, and then went below. It was about
time to be thinking of dinner, though he was not very hungry yet. He
looked over the stores of the yacht, to see if there was anything
besides bacon for the meal. In a small tub he found some salt pork. One
of the lockers under the transom was half full of potatoes; but he
discovered no other meat. After this survey he concluded to dine on
fish, for he had his lines and salt clams on deck. Returning to the
helm, he put the yacht about, and stood up to one of the best of the
fishing-grounds.

"Lower the jib," he called to his crew; and when this was done, he
directed him to throw over the anchor. "Now, Monkey, catch some fish
while I go below and make a fire."

In a few moments Bobtail had a fire in the stove. Washing some potatoes,
he pared and sliced them. Three big slices of salt pork in the pan soon
produced fat enough to fry them. By this time there was a movement on
deck. The Darwinian was pulling in a fish.

"A cod!" shouted Monkey. "He's a nice one, too."

"How big is he?" asked Bobtail.

"Five or six pounds."

"That's enough. Dress him, and cut him up to fry."

By the time the potatoes were cooked the fish was ready for the pan. The
cook covered the pieces with Indian meal, and the dinner was soon ready.
Bobtail had already set the table. He had put on plates, knives and
forks, and glasses for two, a pitcher of water, a plate of pickles, and
a dish of hard bread. The fish was placed on the casing of the
centre-board, in the middle of the table, consisting of two leaves,
which could be dropped down when not in use. Monkey was called, and the
dinner proceeded in due form. The Darwinian did not seem to be quite so
enthusiastic as at breakfast, perhaps because his table at home was
oftener garnished with fish and salt pork than with any other food.
However, he did ample justice to the bill of fare, and liberally praised
the cook for his skill in the art.

While they were thus pleasantly engaged, they heard a slight bump
against the side of the yacht, followed by the sound of voices. With the
instinct of a genuine boatman, Bobtail rushed upon deck to assure
himself that no harm befell the Skylark, when the other boat came
alongside. He found that Prince, in the white sloop, had just put
Captain Chinks on board, and had already shoved off. Bobtail looked at
the captain, and thought he had taken a great deal of trouble to pay him
this visit, for Prince had come about, and was standing up to the
village. He felt as though he should now be called upon to give up the
Skylark to her rightful owner.

"I'm glad to see you, Captain Chinks," exclaimed he; but what he said
was rather complimentary than strictly true--a society fib.

"Won't you come below, and take some dinner with us?"

The captain had been to dinner, for it was now two o'clock in the
afternoon, and he began to ask about the Skylark.




CHAPTER VII.

IN THE CABIN OF THE SKYLARK.


Little Bobtail was not particularly glad to see Captain Chinks when he
boarded the Skylark, at her anchorage on the fishing-grounds. It seemed
as though the captain had taken a great deal of trouble to come down
several miles from the village, probably hiring Prince to put him
alongside the yacht. Yet he could not help thinking that the slight
uneasiness which disturbed him was very absurd. He had permitted himself
to hope that the owner of the Skylark would not claim her, or, at least,
would not claim her till he had the use of her for a season, the longer
the better; but he felt that he had no right to hope any such thing. The
yacht was a beautiful craft, and it was in the very height of the
boating season. All his hopes, however, had been very vague, and were
not founded on any reasonable basis. He had been considering the
remotest of possibilities, rather than the slightest probabilities.

When Captain Chinks came on board, Bobtail felt that he had come to
claim the yacht. According to the general "speech of people," this man
of a doubtful reputation was, more likely than any other person in
Camden, the owner of the twenty cases of brandy. If he claimed the
yacht, he must claim the smuggled goods at the same time. Of course
Bobtail would be expected to keep the secret, and thereby become a party
to the fraud. He was not prepared for this issue. He did not want the
confidence of any smuggler. Whatever his own views of the contraband
trade, he would not break any law of the land himself, however leniently
he was disposed to regard others who neglected to pay duties to the
custom-house. He had always tried to be honest and upright, and he had a
perfect horror of being anything else.

"How's this, Bobtail?" said Captain Chinks, casting his eyes about him,
as if to examine the parts of the yacht. "This is a fine boat!"

"Tip-top, sir," replied the skipper, with proper enthusiasm.

"Some one up in the village said you picked her up adrift. Is that so?"

"That's so, Captain Chinks. I found her drifting out to sea, over near
Blank Island. Does she belong to you, sir?"

"To me?" exclaimed the visitor, with a slight start, which did not
escape the observation of Little Bobtail. "What makes you think she
belongs to me?"

"I didn't say I thought so. I only asked you if she did. Captain
Flipper, of the Islesboro' packet, said you might know something about
her."

"What made him think I knew anything about her?"

"I don't know that he did think so; only he said you came over from
Islesboro' with him this morning," Bobtail explained.

"What has that to do with it?"

