and giving her new work for the next day. So went the work; very busy,
and very happy too; only for Matilda's being shut out from greenhouse
pleasures and Judy taken into Norton's partnership.




CHAPTER V.


But the next Sunday had a new joy for her. Mr. Wharncliffe informed her
after school-time, that he had found a lodging which he thought would
do nicely for her poor friends. All Matilda's troubles fled away like
mist before the sun, and her face lighted up as if the very sun itself
had been shining into it. Mr. Wharncliffe went on to tell her about the
lodging. It was near, but not in, that miserable quarter of the city
where Sarah and her mother now lived. It was not in a tenement house
either; but in a little dwelling owned by an Irishman and his wife who
seemed decent people. He was a mechanic, and one room of their small
house they were accustomed to let, to help pay their rent.

"Is it furnished, Mr. Wharncliffe?"

"No; entirely bare."

"How large is it?"

"Small. Not so large by one-third as the room where they are living
now."

"Can't go and see it?"

"Yes, there is no difficulty about that. I will go with you to-morrow,
if you like."

"And how much is the rent, Mr. Wharncliffe?"

"One dollar a week. The woman was willing to let the room to Mrs.
Staples, because I was making the bargain and understood to be security
for her; only so."

"Then we will go to-morrow, sir, shall we, and see the room and see
what it wants? and perhaps you will shew me that place where you said I
could get furniture cheap?"

This was agreed upon. To Matilda's very great surprise, David, when he
heard her news, said he would go too. She half expected he would get
over the notion by the time he got home from school on Monday; but no;
he said he wanted a walk and he would see the place with her.

The place was humble enough. A poor little house, that looked as if its
more aspiring neighbours would certainly swallow it up and deny its
right to be at all; so low and decrepit it was, among better built if
not handsome edifices. Street and surroundings were dingy and mean;
however, when they went in they found a decent little room under the
sloping roof and with a bit of blue sky visible from its dormer window.
It was empty and bare.

"Thin, we always has rispictable lodgers," said the good woman, who had
taken her arms out of a tub of soapsuds to accompany the party
upstairs; "and the room is a very dacent apartment entirely; and warrm
it is, and quite. An' we had a company o' childhren in one o' the
houses adjinin', that bothered the life out o' me wid their hollerin'
as soon as ever we histed the winders in the summer time; but the
father he died, and the mother, she was a poor kind of a body that
couldn't seem to get along any way at all at all; and I believe she
thried, an she didn't succade, the poor craythur! An' she just faded
away, like, and whin she couldn't stan' no longer, she was tuk away to
the 'ospital; and the chillen was put in the poor-us, or I don't just
know what it is they calls the place; and it was weary for them, but it
was a good day for meself at the same time. An' the place is iligant
and quite now, sir. An' whin will the lady move in, that you're
wantin' the room for?"

"As soon as it can be ready for her, Mrs. Leary."

"Thin it's ready! What would it be wantin'?"

"We shall need to move in some furniture, I suppose, and a little coal.
Where will that go?"

"Coal, is it? Sure there's the cellar. An' an iligant cellar it is, and
dhry, and places enough for to put her coal in. It'll hould all she'll
want, Til engage."

"It holds yours too, I suppose?"

"Why wouldn't it? But we'll never interfare for that; small wisdom!"

Mr. Wharncliffe chose to go down and see the cellar. David and Matilda
spent the time in consultation. Mr. Wharncliffe came back alone.

"Well," he said, "how do you like it?"

"Very much; but Mr. Wharncliffe, it is not very clean."

"Sarah will soon change that."

"Sarah? Won't her mother help?"

"Mrs. Staples is unable for hard work. She has had illness which has
disabled her; and I fancy the damp cellar she has been living in has
made matters worse. But Sarah likes to be as clean as she can."

"Well, she can now," said Matilda gleefully. "Mr. Wharncliffe, don't
you think they want a little bit of a carpet?"

Mr. Wharncliffe shook his head. "They are not accustomed to it; they do
not need it, Matilda. You will have enough to do with your money."

"At any rate, they must have a bureau, mustn't they?"

"There is a wall cupboard," said Mr. Wharncliffe. "That will be wanted,
I suppose, for crockery and stores. What would a bureau be useful for?"

"Clothes."

"They have not a drawer full, between them."

"But they will have? They must, Mr. Wharncliffe. I am going to get
them some, mayn't I?"

Mr. Wharncliffe looked round the little room, and smiled as he looked
at Matilda again. "There is a great deal to do with your money, I told
you," he said. "Let us reckon up the indispensable things first." He
took out his note book.

"Coals are one thing," said Matilda. "They must have some coals to
begin with."

"Coals"--repeated Mr. Wharncliffe, noting it down.

"Have they a stove that will do?"

"I am afraid not. I will try and find a second-hand one."

"A table, and two or three chairs."

Those went down in the list.

"And, O, Mr. Wharncliffe, a tea-kettle! And something to cook meat in,
and boil potatoes."

"What do you know about cooking meat and boiling potatoes?" Mr.
Wharncliffe asked, looking amused. "Those things will perhaps come with
the stove; and at any rate do not cost much."

"And then, some decent plates and cups and saucers, and common knives,
you know, and a few such things."

"They have some things which they use now. You must not try to do too
much. Remember, there are other people who want bread."

"Well--not those things then, if you think not," said Matilda. "But a
bedstead, and a comfortable bed, Mr. Wharncliffe; that they must
have."

"How about the two boys?"

"They must have another."
