"Ah! Jessie, dear! Good-morning! You are very good to visit a poor
fellow in his affliction. For such a throat and head as I have
to-day are an affliction. I seldom strike my colors to a common
cold."

"This seems to me to be an uncommon one!" Jessie said, feeling
his pulse with the practised touch she had learned in her
parish-visiting. "You have fever. You ought to have medical advice.
Who is your physician?"

"I have never had occasion to call in one since I came to Hamilton.
Suppose we 'bide a bit,' as our worthy President says, and if I am
not better in the course of an hour or two, we can send for Dr.
Bradley. I had a trying day yesterday. Professor Fairchild is sick,
and I had some of his classes in addition to my own. It is well this
is Saturday. I can lie still, and rest my throat with a clear
conscience. Provided"--smiling in her grave face--"provided you do
not let me trouble you!"

"Trouble me! you should know better than that! But"--hesitating--"if
you will let me say it"--

"Go on! there is nothing you may not say to me," he said
encouragingly.

"I do think it would be better to see Dr. Bradley, at once--if only
as a precautionary measure."

He started--looked at her intently.

"You are thinking of diphtheria! You ought not to have come in until
that point was settled. There may be danger to you. If, through my
carelessness--"

He turned his face away, unable or unwilling to finish the sentence.

"I never thought of that!" said Jessie, simply. "If I had, I
should have come all the same. Whatever may be the doctor's opinion,
I shall stay here, and take care of you. It is my place."

She rang the bell for Phoebe, and in Roy's hearing, ordered her to
go for the doctor. She would not have her charge suspect that she
was unduly alarmed, or believe there was occasion for a hasty
summons. Then, she brought a sunshiny face to the bedside, and put a
fresh pillow under the hot, heavy head.

"You don't know what a famous nurse I am," she said, blithely. "My
father"--her voice sinking with the sacred word--"used to say that
nursing was a talent, and that I was born with it."

She set to work, forthwith, without waiting for permission. Roy,
regarding her silently from his bed, heartily endorsed Mr. Kirke's
verdict. Not Eunice herself could have moved more soundlessly,
wrought more efficiently to alleviate, so far as she could, the pain
and discomfort of his situation. The doctor was at home, and obeyed
the call promptly. Roy glanced inquiringly at Jessie when he was
announced.

"Show him up!" was all she said, and when he followed Phoebe into
the chamber, she met him with high-bred ease as the lady of the
house; as the patient's wife discussed his symptoms; heard, with
marked gratification, that her fears of diphtheria were unfounded,
and received his directions gratefully and attentively.

"A fine woman, and a most devoted wife!" pronounced Dr. Bradley, at
his luncheon-table, that day. "Let me hear no more gossip about her,
girls. Remember!"

"But, Papa, they do say they live queerly!" ventured the
irrepressible Selina. "Mrs. Wyllys--"

"Is a fool! see that you don't become another in listening to her
twaddle!" was the peremptory reply.

Orrin Wyllys, hearing accidentally of his cousin's indisposition,
called at noon, and was conducted by Phoebe, by warrant of the
relationship, into Roy's presence. The chamber was heated usually by
the furnace register, but Roy lay in bed gazing at the glowing pile
of coals in the grate. There was a happy ray in his eyes,
spontaneity in the gayety with which he welcomed his guest, that did
not accord with the latter's preconceived ideas of the dolor of a
sick-room.

"You look like an invalid--don't you?" was Wyllys' second remark.
"This is the cheeriest place I have been in to-day. It is what the
English call beastly weather, out-of-doors. I don't blame anybody
for keeping his bed. I thought you showed me the room across the
hall as yours when you took me through the house, that night, 'the
last of your quasi widowerhood.'"

"We changed the arrangement afterward," rejoined Roy, carelessly.
"But it is a luxury--is'n't it? to lie still on a stormy day, and
stare a fire like that out of countenance; especially on a holiday,
when there are no phantoms of unsaid lectures to torment one's
reveries. I am enjoying it amazingly. I hadn't the remotest
conception that being sick was so delightful."

"By Jove! I should think you would luxuriate in it, unless you have
less brains than I give you credit for! With an houri for
head-nurse, too! I say! get out of that! I can play the sentimental
sufferer as well as you, and I have a native bias for lazy luxury,
which you haven't. I dare say, you cunning dog! if all were told,
there is some dainty mess preparing for you below stairs,--a triumph
of conjugal affection and culinary skill, that should be tasted by
none but an educated appetite. A Teuton like yourself would be as
well suited with bretzels and sauerkraut, washed down by a gallon of
lager. I am a devout predestinarian, and here lies the case. I have
a canine hunger upon me. I am on my way home to luncheon. Without,
'the day is dark and cold and dreary.' I am led to this corner of
cosiness and comfort and fairy fare to dispossess you. Impostor! how
dare you lie there, and grin at my emptiness and agony! Confess!
what did you have for breakfast? What do you mean to devour for
lunch? What do you hope to consume for dinner?"

Roy could never resist the infection of this merry banter, seldom
indulged in by Orrin except when with him. It brought back their
early days--"when you thrashed the big boys for bullying me"--he
liked to remind the other when they slept, played, and studied
together. Orrin had his foibles, and a graver fault or so, but he
was his friend, as he had told Dr. Baxter, and the boyish love for
his gallant senior was still strong upon him. His laugh now was
hearty and mischievous.

"Such a breakfast!" he said. "Gotten up in strict conformity with
the injunction--'Feed a cold'"--

"And you will have a fever to starve!" interjected Wyllys. "That
would be poetical justice! But go on!"

"Imprimis;" resumed Fordham,--"a cup of Turkish coffee,--fragrant
and clear. Item, cream toast. Knowest thou the taste thereof? Of
real cream toast? light, rich, smooth, that sootheth the inflamed
membrane of the throat, and maketh the diaphragm to rejoice
exceedingly? Item, broiled chicken--a marvel of juicy tenderness; an
omelette aux fines herbes which was an inspiration"--

"For Heaven's sake!" Orrin feigned to tear his hair. "If you don't
want to be murdered in your bed, hold your tongue!"

Roy was in a paroxysm of laughter; Wyllys, scowling horribly, had
snatched the poker and was making adroit passes at him, like the
cunning master of fence he was, when Jessie, ignorant of the liberty
Phoebe had taken, and supposing her patient to be alone, entered.
She had a waiter in one hand containing a silver pitcher and goblet,
and a plate in the other, heaped with hothouse grapes. Transfixed
with astonishment at the spectacle within she stopped on the
threshold. Her amazement was not lessened when Orrin, replacing his
weapon on the hearth, threw himself into a chair and covered his
face with his handkerchief.

"A victim of covetousness!" exclaimed Roy, trying to check his
merriment.

"Of misplaced confidence!" uttered Orrin, gloomily, removing his
cambric, and arising with a show of melancholy composure. "I hope I
have the pleasure of seeing you quite well, Mrs. Fordham! I should
judge so from your blooming appearance, but having just had a
notable lesson in the deceitfulness of outward seeming, I am
sceptical as to the evidence of the senses and human reason."

