flag of Denmark."

Nellie took the bill and examined it.

"It has been torn into four pieces and mended," said she.

"That is precisely how it happens to be the white cross of Denmark. Do
you think, if you had ever seen that bill before, you would recognize it
again, if it fell into your hands?" added the captain.

"Certainly I should."

"Well, it has been in my hands before. Do you remember the day that
Michael had the sun-stroke?"

"Yes, sir; and your tin box disappeared that day."

"Precisely so; and this bill was in that tin box. Jacob Hasbrook, of
Lincolnville, paid me a note. I put the money in the box, intending to
take it over to the bank before night, and deposit it the next day. I
looked at the bill when I counted the money, and I spoke to Hasbrook
about it. I called it the white cross of Denmark then."

"Where did you get it now?" inquired Nellie, her heart in her throat
with anxiety.

"Mr. Leach, the sail-maker, paid it to me just before you came into the
library."

"Mr. Leach!" exclaimed she, permitting herself to be cheered by a ray of
hope that her father was not working up a case against Donald Ramsay.

"Yes; you remember who were in the library on the day I lost the tin
box."

"I remember very well; for all of you went out and carried Michael into
the house. Besides we talked about the box ever so long. You asked me
who had been in the library while you were up stairs; and I told you Mr.
Hasbrook, Laud Cavendish, and Don John."

"Precisely so; I remember it all very distinctly. Now, one of the bills
that was in that box comes back to me."

"But it was paid to you by Mr. Leach."

"It was; but he had it from Don John half an hour before he paid it to
me."

"Why, father!" exclaimed Nellie, with real anguish; for even a suspicion
against Donald was a shock to her. "I can never believe it!"

"I don't wish you to believe anything yet; but you may as well be
prepared for anything an investigation may disclose."

"That Don John should steal!" ejaculated Nellie. "Why, we all considered
him the very soul of honor!"

"You are getting along faster than I do with your conclusions, child,"
added Captain Patterdale. "A suspicion is not proof. The bill came from
him, beyond a doubt. But something can be said in his favor, besides the
statement that his character is excellent. Of the three persons who were
in the library that day, two of them had wagons on the street. It does
not seem probable that Don John walked through the city with that tin
box in his hand. If he did, some one must have seen it. Of course he
would not have carried it openly, while it could easily have been
concealed in the wagon of Hasbrook or Laud Cavendish."

"Certainly; if Don John had taken it, he would not have dared to carry
it through the streets," added Nellie, comforted by the suggestion.

"Again, if he had stolen this white cross of Denmark, he would not have
been likely to pass it off here in Belfast," continued the captain; "for
he is sharp enough to see that it would be identified as soon as it
appeared. Very likely Mr. Leach told him he intended to pay me some
money, and he surely would not have allowed the bill to come back to
me."

"I know he didn't do it," cried Nellie, with enthusiasm.

"You are too fast again, child. It is possible that he did, however
improbable it may seem now, for rogues often make very silly blunders.
Is Edward in the house?"

"I think so; he was reading the Age when I came in."

"Tell him to go down and ask Don John to come up and see me. We will
have the matter cleared up before we sleep. But, Nellie, don't tell
Edward what I want to see Don John for. Not a word about that to any
one. By keeping my own counsel, I may get at the whole truth; whereas
the thief, if he gets wind of what I am doing, may cover his tracks or
run away."

"I will be very discreet, father," replied Nellie, as she left the
library.

In a few moments she returned.

"He has gone, father; though he is very tired," said she.

"I suppose he is; but I don't want to believe that Don John is a thief
even over one night," replied the captain.

"He asked me what you wanted of Don John; but I didn't tell him."

The father and daughter discussed the painful suspicion until Donald
arrived, and entered the library with Edward. A conversation on
indifferent topics was continued for some time, and the boat-builder
wondered if he had been sent for to talk about the launch of the Maud,
which was now an old story.

"How is the wind, Edward?" asked Captain Patterdale.

"'Sou'-sou'-west, half west," laughed Edward, who understood precisely
what his father meant by his question; and bidding Donald good night, he
left the library, without the formality of saying he would go and see
which way the wind was.

"You know which way the wind is, Nellie; and so you need not leave,"
added the captain, as she rose from her seat to follow the example of
her brother.

"So did Ned, for he told you," she answered.

"And you heard him, and know also."

When Captain Patterdale had private business with a visitor, and he
wished any member of his own family to retire, he always asked which way
the wind was.

"Don John, you had a great success in the launch of the Maud to-day,"
said the nabob; but as the same thing had been said half a dozen times
before since the boat-builder entered the room, it was hardly to be
regarded as an original idea; and Donald was satisfied that the launch
was not the business upon which he had been sent for.

"Yes, sir; we got her off very well," he replied. "I was sorry I
couldn't launch her with the mast stepped, so as to dress her in the
colors."

"In that case, you would have needed the flags of all nations. I have
them, and will lend them to you any time when you wish to make a
sensation."

"Thank you, sir."

"I have here the white cross of Denmark," added the captain, holding up
the mended bill.

"A fifty-dollar white-cross," laughed Donald. "I have seen it before."

"This bill?"

"Yes, sir; I paid it to Mr. Leach for the Maud's sails since dark,"
answered Donald, so squarely that the nabob could not help looking at
his daughter and smiling.

"He said you paid promptly, which is a solid virtue in a business man.
By the way, Don John, you will be out of work as soon as the Maud is
finished."

