but would not they deem it most unfilial haste if she were 
so ready to proclaim painful suspicions ? O, what could 
she do to make them look upon this matter in the light 
that appeared so clear to her to let the dead rest in his 
grave without blame or censure, and assist her in repairing 
the wrong by receiving back what rightfully belonged to 
them? 

Perhaps they had believed it from the first. She knew 
so little about the business then. She was glad, with a 
kind of innocent, girlish pride, to have her fortune saved 
from the wreck, and be able to share it with her father. 
She had not dreamed of any splendor or luxury abroad, 
but a kind of quiet life, where, away from all excitements, 
they might learn to know and love each other. 

Instead, she had held court like a little queen. No want, 
DO lack of anything that might conduce to enjoyment. So 
dhe had summered in the gay, glad, girlish existence, fairly 
revelling in the beauty that met her senses on every side. 





From this she had been awakened, rudely, and yet not 
with rude hands. From Mrs. Westlake she had heard the 
story of the Ashburtons' misfortunes told in a hard, un- 
pitying way. She had gone to her father for explana- 
tions, and found him strangely stern and reserved. 

" Ashburton was a fool," he said "no kind of a busi- 
ness man, or he would have looked out better for himself 

"But if there was just enough to pay the debts, what 
else could he do ? " she had asked, simply. 

"What can girls understand of such business matters t" 
was his sharp response. " We have nothing to do with 
them. It was Ashburton's look out if he chose to beggar 
his children." 

And then Rose Stanhope began to think. Hitherto her 
days had been like the flight of a bird over sunny mead- 
ows. When the strange and horrible suspicion first tame 
to her, she tried to banish it as the basest ingratitude. 
But now and then some sentence of her father's setmed 
to stamp it with a sense of shameful truth. As if he was 
afraid she might suspect, he took every opportunity to 
justify his course. 

There was nearly a year of failing health, when she 
vexed him sorely by relinquishing her gayeties and devot- 
ing her time to him. He wanted to see her the wife of a 
count or a duke, and reigning in titled splendor. It might 
have been compassed but for her good sense and deter- 
mination. She would not give her hand without her 
heart, and each day the consciousness grew upon her 
that she was enjoying that which by right belonged to 
others. 

Perhaps he felt it too. Growing more and more into 
the ways of a querulous invalid, now and then his con- 
science smote him sharply. She longed to ask him for 
the truth, but the courage never came until it was too 
late. 

The still lips in the coffin must hold their secret forever, 



 

Like a flash all this passed over Rose Stanhope as she 
gat there with those clear eyes upon her. They could 
glory in a proud consciousness of right, while she was 
haunted with a horrible certainty of wrong. 

" O, Mrs. Ashburton ! " she exclaimed, in accents of 
pain, "will you not plead for me ? I have no loving kin 
to share my wealth, and it is quite beyond my needs. If 
you or yours would but accept a part " 

" Philip is right," said Mr. Ashburton, roused by a re- 
membrance of Mr. Stanhope's neglect through his long 
illness. " We can receive nothing from a latent sense of 
pity. If your father felt that there had been any undue 
advantage taken, I think he would have desired to make 
amends. Let the matter rest where it is. We shall 
always be obliged for the kindly thought prompting you, 
but since God has kept us from want in the past, we can 
trust him for the future." 

He could not have uttered this if he harl seen the im- 
ploring face. Jessie's tender heart was strangely moved. 

Rose Stanhope could not trust her voice to argue 
further. She had hardly dreamed of being so coldly and 
positively repulsed. The scheme was a wild one, she ad- 
mitted to herself, and perhaps they were right. Who 
would be willing to receive munificence from a stranger? 
How foolish she had been to fancy they would be ready to 
invite her into their household as a friend ! 

She rose in awkward bewilderment. "There is noth- 
ing I can do ? " she said, slowly. 

" Nothing," in Philip's deep, manly tone. " Since God 
prospers me, it is my duty and pleasure to care for the 
rebt." 

Miss Stanhope moved towards the door. 

" I must bid you good night then," she said, in a low, 
loustrained manner. 

No friendly hand clasped hers; yet they did not stand 
aloof from any ill will. It was more the strangeness 





and confusion of the moment, and the opportunity that 
might have united them in tender bonds passed unim- 
proved ; but their adieus were breathed in a subdued 
tone. 

Philip handed her into the carriage. When she stum- 
bled a little, he did not think it was because her eyes were 
blinded by tears. 




CHAPTER XIX. 

TOUCHING THE GOLDEN SHOIE. 

" WHAT a strange occurrence ! " exclaimed Philip, re- 
turning to the parlor where the rest sat in surprised silence. 

" It is not every day that one has a fortune, or part of a 
fortune offered, for his or her acceptance. Were we wise 
to refuse ? " 

"Philip!" 

" Father, for myself I could not have touched a dollar 
of it. There is nothing to regret in the decision. But it 
seems to me now that part of our misfortune was Mr. 
Stanhope's fault." 

" I do not wish to judge or condemn unfairly," returned 
Mr. Ashburton, " but I could not help thinking of some 
past events that might have aroused suspicion. Mr. Stan- 
hope appeared to dread an interview with me after my 
illness, and never even took the trouble to call upon me 
here in the city. And then the style he has managed to 
maintain abroad has something rather questionable in it. 
