make any objection, for it will be useless. The 
farmer will have his carriage waiting for us, and 
we shall drive home as rapidly as possible." 

" Oh, Hugh, I am so heavy ! You will never 
be able to do it," said Bessie, as Hugh lifted her 
slight form muffled in shawls. 

" Very heavy ! Really, quite elephantine ! A 
matter of ninety pounds, I should say ! " 

" Nonsense, sir ! I weigh one hundred and 
ten." 

" And what is that to a man of muscle ? 
Don't you know that I pride myself upon my 
strength ! The old proverb says that cleanliness 
is next to godliness ; if that is so, I give the 
third place to strength. What a pity we cannot 
say 4 muscleness,' to keep up the rhythm ! Do 
you know, Bessie, if ministers had more muscle, 
I should like them better." 

" Mr. Leslie has muscle, Hugh." 



 

" Yes ; he lias got a good strong fist of his 
own. I like him, too, in every way. He is so 
manly in his goodness, and so frank in his religion ! 
He is one of those fine, large-hearted men who 
give their very best to the cause. He did not 
take to the ministry because he was not fitted 
for anything else ; he has the capabilities and 
qualifications for a first-rate business man, civil 
engineer, or soldier. But it is evident that the 
whole world was as nothing to him compared to 
the great work of salvation. I honor him. He 
is a man to be envied, for he is living up to his 
ideal." 

" Why, Hugh ! I had no idea you admired 
him so much ! Are you thinking of following 
his example ? " 

"Don't joke, Bessie. The subject is too 
serious." 

" I am not joking," said Bessie, in a low voice. 

" I am no hero," said Hugh, with a half sigh, 
as they reached the lane; " I could never do as 
Mr. Leslie has done. I can only hope to make 
others happy in my small way by — " 



 

" By helping ill-behaved cousins out of their 
troubles," interrupted Bessie, " paying their 
debts, saving their lives, and so forth and so 
forth." 

The ride home was pleasant, in spite of wet 
clothes. Hugh drove the farmer's horse in an 
old carryall, and the farmer himself rode Hugh's 
horse, leading the other alongside. When, they 
reached the back-pasture it was quite dark. 
Hugh lifted Bessie oat, threw the shawls back 
into the carryall, and farmer Brown, after fasten- 
ing the saddle-horses behind, drove away towards 
the town, where he was to leave them at the 
livery-stable according to agreement. 

" Now, Bessie, take up that skirt, and let us 
have a run across the garden," said Hugh. " I 
am so afraid you will take cold." 

But Bessie's long, wet skirt proved such an 
obstacle, that in spite of her objection, Hugh 
lifted her up again, and carried her across the 
pasture, through the garden, and up the terrace 
into the house. 


 

" Shall you go to the musicale ? " lie whispered, 
as he put her down in the dark hall. 

" No," said Bessie ; "I wish you would make it 
all right with Aunt Faith. I have a headache ; 
the fright, I suppose." 

Hugh went off to his room, and in an incredi- 
bly short time he was down-stairs again, in 
evening dress. Aunt Faith came in a few mo- 
ments afterwards, dressed in gray silk with 
delicate white lace around her throat and wrists ; 
"is it not time to go ? " she said. " Where is 
Sibyl?" 

" Here, Aunt," said Sibyl from the parlor ; " I 
have been ready some time." 

" Come in, child, and let us see you." 

Sibyl crossed the hall and stood in the door- 
way. Her dress of soft blue harmonized with 
her fair beauty, and brought out the tints of her 
hair and complexion ; she wore no ornaments, 
and the flowing drapery floated around her 
devoid of any kind of trimming. " Her dress 
was nothing ; just a plain, blue tarleton," said 



one of her companions the next day to a mutual 
friend. " But Sibyl herself looked lovely." 
This was Sibyl's art ; her dress was always sub- 
ordinate to herself. 

"You look like the evening star, sister," said 
Hugh. 

"Thank you, brother. A compliment from 
you is precious, because rare," said Sibyl, smiling ; 
" and as for you, you look like the Apollo in 
Guido's Aurora." 

" Bravo ! That's a compliment worth hav- 
ing," said Hugh, tossing back his golden locks. 
" And now that we are both gorged with compli- 
ments, let us start for the halls of Euterpe." 

" Where is Bessie ? " said Aunt Faith, as Hugh 
rose. 

" She is not going. She has a headache," 
answered Hugh. 

" Poor child ! I will run up and see her before 
I go." 

" That is not necessary, Aunt. I think she 
would rather not be disturbed," said Hugh. 
" Let us start ; it is late." 



 

The musicale was held at the residence of Mrs. 
Arlington, on the opposite side of the avenue, 
but a short distance from the old stone house, 
and Bessie, after taking off her wet clothes, 
dressed herself in a wrapper, and took her seat 
