Hawkins thought it worth while to use her fascinations upon him, and
to endeavor to entangle the volatile fellow in the meshes of her
attractions.
“Gad,” says Harry to the Colonel, “she’s a superb creature, she’d make a
stir in New York, money or no money. There are men I know would give her
a railroad or an opera house, or whatever she wanted--at least they’d
promise.”
Harry had a way of looking at women as he looked at anything else in the
world he wanted, and he half resolved to appropriate Miss Laura, during
his stay in Hawkeye. Perhaps the Colonel divined his thoughts, or was
offended at Harry’s talk, for he replied,
“No nonsense, Mr. Brierly. Nonsense won’t do in Hawkeye, not with my
friends. The Hawkins’ blood is good blood, all the way from Tennessee.
The Hawkinses are under the weather now, but their Tennessee property is
millions when it comes into market.”
“Of course, Colonel. Not the least offense intended. But you can see she
is a fascinating woman. I was only thinking, as to this appropriation,
now, what such a woman could do in Washington. All correct, too,
all correct. Common thing, I assure you in Washington; the wives of
senators, representatives, cabinet officers, all sorts of wives, and
some who are not wives, use their influence. You want an appointment? Do
you go to Senator X? Not much. You get on the right side of his wife.
Is it an appropriation? You’d go straight to the Committee, or to the
Interior office, I suppose? You’d learn better than that. It takes a
woman to get any thing through the Land Office: I tell you, Miss Laura
would fascinate an appropriation right through the Senate and the House
of Representatives in one session, if she was in Washington, as your
friend, Colonel, of course as your friend.”
“Would you have her sign our petition?” asked the Colonel, innocently.
Harry laughed. “Women don’t get anything by petitioning Congress; nobody
does, that’s for form. Petitions are referred somewhere, and that’s the
last of them; you can’t refer a handsome woman so easily, when she is
present. They prefer ‘em mostly.”
The petition however was elaborately drawn up, with a glowing
description of Napoleon and the adjacent country, and a statement of the
absolute necessity to the prosperity of that region and of one of the
stations on the great through route to the Pacific, of the immediate
improvement of Columbus River; to this was appended a map of the city
and a survey of the river. It was signed by all the people at Stone’s
Landing who could write their names, by Col. Beriah Sellers, and
the Colonel agreed to have the names headed by all the senators and
representatives from the state and by a sprinkling of ex-governors and
ex-members of congress. When completed it was a formidable document. Its
preparation and that of more minute plots of the new city consumed the
valuable time of Sellers and Harry for many weeks, and served to keep
them both in the highest spirits.
In the eyes of Washington Hawkins, Harry was a superior being, a man who
was able to bring things to pass in a way that excited his enthusiasm.
He never tired of listening to his stories of what he had done and of
what he was going to do. As for Washington, Harry thought he was a man
of ability and comprehension, but “too visionary,” he told the Colonel.
The Colonel said he might be right, but he had never noticed anything
visionary about him.
“He’s got his plans, sir. God bless my soul, at his age, I was full of
plans. But experience sobers a man, I never touch any thing now that
hasn’t been weighed in my judgment; and when Beriah Sellers puts his
judgment on a thing, there it is.”
Whatever might have been Harry’s intentions with regard to Laura, he saw
more and more of her every day, until he got to be restless and nervous
when he was not with her.
That consummate artist in passion allowed him to believe that the
fascination was mainly on his side, and so worked upon his vanity,
while inflaming his ardor, that he scarcely knew what he was about. Her
coolness and coyness were even made to appear the simple precautions
of a modest timidity, and attracted him even more than the little
tendernesses into which she was occasionally surprised. He could
never be away from her long, day or evening; and in a short time their
intimacy was the town talk. She played with him so adroitly that Harry
thought she was absorbed in love for him, and yet he was amazed that he
did not get on faster in his conquest.
And when he thought of it, he was piqued as well. A country girl, poor
enough, that was evident; living with her family in a cheap and most
unattractive frame house, such as carpenters build in America, scantily
furnished and unadorned; without the adventitious aids of dress or
jewels or the fine manners of society--Harry couldn’t understand it.
But she fascinated him, and held him just beyond the line of absolute
familiarity at the same time. While he was with her she made him forget
that the Hawkins’ house was nothing but a wooden tenement, with four
small square rooms on the ground floor and a half story; it might have
been a palace for aught he knew.
Perhaps Laura was older than Harry. She was, at any rate, at that ripe
age when beauty in woman seems more solid than in the budding period of
girlhood, and she had come to understand her powers perfectly, and to
know exactly how much of the susceptibility and archness of the girl
it was profitable to retain. She saw that many women, with the best
intentions, make a mistake of carrying too much girlishness into
womanhood. Such a woman would have attracted Harry at any time, but only
a woman with a cool brain and exquisite art could have made him lose
his head in this way; for Harry thought himself a man of the world. The
young fellow never dreamed that he was merely being experimented on; he
was to her a man of another society and another culture, different from
that she had any knowledge of except in books, and she was not unwilling
to try on him the fascinations of her mind and person.
For Laura had her dreams. She detested the narrow limits in which her
lot was cast, she hated poverty. Much of her reading had been of modern
works of fiction, written by her own sex, which had revealed to her
something of her own powers and given her indeed, an exaggerated notion
of the influence, the wealth, the position a woman may attain who has
beauty and talent and ambition and a little culture, and is not too
scrupulous in the use of them. She wanted to be rich, she wanted luxury,
she wanted men at her feet, her slaves, and she had not--thanks to some
of the novels she had read--the nicest discrimination between notoriety
and reputation; perhaps she did not know how fatal notoriety usually is
to the bloom of womanhood.
With the other Hawkins children Laura had been brought up in the belief
that they had inherited a fortune in the Tennessee Lands. She did not
by any means share all the delusion of the family; but her brain was
not seldom busy with schemes about it. Washington seemed to her only to
dream of it and to be willing to wait for its riches to fall upon him
in a golden shower; but she was impatient, and wished she were a man to
take hold of the business.
“You men must enjoy your schemes and your activity and liberty to go
about the world,” she said to Harry one day, when he had been talking of
New York and Washington and his incessant engagements.
“Oh, yes,” replied that martyr to business, “it’s all well enough, if
you don’t have too much of it, but it only has one object.”
“What is that?”
“If a woman doesn’t know, it’s useless to tell her. What do you suppose
I am staying in Hawkeye for, week after week, when I ought to be with my
corps?”
“I suppose it’s your business with Col. Sellers about Napoleon, you’ve
always told me so,” answered Laura, with a look intended to contradict
her words.
“And now I tell you that is all arranged, I suppose you’ll tell me I
ought to go?”
“Harry!” exclaimed Laura, touching his arm and letting her pretty hand
rest there a moment. “Why should I want you to go away? The only person
in Hawkeye who understands me.”
“But you refuse to understand me,” replied Harry, flattered but still
petulant. “You are like an iceberg, when we are alone.”
Laura looked up with wonder in her great eyes, and something like a
blush suffusing her face, followed by a look of langour that penetrated
Harry’s heart as if it had been longing.
“Did I ever show any want of confidence in you, Harry?” And she gave
him her hand, which Harry pressed with effusion--something in her manner
told him that he must be content with that favor.
It was always so. She excited his hopes and denied him, inflamed his
passion and restrained it, and wound him in her toils day by day. To
what purpose? It was keen delight to Laura to prove that she had power
over men.
Laura liked to hear about life at the east, and especially about the
luxurious society in which Mr. Brierly moved when he was at home. It
pleased her imagination to fancy herself a queen in it.
“You should be a winter in Washington,” Harry said.
“But I have no acquaintances there.”
“Don’t know any of the families of the congressmen? They like to have a
pretty woman staying with them.”
“Not one.”
“Suppose Col. Sellers should, have business there; say, about this
Columbus River appropriation?”
“Sellers!” and Laura laughed.
“You needn’t laugh. Queerer things have happened. Sellers knows
everybody from Missouri, and from the West, too, for that matter. He’d
introduce you to Washington life quick enough. It doesn’t need a crowbar
to break your way into society there as it does in Philadelphia. It’s
democratic, Washington is. Money or beauty will open any door. If I were
a handsome woman, I shouldn’t want any better place than the capital to
pick up a prince or a fortune.”
“Thank you,” replied Laura. “But I prefer the quiet of home, and the
love of those I know;” and her face wore a look of sweet contentment and
