St. Matthew and the first two chapters of St. Luke are our only
data, except one or two very brief notices in St. John, and one
slight mention in the Acts.

In part, our conception of the character of Mary may receive light
from her nationality. A fine human being is never the product of one
generation, but rather the outcome of a growth of ages. Mary was
the offspring and flower of a race selected, centuries before, from
the finest physical stock of the world, watched over, trained, and
cultured, by Divine oversight, in accordance with every physical
and mental law for the production of sound and vigorous mental and
bodily conditions. Her blood came to her in a channel of descent
over which the laws of Moses had established a watchful care; a race
where marriage had been made sacred, family life a vital point, and
motherhood invested by Divine command with an especial sanctity.
As Mary was in a certain sense a product of the institutes of
Moses, so it is an interesting coincidence that she bore the name
of his sister, the first and most honored of the line of Hebrew
prophetesses,--Mary being the Latin version of the Hebrew Miriam.
She had also, as we read, a sister, the wife of Cleopas, who bore
the same name,--a custom not infrequent in Jewish families. It
is suggested, that, Miriam being a sacred name and held in high
traditionary honor, mothers gave it to their daughters, as now in
Spain they call them after the Madonna as a sign of good omen.

There is evidence that Mary had not only the sacred name of the
first great prophetess, but that she inherited, in the line of
descent, the poetic and prophetic temperament. She was of the
royal line of David, and poetic visions and capabilities of high
enthusiasm were in her very lineage. The traditions of the holy and
noble women of her country's history were all open to her as sources
of inspiration. Miriam, leading the song of national rejoicing on
the shore of the Red Sea; Deborah, mother, judge, inspirer, leader,
and poet of her nation; Hannah, the mother who won so noble a son
of Heaven by prayer; the daughter of Jephtha, ready to sacrifice
herself to her country; Huldah, the prophetess, the interpreter of
God's will to kings; Queen Esther, risking her life for her people;
and Judith, the beautiful and chaste deliverer of her nation,--these
were the spiritual forerunners of Mary, the ideals with whom her
youthful thoughts must have been familiar.

The one hymn of Mary's composition which has found place in the
sacred records pictures in a striking manner the exalted and poetic
side of her nature. It has been compared with the song of Hannah
the mother of Samuel, and has been spoken of as taken from it. But
there is only that resemblance which sympathy of temperament and a
constant contemplation of the same class of religious ideas would
produce. It was the exaltation of a noble nature expressing itself
in the form and imagery supplied by the traditions and history of
her nation. We are reminded that Mary was a daughter of David by
certain tones in her magnificent hymn, which remind us of many of
the Psalms of that great heart-poet.

Being of royal lineage, Mary undoubtedly cherished in her bosom the
traditions of her house with that secret fervor which belongs to
enthusiastic natures. We are to suppose her, like all Judæan women,
intensely national in her feelings. She identified herself with her
country's destiny, lived its life, suffered in its sufferings,
and waited and prayed for its deliverance and glories. This was a
time of her nation's deep humiliation. The throne and scepter had
passed from Judah. Conquered, trodden down, and oppressed, the
sacred land was under the rule of Pagan Rome; Herod, the appointed
sovereign, was a blaspheming, brutal tyrant, using all his power to
humiliate and oppress; and we may imagine Mary as one of the small
company of silent mourners, like Simeon, and Anna the prophetess,
who pondered the Scriptures and "looked for salvation in Israel."
She was betrothed to her cousin Joseph, who was, like herself, of
the royal lineage. He was a carpenter, in accordance with that
excellent custom of the Jewish law which required every man to be
taught a mechanical trade. They were in humble circumstances, and
dwelt in a village proverbial for the meanness and poverty of its
inhabitants. We can imagine them as in, but not of, the sordid
and vulgar world of Nazareth, living their life of faith and prayer,
of mournful memories of past national glory, and longing hopes for
the future.

The account of the visitation of the angel to Mary is given by St.
Luke, and by him alone. His Gospel was written later than those of
Matthew and Mark, and designed for the Greek churches, and it seems
but natural that in preparing himself to write upon this theme
he should seek information from Mary herself, the fountain-head.
Biblical critics discover traces of this communication in the
different style of these first two chapters of St. Luke. While the
rest of the book is written in pure classic Greek, this is full
of Hebraisms, and has all the marks of being translated from the
Syro-Chaldaic tongue, which was the popular dialect of Palestine,
and in which Mary must have given her narrative.

Let us now look at the simple record. "And in the sixth month
the angel Gabriel was sent from God unto a city of Galilee named
Nazareth, to a virgin espoused to a man named Joseph, of the house
of David, and the virgin's name was Mary. And the angel came in unto
her and said, Hail, highly favored! the Lord is with thee; blessed
art thou among women! And when she saw him she was troubled at his
saying, and cast in her mind what manner of salutation this should
be."

All these incidents, in their very nature, could be known to Mary
alone. She was in solitude, without a human witness; from her the
whole detail must have come. It gives not only the interview, but
the passing thoughts and emotions of her mind; she was agitated,
and cast about what this should mean. We see in all this that
serious, calm, and balanced nature which was characteristic of Mary.
Habitually living in the contemplation of that spirit-world revealed
in the Scriptures, it was no very startling thing to her to see an
angel standing by,--her thoughts had walked among the angels too
long for that; but his enthusiastic words of promise and blessing
agitated her soul.

"And the angel said unto her, Fear not, Mary, for thou hast found
favor with God, and behold thou shalt conceive in thy womb and bring
forth a son and shalt call his name Jesus. He shall be great, and
shall be called the Son of the Highest, and the Lord God shall give
unto him the throne of his father[8] David, and he shall reign over
the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there shall be no
end."

  [8] It is remarkable that in this interview the angel, in the same
  connection, informs Mary that her son shall have no human father,
  and that David shall be his ancestor. The inference is clear that
  Mary is herself of the house of David. Coincident with this we find
  a genealogy of Jesus in this Gospel of Luke differing entirely
  from the genealogy in Matthew. Very able critics have therefore
  contended that, as Luke evidently received his account from Mary,
  the genealogy he gives is that of her ancestry, and that the
  "Heli" who is mentioned in Luke as the ancestor of Jesus was his
  grandfather, the father of Mary. Very skillful and able Biblical
  critics have supported this view, among whom are Paulus, Spanheim,
  and Lightfoot. The latter goes the length of saying that there
  are no difficulties in these genealogies but what have been made
  by commentators. In Lightfoot, notes in Luke, third chapter, the
  argument is given at length, and he adds testimonies to show that
  Mary was called the daughter of Heli by the early Jewish Rabbins,
  who traduced her for her pretensions in reference to her son. He
  quotes three passages from different Rabbins in the Jerusalem
  Talmud, or "Chigagah," folio 77. 4, where this Mary, mother of
  Jesus, is denounced as the "daughter of Heli and mother of a
  pretender."

A weaker woman would have been dazzled and overcome by such a
vision,--appealing to all her personal ambition,--and her pride of
nation and her religious enthusiasm telling her that she had drawn
the prize which had been the high ideal of every Jewish woman from
the beginning of time. But Mary faces the great announcement with a
countenance of calm inquiry. "Then said Mary to the angel, How shall
this be, seeing I am yet a virgin?" And the angel answered and said
unto her, "The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee; the power of the
Highest shall overshadow thee; therefore, also, that holy progeny
which shall be born of thee shall be called the Son of God; and
behold, also, thy cousin Elisabeth, she also hath conceived a son
in her old age; and this is the sixth month with her who was called
barren. For with God nothing shall be impossible."

In this announcement a Jewish betrothed woman must have seen a
future of danger to her reputation and her life; for who would
believe a story of which there was no mortal witness? But Mary
accepted the high destiny and the fearful danger with an entire
surrender of herself into God's hands. Her reply is not one of
exultation, but of submission. "Behold the handmaid of the Lord; be
it unto me according to his word."
