
fi< Ah, my son! ” said the old man, “I am happy to see you. Come 
in ! Come and tell me of your adventures, and what strange lands you have 
been to see. Let us pass the night together. I will tell you of my prowess 
and exploits, and what I can perform. You shall do the same, and we will 
amuse ourselves.* * 

He then drew from his sack a curiously-wrought antique pipe, and hav- 
ing filled it with tobacco, rendered mild by a mixture of certain leaves, 
handed it to his guest. When this ceremony was concluded they began to 
speak. 

“ I blow my breath,* * said the old man, “ and the stream stands still. 
The water becomes stiff and hard as clear stone.** 

“ I breathe,'' said the young man, “ and flowers spring up over thf 
plain.'' 

“ I shake my locks,** retorted the old man, “ and snow covers the land. 
The leaves fall from the trees at my command, and my breath blows them 
away. The birds get up from the water, and fly to a distant land. The 
animals hide themselves from my breath, and the very ground becomes as 
hard as flint.’' 

“I shake my ringlets,'' rejoined the young man, “and warm showers 
of soft rain fall upon the earth. The plants lift up their heads out of the 
earth, like the eyes of children glistening with delight. My voice recalls 
the birds. The warmth of my breath unlocks the streams. Music fills the 
groves wherever I walk, and all nature rejoices.” 

At length the sun began to rise. A gentle warmth came over the place. 
The tongue of the old man became silent. The robin and bluebird began 
to sing on the top of the lodge. The stream began to murmur by the door, 
and the fragrance of growing herbs and flowers came softly on the vernal 
breeze. 

Daylight fully revealed to the young man the character of his entertainer. 
When he looked upon him, he had the icy visage of PeboanJ* Streams 
began to flow from his eyes. As the sun increased, he grew less and less 
in stature, and anon had melted completely away. Nothing remained on 
the place of his lodge fire but the miskodeed * t a small white flower, with a 
pink border, which is one of the earliest species of northern plants. 

‘The Undying Head 99 is a rather long tale, but it 
makes up in weird conceits, fairy-tale prodigies, variety 
of incident, and energy of movement, for what it lacks 
in brevity.' 



CHAPTER LX. 


SPECULATIONS AND CONCLUSIONS 

WE reached St. Paul, at the head of navigation of 
the Mississippi, and there our voyage of two 
thousand miles from New Orleans ended. It is about 
a ten-day trip by steamer. It can probably be done 
quicker by rail. I judge so because I know that one 
may go by rail from St, Louis to Hannibal — a dis- 
tance of at least a hundred and twenty miles — in 
seven hours. This is better than walking; unless one 
is in a hurry. 

The season being far advanced when we were in New 
Orleans, the roses and magnolia blossoms were falling; 
but here in St. Paul it was the snow. In New Orleans 
we had caught an occasional withering breath from 
over a crater, apparently ; here in St. Paul we caught 
a frequent benumbing one from over a glacier, ap- 
parently. 

I am not trying to astonish by these statistics. No, 
it is only natural that there should be a sharp difference 
between climates which lie upon parallels of latitude 
which are one or two thousand miles apart. I take 
this position, and I will hold it and maintain it in spite 
of the newspapers. The newspaper thinks it isn’t a 
natural thing; and once a year, in February, it re- 
marks, with ill-concealed exclamation points, that 
while we, away up here, are fighting snow and ice* 

folks are having new strawberries and peas down 
South ; callas are blooming out of doors, and the peo- 
ple are complaining of the warm weather. The news- 
paper never gets done being surprised about it. It is 
caught regularly every February. There must be a 
reason for this; and this reason must be change of 
hands at the editorial desk. You cannot surprise an 
individual more than twice with the same marvel — not 
even with the February miracles of the Southern 
climate; but if you keep putting new hands at the 
editorial desk every year or two, and forget to vacci- 
nate them against the annual climatic surprise, that 
same old thing is going to occur right along. Each 
year one new hand will have the disease, and be safe 
from its recurrence ; but this does not save the news- 
paper. No, the newspaper is in as bad case as ever; 
it will forever have its new hand ; and so, it will break 
out with the strawberry surprise every February as 
long as it lives. The new hand is curable ; the news- 
paper itself is incurable. An act of Congress — no, 
Congress could not prohibit the strawberry surprise 
without questionably stretching its powers. An amend- 
ment to the Constitution might fix the thing, and that 
is probably the best and quickest way to get at it. 
Under authority of such an amendment, Congress 
could then pass an act inflicting imprisonment for life 
for the first offence, and some sort of lingering death 
for subsequent ones; and this, no doubt, would pres- 
ently give us a rest. At the same time, the amend- 
ment and the resulting act and penalties might easily 
be made to cover various cognate abuses, such as the 
Annual-Veteran - who - has-Voted-for-Every- President- 
from - Washington - down, - and - Walked - to-the-Polls- 
Yesterday - with - as-Bright-an-Eye-and-as-Firm-a-Step- 
as-Ever, and ten or eleven other weary yearly marvels 
of that sort, and of the Oldest-Freemason, and Oldest- 

Printer, and Oldest-Baptist-Preacher, and Oldest-Alunr 
nus sort, and Three-Children-Born-at-a-Birth sort, and 
so on, and so on. And then England would take it 
up and pass a law prohibiting the further use of Sidney 
Smith's jokes, and appointing a commissioner to con- 
struct some new ones. Then life would be a sweet 
dream of rest and peace, and the nations would cease 
to long for heaven. 

But I wander from my theme. St. Paul is a won- 
derful town. It is put together in solid blocks of 
honest brick and stone, and has the air of intending to 
stay. Its post-office was established thirty-six years 
ago ; and by and by, when the postmaster received a 
letter, he carried it to Washington, horseback, to in- 
quire what was to be done with it. Such is the 
legend. Two frame houses were built that year, and 
several persons were added to the population. A 
recent number of the leading St. Paul paper, the 
Pioneer Press, gives some statistics which furnish a 
vivid contrast to that old state of things, to wit : 
Population, autumn of the present year (1882), 71,000; 
number of letters handled, first half of the year, 
1,209,387; number of houses built during three- 
quarters of the year, 989; their cost, $3,186,000. 
The increase of letters over the corresponding six 
months of last year was fifty per cent. Last year the 
new buildings added to the city cost above $4,500,000. 
St. Paul's strength lies in her commerce — I mean his 
commerce. He is a manufacturing city, of course, — 
all the cities of that region are, — but he is peculiarly 
strong in the matter of commerce. Last year his job- 
bing trade amounted to upward of $52,000,000. 

He has a custom-house, and is building a costly 
capitol to replace the one recently burned — for he is 
the capital of the State. He has churches without 
end ; and not the cheap poor kind, but the kind that 
the rich Protestant puts up, the kind that the poor 
Irish * 4 hired-girl ’ * delights to erect. What a passion 
