
" Oh, that's a state secret," returned Ferris. 

" And you think he won 't do for our pur 
pose ? " 




"I don 't indeed." 

" Well, I'm not so sure of it. Tell me something 
more about him." 

" I don 't know anything more about him. Be 
sides, there isn t time." 

The gondola had already entered the canal, and 
was swiftly approaching the hotel. 

" Oh yes, there is," pleaded Mrs. Vervain, lay 
ing her hand on his arm. " I want you to come in 
and dine with us. We dine early." 

" Thank you, I can 't. Affairs of the nation, 
you know. Rebel privateer on the canal of the 
Brenta." 

" Really ? " Mrs. Vervain leaned towards Fer 
ris for sharper scrutiny of his face. Her glasses 
sprang from her nose, and precipitated themselves 
into his bosom. 

" Allow me," he said, with burlesque politeness, 
withdrawing them from the recesses of his waist 
coat and gravely presenting them. Miss Vervain 
burst into a helpless laugh ; then she turned tow 
ard her mother with a kind of indignant tenderness, 
and gently arranged her shawl so that it should not 
drop off when she rose to leave the gondola. She 
did not look again at Ferris, who resisted Mrs. 
Vervain's entreaties to remain, and took leave as 
soon as the gondola landed. 

The ladies went to their room, where Florida 
lifted from the table a vase of divers-colored hya 
cinths, and stepping out upon the balcony flung the 



 

flowers into the canal. As she put down the empty 
vase, the lingering perfume of the banished flowers 
haunted the air of the room. 

" Why, Florida," said her mother, "those were 
the flowers that Mr. Ferris gave you. Did you 
fancy they had begun to decay ? The smell of 
hyacinths when they re a little old is dreadful. 
But I can 't imagine, a gentleman's giving you flow 
ers that were at all old." 

" Oh, mother, don 't speak to me ! " cried Mis? 
Vervain, passionately, clasping her hands to her 
face. 

"Now I see that I've been saying something to 
vex you, my darling," and seating herself beside 
the young girl on the sofa, she fondly took down 
her hands. " Do tell me what it was. Was it 
about your teachers falling in love with you ? You 
know they did, Florida : Pestachiavi and Sclmlze, 
both ; and that horrid old Fleuron." 

"Did you think I liked any better on that ac 
count to have you talk it over with a stranger ? " 
asked Florida, still angrily. 

" That's true, my dear," said Mrs. Vervain, pen 
itently. " But if it worried you, why didn 't you 
do something to stop me ? Give me a hint, or just 
a little knock, somewhere ? " 

"No. mother; I d rather not. Then you d 
have come out with the whole thing, to prove that 
you were right. It's better to let it go," said 
Florida with a fierce laugh, half sob. " But it's 



 

strange that you can 't remember how such things 
torment me." 

" I suppose it's my weak health, dear," answered 
the mother. " I didn 't use to be so. But now I 
don 't really seem to have the strength to be sensi 
ble. I know it's silly as well as you. The talk 
just seems to keep going on of itself, slipping out, 
slipping out. But you needn 't mind. Mr. Ferris 
won 't think you could ever have done anything out 
of the way. I'm sure you don 't act with him as 
if you d ever encouraged anybody. I think you're 
too haughty with him, Florida. And now, his 
flowers." 

" He's detestable. He's conceited and presum 
ing beyond all endurance. I don 't care what he 
thinks of me. But it's his manner towards you 
that I can 't tolerate." 

" I suppose it's rather free," said Mrs. Vervain. 
" But then you know, my dear, I shall be soon get 
ting to be an old lady ; and besides, I always feel as 
if consuls were a kind of one of the family. He's 
been very obliging since we came ; I don 't know 
what we should have done without him. And I 
don 't object to a little ease of manner in the gen 
tlemen ; I never did." 

He makes fun of you," cried Florida : " and 
there at the convent," she said, bursting into angry 
tears, " he kept exchanging glances with that monk, 

as if he He's insulting, and I hate 

him ! " 



 

" Do you mean that he thought your mother 
ridiculous, Florida?" asked Mrs. Vervain gravely. 
" You must have misunderstood his looks ; indeed 
you must. I can 't imagine why he should, I re 
member that I talked particularly well during our 
whole visit ; my mind was active, for I felt unusu 
ally strong, and I was interested in everything. 
It's nothing but a fancy of yours ; or your preju 
dice, Florida. But it's odd, now I've sat down 
for a moment, how worn out I feel. And thirsty." 

Mrs. Vervain fitted on her glasses, but even then 
felt uncertainly about for the empty vase on the 
table before her. 

"It isn t a goblet, mother," said Florida; "I ll 
get you some water." 

 Do ; and then throw a shawl over me. I'm 
sleepy, and a nap before dinner will do me good. 
I don 't see why I'm so drowsy of late. I suppose 
it's getting into the sea air here at Venice ; though 
it's mountain air that makes you drowsy. But 
you're quite mistaken about Mr. Ferris. He isn 't  
capable of anything really rude. Besides, there 
would n t have been any sense in it." 
