bring from the Provinces that he will not have to pay duty on. And
here is a suggestion to our tariff-mongers for the “protection” of New
England women.

The reader probably cannot appreciate the delicious sense of rest and
of achievement which we enjoyed in this tidy inn, nor share the
anticipations of undisturbed, luxurious sleep, in which we indulged as
we sat upon the upper balcony after supper, and saw the moon rise over
the glistening Bras d’Or and flood with light the islands and headlands
of the beautiful bay. Anchored at some distance from the shore was
a slender coasting vessel. The big red moon happened to come up just
behind it, and the masts and spars and ropes of the vessel came out,
distinctly traced on the golden background, making such a night picture
as I once saw painted of a ship in a fiord of Norway. The scene was
enchanting. And we respected then the heretofore seemingly insane
impulse that had driven us on to Baddeck.




IV

     “He had no ill-will to the Scotch; for, if he had been
     conscious of that, he never would have thrown himself into
     the bosom of their country, and trusted to the protection of
     its remote inhabitants with a fearless confidence.”
      --BOSWELL’S JOHNSON.

Although it was an open and flagrant violation of the Sabbath day as it
is kept in Scotch Baddeck, our kind hosts let us sleep late on Sunday
morning, with no reminder that we were not sleeping the sleep of the
just. It was the charming Maud, a flitting sunbeam of a girl, who waited
to bring us our breakfast, and thereby lost the opportunity of going
to church with the rest of the family,--an act of gracious hospitality
which the tired travelers appreciated.

The travelers were unable, indeed, to awaken into any feeling of
Sabbatical straitness. The morning was delicious,--such a morning as
never visits any place except an island; a bright, sparkling morning,
with the exhilaration of the air softened by the sea. What a day it was
for idleness, for voluptuous rest, after the flight by day and night
from St. John! It was enough, now that the morning was fully opened
and advancing to the splendor of noon, to sit upon the upper balcony,
looking upon the Bras d’Or and the peaceful hills beyond, reposeful and
yet sparkling with the air and color of summer, and inhale the balmy
air. (We greatly need another word to describe good air, properly
heated, besides this overworked “balmy.”) Perhaps it might in some
regions be considered Sabbath-keeping, simply to rest in such a soothing
situation,--rest, and not incessant activity, having been one of the
original designs of the day.

But our travelers were from New England, and they were not willing to
be outdone in the matter of Sunday observances by such an out-of-the-way
and nameless place as Baddeck. They did not set themselves up as
missionaries to these benighted Gaelic people, to teach them by example
that the notion of Sunday which obtained two hundred years ago in
Scotland had been modified, and that the sacredness of it had pretty
much disappeared with the unpleasantness of it. They rather lent
themselves to the humor of the hour, and probably by their demeanor
encouraged the respect for the day on Cape Breton Island. Neither by
birth nor education were the travelers fishermen on Sunday, and they
were not moved to tempt the authorities to lock them up for dropping
here a line and there a line on the Lord’s day.

In fact, before I had finished my second cup of Maud-mixed coffee, my
companion, with a little show of haste, had gone in search of the kirk,
and I followed him, with more scrupulousness, as soon as I could without
breaking the day of rest. Although it was Sunday, I could not but notice
that Baddeck was a clean-looking village of white wooden houses, of
perhaps seven or eight hundred inhabitants; that it stretched along
the bay for a mile or more, straggling off into farmhouses at each end,
lying for the most part on the sloping curve of the bay. There were a
few country-looking stores and shops, and on the shore three or four
rather decayed and shaky wharves ran into the water, and a few schooners
lay at anchor near them; and the usual decaying warehouses leaned about
the docks. A peaceful and perhaps a thriving place, but not a bustling
place. As I walked down the road, a sailboat put out from the shore
and slowly disappeared round the island in the direction of the Grand
Narrows. It had a small pleasure party on board. None of them were
drowned that day, and I learned at night that they were Roman Catholics
from Whykokornagh.

The kirk, which stands near the water, and at a distance shows a pretty
wooden spire, is after the pattern of a New England meeting-house. When
I reached it, the house was full and the service had begun. There was
something familiar in the bareness and uncompromising plainness
and ugliness of the interior. The pews had high backs, with narrow,
uncushioned seats. The pulpit was high,--a sort of theological
fortification,--approached by wide, curving flights of stairs on either
side. Those who occupied the near seats to the right and left of the
pulpit had in front of them a blank board partition, and could not
by any possibility see the minister, though they broke their necks
backwards over their high coat-collars. The congregation had a striking
resemblance to a country New England congregation of say twenty years
ago. The clothes they wore had been Sunday clothes for at least that
length of time.

Such clothes have a look of I know not what devout and painful
respectability, that is in keeping with the worldly notion of rigid
Scotch Presbyterianism. One saw with pleasure the fresh and rosy-cheeked
children of this strict generation, but the women of the audience were
not in appearance different from newly arrived and respectable Irish
immigrants. They wore a white cap with long frills over the forehead,
and a black handkerchief thrown over it and hanging down the neck,--a
quaint and not unpleasing disguise.

The house, as I said, was crowded. It is the custom in this region to
go to church,--for whole families to go, even the smallest children;
and they not unfrequently walk six or seven miles to attend the service.
There is a kind of merit in this act that makes up for the lack of
certain other Christian virtues that are practiced elsewhere. The
service was worth coming seven miles to participate in!--it was about
two hours long, and one might well feel as if he had performed a work
of long-suffering to sit through it. The singing was strictly
congregational. Congregational singing is good (for those who like it)
when the congregation can sing. This congregation could not sing, but it
could grind the Psalms of David powerfully. They sing nothing else but
the old Scotch version of the Psalms, in a patient and faithful long
meter. And this is regarded, and with considerable plausibility, as an
act of worship. It certainly has small element of pleasure in it.
Here is a stanza from Psalm xlv., which the congregation, without any
instrumental nonsense, went through in a dragging, drawling manner, and
with perfect individual independence as to time:

“Thine arrows sharply pierce the heart of th’ enemies of the king, And
under thy sub-jec-shi-on the people down do bring.”

The sermon was extempore, and in English with Scotch pronunciation; and
it filled a solid hour of time. I am not a good judge of sermons, and
this one was mere chips to me; but my companion, who knows a sermon
when he hears it, said that this was strictly theological, and Scotch
theology at that, and not at all expository. It was doubtless my fault
that I got no idea whatever from it. But the adults of the congregation
appeared to be perfectly satisfied with it; at least they sat bolt
upright and nodded assent continually. The children all went to sleep
under it, without any hypocritical show of attention. To be sure, the
day was warm and the house was unventilated. If the windows had been
opened so as to admit the fresh air from the Bras d’Or, I presume
the hard-working farmers and their wives would have resented such an
interference with their ordained Sunday naps, and the preacher’s sermon
would have seemed more musty than it appeared to be in that congenial
and drowsy air. Considering that only half of the congregation could
understand the preacher, its behavior was exemplary.

After the sermon, a collection was taken up for the minister; and I
noticed that nothing but pennies rattled into the boxes,--a melancholy
sound for the pastor. This might appear niggardly on the part of these
Scotch Presbyterians, but it is on principle that they put only a penny
into the box; they say that they want a free gospel, and so far as they
are concerned they have it. Although the farmers about the Bras d’Or are
well-to-do they do not give their minister enough to keep his soul in
his Gaelic body, and his poor support is eked out by the contributions
of a missionary society. It was gratifying to learn that this was
not from stinginess on the part of the people, but was due to their
religious principle. It seemed to us that everybody ought to be good in
a country where it costs next to nothing.

When the service was over, about half of the people departed; the
rest remained in their seats and prepared to enter upon their Sabbath
exercises. These latter were all Gaelic people, who had understood
