"We shall have potatoes and vegetables for winter; and we have a barrel
of flour, and a hundred of meal, besides lots of corn for the chickens;
then my salary will be a little more than thirty-six dollars a month,
counting eleven months; and fifty dollars for our poultry."

"Why, we'll be as rich as kings!" was Granny's delighted reply. "You're
a wonderful boy, Hal!"

"And if I could sell some flowers! Anyhow, there will be the spring
things. It does look a little like prosperity, Granny."

"I'm so thankful!" and Granny twisted up her apron in pure gratitude.

"Charlie had better go to school again. I wish she could learn to be a
teacher; for she never will like to sew."

"No," replied Granny, with a solemn shake of the head.

"And she is getting to be such a large girl! Well, I suppose something
will come. It has to all of us."




CHAPTER XIV.

  A FLOWER-GARDEN IN DOORS.


Hal went to school bright and early the first Monday in September. It
was about a mile to the place called the "Cross-roads," because from
there the roads diverged in every direction. An old tumble-down house
had been put in tolerable order, and some second-hand desks and benches
arranged in the usual fashion. Just around this point, there was quite
a nest of cottages belonging to the mill workmen.

The children straggled in shyly, eying the new master. Rather unkempt,
some of them, and with not very promising faces, belonging to the
poorer class of German and English; then others bright and tidy, and
brimming over with mirthful smiles.

By ten o'clock sixteen had assembled. Hal gave them a short address,
made a few rules, and attempted to classify them. They read and spelled
a little, at least those who were able, when the bell on the factory
rang out the hour of noon.

Three new ones came after dinner. Hal labored faithfully; but it was
a relief to have the session close.

Before the week ended, however, the prospect became more inspiriting.
There were twenty-three scholars, and some whom it would be a pleasure
to teach. But, after all, it was not as delightful as working among
the flowers,--the dear, beautiful children who gave only fragrance and
loveliness continually.

He had been so tired every night, that he could do nothing but rest;
and so he was glad to have Saturday come.

"It seems early to take them in," he said, surveying the garden so full
of glory. "But there is a good deal to do; and I shall have only one
day in the week."

Kit took the wheelbarrow, and trundled off to the woods for some more
good soil; for Hal had to be economical, since he could not afford to
buy every thing. They were out of debt, and had a little money,--very
little indeed; but there were some pears and grapes to sell. Hal's
Concord and Rogers hybrid had done beautifully; and two of the
new-comers in Madison had offered to take all he had, at ten cents a
pound.

"I could get more in the city," he said; "but there would be the time
and trouble of going. And grapes are heavy too: it doesn't take many
bunches to weigh a pound; and ten pounds come to a dollar."

But on this day he went at his roses. He had obtained quite a number
of slips of hybrid monthlies, mostly tea-roses; and they were doing
nicely. Some had blossomed once, and others were just showing bud.
These he meant to transplant to his bed up stairs. Careful and patient,
he took up the most of them so nicely, that I don't believe they knew
they were moved, until they began to look around for their companions.

Dot ran up stairs and down, and was most enthusiastic.

"It will be so lovely to have a garden in the house!" was her
constant ejaculation.

By noon he had all the small roses in,--five white ones, four pink, and
about a dozen of different shades of deep velvety red. In this soil
he had used an abundance of powdered charcoal. Then came half a dozen
young heliotropes.

"Now, I am going to save the rest of the space, and shall plant
sweet-alyssum and candytuft, and some mignonette. I guess we have done
about enough for one day," he said to Granny and Dot.

Charlie and Kit were lolling under the trees, resting from their
labors. Now and then they had a merry outburst; but Charlie had grown
strangely quiet. She would sit lost in thought for hours together,
unless some one spoke to her; and then she would take to reading in the
same absorbed manner.

"Hal," she said one evening, "what do you know of drawing?"

"A little more than the old woman who could not tell a cow from a
rosebud;" and Hal smiled with quiet humor.

"I wish some one would teach me!"

"They do not have any drawing at school?"

"No, only at the academy. Belle Hartman is learning; but I don't care
any thing about flowers and such."

Faces and grotesque situations were Charlie's passion. She could see
the ludicrous side so quickly!

"You might practise at home, evenings."

"But paper costs a good deal. Oh, I wish I had some money!"

"Well Charlie, be patient. Something may come around by and by."

"Oh, dear!" and Charlie sighed. "I wish some one would come along and
adopt me; but then I'm not handsome, like Flossy. I suppose she is
having a splendid time. It seems to me that she might write just a
little word."

Hal thought so too. As the months went on, he began to feel bitterly
disappointed. Ah! if they could but see her once,--their beautiful
Florence.

Through the course of the month Hal managed to get his flowers in very
nice order,--several fuchsia that were in splendid bloom, two large
heliotropes, an elegant and thrifty monthly carnation, and a salvia
that was a glory in itself. But alas! that drooped and withered: so
Hall trimmed it down. Besides this, some rose and balm geraniums, a tub
full of callas, and ten of his tuberoses, that he had saved for winter
blossoming. The other two had been a source of untold comfort to him.
Then he had an exquisite safrano, and two chromatilla roses.

"Why it's quite a green-house," he said delightedly. "Now, if I can
only make them blossom all winter!"

The first spare Saturday he went over to Salem to see Mr. Thomas.
He was rather diffident, and did not like to explain his economical
arrangements, but said that he was likely to have some flowers for
sale. Mr. Thomas took him through his green-house again; and, though
there were a great many more plants, Hal thought he could show almost
as much bloom.

"I'll take your flowers," he promised, "provided you do not have too
many, and if we could manage it this way: sometimes I receive a large
order nearly a week beforehand, and I could let you know, in order that
you might bring me all you had which were really fine. And, to be frank
with you, I cannot afford to pay as much as you might get at Newbury or
New York."

"I should like to know some of the prices," Hal remarked.

"It depends a good deal upon the demand and the season; but prices
