if apologizing for the act to some one invisibly present:
"I can't let this go on any longer."
The breakfast-bell rang, and the doctor sat down to get the better
nerve-sustainer of a good meal. But even as he reached his hand for
the fragrant coffee that his wife had poured for him, he felt a
single dull throb in one of his temples, and knew too well its
meaning. He did not lift the coffee to his mouth, but sat with a
grave face and an unusually quiet manner. He had made a serious
mistake, and he knew it. That glass of wine had stimulated the
relaxed nerves of his stomach too suddenly, and sent a shock to the
exhausted brain. A slight feeling of nausea was perceived and then
came another throb stronger than the first, and with a faint
suggestion of pain. This was followed by a sense of physical
depression and discomfort.
"What's the matter, doctor?" asked his wife, who saw something
unusual in his manner.
"A feeling here that I don't just like," he replied, touching his
temple with a finger.
"Not going to have a headache?"
"I trust not. It would be a bad thing for me today."
He slowly lifted his cup of coffee and sipped a part of it.
"Late suppers and late hours may do for younger people," said Mrs.
Hillhouse. "I feel wretched this morning, and am not surprised
that your nerves are out of order, nor that you should be threatened
with headache."
The doctor did not reply. He sipped his coffee again, but without
apparent relish, and, instead of eating anything, sat in an
unusually quiet manner and with a very sober aspect of countenance.
"I don't want a mouthful of breakfast," said Mrs. Hillhouse, pushing
away her plate.
"Nor I," replied the doctor; "but I can't begin to-day on an empty
stomach."
And he tried to force himself to take food, but made little progress
in the effort.
"It's dreadful about Archie Voss," said Mrs. Hillhouse.
"Oh he'll come up all right," returned her husband, with some
impatience in his voice.
"I hope so. But if he were my son, I'd rather see him in his grave
than as I saw him last night."
"It's very easy to talk in that way; but if Archie were your son,
you'd not be very long in choosing between death and a glass or two
of wine more than he had strength to carry."
"If he were my son," replied the doctor's wife, "I would do all in
my power to keep him away from entertainments where liquor is served
in such profusion. The danger is too great."
"He would have to take his chances with the rest," replied the
doctor. "All that we could possibly do would be to teach him
moderation and self-denial."
"If there is little moderation and self-denial among the full-grown
men and women who are met on these occasions, what can be expected
from lads and young men?"
The doctor shrugged his shoulders, but made no reply.
"We cannot shut our eyes to the fact," continued his wife, "that
this free dispensation of wine to old and young is an evil of great
magnitude, and that it is doing a vast amount of harm."
The doctor still kept silent. He was not in a mood for discussing
this or any other social question. His mind was going in another
direction, and his thoughts were troubling him. Dr. Hillhouse was a
surgeon of great experience, and known throughout the country for
his successful operations in some of the most difficult and
dangerous cases with which the profession has to deal. On this
particular day, at twelve o'clock, he had to perform an operation of
the most delicate nature, involving the life or death of a patient.
He might well feel troubled, for he knew, from signs too well
understood, that when twelve o'clock came, and his patient lay
helpless and unconscious before him, his hand would not be steady
nor his brain, clear. Healthy food would not restore the natural
vigor which stimulation had weakened, for he had no appetite for
food. His stomach turned away from it with loathing.
By this time the throb in his temple had become a stroke of pain.
While still sitting at the breakfast-table Dr. Angier returned from
his visit to Mrs. Ridley. Dr. Hillhouse saw by the expression of his
face that he did not bring a good report.
"How is she?" he asked.
"In a very bad way," replied Dr. Angier.
"New symptoms?"
"Yes."
"What?"
"Intense pain, rigors, hurried respiration and pulse up to a hundred
and twenty. It looks like a case of puerperal peritonitis."
Dr. Hillhouse started from the table; the trouble on his face grew
deeper.
"You had better see her with as little delay as possible," said Dr.
Angier.
"Did you make any new prescription?"
"No."
Dr. Hillhouse shut his lips tightly and knit his brows. He stood
irresolute for several moments.
"Most unfortunate!" he ejaculated. Then, going into his office, he
rang the bell and ordered his carriage brought round immediately.
Dr. Angier had made no exaggerated report of Mrs. Ridley's
condition. Dr. Hillhouse found that serious complications were
rapidly taking place, and that all the symptoms indicated
inflammation of the peritoneum. The patient was in great pain,
though with less cerebral disturbance than when he had seen her
last. There was danger, and he knew it. The disease had taken on a
form that usually baffles the skill of our most eminent physicians,
and Dr. Hillhouse saw little chance of anything but a fatal
termination. He could do nothing except to palliate as far as
possible the patient's intense suffering and endeavor to check
farther complications. But he saw little to give encouragement.
Mr. Ridley, with pale, anxious face, and eyes in which, were
pictured the unutterable anguish of his soul, watched Dr. Hillhouse
as he sat by his wife's bedside with an eager interest and suspense
that was painful to see. He followed him when he left the room, and
his hand closed on his arm with a spasm as the door shut behind
them.
"How is she, doctor?" he asked, in a hoarse, panting whisper.
"She is very sick, Mr. Ridley," replied Dr. Hillhouse. "It would be
wrong to deceive you."
The pale, haggard face of Mr. Ridley grew whiter.
"Oh, doctor," he gasped, "can nothing be done?"
"I think we had better call in another physician," replied the
doctor. "In the multitude of counselors there is wisdom. Have you
any choice?"
But Mr. Ridley had none.
"Shall it be Dr. Ainsworth? He has large experience in this class of
diseases."
"I leave it entirely with you, Dr. Hillhouse. Get the best advice
and help the city affords, and for God's sake save my wife."
The doctor went away, and Mr. Ridley, shaking with nervous tremors,
dropped weak and helpless into a chair and bending forward until his
head rested on his knees, sat crouching down, an image of suffering
and despair.
CHAPTER IX.
"ELLIS, my son."
There was a little break and tremor in the voice. The young man
addressed was passing the door of his mother's room, and paused on
hearing his name.
"What is it?" he asked, stepping inside and looking curiously into
his mother's face, where he saw a more than usually serious
expression.
"Sit down, Ellis; I want to say a word to you before going to Mrs.
Birtwell's."
The lady had just completed her toilette, and was elegantly dressed
for an evening party. She was a handsome, stately-looking woman,
with dark hair through which ran many veins of silver, large,
thoughtful eyes and a mouth of peculiar sweetness.
The young man took a chair, and his mother seated herself in front
of him.
"Ellis."
The tremor still remained in her voice.
"Well, what is it?"
The young man assumed a careless air, but was not at ease.
"There is a good old adage, my son, the remembrance of which Has
saved many a one in the hour of danger: Forewarned, forearmed."
"Oh, then you think we are going into danger to-night?" he answered,
in a light tone.
"I am sorry to say that we are going where some will find themselves
in great peril," replied the mother, her manner growing more
serious; "and it is because of this that I wish to say a word or two
now."
"Very well, mother; say on."
He moved uneasily in his chair, and showed signs of impatience.
You must take it kindly, Ellis, and remember that it is your mother
who is speaking, your best and truest friend in all the world."
"Good Heavens, mother! what are you driving at? One would think we
were going into a howling wilderness, among savages and wild beasts,
instead of into a company of the most cultured and refined people in
a Christian city."
