help."

The smallness of the bag, by the way, was one reason why Sam, who did
not like heavy bundles, wanted to carry it. He felt that it was time
to practise on the stranger's feelings.

"I want to earn some money to buy bread for my mother," he whined, in
a very creditable manner, considering how inexperienced he was.

This attracted the attention of the little girl, who, like most little
girls, had a tender and compassionate heart.

"Is your mother poor?" she asked.

"Very poor," said Sam. "She hasn't got a cent to buy bread for the
children."

"Have you got many brothers and sisters?" asked the little girl, her
voice full of sympathy.

"Five," answered Sam, piteously.

"O papa," said the little girl, "let him take your carpet-bag. Think
of it, his mother hasn't got anything to eat."

"Well, Clara," said her father, indulgently, "I suppose I must gratify
you. Here, boy, take the bag, and carry it carefully."

"All right, sir," said Sam, cheerfully.

"I guess I can get along," he thought, complacently. "That's a good
dodge."

"When we get to Broadway, we'll take the stage," said the gentleman.
"Take hold of my hand, tight, Clara, while we cross the street."

Clara seemed disposed to be sociable, and entered into conversation
with the young baggage-smasher.

"Are your brothers and sisters younger than you?" she inquired.

"Yes," said Sam.

"How many of them are boys?"

"There's two boys besides me, and three girls," said Sam, readily.

"What are their names?" asked Clara.

"Why," answered Sam, hesitating a little, "there's Tom and Jim and
John, and Sam and Maggie."

"I don't see how that can be," said Clara, puzzled. "Just now; you
said there were three girls and only two boys."

"Did I?" said Sam, rather abashed. "I didn't think what I was
saying."

"Isn't your father alive?" asked the little girl.

"No; he's dead."

"And do you have to support the family?"

"Yes; except what mother does."

"What does she do?"

"Oh, she goes out washing."

"Poor boy, I suppose you have a hard time."

"Yes," said Sam; "some days we don't get anything to eat."

"O papa, isn't it dreadful?" said Clara, her warm little heart
throbbing with sympathy.

Her father was less credulous, and he was struck by Sam's hearty
appearance. Certainly he looked very unlike a boy who did not have
enough to eat.

"You don't look as if you suffered much from hunger, my boy," said he,
with a penetrating look.

"I had a good dinner yesterday," said Sam. "A gentleman gave me some
money for showing him the way to the 'Tribune' office."

"One dinner seems to have done you a great deal of good," said the
man.

"It always does me good," said Sam, and here he had no occasion to
tell a falsehood.

"I hope you carried some of the money home to your mother, and
brothers and sisters."

"Yes, I did; I bought some meat, and mother cooked it. We don't often
have meat."

"Perhaps I am doing the boy injustice," thought Mr. Glenham, for this
was his name.

As for Clara, her childish sympathies were fully aroused.

"Papa," she said, "may I give this poor boy the half dollar Aunt Lucy
gave me?"

"I thought you had arranged some way of spending it, Clara."

"So I had, papa; but I'd rather give it to this poor boy,"

"You may do as you like, my darling," said her father, tenderly.

"Here, poor boy, take this home to your mother," said Clara.

My readers have probably inferred already that Sam was not a boy of
very high principles, but I must do him the justice to say that he
felt ashamed to take the money tendered him by the little girl upon
whom he had imposed by his false story.

"I don't like to take your money," he said, hanging back.

"But I want you to," said Clara, eagerly. "I'd a great deal rather
your mother would have it."

"You may take it," said Mr. Glenham, who was disposed to regard Sam
with greater favor, on account of the reluctance he exhibited to
profit by Clara's compassion.

"Thank you," said Sam, no longer withholding his hand. "You are very
kind."

By this time they had reached Broadway, and Sam delivered up the bag.

Mr. Glenham handed him a quarter.

"That is for your trouble," he said.

"Thank you, sir," said Sam.

A Broadway stage came up, and they both were lost to view.

Sam was in good spirits over his good fortune.

"Seventy-five cents!" he said to himself. "That's what I call luck. I
don't believe Tim's done so well. It aint so hard to make your living
in New York, after all. I guess I'll go and get some breakfast."




CHAPTER XIX.

HOW SAM FARED.

On the strength of his good luck, Sam provided himself with a good
breakfast, which cost him forty cents. He felt pretty sure of earning
something more during the day to add to the remaining thirty-five. But
Fortune is capricious, and our hero found all his offers of service
firmly refused. He tried again to excite compassion by his fictitious
