I could almost wish that I could die in my sleep, and the morning never
come!”

With my heart aching in the great pity I could ill-express to one so
young, I took her in my arms and told her of the need she would have,
in after-life, of the knowledge gained so hardly; how, setting aside
the actual utility of the multiplication-table, she would be better,
wiser, stronger, always for the discipline of the study.

She lived to laugh at the recollection of the fearful bug-bear. Do I
recall the incident with the least shade of remorse that I did not
yield to my compassion and her pleading eyes, and remit, for good and
all, the dreaded exercise? On the contrary, I am thankful the strength
was given me to teach her how to battle and to conquer. And—I say it in
no irreverent spirit of speculation—I have faith to believe that in the
richer, deeper life beyond, she still, in some way or sense, reaps the
good of that which she won by resolute labor, and by the victory over
her faint-heartedness.

I have thought of the little circumstance, a hundred times, when women
have bemoaned themselves, in my hearing, over the hardship of being
compelled to “understand something about housekeeping.”

Since the “understanding” is a need, and patent even to their unwilling
eyes, what say Common Sense and Duty?

My dear, I would not breathe it if there were a man within possible
hearing—but are you not sometimes ashamed that women are content to
know and to do so little in this world?

“So are many men!” True, but that is the look-out of masculine
philanthropists—not ours. How many ladies in your circle of
acquaintances are willing—much less eager to do anything, except the
positive and well-defined work laid upon them by custom and society?
How many enter into the full meaning, and have any just appreciation of
the beauty of the duties especially appointed to them, of the glory
and solemnity of maternity, the high honor of being the custodians of
others’ happiness so long as life shall last; God’s deputies upon earth
in the work of training immortal souls; of forming the characters and
lives that shall outlive the sun?

How many—to descend to a very plain and practical question—could, if
bereft of fortune to-morrow or next week, or next year, earn a living
for themselves, to say nothing of their children?

I talked out this last-named question on paper, a few months ago; threw
arguments and conclusions into a form which I hoped would prove more
attractive to the general reader, than a didactic essay. The last favor
I shall ask of you before closing this volume, is that you will read my
unpretending story through, and answer to yourself, if not to me and
the public, the question put in the title.




PRACTICAL—OR UTOPIAN?


PART I.

“I AM going to think this matter out to a practical issue, if it takes
me all night!” said Mrs. Hiller, positively. “It may be that I am
rowing against wind and tide, as you say, but I will hold to the oars
until I am hopelessly swamped, or reach land!”

Her husband laughed. Not sneeringly; but as good-natured men always do
laugh when women talk of finding their way out of a labyrinth by means
of the clue of argument.

“You will accomplish no more than your conventions and women’s rights
books”—

“Don’t call them mine!” protested the wife.

“I speak of the sex at large, my love. No more, then, than women’s
rights books and conventions have achieved. All their battle for the
equality of the sexes; the liberation of women from the necessity of
marriage as a means of livelihood; for more avenues of remunerative
labor, and the acknowledgment of the dignity of the same—now that the
smoke has cleared away, and combatants and spectators can look about
them—is seen to have resulted in nothing, or next to nothing. You
have encouraged a few more women to paint poor pictures, and spoil
blocks and plates in attempts to practise engraving; put some at
bookkeepers’ desks where they are half paid; crowded the board-rooms
of our public schools with applicants at the rate of a hundred for
each vacancy; induced a similar rush upon telegraph offices, and every
other place where ‘light, lady-like labor’ can be procured; brought
down, rather than raised the salaries in each of these departments of
industry—and made marriage more than ever the summum bonum of every
thinking workwoman—the shining gate that is to give her liberation from
ill-requited toil.”

“Philip! how you exaggerate!”

“Not in the least, my dear, sanguine wife! Who puts on her rose-colored
spectacles whenever the subject of ‘woman’s emancipation’ is brought
forward. I have studied this matter as closely as you have; hopefully,
for a while, but, of late, with the fast-growing conviction that Nature
and Society yoked are too strong a team for you to pull against.
Combat the assertion as you will,—it is natural for a woman to look
forward to matrimony as her happiest destiny; to desire, and to bring
it about by every means which seems to her consistent with modesty and
self-respect. And to this conclusion Society holds her by the refusal
to receive into the ‘best circles’ her who earns her living by her own
labor. Mrs. Million treads the charmed arena by virtue of her husband’s
wealth. But, when Mrs. Sangpur is envious of her dear friend’s latest
turn-out in equipage, dress, or furniture, she recurs, tauntingly,
to the time when Mrs. Million was a work-girl in Miss Fitwell’s
establishment, and shrugs her patrician shoulders over ‘new people.’ As
Miss Fitwell’s assistant, forewoman, and successor, Miss Bias—now Mrs.
Million—were she rich, refined, beautiful, could yet never hope for a
card even to one of Mrs. Sangpur’s mass parties.”

“But there are distinctions of social degree, Philip, which must be
maintained. You don’t bring your bootmaker home to dine with Judge
Wright, or Honorable Senator Rider.”

“I am not a reformer, my love. When my bootmaker fits himself for the
society of those you name, he will be welcomed by them, and his early
history referred to as an honor, not disgrace. The annals of Court and
Congress will tell you this. To return to the original question; I
insist there is a want of practicalness—I won’t say of common sense—in
your reform, as heretofore conducted; that no one woman in five
thousand, especially in what are called the higher walks of life, is
able to support herself, or would be allowed by popular sentiment to
do so, were she able. There is a screw loose somewhere, and very loose
at that. I, for one, am never rid of the rattle. Maybe, because I am
the father of three daughters. If I had sons, I should be condemned by
the entire community; stand convicted at the bar of my own conscience,
if I had not trained each of them to some trade or profession. As
it is, the case stands thus: I may live long enough to accumulate a
fair competency for each of my girls, a sum, the interest of which
will support her comfortably; for she, being a woman, will never
increase the bulk of the principal. My more reasonable hope is to see
her married to an energetic business man, or one who has inherited a
fortune and knows how to take care of it. This accomplished, parental
responsibility is supposed to end, so far as provision for the life
that now is, goes. If her husband should fail, or die a poor man—the
Lord help her and her children—if I cannot!”

He was not talking flippantly now. As he knocked the ashes from the tip
of his cigar into the grate, his face was grave to sorrowfulness.

“Our girls have been carefully educated,” said Mrs. Hiller, a little
hurt at the turn the dialogue had taken. “In this country a thorough
education is a fortune. They could set up a school.”

“To compete with a thousand others conducted by those who have been
trained expressly for this profession; whom constant practice has made
au fait to the ever-changing modes of instruction and fashionable
text-books. Why, I, whose Latin salutatory was praised as a model
of classic composition, and who read Horace, Sallust, and Livy in
the original almost every day, cannot understand more than half the
quotations spouted in the court-house and at lawyers’ dinners, by
youngsters who have learned the ‘continental method’ of pronunciation.
I cannot even parse English, for the very parts of speech are disguised
under new names. A noun-substantive is something else, an article is
a pronoun, and, what with adjuncts, subjects, and modifiers, I stand
abashed in the presence of a ten-year-old in the primary department
of a public school. Our girls might go out as daily governesses at
