for pride, at another to give up all for love. 

" Then came the malicious suggestion of negro blood. 



 

Could it be proved, I was free ; that taint I could not 
pardon. [And here, even as the surgeon spoke, I 
noticed this as the peculiarity of the New England 
Abolitionist. Theoretically he believed in the equality 
of the enslaved race, and stood ready to maintain the 
belief with his life, but practically he held himself 
entirely aloof from them; the Southern creed and 
practice were the exact reverse.] I made inquiries 
of Father Piret, who knows the mixed genealogy of 
the little Trench colony as far back as the first voya- 
geurs of the fur trade, and found as I, shall I say 
hoped or feared ? that the insinuation was utterly 
false. Thus I was thrown back into the old tumult. 
" Then came that evening in this parlor when Jean- 
nette made the coffee and baked little cakes over the 
coals. Do you remember the pathos with which she 
chanted File, file, pauvre Marie; File, jtte, pour le 
prisonnier ? Do you remember how she looked when 
she repeated ' Ivry ' ? Did that tender pity, that ring- 
ing inspiration, come from a dull mind and shallow* 
heart? I was avenged of my enforced disdain, my 
love gave itself up to delicious hope. She was capable 
of education, and then ! I made a pretext of old 
Antoine's cough in order to gain an opportunity of 
speaking to her alone ; but she was like a thing pos- 
sessed, she broke from me and sprang over the icy 
cliff, her laugh coming back on the wind as I followed 
her down the dangerous slope. On she rushed, jump- 




ing from rock to rock, waving her hand in wild glee 
when the moon shone out, singing and shouting with 
merry scorn at my desperate efforts to reach her. It 
was a mad chase, but only on the plain below could 
I come up with her. There, breathless and eager, I 
unfolded to her my plan of education. I only went 
so far as this : I was willing to send her to school, 
to give her opportunities of seeing the world, to pro- 
vide for her whole future. I left the story of my love 
to come afterward. She laughed me to scorn. As 
well talk of education to the bird of the wilderness ! 
She rejected my offers, picked up snow to throw in 
my face, covered me with her French sarcasms, danced 
around me in circles, laughed, and mocked, until I was 
at a 'loss to know whether she was human. Finally, 
as a shadow darkened the moon, she fled away ; and 
when it passed she was gone, and I was alone on the 
snowy plain. 

" Angry, fierce, filled with scorn for myself, I deter- 
mined resolutely to crush out my senseless infatuation. 
I threw myself into such society as we had ; I assumed 
an interest in that inane Miss Augusta; I read and 
studied far into the night ; I walked until sheer fatigue 
gave me tranquillity ; but all I gained was lost in that 
encounter at the Arch : you remember it ? When I 
saw her on that narrow bridge, my love burst its bonds 
again, and, senseless as ever, rushed to save her, to 
save her, poised on her native rocks, where every inch 



 

was familiar from childhood ! To save her, sure- 
footed and light as a bird ! I caught her. She strug- 
gled in my arms, angrily, as an imprisoned animal 
might struggle, but so beautiful ! The impulse came 
to me to spring with her into the gulf below, and so 
end the contest forever. I might have done it, I 
cannot tell, but, suddenly, she wrenched herself out 
of my arms and fled over the Arch, to the farther side. 
I followed, trembling, blinded, with the violence of my 
emotion. At that moment I was ready to give up my 
life, my soul, into her hands. 

" In the woods beyond she paused, glanced over her 
shoulder toward me, then turned eagerly. ' Voilci? she 
said, pointing. I looked down and saw several silver 
pieces that had dropped from my pocket as I sprang 
over the rocks, and, with an impatient gesture, I thrust 
them aside with my foot. 

"' Nonj she cried, turning toward me and stooping 
eagerly, 'so much! O, so much! See! four shil- 
lings ! ' Her eyes glistened with longing as she held 
the money in her hand and fingered each piece lov- 
ingly. 

"The sudden revulsion of feeling produced by her 
words and gesture filled me with fury. ' Keep it, and 
buy yourself a soul if you can ! ' I cried ; and turning 
away, I left her with her gains. 

" ' Merci, monsieur? she answered gayly, all unmind- 
ful of my scorn ; and off she ran, holding her treasure 

 



 

tightly clasped in both hands. I could hear her sing- 
ing far down the path. 

"It is a bitter thing to feel a scorn for yourself! 
Did I love this girl who stooped to gather a few shil- 
lings from under my feet ? Was it, then, impossible 
for me to conquer this ignoble passion ? No ; it could 
not and it should not be ! I plunged again into all 
the gayety; I left myself not one free moment; if 
sleep came not, I forced it to come with opiates ; 
Jeannette had gone to the fishing-grounds, the weeks 
passed, I did not see her. I had made the hardest 
struggle of all, and was beginning to recover my self- 
respect when, one day, I met her in the woods with 
some children ; she had returned to gather blueberries. 
I looked at her. She was more gentle than usual, and 
smiled. Suddenly, as an embankment which has with- 
stood the storms of many winters gives way at last in 
a calm summer night, I yielded. Without one outward 
sign, I laid down my arms. Myself knew that the 
contest was over, and my other self rushed to her feet. 

"Since then I have often seen her; I have made 
plan after plan to meet her; I have degrading 
thought ! paid her to take me out in her canoe, under 
the pretence of fishing. I no longer looked forward ; 
I lived only in the present, and thought only of when 
and where I could see her. Thus it has been until this 
morning, when the orders came. Now, I am brought 
face to face with reality ; I must go ; can I leave her 



 

behind ? For hours I have been wandering in the 
woods. Aunt Sarah, it is of no use, I cannot live 
without her ; I must marry her." 

" Marry Jeannette ! " I exclaimed. 

" Even so." 

" An ignorant half-breed ? " 

" As you say, an ignorant half-breed." 

