a conversation which he anticipated with pleasure; yet the evening
rolled by, and though he walked round and round, and nearer and
nearer, and conversed with this and that one, he did not come to the
point of speaking to Angie. Sometimes she was talking to somebody else
and he waited; sometimes she was not with anybody else, and then he
waited lest his joining her should be remarked. He did not stop to ask
himself why on earth it should be remarked any more than if he had
spoken to Alice or Eva, or anybody else, but he felt as if it would be.

At last, however, after making several circles about the table where
she sat with Mrs. Betsey, he sat down by them, and delivered his
message with a formal precision, as if he had been giving her a
summons. Angie was all sympathy and sweetness, and readily said she
would go and see the poor woman the very next day, and then an awkward
pause ensued. She was a little afraid of him as a preternaturally good
man, and began to wonder whether she had been laughing too loud, or
otherwise misbehaving, in the gaiety of her heart, that evening.

So, after a rather dry pause, Mr. St. John uttered some commonplaces
about the books of engravings before them, and then, suddenly seeming
to recollect something he had forgotten, crossed the room to speak to
Dr. Campbell.

"Dear me, child, and so that is your rector," said Mrs. Betsey. "Isn't
he a little stiff?"

"I believe he is not much used to society," said Angie; "but he is a
very good man."

The evening entertainment had rather a curious finale. A spirit of
sociability had descended upon the company, and it was one of those
rare tides that come sometimes where everybody is having a good time,
and nobody looks at one's watch; and so, ten o'clock was long past,
and eleven had struck, and yet there was no movement for dissolving
the session.

Across the way, old Dinah had watched the bright windows with longing
eyes, until finally the spirit of the occasion was too strong for
her, and, bidding Jack lie down and be a good dog, she left her own
precincts and ran across to the kitchen of the festal scene, to pick
up some crumbs for her share.

Jack looked at her in winking obedience as she closed the kitchen
door, being mindful in his own dog's head of a small slip of a pantry
window which had served his roving purposes before now. The moment
Dinah issued from the outer door, Jack bounced from the pantry window
and went padding at a discreet distance from her heels. Sitting down
on the front door-mat of the festive mansion, he occupied himself with
his own reflections till the door opening for a late comer gave him an
opportunity to slip in quietly.

Jack used his entrance ticket with discretion, watched, waited,
reconnoitered, till finally, seeing an unemployed ottoman next Mrs.
Betsey, he suddenly appeared in the midst, sprang up on the ottoman
with easy grace, sat up on his hind paws, and waved his front ones
affably to the public.

The general tumult that ensued, the horror of Miss Dorcas, the
scolding she tried to give Jack, the storm of applause and petting
which greeted him in all quarters, confirming him, as Miss Dorcas
remarked, in his evil ways,--all these may better be imagined than
described.

"A quarter after eleven, sister!"

"Can it be possible?" said Mrs. Betsey. "No wonder Jack came to bring
us home."

Jack seconded the remark with a very staccato bark and a brisk
movement towards the door, where, with much laughing, many hand
shakings, ardent protestations that they had had a delightful evening,
and promises to come again next week, the company dispersed.




CHAPTER XVIII.

RAKING UP THE FIRE.


The cream of an evening company is the latter end of it, after the
more ceremonious have slipped away and only "we and our folks" remain
to croon and rake up the fire.

Mr. and Mrs. Van Arsdel, Angelique, and Marie went home in the
omnibus. Alice staid to spend the night with Eva, and help put up the
portfolios, and put back the plants, and turn the bower back into a
workroom, and set up the vases of flowers in a cool place where they
could keep till morning; because, you know--you who are versed in
these things--that flowers in December need to be made the most of, in
order to go as far as possible.

Bolton yet lingered in his arm-chair, in his favorite corner, gazing
placidly at the coals of the fire. Dr. Campbell was solacing himself,
after the unsatisfied longings of the evening, with seeing how his own
article looked in print, and Jim Fellows was helping miscellaneously
in setting back flower-pots, re-arranging books, and putting chairs
and tables, that had been arranged festively, back into humdrum
household places. Meanwhile, the kind of talk was going on that
usually follows a social venture--a sort of review of the whole scene
and of all the actors.

"Well, Doctor, what do you think of our rector?" said Eva, tapping his
magazine briskly.

He lowered his magazine and squared himself round gravely.

"That fellow hasn't enough of the abdominal to carry his brain power,"
he said. "Splendid head--a little too high in the upper stories and
not quite heavy enough in the basement. But if he had a good broad,
square chest, and a good digestive and blood-making apparatus, he'd
go. The fellow wants blood; he needs mutton and beef, and plenty of
it. That's what he needs. What's called common sense is largely a
matter of good diet and digestion."

"Oh, Doctor, you materialistic creature!" said Eva, "to think of
talking of a clergyman as if he were a horse--to be managed by
changing his feed!"

"Certainly, a man must be a good animal before he can be a good man."

"Well," said Alice, "all I know is, that Mr. St. John is perfectly,
disinterestedly, heart and soul and body, devoted to doing good among
men; and if that is not noble and grand and godlike, I don't know what
is."

"Well," said Dr. Campbell, "I have a profound respect for all those
fellows that are trying to mop out the Atlantic Ocean; and he mops
cheerfully and with good courage."

"It's perfectly hateful of you, Doctor, to talk so," said Eva.

"Well, you know I don't go in for interfering with nature--having
noble, splendid fellows waste and wear themselves down, to keep
miserable scalawags and ill-begotten vermin from dying out as they
ought to. Nature is doing her best to kill off the poor specimens
of the race, begotten of vice and drunkenness; and what you call
Christian charity is only interference."

"But you do it, Doctor; you know you do. Nobody does more of that very
sort of thing than you do, now. Don't you visit, and give medicine and
nursing, and all that, to just such people?"

"I may be a fool for doing it, for all that," said the Doctor. "I
don't pretend to stick to my principles any better than most people
do. We are all fools, more or less; but I don't believe in Christian
charity: it's all wrong--this doctrine that the brave, strong good
specimens of the race are to torment and tire and worry their lives
out to save the scum and dregs. Here's a man who, by economy, honesty,
justice, temperance and hard work, has grown rich, and has houses,
and lands, and gardens, and pictures, and what not, and is having a
good time as he ought to have, and right by him is another who, by
dishonesty, and idleness, and drinking, has come to rags and poverty
and sickness. Shall the temperate and just man deny himself enjoyment,
and spend his time, and risk his health, and pour out his money, to
take care of the wife and children of this scalawag? There's the
question in a nutshell? and I say, no! If scalawags find that their
duties will be performed for them when they neglect them, that's all
they want. What should St. John live like a hermit for? deny himself
