at these hapless creatures debarred from the joys and perils of manly
sports.

“I can run still and I’ll get to the gate before you, see if I don’t.”
 And, yielding to the impulse of the moment, Rose darted down the steps
before astonished Jamie could mount and follow.

He was off in a moment, but Rose had the start, and though old Sheltie
did his best, she reached the goal just ahead, and stood there laughing
and panting, all rosy with fresh October air, a pretty picture for
several gentlemen who were driving by.

“Good for you, Rose!” said Archie, jumping out to shake hands while Will
and Geordie saluted and Uncle Mac laughed at Jamie, who looked as if
girls had risen slightly in his opinion.

“I’m glad it is you, because you won’t be shocked. But I’m so happy to
be back I forgot I was not little Rose still,” said Atalanta, smoothing
down her flying hair.

“You look very like her, with the curls on your shoulders in the old
way. I missed them last night and wondered what it was. How are Uncle
and Phebe?” asked Archie, whose eyes had been looking over Rose’s head
while he spoke toward the piazza, where a female figure was visible
among the reddening woodbines.

“All well, thanks. Won’t you come up and see for yourselves?”

“Can’t, my dear, can’t possibly. Business, you know, business. This
fellow is my right-hand man, and I can’t spare him a minute. Come, Arch,
we must be off, or these boys will miss their train,” answered Uncle
Mac, pulling out his watch.

With a last look from the light-haired figure at the gate to the
dark-haired one among the vines, Archie drove away and Jamie cantered
after, consoling himself for his defeat with apple number two.

Rose lingered a moment, feeling much inclined to continue her run and
pop in upon all the aunts in succession, but, remembering her uncovered
head, was about to turn back when a cheerful “Ahoy! ahoy!” made her look
up to see Mac approaching at a great pace, waving his hat as he came.

“The Campbells are coming, thick and fast this morning, and the more the
merrier,” she said, running to meet him. “You look like a good boy going
to school, and virtuously conning your lesson by the way,” she added,
smiling to see him take his finger out of the book he had evidently been
reading, and tuck it under his arm, just as he used to do years ago.

“I am a schoolboy, going to the school I like best,” he answered, waving
a plumy spray of asters as if pointing out the lovely autumn world about
them, full of gay hues, fresh airs, and mellow sunshine.

“That reminds me that I didn’t get a chance to hear much about your
plans last night the other boys all talked at once, and you only got a
word now and then. What have you decided to be, Mac?” asked Rose as they
went up the avenue side by side.

“A man first, and a good one if possible. After that, what God pleases.”

Something in the tone, as well as the words, made Rose look up quickly
into Mac’s face to see a new expression there. It was indescribable, but
she felt as she had often done when watching the mists part suddenly,
giving glimpses of some mountaintop, shining serene and high against the
blue.

“I think you will be something splendid, for you really look quite
glorified, walking under this arch of yellow leaves with the sunshine on
your face,” she exclaimed, conscious of a sudden admiration never felt
before, for Mac was the plainest of all the cousins.

“I don’t know about that, but I have my dreams and aspirations, and
some of them are pretty high ones. Aim at the best, you know, and keep
climbing if you want to get on,” he said, looking at the asters with an
inward sort of smile, as if he and they had some sweet secret between
them.

“You are queerer than ever. But I like your ambition, and hope you will
get on. Only mustn’t you begin at something soon? I fancied you would
study medicine with Uncle that used to be our plan, you know.”

“I shall, for the present at least, because I quite agree with you that
it is necessary to have an anchor somewhere and not go floating off into
the world of imagination without ballast of the right sort. Uncle and
I had some talk about it last night and I’m going to begin as soon as
possible, for I’ve mooned long enough,” and giving himself a shake, Mac
threw down the pretty spray, adding half aloud:

    “Chide me not, laborious band,
      For the idle flowers I brought:

    Every aster in my hand
      Goes home laden with a thought.”

Rose caught the words and smiled, thinking to herself, “Oh, that’s it
he is getting into the sentimental age and Aunt Jane has been lecturing
him. Dear me, how we are growing up!”

“You look as if you didn’t like the prospect very well,” she said
aloud, for Mac had rammed the volume of Shelley into his pocket and the
glorified expression was so entirely gone, Rose fancied she had been
mistaken about the mountaintop behind the mists.

“Yes, well enough I always thought the profession a grand one, and
where could I find a better teacher than Uncle? I’ve got into lazy ways
lately, and it is high time I went at something useful, so here I go,”
 and Mac abruptly vanished into the study while Rose joined Phebe in Aunt
Plenty’s room.

The dear old lady had just decided, after long and earnest discussion,
which of six favorite puddings should be served for dinner, and thus had
a few moments to devote to sentiment, so when Rose came in she held out
her arms, saying fondly: “I shall not feel as if I’d got my child back
again until I have her in my lap a minute. No, you’re not a bit too
heavy, my rheumatism doesn’t begin much before November, so sit here,
darling, and put your two arms round my neck.”

Rose obeyed, and neither spoke for a moment as the old woman held the
young one close and appeased the two years’ longing of a motherly heart
by the caresses women give the creatures dearest to them. Right in the
middle of a kiss, however, she stopped suddenly and, holding out one
arm, caught Phebe, who was trying to steal away unobserved.

“Don’t go there’s room for both in my love, though there isn’t in my
lap. I’m so grateful to get my dear girls safely home again that I
hardly know what I’m about,” said Aunt Plenty, embracing Phebe so
heartily that she could not feel left out in the cold and stood there
with her black eyes shining through the happiest tears.

“There, now I’ve had a good hug, and feel as if I was all right again. I
wish you’d set that cap in order, Rose I went to bed in such a hurry,
I pulled the strings off it and left it all in a heap. Phebe, dear, you
shall dust round a mite, just as you used to, for I haven’t had anyone
to do it as I like since you’ve been gone, and it will do me good to see
all my knickknacks straightened out in your tidy way,” said the elder
lady, getting up with a refreshed expression on her rosy old face.

“Shall I dust in here too?” asked Phebe, glancing toward an inner room
which used to be her care.

“No, dear, I’d rather do that myself. Go in if you like, nothing is
changed. I must go and see to my pudding.” And Aunt Plenty trotted
abruptly away with a quiver of emotion in her voice which made even her
last words pathetic.

Pausing on the threshold as if it was a sacred place, the girls looked
in with eyes soon dimmed by tender tears, for it seemed as if the gentle
occupant was still there. Sunshine shone on the old geraniums by the
window; the cushioned chair stood in its accustomed place, with the
white wrapper hung across it and the faded slippers lying ready. Books
and basket, knitting and spectacles, were all just as she had left them,
and the beautiful tranquility that always filled the room seemed so
natural, both lookers turned involuntarily toward the bed, where Aunt
Peace used to greet them with a smile. There was no sweet old face upon
the pillow now, yet the tears that wet the blooming cheeks were not for
her who had gone, but for her who was left, because they saw something
which spoke eloquently of the love which outlives death and makes the
humblest things beautiful and sacred.

A well-worn footstool stood beside the bed, and in the high-piled
whiteness of the empty couch there was a little hollow where a gray head
