mind since she read that paragraph.

Possibly I might succeed in lulling her suspicions for the time. I
might even argue her out of them. She was innocence and simplicity,
like her father, rather than her mother, and would try to believe what
I told her. But what was the use to attempt to deceive her any longer?
The truth would soon dawn upon her. Yet I had not the courage to be
candid with her.

“Why don’t you tell me about it, Paley?” repeated she, anxiously, as I
turned over the newspaper.

“What shall I tell you, Lilian?”

“Tell me that you are not a defaulter.”

“Well, I’m not, then,” I replied, with a smile, which I am sure was a
very grim one.

She looked at me, and I saw her eyes fill with tears after she had
gazed at me in silence for a moment. I think that my tone and my looks
belied my speech, and without heeding the value of the words I used,
they conveyed to her the impression that I was guilty.

“Why do you cry, Lilian?” I asked, moved by her tears.

“I don’t know. I can’t help it. I feel just as though something was
going wrong,” she replied, covering her face with her handkerchief.

“Why, what do you mean, Lilian?”

“Every thing looks very strange to me.”

“What looks strange?”

“That we should have left so suddenly; that I could not even tell dear
ma where we were going; that you were in such a hurry to reach your new
place in Paris, though we have stopped a whole month in London. What is
the reason I have no letters from home?”

“Because none have come, I suppose. I have not received any,” I
answered, struggling to be funny.

“Paley, you told me, if you left for Paris, that you should write to
the bank officers, and resign your situation. You did not do so. This
paper says you have been missing for a week, and there is a suspicion
that your accounts are not all right. Tell me the worst, Paley. I will
try to bear it,” she continued, wiping away the tears which filled her
eyes.

I was tempted to do so. She had been worrying for weeks about her
letters, and she would continue to do so as long as we remained in
Europe. No letters would come; none could come. Her parents and her
sisters were as anxious about her as she was about them. I could never
make peace on the plan which I had laid out at home. My wife would
become more and more unhappy, and after the facts of my defalcation had
been fully published, I should be still more in dread of meeting some
American who would recognize me. As a teller in the bank I was well
known to many of the wealthiest men of Boston. Under existing treaties,
I could be arrested in most of the European nations, and sent back to
the scene of my crime. There was no place of safety for me. I could not
flee from the wrath to come.

“What do you suspect, Lilian?” I inquired.

“I should not suspect anything, if this paper did not say that your
accounts were supposed to be wrong. I don’t know any thing about
such things, but this paragraph set me to thinking how strange your
movements were when you left Boston. I wish I could believe it is all
right. Why don’t you go to your place in Paris? We had to leave home at
twenty-four hours’ notice, because there must be no delay.”

“We are going next week.”

“But you have laid your plans to travel in Europe for the next year, at
least.”

What was the use for me to attempt to explain? It was worse than folly.
I had told Lilian so many stories, without regard to their consistency,
that she knew not what to believe. I was disgusted with myself.

“I don’t see where you got so much money, either, Paley,” she added.

“Do you think I stole it?” I asked, somewhat severely.

“I’m afraid you did,” she answered, with a shudder.

“You are?”

“When I think of it, I am really afraid you did. Here we are in London
under an assumed name. All your papers call you Charles Gaspiller. You
told me you had over thirty thousand dollars too.”

“I should have had more if I had not lost any,” I replied, in rather a
surly tone.

“Tell me the whole truth, Paley. Let me know the worst. If my husband
is a—”

“A what?”

“A defaulter, a thief. Let me know it,” said she, with a burst of agony.

“A thief!” I exclaimed, springing to my feet.

“Don’t be angry, Paley.”

“When my wife calls me a thief, we have been together long enough,” I
added, sternly.

I took my hat, and rushed out of the room. I was angry, but my wrath
was of only a moment’s duration. I went out into the Strand, and walked
at a furious pace till I reached the American Agency. I wished to know
the worst. If I had been published as a defaulter in Boston, I was no
longer safe in London. I wished to see a file of Boston papers. I had
not thought of looking at them before, because I desired to banish my
native land from my mind.

I turned the folios till I came to the one which Lilian had seen. I
read the paragraph again. It was very vague. It did not say that the
missing teller was a defaulter; it only hinted at something of the
kind, for the inference always is, when a bank officer disappears,
that his cash is short. I turned over the sheet to find something more
about the matter. There was nothing else about me or the bank; but as I
examined the paper, my eyes rested for a moment on the list of deaths.

“In Springhaven, 15th inst., Miss Rachel Glasswood, 67 years.”

My aunt had passed away on the very day that I sailed from New York!
How I cursed myself again and again! If I had not fled I should
certainly have been able to pay my debt to the bank in a short time,
for I was confident she had left me enough for this. I had banished
myself from home for nothing. I had suffered tortures which no innocent
man can understand or conceive of, and years of misery were still
before me. I had made up my mind long before, that honesty was the best
policy; and I even had a glimmering conception of something higher than
this. I was sure I should have been happier with poverty and hard labor
for my lot, if I could only have been honest.

How I envied Tom Flynn! His piety, which I had derided, seemed to me
now to be the sum total of earthly joy. I do not believe in cant of
any kind, but if ever a man was convicted of sin, I was, though I had
not yet the courage to attempt to retrace my steps. My wife virtually
called me a thief. It was only the truth; I deserved the epithet, and
more than that.

I turned to the next paper. There was nothing about me or the bank in
it, and I continued my search till, in a subsequent issue, I found
another paragraph. The writer was happy to assure the public that the
bank would not lose a dollar by the missing teller. I was surprised
at this announcement, for I was indebted to the bank in the sum of
thirty-eight thousand dollars. I could not understand it. I turned to
the stock lists in the several papers. The shares in the Forty-Ninth
had been affected by the first paragraph, but the quotations showed
that they had been restored by the information contained in the second.

I concluded that the bank had determined to conceal my deficit to
avoid the loss of public confidence. But while I was trying to satisfy
myself with this theory, a better one was suggested to me. My aunt
died on the day of my departure. Within the week the substance of her
