
'Everybody comes here. But I seldom look at their horses. Why?'

'One went by just now. I was looking at the horse, and I hadn't 
time to see the rider. He'll come in, I suppose. If Annabella knew 
all, she wouldn't care so much about this match; for just as soon as 
I marry John Charteris, papa'll sell Paul Charteris his piece of land; 
and that's a job Dane Rollo wouldn't like.'

'Why not?' said Hazel with a desperate calmness, and her heart 
beginning to beat so that it half took her breath away. 'Is it land 
Mr. Rollo wants for himself?'

'He wouldn't like anybody else to have it, you bet!' replied Miss 
Powder, at last getting up from the floor and shaking herself into 
order. 'I must go.'

'But I said, why not?' Wych Hazel repeated. 'Thereyou have 
ripped off your flounce.'

'I did that getting out of the phaeton. O well!it'll have to go so 
till I get home. Everybody will know I didn't dress myself so on 
purpose; and besides, nobody will see it. Not till I get there. You 
haven't a needle and silk, have you, Hazel?'

'Yes, if you will come up to my room for it,' said Hazel, glad 
enough of an excuse to get her away. But Miss Powder had no 
mind to be spirited off. She had her own views, and excused 
herself.

'O thank you! but it's not worth while; and I can't wait, either. 
Well, I must go and meet my fate, I suppose.'

'What does Mr. Charteris want with more land?' said Hazel, 
arranging the torn flounce.

'O, to serve Rollo out, you know, for being so mean.'

'Is that it!' said Wych Hazel. 'How? I do not understand.'

'Why,' said Josephine, watching the door, which she expected 
would open to admit the rider of the bay horse whoever he might 
be, 'papa has a bit of land not worth much to him, just above Mr. 
Morton's ground that that pirate has bought; just above the mills. If 
Paul Charteris can get that, he will know what use to put it to. That 
will do, my dear, I dare say. I am awfully obliged for your care of 
my respectability.'

'What use?' said Hazel seriously. 'Here is one more tear'

'O I don't understand those things. Do you know what water power 
means?'

'Yes.'

'Wellif Paul Charteris gets that land,and if I marry John 
Charteris he willhe'll cut off the water power. I don't know what 
it means, nor how he'll do it; but Mr. Rollo's mills will stop. And 
in that case, somebody at home will hate Paul Charteris! Well, 
she'd better have stood by me then.'

The young lady detached herself at last, with a kiss to Wych 
Hazel, and bowled away in her little basket-wagon.


CHAPTER VII.

THE EMERALD.


Hazel let her see herself out from the door of the drawing room, 
and then stood still in the middle of the floor with a hand on each 
side of her face. Not however considering the land question just 
then. She had seen Mr. Rollo but three times for a whole year,so 
ran the first thought. And she had not seen him at all, since the 
other night,so chimed in the second. And these three days of 
sleep and unconsciousness had confused the universe to that 
degree, that whether the world was round or triangular or square 
might be called a nicely balanced question. Had the bay horse 
stopped?then where was his rider?

Hazel darted out of a side door, and stood still to consider. Walked 
slowly along for a step or two, (flying about did not just agree with 
her to-day) then took her way to the red room, entering 
noiselessly; also by a side door. Blushing as if she had not done 
her duty in that respect the other day, and so had large arrears to 
make up; but not losing the delicate look even so.

'How do you do, Mr. Rollo?' she said softly, and holding out her 
hand,rather, it must be confessed, across a great easy chair 
which stood in the way. He had been making up the fire when she 
came in, and had looked up and let the tongs drop just before she 
spoke. Rollo was cool enough however to see the easy chair and 
come round it; but his greeting was grave and wordless. Perhaps 
he too remembered that she had not seen him since the other night. 
At any rate, anxiety and sympathy and infinite tenderness had 
more to express than could be put into words, for the power of 
words is limited. When he did speak, it was a simple demand to 
know how she did? 'Very well,' she said, softly as before.

'Is it very well?' he said earnestly. 'And how has it been these three 
days?'

'OI have been sleepy. As perhaps you heard,' she said, with the 
pretty curl of her lips.

He looked at her a minute, then suddenly releasing her, turned 
away to the fire and picked up his tongs again. 'I wish you would 
do something to comfort me!' he exclaimed. And the strong grey 
eyes were full of tears.

Hazel gave him an extremely astonished look, which went away, 
and came again, and once more came back, growing very wistful. 
She moved a step nearer to him, then stood still.

'What is it, Mr. Rollo?' she said with one of her sweet intonations, 
which was certainly 'comfort' so far as it went. 'What am I to do? I 
mean'she added timidly, 'what have I done?'for it was greatly 
Hazel's habit to somehow charge things back upon herself. But 
Rollo mended the fire with scrupulous exactness, put it in perfect 
order, set up his tongs; and then stood by the mantel-piece, leaning 
his elbows there and looking down at his work. Hazel watched 
him, at first with shy swift glances, then, as he did not look up, her 
look became more steady. What was he thinking of? It must be 
something she had done,something which he had just heard of, 
perhaps,some wild piece of mischief or thoughtlessness 
executed last summer or in the spring. Was he wondering whether 
he could ever bring her into order, and make her 'stand?'was he 
meditating the form of some new promise for her to take? winding 
in the ends of free action into a new knot which she was to draw 
tight? But (so circumstances do alter cases) it did not terrify her 
much, if he was; what did try her, was to see him stand there 
wearing such a face, and to feel that in some way she was the 
cause of it. So she stood looking at him, not quite knowing all 
there was in her own face the while; and began to feel tired, and 
moved a soft step back again, and rested her hand on the great 
chair.

'Mr. Rollo'she ventured,'you never used to mind telling me of 
anywaysof mine, which you did not like; orthingsI had 
done. And I suppose I can bear it just as well now. Though that is 
not saying much, I am afraid.'

At her first word he had looked up, and when she had finished, 
came and put her into the big chair and sat down beside it. She 
dared not look at him now; his eyes were snapping with fun.

'What is all this?' he said. 'What do you want me to tell you, 
Wych?'

'I thought Nothing,' she said rather hastily retreating within 
herself again. 'But I did not quite understand you, Mr. Rollo.'

'What do you consider the proper thing to do, when you do not 
understand me?'

A little inarticulate sound seemed to say that the course might vary 
in different cases. 'Generally,' said Hazel, 'I wait and puzzle it out 
by myself.'

