coming. And my horse quite refused to stand upon more than two
feet at once, I found the storm uncomfortable--and so jumped
off and ran in. It's the fault of your door for being open,
Miss Maryland!'
'I am very glad,' said Primrose simply. 'The door stood open
because it was so hot. We were going to see you this afternoon
but the storm hindered us. Now, will you come up-stairs and
get on something dry?'
CHAPTER XII.
AT DR. MARYLAND'S.
They went up a low staircase and along a gallery to Primrose's
room. Large and low, as nice as wax, and as plain. How unlike
any room at Chickaree, Wych Hazel could not help feeling,
while its little mistress was opening cupboards and drawers,
and getting out the neatest and whitest of cambric jackets and
ruffles and petticoats, and bringing forth all accommodations
of combs and brushes. Meanwhile Wych Hazel could not help
seeing some of the tokens about the place that told what kind
of life was lived there. Its spotlessly neat and orderly
condition was one token; but there were signs of business.
Work-baskets, with what seemed fulness of work, were about the
room; books, not in great numbers, but lying in little
business piles, with business covers and the marks of use.
Papers were on one table by the window, with pen and ink and
pencil and cards. And everywhere a simplicity that showed no
atom of needless expenditure. Very unlike Chickaree?
Primrose the while was neat-handedly helping to array her
guest in fresh apparel. She had pretty little hands, and they
were quick and skilful; and as she stooped to try on a slipper
or manage a fastening, Wych Hazel had a view of a beautiful
head of fair brown hair, in quiet arrangement that did not
show all its beauty; and when from time to time the eyes were
lifted, she saw that they were very good eyes; as reposeful as
a mountain tarn, and as deep too, where lay thought shadows as
well as sunshine. They were shining eyes now, with secret
admiration and pleasure and good will and eager interest.
'Are you come to stay a good while at Chickaree? I hope you
will.'
'Maybe--perhaps. O my boots are not wet, Miss Maryland,--and I
don't think I caught enough raindrops to hurt. How kind you
are!--And how well your brother describes you.'
'Arthur?--I wish he would not describe me. Chickaree is such a
beautiful place, I should think one might like to stay there.
I have been hoping about it, ever since I heard you were
coming. Father knows Mr. Falkirk, and used to know your father
and mother, so well, that I have almost felt as if I knew
you,--till I saw you.'
'And you don't feel so now?' with a shade of disappointment.
'No,' said Primrose laughing. 'But I am sure I shall very
soon, if you will let me. I have wished for it so much! There,
won't that do? It is lucky I had some of Prue's things here--
mine are too short. Prue is my sister. It looks very nice, I
think.'
'O yes,' her guest answered, taking up her bunch of roses,
fresh with the rain. 'Thank you very much! But why do you say
that about your brother?'
'Arthur?--O--descriptions never tell the truth.'
'I am sure he did,' said Wych Hazel. 'And I know I would give
anything to have anybody to talk so about me.'
Primrose returned a somewhat earnest and wondering look at her
new friend; then took her hand to lead her down stairs.
In the hall they found Mr. Rollo; not by his packing case
exactly, for he had taken that to pieces, and the contents
stood fair to view; a very handsome new sewing machine.
Surrounded with bits of board and litter, he stood examining
the works and removing dust and bits of paper and string. Over
the litter sprang to his side Primrose and laid her hand
silently in his, and with downcast eyes stood still looking at
the machine. The bright eyes under their lids spoke as much
joy as Rosy's face often showed; yet she was perfectly still.
'Well?' said Rollo, squeezing the little hand and looking
laughingly down at her.
'You are so good!'
'You don't think it,' said he. 'You know better; and as you
always speak perfect truth, I am surprised to hear you.'
'You are good to me,' said Primrose in a low tone.
'I should be a pleasant fellow if I wasn't,' said he stooping
to kiss her, at which the flush of pleasure on Rosy's cheek
deepened; 'but in the meantime it is proper we should look
after the comfort of our prisoner.' Then stepping across the
litter to where Wych Hazel stood, he went on--'You know, of
course, that you stand in that relation to us, Miss Kennedy?
Primrose is turnkey, and I am governor. Would you like to see
the inside of the jail?'
The 'prisoner' had stood still in grave wonderment at people
and things generally; especially at the footing Mr. Rollo
seemed to have in this house.
'Governor to a steam engine is an easier post,' she said,
throwing off her thoughts.
'I have been that'--he said, as he led her into a room on the
right of the hall.
This room took in the whole depth of the house, having windows
on three sides; low, deep windows, looking green, for the
blinds were drawn together. The ceiling was low, too; and from
floor to ceiling, everywhere except where a door or window
broke the space, the walls were lined with books. There was
here no more than up stairs evidence of needless money outlay;
the furniture was chintz covered, the table-covers were plain.
But easy chairs were plenty; the tables bore writing-materials
and drawing-materials and sewing-materials; and books lay
about, open from late handling; and a portfolio of engravings
stood in a corner. Rollo put his charge in an easy chair, and
then went from window to window throwing open the blinds. The
windows opened upon green things, trees and flowers and vines;
the air came in fresher; the rain was softly falling fast and
thick, and yet the pale light cheered up the whole place
wonderfully.
'Your windows are all shut, Rosy!' said Rollo as he went from
one to the other--'is that the way you live? You must keep them
open now I am come home!'
'It was so hot,'--said the voice of Rosy from the hall.
'Hot? that is the very reason. What are you about? Rosy!--'
He went to the door, and then from where she sat Wych Hazel
could see the prompt handling which Rosy's endeavours to put
away the disorder received. She was taken off from picking up
nails, and dismissed into the library; while Rollo himself set
diligently about gathering together his boards and rubbish.
Primrose came in smiling.
'It is better with the windows open,' she said; 'but I was so
busy this morning I believe I forgot. And father never comes
into this room till evening. How it rains! I am so glad!'
And taking a piece of work from a basket, she placed herself
near Wych Hazel and began to sew. It was a pretty home
picture, such as Wych Hazel--in her school life and ward life--
had seen few. Just why it made her feel quiet she could not
have told. Yet the brown eyes went somewhat gravely from
Primrose at her work to the hall where Rollo felt so much at
home--then round the room and towards the window, watching the
rain.
'Won't you give me some work?' she asked suddenly.
'O talk!' said Primrose, looking up. 'Don't work.'
'It takes more than work to stop my mouth,' said Wych Hazel,
'Ah, I can work, though you don't believe it, Miss Rosy; do
please give me that ruffle--or a handkerchief,--don't you want
some marked? I can embroider like any German.'
Primrose doubted her powers of sewing and talking both at
once; but finally supplied her with an immense white cravat to
hem, destined for the comfort of Dr. Maryland's throat; and
working and chatting did go on very steadily for some time
thereafter, both girls being intent on each other at least, if
not on the hemming, till Rollo came back. He interrupted the
course of things.
'Now,' said Rollo, 'I am going to ask you first, Primrose--are
you setting about to make Miss Kennedy as busy as yourself?'
'I wish I could, you know,' said Primrose, half smiling, half
wistfully.
'And I want to know from you, Miss Kennedy, where Mr. Falkirk
is this afternoon?'
'In the depths of a nap, I suppose. Is the rain slackening,
Mr. Rollo?'
'What do you think?'--as with a fresher puff of wind the rush
of the raindrops to the earth seemed to be more hurried and
furious. Wych Hazel listened, but did not speak her thoughts.
Rollo considered her a little, and then drew up the portfolio
stand and began to undo the fastenings of the portfolio.
'Do you like this sort of thing?'
'Very much. O I don't care a great deal about them as
engravings, I suppose; but I like to study the faces and
puzzle over the lives.'
'This collection is nothing remarkable as a collection--but it
