think, or to depend upon himself. I shall have to take 
quite a different method with him, and he may seem not 
to improve so rapidly ; but it will be better for him in the 
end. He will be a*boy, not a prodigy." 

" Very well," returned the doctor : " it is just what I
want. I don't delight in prodigies myself." 

The latent brightness in Bertie, repressed by his aunt's 
rigidity and sternness, cropped out now and then. He 
grew rougher and noisier : he even had the temerity to 
indulge in a whistle now and then. Nelly had hard work 
to keep him within bounds ; for Miss Grove seemed to 
take delight in bringing out his worst points. If they 
only could pull together, Nelly thought regretfully ; but 
she saw with pain, that, whatever she joined in, Miss 
Grove would not only leave, but throw covert obsta 
cles in her way. No authority in the* house was to be 
shared. 

" Mrs. Kinnard is a very headstrong and self-willed 
young person, with no experience whatever," Miss Grove 
was fond of explaining to her friends. " I can plainly 
foresee that the child will be ruined. When he becomes 
perfectly unmanageable, no doubt he will be thrown back 
upon my hands." 

Nelly Kinnard was not thinking of the children, as she 
stood, in a rather abstracted manner, pinching dead leaves 
from her plants, and training up tender shoots that showed 
a disposition to go astray. That morning she had taken 
Bertie to school, made a few purchases in the village ; 
and, as she was driving slowly homeward, Mr. Dudley 
had overtaken her. 

" O Mrs. Kinnard ! " he exclaimed, " I was just going 



 

out to see you. I have a matter of importance to talk 
over." 

" Very well. Will you take a little drive with me, and 
explain it? " she said cordially. 

"Would you mind driving toward Northrup's Mill? 
There is a sick woman I must see ; and the morning is 
glorious." 

" With pleasure." 

He sprang in, and, after a few pleasant comments on 
various matters, launched into his plan. 

" What I want is something to bring the people together 
socially. We had a Mite Society last winter ; but it was 
given over into the hands of the younger members, who, 
after a while, did not care to go, unless they could have a 
good time. Our sewing-society languished also. I should 
like to unite the two, and mingle the young and the elders 
together. Now, if we could have a sewing-society meet, 
say, once a month, in the afternoon, to make up garments 
for the poor, or perhaps fancy articles, with a simple 
tea, and gentlemen coming in the evening, and young 
people who might not be able to give the whole afternoon. 
We could have conversation and music, and whatever 
other diversions were thought best;" and he glanced at 
her questioningly. 

" Why, I think it an admirable idea. I do not see 
that you need any help in the plan ; " and she smiled. 

" I am glad it meets your approval. You see, neither 
young nor old could fancy themselves justified in staj'ing 
away. And now what I want is some one to take hold 
of it with a vim, and make it a success. I would have 
them meet first at the rectory, but I have no wife to enter 
into the scheme ; and, though Mrs. Chase is an excellent 
housekeeper, I am quite afraid this would be bej'ond her. 
She could do every thing perfectly but the entertaining ; 
and that would frighten her to death. So much depends 
upon the manner in which a plan blossoms out ! " he con 
tinued anxiously. 



 

" Indeed it does," said Nelly warmly. 

"And that brings me to the point of my errand. I 
want to persuade you to undertake it. You have the 
prestige of being a clergyman's daughter, and know how 
these matters ought to be managed. Then you are Dr. 
Kinnard's wife, and occupy that broad, middle-ground 
position, not unlike that of a clergyman's household. 
Neither highest nor lowest would be afraid to come. 
Then I think you could make it a success. Seventeenthly 
and lastly, and this is an important part," glancing at 
her with a piquant smile, "I fancy you would have the 
courage to give the assembled multitude a plain tea. 
You would not be afraid of being called ' stingy ; ' ' ' and 
he laughed. " If Mrs. Dr. Kinnard gave people sandwiches 
and one kind of cake, with perhaps a plate of grapes or 
apples, Mrs. Newbury or Mrs. Thornton might follow in 
such sensible footsteps. I have thought of seven people 
who could have this entertainment ; and that will take us 
quite along. Now have I made a bad beginning? " 

" I should like very much to do it," said Nelly frankly. 
" I will consult the doctor;" and then she thought of 
the home-arrangements that could not be explained. 

"But I had his permission first for consulting you," 
Mr. Dudley announced with an expression of amusement. 

" Then you may consider it settled. I have been 
thinking, ever since I came to Edgerly, that there ought 
to be some attractive social life in the church." 

" We did quite well last winter ; but I felt that I wanted 
it placed on a new basis. If you will only help me," he 
said entreatingly. 

" Begin with a moderate estimate of my abilities," she 
returned gayly . ' ' I am a stranger, for one thing, a new 
comer ; and my ways may not be as attractive as you 
think." 

V 

" I am quite willing to risk that." 

Then they went on to discuss the minor points, the 





hard work it had been with this small and poor interest, 
since most of the well-to-do people preferred to go to the 
wealthier church. They arranged their plan satisfactorily ; 
and afterward Nelly laid it before the doctor, who assented 
willingly. On Sunday notice had been given out for the 
Wednesday evening following. Nelly had not deemed it 
prudent to inform Jane on Monday ; and here it was 
Tuesday morning. She found that she, like the rest, 
had fallen a little in awe of Jane ; and she smiled at 
herself, thinking of it. But domestic altercations were 
not pleasant ; and they had marked every step of the 
way in her new home. Was it strange that she should 
sigh a little for the sweet peace left behind with her 
girlhood ? 

"I am actually growing cowardly," she said, giving 
herself a kind of mental shaking. "I will not put it off a 
moment longer." 

