and was very strong. There was no longer an out- 
sider. A by-law was added forbidding the recep- 
tion of any more cubs or apprentices for five years ; 
after which time a limited number would be taken, 
not by individuals, but by the association, upon 
these terms : the applicant must not be less than 
eighteen years old, of respectable family and good 
character; he must pass an examination as to 
education, pay a thousand dollars in advance for 
the privilege of becoming an apprentice, and must 
remain under the commands of the association 
antil a great part of the membership (more than 
half, I think) should be willing to sign his applica- 
tion for a pilot's license. 

All previously-articled apprentices - were now 
taken away from their masters and adopted by the 
association. The president and secretary detailed 
them for service on one boat or another, as they 
chose, and changed them from boat to boat ac- 
cording to certain rules. If a pilot could show that 
he was in infirm health and needed assistance, one 
of the cubs would be ordered to go with him. 

The widow and orphan list grew, but so did tht 
association's financial resources. The association 
attended its own funerals in state, and paid foi 
them. When occasion demanded, it sent members 
down the river upon searches for the bodies oi 
brethren lost by steamboat accidents ; a search of 
this kind sometimes cost a thousand dollars. 

The association procured a charter and went 
into the insurance business, also. It not only in- 
sured the lives of its members, but took risks on 
steamboats. 

The organization seemed indestructible. It was 
the tightest monopoly in the world. By the United 
States law, no man could become a pilot unless two 
duly licensed pilots signed his application; and 
now there was nobody outside of the association 
competent to sign. Consequently the making of 
pilots was at an end. Every year some would die 
and others become incapacitated by age and infirm- 
ity ; there would be no new ones to take their 
places. In time, the association could put wages 
up to any figure it chose ; and as long as it should 
be wise enough not to carry the thing too far and 
provoke the national government into amending 
the licensing system, steamboat owners would 
have to submit, since there would be no help for 
it.

The owners and captains were the only obstruc- 
tion that lay between the association and absolute 
power; and at last this one was remoTed. Incred- 
ible as it may seem, the owners and captains dc 
liberately did it themselves. When the pilots' as- 
sociation announced, months beforehand, that on. 
the first day of September, 1861, wages would be 
advanced to five hundred dollars per month, the 
owners and captains instantly put freights up a 
few cents, and explained to the farmers along the 
river the necessity of it, by calling their attention 
to the burdensome rate of wages about to be estab- 
lished. It was rather a slender argument, but the 
farmers did not seem to detect it. It looked reason- 
able to them that to add five cents freight on a 
bushel of corn was justifiable under the circum- 
stances, overlooking the fact that this advance on 
a cargo of forty thousand sacks was a good deal 
more than necessary to cover the new wages. 

So straightway the captains and owners got up 
an association of their own, and proposed to put 
captains' wages up to five hundred dollars, too, 
and move for another advance in freights. It was 
a novel idea, but of course an effect which had 
been produced once could be produced again. The 
new association decreed (for this was before all the 
outsiders had been taken into the pilots' associa- 
tion) that if any captain employed a non-association 
pilot, he should be forced to discharge him. 
and alHo pay a fine of five hundred dollars. Several 
of these heavy fines were paid before the cap- 
tains' organization grew strong finough to exercisf; 
full authority over its membership ; but that all 
ceased, presently. The captains tried to get the 
pilots to decree that no member of their corporation 
should serve under a non-association captain ; but 
this proposition was declined. The pilots saw that 
they would be backed up by the captains and the 
underwriters anyhow, and so they wisely refrained 
from entering into entangling alliances. 

As I have remarked, the pilots association was 
now the compactest monopoly in the world, per- 
haps, and seemed simply indestructible. And yet 
the days of its glory were numbered. First, the 
new railroad stretching up through Mississippi, 
Tennessee, and Kentucky, to Northern railway 
centres, began to divert the passenger travel from 
the steamers ; next the war came and almost en- 
tirely annihilated the steamboating industry dur- 
ing several years, leaving most of the pilots idle, 
and the cost of living advancing all the time ; then 
the treasurer of the St. Louis associaticm put his 
hand into the till and walked off with every dollar 
of the ample fund; and finally, the railroads in- 
truding everywhere, there was little for steamers to 
do, when the war was over, but carj-y fi-ights ; so 
straightway some genius from the Atlantic coast in- 
troduced the plan of towing a dozen steamer cargoes 
down to New Orleans at the tail of a vulgar 
little tug-boat ; and behold, in the twinkling of an 
eye, as it were, the association and the noble science 
of piloting were things of the dead and pathetic 
past! 




CHAPTER VU 



LEAVING PORT : RACING : SHORTENING OF THE 
RIVER BY CUT-OFFS : A STEAMBOAT'S GHOST : 
STEPHEN'S" PLAN OF "RESUMPTION." 

It was always the custom for the boats to leave 
New Orleans between four and five o'clock in the 
afternoon. From three o'clock onward they would 
bo burning rosin and pitch pine (the sign of pre- 
paration), and so one had the picturesque spectacle 
of a rank, some two or three miles long, of tall, 
ascending columns of coal-black smoke ; a colon- 
nade which supported a sable roof of the same 
smoke blended together and spreading abroad over 
the city. Every outward-bound boat had its flag 
Hying at the jack-staff, and sometimes a dupli- 
cate on the verge staff astern. Two or three miles 
of mates were commanding and swearing with 
more than usual emphasis ; countless processions 
of freight barrels and boxes were spinning down the 
slant of the levee and flying aboard the stage- 
planks ; belated passengers were dodging and skip- 
ping among these frantic things, hoping to reach 
the forecastle companion-way alive, but having 
their doubts about it ; women with reticules and 
bandboxes were trying to keep up with husbands 
freighted with carpet-sacks and crying babies, and 
making a failure of it by losing their heads in the 
whirl and roar and general distraction ; drays and 
baggage-vans were clattering hither and thither in 
a wild hurry, every now and then getting blocked 
and jammed together, and then during ten seconds 
one could not see them for the profanity, except 
vaguely and dimly ; every windlass connected with 
