This proposal seemed to Newman extremely felicitous; it revived his
drooping spirit, and he reflected that Madame Urbain was not such a
goose as she seemed. He promised immediately to overtake her, and the
carriage drove away.

The Parc Monceau is a very pretty piece of landscape-gardening, but
Newman, passing into it, bestowed little attention upon its elegant
vegetation, which was full of the freshness of spring. He found Madame
de Bellegarde promptly, seated in one of the quiet corners of which she
had spoken, while before her, in the alley, her little girl, attended by
the footman and the lap-dog, walked up and down as if she were taking a
lesson in deportment. Newman sat down beside the mamma, and she talked
a great deal, apparently with the design of convincing him that--if
he would only see it--poor dear Claire did not belong to the most
fascinating type of woman. She was too tall and thin, too stiff and
cold; her mouth was too wide and her nose too narrow. She had no dimples
anywhere. And then she was eccentric, eccentric in cold blood; she was
an Anglaise, after all. Newman was very impatient; he was counting the
minutes until his victims should reappear. He sat silent, leaning upon
his cane, looking absently and insensibly at the little marquise. At
length Madame de Bellegarde said she would walk toward the gate of the
park and meet her companions; but before she went she dropped her eyes,
and, after playing a moment with the lace of her sleeve, looked up again
at Newman.

“Do you remember,” she asked, “the promise you made me three weeks
ago?” And then, as Newman, vainly consulting his memory, was obliged to
confess that the promise had escaped it, she declared that he had made
her, at the time, a very queer answer--an answer at which, viewing it
in the light of the sequel, she had fair ground for taking offense.
“You promised to take me to Bullier’s after your marriage. After your
marriage--you made a great point of that. Three days after that your
marriage was broken off. Do you know, when I heard the news, the
first thing I said to myself? ‘Oh heaven, now he won’t go with me to
Bullier’s!’ And I really began to wonder if you had not been expecting
the rupture.”

“Oh, my dear lady,” murmured Newman, looking down the path to see if the
others were not coming.

“I shall be good-natured,” said Madame de Bellegarde. “One must not ask
too much of a gentleman who is in love with a cloistered nun. Besides,
I can’t go to Bullier’s while we are in mourning. But I haven’t given
it up for that. The partie is arranged; I have my cavalier. Lord
Deepmere, if you please! He has gone back to his dear Dublin; but a
few months hence I am to name any evening and he will come over from
Ireland, on purpose. That’s what I call gallantry!”

Shortly after this Madame de Bellegarde walked away with her little
girl. Newman sat in his place; the time seemed terribly long. He felt
how fiercely his quarter of an hour in the convent chapel had raked
over the glowing coals of his resentment. Madame de Bellegarde kept him
waiting, but she proved as good as her word. At last she reappeared at
the end of the path, with her little girl and her footman; beside her
slowly walked her husband, with his mother on his arm. They were a long
time advancing, during which Newman sat unmoved. Tingling as he was
with passion, it was extremely characteristic of him that he was able
to moderate his expression of it, as he would have turned down a flaring
gas-burner. His native coolness, shrewdness, and deliberateness, his
life-long submissiveness to the sentiment that words were acts and acts
were steps in life, and that in this matter of taking steps
curveting and prancing were exclusively reserved for quadrupeds
and foreigners--all this admonished him that rightful wrath had no
connection with being a fool and indulging in spectacular violence. So
as he rose, when old Madame de Bellegarde and her son were close to
him, he only felt very tall and light. He had been sitting beside some
shrubbery, in such a way as not to be noticeable at a distance; but M.
de Bellegarde had evidently already perceived him. His mother and he
were holding their course, but Newman stepped in front of them, and they
were obliged to pause. He lifted his hat slightly, and looked at them
for a moment; they were pale with amazement and disgust.

“Excuse me for stopping you,” he said in a low tone, “but I must profit
by the occasion. I have ten words to say to you. Will you listen to
them?”

The marquis glared at him and then turned to his mother. “Can Mr. Newman
possibly have anything to say that is worth our listening to?”

“I assure you I have something,” said Newman, “besides, it is my duty to
say it. It’s a notification--a warning.”

“Your duty?” said old Madame de Bellegarde, her thin lips curving like
scorched paper. “That is your affair, not ours.”

Madame Urbain meanwhile had seized her little girl by the hand, with a
gesture of surprise and impatience which struck Newman, intent as he was
upon his own words, with its dramatic effectiveness. “If Mr. Newman is
going to make a scene in public,” she exclaimed, “I will take my poor
child out of the mêlée. She is too young to see such naughtiness!” and
she instantly resumed her walk.

“You had much better listen to me,” Newman went on. “Whether you do or
not, things will be disagreeable for you; but at any rate you will be
prepared.”

“We have already heard something of your threats,” said the marquis,
“and you know what we think of them.”

“You think a good deal more than you admit. A moment,” Newman added in
reply to an exclamation of the old lady. “I remember perfectly that we
are in a public place, and you see I am very quiet. I am not going to
tell your secret to the passers-by; I shall keep it, to begin with, for
certain picked listeners. Anyone who observes us will think that we are
having a friendly chat, and that I am complimenting you, madam, on your
venerable virtues.”

The marquis gave three short sharp raps on the ground with his stick. “I
demand of you to step out of our path!” he hissed.

Newman instantly complied, and M. de Bellegarde stepped forward with his
mother. Then Newman said, “Half an hour hence Madame de Bellegarde will
regret that she didn’t learn exactly what I mean.”

The marquise had taken a few steps, but at these words she paused,
looking at Newman with eyes like two scintillating globules of ice. “You
are like a peddler with something to sell,” she said, with a little cold
laugh which only partially concealed the tremor in her voice.

“Oh, no, not to sell,” Newman rejoined; “I give it to you for nothing.”
 And he approached nearer to her, looking her straight in the eyes. “You
killed your husband,” he said, almost in a whisper. “That is, you tried
once and failed, and then, without trying, you succeeded.”

Madame de Bellegarde closed her eyes and gave a little cough, which, as
a piece of dissimulation, struck Newman as really heroic. “Dear mother,”
 said the marquis, “does this stuff amuse you so much?”

“The rest is more amusing,” said Newman. “You had better not lose it.”

Madame de Bellegarde opened her eyes; the scintillations had gone out of
them; they were fixed and dead. But she smiled superbly with her narrow
little lips, and repeated Newman’s word. “Amusing? Have I killed someone
else?”

“I don’t count your daughter,” said Newman, “though I might! Your
husband knew what you were doing. I have a proof of it whose existence
you have never suspected.” And he turned to the marquis, who was
terribly white--whiter than Newman had ever seen anyone out of a
picture. “A paper written by the hand, and signed with the name, of
Henri-Urbain de Bellegarde. Written after you, madam, had left him for
dead, and while you, sir, had gone--not very fast--for the doctor.”

The marquis looked at his mother; she turned away, looking vaguely round
her. “I must sit down,” she said in a low tone, going toward the bench
on which Newman had been sitting.

“Couldn’t you have spoken to me alone?” said the marquis to Newman, with
a strange look.

“Well, yes, if I could have been sure of speaking to your mother alone,
too,” Newman answered. “But I have had to take you as I could get you.”

Madame de Bellegarde, with a movement very eloquent of what he would
have called her “grit,” her steel-cold pluck and her instinctive appeal
to her own personal resources, drew her hand out of her son’s arm and
went and seated herself upon the bench. There she remained, with her
hands folded in her lap, looking straight at Newman. The expression of
her face was such that he fancied at first that she was smiling; but he
went and stood in front of her and saw that her elegant features were
