themselves.
But the real pleasure only began with the games. The party was nothing
without the games, and indeed it was made for the games. Very likely
it was one of the timid girls who proposed to play something, and when
the ice was once broken, the whole company went into the business
enthusiastically. There was no dancing. We should hope not. Not in
the deacon's house; not with the deacon's daughters, nor anywhere in
this good Puritanic society. Dancing was a sin in itself, and no one
could tell what it would lead to. But there was no reason why the boys
and girls shouldn't come together and kiss each other during a whole
evening occasionally. Kissing was a sign of peace, and was not at all
like taking hold of hands and skipping about to the scraping of a
wicked fiddle.
In the games there was a great deal of clasping hands, of going round
in a circle, of passing under each other's elevated arms, of singing
about my true love, and the end was kisses distributed with more or
less partiality according to the rules of the play; but, thank Heaven,
there was no fiddler. John liked it all, and was quite brave about
paying all the forfeits imposed on him, even to the kissing all the
girls in the room; but he thought he could have amended that by kissing
a few of them a good many times instead of kissing them all once.
But John was destined to have a damper put upon his enjoyment. They
were playing a most fascinating game, in which they all stand in a
circle and sing a philandering song, except one who is in the centre
of the ring and holds a cushion. At a certain word in the song, the
one in the centre throws the cushion at the feet of some one in the
ring, indicating thereby the choice of a mate, and then the two sweetly
kneel upon the cushion, like two meek angels, and—and so forth. Then
the chosen one takes the cushion and the delightful play goes on. It
is very easy, as it will be seen, to learn how to play it. Cynthia was
holding the cushion, and at the fatal word she threw it down,—not
before John, but in front of Ephraim Leggett. And they two kneeled, and
so forth. John was astounded. He had never conceived of such perfidy
in the female heart. He felt like wiping Ephraim off the face of the
earth, only Ephraim was older and bigger than he. When it came his
turn at length—thanks to a plain little girl for whose admiration he
didn't care a straw—he threw the cushion down before Melinda Mayhew
with all the devotion he could muster, and a dagger look at Cynthia.
And Cynthia's perfidious smile only enraged him the more. John felt
wronged, and worked himself up to pass a wretched evening.
When supper came he never went near Cynthia, and busied himself in
carrying different kinds of pie and cake, and red apples and cider,
to the girls he liked the least. He shunned Cynthia, and when he was
accidentally near her, and she asked him if he would get her a glass of
cider, he rudely told her—like a goose as he was—that she had better
ask Ephraim. That seemed to him very smart; but he got more and more
miserable, and began to feel that he was making himself ridiculous.
Girls have a great deal more good sense in such matters than boys.
Cynthia went to John, at length, and asked him simply what the
matter was. John blushed, and said that nothing was the matter. Cynthia
said that it wouldn't do for two people always to be together at a
party; and so they made up, and John obtained permission to "see"
Cynthia home.
It was after half past nine when the great festivities at the Deacon's
broke up, and John walked home with Cynthia over the shining crust and
under the stars. It was mostly a silent walk, for this was also an
occasion when it is difficult to find anything fit to say. And John
was thinking all the way how he should bid Cynthia goodnight; whether
it would do and whether it wouldn't do, this not being a game, and
no forfeits attaching to it. When they reached the gate there was an
awkward little pause. John said the stars were uncommonly bright.
Cynthia did not deny it, but waited a minute and then turned abruptly
away, with "Good-night, John!"
"Good-night, Cynthia!"
And the party was over, and Cynthia was gone, and John went home in a
kind of dissatisfaction with himself.
It was long before he could go to sleep for thinking of the new world
opened to him, and imagining how he would act under a hundred different
circumstances, and what he would say, and what Cynthia would say; but a
dream at length came, and led him away to a great city and a brilliant
house; and while he was there he heard a loud rapping on the under
floor, and saw that it was daylight.
XIV
THE SUGAR CAMP
I think there is no part of farming the boy enjoys more than the making
of maple sugar; it is better than "blackberrying," and nearly as good
as fishing. And one reason he likes this work is that somebody else
does the most of it. It is a sort of work in which he can appear to be
very active and yet not do much.
And it exactly suits the temperament of a real boy to be very busy
about nothing. If the power, for instance, that is expended in play
by a boy between the ages of eight and fourteen could be applied to
some industry, we should see wonderful results. But a boy is like a
galvanic battery that is not in connection with anything: he generates
electricity and plays it off into the air with the most reckless
prodigality. And I, for one, wouldn't have it otherwise. It is as much
a boy's business to play off his energies into space as it is for a
flower to blow, or a catbird to sing snatches of the tunes of all the
other birds.
In my day, maple-sugar making used to be something between picnicking
and being shipwrecked on a fertile island where one should save from
the wreck tubs and augers, and great kettles and pork, and hen's-eggs
and rye-and-indian bread, and begin at once to lead the sweetest life
in the world. I am told that it is something different nowadays, and
that there is more desire to save the sap, and make good, pure sugar,
and sell it for a large price, than there used to be, and that the
old fun and picturesqueness of the business are pretty much gone. I
am told that it is the custom to carefully collect the sap and bring
it to the house, where there are built brick arches, over which it is
evaporated in shallow pans; and that pains is taken to keep the leaves,
sticks, and ashes and coals out of it; and that the sugar is clarified;
and that, in short, it is a money-making business, in which there is
very little fun, and that the boy is not allowed to dip his paddle
into the kettle of boiling sugar and lick off the delicious sirup. The
prohibition may improve the sugar, but it is cruel to the boy.
As I remember the New England boy (and I am very intimate with one),
he used to be on the qui vive in the spring for the sap to begin
running. I think he discovered it as soon as anybody. Perhaps he knew
it by a feeling of something starting in his own veins,—a sort of
spring stir in his legs and arms, which tempted him to stand on his
head, or throw a handspring, if he could find a spot of ground from
which the snow had melted. The sap stirs early in the legs of a country
boy, and shows itself in uneasiness in the toes, which get tired of
boots, and want to come out and touch the soil just as soon as the sun
has warmed it a little. The country boy goes barefoot just as naturally
as the trees burst their buds, which were packed and varnished over in
the fall to keep the water and the frost out. Perhaps the boy has been
out digging into the maple-trees with his jack-knife; at any rate, he
is pretty sure to announce the discovery as he comes running into the
house in a great state of excitement—as if he had heard a hen cackle
in the barn—with, "Sap's runnin'!"
And then, indeed, the stir and excitement begin. The sap-buckets,
which have been stored in the garret over the woodhouse, and which
the boy has occasionally climbed up to look at with another boy, for
they are full of sweet suggestions of the annual spring frolic,—the
sap-buckets are brought down and set out on the south side of the
house and scalded. The snow is still a foot or two feet deep in the
woods, and the ox-sled is got out to make a road to the sugar camp,
and the campaign begins. The boy is everywhere present, superintending
everything, asking questions, and filled with a desire to help the
excitement.
It is a great day when the cart is loaded with the buckets and the
procession starts into the woods. The sun shines almost unobstructedly
into the forest, for there are only naked branches to bar it; the snow
is soft and beginning to sink down, leaving the young bushes spindling
up everywhere; the snow-birds are twittering about, and the noise
of shouting and of the blows of the axe echoes far and wide. This is
spring, and the boy can scarcely contain his delight that his outdoor
life is about to begin again.
In the first place the men go about and tap the trees, drive in
the spouts, and hang the buckets under. The boy watches all these
operations with the greatest interest. He wishes that some time when a
hole is bored in a tree that the sap would spout out in a stream as it
does when a cider-barrel is tapped; but it never does, it only drops,
sometimes almost in a stream, but on the whole slowly, and the boy
learns that the sweet things of the world have to be patiently waited
for, and do not usually come otherwise than drop by drop.
Then the camp is to be cleared of snow. The shanty is re-covered with
boughs. In front of it two enormous logs are rolled nearly together,
and a fire is built between them. Forked sticks are set at each end,
and a long pole is laid on them, and on this are hung the great caldron
kettles. The huge hogsheads are turned right side up, and cleaned out
to receive the sap that is gathered. And now, if there is a good "sap
run," the establishment is under full headway.
The great fire that is kindled up is never let out, night or day, as
long as the season lasts. Somebody is always cutting wood to feed
it; somebody is busy most of the time gathering in the sap; somebody
is required to watch the kettles that they do not boil over, and to
fill them. It is not the boy, however; he is too busy with things in
general to be of any use in details. He has his own little sap-yoke
