the greater part of the friends of his family and 
of his farm servants received holy baptism, the wa 
ter for which was fetched out of the neighbouring 
Oerze. Now, of course, that church is no longer 
standing; it was burnt down afterwards by the 
heathen Wends, and in its place the large stone 
church in Hermannsburg was built. But to this 
day the field where that first church stood belongs 
to the Hermannsburg parsonage, and is still called 
the cold church. 
" 'This was the foundation of the Christian church 
in our valley of the Oerze; and as Landolf had 
come from Minden, the whole Oerze valley was 
attached to the see of Minden, while the rest of 
the Luneburg country came to belong to the see 
of Verden. 
" 'Now the faithful Landolf laboured on indefatigably. He sent one of his new converts to Minden 
and Munster, to get more helpers from thence for his 
work. Twelve came, who were put under Landolf; 
and now for the first time the work could be taken 
hold of vigorously. Landolf must have lived and 
laboured until 830 or 840, and so blessed was his 
agency that the whole country of the Horzsahzen 
 
was converted to Christianity. It is brought for 
ward as a proof of this, that at the great May diets 
held at the stone-houses the following laws were 
unanimously enacted; no more horse's flesh to be 
eaten; no more human sacrifices to be brought; 
no more dead to be burned ; and all Woden's oaks 
to be hewn down. And in truth these laws do 
shew the dominance of Christianity, for precise 
ly these things named were the peculiar marks 
of heathenism. Of the interior condition of Christianity, little is told ; only it is remarked that the 
entire change in the country was so great and 
manifest, that the bishops Willerich of Bremen, 
and Helingud of Verden sent priests to convince 
themselves with their own eyes whether what they 
had heard with their ears was true ; and these 
messengers had found not a single heathen left 
in the whole region. As a good general, Landolf 
moreover understood how everywhere to seize the 
right points where with the most effect heathenism might be grappled with and overthrown. He 
always went straight to the heart of the old religion. We have already seen how his first church 
was built by the Billing's sacrifice stone. Westward from Hermannsburg is what is called the 
Winkelberg, upon which was the burying-place of 
the heathen priests, for the most part cultivated 
land now, but the twice seven so-called Huhnen 
graves are still to be seen there. At the foot of 
this hill he established what was called the Pfarrwohrt, where the spiritual courts should be holden ; 
 
and close by this place he laid the foundation stone 
of the Quanenburg, a house surrounded with a 
moat, in which the young girls of the country 
might be taught and educated (Quilne or Kwane 
meant a young girl). Both places, Pfarrvvohrt and 
Quanenburg, are arable fields now, still belonging 
to the parsonage. 
"'An hour above Hermannsburg the two rivers Oerze and Wieze flow into each other. At 
that place, in an oak wood, the idol Thor was worshipped. There Landolf was equally prompt to 
build a chapel, that the idol worship might be banished. As he had consecrated the church in Hermannsburg to Peter and Paul, so he consecrated 
this chapel to Lawrence. Around this chapel the 
village Miiden sprang up, so called because the two 
rivers there flow into one another, or munden. 
Then he went further up the Oerze and erected 
a cloister and a chapel at a place which was sacred 
to the goddess Freija. At that time a cloister was 
called a munster. The village of Munster grew up 
around this cloister. In the same way he went 
further up the Wieze, where there was a wood 
sacred to Hertha. In its neighbourhood he built 
a chapel which was consecrated to Bartholomew. 
Around this chapel Wiezendorf arose. About an 
hour and a half distant from Hermannsburg, there 
was a very large, magnificent wood of oaks and 
beeches; such a forest was then called a wohld. 
In this forest the heathen priests, the so-called 
Druids, were specially at home; there too, they 
 
kept the white horses which were used in sooth 
saying. The wood extended for hours in length 
and breadth. He could not give that the go-by; 
and that he might dash right into the midst of 
it, he built at the spot where it was narrowest a 
chapel on the one side to Mary in valle, and on the 
other side a chapel to Mary in monte. The first 
means Mary in the valley, the second, Mary on the 
hill. The villages Wo hide and Bergen have thence 
arisen. So he grappled with heathenism just there 
where its strongest points were; and always, by 
God's grace, got the victory; for the Lord indeed 
says: "My glory will I not give to another, neither 
my praise to graven images." And as once the 
Philistine's idol Dagon fell speechless upon the 
ground before the ark of the covenant of God, so 
in our Oerze valley everywhere fell the altars of 
the idols before the sign of the Cross. 
"'Besides all this, Landolf and his companions 
were skilled husbandmen ; who themselves shunned 
no manual labour nor painstaking, and who knew 
right well how to eat their bread in the sweat of 
their brow. So they introduced agriculture universally, of which our forefathers at that time knew 
little or nothing ; and thus they were not only the 
spiritual but also the material benefactors of the 
whole district. How much a single man can do, 
who is wholly given to the Lord, and who is moved 
by burning love to the Lord and to his fellows! 
God give all preachers and teachers, and especially 
all messengers to the heathen, such a mind, such a 
 
brave heart, such a single eye, such will to work! 
that some good may be done. 
"'About the next hundred years I have found 
nothing said in the chronicle. Probably things 
went on in such a quiet way that there was nothing particular to say concerning them. But then 
comes the relation of a noteworthy occurrence.'" 
Meredith shut up his book. 
 " Well, aren't you going on ? " said Maggie. 
"Presently. I want to run down to the shore 
and see how the water looks." 
" Why it always looks just the same way," said 
Esther. 
" Does it ? I am afraid something must be the 
matter with your eyes." 
" 0, of course sometimes it blows, and sometimes 
it is smooth; but what is that? " 
"Just according to your eyes." 
"Aren't all eyes alike?" 
"Not exactly. Some see." 
"What do you see in the water?" 
"There is one peculiarity of eyes," said Meredith. "You cannot see through another person's. 
Come, Maggie, let us stretch ourselves a bit." 
Taking hold of hands, the two ran and scram 
bled down the steep, rocky pitch of the hill, to the 
edge of the river. The wind was not blowing to 
day ; soft and still the water lay, with a mild gleam 
under the October sun, sending up not even a ripple 
to the shore. There was a warm, spicy smell in the 
woods; there was a golden glow here and there 
 
from a hickory; the hills were variegated and rich- 
hued in the distance and near by. Meredith sat 
down on a stone by the water and looked out on 
the view. But he was graver than Maggie liked. 
"Ditto," she said after a while, "you are think 
ing of something." 
"Of a good many things, Maggie. How good 
the world is ! and men are not ! "  
"What then, Ditto?" 
"One ought to do something to make them 
better." 
"What can you do?" 
" What could Landolf the Saxon ? I do not know, 
Maggie; but one ought to be as ready as Landolf 
was, to do any thing. And I think I am." 
"Then God will shew you what to do, Ditto." 
Meredith bent down and kissed the earnest little 
face. "You are the only friend I have got, Maggie, that thinks and feels as I do." 
"0 Ditto! Uncle Eden?" 
"Well, I suppose Mr. Murray would do me the 
