instead of less. The coming in of Mr. Masters roused her, 
and with a sort of start she put away the thought of Evan 
and of days and joys past for ever, and forcibly swung herself back to present things. People were very well-behaved! 
after her husband came, and she did her part, she knew, 
 
satisfactorily; for she saw his eye now and then resting on 
her or meeting her's with the hidden smile in it she had 
learned to know. And besides, nothing was ever dull 
or commonplace where he was ; so even in Mrs. Starling's 
house and Mrs. Flandin's presence the rest of the evening 
went brightly off. And then, driving home, through the 
light of a young moon and over the quiet country, Diana 
watched the wonderful calm line where the hill-tops met 
the sky ; and thought, surely, with the talisman she had 
just found, of heavenly love and sympathy and strength, 
she could walk the rest of her way through life and bear 
it till the end. Then, by and by, beyond that dividing 
line of eternity, there would be bright heaven, instead of 
the dusky earth. If only she could prevent Basil from 
knowing how she felt and so losing all peace in life himself. But his peace was so fixed in heaven, she wondered 
if anything on earth could destroy it ? She would not try 
that question. 
CHAPTER XXV. 
MISS COLLINS' WORK. 
IT was well for Diana that she had got a talisman, of better power than the world can manufacture. It was well for 
her too that she followed up earnestly the clue to life which 
had been given her. If you have a treasure house of supplies, and are going to have to get to it in the dark by 
and by, it is good to learn the way very well while the light 
is there. For weeks Diana gave herself before all other 
things to the study of her Bible and to better understanding 
of faith's duties and privileges. In all this Basil was a great 
help ; and daily his wife learned more and more to admire 
and revere the mind and temper of the man she had married. Reverence would have led surely to love, in such a 
nature as Diana's ; but Diana's heart was preoccupied. 
What love could not do, however, conscience and gratitude 
did as far as possible. Nothing that concerned Basil's 
comfort or honour was uncared for by his wife. So among 
other things, she never intrusted the care of his meals 
entirely to Miss Collins ; and quite to that lady's discomfiture, would often come into the kitchen and prepare some 
nice dish herself, or superintend the preparation of it. Miss 
Collins resented this. She shared the opinion of some of 
the ladies of the sewing society, that Mrs. Masters was quite 
proud and needed to be " taken down " a bit ; and if she got a 
good chance, she had it in her mind to do a little of the 
" taking down " herself. 
 
It was one evening late in September. Frosts had 
hardly set in yet, and every change in the light and colour 
carried Diana's mind back to Evan and two years ago, and 
mornings and evenings of that time which were so filled 
with nameless joys and hopes. Diana did not give herself 
to these thoughts nor encourage them ; they came with the 
suddenness and the start of lightning. Merely the colour 
of a hill at sunset was enough to flash back her thoughts 
to an hour when she was looking for Evan ; or a certain 
sort of starlight night would recall a particular walk along 
the meadow fence ; or a gust and whiff of the wind would 
bring with it the thrill that belonged to one certain stormy 
September night that never faded in her remembrance. Or 
the smell of coffee sometimes, when it was just at a certain 
stage of preparation, would turn her heart sick. These associations and remembrances were countless and incessant 
always under the reminders of the September light and atmosphere ; and Diana could not escape from them, though 
as soon as they came she put them resolutely away. 
This evening Mr. Masters was out. Diana knew he 
had gone a long ride and would be tired, that is, if he ever 
could be tired, and would be certainly ready for his supper 
when he came in. So she went out to make ready a certain dish of eggs which she knew he liked. Such service 
as this she could do, and she did. There was no thoughtful care, no smallest observance which could have been 
rendered by the most devoted affection, which Diana did 
not give to her husband. Except, she never offered a kiss, 
or laid her hand in his or upon his shoulder. Happily for 
her, Basil was not a particularly demonstrative man ; for 
every caress from him was " as vinegar upon nitre ; " she 
did not shew repulsion, that was all. 
' I guess I kin do that, Mis' Masters,' said her handmaid, who always preferred to keep the kitchen for her own 
domain. Diana made no answer. She wa-s slowly and 
delicately peeling her eggs, and probably did not notice 
the remark. Miss Collins, however, resented the neglect. 
' Mr. Masters is gone a great deal. It's sort o' lonesome up here on the hill. Dreadfully quiet, don't you 
think it is ? ' 
' I like quiet,' Diana answered absently. 
' Du, hey ? Wall, I allays liked life. I never could get 
too much o' that. I should like a soldier's life uncommon, 
if I was a man.' 
Diana had finished peeling her eggs, and now began to 
wash a bunch of green parsley which she had fetched from 
the garden, daintily dipping it up and down in a bowl of 
spring-water. 
' It was kind o' lively down to the post office,' Miss 
Collins remarked again, eyeing the beautiful half-bared 
arm and the whole figure, which in its calm elegance was 
both imposing and irritating to her. Miss Collins indeed 
had a very undefined sense of the beautiful ; yet she vaguely knew that nobody else in Pleasant Valley looked so or 
carried herself so ; no other woman's dress adorned her so, 
or was so set off by the wearer ; although Diana's present 
attire was a very simply made print gown ; not even the 
stylish ladies of Elmfield produced an equal effect with 
their French dresses. And was not Diana " Mis' Starling's daughter ? " And Diana seemed not to hear or care 
what she had to say ! 
' Everybody comes to the post office,' she went on grimly ; ' you hev' only to watch, and you see all the folks ; and 
you know all that is goin' on. An', that suits me 'exactly.' 
'But you had nothing to do with the post office,' said 
Diana. ' How could you see everybody ? ' 
' You keep your eyes open, and you'll see things, most 
places,' said Miss Collins. ' La ! I used to be in and out ; 
why shouldn't I ? And now and then I'd say to Miss 
Gunn " You're jest fagged out with standin' upon your 
feet ; you jes' go in there and sit down by the fire and 
don't let the pot bile over and put it out ; and I'll see to 
the letters and the folks." And so she did, and so I did. It 
was as good as a play.' 
' How? ' said Diana, feeling a vague pain at the thought 
of the post office ; that place where her hopes had died. 
Somehow there was a vague dread in her heart also, without any reason. 
' Wall you git at folks' secrets if they have any,' Miss 
Collins answered, suddenly checking her flow of words. 
Diana did not ask again ; the subject was disagreeable. 
She began to cut up her parsley deftly with a sharp knife ; 
and her handmaid stood and looked at her. 
' Some folks thought, you know, at one time, that Mr. 
Masters was courtin' Phemie Knowlton. I didn't let on, 
but la ! I knowed it warn't so. Why there warn't never a 
letter come from her to him, nor went from him to her.' 
' She was here herself,' said Diana ; ' why should they 
write ? You could tell nothing by that.' 
' She warn't here after she had gone away,' said Miss 
Collins ; ' and that was jes' the time when I knowed all 
about it. I knowed about other people too.' 
That was also the time after Evan had quitted Pleasant 
Valley. Yet Diana did not know why she could not keep 
herself from trembling. If Evan had written, then, this 
Jemima Collins and her employer, Miss Gunn, would have 
known it and drawn their conclusions. Well, they had no 
data to go upon now. 
' Bring me a little saucepan, Jemima, will you ? ' 
 
Jemima brought it. Now her mistress (but she never 
called her so) would be away and off in a minute or two 
more, and leave her to watch the saucepan, she knew, and 
her opportunity would be over. Still she waited to choose 
her words. 
' You ain't so fond o' life as I be,' she observed. 
'Perhaps not,' said Diana. 'I do not think I should 
like a situation in the post office.' 
' But I should ha' thought you'd ha' liked to go all 
over the world and see everything. Now Pleasant Valley 
seems to me something like a corner. Why didn't you ? ' 
'Why didn't I what?' said Diana, standing up. She 
had been stooping down over her saucepan which now sat 
upon a little bed of coals. 
' La ! you needn't look at me like that,' said Miss Collins chuckling. ' It's no harm. You had your ch'ice, and 
you chose it ; only I would have took the other.' 
' The other what ? What would you have taken ? ' 
' Wall, I don' know,' said Miss Collins ; ' to be sure, 
one never doos know till one is tried, they say ; but if I 
had, I think I should ha' took 'tother one.' 
' I do not understand you,' said Diana walking off to 
the table, where she began to gather up the wrecks of the 
parsley stems. She felt an odd sensation of cold about the 
region of her heart, physically very disagreeable. 
