washer-woman. I used to look at other people sometimes, 
and wonder why we had to be so economical. I am afraid 
I quite coveted elegance. I was in my last year at the 
high school, and meant to be a teacher. Theo and I had 
nice times planning what I would do when I had money 
of my very own. 

This spring Mr. Travis, father’s partner, died quite 
suddenly. The eldest son took the business, and was 
made one of the executors. He had been in the store off 
and on ; was about thirty, and married to a very gay and 
styhsh woman. 

This brought a great deal of perplexity to father. 

“ If I was in better circumstances, I should buy out 
young Travis, and pay the debts at my leisure. I don’t 
fancy having him for a partner. Or if he would buy my 
share. But he asks much more than the business is 
worth,” said father. 

Young Travis, as everybody called him, wanted to 
bring in some changes, — cheap, showy articles, instead 
of the excellent furniture on which his father had built up 
a reputation. He talked largely, and drove around in his 
carriage, leaving the real work to father. 

I was studying very hard. How we girls used to talk 
over our life-plans ! We had some geniuses in our class ; 
for young women were now aspiring to every thing. Two 
had resolved to study medicine ; one was going to enter 


 


Cooper Institute for a course of art and designing. Ade- 
lia Vincent, who had a really beautiful voice, meant, 
some way, to get abroad for a musical education, and dis- 
tinguish herself in opera. Then we had several lilies of 
the field, or of the conservatory rather, and a sprinkling 
of common-place girls. 

I wasn’t a bit of a genius, and not much of a beauty ; 
just about average size, rather slim, with fair complexion, 
blue-gray eyes, and light hair, — nothing, you see, to 
distinguish me from the hundred and one tolerably well- 
looking girls when they have the charm of youth and 
health, and the radiance of hope. 

Mother had always said that we girls should know 
enough of one particular branch to get our living if we 
had to depend upon ourselves. Teaching was my fancy 

“ When you have taught ten or fifteen years, you will 
not be quite so enthusiastic,” said Miss Cuimning of the 
B class. “It loses its romance after a while, like all 
other things.” 

Why, it seemed to me, that, in ten years, I could save 
enough to be independent all the rest of my days — if I 
did not marry. I did not mean to hold myself too cheap 
in the matrimonial market. Like Lady Geraldine, my 
possible lover must be “ ver3Mioble certes.” At seven- 
teen youth appears boundless, seven and twenty seems 
very far off, and seven and thirty old age. 

One June evening, a number of young ladies went to 
Trevor Hall in attire that was absolutely bridal, enter- 
tained an appreciative audience for two hours, and re- 
ceived diplomas, with much good advice, that I suppose 
they hardly thought of afterward. Miss Christabel Durant 
had one of the prize essays, and was made happy by an 
elegant copy of Shakspeare, and innumerable bouquets. 
It was a very proud and happy night. 

After that, Iliad some delightful countiy jaunts. Ar- 
chie took me to Cape May for a few days, and with father. 





mother, and Theo, we made a brief stay at Long Branch ; 
though it had not arrived at its present importance. 

I had made my application for a position, and was de- 
lighted to find myself appointed so speedily, — a primary 
school, to be sure ; but I was fond of small children, 
though I might have been equally pleased to am my supe- 
rior knowledge. 

I began on the 1st of September. The principal. Miss 
Willis, had been one of my own teachers ; and now she 
was very kind. In the course of a week I had adapted 
myself to my new duties, and began to feel quite experi- 
enced. “You have the gift of teaching,’’ said Miss 
Willis. 

The last of the month, father came home one day with 
a hard chill, that was succeeded by a high fever. The 
next morning he could not rise ; and for several days 
mamma watched him with much anxiety. His health, up 
to this time, had been uniformly good. Dr. Sheldon 
looked very grave, and at length admitted that it was 
typhoid-fever, and a severe case. Indeed, now he grew 
rapidly delirious. 

“ You must have an experienced nurse,” said the good 
doctor. 

Forthwith a nurse was installed ; and it was a great 
comfort to mamma. 

There were two terrible weeks. We scarcely ate or 
slept, and glanced at each other with tearful, questioning 
eyes. If papa could only have his reason, and recognize 
us all once more ! How we prayed ! how we waited ! but 
dared not hope. It was so different from grandmother’s 
peaceful illness ! 

I remember, as if it were only yesterday, how mamma 
came down to the breakfast-table one morning with a kind 
of glorified look in her face. 

“Children,” she began, with a thrill of tremulous joy 
in her tone, “ we think the worst has passed. The fever 


 


changed last night, and all the symptoms are better. 
Nurse feels very confident. I shall wait until the doctor 
comes, before I really hope ; but I wanted Archie and 
Chrissie to have this gleam of comfort to lighten their 
hearts.” 

We all rushed to her, and cried ; and Theo’s nice break- 
fast was scarcely touched. 

The good news proved true. Papa was very weak ; 
and at first we could only go in the room and kiss him ; 
but, by degrees, he was allowed to talk, and eat tidbits ; 
and, one happy day, he walked down stairs. But it was 
December before he was able to go to business, and then 
he was met by new perplexities. 

In the hands of young Travis, business had gone wildly 
enough. Papa resolved to end the partnership. He went 
over the business with a careful and impartial arbitrator, 
and offered to buy or sell, though he preferred selling. 
Business was dreadfully depressed. The cloud of our civil 
war was looming up ; and men’s hearts began to quake for 
fear. 

At first Mr. Travis talked largely. He meant to buy 
out, and conduct the business in a different manner. 
“You see,” he explained to his friends, “we younger 
men are revolutionizing the modes of doing business. 
