his hand. But, " well with us, has a higher sig 
nificance than you have expressed by the words 
basket and store. Is it well with you, my bro 
ther ? Let me put the question again. What is 
the state of your mind ?" 
" I trust in God," was returned, with unfalter 
ing speech. " I know in whom I have believed. 
Faith is the anchor of my soul." 
" Your acceptance is clear ?" 
" Yes." Not spoken with full confidence. 
 
There followed a brief silence. 
" It is the saddest of all sad things, a mistake 
in this, ray brother," the old man said, with an 
impressiveness that hurt his listener, for, both in 
language and tone was an intimation that he was 
building his immortal hopes on foundations that 
might not stand. 
" There are two elements that go to make up 
every state of mind," continued the preacher, 
after a pause in which there was no response, 
" thought and feeling. The thought is most ex 
terior, and in it we see reflected, as from a mirror, 
the feelings, the desires, the impulses that have 
in them the essential qualities of a man 's life. 
But, thought has wings, and the power to rise 
into higher and purer regions to separate itself, 
for brief periods, from its bondage to low and 
worldly desire ; and thence, the danger of self- 
deception of considering our states of ansient 
thought, and not our states of permanent feeling, 
as the just expression of the interior quality as it 
is seen by God. Do you apprehend me, my 
brother?" 
" In a degree," was answered. 
"As God sees us, so we are; and as we are, 
when death finds us, will be our state in the other 
life. Lovers of the Lord 's kingdom, or lovers of 
ourselves." 
"But, how can we see ourselves as God sees 
us ?" asked the brother, with a suddenly awaken 
ing concern. " He knows our hearts better than 
we can know them. Nay, He alone knows 
them." 
" True ; but He has given us the clearest in 
struction. His word is a lamp unto our feet and 
a light unto our path. It is full of heavenly 
teaching. Let us ponder a single passage, and 
bring onr individual lives to the standard therein 
proclaimed. Speaking of the godly, or regenerate 
man, the Psalmist says, His delight is in the law 
of the Lord. Mark the expression His delight. 
Now, feeling, of which delight is predicated, is 
interior to thought. When there is delight in 
 
the law, then there is meditation. First, the de 
light; then the medication not a mere transient 
uplifting of thought to purer regions, but a 
dwelling therein with love. Ah, my brother ! 
Do we not find a revelation in this brief passage, 
clear as noonday, and full of instruction ? Not 
one to discourage us, because our life falls far be 
low the state described; but one full of encou 
ragement, because it shows us that to which our 
heavenly Father wishes us to aspire. And now 
again, as one sent to you of God for I am his 
servant, and he has laid on me the duty of win 
ning souls let me ask, Is it well with you, my 
brother?" 
How very tenderly, in his seriousness, did the 
old man speak. There was nothing of ambassa 
dorial dignity ; nothing of conscious goodness ; 
nothing that said, "I am holier than thou." 
But such winning gentleness ; such pure concern ; 
such earnest solicitude, that the brother who had 
been losing his interest in spiritual things amid 
the absorbing life of natural good amid his 
farm, his mill, and his merchandise felt scales 
dropping away from the blinded eyes of his soul, 
and saw by that interior light which comes in 
from heaven. And seeing, he answered, with 
drooping head and falling voice 
" It is not well with me, I fear. My delight 
is not in the law of the Lord. I do not meditate 
thereon. Perpetually, my thought dwells in the 
things of this world. In my sowing and reaping; 
in my gathering and grinding; in my gaining and 
hoarding. Even as the rich husbandman in the 
gospel, whose harvests overflowed his barns, I 
have been planning to pull down mine and build 
greater, so as to lay up goods for many years. 
You have sent a tremor of fear through my 
heart ; and I hear a strange, solemn voice, ask 
ing, t What if thy soul be required of thee this 
night? " 
" Be wise, then, my brother. Yet do not take 
counsel of fear; for, in fear there is bondage. 
Love delight casteth out all fear. God 's true 
service is from love not fear. From aifection, not 
 
from constrained obedience. Is this clear to your 
mind?" 
"As noonday," was answered. 
" You did not see this a little while ago," said 
the preacher. 
" I knew that it was so ; knew it from 
thought but, until now, not from perception. 
Ah, my brother ! You have shown me a way to 
walk in that I did not see before; but it is a more 
difficult way, and I do not see the gate of en 
trance. I can think and do, by constraint ; can 
force my thought, for a time at least, up into 
heavenly regions, and compel myself to keep, in 
act, the law of God. But I cannot change my 
affections by any effort of will ; cannot enforce de 
light. If I do not love God 's law, what is to 
help me ? And soberly and sadly, T fear that I 
do not love it. I have said, often, among the 
brethren This is my assurance ; Whereas, once 
I was blind, now I see ; therefore, have I passed 
from death unto life ; but now, I have no assu 
rance, for I do not love ; and love is the fulfilling 
of the law. You have come to me as a disturber 
and not as a comforter. I believed myself one 
of God 's chosen ones ; now the light of his coun 
tenance is withdrawn." 
"It is never withdrawn," answered the 
preacher, "but always turned towards the chil 
dren of men. God 's love never fails. It is in 
love that he now troubles you, darkening false 
hopes that he may establish such as are true and 
abiding. Over the heart he alone has empire. 
He alone can change its quality; he alone can 
give that delight in his law which is felt by an 
gels, and without which we can never enjoy their 
companionship." 
" He changes the heart, I know." 
"And you believed, long ago, that he had 
changed yours !" 
"I did; but, alas! I am not changed. My 
delight is not in his law." 
" You left Him to do the work alone," said 
the preacher, "and all at once. To wash you 
every whit clean from inherited evils in a mo- 
 
ment of time. And in the belief that this had 
been done, you thought yourself fit to dwell with 
angels ; and thus secure, turned to your farm, and 
your mill, and gave up your life to the world. 
You forgot that regeneration must progress from 
the feebleness of a simple vivified germ of life, to 
birth ; and onward from tender infancy to the sta 
ture of a full man that you must cooperate with 
God, and work out your salvation with fear and 
trembling before him that while he stood with 
out, knocking, you must open the door. Behold 
I stand at the door and knock. If any man hear 
my voice and open the door, I will come in to 
him. The opening of the door is our work, my 
brother; and until that work is done, the Lord 
