the smelting-fumace of the Spaniards. He poked 
about in the ashes, but found no silver. That had 
all been carried away. 

But what most provoked his wonder in this rude 
cave was a chair ! This was not such a seat as a 
woodman might knock up with an axe, with a rough 
body and a seat of woven splits, but a manufactured 
chair of commerce, and a chair, too, of an unusual 
pattern and some elegance. This chair itself was a 
mute witness of luxury and mystery. The chair it- 
self might have been accounted for, though I don't 
know how : but upon the back of the chair hung, as 
if the owner had carelessly flung it there before going 
out an hour before, a man's waistcoat. This waistcoat 
seemed to him of foreign make and peculiar style, 
but what endeared it to him was its row of metal but- 
tons. These buttons were of silver ! I forget now 
whether he did not say they were of silver coin, and 
that the coin was Spanish. But I am not certain 
about this latter fact, and I wish to cast no air of im- 
probability over my narrative. This rich vestment 
the hunter carried away with him. This was all the 
plunder his expedition afforded. Yes: there was 
one other article, and, to my mind, more significant 
than the vest of the hidalgo. That was a short and 
stout crowbar of iron ; not one of the long crowbars 
that farmers use to pry up stones, but a short handy 
one, such as you would use in digging silver-ore out 
of the cracks of rocks. 





This was the guide's simple story. I asked him 
what became of the vest and buttons, and the bar of 
iron. The old man wore the vest until he wore it 
out ; and then he handed it over to the boys, and they 
wore it in turn till they wore it out. The buttons 
were cut off, and kept as curiosities. They were 
about the cabin, and the children had them to play 
with. The guide distinctly remembers playing with 
them ; one of them he kept for a long time, and he 
didn't know but he could find it now, but he guessed 
it had disappeared. I regretted that he had not treas- 
ured this slender verification of an interesting ro- 
mance, but he said in those days he never paid much 
attention to such things. Lately he has turned the 
subject over, a sorry that his father wore out the 
vest and didn't bring away the chair. It is his 
steady purpose to find the cave some time when he 
has leisure, and capture the chair, if it has not tum- 
bled to pieces. But about the crowbar ? Oh ! that is 
all right. The guide has the bar at his house in 
Keene Valley, and has always used it. 

I am happy to be able to confirm this story by say- 
ing that next day I saw the crowbar, and had it in 
my hand. It is short and thick, and the most inter- 
esting kind of crowbar. This evidence is enough for 
me. I intend in the course of this vacation to search 
for the cave ; and, if I find it, my readers shall know 
the truth about it, if it destroys the only bit of romance connected with these mountains. 







My readers were promised an account o£ Span- 
iard's Cave on Nipple-Top Mountain in the Adiron- 
dacks, if sucli a cave exists, and could be found. 
There is none but negative evidence that this is a 
mere cave of the imagination, the void fancy of a vacant hour ; but it is the duty of the historian to present the negative testimony of a fruitless expedition 
in search of it, made last summer. I beg leave to 
offer this in the simple language befitting all sincere 
exploits of a geographical character. 

The summit of Nipple-Top Mountain has been 
trodden by few white men of good character : it is in 
the heart of a hirsute wilderness ; it is itself a rough 
and unsocial pile of granite nearly five thousand feet 
high, bristling with a stunted and unpleasant growth 
of firs and balsams, and there is no earthly reason 
why a person should go there. Therefore we went. 
In the party of three there was, of course, a chaplain. 
The guide was Old Mountain Phelps, who had made 
the ascent once before, but not from the northwest 
side, the direction from which we approached it. The 
enthusiasm of this philosopher has grown with his 
years, and outlived his endurance : we carried our 
own knapsacks and supplies, therefore, and drew upon 
him for nothing but moral reflections and a general 
knowledge of the wilderness. Our first day's route 





was through the Gill-Brook woods and up one o£ its 
branches to the head of Caribou Pass, which sepa- 
rates Nipple-Top from Colvin. 

It was about the first of September ; no rain had 
fallen for several weeks, and this heart of the forest 
was as dry as tinder ; a lighted match dropped any- 
where would start a conflagration. This dryness has 
its advantages : the walking is improved ; the long 
heat has expressed all the spicy odors of the cedars 
and balsams, and the woods are filled with a soothing 
fragrance ; the waters of the streams, though scant 
and clear, are cold as ice ; the common forest chill is 
gone from the air. The afternoon was bright ; there 
was a feeling of exultation and adventure in stepping 
off into the open but pathless forest ; the great stems 
of deciduous trees were mottled with patches of sun- 
light, which brought out upon the variegated barks 
and mosses of the old trunks a thousand shifting hues. 
There is nothing like a primeval wood for color on a 
sunny day. The shades of green and brown are in- 
finite ; the dull red of the hemlock bark glows in the 
sun, the russet of the changing moose-bush becomes 
brilliant ; there are silvery openings here and there ; 
and everywhere the columns rise up to the canopy of 
tender green which supports the intense blue sky and 
holds up a part of it from falling through in frag- 
ments to the floor of the forest. Decorators can learn 
here how Nature dares to put blue and green in juxta- 
position : she has evidently the secret of harmonizing 
all the colors. 

The way, as we ascended, was not all through open 
woods ; dense masses of firs were encountered, jagged 
spurs were to be crossed, and the going became at 
length so slow and toilsome that we took to the rocky 




bed of a stream, where bowlders and flumes and cas- 
cades offered us sufficient variety. The deeper we 
penetrated, the greater the sense of savageness and 
solitude ; in the silence of these hidden places one 
seems to approach the beginning of things. AVe 
emerged from the defile into an open basin, formed 
by the curved side of the mountain, and stood silent 
before a waterfall coming down out of the sky in the 
centre of the curve. I do not know anything exactly 
like this fall, which some poetical explorer has named 
the Fairy-Ladder Falls. It appears to have a height 
of something like a hundred and fifty feet, and the 
water falls obliquely across the face of the cliff from 
left to right in short steps, which in the moonlight 
might seem like a veritable ladder for fairies. Our 
impression of its height was confirmed by climbing 
the very steep slope at its side some three or four 
hundred feet. At the top we found the stream flow, 
ing over a broad bed of rock, like a street in the wil- 
