that I had come over here to seek my fortune it 
would have to be added that I have found it ! " 

" Don't leave it lying ! " urged Felix, with 
smiling solemnity. 

" I am much obliged to you for your interest," 
his sister declared, after a moment. " But promise 
me one thing : pas de zele ! If Mr. Acton should 
ask you to plead his cause, excuse yourself." 

" I shall certainly have the excuse," said Felix, 
" that I have a cause of my own to plead." 

" If he should talk of me favorably," Eugenia 
continued, " warn him against dangerous illusions. 
I detest importunities ; I want to decide at my leis- 
ure, with my eyes open." 

" I shall be discreet," said Felix, " except to you. 
To you I will say, Accept him outright." 

She had advanced to the open door-way, and 
she stood looking at him. " I will go and dress 
and think of it," she said ; and he heard her mov- 
ing slowly to her apartments. 

Late in the afternoon the rain stopped, and 
just afterwards there was a great flaming, flick- 
ering, trickling sunset. Felix sat in his painting- 
room and did some work ; but at last, as the 
light, which had not been brilliant, began to fade, 
he laid down his brushes and came out to the 



 

little piazza of the cottage. Here he walked up 
and down for some time, looking at the splendid 
blaze of the western sky and saying, as he had 
often said before, that this was certainly the 
country of sunsets. There was something in these 
glorious deeps of fire that quickened his imagina- 
tion ; he always found images and promises in the 
western sky. He thought of a good many things 
of roaming about the world with Gertrude 
Wentworth ; he seemed to see their possible ad- 
ventures, in a glowing frieze, between the cloud- 
bars; then of what Eugenia had just been tell- 
ing him. He wished very much that Madame 
Minister would make a comfortable and honorable 
marriage. Presently, as the sunset expanded and 
deepened, the fancy took him of making a note of 
so magnificent a piece of coloring. He returned 
to his studio and fetched out a small panel, with 
his palette and brushes, and, placing the panel 
against a window-sill, he began to daub with great 
gusto. While he was so occupied he saw Mr. 
Brand, in the distance, slowly come down from 
Mr. Wentworth's house, nursing a large folded 
umbrella. He walked with a joyless, meditative 
tread, and his eyes were bent upon the ground. 
Felix poised his brush for a moment, watching 
him ; then, by a sudden impulse, as he drew nearer, 
advanced to the garden-gate and signaled to him 



   

the palette and bunch of brushes contributing 
to this effect. 

Mr. Brand stopped and started ; then he ap- 
peared to decide to accept Felix's invitation. He 
came out of Mr. Wentworth's gate and passed 
along the road ; after which he entered the little 
garden of the cottage. Felix had gone back to 
his sunset ; but he made his visitor welcome while 
he rapidly brushed it in. 

"I wanted so much to speak to you that I 
thought I would call you," he said, in the friend- 
liest tone. " All the more that you have been 
to see me so little. You have come to see my sis- 
ter ; I know that. But you have n't come to see 
me the celebrated artist. Artists are very sen- 
sitive, you know ; they notice those things." And 
Felix turned round, smiling, with a brush in his 
mouth. 

Mr. Brand stood there with a certain blank, 
candid majesty, pulling together the large flaps of 
his umbrella. " Why should I come to see you ? " 
he asked. " I know nothing of Art." 

" It would sound very conceited, I suppose," 
said Felix, " if I were to say that it would be a 
good little ctiance for you to learn something. 
You would ask me why you should learn ; and I 
should have no answer to that. I suppose a 
minister has no need for Art, eh ? " 



 

" He has need for good temper, sir," said Mr. 
Brand, with decision. 

Felix jumped up, with his palette on his thumb 
and a movement of the liveliest deprecation. 
" That 's because I keep you standing there while 
I splash my red paint ! I beg a thousand pardons ! 
You see what bad manners Art gives a man ; and 
how right you are to let it alone. I did n't mean 
you should stand, either. The piazza, as you see, 
is ornamented with rustic chairs ; though indeed I 
ought to warn you that they have nails in the 
wrong places. I was just making a note of that 
sunset. I never saw such a blaze of different reds. 
It looks as if the Celestial City were in flames, 
eh ? If that were really the case I suppose it 
would be the business of you theologians to put 
out the fire. Fancy me an ungodly artist 
quietly sitting down to paint it ! " 

Mr. Brand had always credited Felix Young 
with a certain impudence, but it appeared to him 
that on this occasion his impudence was so great 
as to make a special explanation or even an 
apology necessary. And the impression, it must 
be added, was sufficiently natural. Felix had at 
all times a brilliant assurance of manner which 
was simply the vehicle of his good spirits and his 
good will ; but at present he had a special design, 
and as he would have admitted that the design 



   

was audacious, so he was conscious of having sum- 
moned all the arts of conversation to his aid. But 
he was so far from desiring to offend his visitor 
that he was rapidly asking himself what personal 
compliment he could pay the young clergyman 
that would gratify him most. If he could think 
of it, he was prepared to pay it down. " Have 
you been preaching one of your beautiful sermons 
to-day?" he suddenly asked, laying down his 
palette. This was not what Felix had been try- 
ing to think of, but it was a tolerable stop-gap. 

Mr. Brand frowned as much as a man can 
frown who has very fair, soft eyebrows, and, be- 
neath them, very gentle, tranquil eyes. " No, I 
have not preached any sermon to-day. Did you 
bring me over here for the purpose of making that 
