which convey passengers to the hotels, and with 
a great deal of bouncing and bumping, took their 
course through Broadway. The midsummer as 
pect of New York is not, perhaps, the most favor 
able one ; still, it is not without its picturesque 
and even brilliant side. Nothing could well resemble less a typical English street than the in 
terminable avenue, rich in incongruities, through 
which our two travellers advanced looking out 
on each side of them at the comfortable ani 
mation of the sidewalks, the high-colored, hetero 
geneous architecture, the huge white marble facades glittering in the strong, crude light, and 
bedizened with gi aed lettering, .the multifarious 
aym? rumors, and streamers, the extraordinary number of omnibuses, horse-cars, and other 
democratic vehicles, the vendors of cooling fluids, 
the white trousers and big straw hats of the police 
men, the tripping gait of the modish young persons on the pavement, the general brightness, 
newness, juvenility, both of people and things. 
The young men had exchanged few observations ; 
but in crossing Union Square, in front of the 
monument to Washington in the very shadow, 
indeed, projected by the image of the pater patrice 
one of them remarked to the other, " It seems 
a rum-looking place." 

" Ah, very odd, very odd," said the other, who 
was the clever man of the two. 

"Pity it 's so beastly hot," resumed the first 
speaker, after a pause. 

" You know we are in a low latitude," said his 
friend. 

" I dare say," remarked the other. 

"I wonder," said the second speaker, presently, 
"if they can give one a bath y 

" I dare say not," rejoined the other. 

"Oh, I say !" cried his comrade. 

This animated discussion was checked by their 
arrival at the hotel, which had been recommended 
to them by an American gentleman whose acquaintance 
they made with whom, indeed, they 
became very intimate on the steamer, and who 
had proposed to accompany them to the inn and 
introduce them, in a friendly way, to the proprietor. This plan, however, had been defeated by 
their friend 's finding that his " partner" was 
awaiting him on the wharf, and that his com 
mercial associate desired him instantly to come 
and give his attention to certain telegrams received from St. Louis. But the two Englishmen, 
with nothing but their national prestige and personal graces to recommend them, were very well 
received at the hotel, which had an air of capa 
cious hospitality. They found that a bath was 
not unattainable, and were indeed struck with the 
facilities for prolonged and reiterated immersion 
with which their apartment was supplied. After 
bathing a good deal more, indeed, than they had 
ever done before on a single occasion they made 
their way into the dining-room of the hotel, which 
was a spacious restaurant, with a fountain in the 
middle, a great many tall plants in ornamental 
tubs, and an array of French waiters. The first 
dinner on land, after a sea-voyage, is, under any 
circumstances, a delightful occasion, and there 
was something particularly agreeable in the circumstances in which our young Englishmen found 
themselves. They were extremely good-natured 





young men ; they were more observant than they 
appeared; in a sort of inarticulate, accidentally 
dissimulative fashion, they were highly appreciative. This was, perhaps, especially the case with 
the eider, who was also, as I have said, the man of 
talent. They sat down at a little table, which was 
a very different affair from the great clattering 
seesaw in the saloon of the steamer. The wide 
doors and windows of the restaurant stood open, 
beneath large awnings, to a wide pavement, 
where there were other plants hi tubs, and rows 
of spreading trees, and beyond which there was 
a large shady square, without any palings, and 
with marble-paved walks. And above the vivid 
verdure rose other faades of white marble and 
of pale chocolate-colored stone, squaring them 
selves against the deep blue sky. Here, outside, 
in the light and the shade and the heat, there 
was a great tinkling of the bells of innumerable 
street cars, and a constant strolling and shuffling 
and rustling of many pedestrians, a large proportion of whom were young women in Pompa 
dour-looking dresses. Within, the place was cool 
and vaguely lighted, with the plash of water, the 
odor of flowers, and the flitting of French waiters, as I have said, upon soundless carpets. 

"It 's rather like Paris, you know," said the 
younger of our two travellers. 



  

" It 's like Paris only more so," bis companion 
rejoined. 

"I suppose it 's the French waiters," said the 
first speaker. "Why don 't they have French 
waiters in London ?" 

"Fancy a French waiter at a club," said his 
friend. 

The young Englishman stared a little, as if he 
could not fancy it. " In Paris I'm very apt to 
dine at a place where there 's an English waiter. 
Don 't you know what s-his-name s, close to the 
thingumbob ? They always set an English waiter at me. I suppose they think I can 't speak 
French." 

" Well, you can t." And the elder of the young 
Englishmen unfolded his napkin. 

His companion took no notice whatever of this 
declaration. " I say," he resumed, in a moment, 
I suppose we must learn to speak American. I 
suppose we must take lessons." 

" I can 't understand them," said the clever man. 

" What the deuce is he saying ?" asked his com 
rade, appealing from the French waiter. 

"lie is recommending some soft-shell crabs," 
said the clever man. 

And so, in desultory observation of the idiosyncrasies of the new society in which they found 
themselves, the young Englishmen proceeded to 
dine going in largely, as the phrase is, for cool 
ing draughts and dishes, of which their attendant 
offered them a very long list. After dinner they 
went out and slowly walked about the neighbor 
ing streets. The early dusk of waning summer 
was coming on, but the heat was still very great. 
The pavements were hot even to the stout boot 
soles of the British travellers, and the trees along 
the curb-stone emitted strange exotic odors. The 
young men wandered through the adjoining square 
that queer place without palings, and with mar 
ble walks arranged in black and white lozenges. 
There were a great many benches, crowded with 
shabby-looking people, and the travellers remark 
ed, very justly, that it was not much like Belgrave 
Square. On one side was an enormous hotel, lift 
ing up into the hot darkness an immense array of 
open, brightly lighted windows. At the base of 
this populous structure was an eternal jangle of 
horse-cars, and all round it, in the upper dusk, was 
