
"And I," said Tom. "I should like to see John Miles."

"Very well. We will continue our work about a week longer, and then
start."




CHAPTER XXVIII.

A RICH DEPOSIT.


About the middle of the next forenoon Tom suddenly stopped work.

"What's the matter, Tom? Are you tired?"

"No, but I feel like exploring a little. Who goes with me?"

"Not I," answered Ferguson. "Let well enough alone."

"I'll go with you," said Russell. "I should like a holiday. Besides, we
may discover something."

"'A rolling stone gathers no moss,'" said Ferguson.

"True, but there's another proverb: 'All work and no play makes Jack a
dull boy.' Tom and I will try a little play."

The two friends sauntered away in an idle mood; yet, combining business
with pleasure, they watched carefully the surface indications, ready to
avail themselves of any that were favorable.

"It's a strange life we are leading, Tom," said Russell. "It is free,
and independent, and healthful; but I shouldn't like to live so all my
life."

"Nor I," answered Tom. "No amount of gold would repay me."

"Because gold is only valuable for what it will bring. Here it brings
nothing."

"Except the hope of future ease and comfort," suggested Tom.

"Of course; that is what we are working for. We have made a good
beginning."

"Yes, Dick. I have almost accomplished what I have had in view ever
since I left home."

"I know. You mean paying off your father's mortgage."

"That's it. It amounts to twenty-two hundred dollars, and I have but a
few hundred dollars more to earn. I would stay here a month or two
longer, if my clothes would hold together; but I can't risk it."

"You need rest, at any rate, Tom, leaving clothes out of the question."

As he spoke, Tom, without special thought, drove his pick into the
ground. It was a lucky inspiration. Some shining particles attracted the
attention of Russell.

"Tom," he exclaimed, in excitement, "do you see that, and that? I
believe you've struck a bonanza."

Upon that both set to work in earnest. A further investigation showed
that Russell was right. Tom, by good luck, had chanced upon a deposit of
far greater richness than any they had yet encountered.

"If it holds out, our fortunes are made, Tom," said Russell. "Go and
call Ferguson, and I will remain on guard till you come back."

Tom stood not on the order of his going, but went at once.

"What's the matter, Tom?" asked the Scotchman, as, panting and
breathless, Tom stood before him. "Has anything happened to Russell?"

"No; it's good news--splendid news, Mr. Ferguson. We've found a place
ten times as rich as this. Come at once, and see."

Ferguson made preparations to accompany Tom with what seemed to our hero
to be provoking deliberation. In truth the Scotchman, with his national
caution, was rather skeptical as to Tom's news, and did not suffer
himself to become enthusiastic or excited. Tom had hard work to
accommodate his impatient steps to the measured pace of his more sedate
companion. When at length they reached the spot they found Russell no
less impatient.

"I thought you would never come," he said.

"Tom wanted to fly," said Ferguson; "but I am too old for that. Now,
what is it you have found?"

When he was shown what had been discovered he admitted that it was very
promising.

"If it holds out, we shall be lucky," he said.

"It will hold out," said Russell, enthusiastically.

"It isn't well to be too confident," said Ferguson, cautiously.

"You are very cold-blooded, Mr. Ferguson," said Russell, impatiently.
"Won't anything excite you?"

"What good would it do to become excited?" returned the Scotchman. "I am
as ready to test the matter as you are, and I shall rejoice if your
sanguine expectations are realized. Do not expect too much, however, and
you will guard against possible disappointment."

But there was no disappointment awaiting them. They worked steadily for
two weeks, with marvelous results. In this time they unearthed six
thousand dollars' worth of gold, which by arrangement they divided
equally between them; and still the gold deposit was far from being
exhausted.

At the end of the fortnight they were visited by a party of capitalists
from San Francisco, who were out on an exploring expedition. They
recognized the richness of the new discoveries, and after some
negotiation offered the three friends ten thousand dollars for their
claims. One consideration decided them to accept. It was absolutely
necessary for them to go to the city for clothing and other articles, of
which they stood in imperative need. They closed the bargain and started
on their return.




CHAPTER XXIX.

BAD NEWS FROM HOME.


Arriving in the city late in the afternoon, Tom went at once to see John
Miles. When the latter caught sight of Tom, in his ragged attire, he
came to the natural conclusion that our hero had met with hard luck.

"Why, Tom, where did you spring from?" he exclaimed, grasping the hand
of his young partner.

"I am just in from the mines."

"I suppose you are in want of money," said Miles, his voice betraying
sympathy.

Tom laughed.

"How do you like my appearance, John?" he asked.

"Never mind that, Tom. I see you have had a rough time; but I have been
earning money for you."

"Did you send money regularly to father?"

"Yes; I have sent him three hundred dollars in all."

"That's good," said Tom, in a tone of satisfaction. "That has made him
easy. I suppose that took up about all I was entitled to?"

