was only filling temporarily the position of errand boy, it made little
difference to him whether he was acceptable to Mr. Haynes or not.

In the course of the day Mr. Hartley handed Frank a card, containing the
street and number of his residence, with a pencilled invitation to call
that evening.

Of course Frank did so.

Seated alone with the merchant in his back parlor, the latter said, "I
have invited you here because I could not speak with you freely at the
store. How do you like Mr. Haynes?"

Frank was surprised at the abruptness of the question.

"I don't like him," he answered, candidly.

"Why not?"

"There is no good reason that I know of," said Frank; "but I think his
manner is disagreeable."

"Our instincts are often to be trusted," said the merchant,
thoughtfully. "I confess that I myself don't like Haynes, nor do I feel
implicit confidence in him, though he has been eight years in the
service of our house. He is outwardly very circumspect, and apparently
very faithful, but there is something in his eye which I don't like."

Frank had noticed this, but Mr. Hartley's remark called fresh attention
to its furtive, crafty expression.

Frank's curiosity was aroused, naturally enough. He wondered what Mr.
Haynes had to do with his mission. He did not have long to wait for
information.

"I will come to the point," said Mr. Hartley, after a pause. "I am an
importing merchant, and deal, among other articles, in silks. During the
last year I have discovered that some one is systematically robbing me,
and that parts of my stock have been spirited away. The loss I have
sustained is already considerable, and unless the leakage is put a stop
to, I may as well give up business. You can now guess why I have engaged
you. No one will suspect an errand boy of being a detective, while a man
would very probably excite distrust, and put the rogue on his guard."

Frank listened attentively to his employer.

"Do you suspect any one in particular, Mr. Hartley?" he asked.

"It must be some one in my employ," he said. "The man who, more than any
other, has facilities for robbing me is the man of whom I have spoken to
you."

"Mr. Haynes?"

"Yes, Mr. Haynes. He holds an important position, and enjoys special
privileges. On the other hand, so far as I can learn, he lives in a
sober, inexpensive way, quite within his salary, which is liberal. He is
prominently connected with an up-town church, and it seems very
improbable that he would be guilty of robbery, or breach of trust; yet
there have been such cases before. At any rate, I cannot wholly divest
myself of suspicion."

"What do you wish me to do?" asked Frank.

"To watch Mr. Haynes carefully, both in and out of the store, to
ascertain whether he has any unexplained expenses, or any questionable
companions. I want to know how he spends his time out of the office. It
may be that the result of my investigation will be to his credit. It may
be that he is all that he seems,--a reputable member of the church and
of society, with nothing against him but an unpleasant manner. Should
this be the case, I shall be glad to correct my suspicions, and give him
back my confidence. In that case, we must look elsewhere for the rogue
who is robbing me."

"Have you any particular instructions to give me?" asked Frank.

"No, only to follow Haynes, and find out all you can about him. Use
great care in doing it, not to arouse his or any one else's suspicion. I
will find an opportunity for you to make your reports."

"Very well, sir."

       *       *       *       *       *

When Frank got home, he found a letter awaiting him from his country
home. It was in answer to one which he had written to his uncle, Deacon
Pelatiah Kavanagh, in reference to a trunk which had belonged to his
father.

This is the letter:--

     MY DEAR NEPHEW,--I am glad to learn that you are making a living in
     the city. It is much better that you should earn your own living
     than to be a burden upon me, though of course I would not see you
     suffer. But a man's duty is to his own household, and my income
     from the farm is very small, and Hannah and I agreed that we had
     little to spare for others.

     There is an old trunk, belonging to your deceased father, in the
     attic. It contains some old clothes, which may be made over for
     you, and so save you expense. I would use them myself, and allow
     you for them, but your father was a much smaller man than I, and
     his clothes would not fit me. I will send the trunk by express to
     the address which you gave me. Of course I shall expect you to pay
     the express, as I have no interest in it, or its contents.

     Your cousin Jonathan has left school, and is working on the farm. I
     feel so glad that he has no extravagant tastes, but inherits the
     careful and economical habits of his mother and myself. I am sure
     he will never waste or squander the little property which I hope to
     leave him.

"I don't believe he will," thought Frank, "for he is about as mean as
his mother, and that is saying a good deal."

     Your aunt and I hope that you will steer clear of the temptations
     of the city. Do not seek after vain amusements, but live a sober
     life, never spending a cent unnecessarily, and you will in time
     become a prosperous man. I would invite you to come and stop with
     us over Sunday, but for the railroad fare, which is high. It will
     be better to save your money, and put off the visit till you can
     afford it.

     Your uncle,
     PELATIAH KAVANAGH.

Reading this letter, it would hardly be supposed that the writer owned
ten thousand dollars in stocks, bonds, and mortgages, over and above an
excellent farm. Such, however, was the worldly position of the man who
sent Frank to the city in quest of a living, because he could not afford
to provide for him. With some men prudence is a virtue; with Deacon
Pelatiah Kavanagh it was carried so far as to be a positive defect.




CHAPTER XXI.

FRANK'S FIRST DISCOVERY.


So far as Frank could observe, Mr. Haynes was an active, energetic
salesman. He appeared to understand his duties thoroughly, and to go
about them in a straightforward manner. So far as his personal habits
were concerned, they seemed irreproachable. He was neatly but plainly
dressed, wore no jewelry, and carried a plain silver watch, which, when
new, probably did not cost over twenty dollars.

Frank had no difficulty in ascertaining where he lived. It was in a
brick house, on Waverley place, very unpretentious and certainly not
fashionable. In order to find out how much he paid for his
accommodations Frank visited the house on pretence of being in search of
board.

"We have a hall bed-room on the third floor, at five dollars a week,
including board," said the landlady. "How would that suit you?"

"I may have a friend board with me," said Frank. "In that case we should
need a large room. Have you any vacant?"

