" What do you believe she is ? ' 
" Afraid." 
" Pshaw ! " said Staniford. 
The eve of their arrival at Messina, he discharged 
one more duty by telling Hicks that he had better 
come on to Trieste with them. " Captain Jenness 
asked me to speak to you about it," he said. " He 
feels a little awkward, and thought I could open 
the matter better." 
" The captain 's all right," answered Hicks, with 
unruffled humility, " but I 'd rather stop at Mes- 
sina. I 'm going to get home as soon as I can, — 
strike a bee-line." 
" Look here ! " said Staniford, laying his hand 
. on his shoulder. " How are you going to manage 
for money ? " 
" Monte di Pieta," replied Hicks. " I 've been 
there before. Used to have most of my things in 
the care of the state when I was studying medi- 
 
cine in Paris. I've got a lot of rings and trinkets 
that'll carry me through, with what's left of my 
watch." 
" Are you sure ? " 
" Sure." 
" Because you can draw on me, if you 're going to 
be short." 
" Thanks," said Hicks. " There 's something I 
should like to ask you," he added, after a moment. 
" I see as well as you do that Miss Blood isn 't the 
same as she was before. I want to know — I can't 
always be sure afterwards — whether I did or said 
anything out of the way in her presence." 
" You were drunk," said Staniford, frankly, " but 
beyond that you were irreproachable, as regarded 
Miss Blood. You were even exemplary." 
" Yes, I know," said Hicks, with a joyless laugh. 
" Sometimes it takes that turn. I don't think I 
could stand it if I had shown her any disrespect. 
She 's a lady, — a perfect lady ; she 's the best girl 
I ever saw." 
" Hicks," said Staniford, presently, " I haven 't 
bored you in regard to that little foible of yours. 
Aren 't you going to try to do something about 
it?" 
" I J m going home to get them to shut me up 
somewhere," answered Hicks. " But I doubt if any- 
thing can be done. I 've studied the thing ; I am 
a doctor, — or I would be if I were not a drunk- 
ard, — and I 've diagnosed the case pretty thor- 
 
oughly. For three months or four months, now, I 
shall be all right. After that I shall go to the bad 
for a few weeks ; and I'll have to scramble back the 
best way I can. Nobody can help me. That was 
the mistake this last time. I shouldn 't have 
wanted anything at Gibraltar if I could have had 
my spree out at Boston. But I let them take me 
before it was over, and ship me off. I thought I 'd 
try it. Well, it was like a burning fire every 
minute, all the way. I thought I should die. I 
tried to get something from the sailors; I tried to 
steal Gabriel's cooking-wine. When I got that 
brandy in Gibraltar I was wild. Talk about hero- 
ism ! I tell you it was superhuman, keeping that 
canteen corked till night ! I was in hopes I could 
get through it, — sleep it off, — and nobody be any 
the wiser. But it wouldn 't work. O Lord, Lord, 
Lord!" 
Hicks was as common a soul as could well be. 
His conception of life was vulgar, and his experi- 
ence of it was probably vulgar. He had a good 
mind enough, with abundance of that humorous 
brightness which may hereafter be found the most 
national quality of the Americans ; but his ideals 
were pitiful, and the language of his heart was a 
drolling slang. Yet his doom lifted him above his 
low conditions, and made him tragic ; his despair 
gave him the dignity of a mysterious expiation, 
and set him apart with all those who surfer beyond 
human help. Without deceiving himself as to the 
 
quality of the man, Stamford felt awed by the dark- 
ness of his fate. 
" Can't you try somehow to stand up against it, 
and fight it off ? Your 're so young yet, it 
can't " — 
The wretched creature burst into tears. " Oh, 
try, — try ! You don't know what you 're talking 
about. Don't you suppose I 've had reasons for try- 
ing ? If you could see how my mother looks when 
I come out of one of my drunks, — and my father, 
poor old man ! It 's no use ; I tell you it 's no use. 
I shall go just so long, and then I shall want it, 
and will have it, unless they shut me up for life. 
My God, I wish I was dead ! Well ! " He rose from 
the place where they had been sitting together, and 
held out his hand to Staniford. " I 'm going to be 
off in the morning before you 're out, and I 'll say 
good-by now. I want you to keep this chair, and 
give it to Miss Blood, for me, when you get to 
Trieste." 
" I will, Hicks," said Staniford, gently. 
" I want her to know that I was ashamed of my- 
self. I think she 'll like to know it." 
" I will say anything to her that you wish," re- 
plied Staniford. 
" There 's nothing else. If ever you see a man 
with my complaint fall overboard again, think 
twice before you jump after him." 
He wrung Stamford's hand, and went below, 
leaving him with a dull remorse that he should ever 
 
have hated Hicks, and that he could not quite like 
him even now. 
But he did his duty by him to the last. He rose 
at dawn, and was on deck when Hicks went over 
the side into the boat which was to row him to the 
steamer for Naples, lying at anchor not far off. He 
presently returned, to Stamford's surprise, and 
scrambled up to the deck of the Aroostook. " The 
steamer sails to-night," he said, " and perhaps I 
couldn 't raise the money by that time. I wish 
you 'd lend me ten napoleons. I 'll send 'em to you 
from London. There 's my father's address : I'm 
going to telegraph to him." He handed Staniford 
a card, and the latter went below for the coins. 
" Thanks," said Hicks, when he reappeared with 
them. " Send 'em to you where ? " 
" Care Blumenthals', Venice. I 'm going to be 
there some weeks." 
In the gray morning light the lurid color of trag- 
edy had faded out of Hicks. He was merely a 
baddish-looking young fellow whom Staniford had 
lent ten napoleons that he might not see again. 
Staniford watched the steamer uneasily, both from 
the Aroostook and from the shore, where he strolled 
languidly about with Dunham part of the day. 
When she sailed in the evening, he felt that Hicks's 
absence was worth twice the money. 
XVIII. 
The young men did not come back to the ship at 
night, but went to a hotel, for the greater conven- 
ience of seeing the city. They had talked of offer- 
ing to show Lydia about, but their talk had not 
ended in anything. Vexed with himself to be 
vexed at such a thing, Staniford at the bottom of 
his heart still had a soreness which the constant 
sight of her irritated. It was in vain that he said 
there was no occasion, perhaps no opportunity, for 
her to speak, yet he was hurt that she seemed to 
have seen nothing uncommon in his risking his own 
life for that of a man like Hicks. He had set the 
action low enough in his own speech ; but he knew 
that it was not ignoble, and it puzzled him that it 
should be so passed oyer. She had not even said a 
word of congratulation upon his own escape. It 
might be that she did not know how, or did not 
think it was her place to speak. She was curiously 
estranged. He felt as if he had been away, and she 
