once ; and they used not to be afraid of the name 
in New Testament times." 
* Saint means a holy person." * 
"Yes. Just that." 
"And that is something more than merely being 
good, or religious." 
"Much more." 
"How much more, then, if it is to be applicable 
to human beings in literal earnest ? " 
"Why, all that it would mean applied in any 
direction." 
" What do you mean then by holy ? " 
"I have heard it said, Mr. Holland, the word 
has first the meaning of * set apart for God ; 
from that follows naturally, the other meaning, 
of the absolute purity anything so set apart must 
have." 
"You would not attribute absolute purity to any 
thing merely human ?" 
 
"The Bible calls the Lord's people holy, and bids 
them be holy, and promises them holiness." 
" Hereafter. "
"Yes, and tere also. Without holiness, no man 
shall see the Lord. " 
" Exactly ! " cried Mr. Holland. " Before he comes 
to that vision he will be freed from defilement, un 
doubtedly, but not in this world." 
"Where do you find that stated?" 
"It follows from the necessity of the case," said 
Mr. Holland. "Human nature is defiled." 
"Yes, but, He shall be called Jesus, for he shall 
save his people from their sins. " 
" Do you take that literally ? " he exclaimed. 
" By what right can you take it figuratively? " 
"As I said, the necessity of the case." 
" You just think it is too good to be true," said 
I laughing ; " and so, you fancy the King's promise 
is too royal to be kept ! But study the Bible, Mr. 
Holland; you will find the promise repeated and 
repeated, all over, in various forms." 
" I am not sure," Mr. Holland said slowly after 
me, " I am not sure that I am thinking the promise 
too good to be true. I am afraid, I shrink, rather, 
before its demands. For if there be such a possi 
bility, the possibility transforms itself immediately 
into imperative duty." 
" Of course. And are you not glad it does ? " 
" No," said he in the same slow thoughtful way. 
" It terrifies me." 
I was very sorry for him now, in proportion to 
 
my respect for his honesty. How can so candid a 
mind be so confused in the mists of speculation ? 
I have often marvelled at it. The fact must be, I 
think, that he studies other things more than the 
Bible. And then, does his just made confession 
give another key? He is not ready to face the 
consequences of accepting the truth ? 
"We both remained silent after that word of his, 
to which I could find nothing to answer; and the 
verandah was very still for a while, till Mrs. Bowdoin and her new guest came out again. The latter 
had changed her dress. She Avore now a polonaise 
of light camelshair, trimmed with scarlet and black 
embroidery and with red and black bows of ribband. Under the camelshair was a skirt of heavy 
black silk. I could not but admire her costume, 
it was very tasteful and very becoming. She swept 
over to Mr. Holland and asked him what he was 
doing ? He told her, he had had a good deal of 
thinking lately to attend to. 
" You think too much," said she. 
" I often say that to myself," remarked our hostess. 
" Mrs. Bowdoin," the new-comer went on, " do you 
let these young people make themselves gloomy 
with thinking ? " 
" You shall brighten us up, Ernestine." 
" That depends upon how far things have gone. 
Tell me first, Mr. Holland have you lost your 
heart to Miss Burgoyne?" 
The easy, gentle assurance of the girl it is hard 
to describe. Her pretty lips took a line as playful 
 
and innocent as if she had been asking any simple 
question ; but the black eyes shot a dangerous ray. 
I felt a sudden anxiety as to what Mr. Holland 
would answer. But I found he was equal to the 
occasion, for with the most consummate coolness 
he replied, 
" Miss Burgoyne kindly engaged to take care of 
it till you came." 
The girl gave a queer little inarticulate sound, 
and surveyed him for a minute. 
"What has Miss Burgoyne done to you, while 
she has been taking care of you ? " 
" I am sure, she has done me nothing but 
good." 
"Do you expect me to go on with the treat 
ment ? " she said, keeping her eye fixed upon him, 
half observant, half mocking, quite witchful. 
"I should expect some difference of handling." 
"You'd be glad of it by this time, wouldn't you? 
Don't you think one gets awfully tired of having 
people do one good ? " 
"That has not been precisely my experience." 
"It has mine," she said laughing. "I get desperate, by the time I have had enough of it, and 
then I fly out worse than ever and astonish people. 
I like to astonish people ! It does me good. I feel 
soothed then, and ready to begin again." 
" Begin what ? " said Mrs. Bowcloin, who was 
laughing at her, well pleased; and indeed how 
could one but be pleased with such a pretty creature ? The eyes, bright and soft, were wide awake ; 
 
the mouth with its pretty curves all alive with 
play; one could see indeed that she meant a good 
deal of what she said, yet one did not take it ill of 
her. She, knew, I think, her advantage, and went 
on. 
" You know, dear Mrs. Bowdoin, nobody is wholly bad. I have my times of trying to behave my 
self." 
" I hope, now is going to be one of the times." 
" I don't know. With two such good people as 
Miss Burgoyne and Mr. Holland, I should think 
you must want a little variety. Imagine a salad 
all oil ! I think I see you, so thankful for a little 
vinegar, and a dash of red pepper ! " . 
Mr. Holland -smiled, and passed his hand over 
his face as if to smooth the smile away. 
" Isn't it true, Mr. Holland, that good people are 
tiresome ? " 
" Sometimes." 
"They must be, you know, in the nature of the 
case. Even, quiet, steady, no ups and downs nor 
crooks and turns; and if you like to travel a straight 
road that never turns and that you know never will 
turn, I don't ! I like surprises, and changes, and 
new views, and windings that give one something 
new." 
" How if the windings give you something you 
do not like ? " I ventured. 
" Anything is better than no change." 
"You do not think so, Ernestine," our hostess 
put in. 
 
"I do, indeed, Mm. Bowdoin. I am speaking 
the perfect truth." 
" There is a good deal of truth in it," remarked 
Mr. Holland, again repeating his former gesture. 
I suppose he was relishing the vinegar, and not 
wishing to shew how much. 
" But people do not necessarily become monot 
onous and lose their individuality, when they be 
come good," said I. 
"Do you know an instance where they haven't?" 
said Miss Forella. 
"Yes." 
"0 so do I," cried Mrs. Bowdoin. 
"Who?" 
Now I had an immediate suspicion that slie knew, 
and wanted to bring out, the name on my lips. I 
was silent; but Mrs. Bowdoin spoke it. 
