had not said quickly, “Stay, and tell me what is the matter.”
“Only teasing Jack a bit. Don’t be mad, old boy, Joe didn’t mean any
harm, and it was rather soft, now wasn’t it?” asked Frank, trying to
appease the wounded feelings of his brother.
“I charged you not to worry him. Those boys were too much for the poor
dear, and I ought not to have left him,” said Mamma, as she vainly
endeavored to find and caress the yellow head burrowed so far out of
sight that nothing but one red ear was visible.
“He liked it, and we got on capitally till Joe roughed him about Jill.
Ah, Joe’s getting it now! I thought Gus and Ed would do that little
job for me,” added Frank, running to the window as the sound of stifled
cries and laughter reached him.
The red ear heard also, and Jack popped up his head to ask, with
interest,--
“What are they doing to him?”
“Rolling him in the snow, and he’s howling like fun.”
“Serves him right,” muttered Jack, with a frown. Then, as a wail arose
suggestive of an unpleasant mixture of snow in the mouth and thumps on
the back, he burst out laughing, and said, good-naturedly, “Go and stop
them, Frank; I won’t mind, only tell him it was a mean trick. Hurry! Gus
is so strong he doesn’t know how his pounding hurts.”
Off ran Frank, and Jack told his wrongs to his mother. She sympathized
heartily, and saw no harm in the affectionate little note, which would
please Jill, and help her to bear her trials patiently.
“It isn’t silly to be fond of her, is it? She is so nice and funny, and
tries to be good, and likes me, and I won’t be ashamed of my friends, if
folks do laugh,” protested Jack, with a rap of his teaspoon.
“No, dear, it is quite kind and proper, and I’d rather have you play
with a merry little girl than with rough boys till you are big enough
to hold your own,” answered Mamma, putting the cup to his lips that the
reclining lad might take his broma without spilling.
“Pooh! I don’t mean that; I’m strong enough now to take care of myself,”
 cried Jack, stoutly. “I can thrash Joe any day, if I like. Just look
at my arm; there’s muscle for you!” and up went a sleeve, to the great
danger of overturning the tray, as the boy proudly displayed his biceps
and expanded his chest, both of which were very fine for a lad of his
years. “If I’d been on my legs, he wouldn’t have dared to insult me, and
it was cowardly to hit a fellow when he was down.”
Mrs. Minot wanted to laugh at Jack’s indignation, but the bell rang, and
she had to go and pull in the basket, much amused at the new game.
Burning to distinguish herself in the eyes of the big boys, Jill had
sent over a tall, red flannel night-cap, which she had been making for
some proposed Christmas plays, and added the following verse, for she
was considered a gifted rhymester at the game parties:--
  “When it comes night,
  We put out the light.
  Some blow with a puff,
  Some turn down and snuff;
  But neat folks prefer
  A nice extinguisher.
  So here I send you back
  One to put on Mr. Jack.”
“Now, I call that regularly smart; not one of us could do it, and I just
wish Joe was here to see it. I want to send once more, something good
for tea; she hates gruel so;” and the last despatch which the Great
International Telegraph carried that day was a baked apple and a warm
muffin, with “J. M.’s best regards.”
Chapter IV. Ward No. 2.
Things were not so gay in Ward No. 2, for Mrs. Pecq was very busy, and
Jill had nothing to amuse her but flying visits from the girls, and such
little plays as she could invent for herself in bed. Fortunately, she
had a lively fancy, and so got on pretty well, till keeping still grew
unbearable, and the active child ached in every limb to be up and out.
That, however, was impossible, for the least attempt to sit or stand
brought on the pain that took her breath away and made her glad to lie
flat again. The doctor spoke cheerfully, but looked sober, and Mrs. Pecq
began to fear that Janey was to be a cripple for life. She said nothing,
but Jill’s quick eyes saw an added trouble in the always anxious face,
and it depressed her spirits, though she never guessed half the mischief
the fall had done.
The telegraph was a great comfort, and the two invalids kept up a lively
correspondence, not to say traffic in light articles, for the Great
International was the only aerial express in existence. But even this
amusement flagged after a time; neither had much to tell, and when the
daily health bulletins had been exchanged, messages gave out, and the
basket’s travels grew more and more infrequent. Neither could read all
the time, games were soon used up, their mates were at school most of
the day, and after a week or two the poor children began to get pale and
fractious with the confinement, always so irksome to young people.
“I do believe the child will fret herself into a fever, mem, and I’m
clean distraught to know what to do for her. She never used to mind
trifles, but now she frets about the oddest things, and I can’t change
them. This wall-paper is well enough, but she has taken a fancy that the
spots on it look like spiders, and it makes her nervous. I’ve no other
warm place to put her, and no money for a new paper. Poor lass! There
are hard times before her, I’m fearing.”
Mrs. Pecq said this in a low voice to Mrs. Minot, who came in as often
as she could, to see what her neighbor needed; for both mothers were
anxious, and sympathy drew them to one another. While one woman talked,
the other looked about the little room, not wondering in the least that
Jill found it hard to be contented there. It was very neat, but so plain
that there was not even a picture on the walls, nor an ornament upon the
mantel, except the necessary clock, lamp, and match-box. The paper was
ugly, being a deep buff with a brown figure that did look very like
spiders sprawling over it, and might well make one nervous to look at
day after day.
Jill was asleep in the folding chair Dr. Whiting had sent, with a
mattress to make it soft. The back could be raised or lowered at will;
but only a few inches had been gained as yet, and the thin hair pillow
was all she could bear. She looked very pretty as she lay, with dark
lashes against the feverish cheeks, lips apart, and a cloud of curly
black locks all about the face pillowed on one arm. She seemed like a
brilliant little flower in that dull place,--for the French blood in her
veins gave her a color, warmth, and grace which were very charming. Her
natural love of beauty showed itself in many ways: a red ribbon had
tied up her hair, a gay but faded shawl was thrown over the bed, and the
gifts sent her were arranged with care upon the table by her side among
her own few toys and treasures. There was something pathetic in this
childish attempt to beautify the poor place, and Mrs. Minot’s eyes were
full as she looked at the tired woman, whose one joy and comfort lay
there in such sad plight.
“My dear soul, cheer up, and we will help one another through the hard
times,” she said, with a soft hand on the rough one, and a look that
promised much.
“Please God, we will, mem! With such good friends, I never should
complain. I try not to do it, but it breaks my heart to see my little
lass spoiled for life, most like;” and Mrs. Pecq pressed the kind hand
with a despondent sigh.
“We won’t say, or even think, that, yet. Everything is possible to youth
and health like Janey’s. We must keep her happy, and time will do the
rest, I’m sure. Let us begin at once, and have a surprise for her when
she wakes.”
As she spoke, Mrs. Minot moved quietly about the room, pinning the pages
of several illustrated papers against the wall at the foot of the bed,
and placing to the best advantage the other comforts she had brought.
“Keep up your heart, neighbor. I have an idea in my head which I think
will help us all, if I can carry it out,” she said, cheerily, as she
went, leaving Mrs. Pecq to sew on Jack’s new night-gowns, with swift
fingers, and the grateful wish that she might work for these good
friends forever.
As if the whispering and rustling had disturbed her, Jill soon began to
stir, and slowly opened the eyes which had closed so wearily on the
dull December afternoon. The bare wall with its brown spiders no longer
confronted her, but the colored print of a little girl dancing to the
tune her father was playing on a guitar, while a stately lady, with
satin dress, ruff, and powder, stood looking on, well pleased. The
quaint figure, in its belaced frock, quilted petticoat, and red-heeled
shoes, seemed to come tripping toward her in such a life-like way,
that she almost saw the curls blow back, heard the rustle of the rich
brocade, and caught the sparkle of the little maid’s bright eyes.
“Oh, how pretty! Who sent them?” asked Jill, eagerly, as her eye glanced
along the wall, seeing other new and interesting things beyond: an
elephant-hunt, a ship in full sail, a horse-race, and a ball-room.
“The good fairy who never comes empty-handed. Look round a bit and you
will see more pretties all for you, my dearie;” and her mother pointed
to a bunch of purple grapes in a green leaf plate, a knot of bright
flowers pinned on the white curtain, and a gay little double gown across
the foot of the bed.
Jill clapped her hands, and was enjoying her new pleasures, when in came
Merry and Molly Loo, with Boo, of course, trotting after her like a fat
and amiable puppy. Then the good times began; the gown was put on, the
fruit tasted, and the pictures were studied like famous works of art.
“It’s a splendid plan to cover up that hateful wall. I’d stick pictures
all round and have a gallery. That reminds me! Up in the garret at our
house is a box full of old fashion-books my aunt left. I often look at
them on rainy days, and they are very funny. I’ll go this minute and
get every one. We can pin them up, or make paper dolls;” and away rushed
Molly Loo, with the small brother waddling behind, for, when he lost
sight of her, he was desolate indeed.
The girls had fits of laughter over the queer costumes of years gone
