with Queenie ? " 

"Do with her!" and Miss Madeira stared. "Why, I 
"ouldn't go without her, and the only comfort is her taking 
to it so naturally. It isn't as if she had lived here all hei 
life." 





" I should be very glad to take the child. We all like 
her so much." 

" No, I couldn't spare her. Giving up my own home will 
be hard enough ; " and Miss Madeira wiped some tears from 
her eyes. 

Then Mrs. Stent came with an offer. 

"If you must go away, and want to rent the house 
and furniture, sister Wardlow will jump at the chance. 
There's just her and Hetty, and they're both as neat as 
wax ; but since John brought home his wife it hasn't 
been quite the same to them, for he is only a step-son, 
you know. She can have her living there, or three hun- 
dred a year, and I told her I'd take the money and go. 
And now if you'd rent them your house they will be 
in clover." 

So, Providence opened the path for them to go. Miss 
Madeira packed up her choicest belongings and stored 
them, crying over every article, and repeating its story 
until Queenie was infected with a like spirit of sorrow. 
And yet she was glad, with the buoyant temperament of 
childhood, to go to a wider sphere, to enjoy new sights 
and sounds, and to feel that fate had something different 
in store for her. She was not quite satisfied to grow up 
and go out dress-making with her dear Miss Madeira, much 
as she loved her. 

Mrs. Wardlow came over the last day to take possession. 

" It's an ill wind that blows no one any good," she said 
delightedly. " I shall be as happy here as a bee in a sugar- 
cask, and when you want a little run, and a change, you 
must come out and spend a week or two, you'll always be 
welcome. And you have gone to do a good work, Miss 
Madeira, though you must trust to Providence for a re- 
ward, for you won't get any in this ungrateful world." 

The trunks were packed and sent away, and Miss Ma- 
deira lingered on the threshold. 

"And to think here's just where you were curled up in 





the corner, and I came out and found you in the morning, 
thinking it was a dog, and you've been such a comfort, 
never dreaming then we was to set out together some day 
to seek our fortunes like ; and may God lead us back to 
the old home in thankfulness when our duty 's done ; so kiss 
me, Queenie, in your own loving way, as if every door and 
window said good-by." 



CAPTAIN MULLINS came to meet them, the vessel being 
laid up for repairs. He had been moving, too, a little shell 
of a place, but he knew Miss Madeira would like living by 
herself best, and he wanted a new neighborhood for the 
children. Rents were high, but this was up near the 
Park, and maybe they wouldn't mind the shanty-like ap- 
pearance. 

It certainly was old and ricketty. Its compeers had 
been torn down, to make way for more pretentious houses, 
but the neighborhood was fair ; there was a school not far 
distant, and Tip could ride to and fro in rainy weather. 
Everything was in heaps and piles, and very discouraging, 
the family being presided over by a brawny Irishwoman, 
with a brogue that was the envy and distraction of Pug. 

Tip, whose real name was Montgomery De Lisle, was 
now about fourteen, much given to slang and smartness, 
and feeling himself of immense consequence. Pug, some 
three years younger, rejoiced in the cognomen of Lafayette 
Sydenham, but certainly the shorter name was more ap- 
propriate. He was short and stout, with scrubby, reddish 
hair, a very much freckled face, a nose that turned up, a 
short upper lip, with a similar tendency, and a funny round 
chin, that betokened a like aspiration. Moppet was eight, 
and something in the same style, softened into girlish 
prettiness, I was about to say, but she was only pretty 
with the superb health and audacity of childhood, while 
Cissy had dark hair, and eyes like her father. 



 

They were as much like two puffy, solemn, blinking toads 
as anything you ever saw. They had surely thriven on 
dirt and neglect, when other motherless babies would have 
died. Perhaps their very lawlessness was the key-note to 
their health. None of the children minded anything. 
They ran out in the sunshine or the rain ; they slept in 
their clothes or out of them, in a bed, or in the corner 
where they happened to tumble, and nothing seemed to 
make any difference. It was an absolute triumph over 
civilization. 

"This is your aunt Madeira," announced their father. 
"You remember she came when your ma died. She is 
going to take charge of you, and I hope you'll all be good 
and obey her. Bridget, show Miss Madeira her room, and 
then help take up the trunks. I hope you are not very 
tired, for I want a good talk to-night, as to-morrow, at ten, 
I shall be off again." 

Queenie stared at the little group, in amazement, and 
then followed Miss Madeira. The room was in tolerable 
order. It had a worn, dingy velvet carpet on the floor, a 
very-much battered black walnut suite, with stained marble 
tops, glaring glass and china vases, and a toilet-set, in 
which there was hardly a whole piece. Added to this 
some pictures, in tarnished gilt frames, and a soiled and 
tumbled counterpane on the bed, and you will grant that 
the room did not look very inviting. 

This was a fair sample of the whole house. Mrs. Captain 
Mullins had been addicted to cheap finery, and now the 
remnants wore a very shabby look. Miss Madeira cried a 
little, and then said things would look better when they 
had a thorough good cleaning. 

The children were terrible, certainly. Miss Madeira was 
so dazed and astonished that she could not eat a mouthfuL 
Queenie was struck with a sort of mirthful wonder at so 
much turbulence. 





At eight the next morning the captain said good-by, 
after exhorting them all to be very good, and promising to 
bring them home something wonderful if they were, and 
then uttering a hasty farewell. Moppet followed him out 
to the sidewalk, and, sitting down on the stoop step, abso- 
lutely howled, while the twins joined in chorus. Cissy ran 
back and began to ride down the banisters, and Pug de- 
clared they would have jolly times, " now the guv'ner had 
taken out." 

" You're a wicked boy I " shrieked Moppet. '"Suppose 
pa should get drowned, and you could never see him 
