" I never saw in my life anything half so beautiful as Brierley Park." 
"You would be contented with such a home, 
wherever it might be ? " 
"As far as the trees went, " said Dolly, with 
another ripple of fun breaking over her face. 
"Tell me," said Lawrence, "are all American 
girls like you ? " 
" In what way ? We do not all look alike." 
"No, no; I do not mean looks; they are no more 
like you in that, than you say America resembles 
Brierley Park. But you are not like an English 
girl." 
" I am afraid that is not an equal compliment to 
me. But why should Americans be different from 
 
English people? We went over from England 
only a little while ago." 
" Institutions ? " Lawrence ventured. 
"What, because we have a President, and you 
have a King? What difference should that make ? " 
"Then you see no difference? Am I like an 
American, now ? " 
" You are not like my father, certainly. But I 
do not know any American young men except 
one. And I don't know him." 
" That sounds very much like a riddle. Won't 
you be so good as to explain ? " 
" There is no riddle," said Dolly. " I knew him 
when I was at school a little girl and I have 
never seen him since." 
" Then you don't know him now, I should say." 
"No. And yet I feel as if I knew him. I 
should know him, if we saw each other again." 
"Seems to have made a good deal of an impression ! " 
"Yes, I think he did. I liked him." 
"Before you see him again, you will have for- 
gotten him," said Lawrence comfortably. " Do you 
not think you could forget America, if somebody 
would make you mistress of such a place as this ? " 
"And if everybody I loved was here? Perhaps," 
said Dolly, looking round her at the soft swelling 
green turf over which the trees stretched their 
great branches. 
"But," said Lawrence, lying on his elbow and 
watching her, "would you want everybody you 
 
love? The Bible says that a woman shall leave 
father and mother and cleave to her husband." 
" No ; the Bible says that is what the man shall 
do; leave father and mother and cleave unto his 
wife." 
" They work it the other way," said Lawrence. 
" With us, it is the woman who leaves her family 
to go with the man." 
"Mr. St. Leger," said Dolly suddenly, "father 
does not look well. What do you think is the 
matter with him ? " 
" Oh aw yes ! Do you think he doesn't look 
well ? " Lawrence answered vaguely. 
" Not ill but not just like himself either. What 
is it?" 
"I well, I have thought that myself sometimes," 
replied the young man. 
"What is the matter with him?" Dolly repeated 
anxiously. 
" Oh, not much, he spends too much time at at 
his office, you know ! " 
" He has no need to do that. He does not want 
the office not for the money's sake." 
" Most men want money," said Lawrence. 
" But do you think he does ? " 
"0 why not? Why, my father wants money, 
always wants money; and yet you would say he 
has enough, too. Dolly " She interrupted him. 
" But what did you mean ? You meant to say 
he spends too much time at at what ? Say what 
you were going to say." 
 
Lawrence rolled himself over on the bank so that 
he could look up straight into her face. It was a 
good look of his blue eyes. "Dolly," said he, "if 
you will leave father and mother for my sake, figuratively, I mean, of course, figuratively, I will 
take care that neither of them ever wants anything 
for the rest of their lives. And you shall have a 
place as good as Brierley Park." 
Dolly's spirits must have taken one or two quick 
leaps, for her colour changed so ; but happily Lawrence's speech was long enough to let her get possession of herself again. She answered with an 
a plomb which, born of necessity as it was, and 
natural, equalled that of the most practised fine 
lady which should shew her artificial habit or skill. 
Like an instinct of self-preservation, I suppose; 
swift in action, correct in adjustment, taking its 
measures with unpremeditated good aim. She answered with absolute seeming calmness, 
"You evade my question, I observe." 
" I am sure you evade mine ! " said the young 
man, much more hotly. 
" Perhaps I do. Naturally, I want mine answered first." 
" And then will you give me the answer to my 
question ? " said he eagerly. 
"That would seem to be no more than good 
manners." 
" What do you want to know, Dolly ? I am 
sure I can't tell what to say to you." 
"Tell me what makes my father look unlike 
 
himself," said Dolly quietly. She spoke quietly; 
not as if she were greatly concerned to know the 
answer; yet if Lawrence had guessed how her 
heart beat he would have had still more difficulty 
with his reply. He had some, as it was; so much 
that he tried to turn the matter off. 
"You are imagining things," 'he said. "Mr. 
Copley seems to me very much what I have 
always known him." 
" He does not seem to me as I have always 
known him," said Dolly. " And you are not 
saying what you are thinking, Mr. St. Leger." 
" You are terribly sharp ! " said he, to gain 
time. 
"That's quite common among American wom- 
en. Go on, Mr. St. Leger, if you please." 
" I declare, it's uncanny. I feel as if you could 
see through me, too. And no one will bear such 
looking into." 
" Go on, Mr. St. Leger," Dolly repeated with an 
air of superiority. Poor child, she felt very weak 
at the time. 
" I don't know what to say, 'pon my honour," the 
young man averred. " I have nothing to say, re- 
ally. And I am afraid of troubling you, besides." 
Dolly could not speak now. She preserved her 
calm air of attention; that was all. 
" It's really nothing," St. Leger went on ; " but 
I suppose, really, Mr. Copley may have lost some 
money. That's nothing, you know. Every man 
does, now and then. He loses, and then he gains." 
 
" How ? " said Dolly gravely. 
" well, there are various ways. Betting, you 
know, and cards. Everybody bets; and of course 
he can't always win, or betting would stop. That's 
nothing, Miss Copley." 
" Have you any idea how much he has lost? " 
" Haven't an idea. People don't tell, naturally, 
how hard they are hit. I am sure it is nothing you 
need be concerned about." 
"Are not people often ruined in that way?" 
Dolly asked, still preserving her outside calm. 
" Well, that does happen, of course, now and 
then, with careless people. Mr. Copley is not one 
of that sort. Not that kind of man." 
"Do not people grow careless, in the interest 
and excitement of the play ? " 
St. Leger hesitated, and laughed a little, casting 
up his blue eyes at Dolly as if she were a very peculiar specimen of young womanhood and he were 
not quite sure how to answer her. 
"I assure you," he said, "there is nothing that you 
need be concerned about. I am certain there is not." 
" Not if my father is concerned about it already ? " 
" He is not concerned, I am sure.. well ! there 
