
"I am sure if it hadn't been for me he would 
never have come to the house, and you would nev- 
er have known that he thought of you," Mrs. Pen- 
niman rejoined, with a good deal of justice. 

" I wish he never had come to the house, and that 
I never had known it ! That's better than this," said 
poor Catherine. 

" You are a very ungrateful girl," Aunt Lavinia 
repeated. 

Catherine's outbreak of anger and the sense of 
wrong gave her, while they lasted, the satisfaction 





that comes from all assertion of force ; they hurried 
her along, and there is always a sort of pleasure in 
cleaving the air. But at bottom she hated to be 
violent, and she was conscious of no aptitude for 
organized resentment. She calmed herself with a 
great effort, but with great rapidity, and walked 
about the room a few moments, trying to say 'to 
herself that her aunt had meant everything for the 
best. She did not succeed in saying it with much 
conviction, but after a little she was able to speak 
quietly enough. 

" I am not ungrateful, but I am very unhappy. 
It's hard to be grateful for that," she said. " Will 
you please tell me where he is ?" 

" I haven't the least idea; I arn not in secret corre- 
spondence with him !" And Mrs. Penniman wished, 
indeed, that she were, so that she might let him know 
how Catherine abused her, after all she had done. 

" Was it a plan of his, then, to break off ?" By 
this time Catherine had become completely quiet. 

Mrs. Penniman began again to have a glimpse of 
her chance for explaining. " He shrunk he shrunk," 
she said ; " he lacked courage, but it was the cour- 
age to injure you ! He couldn't bear to bring down 
on you your father's curse." 

Catherine listened to this with her eyes fixed upon 
her aunt, and continued to gaze at her for some time 
afterward. " Did he tell you to say that ?" 

" He told me to say many things all so delicate, 
so discriminating ; and he told rne to tell you he 
hoped you wouldn't despise him." 

" I don't," said Catherine ; and then she added, 
" And will he stay away forever ?" 





" Oh, forever is a long time. Your father, per- 
haps, won't live forever." 

" Perhaps not." 

"I am sure you appreciate you understand 
even though your heart bleeds," said Mrs. Penni- 
man. "You doubtless think him too scrupulous. 
So do I, but I respect his scruples. What he asks 
of you is that you should do the same." 

Catherine was still gazing at her aunt, but she 
spoke at last as if she had not heard or not under- 
stood her. " It has been a regular plan, then. He 
has broken it off deliberately ; he has given me up." 

" For the present, dear Catherine ; he has put it 
off, only." 

" He has left me alone," Catherine went on. 

" Haven't you me ?" asked Mrs. Penniman, with 
some solemnity. 

Catherine shook her head slowly. " I don't be- 
lieve it !" and she left the room. 



XXXI. 

THOUGH she had forced herself to be calm, she 
preferred practising this virtue in private, and she 
forbore to show herself at tea a repast which, on 
Sundays, at six o'clock, took the place of dinner. 
Doctor Sloper and his sister sat face to face, but Mrs. 
Penniman never met her brother's eye. Late in the 
evening she went with him, but without Catherine, 
to their sister Almond's, where, between the two 
ladies, Catherine's unhappy situation was discussed 
with a frankness that was conditioned by a good 





deal of mysterious reticence on Mrs. Penniman's 
part. 

"I am delighted he is not to marry her," said 
Mrs. Almond, " but he ought to be horsewhipped all 
the same." 

Mrs. Penniman, who was shocked at her sister's 
coarseness, replied that he had been actuated by the 
noblest of motives the desire not to impoverish 
Catherine. 

" I am very happy that Catherine is not to be im- 
poverished but I hope he may never have a pen- 
ny too much ! And what does the poor girl say to 
you ?" Mrs. Almond asked. 

" She says I have a genius for consolation," said 
Mrs. Penniman. 

This was the account of the matter that she gave 
to her sister, and it was perhaps with the conscious- 
ness of genius that, on her return that evening to 
Washington Square, she again presented herself for 
admittance at Catherine's door. Catherine came 
and opened it ; she was apparently very quiet. 

" I only want to give you a little word of advice," 
she said. " If your father asks you, say that every- 
thing is going on." 

Catherine stood there, with her hand on the knob, 
looking at her aunt, but not asking her to come in. 
" Do you think he will ask me ?" 

" I am sure he will. He asked me just now, on 
our way home from your aunt Elizabeth's. I ex- 
plained the whole thing to your aunt Elizabeth. I 
said to your father I knew nothing about it." 

" Do you think he will ask me, when he sees 
when he sees ?" But here Catherine stopped. 





" The more he sees, the more disagreeable he will 
be," said her aunt. 
