his shower of short, round notes. But Miss Elisabetha al 
lowed no such license : had she not learned that very romanza 
from Monsieur Vocard himself forty years before ? and had 
he not carefully taught her every one of those little turns and 
quavers ? Taking the guitar from Theodore's hand, she exe 
cuted all the flourishes slowly and precisely, making him fol 
low her, note for note. Then he must sing it all over again 
while she beat the time with her long, slender foot, incased 
in a black-silk slipper of her own making. The ladies of the 
Daarg family always wore slippers the heavy-sound ing mod 
ern boot they considered a structure suitable only for persons 
of plebeian origin. A lady should not even step perceptibly ; 
she should glide. 
" Miss Lisabeet, de teas is ready. Bress de chile, how 
sweet he sings to-night ! Mos like de mock-bird's self, Mass 
Doro." 
So spoke old Viny, the one servant of the house, a broad- 
shouldered, jet-black, comfortable creature, with her gray 
wool peeping from beneath a gay turban. She had belonged 
to Doro's Spanish mother, but, when Miss Elisabetha came 
South to take the house and care for the orphan-boy, she had 
purchased the old woman, and set her free immediately. 
" It don't make naw difference as I can see, Miss Lisa- 
beet," said Viny, when the new mistress carefully explained 
to her that she was a free agent from that time forth. " Pears 
harnsome in you to do it, but it arn't likely I'll leabe my chile, 
my Doro-boy, long as I lib is it, now ? When I die, he'll 
have ole Viny burred nice, wid de priests, an de candles, an 
de singing, an all." 
" Replace your guitar, Theodore," said Miss Elisabetha, 
rising, " and then walk to and fro between here and the gate 
ten times. Walk briskly, and keep your mouth shut ; after 
singing you should always guard against the damps." 
The boy obeyed in his dreamy way, pacing down the white 
path, made hard with pounded oyster-shells, to the high stone 
wall. The old iron-clamped gate, which once hung between 
the two pomegranate-topped pillars, was gone ; for years it 
had leaned tottering half across the entrance-way, threaten 
ing to brain every comer, but Miss Elisabetha had ordered its 
removal in the twinkling of her Northern eye, and in its place 
now hung a neat, incongruous little wicket, whose latch was 
a standing bone of contention between the mistress and the 
entire colored population of the small village. 
" Go back and latch the gate," was her constantly repeated 
order ; " the cows might enter and injure the garden." 
" But th arn't no cows, Miss Lisabeet." 
There should be, then," the ancient maiden would reply, 
severely. " Grass would grow with a little care and labor ; 
look at our pasture. You are much too indolent, good peo 
ple ! " 
Theodore stood leaning over the little gate, his eyes fixed 
on the white sand-hills across the Warra ; he was listening to 
the waves on the outer beach. 
" Theodore, Theodore ! " called Miss Elisabetha's voice, 
" do not stand, but pace to and fro ; and be sure and keep 
your mouth closed." 
Mechanically the boy obeyed, but his thoughts were fol 
lowing the sound of the water. Following a sound ? Yes. 
Sounds were to him a language, and he held converse with 
the surf, the winds, the rustling marsh-grass, and the sighing 
pines of the barrens. The tale of the steps completed, he re- 
entered the house, and, following the light, went into a long, 
narrow room, one of three which, built out behind the main 
body of the house, formed with its back-wall a square, sur 
rounding a little courtyard, in whose center stood the well, a 
ruined fountain, rose- and myrtle-bushes, and two ancient fig- 
trees, dwarfed and gnarled. Miss Elisabetha was standing at 
the head of the table ; before her was a plate containing three 
small slices of dry toast, crisp and brown, and a decanter of 
orange-wine, made by her own hands. One slice of the toast 
was for herself, two were for the boy, who was still supposed 
to be growing ; a Northerner would have said that he was 
over twenty, but Spanish blood hastens life, and Teodoro in 
years was actually not yet eighteen. In mind he was still 
younger, thanks to Miss Elisabetha's care and strict control. 
It had never even occurred to him that he need not so abso 
lutely obey her; and, to tell the truth, neither had it occurred 
to her. Doro ate his simple supper standing the Daarg 
family never sat down gluttonously to supper, but browsed 
lightly on some delicate fragments, moving about and chatting 
meanwhile as though half forgetting they were eating at all. 
Then Miss Elisabetha refilled his little glass, watched him 
drink the clear amber liquid to the last drop, and bade him 
good night in her even voice. He turned at the door and 
made her a formal bow, not without grace ; she had carefully 
taught him this salutation, and required it of him every night. 
" I wish you a blessed rest, Theodore," she said, courtesy- 
ing in reply ; " do not keep the light burning." 
Half an hour later, when the ancient maiden glided out of 
her chamber, clad in a long frilled wrapper, the three curls in 
papers on each side of her head, she saw no gleam from 
under the low door of the little room across the hall ; she lis 
tened, but there was no sound, and, satisfied, she retired to 
her high couch and closed the gayly flowered curtains around 
her. But, out on the small balcony which hung like a cage 
from his eastern window, Doro stood, leaning over the iron 
railing and listening, listening to the far sound of the sea. 
Such had been the life down in the old house for sixteen 
long, winterless years, the only changes being more difficult 
music and more toast, longer lessons in French, longer legs 
to the little blue trousers, increased attention to sea-baths and 
deportment, and always and ever a careful saving of every 
copper penny and battered shilling. What became of these 
coins old Viny did not know ; she only knew how patiently 
they were collected, and how scrupulously saved. Miss Elisa 
betha attended to the orange-grove in person ; not one orange 
was lost, and the annual waste of the other proprietors, an 
ancient and matter-of-course waste, handed down from father 
to son, represented in her purse not a few silver pieces. Pe 
dro, the Minorcan, who brought her fish and sea-food, she 
had drilled from boyhood in his own art by sheer force of 
will, paying him by the day, and sending him into the town to 
sell from door to door all she did not need herself, to the very 
last clam. The lazy housewives soon grew into the habit of 
expecting Pedro and his basket, and stood in their doorways 
chatting in the sun and waiting for him, while the husbands 
let their black dugouts lie idle, and lounged on the sea-wall, 
smoking and discussing the last alligator they had shot, or the 
last ship, a coasting-schooner out of water, which had sailed 
up their crooked harbor six months before. Miss Elisabetha 
had learned also to braid palmetto, and her long fingers, once 
accustomed to the work, accomplished as much in a week as 
Zanita Perez and both her apprentices accomplished in two ; 
she brought to the task also original ideas, original at least in 
Beata, where the rude hats and baskets were fac-similes of 
those braided there two hundred years before by the Spanish 
women, who had learned the art from the Indians. Thus 
Miss Elisabetha's wares found ready sale at increased prices, 
little enough to Northern ideas sixpence for a hat one shil 
ling for a basket ; but all down the coast, and inland toward 
the great river, there was a demand for her work, and the 
lines hung in the garden were almost constantly covered with 
the drying palmetto. Then she taught music. To whom, do 
you ask ? To the black-eyed daughters of the richer towns 
people, and to one or two demoiselles belonging to Spanish 
families down the coast, sent up to Beata to be educated by 
the nuns. The good Sisters did their best, but they knew 
little, poor things, and were glad to call in Miss Elisabetha 
with her trills and quavers ; so the wiry organ in the little ca 
thedral sounded out the ballads and romanzas of Monsieur 
Vocard, and the demoiselles learned to sing them in their 
broken French, no doubt greatly to the satisfaction of the 
golden-skinned old fathers and mothers on the plantations 
down the coast. The padre in charge of the parish had often 
importuned Miss Elisabetha to play this organ on Sundays, as 
the decorous celebration of high-mass suffered sadly, not to 
say ludicrously, from the blunders of poor Sister Paula. But 
Miss Elisabetha briefly refused ; she must draw a line some 
where, and a pagan ceremonial she could not countenance. 
The Daarg family, while abhorring greatly the Puritanism of 
the New England colonies, had yet held themselves equally 
aloof from the image-worship of Rome ; and they had al 
ways considered it one of the inscrutable mysteries of Provi 
dence that the French nation, so skilled in polite attitude, so 
versed in the singing of romanzas, should yet have been al 
lowed to remain so long in ignorance of the correct religious 
mean. 
The old house was managed with the nicest care. Its 
thick coquina-walls remained solid still, and the weak spots 
in the roof were mended with a thatch of palmetto and tar, 
