before I write to any one else, though unfortunately 
you are so far away that you can't be the first to con- 
gratulate me. Try and not be the last, however. I 
am going to be married — as soon as possible. You 
know the young lady, so you can appreciate the situ- 
ation. Do you remember little Blanche Evers, whom 
we used to see three years ago at Baden-Baden ? Of 
course you remember her, for I know you used often 
to talk with her. You will be rather surprised, per- 
haps, at my having selected her as the partner of a 
life-time ; but we manage these matters according to 
our lights. I am very much in love with her, and I 
hold that an excellent reason, I have been ready 
any time this year or two to fall in love with some 
simple, trusting, child-like nature. I find this in per- 
fection in this charming young girl. I find her so 
natural and fresh. I remember telling you once that 
I didn' t wish to be fascinated — that J -ypanted to 





estimate scientifically the woman I should marry. I 
have altogether got over that, and I don't know how 
I ever came to talk such nonsense. I am fascinated 
now, and I assure you I like it ! The best of it is 
that I find it doesn 't in the least prevent my estimat- 
ing Blanche. I judge her very fairly — I see just 
what she is. She 's simple — that 's what I want ; 
she 's tender — that 's what I long for. You will 
remember how pretty she is ; I needn 't remind you 
of that. She was much younger then, and she has 
greatly developed and improved in these two or three 
years. But she will always be young and innocent— 
I don't want her to improve too much. She came 
back to America with her mother the winter after we 
met her at Baden, but I never saw her again till three 
months ago. Then I saw her with new eyes, and I 
wondered I could have been so blind. But I wasn 't 
ready for her till then, and what makes me so happy 
now is to know that I have come to my present way 
of feeling by experience. That gives me confidence 
— you see I am a reasoner still. But I am under the 
charm, for all my reason. We are to be married in a 
month — try and come back to the wedding. Blanche 
sends you a message, which I will give you verbatim. 
' Tell him I am not such a silly little chatterbox as I 
used to be at Baden. I am a great deal wiser ; I am 
almost as clever as Angela Vivian.' She has an idea 
yon tbeuglit Miss Yivian very clever — but it is not 

true that she is equally so. I am very happy ; come 
home and see." 

Bernard went home, but he was not able to reach 
the United States in time for Gordon's wedding, 
which took place at midsummer. Bernard, arriving 
late in the autumn, found his friend a married man 
of some months' standing, and was able to judge, 
according to his invitation, whether he appeared 
happy. The first effect of the letter I have just 
quoted had been an immense surprise; the second 
had been a series of reflections which were quite the 
negative of surprise ; and these operations of Bernard's 
mind had finally merged themselves in a simple sen- 
timent of jollity. He was delighted that Gordon 
should be married; he felt jovial about it; he was 
almost indifferent to the question of whom he had 
chosen. Certainly, at first, the choice of Blanche 
Evers seemed highly incongruous ; it was difficult to 
imagine a young woman less shaped to minister to 
Gordon's strenuous needs than the light-hearted and 
empty-headed little flirt whose inconsequent prattle 
had remained for Bernard one of the least importu- 
nate memories of a charming time. Blanche Evers 
was a pretty little goose — the prettiest of little 
geese, perhaps, and doubtless the most amiable ; but 
she was not a companion for a peculiarly serious 
man, who would like his wife to share his view of 
human responsibilities. What a singular selection — 





what a queer infatuation ! Bernard had no sooner 
committed himself to this line of criticism than he 
stopped short, with the sudden consciousness of error 
carried almost to the point of naivete. He exclaimed 
that Blanche Evers was exactly the sort of girl that 
men of Gordon Wright's stamp always ended by 
falling in love with, and that poor Gordon knew very 
much better what he was about in this case than he 
had done in trying to solve the deep problem of a 
comfortable life witTi Angela Vivian. This was what 
your strong, solid, sensible fellows always came to ; 
they paid, in this particular, a larger tribute to pure 
fancy than the people who were supposed habitually 
to cultivate that muse. Blanche Evers was what the 
French call an article of fantasy, and Gordon had 
taken a pleasure in finding her deliciously useless. 
He cultivated utility in other ways, and it pleased 
and flattered him to feel that he could afford, morally 
speaking, to have a kittenish wife. He had within 
himself a fund of common sense to draw upon, so 
that to espouse a paragon of wisdom would be but to 
carry water to the fountain. He could easily make 
up for the deficiencies of a wife who was a little silly, 
and if she charmed and amused him, he could treat 
himself to the luxury of these sensations for them- 
selves. He was not in the least afraid of being 
ruined by it, and if Blanche's birdlike chatter and 
turns of the head had made a fool of him, he knew it 





perfectly well, and simply took his stand upon his 
rights. Every man has a right to a little flower-bed, 
and life is not all mere kitchen-gardening. Bernard 
rapidly extemporized this rough explanation of the 
surprise his friend had offered him, and he found it 
all-sufficient for his immediate needs. He wrote 
Blanche a charming note, to which she replied with 
a great deal of spirit and grace. Her little letter was 
very prettily turned, and Bernard, reading it over 
two or three times, said to himself that, to do her 
justice, she might very well. haVe polished her intel- 
lect a trifle during these two or three years. As she 
was older, she could hardly help being wiser. It 
even occurred to Bernard that she might have profited 
by the sort of experience that is known as the disci- 
pline of suffering. What had become of Captain 
Lovelock and that tender passion which was appar- 
ently none the less genuine for having been expressed 
in the slang of a humorous period ? Had they been 
permanently separated by judicious guardians, and 
had she been obliged to obliterate his image from her 
lightly-heating little heart ? Bernard had felt sure at 
Baden that, beneath her contemptuous airs and that 
impertinent consciousness of the difficulties of con- 
quest by which a pretty American girl attests her 
allegiance to a civilization in which young women 
occupy the highest place — he had felt sure that 
Blanche had a high appreciation of her handsome 





Englishman, and that if Lovelock should continue to 
relish her charms, he might count upon the advan- 
tages of reciprocity. But it occurred to Bernard that 
Captain Lovelock had perhaps been faithless; that, 
at least, the discourtesy of chance and the inhumanity 
of an elder brother might have kept him an eternal 
prisoner at the Hotel de Hollande (where, for all Ber- 
nard knew to the contrary, he had been obliged to 
