
"I should like to see her going before the breeze ! " Ralpk 
answered. 

" You speak as if it were for your entertainment." 

" So it is, a good deal." 

" Well, I don't think I understand," said Mr. Touchett, with 
a sigh. "Young men are very different from what I was. 
When I cared for a girl when I was young I wanted to do 
more than look at her. You have scruples that I shouldn't have 
had. and you have ideas that I shouldn't have had either. You 
say that Isabel wants to be free, and that her being rich will 
keep her from marrying for money. Do you think that she is 
a girl to do that 1 " 

" By no means. But she has less money than she has ever 
had before ; but her father gave her everything, because he used 
to spend his capital. She has nothing but the crumbs of that 
feast to live on, and she doesn't really know how meagre they 
are she has yet to learn it. My mother has told me all about 



 

it, Isabel will learn it when she is really thrown upon the 
world, and it would be very painful to me to think of her 
coming to the consciousness of a lot of wants that she should be 
unable to satisfy." 

" I have left her five thousand pounds. She can satisfy a 
good many wants with that." 

" She can indeed. But she would probably spend it in two 
or three years." 

" You think she would be extravagant then 1 " 

" Most certainly," said Ealph, smiling serenely. 

Poor Mr. Touchett's acuteness was rapidly giving place to 
pure confusion. " It would merely be a question of time, then, 
her spending the larger sum 1 " 

"No, at first I think she would plunge into that pretty 
freely ; she would probably make over a part of it to each of 
her sisters. But after that she would come to her senses, 
remember that she had still a lifetime before her, and live 
within her means." 

" Well, you have worked it out," said the old man, with a 
sigh. " You do take an interest in her, certainly." 

" You can't consistently say I go too far. You wished me to 
go further." 

"Well, I don't know," the old man answered. "I don't 
think I enter into your spirit. It seems to me immoral." 

" Immoral, dear daddy 1 " 

" Well, I don't know that it's right to make everything so 
easy for a person." 

" It surely depends upon the person. When the person is 
good, your making things easy is all to the credit of virtue. To 
facilitate the execution of good impulses, what can be a nobler 
acU" 

This was a little difficult to follow, and Mr. Touchett con- 
sidered it for a while. At last he said 

" Isabel is a sweet young girl ; but do you think she is as 
good as thaU" 

" She is as good as her best opportunities," said Ealph. 

" Well," Mr. Touchett declared, " she ought to get a great 
many opportunities for sixty thousand pounds." 

" I have no doubt she will." 

" Of course I will do what you want," said the old man. " I 
only want to understand it a little." 

"Well, dear daddy, don't you understand it now ?" his son 
asked, caressingly. "If you don't, we won't take any more 
trouble about it ; we will leave it alone." 

M 



162 . 

Mr. Touchett lay silent a long time. Kalph supposed that 
he had given up the attempt to understand it. But at last he 
began again 

" Tell me this first. Doesn't it occur to you that a young 
lady with sixty thousand pounds may fall a victim to the 
fortune-hunters 1 " 

" She will hardly fall a victim to more than one." 

" Well, one is too many." 

"Decidedly. That's a risk, and it has entered into my 
calculation. I think it's appreciable, but I think it's small, 
and I am prepared to take it." 

Poor Mr. Touchett's acuteness had passed into perplexity, 
and his perplexity now passed into admiration. 

" Well, you have gone into it ! " he exclaimed. " But I don't 
see what good you are to get of it." 

Ralph leaned over his father's pillows and gently smoothed 
them ; he was aware that their conversation had been prolonged 
to a dangerous point. " I shall get just the good that I said 
just now I wished to put into Isabel's reach that of having 
gratified my imagination. But it's scandalous, the way I have 
taken advantage of you ! " 



XIX. 

As Mrs. Touchett had foretold, Isabel and Madame Merle 
were thrown much together during the illness of their host, and 
if they had not become intimate it would have been almost a 
breach of good manners. Their manners were of the best ; but 
in addition to this they happened to please each other. It is 
perhaps too much to say that they swore an eternal friendship ; 
but tacitly, at least, they called the future to witness. Isabel 
did so with a perfectly good conscience, although she would 
have hesitated to admit that she was intimate with her new 
friend in the sense which she privately attached to this terra. 
She often wondered, indeed, whether she ever had been, or ever 
could be, intimate with any one. She had an ideal of friend- 
ship, as well as of several other sentiments, and it did not seem 
to her in this case it had not seemed to her in other cases 
that the actual completely expressed it. But she often reminded 
herself that there were essential reasons why one's ideal could 
not become concrete. It was a thing to believe in, not to see 
matter of faith, not of experience. Experience, however 



 

might supply us with very creditable imitations of it, and the 
part of wisdom was to make the best of these. Certainly, on 
the whole, Isabel had never encountered a more agreeable and 
interesting woman than Madame Merle ; she had never met a 
woman who had less of that fault which is the principal obstacle 
to friendship the air of reproducing the more tiresome parts of 
one's own personality. The gates of the girl's confidence were 
