"Then a person must be very much in earnest," said Rotha, "ever to get it 
all." 
"There is no doing great things in any line without being very much in 
earnest. The start isn't the thing; it is the steady pull that tries." 
"Can you draw, Mr. Digby?" 
"Yes, a little." 
Again Rotha was all absorbed in what lay before and around her; getting 
unconscious education through her eyes, as they received for the first 
time the images of so many new things. To the people on board she gave 
scarcely any heed at all. 
Arrived at Brighton, Mr. Digby's first care was to give his charge and 
himself some refreshment. He took Rotha to a hotel and ordered a simple 
dinner. Then he desired to have a little wagon harnessed up, and putting 
the delighted girl into it, he drove to the sea shore and let her feast 
her eyes on the incoming waves and breaking surf. He himself was full of 
one thought, waiting for the moment when he could say to her what he had 
to say; but he was forced to wait a good while. He had made a mistake, he 
found, in choosing this precise direction for their drive. Rotha's 
overwhelming pleasure and entranced absorption for some time could not be 
broken in upon. She was too utterly happy to notice how different was her 
friend's absorption from her own; unless with a vague, passing 
perception, which she could not dwell upon. 
At last her friend asked her if she would like a run upon the sand, the 
tide being then out. He drove up to a straggling bit of fence, tied his 
horse, and lifted Rotha out; who immediately ran down to the narrow beach 
and as near to the water as she dared; there stood still and looked. 
There was but a gentle surf that day, with the ebb tide; but to Rotha it 
was a scene of unparalleled might and majesty. She was drinking in 
pleasure, as one can at fourteen, with all the young susceptibilities 
fully alive and strong. Mr. Digby could not interrupt her. He threw 
himself down 011 a dry piece of sand, and waited; watching her, and 
watching with a sad sort of pleasure the everlasting rise and breaking of 
those curling billows. Things spiritual and material get very mixed up in 
such a mood; and anon the ocean became to Mr. Digby somehow identified 
with the sea of trouble the tides of which do overflow all this world. 
The breaking waves were but the constantly occurring and recurring bursts 
of misfortune and disaster which overtake everybody. Here it is, there it 
is, it is here again, it is always somewhere; ay, far as the eye can 
reach. Here is this child, now,--
"Mr. Digby, you are tired--you don't like it--you are just waiting for 
me," Rotha said suddenly, with delicate good feeling, coming to his side. 
"I do like it, always. I am not tired, thank you, Rotha." 
"But you are not taking pleasure in it now," she said gently. 
"No. I was thinking, how full the world is of trouble." 
"Why should you think that just now? You had better think, how full it is 
of pleasure. It's as full--it seems to me as full--as the very sea 
itself." 
"Does your life have so much pleasure?" 
"To-day--" said the girl, with a rapt look out to sea. 
"And yet Rotha, it is for you I am troubled." 
"For me!" she said with a surprised look at him. 
"Yes. Suppose you sit down here for a few minutes, and let me talk to 
you." 
"I don't want to talk about trouble just now," she said; sitting down 
however as he bade her. 
"I am very sorry to talk about it now, or at any time; but I must. Can 
you bear trouble, Rotha?" 
There was something tender and grave and sympathizing in his look and 
tone, which somehow made the girl's heart beat quicker. That there was 
real gravity of tidings beneath such a manner, she felt intuitively; 
though she strove not to believe it. 
"I don't know,--" she said in answer to his question. "I have borne it." 
"This is more than you have borne yet." 
"I had a father, once, Mr. Digby,--" she said with a curious self-
restraint that did not lack dignity. 
How could he answer her? He did not find words. And instead, there came 
over him such a rush of tenderness in view of what was surely to fall 
upon the girl, in the present and in the future, that for a moment he was 
unmanned. To hide the corresponding rush of water to his eyes, Mr. Digby 
was fain to bow his face in the hand which rested on his knees. Neither 
the action nor the cause of it escaped Rotha's shrewdness and awakened 
sense of fear, but it silenced her at the same time; and it was not till 
a little interval had passed, though before Mr. Digby had lifted up his 
head, that the silence became intolerable to her. She heard the sea and 
saw the breakers no more, or only with a feeling of impatience. 
"Well," she said at last, in a changed voice, hard, and dry,--"why don't 
you tell me what it is?" If she was impolite, she did not mean it, and 
her friend knew she did not mean it. 
"I hardly can, Rotha," he answered sorrowfully. 
"I know what you mean," she said, "but it isn't true. You think so, but 
it isn't true." 
"What are you speaking of?" 
"You know. I know what you mean; you are speaking of--mother!" The word 
came out with difficulty and only by stern determination. "It is not 
true, Mr. Digby." 
"What is not true, Rotha?" 
"You know. It is not true!" she repeated vehemently. 
"But Rotha, my child, what if it were true?" 
"You know it couldn't be true," she said, fixing on him a pair of eyes 
almost wild in their intensity. "It couldn't be true. What would become 
of me?" 
"I will take care of you, always." 
"You!" she retorted, with a scorn supreme and only matched by the pain 
with which she spoke. "What are you? It couldn't be, Mr. Digby." 
"Listen to me, child. Rotha, I have come here to talk to you about it." 
He saw how full the girl's eyes were growing, of tears just swelling and 
ready to burst forth; and he stopped. But she impatiently dashed them 
right and left. 
"I don't want to talk about it. It's no use, here or anywhere else. I 
would like to go home." 
"Not yet. Before you go home I want you to be quite composed, and to have 
good command of yourself, so that you may not distress your mother. She 
cannot bear it. Therefore she asked me to tell you, because she dreaded 
to see your suffering. Can you bear it and hide it, Rotha, bravely, for 
her sake?" 
"She asked you to tell me?" cried the girl; and Mr. Digby never forgot 
the face of wild agony with which she looked at him. He answered quietly, 
"Yes;" though his heart was bleeding for her. 
"She thinks--" 
"She knows how it must be. It is nothing new, or strange, or sorrowful, 
to her,--except only for you. But in her love for you, she greatly dreads 
to see your sorrow. Do you think, Rotha, for her sake, you can bear up 
bravely, and be quiet, and not shew what you feel? For her sake?" 
He doubted if the girl rightly heard him. She looked at him, indeed, 
while he spoke, as if listening; but her face was white, or rather livid, 
and her eyes seemed to be gazing into despair. 
"I do not think it can be, Mr. Digby," she said. "She don't look like it. 
And what would become of me? 
"I will take faithful care of you, Rotha, as long as you live, and I 
live." 
"You are nothing!" she said contemptuously. But then followed a cry which 
curdled Mr. Digby's blood. It was not a piercing shriek, yet it was a 
prolonged cry, pointed and sharpened with pain and heavy with despair. 
One such wail, and the girl dropped her face in her hands and sat 
motionless. Her companion would rather have seen sobs and tears; he did 
not know what to do with her. The soft beat and wash of the waves sounded 
drearily in the silence. Mr. Digby waited. Nothing but time, he knew, can 
cover the roughness of life's rough places with its moss and lichen of 
patience and memory. Comfort was not to be spoken of, not here. He 
comprehended now why Mrs. Carpenter had shrank from telling the tidings 
herself. But the day was wearing away; they must go home; the burden, 
however heavy, must be lifted and carried.---- 
"Rotha--my child--" he said after a long interval. 
No answer. 
"Rotha, my child, cannot you look up and speak to me? Rotha--my poor 
little Rotha--it is very heavy for you! But won't you make it as light as 
you can for your mother?" 
The child writhed away from under the hand he had gently laid on her 
shoulder; but uttered no sound. 
"Rotha--we must go home presently. Do you know, your mother will be very 
anxious to see you. She is expecting us now, I dare say." 
It came then, the burst of tears which he had dreaded and yet half longed 
for. The girl turned a little more from him and flung herself down on the 
sand, and there wept as he had never seen anybody weep before. With all 
the passion of an intense nature, and all the self abandonment of an 
ungoverned nature, sobbing such sobs as shook her whole frame, and with 
loud weeping which could not be restrained into silence. Better it should 
not be, Mr. Digby thought; better she should be allowed to exhaust 
herself so that very fatigue should induce quiet. But to the sitter-by it 
was unspeakably painful; a scene never to be recalled without a profound 
prayer, like Noah's, I fancy, after the deluge, that the like might never 
come again. 
And happily, nature did exhaust herself; and just because the passion of 
sobs and tears was so violent, it did yield after a time, as strength 
gave way. But it lasted fearfully long. However, at last Rotha grew 
quieter, and then still; and not till then Mr. Digby spoke again. He 
spoke as if all this had been an interlude not noticed by him. 
"Rotha, my child, can you gather up your courage and be quiet and be 
brave now?" 
She hesitated, and then in a smothered voice said, "I'm not brave." 
