
" Not so loud,'' the other utters waminglj. 

<' I cannot make her love you," Dolly goes on, but her 
Toice has a fatal distinctness. " Still, it is time she was 
married, and lovers have not been so plenty with her. 
Then I think you could win an angel from heayen, or 
Eurydice from Hades," with a bitter laugh. " You will 
get the fortune you want, though I warn you that she 
will be mistress. You will find no such weak, silly fool as 
I proved to be. When I think of all, I could murder my- 
self ! You wUl give me back the letters? " 

There is long, low answer. 

" You have sworn so many oaths," Dolly replies wearily 
to her companion. '' Believe me, I shall try for my own 
sake ; but to praise you indiscriminately would be just the 
way to arouse her suspicion. Ton must do your best. 
She must take you of her own choice. There, go now, or 
you will kill me. Some one may find us. To-morrow, 
then, at the Glen, the great rock, say at four. I shall be 
in bed till noon. Gro, go ! " 

There is a rustle among the vines, and a light step 
touches the unfrequented porch. Christmas Ormiston 
stands quite still, and just realizes that she has been lis- 
tening. There is a moment of supreme bewilderment. 
Some prescience tells her she was the person under 
discussion, and Dolly's own admission that she is married 
strikes her dumb and cold. How long she waits she 
cannot teU, but a returning thought of her errand nerves 
her, so she pushes the door open. 

Dolly springs up from the lounge, " Oh, is it you, 
Chris !" she cries in a kind of hysterical tone, as if she 
were surprised. " I was so tired. I came in here for a 
little quiet. I have done my duty by you, and danced 
myself almost to death, but the whole thing has been 
enchanting ! " 

Dolly's ready duplicity sickens her. The room whirls 
round, and she tries to steady herself. 



 



 



 

"I came for some papers,' she makes answer, going 
to the escritoire. 

" I hope you keep your places well locked," Dolly ex- 
claims with curious solicitude. " For if anything was 
lost, I wouldn't want to bear the blame." 

"The drawers are locked." Miss Ormiston's voice is 
strangely shaken. She feels as if she were the culprit, 
deep in some unlawful conspiracy. She can even imagine 
herself abstracting valuable papers, as she turns the 
spring with its sharp click. 

Dolly has recovered her self-possession, and it is 
superb. She takes the arm of her friend as they return, 
and talks vivaciously about the evening's enjoyment. Mr. 
Jeffries stands on the porch by the door, and looks up 
with a winning smile. 

" Truant ! " he says to Miss Allaire, " where have you 
been hiding yourself ? They are going to play a mazurka. 
May I have the pleasure, if you are not engaged? Miss 
Ormiston, your midsummer night ought to go on for- 
ever." 

" And weary us all ? " 

" I have felt enchanted. What magic do you use ? " 

A subtle flame wavers in his dark eyes, and his face 
shines with rare tenderness, but it only serves now to 
heighten an impression of distrust, and that baffling 
memory haunting her in his presence. 

The band strikes into the delicious melody, and the 
dancers follow the weird sound. 

" Don't lose your heart to that fellow," says Donald- 
son abruptly. " See here, they are the two who belong 
together " ; and his eyes follow the graceful, languorous 
movements which are really perfection. " Why can it 
not come around that way? What nature joins together, 
no one has a right to tear asunder." 

Christmas Ormiston is ghostly pale; even her lips 
quiver. Can that man be Dolly Allaire's unknown hus- 



 



 





band or past lover? Oh, what a travesty those smiling 
faces are, that " have come to hate each other" I 

Donaldson bites his Hp savagely. Can this woman, his 
pearl of all women, in her clear sense and cool judgment, 
be captivated by mere outward beauty ? 

" Here are the papers," she begins in an indrawn tone, 
as if powerfully moved. Why, she may even be jealous 
of Dolly Allaire. " I shall not be down to-morrow." 

He feels towards her as one might to a wayward child. 
He has a strong impulse to grasp the fair shoulder, and 
shake her out of this strange spell settling upon her. 
But some one else speaks, and there begins a slight con- 
fusion of the first departures. While Donaldson waits 
for his wife, he watches the other two. Dolly looks so at 
home in the arms of that handsome man, and his clasp 
is instinct with an almost reverent delicacy. Why should 
she ever have fancied St. George, — graver, older, with 
difierent tastes, habits, education, and aims? Surely the 
world has run mad and gotten desperately mismatched I 

Mr. Jeffries, after his dance is ended, floats around to 
Miss Ormiston's vicinity. A smile of unwonted softness 
plays about his mouth, and daring lights are in his eyes. 
She does feel the subtle power, but she avoids him with an 
indifference poorly assumed, and he half fancies he knows 
what it covers. He has followed a woman's lure before. 

The band settles now into dreamy overtures, that toil 
slowly with a sense of past midnight. A few are still 
wandering, some finishing a last ice. There seems a gen- 
eral satisfaction that verges to languid content. Guests 
troop down the stairs in filmy wraps and faded flowers, 
with graceful commendations. The violin hushes its con- 
fident sweetness in a regretful cry. The horns blow out 
a wail, silvery and long drawn. The flutes pipe and 
waver. The heavier instruments break into a tuneless 
tumult and give up the ghost of melody. Even the stars 
seem suddenly dimmer. 



 
