that?”

“No.”

“I believe you, and I forgive you. No, no!” she cried, at a
demonstration of protest from him, “don’t speak again!”

He obeyed, instantly, implicitly. With the tiller in his hand he looked
past her and guided the boat’s course. It became intolerable.

“Have I ever done anything that gave you the right to--to--say that?”
 she asked, without the self-command which she might have wished to show.

“No,” he said, “you were only the most beautiful”--

“I am not beautiful! And if I were”--

“It wasn’t to be helped! I saw from the first how good and noble you
were, and”--

“This is absurd!” she exclaimed. “I am neither good nor noble; and if I
were”--

“It wouldn’t make any difference. Whatever you are, you are the one
woman in the world to me; and you always will be.”

“Mr. Libby!”

“Oh, I must speak now! You were always thinking, because you had studied
a man’s profession, that no one would think of you as a woman, as if
that could make any difference to a man that had the soul of a man in
him!”

“No, no!” she protested. “I did n’t think that. I always expected to be
considered as a woman.”

“But not as a woman to fall in love with. I understood. And that somehow
made you all the dearer to me. If you had been a girl like other girls,
I should n’t have cared for you.”

“Oh!”

“I did n’t mean to speak to you to-day. But sometime I did mean to
speak; because, whatever I was, I loved you; and I thought you did n’t
dislike me.”

“I did like you,” she murmured, “very much. And I respected you. But you
can’t say that I ever gave you any hope in this--this--way.” She almost
asked him if she had.

“No,--not purposely. And if you did, it ‘s over now. You have rejected
me. I understand that. There’s no reason why you shouldn’t. And I can
hold my tongue.” He did not turn, but looked steadily past her at the
boat’s head.

An emotion stirred in her breast which took the form of a reproach. “Was
it fair, then, to say this when neither of us could escape afterwards?”

“I did n’t mean to speak,” he said, without looking up, “and I never
meant to place you where you could n’t escape.”

It was true that she had proposed to go with him in the boat, and that
she had chosen to come back with him, when he had offered to have her
driven home from Leyden. “No, you are not to blame,” she said, at last.
“I asked to some with you. Shall I tell you why?” Her voice began to
break. In her pity for him and her shame for herself the tears started
to her eyes. She did not press her question, but, “Thank you for
reminding me that I invited myself to go with you,” she said, with
feeble bitterness.

He looked up at her in silent wonder, and she broke into a sob. He said
gently, “I don’t suppose you expect me to deny that. You don’t think me
such a poor dog as that.”

“Why, of course not,” she answered, with quivering lips, while she
pressed her handkerchief to her eyes.

“I was only too glad to have you come. I always meant to tell you--what
I have told; but not when I should seem to trap you into listening.”

“No,” she murmured, “I can believe that of you. I do believe it. I take
back what I said. Don’t let us speak of it any more now,” she continued,
struggling for her lost composure, with what success appeared in the
fresh outburst with which she recognized his forbearance to hint at any
painfulness to himself in the situation.

“I don’t mind it so much on my account, but oh! how could you for your
own sake? Do let us get home as fast as we can!”

“I am doing everything I can to release you,” he said. “If you will
sit here,” he added, indicating the place beside him in the stern, “you
won’t have to change so much when I want to tack.”

She took the other seat, and for the first time she noticed that the
wind had grown very light. She watched him with a piteous impatience
while he shifted the sail from side to side, keeping the sheet in his
hand for convenience in the frequent changes. He scanned the sky, and
turned every current of the ebbing tide to account. It was useless; the
boat crept, and presently it scarcely moved.

“The wind is down,” he said, making the sheet fast, and relaxing his
hold on the tiller.

“And--And the tide is going out!” she exclaimed.

“The tide is going out,” he admitted.

“If we should get caught on these flats,” she began, with rising
indignation.

“We should have to stay till the tide turned.”

She looked wildly about for aid. If there were a row-boat anywhere
within hail, she could be taken to Jocelyn’s in that. But they were
quite alone on those lifeless waters.

Libby got out a pair of heavy oars from the bottom of the boat, and,
setting the rowlocks on either side, tugged silently at them.

The futile effort suggested an idea to her which doubtless she would not
have expressed if she had not been lacking, as she once said, in a sense
of humor.

“Why don’t you whistle for a wind?”

He stared at her in sad astonishment to make sure that she was in
earnest, and then, “Whistle!” he echoed forlornly, and broke into a
joyless laugh.

“You knew the chances of delay that I took in asking to come with you,”
 she cried, “and you should have warned me. It was ungenerous--it was
ungentlemanly!”

“It was whatever you like. I must be to blame. I suppose I was too glad
to have you come. If I thought anything, I thought you must have some
particular errand at Leyden. You seemed anxious to go, even if it
stormed.”

“If it had stormed,” she retorted, “I should not have cared! I hoped it
would storm. Then at least I should have run the same danger,--I hoped
it would be dangerous.”

“I don’t understand what you mean,” he said.

“I forced that wretched creature to go with you that day when you said
it was going to be rough; and I shall have her blood upon my hands if
she dies.”

“Is it possible,” cried Libby, pulling in his useless oars, and leaning
forward upon them, “that she has gone on letting you think I believed
there was going to be a storm? She knew perfectly well that I didn’t
mind what Adams said; he was always croaking.” She sat looking at him in
a daze, but she could not speak, and he continued. “I see: it happened
by one chance in a million to turn out as he said; and she has been
making you pay for it. Why, I suppose,” he added, with a melancholy
smile of intelligence, “she’s had so much satisfaction in holding you
responsible for what’s happened, that she’s almost glad of it!”

“She has tortured me!” cried the girl. “But you--you, when you saw that
I did n’t believe there was going to be any storm, why did you--why
