" M-yes," said the Squire, " I suppose she 'll  carry 
on. But I don 't know what to do about it. Some 
times I almost wish I d tried to make it up between 
em that day ; but I thought she d better see, once 
for all, what sort of man she was going in for, if she 
married him. It 's too late now to do anything. The 
fellow came in to-night for a quarrel, and nothing 
else ; I could see that ; and I didn 't give him any 
chance." 

" You feel sure," asked Mrs. Gaylord, impartially, 
" that Marcia wan 't too particular ? " 

" No, Miranda, I don 't feel sure of anything, except 
that it 's past your bed-time. You better go. I 'll  
sit up awhile yet. I came in because I couldn 't 
settle my mind to anything out there." 

He took off his hat in token of his intending to 
spend the rest of the evening at home, and put it on 
the table at his elbow. 

His wife sewed at the mending in her lap, without 
offering to act upon his suggestion. " It 's plain to be 
seen that she can 't get along without him." 

" She 'll  have to, now," replied the Squire. 

" I 'm afraid," said Mrs. Gaylord, softly, " that she 'll  
be down sick. She don 't look as if she d slept any 
great deal since she 's been gone. I d know as I like 
very much to see her looking the way she does. I 
guess you 've got to take her off somewheres." 

" Why, she 's just been off, and couldn 't stay ! " 

" That 's because she thought he was here yet. But 
if he 's gone, it won 't be the same thing." 

" Well, we 've got to fight it out, some way," said 
the Squire. " It wouldn 't do to give in to it now. 
It always was too much of a one-sided thing, at the 
best ; and if we tried now to mend it up, it would be 
ridiculous. I don 't believe he would come back at 



 

all, now, and if he did, he wouldn 't come back on any 
equal terms. He d want to have everything his own 
way. M-no ! " said the Squire, as if confirming him 
self in a conclusion often reached already in his own 
mind, " I saw by the way he began to-night that there 
wasn 't anything to be done with him. It was fight 
from the word go." 

" Well," said Mrs. Gaylord, with gentle, sceptical 
interest in the outcome, " if you 've made up your 
mind to that, I hope you 'll  be able to carry it 
through." 

" That 's what I 've made up my mind to," said her 
husband. 

Mrs. Gaylord rolled up the sewing in her work- 
basket, and packed it away against the side, bracing 
it with several pairs of newly darned socks and stock 
ings neatly folded one into the other. She took her 
time for this, and when she rose at last to go out, with 
her basket in her hand, the door opened in her face, 
and Marcia entered. Mrs. Gaylord shrank back, and 
then slipped round behind her daughter and vanished. 
The girl took no notice of her mother, but went and 
sat down on her father 's knee, throwing her arms 
round his neck, and dropping her haggard face on his 
shoulder. She had arrived at home a few hours 
earlier, having driven over from a station ten miles 
distant, on a road that did not pass near Equity. Af 
ter giving as much of a shock to her mother 's mild 
nature as it was capable of receiving by her unex 
pected return, she had gone to her own room, and 're 
mained ever since without seeing her father. He put 
up his thin old hand and passed it over her hair, but 
it was long before either of them spoke. 

At last Marcia lifted her head, and looked her 
father in the face with a smile so pitiful that he could 
not bear to meet it. " Well, father ? " she said. 

" Well, Marsh," he answered huskily. 


 

" What do you think of me now ? " 

" I in glad to have you back again," he replied. 

" You know why I came ? " 

" Yes, I guess I know." 

She put down her head again, and moaned and 
cried, " Father ! Father ! " with dry sobs. When she 
looked up, confronting him with her tearless eyes, 
" What shall I do ? What shall I do ? " she demanded 
desolately. 

He tried to clear his throat to speak, but it 're 
quired more than one effort to bring the words. " I 
guess you better go along with me up to Boston. I 'm
going up the first of the week." 

" No," she said quietly. 

" The change would do you good. It 's a long 
while since you 've been away from home," her 
father urged. 

She looked at him in sad reproach of his uncandor. 
" You know there 's nothing the matter with me, 
father. You know what the trouble is." He was 
silent. He could not face the trouble. " I 've heard 
people talk of a heartache," she went on. " I never 
believed there was really such a thing. But I know 
there is, now. There 's a pain here? She pressed 
her hand against her breast. " It 's sore with aching. 
What shall I do ? I shall have to live through it 
somehow." 

" If you don 't feel exactly well," said her father, 
" I guess you better see the doctor." 

" What shall I tell him is the matter with me ? 
That I want Bartley Hubbard ? " He winced at the 
words, but she did not. " He knows that already. 
Everybody in town does. It 's never been any secret. 
I couldn 't hide it, from the first day I saw him. I d 
just as lief as not they should say I was dying for 
him. I shall not care what they say when I in 
dead." 



 

"You d ought n t, you d oughtn 't to talk that 
way, Marcia," said her father, gently. 

" What difference ? " she demanded, scornfully. 
There was truly no difference, so far as concerned any 
creed of his, and he was too honest to make further 
pretence. "What shall I do?" she went on again. 
" I 've thought of praying ; but what would be the 
use ? " 

" I 've never denied that there was a God, Marcia," 
said her father. 

