Humphrey, Head Lieutenant of the late king’s 
kitchen, or stables, or something” — Mdes could not 
remember just what or which. Now that he had 
something to turn his energies to, a distinctly defined 
object to accomplish, the fog of humiliation and 
depression which had settled down upon his spirits 
lifted and blew away, and he raised his head and 
looked about him. He was surprised to see how far 
he had come; the village was away behind him. 
The king was jogging along in his wake, with his 
head bowed ; for he, too, was deep in plans and 
thinkings. A sorrowful misgiving clouded Hendon’s 
new-born cheerfulness; would the boy be willing 
to go again to a city where, during all his brief life, 
he had never known anything but ill usage and 
pinching want? But the question must be asked; 
it could not be avoided; so Hendon reined up, and 
called out : 

“I had forgotten to inquire whither we are 
bound. Thy commands, my liege?” 

“To London!” 

Hendon moved on again, mightily contented with 
the answer — but astonished at it, too. 

The whole journey was made without an adventure 
of importance. But it ended with one. About ten 
o’clock on the night of the 19th of February, they 
stepped upon London Bridge, in the midst of a 
writhing, struggling jam of howling and hurrahing 
people, whose beer-jolly faces stood out strongly in 
the glare from manifold torches — and at that instant 
the decaying head of some former duke or other 
grandee tumbled dovm between them, striking 
Hendon on the elbow and then bounding off among the 
hurrying confusion of feet. So evanescent and un- 
stable are men’s works in this world! — the late 
good king is but three weeks dead and three days in 
his grave, and already the adornments which he took 
such pains to select from prominent people for his 
noble bridge are falling. A citizen stumbled over 
that head, and drove his own head into the back of 
somebody in front of him, who turned and knocked 
down the first person that came handy, and was 
promptly laid out himself by that person’s friend. 
It was the right ripe time for a free fight, for the 
festivities of the morrow — Coronation Day — were 
already beginning; everybody was full of strong 
drink and patriotism; within five minutes the jEree 
fight was occupying a good deal of grotmd; within 
ten or twelve it covered an acre or so, and was be- 
come a riot. By this time Hendon and the king 
were hopelessly separated from each other and lost 
in the rush and turmoil of the roaring masses of 
humanity. And so we leave them. 



tom’s progress 

WHILST the true king wandered about the land, 
poorly clad, poorly fed, cuSed and derided 
by tramps one while, herding with thieves and
murderers in a jail another, and called idiot and impostor 
by all impartially, the mock King Tom Canty 
enjoyed a quite different experience. 

When we saw him last, royalty was just beginning 
to have a bright side for him. This bright side 
went on brightening more and more every day; in a 
very little while it was become almost all sunshine 
and delightfulness. He lost his fears; his mis- 
givings faded out and died; his embarrassments 
departed, and gave place to an easy and confident 
bearing. He worked the whipping-boy mine to 
ever-increasing profit. 

He ordered my Lady Elizabeth and my Lady 
Jane Grey into his presence when he wanted to play 
or talk, and dismissed them when he was done with 
them, with the air of one familiarly accustomed 
to such performances. It no longer confused him 
to have these lofty personages kiss his hand at 
parting. 

He came to enjoy being conducted to bed in state 
at night, and dressed with intricate and solemn 
ceremony in the morning. It came to be a proud 
pleasure to march to dinner attended by a glittering 
procession of officers of state and gentlemen-at- 
arms; insomuch, indeed, that he doubled his guard 
of gentlemen-at-arms, and made them a hundred. 
He liked to hear the bugles sounding down the long 
corridors, and the distant voices responding, “Way 
for the King!” 

He even learned to enjoy sitting in throned state 
in council, and seeming to be something more than 
the Lord Protector’s mouthpiece. He liked to receive 
great ambassadors and their gorgeous trains, 
and listen to the affectionate messages they brought 
from illustrious monarchs who called him “brother.” 
Oh, happy Tom Canty, late of Offal Court! 

He enjoyed his splendid clothes, and ordered 
more; he found his four hundred servants too few 
for his proper grandeur, and trebled them. The 
adulation of salaaming courtiers came to be sweet 
music to his ears. He remained kind and gentle, 
and a sturdy and determined champion of all that 
were oppressed, and he made tireless war upon 
unjust laws; yet upon occasion, being offended, he 
could turn upon an earl, or even a duke, and give 
him a look that would make him tremble. Once, 
when his royal “sister,” the grimly holy Lady 
Mary, set herself to reason with him against the 
wisdom of his course in pardoning so many people 
who would otherwise be jailed, or hanged, or burned, 
and reminded him that their august late father’s 
prisons had sometimes contained as high as sixty 
thousand convicts at one time, and that during his 

admirable reign lie had delivered seventy-two 
thousand thieves and robbers over to death by the 
executioner, the boy was filled with generous 
indignation, and commanded her to go to her closet, and 
beseech God to take away the stone that was in her 
breast, and give her a human heart. 

Did Tom Canty never feel troubled about the 
poor little rightful prince who had treated him so 
Idndly, and flown out with such hot zeal to avenge 
him upon the insolent sentinel at the palace gate? 
Yes; his flrst royal days and nights were pretty well 
sprinkled with painful thoughts about the lost prince, 
and with sincere longings for his return and happy 
restoration to his native rights and splendors. But 
as time wore on, and the prince did not come, Tom’s 
mind became more and more occupied with his new 
and enchanting experiences, and by little and little 
the vanished monarch faded almost out of his 
thoughts; and finally, when he did intrude upon 
them at intervals, he was become an unwelcome 
specter, for he made Tom feel guilty and ashamed. 

Tom’s poor mother and sisters traveled the same 
road out of his mind. At first he pined for them, 
sorrowed for them, longed to see them; but later, 
the thought of their coming some day in their rags 
and dirt, and betraying him with their kisses, and 
pulling him down from his lofty place, and dragging 
him back to penury and degradation and the slums, 
made him shudder. At last they ceased to trouble 
his thoughts almost wholly. And he was content, 
even glad; for, whenever their mournful and accusing
faces did rise before Hm now, they made 
him feel more despicable than the worms that crawl. 

