gaged, besides having his froHt teeth out, and com 
ing down here to wait till he shrank for a new set. 
But that poor little editor, Mr. Yorke, I wish you 
could have made his acquaintance. The table-girl 
at the Sherman House told my girl he 'd lost his 
appetite to that pass he wouldn't  eat a thing but 
shoo-fly potatoes. Think," added Mrs. Butter- 
well, with a gravity which deepened to solemnity, 
" of supporting an honorable and unrequited affec 
tion on shoo-fly potatoes ! " 

"I did not know," observed Yorke, acutely con 
scious of the indiscretion of his remark, " that 
physicians men physicians were apt to be ap 
preciative of the lady members of the profession 
in any way, least of all in that. Many of these 



 

facts in social progress, you see, are novel to me. 
I am very dull about them." 

" Well, I declare ! " objected Mrs. Butterwell. 
" I must say I think you are. For my part, I can't 
conceive of anything more natural. When you 
consider the convenience of taking each other 's 
overflow practice, and consulting together when 
folks die, and the sitting down of an evening to 
talk over operations ; and then one boy would do 
for both sets of horses. And when you think of 
having a woman like Doctor to turn to, sharin the 
biggest cares and joys a man has got, not lean in 
like a water-soaked log against him when he feels 
slim as a pussy-willow himself, poor fellow, but 
claspin hands as steady as a statue to help him 
on, and that hair of hers, and her eyes, for all 
her learning! But there, Mr. Yorke ! I 've 
talked you dead as East Sherman. I 'll fix your 
blinds for you and put in the pegs, and get your 
milk, and go. Don't you lie awake listening for 
him. He won't go till half past eleven. He never 
does. He ain't able to get over very often, for his 
business is tremendous, and he 's sent for all over 
the State, consultin . He 's famous enough for 
her, if that is all," she added, by way of final 
consolation. 

Mrs. Butterwell 's prophecy proved so far correct 
that at quarter of eleven the hospitable light 
still shone from Doctor Zay 's parlor upon the aca 
cia leaves and clovers, and the slender-throated 
honey-suckles, curious and dumb. It was with an 
emotion of exultance, for which he blamed and 
shamed himself with bitter helplessness, that 
Yorke heard, at ten minutes before eleven, the of 
fice-bell struck by what he knew was the imperious 
hand of a messenger in mortal need. He heard 
Doctor Zay come out quickly to the wagon which 
had brought the order. She did not wait for her 
own horse to be harnessed, but was driven rapidly 
and anxiously away. It seemed to him that he 
heard Jim Paisley 's voice, and that Jim said some 
thing about Molly. Yorke was sorry for Molly, 
but he was not sorry for Doctor Penhallow, whose 
distinguished footsteps echoed down the lonely 
street, on their way back to the Sherman Hotel. 

" I think, Doctor, if I was you, which I ain t, 
goodness knows, I don't mean to set myself up, 
I should go and look at Mr Yorke before you go 
out," said Mrs. Butterwell, presenting herself at 
the office the next morning. " He has a dreadfully 
peaked look, and he 's got past Sally Lunn for 
breakfast. As long as he took hi.j Sally Lunns, I 
knew you 'd found THE REMEDY." (Mrs. But- 



 

terwell pronounced these two words with that ac 
cent of confiding reverence by which the truly 
devout homoBOpathist may be instantly classified.) 
"But now I'm afraid you haven't. He never 
looked at a thing only his coffee, and he swore at 
that, too. He thought I 'd gone, but I hadn't ." 

" I never heard Mr. Yorke swear," observed 
Doctor Zay dryly. 

" Well, he did ; he said he supposed the sooner 
he drank the infernal thing and done with it, the 
better. I was clear across the entry, but I heard 
him." 

The doctor went as she was bidden, fortified by 
her hat and gloves and full professional demeanor. 
Yorke was on the lounge, glaring at his breakfast 
tray. He pushed it aside when he saw her, and 
held out his hand. She did not take it, but drew 
out her note-book and medicine-case, and coldly 
asked for the symptoms. 

"I owe you an apology," said the patient at 
once, drawing back his hand. 

" You do indeed," she answered sternly. 

" I can do no more than offer it," returned the 
young man with spirit. " If you had ever been a 
man, you would be less implacable." 

" I am not implacable," she softened. " No one 
ever called me that." 



 

" It is possible that no one ever called you sev 
eral things that I shall have occasion to," observed 
the patient, running his white hand through his 
hair, and sturdily meeting her eyes, which seemed 
to overlook him with a fathomless, fatal calm, as if 
he were a being of another solar system, speaking 
in an unknown tongue. 

" Mrs. Butterwell said you were worse." 

" I have had no sleep and no breakfast : it does 
not signify." 

" It does signify," returned Doctor Zay ; " it is 
ridiculous." 

"You use sympathetic language, Doctor Lloyd." 

"I do not feel sympathetic." She looked deeply 
annoyed ; she drew out her miniature vial with her 
tiny pincers in frowning hesitation. " I have no 
symptoms. Give me some symptoms before I pre 
scribe." 

" Where is your friend ? " asked Yorke abruptly. 
" Has he gone ? " 

She evinced neither surprise nor displeasure at 
the question, but laconically answered, 

Yes." 

" Then you will not be engaged with him. Will 
you take me to ride to-night ? " 

" What do you want to do that for ? " 

" I am going home next week. I want a ride 
before I go." 
