receives in many other quarters of the earth. There was no service in
the church; and after dinner Lois came as usual to draw in Mrs.
Barclay's room.

"I did not understand some of your aunt's talk last evening," Mrs.
Barclay remarked after a while.

"I am not surprised at that," said Lois.

"Did you?"

"O yes. I understand aunt Anne."

"Does she really think that all the people who like pretty things,
lead useless lives?"

"She does not care so much about pretty things as I do," said Lois
slightly.

"But does she think all who belong to the 'great world' are evil? given
up to wickedness?"

"Not so bad as that," Lois answered, smiling; "but naturally aunt Anne
does not understand any world but this of Shampuashuh."

"I understood her to assume that under no circumstances could you marry
one of the great world she was talking of?"

"Well," said Lois, "I suppose she thinks that one of them would not be
a Christian."

"You mean, an enthusiast."

"No," said Lois; "but I mean, and she means, one who is in heart a true
servant of Christ. He might, or he might not, be enthusiastic."

"And would you marry no one who was not a Christian, as you understand
the word?"

"The Bible forbids it," said Lois, her colour rising a little.

"The Bible forbids it? I have not studied the Bible like you; but I
have heard it read from the pulpit all my life; and I never heard,
either from the pulpit or out of it, such an idea, as that one who is a
Christian may not marry one who is not."

"I can show you the command--in more places than one," said Lois.

"I wish you would."

Lois left her drawing and fetched a Bible.

"It is forbidden in the Old Testament and in the New," she said; "but I
will show you a place in the New. Here it is--in the second Epistle to
the Corinthians--'Be not unequally yoked together with unbelievers;'
and it goes on to give the reason."

"Unbelievers! But those, in that day, were heathen."

"Yes," said Lois simply, going on with her drawing.

"There are no heathen now,--not here."

"I suppose that makes no difference. It is the party which will not
obey and serve Christ; and which is working against him. In that day
they worshipped idols of wood and stone; now they worship a different
sort. They do not worship him; and there are but two parties."

"No neutrals?"

"No. The Bible says not."

"But what is being 'yoked together'? what do you understand is
forbidden by that? Marriage?"

"Any connection, I suppose," said Lois, looking up, "in which two
people are forced to pull together. You know what a 'yoke' is?"

"And you can smile at that, you wicked girl?"

Lois laughed now. "Why not?" she said. "I have not much fancy for
putting my head in a yoke at all; but a yoke where the two pull
different ways must be very miserable!"

"You forget; you might draw somebody else to go the right way."

"That would depend upon who was the strongest."

"True," said Mrs. Barclay. "But, my dear Lois! you do not suppose that
a man cannot belong to the world and yet be what you call a Christian?
That would be very uncharitable."

"I do not want to be uncharitable," said Lois. "Mrs. Barclay, it is
extremely difficult to mark the foliage of different sorts of trees!"

"Yes, but you are making a very good beginning. Lois, do you know, you
are fitting to be the wife of just one of that world you are
condemning-cultivated, polished, full of accomplishments and graces,
and fine and refined tastes."

"Then he would be very dangerous," said Lois, "if he were not a
Christian. He might have all that, and yet be a Christian too."

"Suppose he were not; would you refuse him?"

"I hope I should," said Lois. But her questioner noticed that this
answer was soberly given.

That evening she wrote a letter to Mr. Dillwyn.



"I am enjoying the most delightful rest," the letter said, "that I have
known for a very long time; yet I have a doubt whether I ought to
confess it; whether I ought not to declare myself tired of Shampuashuh,
and throw up my cards. I feel a little like an honest swindler, using
your money, not on false pretences, but on a foregone case. I should
never get tired of the place or the people. Everyone of them, indeed
almost every one that I see, is a character; and here, where there is
less varnish, the grain of the wood shows more plainly. I have had a
most original carpenter here to measure for my book-shelves, only
yesterday; for my room is running over with books. Not only everybody
is a character, but nearly everybody has a good mixture of what is
admirable in his composition; and as for these two girls--well, I am
even more in love than you are, Philip. The elder is the handsomer,
perhaps; she is very handsome; but your favourite is my favourite. Lois
is lovely. There is a strange, fresh, simple, undefinable charm about
the girl that makes one her captive. Even me, a woman. She wins upon me
daily with her sweet unconscious ways. But nevertheless I am uneasy
when I remember what I am here for, and what you are expecting. I fear
I am acting the part of an innocent swindler, as I said; little better.

"In one way there is no disappointment to be looked for. These girls
are both gifted with a great capacity and aptitude for mental growth.
Lois especially, for she cares more to go into the depths of things;
but both of them grow fast, and I can see the change almost from day to
day. Tastes are waking up, and eager for gratification; there is no
limit to the intellectual hunger or the power of assimilation; the
winter is one of very great enjoyment to them (as to me!), and there
is, and that has been from the first, a refinement of manner which
surprised me, but that too is growing. And yet, with all this, which
promises so much, there is another element which threatens discomfiture
to our hopes. I must not conceal it from you. These people are regular
Puritans. They think now, in this age of the world, to regulate their
behaviour entirely by the Bible. You are of a different type; and I am
persuaded that the whole family would regard an alliance with a man
like you as an unlawful thing; ay, though he were a prince or a
Rothschild, it would make no difference in their view of the thing. For
here is independence, pure and absolute. The family is very poor; they
are glad of the money I pay them; but they would not bend their heads
before the prestige of wealth, or do what they think wrong to gain any
human favour or any earthly advantage. And Lois is like the rest; quite
as firm; in fact, some of these gentlewomen have a power of saying 'no'
which is only a little less than fearful. I cannot tell what love would
do; but I do not believe it would break down her principle. We had a
talk lately on this very subject; she was very firm.

"I think I ought not to conceal from you that I have doubts on another
question. We were at a family supper party last night at an aunt's
house. She is a character too; a kind of a grenadier of a woman, in
