"No: I wish I did." And mamma sighed; for baby was poorly, piles of
sewing lay waiting for her, Biddy was turning things topsy-turvy in the
kitchen for want of a word from the mistress, and Polly was looking
sullen.

The little girl didn't say any more, but worked quietly and watched the
shadow, feeling sure the faint song came from it. Presently she began to
hum the tune she caught by snatches; and, before she knew it, she was
singing away like a blackbird. Baby stopped crying, and mamma said,
smiling:

"Now I hear somebody singing, and it's the music I like best in the
world."

That pleased Polly; but, a minute after, she stopped smiling, for the
shadow went and took baby, or seemed to, and Polly really did. Now, baby
was heavy, and cross with its teeth; and Polly didn't feel like tending
it one bit. Mamma hurried away to the kitchen; and Polly walked up and
down the room with poor baby hanging over her arm, crying dismally, with
a pin in its back, a wet bib under its chin, and nothing cold and hard
to bite with its hot, aching gums, where the little teeth were trying to
come through.

"Do stop, you naughty, fretty baby. I'm tired of your screaming, and
it's high time you went to sleep. Bless me! what's Miss Shadow doing
with her baby?" said Polly.

Miss Shadow took out the big pin and laid it away, put on a dry bib, and
gave her baby a nice ivory ring to bite; then began to dance up and
down the room, till the shadowy baby clapped its hands and kicked
delightedly. Polly laughed, and did the same, feeling sorry she had been
so pettish. Presently both babies grew quiet, went to sleep, and were
laid in the cradle.

"Now, I hope we shall rest a little," said Polly, stretching her arms.

But, no: down sat the shadow, and began to sew, making her needle fly
like a real little seamstress.

"Oh, dear!" groaned Polly. "I promised to hem those handkerchiefs for
Ned, and so I must; but I do think handkerchiefs are the most pokey
things in the world to sew. I dare say you think you can sew faster than
I can. Just wait a bit, and see what I can do, miss," she said to the
shadow.

It took some time to find her thimble and needles and spools, for Polly
wasn't a very neat little girl; but she got settled at last, and
stitched away as if bent on beating her dumb friend.

Little Will's shadow went up to the nursery, and stopped before a basin
of water. "Oh! ah! ain't this drefful?" cried Will, with a shiver; for
he knew he'd got to have his face washed, because he wouldn't have it
done properly when he got up, but ran away. Now, Will was a good child;
but this one thing was his great trouble, and sometimes he couldn't bear
it. Jane was so rough. She let soap get in his eyes, and water run down
his neck, and she pinched his nose when she wiped him, and brushed his
hair so hard that really it was dreadful; and even a bigger boy would
have found it hard to bear. He shivered and sighed: but Jane came in;
and, when he saw that the shadow stood still and took the scrubbing like
a little hero, he tried to do the same, and succeeded so well that Jane
actually patted his head and called him "a deary;" which was something
new, for old Nurse Jane was always very busy and rather cross.

Feeling that nothing worse could possibly happen to him, Will ran after
his shadow, as it flitted away into the barn, and began to feed the
chickens.

"There, now! I forgetted all about my chickeys, and the shadow 'membered
'em; and I'm glad of it," said Will, scattering dabs of meal and water
to the chirping, downy little creatures who pecked and fluttered at his
feet. Little shadow hunted for eggs, drove the turkeys out of the
garden, and picked a basket of chips: then it went to play with Sammy,
a neighbor's child; for, being a small shadow, it hadn't many jobs to
do, and plenty of active play was good for it.

Sammy was a rough little boy and rather selfish: so, when they played
ball, he wanted to throw all the time; and, when Will objected, he grew
angry and struck him. The blow didn't hurt Will's cheek much, but it did
his little feelings; and he lifted his hand to strike back, when he saw
his shadow go and kiss Sammy's shadow. All his anger was gone in a
minute, and he just put his arm round Sammy's neck and kissed him. This
kiss for a blow made him so ashamed that he began to cry, and couldn't
be comforted till he had given Will his best marble and a ride on his
pony.

About an hour before dinner, the three shadows and the children met in
the garden, and had a grand game of play, after they had told each other
what they had been doing since they parted. Now, the shadows didn't
forget baby even then, but got out the wagon, and Miss Baby, all fresh
from her nap, sat among her pillows like a queen, while Ned was horse,
Polly footman, and Will driver; and in this way she travelled all round
the garden and barn, up the lane and down to the brook, where she was
much delighted with the water sparkling along and the fine splash of the
stones they threw in.

When the dinner-bell rang, mamma saw four clean, rosy faces and four
smooth heads at the table; for the shadow-children made themselves neat,
without being told. Every one was merry and hungry and good-natured.
Even poor baby forgot her teeth, and played a regular rub-a-dub with her
spoon on her mug, and tried to tell about the fine things she saw on her
drive. The children said nothing about the new play, and no one observed
the queer actions of their shadows but themselves. They saw that there
was no gobbling, or stretching over, or spilling of things, among the
shadows; but that they waited to be helped, served others first, and ate
tidily, which was a great improvement upon the usual state of things.

It was Saturday afternoon: the day was fine, and mamma told them they
could go for a holiday frolic in the woods. "Don't go to the pond, and
be home early," she said.

"Yes, mamma; we'll remember," they answered, as they scampered away to
get ready.

"We shall go through the village, and Mary King will be looking out; so
I shall wear my best hat. Mamma won't see me, if I slip down the back
way; and I do so want Mary to know that my hat is prettier than hers,"
said Polly, up in her little room.

Now Polly was rather vain, and liked to prink; so she got out the new
hat, and spent some time in smoothing her braids and putting on her
blue ribbons. But when all was ready, and the boys getting impatient,
she found her shadow, with a sun-bonnet on, standing by the door, as if
to prevent her going out.

"You tiresome thing! do you mean that I mustn't wear my hat, but that
old bonnet?" asked Polly.

The shadow nodded and beckoned, and patted its head, as if it was all
right.

"I wish I hadn't promised to do as you do; then I could do as I like,
and not make a fright of myself," said Polly, rather sulkily, as she put
away the hat, and tied on the old bonnet with a jerk.

Once out in the lovely sunshine, she soon forgot the little
disappointment; and, as they didn't go through the village, but by a
green lane, where she found some big blackberries, she was quite
contented. Polly had a basket to hold fruit or flowers, Ned his
jackknife, and Will a long stick on which he rode, fancying that this
sort of horse would help his short legs along; so they picked, whittled,
and trotted their way to the wood, finding all manner of interesting
things on the road.

The wood was full of pleasant sights and sounds; for wild roses bloomed
all along the path, ferns and scarlet berries filled the little dells,
squirrels chattered, birds sang, and pines whispered musically
overhead.

"I'm going to stop here and rest, and make a wreath of these pretty wild
roses for baby: it's her birthday, and it will please mamma," said
Polly, sitting down on a mound of moss, with a lapful of flowers.

"I'm going to cut a fishing-pole, and will be back in a minute." And Ned
went crashing into the thickest part of the wood.

"I shall see where that rabbit went to, and maybe I'll find some
berries," said Will, trotting down the path the wild rabbit had gone.

The sound of the boys' steps died away, and Polly was wondering how it
would seem to live all alone in the wood, when a little girl came
