impracticable ; he turned over and buried his face in his 
arms. He lay so a long time, thinking of many things ; 
the sum of them all was that Roderick had beaten him. 
At last he was startled by an extraordinary sound ; it 
took him a moment to perceive that it was a portentous 
growl of thunder. He aroused himself and saw that 
the whole face of the sky had altered. The clouds that 
had hung motionless all day were moving from their 



 

stations, and getting into position for a battle. The 
wind was rising, the turbid vapours were growing dark 
and thick. It was a striking spectacle, but Rowland 
judged best to observe it briefly, as a storm was evidently 
imminent. He took his way down to the inn, and found 
Singleton still at his post, profiting by the last of the 
rapidly-failing light to finish his study, and yet at the same 
time taking rapid notes of the actual condition of the 
clouds. 

" We are going to have a most interesting storm ! " the 
little painter gleefully cried. "I should like awfully to 
do it." 

Rowland adjured him to pack up his tools and decamp, 
and repaired to the house. The air by this time had 
become tremendously dark, and the thunder was incessant 
and deafening ; in the midst of it the lightning flashed 
and vanished, like the treble shrilling upon the bass. 
The innkeeper and his servants had crowded to the door 
way and were looking at the scene with faces which 
seemed a proof that it was unprecedented. As Rowland 
approached, the group divided to let some one pass within, 
and Mrs. Hudson came forth, as white as a corpse and 
trembling in every limb. 

"My boy, my boy, where is my boy?" she cried. 
" Mr. Mallet, why are you here without him ? Bring 
him to me !" 

"Has no one seen Mr. Hudson?" Rowland asked of 
the others. " Has he not returned?" 

Each one shook his head and looked grave, and Row 
land attempted to reassure Mrs. Hudson by saying that 
of course he had taken refuge in a chalet. 

"Go and find him, go and find him !" she cried, in 
sanely. "Don 't stand there and talk, or I shall drop 
dead !" It was now as dark as evening, and Rowland 
could just distinguish the figure of Singleton scampering 
homeward with his box and easel. And where is 
Mary?" Mrs. Hudson went on; "what in mercy 's name 



 

has become of her? Mr. Mallet, why did you ever 
bring us here?" 

There came a prodigious flash of lightning, and the 
limitless tumult about them turned clearer than mid 
summer noonday. The brightness lasted long enough to 
enable Rowland to see a woman 's figure on the top of an 
eminence near the house. It was Mary Garland, ques 
tioning the lurid darkness for Roderick. Rowland sprang 
out to interrupt her vigil, but in a moment he met her 
coming back. He seized her hand and hurried her to 
the house, where, as soon as she stepped into the covered 
gallery, Mrs. Hudson fell upon her with frantic lament 
ations. 

"Did you see anything nothing?" she cried. "Tell 
Mr. Mallet he must go and find him, with some men, 
some lights, some wrappings. Go, go, go, sir ! In 
mercy, go !" 

Rowland was extremely perturbed by the poor lady 's 
vociferous folly, for he deemed her anxiety superfluous. 
He had offered his suggestion with sincerity ; nothing 
was more probable than that Roderick had found shelter 
in a herdsman 's cabin. These were numerous on the 
neighbouring mountains, and the storm had given fair 
warning of its approach. Mary stood there very pale, 
saying nothing, only looking at him. He expected that 
she would try to soothe her cousin. " Could you find 
him ?" she suddenly asked. " Would it be of use ?" 

The question seemed to him a flash intenser than the 
lightning that was raking in the sky before them. It 
shattered his dream that he weighed in the scale ! But 
before he could answer, the full fury of the storm was 
upon them ; the rain descended in sounding torrents. 
Every one fell back into the house. There had been no 
time to light lamps, and in the little uncarpeted parlour, 
in the unnatural darkness, Rowland felt Mary 's hand 
upon his arm. For a moment it had an eloquent pres 
sure ; it seemed to be a retractation of her senseless 



 

challenge, an assurance that she believed, for Roderick, 
what he believed. But nevertheless, thought Rowland, 
the cry had come, her heart had spoken ; her first im 
pulse had been to sacrifice him. He had been uncertain 
before ; here at least was the comfort of certainty ! 

It must be confessed, however, that the certainty in 
question did little to enliven the gloom of that formid 
able evening. There was a noisy crowd about him in 
the room noisy even with the accompaniment of the 
continual thunder-peals ; lodgers and servants, chatter 
ing, shuffling, bustling, annoying him equally by making 
too light of the tempest and by vociferating their alarm. 
In the disorder it was some time before a lamp was 
lighted, and the first thing he saw as it was swung from 
the ceiling was the white face of Mrs. Hudson, who was 
being carried out of the room in a swoon by two stout 
maid -servants, with Mary Garland forcing a passage. 
He rendered what help he could, but when they laid the 
poor woman on her bed Mary motioned him away. 

" I think you make her worse," she said. 

Rowland went to his own room. The partitions in 
Swiss mountain inns are thin, and from time to time he 
heard Mrs. Hudson moaning three doors off. Consider 
ing its  great fury, the storm took long to expend itself; 
it was upwards of three hours before the thunder ceased. 
But even then the rain continued to fall heavily, and the 
night, which had come on, was impenetrably black. 
This lasted till near midnight. Rowland thought of 
Mary Garland 's question in the porch, but he thought 
even more that, although the fetid interior of a high- 
nestling chalet may offer a convenient refuge from an 
Alpine tempest, there was no possible music in the 
universe so sweet as the sound of Roderick 's voice. At 
midnight, through his dripping window-pane, he saw a 
star, and he immediately went downstairs and out into 
the gallery. The rain had ceased, the cloud -masses 
were dissevered here and there, and several stars were 



 

visible. In a few minutes he heard a step behind him, 
and, turning, saw Mary Garland. He asked about Mrs. 
Hudson, and learned that she was sleeping, exhausted 
by her fruitless lamentations. Mary kept scanning the 
darkness, but she said nothing to cast doubt on Roderick 's 
having found a refuge. Rowland noticed it. "This also 
have I guaranteed !" he said to himself. There was 
something that Mary wished to learn, and a question 
