together on a strip of paper, and these views of 
her lasted with him for two whole days, until he 
saw her again. But sometimes he caught a glimpse 
of her in the interval, driving with her father. 

There were other days when Hedwig could not be 
induced to study, but would overwhelm Nino with 



 

questions about his wonderful cousin who sang; so 
that he longed with his whole soul to tell her it was 
he himself who had sung. She saw his reluctance 
to speak about it, and she blushed when she men 
tioned the night at the Pantheon ; but for her life 
she could not help talking of the pleasure she had 
had. Her blushes seemed like the promise of spring 
roses to her lover, who drank of the air of her presence till that subtle ether ran like fire through his 
veins. He was nothing to her, he could see; but 
the singer of the Pantheon engrossed her thoughts 
and brought the hot blood to her cheek. The beam 
of moonlight had pierced the soft virgin darkness 
of her sleeping soul, and found a heart so cold and 
spotless that even a moon ray was warm by comparison. And the voice that sang "Spirto gentil del 
sogni miei " had itself become by memory the gentle 
spirit of her own dreams. She is so full of imagination, this statue of Nino's, that she heard the 
notes echoing after her by day and night, till she 
thought she must go mad unless she could hear the 
reality again. As the great solemn statue of Egyptian Memnon murmurs sweet, soft sounds to its 
mighty self at sunrise, a musical whisper in the 
desert, so the pure white marble of Nino's living 
statue vibrated with strange harmonies all the day 
long. 

One night, as Nino walked homeward with De 
Pretis, who had come to supper with us, he induced 
the maestro to go out of his way at least half a mile, 
to pass the Palazzo Carmandola. It was a still night, 
not over-cold for December, and there were neither 



 

stars nor moon. As they passed the great house 
Nino saw a light in Hedwig's sitting-room the 
room where he gave her the lessons. It was late, 
and she must be alone. On a sudden he stopped. 

"What is the matter?" asked De Pretis. 

For all answer, Nino, standing in the dark street 
below, lifted up his voice and sang the first notes of 
the air he always associated with his beautiful contessina. Before he had sung a dozen bars, the win 
dow opened, and the girl's figure could be seen, 
black against the light within. He went on for a 
few notes, and then ceased suddenly. 

"Let us go," he said in a low voice to Ercole; and 
they went away, leaving the contessina listening in 
the stillness to the echo of their feet. A Roman girl 
would not have done that; she would have sat quietly 
inside, and never have shown herself. But foreigners are so impulsive I 

Nino never heard the last of those few notes, any 
more than the contessina, literally speaking, ever 
heard the end of the song. 

"Your cousin, about whom you make so much 
mystery, passed under my window last night," said 
the young lady the next day, with the usual display 
of carnation in her cheeks at the mention of him. 

"Indeed, signorina?" said Nino calmly, for he 
expected the remark. " And since you have never 
seen him, pray how did you know it was he?" 

"How should one know?" she asked scornfully. 
" There are not two such voices as his in Italy. He 
sang." 

" He sang ? " cried Nino, with an affectation of 



 

alarm. " I must tell the maestro not to let him sing 
in the open air; he will lose his voice." 

"Who is his master?" asked Hedwig, suddenly. 

"I cannot remember the name just now," said 
Nino, looking away. "But I will find out, if you 
wish." He was afraid of putting De Pretis to any 
inconvenience by saying that the young singer was 
his pupil. " However," he continued, "you will hear 
him sing as often as you please, after he makes his 
dbut next month." He sighed when he thought 
that it would all so soon be over. For how could he 
disguise himself any longer, when he should be singing in public every night ? But Hedwig clapped her 
hands. 

" So soon ? " she cried. " Then there will be an 
end of the mystery." 

"Yes," said Nino gravely, "there will be an end 
of the mystery." 

" At least you can tell me his name, now that we 
shall all know it?" 

"Oh, his name his name is Cardegna, like mine. 
He is my cousin, you know." And they went on 
with the lesson. But something of the kind occurred 
almost every time he came, so that he felt quite sure 
that, however indifferent he might be in her eyes, 
the singer, the Nino of whom she knew nothing, 
interested her deeply. 

Meanwhile he was obliged to go very often to the 
baroness's scented boudoir, which smelled of incense 
and other Eastern perfumes, whenever it did riot 
smell of cigarettes; and there he sang little songs, 
and submitted patiently to her demands for more and 



 

more music. She would sit by the piano and watch 
him as he sang, wondering whether he were hand 
some or ugly, with his square face and broad throat 
and the black circles round his eyes. He had a fascination for her, as being something utterly new to 
her. 

One day she stood and looked over the music as he 
sang, almost touching him, and his hair was so curly 
and soft to look at that she was seized with a desire 
to stroke it, as Mariuccia strokes the old grey cat for 
hours together. The action was quite involuntary, 
and her fingers rested only a moment on his head. 

"It is so curly," she said, half playfully, half 
apologetically. But Nino started as though he had 
been stung, and his dark face grew pale. A girl 
could not have seemed more hurt at a strange man's 
touch. 

"Signora!" he cried, springing to his feet. The 
baroness, who is as dark as he, blushed almost red, 
partly because she was angry, and partly because she 
was ashamed. 

" What a boy you are ! " she said, carelessly 
enough, and turned away to the window, pushing 
back one heavy curtain with her delicate hand, as 
though she would look out. 
