
"You can wait," he said to the driver, and the latter touched his
battered straw hat.

Marcantonio followed the man through a great court, where there were
trees, into a long, tiled passage that seemed to run through the house,
and, on the other side, he emerged into a garden, thick with
laurel-trees and geraniums. The man led the way. Marcantonio's hand
crept stealthily into his breast pocket underneath his coat, and raised
the lock of the revolver very slowly. The man in front did not hear the
small, sharp click.

"Where is he?" asked Marcantonio, very gently, still smiling an
unnaturally sweet smile. The servant had stopped and was looking about.

"I was told they were here," said he; "but they must be in the
summer-house outside."

Again he led the way to a small door in the garden wall. It was open.

"There they are, signore," said he, pointing with his finger and
standing aside to let Marcantonio pass.

He looked, and saw two people sitting in the dilapidated old bower above
the water, not twenty yards from where he stood.

It was five o'clock in the afternoon. Diana had taken the train at two,
and could not reach Cuneo till six.




CHAPTER XXIV.


Leonora's utter recklessness of delight could not last very long. It was
a strange mood, as unnatural and uncontrollable at first as her
husband's madness. She could not help enjoying to the utmost the new
life that had so suddenly begun for her. She knew in her heart that she
had bought it at a great price, and she knew that she must make the most
of it, or she would have to reproach herself with the bargain.

It was easy enough at first. The quick change had thrown all her
thoughts into a new channel. From the midnight departure she had no more
time to think, until the long, quiet days at Pesio. There were moments
when she was on the verge of thinking, of remembering the past, and
wondering how her husband had acted. But she felt that it would be very
unpleasant to reflect on these things. It might take her a long time to
get out of the train of thought, as it used to do long ago whenever she
had one of her fits of philosophical despair; she was able to put it
off, and she seemed to be saying to herself, 'I shall have time to think
about it, and to satisfy my conscience by feeling the proper amount of
regret by and by.'

Of course she did not say as much in so many words, but the unconscious
excuse for what she knew an unprejudiced outsider would call her
heartlessness went on presenting itself whenever she felt the beginning
of a regret. Deeper even than that, and almost hidden in the sea of
self-deception, and passion, and riotous love of life, lay the reef on
which the ship of her happiness would some day go to pieces--the
ultimate knowledge of the wrong she had done, and of her own cruelty to
Marcantonio and weakness to herself.

But in Pesio the time came; terribly soon, she thought, though her
suffering was only at its beginning. Each morning brought a dull sense
of pain, that came in her dreams and became the terror of her waking.
She knew before she opened her eyes that it was there, and the first
returning consciousness was the certainty of sorrow. It soon wore away,
it is true, but she grew to dread it as she had never dreaded anything
in her short, luxurious life. It needed all her strength and energy to
shake off the impression, and it required all Batiscombe's love and
thoughtful care to make it seem possible to live the hours until the
evening.

That was in the morning, in the brief moments when Leonora, like most of
us, had not yet silenced her soul, and trodden it under for the day; and
it spoke bitter truth and scorn to her, so that she could hardly bear
it. Then, at last, she was honest. There was no more self-deception
then, no more possibility of believing that she had done well in
leaving all for Julius: she could no longer say that for so much love's
sake it was right and noble to spurn away the world,--for the world came
to mean her husband, her father and her mother, and she saw and knew too
clearly what each and all of them must suffer. Their pale faces came to
her in her dreams, and their sad voices spoke to her the reproach of all
reproaches that can be uttered against a woman. Her husband she had
never loved; but in spite of all her reasoning she knew that he had
loved her, and she understood enough of his pride and single-hearted
nobility to guess what he must suffer while she dragged his ancient name
in the dust of dishonour. Her father was never to her mind, for he was a
Philistine of the kind that have hard shells and very little that is
soft or warm within them, but she knew that he had treasured her as the
apple of his eye, and that his old heart would break for his daughter's
shame. Her mother was a worldly woman, loving Leonora because she had
obtained a success in society, and upbraiding her with never making the
most of it; but Leonora knew how her mother's vanity must be bowed and
trampled down by the deep disgrace, and that her vanity was almost all
she had of happiness.

And so it came to pass that after a little time the old tax-gatherer,
Remorse, began to put Leonora in distress for his dues, and she was
forced to pay them or have no peace. He came in the grey of the
morning, when she was not yet prepared, and he sat by her head and
oppressed it with heaviness and the leaden cowl of sorrow; and each day
she counted the minutes until he was gone, and each day they were more.

Julius saw and pondered, for he guessed what she suffered, and
understood now her terrible recklessness at the first. All that a lover
could do he did, and more also, employing every resource of his great
mind to fight the enemy, and always with success. He could always bring
the smile and the brightness of glad life to her face at last, and when
once his dominion was established there was no return of sorrow possible
for that day; his stupendous vitality and brilliant, overflowing
strength fought down the shadows and chased them out.

On the morning of the fourth of September, Leonora and Julius were
walking together in the chestnut woods near the monastery. She had been
less sad than usual at her first waking, and Julius hoped that the time
was coming when she could at last feel accustomed to her new position
and would cease to be troubled with the ghosts of the past. He was
over-confident, and thought he understood her better than he really did.
He was laughing and talking gayly enough, enjoying her happy mood and
the freshness and beauty of the bountiful nature around him.

Julius stopped from time to time and picked a few wild flowers that grew
amongst the moss and the grass of the wood. Leonora loved flowers, and
loved best those that grew wild. It was one of the few simple tastes she
possessed.

"It is not much of a nosegay," said Julius, as he put the sweet blossoms
together, and tied them with a blade of grass. "It is too late for the
best wild flowers here." He gave her the little bouquet with one hand,
and the other stole about her waist and drew her to him.

She smelled the flowers, and looked up at him over them, a little sadly.

"The time will come, I suppose," said she, "when there will be no more
flowers at all."

"Never for you, darling," he answered lovingly. "There will always be
flowers for you--everywhere, till the end of time."

"What is the end of time, Julius?" she asked softly.

"Time has no end for us, dear," he said. "For time is measured by love,
and nothing can measure ours."

They were near an old tree whose roots ran out and then struck down into
the ground. The moss and the grass had grown closely about the great
trunk's foot, and made a broad seat. They sat down, by common accord.

"Can there be no end to our love--ever?" she said.

"Should we be where we are, if either of us thought it possible?" he
asked.

"It must be whole--it must be endless--indeed it must," she
answered--clinging to the thought which gave her most comfort.

"Do you doubt that it is?" asked Julius, the strong earnestness of his
passion vibrating in his deep tones.
