


I had been ill for several weeks with what they called brain fever. The
events which I am about to relate happened on the fifteenth day of my
illness.

Before beginning to tell my story, it may not be out of place to say a
few words about myself, in order to clarify to the imagination of the
reader points which would otherwise involve numerous explanatory
digressions, more than commonly misplaced in a tale dealing with the
materials of this.

I am a woman forty years of age. My father was a clergyman; he had been
many years dead. I was living, at the time I refer to, in my mother’s
house in a factory town in Massachusetts. The town need not be more
particularly mentioned, nor genuine family names given, for obvious
reasons. I was the oldest of four children; one of my sisters was
married, one was at home with us, and there was a boy at college.

I was an unmarried, but not an unhappy woman. I had reached a very busy,
and sometimes I hoped a not altogether valueless, middle age. I had used
life and loved it. Beyond the idle impulse of a weary moment, which
signifies no more than the reflex action of a mental muscle, and which I
had been in the habit of rating accordingly, I had never wished to die.
I was well, vigorous, and active. I was not of a dependent or a
despondent temperament.

I am not writing an autobiography, and these things, not of importance
in themselves, require only the briefest allusion. They will serve to
explain the general cast of my life, which in turn may define the
features of my story.

There are two kinds of solitary: he who is drawn by the inward, and he
who chooses the outward life. To this latter class I had belonged.
Circumstances, which it is not necessary to detail here, had thrust me
into the one as a means of self-preservation from the other, while I was
yet quite young.

I had been occupied more largely with the experiences of other people
than with my own. I had been in the habit of being depended upon. It had
been my great good fortune to be able to spend a part of my time among
the sick, the miserable, and the poor. It had been, perhaps, my better
chance to be obliged to balance the emotional perils of such occupations
by those of a different character. My business was that of a
school-teacher, but I had traveled somewhat; I had served as a nurse
during the latter years of the war; in the Sanitary Commission; upon the
Freedmen’s Bureau; as an officer in a Woman’s Prison, and had done a
little work for the State Bureau of Labor among the factory operatives
of our own town. I had therefore, it will be seen, been spared the
deterioration of a monotonous existence. At the time I was taken ill I
was managing a private school, rather large for the corps of assistants
which I could command, and had overworked. I had been at home, thus
employed, with my mother who needed me, for two years.

It may not be unsuitable, before proceeding with my narrative, to say
that I had been a believer in the truths of the Christian religion; not,
however, a devotee. I had not the ecstatic temperament, and was not
known among my friends for any higher order of piety than that which is
implied in trying to do one’s duty for Christ’s sake, and saying little
about it or Him,--less than I wish I had sometimes. It was natural to me
to speak in other ways than by words; that does not prove that it was
best. I had read a little, like all thinking people with any
intellectual margin to their lives, of the religious controversies of
the day, and had not been without my share of pressure from the
fashionable reluctance to believe. Possibly this had affected a
temperament not too much inclined towards the supernatural, but it had
never conquered my faith, which I think had grown to be dearer to me
because I had not kept it without a fight for it. It certainly had
become, for this reason, of greater practical value. It certainly had
become, for this and every reason, the most valuable thing I had, or
hoped to have. I believed in God and immortality, and in the history of
Jesus Christ. I respected and practiced prayer, but chiefly decided what
I ought to do next minute. I loved life and lived it. I neither feared
death nor thought much about it.

       

When I had been ill a fortnight, it occurred to me that I was very sick,
but not that I could possibly die. I suffered a good deal at first;
after that much less. There was great misery for lack of sleep, and
intolerable restlessness. The worst, however, was the continuity of
care. Those who have borne heavy responsibilities for any length of time
will understand me. The incessant burden pressed on: now a pupil had
fallen into some disgraceful escapade; now the investments of my
mother’s, of which I had the charge, had failed on the dividends; then
I had no remittance for the boy at college; then my sister, in a
heart-breaking emergency, confided to me a peril against which I could
not lift a finger; the Governor held me responsible for the typhoid
among the prisoners; I added eternal columns of statistics for the
Charity Boards, and found forever a mistake in each report; a dying
soldier called to me in piercing tones for a cup of water; the black
girl to whom I read the Gospel of John, drowned her baby; I ran six
looms in the mill for the mother of six children till her seventh should
be born; I staked the salvation of my soul upon answering the argument
of Strauss to the satisfaction of an unbelieving friend, and lost my
wager; I heard my classes in Logic, and was unable to repeat anything
but the “Walrus and the Carpenter,” for the “Barbara Celarent.”
Suddenly, one day, in the thick of this brain-battle, I slipped upon a
pause, in which I distinctly heard a low voice say,

    “But Thine eternal thoughts move on,
     Thine undisturbed affairs.”

It was my mother’s voice. I perceived then that she sat at my bedside in
the red easy-chair, repeating hymns, poor soul! in the hope of calming
me.

I put out my hand and patted her arm, but it did not occur to me to
speak till I saw that there were masses of pansies and some mignonette
upon the table, and I asked who sent them, and she told me the
school-girls had kept them fresh there every day since I was taken ill.
I felt some pleasure that they should take the trouble to select the
flowers I preferred. Then I asked her where the jelly came from, and the
grapes, and about other trifles that I saw, such as accumulate in any
sick-room. Then she gave me the names of different friends and neighbors
who had been so good as to remember me. Chiefly I was touched by the
sight of a straggly magenta geranium which I noticed growing in a pot by
the window, and which a poor woman from the mills had brought the day
before. I asked my mother if there were any letters, and she said, many,
but that I must not hear them read; she spoke of some from the prison.
The door-bell often rang softly, and I asked why it was muffled, and who
called. Alice had come in, and said something in an undertone to mother
about the Grand Army and resolutions and sympathy; and she used the
names of different people I had almost forgotten, and this confused me.
They stopped talking, and I became at once very ill again.

The next point which I recall is turning to see that the doctor was in
the room. I was in great suffering, and he gave me a few spoonfuls of
something which he said would secure sleep. I desired to ask him what it
was, as I objected to narcotics, and preferred to bear whatever was
before me with the eyes of my mind open, but as soon as I tried to speak
I forgot what I wished to say.

I do not know how long it was before the truth approached me, but it was
towards evening of that day, the fifteenth, as I say, of my illness,
that I said aloud:

“Mother, Tom is in the room. Why has Tom come home?”

Tom was my little brother at college. He came towards the bed as I
spoke. He had his hat in his hand, and he put it up before his eyes.

“Mother!” I repeated louder than before. “Why have you sent for Tom?”

But Mother did not answer me. She leaned over me. I saw her looking
down. She had the look that she had when my father died; though I was so
young when that happened, I had never forgotten my mother’s look; and I
had never seen it since, from that day until this hour.

“Mother! am I so sick as that? MOTHER!”

“Oh, my dear!” cried Mother. “Oh my dear, my dear!” ...

So after that I understood. I was greatly startled that they should feel
me to be dangerously ill; but I was not alarmed.

“It is nonsense,” I said, after I had thought about it a little while.
“Dr. Shadow was always a croaker. I have no idea of dying! I have nursed
too many sicker people than I am. I don’t intend to die! I am able to
