
"I must be mad," she thought. "Barker will tell every one; and the Duke
ought not to know it except from me!"

"Speaking of Dr. Claudius--" she began; the Duke was at that moment
talking earnestly about the Pueblo Indians, but that was of no
importance. "Speaking of the Doctor, you ought to know--I would rather
that no one else told you--we are going to be married."

The Duke was so much surprised--not so much at the information as at her
manner of imparting it--that he pulled up short. Seeing him stop, she
stopped also.

"Are you very much astonished?" she asked, pushing the gray veil up to
her hat, and looking at him smilingly out of her deep, dark eyes. The
Duke spoke no word, but leapt from his horse, which he left standing in
the middle of the path, surprised into docility by the sudden desertion.
There were a few wild-flowers growing by the road, which here led
through a wooded glade of the Park; they were the flowers called
Michaelmas daisies, which bloom until November in America. He picked a
great handful of them, and came running back.

"Let me be the first to congratulate you, my dear friend," he said,
standing bareheaded at her stirrup, and offering the flowers with a
half-bashful smile that sat strangely on a man of his years. It was a
quick, impulsive action, such as no one could have expected from him who
did not know him intimately well--and few could boast that they did.
Margaret was touched by his look and manner.

"Thanks," she said, bending over her saddle-bow, and taking the daisies
as he held them up to her. "Yes, you are the first--to congratulate me,"
which was true. He still stood looking at her, and his hand would
hardly let go the flowers where his fingers touched hers. His face grew
pale, then ashy-white and he steadied himself against her horse's neck.

"What is the matter? are you ill? have you hurt yourself?" asked
Margaret in real alarm, for he looked as though he were going to faint,
and it was a full minute since he had come back to her from the
roadside. Then he made a great effort and collected himself, and the
next instant he had dashed after his horse, which was wandering away
towards the trees.

"I did feel queer for a minute," he said when he was once more in the
saddle and by her side. "I dare say it is the heat. It's a very hot day,
now I think of it. Would you allow me a cigarette? I hate to smoke in
public, you know, but it will make me all right again." Margaret
assented, of course, to the request; it was morning, in the recesses of
the Park, and nobody would see. But she looked strangely at him for a
minute, wondering what could have produced his sudden dizziness.

They rode more slowly towards the entrance of the Park, and the
Countess's thoughts did not wander again. She talked to her companion on
every subject he broached, showing interest in all he said, and asking
questions that she knew would please him. But the latter part of the
ride seemed long, and the drive home interminable, for Margaret was in
haste to be alone. She was not sure that the Duke's manner had changed
since he had turned so strangely pale, but she fancied he spoke as if
making an effort. However, they reached the hotel at last, and
separated.

"Thanks, so much," she said; "it has been such a delightful morning."

"It has indeed," said he, "and--let me congratulate you once more.
Claudius is a gentleman in every way, and--I suppose he is as worthy of
you as any one could be," he added quickly, in a discontented voice, and
turned away, hat in hand. She stood looking after him a moment.

"I wonder," she said to herself as she entered her room and closed the
door. "Poor man! it is not possible, though. I must be dreaming. Ah me!
I am always dreaming now, it seems to me;" and she sank down in a chair
to wait for Clémentine.

And so it is that some women go through life making far more victims
than they know of. There are some honest men who will not speak, unless
they have a right to, and who are noble enough to help those who have a
right. The Duke had known Margaret ever since she had married Alexis, as
has been said. Whether he had loved her or not is a question not so
easily answered. Certain it is that when she told him she was going to
be married to Claudius he turned very pale, and did not recover the
entire use of his mind for a whole day.

Nevertheless, during the succeeding fortnight he devoted himself
sedulously to Margaret's amusement, and many were the things that he and
she and Lady Victoria, and the incomparable Miss Skeat, who always
enjoyed everything, planned and carried out together. Margaret did not
shun society or shut herself up, and more than once she saw Barker in
the street and in the crowds at parties. The houses in America are so
small that parties are always crowded. But he had the good sense to
avoid her, and she was not troubled by any communication from him.
Clémentine, indeed, wondered that so few flowers came, for a day or two,
and old Vladimir pondered on the probable fate of Mr. Barker, who, he
supposed, had been sent to Canada in chains for some political offence,
seeing that he called no longer. But these faithful servitors could not
ask questions, and sources of information they had none. Barker,
however, as Margaret had anticipated, had been active in spreading the
news of her engagement; for, before very long, callers were plenty, and
flowers too, and many were the congratulations that poured in. Then she
saw the wisdom of having informed the Duke of her position before any
officious acquaintance could do it for her. The Duke, indeed, saw very
few people in New York, for he hated to be "entertained," but he knew a
great many men slightly, and some one of them would probably have
obliged him with the information.

One morning as he and the Countess were about to drive up to the Park
for their daily ride, which had become an institution, the servant
presented a card, saying the gentleman was anxious to see her ladyship
at once, if possible. The card was that of Mr. Screw, of Screw and
Scratch.

"Very well," said the Countess, who was pulling on her gloves, and
holding her riding-stick under one arm as she did so. "Ask him to come
up." The Duke moved to withdraw.

"Don't go, please," said Margaret; and so he remained. A moment later
Mr. Screw's yellow head and small eyes appeared at the door.

"The Countess Margaret?" he inquired deferentially.

"Yes. Mr. Screw, I believe?"

"The same, Madam. A--pardon me, but--I desired to speak with you alone,"
stammered the lawyer, seeing that the Duke did not move.

"I have asked the--this gentleman, who is my friend, to remain," said
Margaret calmly. "You may speak freely. What is your business with me,
sir?" She motioned him to a chair, and he sat down opposite her, hat in
hand. He would have liked to hook his legs into each other and put his
hands into his pockets, but he was too well bred for that. At last he
took courage.

"Frankly, Madam, I have come to discharge a moral duty, and I will speak
plainly. I am informed on credible authority that you are engaged to
marry a gentleman, calling himself Dr. Claudius--a--a tall man--fair
beard?"

"Your information is correct, Mr. Screw," said Margaret haughtily, "I am
engaged to be married to Dr. Claudius."

"As one of the executors of the late Mr. Gustavus Lindstrand, deceased,"
proceeded Mr. Screw slowly, "I feel it my duty, as an honest man, to
inform you that there are serious doubts as to whether the gentleman who
calls himself Dr. Claudius is Dr. Claudius at all. The person in
question disappeared two months ago, and has not been heard of since, as
far as I can make out. I have no interest in the matter as far as it
concerns yourself, as you may well imagine, but I have thought it right
to warn you that the gentleman whom you have honoured with a promise of
marriage has not established his claim to be the person he represents
himself."

Margaret, who, after the first words, had foreseen what Mr. Screw had
come to say, and who believed that very respectable and honest man to be
concerned in the plot against Claudius, was naturally angry, but she had
the good sense to do the right thing.

"Mr. Screw," she said in her commanding voice, icily, "I am deeply
indebted to you for your interference. Nevertheless, I am persuaded that
the gentleman to whom I am engaged is very really and truly the person
he represents himself to be. A fact of which my friend here will
probably be able to persuade you without difficulty." And she forthwith
left the room. The Duke turned upon the lawyer.
