aside. One is from Eugene. That improvident young man is out of money.
He is tired of Lake George and desires to go to Newport. He is sorry
that Floyd is getting himself into such a mess with the business, and
is quite sure the best thing would be to sell out to Wilmarth. He has
had a letter from him in which he, Wilmarth, confesses that matters are
in a very serious strait unless Mr. Floyd Grandon is willing to risk
his private fortune. "Don't do it," counsels the younger. "The new
machinery is a confounded humbug, but if any one can make it work,
Wilmarth is the man. If St. Vincent wants to get his daughter a
husband, why does he not offer her to Wilmarth? If she is as pretty as
you say, she ought not go begging for a mate, but when I marry for a
fortune I want the money in hand, not locked up in a lot of useless
trumpery."

A pang goes through Floyd's soul. If he never had offered her to
Eugene! It seems almost as if he had stabbed her to the heart. He can
see her soft, entreating, velvet eyes, and he covers his face with his
hands to hide the blush of shame. He will make it all up to her a
thousand times. Ah, can mere money ever take out such a sting?

The other letter is from a German professor and dear friend that he
left behind in Egypt, who expects to reach America early in September,
and find that Herr Grandon has improved his time and transcribed and
arranged all the notes, as he has so many more. There will be little
enough time, so the good comrade must not idle. They will have a good
long vacation afterward, when they can climb mountains and shoot
buffaloes, and explore the New World together, but now every day is of
value!

Floyd Grandon gives a smile of dismay. The precious days are flying so
rapidly. And everything has changed, the most important of all, his own
life. How could he?

He is a little late at the lawyer's, and they are all assembled. He
gives a quick glance toward Wilmarth. The impassible face has its usual
half-sneer and the covert politeness so baffling. Lindmeyer has been
explaining something, and stops short with an eager countenance.

The provisions of the will are gone over again. Floyd Grandon is now an
interested party in behalf of his wife. There are the books with a very
bad showing for the six months. They have not paid expenses, and there
is no reserve capital to fall back upon. It looks wonderfully like a
failure. Wilmarth watches Grandon closely. He is aware now that he has
underrated the vigor of his opponent, who by a lucky turn of fate holds
the trump cards. That Floyd Grandon could or would have married Miss
St. Vincent passes him. He knows nothing, of course, of the episode
with Cecil, and thinks the only motive is the chance to get back the
money he has been advancing on every hand. If he only had signed a
marriage contract there in Canada! He could almost subject himself to
the tortures of the rack for his blunder.

"Gentlemen," says Lindmeyer, who is a frank, energetic man of about
Grandon's age, with a keen eye and a resolute way of shutting his
mouth, "I see no reason at present why this should not succeed.
It has been badly handled, not understood. Mr. St. Vincent was not able
to make the workmen see with his eyes, and in his state of health he
was so excitable, confused, and worried that I don't wonder, indeed, I
have this plan to propose. If either of you gentlemen," glancing at
Wilmarth and Grandon, "will advance me sufficient means, and allow me
to choose my own foreman, perhaps a head man in every department, I
will prove to you in a month that the thing is a success, that there is
a fortune in it."

The steady, confident ring in the man's voice inspires them all. He is
no wild enthusiast. They glance at Wilmarth, as being in some sense
head of the business.

He knows, no one better, of all the obstacles that have been placed in
the way, so cunningly that no man could put a finger on the motive. It
has been his persistent resolve to let everything run down, to bring
the business to the very verge of bankruptcy. He did not count on Floyd
Grandon being so ready to part with his money to save it, or of ever
having any personal interest in it, and he did count on his being
disgusted with his brother's selfishness, indolence, and lack of
business capacity; all of which he has sedulously fostered, while
attaching the young man to him by many indulgences. This part of the
game is surely at an end.

Floyd sits silent. How much money will it take? What if he is swallowed
down the throat of the great factory! His father's instructions were to
the effect that if he could not save it without endangering his
private fortune, to let it go. There is still ground that he can sell.
There might be a new vein opened in the quarry. He must risk it.

"If Mr. Grandon," says Mr. Wilmarth, with a slow, irritating intonation
that hardly conceals insolence, "feels able to advance for the three
quarters, I can look after my share. I must confess that I am not an
expert in mechanics, and may have been mistaken in some of my views. My
late partner was very sanguine, while my temperament is of the doubting
order. I am apt to go slowly, but I try to go surely. I am not a rich
man," dryly.

"Let it be done, then," returns Grandon. He has no more faith in
Wilmarth to-day than he had last week, but he will not work against his
own interest, surely!

There are many points to discuss and settle. Lindmeyer will proceed to
the factory and get everything in good running order for next week, and
hunt up one man who understands this business, an Englishman who is
looking around for a permanent position, whom he has known for some
years.

"Our superintendent holds his engagement by the year," says Wilmarth,
with provoking suavity. "What can we do with him?"

"It is distinctly understood that I am not to be hampered in any way!"
protests Lindmeyer.

"Give your man a holiday," says Connery. "Two lords can never agree to
rule one household."

"The best thing," decides Grandon.

Then they go to the factory, where an explanation is made to the men.
Mr. Brent receives a check for a month's wages in advance, and a
vacation. Mr. Wilmarth looks on with a sardonic suavity, saying little,
and betraying surprise rather than ill-humor, but he hates Floyd
Grandon to the last thread. The man has come between him and all his
plans. No mere money can ever make up to him for being thus baffled.

Floyd Grandon takes his way along to the little eyrie. Down in the
garden there is a glimpse of a white gown, and now he need pause for no
propriety. Violet starts at the step, turns, and colors, but stands
quite still. Denise has been giving her some instructions as to her new
position and its duties, but has only succeeded in confusing her, in
taking away her friend with whom she felt at ease, and giving her a tie
that alarms and perplexes.

She is very pale and her deep eyes are filled with a curious,
deprecating light. A broad black ribbon is fastened about her waist,
and a knot at her throat. She looks so small, so lovely, that he
gathers her in his arms.

"My little darling," he begins, in a voice of infinite tenderness, "I
seem to neglect you sadly, but there are so many things."

"Do not mind," she answers, softly. "I am quite used to being alone. I
missed Cecil very much, though," and her sweet lip quivers. "Oh, are
you quite sure, quite satisfied that I can do my duty toward her? I
never had a mother of my own to remember, but I will be very good and
kind. I love children, and she is so sweet."

"My little girl, you are a child yourself. As the years go on you and
Cecil will be more like sisters, companions; and I hope you will always
be friends. I must take you home," he continues, abruptly. "My mother
and one sister are there; all the rest are away."

She shivers a little. "Am I to live there?" she asks, timidly. She has
been thinking how altogether lovely it would be to have him and Cecil
here.

"Why, of course. You belong to me now."

He means it for a touch of pleasant intimacy, but she seems to shrink
away. In that old time--the brief year--caresses and attention were
continually demanded. This new wife does not even meet him half way,
and he feels awkward. He can be fond enough of Cecil, and is never at a
loss, but this ground is so new that he is inclined to pick his way
carefully, with a feeling that she is not at all like any one he has
ever known.
