our work done because we have lain all night a-dreaming 
of it ; anything worth doing is devilish hard to do ! If 
your young gentleman finds things easy and has a good 



 

time of it and says he likes the life, it 's a sign that as I 
may say you had better step round to the office and look 
at the books. That 's all I desire to remark. No offence 
intended. I hope you ll have a first-rate time." 

Rowland could honestly reply that this seemed pregnant 
sense, and he offered Mr. Striker a friendly hand-shake 
as the latter withdrew. But Mr. Striker 's rather grim 
view of matters cast a momentary shadow on his com 
panions, and Mrs. Hudson seemed to feel that it neces 
sitated between them some little friendly agreement not 
to be overawed. 

Rowland sat for some time longer, partly because he 
wished to please the two women and partly because he 
was strangely pleased himself. There was something 
touching in their worldly fears and diffident hopes, some 
thing almost terrible in the way poor little Mrs. Hud 
son seemed to flutter and quiver with intense maternal 
passion. She put forth one timid conversational venture 
after another, and asked Rowland a number of questions 
about himself, his age, his family, his occupations, his 
tastes, his religious opinions. Rowland had an odd feel 
ing at last that she had begun to believe him very exem 
plary, and that she might make later some perturbing 
discovery. He tried, therefore, to invent something that 
would prepare her to find him fallible. But he could 
think of nothing. It only seemed to him that Miss 
Garland secretly mistrusted him, and that he must leave 
her to render him the service, after he had gone, of mak 
ing him the object of a little conscientious derogation. 
Mrs. Hudson talked with low-voiced eagerness about 
her son. 

" He 's very lovable, sir, I assure you. When you come 
to know him you will find him very lovable. He 's a 
little spoiled, of course ; he has always done with me as 
he pleased ; but he 's a good boy, I am sure he 's a good 
boy. And every one thinks him very attractive : I am 
sure he would be noticed anywhere. Don't you think 



he 's very handsome, sir ? He is the very copy of his 
poor father. I had another perhaps you have been 
told. He was killed. " And the poor little lady bravely 
smiled, for fear of doing worse. " He was a very fine 
boy, but very different from Roderick. Roderick is a 
little strange ; he has never been an easy boy. Some 
times I feel like the goose wasn't it a goose, dear?" 
and startled by the audacity of her comparison she 
appealed to Miss Garland "the goose or the hen, who 
hatched a swan 's egg. I have never been able to give 
him what he needs. I have always thought that in more 
in more brilliant circumstances he might find his place 
and be happy. But at the same time I was afraid of the 
world for him ; it was so dangerous and dreadful so 
mixed. No doubt I know very little about it. I never 
suspected, I confess, that it contained persons of such 
liberality as yours." 

Rowland replied that evidently she had done the world 
but scanty justice. 

"No," objected Miss Garland after a pause, "it is 
like something in a fairy tale." 

"What, pray?" 

" Your coming here all unknown, so rich and so polite, 
and carrying off my cousin in a golden cloud." 

If this was badinage Miss Garland had the best of it, 
for Rowland almost fell a-musing silently over the ques 
tion whether there were a possibility of irony in the young 
lady 's lucid glance. Before he withdrew Mrs. Hudson 
made him tell her again that Roderick 's powers were 
extraordinary. He had inspired her with a clinging, 
caressing faith in his wisdom. " He will really do great 
things ?" she asked " the very greatest ?" 

" I see no intrinsic reason why he should not." 

"Well, we shall think of that as we sit here alone," 
she rejoined. " Mary and I will sit here and talk about 
it. So I give him up," she went on, as he was going. 
" I am sure you will be the best of friends to him ; but 




if you should ever forget him or grow tired of him if 
you should lose your interest in him and he should come 

to any harm or any trouble, please, sir, remember " 

and she paused, with a tremulous voice. 

" Remember, my dear madam ? " 

" That he is all I have that he is everything and 
that it would be very terrible." 

"In so far as I can help him he shall succeed," was 
all Rowland could say. He turned to Miss Garland to 
bid her good-night, and she rose and put out her hand. 
She was very straightforward, but he could see that if 
she was too modest to be bold she was much too simple 
to be shy. " Have you no injunctions to give me ? " he 
asked to ask her something. 

She looked at him a moment, and then, although she 
was not shy, she blushed. "Make him do his best," 
she said. 

Rowland noted the soft intensity with which the words 
were uttered. "Do you take a great interest in him?" 
he demanded. 

"Certainly." 

" Then if he will not do his best for you he will not 
do it for me." She turned away with another blush and 
Rowland took his leave. 

He walked homeward, thinking of many things. The 
great Northampton elms inter-arched far above in the 
darkness, but the moon had risen and through scattered 
apertures was hanging the dusky vault with silver lamps. 
There seemed to Rowland something intensely serious in 
the scene in which he had just taken part. He had 
laughed and talked and braved it out in self-defence ; 
but when he reflected that he was really meddling with 
the simple stillness of this little New England home, and 
that he had ventured to disturb so much living security 
in the interest of a far-away fantastic hypothesis, he 
paused, amazed at his temerity. It was true, as Cecilia 
had said, that for an unofficious man it was a singular 



 

position. There stirred in his mind an odd feeling of 
annoyance with Roderick for having so peremptorily 
taken possession of his mind. As he looked up and 
down the long vista, and saw the clear white houses 
glancing here and there in the broken moonshine, he 
could almost have believed that the happiest lot for any 
man was to make the most of life in some such tranquil 
spot as that. Here were kindness, comfort, safety, the 
warning voice of duty, the perfect absence of temptation. 
