
“Who is steering this steamer now, Captain Gildrock?” asked Jim
Alburgh.

“Dory is steering her,” replied the captain.

“But it is dark: how can he find his way back to Beech Hill?”

“Did you suppose that ships that cross the ocean, being out of sight
of land for weeks at a time, stopped in the night?” asked the captain.

“I didn’t think any thing at all about it,” replied Jim. “I don’t know
any thing about it. It is as dark as a pocket, and I should not think
Dory could see the land on either side of the lake.”

“He has no need to see it. Do you see that lighthouse on the island?”
asked the captain, pointing at Juniper Island.

“But that does not give light enough to enable the pilot to see the
shore on either side,” replied Jim.

“That is not what a lighthouse is for. The light it gives don’t amount
to any thing half a mile from it. The light only marks certain
localities. Now look up the lake all of you,” continued Captain
Gildrock, pointing in the direction of Split-Rock light. “Do you see
that light?”

“Yes, sir!” shouted Lick Milton. His name was T. Licking Milton, but
he had a nickname.

The rest of the boys soon made out the light, and some of them shouted
as loudly as the first speaker.

“Juniper Island light is on our right now. Dory will run on till the
steamer is in range with this light and Split Rock, which is twelve
miles and a half from here. Then he will head for the Split-Rock
light, keeping Juniper exactly astern of him,” continued the captain.

“Why don’t he run for Split Rock now?” asked Ben Ludlow.

“He would run upon Quaker-Smith’s Reef, about four miles from here, if
he did. Now, my boy, can you walk straight from where you stand to the
flag-pole at the stem of the steamer?”

“No, sir, I cannot. That thing is in the way,” replied Ben, after he
had looked the matter over.

“Precisely so: the capstan is in your way. Now go over to the side of
the steamer.” Ben obeyed, and the boys watched the demonstration with
interest. “Can you walk straight to the stem of the boat now?”

“Yes, sir, I can. There is nothing in my way.”

“Then, if you keep in range with the port gangway and the stem, there
will be nothing in your way, will there?”

“Nothing, sir.”

“That is exactly the principle on which we pilot a steamer or any other
vessel. But sometimes the matter is much more complicated, and we have
to take a dozen different ranges in going a dozen miles. Pilots learn
all these ranges, and get their bearings from various objects on the
shore. You can see the capstan; but we cannot see the obstructions in
our way in sailing a vessel, for they are under water. They are all
laid down on the chart, and we can learn our courses from that.”

“But isn’t there any thing on that reef to let you know where it is?”
asked Dave Windsor.

“There is nothing on Quaker-Smith’s Reef, for it is out of the usual
track of vessels. It is about a mile from the eastern shore of the
lake. When the water is as low as it is now, this steamer would get
aground on it. But at the entrance to harbors they put buoys, and also
on rocks and shoal places in or near the usual track of vessels.”

“What sort of things are buoys?” asked Bob Swanton.

“Generally they are logs of wood, anchored to the bottom. These are
called spar-buoys. Others are made of metal, hollow, and shaped like a
couple of frustrums of cones joined at the big end. These are can-buoys.
There are other kinds, but you won’t find them in this lake.”

“Spar and can buoys. We can remember them,” added John Brattle.

“The spars are all painted red, black, or striped. When going into a
harbor, red buoys must be left on the starboard hand; that is, on your
right. Black buoys must be left on the port, or left, hand. When you
see a buoy painted with black and red stripes, it is a danger buoy;
and you may go on either side of it. When you see one painted up and
down with black and white stripes, you must go close to it. Sometimes
the buoys are numbered: then the even numbers are on the red buoys,
and the odd ones on the black buoys. But you must learn all these
things by seeing them.”

“What are the colored lights on the sides of this steamer for?” asked
Bob Swanton.

“The red light is on the port side, and the green on the starboard.
They are to show any vessel approaching us which way we are going,”
replied the captain. “But I can explain this better when we see the
lights of another vessel.”

All hands were on the lookout for another vessel at once.




CHAPTER XIII.

HANDLING A STEAMER IN A FOG.


Half an hour later a steamer came out of Essex, on the west shore of
the lake. Captain Gildrock was promptly notified by the boys that a
red light was to be seen.

“I suppose you have all seen port wine, and know it is red; though it
is not as red in Portugal as it is here,” added the captain. “This
will help you to remember that the red light is on the port, or
left-hand, side. When I see the red, I know at once that the port side
of the vessel is towards me, and therefore, if I am to the northward
of her, that she is going in an easterly direction. If I were south of
her, she would be going the other way.”

“But now we can see the green light too,” said Dave Windsor.

“That shows that she is coming towards us, and we must look out that
she don’t run into us.”

“How can you help it, if she keeps on, and you keep on?” asked Ned
Bellows.

“We will wait and see what Dory will do,” replied Captain Gildrock.

After going a mile farther, the boys heard a single sharp whistle over
their heads. It was immediately followed by the same signal from the
approaching steamer.

“That will make it all right. Dory has blown one whistle, which means
that he will pass the other steamer to starboard. The other steamer,
as she indicates by her one whistle, will pass at the starboard of
us,” continued the captain. “If Dory had blown two whistles, he would
have gone to port of the approaching vessel. You see that we are going
by her all right.”

“Suppose there had been a fog when we came out of Burlington, Captain
Gildrock: what should we have done?” asked Ben Ludlow. “Could Dory
have run the boat down to Beech Hill?”

“He could do it, but I should rather he would not. It is not safe to
run in a fog; and it is best not to do it, unless your business is
very urgent,” replied Captain Gildrock.

“But suppose you could not even see Juniper-Island light: what would
you do if you had to run to Beech Hill?” persisted the inquirer.

“Juniper light is west-south-west from the wharf, as I have ruled it
off from the chart. The distance is three and a quarter miles. The
speed of the Sylph is twelve miles an hour, and it will take her
sixteen minutes and a quarter to reach the light. But we don’t start
