It was a great surprise. Andrew Winthrop had so successfully concealed
the amount of his fortune that Evert had supposed that the foundery, and
the income that came from it, a moderate one, together with the old
house to live in, would be all. Andrew Winthrop's intention in this
concealment had been to bestow upon his son, so far as he could, during
his youth, a personal knowledge of life as seen from the side of earning
one's own living--a knowledge which can never be acquired at
second-hand, and which he considered inestimable, giving to a man juster
views of himself and his fellow-men than anything else can.

In the nine years that had passed since his father's death Evert had, as
has been stated, quadrupled the fortune he had inherited.

It was said--by the less successful--that Chance, Luck, and Opportunity
had all favored him. It was perhaps Chance that had led the elder
Winthrop in the beginning to invest some hundreds of dollars in wild
lands on the shore of Lake Superior--though even that was probably
foresight. But as for Luck, she is generally nothing but
clear-headedness. And Opportunity offers herself, sooner or later, to
almost all; it is only that so few of us recognize her, and seize the
advantages she brings. Winthrop had been aided by two things; one was
capital to begin with; the other a perfectly untrammelled position. He
had no one to think of but himself.

Early in the spring after his father's death he journeyed westward,
looking after some property, and decided to go to Lake Superior and see
that land also. He always remembered his arrival; the steamer left him
on a rough pier jutting out into the dark gray lake; on the shore,
stretching east and west, was pine forest, unbroken save where in the
raw clearing, dotted with stumps, rose a few unpainted wooden houses,
and the rough buildings of the stamping-mills, their great wooden legs
stamping ponderously on iron ore. His land was in the so-called town;
after looking at it, he went out to the mine from which the ore came; he
knew something of ores, and had a fancy to see the place. He went on
horseback, following a wagon track through the wild forest. The snow
still lay in the hollows, there was scarcely a sign of spring; the mine
was at some distance, and the road very bad; but at last he reached it.
The buildings and machinery of the struggling little company were poor
and insufficient; but few men were employed, the superintendent had a
discouraged expression. But far above this puny little scratching at its
base rose "the mountain," as it was called; and it was a cliff-like
hill of iron ore. One could touch it, feel it; it was veritable, real.
To Winthrop it seemed a striking picture--the great hill of metal,
thinly veiled with a few trees, rising towards the sky, the primitive
forest at its feet, the snow, the silence, and beyond, the sullen lake
without a sail. The cliff was waiting--it had waited for ages; the lake
was waiting too.

Winthrop took a large portion of his fortune and put it into this mine.
A new company was formed, but he himself remained the principal owner,
and took the direction into his own hands. It was the right moment; in
addition, his direction was brilliant. For a time he worked excessively
hard, but all his expectations were fulfilled; by means of this, and one
or two other enterprises in which he embarked with the same mixture of
bold foresight and the most careful attention to details, his fortune
was largely increased.

When the war broke out he was abroad--his first complete vacation; he
was indulging that love for pictures which he was rather astonished to
find that he possessed. He came home, took a captain's place in a
company of volunteers, went to the front, and served throughout the war.
Immediately after the restoration of peace, he had gone abroad again.
And he had come back this second time principally to disentangle from a
web of embarrassments the affairs of a cousin of his father's, David
Winthrop by name, whom he had left in charge of the foundery which he
had once had charge of, himself. Having some knowledge of founderies,
David was to superintend this one, and have a sufficient share of the
profits to help him maintain his family of seven sweet, gentle,
inefficient daughters, of all ages from two to eighteen, each with the
same abundant flaxen hair and pretty blue eyes, the same pale oval
cheeks and stooping shoulders, and a mother over them more inefficient
and gentle and stooping-shouldered still--the very sort of a quiverful,
as ill-natured (and richer) neighbors were apt to remark, that such an
incompetent creature as David Winthrop would be sure to possess. This
cousin had been a trial to Andrew Winthrop all his life. David was a
well-educated man, and he had a most lovable disposition; but he had the
incurable habit of postponing (with the best intentions) until another
time anything important which lay before him; the unimportant things he
did quite cheerily. If it were but reading the morning's paper, David
would be sure to not quite get to the one article which was of
consequence, but to read all the others first in his slow way, deferring
that one to a more convenient season when he could give to it his best
attention; of course the more convenient season never came. Mixed with
this constant procrastination there was a personal activity which was
amusingly misleading. Leaving the house in the morning, David would walk
to his foundery, a distance of a mile, with the most rapid step possible
which was not a run; the swing of his long arms, the slight frown of
preoccupation from business cares (it must have been that), would have
led any one to believe that, once his office reached, this man would
devote himself to his work with the greatest energy, would make every
moment tell. But once his office reached, this man devoted himself to
nothing, that is, to nothing of importance; he arrived breathless, and
hung up his hat; he rubbed his hands, and walked about the room; he
glanced over the letters, and made plans for answering them, pleasing
himself with the idea of the vigorous things he should say, and changing
the form of his proposed sentences in his own mind more than once; for
David wrote a very good letter, and was proud of it. Then he sharpened
all the pencils industriously, taking pains to give each one a very fine
point. He jotted down in neat figures with one of them, little
sums--sums which had no connection with the foundery, however, but
concerned themselves with something he had read the night before,
perhaps, as the probable population of London in A.D. 1966, or the
estimated value of a ton of coal in the year 3000. Then he would do a
little work on his plan (David made beautiful plans) for the house which
he hoped some day to build. And he would stare out of the window by the
hour, seeing nothing in particular, but having the vague idea that as he
was in his office, and at his desk, he was attending to business as
other men attended to it; what else was an office for?

Evert, as a boy, had always felt an interest in this whimsical cousin,
who came every now and then to see his father, with some new enterprise
(David was strong in enterprises) to consult him about--an enterprise
which was infallibly to bring in this time a large amount of money. But
this time was never David's time. And in the mean while his daughters
continued to appear and grow. Evert, left master, had had more faith in
David than his father had had; or perhaps it was more charity; for his
cousin had always been a source of refreshment to him--this humorous,
sweet-tempered man, who, with his gray-sprinkled hair and thin temples,
his well-known incompetency, and his helpless family behind him, had yet
no more care on his face than a child has, not half so much as Evert
himself, with his youth and health, his success and his fortune, to aid
him. But, curiously enough, David was quite well aware of his own
faults; his appreciation of them, indeed, had given him a manner of
walking slightly sidewise, his right shoulder and right leg a little
behind, as though conscious of their master's inefficiency and ashamed
of it. For the same reason he chronically hung his head a little as he
walked, and, if addressed, looked off at a distance mildly instead of at
the person who was speaking to him. But though thus conscious generally
of his failings, David was never beyond a sly joke about them and
himself. It was the way in which he laughed over these jokes (they were
always good ones) which had endeared him to his younger cousin: there
was such a delightful want of worldly wisdom about the man.

Having disentangled David, refunded his losses, and set him going again
in a small way, Evert had come southward. He would have preferred to go
back to Europe for a tour in Spain; but he felt sure that David would
entangle himself afresh before long (David had the most inscrutable ways
of entangling himself), and that, unless he were willing to continually
refund, he should do better to remain within call, at least for the
present. In the early spring another relative on his father's side, a
third cousin, was to add himself to the partnership, and this young man,
Evert hoped, would not only manage the foundery, but manage David as
well; when once this arrangement had been effected, the owner of the
foundery would be free.

All this was very characteristic of Evert Winthrop. He could easily have
given up all business enterprises; he could have invested his money
safely and washed his hands of that sort of care. To a certain extent he
had done this; but he wished to help David, and so he kept the foundery,
he wished to help two or three other persons, and so he retained other
interests. This, at least, was what he said to himself, and it was true;
yet the foundations lay deeper--lay in the fact that he had been born
into the world with a heavy endowment of energy; quiet as he appeared,
he had more than he knew what to do with, and was obliged to find
occupation for it. During boyhood this energy had gone into the double
tasks of education in books and in iron which his father had imposed
upon him; in young manhood it had gone into the scientific studies in
which his father had shared. Later had come the brilliant crowded years
of the far-seeing conception and vigorous execution which had given him
his largely increased wealth. Then the war occupied him; it occupied
