thoughts on other things she hardly noted the rambling, 
half-sentimental talk until a sentence startled her. Her 
face was turned upon him in the white heat of indigna- 
tion. 
"How dare you," she cried in vehement tones, — "how 
dare you offer me such an insult ! " and she rose to her 
feet trembling in every pulse. 
"An insult!" in amazement. " People in general are 
not so easily insulted with an offer of friendship and 
money at their disposal. You are much too fine-looking 
and spirited to waste all your years on that drunken 
brute of a Marshall. I 'd have no objection to helping 
you to a divorce even — " 
She walked out of the room in frigid dignity. In her 
own apartments she gave way to a passion of outraged 
feeling. How dared any man think such a thing of her. 
In her tempest of rage she could have strangled him. 
The next morning a note of dismissal awaited him. 
He sent a most abject apology, and begged her if she 
should ever want a friend to rely upon him. In all 
matters she would find him silent as the grave. 
Her woman's soul had been shaken to its very depths. 
She made one more effort to rouse her husband. He was 
still in the bloom of strong, healthy manhood, fitted by 
education and training to do a man's work in the world, 
and not grind his support out of the mother of his chil- 
dren. She appealed to his sympathy. The years had 
been a severe drain upon her ; and she thought it best to 
go back to quiet, household living, to devote herself to 
him an the children. She was ingenious, and had her 
sewing-machine, and there were other things she could 
do. Would he not join her in this new essay ? 
Of course he promised, though, truth to tell, he was 
a little puzzled and regretful. She gave up her house, 
paid her bills, and retired to apartments. Aunt Clara 
thought her short-sighted when she had succeeded in 
establishing herself. She found some embroidery and 
two music scholars. Then all the children had scarlet 
fever. To discharge her debts she was obliged to sell 
her piano. Tom made an essay at collecting, and became 
so confused in his affairs that she had to come to the 
rescue with money again. 
Mrs. Marshall came occasionally to see her son's wife, 
and cried over poor Tom. Aunt Clara gave her sym- 
pathy, and clothes to make over for the children; but 
they all liked her to keep out of sight. Their sensibili- 
ties were too deeply shocked, their nerves too delicate, 
to inquire closely into her sorrows. So she made her 
brave fight alone, matters growing worse and worse with 
her. Sewing was poorly paid, as she soon learned. The 
housework consumed much time, the children had various 
ailments from lack of proper diet and exercise, and most 
of all happy, childish pleasures. 
And then she saw a way out of it all. 
CHAPTER IL 
"If nothing but infinite pity is sufficient for the 
infinite pathos of human life." 
Elbanob Marshall did not take the most direct way 
home, although the cold was increasing every moment, 
and hard little pellets of snow were flung fiercely against 
each wayfarer. She was wrought up to an extreme of 
nervous excitement, and her questions had not even been 
argued, but battled against with the unreason of long 
custom. Was she right or wrong? Had she been 
patient in God's way? Was there some great thing she 
had left undone? 
A week ago she had gone to look upon a sight that she 
had not believed when it first reached her from coarse, 
gossiping tongues. She would have one more glimpse of 
it before she decided irrevocably. She passed down the 
side of the market that stood nearly in the centre of this 
large manufacturing town. At the lower end were several 
rather narrow streets, filled with restaurants, beer saloons, 
pool and billiard halls, the places growing lower in status 
as they drifted away from the main points of observation. 
She caught the refrain of noisy songs from young lads in 
tattered clothes and pinched red faces. Now and then a 
figure in hood and shawl scurried along, or some bold 
girl laughed out of a doorway to some rough passer-by. 
One little urchin jostled against her with, " Say, Missus, 
have you got tracts ? " and she gathered up her garments 
with shrinking and repulsion. Through uncurtained win- 
dows she saw bleared and leering faces, out of which the 
divine essence of humanity had perished. • Talk of perdi- 
tion I Why it was already here in these vile dens, reek- 
ing with odors of bad beer, tobacco, and all manner of 
filth that even the keen wintry air could not drive out. 
Here was the place. The sash was painted part of the 
way up to protect one from eyes too curious. Down the 
side of the dingy looking building ran a kind of alley-way 
with two windows opening on it. The faded and tawdry 
red curtain was partly drawn, and her eyes wandered 
around the interior. A sanded floor, strewn with bits of 
paper and cigar ends, several small tables ornamented 
with dominoes, a pack of dirty cards, beer mugs, and on 
one an old briarwood pipe. By the stove sat a man 
whose slouch hat was pushed up on his forehead, his 
hands thrust into his pockets, his bearded chin dropped 
down, half dozing. Fifteen years ago he had been her 
pride and delight, a noble, tender, polished gentleman. 
She used to contrast him with one other, whom she knew 
now loved her well ; but was there any one then she con- 
sidered his peer ? A swift, strong shudder ran over her; 
it seemed almost as if she must fall to the ground. 
The door opened. He roused and turned, his face a dull 
red with the mingled effects of heat and liquor. A rosy, 
buxom German girl entered, with a broad, coarse, good- 
humored countenance, strongly accented with stolidity. 
Her brawny arms were bare, but white and strong. She 
passed to inspect the fire, and he caught the arm nearest 
him, but she shook him off with a laugh. 
After she had mended the fire, there was a parley. He 
gave her some money and she disappeared, to come back 
with two glasses of foaming beer. A sudden movement 
brought her to his knee. He kissed her, and she laughed, 
then they jingled glasses. There was no touch of disdain 
or womanly pride. They drank their beer, and she 
laughed loud and long at some witticism. Presently, 
when the beer was done with, she threw both arms about 
his neck ; but the opening of a door interrupted the coarse 
caressing. 
Three or four grimy workmen entered. They must 
have been used to seeing this man, judging from their 
way of accosting him. There was another glass of beer 
all round, then Marshall sang them a song, which they 
applauded uproariously. O God, how had he fallen! 
She turned away sick at heart. This was the man 
whom society considered her head and master. Her 
earnings fed and clothed him, and gave him beer and 
whiskey to drink. She was helping him on the downward 
course. Was it right ? Must she and her children be the 
scorn of respectable people, and perhaps be dragged 
through hideous as well as bitter experiences. "For 
better, for worse." The words rang in her ear. Ah, if 
one could be sure of the strict requirements of the 
" worse." 
It was growing dark rapidly. The streets were filled 
with men and boys going home from work. How many 
of them dropped into these traps and pitfalls, lured by 
the warmth and sounds of merriment, and threw away the 
money that wife and children at home needed sorely. 
She felt as if she could sweep them all out of existence 
with a wave of her hand. Did the cry of the wronged 
and starved souls ever reach God? Was she indeed 
growing faithless ? 
She picked her way homeward with a sigh for almost 
every step, and a half despairing prayer to God. Up two 
pairs of stairs, she had chosen the top floor for the sake 
of being more by herself. The room she entered was 
bright and tidy, with a wholesome atmosphere, and oh, so 
cheerfully warm to both body and soul ! Celia Marshall 
had the supper-table set and the kettle boiling; Daisy 
was reading stories to Herbert. 
" O mamma, we thought you never would come ! 
How cold you are," kissing her. " What did make you 
stay so long? Sit down here and get good and warm 
while I make the tea. And could we treat ourselves to a 
bit of broiled fish, do you think ? " 
"Yes," she answered, as she took off her wrappings 
and smiled upon the little household. Celia was fourteen, 
