
" Then why don't they have Christmas in spring 
time ? " 

"Don't ask me, my dear; I don't know. The 
thing began in the ages of ignorance, I suppose; 
and as all it means now is a time of feasting and 
jollity, the dead of winter will do as well as an 
other time. But it is a Popish observance, my 
child; it is a Popish observance." 

" There's no harm in it, papa, is there ? if it 
means only feasting and jollity, as you say." 

" There is always harm in superstition. This is 
no more the time of Christ's birth than any other 
day that you could choose; but there is a superstition about it; and I object to giving a superstitious reverence to what is nothing at all. Rever 
ence the Bible as much as you please; you cannot 
too much; but do not put any ordinance of man, 
whether it be of the Popish church or any other, 
on a level with what the Bible commands." 

The colonel had finished his toast, and was turn 
ing to his book again. 





" Pitt has been telling me of the way they keep 
Christmas in England," Esther went on. "The 
Yule log, and the games, and the songs, and the 
plays." 

" Godless ways," said the colonel, settling himself 
to his reading ; " godless ways ! It is a great deal 
better in this country, where they make nothing 
of Christmas. No good comes of those things." 

Esther would disturb her father no more by her 
words, but she went on pondering, unsatisfied. In 
any question which put Mrs. Dallas and her father 
on opposite sides, she had no doubt whatever that 
her father must be in the right; but it was a pity, 
for surely in the present case Mrs. Dallas's house 
had the advantage. The Christmas decorations 
had been so pretty ! the look of them was so bright 
and festive ! the walls she had round her at home 
were bare and stiff and cold. No doubt her father 
must be right, but it was a pity ! 

The next day was Christmas day. Pitt being 
in attendance on his father and mother, busied 
with the religious and other observances of the 
festival, Esther did not see him till the afternoon. 
Late in the day, however, he came, and brought 
in his hands a large bouquet of hothouse flowers. 
If the two had been alone, Esther would have 
greeted him and them with very lively demonstrations; as it was, it amused the young man to see 
the sparkle in her eye, and the lips half opened for 
a cry of joy, and the sudden flush on her cheek, 
and at the same time the quiet, unexcited demeanour she maintained. Esther rose indeed, but then 
stood silent and motionless and said not a word; 
while Pitt paid his compliments to her father. A 
new fire flashed from her eye when at last he approached her and offered her the flowers. 

"0 Pitt! Pitt! "was all Esther with bated 
breath could say. The colonel eyed the bouquet 
a moment and then turned to nis book. He was 
on his sofa, and seemingly gave no further heed to 
the young people. 

U Pitt, where could you get these ! " The girl's 
breath was almost taken away. 

" Only one place where I could get them. Don't 
you know old Macpherson's greenhouse?" 

" But he don't let people in, I thought, in winter ? " 

" He let me in." 

"0 Pitt, how wonderful! What is this? Now 
you must tell me all the names. This beautiful 
white geranium with purple lines? " 

"It's a Pelargonium; belongs to the Geraniacese; 
this one they call Mecranthon. It's a beauty, isn't 
it? This little white blossom is Myrtle; don't you 
know myrtle ? " 

" And this geranium ? this purple one ? " 

"That is Napoleon; and this Louise, and this 
Belle. This red magnificence is a Metrosideros; 
this white flower, is I forget its name; but 
this, this sweet one, is Daphne. Then here are 
two heaths; then this thick leaf is Laurustinus, 
and this other, with the red bud, Camellia japonica." 





" how perfectly beautiful ! " exclaimed the de 
lighted child. " how perfectly beautiful ! And 
this yellow flower ? " 

" Coronilla" 

"And this, is it a red wallflower?" 

"A red wallflower; you are right." 

" how lovely ! and how sweet ! And these 
blue?" 

" These little blue flowers are Lobelia; they are 
cousins of the cardinal flower; that is Lobelia cardinalis; these are Lobelia erinus and Lobelia gracilis" 

He watched the girl, for under the surprise and 
pleasure of his gift her face was itself but a nobler 
flower, all glowing and flashing and fragrant. With 
eyes dewy with delight she hung over the bouquet, 
almost trembling in her eagerness of joy. She set 
the flowers carefully in a vase, with tender circumspection, lest a leaf might be wronged by chance 
crowding or inadvertent handling. Pitt watched 
and read it all. He felt a great compassion for 
Esther. This creature, full of life and sensibility, 
receptive to every influence, at twelve years old 
shut up to the company of a taciturn and melan 
choly father and an empty house ! What would 
ever become of her? There was the colonel now, 
on the sofa, attending only to his book; caring 
nothing for what was so moving his child. No 
body cared, or was anywhere to sympathize with 
her. And if she grew up so, shut up to herself, 
every feeling and desire repressed for want of 
expression or of somebody to express it to, how 



 

would her nature ever develop? would it not grow 
stunted and poor, compared with what it might 
be? He was sorry for his little playmate and 
friend; and it did the young fellow credit, I think, 
for at his age boys are not wont to be tenderly 
sympathetic towards anything, unless it be a be 
loved mother or sister. Pitt silently watched the 
putting the flowers in water, speculating upon the 
very unhopeful condition of this little human plant, 
and revolving schemes in his mind. 

After he had gone, Col. Gainsborough bade Esther shew him her flowers. She brought the dish 
to his sofa. The colonel reviewed them with a 
somewhat jealous eye, did not seem to perceive 
their beauty, and told her to take them away again. 
But the next day, when Esther was not in the room, 
