a clean sharp chopping-knife work the lard into this, turning and
chopping until no lumps are left. Into a hollow in the middle pour
the milk, working the flour downward until you have a soft, wet mass,
using the chopper for this purpose. Flour your pastry-board and your
hands, make the dough into a ball, handling it as little as possible,
and lay on the board. Roll out with a floured rolling-pin into a sheet
half an inch in thickness, and with very few strokes. Cut into round
cakes, sift flour lightly over the bottom of a baking-pan, and set your
biscuits—just not touching one another—in even rows within it.
Bake about twelve minutes in a quick oven. The dough should have a
rough appearance before it is baked, like what is known as “pebbled
morocco.” Too much handling will make it sleek without and tough within.
You can make excellent quick biscuits by the above receipt, by
substituting Hecker’s Prepared Flour for the barreled family flour,
and omitting the baking-powder. You will, however, probably be obliged
to add a little more milk, as prepared flour “thickens up” rather more
than other brands.
4
OTHER BREAKFAST BREADS.
Griddle Cakes.
IN making these, let quickness be the first, second and third rules.
Beat briskly and thoroughly; mix just as you are ready to send the
cakes to the table (except when yeast is used), bake, turn, and serve
promptly. Have all your materials on the table, measured and ready to
your hand. The griddle must be perfectly clean and wiped off with a dry
cloth just before you lay it on the stove. Heat it gradually at one
side of the stove or range, and when it is warm grease with a bit of
fat salt pork stuck firmly on a fork. The fat should be hissing hot,
but not scorching, when the batter is poured on. Before putting the
cakes on to fry, slip the griddle to the hottest part of the stove.
Drop the batter in great, even spoonfuls, and be careful not to spill
or spatter it.
M. H. PHILLIPS AND CO., of Troy, N. Y., manufacture a griddle with
three shallow cups sunken in an iron plate which moves on a hinge. When
the cakes are done on the lower side the turn of a handle reverses
the plate upon a heated surface. This makes the cakes of equal size
and thickness and saves the trouble of watching, spatula in hand, to
turn each one. It greatly simplifies the process of baking cakes, and,
lessens the heating labor of attending to them.
Be sure that each cake is done before you turn it. A twice-turned
“griddle” is spoiled.
Sour-milk Cakes.
    One quart of “loppered,” or of buttermilk.
    Three cups of sifted flour.
    One cup of Indian meal.
    One “rounded” teaspoonful of soda free from lumps.
    One teaspoonful of salt.
    Two tablespoonfuls of molasses.
Sift flour, salt and meal into a bowl. In another mix the milk,
molasses and soda. Stir these last to a foam, and pour into the hollow
in the middle of the flour. Work down the flour into the liquid with
a wooden spoon until you have a batter, and beat hard with upward
strokes, two minutes. Bake at once. These are cheap, easy and good
cakes.
Hominy Cakes.
    Two cups of fine hominy boiled and cold. (Take the
      tough skin from the top before mixing in the batter.)
    One heaping cup of sifted flour.
    One quart of milk.
    Three eggs beaten very light.
    One tablespoonful of molasses.
    One teaspoonful of salt.
Rub the hominy with the back of a wooden spoon until all the lumps are
broken up. Wet it little by little with the milk and molasses, working
it smooth as you go on. Sift flour and salt together, and put in next.
Beat for a whole minute before adding the whipped eggs, and another
minute very hard, before baking. Stir up well from the bottom before
putting each fresh batch of cakes on the griddle.
These cakes if properly made, are tender, wholesome and delightful.
Graham Cakes.
    Two cups of Graham flour.
    One of sifted white.
    One heaping tablespoonful of Indian meal.
    Three cups of buttermilk, or loppered milk.
    One rounded teaspoonful of soda.
    Two tablespoonfuls of molasses.
    One teaspoonful of salt sifted with the flour.
    Two eggs whipped very light.
    One tablespoonful melted butter.
Put Graham and salted white flour into a bowl with the Indian meal.
Stir up in another milk, molasses, soda and melted butter, and while
foaming pour into the hollowed flour. Work to a good batter and beat in
the eggs already whipped to a froth.
Beat one minute and bake at once.
This is a good standard breakfast hot bread.
5
EGGS.
MANY people do not know a well-boiled egg by sight or taste, yet
a fresh egg, boiled to a nicety, is one of the simplest, most
nutritious of breakfast dishes.
Boiled Eggs.
Select the cleanest eggs, wash them well, and lay them in lukewarm
water for five minutes. Have ready on the fire a saucepan of water on a
fast boil, and in quantity sufficient to cover the eggs entirely. Into
this put one egg at a time with a spoon, depositing each gently on the
bottom, and quickly.
Four minutes boils an egg thoroughly, if one likes the white set and
the yolk heated to the centre. Five minutes makes the white firm and
sets the yolk. Ten minutes boils both hard.
Take up the eggs with a split spoon or wire whisk. If you have no
regular egg dish, lay a heated napkin in a deep dish or bowl (also
warmed), put in the eggs as in a nest, cover up with the corners of the
napkin, and send directly to the table. They harden in the shells if
left long without being broken.
The best way to manage a boiled egg at the table is the English way of
setting it upright in the small end of the egg-cup, making a hole in
the top large enough to admit the egg-spoon, and eating it from the
shell, seasoning as you go on. Heat and taste are undoubtedly better
preserved by this method than by any other. Those who cannot afford
gold-washed spoons, can procure pretty ivory ones at a trifling cost,
or small teaspoons will serve the purpose.
Spoons smeared with eggs should be laid to soak in cold water
directly you have finished using them.
Custard Eggs.
Put the washed eggs in a saucepan of cold water and let them just come
to a boil, then take them up.
Or, lay them in a hot tin pail, cover them with boiling water, put the
top on the pail and leave them on the kitchen table for five minutes.
Drain off the water, pour on more boiling hot and replace the top.
Wrap a hot towel about the pail, and leave it four minutes before
dishing the eggs. They will be like a soft custard throughout, and more
digestible than if cooked in any other way.
Poached, or Dropped Eggs.
Into a clean frying-pan, pour plenty of boiling water, and a
teaspoonful of salt. Let it boil steadily, not violently. Wipe a cup
dry, break an egg into it, and pour, very cautiously and quickly, on
the surface of the water. Avoid spreading or breaking it. It will sink
to the bottom for an instant, but if the water is boiling hot, will
rise soon and be cooked in about three and a half minutes. Do not put
more than three into the pan at one time, or they will run into one
another.
Take them up with a perforated skimmer and lay on a hot, flat dish
in which a teaspoonful of butter has been melted. If the whites have
ragged edges, trim neatly with a sharp knife. When all are done, pepper
and salt lightly, put a bit of butter on each egg and send up very
hot.
Eggs on Toast.
Cut out with a sharp-edged tumbler or a cake cutter as many round
slices of stale bread as there are eggs to be cooked. Toast these
nicely, butter thinly; cover the bottom of a heated dish with them, and
pour on each a tablespoonful of boiling water. Set in the plate-warmer
or an open oven while you poach eggs as directed in the last receipt.
Lay each when done on a round of toast, pepper, salt and butter, and
serve.
Eggs on Savory Toast.
Toast rounds of stale bread as directed in preceding receipt, but
instead of moistening them with hot water, pour upon them, as they
lie in the dish, two tablespoonfuls of boiling gravy to each slice.
A half-cupful of gravy left over from yesterday’s roast or stew
skimmed free of fat, heated, thinned with a very little boiling water,
well-seasoned, then strained and boiled up quickly, makes this a
tempting dish.
Poach as many eggs as you have rounds of toast, and lay on these, with
pepper, salt and bits of butter.
Scrambled or Stirred Eggs.
    Nine eggs.
    One tablespoonful of butter.
    Half a teaspoonful of salt.
    A little pepper.
    Half a teaspoonful of chopped parsley very fine.
