that stroked him, poor Tom lifted his great paw for a farewell shake,
and died, with his great head on his master's knee, in token of
forgiveness. As if to atone for their seeming cruelty, Fanny hung the
little house with black while Tom lay in state, and Fred, resisting all
temptations to keep his fine skin, buried him like a warrior "with his
martial cloak around him," in the green woods he loved so well.
                              II. BOYS.
The next tenants of the little house were three riotous lads,--for
Fred's family moved away,--and the new comers took possession one fine
spring day with great rejoicing over this ready-made plaything. They
were queer fellows, of eleven, twelve, and fourteen; for, having read
the "Boys' Froissart" and other warlike works, they were quite carried
away by these stirring tales, and each boy was a hero. Harry, the
eldest, was Henry of Navarre, and wore a white plume on every occasion.
Ned was the Black Prince, and clanked in tin armor, while little Billy
was William Tell and William Wallace by turns.
Tom's deserted mansion underwent astonishing changes about this time.
Bows and arrows hung on its walls; battle-axes, lances, and guns stood
in the corners; helmets, shields, and all manner of strange weapons
adorned the rafters; cannon peeped from its port-holes; a drawbridge
swung over the moat that soon surrounded it; the flags of all nations
waved from its roof, and the small house was by turns an armory, a fort,
a castle, a robber's cave, a warrior's tomb, a wigwam, and the Bastile.
The neighbors were both amused and scandalized by the pranks of these
dramatic young persons; for they enacted with much spirit and skill all
the historical events which pleased their fancy, and speedily enlisted
other boys to join in the new plays. At one time, painted and
be-feathered Indians whooped about the garden, tomahawking the unhappy
settlers in the most dreadful manner. At another, Achilles, radiant in a
tin helmet and boiler-cover shield, dragged Hector at the tail of his
chariot (the wheel-barrow), drawn by two antic and antique steeds, who
upset both victor and vanquished before the fun was over. Tell shot
bushels of apples off the head of the stuffed suit of clothes that acted
his son, Coeur de Leon and Saladin hacked blocks and cut cushions à la
Walter Scott, and tournaments of great splendor were held on the grass,
in which knights from all ages, climes, and races, tilted gallantly,
while fair dames of tender years sat upon the wood-pile to play Queens
of Beauty and award the prize of valor.
Nor were more modern heroes forgotten. Napoleon crossed the Alps (a muck
heap, high fence, and prickly hedge), with intrepid courage. Wellington
won many a Waterloo in the melon patch, and Washington glorified every
corner of the garden by his heroic exploits. Grant smoked sweet-fern
cigars at the fall of Richmond; Sherman marched victoriously to Georgia
through the corn and round the tomato bed, and Phil Sheridan electrified
the neighborhood by tearing down the road on a much-enduring donkey,
stung to unusual agility by matches tied to his tail.
It grew to be an almost daily question among the young people, "What are
the Morton boys at now?" for these interesting youths were much admired
by their mates, who eagerly manned the fences to behold the revels, when
scouts brought word of a new play going on. Mrs. Morton believed in
making boys happy at home, and so allowed them entire liberty in the
great garden, as it was safer than river, streets, or ball-ground, where
a very mixed crowd was to be found. Here they were under her own eye,
and the safe, sweet tie between them still held fast; for she was never
too busy to bind up their wounds after a fray, wave her handkerchief
when cheers told of victory, rummage her stores for costumes, or join in
their eager study of favorite heroes when rain put an end to their
out-of-door fun.
So the summer was a lively one, and though the vegetables suffered some
damage, a good crop of healthy, happy hours was harvested, and all were
satisfied. The little house looked much the worse for the raids made
upon it, but still stood firm with the stars and stripes waving over it,
and peace seemed to reign one October afternoon as the boys lay under
the trees eating apples and planning what to play next.
"Bobby wants to be a knight of the Round Table. We might take him in and
have fun with the rites, and make him keep a vigil and all that,"
proposed William Wallace, anxious to admit his chosen friend to the
inner circle of the brotherhood.
"He's such a little chap he'd be scared and howl. I don't vote for
that," said the Black Prince, rather scornfully, as he lay with his
kingly legs in the air, and his royal mouth full of apple.
"I do!" declared Henry of Navarre, always generous, and amiable. "Bob is
a plucky little chap, and will do anything we put him to. He's poor and
the other fellows look down on him, so that's another reason why we
ought to take him in and stand by him. Let's give him a good trial, and
if he's brave, we'll have him."
"So we will! Let's do it now; he's over there waiting to be asked in.
He doesn't go poking his nose where he isn't wanted, as some folks
do," cried Billy, who had often been snubbed by the big boys in his
efforts at knightly feats.
A whistle brought Bobby, with a beaming face, for he burned to join the
fun, but held back because he was not a gentleman's son. A sturdy,
honest little soul was Bobby, true as steel, brave as a lion, and loyal
as an old-time vassal to his young lord, kind Billy, who always told him
all the plans, explained the mysteries, and shared the goodies when
feasts were spread.
Now he stood leaning against one of the posts of the little house
whither the boys had adjourned, and listened bashfully while Harry told
him what he must do to join the heroes of the Round Table. He did not
understand half of it, but was ready for any trial, and took the comical
oath administered to him with the utmost solemnity.
"You must stay here locked in for some hours, and watch your armor.
That's the vigil young knights had to keep before they could fight. You
mustn't be scared at any noises you hear, or anything you see, or sing
out for help, even if you stay here till dark. You'll be a coward if you
do, and never have a sword."
"I promise truly; hope to die if I don't!" answered Bobby, fixing his
blue eyes on the speaker, and holding his curly head erect with the air
of one ready to face any peril; for the desire of his soul was to own a
sword, like Billy, and clash it on warlike occasions.
Then a suit of armor was piled up on the red box, which was by turns
altar, table, tomb, and executioner's block. Banners were hung over it,
the place darkened, two candles lighted, and after certain rites which
cannot be divulged, the little knight was left to his vigil with the
door locked.
The boys howled outside, smote on the roof, fired a cannon, and taunted
the prisoner with derisive epithets to stir him to wrath. But no cry
answered them, no hint of weariness, fear, or anger betrayed him, and
after a half-hour of this sort of fun, they left him to the greater
trial of silence, solitude, and uncertainty.
The short afternoon was soon gone, and the tea bell rang before the
vigil had lasted long enough.
"He won't know what time it is; let's leave him till after supper, and
then march out with torches and bring him in to a good feed. Mother
won't mind, and Hetty likes to stuff fellows," proposed Harry, and all
being hungry, the first part of the plan was carried out at once.
But before tea was over, the unusual clang of the fire bells drove all
thought of Bobby out of the boys' minds, as they raced away to the
exciting scene, to take their share in the shouting, running, and
tumbling about in every one's way.
The great hotel was burning, and till midnight the town was in an
uproar. No lives were lost, but much property, and nothing else was
thought of till dawn. A heavy shower did good service, and about one
o'clock, people began to go home tired out. Mrs. Morton and other ladies
were too busy giving shelter to the people from the hotel, and making
coffee for the firemen, to send their boys to bed. In fact, they could
not catch them; for the youngsters were wild with excitement, and
pervaded the place like will-o'-the-wisps, running errands, lugging
furniture, splashing about with water, and howling till they were as
hoarse as crows.
"This is the battle of Beauvais, and we've set the city a-fire by
flinging pitch-pots over the walls," croaked Harry to Ned as they bumped
against each other, one carrying a great coffee-pot and the other a
feather-bed.
"No, it's the fall of Troy, and I'm Æneas lugging off the old man,"
panted Ned, staggering away with the heavy load on his back.
At last the flurry was over, and our three lads, very dirty, wet, and
tired, went to bed and to sleep, and never once thought of poor Bobby,
till next morning. Then Harry suddenly rose up, with an exclamation that
effectually roused both his brothers.
"By St. Dennis, we've left that boy there all night!"
"He wouldn't be such a fool as to stay; that old lock's broken easy
enough," said Ned, looking troubled, in spite of his words.
"Yes, he would! He promised, and he'll keep his word like a true knight.
It rained and was cold, and no one knew where he was. Oh dear, I hope he
isn't dead," cried Billy, tumbling out of bed and into his clothes as
fast as he could.
The others laughed, but dressed with unusual speed, and flew to the
garden house, to find the lock unbroken, and all as still inside as when
they left it. Looking very anxious, Harry opened the door and all peeped
in. There, at his post before the altar, lay the little knight fast
asleep. Rain had soaked his clothes, the chilly night air made his lips
and hands purple with cold, and the trials of those long hours left the
round cheeks rather pale. But he still guarded his arms, and at the
first sound was awake and ready to defend them, though somewhat shaky
with sleep and stiffness.
The penitent boys poured forth apologies, in which fire, remorse, and
breakfast were oddly mixed. Bobby forgave them like a gentleman, only
saying, with a laugh and a shiver, "Guess I'd better go home, ma'll be
worried about me. If I'd known being out all night and getting wet was
