"No, really? I like her very much, too: and I am very glad if she likes
me."

"She said she would not marry you if you asked her, though," said Mrs.
Sam, laughing again. "You see you must not flatter yourself too much."

"I do not. I should not think of asking her to marry me. Did she give any
especial reason why she would inevitably refuse me?"

"Yes, indeed; she said you were lion-like, and, oh, the most delightful
things! But she said she would not marry you if you asked her, because you
are a celebrity and devoted to your career, so that there is no room for a
woman in your life. Is that true?"

"I am not so sure," said John, thoughtfully. "Perhaps she is right in the
way she means. I never thought much about it."




CHAPTER XII.



The idea Joe had formed about Vancouver was just, in the main, and she was
not far wrong in disliking him and thinking him dangerous. Nevertheless
John Harrington understood the man better. Vancouver was so constituted
that his fine intellect and quick perception were unsupported by any
strong principle of individuality. He was not capable of hatred--he could
only be spiteful; he could not love, he could only give a woman what he
could spare of himself. He would at all times rather avoid an open
encounter, but he rarely neglected an opportunity of dealing a thrust at
any one he disliked, when he could do so safely. He was the very opposite
of John, who never said of any one what he would not say to themselves,
and granted to every man the broadest right of judgment and freedom of
opinion. Nevertheless there was not enough real strength in anything
Vancouver felt to make him very dangerous as an opponent, nor valuable as
a friend. Had it not been for the important position he had attained by
his clever subtlety in affairs, and by the assistance of great railroad
magnates who found in him a character and intelligence precisely suited to
their ends, Pocock Vancouver would have been a neutral figure in the
world, lacking both the enterprise to create an idea and the courage to
follow it out. It was most characteristic of his inherent smallness, that
in spite of his wealth and the very large operations that must be
constantly occupying his thoughts, he could demean himself to write
anonymous articles in a daily paper, in the hope of injuring a man he
disliked.

It is true that his feeling against Harrington was as strong as anything
in his nature. He detested John's strength because he had once made him a
confidence and John had done him a favor. He disliked him also because he
knew that wherever they chanced to be together John received an amount of
consideration and even of respect which he himself could not obtain with
all his money and all his cleverness. His mind, too, delighted in detail
and revolted against John's sweeping generalities. For these several
reasons Vancouver had taken great delight in writing and printing sundry
vicious criticisms upon John in the absolute certainty of not being found
out. The editor of the paper did not know Vancouver's name, for the
articles came through the post with a modest request that they might be
inserted if they were of any use; and they were generally so pungent and
to the point that the editor was glad to get them, especially as no
remuneration was demanded.

As for the confidence Vancouver had once made to John, it was another
instance of his littleness. At the time when Vancouver was anxious to
marry Sybil Brandon, John Harrington was very intimate at the house, and
was, in Vancouver's opinion, a dangerous rival; at all events he felt that
the contest was not an agreeable one, nor altogether to his own advantage.
Accordingly he tried every means to clear the coast, as he expressed it;
but although John probably had no intention of marrying Sybil, and Sybil
certainly had never thought of marrying John, the latter was fond of her
society, and of her mother's, and came to the cottage on the Newport cliff
with a regularity that drove Vancouver to the verge of despair. Pocock at
last could bear it no longer and asked John to dinner. Over a bottle of
Pommery Sec he confided his passion, and hinted that John was the obstacle
to his wooing. Harrington raised his eyebrows, smiled, wished Vancouver
all success, and left Newport the next day. If Vancouver had not disgusted
Sybil by his inquiries concerning her fortune, he would have married her,
and his feelings towards John would have been different. But to know that
Harrington had done him the favor of going away, knowing that he was about
to offer himself to Miss Brandon, and then to have failed in his suit was
more than the vanity of Mr. Pocock Vancouver could bear with any sort of
calmness, and the consequence was that he disliked John as much as he
disliked anybody or anything in the world. There is no resentment like the
resentment of wounded vanity, nor any self-reproach like that of a man who
has shown his weakness.

When Mrs. Wyndham told John the story of Vancouver's failure he could have
told her the rest, had he chosen, and she would certainly have been very
much amused. But John was not a man to betray a confidence, even that of a
man who had injured him, and so he merely laughed and kept his own
counsel. He would have scorned to speak to Vancouver about the articles,
or to make any change in his manner towards him. As he had said to
Josephine, he had expected nothing from the man, and now he was not
disappointed.

Meanwhile Vancouver, who was weakly but frequently susceptible to the
charms of woman, had made up his mind that if Josephine had enough pin-money she would make him an admirable wife, and he accordingly began to
make love to her in his own fashion, as has been seen. A day or two
earlier Joe would have laughed at him, and it would perhaps have amused
her to hear what he had to say, as it amuses most young women to listen to
pretty speeches. But Joe was between two fires, so to speak; she was under
the two influences that were strongest with her. She loved John Harrington
with all her heart, and she hated Vancouver with all her strength. It is
true that her hatred was the only acknowledged passion, for her maidenly
nature was not able yet to comprehend her love; and the mere thought that
she cared for a man who did not care for her brought the hot blush to her
cheek. But the love was in her heart all the same, strong and enduring, so
that Vancouver found the fortress doubly guarded.

He could not entirely explain to himself her conduct at the party. She had
always seemed rather willing to accept his attentions and to listen to his
conversation, but on this particular evening, just when he wished to make
a most favorable impression, she had treated him with surprising coldness.
There was a supreme superiority in the way she had at first declined his
services, and had then told him he might be permitted to get her a glass
of water. The subsequent satisfaction of having ousted Mr. Bonamy
Biggielow, the little poet, from his position at her side was small
enough, and was more than counterbalanced and destroyed by her returning
to her chaperon at the first soft-tongued insinuation of a desire to
flirt, which Vancouver ventured to speak. Moreover, when Harrington almost
pushed him aside and sat down by Josephine, Vancouver could bear it no
longer, but turned on his heel and went away, with black thoughts in his
heart. It seemed as though John was to be always in his way.

It would be hard to say what he would have felt had he known that
Josephine Thorn, John Harrington, and Mrs. Sam Wyndham all knew of his
journalistic doings. And yet it was nearly certain that no one of the
three would ever speak to him on the subject. Joe would not, because she
knew John would not like it; John himself despised the whole business too
much to condescend to reproach Vancouver; and, finally, Mrs. Wyndham was
too much a woman of the world to be willing to cause a scandal when it
could possibly be avoided. She liked Vancouver too, and regretted what he
had done. Her liking only extended to his conversation and agreeable
manners, for she was beginning to despise his character; but he had so
long been an habitué about the house that she could not make up her
mind to turn him out. But for all that, she could not help being cold to
him at first.

John himself was too busy with important matters to bestow much thought on
Vancouver or his doings. His day had been spent in interviews and letter-writing; fifty people had been to see him at his rooms, and he had
dispatched more than that number of letters. At five o'clock he had
slipped out with the intention of dining at his club before any one else
was there, but he had met Mrs. Wyndham in the street, and had spent his
dinner-hour with her. At half-past six he had another appointment in his
rooms, and it was not till nearly eleven that he was able to get away and
look in upon the party, when he met Joe. For a week this kind of life
would probably last, and then all would be over, in one way or another,
but meanwhile the excitement was intense.

On the next day Ronald came to see Joe before ten o'clock. The time hung
heavily on his hands, and he found it impossible to occupy himself with
his troubles. There were moments when the first impression of
disappointment returned upon him very strongly, but he was conscious of a
curious duplicity about his feelings, and he knew well enough in his
inmost heart that he was only evoking a fictitious regret out of respect
for what he thought he ought to feel.

"Tell me all about the people here, Joe," said he, sitting down beside her
almost as though nothing had happened. "Who is Mrs. Wyndham, to begin
