
Dory secured the peak halyard without paying any attention to the shout
of the skipper. When he had put on the half hitch, he went aft again.

"Let the sail down just as quick as you can!" yelled Bissell.

"I think not," replied Dory quietly.

"If you don't, I shall lower it myself. I can't stand this!" added the
frightened skipper.

"This boat belongs to you, Mr. Bissell, and you can do what you please
with her, and I shall not quarrel with you about it. If you don't want
any assistance, Paul and I will return to the barge."

"But I don't want anybody to sink her," protested the skipper.

"I shall not sink her; but it is all nonsense to think of baling her out
while she is in the trough of the sea, shipping water as fast or faster
than you can throw it out. I am not willing that Paul should wear
himself out for nothing."

"That's the only way to keep her from sinking."

"You have a perfect right to your own opinion, as I have to mine. I am
confident that I can get the sloop out of this scrape, if you will allow
me to do it; if not, Paul and I will return to the barges."

"But I want you to help bale out the boat. She will sink if the water
rises any higher in her," the skipper insisted.

At that moment, a heavier wave than usual struck her, and rolled the
boat over till she took in at least a barrel of water. Bissell sprang
from his seat as though he expected the Silver Moon to go to the bottom
at that instant. But she did not sink, though her floating power seemed
to be very nearly exhausted.

"Do you see that?" demanded the skipper, as though he regarded the water
just shipped as a triumphant vindication of his opinion.

"I see it; and I should say she will go down after she has done that
thing once or twice more," replied Dory calmly. "Say quick whether I am
to get the sloop under way, or whether I am to leave her! Do as you
please about it. The barges will save you when she sinks."

"I will see what you are going to do," replied Bissell doggedly; and he
was by no means convinced, though he was satisfied that he could do
nothing alone to save the craft.

Dory made no reply, for he was rather disgusted with the obstinacy and
nautical ignorance of the skipper. Taking one of the oars in his hand,
he went to the side of the boat and hailed the commodore of the
barge-fleet.

"I am going to get under way now, for there is nothing the matter with
the boat," said Dory.

"All right, Dory," replied Oscar, as he looked about him to determine
the best way to separate the barges, and get them clear of the Silver
Moon.

They were all lying close together, the Gildrock being nearest to the
bow of the sloop. The commodore ordered the Winooski to cast off first.
With her port oars she kept her head up to the sea till those on the
other side of the boat were clear of the Marian, which was next to her.
When her twelve oars were in the water, the boys backed her clear of the
other boats, and then the crew were ordered to lay on their oars. In the
same manner the other two boats backed into safe positions. The barges
pitched tremendously, and the ladies were inclined to "squeal." When any
of them attempted to stand up, the gallant coxswains pulled them back
into their seats.

"Are they going to quit us?" asked Bissell, as he looked with something
like dismay upon the movements of the barges.

"We could not get the sloop under way with all those boats hanging to
her," replied Dory. "They will be here quick enough if they are wanted.
But we are not going to ship any more water; we shall leave the rest of
it in the lake."

"I don't see how you are going to help taking in all the water that
rolls in," growled the skipper.

"If you keep your eyes wide open tight for one minute more, I will show
you that the Silver Moon is the mistress of the situation, and Lake
Champlain will have to stay out in the cold," replied Dory, as he
shipped his oar between a couple of thole-pins on the quarter.

"There is another oar under the seats," added Bissell.

"One is enough to do the business," said Dory, as he began to pull with
all his might.

The water-logged craft moved as though it had been fastened to the
bottom. The boom was still hanging out at right angles with the keel,
and the main sheet was flopping about in the water.

"Can't I help you?" asked Bissell.

"You may take the other oar, if you please."

The skipper pulled out the oars, and was about to ship it on the weather
side when Dory interposed, and, shifting his own blade to the fore
rigging, directed his companion to ship his between the thole-pins he
had left.

"On this side? Who ever heard of rowing in that way?" blustered Bissell.
"Both oars on the same side!"

"We have no time to argue the question now, if you want to keep your
boat on the top of the water instead of the bottom," said Dory sharply.

Bissell did as he was told, though he had no faith in rowing with two
oars on one side of the boat. The united strength of the two was
immediately seen in the motion of the boat. Her bow was soon thrown up
to the wind, and then the boom swung in over the standing room. This was
the acting skipper's object, and as soon as he could reach the main
sheet, he dropped his oar. Grasping the rope, he carried it aft, and got
a turn with it over the cleat above the rudder head.

The sail filled as soon as he hauled in the sheet, and Dory got hold of
the tiller. The sloop heeled over till Bissell declared that the new
skipper would upset her. Paul continued to bale with all his might.
Dory trimmed the sail down as flat as he could, and soon had perfect
control of the craft, heavy as her movements were in her water-logged
condition. He was obliged to touch her up in the fierce blasts which
struck her, but he had her well balanced, and she did not realize any of
the evil predictions of her incompetent skipper. On the other hand, she
did not dip up any more water over her gunwale, and all that came into
her was in the form of spray.

At Dory's suggestion, Bissell got out a firkin in which the lunch for
the party had been brought on board, and assisted Paul in the work of
baling. But there were hogsheads of water in her, and the process of
relieving her was very slow. The three barges were still laying on their
oars, watching the movements of the Silver Moon. Dory ran for Button
Island, which was separated from the main land only by a narrow channel.
Slacking off the sheet, he ran her aground in the sand behind the point,
where the water was as smooth as the lake in a calm.

"She is aground!" exclaimed Bissell, as the keel grated on the bottom.

"I know it; and that is where I intended to have her," replied Dory, as
he left the tiller.

Bissell began to protest that he would not have the boat aground; but
the new skipper paid no attention to him. Taking the bucket from Paul,
he told him to rest. Dory worked hard at baling for half an hour, and
Bissell did his part as soon as he found that his protest was not
heeded. By this time the water had dropped so it had to be dipped out of
the well. It was all out at last, and the well sponged dry. To the
stupid astonishment of Bissell, the Silver Moon was again afloat.




CHAPTER XV.

"ROLL ON, SILVER MOON."

