


Uccelli's," she answered i)atiently, without lifting 
her head. 

Imogene winced, but " I should despise him if he 
were merely a society man," she said. " I have seen 
enough of them. I think it's better to be intel- 
lectual and good." 

Mrs. Bowen made no reply, and the girl went on. 
" And as to his being older, I don't see what dif- 
ference it makes. If people are in sympathy, then 
they are of the same age, no difference how much 
older than one the other is. I have always heard 
that." She urged this as if it were a question. 

" Yes," said Mrs. Bowen. 

"And how should his having been a newspaper 
editor be anything against him ? " 

Mrs. Bowen lifted her face and stared at the girl 
in astonishment. " Who said it was against him ? " 

" You hint as much. The whole letter is against 
him." 

" Imogene ! " 

" Yes ! Every word ! You make him out per- 
fectly detestable. I don't know why you should 
hsite'him. He 's done everything he could to satisfy 

you." 

Mrs. Bowen rose from her desk, putting her hand 
to her forehead, as if to soften a shock of headache 
that her change of posture had sent there. "I will 
leave the letter with you, and you can send it or not 
as you think best. It's merely a formality, my 
writing to your mother. Perhaps you 'll see it dif- 
ferently in the morning. Effie ! " she called to the 



 

child, who with her book shut upon her hand had 
been staring at them and listening intently. " It 's 
time to go to bed now." 

When Effie stood before the glass in her mother's 
room, and Mrs. Bowen was braiding her hair and 
tying it up for the night, she asked ruefully, 
" What 's the matter with Imogene, mamma t " 

" She isn't very happy to-night." 

" You don't seem very happy either," said the child, 
watching her own face as it quivered in the mirror. 
" I should think that now Mr. Colville 's concluded 
to stay, we would all be happy again. But we don't 
seem to. We 're — we 're perfectly demoralised ! " 
It was one of the words she had picked up from 
Colville. 

The quivering face in the glass broke in a passion 
of tears, and Effie sobbed herself to sleep. 

Imogene sat down at Mrs. Bowen's desk, and push- 
ing her letter away, began to write. 

"Flokence, March 10, 18 — . 
" Dear Mother,— I inclose a letter from Mrs. Bowen 
whicli will tell you better than I can what I wish to tell. 
I do not see how I can add anything that would give you 
more of an idea of him, or less, either. No person can be 
put down in cold black and white, and not seem like a 
mere inventorj'. I do not suppose you expected me to be- 
come engaged when you sent me out to Florence, and, as 
Mrs. Bowen says, I don't know whether I am engaged or 
not. I will leave it entirely to Mr. Colville ; if he says we 
are engaged, we are. I am sure he will do what is best. 
I only know that he was going away from Florence because 



 

he thought I supposed he was not in earnest, and I asked 
him to stay. 

" I am a good deal excited to-night, and cannot write 
very clearly. But I will write soon again, and more at 
length. 

"Perhaps something will be decided by that time. 
With much love to father, 

" Your affectionate daughter, 

" Imogbne." 

She put this letter into an envelope with Mrs. 
Bo wen's, and leaving it unsealed to show her in the 
morning, she began to write again. This time she 
wrote to a girl with whom she had been on terms so 
intimate that when they left school they had agreed 
to know each other by names expressive of their 
extremely confidential friendship, and to address 
. each other respectively as Diary and Journal. They 
were going to write every day, if only a line or 
two ; and at the end of a year they were to meet and 
read over together the records of their lives as set 
doivn in these letters. They had never met since, 
though it was now three years since they parted, and 
they had not written since Imogene came abroad; 
that is, Imogene had not answered the only letter 
she had received from her friend in Florence. This 
friend was a very serious girl, and had wished to be 
a minister, but her family would not consent, or 
even accept the compromise of studying medicine, 
which she proposed, and she was still living at 
home in a small city of central New York. Imo- 
gene now addressed her — 



 

"Dear Diary, — You cannot think how far away the 
events of this day have pushed the feelings and ideas of 
the time when I agreed to write to you under this name. 
till now it seems to me as if I had not changed in the 
least thing since we parted, and now I can hardly know 
myself for the same person. dear Di ! something very 
wonderful has come into my life, and I feel that it rests 
with me to make it the greatest blessing to myself and 
others, or the greatest misery. If I prove unworthy of it 
or unequal to it, then I am sure that nothing but wretched- 
ness will come of it. 

" I am engaged — yes ! — and to a man more than twice 
my own age. It is so easy to tell you this, for I know that 
your large-mindedness will receive it very differently from 
most people, and that you will see it as I do. He is the 
noblest of men, though he tries to conceal it under the 
light, ironical manner with which he has been faithful to a 
cruel disappointment. It was here in Florence, twenty 
years ago, that a girl— I am ashamed to call her a girl — 
trifled with the priceless treasure that has fallen to me, and 
flung it away. You, Di, will understand how I was first 
fascinated with the idea of trying to atone to him here for 
all the wrong he had sufiered. At first it was only the  
vaguest suggestion— something like what I had read in a 
poem or a novel — that had nothing to do with me person- 
ally, but it grew upon me more and more the more I saw 
of him, and felt the witchery of his light, indifferent 
