
This choice, however, would be that of an intelligent man, and might be
objected to on a ground not dissimilar to the one already advanced
against the judgments of genius. But let us follow Hartmann still
further, and in descending the spiral of humanity put the same question
to every one we meet; let us take, for instance, a woodcutter, a
Hottentot, or an orang-outang, and ask of each which he prefers, death,
or a new existence in the body of a hippopotamus or a flea. Each will
answer, "death," but none of them will hesitate between their own lives
and death; and if a like question be put to the hippopotamus and the
flea, their answers will be precisely similar.

The difference in the comparative judgment that each would bring to
bear on his own life, and on that of life in an inferior degree,
results evidently from the fact that on being questioned each enters
imaginatively into the existence of the lower creation, and at once
judges its condition to be insupportable. The difference between the
opinion which the flea holds on the value of its own existence and our
own private judgment on this insect is derived simply from the fact
that the flea has a quantity of absurd illusions which we do not share,
and these illusions cause it such an excess of imaginary happiness that
in consequence it prefers its own life to death. In this the flea is
not wrong; on the contrary, it is quite right, for the value of an
existence can only be measured in accordance with its natural
limitations. In this sense illusion is as serviceable as truth.

From this introduction it follows quite of itself that each and every
creature is capable of weighing the discomforts of an existence
inferior to that in which it dwells, and yet is unable to rightly judge
its own. Each can discern the illusions with which its inferior is
surrounded, but is always defenseless against its own, save under
exceptional circumstances, as in the case of genius. Hartmann
concludes, therefore, very logically that an intelligence which is
capable of embracing every form of life would condemn existence in its
totality in the same manner that an intelligence relatively restricted
condemns it in part.

In drawing up the balance-sheet of life, Hartmann differs from
Schopenhauer on the question of the purely negative character of
pleasure. That pleasure is at times a negative condition, as in the
cessation of pain, he willingly admits, but from his standpoint it is
something else besides; it may be either positive, although derived
from an illusion, as in love, or real, as in art and science.
Nevertheless, the predominance of pain over pleasure seems to be firmly
established, and his examination of this subject is not without a
repellant interest.

The four greatest blessings of life are admittedly health, youth,
liberty, and well-being; but from their nature, Hartmann points out,
these things are incapable of raising man out of indifference into
pleasure save only as they may help to diminish an anterior pain, or
guard him from a possible discomfort. Take the case of health, for
instance; no man thinks of his nerves until they are affected, nor yet
of his eyes until they ache; indeed, it may fairly be said that a man
who is in perfect condition only knows that he has a body because he
sees and touches it. Liberty may be regarded in much the same manner:
it is unnoticed until it is in some way interfered with; while youth,
which is the most propitious condition of life, is in itself but
capability and possibility, and not possession, nor yet delight.

Well-being, the certainty of shelter from need and privation, Hartmann
very rightly considers merely as the sine qua non of life in its
baldest aspect, for, he argues, were it otherwise, the simple fact of
living would satisfy and content us; but we all know that an assured
existence is a torment if nothing fills the gap.

In the menagerie of beasts that torture life there is one, Baudelaire
says in his easy metre, that is more hideous than all the rest; it
is:--

     ... "l'ennui! L'œil chargé d'un pleur involontaire
     Il rêve d'échafauds en fumant son houka--
     Tu le connais, lecteur, ce monstre délicat,
     --Hypocrite lecteur,--mon semblable,--mon frère!"

This insupportable companion of inaction is usually banished by work;
but then, to him who is obliged to labor, is not work often
distasteful, and even a species of misfortune? Indeed, there are few,
if any, who ever work save under compulsion; and whether the compulsion
is caused by the attracting force of fame, the desire to escape from
want, or comes simply as a promise of relief from boredom, the
incentive and necessity are one and the same. It is true that man when
at work is consoled by the thought of rest, but then work and rest
merely serve to change his position, and they do so very much in the
same manner as that uneasiness which forces the invalid to turn in bed,
and then to turn back again, when it has shown him that the second
position is no better than the first.

The great blessings of life, therefore, reduce themselves, in brief, to
this: they represent but that affranchisement from pain which is
equivalent to a state of pure indifference; but as no one reaches this
condition save momentarily and by accident, it seems to follow that
life has less charm than non-existence, which represents indifference
in its most absolute and unquestioned form.

This state of beatitude is yet to be acquired; meanwhile, as Schiller
says, so long as philosophy does not govern the world, hunger and love
will suffice to keep it in motion. After the four causes of
contentment, Hartmann's views on the two incentives to activity remain
to be examined.

In regard to the first, it may be said without extravagance that the
sufferings of hunger rule the greater portion of the 1300 millions of
the earth's inhabitants. Europe not long since averaged a famine every
seven years; now, the facilities of communication have replaced famine
with an increased valuation of food. Death is the rarest and the least
important evil that hunger occasions; what is most to be regarded is
the physical and intellectual impoverishment, the mortality among
children, and the particular maladies which it engenders.

According to Hartmann, the analysis of hunger shows that in satisfying
its demands the individual does not raise his sensibility above a state
of pure indifference. He may, it is true, under favorable
circumstances, cause a certain pleasure to predominate over suffering
by means of taste and digestion; but in the animal kingdom, as in
humanity, taken as a whole, the tortures caused by hunger are greatly
in excess of any pleasures that may attach to it. In fact, from
Hartmann's standpoint, the necessity of eating is in itself a
misfortune.

After all that has been said through centuries of literature on the
subject of love, it is certainly difficult to be original; but Hartmann
has at least the merit of presenting it in a more abstract light, and
from a less alluring standpoint than any other writer who has handled
the subject. For love, according to his views, is either contrary to
the laws of society, and as such environed by perils and pains, vice
and degradation, or it is perfectly legal, and, in that case, quickly
extinguished. "In the majority of cases," he says, "insurmountable
obstacles arise between the two lovers and cause a consequent and
immense despair, while in the rarer and more fortunate instances the
expected happiness turns out to be purely illusory."

It is, however, as hard to love as it is not to love; but he (Hartmann)
says, "Who once recognizes that the happiness which it offers is but a
chimera, and that its pains are greater than its pleasures, will, while
unable perhaps to escape entirely from its allurements, be none the
less able to judge it differently from the novice, and therefore
capable of diminishing some of its suffering, and some of the
disproportion between its joys and its sorrows." According to this
savage moralist, then, love is either an illusory and quickly vanishing
happiness, or an actual suffering, and resembles hunger precisely in
that it is in itself and to the individual a veritable curse.

Hartmann judges marriage with an epigram borrowed from Lessing: "There
is, at most, but one disagreeable woman in the world; it is only a pity
that every man gets her for himself." In very much the same manner are
the ties of family and friendship weighed and judged. Scattered here
and there is some reflection of Schopenhauer's wit and wisdom, but
generally the discussion is defective, and lacks the grace of style and
purity of diction which characterized the latter writer. The sentiments
of honor, public esteem, ambition, and glory depend, he says, on the
opinion of others, and are therefore merely toys of the imagination,
"for my joys and troubles exist in my mind, and not in the minds of
other people. Their opinion concerning me has merely a conventional
value, and not one which is effective for me."

But to him who journeys through the desert called life, there is still
one suave and green oasis. Hartmann is not utterly relentless, and
though perhaps on all other subjects he may seem skeptical as a
ragpicker, he has yet a word or two of cheer for art and science. These
