furniture down in two trips and save her a considerable expense; Mrs.
Goddard accepted this advice and in the course of a fortnight was
installed with all her goods in the cottage. Having completed her
arrangements at last, she came to call upon the vicar's wife.

Mrs. Goddard had not changed since she had first visited Billingsfield,
five months earlier, though little Eleanor had grown taller and was if
possible prettier than ever. Something of the character of the lady in
black may have been gathered from the style of her letter to Mr. Ambrose;
that communication had impressed the vicar's wife unfavourably and had
drawn from her husband a somewhat compassionate remark about the bad
English it contained. Nevertheless when Mrs. Goddard came to live in
Billingsfield the Ambroses soon discovered that she was a very
well-educated woman, that she appeared to have read much and to have read
intelligently, and that she was on the whole decidedly interesting. It
was long, however, before Mrs. Ambrose entirely conquered a certain
antipathy she felt for her, and which she explained after her own
fashion. Mrs. Goddard was not a dissenter and she was not a Romanist; on
the contrary she appeared to be a very good churchwoman. She paid her
bills regularly and never gave anybody any trouble. She visited the
vicarage at stated intervals, and the vicarage graciously returned her
visits. The vicar himself even went to the cottage more often than Mrs.
Ambrose thought strictly necessary, for the vicar was strongly prejudiced
in her favour. But Mrs. Ambrose did not share that prejudice. Mrs.
Goddard, she said, was too effusive, talked too much about herself and
her troubles, did not look thoroughly straightforward, probably had
foreign blood. Ay, there was the rub--Mrs. Ambrose suspected that Mrs.
Goddard was not quite English. If she was not, why did she not say so,
and be done with it?

Mrs. Goddard was English, nevertheless, and would have been very much
surprised could she have guessed the secret cause of the slight coldness
she sometimes observed in the manner of the clergyman's wife towards her.
She herself, poor thing, believed it was because she was in trouble, and
considering the nature of the disaster which had befallen her, she was
not surprised. She was rather a weak woman, rather timid, and if she
talked a little too much sometimes it was because she felt embarrassed;
there were times, too, when she was very silent and sad. She had been
very happy and the great catastrophe had overtaken her suddenly, leaving
her absolutely without friends. She wanted to be hidden from the world,
and by one of those strange contrasts often found in weak people she had
suddenly made a very bold resolution and had successfully carried it out.
She had come straight to a man she had never seen, but whom she knew very
well by reputation, and had told him her story and asked him to help her;
and she had not come in vain. The person who advised her to go to the
Reverend Augustin Ambrose knew that there was not a better man to whom
she could apply. She had found what she wanted, a sort of deserted
village where she would never be obliged to meet any one, since there was
absolutely no society; she had found a good man upon whom she felt she
could rely in case of further difficulty; and she had not come upon false
pretences, for she had told her whole story quite frankly. For a woman
who was naturally timid she had done a thing requiring considerable
courage, and she was astonished at her own boldness after she had done
it. But in her peaceful retreat, she reflected that she could not
possibly have left England, as many women in her position would have
done, simply because the idea of exile was intolerable to her; she
reflected also that if she had settled in any place where there was any
sort of society her story would one day have become known, and that if
she had spent years in studying her situation she could not have done
better than in going boldly to the vicar of Billingsfield and explaining
her sad position to him. She had found a haven of rest after many months
of terrible anxiety and she hoped that she might end her days in peace
and in the spot she had chosen. But she was very young--not thirty years
of age yet--and her little girl would soon grow up--and then? Evidently
her dream of peace was likely to be of limited duration; but she resigned
herself to the unpleasant possibilities of the future with a good grace,
in consideration of the advantages she enjoyed in the present.

Mrs. Ambrose was at home when Mrs. Goddard and little Eleanor came to the
vicarage. Indeed Mrs. Ambrose was rarely out in the afternoon, unless
something very unusual called her away. She received her visitor with the
stern hospitality she exercised towards strangers. The strangers she saw
were generally the near relations of the young gentlemen whom her husband
received for educational purposes. She stood in the front drawing-room,
that is to say, in the most impressive chamber of that fortress which is
an Englishman's house. It was a formal room, arranged by a fixed rule and
the order of it was maintained inflexibly; no event could be imagined of
such terrible power as to have caused the displacement of one of those
chairs, of one of those ornaments upon the chimney-piece, of one of those
engravings upon the walls. The walls were papered with one shade of
green, the furniture was covered with material of another shade of green
and the well-spared carpet exhibited still a third variety of the same
colour. Mrs. Ambrose's sense of order did not extend to the simplest
forms of artistic harmony, but when it had an opportunity of impressing
itself upon inanimate objects which were liable to be moved, washed or
dusted, its effects were formidable indeed. She worshipped neatness and
cleanliness; she left the question of taste to others. And now she stood
in the keep of her stronghold, the impersonation of moral rectitude and
of practical housekeeping.

Mrs. Goddard entered rather timidly, followed by little Eleanor whose
ideas had been so much disturbed by the recent change in her existence,
that she had grown unusually silent and her great violet eyes were
unceasingly opened wide to take in the growing wonders of her situation.
Mrs. Goddard was still dressed in black, as when John Short had seen her
five months earlier. There was something a little peculiar in her
mourning, though Mrs. Ambrose would have found it hard to define the
peculiarity. Some people would have said that if she was really a widow
her gown fitted a little too well, her bonnet was a little too small, her
veil a little too short. Mrs. Ambrose supposed that those points were
suggested by the latest fashions in London and summed up the difficulty
by surmising that Mrs. Goddard had foreign blood.

"I should have called before," said the latter, deeply impressed by the
severe appearance of the vicar's wife, "but I have been so busy putting
my things into the cottage--"

"Pray don't think of it," answered Mrs. Ambrose. Then she added after a
pause, "I am very glad to see you." She appeared to have been weighing in
her conscience the question whether she could truthfully say so or not.
But Mrs. Goddard was grateful for the smallest advances.

"Thank you," she said, "you are so very kind. Will you tell Mr. Ambrose
how thankful I am for his kind assistance? Yes, Nellie and I have had
hard work in moving, have not we, dear?" She drew the beautiful child
close to her and gazed lovingly into her eyes. But Nellie was shy; she
hid her face on her mother's shoulder, and then looked doubtfully at Mrs.
Ambrose, and then hid herself again.

"How old is your little girl?" asked Mrs. Ambrose more kindly. She was
fond of children, and actually pitied any child whose mother perhaps had
foreign blood.

"Eleanor--I call her Nellie--is eight years old. She will be nine in
January. She is tall for her age," added Mrs. Goddard with affectionate
pride. As a matter of fact Nellie was small for her years, and Mrs.
Ambrose, who was the most truthful of women, felt that she could not
conscientiously agree in calling hex tall. She changed the subject.

"I am afraid you will find it very quiet in Billingsfield," she said
presently.

"Oh, I am used--that is, I prefer a very quiet place. I want to live very
quietly for some years, indeed I hope for the rest of my life. Besides it
will be so good for Nellie to live in the country--she will grow so
strong."

"She looks very well, I am sure," answered Mrs. Ambrose rather bluntly,
looking at the child's clear complexion and bright eyes. "And have you
always lived in town until now, Mrs. Goddard?" she asked.

"Oh no, not always, but most of the year, perhaps. Indeed I think so."
Mrs. Goddard felt nervous before the searching glance of the elder woman.
Mrs. Ambrose concluded that she was not absolutely straightforward.

"Do you think you can make the cottage comfortable?" asked the vicar's
wife, seeing that the conversation languished.

"Oh, I think so," answered her visitor, glad to change the subject, and
suddenly becoming very voluble as she had previously been very shy. "It
is really a charming little place. Of course it is not very large, but as
we have not got very many belongings that is all the better; and the
garden is small but extremely pretty and wild, and the kitchen is very
convenient; really I quite wonder how the people who built it could have
made it all so comfortable. You see there are one--two--the pantry, the
kitchen and two rooms on the ground floor and plenty of room upstairs for
everybody, and as for the sun! it streams into all the windows at once
from morning till night. And such a pretty view, too, of that old gate
opposite--where does it lead to, Mrs. Ambrose? It is so very pretty."

