

CHAPTER V, 

IS IT LOVE? 

Doris stands bewildered. Mrs. Gilbert shuts and 
locks the door. "My dear girl!" she cries, and she 
cannot keep the exultation out of her voice, "he grew 
so impatient. He was in here all the evening talking to 
me. He loves you extravagantly. I may as well tell 
you at once that he wants to marry you." 

"To marry me ! " Doris's lovely face has turned white 
with some unseen dread, and a little shiver creeps over 
her. 

"Yes. Of course, Doris, we know he is not strong, 
and he has a fancy that it is a serious matter, but that 
is half nervousness. And the companionship of the 
woman he loves will quite restore him. I have seen that 
before. But, Doris, you must be very careful, and not 
thwart him in anything. He is in just that state where 
contradiction or disappointment might prove dangerous. 
There, dear, I know you must be tired, and now go to 
bed at once." 

Doris is very quiet, bewildered. She feels helpless and 
ignorant. Wifehood is such an uncomprehended realm. 
The very air seems full of mystery. 

She cannot sleep. Mrs. Gilbert's slumbers are perfect 
as those of the just. Doris lies there wide-eyed, watch- 
ing the fantastic shadows, listening to the plash of the 
waters, trying to think what has befallen her, and leaving 
it all soft chaos like moving clouds. Her aunt need not 
have been afraid she would demur ; it seems told to her 
as a duty, and she will take it up, make it her delight. 
That something is wanting that is not quite clear or 



 



 



 

defined is true ; but she would give her life to Lloyd Went- 
worth, if it could do him any good. Life so far has had 
no strong underlying motive or desire, yet she has a dim 
feeling there should be a ruling wish or cra\'ing. She 
should not feel lost in this maze of ignorance. 

Wentworth does not sleep either, and the morning finds 
him tired and headachy. But see Doris he must. He 
has planned it all out. There will be just a simple mar- 
riage. She is not in society, and there are no friends to 
ask. He ought to consider the claims across the water, 
but he will not burden himself with one extra thought 
at present. He can make it all right. They will not 
grudge him these few months of happiness. 

It is a strange day to both. They are really lovers ; 
he, ardent, impetuous, demonstrative ; she, passively deli- 
cious. All that she has and is, is his, to make him happy 
in any way he chooses. They talk over the flowers of 
poesy that have blossomed into love ; she listens and 
believes. 

A week passes in this paradise, and he is utterly fasci- 
nated. He drains every golden drop, counts every mo- 
ment. Mrs. Gilbert can afford to be sweet and bright, 
for Mr. Gilbert is coming, and her troubles are overpast. 
Doris has been a winning card, after all. 

Meanwhile they study maps and routes of travel. He 
wants to visit Vienna, Dresden, and Berlin, and then 
come down to the Mediterranean for the winter. He will 
not think of anything but happiness and content. Sor- 
row shall not shadow their bliss. 

Mr. Gilbert arrives when the engagement is about ten 
days old. Doris has had a rather curious feeling in 
respect to him, and if he were any other person he would 
be decidedly repellent. He is medium in height, some- 
what stout, slightly bald, hair rather a liglit chestnut, and 
florid complexion. His nose is short and unhandsome, 
his eyes small and a greenish blue, with a not over-clear 


look. An experienced person would say he showed slight 
traces of dissipation. His manner is too free and bois- 
terous for high breeding, and bis jocularities are dreadful 
to the sensitive lovers. He is cordiality itself to Doris, 
and laments that he could not have joined them sooner. 
He has a great deal to say about mining stocks and New 
York houses, and gives the impression that he is deep in 
business. 

Lloyd Wentworth makes his arrangements. They will 
be married a week hence, very quietly, and start away at 
once, improving the lovely autumn weather. There is no 
need of any trouble about a trousseau, for Wentworth 
does not want to feel under any obligation that may 
establish a claim in the time to come. Doris has all her 
pretty outfit for society, that she has hardly used, Mrs. 
Gilbert avers, but the young girl herself has no thought 
of clothes or ornaments or bridal gifts, and does not miss 
them. Indeed, she is not sufficiently accustomed to the 
world to feel that there is anything at all unusual in this 
brief courtship and hurried marriage. He wants her, and 
she can be of service to him. Iler own social advance- 
ment or prosperity she does not take into account at all. 
She is glad to be useful, to do something, — proffer some 
return. For Aunt Gilbert she could do nothing but make 
a little lace, and she was coming to have an uneasy feeling 
that she was a burden. She will never feel so with Mr. 
Wentworth. 

Mrs. Gilbert regrets inwardly that they must go off by 
themselves, but admits the necessity. She has had two 
delightful months ; still, she will be rather glad to get 
back to her kind of society. Doris is so childish and 
unformed ; and Wentworth can do none of the things 
that young men delight in without paying a penalty in 
suffering. She is a little tired of poetry and old Latin 
or Italian authors, and she would rather know the people 
who are living, chatting, driving, and dancing to-day, than 



 



 



 

to hear about the people who ocenpied palaces a century 
ago. 

So, one morning in the old palace there is a marriage 
by a Church-of-England clergyman. Some members of 
the consulate are present for witnesses, and the Living- 
stone party are in. Wentworth means to have it so that 
Doris shall never suffer by any unfriendly whisper or 
suggestion of secrecy. It will be hard enough for her 
by and by. 

Doris listens and responds reverently. To love, to 
honor, to obey, — anything that can make him happy will 
be her highest pleasure. She is really exalted in this 
