About the middle of December, Miss Chancellor re- 
ceived a visit from Matthias Pardon, who had come to ask 
her what she meant to do about Verena. She had never 
invited him to call upon her, and the appearance of a 
gentleman whose desire to see her was so irrepressible as to 
dispense with such'  a preliminary was not in her career an 
accident frequent enough to have taught her equanimity. 
She thought Mr. Pardon's visit a liberty; but, if she ex- 
pected to convey this idea to him by withholding any sug- 
gestion that he should sit down, she was greatly mistaken, 
inasmuch as he cut the ground from under her feet by 
himself offering her a chair. His manner represented 
hospitality enough for both of them, and she was obliged to 
listen, on the edge of her sofa (she could at least seat her- 
self where she liked), to his extraordinary inquiry. Of 
course she was not obliged to answer it, and indeed she 
scarcely understood it He explained that it was prompted 
by the intense interest he felt in Miss Verena ; but that 



 

scarcely made it more comprehensible, such a sentiment 
(on his part) being such a curious mixture. He had a sort 
of enamel of good humour which showed that his indelicacy 
was his profession ; and he asked for revelations of the vie 
intime of his victims with the bland confidence of a fashion- 
able physician inquiring about symptoms. He wanted to 
know what Miss Chancellor meant to do, because if she 
didn't mean to do anything, he had an idea which he 
wouldn't conceal from her of going into the enterprise 
himself. ' You see, what I should like to know is this : do 
you consider that she belongs to you, or that she belongs 
to the people ? If she belongs to you, why don't you bring 
her out?' 

He had no purpose and no consciousness of being 
impertinent ; he only wished to talk over the matter soci- 
ably with Miss Chancellor. He knew, of course, that there 
was a presumption she would not be sociable, but no 
presumption had yet deterred him from presenting a surface 
which he believed to be polished till it shone ; there was 
always a larger one in favour of his power to penetrate and 
of the majesty of the 'great dailies.' Indeed, he took so 
many things for granted that Olive remained dumb while 
she regarded them ; and he availed himself of what he 
considered as a fortunate opening to be really very frank. 
He reminded her that he had known Miss Verena a good 
deal longer than she ; he had travelled out to Cambridge 
the other winter (when he could get an off-night), with the 
thermometer at ten below zero. He had always thought 
her attractive, but it wasn't till this season that his eyes had 
been fully opened. Her talent had matured, and now he 
had no hesitation in calling her brilliant. Miss Chancellor 
could imagine whether, as an old friend, he could watch 
such a beautiful unfolding with indifference. She would 
fascinate the people, just as she had fascinated her (Miss 
Chancellor), and, he might be permitted to add, himself. 
The fact was, she was a great card, and some one ought to 
play it. There never had been a more attractive female 
speaker before the American public ; she would walk right 
past Mrs. Farrinder, and Mrs. Farrinder knew it. There 
was room for both, no doubt, they had such a different 



 

style ; anyhow, what he wanted to show was that there was 
room for Miss Verena. She didn't want any more tuning- 
up, she wanted to break right out. Moreover, he felt that 
any gentleman who should lead her to success would win 
her esteem ; he might even attract her more powerfully 
who could tell ? If Miss Chancellor wanted to attach her 
permanently, she ought to push her right forward. He 
gathered from what Miss Verena had told him that she 
wanted to make her study up the subject a while longer 
follow some kind of course. Well, now, he could assure 
her that there was no preparation so good as just seeing a 
couple of thousand people down there before you who have 
paid their money to have you tell them something. Miss 
Verena was a natural genius, and he hoped very much she 
wasn't going to take the nature out of her. She could 
study up as she went along ; she had got the great thing 
that you couldn't learn, a kind of divine afflatus, as the 
ancients used to say, and she had better just begin on that. 
He wouldn't deny what was the matter with him; he was quite 
under the spell, and his admiration made him want to see 
her where she belonged. He shouldn't care so much how 
she got there, but it would certainly add to his pleasure if 
he could show her up to her place. Therefore, would Miss 
Chancellor just tell him this : How long did she expect to 
hold her back how long did she expect a humble admirer 
to wait ? Of course he hadn't come there to cross-question 
her ; there was one thing he trusted he always kept clear 
of; when he was indiscreet he wanted to know it. He 
had come with a proposal of his own, and he hoped it 
would seem a sufficient warrant for his visit. Would Miss 
Chancellor be willing to divide a the well, he might call 
it the responsibilities? Couldn't they run Miss Verena 
together ? In this case, every one would be satisfied. She 
could travel round with her as her companion, and he would 
see that the American people walked up. If Miss Chan- 
cellor would just let her go a little, he would look after the 
rest. He wanted no odds ; he only wanted her for about 
an hour and a half three or four evenings a week. 

Olive had time, in the course of this appeal, to make 
her faculties converge, to ask herself what she could say to 



 

this prodigious young man that would make him feel as 
how base a thing she held his proposal that they should 
constitute themselves into a company for drawing profit 
from Verena. Unfortunately, the most sarcastic inquiry 
that could occur to her as a response was also the most 
obvious one, so that he hesitated but a moment with his 
rejoinder after she had asked him how many thousands of 
dollars he expected to make. 

' For Miss Verena ? It depends upon the time. She'd 
run for ten years, at least. I can't figure it up till all the 
States have been heard from,' he said, smiling. 

f I don't mean for Miss Tarrant, I mean for you/ Olive 
returned, with the impression that she was looking him 
straight in the eye. 

' Oh, as many as you'll leave me !' Matthias Pardon 
answered, with a laugh that contained all, and more than 
all, the jocularity of the American press. 'To speak 
seriously,' he added, ' I don't want to make money out 
of it' 

'What do you want to make, then ?' 

' Well, I want to make history ! I want to help the 
ladies.' 

'The ladies?' Olive murmured. 'What do you know 
about ladies?' she was on the point of adding, when his 
promptness checked her. 

' All over the world. I want to work for their eman- 
cipation. I regard it as the great modern question.' 

Miss Chancellor got up now ; this was rather too strong. 
Whether, eventually, she was successful in what she 
attempted, the reader of her history will judge ; but at this 
moment she had not that promise of success which resides 
in a willingness to make use of every aid that offers. Such 
is the penalty of being of a fastidious, exclusive, uncompro- 
mising nature ; of seeing things not simply and sharply, but 
in perverse relations, in intertwisted strands. It seemed to 
our young lady that nothing could be less attractive than to 
owe her emancipation to such a one as Matthias Pardon ; 
