which lies in a direction opposite to their prejudices, we are not
likely to get on too fast. But neither can the injury lapse under
neglect. The spectacle presented now is of the same three sorts of
people that appear in all satires, in all literatures, since the pursuit
of truth in any mode or direction became a recognized object anywhere
and under any conditions. Leaving out of view the multitude who are
irrelevant to the case, from having no knowledge, and being therefore
incapable of an opinion, there is the large company of the superficial
and light-minded, who are always injuring the honor and beauty of truth
by the levity, the impertinence, the absurdity of the enthusiasm they
pretend, and the nonsense they talk about "some new thing." No period of
society has been more familiar with that class and its mischief-making
than our own. There is the other large class of the cotemporaries of any
discovery or special advance, who, when they can absent themselves from
the scene no longer, look and listen, and bend all their efforts to
hold their ground of life-long opinion, usually succeeding so far as to
escape any direct admission that more is known than when they were born.
These are no ultimate hindrance. When Harvey died, no physician in
Europe above the age of forty believed in the circulation of the blood;
but the truth was perfectly safe; and so it will be with the case of the
psychological relations of the nervous system when the present course of
investigation has sustained a clearer verification and further advance.
On this point we have the sayings of two truth-seekers, wise in quality
of intellect, impartial and dispassionate in temper, and fearless in the
pursuit of their aims. The late Prince Consort is vividly remembered for
the characteristic saying which spread rapidly over the country, that he
could not understand the conduct of the medical profession in England
in leaving the phenomena of mesmerism to the observation of unqualified
persons, instead of undertaking an inquiry which was certainly their
proper business, in proportion as they professed to pursue science.
The other authority we refer to is the late Mr. Hallam. A letter of his
lies before us from which we quote a passage, familiar in its substance,
doubtless, to his personal friends, to whom he always avowed the view
which it presents, and well worthy of note to such readers as may not
be aware of the observation and thought he devoted to the phenomena of
mesmerism during the last quarter-century of his long life. "It appears
to me probable that the various phenomena of mesmerism, together with
others, independent of mesmerism properly so called, which have lately
[the date is 1844] been brought to light, are fragments of some general
law of nature which we are not yet able to deduce from them, merely
because they are destitute of visible connection--the links being
hitherto wanting which are to display the entire harmony of effects
proceeding from a single cause."

[Persons curious to know what has been developed in this class of
studies may find the same in a work published at this office, entitled
THE LIBRARY OF MESMERISM AND PSYCHOLOGY--comprising the Philosophy of
Mesmerism, Clairvoyance, and Mental Electricity; Fascination, or the
Power of Charming; The Macrocosm, or the World of Sense; Electrical
Psychology, or the Doctrine of Impressions; The Science of the Soul,
treated Physiologically and Philosophically. Complete in one illustrated
volume. Price, $4.]

What room is there not for hopefulness when we compare such an
observation as this with Mr. Parris' dogmatical exposition of Satan's
dealings with men! or when we contrast the calm and cheerful tone of the
philosopher with the stubborn wrath of Chief Justice Stoughton, and with
the penitential laments of Judge Sewall! We might contrast it also with
the wild exultation of those of the Spiritualists of our own day who can
form no conception of the modesty and patience requisite for the sincere
search for truth, and who, once finding themselves surrounded by facts
and appearances new and strange, assume that they have discovered a
bridge over the bottomless "gulf beyond which lies the spirit-land," and
wander henceforth in a fools' paradise, despising and pitying all who
are less rash, ignorant, and presumptuous than themselves. It is this
company of fanatics--the first of the three classes we spoke of--which
is partly answerable for the backwardness of the second; but the blame
does not rest exclusively in one quarter. There is an indolence in the
medical class which is the commonest reproach against them in every age
of scientific activity, and which has recently been heroically avowed
and denounced in a public address by no less a member of the profession
than Sir Thomas Watson.[1] There is a conservative reluctance to change
of view or of procedure. There is also a lack of moral courage, by no
means surprising in an order of men whose lives are spent in charming
away troubles, and easing pains and cares, and "making things
pleasant"--by no means surprising, we admit, but exceedingly unfavorable
to the acknowledgment of phenomena that are strange and facts that are
unintelligible.

      [1] Address on the Present State of Therapeutics. Delivered at
      the opening meeting of the Clinical Society of London, January
      10, 1868. By Sir Thomas Watson, Bart., M.D.

This brings us to the third class--the very small number of persons who
are, in the matter of human progress, the salt of the earth; the few who
can endure to see without understanding, to hear without immediately
believing or disbelieving, to learn what they can, without any
consideration of what figure they themselves shall make in the
transaction; and even to be unable to reconcile the new phenomena with
their own prior experience or conceptions. There is no need to describe
how rare this class must necessarily be, for every one who has eyes sees
how near the passions and the prejudices of the human being lie to each
other. These are the few who unite the two great virtues of earnestly
studying the facts, and keeping their temper, composure and cheerfulness
through whatever perplexity their inquiry may involve. It is remarkable
that while the world is echoing all round and incessantly with the
praise of the life of the man spent in following truth wherever it may
lead, the world is always resounding also with the angry passions of men
who resent all opinions which are not their own, and denounce with fury
or with malice any countenance given to mere proposals to inquire in
certain directions which they think proper to reprobate. Not only was it
horrible blasphemy in Galileo to think as he did of the motion of the
earth, but in his friends to look through his glass at the stars.

This Salem story is indeed shocking in every view--to our pride as
rational beings, to our sympathy as human beings, to our faith as
Christians, to our complacency as children of the Reformation. It is so
shocking that some of us may regret that the details have been revived
with such an abundance of evidence. But this is no matter of regret, but
rather of congratulation, if we have not outgrown the need of admonition
from the past. How does that consideration stand?

At the end of nearly three centuries we find ourselves relieved of a
heavy burden of fear and care about the perpetual and unbounded malice
of Satan and his agents. Witchcraft has ceased to be one of the gravest
curses of the human lot. We have parted with one after another of the
fetish or conjectural persuasions about our relations with the world of
spirit or mind, regarded as in direct opposition to the world of matter.
By a succession of discoveries we have been led to an essentially
different view of life and thought from any dreamed of before the new
birth of science; and at this day, and in our own metropolis, we have
Sir Henry Holland telling us how certain treatment of this or that
department of the nervous system will generate this or that state of
belief and experience, as well as sensation. We have Dr. Carpenter
disclosing facts of incalculable significance about brain-action without
consciousness, and other vital mysteries. We have Dr. Maudsley showing,
in the cells of the lunatic asylum, not only the very realm of Satan, as
our fathers would have thought, but the discovery that it is not Satan,
after all, that makes the havoc, but our own ignorance which has seduced
us into a blasphemous superstition, instead of inciting us to the study
of ourselves. And these are not all our teachers. Amid the conflict
of phenomena of the human mind and body, we have arrived now at the
express controversy of Psychology against Physiology. Beyond the mere
statement of the fact we have scarcely advanced a step. The first can
not be, with any accuracy, called a science at all, and the other is in
little more than a rudimentary state; but it is no small gain to have
arrived at some conception of the nature of the problem set before us,
and at some liberty of hypothesis as to its conditions. In brief, and
in the plainest terms, while there is still a multitude deluding and
disporting itself with a false hypothesis about certain mysteries of the
human mind, and claiming to have explained the marvels of Spiritualism
by making an objective world of their own subjective experience, the
scientific physiologists [those especially who are true phrenologists]
are proceeding, by observation and experiment, to penetrate more and
more secrets of our intellectual and moral life.




THE PLANCHETTE MYSTERY.


WHAT PLANCHETTE IS AND DOES.

This little gyrating tripod is proving itself to be something more than
a nine days' wonder. It is finding its way into thousands of families in
all parts of the land. Lawyers, physicians, politicians, philosophers,
and even clergymen, have watched eagerly its strange antics, and
listened with rapt attention to its mystic oracles. Mrs. Jones demands
of it where Jones spends his evenings; the inquisitive of both sexes are
