looked from his companion back to the immense dreary 
jail. A great deal, to Miss Pynsent's sense, depended on 
that moment. ' Oh, well,' he said, at last, ' I'll just step in.' 

' Deary, deary ! ' the dressmaker murmured to herself, 
as they crossed the bare semicircle which separated the 
gateway from the unfrequented street. She exerted her- 
self to pull the bell, which seemed to her terribly big and 
stiff, and while she waited, again, for the consequences of 
this effort, the boy broke out, abruptly : 

' How can she like me so much if she doesn't know 
me?' 

Miss Pynsent wished the gate would open before an 
answer to this question should become imperative, but the 
people within were a long time arriving, and their delay 
gave Hyacinth an opportunity to repeat it. So the dress- 
maker rejoined, seizing the first pretext that came into her 
head, ' It's because the little baby she had, of old, was 
also named Hyacinth.' 





' That's a queer reason,' the boy murmured, staring 
across again at the Battersea shore. 

A moment afterwards they found themselves in a vast 
interior dimness, with a grinding of keys and bolts going 
on behind them. Hereupon Miss Pynsent gave herself up 
to an overruling providence, and she remembered, later, 
no circumstance of what happened to her until the great 
person of Mrs. Bowerbank loomed before her in the 
narrowness of a strange, dark corridor. She only had a 
confused impression of being surrounded with high black 
walls, whose inner face was more dreadful than the other, 
the one that overlooked the river ; of passing through gray, 
stony courts, in some of which dreadful figures, scarcely 
female, in hideous brown, misfitting uniforms and perfect 
frights of hoods, were marching round in a circle; of 
squeezing up steep, unlighted staircases at the heels of a 
woman who had taken possession of her at the first stage, 
and who made incomprehensible remarks to other women, 
of lumpish aspect, as she saw them erect themselves, 
suddenly and spectrally, with dowdy untied bonnets, in 
uncanny corners and recesses of the draughty labyrinth. 
If the place had seemed cruel to the poor little dressmaker 
outside, it may be believed that it did not strike her as an 
abode of mercy while she pursued her tortuous way into 
the circular shafts of cells, where she had an opportunity of 
looking at captives through grated peepholes and of edging 
past others who had temporarily been turned into the 
corridors silent women, with fixed eyes, who flattened 
themselves against the stone walls at the brush of the 
visitor's dress and whom Miss Pynsent was afraid to glance 
at. She never had felt so immured, so made sure of; 



 

there were walls within walls and galleries on top of 
galleries ; even the daylight lost its colour, and you couldn't 
imagine what o'clock it was. Mrs. Bowerbank appeared to 
have failed her, and that made her feel worse: a panic 
seized her, as she went, in regard to the child. On him, 
too, the horror of the place would have fallen, and she had 
a sickening prevision that he would have convulsions after 
they got home. It was a most improper place to have 
brought him, no matter who had sent for him and no 
matter who was dying. The stillness would terrify him, 
she was sure the penitential dumbness of the clustered or 
isolated women. She clasped his hand more tightly, and 
she felt him keep close to her, without speaking a word. 
At last, in an open doorway, darkened by her ample person, 
Mrs. Bowerbank revealed herself, and Miss Pynsent thought 
it (afterwards) a sign of her place and power that she should 
not condescend to apologise for not having appeared till 
that moment, or to explain why she had not met the be- 
wildered pilgrims near the principal entrance, according to 
her promise. Miss Pynsent could not embrace the state 
of mind of people who didn't apologise, though she vaguely 
envied and admired it, she herself spending much of her 
time in making excuses for obnoxious acts she had not 
committed. Mrs. Bowerbank, however, was not arrogant, 
she was only massive and muscular; and after she had 
taken her timorous friends in tow the dressmaker was able 
to comfort herself with the reflection that even so master- 
ful a woman couldn't inflict anything gratuitously disagree- 
able on a person who had made her visit in Lomax Place 
pass off so pleasantly. 

It was on the outskirts of the infirmary that she had 





been hovering, and it was into certain dismal chambers 
dedicated to sick criminals, that she presently ushered her 
companions. These chambers were naked and grated, 
like all the rest of the place, and caused Miss Pynsent to 
say to herself that it must be a blessing to be ill in such a 
hole, because you couldn't possibly pick up again, and 
then your case was simple. Such simplification, however, 
had for the moment been offered to very few of Florentine's 
fellow-sufferers, for only three of the small, stiff beds were 
occupied occupied by white-faced women in tight, sordid 
caps, on whom, in the stale, ugly room, the sallow light it- 
self seemed to rest without pity. Mrs. Bowerbank dis- 
creetly paid no attention whatever to Hyacinth ; she only 
said to Miss Pynsent, with her hoarse distinctness, ' You'll 
find her very low ; she wouldn't have waited another day.' 
And she guided them, through a still further door, to the 
smallest room of all, where there were but three beds, 
placed in a row. Miss Pynsent's frightened eyes rather 
faltered than inquired, but she became aware that a woman 
was lying on the middle bed, and that her face was turned 
toward the door. Mrs. Bowerbank led the way straight up 
to her, and, giving a business-like pat to her pillow, looked 
invitation and encouragement to the visitors, who clung 
together not far within the threshold. Their conductress 
reminded them that very few minutes were allowed them, 
and that they had better not dawdle them away ; where- 
upon, as the boy still hung back, the little dressmaker 
advanced alone, looking at the sick woman with what 
courage she could muster. It seemed to her that she was 
approaching a perfect stranger, so ' completely had nine 
years of prison transformed Florentine. She felt, immedi- 



 

ately, that it was a mercy she hadn't told Hyacinth she 
was pretty (as she used to be), for there was no beauty left 
in the hollow, bloodless mask that presented itself without 
a movement. She had told him that the poor woman was 
good, but she didn't look so, nor, evidently, was he struck 
with it as he stared back at her across the interval he 
declined to traverse, kept (at the same time) from re- 
treating by her strange, fixed eyes, the only portion of all 
her wasted person in which there was still any appearance 
of life. She looked unnatural to Amanda Pynsent, and 
terribly old ; a speechless, motionless creature, dazed and 
stupid, whereas Florentine Vivier, in the obliterated past, 
had been her idea of personal, as distinguished from social, 
brilliancy. Above all she seemed disfigured and ugly, 
cruelly misrepresented by her coarse cap and short, rough 
hair. Amanda, as she stood beside her, thought with a 
sort of scared elation that Hyacinth would never guess that 
a person in whom there was so little trace of smartness 
or of cleverness of any kind was his mother. At the 
very most it might occur to him, as Mrs. Bowerbank had 
suggested, that she was his grandmother. Mrs. Bowerbank 
seated herself on the further bed, with folded hands, like a 
monumental timekeeper, and remarked, in the manner of 
one speaking from a sense of duty, that the poor thing 
