" Well, you see it isn't so bad as it might be," she 
said, using a pity which she did not perhaps alto- 



 OR, 

gether feel. "Eat your breakfast now, David, and 
then go and try to look him up." 

" Oh, I don't want any breakfast," pleaded the 
minister. 

He offered to rise again, but she motioned him 
down in his chair. "David, you shall! I' m not 
going to have you going about all day with a head 
ache. Eat ! And then when you've finished your 
breakfast, go and find out which station that officer 
Baker belongs to, and he can tell you something 
about the boy, if any one can." 

Sewell made what shift he could to grasp these 
practical ideas, and he obediently ate of whatever 
his wife bade him. She would not let him hurry 
his breakfast in the least, and when he had at last 
finished, she said, "Now you can go, David. And 
when you've  found the boy, don't you let him out 
of your sight again till you've put him aboard the 
train for Willoughby Pastures, and seen the train 
start out of the depot with him. Never mind your 
sermon. I will be setting down the heads of a 
sermon, while you're  gone, that will do you good, 
if you write it out, whether it helps any one else or 
not." 

Sewell was not so sure of that. He had no doubt 
that his wife would set down the heads of a powerful 
sermon, but he questioned whether any discourse, 
however potent, would have force to benefit such an 
abandoned criminal as he felt himself, in walking 
down his brown-stone steps, and up the long brick 
sidewalk of Bolingbroke Street toward the Public 



 

Garden. The beds of geraniums and the clumps of 
scarlet-blossomed salvia in the little grass-plots be 
fore the houses, which commonly flattered his eye 
with their colour, had a suggestion of penal fires in 
them now, that needed no lingering superstition in 
his nerves to realise something very like perdition 
for his troubled soul. It was not wickedness he had 
been guilty of, but he had allowed a good man to be 
made the agency of suffering, and he was sorely to 
blame, for he had sinned against himself. This was 
what his conscience said, and though his reason pro 
tested against his state of mind as a phase of the 
religious insanity which we have all inherited in 
some measure from Puritan times, it could not help 
him. He went along involuntarily framing a vow 
that if Providence would mercifully permit him to 
repair the wrong he had done, he would not stop at 
any sacrifice to get that unhappy boy back to his 
home, but would gladly take any open shame or 
obloquy upon himself in order to accomplish this. 

He met a policeman on the bridge of the Public 
Garden, and made bold to ask him at once if he 
knew an officer named Baker, and which station he 
could be found at. The policeman was over-rich in 
the acquaintance of two officers of the name of Baker, 
and he put his hand on Se well 's shoulder, in the 
paternal manner of policemen when they will be 
friendly, and advised him to go first to the Ncponset 
Street station, to which one of these Bakers was 
attached, and inquire there first. " Anyway, that 's 
what I should do in your place." 



 

Sewell was fulsomely grateful, as we all are in the 
like case, and at the station he used an urbanity 
with the captain which was perhaps not thrown 
away upon him, but which was certainly dispropor- 
tioned to the trouble he was asking him to take in 
saying whether he knew where he could find officer 
Baker. 

"Yes, I do," said the captain. "You can find 
him in bed, upstairs, but I'd rather you wouldn't 
wake a man off duty, if you don't have to, especially 
if you don't know he 's the one. What 's wanted ? " 

Sewell stopped to say that the captain was quite 
right, and then he explained why he wished to see 
officer Baker. 

The captain listened with nods of his head at the 
names and facts given. " Guess you won't have to 
get Baker up for that. I can tell you what there 
is to tell. I don't know where your young man is 
now, but I gave him an order for a bed at the Way 
farer 's Lodge last night, and I guess he slept there. 
You a friend of his ? " 

" Yes," said Sewell, much questioning inwardly 
whether he could be truly described as such. "I 
wish to befriend him," he added savingly. " I knew 
him at home, and I am sure of his innocence." 

" Oh, I guess he 's innocent enough," said the 
captain. "Well, now, I tell you what you do, if 
you want to befriend him; you get him home quick 
as you can." 

"Yes," said Sewell, helpless to resent the officer 's 
authoritative and patronising tone. " That 's what 



 

I wish to do. Do you suppose he 's at the Wayfarer 's 
Lodge now ? " asked Sewell. 

" Can't say," said the captain, tilting himself back 
in his chair, and putting his quill toothpick between 
his lips like a cigarette. " The only way is to go 
and see." 

" Thank you very much," said the minister, accept 
ing his dismissal meekly, as a man vowed to 
ignominy should, but feeling keenly that he was 
dismissed, and dismissed in disgrace. 

At the Lodge he was received less curtly. The 
manager was there with a long morning 's leisure be 
fore him, and disposed to friendliness that Sewell 
found absurdly soothing. He turned over the orders 
for beds delivered by the vagrants the night before, 
and " Yes," he said, coming to Lemuel 's name, " he 
slept here ; but nobody knows where he is by this 
time. Wait a bit, sir ! " he added to Sewell 's fallen 
countenance. " There was one of the young fellows 
stayed to help us through with the dishes, this 
morning. I'll have him up ; or may be you'd like 
to go down and take a look at our kitchen ? You'll 
find him there if it 's the one. Here 's our card, 
We can supply you with all sorts of firewood at less 
cost than the dealers, and you'll be helping the poor 
fellows to earn an honest bed and breakfast. This 
way, sir ! " 

Sewell promised to buy his wood there, put the 
card respectfully into his pocket, and followed the 
manager downstairs, and through the basement to the 
