I mingled with the mass of haggard men at a large stock auction which
half the street attended.  The panic had spread.  Sleeplessness and
anxiety had carved the crowding faces with hard chisels.  The shouts,
the scramble, the oaths, the clinched hands, the pitiful pushing,
affected me like a dismal spectacular play on some barbarian stage.
How shall I express the sickening aspect of the scene to a man but
newly dead?

The excitement waxed with the morning.  The old and placid Santa Ma
throbbed like any little road of yesterday.  The stock had gained 32
points in ten minutes, and down again, and up again to Heaven knows
what.  Men ran from despair to elation, and behaved like maniacs in
both.  Men who were gentlemen at home turned savages here.  Men who
were honourable in society turned sharpers here.  Madness had them, as
I watched them.  A kind of pity for them seized me.  I glided in among
them, and lifted my whole heart to stay them if I could.  I stretched
the hands that no one saw.  I raised the voice that none could hear.

"Gentlemen!" I cried, "count me the market value of it--on the margin
of two lives!  By the bonds wherewith you bind yourselves you shall be
bound!...  What is the sum of wealth represented within these walls
to-day?  Name it to me....  The whole of it, for the power to leave
this place!  The whole of it, the whole of it, for one half-hour in a
dead man's desolated home!  A hundred-fold the whole of it for"--

But here I lost command of myself, and fleeing from the place where my
presence and my misery and my entreaty alike were lost upon the
attention of the living throng as were the elements of the air they
breathed, I rushed into the outer world again; there to wander up and
down the street, and hate the place, and hate myself for being there,
and hate the greed of gain I used to love, and hate myself for having
loved it; and yet to know that I was forced to act as if I loved it
still, and to be the ghost before the ghost of a desire.

"It is my doom," I said.  "I am punished.  I am fastened to this
worldly spot, and to this awful way of being dead."

Now, while I spoke these words, I came, in the stress of my
wretchedness, fleeing to the head of the street; and there, I cannot
tell you how, I cannot answer why, as the arrow springs from the bow,
or the conduct from the heart, or the spirit from the flesh,--in one
blessed instant I knew that I was free to leave the spot, and crying,
"Helen, Helen!" broke from it.




CHAPTER X.

But no.  Alas, no, no!  I was and was not free.  All my soul turned
toward her, but something stronger than my soul constrained me.  It
seemed to me that I longed for her with such longing as might have
killed a live man, or might have made a dead one live again.  This
emotion added much to my suffering, but nothing to my power to turn one
footstep toward her or to lift my helpless face in her direction.  It
was not permitted to me.  It was not willed.

Now this, which might in another temperament have produced a sense of
fear or of desire to placate the unknown Force which overruled me,
created in me at first a stinging rage.  This is the truth, and the
truth I tell.

In my love and misery, and the shock of this disappointment--against
the unknown opposition to my will, I turned and raved; even as when I
was a man among men I should have raved at him who dared my purpose.

"You are playing with me!" I wailed.  "You torture a miserable man.
Who and what are you, that make of death a bitterer thing than life can
guess?  Show me what I have to fight, and let me wrestle for my
liberty,--though I am a ghost, let me wrestle like a man!  Let me to my
wife!  Give way, and let me seek her!"

Shocking and foreign as words like these must be to many of those who
read these pages, it must be remembered that they were uttered by one
to whom faith and the knowledge that comes by way of it were the leaves
of an abandoned text-book.  For so many years had the tenets of the
Christian religion been put out of my practical life, even as I put
aside the opinions of the laity concerning the treatment of disease,
that I do not over-emphasize; I speak the simplest truth in saying that
my first experience of death had not in any sense revived the vividness
of lost belief to me.  As the old life had ended had the new begun.
Where the tree had fallen it did lie.  What was habit before death was
habit after.  What was natural then was natural now.  What I loved
living I loved dead.  That which interested Esmerald Thorne the man
interested Esmerald Thorne the spirit.  The incident of death had
raised the temperature of intellect; it had, perhaps, I may say, by
this time quickened the pulse of conscience; but it had in no wise
wrought any miracle upon me, nor created a religious believer out of a
worldly and indifferent man of science.  Dying had not forthwith made
me a devout person.  Incredible as it may seem, it is the truth that up
to this time I had not, since the moment of dissolution, put to myself
the solemn queries concerning my present state which occupy the
imaginations of the living so much, while yet death is a fact remote
from their experience.

It was the habit of long years with me, after the manner of my kind, to
settle all hard questions by a few elastic phrases, which, once
learned, are curiously pliable to the intellectual touch.  "Phenomena,"
for instance,--how plastic to cover whatever one does not understand!
"Law,"--how ready to explain away the inexplicable!  Up to this point
death had struck me as a most unfortunate phenomenon.  Its personal
disabilities I found it easy to attribute to some natural law with
which my previous education had left me unfamiliar.  Now, standing
baffled there in that incredible manner half of tragedy, half of the
absurd,--even the petty element of the undignified in the position
adding to my distress,--a houseless, homeless, outcast spirit, struck
still in the heart of that great town, where in hundreds of homes was
weeping for me, where I was beloved and honoured and bemoaned, and
where my own wife at that hour broke her heart with sorrow for me and
for the manner of my parting from her,--then and there to be beaten
back, and battered down, and tossed like an atom in some primeval
flood, whithersoever I would not,--what a situation was this!

Now, indeed, I think for the first time, my soul lifted itself, as a
sick man lifts himself upon his elbows, in his painful bed.  Now,
flashing straight back upon the outburst of my defiance and despair,
like the reflex action of a strong muscle, there came into my mind, if
not into my heart, these impulsive and entreating words:--

"What art Thou, who dost withstand me?  I am a dead and helpless man.
What wouldst Thou with me?  Where gainest Thou Thy force upon me?  Art
Thou verily that ancient Myth which we were wont to call Almighty God?"

Simultaneously with the utterance of these words that blast of Will to
which I have referred fell heavily upon me.  A Power not myself
overshadowed me and did environ me.  Guided whithersoever I would not,
I passed forth upon errands all unknown to me, rebelling and obeying as
I went.

"I am become what we used to call a spirit," I thought, bitterly, "and
this is what it means.  Better might one become a molecule, for those,
at least, obey the laws of the universe, and do not suffer."

Now, as I took my course, it being ordered on me, it led me past the
door of a certain open church, whence the sound of singing issued.  The
finest choir in the city, famous far and near, were practising for the
Sunday service, and singing like the sons of God, indeed, as I passed
by.  With the love of the scientific temperament for harmony alert in
me, I lingered to listen to the anthem which these singers were
rendering in their customary great manner.  With the instinct of the
musically educated, I felt pleasure in this singing, and said:--

"Magnificently done!" as I went on.  It was some moments before the
words which the choir sang assumed any vividness in my mind.  When they
did I found that they were these;--

"For God is a Spirit.  God is a Spirit: and they that worship Him must
worship Him in spirit"--


Now it fell out that my steps were directed to the hospital; and to the
hospital I straightway went.  I experienced some faint comfort at this
improvement in my lot, and hurried up the avenue and up the steps and
into the familiar wards with eagerness.  All the impulses of the healer
were alive in me.  I felt it a mercy for my nature to be at its own
again.  I hastened in among my sick impetuously.

The hospital had been a favourite project of mine; from its start,
unreasonably dear to me.  Through the mounting difficulties which
blockade such enterprises, I had hewn and hacked, I had fathered and
