" Well, I try to get the people what they want. 
It s hard work said the young man. 

" Well, I suppose if you didn 't some one else 
would. They will have it, won 't they ? " 

"Yes, they will have it." But the wants 
of the people did not appear at the present 
moment to interest Mr. Flack as much as his 
own. He looked at his watch and remarked 
that the old gentleman didn 't seem to have much 
authority. 

" Much authority ? " the girl repeated. 

" With Miss Francie. She is taking her time, 
or rather, I mean, she is taking mine." 

"Well, if you expect to do anything with her 
you must give her plenty of that." 



 



" All right : I 'll give her all I have." And Miss 
Dosson s interlocutor leaned back in his chair 
with folded arms, as if to let his companion 
know that she would have to count with his 
patience. But she sat there in her expressionless 
placidity, giving no sign of alarm or defeat. He 
was the first indeed to show a symptom of rest 
lessness : at the end of a few moments he asked 
the young lady if she didn 't suppose her father 
had told her sister who it was. 

" Do you think that s all that s required ? " 
Miss Dosson demanded. But she added, more 
graciously "Probably that s the reason. She s 
so shy." 

"Oh, yes she used to look it." 

" No, that s her peculiarity, that she never looks 
it, and yet she is intensely so." 

" Well, you make it up for her then, Miss Delia," 
the young man ventured to declare. 

" No, for her, I'm not shy not in the 
least." 

"If it wasn 't for you I think I could do some 
thing," the young man went on. 

" Well, you've  got to kill me first ! " 

" I 'll come down on you, somehow, in the 
Reverberator," said George Flack. 

" Oh, that s not -what the people want." 

"No, unfortunately they don 't care anything 
about my affairs." 

" Well, we do : we are kinder, Francie and I," 





said the girl. " But we desire to keep them quite 
distinct from ours." 

" Oh, yours yours : if I could only discover what 
they are ! " the young journalist exclaimed. And 
during the rest of the time that they sat there 
, waiting he tried to find out. If an auditor had 
happened to be present for the quarter of an hour 
that elapsed and had had any attention to give 
to these vulgar young persons he would have 
wondered perhaps at there being so much mystery 
on one side and so much curiosity on the other 
wondered at least at the elaboration of inscrutable 
projects on the part of a girl who looked to the 
casual eye as if she were stolidly passive. Fidelia 
Dosson, whose name had been shortened, was 
twenty-five years old and had a large white face, 
with the eyes very far apart. Her forehead was 
high, but her mouth was small : her hair was light 
and colourless, and a certain inelegant thickness 
of figure made her appear shorter than she was. 
Elegance indeed had not been conferred upon 
her by Nature, and the Bon Marche and other 
establishments had to make up for that. To a 
feminine eye they would scarcely have appeared 
to have acquitted themselves of their office ; but 
even a woman would not have guessed how little 
Fidelia cared. She always looked the same; all 
the contrivances of Paris could not make her 
look different, and she held them, for herself, 
in no manner of esteem. It was a plain, blank 







face, not only without movement, but with a 
suggestion of obstinacy in its repose; and yet, 
with its limitations, it was neither stupid nor 
displeasing. It had an air of intelligent calm 
a considering, pondering look that was superior, 
somehow, to diffidence or anxiety; moreover, the 
girl had a clear skin and a gentle, dim smile. 
If she had been a young man (and she had, a 
little, the head of one) it would probably have 
been thought of her that she nursed dreams of 
eminence in some scientific or even political 
line. 

An observer would have gathered, further, that 
Mr. Flack s acquaintance with Mr. Dosson and his 
daughters had had its origin in his crossing the 
Atlantic eastward in their company more than a 
year before and in some slight association imme 
diately after disembarking; but that each party 
had come and gone a good deal since then corne 
and gone however without meeting again. It was 
to be inferred that in this interval Miss Dosson 
had led her father and sister back to their native 
land and had then a second time directed their 
course to Europe. This was a new departure, 
said Mr. Flack, or rather a new arrival : he under 
stood that it was not, as he called it, the same 
old visit. She did not repudiate the accusation, 
launched by her companion as if it might have 
been embarrassing, of having spent her time at 
home in Boston, and even in a suburban portion 

of it : she confessed that, as Bostonians, they had 
been capable of that. But now they had come 
abroad for longer ever so much : what they had 
gone home for was to make arrangements for a 
European sojourn of which the limits were not to 
be told. So far as this prospect entered into her 
plans she freely acknowledged it. It appeared 
to meet with George Flack s approval he also 
had a big job on that side and it might take years, 
so that it would be pleasant to have his friends 
right there. He knew his way about in Paris 
or any place like that much more than in Boston ; 
if they had been poked away in one of those 
clever suburbs they would have been lost to him. 
" Oh, well, you 'll see as much as you want to 
O f us the way you 'll have to take us," Delia 
Dosson said : which led the young man to inquire 
