judged that it was my duty to inform you of the fact 
immediately.' 

' By all means. I imagined this must be the case from 
your card. You are entirely in your rights, and I shall take 
great pleasure in informing every one of the fact. You are 
the Marchese di San Giacinto, and the inn at Aquila no 
longer exists.' 

' As these things must be done, once and for always, I 
have brought my papers to Rome,' answered the Marchese. 
' They are at your disposal, for you certainly have a right to 
see them, if you like. I will recall to your memory the facts 
of our history, in case you have forgotten them.' 

' I know the story well enough,' said Saracinesca.  Our 
great-grandfathers were brothers. Yours went to live in 
Naples. His eon grew up and joined the French against the 
King. His lands were forfeited, he married and died in 
obscurity, leaving your father, his only son. Your father 
died young and you again are his only son. You married 
the Signora Felice ' 



' Baldi,' said the Marchese, nodding in confirmation of the 
various statements. 

' The Signora Felice Baldi, by whom you have two 
children ' 

' Boys.' 

' Two boys. And the Signora Marchesa, I grieve to hear, 
is dead. Is that accurate ? ' 

'Perfectly. There is one circumstance, connected with 
our great-grandfathers, which you have not mentioned, but 
which I am sure you remember.' 

' What is that ? ' asked the prince, fixing his keen eyes 
on his companion's face. 

'It is only this,' replied San Giacinto, calmly. 'My 
great-grandfather was two years older than yours. You know 
he never meant to marry, and resigned the title to his 
younger brother, who had children already. He took a wife 
in his old age, and my grandfather was the son born to him. 
That is why you are so much older than I, though we are of 
the same generation in the order of descent.' 

' Yes,' assented the prince. 'That accounts for it. Will 
you smoke V 

Giovanni Saracinesca, Marchese di San Giacinto, looked 
curiously at his cousin as he took the proffered cigar. There 
was something abrupt in the answer which attracted his 
attention and roused his quick suspicions. He wondered 
whether that former exchange of titles, and consequent exchange of positions were an unpleasant subject of conversation to the prince. But the latter, as though anticipating such 
a doubt in his companion's mind, at once returned to the 
question with the boldness which was natural to him. 

' There was a friendly agreement,' he said, striking a match 
and offering it to the Marchese. ' I have all the documents, 
and have studied them with interest. It might amuse you 
to see them, some day.' 

' I should like to see them, indeed,' answered San Giacinto. 
' They must be very curious. As I was saying, I am going 
to establish myself in Eome. It seems strange to me to be 
playing the gentleman it must seem even more odd to you.' 

' It would be truer to say that you have been playing the 

innkeeper,' observed the prince, courteously. ' No one 
would suspect it,' he added, glancing at his companion's 
correct attire. 

' I have an adaptable nature,' said the Marchese, calmly. 
' Besides,! have always looked forward to again taking my place 
in the world. I have acquired a little instruction not much, 
you will say, but it is sufficient as the times go ; and as for 
education, it is the same for every one, innkeeper or prince. 
One takes off one's hat, one speaks quietly, one says what is 
agreeable to hear is it not enough ? ' 

' Quite enough,' replied the prince. He was tempted 
to smile at his cousin's definition of manners, though he 
could see that the man was quite able to maintain his position. ' Quite enough, indeed, and as for instruction, I am 
afraid most of us have forgotten our Latin. You need have 
no anxiety on that score. But, tell me, how comes it that, 
having been bred in the south, you prefer to establish your 
self in Rome rather than in Naples ? They say that you 
Neapolitans do not like us.' 

' I am a Roman by descent, and I wish to become one 
in fact,' returned the Marchese. ' Besides,' he added, in a 
peculiarly grave tone of voice, ' I do not like the new order 
of things. Indeed, I have but one favour to ask of you, and 
that is a great one.' 

' Anything in my power ' 

' To present me to the Holy Father as one who desires to 
become his faithful subject Could you do so, do you think, 
without any great inconvenience ? ' 

' Eh ! I shall be delighted ! Magarif ' answered the prince, 
heartily. ' To tell the truth, I was afraid you meant to keep 
your Italian convictions, and that, in Rome, would be against 
you, especially in these stormy days. But if you will join 
us heart and soul you will be received with open arms. I 
shall take great pleasure in seeing you make the acquaintance 
of my son and his wife. Come and dine this evening.' 

' Thank you,' said the Marchese. ' I will not fail.' 

After a few more words San Giacinto took his leave, and 
the prince could not but admire the way in which this man, 
ivho had been brought up among peasants, or at best among 



the small farmers of an outlying district, assumed at once an 
air of perfect equality while allowing just so much of respect 
to appear in his manner as might properly be shown by 
a younger member to the head of a great house. When he 
was gone Saracinesca rang the belL 

'Pasquale,' he said, addressing the old butler who 
answered the summons, ' that gentleman who is just gone is 
my cousin, Don Giovanni Saracinesca, who is called Marchese 
di^San Giacinto. He will dine here this evening. You will 
call him Eccellenza, and treat him as a member of the family. 
Go and ask the princess if she will receive me.' 

Pasquale opened his mental eyes very wide as he bowed 
and left the room. He had never heard of this other Sara 
cinesca, and the appearance of a new member of the family 
upon the scene, who must, from his appearance, have been 
in existence between thirty and forty years, struck him as 
astonishing in the extreme ; for the old servant had been 
bred up in the house from a boy and imagined himself 
master of all the secrets connected with the Saracinesca 
household. 

He was, indeed, scarcely less surprised than his master, 
who, although he had been aware for some time past that 
Giovanni Saracinesca existed and was his cousin, had never 
anticipated the event of his coming to Eome, and had expected still less that the innkeeper would ever assume the 
title to which he had a right and play the part of a gentle 
man, as he himself had expressed it. There was a strange 
mixture of boldness and foresight in the way the old prince 
had received his new relation. He knew the strength of his 
own position in society, and that the introduction of a humble 
cousin could not possibly do him harm. At the worst, 
people might laugh a little among themselves and remark 
that the Marchese must be a nuisance to the Saracinesca 
On the other hand, the prince was struck from the first with 
the air of self-possession which he discerned in San Giacinto, 
