chair a few feet from her own. "Robert, take Mr. Wolverton's hat."

Wolverton looked at the widow with a hungry gaze, for she was the only
woman, he had ever loved.

"If she would only marry me, all her troubles would be over," he said to
himself. "She's a fool to refuse."

We, who have some idea of Mr. Wolverton's character and disposition, are
more likely to conclude that marriage with such a man would be only the
beginning of trouble.

"I've come on business, Mrs. Burton," said the visitor, in an aggressive
tone.

"State it, if you please, Mr. Wolverton," the widow answered, calmly.

"Hadn't you better send your son out of the room? We'd better discuss
this matter alone."

"I have no secrets from Robert," said the widow.

"Oh, well, just as you please; I don't care to have him interfere in
what doesn't concern him."

"Any business with my mother does concern me," said Bob; "but I will try
not to give you any trouble."

"The business is about that interest," Wolverton began, abruptly.

"What interest?"

"You must know what I mean--the interest on the mortgage."

"My husband paid it on the day of his death."

"It's easy enough to say that," sneered Wolverton, "but saying it isn't
proving it, as you must have the good sense to know."

"When my husband left me on that fatal morning, he told me that he was
going to your office to pay the interest. I know he had the money and
with him, for he had laid down the wallet, and I saw the roll of bills."

"Why didn't he pay it, then? That's what I'd like to know."

"Didn't he pay it to you, Mr. Wolverton?" asked Mrs. Burton, with a
searching glance. "Carry back your memory to that day, and answer me
that question."

Mr. Wolverton showed himself a little restive under this interrogatory,
but he assumed an air of indignation.

"What do you mean, widder?" he demanded, bringing down his cane with
emphasis upon the floor. "Do you doubt my word?"

"I think you may be mistaken, Mr. Wolverton," said Mrs. Burton,
composedly.

"Who has been putting this into your head, widder? Is it that boy of
yours?"

Bob answered for himself:

"I don't mind saying that I did tell mother that I thought the money had
been paid."

"Humph! you think yourself mighty smart, Bob Burton," snarled Wolverton.
"Nat'rally you'd like to get rid of paying the interest, if you could;
but you've got a business man to deal with, not a fool."

"You are no fool where money is concerned, there's no doubt about that.
But I want to ask you one thing, if my father didn't pay you the money
which mother can testify to his carrying with him on the morning of his
death, what became of it?"

"How should I know? Did you search his wallet when he was brought home?"

"Yes."

"And you didn't find the money?"

"No."

"So you conclude that he paid it to me. Let me tell you, young man, that
doesn't follow. He may have been robbed when he was lying on the ground
insensible."

"I think very likely he was," returned Bob, quietly.

"What do you mean by that?" demanded Wolverton, uneasily. "Who could
have robbed him?"

"Possibly some one that we wouldn't be likely to suspect."

"What does he mean? Can he possibly suspect me?" thought Wolverton,
fixing his eyes on Bob's face. "But no! I certainly didn't take any
money from him."

"You may be right," he said aloud; "but that hasn't anything to do with
my claim for interest. Whether your father was robbed of the money, or
spent it, is all one to me. It wasn't paid to me, I can certify."

"Would you be willing to swear that the money was not paid to you that
day, Mr. Wolverton?"

"Do you mean to insult me? Haven't I told you it was not paid?"

"Do you expect me to pay it to you, then?" asked Mrs. Burton.

"Widder, I am surprised you should ask such a foolish question. It lies
in a nutshell. I'm entitled to interest on the money I let your husband
have on mortgage. You admit that?"

"Yes."

"I'm glad you admit that. As your husband didn't pay, I look to you for
it. I can say no more."

Mrs. Burton took a pocket-book from a pocket in her dress, and handed it
to Robert. Bob opened it, and drew therefrom a folded paper.

"Mr. Wolverton," he said, quietly, "I hold in my hand a receipt signed
by yourself for the interest--one hundred and fifty dollars--dated the
very day that my poor father died. What have you to say to it?"

Mr. Wolverton sprang to his feet, pale and panic-stricken.

"Where did you get that paper?" he stammered, hoarsely.






CHAPTER XIII.

WHAT BOB FOUND IN THE CREEK.


"When my poor husband left your office this receipt was in his
possession," answered Mrs. Burton.

"I deny it," exclaimed Aaron Wolverton, in a tone of excitement.

"Where else should it be?" inquired the widow, eying him fixedly.

"I don't know. How should I?"

"So you deny that the signature is yours, Mr. Wolverton?"

"Let me see it."

"I would rather not," said Bob, drawing back the receipt from
Wolverton's extended hand.

"That's enough!" said Wolverton quickly. "You are afraid to show it. I
denounce it as a base forgery."

"That will do no good," said the boy, un-terrified. "I have shown the
receipt to Mr. Dornton, and he pronounces the signature genuine."
