dream have driven me nearly mad. It was cruel 
of you to stay away so long — but let that pass. 
There is only one thing I can think of now — do 
you know anything more than when you left ?" 



I 

He folded his arms and looked down. " Why 
should you think I could have learned anything 
at Crumford Hall?" he demanded, with 
apparent evasion. 

" Because of the restraint and sometimes 
incoherence of your letters. I knew that something 
had happened to you; you seemed hardly the 
same man. You seemed like— Oh, I do not 
know. For heaven's sake, tell me what it is." 

" Weir," he said, raising his head and looking 
at her, " what do you think it is ? " 

She put up her hands and covered her face. " I 
do not know," she said, uncertainly. -'If there 
is to be any explanation it must come from you. 
With me there is only the indefinable but 
persistent feeling that I am not Weir Penrhyn but 
the woman of that dream; that I have no right 
here in my father's castle, and no right to the 
position I hold in the world. To me sin has 
always seemed a horrible thing, and yet I feel 
as if my own soul were saturated with it; and 
what is worse, I feel no repentance. It is as if I 
were being punished by some external power, not 
by my own conscience. As if — Oh, it is all too 
vague to put into words — Harold, what is it ? " 

"Let us sit down," he said, " and talk it 
over." 

She allowed him to draw her down onto the 
sofa, and he looked at her for a moment. Then, 
suddenly, the purely human love triumphed. He 



 

forgot regret and disgust. He forgot the teach- 
ings of the world, and the ideal whose shattering 
he had mourned. He remembered nothing but 
that this woman so close to him was dearer than 
life or genius or ambition; that he loved her 
with all the strength and passion of which a 
man is capable. The past was gone, the future 
a blank; nothing remained but the glorious pres- 
ent, with its impulses which sprang straight from 
the heart of nature and which no creed could 
root out. He flung his arms about her, and the 
fierce joy of the moment thrilled and shook him 
as he kissed her. And for the moment she too 
forgot. 

Then his arms slowly relaxed and he leaned 
forward, placing his elbow on his knee and cov- 
ering his face with his hand. For a few mo- 
ments he thought without speaking. He decided 
that he would tell her something to-night, but 
not all. He would give her a clue, and when 
she was alone she might work the rest out for 
herself. Then, together, they would decide what 
would be best to do. He took her hand. 

" I have something to tell you, "he said. "I 
did not tell you before I left because I thought it 
best not, but things have occurred since which 
make it desirable you should know. You do not 
know, I suppose, that on the night of our dream 
you got up in your sleep and wandered about the 
castle." 



I 

She leaned suddenly forward. '' Yes ? " she said, 
breathlessly. " I walked in my sleep ? You saw 
me? Where?" 

" In the gallery that overhangs the sea. I had 
gone there to watch the storm, and was about to 
return to my room when I saw you coming tow- 
ard me. At first I thought you were the spirit of 
your grandmother — of Sioned Penrhyn. In your 
sleep you had dressed yourself like the picture in 
the gallery, and the resemblance was complete. 
Then, strangely enough, I walked up to you and 
took your hand and called you ' Sion&d ' " 

" Go on ! " 

" Then you told me that you were dead, and had 
been wandering in the hereafter and looking for 
me; that you could not find me there, and so had 
come back to earth and entered into the body of 
a dead child, and given it life, and grown to 
womanhood again, and found me at last. And 
then you put your cold arms about me and drew 
me down onto a seat. I suddenly lost all consciousness
of the present, and we were together 
in a scene which was like a page from a past 
existence. The page was that of the dream we 
have found so difficult a problem, and you read 
it with me, not alone in your room — Weir! 
What is the matter ? " 

She had pushed him violently from her and 
sprung to her feet, and she stood before him 
with wide-open, terror-stricken eyes, and
quivering in every limb. She tried to speak, but no 
words came; her lips were white and shrivelled, 
and her tongue clove to the roof of her mouth. 
Then she threw up her arms and fell heavily to 
the floor. 

XIV. 

After Weir had been carried up-stairs, and he 
had ascertained that she was again conscious, 
Dartmouth went to his own room, knowing he 
could not see her again that night. He did not 
go to bed; there was no possibility of sleep for 
hours, and he preferred the slight distraction of 
pacing up and down the room. After a time he 
paused in front of the fireplace, and mechanically 
straightened one of the andirons with his 
foot. What had affected Weir so strangely ? 
Had the whole thing burst suddenly upon her? 
He had hardly told her enough for that; but 
what else could it be? Poor child! And poor 
Sir Iltyd! How should he explain to him? What 
story could he concoct to satisfy him ? It would 
be absurd to attempt the truth; no human being 
but himself and Weir could comprehend it; Sir 
Iltyd would only think them both mad. He un- 
consciously drew in a long breath, expelling the 
air again with some violence, like a man whose 
chest is oppressed. And how his head ached! 
If he could only get a few hours sleep without 
that cursed laudanum. Hark! what was that? 



 

A storm was coming up. It almost shook the 
castle, solid and of stone as it was. But he was 
glad. A storm was more in tune with his mood 
than calm. He would go out into the gallery 
