feeling, for anything in the world.  Here he had been blowing and
bragging about his grand meat-feast twice a year, and his fresh
meat twice a month, and his salt meat twice a week, and his white
bread every Sunday the year round--all for a family of three; the
entire cost for the year not above 69.2.6 (sixty-nine cents, two
mills and six milrays), and all of a sudden here comes along a man
who slashes out nearly four dollars on a single blow-out; and not
only that, but acts as if it made him tired to handle such small
sums.  Yes, Dowley was a good deal wilted, and shrunk-up and
collapsed; he had the aspect of a bladder-balloon that’s been
stepped on by a cow.
CHAPTER XXXIII
SIXTH CENTURY POLITICAL ECONOMY
However, I made a dead set at him, and before the first third
of the dinner was reached, I had him happy again.  It was easy
to do--in a country of ranks and castes.  You see, in a country
where they have ranks and castes, a man isn’t ever a man, he is
only part of a man, he can’t ever get his full growth.  You prove
your superiority over him in station, or rank, or fortune, and
that’s the end of it--he knuckles down.  You can’t insult him
after that.  No, I don’t mean quite that; of course you  can  insult
him, I only mean it’s difficult; and so, unless you’ve got a lot
of useless time on your hands it doesn’t pay to try.  I had the
smith’s reverence now, because I was apparently immensely prosperous
and rich; I could have had his adoration if I had had some little
gimcrack title of nobility.  And not only his, but any commoner’s
in the land, though he were the mightiest production of all the ages,
in intellect, worth, and character, and I bankrupt in all three.
This was to remain so, as long as England should exist in the
earth.  With the spirit of prophecy upon me, I could look into
the future and see her erect statues and monuments to her unspeakable
Georges and other royal and noble clothes-horses, and leave unhonored
the creators of this world--after God--Gutenburg, Watt, Arkwright,
Whitney, Morse, Stephenson, Bell.
The king got his cargo aboard, and then, the talk not turning upon
battle, conquest, or iron-clad duel, he dulled down to drowsiness
and went off to take a nap.  Mrs. Marco cleared the table, placed
the beer keg handy, and went away to eat her dinner of leavings
in humble privacy, and the rest of us soon drifted into matters
near and dear to the hearts of our sort--business and wages,
of course.  At a first glance, things appeared to be exceeding
prosperous in this little tributary kingdom--whose lord was
King Bagdemagus--as compared with the state of things in my own
region.  They had the “protection” system in full force here,
whereas we were working along down toward free-trade, by easy
stages, and were now about half way.  Before long, Dowley and I
were doing all the talking, the others hungrily listening.  Dowley
warmed to his work, snuffed an advantage in the air, and began
to put questions which he considered pretty awkward ones for me,
and they did have something of that look:
“In your country, brother, what is the wage of a master bailiff,
master hind, carter, shepherd, swineherd?”
“Twenty-five milrays a day; that is to say, a quarter of a cent.”
The smith’s face beamed with joy.  He said:
“With us they are allowed the double of it!  And what may a mechanic
get--carpenter, dauber, mason, painter, blacksmith, wheelwright,
and the like?”
“On the average, fifty milrays; half a cent a day.”
“Ho-ho!  With us they are allowed a hundred!  With us any good
mechanic is allowed a cent a day!  I count out the tailor, but
not the others--they are all allowed a cent a day, and in driving
times they get more--yes, up to a hundred and ten and even fifteen
milrays a day.  I’ve paid a hundred and fifteen myself, within
the week.  ‘Rah for protection--to Sheol with free-trade!”
And his face shone upon the company like a sunburst.  But I didn’t
scare at all.  I rigged up my pile-driver, and allowed myself
fifteen minutes to drive him into the earth--drive him  all  in
--drive him in till not even the curve of his skull should show
above ground.  Here is the way I started in on him.  I asked:
“What do you pay a pound for salt?”
“A hundred milrays.”
“We pay forty.  What do you pay for beef and mutton--when you
buy it?”  That was a neat hit; it made the color come.
“It varieth somewhat, but not much; one may say seventy-five milrays
the pound.”
“ We  pay thirty-three.  What do you pay for eggs?”
“Fifty milrays the dozen.”
“We pay twenty.  What do you pay for beer?”
“It costeth us eight and one-half milrays the pint.”
“We get it for four; twenty-five bottles for a cent.
What do you pay for wheat?”
“At the rate of nine hundred milrays the bushel.”
“We pay four hundred.  What do you pay for a man’s tow-linen suit?”
“Thirteen cents.”
“We pay six.  What do you pay for a stuff gown for the wife of the
laborer or the mechanic?”
“We pay eight cents, four mills.”
“Well, observe the difference: you pay eight cents and four mills,
we pay only four cents.”  I prepared now to sock it to him.  I said:
“Look here, dear friend,  what’s become of your high wages you
were bragging so about a few minutes ago? ”--and I looked around
on the company with placid satisfaction, for I had slipped up
on him gradually and tied him hand and foot, you see, without his
ever noticing that he was being tied at all.  “What’s become of
those noble high wages of yours?--I seem to have knocked the
stuffing all out of them, it appears to me.”
But if you will believe me, he merely looked surprised, that
is all! he didn’t grasp the situation at all, didn’t know he had
walked into a trap, didn’t discover that he was  in  a trap.  I could
have shot him, from sheer vexation.  With cloudy eye and a struggling
intellect he fetched this out:
“Marry, I seem not to understand.  It is  proved  that our wages
be double thine; how then may it be that thou’st knocked therefrom
the stuffing?--an miscall not the wonderly word, this being the
first time under grace and providence of God it hath been granted
me to hear it.”
Well, I was stunned; partly with this unlooked-for stupidity on
his part, and partly because his fellows so manifestly sided with
him and were of his mind--if you might call it mind.  My position
was simple enough, plain enough; how could it ever be simplified
more?  However, I must try:
“Why, look here, brother Dowley, don’t you see?  Your wages are
merely higher than ours in  name, not in  fact .”
“Hear him!  They are the  double --ye have confessed it yourself.”
“Yes-yes, I don’t deny that at all.  But that’s got nothing to do
with it; the  amount  of the wages in mere coins, with meaningless
names attached to them to know them by, has got nothing to do
with it.  The thing is, how much can you  buy  with your wages?
--that’s the idea.  While it is true that with you a good mechanic
is allowed about three dollars and a half a year, and with us only
about a dollar and seventy-five--”
“There--ye’re confessing it again, ye’re confessing it again!”
“Confound it, I’ve never denied it, I tell you!  What I say is
this.  With us  half  a dollar buys more than a  dollar  buys
with you--and THEREFORE it stands to reason and the commonest
kind of common-sense, that our wages are  higher  than yours.”
He looked dazed, and said, despairingly:
“Verily, I cannot make it out.  Ye’ve just said ours are the
higher, and with the same breath ye take it back.”
“Oh, great Scott, isn’t it possible to get such a simple thing
through your head?  Now look here--let me illustrate.  We pay
four cents for a woman’s stuff gown, you pay 8.4.0, which is
four mills more than  double .  What do you allow a laboring
woman who works on a farm?”
“Two mills a day.”
“Very good; we allow but half as much; we pay her only a tenth
of a cent a day; and--”
“Again ye’re conf--”
“Wait!  Now, you see, the thing is very simple; this time you’ll
understand it.  For instance, it takes your woman 42 days to earn
her gown, at 2 mills a day--7 weeks’ work; but ours earns hers
in forty days--two days  short  of 7 weeks.  Your woman has a gown,
and her whole seven weeks wages are gone; ours has a gown, and
two days’ wages left, to buy something else with.  There-- now 
you understand it!”
He looked--well, he merely looked dubious, it’s the most I can say;
so did the others.  I waited--to let the thing work.  Dowley spoke
at last--and betrayed the fact that he actually hadn’t gotten away
from his rooted and grounded superstitions yet.  He said, with
a trifle of hesitancy:
“But--but--ye cannot fail to grant that two mills a day is better
than one.”
Shucks!  Well, of course, I hated to give it up.  So I chanced
another flyer:
“Let us suppose a case.  Suppose one of your journeymen goes out
and buys the following articles:
  “1 pound of salt;
   1 dozen eggs;
   1 dozen pints of beer;
   1 bushel of wheat;
