her satisfaction, the vindictive little creature turned, and, going back
to the lodge, began to issue orders with imperative haste, as though she
had but one wish in the world, namely, to help Eve; Mrs. Mile found
herself working as she had never worked before; the Irishmen tumbled
over each other; Porley and the cook constantly gallopaded--no other
word could describe their gait. The judge worked fiercely; he helped in
launching the canoes until the blood rushed to his head; he ran after
the Irishmen; he carried Jack, he scolded Porley. And then, during one
of these journeys, his strength failed so suddenly that he was obliged
to sit down; as there was no bench near, he sat down on the ground.

Soon afterwards Mrs. Mile came by.

"Dear me! Do let me assist you," she said sweetly.

"I am merely looking at the lake; it is charming this morning," replied
the judge, waving his hand.

"I could assist you so well," said the nurse, coming nearer, "knowing,
as I do, the exact position of all the muscles."

"Muscles, madam? It's more than I do! May I ask you to pass on?"

One of the Irishmen next appeared, carrying Jack's pillows and toys.

"Can you tell me where Mr. Hollis is?" demanded the judge, still seated.

"Mr. Hollis, surr? Yes, surr. Think he's gone fishing, surr."

"D--n him! He takes a nice time for it--when we're sweating here,"
muttered the judge, angrily.

But poor Hollis was fishing only in a figurative sense, and in bitter
waters. He had sent for Paul--yes; but he could not stay to witness his
return with Eve; (he had not the slightest doubt but that Eve would
return with him). He shook hands with Paul upon his arrival, and made a
number of jokes, as usual. But soon after the younger man's canoe had
started eastward in search of Eve, a second canoe, with Hollis paddling,
stole quietly away, going in the opposite direction. Its occupant
reached Port aux Pins, in due time. He remained there but a few hours.

A month later a letter came to Paul from a small town near the base of
the Rocky Mountains. "You see, when I got back to Port aux Pins, it sort
of came over me that I'd go west. People are more lively out here, and
not so crowded. I've got hold of a capital thing in raisins, in southern
California. If that fails, there is stock-raising, and plenty of other
things; and the same old auctioneer line. I've left a trifle in the
savings-bank for Jacky. Perhaps you'll take charge of it for him? You'll
hear from me again soon.--C. HOLLIS."

But Paul never heard from him; from that moment all trace of him was
lost. Ferdie, if he had known Hollis, would have had a vision of him
making his way year by year farther westward, always attired in the
black coat and tall hat (which marked his dignity as a lawyer), whether
voyaging in a prairie schooner, chopping wood at a camp, hunting elk, or
searching for ore. But Paul had no such visions, he did not see human
lives as tableaux-vivants. He was sincerely sorry that Hollis had
vamosed in that way. But he understood it too.

The trifle turned out to be eight hundred dollars. It was regularly
entered to little Jack's account, and there was a pass-book with his
full name, "John Frederick Bruce." "Bruce,--that did it," thought Paul;
"he could give it to the child. Poor old Kit! it must have been all he
had."

Cicely's generalship was excellent; in less than half an hour the three
canoes were ready, and the judge, Porley and Jack, Eve, Cicely herself,
with three of the men to row, took their places; the boats glided out
from the shore, turning towards the west. Mrs. Mile bowed gravely to the
judge, with an air of compunction; she knew what an impression she had
made upon that poor old man; she was afraid that she had not done right!
Mrs. Mile was left in charge of the camp to await the arrival of Paul
Tennant.

The canoes were out all night. At dawn the little party found refuge on
one of the North Shore steamers, and began the long voyage down the
chain of lakes, stopping again at the beautiful city of Cleveland,
thence by railway to New York, and from there southward by sea. On the
ninth morning of their journey their ocean steamer turned her bows
towards the distant land, a faint line on the right; by noon, she was
making her way along a winding channel, which was indicated here and
there in the water by buoys painted white, which looked like ducks; the
Atlantic was very calm, its hue was emerald green; it was so clear that
one could see the great jelly-fish floating down below. The judge, with
his hands clasped on his cane's head, stood looking eagerly at
everything. His joy was deep, he felt himself an exile returning home.
And oh! how beautiful home was! To him, this Southern coast was fair as
Paradise; he welcomed the dark hue of the Southern trees, he welcomed
the neglected fields, he even welcomed the broken-down old houses here
and there. For at least they were not staring, they were not noisy; to
the judge, the smart new houses of Port aux Pins--those with Mansard
roofs--had seemed to shout and yell. Three negro fishermen, passing in a
row-boat with a torn sail, were eminently worthy creatures; they were
not the impudent, well-dressed mulattoes of the North, who elbowed him
off the pavements, who read newspapers on steamers with the air of men
of the world. When the winding channel--winding through water--came to
an end at the mouth of an inlet, the white sand-hills on each hand were
more beautiful to his eyes than the peaks of the Alps, or the soft
outline of Italian mountains. "God bless my country!" was the old man's
fervent thought. But his "country" was limited; it was the territory
which lies between the St. Mary's River and the Savannah.

At the little port within the inlet they disembarked, and took the small
steamer of the Inside Route, which was to carry them through the sounds
to Romney. Night had come on, dark and quiet; clouds covered the sky;
the air was warm, for it was still summer here. The dusky shores, dimly
visible on either hand, gave a sense of protection after the vastness of
the ocean; the odors of flowers reached them, and seemed sweet after its
blank, cold purity. Cicely, with Porley and Jack, was on the deck near
the stern; the judge was now with them, now at the prow, now up-stairs,
now down-stairs; he could not be still. Eve sat by herself on the
forward deck, gazing through the darkness at the water; she could not
see it save here and there in broken gleams, where the lights from the
lower cabin shone across it; she heard the rushing sound made by the
great paddle-wheels as they revolved unseen behind her, and the fancy
came to her that she should like to be lashed to the outer rim of one of
them, and be carried up and down through the cool water. Towards ten
o'clock a beam shone out ahead. "See it?" said the judge, excitedly,
coming to show it to her. "Jupiter Light!"

And Eve remembered that less than a year before she had landed here for
the first time, a woman imperious, sufficient to herself; a woman who
was sure that she could direct her own course; in addition, a woman who
supposed herself to be unhappy. How like child's play did this all seem
now--her certainties, and her pride, and her supposed sorrow! "If I
could die, wouldn't that be the best thing for me, as well as for Paul?
A way out of it all? The first shock over, I should be but a memory to
him; I should not be a miserable haunting presence, wretched myself, and
making him wretched too. I wonder--I wonder--is it wrong to try to die?"

The stern Puritan blood of her father in her answered, "One must not
give up until one has exhausted every atom of one's strength in the
contest."

"But if it is all exhausted? If--" Here another feeling came sweeping
over her. "No, I cannot die while he is in the world; in spite of my
misery, I want to be here if he is here. Perhaps no knowledge of
anything that happens here penetrates to the next world; if that is the
case, I don't want to be there, no matter how beautiful it may be. I
want to stay where I can hear of Paul."

After they had left the boat, and Pomp and Plato were hoisting the
trunks into one of the wagons, Cicely came up.

"Eve, you must stay with me more, now that we are here; you mustn't be
always off by yourself."

"I thought you preferred it."

"Yes, through the journey. But not now. It's a great deal worse for me
now than it is for you; you have left Paul behind, but I am going to see
Ferdie in a moment or two. I shall see him everywhere--in the road, at
the door, in our own room; he will stand and look at me."

"Well, you will like that."

"No, for it will be only a mockery; I shall not be able to put my arms
round him; he won't kiss me."

"Cecilia," called the judge, his voice ringing out happily, "everything
