pleasant.
"After the guests shall have partaken of it," said he, "they will bid
high enough, and I shall have an excellent sale. Call it English punch
and they will like it all the better."
I had to promise him to do my best, and go to work at once; as we had
a good store of all kinds of intoxicating liquors on board, I could
choose what I pleased. I mixed together, Bordeaux, Madeira, Rum,
Arrac, Geneva, Cogniac, and Porter; dissolved in it half a hat-full of
sugar and threw in about two dozen oranges, and as many sweet lemons.
It certainly tasted most excellently, and even the smell of it
affected my head. After dinner, when the dessert was about to be
placed upon the table, I called six sailors, and providing each with a
large bowl of my mixture, they marched into the cabin in procession
and placed them on the table; then I informed the company that the
mixture was a new kind of English punch, and filled their glasses for
them.
The delicious drink was very popular and even the ladies sipped it
with delight. The effect was immediate; after the first two glasses,
all grew very loquacious; two more glasses and the gentlemen were
thoroughly intoxicated without being stupified. At this moment the
sale began, and all rushed on deck, and proceeded to purchase in such
a wild, excited manner, that the worst article that we had, sold for
twice its real value. When the business was nearly concluded, a
frightful noise arose on the forward deck; the crew had received a
double allowance of rum and brandy, and very naturally, a quarrel had
arisen between two of the most excited, in which one of them was
stabbed in the breast. As I understood something of surgery, I was
called upon to dress and bandage the wound, and whilst I was thus
engaged the company departed in the boats, the gentlemen in a high
state of excitement and much pleased with their bargains.
When all was quiet on board, the captain called to him the man who had
escaped from the combat unhurt, and inquired into the cause of the
bloody fray. And now a fearful secret came to light. The man revealed
a conspiracy against the captain, headed by one of the officers, which
had been in progress for a month. The officer who commanded it had
asked leave of absence, and was at that time on land, engaged in
perfecting his plan, which was, to fall upon the captain and murder
him with the greater part of the crew. The wounded sailor had belonged
to this conspiracy, which was frightful enough, and so angered the
captain that he was almost beside himself with rage. He forthwith
called together the whole ship's company and made known to them the
plot he had discovered. He had scarcely finished speaking when fierce
cries for revenge arose among the crew; they rushed below, and in a
few minutes dragged up the wounded sailor, hacked off his arms and
legs, plunged their knives into his body, and threw it overboard.
They then dragged out his chest; destroyed and tore to rags every
thing in it, and in a perfect frenzy of rage, threw it into the sea
also. Then the watch was trebled and set; all sharpened their daggers
and knives, and prepared for an attack. But the night passed and
nothing occurred.
On the following afternoon, a sail appeared, which steered towards us;
the captain took the spy glass, and instantly recognized the boat
which had carried the treacherous officer and part of the crew on land
the day before.
"Here come the conspirators," he cried, with a fearful curse, "we'll
give them the welcome they deserve. Thirty of you load your muskets
and be ready."
When the boat was within a short distance of us, it stopped and
hoisted a white flag in token of peace; the captain did the same, and
the boat then approached perfectly unsuspiciously. When they were
within musket shot, the captain ordered his men to fire. Five men fell
dead, a sixth sprang into the sea, and the rest turned and rowed away.
The captain sent a boat out after the unhappy wretch who was in the
water, and in less than five minutes they dragged him on board. He was
wounded in the arm and was bleeding freely. But, notwithstanding, his
clothes were, by the captain's orders, torn off, and he was exposed
naked to the burning rays of the sun. When he had suffered thus for an
hour, the tyrant went to him and asked with suppressed rage:
"Now traitor, will you confess?"
"I am innocent," replied the half-dead wretch, "I know of nothing."
"Here," cried the captain to his savages, "take him and row him into
the inlet; there leave him in the swamp; we'll see whether the
gad-flies will not help his memory. You," continued the captain, "go
with them, and give heed to this example."
Five of the pirates, armed with pistols and swords, bound the wretched
man, hand and foot, threw him into the boat and rowed into the inlet.
Just at the mouth of it there was a morass filled with gad-flies and
other poisonous insects. Into this dreadful ditch they threw their
former comrade, and then withdrew to a short distance to jeer at and
mock him. In about an hour they drew him out again; he was still
living, but his body was so covered with blisters that he looked like
nothing human. In this condition he was taken to the ship again.
"Has he confessed?" shouted the captain to us as we were approaching.
We replied in the negative.
"Then shoot him down like a dog."
Two of the robbers seized him, one presented a pistol to his forehead,
another to his breast; they were both discharged at the same moment,
and the unhappy man was bathed in his own blood. As he gave no further
sign of life, they hurled him overboard.
What a deed of horror! I passed a fearful night, for I could not close
my eyes when I thought of the probable fate that awaited me among
these miscreants.
III.
The next morning I went sadly enough to my labor, which consisted in
cutting and making a new sail, when at about ten o'clock, the watch at
the mast-head, cried out:
"A sail! a sail!"
I went aloft, and saw that it was a large merchant vessel. The captain
weighed anchor, sailed down upon her and when he supposed himself sure
of his prey, fired off a cannon; the brig hoisted the English flag and
lay to. This unexpected manoeuvre seemed very suspicious to the
captain; he began to believe that he had to deal with a man-of-war;
changed his plan, and determined upon boarding the strange vessel; he
gave orders to have two boats manned with the bravest of his crew,
which should attack the ship upon both sides at once, and commanded me
to head the expedition. Such an order terrified me not a little.
"What," I cried, "must I fight thus shamefully with my countrymen. If
I am taken prisoner what can I expect but the most shameful death. No,
Senor, I can never obey your orders."
"Who are you," he answered fiercely, "who think yourself so much
better than me and my men? Do we not expose ourselves to death every
hour of the day? My vessel shall never be taken, for when I can no
longer defend it I will blow it up. Obey me instantly or I will have
you shot in the twinkling of an eye."
"Do it," I coolly rejoined, "I do not fear death, but I will never
obey your orders."
"Well then," he cried furiously, "to death with him. Bandage his eyes.
Five minutes respite only, and let three men aim at his head and three
at his heart."
The pirates obeyed instantly, and I commended my soul to God. When the
five minutes had gone, the captain asked:
"Are you ready, helmsman?"
"Yes, Senor."
"You persist then in your obstinacy."
"Yes, Senor."
"Attention! Make ready! Fire!"
The men fired, but I remained unhurt; a burning cork flew in my face,
but made no wound. The captain had intended to frighten me, and his
men had only loaded with blank cartridges.
"Well, helmsman," he cried, "are you mortally wounded? Have you had
enough?"
"I am not wounded, Senor," I replied, "but I am not a boy to be
trifled with; if you are going to kill me, do it quickly, for I will
never disgrace myself by obeying your orders."
"So be it then," cried the pirate, foaming with rage; "bind him to the
mainmast; unbandage his eyes; let us have plenty of tinder; lay a
train of powder, and to the devil with him!"
His orders were obeyed; I closed my eyes and awaited death for the
second time. In about ten seconds I heard a terrible explosion, which
stunned me for some minutes. When I recovered my consciousness, I
felt a terrible pain in my lower limbs; my hands were bound, and my
clothes on fire.
"Shoot me upon the spot; why do you torture me so?"
But the captain and his men only laughed; and when my stockings were
entirely burnt, he gave orders to pour water over me and unbind me,
saying composedly, as if nothing had happened:
"You provoked me or I should not have done it; now go below and get
cured."
But the moment I was unbound, I fainted away, and when I came to
myself I lay upon a matrass in the cabin, and felt the most
intolerable pain in all my limbs, but particularly in my legs. On a
chair beside me sat the cook; he told me that lemonade had been
prepared for me; I took some of it, and asked him to support me, that
I might look at my legs; they were frightfully burnt; in some places
the bone was exposed. While I was examining them, the captain
appeared, looked at my horrible wounds, and said, with a show of
compassion:
"Helmsman, ask for whatsoever you want, and you, cook, see that he has
it. Make haste and get better; by heaven, I hope you'll get over it."
With these words he left me. I called for a better bed, the medicine
