five hundred. It was a larger and prettier house, with 
one acre of ground. 

The next morning we went to look at it. It was 
a double house with a hall through the middle, and a 
large parlor on one side, that had a very pretentious 
air. There were four sleeping-chambers up-stairs, 
and a nice attic for storage ; a furnace and a range. 
The fences were good, and the house in fair repair ; 
no barn, but a very nice hennery ; and some fruit. 
There certainly was a thousand dollars difference. 

Thursday brought Mrs. Harwood. She was a 
bright, keen-eyed little old lad}^, with snowy white 
hair, and a kind of apple-bloom in her cheeks, a rapid 
talker, and she had a habit of giving sagacious little 
nods to emphasize her sentences. We went over 
the Cassel cottage exhaustively, made an estimate 
of what repairs would cost, though I knew I should 
do it for half the sum. Still, that was for Mrs. 
Cassel's eye. Mrs. Harwood approved of the place, 



 

and she also believed in young people laying by 
something. 

" It is so easy," said she, " to take money out of 
a bank, but one cannot get it out of a house at a 
moment's notice." 

She had a cup of tea with us, and was as much 
interested in Eve's small housekeeping as if she had 
been some connection. 

We were to wait for some sign or word from Mrs. 
Cassel. Oddly enough, she came to hand the very 
next day. Pryor had a talk with her, in which he 
said he played out his right bower, told her we 
were looking at another place. They came up 
together, and we had a long talk over repairs and all 
that. 

" Well," she said at length, " I am going away for 
a year or so, and want to get rid of the house ; but 
it cost twice that sum. It is really giving it away, 
and I might better have done this soon after Mr. 
Cassel's death. Take it at your own price, then." 

Eve suddenly turned pale. I think she just real 
ized the responsibility she had assumed. 

Arrangements were made for the business to be 
settled the ensuing week. We sent word to Mrs. 
Harwood, and then lived in a curious state of expec 
tancy, in which we felt that any thing might happen 
to snatch away our coveted prize. Every day we 



 

went to look at it. There was a spring-like tender 
ness in the air, and a purplish tint to the swelling 
buds. A bluebird now and then made a swift dazzle 
across the sky, and the waysides came to have a 
peculiar softness under the dead browns and grays. 

No misfortune happened. Everybody came to 
hand, we paid away our precious money, and the 
house and nearly two acres of ground were trans 
ferred to us. Mrs. Harwood made up the remainder, 
and took a mortgage for two thousand dollars, and a 
note for three hundred. I must confess that I had 
some misgivings about the wisdom of staying at 
Athens on forty-five dollars a month. But the die 
was cast. 

Athens was very much surprised. It was ex 
tremely amusing to hear the comments. Two differ 
ent parties professed to be dreadfully disappointed. 
If they had suspected the place would go so cheap, 
they would have purchased it. Two or three others 
considered it dear at any price, and were sure one 
thousand dollars would not put it in good order. 
But we were the happiest of the happy. 

" Still, we have enjoyed our nest up among the 
eaves," said my sister, " only it would be too hot for 
comfort in the summer. And now we really begin life. 
The past, with me, has been merely playing at it." 

I felt the responsibility of a large debt on my 



 

shoulders. I wondered how I would ever get used 

to it. 

We had a very great surprise a few days after this. 
Uncle Lennard was in New York, and came over to 
see us. He was looking very well ; but the mining 
business had not turned out quite as prosperously as 
he expected. He was getting up the company now, 
and hoped in a few years to be a rich man. Aunt 
Carry would spend the summer at Cleveland. Helen, 
he believed, was engaged, or there was a prospect of 
it. He was going to Long Branch, to look up some 
belongings of the ladies, and would have Eve's 
piano boxed and sent. 

We kept him all night. How restless he was! 
how full of schemes and hopes and plans ! Money, 
money all the time ! Yet, when I said good-by, all 
his old kindness rushed over me, and I felt that I 
loved him like a son. 

About a week later, Eve received a kindly little 
note from him, enclosing a check for one hundred 
dollars. He had made some money by a fortunate 
speculation, and wanted to send Eve a little gift ; 
though he wished he could afford to add another 
cipher to the figures. Dear uncle Marvin ! you had 
a generous heart. Had you been a millionnaire, you 
would have made people rejoice on the right hand 
and on the left. 



 

" Now," said Eve, " I shall pay this directly on the 
house. Isn't it just lovely ? " 

I demurred at this. " You ought to keep some 
thing for yourself. And there will be house-furnish 
ing, and repairs and papering " 

"And lions and lions," laughed Eve. "You are 
certainly Mr. Ready-to-halt and Mr. Faint-Heart in 
one. Dear old Bunyan ! How well he knew the 
souls of human beings ! " 

In spite of my arguments, she went and paid it. 
Mrs. Harwood thought she had better keep it, but Eve 
was resolute. Then her friend asked her to go out 
shopping, and she purchased two pretty summer-silk 
dresses. At parting, she put one parcel in Eve's hand. 

"This is for you, my dear," she said; "and with 
it my best wishes. But do not wear yourself out 
too fast, saving and working. There is nothing so 
sweet as youth, and that is the season for pleasure." 

" How lovely she was ! " exclaimed Eve. " I 
