
Retreat from the great effort of being to 
secure its own continuity, may have whatever 
moral aspects ; it is at least true that to re- 
treat is to be beaten ; that to be beaten is to 
be weak ; and that such weakness may be the 
last fate which has presented itself as probable 
to the type of soul most likely to succumb. 

For, let us notice, the struggle for immor- 
tality is not a simple and obvious affair. The 
armor and sabre, the powder and shot, are not, 
in fact, altogether the urgent and the tangible. 
The blood and dust and mortal cries 
may not be the apparent, or the audible ; and 
he who is hurled down 66 unable or to move or 
die," may give no sign. As with the silent 
defeats of life, so with its dumb victories. He 
needs the higher education in the deaf-mute 

language of the soul, who would apply his tac- 
tics to the estimate ; and his is the best mar- 
tial culture of the spirit which is most con- 
scious of its own unfitness to specialize that es- 
timate. But so much as this it is easy to see : 
as civilization refines, the intricacy and deli- 
cacy of the struggle for existence must refine 
with it ; and, that this is likely to be true of 
eternal as well as of temporal existence, the 
course of our argument has already suggested, 
and now finds itself obliged to emphasize. 

The struggle for eternal life is no light 
matter, like ladies' calisthenics, which exercise 
only certain muscles. The athletics of the 
soul are virile ; they are impartial ; they are 
not ornamental and fanciful. Development is 
demanded for use, not for exhibit. Tissue and 
sinew and blood and bone respond ; now this, 
now the other, urgency on one, relief of the 
other, pressure here, repose there, strain to-day, 
rest to-morrow, this faculty aroused, the other 
lulled, this feat to be performed, that danger 
scorned, a boy's medal won to-day, and a 
man's life saved next year ; thus the soul, in 
the hands of the Silent Trainer, grows in 
frame and fibre. Will we play battle-door 



and shuttle-cock for our prizes ? Or close and 
wrestle for them ? 

We have spoken of the evolution of a 
higher than the physical, from the physical 
science which holds so disproportionate, but 
none the less useful, an influence over the 
thought of the instructed world to-day. " We 
are spirits," said one of the coolest of scien- 
tific men, a century ago. " We are spirits. 
That bodies should be lent to us while they 
can afford us pleasure, assist us in acquiring 
knowledge, or in doing good to our fellow- 
creatures, is a kind and benevolent act of 
God." The practical Franklin showed his 
keen good sense in this matter-of-fact way 
of expressing a truth which is too often ap- 
proached upon the mystical and most difficult 
side. We are, indeed, spirit ; and we may, 
without hesitation, dispute so much as this 
with him who begins by saying that we are 
matter. It cannot be denied that we have at 
least as good a right to start with the one asser- 
tion, as he with the other. " I should never," 
says Elizabeth Peabody, " teach a child, " You 
have a soul,' but, ; You have a body.' " 

Let us then call the struggle for immortality 
an advanced form of the lower encounter. 
It is a struggle historic and dramatic, as it is 
involved and unconcluded. A man cannot 
fight this fight with part of his nature. It 
takes the whole of him. A stout fist avails 
him little without sound thought. He cannot 
gain the day by his intellect, lest he lose it on 
the side of his heart. Neither does emotion 
win without reflection, and hysteria is a poor 
weapon to substitute for common sense. We 
find at once, that we have approached herein 
a problem complex to the edge of mystery. 
For, there enters into this struggle a strange 
law of spiritual selection, differing from that 
governing the conflicts in the lower phases of 
organization, as fineness differs from momentum, 
the telephone from a war-cry, or the 
Flower Charity from the Inquisition. 

The conditions of immortality wholly refuse 
to rest upon the piers which hold the conditions 
of conquest in the life of time. Brute 
force ceases now to keep its relative value in 
this larger contest. There is what may be 
called a brute force of the mind, of which this 
is equally and terribly true. Sheer intellect 
has no greater chance at everlasting life than 




sheer muscle. Immortality is not promised by 
their Creator, to great men. Mere mincl holds 
no passport to eternity. There is no limited 
express to Paradise for able people. Goethe, 
for being Goethe, is none the more likely to 
last forever. Frederica, so far as we can see, 
stands quite as good, or a better chance. 

The law of spiritual selection would seem 
to be at once severe and delicate. The obscurest 
mother, transmitting a pure heart to her 
boys, never having heard of protoplasm, and 
knowing no philosophy beyond her prayers, 
may enter into this higher contention with an 
equipment which the discoverer of the missing 
link might envy. It is quite conceivable that 
the soul of a felon might survive the soul of a 
prince or a priest. The tests of the world fail. 
Fine causes, and finer sequences, enter the 
list. Who are we that we should win? What 
is our standard of success ? What the temper 
of our weapons ? We buy and sell, we woo 
and wed, we gain us a friend, or fame; and 
the stranger without our gates, or the servant 
under our feet, may be fighting for a soul's 
life where we are fooling with it, and may, 
therefore, be better worth life, and so the more 




likely to live. For law is but law, and spirit- 
ual law loses nothing of its grip for its gain in 
quality, and holds us none the less robustly be- 
cause of a touch so velvet. 

Suppose that this view be the true one. 
Suppose that he who wishes to live indefi- 
nitely, or always, is the subject of such law. 
Suppose that the complete and complex nature 
— physical, mental, moral, spiritual — be- 
comes, by an ascending scale of strain, the sol- 
dier in such a strife. Suppose that the ulti- 
mate atom of the permanent individual may 
prove to be the vigor or the honor of his con- 
science. Suppose that from this, as, in the 
physical case, from the cell of the embryo, the 
life of what we call a soul evolves. Suppose 
that the development of this spiritual cell-life 
is, to the requisite extent, under the control of 
the human will. Suppose that this development 
