coping with the situation than his father. They 
both waited for Fulkerson, who went about and did 
his best to keep life in the party during the half- 
hour that passed before they sat down at dinner. 
Beaton stood gloomily aloof, as if waiting to be 
approached on the right basis before yielding an 
inch of his ground; Colonel "Woodburn, awaiting 
the moment when he could sally out on his hobby, 
kept himself intrenched within the dignity of a 
gentleman, and examined askance the figure of old 
Lindau as he stared fibout the room, with his fine 
  
hc;;d up, and liis empty sleeve dangling over his 
wrist. Larch felt obliged to him for wearing a new 
coat in the midst of that hostile luxury, and he was 
glad to see Dryfoos make up to him and begin to 
talk with him, as if he wished to show him particular 
respect, though it might have been because he was 
less afraid of him than of the others. He heard 
Lindau saying, " Boat, the name is Choarman ? " 
and Dryfoos beginning to explain his Pennsylvania 
Dutch origin, and he sufTered himself, with a sigh 
of relief, to fall into talk with Kendricks, who was 
always pleasant ; he was willing to talk about some- 
thing besides himself, and had no opinions that ho 
was not ready to hold in abeyance for the time being 
out of kindness to others. In that group of impas- 
sioned individualities, March felt him a refuge and 
comfort — with his harmless dilettante intention of 
some day writing a novel, and his belief that he was 
meantime collecting material for it. 
Fulkerson, while breaking the ice for the whole 
company, was mainly engaged in keeping Colonel 
woodburn thawed out. He took Kendricks away 
from March and presented him to the Colonel as a 
person who, like himself, was looking into social con- 
ditions; he put one hand on Kendricks' shoulder, 
and one on the colonel's, and made some flattering 
joke, apparently at the expense of the young fellow, 
and then left them. March heard Kendricks pro- 
test in vain, and the colonel say gravely : " I do not 
wonder, sir, that these things interest you. They 
constitute a problem which society must solve or 
  
which •will dissolve society," and he knew from that 
formula, which the colonel had once used with him, 
that he was laying out a road for the exhibition of 
the hobby's paces later. 
Fulkerson came hack to March, who liad turned 
toward Conrad Dryfoos, and said, " If we don't get 
this thing going pretty soon, it 'll he the death of 
me," and just then Frescobaldi's butler came in and 
announced to Dryfoos that dinner was served. The 
old man looked toward Fulkerson with a troubled 
glance, as if he did not know what to do ; he made 
a gesture to touch Lindau's elbow. Fulkerson called 
out, "Colonel Woodburn, Mr. Dryfoos," as 
if Dryfoos were looking for him ; and he set the 
example of what he was to do by taking Lindau's 
arm himself. "Mr. Lindau is going to sit at my 
end of the table, alongside of March. Stand not 
upon the order of your going, gentlemen, but fall in 
at once." He contrived to get Dryfoos and the 
colonel before him, and he let March follow with 
Kcndricks. Conrad came last with Beaton, who 
had been turning over the music at the piano, and 
chafing iiiwardly at the whole affair. At the table 
Colonel Woodburn was placed on Dryfoos's right, 
and March on his left. March sat on Fulkerson's 
right, with Lindau next him ; and the young men 
occupied the other seats. 
" Put you next to March, Mr. Lindau," said Ful- 
kerson, " so yoii can begin to put Apollinaris in his 
champagne-glass at the right moment ; you know his 
little weaknoss of old; sorry to say it 's grown on him." 
  
March laughed witli kindly acquiescence in Ful- 
korson's wish to start the gaiety, and Lindau patted 
him on the shoulder. " I know hiss veakness. If 
he liges a class of vine, it iss begause his loaf ingludes 
efen hiss enemy, as Shakespeare galled it." 
" Ah, but Shakespeare couldn't have been thinking 
of champagne," said Kendricks. 
"I suppose, sir," Colonel Woodburn interposed 
with lofty courtesy, " champagne could hardly have 
been known in his day." 
" I suppose not, colonel," returned the younger 
man deferentially. " He seemed to think that sack 
and sugar might be a fault; but he didn't mention 
champagne." 
" Perhaps he felt there was no question about 
that," suggested Beaton, who then felt that he had 
not done himself justice in the sally. 
" I wonder just when champagne did come in," 
said March. 
" I know when it ought to come in," said Fulker- 
son. " Before the soup ! " 
They all laughed, and gave themselves the air of 
drinking champagne out of tumblers every day, as 
men like to do. Dryfoos listened uneasily ; he did 
not quite understand the allusions, though he knew 
w:hat Shakespeare was, well enough ; Conrad's face 
expressed a gentle deprecation of joking on .such a 
subject, but he said nothing. 
The talk ran on briskly through the dinner. The 
young men tossed the ball back and forth ; they 
made some wild shots, but they kept it going, and 
they laughed when thoy were liit. The wine loosed 
Colonel Woodburn's tongue ; he became very com- 
panionable with the young fellows ; with the feeling 
that a literary dinner ought to have a didactic scope, 
he praised Scott and Addison as the only authors fit 
to form the minds of gentlemen. 
Kendricks agreed with him, but wished to add the 
name of Flaubert as a master of style. " Style, you 
know," he added, " is the man." 
"Very true, sir; you are quite right, sir," the 
colonel assented ; he wondered who Flaubert was. 
Beaton praised Baudelaire and Maupassant; he 
said these were the masters. He recited some lurid 
verses from Baudelaire ; Lindau pronounced them a 
disgrace to human nature, and gaA'c a passage from 
Victor Hugo on Louis Napoleon, with his heavy 
German accent, and then he quoted Schiller. " Ach, 
boat that iss peaudifool ! Not zo ? " he demanded 
of March. 
" Yes, beautiful ; but, of course, you know I think 
there 's nobody like Heine ! " 
Lindau threw back his great old head and laughed, 
showing a want of teeth under his moustache. He 
put his hand on March's back. " This poy — he wass 
a poy den — wass so gracy to pekin reading Heine that 
he gommence with the tictionary bevore he knows 
any crammar, and ve bick it out vort by vort togeder. " 
" He was a pretty cay poy in tliose days, heigh, 
Lindau ? " asked Fulkerson, burlesquing the old 
man's accent, with an impudent wink that made 
Lindau himself laugh. " Back in the dark ages, I 
moan, there in Indianapolis. Just how long ago did 
you old codgers meet there, anyway ? " Fulkerson 
saw the restiveness in Dryfoos's eye at the purely 
literary course the talk had taken ; he had intended 
it to lead up that way to business, to Uvery Other 
JFeeJc ; but he saw that it was leaving Dryfoos too 
far out, and he wished to get it on the personal 
ground, where everybody is at home. 
" Ledt me zee," mused Lindau. " Wass it in 
fifty -nine or zixty, Passil ? Idt wass a year or dwo 
pefore the war proke oudt, anyway." 
" Those were exciting times," said Dryfoos, making 
his first entry into the general talk. " I went down 
to Indianapolis with the first company from our 
place, and I saw the red-shirts pouring in every- 
where. They had a song — 
" Oh, never mind the we.ither, but git over double trouble, 
For -we're bound for the land of Canaan." 
The fellows locked arms and went singin' it up and 
down four or five abreast in the moonlight ; crowded 
everybody else off the sidewalk." 
" I rememper, I rememper," said Lindau, nodding 
