candlesticks, and with Jap fans, whicli also expanded 
themselves bat-wise on the walls between the etch- 
ings and the water-colours. The floors were covered 
with filling, and then rugs, and then skins ; the 
easy-chairs all had tidies, Armenian and Turkish 
and Persian ; the lounges and sofas had embroidered 
cushions hidden under tidies. The radiator was 
concealed by a Jap screen, and over the top of this 
some Arab scarfs were flung. There was a super- 
abundance of clocks. China pugs guarded the 




hearth ; a brass sunflower smiled from the top of 
cither andiron, and a brass peacock spread its tail 
before them inside a high filigree fender; on one 
side was a coal-hod in repoussd brass, and on the 
other a wrought-iron wood-basket. Some red Japan- 
ese bird-kites were stuck about in the necks of 
spelter vases, a crimson Jap umbrella hung opened 
beneath the chandelier, and each globe had a shade 
of yellow silk. 

March, wIru ho had recovered his self-command 
a little in the presence of the agglomeration, com- 
forted himself by calling the bric-a-brac Jamescracks, 
as if this was their full name. 

The disrespect he was able to show the whole 
apartment by means of this joke strengthened him 
to say boldly to the Superintendent that it was 
altogether too small ; then he asked carelessly what 
the rent was. 

" Two hundred and fifty." 

The Marches gave a start, and looked at each other. 

" Don't you think we could make it do ? " she 
asked him, and he could see that .she had mentally 
saved five hundred dollars as the difference between 
the rent of their house and that of this flat. " It has 
some very pretty features, and we could manage to 
squeeze in, couldn't we ? " 

" You won't find another furnished flat like it for 
no twO fifty a month in the whole city," the Superin- 
tendent put in. 

They exchanged glances again, and March said 
carelessly, " It 's too small." 



A HAZARD OF NEW FORTUNES. Gl 

" There 's a vacant flat in the Herodotus for 
eighteen hundred a year, and one in the Thucydides 
for fifteen," the Superintendent suggested, clicking 
his keys together as they sank down in the elevator ; 
" seven rooms and a bath." 

" Thank you," said March, " we 're looking for a 
burnished flat." 

They felt that the Superintendent parted from 
them with repressed sarcasm. 

'' Basil, do you think we really made him think 
it was the smallness and not the dearness ? " 

" No, but we saved our self-respect in the attempt ; 
and that 's a great deal." 

" Of course, I icoiddn't have taken it, anyway, with 
only six rooms, and so high up. But what prices ! 
Now, we must be very circumspect about the next 
place." 

It was a janitress, large, fat, with her arms wound 
up in her apron, who received them there. !Mrs. 
March gave her a succinct but perfect statement of 
their needs. She failed to grasp the nature of them, 
or feigned to do so. She shook her head, and said 
that her son would show them the flat. There was 
a radiator visible in the narrow hall, and Isabel 
tacitly compromised on steam-heat without an ele- 
vator, as the flat was only one flight up. When the 
son appeared from below with a small kerosene 
hand-lamp, it appeared that the flat was unfur- 
nished, but there was no stopping him till he had 
shown it in all its impossibility. When they got 
safely away from it and into the street March said, 



 

" Well, leave?? I had enough for to-night, Isabel ? 
Shall -we go to the theatre now ? " 

" Not on any account. I want to see the whole 
list of flats that Mr. Fulkcrson thought would be 
the very thing for us." She laughed, but with a 
certain bitterness. 

" You 'll be calling him my Mr. Fulkerson next, 
Isabel." 

" Oh no ! " 

The fourth address was a furnished flat without 
a kitchen, in a house with a general restaurant. 
The fifth was a furnished house. At the sixth a 
pathetic widow and her pretty daughter wanted 
to take a family to board, and would give them a 
private table at a rate which the Marches would 
have thought low in Boston. 

Mrs. March came away tingling with compassion 
for their evident anxiety, and this pity naturally 
soured into a sense of injury. " Well, I must say I 
have completely lost confidence in Mr. Fulkerson's 
judgment. Anything more utterly diff"erent from 
what I told him we wanted I couldn't imagine. If 
he doesn't manage any better about his business 
than he has done about this, it will be a perfect 
failure." 

" "Well, well, let 's hope he 'll be more circumspect 
about that," her husband returned, with ironical 
propitiation, " But I don't think it 's Fulkerson's 
fault altogether. Perhaps it 's the house-agents'. 
They're a very illusory generation. There seems 
to be somethinuj in the human habitation that cor- 



 

rupts the natures of those who deal in it, to buy 
or sell it, to hire or let it. You go to an agent 
and tell him what kind of a house you want. He 
has no such house, and he sends you to look at 
something altogether different, upon the well-ascer- 
tained principle that if you can't get what you want, 
you will take what you can get. You don't sup- 
pose the ' party' that took our house in Boston was 
looking for any such house ? He was looking for a 
totally different kind of house in another part of the 
toAra." 

" I don't believe that ! " his wife broke in. 

" "Well, no matter. But see what a scandalous 
rent you asked for it." 

'' We didn't get much more than half ; and, be- 
sides, the agent told me to ask fourteen hundred." 
