was, or something like it, but I do not believe he has any chance of
getting his own after so long."

"I cannot think of it--in either way. If it is all an old forgotten tale
which he believes in still-why then, he is mad. Is it not dreadful to see?
So quiet and sensible all the week, and then, on Tuesday night, his
farewell speech to us all--every Tuesday--and his disappointment the next
day, and then a new week begun without any recollection of it all! It is
breaking my heart, Herr Schmidt!"

"Indeed, poor Vjera, you look as though it were."

"And yet, and yet--I do not know. I think that if it were one day to turn
out true--then my heart would be quite broken, for he would go away, and I
should never see him again."

Accustomed as she was to daily association with the man who was walking by
her side, knowing his good heart and feeling his sympathy, it is small
wonder that the lonely girl should have felt impelled to unburden her soul
of some of its bitterness. If her life had gone on as usual, undisturbed
by anything from without, the confessions which now fell from her lips so
easily would never have found words. But she had been unsettled by what
had happened in the early evening, and unstrung by her great anxiety for
the Count's safety. Her own words sounded in her ear before she knew that
she was going to speak them.

"I am sure that something dreadful is going to happen," she continued
after a moment's pause. "He will go mad in that horrible prison, raving
mad, so that they will have to--to hold him--" she sobbed and then
recovered herself by an effort. "Or else--he will fall ill and die, after
it--" Here she broke down completely and stopping in the middle of the
street began crying bitterly, clutching at Schmidt's arm as though to keep
from falling.

"I should not wonder," he said, but she fortunately did not catch the
words.

He was very sorry for the poor girl, and felt inclined to take her in his
arms and carry her to her home, for he saw that she was weak and exhausted
as well as overcome by her anxiety. Before resorting to such a measure,
however, he thought it best to try to encourage her to walk on.

"Nothing that one expects, ever happens," he said confidently, and passing
his arm through hers, as though to lead her away. "Come, you will be at
home presently and then you will go to bed and in the morning, before you
are at the shop, everything will have been set right, and I daresay the
Count will be there before you, and looking as well as ever."

"How can you say that, when you know that he never comes on Wednesdays!"
exclaimed Vjera through her tears. "I am sure something dreadful will
happen to him. No, not that way--not that way!"

Schmidt was trying to guide her round a sharp corner, but she resisted
him.

"But that is the way home," protested the Cossack.

"I know, but I cannot go home, until I have seen where he is. I must
go--you must not prevent me!"

"To the police-station?" inquired Schmidt in considerable astonishment.
"They will not let us go in, you know. You cannot possibly see him. What
good can it do you to go and look at the place?"

"You do not understand, Herr Schmidt! You are good and kind, but you do
not understand me. Pray, pray come with me, or let me go alone. I will go
alone, if you do not want to come. I am not at all afraid--but I must go."

"Well, child," answered Schmidt, good-humouredly. "I will go with you,
since you are so determined."

"Is this the way? Are you not misleading me? Oh, I am sure I shall never
see him again--quick, let us walk quickly, Herr Schmidt! Only think what
he may be suffering at this very moment!"

"I am sure he is asleep, my dear child. And when we are outside of the
police-station we cannot know what is going on inside, whether our friend
is asleep or awake, and it can do no good whatever to go. But since you
really wish it so much, we are going there as fast as we can, and I
promise to take you by the shortest way."

Her step grew more firm as they went on and he felt that there was more
life in the hand that rested on his arm. The prospect of seeing the walls
of the place in which the Count was unwillingly spending the night gave
Vjera fresh strength and courage. The way was long, as distances are
reckoned in Munich, and more than ten minutes elapsed before they reached
the building. A sentry was pacing the pavement under the glare of the
gaslight, his shadow lengthening, shortening, disappearing and lengthening
again on the stone-way as he walked slowly up and down. Vjera and her
companion stopped on the other side of the street. The sentinel paid no
attention to them.

"You are quite sure it is there?" asked the girl, under her breath.
Schmidt nodded instead of answering.

"Then I will pray that all may be well this night," she said.

She dropped the Cossack's arm and slipped away from him; then pausing at a
little distance, in the deep shadow of an archway opposite the station,
she knelt down upon the pavement, and taking some small object, which was
indistinguishable in the darkness, from the bosom of her frock she clasped
her hands together and looked upwards through the gloom at the black walls
of the great building. The Cossack looked at her in a sort of half-stupid,
half-awed surprise, scarcely understanding what she was doing at first,
and feeling his heart singularly touched when he realised that she was
praying out here in the street, kneeling on the common pavement of the
city, as though upon the marble floor of a church, and actually saying
prayers--he could hear low sounds of earnest tone escaping from her
lips--prayers for the man she loved, because he was shut up for the night
in the police-station like an ordinary disturber of the peace. He was
touched, for the action, in its simplicity of faith, set in vibration the
chords of a nature accustomed originally to simple things, simple hopes,
simple beliefs. Instinctively, as he watched her, Johann Schmidt raised
his hat from his round head for a moment, and if he had possessed any
nearer acquaintance with praying in general or with any prayer in
particular it is almost certain that his lips would have moved. As it was,
he felt sorry for Vjera, he hoped that the Count would be none the worse
for his adventure, and he took off his hat. Let it be counted to him for
righteousness.

As for poor Vjera herself, she was so much in earnest that she altogether
forgot where she was. For love, it has been found, is a great suggester of
prayer, if not of meditation, and when the beloved one is in danger a
little faith seems magnified to such dimensions as would certainly accept
unhesitatingly a whole mountain of dogmas. Vjera's ideas were indeed
confused, and she would have found it hard to define the result which she
so confidently expected. But if that result were to be in any proportion
to her earnestness of purpose and sincerity of heart, it could not take a
less imposing shape than a direct intervention of Providence, at the very
least; and as the poor Polish girl rose from her knees she would hardly
have been surprised to see the green-coated sentinel thrust aside by
legions of angelic beings, hastening to restore to her the only treasure
her humble life knew of, or dreamed of, or cared for.

But as the visions which her prayers had called before her faded away into
the night, she saw again the dingy walls of the hated building, the gilt
spike on the helmet of the policeman and the shining blade that caught the
light as he moved on his beat. For one moment Vjera stood quite still.
Then with a passionate gesture she stretched out both arms before her, as
though to draw out to herself, by sheer strength of longing, the man whose
life she felt to be her own--and at last, wearied and exhausted, but no
longer despairing altogether, she covered her face with her hands and
repeated again and again the two words which made up the burden of her
supplication.

"Save him, save him, save him!" she whispered to herself.

When she looked up, at last, Schmidt was by her side. There was something
oddly respectful in his attitude and manner as he stood there awaiting her
pleasure, ready to be guided by her whithersoever she pleased. It seemed
to him that on this evening he had begun to see Vjera in a new light, and
that she was by no means the poor, insignificant little shell-maker he had
always supposed her to be. It seemed to him that she was transformed into
a woman, and into a woman of strong affections and brave heart. And yet he
knew every outline of her plain face, and had known every change of her
expression for years, since she had first come to the shop, a mere girl
not yet thirteen years of age. Nor had it been from lack of observation
that he had misunderstood her, for like most men born and bred in the
wilderness, he watched faces and tried to read them. The change had taken
place in Vjera herself and it must be due, he thought, to her love for the
