father would never have sided with them. My sister would have been
brought up to love the King.'

"He made no answer, but went out presently. Then for some days he was
moody and kept himself quite busy, and I thought was planning to return
to England to look after his estates. Our colonel thought so, too. And
then five others beside him suddenly disappeared. Shortly after we
learned they had gone South to enter the army under General Greene. I
only hope they will fall into Tarleton's hands, and he will make short
work of them. But my heart is sore for the loss of my boyhood's friend,
and the shame of his turning traitor. I hear that Benedict Arnold has
joined the King's forces, and of a surety he and they would be well
matched in any fight.

"I have a presentiment I shall never see my pretty darling again.
Primrose, I love thee more than thou canst imagine. I would that I had
thee and that we two were going to England out of this terrible strife.
Farewell.

                    "Thine own dear brother,

                                "PHIL."

Primrose ran weeping to her aunt and gave her the long epistle. Madam
Wetherill tried to comfort her, and presently she dried her tears a
little.

"We can hardly call him a traitor,--Gilbert Vane, I mean,--for he has
not really betrayed his country, but changed his mind. And I think it
very brave of him when he might go to England and live in luxury," said
Primrose in a broken voice.

"Thou art quick to see the heroic side. Of course, if he should be taken
prisoner, he would be put to death without mercy."

"But he does not sell his country!" with emphasis. "Oh, poor, dear Phil!
My heart aches for him. And yet, if the British soldiers begin to see
the doubtfulness of a final conquest, I think there must be hope. But
what can I say to Philemon? I seem destined to be always divided in
opposite directions."

"That is very true," and Madam Wetherill smiled rather sadly. For it
seemed hard indeed that brother and sister should have such opposing
interests. Many a girl would have been won at once by the proffer of
pleasure.

But Primrose did not have very long to consider. Another note came from
New York. Tired of inaction, Philemon Nevitt had asked that some more
stirring duty should be allotted to him, and he was transferred to
another body of troops, who were watching the Americans and harassing
them in the vicinity of Morristown. It was said deserters from the
British army had transferred their allegiance, and Colonel Nevitt
determined to put a stop to this, and capture some of them to make an
example the soldiers would dread in future.

"When he writes like this I hate him!" and Primrose stamped her dainty
foot upon the floor, while her eyes flashed with curious steely gleams
that seemed to have black points. "It does not seem as if the same blood
could run in our veins, but then he hath none of my own dear mother's
sweetness. If he were related to her my heart would break. And I think
he must have some of the characteristics of uncle James, who keeps his
hard heart against Cousin Andrew. Was my father of that stamp, dear
madam?"

"He had a much broader life. He was brought into contact with various
people, and possessed a certain suavity that one finds in many of the
old families here in town. Good Mr. Penn did not insist that men should
be all of one mind."

"'Twould be a queer world indeed," and Primrose half smiled, for her
moods were like an April day.

"Then thy mother was a wise, winsome woman," said Madam Wetherill in
fond remembrance.

"That is what wins me to Phil," returned the girl. "When he talked of
her and all her pretty ways, and the dainty verses and tales she told
him, and how she shielded him from his father's displeasure when he
would have been whipped, then he seems like a vision of her come back.
But, now that he is going to fight against my country----" and the rosy
lips curled in scorn. "He might have remained a fine, pleasure-loving
soldier, doing no real harm, fit to dance with pretty women or march in
a fine parade."

She discussed this with Polly Wharton, who was now her dearest friend,
although she was two years older.

"Art thou not unduly bitter, Primrose?" Polly always chided in grave
Quaker phraseology, but, like many of the younger generation, fell into
worldly pronouns in seasons of haste or merriment. "We should be ashamed
of him if he saw his duty and weakly shirked it. I am sorry such a fine
fellow, with good American blood in his veins, should be a Tory. In
truth I cannot see at present how the quarrel can be mended, and I am
desperately sorry."

Polly's cheeks were pink as a rose.

"It never will be mended now. Times are hard with us, to be sure, and
there is much discouragement, but the French army and a great navy have
reached Newport, and Aunt Wetherill was reading of a French loan. That
wise Mr. Adams is in Paris with our dear Mr. Franklin----"

"Who plays chess with French beauties and writes them skits and
bagatelles, and, no doubt dances the grave minuet with them. And then we
blame our young lads for having a little pleasure! But 'tis darkest
just before dawn, and maybe we have come to the darkest times."

"And I am certain the dawn will come. God will not let such a good cause
and so great an effort in behalf of human liberty go by default."

So they worked on and hoped. There was great interest in the Southern
campaign now.

And then Polly came one morning, full of tears and trouble. There had
been sad news from the highlands of the Hudson. A troop of British had
made their way almost to one of the camps, expecting to surprise and
capture the Federal soldiers. There had been a sharp skirmish, spirited
and fateful enough to be called a battle. The Federals had won in the
end and taken a number of prisoners, while many British soldiers were
among the killed and wounded.

"Andrew Henry sent the word to my father, who means to apply for passes
and go at once," and there Polly broke down.

"But that is not the worst of it. Something has happened to Allin! Oh,
Polly!" and the soft arms were about Polly's neck, while she was kissing
the tear-wet cheek, her own eyes overflowing.

"Yes, it is Allin!" sobbed the girl. "They thought when they first
brought him in that he was dead. But it seems now he is badly wounded
and may live. They wanted to take his leg off, but Lieutenant Henry
would not let them. Oh, poor Allin! And he begged that father would come
or send, for the regiment may go on to Virginia."

"Oh, if he could be brought home!"

"It comes so near now." Polly wiped her eyes. "But oh, Primrose! I had
nigh forgotten. Forgive me that I put my own sorrow first. Colonel--I
believe he is that now--Colonel Nevitt led the men and was wounded also,
and is captured."

Primrose stood up very straight, and contradictory emotions struggled in
her fair face. Her rosy lips faded and quivered, and she swallowed over
a great lump in her throat.

"It seems strange," said Polly, "that the cousins should have been
pitted against each other. And, though I am desperately sorry about
Colonel Nevitt, I am proud of Andrew Henry. Oh, dear Primrose!"

"I am always torn in two. I wonder if there was ever such a girl!" and
the slow tears beaded the bronze lashes of Primrose Henry's eyes.

"Think of poor Peggy Shippen being banished from her family and forced
to follow a traitor! For, after all, it was the fortune of war, and
Colonel Nevitt was doing his duty as he saw it in all good faith."

"Thou art so generous, Polly. He should have been some connection to
thee; oh! what am I saying? Surely thou wouldst not want a redcoat
Britisher tacked to thy family! I hope he is not sorely wounded, but
just enough to keep him from fighting against my country until we have
