aid (she had not participated even to the extent of a responsive 
telegram in the election) ; not his late colleagues in the House, 
nor the biting satirists of the newspapers, nor the brilliant 
women he took down at dinner-parties (there was only one 
sense in which he ever took them down), nor his friends, nor 
his foes, nor his private thoughts, nor the periodical phantom of 
his shocked father : it was simply the general awkwardness of 
his situation. This awkwardness was connected with the sense 





of responsibility that Gabriel Nash so greatly deprecated 
ceasing to roam, of late, on purpose to miss as few scenes as 
possible of the drama, rapidly growing dull, alas, of his 
friend's destiny ; but that compromising relation scarcely 
drew the soreness from it. The public flurry produced by 
Nick's collapse had only been large enough to mark the 
flatness of his position when it was over. To have had a few 
jokes cracked audibly at one's expense was not an ordeal 
worth talking of ; the hardest thing about it was merely that 
there had not been enough of them to yield a proportion of 
good ones. Nick had felt, in short, the benefit of living in 
an age and in a society where number and pressure have, for 
the individual figure, especially when it's a zero, compensations 
almost equal to their cruelties. 

No, the pinch, for our young man's conscience, after a feAV 
weeks had passed, was simply an acute mistrust of the super- 
ficiality of performance into which the desire to justify himself 
might hurry him. That desire was passionate as regards 
Julia Dallow ; it was ardent also as regards his mother ; and, 
to make it absolutely uncomfortable it was complicated with 
the conviction that neither of them would recognize his justi- 
fication even when they should see it. They probably couldn't 
if they would, and very likely they wouldn't if they could. 
He assured himself however that this limitation wouldn't 
matter ; it was their affair his own was simply to have the 
right sort of thing to show. The work he was now attempt- 
ing was not the right sort of thing ; though doubtless Julia 
for instance would dislike it almost as much as if it were. 
The two portraits of Miriam, after the first exhilaration of his 
finding himself at large, filled him with no private glee : they 
were not in the direction in which for the present he wished 
really to move. There were moments when he felt almost 
angry, though of course he held his tongue, when by the few 
persons who saw them they were pronounced wonderfully 
clever. That they were wonderfully clever was just the 
detestable thing in them, so active had that cleverness been in 
making them seem better than they were. There were people 
to whom he would have been ashamed to show them, and 
these were the people whom it would give him most pleasure 
some day to please. Not only had he many an hour of disgust 
with his actual work, but he thought he saw, as in an ugly 
revelation, that nature had cursed him with an odious facility 
and that the lesson of his life, the sternest and wholesomest, 
would be to keep out of the trap it had laid for him. He 





had fallen into this trap on the threshold and he had only 
scrambled out with his honour. He had a talent for appear- 
ance, and that was the fatal thing ; he had a damnable supple- 
ness and a gift of immediate response, a readiness to oblige, 
that made him seem to take up causes which he really left 
lying, enabled him to learn enough about them in an hour to 
have all the air of having made them his own. Many people 
call them their own who had taken them in much less. He 
was too clever by half, since this pernicious overflow had been 
at the bottom of deep disappointments and heart-burnings. 
He had assumed a virtue and enjoyed assuming it, and the 
assumption had cheated his father and his mother and his 
affianced wife and his rich benefactor and the candid burgesses 
of Harsh and the cynical reporters of the newspapers. His 
enthusiasms had been but young curiosity, his speeches had 
been young agility, his professions and adhesions had been 
like postage-stamps without glue : the head was all right, but 
they wouldn't stick. He stood ready now to wring the neck 
of the irrepressible vice which certainly would like nothing 
better than to get him into further trouble. His only real 
justification would be to turn patience (his .own, of course) 
inside ou<; ; yet if there should be a way to misread that recipe 
his humbugging genius could be trusted infallibly to discover 
it. Cheap and easy results would dangle before him, little 
amateurish conspicuities, helped by his history, at exhibitions ; 
putting it in his power to triumph with a quick "What do 
you say to that ? " over those he had wounded. The fear of 
this danger was corrosive ; it poisoned even legitimate joys. 
If he should have a striking picture at the Academy next 
year it wouldn't be a crime : yet he couldn't help suspecting 
any conditions that would enable him to be striking so soon. 
In this way he felt quite enough how Gabriel Nash " had " 
him whenever he railed at his fever for proof, and how 
inferior as a productive force the desire to win over the ill- 
disposed might be to the principle of quiet growth. Nash had 
a foreign manner of lifting up his finger and waving it before 
him, as if to put an end to everything, whenever it became, 
in conversation or discussion, to any extent a question whether 
any one would like anything. 

It was presumably, in some degree at least, a due respect 
for the principle of quiet growth that kept Nick on the spot 
at present, made him stick fast to Rosedale Road and Calcutta 
Gardens and deny himself the simplifications of absence. Do 
what he would he could not despoil himself of the impression 





that the disagreeable was somehow connected with the salu- 
tary and the " quiet " with the disagreeable, when stubbornly 
borne ; so he resisted a hundred impulses to run away to Paris 
or to Florence and the temptation to persuade himself by 
material motion that he was launched. He stayed in London 
because it seemed to him that he was more conscious of what 
he had undertaken, and he had a horror of shirking that con- 
sciousness. One element in it indeed was the perception that 
he would have found no great convenience in a foreign journey, 
even had his judgment approved such a subterfuge. The 
stoppage of his supplies from Beauclere had now become an 
historic fact, with something "of the majesty of its class about 
it : he had had time to see what a difference this would make 
in his life. His means were small and he had several old 
debts, the number of which, as he believed, loomed large to 
his mother's imagination. He could never tell her that she 
exaggerated, because he told her nothing of that sort now : 
they had no intimate talk, for an impenetrable partition, a 
tall bristling hedge of untrimmed misconceptions had sprung 
up between them. Poor Biddy had made a hole in it, through 
which she squeezed, from side to side, to keep up communica- 
tions, at the cost of many rents and scratches ; Jbut Lady 
Agnes walked straight and stiff, never turning her head, never 
stopping to pluck the least little daisy of consolation. It was 
in this manner she wished to signify that she had accepted her 
wrongs. She draped herself in them as in a kind of Roman 
mantle, and she had never looked so proud and wasted and 
handsome as now that her eyes rested only upon ruins. 

Nick was extremely sorry for her, though he thought there 
was a dreadful want of grace in her never setting a foot in 
Rosedale Road (she mentioned his studio no more than if it 
had been a private gambling- house, or something worse) ; sorry 
because he was well aware that for the hour everything must 
appear to her to have crumbled. The luxury of Broad wood 
would have to crumble : his mind was very clear about that. 
Biddy's prospects had withered to the finest, dreariest dust, 
and Biddy indeed, taking a lesson from her brother's per- 
versities, seemed little disposed to better a bad business. She 
professed the most peacemaking sentiments, but when it came 
really to doing something to brighten up the scene she showed 
herself portentously corrupted. After Peter Sherringham's 
heartless flight she had wantonly slighted an excellent oppor- 
tunity to repair her misfortune. Lady Agnes had reason to 
know, about the end of June, that young Mr, Grindon, the 


