satisfaction, gibbeting the quarters on every page. In his fury and
unquenchable thirst for vengeance, he had quoted whole passages from
notices he had written, only to tear them to pieces and make bonfires of
their remains.

“I think I had better wait a day or two,” he remarked, as he folded up
the manuscript and put it into a drawer of his table.

It is characteristic of the profession and its necessities, that, after
having crushed and dismembered all critics, past, present and to come,
in the most complete and satisfactory manner, George Wood laid his hand
upon the new volumes which he had last brought home and proceeded during
several days with the task of reviewing them. Moreover, he did the work
much better than usual, taking an odd delight in affecting the attitude
of a gentle taster, and in using the very language he most despised,
just for the sake of persuading himself that he was right in despising
it. The two editors who had given him work to do that week were
surprised to find that he had returned with such success to his former
style of writing. They were still further surprised when an article
entitled “Cheap Criticism” appeared, about six weeks later, in a well
known magazine, signed with his name in full. They did not like it all.

George had recast the paper more than once, and at last, when he had
regretfully “rinsed all the starch out of it,” as he said to himself, he
had taken it to Johnson.

“I did not know that any modern human being could use such violent
language without swearing,” said the pale young man, catching a phrase
here and there as he ran his eye over the manuscript.

“Do you call that violent?” asked George, delighted to find that he had
left his work more forcible than he had supposed. “I wish you could have
seen the first copy! This looked like prayer and meditation compared
with it.”

“If you pray in that style,” remarked Johnson, “your prayers will be at
least heard, if they are not answered. They will attract attention in
some quarter, though perhaps not in the right one.”

George’s face fell.

“Do you think it is too red-hot?” he asked. “I have been spreading
butter on the public nose so long,” he added, almost apologetically.

“Oleomargarine,” suggested Johnson. “It is rather warm. That
phrase—‘revelling in the contempt of appearing contemptible’—I say,
Wood, that is not English, you know, and it’s a scorcher, too.”

“Not English!” exclaimed George, whose blood was up at once. “Why not?”

“Because it is Volapück, or Malay—or something else, I don’t know what
it is, though I admit its force.”

“I do not see how I can put it, then. It is just what we all feel.”

“Look here. You do not mean that your victim despises himself for
appearing to be despicable, do you? He does, I dare say, but you wanted
to hit him, not to show that he is still capable of human feeling. I
think you meant to say that he rejoiced in his own indifference to
contempt.”

“I believe I did,” said George, relinquishing the contest as soon as he
saw he was wrong. “But ‘revel’ is not bad. Let that stand, at least.”

“You cannot revel in indifference, can you?” asked Johnson pitilessly.

“No. That is true. But it was English, all the same, though it did not
mean what I intended.”

“I think not. You would not say an author appears green, would you? You
would say he appears to be green. Then why say that a critic appears
contemptible?”

“You are always right, Johnson,” George answered with a good-natured
laugh. “I should have seen the mistake in the proof.”

“But that is the most expensive way of seeing mistakes. I will read this
carefully, and I will send you word to-morrow what I think of it.”

“What makes you so quick at these things?” asked George, as he rose to
go.

“Habit. I read manuscript novels for a publishing house here. I do it in
the evening, when I can find time. Yes—it is hard work, but it is
interesting. I am both prophet and historian. The book is the reality
which I see alternately from the point of view of the future and the
past.”

The result was that Johnson, who possessed much more real power than
George had imagined, wrote a note, with which the manuscript was sent,
and to George’s amazement the paper was at once accepted and put into
type, and the proofs were sent to him. Moreover the number of the
magazine in which his composition appeared was no sooner published than
he received a cheque, of which the amount at once demonstrated the
practical advantages of original writing as compared with those of
second-rate criticism.

With regard to the attention attracted by his article, however, George
was bitterly disappointed. He was on the alert for the daily papers in
which an account of the contents of the periodicals is generally given,
and he expected at least a paragraph from each.

In the first one he took up, after an elaborate notice of articles by
known persons, he found the following line:—

“Mr. George Winton Wood airs his views upon criticism in the present
number.”

That was all. There was not a remark, nor a hint at the contents of his
paper, nothing to break the icy irony of the statement. He pondered long
over the words, and then crammed the open sheet into the waste-paper
basket. This was the first. There might be better in store for him. On
the evening of the same day he found another.

“An unknown writer has an article upon criticism,” said the oracle,
without further comment.

This was, if possible, worse. George felt inclined to write to the
editor and request that his name might be mentioned. It was a peculiarly
hard case, as he had reviewed books for this very paper during the last
two years, and was well known in the office. The third remark was in one
of those ghastly-spritely medleys written under the heading of
“Chit-Chat.”

“By the way,” inquired the reviewer, “who is Mr. George Winton Wood? And
why is he so angry with the critics? And does anybody mind? And who is
he, any way?”

Half a dozen similar observations had the effect of cooling George’s
hopes of fame very considerably. They probably did him good by
eradicating a great deal of nonsense from his dreams. He had before
imagined that in labouring at his book notices he had seen and known the
dreariest apartment in the literary workhouse, forgetting that all he
wrote appeared anonymously and that he himself was shielded behind the
ægis of a prosperous newspaper’s name. He had not known that a beginner
is generally received, to use a French simile, like a dog in a game of
ninepins, with kicks and execrations, unless he is treated with the cold
indifference which is harder to bear than any attack could be. And yet,
cruel as the method seems, it is the best one in most cases, and saves
the sufferer from far greater torments in the future. What would happen
if every beginner in literature were received at the threshold with
cakes and ale, and were welcomed by a chorus of approving and
encouraging critics? The nine hundred out of every thousand who try the
profession and fail, would fail almost as certainly a little later in
their lives, and with infinitely greater damage to their sensibilities.
Moreover the cakes and ale would have been unworthily wasted, and the
chorus of critics would have been necessarily largely leavened with
skilful liars, which, it is to be hoped and believed, is not the case in
the present condition of criticism, in spite of George Wood and his
opinions. Is it better that boys should be allowed to remain in school
two or three years without being examined, and that the ignorant ones
should then be put to shame before their comrades? Or is it better that
the half-witted should be excluded from the first, and separately
taught? The question answers itself. We who, rightly or wrongly, have
fought our way into public notice, have all, at one time or another,
been made to run the gauntlet of abuse, or to swim the dead sea of
indifference. The public knows little of our lives. It remembers the
first book of which everybody talked and which, it foolishly supposed,
represented our first experiment in print. It knows nothing of the many
years of thankless labour in the columns of the daily press, it has
