enticed into a game. Regina is not playing ; but as she 
watches his poses, — his sinuous movements that seem to 
her like graceful variations in a melody, — a curious feeling 
creeps over her, as if, looking long enough, one might 
become enchanted. Bits of weird stories flit vaguely 
through her mind, but half-remembered; a gay, graceful 
faun or an old-time Greek Ganjmede. He not unfre- 
quently takes Iwr to some mystic, alien world, as she 
watches him or listens to his playing. When he is near, 
when he looks at her, talks to her, the charm ceases to 
work; when he touches her hand, draws her arm through 
his in walking, or bends over her when she is painting or 
playing at the piano, there is a very fine sense of repulsion. 
But hers is an extremely reticent nature, more sensitive to 
the repellent forces than the attractive. 

It is past ten when they start to walk home. The night 
is so exceptionally fine, and they are all fond of strolling 
along under the half shading of the trees. 

" I wonder," says Jasper Bradley in his delicate fashion, 



 

wliicli is unmistakably tinctured with a slight bitterness 
now, " if I have a bit of news for you, — that your cousin 
winterburne is iu luck." 

" In luck ? " questions Cynthia with a crescendo accent 
of good-humored surprise. 

" Yes ; he has done us all out of another fortune mayhap. 
Did I not tell you, Regina," — the stately girl winces at 
this familiar use of her name, but he only ventures upon it 
in the unreserve of family confidence, — " that there was 
some deeper reason for his desiring that property at 
Hazens than mere sentiment ? " 

" There was business also. He expected to work the 
mines. He made no secret of that," she says coldly. She 
must be impartial to keep her own self-esteem. 

- " Oh, yes, business ! " contemptuously. " What a pity 
we have not business heads as well ! He knew the secret." 

" What great secret ? Is it a gold-mine or an oil-well ? 
I have not heard of either taking root in this region. Or 
perhaps a diamond belt j black, of course ; " and Cynthia 
laughs lightly. 

" It is what will prove as valuable, perhaps, — a magnifi- 
cent vein of iron of the finest quality." 

" Oh, iron ! Doesn't everybody find iron once in a life- 
time ? " 

You can tell by the tone that Cynthia's small nose is 
elevated. 

" Yes, Iron with a very large I. It is not to be despised. 
Miss Cynthia. I met the Hoopers as I came down, and we 
walked a few squares together. The elder one, James, had 
been over to Warwick. Everybody is amazed that it 
should have lain under their very noses all these years. 
And he has bought some adjoining ground — you see the 
shrewdness of the man ! The vein laps over on that. The 
person who sold it, one of the Slow-going, sleepy old 
farmers, is almost distracted." 

" Well, if no one thought to search for it all these years, 
I do not see how they can blame him," says Cynthia deci- 
sively. 





"Why, no one does blame him," Regina comments in a 
clear, incisive tone. 

" I don't know about that. I think the old farmer isn't 
running over with praise. It doesn't seem — fair ! " and 
Jasper gives two or three notes of a scornful laugh. 

" We took our time to consider. We balanced the 
chances. If there had been no new beds found, if the old 
ones had proved as poor as they have been considered for 
some years, we should not expect to make any sort of 
amends for his bad bargain. Of course he would not ask 
it," she declares proudly. She will do him full justice. 

"He knew what he was about. We did not," Jasper 
answers with a sneer. 

" Well, what can we do ? " asks Cynthia with exasperat- 
ing amusement. " Can we get back our land, our beds of 
iron, our stores of hidden wealth ? " 

" No ; more's the pity." 

" It is one of those happenings that we may set down to 
fate," says Regina, beginning to tire of the discussion, and 
resolved to be perfectly fair to the fortunate man. She 
cannot believe Winterburne took any undue advantage; in 
her secret heart she knows he did not. They have enough 
for comfort, and she has a vague misgiving that a large 
fortune would be put to no better use in Jasper Bradley's 
hands, if, indeed, it would be of as much service to him per- 
sonally. For Jasper has moods of such unwise lavishness, 
that only necessity will check. And they can get along, 
though it is harder for them since theirs is the largest 
household. There seems something derogatory to her in 
this desire for mere nloney. She likes best the fine old 
families where it seems never to get mentioned as the 
great factor; where life flows on serenely. She has re- 
marked already that it is mostly parvenus and people of 
no breeding who bring their money continually to the 
fore. 

"I cannot take it as calmly as you," returns Jasper. "I 
wish we had made a greater effort." 

No one echoes the desire. They go on in silence until 



 

they have climbed the hill, and .reached the familiar porch 
bathed in silvery rays. How calm and lovely it all is ! 
Why should there be -such strifes and envyings in the 
world ? Fortunately she, Regina, does not envy Winter- 
burne in the least, she thinks with her high, proud soul. 
If any one, it would be Miss Milliard with her privilege of 
carrying out some of her aims. Just now Regina's life 
looks purposeless to her, and she can almost echo Cynthia's 
cry as to the future. 

Beverly is quite as excited over the find as if Winterburne 
had been one of her own citizens. In a certain sense he 
is an offspring of the place. Mr. Sayre has spoken of him 
in the highest terms of commendation. Why he should be 
content to cast his lot in with that wretched town, when 
Miss Hilliard could adorn other circles, is rather puzzling. 
Everybody of note has wanted to get out of Warwick as 
soon as possible. 

Reuben Finter metaphorically tears his hair. He has pur- 
chased his coveted farming lands, so he cannot bring back 
the money and demand that the bargain shall be annulled, 
— a proceeding he thinks ought to be perfectly feasible. 
His passionate argument served to amuse the townsfolk. 
Certainly for this and one other reason Winterburne finds 
liimself unexpectedly famous, and on the high road to for- 
tune. He has had dreams of being comfortable for himself, 
but he does not care for the things mere money gives. To 
 be a gentleman of leisure, to spend his time lounging at 
club windows, playing cards, to indulge in polo, or a yacht, 
