
Diplomacy and the plow, such were 

 Rome's methods. As for herself she 

jought, she did not till. Italy, devas- 

ated by the civil wars, was uncultivated, cut up into vast unproductive 
estates. From one end to the other 
there was barely a trace of agriculture, not a sign of traffic. You met 
soldiers, cooks, petty tradesmen, gladiators, philosophers, patricians, market 
gardeners, lazzaroni and millionaires; 
the merchant and the farmer, never. 
Rome's resources were in distant commercial centers, in taxes and tribute; 
her wealth had come of pillage and 
exaction. Save her strength, she had 
nothing of her own. Her religion, literature, art, philosophy, luxury and corruption, everything had come from 
abroad. In Greece were her artists; in 
Africa, Gaul and Spain, her agriculturists; in Asia her artisans. Her own 
breasts were sterile. When she gave 
birth it was to a litter of monsters, 
sometimes to a genius, by accident to 
a poet. She consumed, she did not produce. It was because of that she fell. 




"Save a monster  what can you 
expect from Agrippina and myself?" 

It was Domitius, Nero's father, 
who made this ingenious remark. 
He was not a good man; he was not 
even a good-looking man — a brawling 
trickster who, in spite of his wealth, 
which was great, appears to h;n"c 
pleased no one as thoroughly as he 
did his sister, whom he pleased too 
well. But such capacity for wicked- 
ness as he possessed paled beside that 
of Agrippina, who poisoned him when 
Nero's birth insured the heritage of 
his wealth. 

In all its galleries history has no 
other portrait such as hers. Caligula's sister, his mistress as well, 



 



prostituted by him, exiled and threatened with death, her eyes dazzled and 
nerves unstrung by the impossibilities 
of that fabulous reign, it was not 
until Claud, her uncle, recalled her 
and Messalina disappeared, that the 
empress awoke. She too, she deter- 
mined, would rule, and the Jus osculi 
aiding, she married out of hand that 
imbecile uncle of hers, on whose knee 
she had played as a child. 

The day of the wedding a young 
patrician, expelled from the senate, 
killed himself. Agrippina had accused 
him of incest, not because hewasguilty, 
nor yet because the possibility of such 
a sin shocked her, but because he 
was betrothed to Octavia, a slender 
maiden with blue, pathetic eyes, who  
happened to be Claud's daughter, and 
who, Agrippina determined, should 
be Nero's wife. Presently Caligula's 
widow, an old rival of her own, a 



 



lady who had thoucrht she would like 
to be empress twice, and whom 
Claud had eyed grotesquely, was disencumbered of three million worth of 
emeralds, with which she heightened 
her beauty, and told very civilly that 
it was time to die. So too disap- 
peared a Calpurina, a Lepida; women 
young, rich, handsome, impure, and 
as such dangerous to Agrippina's 
peace of mind. The legality of her 
crimes was so absolute that the mere 
ownership of an enviable object was 
a cause for death. - A senator 
had a vilia which pleased her; he was 
invited to die. A knight had a pair 
of those odorous murrhine vases, 
which Pompey had found in Armenja, 
and which on their first appearance 
set Rome wild; he, too, was invited 
to die. 

But, though Agrippina dealt in 
death, she dealt in seductions too. 



 



Rome, that had adored Caligula, 
promptly fell under his sister's sway. 
There was a splendor in her eyes, 
which so many crimes had lit; in her 
carriage there was such majesty, the 
pomp with which she surrounded herself was so magnificent, that Rome, 
enthralled, applauded. Beyond, on 
the Rhine, a city which is to-day 
Cologne, rose in honor of her sover- 
eignty. To her wishes the senate 
was subservient, to her indiscretions 
blind. Claud, who meanwhile had 
been wholly sicfhtless, suddenly sliowcd 
signs of discernment. A woman, 
charged with illicit commerce, 
was brought to his tribunal. He 
condemed her, of course. "In my 
case," he explained, "matrimony has 
not been successful, but the fate that 
destined mc to marry impure women 
destined me also to punish them." It 
was then that Agrippina ordered of 



 



Locusta that famous stew of poison 
and mushrooms, which Nero, in allusion to Claud's apotheosis, called the 
food of the gods. The fate that destined Claud to marry Agrippina destined her to kill him. 

It was under her care, between a 
barber and a ballerine, amid the 
shamelessness of his stepfather's place, 
where any day he could have seen his 
mother beckon indolently to a centurion and pointing to some lover who 
had ceased to please, make the gesture 
which signified Death, that the young 
Enobarbus— Nero, as he subsequently 
called himself — was trained for the 
throne. 

He had entered the world like a 
tiger cub, feet first; a circumstance 
which is said to have disturbed his 
