English people since the first invasion of foreigners, but by no means
liked or considered especially healthy by the Romans.




CHAPTER VI.


Meanwhile, the lives of some of the other persons concerned in this
history were less idyllic, and very probably more satisfactory to
themselves. Having survived the season, and having borne the severe
Lenten mortification implied in not capering nightly to the tune of two
or three fiddles and a piano, the world arose after Easter like a giant
refreshed with wine, and enjoyed a final fling before breaking up for
the summer. Having danced with the windows shut, it now danced with the
windows open, and found the change delightful, as indeed it is. Instead
of sitting in corners together, the couples who had anything to say to
one another now stood or sat in the deep embrasures, glancing up at the
starlit sky to see whether the dawn were yet breaking. As for the rest,
there was little change at all. The little Vicomte de Bompierre had
transferred his attentions from the Marchesa di San Giacinto to Donna
Maria Boccapaduli, and the Marchesa, who was in love with her husband,
did not seem to care at all, but remained on the best of terms with
Donna Maria, to the latter's infinite satisfaction. The Contessa dell'
Armi attracted more attention because some one had started the report
that dell' Armi himself was in a state of jealousy bordering upon
delirium, that he had repeatedly struck her, and that he spent the few
hours he could spare from this unwholesome exercise and from his
parliamentary duties in tearing out his hair by the handful. The
picture of dell' Armi evoked by these stories was striking, dramatic,
and somewhat novel, so that every one was delighted. As a matter of
fact, the Count did not care a straw for his wife, rarely saw her at
all, and then only to discuss the weather. He had married her in order
that her fortune might help him in his political career, he had got what
he wanted, and he was supremely indifferent to the rest. The sad part of
the matter was--if any one had known the truth--that poor Maddalena
dell' Armi had been married out of a convent, and had then and there
fallen madly in love with him, her own husband. He had resented her
excessive affection, as it interfered with his occupations and
amusements, and after an interval of five years, during which the
unhappy young wife shed endless tears and suffered intensely, he had the
satisfaction of seeing that she no longer loved him in the least, and
rather avoided him than otherwise. In taking a fancy to Pietro Ghisleri
he thought she had shown considerable discrimination, since every one
knew that Ghisleri was a very discreet man. The amazing cynicism of his
view altogether escaped him. He was occupied in politics. If he had
observed it, he would have undoubtedly laughed as heartily as he did
when a lady on the outskirts of society told him that he was supposed to
be a jealous husband.

But the rest of the world watched Maddalena and Pietro with great
interest. They had quarrelled--or they had made it up--they had not
danced together during one whole evening--they had danced a waltz and
then a quadrille, the one after the other--Maddalena had been crying--by
a coincidence, Ghisleri looked unusually strong and well--Pietro, again,
was looking somewhat haggard and weary, and the Contessa met the world
that evening with a stony stare. There was endless matter for
speculation, and accordingly the world speculated without end, and, as
usual, to no purpose. Ghisleri was absolutely reticent, and Maddalena
was a very proud woman, who, in spite of her past sufferings, did her
best not to let any one suspect that she and her husband were on bad
terms. She was also unhappy in the present about a very different
matter, concerning which she was not inclined to speak with any one.
Donna Adele's last decided attempt to defame Lord Herbert Arden had, to
a certain extent, been successful, but it had also produced another
result of which Adele did not know, but which would have given her even
greater satisfaction. It had almost caused a quarrel between Ghisleri
and the Contessa.

It will be remembered that the latter heard the story from Donna Maria
Boccapaduli on the steps of a church in Holy Week. She was at the time
more unhappy than usual. Something had touched the finer chords of her
nature, and she felt a sort of horror of herself and of the life she was
leading--very genuine in its way, and intensely painful. Donna Maria's
story was revolting to her, for just then everything and everybody
seemed to be false--even Ghisleri. She did not even stop, as she would
have done at any other time, to weigh the value of the story, and to ask
herself whether it were likely that he could thus deliberately betray
his friend, and especially to Adele Savelli whom she believed he
disliked. Even with her he was reticent, and she had never quite assured
herself of his opinion concerning Adele, but she had watched him
narrowly and had drawn her own conclusions. And now, if he had betrayed
the man whom he called his friend, he must be capable of betraying the
woman he loved.

"Is it true that you have been talking to Donna Adele Savelli about your
friend Arden?" she asked, when they met later on the same afternoon.

"Quite true," answered Ghisleri, indifferently. "We were talking about
him yesterday afternoon."

"Do you mind telling me what you said?" asked the Contessa, her eyes
hardening and her whole face growing scornful.

"I have not the least objection," said Ghisleri, coldly. He at once
gave her all the details of the conversation as far as he could remember
them; his memory was accurate in such matters and he scarcely omitted a
word.

"Am I to believe you or her?" asked the Contessa when she had listened
to the end.

"As I am speaking the truth, it might be as well to believe me."

"And how am I to know that you are speaking the truth, now or at any
other time? You would not change colour, nor look at me less frankly, if
you were telling me the greatest falsehood imaginable. Why should I
believe you?"

"I am sure I do not know," answered Ghisleri. "I would only like to be
sure whether, as a general rule, you mean to believe me in future, or
not. If you do not, I need not say anything, I suppose. Conversation
would be singularly simplified."

"You would not be so angry with me now, if your story were true," said
the Contessa, with a forced laugh.

"A man may reasonably be annoyed at being called a liar even by a lady,"
retorted Ghisleri.

"And you do not take the least trouble to defend yourself--"

"Not the least. Why should you believe my defence any more than my plain
statement? You have rather a logical mind--you ought to see that."

"Are you trying to quarrel with me? You will succeed if you go on in
this way."

"No. I am doing my best to answer your questions. I should be very sorry
to quarrel with you. You know it. Or are you going to doubt that too?"

"From the tone in which you say it, and from the way you act, I am
inclined to."

"You are in a very unbelieving humour to-day."

"I have reason to be."

"Am I the cause?"

"Yes." The Contessa was not quite sure why she said it, but for the
moment she felt that it was true, as perhaps it was in an indirect way.

"Do you know that although you have asked me a great many questions
which I have answered as well as I could, you have not told me what it
is I am accused of saying?"

"You are accused of saying," answered the Contessa, looking straight
into his eyes, "that your friend Lord Herbert Arden is in the habit of
taking too much wine. Is that so nice a thing to have said?"

Ghisleri's face darkened, and the blood throbbed in his temples.

"As I have told you precisely what I really said," he replied, "I shall
say nothing more. Only this--if you have any sense of justice left,
which I begin to doubt, you will ask San Giacinto whether he thinks it
probable that I would say such a thing. That is all. I suppose you will
believe him."

