to escape the consequences of his rascality. Why shouldn't he be
punished for it?"

"Because it wouldn't do the least good, to him or to any one else. It
wouldn't reform him, it wouldn't reform anything. Northwick isn't the
disease; he's merely the symptom. You can suppress him; but that won't
cure the disease. It's the whole social body that's sick, as this
article in the Abstract implies."

"I don't see any such implication in it," his father angrily retorted.
"Your theory would form an excuse for the scoundrelism of every
scoundrel unhung. Where is the cure of the social body to begin if it
doesn't begin at home, with every man in it? I tell you, it would be a
very good thing for Northwick, and every rogue like him, if he could be
made serve his term in State's prison."

The controversy raged a long time without departing from these lines of
argument on either side. Mrs. Hilary listened with the impatience women
feel at every absence from the personal ground, the only ground of
reality. When Matt had got so far from it as to be saying to his father,
"Then I understand you to maintain that if A is properly punished for
his sins, B will practice virtue in the same circumstances and under the
same temptations that were too much for A," his mother tried to break in
upon them. She did not know much about the metaphysical rights and
wrongs of the question; she only felt that Matt was getting his father,
who loved him so proudly and indulgently, into a corner, and she saw
that this was unseemly. Besides, when anything wrong happens, a woman
always wants some one punished; some woman, first, or then some other
woman's men kindred. Every woman is a conservative in this, and Mrs.
Hilary made up her mind to stop the talk between her son and husband,
because she felt Matt to be doubly wrong.

But when she spoke, her husband roared at her, "Don't interrupt, Sarah!"
and then he roared at Matt, "I tell you that the individual is not
concerned in the matter! I tell you that it is the interest, the
necessity of the community to punish A for his sins without regard to B,
and for my part, I shall leave no stone unturned till we have found
Northwick, dead or alive; and if he is alive, I shall spare no effort to
have him brought to trial, conviction and punishment." He shouted these
words out, and thumped the breakfast table so that the spoons clattered
in the cups, and Mrs. Hilary could hardly hear what Patrick was saying
just inside the door.

"To see Mr. Hilary? A lady? Did she send her card?"

"She wouldn't give her name, ma'am; she said she didn't wish to, ma'am.
She wished to see Mr. Hilary just a moment in the reception-room."

Hilary was leaning forward to give the table another bang with his fist,
but his wife succeeded in stopping him, with a repetition of Patrick's
message.

"I won't see her," he answered. "It's probably a woman reporter. They're
in our very bread trough. I tell you," he went on to Matt, "there are
claims upon you as a citizen, as a social factor, which annul all your
sentimental obligations to B as a brother. God bless my soul! Isn't C a
brother, too, and all the rest of the alphabet? If A robs the other
letters, then let B take a lesson from the wholesome fact that A's
little game has landed him in jail."

"Oh, I admit that the A's had better suffer for their sins; but I doubt
if the punishment which a man gets against his will is the right kind of
suffering. If this man had come forward voluntarily, and offered to bear
the penalty he had risked by his misdeed, it would have been a good
thing for himself and for everybody else; it would have been a real
warning. But he ran away."

"And so he ought to be allowed to stay away! You are a pretty Dogberry
come to judgment! You would convict a thief by letting him steal out of
your company."

"It seems to me that's what you did, father. And I think you did right,
as I've told you."

"What I did?" shouted Hilary. "No, sir, I did nothing of the kind! I
gave him a chance to make himself an honest man--"

"My dear," said Mrs. Hilary, "you must go and get rid of that woman,
at least; or let me."

Hilary flung down his napkin, and red from argument cast a dazed look
about him, and without really quite knowing what he was about rushed out
of the room.

His wife hardly had time to say, "You oughtn't to have got into a
dispute with your father, Matt, when you know he's been so perplexed,"
before they heard his voice call out, "Good heavens, my poor child!" For
the present they could not know that this was a cry of dismay at the
apparition of Suzette Northwick, who met him in the reception-room with
the demand:

"What is this about my father, Mr. Hilary?"

"About your father, my dear?" He took the hands she put out to him with
her words, and tried to think what pitying and helpful thing he could
say. She got them away from him, and held one fast with the other.

"Is it true?" she asked.

He permitted himself the pretence of not understanding her; he had to do
it. "Why, we hope--we hope it isn't true. Nothing more is known about
his being in the accident than we knew at first. Didn't Matt--"

"It isn't that. It's worse than that. It's that other thing--that the
papers say--that he was a defaulter--dishonest. Is that true?"

"Oh, no, no! Nothing of the kind, my dear!" Hilary had to say this; he
felt that it would be inhuman to say anything else; nothing else would
have been possible. "Those newspapers--confound them!--you know how they
get things all--You needn't mind what the papers say."

"But why should they say anything about my father, at such a time, when
he's--What does it all mean, Mr. Hilary? I don't believe the papers, and
so I came to you--as soon as I could, this morning. I knew you would
tell me the truth. You have known my father so long; and you know how
good he is! I--You know that he never wronged any one--that he
couldn't!"

"Of course, of course!" said Hilary. "It was quite right to come to
me--quite right. How--how is your sister? You must stay, now--Louise
isn't down, yet--and have breakfast with her. I've just left Mrs. Hilary
at the table. You must join us. She can assure you--Matt is quite
confident that there's nothing to be distressed about in regard to
the--He--"

Hilary kept bustling aimlessly about as he spoke these vague phrases,
and he now tried to have her go out of the room before him; but she
dropped into a chair, and he had to stay.

"I want you to tell me, Mr. Hilary, whether there is the slightest
foundation for what the papers say this morning?"

"How, foundation? My dear child--"

"Has there been any trouble between my father and the company?"

"Well--well, there are always questions arising."

"Is there any question of my father's accounts--his honesty?"

"People question everything nowadays, when there is so much--want of
confidence in business. There have to be investigations, from time to
time."

"And has there been any reason to suspect my father? Does any one
suspect him?"

Hilary looked round the room with a roving eye, that he could not bring
to bear upon the girl's face. "Why, I suppose that some of us--some of
the directors--have had doubts--"

"Have you?"

"My dear girl--my poor child! You couldn't understand. But I can truly
say, that when this examination--when the subject came up for discussion
at the board-meeting, I felt warranted in insisting that your father
should have time to make it all right. He said he could; and we agreed
that he should have the chance." Hilary said this for the sake of the
girl; and he was truly ashamed of the magnanimous face it put upon his
part in the affair. He went on: "It is such a very, very common thing
