
“I don’t think it would be a joke at all,” said Robert.

“Nor I!” added Grant.

“Oh, he wouldn’t meddle with you boys,” said the black-eyed man. “He
would fly at higher game; for instance, our friend there, and there,”
indicating the farmer and the miner.

“I suppose you speak with authority?” observed the farmer.

“What do you mean?”

“You speak as if you were in this fellow’s confidence.”

“Do you mean to insult me?” exclaimed the black-eyed man angrily.

“Oh, calm yourself, my friend! Why should I mean it that way? You can’t
take a a joke.”

“Oh, if it’s a joke, I don’t mind.”

Then the talk about the famous road agent subsided. Gradually they
passed beyond the limits of population, and entered a mountain defile,
dark with frowning hills on each side.

“Let me get out a minute!” said the black-eyed man, signalling to the
driver.

The stage stopped. Once upon the ground the black-eyed passenger drew
out his revolvers, and levelling them at the astonished travellers,
cried: “Hold up your hands, gentlemen; get ready to surrender all your
valuables. I am Stephen Dike!”




                             CHAPTER XXXV.
                               A TRAGEDY.


I have said that the passengers were astonished at discovering that the
notorious road agent was their fellow-traveller. There were two,
however, who were not wholly surprised—the miner who had related his
cousin’s story and the farmer who had had a sharp colloquy with the
black-eyed man.

For a minute no one moved or spoke.

“Come,” said Dike impatiently; “I have no time to waste. Give me your
money.”

“Do you want mine?” asked Grant, who was entirely willing to give up the
small amount of gold coin he had with him, if he could save the dust in
his valise.

“No; I don’t care for the trifle you have, nor the other boy’s money,
but those miners over there must give up their treasure, and my
agricultural friends also.”

“If you want my money, come and get it!” growled the miner already
referred to.

“I say the same,” added the farmer.

“I will stand no nonsense,” said Stephen Dike.

“It’s hard luck,” grumbled the miner, “to give up all my hard earnings.”

“Give up your money, and grumble afterward,” rejoined Dike.

The miner thrust his hand into his pocket, and then, in an excited
voice, exclaimed suddenly, as he peered out of the coach, “Ha, friends!
there is help approaching. See!” And he pointed, with outstretched
finger, beyond Stephen Dike.

The road agent, taken by surprise, turned quickly. The step was fatal to
him. The miner, who had pulled a revolver from his pocket, fired without
an instant’s delay, and Stephen Dike fell backward, instantly killed.
The miner’s bullet had penetrated his temple. So unexpected was the
assault that the road agent had not even time to discharge his own
pistols. They fell upon the ground from his nerveless hands, and one of
them accidentally went off, but did no harm.



“My cousin is avenged!” exclaimed the miner grimly.

“Give me your hand, sir!” said the farmer. “You have saved us all, and
rid the State of California of the most dangerous outlaw within its
limits.”

“It seems hard to rejoice in the death of a fellow-being,” observed the
teacher, “but no one can grieve over the taking off of such a man.
Gentlemen, let us remove the body to some place less public.”

The passengers got out, and were joined by the driver.

“There is a reward of five thousand dollars offered by the authorities
for the capture of Stephen Dike, dead or alive,” he said. “What
gentleman killed him?”

“I did,” answered the miner; “but I want no reward. I should look upon
it as blood money. What I did, I did in defence of my fellow-passengers
and myself.”

Stephen Dike lay upon the ground, his features still wearing the cynical
smile habitual to him. Death had come upon him so suddenly that there
had not been time even to change the expression of his face.

“I suppose this man has committed many robberies?” said the teacher to
the stage-driver.

“No one knows how many, but he has robbed my stage four times.”

“How did it happen that you did not recognize him when he booked as a
passenger?”

“He has always worn a mask when I saw him before. This time he became
bolder, and presented himself without disguise. I remember being struck
by his appearance, and wondering whether I had not met him before, but
it did not occur to me that it was the famous road agent, Stephen Dike.”

The passengers took the lifeless body, and drew it to one side of the
road.

“Ought we not to bury it?” asked the teacher.

“I can’t bear to put beneath the sod a man who, but fifteen minutes
since, was as full of life as we are. Let us leave that office to some
one else. We can affix to the tree, beneath which he lies, a paper
giving his name.”

This proposal was approved. One of the passengers produced a sheet of
paper and a travelling inkstand, and this placard was affixed to the
trunk of the tree:

                              This man is
                            STEPHEN DIKE,
                            THE ROAD AGENT.
          Killed while attempting to rob the Sacramento coach.

“We ought, perhaps, to examine his pockets, and see if we can find
anything to throw light on his career.”

This was the suggestion of one of the passengers.

“No,” said the miner; “leave that to the persons who may find him. If he
has money about him, leave it to others. I have been the instrument of
Heaven’s retribution. Should I take anything of value from him, I would
be degraded to his own level.”

This remark seemed to voice the general sentiment, and, after an
interval of only ten minutes, the stage was again on its way to San
Francisco.

Grant and Robert were strongly impressed by what had happened. Neither
of them had ever seen a death by violence before.

“It’s awful!” said Robert, shuddering.
