have read the books. He’d have seen that you didn’t care.”

“Oh, this is ridiculous, you know!”

“No, it’s not, my darling! And as for the flowers, of course you
couldn’t exactly send them back, but you weren’t obliged to wear them.”

“Nobody wears flowers now, so it wasn’t probable that I should feel
obliged to. Really, mother, you’re losing your head!”

Mrs. Lauderdale shifted her position a little, moving towards the side
of the door on which the lock was placed, and laying her hand
affectionately on Katharine’s, as though still to detain her.

“Yes,” she said, “I’d forgotten that we don’t wear flowers any longer.
But that isn’t the question, dear. I only ask you not to send him away
suddenly, with a ‘no’ that can’t possibly be taken back. I’m dreadfully
afraid that you’ll hurt the poor fellow, and I can’t help feeling that
he has reason--that you’ve given him reason to expect that you’ll at
least consider the question. Dear child, I only ask you this once. Won’t
you do it to please me? We’re all so fond of Wingfield--”

“But why? why? If I don’t mean to have him, how can I? I really can’t
understand. Is there any family reason for being so particular about Mr.
Wingfield’s feelings? We’ve never been so very intimate with his
people.”

“Reasons,” repeated Mrs. Lauderdale, absently. “Reasons? Well, yes--but
it isn’t that--” She stopped short.

“Mother!” Katharine looked keenly into her face. “You’ve been talking to
him yourself! I can see it in your eyes!”

“Oh, no!” answered Mrs. Lauderdale. “Oh, no--what makes you think that?”

But she looked away, and Katharine saw the blush of confusion rising
under the transparent skin in her mother’s cheek.

“Yes--you’ve given Mr. Wingfield to understand that I’m in love with
him,” said Katharine, in a low voice.

“Katharine, how can you!” Mrs. Lauderdale was making a desperate effort
to recover herself, but she was a truthful woman, and found it hard to
lie. “You’ve no right to say such things!”

“Yes--I see,” answered Katharine, not heeding her. “It’s all quite clear
to me now. You and papa have drawn him on and encouraged him, and now
you’re afraid that I shall put you in an awkward position by sending him
away. I see it all. That’s the reason why you’re so excited about it.”

“Katharine, dear, don’t accuse me of such things! All I said was--” She
stopped short.

“Then you did say something? Of course. I knew that was the truth of
it!”

“I said nothing,” answered Mrs. Lauderdale, going back to a total
denial. “Except, perhaps, we have given him to understand that we should
be glad if you would marry him.”

“We? Has papa been talking to him, too?” asked Katharine, indignantly.

“Don’t be so angry, child. It’s quite natural. You don’t know how glad
your father would be. It’s just the sort of match he’s always dreamed of
for you. And then I think it was very honourable in young Wingfield,
when he found that he was in love with you, to speak to your father
first.”

“Scrupulously! He might be French! He might have tried to find out first
whether I cared for him at all. But I’ve no doubt you told him that he
had only to ask and I should take him to my heart with pride and
pleasure! Oh, mother, mother! You never used to act like this!”

“But, my dear child--”

“Oh no,--don’t call me your dear child like that--it doesn’t mean
anything now. You’re completely changed--no, don’t keep me! That poor
fellow’s waiting all this time. You can’t have anything more to say to
me, for I know it all. A word more--which you may have said to him, or
a word less--what does it matter? You’ve turned on me, and now you’re
doing your best to marry me, just to get rid of me. As for papa, he
leaves me no peace about poor uncle Robert’s will. And he calls himself
an honest man, when he’s trying to force a confidence that doesn’t
belong to him, out of--yes--out of sheer love of money. Oh, it’s not to
be believed! Let me go, mother! I won’t keep that man waiting any
longer. It isn’t decent. There’ll be one lie less, at all events!”

“Katharine, dear! Stay a minute! Don’t go when you’re angry--like this!”

But Katharine’s firm hand was opening the door in spite of her mother’s
gentle, almost timid, resistance.

“No--I’m not angry now,” answered the young girl. “It’s something
different--I won’t hurt him--never fear!”

In a moment she had left the room, and her mother heard the quick
footfall on the stairs, as she stood listening by the open door. Mrs.
Lauderdale had got herself into terrible trouble, and she knew it.
Katharine had, in part, guessed rightly, for if Mrs. Lauderdale had not
told young Wingfield in so many words that her daughter loved him, she
had yet allowed him to think so, and had been guilty of a sin of
omission in not undeceiving him. There is a way of listening which
means assent, as there is a way of assenting in words which mean a flat
refusal. Alexander Lauderdale had gone farther. He had distinctly told
Wingfield, in his wife’s presence, that he had no reason to believe that
his daughter might not,--he saved his scrupulous conscience by the
‘might,’--might not ultimately accept a proposal which was so agreeable
to his own wishes. Mrs. Lauderdale had been shocked, for, as it was
spoken, the phrase sounded very untrue, though when precipitated upon
paper and taken to pieces, it is found to be cautious enough. ‘Might,’
not ‘would’--and ‘ultimately,’ not by any means at the first attempt.
Yet the impression had been conveyed to Wingfield’s mind that Katharine
was predisposed in his favour, in spite of the reports which had so long
been circulated about her engagement to Ralston. Mrs. Lauderdale had,
for a moment, almost believed that her husband had told an untruth. But
on talking the matter over with him, his dignity of manner, his clear
recollection of his own words, and the moderate stress which he laid
upon the ‘might’ and the ‘ultimately,’ not only reassured her, but
persuaded her to say almost the same thing the next time she saw
Wingfield. The young fellow always sought her out at a party, and
confided to her all he felt for Katharine, and Mrs. Lauderdale
sympathized with him, as she had once sympathized with Jack Ralston,
unconscious that she was doing anything wrong. He was handsome, frank,
and winning, and she longed to see Katharine married. The reasons were
plenty. Many cold and good women enjoy being made the confidantes of
young lovers. The atmosphere of the passion is agreeable to them, though
they may know little of the passion itself. Mrs. Lauderdale had not
fully realized the meaning of what she had been doing until Katharine
made it plain to her that afternoon. And then, although her conscience
told her that she was in the wrong, and though she had spoken to the
girl entreatingly and gently, she became angry with her as soon as she
was left to herself. The tortuousness of a good woman’s mind when she
has hurt her own conscience surpasses by many degrees that of an
ordinary criminal’s straightforwardly bad ingenuity.

Meanwhile, Katharine descended to the library, paused a moment in the
entry, and then opened the door. Archibald Wingfield’s black eyes met
her as she entered the room. He was standing before the empty fireplace,
with his hands behind him, warming them perhaps at an imaginary fire,
for they were cold. He was very much in love with her, and Katharine’s
girlish instinct was right, for he had come with the determined purpose
of asking her to be his wife. She had kept him waiting fully twenty
minutes, and during that time he had interpreted the delay in at least
as many different ways. As she came in, the colour rose in his brown
cheeks and his heart beat fast.

Archibald Wingfield was said to be the handsomest young man in New York
society, which is saying a good deal, notwithstanding those captious
persons who write and speak sarcastically about the round-shouldered,
in-kneed, flabby-cheeked youth of the present day. Of late years, during
the growth of what is now the young generation in society, there has
been a very sudden improvement in the race and type of boys and girls.
Any one can see that who does not wilfully close his eyes.

Wingfield stood fully six feet four inches without his shoes, was
broad-shouldered, deep-chested, and thin-waisted as a young Achilles.
His feet were narrow, strong, and straight, his legs those of a runner
rather than a walker, his hands broad and brown, with great,
determined-looking thumbs, marked sinews, and the high, blue veins of a
thoroughbred animal. The splendid form was topped by a small, energetic
