listening to Annie’s rapidly approaching tread from the regions of the
pantry at the end of the entry. A moment later and the girl was by her
side.

“If it’s Mr. Ralston, don’t shut the door again till I’ve spoken to
him,” she said, in a low voice. “My mother isn’t receiving, if it’s a
visitor.”

She stood behind Annie as the latter opened the door. John was there, as
she had expected, and Annie stepped back. Katharine raised her finger to
her lips, warning him not to speak. He looked surprised, but stood
bareheaded on the threshold.

“You must go away at once, Jack,” she whispered. “My mother is in the
library, looking out of the window, and I can’t possibly see you alone.
Wait for me near the door at the Assembly to-night. Go, dear--it’s
impossible now. I’ll tell you afterwards.”

In her anxiety not to rouse her mother’s suspicions, she shut the door
almost before he had nodded his assent. She scarcely saw the blank look
that came into his face, and the utter disappointment in his eyes.

Seeing that the door was shut, Annie turned and went away. Katharine
hesitated a moment, passed her hand over her brow, glanced mechanically
once more at the cards in the china dish on the table and then went into
the library. To her surprise her mother was not there, but the folding
door which led to the dark drawing-room was half rolled back, and it
was clear that Mrs. Lauderdale had gone through the dining-room, and had
probably reached her own apartment by the back staircase of the house.
Katharine was on the point of running into the street and calling
Ralston back. She hesitated a moment, and then going hastily to the
window threw up the sash and looked out, hoping that he might be still
within hearing. But looking eastward, towards Fifth Avenue, he was not
to be seen amongst the moving pedestrians, of whom there were many just
then. She turned to see whether he had taken the other direction, and
saw him at once, but already far down the street, walking fast, with his
head bent low and his hands in the pockets of his overcoat. He was
evidently going to take the elevated road up town.

“Oh, Jack--I’m so sorry!” she exclaimed softly to herself, still looking
after him as he disappeared in the distance.

Then she drew down the window again, and went and sat in her accustomed
place in the small armchair opposite to her mother’s sofa. She thought
very uncharitably of Charlotte during the next quarter of an hour, but
she promised herself to get into a corner with Ralston that evening, at
the great ball, and to explain all the circumstances to him as minutely
as they have been explained here. She was angry with her mother, too,
for not having gone up the front staircase, as she might just as well
have done, but she was very glad she had not condescended to the
manœuvre of introducing John into the dining-room by the back way, as
she would have probably just met Mrs. Lauderdale as the latter passed
through. On the whole, it seemed to Katharine that she had done as
wisely as the peculiarly difficult circumstances had allowed, and that
although there was much to regret, she had done nothing of which she
needed to repent.

It seemed to her, too, as she began to recover from the immediate
annoyance of failure, that she had gained several hours more than she
had expected, in which to think over what she should say to Ralston when
they met. And she at once set herself the task of recalling everything
that Robert Lauderdale had said to her, with the intention of repeating
it as accurately as possible, since she could not expect to say it any
better than he had said it himself. It was necessary that Ralston should
understand it, as she had understood it, and should see that although
uncle Robert was quite ready to be generous he could not undertake to
perform miracles. Those had been the old gentleman’s own words.

Then she began to wonder whether, after all, it would not be better to
accept what he offered--the small, settled income which was so good to
think of--and to get rid of all this secrecy, which oppressed her much
more since she had been told that it must last, than when she had
expected that it would involve at most the delay of a week. The deep
depression which she began to feel at her heart, now that she was alone
again, made the simple means of escape from all her anxieties look very
tempting to her, and she dwelt on it. If she begged Ralston to forget
his pride for her sake, as she was willing to forget her own for his,
and to let her take the money, he would surely yield. Once together,
openly married before the world, things would be so much easier. He and
she could talk all day, unhindered and unobserved, and plan the future
at their leisure, and it was not possible that with all the joint
intelligence they could bring to bear upon the problem, it should still
remain unsolved.

Meanwhile, Ralston had gone up town, very much more disappointed than
Katharine knew. Strange to say, their marriage seemed far more important
in his eyes than in hers, and he had lived all day, since they had
parted at ten o’clock in the morning, in nervous anticipation of seeing
her again before night. He had gone home at once, and had spent the
hours alone, for his mother had gone out to luncheon. Until the
messenger with Katharine’s specially stamped letter rang at the door, he
would not have gone out of the house for any consideration, and after
he had read it he sat counting the minutes until he could reasonably
expect to use up the remaining time in walking to Clinton Place. As it
was, he had reached the corner a quarter of an hour before the time, and
his extreme punctuality was to be accounted for by the fact that he had
set his watch with the Lauderdales’ library clock,--as he always did
nowadays,--and that he looked at it every thirty seconds, as he walked
up and down the street, timing himself so exactly that the hands were
precisely at the hour of three when he took hold of the bell.

There are few small disappointments in the world comparable with that of
a man who has been told by the woman he loves to come at a certain hour,
who appears at her door with military punctuality and who is told to go
away again instantly, no adequate excuse being given for the summary
dismissal. Men all know that, but few women realize it.

“Considering the rather unusual situation,” thought Ralston, angrily,
“she might have managed to get her mother out of the way for half an
hour. Besides, her mother wouldn’t have stoned me to death, if she had
let me come in--and, after last night, I shouldn’t think she would care
very much for the sort of privacy one has in a ball-room.”

He had waited all day to see her, and he had nothing to do until the
evening, when he had to go to a dinner-party before the Assembly ball.
He naturally thought of his club, as a quiet place where he could be
alone with his annoyances and disappointments between three and four
o’clock, and he took the elevated road as the shortest way of getting
there.




CHAPTER XVIII.


Ralston was in a thoroughly bad humour when he reached his club. The
absurdity of a marriage, which was practically no marriage at all, had
been thrust upon him on the very first day, and he felt that he had been
led into a romantic piece of folly, which could not possibly produce any
good results, either at the present time or afterwards. He was as
properly and legally the husband of Katharine as the law and the church
could make him, and yet he could not even get an interview of a quarter
of an hour with his wife. He could not count, with certainty, upon
seeing her anywhere, except at such a public place as the ball they were
both going to that night, under the eyes of all New York society, so far
as it existed for them. The position was ludicrous, or would have been,
had he not been the principal actor in the comedy.

He was sure, too, that if Katharine had got any favourable answer from
their uncle Robert, she would have said at least a word to this effect,
even while she was in the act of thrusting him from the door. Two words,
‘all right,’ would have been enough. But she had only seemed anxious to
get rid of him as quickly as possible, and he felt that he was not to
be blamed for being angry. The details of the situation, as she had seen
it, were quite unknown to him. He was not aware that Charlotte Slayback
had been at luncheon, and had stayed until the last minute, nor that
Katharine had really done everything in her power to make her mother go
upstairs. The details, indeed, taken separately, were laughable in their
insignificance, and it would hardly be possible for Katharine to explain
them to him, so as to make him see their importance when taken all
together. He was ignorant of them all, except of the fancied fact that
Mrs. Lauderdale had been at the window of the library. Katharine had
told him so, and had believed it herself, as was natural. She had not
had time to explain why she believed it, and he would be more angry than
ever if she ever told him that she had been mistaken, and that he might
just as well have come and stayed as long as he pleased. He knew that a
considerable time must have elapsed between the end of luncheon and his
arrival at the door of the house; he supposed that Katharine had been
alone with her mother and grandfather, as usual, and he blamed her for
