                                                       [Exit Bernardo.

Zara. Oh, Father, Father, whom I have so loved and honored, now so cold,
so pitiless. The spirit of revenge hath entered thy kind heart, and
spread an evil blight o'er all the flowers that blossomed there. I
cannot win him back to tenderness, and Ernest, thou must perish. I
cannot save thee,--perhaps 'tis better so; but oh, 'twill be a bitter
parting! [Weeps.] Nay, nay, it shall not be! When this wild hate
hath passed, my father will repent. Alas! 't will be too late. I will
save him from that sorrow when he shall find he hath wronged a noble
heart, and slain the friend he should have saved. But stay! how shall I
best weave my plot? That fatal paper, once destroyed, I will implore and
plead so tenderly, my father will repent; and ere another scroll can
reach his hands, I will have won thy freedom, Ernest! This night
beneath his pillow it will be; and I, like a midnight thief, must steal
to that couch, and take it hence. Yet, it shall be done, for it will
save thee, Father, from a cruel deed, and gain a brave heart's freedom.
Ernest, 'tis for thee! for thee!


                                CURTAIN.


                              SCENE FIFTH.

                       [Chamber in the castle.
                  Bernardo sleeping. Enter Zara.]

Zara. He sleeps calmly as a child. Why do I tremble? 'T is a deed of
mercy I would do, and thou wilt thank me that I dared to disobey, and
spare thee from life-long regret. The paper,--yes, 'tis here! Forgive
me, Father; 'tis to save thee from an evil deed thy child comes stealing
thus at dead of night to take what thou hast toiled so long to win.
Sleep on! no dark dream can break thy slumber now; the spirit of revenge
shall pass away, and I will win thee back to pity and to love once more.
Now, Ernest, thou art saved, and ere to-morrow's sun shall rise this
warrant for thy death shall be but ashes, and my task be done.

                                                           [Exit Zara.


                                CURTAIN.


                              SCENE SIXTH.

                           [Zara's chamber.
                             Zara alone].

Zara. The long, sleepless night at length hath passed. The paper is
destroyed, and now nought remains but to confess the deed, and brave my
father's anger.

                                                      [Enter Bernardo.

Ber. Zara!

Zara [starts]. Why so stern, my father? Hath thy poor Zara angered
thee?

Ber. I have trusted thee as few would trust a child. Thou art fair and
gentle, and I had thought true. Never, Zara, till now hast thou deceived
me; and if thou wouldst keep thy father's love and trust, I bid thee
answer truly. Didst thou, in the dead of night steal to my pillow, and
bear hence the paper I had told thee would be there? Thy slave girl,
Zillah, missed thee from thy couch, and saw thee enter there. She
feared to follow, but none other came within my chamber, and this morn
the scroll is gone. Now answer, Zara! Didst thou take the warrant, and
where is it now?

Zara. Burnt to ashes, and scattered to the winds. I have never stained
my soul with falsehood, and I will not now. Oh, Father! I have loved and
honored thee through the long years thou hast watched above me. How
could I love on when thou hadst stained with blood that hand that
blessed me when a child, how honor when thou hadst repaid noble deeds
with death? Forgive me that I plead for those thou hast doomed! I alone
am guilty,--let thine anger fall on me; but, Father, I implore thee,
leave this evil deed undone. [Kneels.]

Ber. Thou canst plead well for thy father's and thy country's foe. What
strange fancy hath possessed thee, Zara? Thou hast never wept, tho' many
a Christian knight hath pined and died within these walls; and even
now, methinks, thou speakest more of gratitude than mercy, and seem
strangely earnest for the English lord who did thee some small service
long ago. Speak, Zara! wouldst thou save them all? Were I to grant
thee all their lives save his, wouldst thou be content to let him die?

Zara. Nay, Father; but for his tender care thou wouldst have no daughter
now to stand before thee, pleading for the life he bravely risked in
saving mine. Oh, would I had died amid the forest leaves ere I had
brought such woe to him, and lived to lose my father's love! [Weeps.]

Ber. Listen, Zara! Little as I know of woman's heart, I have learned to
read thine own; and if I err not, thou hast dared to love this stranger.
Ha! is it so? Girl, I command thee to forget that love, and leave him to
his fate!

Zara. Never! I will not forget the love that like a bright star hath
come to cheer my lonely heart. I will not forget the noble friend
who, 'mid his fiercest foes, could brave all dangers to restore an
unknown maiden to her home. And when I offered liberty (for I have
disobeyed and dared to seek his cell), he would not break the word he
had plighted, Father, unto thee. He bade me tempt him not, for death
were better than dishonor. Ah, canst thou doom him to a felon's death?
Then do it; and the hour that sees that true heart cease to beat, that
hour thou hast lost the child who would have loved and clung to thee
through life.

Ber. Child, thou hast moved me strangely. I would grant thy prayer, but
thou shalt never wed one of that accursed race. I bear no hate to the
young lord, save that he is thy country's foe; and if he gains his
freedom, he will win thee too. By Allah! it shall never be. Yet, listen,
Zara! If I grant his life wilt thou ask no more?

Zara. 'T is all I ask; grant me but this, and I will give thee all the
gratitude and love this poor heart can bestow.

Ber. Then 'tis done. Yet hold! the price that thou must pay for this
dear boon is large. Thou must swear never to see him more; must banish
love, nay, even memory of that fatal hour when first he saw and saved
thee. If thou wilt vow to wed none but one of thine own race, his life
and liberty are thine to give. Speak, Zara! Wilt thou do all this?

Zara. Oh, Father, Father, anything but this! Pity, gratitude, and love
have bound me to him, and the fetters thou hast cast around him are not
stronger than the deep affection he hath wakened in my heart. Ah, why
wilt thou not give life and liberty to him, and joy to thy child? I will
not take the vow.

Ber. Then his fate is sealed. Thy girl's heart is too selfish to forego
its own joy for his sake. Thou dost not love enough to sacrifice thy
happiness to win his freedom. I had thought more nobly of thee, Zara.

Zara. I will be worthy all thou mayst have thought me; but thou canst
little know the desolation thou hast brought me. Thou shalt see how
deeply thou hast wronged me, and my love. I will bear all, suffer all,
if it will win the life and liberty of him I love so deeply and so well.

Ber. Would to Heaven thou hadst never seen this English stranger! Again,
and for the last time, Zara, I ask thee, Wilt thou leave the captive to
his fate, and seek another heart to love?

Zara. Never! I could mourn his death with bitter tears; but oh, my love
is worthy a deeper sacrifice! He shall never suffer one sad hour if I
may spare him, and never know that liberty to him will bring such
life-long sorrow unto me.

Ber. Then thou wilt take the vow I bid thee?

Zara. I will.

Ber. Then swear by all thou dost hold most dear, and by thy mother's
spirit, to wed one only of thy father's race; and through joy and
sorrow, thro' youth and age, to keep thy vow unbroken until death.

Zara. I swear; and may the spirit of that mother look in pity on the
child whose love hath made her life so dark a path to tread.

Ber. May thou find comfort, Zara! I would have spared thee this, but now
it cannot be. Yet thy reward shall well repay thee for thy sacrifice.
