strangely, "and two more will be four--all together--for ever and ever,
burning, burning, burning bright."

At the last words his head sank slowly back, and the little glare of the
toad eyes disappeared under the swollen lids; and the lurid cloud passed
from the westering sun, so that the earth was green again and the light
pure. Sir Hugh had fallen asleep, as he often did in his last illness,
even while speaking.

Gabriel Ockram drew Evelyn away, and from the study they went out into
the dim hall, softly closing the door behind them, and each audibly drew
breath, as though some sudden danger had been passed. They laid their
hands each in the other's, and their strangely-like eyes met in a long
look, in which love and perfect understanding were darkened by the
secret terror of an unknown thing. Their pale faces reflected each
other's fear.

"It is his secret," said Evelyn at last. "He will never tell us what it
is."

"If he dies with it," answered Gabriel, "let it be on his own head!"

"On his head!" echoed the dim hall. It was a strange echo, and some were
frightened by it, for they said that if it were a real echo it should
repeat everything and not give back a phrase here and there, now
speaking, now silent. But Nurse Macdonald said that the great hall would
never echo a prayer when an Ockram was to die, though it would give back
curses ten for one.

"On his head!" it repeated quite softly, and Evelyn started and looked
round.

"It is only the echo," said Gabriel, leading her away.

They went out into the late afternoon light, and sat upon a stone seat
behind the chapel, which was built across the end of the east wing. It
was very still, not a breath stirred, and there was no sound near them.
Only far off in the park a song-bird was whistling the high prelude to
the evening chorus.

"It is very lonely here," said Evelyn, taking Gabriel's hand nervously,
and speaking as if she dreaded to disturb the silence. "If it were dark,
I should be afraid."

"Of what? Of me?" Gabriel's sad eyes turned to her.

"Oh no! How could I be afraid of you? But of the old Ockrams--they say
they are just under our feet here in the north vault outside the chapel,
all in their shrouds, with no coffins, as they used to bury them."

"As they always will--as they will bury my father, and me. They say an
Ockram will not lie in a coffin."

"But it cannot be true--these are fairy tales--ghost stories!" Evelyn
nestled nearer to her companion, grasping his hand more tightly, and the
sun began to go down.

"Of course. But there is the story of old Sir Vernon, who was beheaded
for treason under James II. The family brought his body back from the
scaffold in an iron coffin with heavy locks, and they put it in the
north vault. But ever afterwards, whenever the vault was opened to bury
another of the family, they found the coffin wide open, and the body
standing upright against the wall, and the head rolled away in a corner,
smiling at it."

"As Uncle Hugh smiles?" Evelyn shivered.

"Yes, I suppose so," answered Gabriel, thoughtfully. "Of course I never
saw it, and the vault has not been opened for thirty years--none of us
have died since then."

"And if--if Uncle Hugh dies--shall you----" Evelyn stopped, and her
beautiful thin face was quite white.

"Yes. I shall see him laid there too--with his secret, whatever it is."
Gabriel sighed and pressed the girl's little hand.

"I do not like to think of it," she said unsteadily. "O Gabriel, what
can the secret be? He said we had better not marry--not that he forbade
it--but he said it so strangely, and he smiled--ugh!" Her small white
teeth chattered with fear, and she looked over her shoulder while
drawing still closer to Gabriel. "And, somehow, I felt it in my own
face--"

"So did I," answered Gabriel in a low, nervous voice. "Nurse
Macdonald----" He stopped abruptly.

"What? What did she say?"

"Oh--nothing. She has told me things--they would frighten you, dear.
Come, it is growing chilly." He rose, but Evelyn held his hand in both
of hers, still sitting and looking up into his face.

"But we shall be married, just the same--Gabriel! Say that we shall!"

"Of course, darling--of course. But while my father is so very ill, it
is impossible----"

"O Gabriel, Gabriel, dear! I wish we were married now!" cried Evelyn in
sudden distress. "I know that something will prevent it and keep us
apart."

"Nothing shall!"

"Nothing?"

"Nothing human," said Gabriel Ockram, as she drew him down to her.

And their faces, that were so strangely alike, met and touched--and
Gabriel knew that the kiss had a marvellous savour of evil, but on
Evelyn's lips it was like the cool breath of a sweet and mortal fear.
And neither of them understood, for they were innocent and young. Yet
she drew him to her by her lightest touch, as a sensitive plant shivers
and waves its thin leaves, and bends and closes softly upon what it
wants; and he let himself be drawn to her willingly, as he would if her
touch had been deadly and poisonous; for she strangely loved that half
voluptuous breath of fear, and he passionately desired the nameless evil
something that lurked in her maiden lips.

"It is as if we loved in a strange dream," she said.

"I fear the waking," he murmured.

"We shall not wake, dear--when the dream is over it will have already
turned into death, so softly that we shall not know it. But until
then----"

She paused, and her eyes sought his, and their faces slowly came nearer.
It was as if they had thoughts in their red lips that foresaw and
foreknew the deep kiss of each other.

"Until then----" she said again, very low, and her mouth was nearer to
his.

"Dream--till then," murmured his breath.




CHAPTER II


Nurse Macdonald was a hundred years old. She used to sleep sitting all
bent together in a great old leathern arm-chair with wings, her feet in
a bag footstool lined with sheepskin, and many warm blankets wrapped
about her, even in summer. Beside her a little lamp always burned at
night by an old silver cup, in which there was something to drink.

Her face was very wrinkled, but the wrinkles were so small and fine and
near together that they made shadows instead of lines. Two thin locks of
hair, that was turning from white to a smoky yellow again, were drawn
over her temples from under her starched white cap. Every now and then
she woke, and her eyelids were drawn up in tiny folds like little pink
silk curtains, and her queer blue eyes looked straight before her
through doors and walls and worlds to a far place beyond. Then she slept
again, and her hands lay one upon the other on the edge of the blanket;
the thumbs had grown longer than the fingers with age, and the joints
shone in the low lamplight like polished crab-apples.

It was nearly one o'clock in the night, and the summer breeze was
