lay. I had no further trouble. I pulled one of the 
stories out by the roots, and left the other one — a 
kind of literary Cassarean operation. 
Would the reader care to know something about 
the story which I pulled out? He has been told 
many a time how the born-and-trained novelist 
works. Won't he let me round and complete his 
knowledge by telling him how the jack-leg does it? 
Originally the story was called "Those Extraordinary Twins." I meant to make it very short. I 
had seen a picture of a youthful Italian "freak" — 
or "freaks" — which was — or which were — on exhibition in our cities — a combination consisting 
of two heads and four arms joined to a single body 
and a single pair of legs — and I thought I would 
write an extravagantly fantastic little story with this 
freak of nature for hero — or heroes — a silly young 
miss for heroine, and two old ladies and two boys for 
the minor parts. I lavishly elaborated these people 
and their doings, of course. But the tale kept 
spreading along, and spreading along, and other peo- 
ple got to intruding themselves and taking up more 
and more room with their talk and their affairs. 
Among them came a stranger named Pudd'nhead 
Wilson, and a woman named Roxana; and presently 
the doings of these two pushed up into prominence 
a young fellow named Tom Driscoll, whose proper 
place was away in the obscure background. Before 
the book was half finished those three were taking 
things almost entirely into their own hands and 
working the whole tale as a private venture of their 
own — a tale which they had nothing at all to do 
with, by rights. 
When the book was finished and I came to look 
around to see what had become of the team I had 
originally started out with — Aunt Patsy Cooper, 
Aunt Betsy Hale, the two boys, and Rowena the 
light-weight heroine — they were nowhere to be seen; 
they had disappeared from the story some time or 
other. I hunted about and found them — found 
them stranded, idle, forgotten, and permanently 
useless. It was very awkward. It was awkward all 
around ; but more particularly in the case of Rowena, 
because there was a love-match on, between her and 
one of the twins that constituted the freak, and I had 
worked it up to a blistering heat and thrown in a 
quite dramatic love-quarrel, wherein Rowena scath- 
ingly denounced her betrothed for getting drunk, 
and scoffed at his explanation of how it had hap- 
pened, and wouldn't listen to it, and had driven him 
from her in the usual "forever" way; and now 
here she sat crying and broken-hearted; for she had 
found that he had spoken only the truth; that it was 
not he, but the other half of the freak, that had drunk 
the liquor that made him drunk ; that her half was a 
prohibitionist and had never drunk a drop in his life, 
and, although tight as a brick three days in the week, 
was wholly innocent of blame; and indeed, when 
sober, was constantly doing all he could to reform 
his brother, the other half, who never got any satis- 
faction out of drinking, anyway, because liquor 
never affected him. Yes, here she was, stranded 
with that deep injustice of hers torturing her poor 
torn heart. 
I didn't know what to do with her. I was as 
sorry for her as anybody could be, but the campaign 
was over, the book was finished, she was side- 
tracked, and there was no possible way of crowding 
her in, anywhere. I could not leave her there, of 
course; it would not do. After spreading her out 
so, and making such a to-do over her affairs, it 
would be absolutely necessary to account to the 
reader for her. I thought and thought and studied 
and studied ; but I arrived at nothing. I finally saw 
plainly that there was really no way but one — I 
must simply give her the grand bounce. It grieved 
me to do it, for after associating with her so much I 
had come to kind of like her after a fashion, notwithstanding 
she was such an ass and said such 
stupid, irritating things and was so nauseatingly 
sentimental. Still it had to be done. So, at the top 
of Chapter XVII, I put a "Calendar" remark con- 
cerning July Fourth, and began the chapter with 
this statistic: 
"Rowena went out in the back yard after supper 
to see the fireworks and fell down the well and got 
drowned." 
It seemed abrupt, but I thought maybe the reader 
wouldn't notice it, because I changed the subject 
right away to something else. Anyway it loosened 
up Rowena from where she was stuck and got her 
out of the way, and that was the main thing. It 
seemed a prompt good way of weeding out people 
that had got stalled, and a plenty good enough way 
for those others; so I hunted up the two boys and 
said "they went out back one night to stone the cat 
and fell down the well and got drowned." Next I 
searched around and found old Aunt Patsy Cooper 
and Aunt Betsy Hale where they were aground, and 
said "they went out back one night to visit the sick 
and fell down the well and got drowned." I was 
going to drown some of the others, but I gave up the 
idea, partly because I believed that if I kept that 
up it would arouse attention, and perhaps sympathy 
with those people, and partly because it was not a 
large well and would not hold any more anyway. 
Still the story was unsatisfactory. Here was a set 
of new characters who were become inordinately 
prominent and who persisted in remaining so to the 
end; and back yonder was an older set who made a 
large noise and a great to-do for a little while and 
then suddenly played out utterly and fell down the 
well. There was a radical defect somewhere, and I 
must search it out and cure it. 
The defect turned out to be the one already 
spoken of — two stories in one, a farce and a tragedy. 
So I pulled out the farce and left the tragedy. This 
left the original team in, but only as mere names, 
not as characters. Their prominence was wholly 
gone; they were not even worth drowning; so I 
removed that detail. Also I took those twins apart 
and made two separate men of them. They had no 
occasion to have foreign names now, but it was too 
much trouble to remove them all through, so I left 
them christened as they were and made no explanation. 
THE TWINS AS THEY REALLY WERE 
THE conglomerate twins were brought on the 
stage in Chapter I of the original extravaganza. 
Aunt Patsy Cooper has received their letter applying 
for board and lodging, and Rowena, her daughter, 
insane with joy, is begging for a hearing of it: 
"Well, set down then, and be quiet a minute and 
don't fly around so; it fairly makes me tired to see 
you. It starts off so: 'Honored Madam — '" 
"I like that, ma, don't you? It shows they're 
high-bred." 
"Yes, I noticed that when I first read it. 'My 
brother and I have seen your advertisement, by 
chance, in a copy of your local journal — ' " 
"It's so beautiful and smooth, ma — don't you 
think so?" 
"Yes, seems so to me — and beg leave to take 
the room you offer. We are twenty-four years of 
age, and twins — '" 
"Twins! How sweet! I do hope they are hand- 
some, and I just know they are! Don't you hope 
they are, ma?" 
"Land, I ain't particular. 'We are Italians by 
birth—'" 
"It's so romantic! Just think — there's never 
been one in this town, and everybody will want to 
see them, and they're all ours! Think of that!" 
' — 'but have lived long in the various countries 
of Europe, and several years in the United States.'" 
"Oh, just think what wonders they've seen, ma! 
Won't it be good to hear them talk?" 
"I reckon so; yes, I reckon so. 'Our names 
are Luigi and Angelo Capello — '" 
"Beautiful, perfectly beautiful! Not like Jones 
and Robinson and those horrible names." 
"'You desire but one guest, but dear madam, if 
you will allow us to pay for two we will not discom- 
