been accustomed but for the talents and courage of her young daughter.
I am afraid the poor girl worked harder than her mother suspected for
a while, although the public received her favorably from the outset.
Mrs. Welles survived her husband three years. Agnes then went to live
with her only sister, Mrs. Ryder, the wife of my partner. I first met
her at his house. She has continued to write and has supported herself
handsomely in this way. She is as heroic as she is sweet—a thorough
woman.”
“With a masculine intellect! I comprehend, me boy. Don’t multiply
epithets on my account. As I’ve said, I don’t presume to question
the wisdom of your choice in this particular case, and that your
inamorata is the best of her kind, but personally, I don’t take to
the kind. By Jupiter! I was telling Jones of Illinois, last night,
of an incident that gave me a ‘scunner’ against woman authors, twenty
years ago. Mrs. Shenstone of New York was a literary light in her day.
There’s a fashion in writers, as in everything else, and she went
out with balloon skirts and chig-nongs. But she was a star of the
first magnitude in her own opinion, and, at any rate, something in
the stellar line in others’ eyes. Her husband had money and she was
a poor girl when she married him. They say he made a show of holding
his own while the shekels lasted. A more meek-spirited atomy I never
beheld than when they called upon my friends, Mr. and Mrs. Lamar from
Charleston, then staying at the Fifth Avenue Hotel, one evening, when I
chanced to be sitting with the Lamars in their private parlor. And as
sure as I am a sinner and you’re another, the card brought in to Mrs.
Lamar was ‘Mrs. Cordelia Shenstone and husband.’ The last two words
were added in pencil. Fact, ’pon honor! Mrs. Lamar carried the card
home and had it framed as a domestic and literary curiosity.”
“You cite an extreme case”—another glance at the slow clock. “If that
woman had been a shopkeeper, or a dressmaker, with the same arbitrary,
selfish spirit, she would have been guilty of the same gross violation
of taste and feeling.”
“Maybe so! maybe so! But the writing woman is a prickly problem in
modern society. She is leading the van in all revolutionary rot about
women’s wrongs and women’s rights. The party can’t do without her, for
the rank and file couldn’t draft a resolution or write a report to save
their lives, and they’ve flattered up our blue-stocking until she steps
out of all bounds. It makes a conservative patriot’s blood run cold to
think what the upshot of it all is to be. And I confess I don’t like
to anticipate seeing your cards engraved—‘Mrs. Clytemnestra Ashe and
husband.’”
A dark red torrent poured over the listener’s face. Physically and
morally, he was thin-skinned.
“There is nothing of the Clytemnestra in her make-up, sir. No woman
ever made could rule me, were she my wife. Agnes is too gentle and
too sensible to attempt it. As to the cards!” He went to a drawer and
took out a bit of pasteboard which he tossed to his kinsman, with a
derisive laugh. “That is all settled, you see. Come in!” to a knock at
the door.
When the tardy best man appeared, the Hon. Simeon Barton, his head
on one shoulder, and eyes half shut, after the manner of an impudent
cock-sparrow, was scanning the engraved inscription,
    MR. AND MRS. BARTON ASHE,
                   170 West —— St.
“Leave the ‘Simeon’ out, do you? Clytem—Agnes doesn’t like it,
maybe?” And without waiting for a reply—“Good-evening, Mr. White. I’m
just advising Bart here to use up this batch of cards plaguey quick, to
make room for ‘Mrs. Ashe and husband.’”
Mr. White laughed a little and politely. The jest was in miserable
taste, but much was pardonable in rich uncles who were self-made men,
when they showed a disposition to help make their nephews. A glimmer
of like reasoning may have entered Barton’s mind, for he turned an
unshadowed brow to the eccentric millionaire.
“When that time comes I shall employ you to draw up the articles of
separation. White, here, is witness to the agreement.”
An hour later, he would not have believed the words had passed his
lips. Jest upon such a horror would have seemed profanation to the
newly made husband. As the woman who would never again answer to the
name of Agnes Welles stood beside him, his were not the only eyes
that paid silent homage to her strange beauty—strange, because to
the guests, and to the assembled relatives, this phase of one whom
most people had hitherto thought only “interesting” and “pleasing,”
was new and unexpected. She was but a few inches shorter than her
manly partner, and slender to fragility. Straight and supple as a
willow-wand, she was ethereal in grace when clad in the misty robes
and veil which were the wedding gift of her godmother. Her dark eyes
were full of living light, illumining the colorless face into weird
loveliness, that belonged neither to feature nor complexion. The short,
tense bow of the upper lip, the fine spirited line of the nostrils,
the perfect oval of cheek and chin, were always high-bred—some said,
haughty. To-night they were chastened into lofty sweetness that was
pure womanly.
“She might pass for twenty-two,” said an audaciously young
débutante to a crony just behind Mr. Barton.
And—“By George!” thought that astute individual—“the young dog never
hinted that his divinity was six years his senior. I should have been
surer than ever of receiving that card. Pity! pity! pity! That’s a
fault that won’t mend with time.”
Agnes knew better than he could have told her what risks the woman
takes who consents to marry her junior in years. Early in their
acquaintanceship she had contrived to apprise Barton of this disparity.
When he declared his love she set it boldly in the foreground of
hesitation and demur.
“When you are thirty-five, in man’s proudest prime and yet far from
the comb of the hill, I shall have begun to go down the other side,”
she urged. “You might be able to contemplate the contrast boldly, but
could I forgive myself? There may be a suspicion of poetry—pathetic
but real—in the idea of an old man’s darling, but an old woman’s
pet! that is a theme no painter or poet has dared to handle. The
suggestion of grotesqueness is inevitable. Both are to be pitied, but
I think the wife needs compassion even more than the man she has made
ridiculous.”
The rising young lawyer was a clever advocate, and he had never striven
longer and harder to win a cause. When his triumph was secured Agnes
could not quite dismiss the subject. It haunted her like a wan ghost,
with threatening beck and ominous eye. Once, but a month before their
wedding day, they were speaking of George Eliot’s singular marriage
with a man young enough to be her son, and an abrupt change fell upon
Agnes’ visage—a shade of painful doubt and misgiving.
“Dinah Maria Mulock, too!” she exclaimed. “And Mme. de Staël!
Elizabeth Browning’s husband was some months younger than she. Then,
there are Mrs. —— and Mrs. ——” naming two prominent living American
authors. “How very singular! There must be some occult reason for
what we cannot set down as coincidences. It looks like fatality—or”
hesitatingly—“infatuation.”
“Rather,” said Barton in gentle seriousness, for her perturbation was
too real for playful rallying—“attribute such cases to the truth of the
eternal youthfulness of genius. These men see in the faces and forms
of the women they woo, the beautiful minds that will never know age or
change. Time salutes, instead of challenging those high in favor with
the king.”
“Do you know,” Agnes said, her slim white hand threading the
brown curls of the head she thought more beautiful than that of
Antinous—“that you will never say a more graceful thing than that? You
are more truly a poet than I. Don’t disclaim, for I am not a bard at
all. When I drop into poetry à la Wegg, it is not ‘in the light of
a friend.’ When I am in the dark or at best in a half-light, sorry or
weary, or lonely of heart, my thoughts take rhythmic shape. They are
only homely little crickets, creeping out in the twilight to sing by
the fire that is beginning to gather ashes. I am a born story-teller,
but I deserve no credit for that. Something within me that is not
myself tells the stories so fast that I can hardly write them down
as they are made. I am no genius, dear. Don’t marry me with that
impression. I wish for your sake that I were. How gloriously proud you
would be of me!”
“I am ‘gloriously proud’ of you now!” He said it in fervent sincerity.
“If you have genius, don’t develop it. I can hardly keep you in sight
as it is.”
Dimly and queerly, the feeling that prompted the half-laughing protest
returned upon him to-night. The solemn radiance overflooding her
eyes and clearing into exalted beauty lineaments critics pronounced
irregular, positively awed him—an uncommon and not altogether agreeable
sensation for a bridegroom, especially one of his practical and
somewhat dogmatic cast of mind. Rebel though romantic lovers may at
what they consider derogatory to the constancy and depth of wedded
affection, it is not to be denied that the turn of the bridal pair from
the altar symbolizes a reversal in their mutual relation. The bonds
that have held the lover in vassalage—very sweet bondage, perhaps, but
still not liberty—are with the utterance of the nuptial benediction
transferred to the woman he holds by the hand. Barton Ashe was very
much in love, but he was a very man. His wife was now his property.
“I feel a wild desire to put my arms around you to keep your wings from
unfurling,” he found occasion to whisper presently. “I suppose these
people would think me insane if I were to yield to the impulse and tell
them why I did it.”
The luminous eyes laughed joyously into his. With all her intellect and
passionate depth of feeling, she had seasons of childlike glee that
became her rarely.
“As you would be. I was never farther from ‘wanting to be an angel’
than at this instant. The life that now is appears to me eminently
