electrified her. She had her again, and the horrible thought of
separation vanished. Dil was too ignorant to formulate any theories, but
every pulse stirred within her own body.

Two of the mothers came for babies, but she uttered no word of what had
happened. Then she fed the others, and fixed the fire, and Dan peered in
fearfully. She gave him a slice of bread, and he was glad to be off.

Up-stairs they had watched the breath go out of the poor body.

“Pore thing! God rist her sowl wheriver it is,” and Mrs. Murphy crossed
herself.

“Has she no friends?”

“Not a wan, I belayve. She used to talk of some nevys whin she first
come, that’s nigh two years ago. But she’d lost track of them. I’m sure
I’ve taken good care of the pore ould craythur, an’ I hope some wan will
do the same to me at the last.”

“You’re a kindly woman, Mrs. Murphy, and God grant it. We don’t know
where nor when the end will come.”

Mrs. Minch stopped as she went down-stairs.

“Poor old Mrs. Bolan has gone to the better land. She and Bess will have
a Christmas with the angels. They will not want to come back here.”

Dil had no courage to argue. But she knew to the very farthest fibre of
her being, that nothing could so change Bess that she would desire to
stay anywhere without her.

Mrs. Garrick had heard the tidings before she came in for her baby, and
was profuse in her sympathies.

“But it’s the Lord’s mercy, for she were a poor sufferer, and was jist
waitin’. How did it happen? Was it in the night, whilst ye were all
asleep? An’ to think yer poor mother whint away knowin’ nothin’.”

“I can’t talk about it. I—I don’t know.”

“An’ old Mis’ Bolan. Well, I’ll run up-stairs a bit, an’ see Mrs.
Murphy.”

She was rewarded for her trouble here; the strange curiosity of some, as
if the dead face could answer the mystery.

“She’s a moighty quare girl, that Dilsey Quinn. Niver to be askin’ one
to look at the corpse; an’ if Bess hadn’t been so peaked, she would have
been a pritty child. She had such iligant hair.”

The neighbors began to make calls of condolence. Two deaths in a house
was an event rather out of the common order of things.

Dil awed them by her quiet demeanor, and answered apathetically, busying
herself with the supper.

“What hev ye done wid her?” asked one. “Shure, she’s not bin tuk away?”

“No; she’s in ther’, in my room. An’—an’ she’s mine.”

For to Dil there seemed something sacred about Bess, and she kept guard
rigorously. It was not simply a dead body to gloat over. They could go
up-stairs and look at Mrs. Bolan.

It was nine o’clock when her mother came home laden with budgets, and
Dan following in a vaguely frightened manner. He had been hanging about
Mrs. MacBride’s, waiting for her. She had gone in and taken her “sup o’
gin,” and heard the news, also the complaints.

“Whiniver did it happen, Dil?” throwing down her budgets. “She’s been no
good to hersilf nor no wan else this long while. An’ she cudden’t iver
git well, an’ was a sight o’ trouble. But I’m clear beat. Week after
week I thought she’d be sure to go, but when you’re lookin’, the thing
niver comes. An’ it’s took me so suddent like, that I had no breath left
at all. Was it true—did ye find her dead, an’ faint clear away?”

She looked rather admiringly at Dil.

“Yes—she were cold,” said Dil briefly. “An’ then I don’t know what
happened.”

“Ye pore colleen! Ye’ll be better widout her, an’ ye’ll be gittin well
an’ strong agin. It’s bin a hard thing, an’ yer divil of a father shud a
had his own back broke. But he’s fast enough, and I hope they’ll kape
him there. Any word of Owny?”

“No.” Oh, what would Owny say—an’ Patsey.

“Who kem an’ streeked her? Let’s see.”

She took the lamp and went in. It seemed to Dil as if she would even now
shake her fist at Bess, and the child stood with bated breath.

“She were a purty little thing, Dil,” the mother said with a softened
inflection. “Me sister Morna had yellow hair an’ purplish eyes, and was
that fair an’ sweet, but timid like. I believe me mother had some such
hair, but the rest of us had black. She looks raile purty, an’ makes a
better corpse than I iver thought. Why didn’t ye lit thim see her, Dil?
Ye’s needn’t a been shamed of her.”

Dil was saved from answering by the advent of a throng of neighbors. The
room seemed so warm, and there was such a flurry, she dropped on the
lounge faint and breathless.

“Go to bed, Dan,” said his mother.

Dil rose again and opened the door. The cold air, close and vile as it
was, felt grateful.

“Go up-stairs a bit in Mrs. Murphy’s;” and though the permission was a
command, Dil went gratefully.

Mrs. Murphy sat sewing to make up for lost time. Her little girl was
asleep in the cradle. She had improved since cooler weather had set in.
The door of one room was shut. The old chintz-covered Boston rocker was
empty.

“I couldn’t stay to see them all lookin’ at her,” she exclaimed
tremulously, as she almost tottered across the room.

“No, dear.” Mrs. Murphy took her in her arms. “Ye look like a ghost. But
Bess is main pritty, an’ it’s a custom. Will ye sit here?”

Dil shuddered as she looked at the empty chair where Mrs. Bolan used to
sit.

“No; I’ll take the stool. I just want to be a bit still like an’ think.
I couldn’t talk ’bout her, you know.”

“Yes, dear,” with kindly sympathy.

Dil dropped on a box stool, leaning her folded arms on a chair. Mrs.
Murphy took up her sewing again. She longed to comfort, but she was sore
afraid the two lorn souls were wandering about purgatory. She had a
little money of Mrs. Bolan’s that she meant to spend in masses. But who
would pay for a mass for Bessy Quinn’s soul? And she had never been
baptized. The ignorant, kindly woman was sore distressed.

Dil seemed to look through the floor and see the picture down-stairs.
All her sense of possession rose in bitter revolt. Yet now she was
helpless to establish her supreme right. Her mother had grudged Bess the
frail, feeble spark of life; she alone had cared for her, loved her,
protected her, and she was shut out, sent away. Now that Bess needed no
care and lay there quiet, they could come and pity her.

Presently more tranquil thoughts came. Even her mother could not do
anything to hurt Bess. She was safe at last.

There had been so much repression and self-control in Dil’s short life,
that it made her seem apathetic now. And yet, slowly as the poor pulses
beat, there was a strange inward fire and stir, as if she must do
something. A curious elusiveness shrouded the duty or work, and yet it
kept hovering before her. Oh, what was it?

Did she fall asleep, and was it a vision, a vague remembrance of
something she had heard? Bess was not dead, but in a strange, strange
sleep. Once there had been a little girl in just this sleep, and One had
come—yes, she would get up—about midnight these strange charms worked.

