
"How long has he been another man?" asked Captain Ringgold with
something like a sneer.

"Over six months."

"But Mazagan has been operating the same old scheme in Egypt within two
months," protested the commander of the Guardian-Mother very vigorously.

"Then he was not acting under the instructions of the Pacha."

"We should have found it difficult to believe that if you had told it to
us in Cairo," said the objector in a manner that might have made one who
did not know the captain decidedly belligerent. "Mazagan told Louis that
the Pacha had offered him two hundred thousand francs if he succeeded in
his enterprise, or half that sum if he failed."

"Then the fellow lied!" exclaimed the captain of the Blanche.

"He told Louis if he would persuade his trustee to give him half the
full amount of the reward, he would collect the other half of His
Highness, as promised in case of failure."

"That Mazagan is a villain and a scoundrel I have no doubt," said
Captain Sharp. "Since the affair at Zante, the Pacha has had no hand in
the matter."

"But the steamer of His Highness, the Fatimé, has been in Rosetta in
command of Mazagan," put in the objector with earnestness, believing his
reply would demolish the truth of his companion's statement.

"That can be explained," answered the commander of the Blanche. "If you
believe there is joy in heaven over one sinner that repenteth, it is
quite time for me to tell my story; and I hope you will take a different
view of the Pacha's present character, as I believe you will."

"Where is the distinguished Moor now?" asked Captain Ringgold,
carelessly and flippantly, as though it was of no consequence to him
where he was.

"He is in the cabin."

"In the cabin!" exclaimed the commander of the Guardian-Mother, leaping
out of his chair with an utter lack of dignity for him. "What cabin?"

"The cabin of the Blanche, of course."

"Is this his steamer?"

"It is."

"You told me it was General Newry's," said the visitor with a frown, as
he buttoned up his coat as though he was about to take his leave of such
a disagreeable locality. "General N-e-w-r-y."

"N-o-u-r-y is the way he spells it," interposed the ex-detective. "Sit
down, Captain. He is a general of the highest rank in the army of
Morocco, and he prefers to cruise under this title."

"If this is the steamer of Ali-Noury Pacha, it is time for me to leave."

"I hope you will hear my story before you go; for I assure you I have
been honest and sincere with you, telling you nothing but the truth. I
hated and condemned the vices of His Highness as much as you do,
Captain; I have told him so to his face, and that was the foundation of
his reformation."

Captain Ringgold concluded to hear the story.




CHAPTER XXXVI

AN ALMOST MIRACULOUS CONVERSION


It was a long story which Captain Penn Sharp told of his relations with
Ali-Noury Pacha; and his visitor was so incredulous at first that he
appeared to have solemnly resolved not to accept anything as the truth.
But the character of the speaker left its impress all along the
narrative; and Captain Ringgold was compelled to believe, just as the
hardened sinner is sometimes forced to accept the truth when presented
to him by the true evangelist, though his teeth were set against it.

"You gentlemen with millions in your trousers pockets are subject to
perils which we of moderate means are not exposed to," the commander of
the Blanche began.

"That means you, and not me," suggested the visitor.

"You have the reputation of being a rich man, whether you are one or
not. My wife is rich, and I am only well off; but never mind that now,"
replied Captain Sharp. "I saw General Noury, as we will call him after
this if you do not object, for that is the name by which he chooses to
be known, in Gibraltar several times, and I knew all about your affair
with him there; but I did not get acquainted with him, for I despised
him as much as you did.

"I sailed from the Rock, and took my wife to a great many of the ports
of Europe, and some in Africa, including Egypt; but I am not going to
tell you about our travels. We went from Alexandria to Malta, Syracuse,
and to Messina; and it was at this last port that I fell in with General
Noury. His steamer, I forget her name,"--

"The Fatimé; but Felix McGavonty always called her the Fatty."

"The Fatty anchored within a cable's length of me before I had been
there two hours, and the Pacha went ashore at once. That night my wife
was sick, and I went to the city to procure a certain medicine for her.
I happened into a shop where no one could speak English, and I don't
speak anything else. I was just going off to find another place where
they did speak English, when a gentleman rose from a chair with some
difficulty and offered his services.

"It was General Noury. He had been drinking, but was not very badly off.
He was as polite as a dancing-master, and helped me out so that I got
what I wanted. He spoke Italian as though he had known it in his
babyhood. I was very much obliged to him, and thanked him with all my
might. He left before my package was ready, and I soon followed him.



"As I entered the street that leads from the Corso Cavour to the shore I
heard the yells of a man in trouble. I always carried my revolver with
me, and I had handled a good many rough villains in my day. I started at
a run, and soon reached the scene of the fight. I found two men had
attacked one; and though the latter was bravely defending himself, he
was getting the worst of it. I saw that he was going under, and I fired
just as the man attacked dropped on the pavement.

"My shot brought down one of the bandits, and the other rushed towards
me. He had brought down his victim, and he wanted to get rid of me so
that he could go through his pockets. I fired at him, and he dropped the
long knife with which he was going to stick me on the pavement. There it
is over the window;" and the captain pointed to it. "He was wounded; and
then he ran away, for he did not like to play with a revolver. Before I
could get to him, the other assassin got on his feet and followed him,
though he moved with no little labor and pain; but my business was not
with him, and I let him go.

"The man who had been attacked was trying to get on his feet, and when I
came up to him I found it was General Noury. He had been stabbed in the
shoulder, and he was bleeding very freely. With my assistance he walked
to my boat, and my men placed him in the stern-sheets. I found that he
was bleeding badly, and I was no surgeon. The Hotel Vittorio was on the
other side of the street, and some one there could tell me in English
where to find a doctor.

"Two gentlemen at the door were smoking. They were talking in English,
and I told them what I wanted. They were both Americans, and one of
them was a doctor. He volunteered to go with me. He said the patient had
a bad wound. He went back to the hotel for his case of instruments, and
then went on board of the Viking with his patient. It would make your
dinner very late if I should give you all the details of the general's
case. Dr. Henderson stopped the flow of blood, and attended to his
patient for three weeks on board of the steam-yacht.

"When he was in condition to be moved to the Fatty, he did not wish to
go. My wife had nursed him as she would have nursed her own brother, and
