him, but that Edith should have taken up with such 
a perfect type of the aimlessness of the society 
strata of modern life. The wonder, however, was 
based upon a shallow conception of the nature of 
woman. It would have been more wonderful if 
the qualities that endeared Jack to college friends 
and club men, to the mighty sportsmen who do not 
hesitate, in the clubs, to devastate Canada and the 
United States of big game, and to the border ruf- 
fians of Dakota, should not have gone straight to 
the tender heart of a woman of ideals. And when 
in all history was there a woman who did not be- 
lieve, when her heart went with respect for certain 
manly traits, that she could inspire and lift a man 
into a noble life ? 

The silver clock in the breakfast-room was striking ten, and Edith was already seated at the coffee- 
urn, when Jack appeared. She was as fresh as a 
rose, and greeted him with a bright smile as he 
came behind her chair and bent over for the morning kiss a ceremony of affection which, if omit- 





ted, would have left a cloud on the day for both 
of them, and which Jack always declared was sim- 
ply a necessity, or the coffee would have no flavor. 
But when a man has picked a rose, it is always a 
sort of climax which is followed by an awkward 
moment, and Jack sat down with the air of a man 
who has another day to get through with. 

"Were you amused with the dancing this morning?" 

" So, so," said Jack, sipping his coffee. " It was 
a stunning place for it, that studio; you'd have 
liked that. The Lamons and Mavick and a lot of 
people from the provinces were there. The company was more fun than the dance, especially to a 
fellow who has seen how good it can be and how 
bad in its home." 

"You have a chance to see the Spanish dancer 
again, under proper auspices," said Edith, without 
looking up. 

"How's that?" 

" We are invited by Mrs. Brown " 

' The mother of the Bible class at St. Philip's ?" 

"Yes to attend a charity performance for the 
benefit of the Female Waifs' Refuge. She is to 
dance." 

"Who? Mrs. Brown?" 

Edith paid no attention to this impertinence. 
" They are to make an artificial evening at eleven 
o'clock in the morning." 





" They must have got hold of Mavick's notion 
that this dance is .religious in its origin. Do you 
know if the exercises will open with prayer ?" 

"Nonsense, Jack. You know I don't intend to 
go. I shall send a small check." 

" Well, draw it mild. But isn't this what I'm 
accused of doing shirking my duty of personal 
service by a contribution ?" 

"Perhaps. But you didn't have any of that 
shirking feeling last night, did you ?" 

Jack laughed, and ran round to give the only 
reply possible to such a gibe. These breakfast in- 
terludes had not lost piquancy in all these months. 
" I'm half a mind to go to this thing. I would, if 
it didn't break up my day so." 

" As for instance ?" 

" Well, this morning I have to go up to the rid- 
ing-school to see a horse Storm; I want to try 
him. And then I have to go down to Twist's and 
see a lot of Japanese drawings he's got over. Do 
you know that the birds and other animals those 
beggars have been drawing, which we thought 
were caricatures, are the real thing. They have 
eyes sharp enough to see things in motion flying 
birds and moving horses which we never caught 
till we put the camera on them. Awfully curi- 
ous. Then I shall step into the club a minute, 
and" 

" Be in at lunch ? Bess is coming." 





" Don't wait lunch. I've a lot to do." 
Edith followed him with her eyes, a little wistfully ; she heard the outer door close, and still sat 
at the table, turning over the pile of notes at her 
plate, and thinking of many things things that it 
began to dawn upon her mind could not be done, 
and things of immediate urgency that must be 
done. Life did not seem quite such a simple problem to her as it had looked a year ago. That there 
is nothing like experiment to clear the vision is the 
general idea, but oftener it is experience that per- 
plexes. Indeed, Edith was thinking that some 
things seemed much easier to her before she had 
tried them. 

As she sat at the table with a faultless morning- 
gown, with a bunch of English violets in her bos- 
om, an artist could have desired no better subject. 
Many people thought her eyes her best feature; 
they were large brown eyes, yet not always brown, 
green at times, liquid, but never uncertain, apt to 
have a smile in them, yet their chief appealing 
characteristic was trustfulness, a pure sort of stead- 
fastness, that always conveyed the impression of 
a womanly personal interest in the person upon 
whom they were fixed. They were eyes that 
haunted one like a remembered strain of music. 
The lips were full, and the mouth was drawn in 
such exquisite lines that it needed the clear-cut 
and emphasized chin to give firmness to its beauty. 





The broad forehead, with arching eyebrows, gave 
an intellectual cast to a face the special stamp of 
which was purity. The nose, with thin open nos- 
trils, a little too strong for beauty, together with the 
chin, gave the impression of firmness and courage; 
but the wonderful eyes, the inviting mouth, so 
modified this that the total impression was that of 
high spirit and great sweetness of character. It 
was the sort of face from which one might expect 
passionate love or unflinching martyrdom. Her 
voice had a quality the memory of which lingered 
longer even than the expression of her eyes ; it was 
low, and, as one might say, a fruity voice, not quite 
clear, though sweet, as if veiled in f emineity. This 
note of royal womanhood was also in her figure, a 
little more than medium in height, and full of natural grace. Somehow Edith, with all these good 
points, had not the reputation of a belle or a beauty perhaps for want of some artificial splendor 
but one could not be long in her company without 
feeling that she had great charm, without which 
beauty becomes insipid and even commonplace, and 
