ally thick lips, her front teeth protrude, and 
one of her eyes is brown, the other blue.' 
"'So were Anne Boleyn's,' he returned, 
quick as that. ' It used to be considered a 
great charm. How old is your daughter ? ' 
"'Going on twenty.' 
" He got up and consulted a note-book. 
" ' It will take six months, at least. The 
eyes I can't do. Nor the teeth. But any 
dentist any dentist who understands him- 
self can. The eyes, you would have to go 
to Paris for that. I will give you the ad- 
dress of an operator there who can change 
either of them to the color of the other.' 
" ' By tattooing ? ' I asked. 
" ' Yes ; that is the nature of the process. 
But you had best have that attended to first, 
that and the teeth. Then you can bring 
her to me. My fee will be a thousand 
guineas.' 
"'I have, of course, sir,' I said, 'every 
confidence, otherwise I should not be here ; 
but permit me to ask, is there any danger of 
a fatal termination ? ' 
" Then he wanted to know had she any 
organic troubles. I told him none that I 
was aware of. 
" ' You need give yourself no uneasiness,' 
said he. ' I have recently operated on a 
young man under circumstances almost pre- 
cisely similar. His ears protruded, his feat- 
ures were squat, his arms were simian, his 
teeth projected, and while there was nothing 
the matter with his eyes, the French opera- 
tor of whom I spoke changed them from 
blue to hazel. His legs were not bowed, 
but they were not in proportion to his body. 
I increased their length by over three 
inches.' 
" ' That must have been a marvellous 
undertaking,' I threw in. 
" ' On the contrary,' he answered. ' It is 
quite simple. There are four operations, 
one on each thigh and leg, but that on the 
leg is twofold. The method is essentially 
the same as when we deal with a collar- 
bone. The bones are broken, and after 
being cut quite obliquely, the fragments are 
drawn apart until each thigh-bone is elon- 
gated two inches, and each leg one and one- 
half inch, while at the same time the de- 
formed lower limbs are made shapely and 
symmetrical. An apparatus which I have 
devised is necessary for this operation, which 
can be executed simultaneously on the 
shoulders.' 
" ' But is there no resistance on the part 
of the muscular structures ? ' I asked. 
" ' None at all,' he answered. ' More- 
over, in this particular case the added height 
took all exaggeration from the length of the 
arms. And a slight stoop with which the 
patient was afflicted, I treated as an ordinary 
curvature. Your daughter has nothing jof 
that sort, has she ? ' 
"'It is her face that worries her most,' I 
replied. He smiled at that, and well he 
might. 
" ' You say her ears stand out ? ' he asked. 
" ' Like fans,' I answered. 
" ' So did the young man's,' said he. 
' From the posterior part, from the rim of 
the ear down and on to the head, I removed 
the skin, stitched the smooth-cut skin edge 
of the ear to that of the scalp, and the ears 
lay back flat as you please. It is a simple 
operation, less complex than that which I 
performed on the lips. With your daughter 
as with him I should make a longitudinal 
incision from the corner of the mouth, a half 
inch from the vermilion border, running it 
parallel with the white skin line and continu- 
ing the incision to the opposite corner of the 
mouth. Then removing an oblong piece of 
the sub-mucous and cellular tissue each side 
of the median line, I should, in turning away 
enough of the membrane, so operate that 
when the wound and its edges were approxi- 
mated with fine silk sutures, the margin of 
the lip would be drawn down and rolled 
under, giving it not only an sesthetic appear- 
ance, but the cupid's bow as well. The 
lower lip would, of course, be similarly 
treated, and in a fortnight the result desired 
is obtained. 
" ' In the operation on the cheek bones,' 
he w-ent on to say, 'I divide the mucous 
membrane in the mouth from near the 
median line to the posterior border of the 
superior maxillary bone, separating all tis- 
sues together with the periosteum, and then 
with a sharp chisel removing enough of the 
molar bone to make the face symmetrical 
and oval. The cheek, of course, is, during 
the operation, well retracted by assistants, 
and the mucous membrane is finally stitched 
up.' 
"  Does it leave no scar ? ' I asked. 
" ' Not one,' he answered. ' Nor does the 
operation on the nose. The cartilages are 
detached from the nasal bones, and the peri- 
osteum and tissues separated from them. A 
small portion of the septum is removed also, 
and so much of the bridge is then cut that, 
when toward the median line both sides are 
broken with forceps, they just meet and form 
a perfectly straight Greek nose.' 
"'It seems incredible,' I' exclaimed. 
' Would it be at all possible for me to see 
the young man on whom you operated ? 
You can understand that my daughter is 
timorous, and a word with him ' 
" But no, that was out of the question. 
Mr. Hobart told me he himself had just 
returned from Paris where he had gone to 
assist at the tattooing of the eyes, and 
since then the patient had started on a 
recuperative journey. 
" ' But,' said he, ' if it will give your 
daughter any satisfaction to have you say 
that you have seen pictures of him, taken 
before and after, here they are.' 
"And -with that, Mr. Bancroft, he handed 
me first a kodak likeness of Oswald 
Quain " 
Bancroft had sprung to his feet. 
" And then ? " 
" And then," added the detective, pointing 
through the gaping chimeras to the room 
beyond, "a likeness of the young man that 
is in there." 
CHAPTER VI 
MR. BANCROFT HAS HIS SAY 
FOR a space neither spoke. The sergeant 
stood up, moved to the window, looked out 
again, turned, and coughed. 
" Of course," he began at last, " I would 
have taken him at the Logerot this morning, 
but learning how the land lay I thought it 
best to wait a bit and see you." 
Bancroft, who had been staring motion- 
less as an idol at the blue dragons on the 
wall, started with that shake of the head a 
bull has when he lunges at a toreador, but 
abruptly he mastered himself. The phrase 
in regard to the lay of the land, garnered 
unconsciously in that cerebral condition 
which a chess-player betrays when he an- 
swers at the end of a move a question ad- 
dressed to him at the beginning, affected 
