
fest himself the Wonder was to como. To this 
unknown, unseen, unborn, was given the name of the 
Messiah, or the Anointed ; a recognition of a fact 
which the mass of the people were exceedingly dull 
at understanding : that he was to have a sncrod as 
well as a political character. The rich imagination 
of the nation had always been smouldering about 
this being. But a touch wag needed to set it aiire. 
He was the Hero of heroes. To his mysterious 
image all their disappointed hero-worship (flung. 

In the year of which wo speak, " all the world " 
(such was the imperial audacity of the phrase) was 
complaining under especial grievance. A census 
preparatory to extra taxation was ordered ; and the 
consequence was a tumult. The 'people wore ox- 
tremely angry ; but escape, from the groat hand of 
Rome was impossible. OIUHJU* Augustus was ruler 
of the world. Jlerod, his creature, controlled more 
territory than any dead Jewish King had over done. 
Tho once .splendid and sacred throne of David now 
existed, u pitiable faree, only to extend the forces 
of execrated and alien heathenism. Ritging and 
impotent, the subjects prepared to obey. 

To Nazareth, as to other village** in Palontino, the 
Roman fiat came. 

Long and BOVOVO wore the journeys roqtiiml of the 
country people who munt aiiHwer to thin cmrolhwmt 
edict. Every citizen wan obliged to rpgrntcn* Imnwlf 
at the town whence law family had Hpnmg. Thin 
involved a national commotion. The tfewa ware not 
only in the stir of revolt, but in the irritation of 



PRESAGE 19 

travel, poor of pocket, uncomfortable in body, and 
sore at heart. 

VI 

Two plain people of Nazareth started at dawn one 
winter day to take one of these annoying journeys. 
Joseph and Mary, husband and wife, traveled as 
poor peoplo must; on foot, or with one beast of 
Imi'deu between them. 

There was a little town, about six miles south of 
Jerusalem, between seventy and eighty from Naza- 
reth* Bethlehem WSIH the birthplace of David the 
King; and Joseph the builder, descendant of David, 
nuiKt reginter there, 

Mary, his wife, wont with him. Why? She, too, 
was a daughter of kings. J)id she own some bit of 
property in Bethlehem? real estate, perhaps, un- 
marketable, but taxable, such as only made her 
u land poor ; " giving her no income, but yielding 
Homo to Rome? Did sho, too, register? But this 
waw not; necessary. Women wore not obliged to 
present fchemHclvcH personally; a written report of 
their property mifKeod for them. Why, then, did 
Mary who had the gravest of reasons at that 
thuo foir wishing re&t and shelter take that cruel 
joumoy over ono of the roughest of Palestinian 
pathways ? 

Precisely bo<^atiHO sho had reasons for doing the 
tlmig that her heart craved* And her heart craved 
that aho should at that time of all others be near 
hor hunbnnd, who understood her. Joseph must 
go to Bethlehem, and go just then. Mary would 



20 THE STORY OF JESUS CHEIST 

not allow him 'to leave her "behind alone. The cir- 
cumstances were too unusual. Her need o him 
was absolute. Indeed, it might not have been safe 
for her to stay at home unprotected. 

There was another reason ; but how far this inilu- 
enced her only the heart of Mary ever wholly know. 
Did she share this visionary idea with the quiet mun 
who loved and guarded her, as they came down from 
the hill-country into the caravan route? Or did she 
keep it shyly to herself ? 

Her cliild would have been born in Nazareth, but 
for this accident of the CCUHUB. But w<t$ it only an 
accident that the census must come into the question 
just then? tlutt the family must register., awl in 
Bethlehem? Was it one of those divine incidents 
in which the groat Will ridow over little human \villn, 
and brings everything out as no ono could ponwbly 
have expected, sis no one could have planned ? For 
Mary was a render of the poets of her people ; and 
learned in all their Scriptures. A thousand yearn 
ago tho#o aueioiit dreanierti had uHHoeiaied ntrange 
things with the town of Bethlehem. Did nlui re- 
member thorn? If who did, cumld she (lincuHH thoiu V 
There, it had been written, the Governor of her poo- 
pic should be sought. There the Wonderful should 
enter the world. Could she dwell on this, and hold 
her courage? Could sho forget it, and be Mary ? 

Strictly apoakmg', there were no roads between 
Namrotli and Bethlehem, itoino built roadx* but 
not at thus time for lior ounlaved IleUrewn. Tho 
caravan routes that traversed Palentinc wore hard 
traveling. Kough pat rtuloneHH were the foot-way* 




3 
1 



PRESAGE 21 

and the hoof-ways that led from Nazareth down 
through the valley, over mountain side, and rolling 
rock, and jagged limestone, and through sliding 
dust ; a severe journey o five days or more, as you 
might make it, according to one's means of locomo- 
tion or the strength of the travelers. 

The wife's stove of strength was small, and the 
journey dragged. She was such a young creature ! 
-a more girl and deli cute of organization, as we 
know. 

Think of it us December, too, and that means the 
chilly HOUHOII in Piilostine, with roads across the 
plains in bad condition. The rains were over ; sun- 
tthiuo Ninote the hills, and the silver leaves of the 
olivoH glanced like little stool swords in the wet 
light* Even f ixwt wan possible at that time of the 
your* Snow wan not unheard of. 

Tho two tetvolwH arrived in Bethlehem at night, 
foofr-wom and chlllod and fount* Tho wife, perish- 
ing of faU&'uo, had pawwod the atago of physical suf- 
fering when one takes any care or thought for what 
Iw to happen next. BeeauHo of her weakness, they 
had logged behind the other travelers, and the town 
wan already brimming ovor with strangers like them- 
Holvoa. Kvory IIOUBO was crowded* Her anxious 
lumlmml took her from tliroHhold to threshold in 
vniu. Tho diiub to the village up a steep hill had 
added a last; hardship. A faint light, swinging on 
a pope ourooB n doorway, aigniiied the village inn. 
They toilod up ; the woman luilf dead of this last 
