lips. "Don't, child--don't! For God's sake don't ask questions--you'll
drive me mad! It's the secret of my life--the only secret I have from
you--oh, Clare, if you love me at all--don't ask me!"

"Mother, sweet! Of course I love you!"

The young girl, very pale and wondering, kneeled beside the elder woman
and threw her arms round her and drew down her face, kissing the white
cheeks and the starting tears and the faded flaxen hair. The storm
subsided, almost without breaking, for Mrs. Bowring was a brave woman
and, in some ways, a strong woman, and whatever her secret might be, she
had kept it long and well from her daughter.

Clare knew her, and inwardly decided that the secret must have been
worth keeping. She loved her mother far too well to hurt her with
questions, but she was amazed at what she herself felt of resentful
curiosity to know the truth about anything which could cast a shadow
upon the man she disliked, as she thought so sincerely. Her mind worked
like lightning, while her voice spoke softly and her hands sought those
thin, familiar, gentle fingers which were an integral part of her world
and life.

Two possibilities presented themselves. Johnstone's father was a
brother or near connection of her mother's first husband. Either she had
loved him, been deceived in him, and had married the brother instead;
or, having married, this man had hated her and fought against her, and
harmed her, because she was his elder brother's wife, and he coveted the
inheritance. In either case it was no fault of Brook's. The most that
could be said would be that he might have his father's character. She
inclined to the first of her theories. Old Johnstone had made love to
her mother and had half broken her heart, before she had married his
brother. Brook was no better--and she thought of Lady Fan. But she was
strangely glad that her mother had said "not dishonourable, as men look
at it." It had been as though a cruel hand had been taken from her
throat, when she had heard that.

"But, mother," she said presently, "these people are coming to-morrow or
the next day--and they mean to stay, he says. Let us go away, before
they come. We can come back afterwards--you don't want to meet them."

Mrs. Bowring was calm again, or appeared to be so, whatever was passing
in her mind.

"I shall certainly not run away," she answered in a low, steady voice.
"I will not run away and leave Adam Johnstone's son to tell his father
that I was afraid to meet him, or his wife," she added, almost in a
whisper. "I've been weak, sometimes, my dear--" her voice rose to its
natural key again, "and I've made a mistake in life. But I won't be a
coward--I don't believe I am, by nature, and if I were I wouldn't let
myself be afraid now."

"It would not be fear, mother. Why should you suffer, if you are going
to suffer in meeting him? We had much better go away at once. When they
have all left, we can come back."

"And you would not mind going away to-morrow, and never seeing Brook
Johnstone again?" asked Mrs. Bowring, quietly.

"I? No! Why should I?"

Clare meant to speak the truth, and she thought that it was the truth.
But it was not. She grew a little paler a moment after the words had
passed her lips, but her mother did not see the change of colour.

"I'm glad of that, at all events," said the elder woman. "But I won't go
away. No--I won't," she repeated, as though spurring her own courage.

"Very well," answered the young girl. "But we can keep very much to
ourselves all the time they are here, can't we? We needn't make their
acquaintance--at least--" she stopped short, realising that it would be
impossible to avoid knowing Brook's people if they were stopping in the
same hotel.

"Their acquaintance!" Mrs. Bowring laughed bitterly at the idea.

"Oh--I forgot," said Clare. "At all events, we need not meet
unnecessarily. That's what I mean, you know."

There was a short pause, during which her mother seemed to be thinking.

"I shall see him alone, for I have something to say to him," she said at
last, as though she had come to a decision. "Go out, my dear," she
added. "Leave me alone a little while. I shall be all right when it is
time for luncheon."

Her daughter left her, but she did not go out at once. She went to her
own room and sat down to think over what she had seen and heard. If she
went out she should probably find Johnstone waiting for her, and she did
not wish to meet him just then. It was better to be alone. She would
find out why the idea of not seeing him any more had hurt her after she
had spoken.

But that was not an easy matter at all. So soon as she tried to think of
herself and her own feelings, she began to think of her mother. And when
she endeavoured to solve the mystery and guess the secret, her thoughts
flew off suddenly to Brook, and she wished that she were outside in the
sunshine talking to him. And again, as the probable conversation
suggested itself to her, she was glad that she was not with him, and she
tried to think again. Then she forced herself to recall the scene with
Lady Fan on the terrace, and she did her best to put him in the worst
possible light, which in her opinion was a very bad light indeed. And
his father before him--Adam--her mother had told her the name for the
first time, and it struck her as an odd one--old Adam Johnstone had been
a heart-breaker, and a faith-breaker, and a betrayer of women before
Brook was in the world at all. Her theory held good, when she looked at
it fairly, and her resentment grew apace. It was natural enough, for in
her imagination she had always hated that first husband of her mother's
who had come and gone before her father; and now she extended her hatred
to this probable brother, and it had much more force, because the man
was alive and a reality, and was soon to come and be a visible talking
person. There was one good point about him and his coming. It helped her
to revive her hatred of Brook and to colour it with the inheritance of
some harm done to her own mother. That certainly was an advantage.

But she should be very sorry not to see Brook any more, never to hear
him talk to her again, never to look into his eyes--which, all the
same, she so unreasonably dreaded. It was beyond her powers of analysis
to reconcile her like and dislike. All the little logic she had said
that it was impossible to like and dislike the same person at the same
time. She seemed to have two hearts, and the one cried "Hate," while the
other cried "Love." That was absurd, and altogether ridiculous, and
quite contemptible.

There they were, however, the two hearts, fighting it out, or at least
altercating and threatening to fight and hurt her. Of course "love"
meant "like"--it was a general term, well contrasting with "hate." As
for really caring, beyond a liking for Brook Johnstone, she was sure
that it was impossible. But the liking was strong. She exploded her
difficulty at last with the bomb of a splendidly youthful quibble. She
said to herself that she undoubtedly hated him and despised him, and
that he was certainly the very lowest of living men for treating Lady
Fan so badly--besides being a black sinner, a point which had less
weight. And then she told herself that the cry of something in her to
"like" instead of hating was simply the expression of what she might
have felt, and should have felt, and should have had a right to have
felt, had it not been for poor Lady Fan; but also of something which she
assuredly did not feel, never could feel, and never meant to feel. In
other words, she should have liked Brook if she had not had good cause
to dislike him. She was satisfied with this explanation of her feelings,
and she suddenly felt that she could go out and see him and talk to him
without being inconsistent. She had forgotten to explain to herself why
she wished him not to go away. She went out accordingly, and sat down on
the terrace in the soft air.

She glanced up and down, but Johnstone was not to be seen anywhere, and
she wished that she had not come out after all. He had probably waited
some time and had then gone for a walk by himself. She thought that he
might have waited just a little longer before giving it up, and she half
unconsciously made up her mind to requite him by staying indoors after
luncheon. She had not even brought a book or a piece of work, for she
had felt quite sure that he would be walking up and down as usual, with
his pipe, looking as though he owned the scenery. She half rose to go
in, and then changed her mind. She would give him one more chance and
count fifty, before she went away, at a good quick rate.

She began to count. At thirty-five her pace slackened. She stopped a
long time at forty-five, and then went slowly to the end. But Johnstone
did not come. Once again, she reluctantly decided--and she began
slowly; and again she slackened speed and dragged over the last ten
numbers. But he did not come.
