syllable being very slightly sounded; this is the pronunciation of all the
Indian officials," replied the speaker, with his pleasant smile. "These
mountains consist of a number of ranges; they extend 1,500 miles east and
west, and are the sources of the Indus, Ganges, and Brahmaputra. The
highest is Mount Everest, the loftiest mountain in the world, 29,002 feet;
and I could mention several other peaks which overtop any of the Andes.
Himalaya means 'the abode of snow,' and the foot-hills are the resorts of
the wealthy to obtain a cool climate in the summer.
"India is remarkable for its fertility, and its luxuriant growth of plants
of all sorts, from the productions of the torrid zone to those of the
temperate in the hilly regions of the north. It is abundantly watered by
the Ganges, the Brahmaputra, the Jumna, the Indus, the Godavari, and other
great streams. The Ganges, though it does not vie with the great rivers of
America, is 1,557 miles in length. To the natives it is a sacred river, and
the land through which it flows is holy ground. To bathe in its waters
washes away sin; to die and be buried on its shores procures a free
admission to the eternal paradise of heaven.
"The Ganges Canal, constructed in 1854, is 445 miles long, and is used for
both navigation and irrigation. Doubtless you will sail upon it, and learn
more about it. Near the Indus are two deserts, one 500 miles long, and the
other 400, though the grains may be cultivated in the valleys and other low
places; and perhaps these regions will be reclaimed by artificial
irrigation. In ancient times gold-mines were worked in the south-west, and
the currency consisted of this metal instead of silver, as at the present
time; but the veins were exhausted, and the Mysore mines are all that is
left of them.
"I suppose you Americans have been accustomed to regard India as an
exceedingly hot country; and this is quite true of a considerable portion
of it. In a region extending from the almost tropical island of Ceylon,
nearly 2,000 miles to the snow-capped summits of the highest mountains in
the world, there must necessarily be a great variety of climate. India has
three well-defined seasons,--the cool, the hot, and the rainy. The cool
months are November, December, January, and a part of February.
"The rainy season comes in the middle of the summer, earlier or later, and
ends in September. Winter is the pleasantest season of the year; but
autumn, unlike England, is hot, moist, and unhealthy. Monsoon comes from an
Arabian or Persian word, meaning a season; and you have learned something
about it by this time. It is applied to the south-west winds of the Indian
Ocean, changing to the north or north-east in the winter. This wind
produces rain, and when they infrequently fail, portions of the country are
subjected to famines.
"At an elevation of 7,200 feet the temperature is an average of 58°
Fahrenheit, as I shall give all readings of the thermometer. At Madras, on
the south-east coast, it is 83°; at Bombay, 84°; Calcutta, 79°; and in
Delhi, in latitude 29° (about the same as the northern part of Florida), it
is 72°. These annual average temperatures will not seem high to you; but I
beg you not to form a wrong impression, for the heat of summer is generally
oppressive, and the average temperature is considerably reduced by the
coolness of the winter months. In Delhi, quoted at 72°, the glass often
indicates over 100°.
"The rain varies greatly in different regions. In the north-east it exceeds
75 inches, and in one remarkable year 600 inches fell at an observatory in
north-east Bengal. In some of the western parts it is only 30 inches, while
it is hardly 15 on the southern shores of the Indus. I think I must have
sufficiently wearied you, ladies and gentlemen."
"No! No! No!" almost shouted the company with one voice; and perhaps there
was something so fascinating in the manner of the distinguished Hindu which
exorcised all weariness from their minds and bodies.
"Thank you with all my heart; but really you must permit me to retire, for
I am somewhat fatigued, if you are not, and I shall be happy to contribute
to your entertainment at another time," replied the speaker; and he retired
from the platform.
"I shall next call upon Mr. Woolridge, who will speak to you of the fauna
of India," said the commander.
The magnate of the Fifth Avenue, not much accustomed to speaking in public,
was somewhat diffident about addressing the company in the presence of
those who were so well versed in Indian lore; but he conquered his modesty,
and took his place on the stand. In expressing his appreciation of the last
speaker, he mentioned that he occupied a difficult position in the presence
of those who knew India as they knew their alphabet, and begged them to
consider his talk as addressed only to the Americans of the party. The
guests declared that they should be very glad to hear him; and he bowed,
smiled, and proceeded with his remarks:--
"Fortunately I have not much to say, for it will consist mainly of the
mention of the names of the principal animals in the fauna of India," he
began.
"Are all the animals fawns?" asked Mrs. Blossom, who evidently mistook the
meaning of the term used.
"No, madam; some of them are snakes. But I shall refer the serpents to Sir
Modava; for I am very anxious to hear the views of a native on that
subject. The cattle are cows, buffaloes, and oxen, the two latter used as
draft animals, and as agricultural workers. Bulls and cows are sacred
beasts, and the Hindus never kill them for food."
"Except Christianized natives, like myself," interpolated Sir Modava.
"Thank you. The native breeds of horses have been greatly improved under
the direction of the horse-fancying Briton; but they are never used on the
farm. Ponies, donkeys, and mules are in use for various purposes. There are
plenty of sheep and goats--so there are of hogs; but the higher of the
middle class, like the Jews, regard them as unclean beasts, and would as
soon take poison as eat the flesh of a pig. I don't sympathize with them,
for I like roast pork when it is well brought up and kept clean.
"Monkeys are as tame as they are mischievous; and doubtless they are tame
because they are held to be sacred, and have a better time than they do in
Africa and elsewhere. But all the fun of the fauna is concentrated in the
wild animals, such as the tiger (about the gamiest 'critter' that exists),
the panther, cheetah, boar, bear, elephant, and rhinoceros. Two kinds of
crocodiles (not alligators) live in the mud and water of the rivers; and I
suppose they snap up a man or woman when they get a chance, as they do in
the Philippine Islands and other countries. I advise you all to give them a
wide berth; for their bite is worse than their bark, like that of some men
we know of.
"There are plenty of deer to furnish a dainty and healthy diet for the
meat-eating wild animals, including the lion, which is not much of a king
of beasts here, the hyena, the lynx, and the wolf. All of these last take a
back seat compared with the tiger. Game and other birds would make a
hunter's paradise if it were not for the snakes and tigers, which are
unpleasant to an American when his piece is loaded with only birdshot.
"In the towns on the sea the fish are excellent, and an important industry
is curing and smoking them for the markets. In the mountain streams the
fishing is very good; but in the warm waters of the streams on the plains,
as in Egypt, the fish are soft, and neither palatable nor healthy. Leaving
the snakes to the tender mercies of the gentleman from Travancore, I will
make my bow," which he did, and stepped down.
He was politely applauded, and the strangers seemed to enjoy his discourse
more than the rest of the party.
                                 CHAPTER X
                    THE FLORA AND THE SNAKES OF INDIA
The middle of the day was devoted to recreation. It was a very pleasant day
after the storm, and the ship had again struck into the north-east monsoon.
While most of the company were planking the promenade deck, it was observed
that Lord Tremlyn and Dr. Ferrolan had retired to the library; for though
they were very familiar with India and its people, they desired to freshen
their memory among the books.
Miss Blanche was walking the deck with Louis on one side of her, and Sir
Modava on the other. All the ladies had declared over and over again that
the latter was a very fascinating man; but he was a person of discernment,
and he could not very well help seeing that the young millionaire had a
special interest in the beautiful young lady.
Like a small boy, the young couple ate sugar because they liked it, and not
to swell the saccharine importance of the article, and probably never gave
a thought to the natural results of their daily intimacy. It is absolutely
certain that they had never indulged in any actual "spooning;" for Louis
had never proceeded far enough to call the fair maiden by her given name,
without "Miss" before it, precisely as everybody else in the cabin did.
They were entirely respectful to each other, and she invariably addressed
him as Mr. Belgrave.
[Illustration: "Miss Blanche was walking the deck with Louis and Sir
Modava."--Page 90.]
They were not as familiar as brother and sister, and doubtless neither of
them reasoned over the situation, or considered to what it might lead.
Though Miss Blanche was with Louis most of the time when they were on deck,
and walked and rode with him when they were on shore, she was just as kind
and pleasant with all the members of the "Big Four;" and when Louis was
engaged in a special study, as when he was preparing his "talk for the
conference," Scott or Felix found a chance for a promenade with her. But
everybody else on board understood the situation better than those the most
intimately concerned. But no one had any objection, not even Mrs. Belgrave
or the parents of Miss Blanche.
At half-past three in the afternoon the signal was given for the meeting in
Conference Hall. The ladies would have been glad to hear Sir Modava again;
but the commander invited the speakers, and kept his own counsels, so that
the party did not know whom they were to hear first.
"There is still a great deal to be said about India, and I am trying to
dispose of some of the dryest subjects first. Dr. Ferrolan has very
unselfishly consented to make a martyr of himself in the treatment of one
of these topics, though I hope another time to assign him something more to
his mind. Dr. Ferrolan."
This gentleman was received almost as enthusiastically as the handsome
Hindu; for the Americans were disposed to treat all their guests with
uniform courtesy, though it was hardly possible not to make an exception in
