"I should hardly think that room would satisfy a nobleman."

"Why not? Is it not clean and neat?"

"Undoubtedly, dear Mrs. Gray, but you must admit that it is not stylish,
and it is small."

"It is of the same size as the Professor's."

"Ah, the Professor! He is not a man of elegant tastes. I once looked
into his room. It smells so strong of tobacco, I could not stay in there
ten minutes without feeling sick."

"I think the Count smokes."

"Perhaps he does, but he wouldn't smoke a dirty clay pipe. I can imagine
him with a dainty cigarette between his closed lips. But, Mrs. Gray, I
am going to ask you a great favor."

"What is it?"

"Let me sit beside the Count. I wish to make his acquaintance. He will
be reserved and silent with most of the boarders. I will try to make him
feel at home."

"I thought you wished to sit beside Dr. Fenwick."

"So I did, but he and I are friends, and he won't mind my changing my
seat."

When I came to supper that evening I was not wholly surprised to find
myself removed to the opposite side of the table, but this I did not
regret when I found that I was now next neighbor to the Disagreeable
Woman.

In my old seat there was a slender young man of middle height, with dark
eyes and hair. Mrs. Wyman had already established herself in
confidential relations with him, and was conversing with him in a low
tone.

"I suppose that is the Count," I remarked.

"At any rate he calls himself so. He has deprived you of your seat."

"Not only that but Mrs. Wyman has transferred her attentions to him."

"Doubtless to your regret?"

"Well, I don't know."

"She is scarcely off with the old love before she is on with the new,"
quoted Miss Blagden, with an approach to a smile.

"Perhaps you will console me," I ventured to suggest.

"I can't compete with Mrs. Wyman in her special line."

"I quite believe that," I said, smiling.

After supper the widow fluttered up to me.

"The Count is charming," she said, with enthusiasm. "He has a large
estate in the South of Italy. He has come here to see the country and
get acquainted with the people, and he may write a book."

"He doesn't seem overstocked with brains," observed the Disagreeable
Woman. But Mrs. Wyman had fluttered away and did not hear her.




CHAPTER VII.

MACY'S.


One day I dropped in at Macy's. I wished to make some trifling purchase.
Possibly I could have bought to equal advantage elsewhere, but I was
curious to see this great emporium. Years before, I had heard of it in
my country home, and even then I knew just where it was located, at the
corner of Fourteenth Street and Sixth Avenue.

Curious as I had been about the place, I had actually spent three months
in New York and had not visited it. It was something of a shock to me
when I first learned there was no Macy, that the original proprietor had
vanished from the stage and left his famous shop in charge of men of
alien race and name. Macy had become nominis umbra--the shadow of a
name. Yet the name had been wisely retained. Under no other name could
the great store have retained its ancient and well-earned popularity.

I made my purchase--it was trifling and did not materially swell the
day's receipts--and began to walk slowly about the store, taking a
leisurely survey of the infinite variety of goods which it offered to
the prospective purchaser.

As I was making my leisurely round, all at once I heard my name called
in a low but distinct tone.

"Dr. Fenwick!"

I turned quickly, and behind the handkerchief counter I saw the young
woman from Macy's, whose pleasant face I had seen so often at our table.

She nodded and smiled, and I instantly went up to the counter.

I was sensible that I must not take up the time of one of the
salesladies--I believe that the genteel designation of this
class--without some pretense of business, so, after greeting Ruth Canby,
I said:

"You may show me some of your handkerchiefs, please."

"Do you wish something nice?" she asked.

"I wish something cheap," I answered. "It doesn't matter much what a
forlorn bachelor uses."

"You may not always be a bachelor," said Ruth, with a suggestive smile.

"I must get better established in my profession before I assume new
responsibilities."

"These handkerchiefs are ten cents, Dr. Fenwick," said Ruth, showing a
fair article.

"I think I can go a little higher."

"And these are fifteen. They are nearly all linen."

"I will buy a couple to try," I said, by way of excusing my small
purchase.

The young lady called "Cash," and soon a small girl was carrying the
handkerchiefs and a fifty cent piece to the cashier. This left me five
minutes for conversation, as no other customer was at hand.

"So you are in the handkerchief department?" I remarked, by way of
starting a conversation.

"Yes."

"Do you like it?"

"I should prefer the book department. That is up-stairs, on the second
floor. My tastes are litery."

I am sure this was the word Ruth used. I was not disposed to criticise,
however, only I wondered mildly how it happened that a young woman of
literary tastes should make such a mistake.

"I suppose you are fond of reading?"

"Oh, yes, I have read considerable."

"What, for instance?"

"I have read one of Cooper's novels, I disremember the name, and the
Gunmaker of Moscow, by Sylvanus Cobb, and Poe's Tales, but I didn't
like them much, they are so queer, and--and ever so many others."

