"But do you see the small boat hitched to the stern of the steamer?"

"I can see it now plainly enough; but I had not noticed it before."

"I saw it when I first discovered the steamboat, and I have been making
for it ever since. I was afraid if I said anything that little craft
would be placed out of our reach before we got to it."

"I understand it all now!" exclaimed Fronklyn. "I hope you will excuse
me for grumbling, Lieutenant, when I could not make head nor tail to
your movement."

"That is all right, my dear fellow; only trust me first, and grumble
afterwards, the next time. But we must be moving on."

"What about this board? It is rather heavy to lug the rest of the way,"
said the sergeant, as he lifted one end of it. "Shall we leave it?"

"It may be of use to us. If I had a pole about six feet long it would
help me very much, and perhaps save me from sliding down into the
river."

"If we could break the board in two in the middle, it would make two
staffs for us."

"We can do that," added the lieutenant.

"How?"

"Shoot it in two."

This answer looked like a joke to the sergeant, and he gave his opinion
that the board could not be broken in two in the middle without
splintering it from one end to the other. Deck declared he could manage
the case, and asked his associate to find the middle of the piece of
lumber. By the time he had done so the lieutenant had taken out his
revolver, loaded with six cartridges.

Placing the muzzle of the barrel on the board where Fronklyn pointed to
the middle, he fired, repeating the operation till he had discharged it
six times. The holes made by the balls were about an inch apart. The
reports from the revolvers were only cracks; and, so far as they knew,
no one heard them but themselves. Fronklyn put his foot on the board,
and then with his hands hold of one end of it, lifted it till it
snapped on the line of the bullet-holes. Each of them took one of the
pieces, and renewed their tramp.

Deck kept the lead, as before, and placed the board on the lower side;
and the sergeant did the same. The staff was as useful to them as the
alpenstock to the mountain climber in Switzerland. It enabled them to
double their speed, at least, and with much less labor than they had
made their way before. The doors of the furnaces on the steamer were
closed now, but they could see men descending by the lines to the
gang-plank of the steamer.

In due time they arrived within ten rods of the small boat of which
they desired to obtain possession. The furnace-doors were again opened
to put in more fuel, and the scene was lighted by the blaze again. As a
matter of prudence, the lieutenant lay down on his board, and the
sergeant did the same.

"Now, Fronklyn, I will make my way to the boat, and bring it down for
you to get in; for both of us need not incur the risk of doing this
work."

"All right; I agree with you in regard to the risk, but I will do this
instead of you," replied Fronklyn.

"Are you accustomed to handling a boat, and especially to rowing?"
asked Deck.

"I never handled a boat at all, and never rowed one in my life,"
answered the sergeant.

"Then I must do this job;" and the lieutenant started on his mission.

Some of the soldiers had gone aboard the steamer, though he could see
none on the after deck. Deck approached the river very cautiously,
lying down on his board not less than three times when he thought he
was observed. King Fortune favored him, for the current of the stream
kept the boat swinging out and in. Watching his opportunity, he caught
hold of the stern, and leaped into the boat as though nothing ailed his
head, either outside or inside.

He dropped into the bottom of it, and peered over the deck of the
steamer. Then he hauled on the painter till he brought the little craft
up to the taffrail, where with no little difficulty he cast off the
rope. He could see the soldiers on the upper bank, and those on the
forward part of the steamboat; but they were all too busy to bestow any
attention upon him. The current bore the tender rapidly down the
stream.

When it had gone to a safe distance, Deck seated himself in the
stern-sheets, and put his board in the scull-hole, and forced the boat
to the shore, though not without a great deal of difficulty and labor.
Fronklyn was on the lookout for it, and sprang lightly into the
fore-sheets, making a spring on his board stick. The current took the
boat, and no further exertion was necessary. They had escaped from the
fortifications, and they were satisfied.




CHAPTER XXV

A BOAT VOYAGE DOWN THE GREAT RIVER


The tender in which Deck Lyon and his companion had embarked was a
keel-boat such as is usually suspended by two ropes from either end to
the upper extremity of a pole, like an ensign staff. It was about
twelve feet long, and was not likely to upset, even in the turbulent
water at the middle of the river which drained the Cumberland Mountains
in the south-eastern part of the State.

Very heavy rains had been falling for several days, overflowing brooks
and creeks so as to make many of them impassable; and the great river
was swollen, though not to an unusual height in the rainy season. Deck
made no effort at first to direct the craft, for he was well-nigh
exhausted by the fatigues of the day and his efforts to escape from the
fortification.

He kept his seat in the stern-sheets, as Fronklyn did in the forward
part of the boat, which was still abreast of the camp, but well under
the high bank of the stream. The enterprise was a success so far, and
they were so well pleased to escape from the immediate vicinity of the
enemy that they were not disposed to do anything but rest themselves.
But in a few minutes they had recovered their breath, and ceased to
pant from their exertions.

Left to its own guidance, or that of the current, it had whirled about
two or three times; but Deck was too tired to be disturbed by this
movement. Their uniforms were wet through; for it had rained all the
afternoon and evening, and the tender had considerable water in her
bottom. Under any other circumstances they would have been very
uncomfortable; but their satisfaction at the escape from a prison or
prison-camp in the near future was the uppermost thought in their
minds, and for a time it banished the annoyance of wet and cold.

"If we whirl round like this it will make us dizzy," said the sergeant
as a mild joke. "What makes the boat do so?"

"The tender is so happy to get out of Confederate hands that it wants
to dance, and it is indulging in a waltz," replied Deck as another
pleasantry.

"I wish it wouldn't do so, for I don't like the motion. I suppose you
don't intend to continue this voyage down to New Orleans; for that
would not be a more agreeable locality than the Beech Grove
intrenchments," added Fronklyn.

"I don't believe we shall care to go as far as that."

"How far down do you mean to go, Lieutenant?"

"That depends; if we can get the craft under control, I don't think we
need go much farther," said Deck, as he began to feel about in the
bottom of the boat.

"What are you fishing for, Lieutenant?" asked his companion.
