amount saved and put away; 'twas for--for a purpose--something I was
going to do; but 'tain't important; you can have it and welcome." Her
old face, as she said this, looked almost young again. "You see, I'm so
glad to have you happy," she went on. "And I can't help thinking--if
your father had only lived--the first wedding in his family! However,
I'll come--just as though I was your real mother, dear; you sha'n't
miss that. I've got my Sunday gown, and five francs will buy me a pair
of new shoes; I can earn 'em before the day comes, I guess."
"I'm afraid you can't," said Beppa, laughing.
"Why, when's the wedding? Not for two or three weeks, I suppose?"
"It's day after to-morrow," answered Beppa. "Everything's bought, and
all I want is the money to pay for 'em; I knew I could get it of you."
"Dear me! how quick! And these shoes are really too bad; they're clear
wore out, and all the cleaning in the world won't make 'em decent."
"Well, Denza, why do you want to come? You don't know any of Giuseppe's
family. To tell the truth, I never supposed you'd care about coming, and
the table's all planned out for (at Giuseppe's sister's), and there
ain't no place for you."
"And you didn't have one saved?"
"I never thought you'd care to come. You see they're different, they're
all well off, and you don't like people who are well off--who wear nice
clothes. You never wanted us to have nice clothes, and you like to go
barefoot."
"No, I don't!" said Prudence.
"'Tany rate, one would think you did; you always go so in summer. But
even if you had new shoes, none of your clothes would be good enough;
that bonnet, now--"
"My bonnet? Surely my bonnet's good?" said the New England woman; her
voice faltered, she was struck on a tender point.
"Well, people laugh at it," answered Beppa, composedly.
They had now reached the house. "You go in," said Prudence; "I'll come
presently."
She went round to the wood-shed, unstrapped her basket, and set it down;
then she climbed up on the barrel, removed the hay, and took out her
work-box. Emptying its contents into her handkerchief, she descended,
and, standing there, counted the sum--twenty-seven francs, thirty
centimes. "'Twon't be any too much; she don't want to shame 'em." She
made a package of the money with a piece of brown paper, and, entering
the kitchen, she slipped it unobserved into Beppa's hand.
"Seems to me," announced Granmar from the bed, "that when a girl comes
to tell her own precious Granmar of her wedding, she ought in decency
to be offered a bite of something to eat. Any one but Denza would think
so. Not that it's anything to me."
"Very well, what will you have?" asked Prudence, wearily. Freed from her
bonnet and shawl, it could be seen that her once strong figure was much
bent; her fingers had grown knotted, enlarged at the joints, and clumsy;
years of toil had not aged her so much as these recent nights--such long
nights!--of cruel rheumatic pain.
Granmar, in a loud voice, immediately named a succulent dish; Prudence
began to prepare it. Before it was ready, Jo Vanny came in.
"You knew I was up here, and you've come mousing up for an invitation,"
said Beppa, in high good-humor. "I was going to stop and invite you on
my way back, Giovanni; there's a nice place saved for you at the
supper."
"Yes, I knew you were up here, and I've brought you a wedding-present,"
answered the boy. "I've brought one for mamma, too." And he produced two
silk handkerchiefs, one of bright colors, the other of darker hue.
"Is the widow going to be married, too?" said Beppa. "Who under heaven's
the man?"
In spite of the jesting, Prudence's face showed that she was pleased;
she passed her toil-worn hand over the handkerchief softly, almost as
though its silk were the cheek of a little child. The improvised feast
was turned into a festival now, and of her own accord she added a second
dish; the party, Granmar at the head, devoured unknown quantities. When
at last there was nothing left, Beppa, carrying her money, departed.
"You know, Jo Vanny, you hadn't ought to leave your work so often," said
Prudence, following the boy into the garden when he took leave; she
spoke in an expostulating tone.
"Oh, I've got money," said Jo Vanny, loftily; "I needn't crawl." And
carelessly he showed her a gold piece.
But this sudden opulence only alarmed the step-mother. "Why, where did
you get that?" she said, anxiously.
"How frightened you look! Your doubts offend me," pursued Jo Vanny,
still with his grand air. "Haven't I capacities?--hasn't Heaven sent me
a swarming genius? Wasn't I the acclaimed, even to laurel crowns, of my
entire class?"
This was true: Jo Vanny was the only one of Tonio's children who had
profited by the new public schools.
"And now what shall I get for you, mamma?" the boy went on, his tone
changing to coaxing; "I want to get you something real nice; what will
you have? A new dress to go to Beppa's wedding in?"
For an instant Prudence's eyes were suffused. "I ain't going, Jo Vanny;
they don't want me."
"They shall want you!" declared Jo Vanny, fiercely.
"I didn't mean that; I don't want to go anyhow; I've got too much
rheumatism. You don't know," she went on, drawn out of herself for a
moment by the need of sympathy--"you don't know how it does grip me at
night sometimes, Jo Vanny! No; you go to the supper, and tell me all
about it afterwards; I like to hear you tell about things just as well
as to go myself."
Jo Vanny passed his hand through his curly locks with an air of
desperation. "There it is again--my gift of relating, of narrative; it
follows me wherever I go. What will become of me with such talents? I
shall never die in my bed; nor have my old age in peace."
"You go 'long!" said Prudence (or its Italian equivalent). She gave him
a push, laughing.
Jo Vanny drew down his cap, put his hands deep in his pockets, and thus
close-reefed scudded down the hill in the freezing wind to the shelter
of the streets below.
By seven o'clock Nounce and Granmar were both asleep; it was the most
comfortable condition in such weather. Prudence adjusted her lamp, put
on her strong spectacles, and sat down to sew. The great brick stove
gave out no warmth; it was not intended to heat the room; its three
yards of length and one yard of breadth had apparently been constructed
for the purpose of holding and heating one iron pot. The scaldino at her
feet did not keep her warm; she put on her Highland shawl. After a
while, as her head (scantily covered with thin white hair) felt the cold
also, she went to get her bonnet. As she took it from the box she
remembered Beppa's speech, and the pang came back; in her own mind that
bonnet had been the one link that still united her with her old Ledham
respectability, the one possession that distinguished her from all these
"papish" peasants, with their bare heads and frowzy hair. It was not
new, of course, as it had come with her from home. But what signified an
old-fashioned shape in a community where there were no shapes of any
kind, new or old? At least it was always a bonnet. She put it on, even
now from habit pulling out the strings carefully, and pinning the loops
on each side of her chin. Then she went back and sat down to her work
again.
At eleven o'clock Granmar woke. "Yam! how cold my legs are! Denza, are
you there? You give me that green shawl of yours directly; precisely, I
am dying."
Prudence came out from behind her screen, lamp in hand. "I've got it on,
Granmar; it's so cold setting up sewing. I'll get you the blanket from
my bed."
"I don't want it; it's as hard as a brick. You give me that shawl; if
you've got it on, it'll be so much the warmer."
"I'll give you my other flannel petticoat," suggested Prudence.
"And I'll tear it into a thousand pieces," responded Granmar,
viciously. "You give me that shawl, or the next time you leave Nounce
alone here, she shall pay for it."
Granmar was capable of frightening poor little Nounce into spasms.
Prudence took off the shawl and spread it over the bed, while Granmar
grinned silently.
Carrying the lamp, Prudence went into the bedroom to see what else she
could find to put on. She first tried the blanket from her bed; but as
it was a very poor one, partly cotton, it was stiff (as Granmar had
said), and would not stay pinned; the motion of her arms in sewing would
constantly loosen it. In the way of wraps, except her shawl, she
possessed almost nothing; so she put on another gown over the one she
wore, pinned her second flannel petticoat round her shoulders, and over
that a little cloak that belonged to Nounce; then she tied a woollen
stocking round her throat, and crowned with her bonnet, and carrying the
blanket to put over her knees, she returned to her work.
"I declare I'm clean tired out," she said to herself; "my feet are like
ice. I wouldn't sew any longer such a bitter night if it warn't that
that work-box 'ain't got a thing in it. I can't bear to think of it
empty. But as soon as I've got a franc or two to begin with again, I'll
stop these extry hours."
But they lasted on this occasion until two o'clock.
      
"It don't seem as if I'd ever known it quite so baking as it is
to-night." It was Prudence who spoke; she spoke to Nounce; she must
speak to some one.
Nounce answered with one of her patient smiles. She often smiled
patiently, as though it were something which she was expected to do.
Prudence was sitting in the wood-shed resting; she had been down to town
to carry home some work. Now the narrow streets there, thrown into shade
by the high buildings on each side, were a refuge from the heat; now the
dark houses, like burrows, gave relief to eyes blinded by the yellow
glare. It was the 30th of August. From the first day of April the broad
