
It implied much. But had not her manner implied the same, or more?

She rose; they were both standing now.

"What do you mean!" she demanded, a light coming into her eyes--eyes
usually abstracted, almost dull.

"Only what I have said."

"Why should you say it to me?"

"I thought you might be--interested."

"You are mistaken. I am not in the least interested. Why should I be?"

"Are you not a little unkind?"

"Not more unkind than you are insolent."

She was very angry. He began to be a little angry himself.

"I ask your pardon with the deepest humility, Miss Stowe. The insolence
of which you accuse me was as far as possible from my mind. If I thought
you might be somewhat interested in what I have told you, it was because
you have honored me with some small share of your attention during the
past week or two; probably it has spoiled me."

"I have; and for a month or two, not a week or two. But there was a
motive--It was an experiment."

"You have used me for experimental purposes, then?"

"Yes."

"I am immensely grateful to have been considered worthy of a part in an
experiment of yours, even although a passive one. May I ask if the
experiment is ended?"

"It is."

"Since when? Since I made that confession about some one else?"

Miss Stowe's face was pale, her dark eyes were brilliant. "I knew all
the while that you were in love--hopelessly in love--with Mrs. Lovell,"
she said, with a proud smile. "That was the reason that, for my
experiment, I selected you."

A flush rose over his face as she spoke. "You thought you would have the
greater triumph?" he asked.

"I thought nothing of the kind. I thought that I should be safe, because
you would not respond."

"And you did not wish me to respond?"

"I did not."

"Excuse me--we are speaking frankly, are we not?--but do you not
contradict yourself somewhat? You say you did not wish me to respond;
yet, have you not tried to make me?"

"That was not my object. It was but a necessary accompaniment of the
experiment."

"And if I had responded?" he said, looking at her.

"I knew you could not. I knew quite well--I mean I could imagine quite
well--how much you loved Beatrice. But it has all been a piece of folly
upon my part--I see it now." She turned away, and went across to the
piano. "I wish you would go now," she said, in a low voice, vaguely
turning over the music. "I cannot, because my aunt will think it
strange to find me gone."

Instead of obeying her, he crossed the room and stood beside her; and
then he saw in the twilight that her eyes were full of tears and her
lips quivering, in spite of her effort to prevent it.

"Margaret," he said, suddenly, and with a good deal of feeling in his
voice, "I am not worth it! Indeed I am not!" And again he touched her
hand.

But she drew it from him. "Are you by any chance imagining that my tears
are for you?" she said, in a low tone, but facing him like a creature
at bay. "Have you interpreted me in that way? I have a right to know;
speak!"

"I am at a loss to interpret you," he said, after a moment's silence.

"I will tell you the whole, then--I must tell you; your mistake forces
it from me." She paused, drew a quick breath, and then went on, rapidly:
"I love some one else. I have been very unhappy. Just after you came I
received a letter which told me that he was soon to be married; he is
married now. I had an illness in consequence. You may remember my
illness? I made up my mind then that I would root out the feeling if
possible, no matter at what cost of pain and effort and long patience.
You came in my way. I knew you were deeply attached elsewhere--"

"How did you know it?" he said. He was leaning against the piano
watching her; she stood with her hands folded, and pressed so tightly
together that he could see the force of the pressure.

"Never mind how; but quite simply and naturally. I said to myself that I
would try to become interested in you, even if only to a small degree; I
would do everything in my power to forward it. It would be an acquired
interest; still, acquired interests can be deep. People can become
interested in music, in pictures, in sports, in that way; why not, then,
in persons also, since they are more human?"

"That is the very reason--because they are too human," he answered.

But she did not heed. "I have studied you; I have tried to find the good
in you; I have tried to believe in you, to idealize you. I have given
every thought that I could control to you, and to you alone, for two
long months," she said, passionately, unlocking her hands, reddened with
their pressure against each other, and turning away.

"It has been a failure?"

"Complete."

"And if you had succeeded?" he asked, folding his arms as he leaned
against the piano.

"I should have been glad and happy. I should never have seen you
again, of course; but at least the miserable old feeling would have been
laid at rest."

"And its place filled by another as miserable!"

"Oh no; it could never have been that," she said, with an emphasis of
scorn.

"You tried a dangerous remedy, Margaret."

"Not so dangerous as the disease."

"A remedy may be worse than a disease. In spite of your scornful tone,
permit me to tell you that if you had succeeded at all, it would have
been in the end by loving me as you loved--I mean love--this other man.
While I, in the meantime, am in love (as you are kind enough to inform
me--hopelessly) with another woman! Is Beatrice a friend of yours?"

"My dearest friend."

"Has it never occurred to you that you were playing towards her rather a
traitorous part?"

"Never."

"Supposing, during this experiment of yours, that I had fallen in love
with you?"

"It would have been nothing to Beatrice if you had," responded Mrs.
Lovell's friend instantly and loyally, although remembering, at the same
moment, that Fiesole blush. Then, in a changed voice, and with a proud
humility which was touching, she added, "It would have been quite
impossible. Beatrice is the loveliest woman in the world; any one who
had loved her would never think of me."

