"She told Jean." 

Dennis stared. "I think not." 

"Jean didn't speak of it to you?" 

"Not a word." 

"She spoke of it to Paul," said Mrs. Beever. 
Then, to be more specific : " I mean your engage 
ment." 

Dennis was mute ; but at last, in the gathered 
gloom, his voice was stranger than his silence. 
"My engagement?" 

" Didn't you, on the spot, induce her to renew 
it?" 



 

Again, for some time, he was dumb. " Has she 
said so ? " he then asked. 

" To everyone." 

Once more he waited. "I should like to see 
her." 

" Here she is." 

The door from the hall had opened as he spoke : 
Rose Armiger stood there. She addressed him 
straight, and as if she had not seen Mrs. Beever. 
" I knew you'd be here I must see you." 

Mrs. Beever passed quickly to the side of the 
room at which she had entered, where her fifty 
years of order abruptly came out to Dennis. 
"Will you have lights?" 

It was Rose who replied. " No lights, thanks." 
But she stayed her hostess. " May I see her ? " 

Mrs. Beever fixed a look through the dusk. 
" No ! " And she slipped away. 



XXIX 

ROSE had come for a purpose, Dennis saw, to 
which she would make but a bound, and she 
seemed in fact to take the spring as she instantly- 
broke out : " For what did you come back to 
me ? for what did you come back ? " She 
approached him quickly, but he made, more 
quickly, a move that gained him space and that 
might well have been the result of two sharp 
impressions : one of these the sense that in a 
single hour she had so altered as to be ugly, with 
out a trace of the charm that had haunted him ; 
and the other the sense that, thus ravaged and dis 
figured, wrecked in the gust that had come and 
gone, she expected of him something that she had 
never expected. A monstrous reality flared up 
in their relation, the perception of which was a 
shock that he was conscious for the moment of 
betraying that he feared, finding no words to 
answer her and showing her across the room, 




 

while she repeated her question, a face blanched 
by the change in her own. " For what did you 
come back to me? for what did you come 
back?" 

He gaped at her; then, as if there were help 
for him in the simple fact that, on his own side, 
he could immediately recall, he stammered out: 
" To you to you ? I hadn't the slightest notion 
you were here ! " 

" Didn't you come to see where I was ? Didn't 
you come absolutely and publicly for me ? " He 
jerked round again to the window with the vague, 
wild gesture of a man in horrible pain, and she 
went on without vehemence, but with clear, deep 
intensity : " It was exactly when you found I 
was here that you did come back. You had a 
perfect chance, on learning it, not to show ; but 
you didn't take the chance, you quickly put it 
aside. You reflected, you decided, you insisted 
we should meet." Her voice, as if in harmony 
with the power of her plea, dropped to a vibration 
more muffled, a soft but inexorable pressure. " I 
hadn't called you, I hadn't troubled you, I left 
you as perfectly alone as I've been alone. It 
was your own passion and your own act 
you've dropped upon me, you've overwhelmed 





me. You've overwhelmed me, I say, because I 
speak from the depths of my surrender. But you 
didn't do it, I imagine, to be cruel, and if you 
didn't do it to be cruel you did it to take what it 
would give you." Gradually, as she talked, he 
faced round again ; she stood there supported by 
the high back of a chair, either side of which she 
held tight. " You know what I am, if any man 
has known, and it's to the thing I am whatever 
that is you've come back at last from so far. 
It's the thing I am whatever that is I now 
count on you to stand by." 

" Whatever that is ? " Dennis mournfully 
marvelled. "I feel, on the contrary, that I've 
never, never known ! " 

" It's before anything, then, a woman who has 
such a need as no woman has ever had." Then 
she eagerly added: "Why on earth did you 
descend on me if you hadn't need of me?" 

Dennis took, for an instant, quite as if she were 
not there, several turns in the wide place ; mov 
ing in the dumb distress of a man confronted with 
the greatest danger of his life and obliged, while 
precious minutes lapse, to snatch at a way of 
safety. His whole air was an instinctive retreat 
from being carried by assault, and he had the 



 

effect both of keeping far from her and of revolv 
ing blindly round her. At last, in his hesitation, 
he pulled up before her. "What makes, all of 
a sudden, the tremendous need you speak of? 
Didn't you remind me but an hour ago of how 
remarkably low, at our last meeting, it had 
dropped ? " 

Rose's eyes, in the dimness, widened with their 
wonder. " You can speak to me in harshness of 
what I did an hour ago ? You can taunt me with 
an act of penance that might have moved you 
that did move you? Does it mean," she con 
tinued, "that you've none the less chosen as I 
told you to choose ; embraced the alternative 
