dig beneath two stone pyramids standing 
just outside Saint Joseph's Chapel, and 
evidently placed there as monuments to 
some important personages. After de- 
scending sixteen feet, a coffin was found, 
hollowed out of an oak-tree. It was in 
two divisions. One of them, occupying 
two thirds of the length from the head 
downwards, contained the body of a man, 
of such stature that his tibia reached 
to the middle of a tall man's thigh. In 
the lower partition lay a female figure, 
adorned still by one tress of golden hair. 
At this, however, a monk snatched too 
eagerly, and it fell into dust. At the 
same time and place they came upon a 
leaden cross, bearing the inscription in 
Latin, "Here lies buried in the Island 
Avallonia the renowned King Arthur." 
The bones were afterward removed to 
the great church, and placed before the 
high altar, where now the soil into 
which they have been transmuted nour- 
ishes the daisy-starred grass, which is 
the carpet of ruins. But if the king 
died not, and was but carried to Avalon 
for the healing of his wounds, when 
 

shall he return ? The story " sometimes 
represents Arthur and his men dozing 
away, surrounded by their treasures, in 
a cave in Snowdon, till the bell of des- 
tiny rings the hour for their sallying 
forth to victory over the Saxon foe ; 
sometimes they allow themselves to be 
seen of a simple shepherd, whiling away 
their time at chess in the cavities of 
Cadbury; and sometimes they are de- 
scribed lying beneath the Eildon Hills, 
buried in an enchanted sleep, to be 
broken at length by one 

" 'That bids the charmed sleep of ages fly. 
Rolls the long sound through Eildon's caverns vast, 
While each dark warrior rouses at the blast, 
His horn, his falchion, grasps with mighty hand, 
And peals proud Arthur's march from Fairyland.' " 

In a field adjoining the abbey grounds, 
stands the Abbot's Kitchen, an excellent 
example of early domestic architecture. 
It is a building square without, octago- 
nal within, furnished with huge fire- 
places at the comers (wherein one can 
stand and look up to the sky), and a 
central louvre for light and ventilation. 
A cruciform tithe -bam, ancient inns, 
and two historic churches also invite 
the antiquarian eye. The traveler who 
 

climbs the stony street, lined with 
squalid dwellings, to Wearyall Hill will 
only be rewarded by a small tablet set 
in the ground where stood Joseph's 
miraculous thorn ; but all over the town 
he will be offered slips from that mar- 
velous tree, which must have been as 
wide - spreading as a banyan, to have 
been so cut and distributed. However 
it came, there is no doubt that Glaston- 
bury possesses a species of thorn — 
probably brought from the East — which 
blooms twice a year, once at the usual 
time and again in the winter, though it 
is only by a poetic license which none 
but the hypercritical will dispute, that it 
is said to open exactly on Christmas 
Day. 

The ascent of Glastonbury Tor, by an 
encircling path, is difficult indeed. On 
approaching the breezy summit, one feels 
obliged to sit down for frequent inter- 
vals of rest, clutching the long grass as 
a safeguard against rolling down again. 
But once under the shadow of Saint 
Michael's Tower, — doubtless a pilgrim 
shrine, — such breathless effort is amply 
repaid. Below lies Glastonbury, no 
longer an island, but surrounded by fair 
 

fields in place of its once glassy streams, 
and dotted with greenery. Wells Cathe- 
dral marks out that little town, like a 
carven finger-post ; and in the far dis- 
tance, beyond the Mendips, a shadowy 
cloud on the horizon, lie the hills of 
Wales. On the day of my visit two lit- 
tle maids sat together under a shelter- 
ing wall, in a field at the foot of the 
Tor, each with her knitting. 

"Is it a very hard hill to climb?" 
asked I. 

" Oh, no, miss," said one, lifting her 
serious blue eyes for an instant from her 
work, " it is easy, quite easy." 

But I did not find it so ; and neither, 
I fancy, did poor Abbot Whiting, even 
though he had a hurdle, and had left 
responsibility forever behind. 


The traveler who would know Eng- 
land in all her moods must assuredly 
visit Yorkshire as well as the smiling 
Midland counties ; and if he be a literary 
pilgrim, and would fain understand in 
some measure those three great and 
lonely spirits, the Bronte sisters, let him 
seek out the moors where they walked 
and meditated, and vainly explore the re- 
gion round for one glimpse of the softer 
brightness that is the welcome of the 
south. 

Keighley, on the direct road from 
Leeds and four miles from Haworth, has 
a comfortable inn, the Devonshire Arms, 
where the tourist is made hospitably wel- 
come. It fronts on one of the principal 
streets ; and seated at its window, the 
visitor is within arm's length of crowds 
of sickly mill-operatives, standing about 
on the pavement during the noon hour, 
no doubt discussing the problem of keep- 
ing body and soul together, or hurrying 
past to the cheerless monotony of their 
 

unsmiling day. Keighley is a frowning 
town. Its houses are of a dark and dis- 
mal gray stone, and the very atmosphere 
is overspread by that grim and unmis- 
takable look which is testimony that 
beauty is naught, and use alone has been 
deified. The most forcible impression 
made on the new-comer is that the 
swarming herd of workmen and women 
are victims of consumption in various 
stages. A chorus of coughing continu- 
ally frets the air. You may distinguish 
all the varied notes of that tragic scale, 
from the nervous hack of incipient dis- 
ease to the convulsion destined to shake 
