somewhat tired, not to say disgusted, with the dirty streets, and the
crowd in them.
"Nothing that you Americans would call by that name," replied the guide.
"There are some small burial-grounds; but the Chinese generally bury
their dead in private grounds, outside of the cities. They have a
reverence for their dead which is not equalled by any people on the face
of the earth. The graves of the rich and noted are very carefully
selected, and are decorated with great care and taste. Some of the
finest gardens in the country are those enclosed in a private
burial-place.
"A rich Chinaman thinks more of his coffin than he does of his house. He
often buys it years before he has occasion to use it, and keeps it,
taking better care of it than he does of his female children. Wherever a
Chinaman dies, he must be sent home to be buried; and many of them come
here from America, taken up from the earth even a year or more after
death."
At this point the party came to an open place where there were all the
different vehicles used in the city waiting to be employed; and as it
was nearly time for the lunch, they decided to ride to the hotel. Louis
took a rickshaw, as it is called here; Scott and Morris preferred a
wheelbarrow, and Felix took another, balanced by the guide. They were
novel conveyances to the boys, and they enjoyed the ride very much. The
rest of the parties returned to the hotel about the same time. There
were Chinese dishes on the table; and those who had tried some of them
before ordered them, especially the bird's-nest soups. The hams were
very nice, and the captain hoped that Mr. Sage had procured some of them
for the ship.
The afternoon was spent as the forenoon had been, but the party found
little to interest them. The next day the tourists made an excursion up
the Yang-tsze-Chiang, and enjoyed it very much. They saw a little of the
farming operations, as a man ploughing with a buffalo, which looked more
like a deer than a bovine; others carrying bundles of grain, one at each
end of a pole on their shoulders; another threshing by beating a bunch
of the stalks on a frame like a ladder or clothes-horse; but what
pleased them most were the fishermen. One had a net several feet square,
suspended at the end of a pole. It was sunk in the water, and then
hauled up. Any fish that happened to be over it then was brought up with
it; but Scott declared that this device was an old story, and they were
used in the United States, though an iron hoop was the frame of the net.
They were more interested in the fishing with cormorants. A man with a
dip-net in his hand stood on a bamboo raft, on which was a basket like
those the snake-charmers use in India, to receive his fish. The birds
were about the size of geese. They dived into the water, and brought up
a fish every time. They have a ring or cord on their necks so that they
cannot swallow their prizes, and they drop them into the dip-net.
They went up as far as Taiping, where they took a returning steamer, and
that night slept on board the ships. On the following morning the
steamers went down the river; and then the question where they were to
go next came up, and the commander soon settled it by announcing that
the ship was bound to Tien-tsin, on the way to Pekin.
CHAPTER XXXVI
THE WALLS AND TEMPLES OF PEKIN
The company had hardly expected that Captain Ringgold would go to the
capital, for it was off the course to Japan, which was the next country
to be visited; but their curiosity had been greatly excited, and he was
disposed to gratify it.
"Pekin is not on navigable water, and we cannot go there in the ship,"
said he. "We go to Tien-tsin, which is the seaport of Pekin, about
eighty miles distant from it. It is a treaty port, and is said to have a
population of six hundred thousand; the number can doubtless be
considerably discounted. The next thing is to get to Pekin; though we
can go most of the way by boat to Tung-chow, thirteen miles from the
capital. Some go all the way on horseback or by cart. We will decide
that question when we get to Tien-tsin."
"How long will it take us to go there?" asked Uncle Moses.
"About two days; we are off Woo-Sung now. We have the pilot on board,
and we shall go to sea at once," replied the commander.
Nothing of especial interest occurred on the voyage; and before noon on
the second day out the two ships were off the mouth of the Pei-ho
River, and a Chinese pilot was taken. As they went up the river they saw
the Taku forts, where the Celestial soldiers won their only victory over
the English, but were badly beaten the following year. On the rising
tide the ships got up the river, and anchored off the town.
The place was like any other Chinese city, and was quite as dirty as the
dirtiest of them. Two of the guides from Shang-hai, who were couriers
for travellers, had been brought, one in each ship; and both of them
were intelligent men. The Blanchita had been put into the water as soon
as the anchors were buried in the mud; and the party went on shore in
her, to the great disgust of the boat-people.
The American consul came on board with the Chinese officials; and the
commander took him into the cabin for a conference in regard to getting
to Pekin, while the tourists were on shore with the guides. Mr. Smithers
had seen the steam-launch, and the question was whether the party could
go up Pekin River in her. The consul could see no difficulty in the way,
any more than there would be in the ships' barges. He thought he could
put them in the way of making the trip securely, and they went on shore
together in the barge.
Mr. Smithers knew a couple of high officials who were going to the
capital the next day, and the commander was introduced to them. They
were very polite, and both of them spoke English. One had been educated
at Yale College in New Haven. They were invited to go with the party to
Pekin in the Blanchita, and accepted. The arrangements were completed
for the trip. They went on board of the Guardian-Mother, and were
treated with the most distinguished consideration, shown over the ship,
and invited to lunch.
When the launch came off with the party at noon, all the ladies and
gentlemen were presented to them by the commander. The pacha, the rajah,
and the princess were clothed in their elegant robes; and they evidently
made a profound impression. The plan for the journey to the capital was
announced to the passengers, and they could not help being delighted
with it. Mr. Sage had been directed to spread himself on the lunch, and
he did so. Monsieur Odervie even prepared a few Chinese dishes, the art
of doing which he had learned from a native cook in Hong-Kong.
In the afternoon the party went on shore again, under the escort of Mr.
Psi-ning and Mr. Ying-chau, visiting the temple in which the treaties
had been signed, and several others, and then walked through the street
of "Everlasting Prosperity," as the Chinese gentlemen explained it. The
prosperity seemed to consist mainly in the sale of eel-pies with baked
potatoes, the former kept hot at a small charcoal fire. Live fish in
shallow bowls with a little water in them were common, and cook-shops
for more elaborate Chinese dishes were abundant.
Both the native gentlemen were mandarins of different orders, and they
were received with the most profound deference by the common people. The
tourists saw everything in the town that was worth seeing; and early in
the afternoon they returned to the Guardian-Mother, where the consul and
the native gentlemen were to dine. The latter were invited to sleep on
board in order to be in readiness for an early start the next day, and
they had ordered their baggage to be sent to the ship. Mr. Psi-ning said
he had telegraphed to an official at Tung-chow to have conveyances ready
for the party at that place, which was as far as the boat could go,
thirteen miles from Pekin.
Mr. Smithers was exceedingly kind, and did far more than could be
expected of a consul. The commander expressed his obligations to him in
the most earnest terms for all he had done, and especially for
introducing the distinguished Chinese gentlemen. The dinner was the most
elaborate the steward and the cook could provide, and it was one of
those hilarious affairs which have several times been described during
the voyage. In the evening there were Mrs. Belgrave's games, music, and
dancing with the assistance of the Italian band, and finally the singing
of the Gospel Hymns.
The Blanchita was prepared for her voyage as soon as she came off from
the shore, coaled for the round trip, supplied with cooked provisions,
though the galley was available, and with everything that could
possibly be needed. She was put in about the same trim as when she went
up the rivers of Borneo. Felipe was to be the engineer, Pitts the cook,
and four sailors were detailed for deck-hands. The excursion had been
arranged for five days; and the bags, valises, and other impedimenta of
the voyagers, were on deck at an early hour. Breakfast was ready at
half-past six; and at half-past seven the Blanchita got under way with a
native pilot for the river, who could speak pidgin English.
The party were in a frolicsome mood; and they went off singing a song,
to the great astonishment of the native boat-people. Mr. Psi-ning joined
with them; for he had learned the tunes in the United States, where he
had travelled extensively. Tien-tsin is the terminus of the Grand Canal
in the north, and they passed through a small portion of it into the
river. The trip was through a low country. The road to the capital was
in sight, and they saw various vehicles moving upon it. The first that
attracted their attention was one of the barrows, with a native between
the handles, supporting them with a band over his shoulders. On one side
of the large wheel was a passenger; and behind him was a lofty sail,
like those depending from the yards of a ship, but about three times as
high in proportion to its width. It had five ribs of wood in it below
the upper yard to keep it spread out. The boys thought the craft would
be inclined to heel over with all the cargo on the starboard side.
They saw a rickshaw rigged with a sail in this manner. A man on a farm
was working with an ordinary wheelbarrow sailing in this way. There were
no end of men riding ponies, or in the two-wheeled passenger-carts
having a cover over them which extended out over the horse. Farther up
they observed a couple of coolies irrigating the land with a machine
which had four paddles for moving the water, with four more each side of
