you who paint for "Art's sake," and your art 
is in error. 

There is one form of fiction which, I think, 
is imperfectly understood by students and 
critics, to which, as it happens, I have given 
some special attention, and which is therefore 
peculiarly interesting to me. I mean the short 
story. The difficulties in the way of creating 
a good novel are sufficiently obvious ; I ques 
tion whether they are as severe as those in the 
case of the short story. The short story, in its 
present stage of evolution, is a highly-developed 
piece of workmanship, and will, I think, 
yet become a far more exquisite one than we 
at present compass. 

A good short story is a work of art which 

daunts us in proportion to its brevity. It would 

not be easy for one who has not "served his 

time out " at this form of creation, to understand 



the laws of construction involved in it, and the 
rigidity of obedience demanded by them. Perhaps 
I ought fairly to say, in venturing to 
offer this assertion, that, personally, I make a 
very hard time of it, over a short story. I do 
not know how to write one easily or quickly. 
" Those things ? " said a friend to me once, 
and he a learned man, accustomed to study 
from fourteen to eighteen hours a day at his 
own profession, " Why, I supposed you got 
those off in a few hours ! " 

It has always taken me at least from a 
month to six weeks to finish a magazine story. 
I confess that I "toil terribly " over them. It 
makes little difference whether the motif comes 
in a blinding flash, or in a slow, insulated, 
electric current : the construction and execution 
remain inexorable ideals frowning above atten 
tion, patience, vitality, energy, until the work 
is done. One who honors this vehicle of 
thought is often ill with the strain, before a 
magazine tale of forty pages of manuscript can 
be apparently completed. The work upon such 
a story is never done. Revision calls the vision 
to account in that iron exaction from one's self 
which is so much more remorseless than the 
exaction that any critic can make upon one. 

Fortunately, perhaps, the editor calls for his 
copy, and the laboring pen must drop its loving 
task. The story goes to press. Then 
come the days and nights of wishing that it 
had stayed at home ! Then the steady action 
of the brain, which has for weeks stiffened 
about the story, goes on, till it meets the
reaction awaiting all strenuous labor. I recast, 
remodel, retouch, destroy the whole thing a 
dozen times in my mind, and recreate it ; 
scathing myself that I ever suffered it to leave 
the safe protection of the little pasteboard pad 
held across the lap, on which I write. The 
proof-sheets come ; at once a species of relief, 
and of torment. The changes which can and 
which cannot be made in the text combat each 
other. No proof leaves the study without 
three revisions. 

I look upon a short story, properly fitted for 
the higher magazines of our day, as one of the 
very finest forms of expression. No inspira 
tion is too noble for it ; no amount of hard 
work is too severe for it. It is my belief that 
there is a future for the short story, which all 
our experiments and achievements are building 
with a gradual and a beautiful architecture. 

Is the natural growth of this way of telling 
a story in part a concession to the restlessness 
of our times, in which all men are driven by 
" the whip of the sky," and leisure is a lost 
art ? Shall we some time come to the point 

where people will no longer think themselves 
able to read books ? Will the novel dwindle 
to the novelette ? (that dreariest of efforts to 
do a thing and not do it at the same time !) 
Will the scientific volume .shrink to the essay 
in the last review? Will all the classics in 
fiction some day be short stories ? Who can 
prophesy ? Not I : and would not, if I could. 

Perhaps the question oftenest asked of any 
writer by " the great unknown " of his readers 
is, which of his own writings he personally
prefers. It has always seemed to me rather a 
foolish question ; for it is not of the slight 
est consequence what an author thinks about 
his own work : he may have his opinion as to 
what ought to be the best thing he has done ; 
but his readers will decide for him what is the 
best or the worst that he has offered them. 

"The public," Thackeray used to say, "is 
a jackass." With this great authority I feel 
forced to differ a little. On the whole, I have 
a profound respect for the sense of the reading 
public. If large numbers of intelligent people 
like a book, one may believe in one's soul 
that it is the poorest thing one has done, but 
one is forced to think that there was some 
thing worth while about it. If they dislike a 
book, I am more than ready to suspect that 
there is a reason for it, though I may labor 
 

under the personal delusion that it is my chef- 
d oeuvre. 

Still, since there seems to be a widespread, 
natural wish to know how authors discriminate 
among their own works, I do not know that it 
is any more unreasonable a demand to comply 
with than the mania for autographs. 

And, by the way, if I may take a moment's 
recess from a subject which will not be the 
worse for a respite, this may be as good a 
place as any other in which to say that I have 
been reluctantly forced, for dear life, to decline 
the distribution of autographs by mail, except 
for the gratification of the sick, and for
charities. The demand having reached a point 
where I had no longer strength or time to 
comply with it, I was forced to adopt a course 
not at heart as ungracious as it may seem. 
Good Lord deliver us from ten, twenty cards 
to an envelope ! And preserve us from the 
crisis, when the autograph epidemic strikes a 
school or a college, like the measles, and runs 
through ! When autograph bedquilts and 
autograph aprons vie with autograph lamp 
shades and autograph tablecloths, a writer 
who cannot command secretary, typewriter, or 
any aid whatever to the mechanical part of his 
profession, finds himself at bay. When, one 
day, I received a peremptory order from some 


remote and unknown individual for autograph 
prayers, I resorted to the protest of all over 
worked and underpaid laborers in our times, 
I struck. 
