poor thing ! How you must have been swearing oflE ! " 
" I don't know. Was it so very bad ? I'm trying 
to think," said Bessie, thinking that after this begin- 
 
ning it would be impossible to confide in Mary En- 
derby. 
" Ob, now, Bessie ! Don't you be patient, or I stall 
begin to lose my faith in human nature. Just say at 
once that it was an outrage, and I'll forgive you ! 
You see," Miss Enderby went on, " it isn't merely that 
he's a jay ; but he isn't a very nice jay. None of the 
men like him — except Freddy Lancaster, of course ; 
he likes everybody, on principle ; he doesn't count. I 
thought that perhaps, although he's so crude and 
blunt, he might be sensitive and high-minded ; you're 
always reading about such things; but they say he 
isn't, in the least ; oh, not the least ! They say he 
goes with a set of fast jays, and that he's dreadful ; 
though he has a very good mind, and could do very 
well if he chose. That's what cousin Jim said to-day ; 
he's just been at our house ; and it was so extremely 
telepathic that I thought I must run round and pre- 
vent your having the man on your conscience if you 
felt you had had too much, of him. You wonH lay 
him up against us, will you ? " She jumped to her 
feet. 
" You dear ! " said Bessie, keeping Mary Enderby's 
hand, and pressing it between both of hers against her 
breast as they now stood face to face. " Do come up 
and have some tea ! " 
" No, no ! Eeally, I can't." 
They were both involuntarily silent. The door had 
been opened to some one, and there was a brief parley, 
which ended in a voice they knew to be the doctor's, 
saying, " Then I'll go right up to his room." Both 
 
the girls broke into laughing adieux, to hide their 
consciousness that the doctor was going up to see 
Alan Lynde, who was never sick except in the one 
way. 
Miss Enderby even said, " I was so glad to see Alan 
looking so well, last night." 
" Yes, he had such a good time," said Bessie, and 
she followed her friend to the door, where she kissed 
her reassuringly, and thanked her for taking all the 
trouble she had, bidding her not be the least anxious 
on her account. 
It seemed to her that she should sink upon the stairs 
in mounting them to the library. Mary Enderby had 
told her only what she had known before ; it was what 
her brother had told her ; but then it had not been 
possible for the man to say that he had brought Alan 
home tipsy, and been alone in the house with her at 
three o'clock in the morning. He would not only 
boast of it to all that vulgar eomradehood of his, but 
it might get into those terrible papers, which published 
the society scandals. There would be no way but to 
appeal to his pity, his generosity. She fancied herself 
writing to him, but he could show her note, and she 
must send for him to come and see her, and try to 
put him on his honor. Or, that would not do, either. 
She must make it happen that they should be thrown 
together, and then speak to him. Even that might 
make him think she was afraid of him ; or he might 
take it wrong, and believe that she cared for him. He 
had really been very good to Alan, and she tried to 
feel safe in the thought of that. She did feel safe for 
 
a moment; but if she had. meant notHng but to make 
him believe her grateful, what must he infer from her 
talking to him in the light way she did about forgiving 
him for not coming back to dance with her. Her 
manner, her looks, her tone, had given him the right 
to say that she had been willing to flirt with him there, 
at that hour, and in those dreadful circumstances. 
She found herself lying in a deep arm-chair in the 
library, when she was aware of Dr. Lacy pausing at 
the door and looking tentatively in upon her. 
" Come in, doctor," she said, and she knew that 
her face was wet with tears, and that she spoke with 
the voice of weeping. 
He came forward and looked narrowly at her, with- 
out sitting down. " There's nothing to be alarmed 
about, Miss Bessie," he said. "But I thinjk your 
brother had better leave home again, for a while." 
" Yes," she said, blankly. Her mind Was not on 
bis words. 
" I will make the arrangements." 
" Thank you," said Bessie, listlessly. 
The doctor had made a step backward, as if he were 
going away, and now he stopped. " Aren't you feel- 
ing quite well. Miss Bessie ? " 
" Oh, yes," she said, and she began to cry. 
The doctor came forward, and said, cheerily, " Let 
me see." He pulled a chair up to hers, and took her 
wrist between his fingers. " If you were at Mrs. En- 
derby's last night, you'll need, another night to put 
you just right. But you're pretty well, as it is." He 
let her wrist softly go, and said: "You mustn't dis- 
 
tress yourself about your brother's case. Of course, 
it's hard to have it happen now after he's held up so 
long ; longer than it has been before, I think, isn't it ? 
But it's something that it has been so long. The next 
time, let us hope, it will be longer still." 
The doctor made as if to rise. Bessie put her hand 
out to stay him. " What is it makes him do it ? " 
" Ah, that's a great mystery," said the doctor. " I 
suppose you might say, the excitement." 
"Yes!" 
" But it seems to me very often, in such cases, as 
if it were to escape the excitement. I think you're 
both keyed up pretty sharply by nature. Miss Bessie," 
said the doctor, with the personal kindness he felt for 
the girl, and the pity softening his scientific spirit. 
" I know ! " she answered. " We're alike. Why 
don't I take to drinking, too ? " 
The doctor laughed at such a question from a young 
lady, but with an inner seriousness in his laugh, as if, 
coming from a patient, it was to be weighed. " Well, 
I suppose it isn't the habit of your sex, Miss Bessie." 
" Sometimes it is. Sometimes women get drunk, 
and then I think they do less harm than if they did 
other things to get away from the excitement." She 
longed to confide in him ; the words were on her 
tongue ; she believed he could help her, tell her what 
to do ; out of his stores of knowledge and experience 
he must have some suggestion, some remedy ; he could 
advise her ; he could stand her friend, so far. People 
told their doctors all kinds of things, silly things. 
Why should she not tell her doctor this ? 
 
It would liavo been easier if it had been an older 
man, who might have had a daughter of her ago. But 
he was in that period of the early forties when a doc- 
tor sometimes has a matter-of-fact, disagreeable wife 
whose idea stands between him and the spiritual inti- 
macy of his patients, so that it seems as if they were 
delivering their confidences rather to her than to him. 
He was able, he was good, he was extremely acute, he 
was even with the latest facts and theories ; but as he 
sat straight up in his chair his stomach defined itself 
as a half -moon before him, and he said to the quiver- 
ing heap of emotions beside him, "You mean like 
breaking hearts, and such little matters?" 
It was fatally stupid, and it beat her back into her- 
self. 
'' Yes," she said, with a contempt that she easily 
hid from him, " that's worse than getting drunk, isn't 
it?" 
" Well, it isn't so regarded," said the doctor, who 
supposed himself to have made a sprightly answer, 
and laughed at it. " I wish. Miss Bessie, you'd take 
a little remedy I'm going to send you. You've merely 
been up too late, but it's a very good thing for people 
who've been up too late." 
" Thank you. And about my brother ? " 
" Oh ! I'll send a man to look after him to-night, 
and to-morrow I really think he'd better go. " 
XXXVI. 
