'I do not intend to provide you with the means of defending your case by
telling you what I know. But I give you your choice. I have full power
to do so. Lead me and my men to a place where we can catch Mauro, and I
give you my word of honour that no accusation shall be brought against
you. Refuse to do so, and I give you my word that you will be handcuffed
in five minutes and taken to Messina this afternoon. You know, of
course, that complicity with a band of outlaws entails penal servitude.'

He saw plainly enough that he had not risked his reputation for nothing.
Tebaldo was brave still, though he was unstrung and broken, but his face
now showed the perplexity he could only feel if he were really in the
situation the officer had prepared for him.

'I deny the whole charge,' he said, after a moment's thought. 'This is
an outrage for which you will have to answer. Be good enough to stop
threatening me and leave my room.'

The lieutenant drew a nickel whistle from the bosom of his tunic with
his left hand.

'If I whistle for my troopers,' he said, 'you will be in handcuffs in
five minutes. I will count twenty while you make your choice. One, two,
three--' and he continued to count.

Tebaldo grew pale by quick degrees, as he listened, and his heart beat
violently with excitement. The officer reached twenty in his counting,
and raised the big whistle to his lips.

'Stop!' exclaimed Tebaldo, hardly able to speak.

'Well?' asked the officer, holding the whistle ready near his mouth.

'You give me your word of honour that no accusation whatever shall be
brought against me?'

'None on the ground of complicity with the brigands,' answered the
lieutenant. 'I give you my word as an officer.'

'There is no other to bring.' Tebaldo was white.

'None that concerns me,' replied the other, coolly. 'There is a good
deal of diversity of opinion about your brother's death, as you must
know.'

'This is an insult--'

'Oh no! I do not accuse you at all. I only wish to limit my own promise
to the matter in hand. I have done so, and I understand that you agree,
do you not?'

'By force, for I suppose I must,' replied Tebaldo, in a sullen tone.
'You must further engage to protect me from the mafia, when you have
caught the fellows,' he added.

'You shall have an escort wherever you go and as long as you please to
remain in the country.'

'That will not be long,' said Tebaldo, almost to himself.

'So much the better. And now, if you please, at what time shall we start
this evening?'

Tebaldo inwardly cursed himself for having trusted the Moscio in the
first instance, but he quickly reflected that he might still improve his
position in the eyes of the officer and thereby, perhaps, have less to
fear in the future.

'Look here, lieutenant,' he said, changing his tone and sitting down. 'I
have been forced into this, from first to last. I was riding by myself
yesterday afternoon, in the country I know so well, and I had not the
slightest idea that the outlaws were in the neighbourhood. I met a
couple of your men, who at first took me for one of the brigands myself,
and then recognised me and apologised, telling me that the band was in
the neighbourhood. They rode off, and I took a short cut through the
woods. I came upon the encampment unexpectedly.'

The officer listened attentively and gravely. Tebaldo proceeded.

'In former years, even a year ago, when we lived at Camaldoli before
selling the place, we were obliged, as a matter of personal safety, to
put up with a great deal from these men, and if we had informed against
them, we should have been murdered. That is how it happened that my
brother Ferdinando knew some of them. You know the conditions of the
country as well as I do.'

'I wish I did!' exclaimed the soldier, devoutly.

'You know them well enough, at all events. Poor gentlefolk, as we were
then, cannot always help themselves. Yesterday afternoon I found myself
suddenly surrounded by the whole band. There are fifteen of them. One of
them recognised me, and a long discussion began. They wish to get into
Camaldoli to-night and carry off the Marchese di San Giacinto.'

'Fifteen armed men might do it,' observed the officer. 'There are only
two troopers there at night.'

'Yes. But the brigands do not know the way to the weak point at the
back. I will explain.'

Tebaldo told the whole truth now, for he saw that his best chance of
safety lay in that direction. Then he proceeded to exculpate himself.

'They also gave me my choice, something in your manner,' he went on.
'They offered, by way of alternative, to roast me alive, if I refused to
show them the way to-night, and they assured me of what I knew perfectly
well, namely, that if I did not keep the appointment they could murder
me wherever I might be. This was because I insisted on coming here again
before to-night. It was not easy, but they yielded at last. However, it
was very late by the time we had come to an agreement, and I could not
have got back to Randazzo, for there was no moon, and the woods are dark
and full of pitfalls. I got back this morning, and intended to go down
to Messina and catch the train at Reggio to-night, and take my chance of
safety in Rome. They never could get up to the back of Camaldoli without
me. There you have the whole story in a nutshell.'

'I see,' answered the officer, who only believed half of the plausible
story. 'You were in a most difficult position. But it is now in your
power to do the country a great service. All that is necessary is that
you should lead the band to the foot of the wall, as you promised. I
will take care of the rest. In the woods it is impossible to catch them.
But it is important that we should recognise you, in order not to kill
you by mistake if there is any fighting, as there probably will be,
though I hope to take most of them alive. The wisest thing would be that
you should be the first to mount the ladder, by agreement, on the ground
that you can lead them inside, whereas they might lose their way.'

'Yes--that is best. It is a very complicated place, like a labyrinth,
between the rampart and the court.'

'You will pardon me for reverting to the conditions,' said the
lieutenant, suavely. 'You realise, of course, that in case you should
not wish to carry out your part of them, you are always in the power of
the law, unless you turn outlaw yourself, which, in your position, you
would hardly like to do.'

'I understand my position perfectly,' answered Tebaldo, coldly. 'I shall
lead the band to the foot of the ladder at about one o'clock, I fancy.'

'Thank you,' said the officer. 'I am much obliged for the loan of your
revolver, which I return to you, as you may need it this evening.'

He laid it on the table, bowed civilly, and went out, leaving the
betrayer to his own reflections.




CHAPTER XXXVI


Tebaldo would have given half his life and all his soul to undo the work
of the past twenty-four hours. But it was now absolutely impossible for
him to draw back. His only chance of future safety lay in serving the
government, though he did not like to think what his fate might be if he
should fall into the hands of any friend of the outlaws after betraying
them. Yet, short of joining them outright, he could not possibly escape
arrest if he did not carry out the conditions of his agreement with the
lieutenant; and, if once arrested, the latter would only need to tell
exactly what had happened in order to convict him of complicity with
brigands and send him to penal servitude. He was literally caught in a
