the excommunication and restored her to her beloved 
Church, with all the dear privileges of worship. Ah, she 
heard that ! You could see it in the deep gratitude that 
rose in her face and transfigured it with joy. 

But how transient was that happiness ! For Cauchon, 
without a tremor of pity in his voice, added these crushing 
words — 

' And that she may repent of her crimes and repeat 
them no more, she is sentenced to perpetual imprisonment, 
with the bread of affliction and the water of anguish ! ' 

Perpetual imprisonment I She had never dreamed of that 
— such a thing had never been hinted to her by Loyseleur 
or by any other. Loyseleur had distinctly said and pro- 
mised that ' all would be well with her.' And the very 
last words spoken to her by Erard, on that very platform, 
when he was urging her to abjure, was a straight, un- 
qualified promise — that if she would do it she should go 
free from captivity. 

She stood stunned and speechless a moment ; then she 
remembered, with such solacement as the thought could 
furnish, that by another clear promise — a promise made by 
Cauchon himself — she would at least be the Church's 
captive, and have women about her in place of a brutal 
foreign soldiery. So she turned to the body of priests and 
said, with a sad resignation — 

' Now, you men of the Church, take me to your prison, 
and leave me no longer in the hands of the English ; ' and 
she gathered up her chains and prepared to move. 



But alas, now came these shameful words from Cauchon 
—and with them a mocking laugh : 

' Take her to the prison whence she came ! ' 

Poor abused girl ! She stood dumb, smitten, paralysed. 
It was pitiful to see. She had been beguiled, lied to, 
betrayed ; she saw it all, now. 

The rumbling of a drum broke upon the stillness, and 
for just one moment she thought of the glorious deliver- 
ance promised by her Voices — I read it in the rapture that 
lit her face ; then she saw what it was — her prison escort 
— and that light faded, never to revive again. And now 
her head began a piteous rocking motion, swaying slowly 
this way and that, as is the way when one is suffering 
unwordable pain, or when one's heart is broken ; then 
drearily she went from us, with her face in her hands, and 
sobbing bitterly. 

CHAPTER XXI 

There is no certainty that any one in all Rouen was in the 
secret of the deep game which Cauchon was playing except 
the Cardinal of Winchester. Then you can imagine the 
astonishment and stupefaction of that vast mob gathered 
there, and those crowds of churchmen assembled on the 
two platforms, when they saw Joan of Arc moving away, 
alive and whole — slipping out of their grip at last, after all 
this tedious waiting, all this tantalising expectancy. 

Nobody was able to stir or speak, for a while, so para- 
lysing was the universal astonishment, so unbelievable the 
fact that the stake was actually standing there unoccupied 
and its prey gone. Then suddenly everybody broke into a 
fury of rage ; maledictions and charges of treachery began 
to fly freely ; yes, and even stones : a stone came near 
killing the Cardinal of Winchester — it just missed his 
head. But the man who threw it was not to blame, for he 
was excited, and a person who is excited never can throw 
straight. 


The tumult was very great indeed, for a while. In the 
midst of it a chaplain of the Cardinal even forgot the 
proprieties so far as to opprobriously assail the august 
Bishop of Beauvais himself, shaking his fist in his face and 
shouting : 

' By God, you are a traitor ! ' 

' You lie ! ' responded the Bishop. 

He a traitor ! Oh, far from it ; he certainly was the last 
Frenchman that any Briton had a right to bring that charge 
against. 

The Earl of Warwick lost his temper, too. He was a 
doughty soldier, but when it came to the intellectuals — 
when it came to delicate chicane, and scheming, and 
trickery — he couldn't see any further through a millstone 
than another. So he burst out in his frank warrior fashion, 
and swore that the King of England was being treacher- 
ously used, and that Joan of Arc was going to be allowed 
to cheat the stake. But they whispered comfort into his 
ear — 

' Give yourself no uneasiness, my lord ; we shall soon 
have her again.' 

Perhaps the like tidings found their way all around, for 
good news travels fast as well as bad. At any rate the 
ragings presently quieted down, and the huge concourse 
crumbled apart and disappeared. And thus we reached 
the noon of that fearful Thursday. 

We two youths were happy ; happier than any words 
can tell — for we were not in the secret any more than the 
rest. Joan's life was saved. We knew that, and that was 
enough. France would hear of this day's infamous work 
— and then ! Why, then her gallant sons would flock to 
her standard by thousands and thousands, multitudes 
upon multitudes, and their wrath would be like the wrath 
of the ocean when the storm-winds sweep it ; and they 
would hurl themselves against this doomed city and over- 
whelm it like the resistless tides of that ocean, and Joan of 
Arc would march again ! In six days — seven days — one 

short week — noble France, grateful France, indignant 

France, would be thundering at these gates — let us count 

the hours, let us count the minutes, let us count the 

seconds ! Oh happy day, oh day of ecstasy, how our 

hearts sang in our bosoms ! 

For we were young, then ; yes, we were very young. 

Do you think the exhausted prisoner was allowed to 
rest and sleep after she had spent the small remnant of 
her strength in dragging her tired body back to the 
dungeon ? 

No ; there was no rest for her, with those sleuth-hounds 
on her track. Cauchon and some of his people followed 
her to her lair, straightway ; they found her dazed and 
dull, her mental and physical forces in a state of prostration. 
They told her she had abjured ; that she had made flr 
certain promises — among them, to resume the apparel of 
her sex ; and that if she relapsed, the Church would cast 
her out for good and all. She heard the words, but they 
had no meaning to her. She was like a person who has 
taken a narcotic and is dying for sleep, dying for rest 
from nagging, dying to be let alone, and who mechanically 
does everything the persecutor asks, taking but dull note 
of the things done, and but dully recording them in the 
memory. And so Joan put on the gown which Cauchon 
and his people had brought ; and would come to herself 
by-and-by, and have at first but a dim idea as to when and 
how the change had come about.  

Cauchon went away happy and content. Joan had 
