The keeper interspersed the rides with stories of elephants in India
taking care of babies, fanning flies away from them, watching over sick
masters, and moving great timbers. Even if his eyes were small, he could
see any danger. You could trust him when he was once your friend; but he
never forgave an injury.

The big india-rubber feet came down with scarcely a sound. He flapped
his ears lazily, he turned around without spilling them out, and marched
up the line as if it was just nothing at all.

Daisy was thrilling with enjoyment. Her eyes shone and her cheeks were
like roses. She even put her hand on the elephant's crumply back, as
they came down the steps, and smiled in Doctor Joe's face, as he held
her by the arm.

"You were so good to let me go. Thank you a thousand times. It was just
splendid!"

They were all in a burst of enthusiasm with "ohs and ahs." But Hanny was
very glad to get back to her father's protecting hand. She felt as if
she had been on a long and perilous journey.

They took their seats, and after one more caravan the performances
began. The trick elephant did several odd things rather clumsily. Then
he stood on his head, and the boys clapped their hands with delight. He
trumpeted, and the very ground seemed to shake. Then he looked around in
a queer sort of fashion, as if he was sure he had frightened everybody.

But what would they have said to the later acrobatic feats and going
through the figures of a quadrille! Half-a-dozen elephants would have
startled any audience.

Presently a big cage was uncovered, and Mr. Van Amburgh went into the
lions' den. Everybody shuddered a little. Hanny thought of the story of
Daniel--perhaps other people did. He shook hands and rubbed shoulders
with them; and they put their paws on his shoulders and shook their
shaggy heads.

Charles said they ought to have finer bodies for such magnificent heads.

Then the lion-tamer told them to lie down. He made a bed of one and a
pillow of the other, and threw himself upon them, hugging them up. He
made them open their mouths, and he thrust in his hand. They pranced up
and down, sprang over the stick he held in his hand, jumped over him;
and it really seemed as if they had a tender regard for him. But Doctor
Joe observed that he always faced them, and kept his eyes steadily upon
them. The applause was tremendous.

Then an incident occurred that was not down in the programme. A handsome
tiger walked out from between two of the cages as if he had a part to
play. He scanned the audience in a deliberate manner; he gave his lithe
body a twist, and switched his tail in a graceful fashion, while his
yellow eyes illumined the space about him. The attention of the audience
was concentrated upon him, while he appeared to be considering what to
do next.

Two keepers came out, while a man in the space between the cages shook
something in his hand. The tiger turned and followed him, and the men
watched until a bar snapped.

Then one of them faced the audience.

"Ladies and gentlemen," he began, "I wish to announce that there is not
the slightest danger. The tiger is securely caged. The animals are under
perfect control."

Two or three women screamed, and one fainted. Several hurried to the
entrance; but the keeper begged them to be tranquil. There had not been
the slightest danger.

Doctor Joe motioned to his party to remain seated while he went to
attend to the women. The performance was mostly over, and the audience
began to disperse, from a sense of insecurity.

"Was he really loose?" asked Tudie Dean, in a little fright.

"Of course he was," replied Charles. "I'm not sure but it was done
purposely after all."

Doctor Joe returned, and they appealed to him.

"Well,"--with a gay air,--"the tiger was quite obedient, wasn't he? You
were not frightened, Daisy?"

"But you stood right there,"--Doctor Joe had given his seat to a lady
just as the performance began. "Why, he looked at you," and Daisy's
nerves gave a little quiver.

"I supposed Mr. Van Amburgh would come and put him through some paces,"
returned Joe.

"It was immense, wasn't it?" exclaimed Jim. "But why did the woman
squeal when it was all over?"

Doctor Joe laughed.

To make amends, a pretty trick pony came out, who really could dance,
and he looked as if he laughed, too. He did a number of amusing things,
and the audience stopped going out. Then the monkeys set up such a
shrill chatter that the people began to laugh. The lion started to roar;
and it seemed as if the tigers joined the chorus. For a few moments it
was a forest concert.

"If only the hyena would laugh," said Jim. The girls were a little
nervous. Joe had gone to get Prince. "Oh, you needn't be a mite afraid.
Mr. Van Amburgh would just have thrown a cloth over his head; and in his
surprise they would have had him all right in a moment. I would not have
missed it for a dollar; though I wouldn't care to encounter him in his
native wilds."

"He did look grand surveying the audience," said Daisy. "I am so glad I
could come--for everything."

The Doctor put Hanny and Daisy in the buggy, as they were both so slim.
Hanny hugged his arm, and said in a voice still a trifle shaky,--

"Weren't you the least bit frightened, Joe?"

"Why, I never imagined there was any danger until it was over. I think
so many people rather dazed Mr. Tiger."

"Oh, if anything had happened to you, what should I do?" asked Daisy,
with lustrous eyes.

"Nothing is going to happen to me. You have been a brave girl this
afternoon, and it is not the first time either."

Her cheek flushed with pleasure.

It was a great thing to talk over, that and the ride on the elephant.
Hanny found her natural history, and she and her father read about
elephants most of the evening.

The days were so pleasant that the children often took Daisy out in her
chair to see them at their plays. They went around to Houston Street, to
the German settlement, as it was beginning to be called. Lena and
Gretchen were out on their stoop with their knitting, and the baby
between them. They were Lutherans, and they looked quite different from
the Jews.

There were still quaint old houses in Ludlow and Orchard streets,--two
stories with dormer windows in the roof, and some frame cottages with
struggling grass-plots. No one dreamed of the tall tenements that were
to take their places, the sewing-machines that were to hum while the
workers earned their scanty pittance, and swarms of children crowded the
streets.

Everybody had more leisure then. Some of the women sat and chatted while
their little ones played about.

A little girl came out of an alley way with a peculiar jerky movement,
like a hop and a skip, while she kept one hand on her knee. Her hip was
large, her shoulder pushed up and apparently bent over.

"Hello!" she said to Hanny. "What's the matter with her?" nodding her
head. "Wish't I had a cheer like that. I'd cut a great swell. My! ain't
she pritty?"

"She's been ill," returned Hanny.

