— I had hoped, and almost expected, to be read by kings and 
presidents and emperors — but I had never looked so high as 
That. It would be false modesty to pretend that I was not 
inordinately pleased. I was. I was much more pleased than 
I should have been with a compliment from a man. 

He remained half an hour, and I found him a most courte- 
ous and charming gentleman. The godship has been in his 



family a good while, but I do not know how long. He is a 
Mohammedan deity ; by earthly rank he is a prince ; not an 
Indian but a Persian prince. He is a direct descendant of the 
Prophet's line. He is comely ; also young — for a god ; not 
forty, perhaps not above thirty-five years old. He wears his 
immense honors with tranquil grace, and with a dignity proper 
to his awful calling. He speaks English with the ease and 
purity of a person born to it. I think I am not overstating 
this. He was the only god I had ever seen, and I was very 
favorably impressed. When he rose to say good-bye, the door 
swung open and I caught the flash of a red fez, and heard 
these words, reverently said — 

" Satan see God out ? " 

" Yes." And these mis-mated Beings passed from view — 
Satan in the lead and The Other following after. 




CHAPTER XL. 

Few of us can stand prosperity. Another man's, I mean. 

— Fuddnhead Wilnons Mew Calendar. 

rHE next picture in my mind is Government House, on 
Malabar Point, with the wide sea-view from the win- 
dows and broad balconies; abode of His Excellency 
the Governor of the Bombay Presidency — a residence which 
is European in everything but the native guards and servants, 
and is a home and a palace of stae harmoniously combined. 

That was England, the English power, the English civil- 
ization, the modern civilization — with the quiet elegancies and 
quiet colors and quiet tastes and quiet dignity that are the 
outcome of the modern cultivation. And following it came a 
picture of the ancient civilization of India — an hour in the 
mansion of a native prince : Kumar Schri Samatsinhji Bahadur 
of the Palitana State. 

The young lad, his heir, was with the prince ; also, the lad's 
sister, a wee brown sprite, very pretty, very serious, very win- 
ning, delicately moulded, costumed like the daintiest butterfly, 
a dear little fairyland princess, gravely willing to be friendly 
with the strangers, but in the beginning preferring to hold her 
father's hand until she could take stock of them and determine 
how far they were to be trusted. She must have been eight 
years old ; so in the natural (Indian) order of things she would 
be a bride in three or four years from now, and then this free 
contact with the sun and the air and the other belongings of 
out-door nature and comradeship with visiting male folk would 
end, and she would shut herself up in the zenana for life, like 
her mother, and by inherited habit of mind would be happy in 
that seclusion and not look upon it as an irksome restraint and 
a weary captivity. 

The game which the prince amuses his leisure with — how- 
ever, never mind it, I should never be able to describe it intel- 
ligibly. I tried to get an idea of it while my wife and daughter 

visited the princess in the zenana, 
a lady of charming graces and 
a fluent speaker of English, but I 
did not make it out. It is a 
complicated game, and I believe 
it is said that nobody can learn 
to play it well but an Indian. 
And I was not able to learn how 
to wind a turban. It seemed a 
simple art and easy ; but that 
was a deception. It is a piece of 
thin, delicate stuff a foot wide or 
more, and forty or fifty feet 
long ; and the exhibitor of the 
art takes one end of it in his 
two hands, and winds it in and 
out intricately about his head, 
twisting it as he goes, and in a minute or two the thing is 
finished, and is neat and symmetrical and fits as snugly as a 
mould. 

We were interested in the wardrobe and the jewels, and in 
the silverware, and its grace of shape and beauty and deli- 
cacy of ornamentation. The silverware is kept locked up, except 
at meal-times", and none but the chief butler and the prince 
have keys to the safe. I did not clearly understand why, but 
it was not for the protection of the silver. It was either to 
protect the prince from the contamination which his caste 
would suffer if the vessels were touched by low-caste hands, or 
it was to protect his highness from poison. Possibly it was 
both. I believ'e a salaried taster has to taste everything before 
the prince ventures it — an ancient and judicious custom in the 
East, and has thinned out the tasters a good deal, for of course 
it is the cook that puts the poison in. If I were an Indian 
prince I would not go to the expense of a taster, I would eat 
with the cook. 

Ceremonials are always interesting ; and I noted that the 
Indian good-morning is a ceremonial, whereas ours doesn't 
amount to that. In salutation the son reverently touches the 
father's forehead with a small silver implement tipped with 
Vermillion paste which leaves a red spot there, and in return 
the son receives the father's blessing. Our good morning is 
well enough for the rowdy West, perhaps, but would be too 
brusque for the soft and ceremonious East. 

After being properly necklaced, according to custom, with 
great garlands made of yellow flowers, and provided with 
betel-nut to chew, this pleasant visit closed, and we passed 
thence to a scene of a different sort : from this glow of color 
and this sunny life to those grim receptacles of the Parsee dead, 
the Towers of Silence. There is something stately about that 
name, and an impressiveness which sinks deep ; the hush of 
death is in it. We have the Grave, the Tomb, the Mausoleum, 
God's Acre, the Cemetery ; and association has made them elo- 
quent with solemn meaning ; but we have no name that is so 
majestic as that one, or lingers upon the ear with such deep and 
haunting pathos. 

On lofty ground, in the midst of a paradise of tropical foliage 
and flowers, remote from the world and its turmoil and noise, 
they stood — the Towers of Silence ; and away below was 
spread the wide groves of cocoa palms, then the city, mile on 
mile, then the ocean with its fleets of creeping ships — all 
steeped in a stillness as deep as the hush that hallowed this 
high place of the dead. The vultures were there. They stood 
close together in a great circle all around the rim of a massive 
low tower — waiting ; stood as motionless as sculptured orna- 
ments, and indeed almost deceived one into the belief that that 
was what they were. Presently there was a slight stir among 
the score of persons present, and all moved reverently out of 
the path and ceased from talking. A funeral procession en- 
tered the great gate, marching two and two, and moved 
silently by, toward the Tower. The corpse lay in a shallow 
shell, and was under cover of a white cloth, but was otherwise 
naked. The bearers of the body were separated by an interval 
of thirty feet from the mourners. They, and also the mourn- 
ers, were draped all in pure white, and each couple of mourners 
was figuratively bound together by a piece of white rope or a 
handkerchief — though they merely held the ends of it in 
their hands. Behind the procession followed a dog, which was 
led in a leash. When the mourners had reached the neighbor- 
hood of the Tower — neither they nor any other human being 
but the bearers of the dead must approach within thirty feet 
of it — they turned and went back to on« of the prayerhouses 
within the gates, to pray for the spirit of their dead. The 
bearers unlocked the Tower's sole door and disappeared from 
