to know bad things of him, and if at present 
she wanted to know the same of Sir Claude 
it was quite from the opposite motive. She 
was awestruck at the manner in which a lady 
might be affected through the passion men- 
tioned by Mrs. Wix: she held her breath 
with the sense of picking her steps among 
the tremendous things of life. What she 
did, however, now, after the interview with 
her mother, impart to Mrs. Wix was that 





in spite of her having had her " good " 
effect, as she called it, her ladyship's last 
words had been that her ladyship's duty by 
her would be thoroughly done. Over this 
announcement governess and pupil looked 
at each other in silent profundity; but, as 
the weeks went by, it had no consequences 
that interfered gravely with the breezy gallop 
of making up. Her ladyship's duty took 
at times the form of not seeing her child 
for days together, and Maisie led her life 
in great prosperity between Mrs. Wix and 
kind Sir Claude. Mrs. Wix had a new dress 
and, as she was the first to proclaim, a better 
position ; so it all struck Maisie as a crowded, 
brilliant life, with, for the time, Mrs. Beale 
and Susan Ash simply " left out " like chil- 
dren not invited to a Christmas party. Mrs. 
Wix had a secret terror, which, like most 
of her secret feelings, she discussed with 
her little companion, in great solemnity, by 
the hour the possibility of her ladyship's 
coming down on them, in her sudden high- 
bred way, with a school. But she had also 
a balm to this fear in a conviction of the 
strength of Sir Claude's grasp of the situ- 
ation. He was too pleased did n't he 
constantly say as much? with the good 





impression made, in a wide circle, by Ida's 
sacrifices ; and he came into the schoolroom 
repeatedly to let them know how beautifully 
he felt everything had gone off and every- 
thing would go on. 

He disappeared at times for days, when 
his patient friends understood that her lady- 
ship would naturally absorb him; but he 
always came back with the drollest stories 
of where he had been a wonderful picture 
of society, and even with pretty presents 
that showed how, in absence, he thought of 
his home. Besides giving Mrs. Wix, by his 
conversation, a sense that they almost them- 
selves " went out ' he gave her a five-pound 
note, and the history of France, and an 
umbrella with a malachite knob ; and to 
Maisie both chocolate-creams and story- 
books and a lovely great-coat (which he 
took her out all alone to buy), besides ever 
so many games, in boxes, with printed direc- 
tions, and a bright red frame for the protec- 
tion of his famous photograph. The games 
were, as he said, to while away the evening 
hour, and the evening hour indeed often 
passed in futile attempts on Mrs. Wix's part 
to master what " it said " on the papers. 
When he asked the pair how they liked 





the games they always replied " Oh, im- 
mensely ! " but they had earnest discussions 
as to whether they had n't better appeal to 
him frankly for aid to understand them. 
This was a course their delicacy shrank 
from ; they could n't have told exactly why, 
but it was a part of their tenderness for him 
not to let him think they had trouble. 
What dazzled most was his kindness to 
Mrs. Wix not only the five-pound note 
and the " not forgetting her," but the perfect 
consideration, as she called it with an air to 
which her sounding of the words gave the 
only grandeur Maisie was to have seen her 
wear save on a certain occasion hereafter 
to be described an occasion when the poor 
lady was grander than all of them put to- 
gether. He shook hands with her, he rec- 
ognized her, as she said, and, above all, 
more than once, he took her, with his step- 
daughter, to the pantomime and, in the 
crowd, coming out, publicly gave her his 
arm. When he met them in sunny Picca- 
dilly he made merry and turned and walked 
with them, heroically suppressing his con- 
sciousness of the stamp of his company; a 
gallantry that needless for Mrs. Wix to 
sound those words her ladyship, though 





a blood-relation was little enough the woman 
to be capable of. Even to the hard heart 
of childhood there was something tragic in 
such elation at such humanities : it brought 
home to Maisie the way her humble com- 
panion had sidled and ducked through life. 
But it settled the question of the degree to 
which Sir Claude was a gentleman : he was 
more of one than anybody else in the 
world " I don't care," Mrs. Wix repeatedly 
remarked, "whom you may meet in grand 
society, nor even to whom you may be 
contracted in marriage." There were ques- 
tions that Maisie never asked, so her gover- 
ness was spared the embarrassment of telling 
her if he were more of a gentleman than papa ; 
that was not moreover from the want of oppor- 
tunity, for there were no moments between 
them at which the topic could be irrelevant 
no subject they were going into, not even 
the principal dates or the auxiliary verbs, in 
which it was further off than the turn of the 
page. The answer, on the winter nights, to 
the puzzle of cards and counters and little be- 
wildering pamphlets was just to draw up to the 
fire and talk about him ; and if the truth must 
be told this edifying interchange constituted 
for the time the little girl's chief education. 





It must also be admitted that he took 
them far further perhaps than was always 
warranted by the old-fashioned conscience, 
the dingy decencies of Maisie's simple in- 
structress. There were hours when Mrs. 
Wix sighingly testified to the scruples she 
surmounted seemed to ask what other line 
one could take with a young person whose 
experience had been, as it were, so peculiar. 
" It is n't as if you did n't already know 
everything, is it, love?" and " I can't make 
you any worse than you are, can I, darling? " 
