" Bessie has not finished her visit," he said, in a 
somewhat troubled tone. " Mrs. Lowndes insists 
upon her spending a fortnight with her. Thirza 
if you would call a time or two ! The holidays 
will be much gayer here, and Bessie was brought 
up in the city, you know. It seems really cruel 
to refuse her." 
" I will do whatever I can," Thirza answered, 
startled, and intuitively apprehending the mistake. 
" I am compelled to return. I have stayed 
longer than I ought, and I shall be very much 
engrossed with some matters at home. But Wes- 
thorpe is dull and lonesome for her." 
" Even I have been insensible to its charms," 
she returned lightly, by way of comfort. 
He had meant to ask another favor, that she 
would write a note or two ; but it seemed like a 
watch set upon his wife, and he did trust her. 
No, it was not possible to propose such a thing. 
" I have many things to thank you for," he said 
in a strained, hurried tone, with his farewell. Yet 
he wished more than once he had exerted a hus 
band's authority and brought Bessie home. He 
did not quite approve of Mrs. Lowndes, and her 
" set " was not at all select. Perhaps it could not 
be, taking in lecturers, musicians, literary aspirants, 
and theatrical people. 
One or two brief notes came from Bessie, in 
 
which she said Thirza had called and she had 
gone to tea and a little musicale at Miss Rolfe's, 
who had quite signalized herself with some Christ 
mas work. A delay and then an announcement 
that her stay would be prolonged another week. 
Palmer gave Bessie the full week's grace, and 
then went to the city for her, carrying her off 
to a hotel, where they had a stormy time indeed. 
Bessie had been listening to more than one dis 
cussion on the tyranny of husbands, and had 
formulated some very decided opinions. But she 
found Palmer was the master in that he was the 
moneyed partner to the contract. She had been 
quite lavish, and she knew that money was the 
important part of life her life. 
" If she had some of her own," she kept 
thinking in sullen silence during the homeward 
journey. Oh, why had she been so eager to 
marry Palmer? 
How wretchedly plain the house looked after 
all the light and glare and gay furnishings ! It 
was cold and stormy for a week, and Bessie 
refused all overtures of comfort and tenderness. 
Her only consolation was writing long letters 
to Mrs. Lowndes, which she mailed herself, 
with a half-guilty conscience, for she felt her 
trials were largely exaggerated. Day and night 
she dreamed of freedom. Women were often 
 
divorced. Why should Roy care to keep her, 
when she had said she hated him ? Once she 
had accused him of compelling her to marry him. 
He looked straight into her eyes, that had 
been so pleading that unfortunate night. 
" Bessie, you know that is not true, and we 
have sadly realized that Aunt Hannah's judg 
ment would have been much wiser for both of 
us." 
Bessie shuddered. Why must he recall that 
horrible time ! What else could she have done, 
unless he had been a brother and generous 
enough to let her try life for herself? For she 
knew now she might be a very fair success on 
the stage. It was not genius alone or hard 
work that won the plaudits. Ah, how enticing 
the life looked ! And if a woman had a right 
to live out the best of her aims and beliefs ; 
if, having made a mistake, she could in some 
manner cast it behind her and start afresh 
Ah, how tempting that shallow approval ap 
peared ! 
She tried to discuss the possibility with her 
husband. She used the arguments that had 
seemed so plausible to her, so convincing. This 
was not the life for her. She could not make 
him happy. Why, then, should she be con 
demned to make him miserable ? 
 
" But you have not really tried, Bessie, child ; 
do make one earnest effort. Will you not take 
a little interest in our home and make it cheer 
ful ? In the spring, we will furnish anew, and 
if there are any alterations you would like " 
" I hate the loneliness out here. I hate house 
keeping ! " she said vehemently. 
" But you don't keep house." They had 
two servants, and Bessie always took break 
fast in her own room. Since her return, she 
had evinced no real interest. " It wouldn't be 
so bad boarding at one of the hotels. The lone 
liness kills me. I never was fitted for such a life. 
I knew I should be wretched the moment I entered 
this place. Oh, why did fate send me here ! " 
He remembered the soft arms that had been 
wound around his neck that first night, and the 
cheek that had brushed against his. She seemed 
so sweet and delicate in her helplessness. And 
she was longing to try the hard, hurrying, heart 
less world, where one misstep ruined a life ! No, 
he could not let her go. Whether for good or ill 
he had taken her into his keeping, and he was an 
swerable for her. If he could not make her happy, 
she would at least be safe. 
When she had exhausted her arguments, which 
were something of a shock to him, she fell into a 
dreary, sullen silence. Each day her chain grew 
 
heavier. Why had she not a right to snap it ? 
Ah, if she had some money of her very own ! 
The spring came on, and, to Palmer, Westhorpe 
had never seemed so lovely, nor the old farm-house 
so dear. Yet he wondered if he might not make 
the concession for Bessie's sake. The house needed 
painting and repairing, and if they went to a hotel 
for a month, it would be pleasanter. His business 
interests were increasing, and he was often en 
gaged in the evening. Bessie would have some 
entertainment. 
She rather brightened at the proposal. Then a 
letter came from Mrs. Lowndes that stirred the 
passionate longings of her nature. Violet Fair 
had married her manager. They were forming a 
company to visit the principal Western cities, and 
Miss Fair's experience enabled her to select those 
she was quite sure would be a success. 
"If you were only single and really wanted to 
take up the life, it would be a chance out of a 
thousand for you," wrote Mrs. Lowndes. "Violet 
was so impressed with your grace, ease, and adapt 
ability. She wouldn't give you any encourage 
ment, because you were married, but she said only 
yesterday, ' I wish that pretty Mrs. Palmer wanted 
to try for a season. What a pity she is not a 
widow ! I'd put her in the way of success at once.' 
Your forte is the stage, and it is a shame to be 
buried alive in a humdrum country town. I think 
of going to California with a party who are to take 
up a crusade in behalf of women. It amuses me, 
and one likes fresh pastures now and then. So I 
cannot come to you, but you might come to me 
for a while." 
A chance for her ! The words haunted her 
night and day. That Violet Fair should admit 
that she might be a success ! A feeling of elation 
thrilled through every nerve. She danced about 
the room with a delirious sort of joy, as if she al 
ready saw herself on the stage. Some one had 
said her dancing was a perfect poem. Did not 
the woman who could write a poem rush into 
print, long for publicity ? 
" Bessie," Palmer said that noon, " I find I must 
