" I am glad there is a time when we can believe in 
them : it is the radiant time of youth. What did 
that little smile hide, and half b.etray? Confess! ' 
" Are you so very old ? ' 
The charming gravity was irresistible. 
" Seven and twenty, and I am beginning to 
worship Thackeray. At seven and thirty, he will 
be one of my passions, I know. Now and then I 
come to a sentence that goes to my heart. No, do 
not read him yet awhile, unless it is some of the 
little things. There is 'Dr. Birch and his Young 
Friends ; ' and if you want to be amused you must 
read his continuation of ' Ivanhoe.' But then you 
will have neither heroines nor heroes left. And if 
you and Miss Daisy want to laugh beyond measure, 
get the ' Rose and the Ring,' that he wrote for his 
two little girls." 
" Oh," said Hanny, " are they at home, in 
England?" 
" Yes, with an aunt." 
" Haven't they any mother? ' 
" They have no mother," he said gravely. 
Years later, the novelist was to be one of the 
little girl's heroes, when she knew all the bravery 
of his life, and why his little girls were without a 
mother. 
Joe and Daisy returned, and there was a pleas- 
ant rencontre ; then Delia and Ben came up, and 
they had a merry chat and a promenade. 
" I wonder," as the musicians began tuning 
again, " if you are engaged for all the dances. 
Could I be allowed one?' 
He took up her card. 
"I have been dancing so much already; but 
Mrs. Jasper said I might try the Spanish dance." 
" Oh, then try it with me ! I am not too old to 
dance, if I have come to adoring Thackeray. And 
I am to go away soon." 
"To go away- -where?' And she glanced up 
with an interest that gave him a quick sense of 
pleasure. 
" To Hamburg first ; then to find some relations." 
" In Germany? But you are not a German? ' 
in surprise. 
" I ought to be a Dane, if one's birth counts for 
anything ; and if one's ancestors count, then an 
old Dutch Knickerbocker," he returned, with a 
soft, amused laugh. " But I believe I cannot boast 
of any English descent, such as the son of a hun- 
dred earls. That doesn't sound as poetic as the 
daughter of a hundred earls." 
 
" Who was not one to be desired," interposed 
the young girl. 
"Ah, you read Tennyson then? It is odd, but 
a good many of us begin on poetry. I like it very 
much myself." 
A touch of thought settled between Hanny's 
brows. 
" Are you wondering about my mixed lineage? 
Part of it came from the old Dutch governor, 
Jacob Leisler. My grandfather went to Germany, 
and ran away with a lady of high degree, and 
brought her back to America, where my father 
was born, and lived all his young life, until his 
marriage. Then business took him abroad, and 
I was born ; and my mother died at Copenhagen. 
My father is connected with the importing house 
of Strang, Zahner, & Co., of which Mr. Jasper is a 
member. He is married again, to a very sweet, 
amiable German woman. Oh, here we are to take 
our places ! ' 
Hanny hesitated an instant. She longed to 
have Mrs. Jasper's approbation. 
" We have been looking for you," said Ben. 
" Let us begin in the one set. Here is Daisy and 
Joe." 
Then it would be all right. She glanced up and 
smiled with cordial assent. 
The old-fashioned Spanish dance was a great 
favourite at that time, when germans were un- 
known. Its graceful turns and windings, its 
stately balances, until the dancers seemed all 
one long elegant chain, that moved to the perfect 
time of the music, was indeed fascinating. People 
danced then. Youth never dreamed of being 
bored, and walking languidly. Every movement 
was delicate and refined. 
Was she really in some enchanted country? 
When Mr. Andersen was compelled to leave her, 
he glanced over or past his partner with an expres- 
sion so near a smile that Hanny's pulses quickened. 
When he came back, the light touch of his hand 
gave her a little thrill that was quite delicious. 
Now and then they had a bit of conversation. 
Once he said, in his charming fashion, that was 
admiration rather than criticism : - 
" Why, you are very petite ! ' 
" Yes ; I am not the tall, slim English girl." 
"I am very glad. We dance so well together; 
I wish I were not going away so soon. And you 
can't guess- -you will think it strange, - - to Ameri- 
can ideas it is ; but when I go back I have to hunt 
up a descendant of this grandmother of high de- 
gree who has been making matrimonial overtures 
to my father on my behalf." 
" Oh, that is like a story ! And what will you do ?" 
" I will think about it, and answer you when you 
return to me." 
He gave her to the next partner, with a graceful 
inclination of the head. 
There were numberless evolutions before he 
could take her again. She glanced up out of 
sweet, questioning eyes. 
" I 've been considering," he resumed, as if they 
had not parted. " You see, it is this way. My 
 
father is very, very fond of me, though there are 
other children. Then I have my mother's fortune, 
which he has been very watchful of. He is a 
splendid, upright, honourable man. Now, if your 
father asked such a thing of you, what I mean is, 
if he asked you to see some one and learn how 
well you could like her or him- 
She was off again. Oh, what a sweet little fairy 
she was! What poet wrote about twinkling feet? 
Hers certainly twinkled in their daintiness. He 
had not considered her prettiness at first ; now it 
seemed as if she was exquisitely fair, with that soft 
pink in her cheeks. 
" Yes. Do you not believe you would go to 
please him, and see? And you might not like her, 
and she might not like you. But sometimes peo- 
ple do take sudden fancies. What do you think, 
looking at it out of an American girl's eyes?" 
" I should go for my father's sake." 
There was such a delicate gravity in her clear 
eyes as she raised them a little. 
"Thank you," he returned softly. "What an 
odd thing to talk of in the midst of our dancing ! 
When you are older, you will find people making a 
confidante of you very often, you seem so serious 
and truthful." 
They were coming down to the end of the wind- 
ing chain ; Mr. and Mrs. Jasper stood there. One 
more figure, and the cornet and horns and violins 
gave three long breaths of melody and stopped. 
" My dear children," said Mrs. Jasper, as she 
stretched out her hand. " Daisy, you will be in 
bed all day to-morrow ! Your mother will never 
trust me with you again, Hanny; I didn't think it 
would be so long." 
" But it was so delightful, mamma." Daisy was 
in a tumult of pleasure. 
" We must go at once. Mr. Jasper will be back 
by the time we have found our wraps. Doctor, I 
can't thank you for making such a patient martyr 
of yourself, only you are always so good. Hanny, 
have you had a nice time?' 
" It has been splendid," with a long, long breath, 
