
It was a hot place, but the men worked coolly on, determined that their
orders should be executed at all hazards. By rapid work one piece of the
cable was cut, but that was not enough. Another cut must be made at
least fifty feet away, so that the Spaniards could not repair it by
splicing. As the last strands parted and the free end of the cable fell
back into the water, it was discovered that the sailor held the shore
end in his grasp, and that to complete their work they must now draw
closer to the fire of their enemies.

"Fifty feet nearer shore!" exclaimed the lieutenant, and the crew
grasped the oars and unflinchingly began to carry out the order.

The shots of the Spaniards began to tell. Bullets splintered the sides
of the boat, and they had not moved but a few feet from the spot when
another volley severely wounded two of the men.

Wilson, the man who had been so active, fell into the bottom of the boat
severely wounded in the shoulder, and another sailor who was near where
Clif sat, was shot in the thigh. But the boat kept on, rowing nearer and
nearer.

Clif resigned the tiller to the lieutenant, while he bound up the men's
wounds and comforted them as best he could. Then he jumped back to the
tiller.

This was an unfortunate move for him, for in that position he and the
lieutenant were the most conspicuous figures in the boat, and the
Spanish riflemen were making every effort to pick off the officer. A
bullet, intended for the lieutenant, struck Clif in the arm as he took
his place.

"Are you wounded?" shouted the officer above the din, noticing that Clif
momentarily paled.

"It is nothing," replied Clif, resolutely clinching his teeth and
continuing to guide the boat.

Just then the welcome sound of the firing of cannon to seaward reached
their ears.

"It is the New York!" cried Clif. "She is taking a hand in the
scrimmage!"

It was true. With deadly accuracy, the flagship was hurling shrapnel
shell over the heads of the bluejackets into the battery on shore.

And thus between the two fires the little band in their frail boat
continued coolly with their labors, Clif assisting those who became
wounded wholly unmindful of the fact that he himself was bleeding
freely.

But it was soon over. The terrible havoc of the well-directed shrapnel
shot from the New York quickly silenced the masked battery and dispersed
the gunners and the cutting of the cable received no further
interruption from the Spanish forces.

They were enthusiastically received upon their return to the flagship,
bearing a section of the cable to be cut up as souvenirs. The wounded
were tenderly cared for, and Clif himself examined the nature of his own
injury. Fortunately, though it had bled freely, it was but a slight
flesh wound, which gave him no uneasiness after being properly bandaged.

This operation was just completed, when a jaunty young ensign appeared,
and turning to Clif, said:

"Cadet Faraday, you are requested to report to the rear admiral at
once."

Clif saluted and promptly followed the officer.




CHAPTER XXIII.

A PERILOUS DETAIL.


Clif did not have long to speculate upon the cause of the summons. The
ensign led the way to the rear admiral's cabin, knocked, and with Clif
closely following, entered. He then saluted and went out again, leaving
the cadet alone with the officer.

Rear Admiral Sampson noticed the paleness of Clif's face, and
thoughtfully directed him to sit down.

"I hear that you were wounded while cutting the cable," he said at once.
"You were under hot fire while it lasted, and I am proud of the way the
men behaved. I am told that you did not give up the tiller in spite of
your injuries."

Clif, though pleased to receive the praise of the rear admiral, bore
himself modestly. It did not seem to him that he had done any brave act.

"My wound was slight, sir," he said quickly. "It has been properly
dressed, and gives me no trouble."

"I am glad to hear that," replied the officer, "for I have an especial
mission upon which I desire to send you, but of course would not think
of your going if it should endanger your health. Other danger you do not
seem to fear."

Clif reassured the officer that he was ready and able to undertake any
mission intrusted to him.

"It is briefly this," continued the rear admiral. "While you were out
with the boat, I received a communication by the dispatch boat saying
that a courier from the Cuban chief, Gomez, is to be at a certain spot
near, the coast to-night, bearing important dispatches from the
insurgents. It is necessary that we send some one to meet him, and your
previous experience on Cuban soil and your knowledge of the Spanish
language recommend you as the leader of the party. Are you prepared to
go? There may be danger----"

Clif eagerly interrupted him. To his mind it seemed a great honor, as it
really was to be placed in command of so important a mission, and he
counted no danger great enough to cause him to hesitate.

He told the rear admiral as much, forgetting in his eagerness for active
service, that he was but a cadet.

"Then it is settled," said the rear admiral. "To-night the New York will
reach a spot nearly opposite the place of meeting, and you will be ready
with a party of ten, whom you may select. Here is a diagram of that part
of the coast, indicating the appointed spot where the courier is to be
met."

He handed Clif a roughly drawn map, which the latter examined curiously.

"I know the spot well," he exclaimed, after looking at the diagram for a
moment.

"All the better," said the rear admiral.

Then after some further directions and instructions from the officer,
Clif saluted and took his leave, happy in the thought that he had been
singled out for such important duty and that he would have this
opportunity of active work.

He was really glad, though he would hardly admit it to himself, to be
permitted to seek some rest during the day, for his wound was painful,
if not serious.

It was late at night when, with a picked company of ten men, all armed,
Clif parted company with the flagship and steered his boat toward the
shore. The New York had dropped them near the appointed spot, but it had
been deemed prudent not to take the ship near enough to attract
attention to the intended destination of Clif and his crew. They
therefore had considerable distance yet to row before touching land.

"I know the coast pretty well along here," thought Clif, as he set in
the stern, tiller ropes in hand. "We'll get there all right."

Success depended upon their own efforts, for the New York slowly steamed
away along the coast and in the opposite direction.

Clif and his party sped along without any uneasiness. It was night and
darkness favored them. There was no reason to think that their presence
there was suspected or their purpose known.
