added to their splendour, gave the girl the 
sharpest impression she had yet received of 
the uplifted, the unattainable plains of 
heaven, and yet at the same time caused 
her to thrill with a sense of the high com 
pany she did somehow keep. She was with 
the absent through her ladyship and with 
her ladyship through the absent. The only 
pang but it didn' t matter was the proof 
in the admirable face, in the sightless pre 
occupation of its possessor, that the latter 
hadn't a notion of her. Her folly had gone 
to the point of half believing that the other 
party to the affair must sometimes mention 
in Eaton Square the extraordinary little 
person at the place from which he so often 
wired. Yet the perception of her visitor 's 
blankness actually helped this extraordinary 





little person, the next instant, to take 
refuge in a reflection that could be as proud 
as it liked. How little she knows, how 
little she knows! the girl cried to herself; 
for what did that show after all but that 
Captain Everard 's telegraphic confidant was 
Captain Everard 's charming secret? Our 
young friend 's perusal of her ladyship 's 
telegram was literally prolonged by a 
momentary daze: what swam between her 
and the words, making her see them as 
through rippled, shallow, sun shot water, 
was the great, the perpetual flood of How 
much  I  know how much  I  know! This 
produced a delay in her catching that, on 
the face, these words didn' t give her what 
she wanted, though she was prompt enough 
with her remembrance that her grasp was, 
half the time, just of what was not on the 
face. Miss Dolman, Parade Lodge, Parade 
Terrace, Dover. Let him instantly know 
right one, Hotel De France, Ostend. Make 
it seven nine four nine six one. Wire me 
alternative Burfield's." 





The girl slowly counted. Then he was at 
Ostend. This hooked on with so sharp a 
click that, not to feel she was as quickly 
letting it all slip from her, she had abso 
lutely to hold it a minute longer and to do 
something to that end. Thus it was that 
she did on this occasion what she never did, 
threw off an Answer paid? that sounded 
officious, but that she partly made up for by 
deliberately affixing the stamps and by 
waiting till she had done so to give change. 
She had, for so much coolness, the strength 
that she considered she knew all about Miss 
Dolman. 

Yes paid. She saw all sorts of things 
in this reply, even to a small, suppressed 
start of surprise at so correct an assump 
tion ; even to an attempt, the next minute, 
at a fresh air of detachment. How much, 
with the answer?" The calculation was not 
abstruse, but our intense observer required 
a moment more to make it, and this gave 
her ladyship time for a second thought. 
Oh, just wait! The white, begemmed 





hand bared to write rose in sudden nervous 
ness to the side of the wonderful face which, 
with eyes of anxiety for the paper on the 
counter, she brought closer to the bars of 
the cage. I think I must alter a word! 
On this she recovered her telegram and 
looked over it again; but she had a new, 
obvious trouble, and studied it without 
deciding and with much of the effect of 
making our young woman watch her. 

This personage, meanwhile, at the sight 
of her expression, had decided on the spot. 
If she had always been sure they were in 
danger, her ladyship 's expression was the 
best possible sign of it. There was a word 
wrong, but she had lost the right one, and 
much, clearly, depended on her finding it 
again. The girl, therefore, sufficiently 
estimating the affluence of customers and 
the distraction of Mr. Buckton and the 
counter-clerk, took the jump and gave it. 
Isn' t it Cooper 's? 

It was as if she had bodily leaped cleared 
the top of the cage and alighted on her 





interlocutress. Cooper 's? the stare was 
heightened by a blush. Yes, she had made 
Juno blush. 

This was all the more reason for going 
on. I mean instead of Burfield 's. 

Our young friend fairly pitied her; she 
had made her in an instant so helpless, and 
yet not a bit haughty nor outraged. She 
was only mystified and scared. Oh, you 
know ? 

Yes, I know! Our young friend smiled, 
meeting the other 's eyes, and, having made 
Juno blush, proceeded to patronise her. 
To do it she put out a competent hand. 
Her ladyship only submitted, confused and 
bewildered, all presence of mind quite gone ; 
and the next moment the telegram was in 
the cage again and its author out of the shop. 
Then quickly, boldly, under all the eyes 
that might have witnessed her tampering, 
the extraordinary little person at Cocker 's 
made the proper change. People were 
really too giddy, and if they were, in a cer 
tain case, to be caught, it shouldn't be the 





fault of her own grand memory. Hadn't it 
been settled weeks before? for Miss Dol 
man it was always to be Cooper 's. 



XIV 

But the summer holidays brought a 
marked difference; they were holidays for 
almost every one but the animals in the cage. 
The August days were flat and dry, and, 
with so little to feed it, she was conscious of 
the ebb of her interest in the secrets of the 
refined. She was in a position to follow the 
