of a previous statement on your part which some people think it so clever
to make when they question you.
I always hate it, and I avenged myself by answering simply, “Bless my
soul, he has no business!” and letting him take up the word now or not,
as he liked.
“Then he is a man of independent means?”
I could not resist answering, “Independent means?  Kendricks has no means
whatever.”  But having dealt this blow, I could add, “I believe his
mother has some money.  They are people who live comfortably.”
“Then he has no profession?” asked Mr. Gage, with a little more
stringency in his smile.
“I don’t know whether you will call it a profession.  He is a writer.”
“Ah!” Mr. Gage softly breathed.  “Does he write for your—paper?”
I noted that as to the literary technicalities he seemed not to be much
more ignorant than Kendricks’s own family, and I said, tolerantly, “Yes;
he writes for our magazine.”
“Magazine—yes; I beg your pardon,” he interrupted.
“And for any others where he can place his material.”
This apparently did not convey any very luminous idea to Mr. Gage’s mind,
and he asked after a moment, “What kind of things does he write?”
“Oh, stories, sketches, poems, reviews, essays—almost anything, in fact.”
The light left his face, and I perceived that I had carried my revenge
too far, at least for Kendricks’s advantage, and I determined to take a
new departure at the first chance.  The chance did not come immediately.
“And can a man support a wife by that kind of writing?” asked Mr. Gage.
I laughed uneasily.  “Some people do.  It depends upon how much of it he
can sell.  It depends upon how handsomely a wife wishes to be supported.
The result isn’t usually beyond the dreams of avarice,” I said, with a
desperate levity.
“Excuse me,” returned the little man.  “Do you live in that way?  By your
writings?”
“No,” I said with some state, which I tried to subdue; “I am the editor
of Every Other Week, and part owner.  Mr. Kendricks is merely a
contributor.”
“Ah,” he breathed again.  “And if he were successful in selling his
writings, how much would he probably make in a year?”
“In a year?” I repeated, to gain time.  “Mr. Kendricks is comparatively a
beginner.  Say fifteen hundred—two thousand—twenty-five hundred.”
“And that would not go very far in New York.”
“No; that would not go far in New York.”  I was beginning to find a
certain pleasure in dealing so frankly with this hard little man.  I
liked to see him suffer, and I could see that he did suffer; he suffered
as a father must who learns that from a pecuniary point of view his
daughter is imprudently in love.  Why should we always regard such a
sufferer as a comic figure?  He is, if we think of it rightly, a most
serious, even tragical figure, and at all events a most respectable
figure.  He loves her, and his heart is torn between the wish to indulge
her and the wish to do what will be finally best for her.  Why should our
sympathies, in such a case, be all for the foolish young lovers?  They
ought in great measure to be for the father, too.  Something like a sense
of this smote me, and I was ashamed in my pleasure.
“Then I should say, Mr. March, that this seems a most undesirable
engagement for my daughter.  What should you say?  I ask you to make the
case your own.”
“Excuse me,” I answered; “I would much rather not make the case my own,
Mr. Gage, and I must decline to have you consult me.  I think that in
this matter I have done all that I was called upon to do.  I have told
you what I know of Mr. Kendricks’s circumstances and connections.  As to
his character, I can truly say that he is one of the best men I ever
knew.  I believe in his absolute purity of heart, and he is the most
unselfish, the most generous—”
Mr. Gage waved the facts aside with his hand.  “I don’t undervalue those
things.  If I could be master, no one should have my girl without them.
But they do not constitute a livelihood.  From what you tell me of Mr.
Kendricks’s prospects, I am not prepared to say that I think the outlook
is brilliant.  If he has counted upon my supplying a deficiency—”
“Oh, excuse me, Mr. Gage!  Your insinuation—”
“Excuse me!” he retorted.  “I am making no insinuation.  I merely wish
to say that, while my means are such as to enable me to live in comfort
at De Witt Point, I am well aware that much more would be needed in New
York to enable my daughter to live in the same comfort.  I’m not willing
she should live in less.  I think it is my duty to say that I am not at
all a rich man, and if there has been any supposition that I am so, it is
a mistake that cannot be corrected too soon.”
This time I could not resent his insinuation, for since he had begun to
speak I had become guiltily aware of having felt a sort of ease in regard
to Kendricks’s modesty of competence from a belief, given me, I suspect,
by the talk of Deering, that Mr. Gage had plenty of money, and could come
to the rescue in any amount needed.  I could only say, “Mr. Gage, all
this is so far beyond my control that I ought not to allow you to say it
to me.  It is something that you must say to Mr. Kendricks.”
As I spoke I saw the young fellow come round the corner of the street,
and mount the hotel steps.  He did not see me, for he did not look toward
the little corner of lawn where Mr. Gage and I had put our chairs for the
sake of the morning shade, and for the seclusion that the spot afforded
us.  It was at the angle of the house farthest from our peculiar corner
of the piazza, whither I had the belief that the girl had withdrawn when
she left me to her father.  I was sure that Kendricks would seek her
there, far enough beyond eyeshot or earshot of us, and I had no doubt
that she was expecting him.
“You are Mr. Kendricks’s friend—”
“I have tried much more to be Miss Gage’s friend; and Mrs. March—”  It
came into my mind that she was most selfishly and shamelessly keeping out
of the way, and I could not go on and celebrate her magnanimous
impartiality, her eager and sleepless vigilance.
“I have no doubt of that,” said the little man, “and I am very much
obliged to you for all the trouble you have taken on my daughter’s
account.  But you are his friend, and I can speak to you much more fully
and frankly than I could to him.”
I did not know just what to say to this, and he went on: “In point of
fact, I don’t think that I shall speak to him at all.”
“That is quite your affair, my dear sir,” I said dryly.  “It isn’t to be
supposed that you would seek an interview with him.”
“And if he seeks an interview with me, I shall decline it.”  He looked at
me defiantly and yet interrogatively.  I could see that he was very
angry, and yet uncertain.
“I must say, then, Mr. Gage, that I don’t think you would be right.”
“How, not right?”
“I should say that in equity he had a full and perfect right to meet you,
and to talk this matter over with you.  He has done you no wrong whatever
in admiring your daughter, and wishing to marry her.  It’s for you and
her to decide whether you will let him.  But as far as his wish goes, and
his expression of it to her, he is quite within his rights.  You must see
that yourself.”
“I consider,” he answered, “that he has done me a wrong in that very
thing.  A man without means, or any stated occupation, he had no business
to speak to my daughter without speaking to me.  He took advantage of the
circumstances.  What does he think?  Does he suppose I am made of
money?  Does he suppose I want to support a son-in-law?  I can tell you
that if I were possessed of unlimited means, I should not do it.”  I
began to suspect that Deering was nearer right, after all, in his
representations of the man’s financial ability; I fancied something of
the anxiety, the tremor of avarice, in his resentment of poor Kendricks’s
possible, or rather impossible, designs upon his pocket.  “If he had any
profession, or any kind of business, I should feel differently, and I
should be willing to assist him to a reasonable degree; or if he had a
business training, I might take him in with me; but as it is, I should
have a helpless burden on my hands, and I can tell you I am not going in
for that sort of thing.  I shall make short work of it.  I shall decline
to meet Mr. Hendricks, or Kendricks, and I shall ask you to say as much
to him from me.”
“And I shall decline to be the bearer of any such message from you, Mr.
Gage,” I answered, and I saw, not without pleasure, the bewilderment that
began to mix with his arrogance.
“Very well, then, sir,” he answered, after a moment; “I shall simply take
my daughter away with me, and that will end it.”
The prim little, grim little man looked at me with his hard eyes, and set
his lips so close that the beard on the lower one stuck out at me with a
sort of additional menace I felt that he was too capable of doing what he
said, and I lost myself in a sense of his sordidness, a sense which was
almost without a trace of compassion.
It seemed as if I were a long time under the spell of this, and the sight
of his repugnant face; but it could really have been merely a moment,
when I heard a stir of drapery on the grass near us, and the soft, rich
voice of Miss Gage saying, “Papa!”
We both started to our feet.  I do not know whether she had heard what he
said or not.  We had spoken low, and in the utmost vehemence of his
speech he did not lift his voice.  In any case, she did not heed what he
said.
“Papa,” she repeated, “I want you to come up and see Mrs. March on the
piazza.  And—Mr. Kendricks is there.”
I had a wild desire to laugh at what followed, and yet it was not without
its pathos.  “I—I—hm! hm!  I—cannot see Mr. Kendricks just at present.
I—the fact is, I do not want to see him.  It is better—not.  I think you
had better get ready to go home with me at once, daughter.  I—hm!—cannot
approve of any engagement to Mr. Kendricks, and I—prefer not to meet
him.”  He stopped.
Miss Gage said nothing, and I cannot say that she looked anything.  She
simply clouded up, if I may so express the effect that came and
remained upon her countenance, which was now the countenance she had
