stepped over the Bridal Veil backward? Do tell me all about it!"

Helena was staring at Magdaléna with her mouth half open. She was the
least obtuse of mortals, but although she knew that pride was at the
root of Magdaléna's extraordinary behaviour, she concluded that love had
fled, and marvelled, for she had believed Magdaléna to be the deepest
and most tenacious of women. But she was very glad.

"Well!" she exclaimed. "Something has improved you! You will be fairly
brilliant by next winter. And do for goodness' sake, 'Léna, give Don
Roberto to understand that he's not to have his own way. He's like all
bullies: he'd soon give in if you bullied him. I adore papa, and would
do anything on earth for him; but if he had been born a different sort,
and gave me trouble, I'd find more than one way of bringing him to
terms. Just flash your eyes at Don Roberto as you're flashing them at
us, and you'll see the difference it will make."

Has she ceased to love me? thought Trennahan. Thank God!--at least I
ought to.

When they had gone, the sherry had run its course, and Magdaléna felt
very much ashamed of herself. I overdid it, she thought in terror, as
she recalled her scintillating remarks and elaborate manner. He must
have suspected! I'll drink no more, and next time I'll be just what I
would have been if I had never laid eyes on him--if I die in the
attempt. And how I talked! What things I said! Great Heaven, I made a
complete fool of myself!

And the knowledge that for once in her life she had thrown her dignity
and pride to the winds put her other pain to flight, and she had at
least one night unracked by the record within her.




XIX


Two days later she met Trennahan on the Montgomerys' verandah. She was
her old sedate self, to his unspeakable relief. That Magdaléna should
change, be less than the admirable creature he had loved when he was
something more than himself, would have seemed no less a calamity than
had the stars turned black. She sat up very straight in her prim little
way and talked of Helena's new project; which was to build bath-houses
down by the lagoon at Ravenswood and bathe when the tide was in. He told
her that he too had a project: to persuade the men of Menlo to build a
Club House, and thus have some sort of informal social centre. She told
him that she thought that would be nice, and added that she wished she
had a project too, but she was hopelessly unoriginal. Trennahan assured
her that she did herself injustice; and in these admirable platitudes
they pushed along a half-hour like a wheel-barrow, while both thought of
the great oak staring at them from the foot of the garden.

It will come easier with time, she thought that night, as she pulled her
clothes off with heavy fingers. I can almost look him in the eyes
without wanting to fling myself at him. His voice does not matter so
much, for I always hear it anyway. They say that when you no longer hear
a person's voice in your memory the love has gone too. They will be away
for a year after they marry. Perhaps I shall forget then. My memory is
not very good.

She opened the upper drawer of her bureau and lifted out her large
handkerchief box. In its lower part, carefully hidden away, were
Trennahan's letters, several of his faded boutonnières, and one of his
gloves. She had made up her mind the day she heard of his engagement to
Helena that these things must be burnt, but had dreaded their sight and
touch. Now, however, they must go. She was always conscious of their
presence; something of her weakness might pass with their destruction.
As she lifted out the handkerchiefs she came upon the dagger. It was a
beautiful toy, but she pushed it aside resentfully. Its magic was not
for her. She gathered up her tokens with trembling fingers, resisted the
impulse to sit down and weep over them, laid them in the grate, and
flung a bunch of lighted matches into the pyre.

       

Helena immediately gave a party. The Belmont house, like most of the
others of Menlo, had been designed for comfort rather than for
entertaining; but the dining-room was large, and when stripped of the
many massive pieces of furniture which Colonel Belmont had brought from
his Southern home, would have accommodated more dancing folk than the
neighbours and their guests. The famous Four were not present; nor were
they seen in Menlo that summer. Immediately after the announcement of
Helena's engagement some cruel wag had sent each a miniature tub with
"For Tears" inscribed with black paint upon the bottom. It was generally
supposed that the afflicted quartette were spending their leisure over
these tubs, for they had retired into as complete an obscurity as their
various callings would permit. Helena told Magdaléna that she lived in
terror of their poisoned or perforated bodies being found in the dark
byways of Golden Gate Park; but the youth of the modern civilisation,
while amenable to suffering, thinks highly of himself as a factor in
current history.

Trennahan was not allowed to spend the evening in the smoking-room with
the older men; he must keep himself in sight even while his Helena was
dancing with another. He wandered about with a grim smile on his mouth,
talking occasionally to the older ladies who sat in a corner;
wall-flowers there were none. He wished that Magdaléna would take pity
on him, for he was unmercifully bored; but she danced with exasperating
regularity. Occasionally Helena slipped her hand through his arm and
took him out in the garden, purring upon his shoulder and begging him
not to be bored; but she must look at him! If he insisted upon it, she
would not dance. He refused to countenance such a sacrifice, and
protested that he was just beginning to understand the pleasure of
evening parties. Once he did slip away, and was lying, with his coat
off, a cigar between his lips, crosswise on a bed upstairs with Colonel
Belmont and Mr. Washington, when he received a peremptory message to go
downstairs at once. He threw his cigar away, jerked himself into his
coat, and left the room with jeering condolences in his wake. He felt
cross for the moment; but when he reached the hall below he smiled
humorously as he met the protesting eyes of his lady.

"I can't bear to have you out of my sight!" she exclaimed. "It's
horribly selfish, but I feel as if everything were a blank when you are
out of the room."

What could a man do in the face of so much beauty and so much affection,
but to vow to hold up the wall for the rest of the evening?

As he was taking Magdaléna to her carriage a little after midnight, she
said to him shyly,--

"I hope you are quite happy."

And he answered with unmistakable fervour, "I am indeed."

Mrs. Yorba was detained by Mrs. Cartright, who was delivering herself of
many words.

"Do you believe that love is everything in life?" Magdaléna asked him.

"By no means. Not even to woman, in spite of the poets. It induces
intense concentration for the time, consequently looms larger in the
affairs of life than the million other scraps that go to make up the
vast patchwork. But it is as well to remember that it is but an
occasional patch in the quilt, even if it be of the most vivid hue. And
there is a lot to be got out of the other patches!"

"If you lost Helena, could you feel like that?"

"In time; beyond a doubt. Memory simply cannot hold water beyond a
certain strain; there comes a rift at last, and the flood pours
through."

"Then if you lost Helena, should you feel as--as--you did when you came
here first? You were--tired of everything--you remember. You told
me--you don't mind my speaking of it?" She was aghast at her
inconsistency, but the magnet in the man was as irresistible as ever.

"Mind? From you? I have never talked to a human being about myself as I
have talked to you. I don't know what would happen to me in such an
event. I am neither a fool nor a drunkard, remember. I think I should
seek entirely new, barely comprehended, lands,--the South Sea Islands,
for instance. I have wasted my life. I have neither the energies nor the
ambitions to pull up now. I should simply seek new oranges and squeeze
them dry. There are always the intellectual pleasures, you know. I
should not be proud of myself, but I should get through the remaining
years somehow."

"There was something else--I should not speak of it--"
