in figure, but past middle age if one judged by his 
hard features and already furrowed brow ; his deep 
grey eyes looked steadily ahead from beneath black 
eyebrows which contrasted oddly with hair that was 
already iron-grey. There was something immovable 
and fateful about the clean-shaven jaw, the broad flat 
chin, the wide strong mouth — something strangely 
durable that contrasted with the rich softness of his 
splendid dress, as though the man, and what the man 
meant, were to outlive the fashions of the world. 

The boy who rode by his near side, a lad of little 
more than twelve years, was both like him and 
unlike. Sturdy, broad, short-legged, square beyond 
his age, any one could see that he was never to 
inherit his father's beauty of proportion and grace 
of bearing ; but there was something in his face 
that promised all his father's strength and an even 
greater independence. The grey eyes were the same, 
but nearer together, and almost sinister in their gaze, 
even at that age ; the nose was already long and 
rather flat than sharp, and the large straight lips, 
even and close set, would have seemed strong even 
in a grown man's face. The boy sat upon his small 
grey Andalusian horse as if he had lived a lifetime 
in the saddle, but his twelve-year-old hand was 
heavier on the bridle than ever his father's had been. 

There was something in the bearing of the two, 



 

father and son, so kingly and high that Gilbert, who 
had been brought up in Norman courtesy, involun- 
tarily rose in the saddle as much as his long stirrups 
would allow, and lifted his cap from his head, sup- 
posing, as was natural, that he was saluting the lord 
of the lands through which he was travelling. The 
other returned the salutation with a wave of the 
hand, looked sharply at Gilbert, and then, to the lat- 
ter's surprise, drew rein, the lad beside him ranging 
back half a length so as not to be in the way between 
the other two. For a few seconds neither said a 
word. Then the elder man, as though expecting 
something of which the younger was not aware, 
smiled kindly and spoke. His voice was strong and 
manly, but clear and sweet. 

" You are strange here, sir," he said, with some- 
thing more like an assertion than a question in his 
turn. 

"From England, sir," answered Gilbert, bowing 
slightly in the saddle. 

The elder man looked hard at him and knit his 
brows. Few English gentlemen had refused alle- 
giance to King Stephen. 

"From England? And what may you be doing 
in Normandy, young sir? Stephen's friends find 
little friendship here." 

" I am not of them, .sir," answered Gilbert, draw- 
ing himself up somewhat haughtily. " I am rather 
of those who would shorten Stephen's reign by the 
length of his life, and his body by a head." 

The broad, handsome face of the man with whom 
he was speaking relaxed into a smile, and his son, 





who had at first eyed Gilbert with distrust, threw 
back his head and laughed. 

" Then I suppose that you are for the Empress," 
said the man. " But if you are, why are you not 
in Gloucester ? " 

" Sir," answered Gilbert, " being made homeless 
and landless by Stephen, I chose rather to cut a for- 
tune out of the world than to beg one of the Queen, 
who has none left to give." 

" You could fight for her," suggested the other. 

"Ay, sir ; and I have, and will again, if such gentle- 
men of Normandy as you will cross the water and 
fight also. But as the matter stands to-day, whoso- 
ever shall break the truce shall break his own neck, 
without serving the Empress. And meanwhile I 
ride to the Duke of Normandy's court, and if I may 
serve him, I will, but if not, I shall go farther." 

" And who are you, sir, that seek the Duke ? " 

" I am Gilbert Warde, and my fathers held Stoke 
Regis in Hertfordshire from Duke William. But 
Stephen took it when I was lying ill of a wound in 
Sheering Abbey and bestowed it upon another. And 
you, sir? I crave your name." 

" Geoffrey Plantagenet," answered the Duke, 
quietly. " And this is my son Henry, who by 
the grace of God shall yet be King of England." 

Gilbert started at the name, and then noticed for 
the first time that both father and son wore in their 
velvet caps a short dry sprig of the broom-plant. 
He sprang to the ground and came forward on 
foot, bareheaded, and stood beside the Duke's near 
stirrup. 



" Your pardon, my lord," he said ; " I should have 
known you." 

" That might have been hard," answered Geoffrey, 
" since you had never seen me. But as you were on 
your way to find me and wished to serve me, mount 
again and ride with us to Paris, whither we go." 

So Gilbert mounted, and would have fallen back 
in the train among the young squires, behind the five 
ranks of knights who rode after the Duke. But 
Geoffrey would not let him take his place at once, 
for he was glad to have news of the long struggle 
in England, the end of which was to set a Plantage- 
net upon the throne ; and he asked many questions 
which the young man answered as well as he could, 
though some of them were not easy ; and the boy 
Henry listened with grave face and unwinking eyes 
to all that was said. 

" If I had been in my mother's place," he said at 
last, in a pause, " I would have cut off Stephen's head 
in Bristol Castle." 

" And let your uncle Gloucester be put to death 
by Stephen's wife?" Geoffrey looked at his son 
curiously. 

" She would not have done it," answered Henry. 
" There could have been no more war, with Stephen 
dead. But if she had killed my uncle, well, what of 
that ? The crown of England is worth one life, at 
least ! " 

Gilbert heard and wondered at the boy's hardness, 
but held his peace. He was surprised also that the 
Duke should say nothing, and the speech of the one 
and the silence of the other clearly foreshadowed the 


