There was a hurried step behind her. Something im- 
pelled her to turn, and she smiled before she realized that 
she should have looked dignified, and then it was too 
late. 
" I thought I should catch up with you if you did have 
the start. But no invidious comparisons are meant. So 
if you don't object to a companion " 
They had reached the corner, where she halted. 
"You go in that direction to Doctor Carew's," she 
announced, with a little nod. 
"I am going to accompany you to the St. James first, 
wherever that may be. I have almost forgotten New York. 
So I depend on your tender mercies to pilot me. Then 
I shall find my way back to Doctor Carew's, and take 
some car afterward that will bear me swiftly to Central 
Park. Have I not given a concise account of my pur- 
pose ? " 
"But if I said " 
"You will say nothing disagreeable," he interrupted. 
"We shall walk along as amicably as lambs in a clover 
field, after they have feasted. It was so odd to meet you 
the first thing, when I had heard so much about you." 
"A big boy's enthusiasm over some one older than 
himself, who forgets for the nonce how old she really is. 
I liked Bertram very much. I wish we had come soon 
enough to see him again." 
" I suppose it was foolish to care so much about a 
boy's letters. But I was awfully disappointed about not 
coming home. You see father was not so enthusiastic 
about my going to Germany, so I suppose he thought it 
would be a good discipline for me to stay until my time 
was up." 
"And was it? " 
There was a mischievous suggestion in her tone. 
" I suppose it was. Good things are not always pleas- 
ant. Yet I don't see why they should not have been 
made pleasant, for then it would be easier to be good. 
The friction helps to wear out life." 
" Is that German collegiate reasoning ? " 
"It is my reasoning, fresh from Germany." 
Both laughed a little. 
" However, it has helped me to make up my mind. I 
am afraid I shall disappoint father a little. And he is 
such a comfortable father, too. Do you know, Miss Mau- 
rice, that is one of the most fascinating words in the lan- 
guage?" 
« What— comfortable ? " 
" Yes. Think of all it expresses." 
"At peace with all men. Surrounded by numerous 
satisfactions. Happy in your inmost soul." 
"Excellent. You could write a dictionary." 
"And my genius is expended mostly on accounts, and 
keeping the run of engagements present and to come for 
Mrs. Townsend. And here we are at the St. James. May 
I wish you a pleasant call, and a pleasant drive afterward, 
and I may as well go on and say a pleasant life " 
"Do not wish so far. Save something for the next 
time we meet. Adieu," and he bowed. 
CHAPTER IV. 
IN THE RETROSPECT. 
THE St. James was more of a private hotel than 
the apartment house. One could be quite as secluded 
and home-like as one chose. Mrs. Townsend had gath- 
ered up some of her choice belongings that had been 
stored, and the sitting-room looked quite as if some one 
lived there and was not merely waiting to move on. Miss 
Maurice thought of young Beaumanoir's word. It was 
comfortable. What an odd idea for a boyish fellow with 
very limited experience ! 
She was going over the pile of letters when the caller 
was announced. A young woman — three or four years 
older than herself, who was trying to find a place in the 
world where she could help along its essential advance- 
ment, and reach the front ranks herself. She had given 
readings, she had lectured a little, but she was eager for 
higher work. Mrs. Townsend, with all her experience, 
might see an opening or suggest some course — 
Gertrude listened attentively, and made a few notes, 
took the name and address and explained that Mrs. 
Townsend had but recently returned to the city, and 
found so much to do, had to meet so many people, and 
had very little leisure. She would lay the case before 
her, but there was not much doing in the summer, and 
if there was any opening for autumn, Mrs. Townsend 
would do what she could for her. 
Gertrude felt sorry for the tired-looking, unprepossess- 
 
ing girl. To be a success one did need attractiveness, or 
a high order of genius that made itself felt at once. She 
was really thankful she had no wild ambitions for herself, 
and was satisfied with the work that had come to her. 
And what a splendid year it had been — not all rose color 
or heart' s-ease, but she had grown used to the thorny side 
and the little pricks. 
She had adapted herself to her round of duties with 
no great friction, for she had a good deal of common 
sense. How the two older Maurice girls had acquired 
so much, unless some far back ancestor had dowered 
them with it, was a mystery. There were so many at- 
tractive qualities in Mrs. Townsend that Gertrude cheer- 
fully overlooked the occasional fractiousness, for there 
were various incidents to try one's temper. Gertrude 
wondered sometimes why a woman of independent means 
and fine social qualities could not content herself to take 
the best out of life, and let the old world go its own gait. 
Clearly Gertrude Maurice was not a philanthropist. 
There was the delight of wonderful cities, of charming 
and cultivated people, of insufferably ill-bred people, 
who thought money was everything, and were compla- 
cently ignorant ; lectures, concerts, readings, an occa- 
sional theatre, luncheons, suppers, and sometimes an in- 
formal dinner. True, a few people snubbed her with a 
superior air, as if they must make a distinction between 
the lady and the secretary. But on the whole it had 
been a grand time, and the woman and the girl had 
fallen into friendly, as well as excellent business relations. 
There had been one trying week, when Mrs. Town- 
send was absolutely laid aside with influenza, and had to 
forego several choice pleasures. The nurse was a rather 
rigid, consequential person, and even Gertrude was glad 
to have her go and fill the place herself, through the days 
of convalescence. She gave the room a different aspect, 
the chairs no longer looked as if placed for funeral guests. 
The palm stood on the window-ledge, there were bowls 
of flowers about, the rugs slipped off in piles on the floor 
and no one snatched them up. There was a graceful 
touch of disorder, a little reading, a little talk, a choice 
friend admitted. 
"Gertrude," Mrs. Townsend said one day, "you are 
a most comfortable person to have about. You are not 
continually doing useless things and arguing about what 
is best. I can throw my wrap down and you don't rush 
across the room to pick it up. I can wrinkle up my pillow 
and you don't come with a teasing pat that drives me 
distracted. Yet all the little things get done, one hardly 
knows how, just at the right time. And when I am cross 
and flurried you don't get out the thermometer " 
" But I am not a regular nurse," returned Gertrude, 
smilingly. 
" You are good enough nurse for me, only of course 
there were other things for you to do, and I could not 
have taken so much of your time and strength. But you 
have the art. And you are comfortable. That is better 
than being wise and trained." 
"Thank you," Gertrude smiled again. 
"I wonder whether you will be married? The bar- 
gain was that you were to have no lovers this year. It 
was rather selfish." 
"No; it was just right," returned Gertrude, with a 
flush. "It was a business bargain, and I wanted the 
business." 
" Fortunately girls do not marry as young as they did. 
I remember an old great-uncle of mine who had married 
three wives, always quoting — ' Old age is honorable, but 
old maids are abominable. ' Well, as I said, he had saved 
three women from the direful fate. I think now a girl 
has generally a very good time from twenty on to half 
a dozen or so years. She gets some sensible ideas if 
there is any sense to her. So, my advice is to wait until 
you have a good opportunity, and I want to say" — Mrs. 
