"I'll sit down outside, if you don't mind," answered Rupert.

He sat down on a settee on one side of the door. Soon the odor of some
meat which was being fried assailed his nostrils, and gave him the
keenest delight.

In about twenty minutes Sal called him in, and he was glad to accept her
rather unceremonious invitation.

On the table was a dish of meat. He didn't know what kind it was, but it
smelled good. On another plate was some corn bread, but no butter was
provided.

"We ain't got no whiskey," said the woman. "We're sort o' run out, but I
can give you some tea."

"That will do just as well, madam."

Rupert might have said that it would do better, but he saw that the
family were not prohibitionists and might take offense if he spoke
against the use of whiskey.

Rupert had seldom enjoyed a meal more than the one he sat down to in
that rude cabin.

"What kind of meat is this?" he asked.

"Bear meat. Didn't you ever eat any?"

"No, madam."

"We reckon it's good. My man killed the bear."

"It is excellent," said Rupert, and he really meant what he said.

"I'm glad you like it."

Rupert ate till he was ashamed. He had not asked the price of the meal
in advance, for he was fully resolved to eat it, even if it took every
cent he had left to pay for it. But when at last he laid down his knife
and fork he summoned courage to ask how much he must pay.

"I reckon a quarter'll do," said the woman.

Rupert breathed a sigh of relief. It not only came within his means, but
he would have fifty cents left after paying.

Then the woman began to ask questions.

"Where mought you be goin'?" she asked.

Rupert mentioned his destination.

"How far away is that?"

"Nearly a hundred miles."

"Are you travelin' alone?"

"I had a man with me till this morning."

"Where is he now?"

"He got up early, robbed me of all my money and ran off, taking the boat
with him," Rupert answered in indignant tones.

"If he took all your money, how are you goin' to pay for your dinner?"
asked the woman, frowning.

"I have a little money left in silver," said Rupert, producing the
quarter.

"How are you goin' to get back?"

"I don't know. I have no money, and only a raft."

Then an idea came to him.

"If I could find a man who would go back with me, I would pay him well."

"But you have no money."

"Mr. Packard, of Red Gulch, is my friend. He is a rich man and he would
pay for me."

"Do you mean Giles Packard?"

"Yes."

"I know about him. He is rich. Is he your friend?"

"Yes."

Rupert followed up his advantage.

"If I could find a man who would take me to him I would promise him
fifty dollars--and this gun."

The woman's eyes showed her interest. She was fond of money, and fifty
dollars seemed to her a large sum.

"I reckon my man would go along with you," she said slowly. "The fifty
dollars would be sure?"

"Yes, and if I was satisfied with him, I would give him ten dollars
more."

"Mam," said Sal, "you'd better say yes. We'll all be rich if dad gets
sixty dollars."

"When will your husband be home?" asked Rupert, becoming hopeful.

"I reckon he'll be home directly--if you kin wait."

"Oh, yes, I can wait. Has he got a boat?"

"He has a canoe."

"That will do just as well."

"And will you give me the raft?" asked Sal. "You won't want it."

"Yes, you shall have the raft."

Sal was so delighted that she threw her arms round Rupert's neck and
kissed him, much to his confusion.

"Quit that, you Sal. Ain't you got no manners?" said her mother,
sharply. "There's your dad comin' now."

Rupert raised his flushed face, and was indescribably astonished when a
tall Indian entered the cabin.




CHAPTER XXXVII.

AN INDIAN GUIDE.


"Is that your husband?" asked Rupert, in a tone that betrayed his
surprise.

"Yes. What yer gawkin' at? He's enough sight better'n my first husband,
who was a white man. Isn't he, Sal?"

"You bet, mam!"

The Indian, who had an air of natural dignity, seemed pleased with their
tributes to his excellence.

"Yes," continued Sal's mother, "he's my man now. John, this boy wants
you to take him to Giles Packard's ranch."

"It's a long way," said the Indian, slowly.

"Yes, I know that," answered Rupert, "but I am willing to pay you. That
is, I haven't money with me, but Mr. Packard will pay you fifty dollars,
and I will give you my gun besides."
