hour. Do you expect," she asked, "to be able to force 
your child down his throat ?" 

  



He was clearly not prepared with an account of his 
pectations, but he had a general memory that imposed 
itself. " Then why in the world did he make up to us ?" 

  He didn't. We made up to Jiim" 

'' But why in the world — ?" 

'' Well," said Mrs. Brook, really to finish, '' we were 
in love with him.'' 

 '  Oh !" Edward jerked. He had by this time opened 
the door, and the sound was partly the effect of the dis- 
closure of a servant preceding a visitor. His greeting of 
the visitor before edging past and away was, however, of 
the briefest and might have implied that they had met 
but yesterday.  ''•' How d'ye do, Mitchy ? — At home ? 
Oh, rather !" 




xxxni 

Very different was Mrs. Brook's welcome of the 
stored wanderer, to whom, in a brief space, she addressed 
every expression of surprise and delight, though marking 
indeed at last, as a qualification of these things, her re- 
gret that he declined to partake of her tea or to allow hei 
to make him what she called "snug for a talk" in his   
customary corner of her sofa. He pleaded frankly agita- 
tion and embarrassment, reminded her even that he was 
awfully shy and that after separations, complications, 
whatever might at any time happen, he was conscious 
of the dust that had settled on intercourse and that he 
couldn't blow away in a single breath. She was only, ac- 
cording to her nature, to indulge him if, while he walked 
about and changed his place, he came to the surface 
but in patches and pieces. There was so much he want- 
ed to know that — well, as they had arrived only the night 
before, she could judge. There was knowledge, it be- 
came clear, that Mrs. Brook almost equally craved, so that 



 



it even looked at first, as if, on either side, confidence 
might be choked by curiosity. This disaster was finally 
barred by the fact that the spirit of inquiry found for 
.Mitchy material that was comparatively plastic. That was 
;ifter all apparent enough when, at the end of a few vain 
passes, he brought out sociably : "Well, has he done it ?" 

Still indeed there was something in Mrs. Brook's face 
that seemed to reply "Oh come — don't rush it, you 
know !" and something in the movement with which she 
turned away that described the state of their question as 
by no means so simple as that. On his refusal of tea she 
had rung for the removal of the table, and the bell was 
at this moment answered by the two men. Little ensued 
then, for some minutes, while the servants were present; 
she spoke only as the butler was about to close the door. 
"If Mr. Longdon presently comes show him into Mr. 
Brookenham's room if Mr. Brookenham isn't there. If 
he is, show him into the dining-room, and in either case 
let me immediately know." 

The man waited, expressionless. "And in case of his 
asking for Miss Brookenham — ?" 

"He won't !" she replied with a sharpness before which 
her interlocutor retired. "He will !" she then added in 
quite another tone to Mitchy. " That is, you know, he 
perfectly may. But oh the subtlety of servants !" she 
sighed. 

Mitchy was now all there. " Mr. Longdon's in town 
then ?" 

" For the first time since you went away. He's to call 
this afternoon." 

"And you want to see him alone ?" 

Mrs. Brook thought. "I don't think I want to see him 
at all." 

" Then your keeping him below — ?" 

"Is so that he sha'n't burst in till I know, li   you, 
my dear, I want to see." 


  

Mitchy glared about. '  Well, don't take it ill if, in re- 
turn for that, I say that I myself want to see every one. 
I could have done even, just now, with a little more o  
Edward."  

Mrs. Brook, in her own manner and with a slow head- 
shake, looked lovely. '' I  couldn't." Then she puzzled 
it out with a pause :  ' It even does come over me that if 
you don't mind — " 

 '  What, my dear woman," said Mitchy, encouragingly, 
 '' did I ever mind ? I assure you," he laughed, "I haven't 
come back to begin !" 

At this suddenly, dropping everything else, she laid 
her hand on him. '  Mitchy love, are you happy ?" 

So for a moment they stood confronted. "Not pe) 
haps as you would have tried to make me." 

 '•' Well, you've still got me, you know." 

" Oh," said Mitchy,  '' I've got a great deal. How, if 
I really look at it, can a man of my peculiar nature — it 
is, you know, awfully peculiar — not be happy ? Think, 
if one is driven to it, for instance, of the breadth of my 
sympathies." 

Mrs. Brook, as a result of thinking, appeared for a 
little to demur. "Yes — but one mustn't be too much 
driven to it. It's by one's sympathies that one suffers. 
If you should do that, I couldn't bear it." 

She clearly evoked for Mitchy a definite image. "It 
would be funny, wouldn't it ? But you wouldn't have to. 
I'd go off and do it alone somewhere — in a dark room, I 
think, or on a desert island ; at any rate where nobody 
should see. Where's the harm, moreover," he went on, 
"of any suffering that doesn't bore one, as I'm sure, 
however much its outer aspect might amuse some others, 
mine wouldn't bore me ? What I should do in my desert 
island or my dark room, I feel, would be just to dance 
about with the thrill of it — which is exactly the exhibi- 
tion of ludicrous gambols that I would fain have ar- 





 

ranged to spare yon. I assure yon, dear Mrs. Brook' 
he wound np, "that I'm not in the least bored now. 
Everything is so interesting." 

