dotal character was not exactly his own char- 
acter. Just as Philip noticed without being able 
to explain it that his uncle was one sort of a man 
in his religious exercises and observances and 
another sort of man in his dealings with him. 
Children often have recondite thoughts that do 
not get expression until their minds are more 
mature ; they even accept contradictory facts in 
their experience. There was one of the deacons 
c 
 
who was as kind as possible, and Philip believed 
was a good and pious man, who had the reputar- 
tion of being sharp and even tricky in a horse- 
trade. And Philip used to think how lucky it 
was for him that he had been converted and was 
saved ! 
" Are you going to stay here always ?" asked 
Philip, pursuing his own train of thought about 
the city. 
" Here ? I should think not. If I were a boy 
I wouldn't stay here, I can tell you. "What are 
you going to do, Phil, what are you going to 
be?" 
" Oh, I don't know," said Philip, turning over 
on his back and looking up into the blue world 
through the leaves ; " go to college, I suppose." 
Children are even more reticent than adults 
about revealing their inner lives, and Philip 
would not, even to Celia, have confessed the 
splendid dreams about his career that came to 
him that day in the hickory-tree, and that oc- 
cupied him a great deal. 
" Of course," said this wise child, " but that's 
nothing. I mean, what are you going to do ? 
My cousin Jim has been all through college, and 
he doesn't do a thing except wear nice clothes 
and hang around and talk. He says Pm a little 
chatter-box. I hate the sight of him." 
" If he doesn't like you then I don't like him," 
said Philip, as if he were making a general and 
not a personal assertion. " Oh, I should like to 
travel." 
" So should I, and see things and find things. 
Jim says he's going to be an explorer. He never 
will. He wouldn't find anything. He twits me, 
and wants to know what is the good of my read- 
ing about Africa and such things. Phil, don't 
you love to read about Africa, and the desert, 
and the lions and the snakes, and bananas grow- 
ing, and palm-trees, and the queerest black men 
and women, real dwarfs some of them ? I just 
love it." 
" So do I," said Philip, " as far as I have read. 
Alice says it's awful dangerous — fevers and wild 
beasts and savages and all that. But I shouldn't 
mind." 
" Of course you wouldn't. But it costs like 
everything to go to Africa, or anywhere." 
" I'd make a book about it, and give lectures, 
and make lots of money." 
" I guess," said Celia, reflecting upon this propo- 
sition, " rd be an engineer or a railroad man, or 
something like that, and make a heap of money, 
and then I could go anywhere I liked. I just 
hate to be poor. There !" 
" Is Jim poor ?" 
"No; he can do what he pleases. I asked 
him, then, why he didn't go to Africa, and he 
 
wanted to know what was the good of finding 
Livingstone, anyway. I'll bet Murad Ault would 
go to Africa." 
"I wish he would," said Philip; and then, 
having moved so that he could see Celia's face, 
" Do you like Murad Ault?" 
"E"o," replied Celia, promptly; "he's horrid, 
but he isn't afraid of anything." 
" Well, I don't care," said Philip, who was 
nettled by this implication. And Celia, who 
had shown her power of irritating, took anoth- 
er tack. 
"You don't think Pd be seen going around 
with him? Aren't we having a good time up 
here?" 
"Bully!" replied Philip. And not seeing the 
way to expand this topic any further, he sud- 
denly said : " Celia, the next time I go on our 
hill I'll get you lots of sassafras." 
"Oh, I love sassafras, and sweet-flag!" 
" "We can get that on the way home. I know 
a place." And then there was a pause. " Celia, 
you didn't tell me what you are going to do when 
you grow up." 
" Go to college." 
" You ? Why, girls do, don't they ? I never 
thought of that." 
" Of course they do. I don't know whether 
I'll write or be a doctor. I know one thing — I 
 
won't teach school. It's the hatefulest thing 
there is ! It's nice to be a doctor and have your 
own horse, and go round like a man. If it 
wasn't for seeing so many sick people ! I guess 
I'll write stories and things." 
"So would I," Philip confessed, "if I knew 
any." 
" "Why, you make 'em up. Mamma says they 
are all made up. I can make 'em in my head any 
time when I'm alone." 
" I don't know," Philip said, reflectively, " but 
I could make up a story about Murad Ault, and 
how he got to be a pirate and got in jail and was 
hanged." 
" Oh, that wouldn't be a real story. You have 
got to have different people in it, and have 'em 
talk, just as they do in books ; and somebody is 
in love and somebody dies, and the like of that." 
" "Well, there are such stories in The Pirate's 
Own Booh, and it's awful interesting." 
" I'd be ashamed, Philip Burnett, to read such 
a cruel thing, all about robbers and murders." 
" I didn't read it through ; Alice said she was 
going to burn it up. I shouldn't wonder if she 
did." 
"Boys make me tired!" exclaimed this little 
piece of presumption ; and this attitude of su- 
periority exasperated Philip more than anything 
else his mentor had said or done, and he asserted 
 
his years of seniority by jumping up and saying, 
decidedly, " It's time to go home. Shall I carry 
your wreath?" 
" Ho, I thank you !" replied Celia, with frigid 
politeness. 
" Down in the meadow," said Philip, making 
one more effort at conciliation, " we can get 
some tiger-lilies, and weave them in and make 
a beautiful wreath for your mother." 
"She doesn't like things fussed up," was the 
gracious reply. And then the children trudged 
along homeward, each with a distinct sense of 
injury. 
CHAPTER IV 
Teaits that make a child disagreeable are apt 
to be perpetuated in the adult. The bumptious, 
impudent, selfish, "hateful" boy may become a 
man of force, of learning, of decided capacity, 
even of polish and good manners, and score suc- 
cess, so that those who know him sa,j how re- 
markable it is that such a " knurly " lad should 
have turned out so well. But some exigency in 
his career, it may be extraordinary prosperity or 
bitter defeat, may at any moment reveal the 
radical traits of the boy, the original ignoble 
nature. The world says that it is a "throwing 
back"; it is probably only a persistence of the 
original meanness under all the overlaid culti- 
vation and restraint. 
Without bothering itself about the recondite 
