Clementina and Mrs. Lander looked guiltily at each 
other. " I guess we did," Mrs. Lander owned at last, 
with a reluctant sigh. 
" Then, she says you have a letter for her." 
The doctor spoke to both, but his looks confessed 
that he was not ignorant of the fact when Mrs. Lander 
admitted, " Well Clementina, he e, has." 
" She wants to know why you haven 't delivered it," 
the doctor blurted out. 
Mrs. Lander looked at Clementina. " I guess she 
hain 't quite got round to it yet, have you, Clemen 
tina ? " 
The doctor put in : " Well, Miss Milray is rather a 
dangerous person to keep waiting. If you don 't de 
liver it pretty soon, I shouldn 't be surprised if she 
came to get it." Dr. Welwright was a young man in 
the early thirties, with a laugh that a great many 
ladies said had done more than any one thing for 
them, and he now prescribed it for Clementina. But 
it did not seem to help her in the trouble her face 
betrayed. 
Mrs. Lander took the word, " Well, I wouldn 't say 
it to everybody. But you 're our doctor, and I guess 
you won 't mind it. We don 't like the way Mrs. Mil- 
ray acted to Clementina, in the ship, and we don 't 
want to be beholden to any of her folks. I don 't 
 
know as Clementina wants me to tell you just what it 
was, and I won 't ; but that 's the long and sho t of it." 
" I 'm sorry," the doctor said. . " I 've  never met 
Mrs. Milray, but Miss Milray has such a pleasant 
house, and likes to get young people about her. There 
are a good many young people in your hotel, though, 
and I suppose you all have a very good time here to 
gether." He ended by speaking to Clementina, and 
now he said he had done his errand, and must be 
going. 
When he was gone, Mrs. Lander faltered, " I don 't 
know but what we made a mistake, Clementina." 
" It 's too late to worry about it now," said the girl. 
" We hain 't bound to stay in Florence," said Mrs. 
Lander, thoughtfully. " I only took the rooms by the 
week, and we can go, any time, Clementina, if you are 
uncomf table bein here on Miss Milray 's account. 
We could go to Rome ; they say Home 's a nice place ; 
or to Egypt." 
" Mrs. Milray 's in Egypt," Clementina suggested. 
" That 's true," Mrs. Lander admitted, with a sigh. 
After a while she went on, " I don 't know as we 've  
got any right to keep the letter. It belongs to her, 
don 't it  " 
" I guess it belongs to me, as much as it does to 
her," said Clementina. " If it 's to her, it 's for me. 
I am not going to send it, Mrs. Landa." 
They were still in this conclusion when early in the 
following afternoon Miss Milray 's cards were brought 
up for Mrs. Lander and Miss Claxon. 
"Well, I decla e!" cried Mrs. Lander. "That 
 
docta must have gone straight and told her what we 
said." 
" He had no right to," said Clementina, but neither 
of them was displeased, and after it was over, Mrs. 
Lander said that any one would have thought the call 
was for her, instead of Clementina, from the way Miss 
Milray kept talking to her. She formed a high opin 
ion of her; and Miss Milray put Clementina in mind 
of Mr. Milray ; she had the same hair of chiseled sil 
ver, and the same smile; she moved like him, and 
talked like him ; but with a greater liveliness. She 
asked fondly after him, and made Clementina tell her 
if he seemed quite well, and in good spirits; she was 
civilly interested in Mrs. Milray 's health. At the 
embarrassment which showed itself in the girl, she 
laughed and said, " Don 't imagine I don 't know all 
about it, Miss Claxon ! My sister-in-law has owned 
up very handsomely ; she isn 't half bad, as the English 
say, and I think she likes owning up if she can do it 
safely." 
" And you don 't think," asked Mrs. Lander, " that 
Clementina done wrong to dance that way ? " 
Clementina blushed, and Miss Milray laughed again. 
" If you 'll let Miss Claxon come to a little party I 'm 
giving she may do her dance at my house ; but she 
shain 't be obliged to do it, or anything she doesn 't 
like. Don 't say she hasn 't a gown ready, or some 
thing of that kind ! You don 't know the resources of 
Florence, and how the dress makers here doat upon 
doing impossible things in no time at all, and being 
ready before they promise. If you 'll put Miss Claxon 
 
in my hands, I 'll see that she 's dressed for my dance. 
I live out on one of the hills over there, that you see 
from your windows" she nodded toward them " in 
a beautiful villa, too cold for winter, and too hot for 
summer, but I think Miss Claxon can endure its dis 
comfort for a day, if you can spare her, and she will 
consent to leave you to the tender mercies of your 
maid, and" 
Miss Milray paused at the kind of unresponsive 
blank to which she found herself talking, and put up 
her lorgnette, to glance from Mrs. Lander to Clemen 
tina. The girl said, with embarrassment, " I don 't 
think I ought to leave Mrs. Landa, just now. She 
isn 't very well, and I shouldn 't like to leave her 
alone." 
"But we 're just as much obliged to you as if she 
could come," Mrs. Lander interrupted ; " and later on, 
maybe she can. You see, we hain 't got any maid, 
yit. Well, we did have one at Woodlake, but she 
made us do so many things for her, that we thought 
we should like to do a few things for ouaselves, 
awhile." 
If Miss Milray perhaps did not conceive the situa 
tion, exactly, she said, Oh, they were quite right in 
that ; but she might count upon Miss Claxon for her 
dance, might not she ; and might not she do anything 
in her power for them ? She rose to go, but Mrs. 
Lander took her at her word, so far as to say, Why, 
yes, if she could tell Clementina the best place to get 
a dress she guessed the child would be glad enough 
to come to the dance. 
 
"Tell her!" Miss Milray cried. "I 'll take her! 
Put on your hat, my dear," she said to Clementina, 
" and come with me now. My carriage is at your 
door." 
Clementina looked at Mrs. Lander, who said, " Go, 
of cou se, child. I wish I could go, too." 
" Do come, too," Miss Milray entreated. 
" No, no," said Mrs. Lander, nattered. " I ain 't 
feeling very well, to-day. I guess I 'm better off at 
home. But don 't you hurry back on my account, 
Clementina." While the girl was gone to put on her 
hat she talked on about her. " She 's the best gul in 
the wo ld, and she won 't be one of the poorest ; and 
I shall feel that I 'm doin just what Mr. Landa would 
have wanted I should. He picked her out himself, moa 
than three yea 's ago, when we was drivin past her 
house at Middlemount, and it was to humor him afta 
he was gone, moa than anything else, that I took her. 
Well, she wain 't so very easy to git, either, I can tell 
you." She cut short her history of the affair to say 
when Clementina came back, " I want you should do 
the odderin yourself, Miss Milray, and not let her 
scrimp with the money. She wants to git some vis- 
itin cahds ; and if you miss anything about her that 
she'd ought to have, or that any otha young lady 's 
got, won 't you just git it for her? " 
XXI. 
As soon as she imagined the case, Miss Milray set 
herself to overcome Mrs. Lander 's reluctance from a 
maid. She prevailed with her to try the Italian wo 
man whom she sent her, and in a day the genial Mad- 
dalena had effaced the whole tradition of the bleak 
Ellida. It was not essential to the understanding 
which instantly established itself between them that 
they should have any language in common. They 
babbled at each other, Mrs. Lander in her Bostonized 
Yankee, and Maddalena in her gutteral Florentine, and 
