
Yet, as I can honestly affirm, I had never known, until this black day
when Cousin Molly Belle took me home, what it was to be envious. I was
not exactly fond of my cousin, yet we seldom disagreed openly. She wore
clean frocks and liked to stay indoors and piece bedquilts and knit
stockings and read aloud to my mother. I never willingly spent an hour
in the house when I could get out, and had odd plays of my own which I
kept secret from Mary 'Liza because I was sure she would be shocked, or
laugh at them. I fully recognized the claims of orphanhood to the
buttered side of life, and that a girl who had no father or mother
deserved to be cared for by everybody else.

My parents had arrived late at night, and the trunk was unpacked with
much ceremony the next morning. Under my mother's best new dresses was a
long pasteboard box which she opened, smiling at our expectant faces.
From it she drew the biggest, prettiest doll-baby we had ever seen, in a
blue silk frock with a sash to match. She had real hair, curly and black
as a coal, and round black eyes and a cherry-ripe mouth. I reached out
both hands, and a cry of rapture rushed from my heart to my lips--an
inarticulate gurgle of ineffable happiness.

My mother did not see my gesture. I hope she did not hear the cry. She
laid the doll-baby in Mary 'Liza's arms.

"Mrs. Hutcheson, who was your mother's dearest friend, sent that to you
with her love."

For me there was a trumpery book, with very few pictures, and a good
deal of reading in it--also from Mrs. Hutcheson.

"She thought it might coax you to learn how to read. I was ashamed to
have to say that my little girl does not know her letters yet," said my
much-tried parent. "And your father brought you a Noah's Ark."

I received book and Ark without a word, and marched toward the door, my
heart ready to break.

"What do you say for your presents, Molly?"

I stood stock-still, my eyes on the floor.

My mother quietly and sorrowfully took the painted Ark from my hand.

"When you can say 'thank you,' and stop pouting, you can have it back,"
she said, in gentle severity.

I dashed from the room around the house to the end porch. It was high
enough for me to stand upright under it and the sides were screened by a
climbing sweetbrier. I had often played Daniel in the lion's den there,
assisted by a caste of small colored children. They were the lions, I,
with the choice of parts, electing invariably to play the persecuted
and finally triumphant biped. The fury of forty wild beasts was in my
heart, as I pushed aside the prickly branches and crept into my lair.
The den was paved with bricks, loosely laid. With a pointed stick I
pried one up, and scooped out with my hands a grave deep enough to hold
the hateful book with the few pictures and the much reading. I thrust it
in without benefit of clergy, hustled the earth back upon it, pounded
the brick into place, and lay flat down upon the dishonored tomb.

Mam' Chloe found me there at dinner-time, fast asleep. She dragged me
back to consciousness and the open air by the heels. Not in wanton
cruelty, but she was a large woman, and could get at me in no other way.
While she washed and made me decent in clean frock, apron, and
pantalettes, she scolded me for my "low-lived, onladylike ways," and
warned me of her solemn intention to "tell my mother on me," the next
time such a disgraceful thing happened. I did not mind the lecture. I
knew Mam' Chloe, and she (Heaven rest her white, faithful soul in the
Kingdom where the bond are free!) knew me, I verily believe, better than
the mother that bore me.

Toilet and tirade ended, she slid me, as she might a proscribed book,
through a crack in the side-door into the dining room, where Uncle Ike,
her husband, was in waiting. He, in turn, smuggled me behind my mother's
back to the side-table, there being no room for us children at the main
board that day.

None of the dozen grown-up diners noticed me, or that Mary 'Liza,
sitting prim and dainty on her side of our table, had her doll by her in
another chair, and interrupted her meal, once in a while, to caress her
or to re-arrange her curls and skirts. I affected not to see the
pantomime, which I chose to assume was enacted for my further
exasperation. I was apparently as indifferent to Uncle Ike's shameless
partiality in loading my plate with choice tidbits, such as a gizzard, a
merry-thought, or a cheese-cake, while Mary 'Liza had to ask twice for
what she wanted. What was not tasteless was bitter to my palate. I
wondered, dully, why the sight of the doll-baby and the fuss her owner
made over her, turned me sick. As soon as I could get away, I slipped
down, and out at the friendly side-door, and went to find Musidora.
There was a new bond of union between us. She had no beautiful sister, I
no beautiful daughter. Sitting down upon the hot step, before the
kitchen yard, I hugged her hard and cried a little over her, in a brief,
stormy way. The tears hurt me, as they came, and did not ease the hot
ache in my chest or the lump in my throat.

At this juncture, when my misery was at its height, I heard Mary 'Liza
in the chamber behind me, cooing to, and hushing her doll-baby, with
tones and words copied faithfully from my mother's talk over my
brother's cradle.

"Wouldn't you like to rock her a little while?" she called presently. "I
wouldn't mind if you'd promise not to touch her. Sometimes your hands
are not clean, you know."

I set my jaws savagely outside of my leaping tongue, not moving or
looking up when I felt her standing close by me. Musidora had dropped
from my lap, and lay, face downward, on the step. Mary 'Liza picked her
up, and brushed the dust from her inexpressive visage.

"Poor thing!" purred she. "I hope nothing will ever happen to Rozillah.
Isn't that a love-el-ly? I made it out of my own head from Rosa and
Zillah, two love-el-ly girls I read of in a book."

"I think it is a nasty name," was my deliberate reply.

She recoiled with a fine horror which stung me like a nettle.

"Oh, Molly! what a word for a little lady to use!"

I looked up at her for the first time, my eyes burning in dry sockets.

"I think your doll-baby is nasty, and Rozillah is a nigger name! So
there!"

I could command no worse language, for I knew none.

Mary 'Liza looked shocked and terrified. She glanced right and left and
upward nervously, as fearing the punishment of heaven upon me.

"I am afraid that you are in a very bad humor," she faltered, her
self-possession forsaking her for a moment. "I'd better leave you."

She had gone a dozen paces when she glanced over her shoulder to say, in
her most grown-up and judicial manner:--

"I hope you will not make any noise and wake Rozillah up."

I rose and went straight to the cradle as soon as my cousin was out of
sight. Cold, deadly fury possessed and filled me, casting out fear of
consequences and routing the weakling conscience engendered and
nourished by parental counsel. I plucked Rozillah from her downy bed and
bore her into the air, cuffing her polished red cheeks soundly on the
way. Then I stripped off her gay raiment and knotted the ribbon sash
about her smooth neck. I had never tied a knot before, but this held, as
did the loop I cast over a projecting branch of the sickly
peach-sapling. Naked and forlorn, Rozillah dangled a foot and more from
the ground. I fetched my father's riding-whip from the hall table, and
the last feeble check upon my fury was released.

The next I knew a pair of cool, white arms closed about me and the whip
together, and Cousin Molly Belle's voice, half-laughing, half-horrified,
cried through the roaring in my ears:--

"Dear little Namesake! what has got into you?"

All at once, red mists parted and rolled away from my eyes, and I became
conscious that Mary 'Liza was jumping up and down and screaming
piteously, that everybody was on the spot--my father and mother and all
the dinner company, and Mam' Chloe with the baby in her arms, and a ring
of my small black servitors on the outside of the group; also that all
eyes were focussed on me and what was left of Rozillah.
