
"I never would have believed it," said the young man.

"If you want to take the risk, boss, you might go up and see him. I
believe he's got a carvin'-knife about him, but I don't dare to go up
and get it away. It would be as much as this niggah's life is worth."

"No," answered the young man, hastily. "I don't want to see him. I
never did like crazy folks. I'm sorry I gave you the trouble to come
to the door."

"Oh, no trouble, boss."

"I guess I've fixed dat boy!" chuckled Julius. "Ho, ho! he can't get
ahead of old Julius! Crazy as a loon, ho, ho!"

Dodger waited anxiously for the young man to get through his
interview. He hoped that he would force his way up to the third floor,
draw the bolt, and release him from his imprisonment.

He kept watch at the window, and when the young man reappeared, he
looked at him eagerly. "Did you ask them to let me out?" he shouted.
The other looked up at him with an odd expression of suspicion and
repulsion.

"You're better off where you are," he said, rather impatiently.

"But they have locked me up here."

"And reason enough, too!"

"What makes you say that?"

"Because you're crazy as a loon."

"Did the black man say that?" inquired Dodger, indignantly.

"Yes, he did--said you tried to kill your mother, and had a
carving-knife hidden in the room."

"It's a lie--an outrageous lie!" exclaimed Dodger, his eyes flashing.

"Don't go into one of your tantrums," said the man, rather alarmed;
"it won't do any good."

"But I want you to understand that I am no more crazy than you are."

"Sho? I know better. Where's your carving-knife?"

"I haven't got any; I never had any. That negro has been telling you
lies. Just go to the door again, and insist on seeing me."

"I wouldn't dast to. You'd stab me," said the man, fearfully.

"Listen to me!" said Dodger, getting out of patience. "I'm not crazy.
I'm a newsboy and baggage-smasher. An old man got me to bring his
valise here, and then locked me up. Won't you go around to the
station-house and send a policeman here?"

"I'll see about it," said the young man, who did not believe a word
that Dodger had said to him.

"He won't do it!" said Dodger to himself, in a tone of discouragement.
"That miserable nigger has made him believe I am a lunatic. I'll have
him up, anyway."

Forthwith he began to pound and kick so forcibly, that Julius came
upstairs on a run, half inclined to believe that Dodger had really
become insane.

"What do you want, boy?" he inquired from outside the door.

"I want you to unbolt the door and let me out."

"I couldn't do it, nohow," said Julius. "It would be as much as my
place is worth."

"I will give you a dollar--five dollars--if you will only let me out.
The man who brought me here is a bad man, who is trying to cheat his
cousin--a young lady--out of a fortune."

"Don't know nothin' 'bout that," said Julius.

"He has no right to keep me here."

"Don't know nothin' 'bout that, either. I'm actin' accordin' to
orders."

"Look here," said Dodger, bethinking himself of what had just
happened. "Did you tell that young man who called here just now that I
was crazy?"

Julius burst into a loud guffaw.

"I expect I did," he laughed. "Said you'd got a long carvin'-knife hid
in de room."

"What made you lie so?" demanded Dodger, sternly.

"Couldn't get rid of him no other way. Oh, how scared he looked when I
told him you tried to kill your mother."

And the negro burst into another hearty laugh which exasperated Dodger
exceedingly.

"How long is Mr. Waring going to keep me here? Did he tell you?"
Dodger asked, after a pause.

"No; he didn't say."

"When is he coming here again?"

"Said he'd come to-morrow most likely."

"Will you bring me a light?"

"Couldn't do it. You'd set the house on fire."

It seemed useless to prolong the conversation.

Dodger threw himself on the bed at an early hour, but he did not
undress, thinking there might possibly be a chance to escape during
the night.

But the morning came and found him still a prisoner, but not in the
solitary dwelling.




Chapter XX.
A Midnight Ride.


Curtis Waring had entrapped Dodger for a double purpose.

It was not merely that he thought it possible the boy had the will, or
knew where it was. He had begun to think of the boy's presence in New
York as dangerous to his plans.

John Linden might at any time learn that the son, for whose appearance
he had grieved so bitterly, was still living in the person of this
street boy. Then there would be an end of his hopes of inheriting the
estate.

Only a few months more and the danger would be over, for he felt
convinced that his uncle's tenure of life would be brief. The one
essential thing, then, seemed to be to get Dodger out of the city.

The first step had already been taken; what the next was will soon
appear.

Scarcely had Dodger failed in his attempt to obtain outside assistance
when an unaccountable drowsiness overcame him, considerably to his
surprise.

"I don't know what's come to me," he said to himself. "It can't be
more than seven or eight o'clock, and yet I feel so sleepy I can
hardly keep my eyes open. I haven't worked any harder than usual
to-day, and I can't understand it."
