"And I don't mean to be selfish. If you all think so, it must be right;
but I am sorry, all the same."

"You may get home by Christmas," the doctor said hopefully.




CHAPTER XVI.

IN OLD WASHINGTON.


There were many arrangements to make. Only Mr. and Mrs. Mason knew how
really serious the case might be, and Mrs. Mason felt that she could
not accept the responsibility alone. Dixon, the overseer, was a good
manager and a trusty man, and his wife a very efficient woman. Indeed,
the older house slaves could have run the place without supervision,
but it was well to have a responsible head. Louis would come down
now and then and inspect the financial affairs, and bring Jaqueline
occasionally. It would not be quite like going to London, and Mr. Mason
might return if really needed.

So they packed up and put things in order, and went up to Washington
to settle Annis. Charles seemed really stronger, but the doctor knew
it was only excitement. Patty's house was so pretty and the office so
handy, the boy did not see why he could not remain with her.

The house was quite fine for the times. Land was abundant, and houses
did not have to crowd. There were spacious rooms, for people were
hospitably inclined. Southern women made charming hostesses. In an
ell part the doctor had an office, for he was quite ambitious in his
profession, if he had one eye on the advancement of the City. He had
rented one of his houses, and another was likely to be sold.

There were people who shook their heads dubiously and feared an
invasion; others reasoned there was so little prospect of booty
in Washington compared to the commercial cities, there could be no
possible danger.

Jaqueline had a pretty corner room. Opening into it was a smaller one
devoted to Annis, with its dainty bed curtained with white muslin and
fringe that nodded in the slightest breeze. The floor was painted,
and a rug made by the slaves at home lay at the bedside. Grandmother
had sent Patty the mahogany furnishing of one room that she had
brought from the Mason house when she was married, and it was quite an
heirloom. This was in Jaqueline's room.

The baby went far toward reconciling Annis. A pretty, plump little
thing, with great dark eyes and a fringe of dark hair over a white
forehead, she looked like a picture. Judy, one of the slaves from home,
was her nurse.

Yet the parting was very hard for Annis. The doctor had taken Charles
in his own carriage. They were to go to Baltimore and rest a day or two
and visit some of the connections.

Annis felt at first as if she must be visiting.

"And do you remember we came up to Mr. Madison's inauguration and went
to the Capitol? It seems as if it must have been years and years ago,
so many things have happened since then. And everybody seems grown up
except Charles and I."

"You were a tiny little girl then. I hope you will not be very
homesick; there are so many things to see. And when the horses are sent
up we can take beautiful rides."

Annis swallowed over a lump in her throat.

"The baby will grow and be very cunning. And every week you are to
write to mamma."

"And to Charles. I am not to mind not getting answers from him; it
makes his head ache to write."

"And, then, there are the children at Aunt Jane's. Her baby talks
everything in the funniest crooked fashion. To-morrow we will call on
Madame Badeau. I hope you will like school. It is only in the morning."

"I am fond of learning things if they are not too hard."

"Some of us have to learn quite hard lessons," and Jaqueline sighed.

Madame Badeau lived in a rather shabby-looking rough stone house, quite
small in the front, but plenty large enough for her and a serving-man
and maid, and running back to a pretty garden, where she cultivated all
manner of beautiful flowers, and such roses that lovers of them were
always begging a slip or piece of root. There was a parlor in the front
filled with the relics of better days, and draped with faded Oriental
fabrics that were the envy of some richer people. There was always a
curiously fragrant perfume in it. Next was the schoolroom, entered by
a side door, where there were small tables in lieu of desks, wooden
chairs, and a painted floor that the maid mopped up freshly every
afternoon when the children were gone. Back of this were the living
room and a very tiny kitchen, while upstairs were two rooms under the
peaked roof, where Madame and Bathsheba slept.

Madame was small, with a fair skin full of fine wrinkles. She wore a
row of curls across her forehead, a loosely wound, soft white turban
that gave her a curious dignity, and very high heels that made a little
click as she went around. She was quite delicate, and had exquisite
hands, and wore several curious rings. Her voice was so finely
modulated that it was like a strain of music, and she still used a
good many French words. She had been at the French court and seen the
great Franklin and many other notables, and had to fly in the Reign of
Terror, with the loss of friends and most of her fortune.

Bathsheba, the maid, was nearly six feet tall, and proud of some Indian
blood that gave her straight hair and an almost Grecian nose. She was
proud of her mistress too, and was in herself a bodyguard when Madame
went out. The old man who kept the garden clean and did outside work
was a slave too old for severe labor, and was hired out for a trifle.
At night he went home to sleep at the cabin of a grandchild.

Annis was attracted at once by the soft voice that ended a sentence
with a sort of caressing cadence. And when Jaqueline wrote her name in
full Madame said:

"Bouvier. That is French. Your mamma's maiden name, perhaps?"

"No," returned Annis, with a little color. "It was my own papa, who is
dead. And he could read and talk French. I knew a little, but I was so
young when he died."

"And our father married Mrs. Bouvier some years ago," said Jaqueline,
"so Annis and five of us Mason children constitute the family. Mrs.
Bouvier was cousin to our own mother."

"I shall take great pleasure in teaching you French. Poor France has
had much to suffer. And now that detestable Corsican is on the throne,
with no drop of royal blood in his veins! but you can tell what he
thinks of it when he divorces a good and honorable woman that his son
may inherit his rank. But my nation did not take kindly to a republic.
They are not like you," shaking her turbaned head.

The distance to school was not great, so in fair weather it was a nice
walk. Now the place is all squares and circles and rows of beautiful
houses, but then people almost wondered at the venturesomeness of Dr.
Collaston and Mr. Jettson building houses in country ways; for although
streets were laid out and named, there was little paving. The Mason
tract was on Virginia Avenue, but the others had gone back of the
Executive Mansion, on high ground, and had a fine view of the whole
country; and Georgetown being already attractive, it seemed possible
the space between would soon be in great demand.

Out beyond them were some fine old mansions belonging to the time of
plantations and country settlements. The very last of the preceding
century the Convent of the Visitation had been erected, for so many of
the Maryland gentry were Roman Catholics. There was a school for girls
here, mostly boarding scholars.

Then Rock Creek stretched way up on the heights, threading its path
in and out of plantations where fields were dotted with slaves at
their work, often singing songs with the soft monotonous refrain that
suggested the rhythm of the distant ocean. Occasionally you met a
silvery lake that bosomed waving shadows; then stretches of gigantic
oaks, somber pines, and hemlocks; and now and then a little nest of
Indian wigwams whose inhabitants preferred quasi-civilization.

