
"You're so devilish abrupt, Jim," he said. "Did you get any telegrams
from us?"

"Telegrams? No, sir. When?"

"No matter," said Mr. Delancy.

Another silence, and Harroll said: "Fact is, sir, we were blown out to
sea, and that's how we came here. I fancy Selden wouldn't mind an
invitation to dinner and a chance to dry his clothes."

Selden smiled hopefully and modestly as Mr. Delancy surveyed him.

"Pray accept my hospitality, gentlemen," said Mr. Delancy, with a grim
smile. "I've been ass enough to take a villa in this forsaken place. The
food I have to offer you might be relished by squirrels, perhaps; the
clothing resembles my own, and can be furnished you by the simple
process of removing the sheets from your beds."

He rose, flung the flap of his toga over one shoulder, and passed his
arm through Harroll's.

"Don't you like it here?" asked Harroll.

"Like it!" repeated Mr. Delancy.

"But--why did you come?"

"I came," said Mr. Delancy slowly, "because I desired to be rid of you."

Selden instinctively fell back out of earshot. Harroll reddened.

"I thought your theory was----"

"You smashed that theory--now you've shattered this--you and Catharine
between you."

Harroll looked thoughtfully at Selden, who stood watching two pretty
girls playing handball on the green.

"Young man," said Mr. Delancy, "do you realize what I've been through in
one week? I have been obliged to wear this unspeakable garment, I've
been obliged to endure every species of tomfoolery, I've been fed on
bird seed, deprived of cigars, and sent to bed at half past nine. And
I'm as sound in limb and body as you are. And all because I desired to
be rid of you. I had two theories! both are smashed. I refuse to
entertain any more theories concerning anything!"

Harroll laughed; then his attention became concentrated on the exquisite
landscape, where amid green foliage white villas of Georgia marble
glimmered, buried in blossoming thickets of oleander, wistaria, and
Cherokee roses--where through the trees a placid lake lay reflecting the
violet sky--where fallow-deer wandered, lipping young maple buds--where
beneath a pergola heavily draped with golden jasmine a white-robed
figure moved in the shade--a still, sunny world of green and gold and
violet exhaling incense under a cloudless sky.

"I would like to see Catharine," he said, slowly, "with your
permission--and in view of the fate of the theories."

"Jim," said Mr. Delancy, "you are doubtless unconscious of the trouble
you have created in my family."

"Trouble, sir?" repeated the young man, flushing up.

"Trouble for two. My daughter and I believed you drowned."

Harroll stood perfectly still. Mr. Delancy took a step or two forward,
turned, and came back across the lawn. "She is sitting under that
pergola yonder, looking out to sea, and I'm afraid she's crying her eyes
out for something she wants. It's probably not good for her, either.
But--such as it is--she may have it."

The two men looked at one another steadily.

"I'm rather glad you were not drowned," said Mr. Delancy, "but I'm not
infatuated with you."

They shook hands solemnly, then Mr. Delancy walked over and joined
Selden, who appeared to be fascinated by an attractive girl in Greek
robes and sandals who was playing handball on the green.

"Young man," said Mr. Delancy, "there's always trouble for two in this
world. That young woman with yellow hair and violet eyes who is playing
handball with her sister, and who appears to hypnotize you, is here to
recuperate from the loss of an elderly husband."

"A widow with yellow hair and blue eyes!" murmured Selden, entranced.

"Precisely. Your train, however, leaves to-night--unless you mean to
remain here on a diet of bird-seed."

Selden smiled absently. Bird-seed had no terror for him.

"Besides," he said, "I'm rather good at handball."

A moment later he looked around, presumably for Harroll. That young man
was already half-way to the jasmine-covered arbor, where a young girl
sat, dry-eyed, deathly pale, staring out to sea.

The sea was blue and smiling; the soft thunder of the surf came up to
her. She heard the gulls mewing in the sky and the hum of bees in the
wind-stirred blossoms; she saw a crested osprey plunge into the shallows
and a great tarpon fling its mass of silver into the sun. Paroquets
gleaming like living jewels rustled and preened in the china-trees;
black and gold butterflies, covered with pollen, crawled over and over
the massed orange bloom. Ah, the mask of youth that the sly world wore
to mock her! Ah, the living lie of the sky, and the false, smooth sea
fawning at her feet!

Little persuasive breezes came whispering, plucking at the white hem of
her robe to curry favor; the ingratiating surf purred, blinking with a
million iridescent bubbles. The smug smile of nature appalled her; its
hypocrisy sickened her; and she bent her dark eyes fiercely on the sea
and clinched her little hands.



"Give up my dead!" she whispered. "Give up my dead!"

"Catharine!"

Dazed, she rose to her sandalled feet, the white folds of her robe
falling straight and slim.

"Catharine!"

Her voiceless lips repeated his name; she swayed, steadying herself by
the arm around her waist.

Then trouble for two began.

       

As Williams ended, I looked at him with indignation.

"As far as I can see," I said, "you are acting as attorney for the
defense. That's a fine story to tell a father of two attractive
daughters. You needn't repeat it to them."

"But it happened, old man----"

"Don't call me 'old man,' either. I'll explain to you why." And I did,
peevishly.

After that I saw less of Williams, from choice. He has a literary way
with him in telling a story--and I didn't wish Alida and Dulcima to
sympathize with young Harroll and that little ninny, Catharine Delancy.
So I kept clear of Williams until we arrived in Paris.




[Illustration]

CHAPTER IV

WHEREIN A MODEST MAN IS BULLIED AND A LITERARY MAN PRACTICES STYLE

