with us. We turned upon her six scarlet scandalized 
faces, and what we said, in what brutal child language, 
I do not care to repeat. The child stared at us for a 
moment as if she were looking into the Inferno itself, 
and I expect she was, poor little soul ! Then she gave 
a cry, and tore across the bridge and up the 'pike as 
hard as she could run. As long as we could see her 
she was running, and as I never saw her again we 
avoided the brook after that it seemed to me for 
years as if she must be running still. And for years 
those flying feet haunted me, and I used to long as I 
grew older to do penance in some way. I befriended 
many a poor yellow girl, hoping she might be that child. 
Then life grew too sad for me to remember the sins of 
my childhood. But I like the idea of making penance 
at this late day and receiving this girl for a few weeks 
into my house : it will be a penance, for I do not fancy 
sitting at the table with a woman with negro blood in 
her veins, I can assure you. But I shall do it. I believe if I did not I should be haunted again by those 
little flying feet. There is no chance of this being her 
daughter, for she would have been too old to attract 
.your father's fancy. But that is not the point. I 
make one condition. No one must know the truth, 
not even Sally or Jack. She must pass for a distant 
relative, left suddenly destitute." 
 
" She would probably be the last to wish the truth 
known. But you have taken a weight off my mind, 
Molly dear, and I am deeply grateful to you." 
XII 
THE next day Betty left the train a few minutes after 
two o'clock and walked up the winding street of a 
small village to the parsonage. She passed a number 
of cottages picturesquely dilapidated, a store in which 
a half-dozen men were smoking, and about thirty 
lounging negroes. On rising ground was a large 
house, but the village looked forlorn, neglected, almost 
lifeless. 
The men in the store came out and stared at her ; 
so did the women from the cottages. And the negroes 
stood still. Doubtless they thought her a wealthy 
vision ; the day was cold, and she wore a brown cloth 
dress and a sable jacket and toque. 
" What a life for an intelligent woman ! " she thought, 
glancing about her with deep distaste. " It would be 
enough to induce melancholia without the  taint.' " 
She had made a desperate effort in the last twenty- 
four hours to overcome her repugnance, but had only 
succeeded in making sure that she could conceal it. 
She had recalled her interview with Senator North 
again and again. His indubitable interest gave her 
courage, and a desire to use the best that was in her. 
And she had turned her mind more often still to those 
men in the church and the sentiments they had 
inspired. 
 
The shutters of the parsonage were closed, there 
was crape on the door. Betty turned the knob and 
entered. A number of people were in a room on the 
right of the hall. At the head of the room, barely outlined in the heavy shadows, was a coffin on its trestle. 
The house smelt musty and damp. Betty pushed 
back the door and let in the bright winter sunlight. 
Some one rose from the group beside the coffin and 
came slowly forward. Betty waited, clinching her 
hands in her muff, her breath coming shorter. The 
dark figure in the dark room looked like the shadow 
of death itself. But it was not superstition that made 
Betty brace herself. In a moment the figure had 
stepped into the sunlight beside her. 
Betty had imagined the girl handsome ; she was not 
prepared for splendid beauty. Harriet Walker was 
far above the ordinary height of woman, and very 
slender and graceful. Her hair and eyes were black, 
her skin smooth and white, her features aquiline. 
Hauteur should have been her natural expression, but 
her eyes were dreamy and melancholy, her mouth discontented. Betty, in that first rapid survey, detected 
but two flaws in her beauty : her chin was weak and 
her hands were coarse. 
" You are Miss Madison," she said, with the monotonous inflection of grief. " Thank you for coming." 
" I am your half-sister," said Betty, putting out her 
hand. And then the desire to use the best that was in 
her overcame the repugnance that made her very knees 
shake, and she put her arms about the girl and kissed 
her. 
" You are mighty kind," said the other. " Will you 
come into my room ? " 
 
Betty followed her into a small room, simpler than 
any in her own servants' quarter. But it was neat, 
and there was an attempt at smartness in the bright 
calico curtains and bedspread. The furniture looked 
home-made, and there was no carpet on the floor. 
" Poor girl ! poor girl ! " exclaimed Betty, impulsively. "Have you ever been happy here?" 
" Well, I don't reckon I 've been very happy, ever ; 
but I 've given some happiness and I've been loved 
and sheltered. That is something to be thankful for 
in this world." 
" I am going to take you away," said Betty, abruptly. 
" Mr. Walker wrote me that you 'd be willing to come." 
" Oh, yes, I'll go, I reckon. I told him I would. 
I want to hold up my head. Here I never have, for 
everybody knows. The white men all round here 
insulted me until they got tired of trying to make me 
notice them. One of the young men up on the plantation fell in love with me, and they sent him away and 
he was drowned at sea. He never knew that I had 
the black in my blood, and he had asked me to marry 
him. They did not tell him the truth, for they feared 
he would then wish to make me his mistress." 
She spoke without passion, with a deep and settled 
melancholy, as if her intelligence had forbidden her to 
combat the inevitable. Betty burst into tears. 
"Don't cry," said the other. "I never do any 
more. I used to. And if you'll kindly take me away, 
I know I'll feel as if I were born over. If there is 
anything in this world to enjoy, be right sure I shall 
enjoy it. I 'm young yet, and I reckon nobody was 
made to be sad for ever." 
"You shall be happy," exclaimed Betty. "I will 
 
see to that. I pledge myself to it. I will make you 
forget everything." 
Harriet shook her head. " Not everything. Somewhere in my body, hidden away, but there, is a black 
vein, the blood of slaves. I might get to be happy 
with lots of books and kind people and no one to 
despise me for what I can't help, but every night I 'd 
remember that, and then I reckon I'd feel mighty 
bad." 
"You think so now," said Betty, soothingly, and 
longing for consolation herself. " But when you are 
surrounded by friends who love you for what you are, 
by all that goes to make life comfortable and and 
gay j it seems terribly soon to speak of it, but I shall 
take you to all the theatres and buy you beautiful 
clothes, and I shall settle on you what your father left 
me : it is only right you should have it and feel inde- 
pendent. You will travel and see all the beautiful things 
in Europe. Oh, I know that in time you will forget. 
When you are away from all that reminds, you cannot 
fail to forget." 
Harriet, who had followed Betty's words with an 
eager lifting of her heavy eyelids and almost a smile on 
her mouth, brought her lips together as Betty ceased 
speaking, and held out her hand. 
"Do you see nothing? " she asked. 
Betty took the hand in hers. " What do you mean ? " 
she demanded. " All that the roughness will wear 
off. It will be gone in a month." 
" There is something there that will never wear off. 
Look right hard at the finger- nails." 
Betty lifted the hand to her face, vaguely recalling 
observations of her mother when discussing suspicious- 
 
looking brunettes seen in the North. There was a faint 
bluish stain at the base of the nails ; and she remembered. It was the outward and indelible print of the 
hidden vein within. The nails are the last stronghold 
of negro blood. She dropped the hand with an un- 
controllable shudder and covered her face with her 
muff. 
" I feel so horribly sorry for you," she said hastily. 
" It seemed to me for the moment as if your trouble 
