It was one of the songs he had sent to Miss Simpson, but he did not need
this material proof that it was she whom he now heard. There was no
question of what he should do. All doubt, all fear, had vanished; he had
again but one impulse, one desire, one purpose. But he lingered at the
gate till the song ended, and then he unlatched it and started up the
walk towards the door. It seemed to him a long way; he almost reeled as
he went; he fumbled tremulously for the bell-pull beside the door, while
a confusion of voices in the adjoining room--the voices which had waked
him from his sleep, and which now sounded like voices in a dream--came
out to him.
The light from the lamp hanging in the hall shone full in his face, and
the girl who came from that room beside it to answer his ring gave a
sort of conscious jump at sight of him as he uncovered and stood
bare-headed before her.
VI.
She must have recognized him from the photograph he had sent, and in
stature and figure he recognized her as the ideal he had cherished,
though her head was gilded with the light from the lamp, and he could
not make out whether her hair was dark or fair; her face was, of course,
a mere outline, without color or detail against the luminous interior.
He managed to ask, dry-tongued and with a heart that beat into his
throat, "Is Miss Simpson at home?" and the girl answered, with a high,
gay tinkle:
"Yes, she's at home. Won't you walk in?"
He obeyed, but at the sound of her silvery voice his heart dropped back
into his breast. He put his hat and coat on an entry chair, and prepared
to follow her into the room she had come out of. The door stood ajar,
and he said, as she put out her hand to push it open, "I am Mr.
Langbourne."
"Oh, yes," she answered in the same high, gay tinkle, which he fancied
had now a note of laughter in it.
An elderly woman of a ladylike village type was sitting with some
needlework beside a little table, and a young girl turned on the
piano-stool and rose to receive him. "My aunt, Mrs. Simpson, Mr.
Langbourne," said the girl who introduced him to these presences, and
she added, indicating the girl at the piano, "Miss Simpson."
They all three bowed silently, and in the hush the sheet on the music
frame slid from the piano with a sharp clash, and skated across the
floor to Langbourne's feet. It was the song of La Paloma which she had
been singing; he picked it up, and she received it from him with a
drooping head, and an effect of guilty embarrassment.
She was short and of rather a full figure, though not too full. She was
not plain, but she was by no means the sort of beauty who had lived in
Langbourne's fancy for the year past. The oval of her face was squared;
her nose was arched; she had a pretty, pouting mouth, and below it a
deep dimple in her chin; her eyes were large and dark, and they had the
questioning look of near-sighted eyes; her hair was brown. There was a
humorous tremor in her lips, even with the prim stress she put upon them
in saying, "Oh, thank you," in a thick whisper of the voice he knew.
"And I," said the other girl, "am Juliet Bingham. Won't you sit down,
Mr. Langbourne!" She pushed towards him the arm-chair before her, and he
dropped into it. She took her place on the hair-cloth sofa, and Miss
Simpson sank back upon the piano-stool with a painful provisionality,
while her eyes sought Miss Bingham's in a sort of admiring terror.
Miss Bingham was easily mistress of the situation; she did not try to
bring Miss Simpson into the conversation, but she contrived to make Mrs.
Simpson ask Langbourne when he arrived at Upper Ashton Falls; and she
herself asked him when he had left New York, with many apposite
suppositions concerning the difference in the season in the two
latitudes. She presumed he was staying at the Falls House, and she said,
always in her high, gay tinkle, that it was very pleasant there in the
summer time. He did not know what he answered. He was aware that from
time to time Miss Simpson said something in a frightened undertone. He
did not know how long it was before Mrs. Simpson made an errand out of
the room, in the abeyance which age practises before youthful society in
the country; he did not know how much longer it was before Miss Bingham
herself jumped actively up, and said, Now she would run over to Jenny's,
if Mr. Langbourne would excuse her, and tell her that they could not go
the next day.
"It will do just as well in the morning," Miss Simpson pitifully
entreated.
"No, she's got to know to-night," said Miss Bingham, and she said she
should find Mr. Langbourne there when she got back. He knew that in
compliance with the simple village tradition he was being purposely left
alone with Miss Simpson, as rightfully belonging to her. Miss Bingham
betrayed no intentionality to him, but he caught a glimpse of mocking
consciousness in the sidelong look she gave Miss Simpson as she went
out; and if he had not known before he perceived then, in the vanishing
oval of her cheek, the corner of her arched eyebrow, the point of her
classic nose, the original of the photograph he had been treasuring as
Miss Simpson's.
VII.
"It was her picture I sent you," said Miss Simpson. She was the first
to break the silence to which Miss Bingham abandoned them, but she did
not speak till her friend had closed the outer door behind her and was
tripping down the brick walk to the gate.
"Yes," said Langbourne, in a dryness which he could not keep himself
from using.
The girl must have felt it, and her voice faltered a very little as she
continued. "We--I--did it for fun. I meant to tell you. I--"
"Oh, that's all right," said Langbourne. "I had no business to expect
yours, or to send you mine." But he believed that he had; that his
faithful infatuation had somehow earned him the right to do what he had
done, and to hope for what he had not got; without formulating the fact,
he divined that she believed it too. Between the man-soul and the
woman-soul it can never go so far as it had gone in their case without
giving them claims upon each other which neither can justly deny.
She did not attempt to deny it. "I oughtn't to have done it, and I ought
to have told you at once--the next letter--but I--you said you were
coming, and I thought if you did come--I didn't really expect you to;
and it was all a joke,--off-hand."
It was very lame, but it was true, and it was piteous; yet Langbourne
could not relent. His grievance was not with what she had done, but what
she was; not what she really was, but what she materially was; her
looks, her figure, her stature, her whole presence, so different from
that which he had been carrying in his mind, and adoring for a year
past.
If it was ridiculous, and if with her sense of the ridiculous she felt
it so, she was unable to take it lightly, or to make him take it
lightly. At some faint gleams which passed over her face he felt himself
invited to regard it less seriously; but he did not try, even
provisionally, and they fell into a silence that neither seemed to have
the power of breaking.
It must be broken, however; something must be done; they could not sit
there dumb forever. He looked at the sheet of music on the piano and
said, "I see you have been trying that song. Do you like it?"
"Yes, very much," and now for the first time she got her voice fairly
above a whisper. She took the sheet down from the music-rest and looked
at the picture of the lithographed title. It was of a tiled roof lifted
among cypresses and laurels with pigeons strutting on it and sailing
over it.
"It was that picture," said Langbourne, since he must say something,
"that I believe I got the song for; it made me think of the roof of an
old Spanish house I saw in Southern California."
"It must be nice, out there," said Miss Simpson, absently staring at the
picture. She gathered herself together to add, pointlessly, "Juliet says
she's going to Europe. Have you ever been?"
"Not to Europe, no. I always feel as if I wanted to see my own country
first. Is she going soon?"
"Who? Juliet? Oh, no! She was just saying so. I don't believe she's
engaged her passage yet."
There was invitation to greater ease in this, and her voice began to
have the tender, coaxing quality which had thrilled his heart when he
heard it first. But the space of her variance from his ideal was between
them, and the voice reached him faintly across it.
The situation grew more and more painful for her, he could see, as well
as for him. She too was feeling the anomaly of their having been
intimates without being acquaintances. They necessarily met as strangers
after the exchange of letters in which they had spoken with the
confidence of friends.
Langbourne cast about in his mind for some middle ground where they
could come together without that effect of chance encounter which had
reduced them to silence. He could not recur to any of the things they
had written about; so far from wishing to do this, he had almost a
terror of touching upon them by accident, and he felt that she shrank
from them too, as if they involved a painful misunderstanding which
could not be put straight.
He asked questions about Upper Ashton Falls, but these led up to what
she had said of it in her letters; he tried to speak of the winter in
New York, and he remembered that every week he had given her a full
account of his life there. They must go beyond their letters or they
must fall far back of them.
VIII.
In their attempts to talk he was aware that she was seconding all his
endeavors with intelligence, and with a humorous subtlety to which he
could not pretend. She was suffering from their anomalous position as
much as he, but she had the means of enjoying it while he had not. After
half an hour of these defeats Mrs. Simpson operated a diversion by
coming in with two glasses of lemonade on a tray and some slices of
sponge-cake. She offered this refreshment first to Langbourne and then
