craved to give. If she could only open that door!--that rusted,
accursed mass of iron, the very sight of which was slowly crushing out
the last spark of manhood in me!
"Are you listening?" whispered Dulcima at my grating again.
"Yes," I answered.
"Watch our door at seven to-night!" she said. "Be ready. I will open
your door."
"I am ready," I answered.
At that moment the sound of voices filled the corridor; the girl fled
to her room; a dozen turnkeys shuffled past, bowing and cringing,
followed by Collins, the chief warden, an old man whom I had not
before seen. Then came a gentleman dressed in a long dark cloak which
hung from twin epaulettes, his scarlet and gold uniform gleaming
below. Was that the Governor?
He passed my cell, halted, glanced around, then retraced his steps.
After a moment I heard his voice distinctly at some distance down the
corridor; he was saying:
"The highwaymen are here, Mrs. Hamilton--if--if you would care to see
them."
I sat up in my cot, all a-tremble. Far down the corridor I heard a
woman laughing. I knew that laugh.
"But," persisted the Governor, "you should really see the highwaymen,
madam. Trust me, you never before beheld such a giant as this rogue,
Jack Mount."
The voices seemed to be receding; I sprang to my grating; the
Governor's bland voice still sounded at some distance down the
passage; Mrs. Hamilton's saucy laughter rang faintly and more faintly.
Half a dozen keepers were lounging just outside of my cell. I summoned
one of them sharply.
"Tell General Gage that Mrs. Hamilton knows me!" I said. "A guinea for
you when she comes!"
The lout stared, grinned, and finally shambled away, pursued by the
jeers of his comrades. Then they turned their wit against me, begging
to know if I had not some message for my friends the Grand Turk and
the Emperor of China.
I waited in an agony of suspense; after a long time I knew that the
keeper had not delivered my message.
In the fierce returning flood of despair at the loss of this
Heaven-sent chance for life, I called out for Bishop to come to me; I
struck at the iron bars until my hands were bathed in blood.
At length Bishop arrived, in a rage, demanding to know if I had lost
my senses to create such an uproar when his Excellency, Governor Gage,
had come to inspect the prison.
In vain I insisted that he take my message; he laughed an ugly laugh
and refused. Mrs. Bishop, whose infant was now very sick, came out,
wrapped in her shawl, carrying the baby to the prison hospital for
treatment, and a wrangle began between her and Bishop concerning
supper.
My words were lost or ignored; Bishop demanded his supper at once, and
his wife insisted that she must take the child to the hospital. The
precious moments flew while they stood there under my grating,
disputing and abusing each other, while the sick child wailed
ceaselessly and dug its puny fingers into the sores on its head.
Presently a keeper passed, saying that the Governor wished to know
what such indecent noise meant; and Bishop, red with rage, turned on
his wife and cursed her ferociously until she retreated with the
moaning child.
"Draw me a measure o' buttry ale; d'ye hear, ye slut?" he growled,
following her. "If I'm to eat no supper till you get back, I'll want a
bellyful o' malt to stay me!"
But Mrs. Bishop waddled on contemptuously, declaring she meant to go
to the hospital, and that he could die o' thirst for aught she cared.
Dulcima, who stood in her doorway across the corridor, watched the
scene stolidly. Bishop turned on her with an oath, and ordered her to
draw his evening cup; she unhooked the tankard which hung under the
lanthorn, hesitated, and looked straight at her father. He gave her a
brutal shove, demanding to know why she dawdled while he thirsted, and
the girl moved off sullenly, with flaming cheeks and eyes averted.
When she returned from the buttry I saw the warden take the frothing
tankard, brush the foam away with his forefinger, and drain the
measure to the dregs.
He handed the empty tankard to his daughter, smacking his lips with a
wry face, and drawing the back of his hand across his chin. Then he
became angry again.
"Ugh!" he muttered; "the ale's spoiled! What's in it, you baggage?" he
demanded, suddenly swinging around on his daughter. "Draw me a cider
cup to wash this cursed brew out o' me!"
There was a crash. The girl had dropped the tankard at her feet.
Quick as a flash Bishop raised his hand and dealt his daughter a blow
on the neck that sent her to her knees.
"Break another pot and I'll break your head, you drab!" he roared.
"Get up or I'll--"
He choked, gasped, lifted his shaking hand to his mouth, and wiped it.
"Curse that ale!" he stammered; "it's sickened me to the bones! What
in God's name is in that brew?"
He turned and pushed open his door, lurching forward across the
threshold with dragging feet. A moment later Dulcima passed my cell,
her trembling hands over her eyes.
I went to my cot and lay down, face buried, teeth set in my lip. A
numbness which at moments dulled the throbbing of my brain seemed to
settle like chains on every limb.
Dully I waited for the strokes of the iron bell sounding the seventh
hour; a lassitude crept over me--almost a stupor. It was not despair;
I had long passed that; it was Hope, slowly dying within my body.
A few moments afterwards a strange movement inside my cell aroused me,
and I opened my hot eyes.
In the dusk I saw the figure of a man seated beside my cot; peering
closer, I perceived his eyes were fixed steadily on me. I sat up on my
bed and asked him what he desired.
He did not answer. A ray of candle-light stealing through the barred
window fell on the bright barrel of a pistol which lay across his
knees.
"What do you wish?" I repeated, the truth dawning on me. "Can you not
watch me from the corridor as well as in my cell?"
There was no reply.
Then at last I understood that this gray shape brooding there at my
bedside was a guard of the death-watch, pledged never to leave me,
never to take his eyes from me for an instant until the warden of the
prison delivered me into the hands of the sheriff on the morrow for my
execution.
Ding-dong! Ding-dong! The prison bell was at last striking the seventh
hour. I lay still in my blanket, counting the strokes which rang out
in thin, peevish monotony, like the cracked voice of a beldame
repeating her petty woes.
At the last jangle, and while the corridor still hummed with the thin
reverberations, I rose and began to pace my narrow cell, head bent on
my breast, but keeping my eyes steadily on the grating.
The guard of the death-watch observed me sullenly. I drank from my pot
of water, bathed my feverish face, and walked to the grating.
The lanthorn above Bishop's doorway burned brightly; the corridor was
quiet. No sound came from Mount's cell. I could hear rain drumming on
a roof somewhere, that was all.
Bishop was due at seven o'clock to inspect our bolts and bars; he had
always arrived punctually. I watched his door. Presently it occurred
to me that I had not seen Bishop since six o'clock when he had gone
into his room, cursing the ale which his daughter had fetched him.
This was unusual; he had never before failed to sit there on his
threshold after supper, smoking his long clay pipe, and blinking
contentedly at our steel bolts.
Minute after minute passed; behind me I heard my guard beating a
slight tattoo with his heavy boots on the stones.
Suddenly, as I stood at my grating, I saw Dulcima Bishop step from the
warden's door, close it behind her, and noiselessly lock it on the
outside. The light of the lanthorn fell full on her face; it was
ghastly. The girl stood a moment, swaying, one hand on the door; then
she made a signal towards Mount's cell; and the next instant I saw
Jack Mount bound noiselessly into the corridor. He caught sight of me,
held up a reddened, dripping knife, pointed to my cell door, and
displayed a key.
Instantly I turned around and sauntered away from the grating towards
my tumbled bed. As I passed the death-watch, he rose and walked over
to the outer window where my pot of water stood to cool.
Eying me cautiously he lifted the jug and drank, then set the pot back
and silently resumed his seat, laying his pistol across his knees.
How was I to get at him? If Mount made the slightest noise in the
corridor, the guard was certain to go to the grating.
Pretending to be occupied in smoothing out my tumbled bedding, I
strove to move so that I might get partly behind him, but the fellow's
suspicions seemed to be aroused, for he turned his head as I moved,
and watched me steadily.
To spring on him meant to draw his fire, and a shot would be our
undoing. But whatever I did must be done now; I understood that.
As I hesitated there, holding the blanket in my hands as though I
meant to fling it on the bed again, the lamp in the corridor suddenly
went out, plunging my cell in darkness.
The guard sprang to his feet; I fairly flung my body at him, landing
on him in a single bound, and hurling him to the stone floor.
Instantly the light of the lanthorn flooded my cell again; I heard my
iron door opening; I crouched in fury on the struggling man under me,
whose head and arms I held crushed under the thick blanket. Then came
