
“Yes, I have only seen it once since we landed. And 
there are such crowds of boats and people.” 

“Did you like France.” 

“I didn’t know only Brienne and Dessiers. There are 
more beauitful flowers here. And I don’t like the smell 
of the ocean — and the pirates — and I am never going 
back.” 

“Oh, that is nice. We like people to stay here who 
are worth having.” 

“But, in the end, I am going to be an American.” 

“Then, you will have to go away.” 

“Yes,” she answered, composedly. 

“But when you get to liking the people, you will not 
want to go away,” tentatively. 

Sylvie looked up, out of her beautiful eyes. 

“I like them already,” she made answer. “Everybody, 

I think ” then she flushed. She did not like Felice; 

she did not mean to like Zenobie. But there were all the 
woods and the birds and the wonderful skies, and the 
ringing of the vesper bell. It couldn’t matter, then, if 
you did not like a few things, when there were so many 




you adored. “And I like — America. It has such a 
grand and strong sound.” 

“America is all the continent.” 

“Well, then, I like it all,” laughing. 

How very pretty she was — like an angel with all that 
light hair floating about her, in the mystery of the moon- 
light ! 

“Oh, I like you ! You are so sweet, so lovely.” 
Hortense clasped her in her arms, and kissed her with 
Southern fervor. Sylvie looked rather amazed at the 
sudden avowal and the caress. 

“Pm so much older. But, I wish you were my sister ; 
and I’ve never had a sister. Mamma died when I was a 
little thing. We have some cousins out on Bayou 
Teche; but they are young ladies, and really don’t like 
girls. When they visit us, they are always saying: 
‘Run away, Hortense ; we want to talk.’ Does your 
cousin send you away, and do you love her?” 

“Why — yes. Why should she send me away?” in 
amaze. 

“You are a darling! But if I lived with you, I should 
be jealous !” 

Hortense laughed with a quick gleefulness, as if the 
thought amused herself. 

“Oh, where is Telano?” Sylvie paused suddenly and 
looked around. “Let us go back,” and she dashed away. 

The two young men had been body-guards of 
Angelique, and were deeply interested in the coming 
visit. They did not hear the interruption. 

Sylvie found poor Telano taking a nap by the roadside. 
She caught him up, with exclamations of endearment. 
But it was an awkward burden for her small arms, and 
at first Telano protested. 





'‘Gervaise ! Gervaise !” the child called, and, after 
several summonses, they wheeled around. 

“What has happened to the children?” cried Angelique. 

“Oh, Gervaise, will you carry poor Telano home? He 
is so tired and sleepy. He had to stop and take a nap. 
And I can’t manage him.” 

They all laughed heartily at that. 

“The little Mam’selle owns you,” commented Henri, 
gayly. “Little one, some day we hope your devotion 
will be given to something better than a crane.” 

“I love him; and he loves me,” returned Sylvie, 
gravely. 

“An indisputable argument.” 

“Oh, we must turn back,” cried Angelique. “They 
may be worried about us. Mam’selle de Longpre, your 
brother must bring you up to see us.” Could she really 
ask the girl’s friendship for a child like Sylvie ? 

“I shall be delighted to come. And, Henri, Tante 
Melanie must do herself the honor of calling upon the 
ladies. It has been a delightful walk. Good-night, 
Sylvie, and do not forget me. Try to like me a little, for 
I shall be very fond of you.” 

“Yes, I like you already,” but there was too much 
placidness in it to satisfy the vehement Hortense. 


CHAPTER X. 

The house at Belle Vue covered a large space of 
ground, though it was but two stories high. Three 
owners had taken a hand in it : one in building, when 




some of the material had been brought over the sea ; the 
other two, in adding to it. It stood on a little eminence, 
and sloped down to the beautiful lake. Part of it was 
plaster of a dull gray white; there was some stone and 
brick and one wing in timber. There was an interior 
court that the irregular sides enclosed, and the wide stone 
entrance gave a fine view of this. There were arches 
along the hall, supported by pillars, opening into spacious 
rooms, while the hall itself was quite magnificent 
with some old-time carving. Some of the rooms were 
panelled almost to the top, and the ceiling painted in 
fresco. There were strange carvings of fauns and satrys, 
j of fruit and foliage ; great magnolia blooms, pome- 
granates, grapes that seemed like plums, and small 
clusters, not larger than a pea — all packed together, but 
I hanging gracefully ; and, here and there, lilies, wide-open, 

' or drooping from very heaviness. 

But the vista at the end of the hall gave all this an 
, aspect of weird richness and gloom. There was the 
' ; real garden. Far in the background were immense 
I single trees, standing like sentinels ; and if Art had ar- 
; ranged the rest, it was the most exquisite art, for it 
seemed as if every gradation of greenness was blended, 
like some choice embroidery. From dense dark shades 
and great, strange tropical leaves to exquisite lightness, 
airiness, daintiness — as of a young girl amid veterans 
of a century. And, oh, the gorgeous bloom, the en- 
trancing sweetness ! 
