shoulders and gazed into his eyes. “David,” she whispered, “listen
to me a moment.”

“Yes, dear,” he said, “what is it?”

“Was it because of yourself that you said those words?”

He was silent for a moment, gazing into her anxious eyes; then he
bowed his head and said in a faint voice, “Yes, dear, it was because
of myself.”

And the girl, becoming suddenly very serious, went on, “Do you
remember, David, a long time ago--the time that I was leaving Aunt
Polly’s--that you told me how you knew what it was to have
something very terrible on one’s conscience? I have not ever said
anything about that, but I have never forgotten it. Was it that that
you thought of then?”

“Yes, dear, it was that,” answered the other, trembling slightly.

Helen stooped down upon her knees and put her arms about him, gazing
up pleadingly into his face. “Dearest David,” she whispered, “is it
right to refuse to tell me about that sorrow?”

There was a long silence, after which the man replied slowly, “I
have not ever refused to tell you, sweetheart; it would be very
fearful to tell, but I have not any secrets from you; and if you
wished it, you should know. But, dear, it was long, long ago, and
nothing can ever change it now. It would only make us sad to know
it, so why should we talk of it?”

He stopped, and Helen gazed long and earnestly into his face.
“David,” she said, “it is not possible for me to imagine you ever
doing anything wrong, you are so good.”

“Perhaps,” said David, “it is because you are so good yourself.” But
Helen interrupted him at that with a quick rejoinder: “Do you forget
that I too have a sorrow upon my conscience?” Afterwards, as she saw
that the eager remark caused the other to smile in spite of himself,
she checked him gravely with the words, “Have you really forgotten
so soon? Do you suppose I do not ever think now of how I treated
poor Arthur, and how I drove away from me the best friend of my
girlhood? He wrote me that he would think of me no more, but, David,
sometimes I wonder if it were not just an angry boast, and if he
might not yet be lonely and wretched, somewhere in this great cold
world where I cannot ever find him or help him.”

The girl paused; David was regarding her earnestly, and for a long
time neither of them spoke. Then suddenly the man bent down, and
pressed a kiss upon her forehead. “Let us only love each other,
dear,” he whispered, “and try to keep as right as we can while the
time is given us.”

There was a long silence after that while the two sat gazing out
across the blue lake; when Helen spoke again it was to say, “Some
day you must tell me all about it, David, because I can help you;
but let us not talk about these dreadful things now.” She stopped
again, and afterwards went on thoughtfully, “I was thinking still of
what you said about immortality, and how very strange it is to think
of ceasing to be. Might it not be, David, that heaven is a place not
of reward, but of the same ceaseless effort as you spoke of?”

“Ah, yes,” said the other, “that is the thought of ‘the wages of
going on.’ And of course, dear, we would all like those wages; there
is no thought that tempts me so much as the possibility of being
able to continue the great race forever; but I don’t see how we have
the least right to demand it, or that the facts give us the least
reason to suppose that we will get it. It seems to me simply a
fantastic and arbitrary fancy; the re-creating of a worn-out life in
that way. I do not think, dearest, that I am in the least justified
in claiming an eternity of vision because God gives me an hour; and
when I ask Him the question in my own heart I learn simply that I am
a wretched, sodden creature that I do not crowd that hour with all
infinity and go quite mad at the sight of the beauty that He flings
wide before me.”

Helen did not reply for a while, and then she asked: “And you think,
David, that our life justifies itself no matter how much suffering
may be in it?”

“I think, dearest,” was his reply, “that the soul’s life is
struggle, and that the soul’s life is sacred; and that to be right,
to struggle to be right, is not only life’s purpose, but also life’s
reward; and that each instant of such righteousness is its own
warrant, tho the man be swept out of existence in the next.” Then
David stopped, and when he went on it was in a lower voice. “Dear
Helen,” he said, “after I have told you what I feel I deserve in
life, you can understand my not wishing to talk lightly about such
things as suffering. Just now, as I sit here at my ease, and in fact
all through my poor life, I have felt about such sacred words as
duty and righteousness that it would be just as well if they did not
ever pass my lips. But there have come to me one or two times, dear,
when I dared a little of the labor of things, and drank a drop or
two of the wine of the spirit; and those times have lived to haunt
me and make me at least not a happy man in my unearned ease. There
come to me still just once in a while hours when I get sight of the
gleam, hours that make me loathe all that in my hours of comfort I
loved; and there comes over me then a kind of Titanic rage, that I
should go down a beaten soul because I have not the iron strength of
will to lash my own self to life, and tear out of my own heart a
little of what power is in it. At such times, Helen, I find just
this one wish in my mind,--that God would send to me, cost what it
might, some of the fearful experience that rouses a man’s soul
within him, and makes him live his life in spite of all his dullness
and his fear.”

David had not finished, but he halted, because he saw a strange look
upon the girl’s face. She did not answer him at once, but sat gazing
at him; and then she said in a very grave voice, “David, I do not
like to hear such words as that from you.”

“What words, dearest?”

“Do you mean actually that it sometimes seems to you wrong to live
happily with me as you have?”

David laid his hand quietly upon hers, watching for a minute her
anxious countenance. Then he said in a low voice: “You ought not to
ask me about such things, dear, or blame me for them. Sometimes I
have to face the very cruel thought that I ought not ever to have
linked my fate to one so sweet and gentle as you, because what I
ought to be doing in the world to win a right conscience is
something so hard and so stern that it would mean that I could never
be really happy all my life.”

David was about to go on, but he stopped again because of Helen’s
look of displeasure. “David,” she whispered, “that is the most
unloving thing that I have ever heard from you!”

“And you must blame me, dear, because of it?” he asked.

“I suppose,” Helen answered, “that you would misunderstand me as
long as I chose to let you. Do you not suppose that I too have a
conscience,--do you suppose that I want any happiness it is wrong
for us to take, or that I would not dare to go anywhere that your
duty took you? And do you suppose that anything could be so painful
to me as to know that you do not trust me, that you are afraid to
live your life, and do what is your duty, before me?”

David bent down suddenly and pressed a kiss upon the girl’s
forehead. “Precious little heart,” he whispered, “those words are
very beautiful.”

“I did not say them because they were beautiful,” answered Helen
gravely; “I said them because I meant them, and because I wanted you
to take them in earnest. I want to know what it is that you and I
ought to be doing, instead of enjoying our lives; and after you have
told me what it is I can tell you one thing--that I shall not be
happy again in my life until it is done.”

David watched her thoughtfully a while before he answered, because
he saw that she was very much in earnest. Then he said sadly,
“Dearest Helen, perhaps the reason that I have never been able all
through my life to satisfy my soul is the pitiful fact that I have
not the strength to dare any of the work of other men; I have had
always to chafe under the fact that I must choose between nourishing
my poor body, or ceasing to live. I have learned that all my
power--and more too, as it sometimes seemed,--was needed to bear
bravely the dreadful trials that God has sent to me.”

