up carefully in the unpaved ways.
"If you begin to compliment, I shall dismiss you from the list of my
acquaintances. It is foolish and ill-bred. And if you go around praising
every pretty girl in Le Detroit, you will have no time left for
business, Monsieur."
Her face set itself in resolute lines, her voice had a cold scornfulness
in it.
"Is this all the welcome you have for me? I have been in but an hour,
and busy enough with these dolts in unloading. Then I meant to hunt you
up instead of going to sup with Monsieur Meldrum, with whom I have much
business, but an old friend should have the first consideration."
"I am not sure, Monsieur, that I care for friends. I have found them
troublesome. And you would have had your effort for nothing. Pani and I
would not be at home."
"You are the same briery rose, Jeanne," with an amused laugh. "So sweet
a one does well to be set in thorns. Still, I shall claim an old
friend's privilege. And I have no end of stirring adventures for your
ear. I have come now from Quebec, where the ladies are most gracious and
charming."
"Then I shall not please you, Monsieur," curtly. "Come, Pani," linking
her arm in that of the woman, "let us get out of the crowd," and she
nodded a careless adieu.
They turned into a sort of lane that led below the palisades.
"Pani," excitedly, "let us go out on the river. There will be an early
moon, and we shall not mind so that we get in by nine. And we need not
stop to gossip with people, canoes are not so friendly as woodland
paths."
Her laugh was forced and a little bitter.
Pani had hardly recovered from her surprise. She nodded assent with a
feeling that she had been stricken dumb. It was not altogether Louis
Marsac's appearance, he had been expected last summer and had not come.
She had almost forgotten about him. It was Jeanne's mood that perplexed
her so. The two had been such friends and playmates, one might say, only
a few years ago. He had been a slave to her pretty whims then. She had
decorated his head with feathers and called him Chief of Detroit, or she
had twined daisy wreaths and sweet grasses about his neck. He had bent
down the young saplings that she might ride on them, a graceful,
fearless child. They had run races,--she was fleet as the wind and he
could not always catch her. He had gathered the first ripe wild
strawberries, not bigger than the end of her little finger, but, oh, how
luscious! She had quarreled with him, too, she had struck him with a
feathery hemlock branch, until he begged her pardon for some fancied
fault, and nothing had suited him better than to loll under the great
oak tree, listening to Pani's story and all the mysterious suppositions
of her coming. Then he told wild legends of the various tribes, talked
in a strange, guttural accent, danced a war dance, and was almost as
much her attendant as Pani.
But the three years had allowed him to escape from the woman's memory,
as any event they might expect again in their lives. Hugh de Marsac had
turned into something of an explorer, beside his profitable connection
with the fur company. The copper mines on Lake Superior had stirred up a
great interest, and plans were being made to work them to a better
advantage than the Indians had ever done. Fortunes were the dream of
mankind even then; though this was destined to end in disappointment.
Jeanne chose her canoe and they pushed out. She was in no haste, and few
people were going down the river, not many anywhere except on business.
The numerous holy days of the Church, which gave to religion an hour or
two in the morning and devoted to pleasure the rest of the day, set the
river in a whirl of gayety. Ordinary days were for work.
The air was soft and fragrant. Some sea gulls started from a sandy nook
with disturbed cries, then returned as if they knew the girl. A fishhawk
darted swiftly down, having seen his prey in the clear water and
captured it. There were farms stretching down the river now, with rough
log huts quite distinct from the whitewashed or vine-covered cottages of
the French. But the fields betrayed a more thrifty cultivation. There
were young orchards nodding in the sunshine, great stretches of waving
maize fields, and patches of different grains. Little streams danced out
here and there and gurgled into the river, as if they were glad to be
part of it.
"Pani, do you suppose we could go ever so far down and build a tent or a
hut and live there all the rest of the summer?"
"But I thought you liked the woods!"
"I like being far away. I am tired of Detroit."
"Mam'selle, it would hardly be safe. There are still unfriendly Indians.
And--the loneliness of it! For there are some evil spirits about, though
Holy Church has banished them from the town."
Occasionally her old beliefs and fears rushed over the Indian woman and
shook her in a clutch of terror. She felt safest in her own little nest,
under the shadow of the Citadel, with the high, sharp palisades about
her, when night came on.
"Art thou afraid of Madame De Ber?" she asked, hesitatingly. "For of a
truth she did not want you for her son's wife."
"I know it. Pierre made them all agree to it. I am sorry for Pierre, and
yet he has the blindness of a mole. I am not the kind of wife he wants.
For though there is so much kissing and caressing at first, there are
dinners and suppers, and the man is cross sometimes because other things
go wrong. And he smells of the skins and oils and paints, and the dirt,
too," laughing. "Faugh! I could not endure it. I would rather dwell in
the woods all my life. Why, I should come to hate such a man! I should
run away or kill myself. And that would be a bitter self-punishment, for
I love so to live if I can have my own life. Pani, why do men want one
particular woman? Susette is blithe and merry, and Angelique is pretty
as a flower, and when she spins she makes a picture like one the
schoolmaster told me about. Oh, yes, there are plenty of girls who would
be proud and glad to keep Pierre's house. Why does not the good God give
men the right sense of things?"
Pani turned her head mournfully from side to side, and the shrunken lips
made no reply.
Then they glided on and on. The blue, sunlit arch overhead, the waving
trees that sent dancing shadows like troops of elfin sprites over the
water, the fret in one place where a rock broke the murmurous lapping,
the swish somewhere else, where grasses and weeds and water blooms
rooted in the sedge rocked back and forth with the slow tide--how
peaceful it all was!
Yet Jeanne Angelot was not at peace. Why, when the woods or the river
always soothed her? And it was not Pierre who disturbed the current, who
lay at the bottom like some evil spirit, reaching up long, cruel arms to
grasp her. Last summer she had put Louis Marsac out of her life with an
exultant thrill. He would forget all about her. He would or had married
some one up North, and she was glad.
He had come back. She knew now what this look in a man's eyes meant. She
had seen it in a girl's eyes, too, but the girl had the right, and was
offering incense to her betrothed. Oh, perhaps--perhaps some other one
might attract him, for he was very handsome, much finer and more manly
than when he went away.
Why did not Pani say something about him? Why did she sit there half
asleep?
"Wasn't it queer, Pani, that we should go so near the wharf, when we
were trying to run away--"
She ended with a short laugh, in which there was neither pleasure nor
mirth.
Pani glanced up with distressful eyes.
"Eh, child!" she cried, with a sort of anguish, "it is a pity thou wert
made so beautiful."
"But there are many pretty girls, and great ladies are lovely to look
at. Why should I not have some of the charm? It gives one satisfaction."
"There is danger for thee in it. Perhaps, after all, the Recollet house
would be best for thee."
"No, no;" with a passionate protest. "And, Pani, no man can make me
marry him. I would scream and cry until the priest would feel afraid to
say a word."
Pani put her thin, brown hand over the plump, dimpled one; and her eyes
were large and weird.
"Thou art afraid of Louis Marsac," she said.
"Oh, Pani, I am, I am!" The voice was tremulous, entreating. "Did you
see something in his face, a curious resolve, and shall I call it
admiration? I hope he has a wife. Oh, I know he has not! Pani, you must
help me, guard me."
"There is M. Loisel, who would not have thee marry against thy will. I
wish Father Rameau were home--he comes in the autumn."
"I do not want to marry anyone. I am a strange girl. Marie Beeson said
some girls were born old maids, and surely I am one. I like the older
men who give you fatherly looks, and call you child, and do not press
your hand so tight. Yet the young men who can talk are pleasant to meet.
Pani, did you love your husband?"
"Indian girls are different. My father brought a brave to the wigwam and
we had a feast and a dance. The next morning I went away with him. He
was not cruel, but you see squaws are beasts of burthens. I was only a
child as you consider it. Then there came a great war between two tribes
and the victors sold their prisoners. It is so long ago that it seems
like a story I have heard."
The young wives Jeanne knew were always extolling their husbands, but
she thought in spite of their many virtues she would not care to have
them. What made her so strange, so obstinate!
"Pani," in a low tone scarce above the ripple of the water, "M. Marsac
is very handsome. The Indian blood does not show much in him."
"Yes, child. He is improved. There is--what do you call it?--the grand
air about him, like a gentleman, only he was impertinent to thee."
"You will not be persuaded to like him? It was different with Pierre."
Jeanne made this concession with a slight hesitation.
