fect gale. Don 't you expect people to say what 
they think?" 

" I think it 's beautiful," said the young man, 
going into the gale, " and I ve got to expecting it 
of you, at any rate. But but it 's always so sur 
prising! It isn 't what you expect of people gener 
ally, is it?" 

" I don 't expect it of you," said Lottie. 

" No ?" asked Mr. Breckon, in another gale. " Am 
I so uncandid?" 

" I don 't know about uncandid. But I should 
say you were slippery." 

At this extraordinary criticism the young man 
looked graver than he had yet been able to do since 
the beginning of their acquaintance. He said, pres 
ently, " I wish you would explain what you mean 
by slippery." 

" You 're as close as a trap." 

"Keally?" 

" It makes me tired." 

"If you 're not too tired now I wish you would 
say how." 

" Oh, you understand well enough. You ve got 
me to say what I think about all sorts of things, 
and you haven 't expressed your opinion on a single, 
solitary point." 



 

Lottie looked fiercely out to sea, turning her face 
so as to keep him from peering around into it 
in the way he had. For that reason, perhaps, he 
did not try to do so. He answered, seriously: "I 
believe you are partly right. I 'm afraid I haven 't 
seemed quite fair. Couldn 't you attribute my close 
ness to something besides my slipperiness ?" He 
began to laugh again. "Can 't you imagine my 
being interested in your opinions so much more 
than my own that I didn 't care to express mine ?" 

Lottie said, impatiently, " Oh, pshaw !" She had 
hesitated whether to say, " Rats !" 

"But now," he pursued, "if you will suggest 
some point on which I can give you an opinion, 
I promise solemnly to do so," but he was not very 
solemn as he spoke. 

" Well, then, I will," she said. " Don 't you think 
it 's very strange, to say the least, for a minister 
to be always laughing so much?" 

Mr. Breckon gave a peal of delight, and answer 
ed, "Yes, I certainly do." He controlled himself 
so far as to say: "Now I think I ve been pretty 
open with you, and I wish you d answer me a ques 
tion. Will you?" 

" Well, I will one" said Lottie. 

" It may be two or three ; but I 'll begin with one. 
Why do you think a minister ought to be more 
serious than other men?" 

" Why ? Well, I should think you d know. You 
wouldn 't laugh at a funeral, would you ?" 

" I ve been at some funerals where it would have 



 

been a relief to laugh, and I ve wanted to cry at 
some weddings. But you think it wouldn 't do ?" 

" Of course it wouldn t. I should think you d 
know as much as that," said Lottie, out of patience 
with him. 

"But a minister isn 't always marrying or bury 
ing people; and in the intervals, why shouldn 't he 
be setting them an example of harmless cheerful 
ness?" 

"He ought to be thinking more about the other 
world, I should say." 

" Well, if he believes there is another world " 

"Why! Don 't you?" she broke out on him. 

Mr. Breckon ruled himself and continued "as 
strenuously and unquestionably as he ought, he 
has greater reason than other men for gayety 
through his faith in a happier state of being than 
this. That 's one of the reasons I use against my 
self when I think of leaving off laughing. Now, 
Miss Kenton," he concluded, " for such a close and 
slippery nature, I think I ve been pretty frank," 
and he looked round and down into her face with 
a burst of laughter that could be heard on the 
other side of the ship. He refused to take up 
any serious topic after that, and he returned to 
his former amusement of making her give herself 
away. 

That night Lottie came to her room with an 
expression so decisive in her face that Ellen, fol 
lowing it with vague, dark eyes as it showed itself 
in the glass at which her sister stood taking out 



 

the first dismantling hairpins before going to bed, 
could not fail of something portentous in it. 

"Well," said Lottie, with severe finality, "I 
haven 't got any use for that young man from this 
out. Of all the tiresome people, he certainly takes 
the cake. You can have him, Ellen, if you want 
him." 

" What 's the matter with him?" asked Ellen, with 
a voice in sympathy with the slow movement of her 
large eyes as she lay in her berth, staring at Lottie. 

" There 's everything the matter that oughtn 't 
to be. He 's too trivial for anything. I like a man 
that 's serious about one thing in the universe, at 
least, and that 's just what Mr. Breckon isn t." She 
went at such length into his disabilities that by 
the time she returned to the climax with which 
she started she was ready to clamber into the upper 
berth; and as she snapped the electric button at 
its head she repeated, " He 's trivial." 

"Isn 't it getting rough?" asked Ellen. "The 
ship seems to be tipping." 

" Yes, it is," said Lottie, crossly. " Good-night." 

If the Kev. Mr. Breckon was making an early 
breakfast in the hope of sooner meeting Lottie, who 
had dismissed him the night before without en 
couraging him to believe that she wished ever to 
