One theory has been neglected. At such times we may be remembering
vaguely, or even with some distinctness, parts of dreams of which we had
no recollection on waking, but which, nevertheless, made their
impressions on the brain that produced them, while we were asleep.
Unconscious ratiocination is certainly not a myth; and if, by it, we can
produce our own forgotten actions, and even find objects we have lost,
by doing over again exactly what we were doing when the thing we seek
was last in our hands, sure that the rest of the action will repeat
itself spontaneously, we should not be going much farther if we repeated
both actions and words unconsciously remembered out of dreams. Much that
seems very mysterious in our sensations may be explained in that way,
and the explanation has the advantage of being simpler than that
afforded by the theory of atavism, and more orthodox than that offered
by the believers in the transmigration of souls.

Cecilia Palladio had no need of it, for she did not forget the one dream
that pleased her best, and she was never puzzled by uncertain
recollections of any other. Her life had begun in it, and had turned
upon it always, and after she had parted with it by an act of will, she
had retained the fullest remembrance of its details.

She left the place where she had paused near the entrance, and slowly
walked up the long court, by the dry excavated basins; she ascended the
low steps to the raised floor beyond, and stood still before the door of
her own room, the second on the left. She had meant to go in and look at
it quietly, but since she had taken refuge there when she ran away from
Lamberti, iron gates had been placed at the entrances of all the six
rooms, and they were locked. In hers a quantity of fragments of
sculptured marble and broken earthen vessels were laid side by side on
the floor, or were standing against the walls and in the corners.

She felt as if she had been shut out by an act of tyranny, just as when
she and her five companions had sadly left the House, obedient to the
Christian Emperor's decree, long ago. It had always been her room ever
since she had first dreamt. The beautiful narrow bronze bedstead used to
stand on the left, the carved oak wardrobe inlaid with ivory was on the
right, the marble table was just under the window, covered with objects
she needed for her toilet, exquisite things of chiselled silver and of
polished ivory. The chair, rounded at the back and with cushioned seat,
like Agrippina's, was near it. In winter, the large bronze brazier of
coals, changed twice daily, was always placed in the middle of the room.
The walls were wainscoted with Asian marble, and painted above that with
portraits in fresco of great and ancient Vestals who had been holier
than the rest, each in her snowy robes, with the white veil drawn up and
backwards over her head, and brought forward again over the shoulder,
and each holding some sacred vessel or instrument in her one uncovered
hand. There were stories about each which the Virgo Maxima used to read
to the younger ones from a great rolled manuscript, that was kept in an
ancient bronze box, or which she sometimes told in the moonlight on
summer nights when the maidens sat together in the court.

She closed her eyes, her forehead resting against the iron bars, and she
saw it all as it had been; she looked again and the desolation hurt her
and shocked her as when in a wilderness an explorer comes suddenly upon
the bleached bones of one who had gone before him and had been his
friend. She sighed and turned away.

The dream was better than the reality, in that and in many other ways.
She was overcome by the sense of utter failure, as she sat down on the
steps below the raised floor, lonely and forlorn.

It was all a comedy now, a miserable petty play to hide a great truth
from herself and others. She had begun her part already, writing her
wretched little notes to poor Guido. She knew that, ill as he was, the
words that seemed lies to her were ten times true to him, and that he
exaggerated every enquiry after his condition and each expression of
hope for his recovery into signs of loving solicitude, that he had
already forgiven what he thought her caprice, and was looking forward to
his marriage as more certain than ever, in spite of her message. It was
all a vile trick meant to save his feelings and help him to get well,
and she hated and despised it.

She was playing a part with Lamberti, too, and that was no better. She
had fallen low enough to love a man who did not care a straw for her,
and it needed all the energy of character she had left to keep him from
finding it out. Nothing could be more contemptible. If any one but he
had told her that she ought to go back to the appearance of an
engagement with Guido, she would have refused to do it. But Lamberti
dominated her; he had only to say, "Do this," and she did it, "Say
this," and she said it, whether it were true or not. She complained
bitterly in her heart that if he had bidden her lie to her mother, she
would have lied, because she had no will of her own when she was with
him.

And this was the end of her inspired visions, of her lofty ideals, of
her magnificent rules of life, of her studies of philosophy, her
meditations upon religion, and her dream of the last Vestal. She was
nothing but a weak girl, under the orders of a man she loved against her
will, and ready to do things she despised whenever he chose to give his
orders. He cared for no human being except his one friend. He was not to
be blamed for that, of course, but he was utterly indifferent to every
one else where his friend was concerned; every one must lie, or steal,
or do murder, if that could help Guido to get well. She was only one of
his instruments, and he probably had others. She was sure that half the
women in Rome loved Lamberto Lamberti without daring to say so. It was a
satisfaction to have heard from every one that he cared for none of
them. People spoke of him as a woman-hater, and one woman had said that
he had married a negress in Africa, and was the father of black savages
with red hair. That accounted for his going to Somali Land, she said,
and for his knowing so much about the habits of the people there.
Cecilia would have gladly killed the lady with a hat pin.

She was very unhappy, sitting alone on the steps after the sun had sunk
out of sight. The comedy was all to begin over again in an hour, for she
must go home and defend her conduct when her mother reproached her with
not acting fairly, and laughed at the idea that Guido was in danger of
his life. To-morrow she would have to write the daily note to him, she
would be obliged to compose affectionate phrases which would have come
quite naturally if she could have treated him merely as her best friend;
and he would translate affection to mean love, and another lie would
have been told. There was this, at least, about Guido, that he could not
order her about as Lamberti could. There was no authority in his eyes,
not even when he told her not to catch cold. Perhaps in all the time she
had known him, she had liked him best when he had been angry, at the
garden party, and had demanded to know her secret. But she would not
acknowledge that. If the situation had been reversed and Lamberti,
instead of Guido, had insisted on knowing what she meant to hide, she
could not have helped telling him. It was an abominable state of things,
but there was nothing to be done, and that was the worst part of it.
Lamberti knew Guido much better than she did, and if Lamberti told her
gravely that Guido might do something desperate if she broke with him,
she was obliged to believe it and to act accordingly. There might not be
one chance in a thousand, but the one-thousandth chance was just the one
that might have its turn. One might disregard it for oneself, but one
had no right to overlook it where another's life was concerned. At all
events she must wait till Guido was quite well again, for a man in a
fever really might do anything rash. Why did Lamberti not take away the
revolver that always lay ready in the drawer? It would be much safer,
though Guido probably had plenty of other weapons that would serve the
purpose. Guido was just the kind of pacific man who would have a whole
armoury of guns and pistols, as if he were always expecting to kill
something or somebody. She was sure that Lamberti, who had killed men
with his own hand, did not keep any sort of weapon in his room. If he
had a revolver of his own, it was probably carefully cleaned, greased,
wrapped up and put away with the things he used when he was sent on
expeditions. It was a thousand pities that Guido was not exactly like
Lamberti!

Cecilia rose at last, weary of thinking about it all, disgusted with her
own weakness, and decidedly ill-disposed towards her fellow-creatures.
The slightly flattened upper lip was compressed rather tightly against
the fuller lower one as she went back to find Petersen, and as she held
her head very high, her lids drooped somewhat scornfully over her eyes.
No one can ever be as supercilious as some people look when they are
angry with themselves and are thinking what miserable creatures they
really are.

It was late when Cecilia reached the Palazzo Massimo and went in on foot
under the dark carriageway after Petersen had paid the cab under the
watchful gaze of the big liveried porter. The Countess was already
dressing for dinner, and Cecilia went to her own room at once. The
consequence was that she did not know of her mother's invitation to
Lamberti, until she came into the drawing-room and saw the two together,
waiting for her.

"Did I forget to tell you that Signor Lamberti was coming to dinner?"
asked her mother.

"There was no particular reason why you should have told me," she
answered indifferently, as she held out her hand to Lamberti. "It is not
