interest to Milly herself we naturally mean; the interest to Kate Milly
felt as probably inferior. It easily and largely came for their present
talk, for the quick flight of the hour before the breach of the
spell--it all came, when considered, from the circumstance, not in the
least abnormal, that the handsome girl was in extraordinary "form."
Milly remembered her having said that she was at her best late at
night; remembered it by its having, with its fine assurance, made her
wonder when she was at her best and how happy people must be who had
such a fixed time. She had no time at all; she was never at her
best--unless indeed it were exactly, as now, in listening, watching,
admiring, collapsing. If Kate moreover, quite mercilessly, had never
been so good, the beauty and the marvel of it was that she had never
really been so frank; being a person of such a calibre, as Milly would
have said, that, even while "dealing" with you and thereby, as it were,
picking her steps, she could let herself go, could, in irony, in
confidence, in extravagance, tell you things she had never told before.
That was the impression--that she was telling things, and quite
conceivably for her own relief as well; almost as if the errors of
vision, the mistakes of proportion, the residuary innocence of spirit
still to be remedied on the part of her auditor had their moments of
proving too much for her nerves. She went at them just now, these
sources of irritation, with an amused energy that it would have been
open to Milly to regard as cynical and that was nevertheless called
for--as to this the other was distinct--by the way that in certain
connections the American mind broke down. It seemed at least--the
American mind as sitting there thrilled and dazzled in Milly--not to
understand English society without a separate confrontation with all
the cases. It couldn't proceed by--there was some technical term she
lacked until Milly suggested both analogy and induction, and then,
differently, instinct, none of which were right: it had to be led up
and introduced to each aspect of the monster, enabled to walk all round
it, whether for the consequent exaggerated ecstasy or for the still
more as appeared to this critic disproportionate shock. It might, the
monster, Kate conceded, loom large for those born amid forms less
developed and therefore no doubt less amusing; it might on some sides
be a strange and dreadful monster, calculated to devour the unwary, to
abase the proud, to scandalize the good; but if one had to live with it
one must, not to be for ever sitting up, learn how: which was virtually
in short to-night what the handsome girl showed herself as teaching.

She gave away publicly, in this process, Lancaster Gate and everything
it contained; she gave away, hand over hand, Milly's thrill continued
to note, Aunt Maud and Aunt Maud's glories and Aunt Maud's
complacencies; she gave herself away most of all, and it was naturally
what most contributed to her candour. She didn't speak to her friend
once more, in Aunt Maud's strain, of how they could scale the skies;
she spoke, by her bright, perverse preference on this occasion, of the
need, in the first place, of being neither stupid nor vulgar. It might
have been a lesson, for our young American, in the art of seeing things
as they were--a lesson so various and so sustained that the pupil had,
as we have shown, but receptively to gape. The odd thing furthermore
was that it could serve its purpose while explicitly disavowing every
personal bias. It wasn't that she disliked Aunt Maud, who was
everything she had on other occasions declared; but the dear woman,
ineffaceably stamped by inscrutable nature and a dreadful art,
wasn't--how could she be?--what she wasn't. She wasn't any one. She
wasn't anything. She wasn't anywhere. Milly mustn't think it--one
couldn't, as a good friend, let her. Those hours at Matcham were
inespérées, were pure manna from heaven; or if not wholly that
perhaps, with humbugging old Lord Mark as a backer, were vain as a
ground for hopes and calculations. Lord Mark was very well, but he
wasn't the cleverest creature in England, and even if he had been he
still wouldn't have been the most obliging. He weighed it out in
ounces, and indeed each of the pair was really waiting for what the
other would put down.

"She has put down you." said Milly, attached to the subject still;
"and I think what you mean is that, on the counter, she still keeps
hold of you."

"Lest"--Kate took it up--"he should suddenly grab me and run? Oh, as he
isn't ready to run, he's much less ready, naturally, to grab. I
am--you're so far right as that--on the counter, when I'm not in the
shop-window; in and out of which I'm thus conveniently, commercially
whisked: the essence, all of it, of my position, and the price, as
properly, of my aunt's protection." Lord Mark was substantially what
she had begun with as soon as they were alone; the impression was even
yet with Milly of her having sounded his name, having imposed it, as a
topic, in direct opposition to the other name that Mrs. Lowder had left
in the air and that all her own look, as we have seen, kept there at
first for her companion. The immediate strange effect had been that of
her consciously needing, as it were, an alibi--which, successfully, she
so found. She had worked it to the end, ridden it to and fro across the
course marked for Milly by Aunt Maud, and now she had quite, so to
speak, broken it in. "The bore is that if she wants him so much--wants
him, heaven forgive her! for me--he has put us all out, since your
arrival, by wanting somebody else. I don't mean somebody else than you."

Milly threw off the charm sufficiently to shake her head. "Then I
haven't made out who it is. If I'm any part of his alternative he had
better stop where he is."

"Truly, truly?--always, always?"

Milly tried to insist with an equal gaiety. "Would you like me to
swear?"

Kate appeared for a moment--though that was doubtless but gaiety
too--to think. "Haven't we been swearing enough?"

"You have perhaps, but I haven't, and I ought to give you the
equivalent. At any rate there it is. Truly, truly as you say--'always,
always.' So I'm not in the way."

"Thanks," said Kate--"but that doesn't help me."

"Oh, it's as simplifying for him that I speak of it."

"The difficulty really is that he's a person with so many ideas that
it's particularly hard to simplify for him. That's exactly of course
what Aunt Maud has been trying. He won't," Kate firmly continued, "make
up his mind about me."

"Well," Milly smiled, "give him time."

Her friend met it in perfection. "One is doing that--one is. But
one remains, all the same, but one of his ideas."

"There's no harm in that," Milly returned, "if you come out in the end
as the best of them. What's a man," she pursued, "especially an
ambitious one, without a variety of ideas?"

"No doubt. The more the merrier." And Kate looked at her grandly. "One
can but hope to come out, and do nothing to prevent it."

All of which made for the impression, fantastic or not, of the alibi.
The splendour, the grandeur were, for Milly, the bold ironic spirit
behind it, so interesting too in itself. What, moreover, was not less
interesting was the fact, as our young woman noted it, that Kate
confined her point to the difficulties, so far as she was concerned,
raised only by Lord Mark. She referred now to none that her own taste
might present; which circumstance again played its little part. She was
doing what she liked in respect to another person, but she was in no
way committed to the other person, and her furthermore talking of Lord
Mark as not young and not true were only the signs of her clear
self-consciousness, were all in the line of her slightly hard, but
scarce the less graceful extravagance. She didn't wish to show too much
her consent to be arranged for, but that was a different thing from not
wishing sufficiently to give it. There was something moreover, on it
all, that Milly still found occasion to say, "If your aunt has been, as
you tell me, put out by me, I feel that she has remained remarkably
kind."

"Oh, but she has--whatever might have happened in that respect--plenty
of use for you! You put her in, my dear, more than you put her out. You
don't half see it, but she has clutched your petticoat. You can do
anything--you can do, I mean, lots that we can't. You're an outsider,
independent and standing by yourself; you're not hideously relative to
tiers and tiers of others." And Kate, facing in that direction, went
further and further; wound up, while Milly gaped, with extraordinary
words. "We're of no use to you--it's decent to tell you. You'd be of
use to us, but that's a different matter. My honest advice to you would
be--" she went indeed all lengths--"to drop us while you can. It would
be funny if you didn't soon see how awfully better you can do. We've
not really done for you the least thing worth speaking of--nothing you
mightn't easily have had in some other way. Therefore you're under no
obligation. You won't want us next year; we shall only continue to want
you. But that's no reason for you, and you mustn't pay too dreadfully
for poor Mrs. Stringham's having let you in. She has the best
conscience in the world; she's enchanted with what she has done; but
