come."

"No, you couldn't not have come."

"But I can only, on the other hand, go as soon as possible?"

Quickly it almost upset her. "Ah don't, to-day, put ugly words into my
mouth. I've enough of my trouble without it."

"I know--I know!" He spoke in instant pleading. "It's all only that I'm
as troubled for you. When did he come?"

"Three days ago--after he hadn't been near her for more than a year,
after he had apparently, and not regrettably, ceased to remember her
existence; and in a state which made it impossible not to take him in."

Densher hesitated. "Do you mean in such want--?"

"No, not of food, of necessary things--not even, so far as his
appearance went, of money. He looked as wonderful as ever. But he
was--well, in terror."

"In terror of what?"

"I don't know. Of somebody--of something. He wants, he says, to be
quiet. But his quietness is awful."

She suffered, but he couldn't not question. "What does he do?"

It made Kate herself hesitate. "He cries."

Again for a moment he hung fire, but he risked it. "What has he done?"

It made her slowly rise, and they were once more fully face to face.
Her eyes held his own and she was paler than she had been. "If you love
me--now--don't ask me about father."

He waited again a moment. "I love you. It's because I love you that I'm
here. It's because I love you that I've brought you this." And he drew
from behind him the letter that had remained in his hand.

But her eyes only--though he held it out--met the offer. "Why you've
not broken the seal!"

"If I had broken the seal--exactly--I should know what's within. It's
for you to break the seal that I bring it."

She looked--still not touching the thing--inordinately grave. "To break
the seal of something to you from her?"

"Ah precisely because it's from her. I'll abide by whatever you think
of it."

"I don't understand," said Kate. "What do you yourself think?" And then
as he didn't answer: "It seems to me I think you know. You have your
instinct. You don't need to read. It's the proof."

Densher faced her words as if they had been an accusation, an
accusation for which he was prepared and which there was but one way to
face. "I have indeed my instinct. It came to me, while I worried it
out, last night. It came to me as an effect of the hour." He held up
his letter and seemed now to insist more than to confess. "This thing
had been timed."

"For Christmas Eve?"

"For Christmas Eve."

Kate had suddenly a strange smile. "The season of gifts!" After which,
as he said nothing, she went on: "And had been written, you mean, while
she could write, and kept to be so timed?"

Only meeting her eyes while he thought, he again didn't reply. "What do
you mean by the proof?"

"Why of the beauty with which you've been loved. But I won't," she
said, "break your seal."

"You positively decline?"

"Positively. Never." To which she added oddly: "I know without."

He had another pause. "And what is it you know?"

"That she announces to you she has made you rich."

His pause this time was longer. "Left me her fortune?"

"Not all of it, no doubt, for it's immense. But money to a large
amount. I don't care," Kate went on, "to know how much." And her
strange smile recurred. "I trust her."

"Did she tell you?" Densher asked.

"Never!" Kate visibly flushed at the thought. "That wouldn't, on my
part, have been playing fair with her. And I did," she added, "play
fair."

Densher, who had believed her--he couldn't help it--continued, holding
his letter, to face her. He was much quieter now, as if his torment had
somehow passed. "You played fair with me, Kate; and that's why--since
we talk of proofs--I want to give you one. I've wanted to let you
see--and in preference even to myself--something I feel as sacred."

She frowned a little. "I don't understand."

"I've asked myself for a tribute, for a sacrifice by which I can
peculiarly recognise--"

"Peculiarly recognise what?" she demanded as he dropped.

"The admirable nature of your own sacrifice. You were capable in Venice
of an act of splendid generosity."

"And the privilege you offer me with that document is my reward?"

He made a movement. "It's all I can do as a symbol of my attitude."

She looked at him long. "Your attitude, my dear, is that you're afraid
of yourself. You've had to take yourself in hand. You've had to do
yourself violence."

"So it is then you meet me?"

She bent her eyes hard a moment to the letter, from which her hand
still stayed itself. "You absolutely desire me to take it?"

"I absolutely desire you to take it."

"To do what I like with it?"

"Short of course of making known its terms. It must remain--pardon my
making the point--between you and me."

She had a last hesitation, but she presently broke it. "Trust me."
Taking from him the sacred script she held it a little while her eyes
again rested on those fine characters of Milly's that they had shortly
before discussed. "To hold it," she brought out, "is to know."

"Oh I know!" said Merton Densher.

"Well then if we both do--!" She had already turned to the fire, nearer
to which she had moved, and with a quick gesture had jerked the thing
into the flame. He started--but only half--as to undo her action: his
arrest was as prompt as the latter had been decisive. He only watched,
with her, the paper burn; after which their eyes again met. "You'll
have it all," Kate said, "from New York."

It was after he had in fact, two months later, heard from New York that
she paid him a visit one morning at his own quarters--coming not as she
had come in Venice, under his extreme solicitation, but as a need
recognised in the first instance by herself, even though also as the
prompt result of a missive delivered to her. This had consisted of a
note from Densher accompanying a letter, "just to hand," addressed him
by an eminent American legal firm, a firm of whose high character he
had become conscious while in New York as of a thing in the air itself,
and whose head and front, the principal executor of Milly Theale's
copious will, had been duly identified at Lancaster Gate as the
gentleman hurrying out, by the straight southern course, before the
girl's death, to the support of Mrs. Stringham. Densher's act on
