"And I wish," added Grace, gazing at him with the same anxious look he
had noticed before, "I wish I could help you do the fighting too. I hate
to think of your being hurt."

"It hurts me to have you look so unhappy," said Mark, seriously. "I can
stand the other. As a fighter I don't think you would make much of a
success. This is a case of 'angels for council; devils for war.'"

"Go ahead," sighed Grace, "if you have to go to hospital I'll come over
and nurse you."

Mark took his departure soon after that; he set out for camp, revolving
in his mind all sorts of impracticable schemes for outwitting the first
classmen that night. His thoughts were interrupted by hearing his name.
He looked up; a cadet was addressing him.

"Mr. Mallory," he said, "good-afternoon. My name is Harden. Mr. Wright
has asked me to be his second."

Mark bowed.

"Also to say that if you will be outside of your tent, dressed, at two
to-morrow morning he will have a boat ready to take us to a quiet
place."

Mark bowed again.

"Bring one second with you," the cadet continued, "Mr. Wright will have
but one. And keep this very secret; tell no one, for the cadets will
surely stop us if they learn. Mr. Wright has great doubts of our success
anyway."

"I shall do my best," answered Mark. "I am as anxious to succeed as he.
And I'm much obliged to you for your trouble."

Mark turned away and entered his tent.

"There'll be fun to-night," he muttered; "plenty of fun to-night."

There was.




CHAPTER XXIII.

A FIGHT, AND OTHER THINGS.


"Are you ready in there? S-sh!"

"Yes, I'll be out in a moment."

"Two o'clock and all's we-ell!"

The first speaker was Harden, the first classman, the second was Mark,
and the third the sentry, calling the hour.

The moonlight, clear and white, shone down on the glistening, snowy
tents; the camp was almost as bright as day. Two figures who stood
crouching in the company street were plainly visible, dressed in old
contraband "cit's clothing" for disguise. And presently two more
appeared, similarly clad, Mark and his old friend, the learned and
pugilistic Parson.

The four said not a word, but stole silently down the street to the park
that bounded the camp on the east, the river side, the beat of sentry
No. 4. One of them gave a low whistle, a signal to the sentry to face
about so that he might not "see any one cross his beat." The four sped
across the line and were lost a moment later in the shadow of the woods.

The sound of their whistle had an echo, though they did not know it. It
came from another tent and was the signal for a strange scene, one that
probably that camp had never before witnessed. In an instant, it seemed,
the white ground was alive with dark figures and black hurrying shadows.
One-third of the whole cadet corps, all the first class, in fact, were
about to engage in the perilous task of dodging camp!

There was no delay, no hesitation; the whole crowd fell in under one
leader, stole down the street, signaled the sentry; and then came a dash
and a tramp of feet that almost shook the ground. The class was gone.
Gone to stop that fight or die!

One hates to tax a reader's credulity. To say that that sleepy moonlit
camp was once more a witness of the same unusual scene not half a minute
later seems beyond the possibility of belief. Yet so it was. There was
no signal this time; they simply met, five of them, all plebes, two from
an A Company and three from a B Company tent just in the rear. They,
too, fell in under a leader, a leader who punctuated his orders with a
whispered "Wow!" And they, too, crossed the sentry post and vanished in
the woods.

There was some one to trail the trailers!

We shall skip forward to those in advance. The four would-be duelists
had no idea of their detection. They thought that their early start had
done the work. They climbed down the bank of the river, passed the
riding hall, and came out on the railroad track below, just at the mouth
of the tunnel.

"The boat is down near Highland Falls," said Harden, briefly; and then
there was silence again. Wright had not said one word since the start.

They set out down the track. They stole by the little station, with its
single light and its half-sleeping telegraph operator. And then--hark!
What was that?

Tramp, tramp! The four turned in amazement. Great heavens, they were
followed! Clearly visible in the moonlight, their white trousers
glittering, the company was marching steadily behind them. They were in
line and had a captain. At concealment there was no attempt; they seemed
to say, every one of them. "Well, here we are. Now what are you going to
do about it?" And the four stared at each other in amazement.

"Shall we resort to flight?" inquired the learned Parson.

"They're too many; they'd catch us," said Harden, emphatically. "I don't
know just what to do. I rather think we're outwitted. I--what's that?"

"Ding! dong! Woow-oo!"

"A train!" exclaimed Mark. "That'll scatter 'em. But it'll do us no
good."

A moment later there was a glare of light in the tunnel, light that
shone upon the figures on the track; and then the heavy train shot out
and came rushing down upon them. The cadets scattered of course; and in
the temporary confusion Mark saw a golden chance. It was a slow train;
he could see. A freight! And a moment later as the engine rushed past
them, he shouted to the other three:

"Catch it! Catch it as it passes!"

It was all done so quickly they had scarcely time to think. They saw the
last car whirl past the cadets; they saw the company reforming to march.
And a moment later all four of them leaped toward the train and flung
themselves aboard the last platform of the way car.

It was going faster than they had thought; the sudden jerk they got
nearly tore their arms from their sockets, and the Parson's loose joints
cracked ominously. But they hung on, all of them, with a grip like
death. And they had the intense satisfaction of hearing a yell of rage
from the cadets in the rear, and of seeing, as they clambered up and
looked behind them, the whole crowd break into a run and set out in
furious, though vain pursuit.

"That settles it," said Mark, joyfully. "We're safe! now then."

But his words were just a trifle premature. The cadets were fast being
left behind, running though they were; but there was a new danger
hitherto unthought of. The car they were on was the caboose. The door
was flung open; a rough figure strode out.

"Hey, there, git off o' that! What the divil are yez doin' there?"

The four stared at each other in consternation. Here was a rub! They
looked for all the world like tramps, to be kicked off unceremoniously
into the hands of the enemy again. But before the man could move Harden
thrust his hand into his pocket.

