
"Some day I may need those strokes.  The vicomte does not know that I
possess them."  Victor smiled; then he frowned.  "He is made of iron;
he is a stone wall; but he is not as brilliant and daring as you are,
Paul."

"Let us prolong the truce indefinitely," said the vicomte, later.

Victor bowed without speaking.  The courtesy had something
non-committal in it, and it did not escape the keen eye of the vicomte.

"Monsieur, you are the most gallant poet I know," and the vicomte
saluted gravely.

They were becalmed the next day and the day following.  The afternoon
of the second day promised to be dull and uninteresting, but grew
suddenly pregnant with possibilities when the Comte d'Hérouville
addressed the vicomte with these words: "Monsieur, I should like to
speak to the Chevalier du Cévennes.  Will you take upon yourself the
responsibility of conducting me to his cabin?  It is not possible for
me to ask the courtesy of Monsieur de Saumaise.  My patience becomes
strained at the sight of him."

"Certainly, Monsieur," answered the vicomte, pleasantly, though the
perpendicular line above his nose deepened.  "I dare venture that the
matter concerns the coming engagement at Quebec, and you desire a
witness."

"Your surmise is correct.  I do not wish to take advantage of him.  I
wish to know if he believes he will be in condition."

"Follow me."  The vicomte started toward the companionway.

The Chevalier lay in his bunk, in profound slumber.  Breton was dozing
over his Rabelais.  The clothes on the hooks moved but slightly.  As
the two visitors entered, the lackey lifted his head and placed a
finger against his lips.

"He sleeps?" whispered the vicomte.

Breton nodded, eying d'Hérouville with disapproval.

The vicomte stared at the wan face on the pillow.  He shrugged his
shoulders, and there was an essence of pity in the movement.  Meanwhile
the count gazed with idle curiosity at the partitions.  He saw the
Chevalier's court rapier with its jeweled hilt.  The Chevalier's
grandsire had flaunted the slender blade under the great Constable's
nose in the days of Henri II.  There had been a time when he himself
had worn a rapier even more valuable; but the Jews had swallowed it
even as the gaming tables had swallowed his patrimony.  Next he
fingered the long campaign rapier, and looked away as if trying to
penetrate the future.  A sharp gasp slipped past his lips.

"Boy," he said lowly and with apparent calm, "was not that a ship
passing?"

Breton looked out of the port-hole.  As he did so the count grasped the
vicomte's arm.  The vicomte turned quickly, and for the first time his
eyes encountered the grey cloak.  His breath came sharply, while his
hand stretched forth mechanically and touched the garment, sinister and
repelling though it was.  There followed his touch a crackling sound,
as of paper.  D'Hérouville paled.  On the contrary, the vicomte smiled.

"Messieurs," said Breton, "your eyes deceived you.  The horizon is
clear.  But take care, or you will have monsieur's clothes from the
hooks."

"Tell your master," said the vicomte, "that we shall pay him a visit
later, when he wakes."  He opened the door, and followed D'Hérouville
out.

Once outside the two men gazed into each other's eyes.  Each sought to
discover something that lay behind.

"The cloak!"  D'Hérouville ran his fingers through his beard.  "The
Chevalier has never searched the pockets."

"Let us lay the matter before him and acquaint him with our
suspicions," said the vicomte, his eyes burning.  "His comrade's danger
is common to both of us.  We will ask the Chevalier for his word, and
he will never break it."

"No! a thousand devils, no!  Place my neck under his heel?  Not I."

"You have some plan?"

"Beaufort offers five thousand livres for that paper, and Gaston will
give five thousand more to have proof that it is destroyed.  That is
ten thousand, Monsieur."

"Handsome!"

"And I offer to share with you."

"You do not need money, Monsieur."

"I?  The Jews have me tied in a thousand knots!" replied the count,
bitterly.

"I am not the least inclined toward partnership.  You must manoeuver to
reach the inside of that cloak before I do.  There is nothing more to
be said, Monsieur."

"Take care!" menacingly.

"Faith!  Monsieur," the vicomte said, coolly, "my sword is quite as
long as yours.  And there is the Chevalier.  You must fight him first."

"And if you find the paper?" forcing a calm into his tones.

"I shall take the next ship back to France.  I will see Beaufort and
Gaston, and the bubble will be pricked."

"Perhaps you may never return."

"As to that, we shall see.  Come, is there not something more than ten
thousand livres behind that paper?"

"You banter.  I do not understand."

"Is not madame's name there?"

"Well?"

"She is a widow, young, beautiful, and rich.  And this incriminating
signature of hers,--what a fine thing it would be to hold over her
head!  She is a woman, and a woman is easily duped in all things save
love."

D'Hérouville trembled.  "You are forcing war."

"So be it," tranquilly.  "I will make one compact with you; if I find
the paper I will inform you.  Will you accept a like?"

"Yes."

"Good.  Now, then, once in Paris, I will stake ten thousand livres
against your tentative claims to madame's hand.  We will play at
vingt-et-un.  That is true gambling, Monsieur, and you are a good
judge."

"I pick up the gauntlet with pleasure, under all conditions.  Besides,
an idea has occurred to me.  The paper may not be what we think it is.
The man who killed De Brissac is not one to give up or throw away the
rewards.  Eh, Monsieur?"

"Perhaps he was pressed for time.  His life perhaps depended upon his
escape.  He may have dropped the cloak," shrewdly, "and some friend
found it and returned it to the Chevalier.  A plausible supposition, as
you will agree."

"You may tell me a lie," said D'Hérouville, thoughtfully.

"It would not be necessary, Monsieur le Comte," returned the vicomte,
suggestively tapping his sword.




CHAPTER XIV
