were destined to happen there--some of them this very same night.

The camp is half a mile or so from barracks, just beyond the Cavalry
Plain and very close to old Fort Clinton. The site is a pretty one, the
white tents standing out against the green of the shade trees and the
parapet of the fort.

The tents are arranged in four "company streets" and are about five feet
apart. The tents have wooden platforms for floors and are large enough
for four cadets each. A long wooden box painted green serves as the
"locker"--it has no lock or key--and a wooden rod near the ridge pole
serves as a wardrobe. And that is the sum total of the furniture.

The plebes made their way up the company streets and the cadet officers
in charge, under the supervision of the "tacs," assigned them to their
tents. Fortunately, plebes are allowed to select their own tent mates;
it may readily be believed the four devils of A company went together.
By good fortune the three remaining in B company, as was learned later,
found one whole tent left over and so were spared the nuisance of a
stranger in their midst--a fact which was especially gratifying to the
exclusive Master Chauncey.

Having been assigned to their tents, the plebes were set to work under
the brief instructions of a cadet corporal at the task of arranging
their household effects. This is done with mathematical exactness. There
is a place for everything, and a penalty for not keeping it there.
Blankets, comforters, pillows, etc., go in a pile at one corner. A
looking-glass hangs on the front tent pole; a water bucket is deposited
on the front edge of the platform; candlesticks, candles, cleaning
materials, etc., are kept in a cylindrical tin box at the foot of the
rear tent pole; and so on it goes, through a hundred items or so. There
are probably no more uniform things in all nature than the cadet tents
in camp. The proverbial peas are not to be compared with them.

The amount of fear and trembling which was caused to those four friends
of ours in a certain A company tent by the contraband goods of Texas and
the Parson is difficult to imagine. The cadet corporal, lynx-eyed and
vigilant, scarcely gave them a chance to hide anything. It was only by
Mark's interposing his body before his friends that they managed to
slide their precious cargoes in under the blankets, a temporary hiding
place. And even when the articles were thus safely hidden, what must
that officious yearling do but march over and rearrange the pile
accurately, almost touching one of the revolvers, and making the four
tremble and quake in their boots.

They managed the task without discovery, however, and went on with their
work. And by the first drum beat for dress parade that afternoon,
everything was done up in spick-and-span order, to the eye at any rate.

Dress parade was a formality in which the plebes took no part but that
of interested spectators. They huddled together shyly in their newly
occupied "plebe hotels" and watched the yearlings, all in spotless snowy
uniforms, "fall in" on the company street outside. The yearlings were
wild with delight and anticipation at having the strangers right among
them at last, and they manifested great interest in the plebes, their
dwellings, and in fact in everything about them. Advice and criticism,
and all kinds of guying that can be imagined were poured upon the
trembling lads' heads, and this continued in a volley until the second
drum changed the merry crowd into a silent and motionless line of
soldiers.

Mark could scarcely keep his excitable friend Texas from sallying out
then and there to attack some of the more active members of this
hilarious crowd. It was evident that, while no plebe escaped entirely,
there was no plebe hotel in A company so much observed as their own. For
the three B. J.-est plebes in the whole plebe class were known to be
housed therein. Cadet Mallory, "professional hero," was urged in all
seriousness to come out and rescue somebody on the spot, which
oft-repeated request, together with other merry chaffing, he bore with a
good-natured smile. Cadet Stanard was plagued with geological questions
galore, among which the "cyathophylloid" occupied a prominent place.
Cadet Powers was dared to come out and lasso a stray "tac," whose
blue-uniformed figure was visible out on the parade ground. And Mr.
Chilvers found the state of "craps" a point of great solicitude to all.

It was all stopped by the drum as has been mentioned; the company
wheeled by fours and marched down the street, leaving the plebes to an
hour of rest. But oh! those same yearlings were thinking. "Oh, won't we
just soak 'em to-night!"

And, strange to say, the same thought was in the minds of seven
particular plebes that stayed behind. For Mark had a plot by this time.




CHAPTER XXXI.

"FIRST NIGHT."


Dress parade leaves but a few moments for supper, with no chance for
"deviling." But when the battalion marched back from that meal and broke
ranks, when the dusk of evening was coming on to make an effective
screen, then was the time, thought the cadets. And so thought the
plebes, too, as they came up the road a few minutes later, trembling
with anticipation, most of them, and looking very solemn and somber in
their dusky fatigue uniforms.

"First night of plebe camp," says a well-known military writer, "is a
thing not soon to be forgotten, even in these days when pitchy darkness
no longer surrounds the pranks of the yearlings, and when official
vigilance and protection have replaced what seemed to be tacit
encouragement and consent.

"Then--some years ago--it was no uncommon thing for a new cadet to be
dragged out--'yanked'--and slid around camp on his dust-covered blanket
twenty times a night, dumped into Fort Clinton ditch, tossed in a tent
fly, half smothered in the folds of his canvas home, ridden on a tent
pole or in a rickety wheelbarrow, smoked out by some vile, slow-burning
pyrotechnic compound, robbed of rest and sleep at the very least after
he had been alternately drilled and worked all the livelong day."

In Mark's time the effort to put a stop to the abuses mentioned had just
been begun. Army officers had been put on duty at night; gas lamps had
been placed along the sentry posts--precautions which are doubled
nowadays, and with the risk of expulsion added besides. They have done
away with the worst forms of hazing if not with the spirit.

The yearlings "had it in" for our four friends of company A that
evening. In fact, scarcely had the plebes scattered to their tents when
that particular plebe hotel was surrounded. The cadets had it all
arranged beforehand, just what was to happen, and they expected to have
no end of fun about it.

"Parson Stanard" was to be serenaded first; the crowd meant to surround
him and "invite" him to read some learned extracts from his beloved
"Dana." The Parson was to recount some of the nobler deeds of Boston's
heroes, including himself; he was to display his learning by answering
questions on every conceivable subject; he was to define and spell a
list of the most outlandish words in every language known to the angels.

Texas was to show his skill and technique in hurling an imaginary lasso
and firing an imaginary revolver from an imaginary galloping horse. He
was to tell of the geography, topography, climate and resources of the
Lone Star State; he was to recount the exploits of his "dad," "the Hon.
Scrap Powers, sah, o' Hurricane Co.," and his uncle, the new
Senator-elect. Mark was to give rules for rescuing damsels, saving
expresses and ferryboats, etc. And Mr. Methusalem Zebediah Chilvers of
Kansas was to state his favorite method of raising three-legged chickens
and three-foot whiskers.

That was the delicious programme as finally agreed upon by the
yearlings. And there was only one drawback met in the execution of it.
The four plebes could not be found!

They weren't in their tent; they weren't in camp! Preposterous! The
yearlings hunted, scarcely able to believe their eyes. The plebes, of
course, had a perfect right to take a walk after supper if they chose.
But the very idea of daring to do it on the first night in camp, when
they knew that the yearlings would visit them and expect to be
entertained! It was an unheard-of thing to do; but it was just what one
would have expected of those B. J. beasts, so the yearlings grumbled, as
they went off to other tents to engage other plebes in conversation and
controversy.

But where were the four? No place in particular. They had simply joined
the other three and had the impudence to disappear in the woods for a
stroll until tattoo. They had come to the conclusion that it was better
to do that than to stay and be "guyed," as they most certainly would be
