It was in March, and though the sun was shining 
brightly outside, and the old porter wore his linen 
jacket, as if it were already spring, there was a cold 
draught down the staircase, and the Baroness instinc- 
tively made haste up the steps, and was glad when she 
reached the big swinging door covered with red baize 
and studded with smart brass nails, which gave access 
to the grand apartment. 

By force of habit, she opened it and went in. There 
used to be always two men in the outer hall, all day 
long, and sometimes four, ready to announce visitors 
or to answer questions, as the case might be. It was 
deserted now, a great, dismal, paved hall, already dingy 
with dust. One of the box-benches was open, and the 
tall of a footman's livery greatcoat which had been 
thrown in carelessly, hung over the edge and dragged 
on the marble floor. 





The Baroness realized tliat the porter had spoken the 
truth and that all the servants had left the house, as 
the rats leave a sinking ship. One must really have 
seen an old ship sink in harbour to know how the rats 
look, black and grey, fat and thin, old and young, their 
tiny beads of eyes glittering with fright as they scurry 
up the hatches and make for every deck port and 
scupper, scrambling and tumbling over each other till 
they flop into the water and swim away, racing for 
safety, each making a long forked wake on the smooth 
surface, with a steady quick ripple like the tearing of 
thin paper into strips. 

The strong middle-aged woman who stood alone in 
the empty hall knew nothing of sinking vessels or the 
ways of rats, but she had known incidentally of more 
than one catastrophe like this, in the course of her 
husband's ascendant career, and somehow he had 
always been mysteriously connected with each one. 
An evil-speaking old diplomatist had once said that he 
remembered Baron Volterra as a pawn-broking dealer 
in antiquities, in Florence, thirty years earlier ; there 
was probably no truth in the story, but after Volterra 
was elected a Senator of the Kingdom, a member of 
the opposition had alluded to it with piquant irony and 
the result had been the exchange of several bullets at 
forty paces, whereby honour was satisfied without 
bloodshed. The seconds, who were well disposed to 
both parties, alone knew how much or how little 
powder there was in the pistols, and they were discreet 
men, who kept the secret. 



 

The door leading to the antechamber was wide open, 
and the Baroness went on deliberately, looking about 
through her hand-glass, in the half light, for the shutters were not all open. Dust everywhere, the dust 
that falls silently at night from the ancient wooden ceilings and painted beams of Roman palaces, the dust of 
centuries accumulated above and sifting for ever to the 
floors below. It was on the yellow marble pier tables, 
on the dim mirrors in their eighteenth century frames, 
on the high canopy draped with silver and black be- 
neath which the effigy of another big cheeky eagle 
seemed to be silently moulting under his antique crown, 
the emblem of a race that had lived almost on the same 
spot for eight hundred years, through good and bad 
repute, but in nearly uninterrupted prosperity. The 
Baroness, who hankered after greatness, felt that the 
gloom was a twilight of gods. She stood still before 
the canopy, the symbol of princely rank and privilege, 
the invisible silk bellows were silent for a few seconds, 
and she wondered whether there were any procurable 
sum which she and her husband would grudge in 
exchange for the acknowledged right to display a 
crowned eagle, cheeky, argent and sable, in their hall, 
under a canopy draped with their own colours. She 
sighed, since no one could hear her, and she went on. 
The sigh was not only for the hopelessness of ever 
reaching such social greatness ; it was in part the out- 
ward show of a real regret that it should have come to 
an untimely end. Her admiration of princes was as 
sincere as her longing to be one of them ; she had at 





least the melancholy satisfaction of sympathizing with 
them in their downfall. It brought her a little nearer 
to them in imagination if not in fact. 

The evolution of the snob has been going on quickly 
of late, and quicker than ever since vast wealth has 
given so many of the species the balance of at least one 
sort of power in society. His thoughts are still the 
same, but his outward shape approaches strangely near 
to that of the human being. There are snobs now, 
who behave almost as nicely in the privacy of their 
homes as in the presence of a duchess. They are 
much more particular as to the way in which others 
shall behave to them. That is a test, by the bye. The 
snob thinks most of the treatment he receives from the 
world ; the gentleman thinks first how he shall act 
courteously to others. 

The Baroness went on and entered the outer recep- 
tion room, and looking before her she could see 
through the open doors of the succeeding drawing- 
rooms, where the windows had been opened or perhaps 
not closed on the previous evening. It was all vast, 
stately and deserted. Only ten days earlier she had 
been in the same place at a great reception, brilliant 
with beautiful women and handsome men, alive with 
the flashing of jewels and decorations in the vivid 
light, full of the discreet noise of society in good- 
humour, full of faces she knew, and voices familiar, 
and of the moonlight of priceless pearls and the sun- 
light of historic diamonds ; all of which manifestations 
she dearly loved. 



 

Her husband had perhaps known what was coming, 
and how soon, but she had not. There was something 
awful in the contrast. As she went through one of the 
rooms a mouse ran from under the fringe of a -velvet 
cui-tain and took refuge under an armchair. She had 
sat in that very chair ten days ago and the Russian 
ambassador had talked to her ; she remembered how he 
had tried to extract information from her about the 
new issue of three and a half per cent national bonds, 
because her husband was one of the financiers who 
were expected to "manipulate" the loan. 

A portrait of a Conti in black velvet, by Velasquez, 
looked down, coldly supercilious, at the empty arm- 
chair under which the mouse was hiding. It could 
make no difference, great or small, to him, whether the 
Baroness Volterra ever sat there again to talk with an 
ambassador ; he had sat where he pleased, undisturbed 
in his own house, to the end of his days, and no one 
can take the past from the dead, except a modern Ger- 
man historian. 

Not a sound broke the stillness, except the steady 
plash of the water falling into the fountain in the wide 
court, heard distinctly through the closed windows. 
The Baroness wondered if any one were awake except 
the old porter downstairs. She knew the house toler- 
ably well. Only the Princess and her two unmarried 
daughters slept in the apartment she had entered, far 
off, at the very end, in rooms at the corner overlooking 
the small square and the narrow street. The rest of 
