
‘'Yes, you can go.’' 

Mrs. Preston felt that Laura had been 
confined a great deal lately, and the 
frowning face did not promise very 
pleasant companionship. However, it 
cleared up wonderfully now. 

‘‘Oh! thank you, mamma! Ifil be 
back real early. ' ’ 

Laura ran upstairs, and slipped on her 
white dress. Ann had begged her to 
save it nice for another Sunday, “the 
ruffles were so botherin’ to iron”; but it 


was the very ruffles that she liked. Then 
she gave her hair a brush, tied on her 
blue sash, and went down. She ought 
to go in and kiss poor, pale mamma; 
but then she might wake the baby. So 
she stole softly along, lingering a mo- 
ment on the porch. Was that sound the 
little rascal Jamie waking up again? 
No, she guessed not, and down the walk 
she ran. 

They had played one game when she 
reached Bell’s handsome house. She 
was very glad that she had dressed her- 
self so prettily, for here were Bell’s 
cousins, and Mrs. Cummings and some 
lady visitors were looking on. 

'I’m so glad you’ve come !” exclaimed 
Bell; '‘we had to take that stupid Sarah 
Gaines, who hardly knows a mallet from 
a bean-pole. Now, we’ll have some fun.” 



your day out, I suppose, Laura, 
drawled Bessie Livingston. heard 
that you'd turned child’s nurse.” 

That vexed Laura, and a heat flashed 
to her face. 

take care of my little brother some- 
times,” she said, haughtily; yet she 
wished in her heart that she didn’t have it 
to do. 

"Come, Blue, run to your place!” said 
Bell. 

They all went at it in great earnest. 
Laura was a capital player, generally, 
but this afternoon her hand didn’t seem 
very steady. She lost her patience 
easily; she felt flurried, and nervous, 
and warm, and found she was on the 
losing side. And then there was an un- 
comfortable misgiving tugging at her 
heart. If the baby should wake, if Ann 



was busy or out, and poor mamma did 
look unusually pale! She might have 
guessed that mamma had been worrying 
with the baby all day, when she said he 
had not slept any; but just then she did 
not want to think of any one besides 
herself. And now, she couldn’t help 
thinking, and the balls became confused 
in her mind. 

Until ten months before, Laura Pres- 
ton had been an only child, and, of 
course, indulged a good deal. She 
seemed so sweet and good-tempered al- 
ways, but it was because there had been 
nothing to try her. At first, she pro- 
nounced the baby splendid, and cared for 
nothing else— tended him, caressed him, 
did yards of tatting, crocheted him a 
blanket and a cap, and worked him a 
little skirt. Then her interest began to 



flag; he took so much time, and was 
really a great deal of trouble. 

For the last month, Mrs. Preston had 
been quite poorly, and the baby a greater 
charge. Laura grew tired of him, she 
secretly confessed to herself, though it 
did seem wicked. But it was hard to give 
up every moment. 

Mrs. Preston saw with pain that Laura 
was developing many selfish and un- 
amiable traits. Sometimes she won- 
dered whether it would be best to relieve 
her of all charge of the baby, or perse- 
vere until she had learned one of the hard 
lessons of life, to think of others for 
something besides pleasure. Yet, to do 
Laura justice, she had never been quite 
so cross as on this day. 

She didn’t enjoy the playing half as 
much as she expected. Bell thought she 




wasn’t trying at all, and did not care 
liow slie played, and presently the game 
came to an end. Lanra said she must go 
home, but Bell begged her to come in 
and see her new dresses. 

'‘How beautifully yours is made!” 
Mrs. Cummings said. ‘'Bell, Miss Lang 
must see this waist ; I ’d like one of yours 
puffed in that fashion.” 

So Bell took her into the dressmaker, 
and, somehow, the time passed rapidly. 
The clock struck six. 

‘‘Oh! I must go”; and Laura made a 
fresh start. 

Flying out of the gate, her skirt 
caught, and, in her haste, she couldn’t 
stop, so her beautiful dress, that she 
was so glad of having worn five minutes 
ago, now had a great, unsightly rent 
across one breadth. 


 


Laura uttered a passionate cry, more 
in anger than sorrow. The whole day 
had gone wrong, for that matter; but, 
first, a little girl had not been quite right 
in heart. 

The doctor’s carriage was standing 
before the door. He generally came in 
the morning, and a sudden fear seized 
the child. There was one of the neigh- 
