
Little Bilham had a pause. " Oh, he's not keen for 
sacrifices ; or thinks, that is, possibly, that he has made 
enough." 

" Well, it is virtuous," his companion observed with 
decision. 

" That's exactly," the young man dropped after a 
moment, "what I mean." 

It kept Strether himself silent a little. " I've made it 
DUt for myself," he then went on ; " I've really, within the 
last half-hour, got hold of it. I understand it, in short, at 
last; which at first — when you originally spoke to me — 
I didn't. Nor when Chad originally spoke to me either." 

"Oh," said little Bilham, "I don't think that at that time 
 'ou believed me." 

" Yes — I did ; and I believed Chad too. It would have 
seen odious and unmannerly — as well as quite perverse — if 
I hadn't. What interest have you in deceiving me?" 

The young man hesitated. " What interest have I ?" 

" Yes. Chad might have. But you ? " 

" Ah, ah, ah ! " little Bilham exclaimed. 

It might, on repetition, as a mystification, have irritated 
iDur friend a little; but he knew, once more, as we have 
5een, where he was, and his being proof against everything 
 as only another attestation that he meant to stay there. 
' I couldn't, without my own impression, realise. She's a 
:remendously clever, brilliant, capable woman, and with an 
extraordinary charm on top of it all — the charm we surely, 
ill of us this evening, know what to think of. It isn't 
ivery clever, brilliant, capable woman that has it. In fact 
t's rare with any woman. So there you are," Strether 
Droceeded as if not for little Bilham's benefit alone. " I 
inderstand what a relation with such a woman — what such 
I high, fine friendship — may be. It can't be vulgar or 
;oarse, anyway — and that's the point." 

" Yes, that's the point," said little Bilham. " It can't be 





vulgar or coarse. And, bless us and save us, it is7it! It's . 
upon my word, the very finest thing I ever saw in my life, 
and the most distinguished." 

Strether, from beside him, and leaning back with him as 
he leaned, dropped on him a momentary look which filled 
a short interval and of which he took no notice. He only ; 
gazed before him with intent participation. " Of course 
what it has done for him," Strether, at all events, presently 
pursued, "of course what it has done for him — that is as to 
how it has so wonderfully worked — is not a thing I pretend 
to understand. I've to take it as I find it. There he is." !, 

" There he is ! " little Bilham echoed. " And it's really 
and truly she. I don't understand either, even with my 
longer and closer opportunity. But I'm like you," he  
added ; " I can admire and rejoice even when I'm a little  
in the dark. You see I've watched it for some three years,  
and especially for this last. He wasn't so bad before it as j
I seem to have made out that you think " 

"Oh, I don't think anything now!" Strether impatiently ;  
broke in : " that is but what I do think ! I mean that, 
originally, for her to have cared for him " 

" There must have been stuff in him. Oh yes, there was 
stuff indeed, and much more of it than ever showed, I 
dare say, at home. Still, you know," the young man in 
all fairness developed, " there was room for her, and that's 
where she came in. She saw her chance, and she took it. 
That's what strikes me as having been so fine. But of 
course he liked her first." 

" Naturally," said Strether. 

"I mean that they first met somehow and somewhere — I 
believe in some American house — and she, without in the 
least then intending it, made her impression. Then, with 
time and opportunity, he made his ; and after that she was 
as bad as he." 

Strether vaguely took it up. " As ' bad ' ? " 

"She began, that is, to care — to care very much. Alone, 
and in her horrid position, she found it, when once she had 
started, an interest. It was, it is, an interest ; and it did — 
it continues to do — a lot for herself as well. So she still 
cares. She cares in fact," said little Bilham thoughtfully, 
" more." 





Strether's theory that it was none of his business was 
somehow not damaged by the way he took it in. " More, 
you mean, than he?" On this his companion looked 
round at him, and now, for an instant, their eyes met. 
" More than he ? " he repeated. 

Little Bilham, for as long, hung fire. " Will you never 
tell anyone ? " 

Strether thought. " Whom should I tell ? " 

" Why, I supposed you reported regularly " 

"To people at home.-'" — Strether took him up. "Well, I 
won't tell them this." 

The young man at last looked away. " Then she does 
now care more than he." 

" Oh !" Strether oddly exclaimed. 

But his companion immediately met it. " Haven't you, 
after all, had your impression of it? That's how you've 
got hold of him." 

" Ah, but I haven't got hold of him ! " 

" Oh, I say ! " But it was all Ijttle Bilham said. 

"It's at any rate none of my business. I mean," Strether 
explained, " nothing else than getting hold of him is." It 
appeared, however, to strike him as his business to add : 
" The fact remains, nevertheless, that she has saved him." 

Little Bilham just waited. " I thought that was what 
you were to do." 

But Strether had his answer ready. " I'm speaking — in 
connection with her — of his manners and morals, his 
character and life. I'm speaking of him as a person to 
deal with and talk with and live with — speaking of him as 
a social animal." 

"And isn't it as a social animal that you also want him?" 
' "Certainly; so that it's as if she had saved xnfor us." 

"It strikes you accordingly then," the young man threw 
out, " as for you all to save her ? " 

"Oh, for us 'air !" Strether could but laugh at 

that. It brought him back, however, to the point he had 
really wished to make. " They've accepted their situation 
— hard as it is. They're not free — at least she's not ; but 
they take what's left to them. It's a friendship, of a 
