“Was it after dark?”
“Very much after. It was at day-break.”
“Oh! You were alone?”
“Quite.”
“You made sure you were not dreaming?”
“I made sure of that, instantly. I was not awakened by the apparition. I
was already fully awake.”
“Had your mind been running on anything of the kind?”
“Nothing could have been farther from it. I was thinking what a very long
while it would be till breakfast.” This was not true as to the order of
the fact; but Hewson could not keep himself from saying it, and it made a
laugh and created a diversion in his favor.
“How long did it seem to last?”
“The vision? That was very curious. The whole affair was quite achronic,
as I may say. The figure was there and it was not there.”
“It vanished suddenly?”
“I can’t say it vanished at all. It ought still to be there. Have you
ever returned to a place where you had always been wrong as to the points
of the compass, and found yourself right up to a certain moment as you
approached, and then without any apparent change, found yourself
perfectly wrong again? The figure was not there, and it was there, and
then it was not there.”
“I think I see what you mean,” said the psychologist, warily. “The
evanescence was subjective.”
“Altogether. But so was the apparescence.”
“Ah!” said Wanhope. “You hadn’t any headache?”
“Not the least.”
“Ah!” The psychologist desisted with the effect of letting the defence
take the witness.
A general dissatisfaction diffused itself, and Hewson felt it; but he
disdained to do anything to appease it. He remained silent for that
appreciable time which elapsed before his host said, almost
compassionately, “Won’t you tell us all about it, Mr. Hewson.”
The guests, all but Miss Hernshaw, seemed to return to their impartial
frame, with a leaning in Hewson’s favor, such as the court-room feels
when the accused is about to testify in his own behalf; the listeners
cannot help wishing him well, though they may have their own opinions of
his guilt.
“Why, there isn’t any ‘all-about-it,’” said Hewson. “The whole thing
has been stated as to the circumstances and conditions.” He could see the
baffled greed in the eyes of those who were hungering for a morsel of the
marvellous, and he made it as meagre as he could. He had now no
temptation to exaggerate the simple fact, and he hurried it out in the
fewest possible words.
VIII.
The general disappointment was evident in the moment of waiting which
followed upon his almost contemptuous ending. His audience some of them
took their cue from his own ironical manner, and joked; others looked as
if they had been trifled with. The psychologist said, “Curious.” He did
not go back to his position that belief in ghosts should follow from
seeing a man who had seen one; he seemed rather annoyed by the encounter.
The talk took another turn and distributed itself again between
contiguous persons for the brief time that elapsed before the women were
to leave the men to their coffee and cigars.
When their hostess rose Hewson offered his arm to Miss Hernshaw. She had
not spoken to him since he had told the story of his apparition. Now she
said in an undertone so impassioned that every vibration from her voice
shook his heart, “If I were you, I would never tell that story again!”
 and she pressed his arm with unconscious intensity, while she looked
away from him.
“You don’t believe it happened?” he returned.
“It did.”
“Of course it happened! Why shouldn’t I believe that? But that’s the very
reason why I wouldn’t have told it. If it happened, it was something
sacred--awful! Oh, I don’t see how you could bear to speak of it at a
dinner, when people were all torpid with--”
She stopped breathlessly, with a break in her voice that sounded just
short of a sob.
“Well, I’m sufficiently ashamed of doing it, and not for the first time,”
 he said, in sullen discontent with himself. “And I’ve been properly
punished. You can’t think how sick it makes me to realize what a
detestable sensation I was seeking.”
She did not heed what he was saying. “Was it that morning at St.
Johnswort when you got up so early, and went for a cup of coffee at the
inn?”
“Yes.”
“I thought so! I could follow every instant of it; I could see just how
it was. If such a thing had happened to me, I would have died before I
spoke of it at such a time as this. Oh, why do you suppose it happened
to you?” the girl grieved.
“Me, of all men?” said Hewson, with a self-contemptuous smile.
“I thought you were different,” she said absently; then abruptly: “What
are you standing here talking to me so long for? You must go back! All
the men have gone back,” and Hewson perceived that they had arrived in
the drawing-room, and were conspicuously parleying in the face of a dozen
interested women witnesses.
In the dining-room he took his way toward a vacant place at the table
near his host, who was saying behind his cigar to another old fellow: “I
used to know her mother; she was rather original too; but nothing to this
girl. I don’t envy Mrs. Rock her job.”
“I don’t know what the pay of a chaperon is, but I suppose Hernshaw can
make it worth her while, if he’s like the rest out there,” said the other
old fellow. “I imagine he’s somewhere in his millions.”
The host held up one of his fingers. “Is that all? I thought more.
Mines?”
“Cattle. Ah, Mr. Hewson,” said the host, turning to welcome him to the
chair on his other side. “Have a cigar. That was a strong story you gave
us. It had a good fault, though. It was too short.”
IX.
Hewson had begun now to feel a keen, persistent, painful sympathy for the
apparition itself as for some one whose confidence had been abused; and
this feeling was none the less, but all the more, poignant because it was
he himself who was guilty towards it. He pitied it in a sort as if it had
been the victim of a wrong more shocking perhaps for the want of taste in
it than for any real turpitude. This was a quality of the event not
without a strange consolation. In arraying him on the side of the
apparition, it antagonized him with what he had done, and enabled him to
renounce and disown it.
From the night of that dinner, Hewson did not again tell the story of his
apparition, though the opportunities to do so now sought him as
constantly as he had formerly sought them. They offered him a fresh
temptation through the different perversions of the fact that had got
commonly abroad, but he resisted this temptation, and let the
perversions, sometimes annoyingly, sometimes amusingly, but always more
and more wildly, wide of the reality, take their course. In his reticence
he had the sense of atoning not only to the apparition but to Miss
Hernshaw too.
Before he met her again, Miss Hernshaw had been carried off to Europe by
Mrs. Rock, perhaps with the purpose of trying the veteran duplicities of
that continent in breaking down the insurgent sincerity of her ward.
Hewson heard that she was not to be gone a great while; it was well into
the winter when they started, and he understood that they were merely
going to Rome for the end of the season, and were then going to work
northward, and after June in London were coming home. He did not fail to
see her again before she left for any want of wishing, but he did not
happen to meet her at other houses, and at the house of Mrs. Rock, if she
had one, he had not been asked to call, or invited to any function. In
thinking the point over it occurred to Hewson that this was so because he
was not wanted there, and not wanted by Miss Hernshaw herself; for it had
been in his brief experience of her that she let people know what she
wanted, and that with Mrs. Rock, whose character seemed to answer to her
name but poorly, she had ways of getting what she wanted. If Miss
Hernshaw had wished to meet him again, he could not doubt that she would
have asked him, or at the least had him asked to come and see her, and
not have left it to the social fortutities to bring them together.
Towards the end of the term which rumor had fixed to her stay abroad
Hewson’s folly was embittered to him in a way that he had never expected
in his deepest shame and darkest forboding. But evil, like good, does not
cease till it has fulfilled itself in every possible consequence. It
seeing even more active and persistent. Good seems to satisfy itself
sometimes in the direct effect, but evil winds sinuously in and out, and
reaches round and over and under its wretched author, and strikes him in
every tender and fatal place, with an ingenuity in finding the places out
that seems truly of hell. Hewson thought he had paid the principal of his
debt in full through the hurt to his vanity in failing to gain any sort
of consequence from his apparition, but the interest of his debt had
accumulated, and the sorest pinch was in paying the interest. His penalty
took the form that was most of all distasteful to him: the form of
publicity in the Sunday edition of a newspaper. A young lady attached to
the staff of this journal had got hold of his story, and had made her
reporter’s Story of it, which she imaginatively cast in the shape of an
interview with Hewson. But worse than this, and really beyond the vagary
of the wildest nightmare, she gave St. Johnswort as the scene of the
apparition, with all the circumstances of the supposed burglary, while
tastefully disguising Hewson’s identity in the figure of A Well-Known
Society-man.
When Hewson read this Story (and it seemed to him that no means of
bringing it to his notice at the club, and on the street, and by mail was
left unemployed), he had two thoughts: one was of St. John, and one was
of Miss Hernshaw. In all his exploitations of his experience he had
