
"Oh, no. That is from Mr. Warfield. I could tell that hand among a
hundred. Isn't it strong and quite as if he knew his own mind?"

She was positively eager with delight as she reached out her hand.

"He is no relative?"

"Oh, the Principal of the school where I went. You know I told you of
the interest he took in me."

"Of course you have read the school regulations in your room?"

Helen's bright face was suddenly shadowed.

"Oh, I do believe--I did forget all about it. I wrote to Mrs. Van Dorn
and then to my uncle, and there seemed so many things I wanted to say to
him, and I just hurried them down. You see he asked me to write to
him----"

Helen paused embarrassed. She knew just where the little card was tacked
beside the door. Various rules and regulations and hours and a notice
that no correspondence would be allowed without permission, to any
gentleman except father and brothers or guardians. And she had never
thought of it at that moment.

"It must have been because he seemed to me like a guardian," she
explained. "That does not excuse my inattention, but please believe me,
Mrs. Aldred, that I didn't willfully break the rule. And you may read
the letter."

"You have the right of the first reading of it. Sit here, will you?"

Helen cut the end of the envelope, and was soon lost in it. Smiles
passed over her face, then she drew her brows in a little crease and the
lips were pressed together with a touch of annoyance. Then the smiles
again.

Mrs. Van Dorn had asked that Helen Grant should not be allowed to
correspond with Mr. Warfield. She did not approve of his influence over
Helen. It was too purely masculine. And Helen was too young to have a
man friend. It might divide her school interest, and she had selected
Aldred House because she wanted Helen to have the best feminine
training.

Mrs. Aldred had smiled over this when she read Mrs. Van Dorn's letter.
Strange that the fear should so soon have materialized.

"Will you please read it," asked Helen in a low tone. "I think he
doesn't quite like a girls' school. And he is all for study. He would
push anyone right straight along, and he believes my music would be
wasted time. I dare say I confessed I was not very bright at it."

The letter was certainly unobjectionable, a little severe perhaps,
betraying the school principal, but still showing the high esteem in
which he held Helen's capabilities. Such a correspondence would not be
likely to do any student harm.

"You see, Helen," she began in a tone of sweet friendliness, "I am
answerable for the girls committed to my charge. Some of the older ones
have young men friends who would be very glad to keep up a
correspondence, and no doubt two or three years hence the girls would
feel mortified at knowing letters of theirs were in the man's
possession. I have known young lads to read letters aloud to their
college or club friends. It is a demoralizing and indiscreet thing, and
no high-minded mother would consent to her daughter doing it without her
knowledge or inspection. One rule, therefore, must apply to all such
correspondences without the mother's consent. A letter like this would
do a girl no harm, indeed, I think your Mr. Warfield rather severe."

"I don't quite understand how I could have done it so carelessly," Helen
said in her frank, honest way. "And I am very, very sorry. But I should
like to write and explain to him why it is"--she cast about for a
word--"inadmissable."

"Of course it is best to do that."

Helen glanced up in such a straightforward fashion. There was nothing
concealed. And to make her renunciation still more earnest and the
obedience more cheerful, she said:

"I don't mean that I shouldn't care for the letters, for I understand
what Mr. Warfield means by every line, and sometimes it would be a
pleasure to write to so good a friend, for after all I owe him the best
fortune of my life. I am doing it without any demur because it is one of
the rules of the school and I do honestly and truly wish to keep them."

"Thank you for your ready acquiescence," and Mrs. Aldred's smile told
Helen the thoughtlessness had been condoned.

"I will bring it to you to decide upon----"

"No," the lady replied, "I can trust you to say just what is right and
proper."

Helen's eyes were in a soft mist as she raised them, and picking up her
letter she made a graceful obeisance as she left the room.

Yes, there was the notice. How could she have let it slip from her mind.
She had a vague idea that it really couldn't apply to a man like Mr.
Warfield, but it was the rule and it must be kept. It did take a certain
something out of her life that she could not have described, but she
felt it. He was so interested in her progress. For had he not roused her
and made a scholar out of her? She might never have known what the
hunger meant but for him, and accepted the husks even if under protest.
How much richer and finer all her life would be. She said frankly that
she was sorry, and that she had counted on the letters.

He was annoyed at the foolishness as he termed it. If she were sixteen
instead of fourteen it would have been different.

The days were so full and passed so rapidly to Helen. The autumn came on
in all its glory and splendor. The hills, they were almost mountains,
about Westchester were wonderful in their changing colors, but she
thought nothing could describe those over the river until she began to
read Ruskin, and that brought her nearer Mrs. Van Dorn again.

She and Daisy Bell slipped into a pleasant girl friendship. Helen was
the stronger, more energetic, more ambitious. But then Daisy had only to
be educated, to go home to her parents and take a place in society and
marry. The girls did talk of the kind of husbands they would like and
the wedding journeys they would take. Two of the seniors were really
engaged.

"And you can't tell how many have lovers," Miss Mays said one evening
when several were sitting, curled up on one bed. "Of course you can't
write to him unless you are regularly engaged and your mother
consents. But if I wanted to correspond with anyone, I'd find a way."

"And disobey the rule," declared Helen.

"Oh, a chit like you doesn't know anything about such matters. All is
fair in love and war. And there are times when strategy is commendable.
You find it a great resource in war as you read history."

"But you wouldn't, really, Roxy! Girls are sometimes sent home in
disgrace."

"I didn't say I would. I said I could find a way if I wanted to," and
she laughed with a sort of light amusement. "I often think up scenes
that would do for a novel; difficulties and how to get out of them."

"I don't want any more difficulties than the lessons," declared another.
"I shall be glad when school days are through with. The happiest time
of life is youth! Not much!"

"What period do you think will be the happiest?" asked Daisy,
thoughtfully.

"My happiest period will be going abroad on a wedding tour, and all the
money I can spend on the other side."

"And mine will be the intervening years," declared Roxy. "Through
school, lots of society, gayety, and admirers and a few flirtations
before I settle down. I'd like to go abroad quite free, and leave the
aching hearts behind."

"And you will make hearts ache, Roxy Mays."

Helen wondered at times how much she liked her, and others quite went
