hand.

There was not a sound in the forest. Miss Barrison laid the dog on the
floor and quietly picked up her pad and pencil. Presently she was deep
in a report of the phenomena, her pencil flying, leaf after leaf from
the pad fluttering to the floor.

Nor did I at the window change my position of scared alertness, until
I was aware of her hand gently touching my elbow to attract my
attention, and her soft voice at my ear--

"You don't suppose by any chance that the dog ate those pies?"

I collected my tumultuous thoughts and turned to stare at the dog.

"Twelve pies, twelve inches each in diameter," she reflected,
musingly. "One dog, twenty inches in diameter. How many times will the
pies go into the dog? Let me see." She made a few figures on her pad,
thought awhile, produced a tape-measure from her pocket, and, kneeling
down, measured the dog.

"No," she said, looking up at me, "he couldn't contain them."

Inspired by her coolness and perfect composure, I set the rifle in the
corner and opened the door. Sunlight fell in bars through the quiet
woods; nothing stirred on land or water save the great, yellow-striped
butterflies that fluttered and soared and floated above the flowering
thickets bordering the jungle.

The heat became intense; Miss Barrison went to her room to change her
gown for a lighter one; I sat down under a live-oak, eyes and ears
strained for any sign of our invisible neighbors.

When she emerged in the lightest and filmiest of summer gowns, she
brought the camera with her; and for a while we took pictures of each
other, until we had used up all but one film.

Desiring to possess a picture of Miss Barrison and myself seated
together, I tied a string to the shutter-lever and attached the other
end of the string to the dog, who had resumed his interrupted
slumbers. At my whistle he jumped up nervously, snapping the lever,
and the picture was taken.

With such innocent and harmless pastime we whiled away the afternoon.
She made twelve more apple-pies. I mounted guard over them. And we
were just beginning to feel a trifle uneasy about Professor Farrago,
when he appeared, tramping sturdily through the forest, green umbrella
and butterfly-net under one arm, shot-gun and cyanide-jar under the
other, and his breast all criss-crossed with straps, from which
dangled field-glasses, collecting-boxes, and botanizing-tins--an
inspiring figure indeed--the embodied symbol of science indomitable,
triumphant!

We hailed him with three guilty cheers; the dog woke up with a
perfunctory bark--the first sound I had heard from him since he yelped
his disapproval of me on the lagoon.

Miss Barrison produced three bowls full of boiling water and dropped
three pellets of concentrated soup-meat into them, while I prepared
coffee. And in a few moments our simple dinner was ready--the red
ants had been dusted from the biscuits, the spiders chased off the
baked beans, the scorpions shaken from the napkins, and we sat down at
the rough, improvised table under the palms.

The professor gave us a brief but modest account of his short tour of
exploration. He had brought back a new species of orchid, several
undescribed beetles, and a pocketful of coontie seed. He appeared,
however, to be tired and singularly depressed, and presently we
learned why.

It seemed that he had gone straight to that section of the forest
where he had hitherto always found signs of the transparent and
invisible creatures which he had determined to capture, and he had not
found a single trace of them.

"It alarms me," he said, gravely. "If they have deserted this region,
it might take a lifetime to locate them again in this wilderness."

Then, very quietly, sinking her voice instinctively, as though the
unseen might be at our very elbows listening, Miss Barrison recounted
the curious adventure which had befallen the dog and the first batch
of apple-pies.

With visible and increasing excitement the professor listened until
the very end. Then he struck the table with clinched fist--a
resounding blow which set the concentrated soup dancing in the bowls
and scattered the biscuits and the industrious red ants in every
direction.

"Eureka!" he whispered. "Miss Barrison, your deduction was not only
perfectly reasonable, but brilliant. You are right; the pies are for
that very purpose. I conceived the idea when I first came here. Again
and again the pies that my guide made out of dried apples disappeared
in a most astonishing and mysterious manner when left to cool. At
length I determined to watch them every second; and did so, with the
result that late one afternoon I was amazed to see a pie slowly rise
from the table and move swiftly away through the air about four feet
above the ground, finally disappearing into a tangle of jasmine and
grape-vine.

"The apparently automatic flight of that pie solved the problem; these
transparent creatures cannot resist that delicacy. Therefore I decided
to bait the cage for them this very night--Look! What's the matter
with that dog?"

The dog suddenly bounded into the air, alighted on all fours, ears,
eyes, and muzzle concentrated on a point directly behind us.

"Good gracious! The pies!" faltered Miss Barrison, half rising from
her seat; but the dog rushed madly into her skirts, scrambling for
protection, and she fell back almost into my arms.

Clasping her tightly, I looked over my shoulder; the last pie was
snatched from the table before my eyes and I saw it borne swiftly away
by something unseen, straight into the deepening shadows of the
forest.

The professor was singularly calm, even slightly ironical, as he
turned to me, saying:

"Perhaps if you relinquish Miss Barrison she may be able to free
herself from that dog."

I did so immediately, and she deposited the cowering dog in my arms.
Her face had suddenly become pink.

I passed the dog on to Professor Farrago, dumping it viciously into
his lap--a proceeding which struck me as resembling a pastime of
extreme youth known as "button, button, who's got the button?"

The professor examined the animal gravely, feeling its pulse, counting
its respirations, and finally inserting a tentative finger in an
attempt to examine its tongue. The dog bit him.

"Ouch! It's a clear case of fright," he said, gravely. "I wanted a dog
to aid me in trailing these remarkable creatures, but I think this dog
of yours is useless, Gilland."

"It's given us warning of the creatures' presence twice already," I
argued.

"Poor little thing," said Miss Barrison, softly; "I don't know why,
but I love that dog.... He has eyes like yours, Mr. Gilland--"

Exasperated, I rose from the table. "He's got eyes like holes burned
in a blanket!" I said. "And if ever a flicker of intelligence lighted
them I have failed to observe it."

The professor regarded me dreamily. "We ought to have more pies," he
observed. "Perhaps if you carried the oven into the shanty--"

"Certainly," said Miss Barrison; "we can lock the door while I make
twelve more pies."

I carried the portable camping-oven into the cabin, connected the
patent asbestos chimney-pipes, and lighted the fire. And in a few
minutes Miss Barrison, sleeves rolled up and pink apron pinned under
her chin, was busily engaged in rolling pie-crust, while Professor
Farrago measured out spices and set the dried apples to soak.

