
'No. If I had been called Smith, I would have stuck to it. Smith is a
very good, honest name. Most of the people who originally came by it
made armour and were more or less artists. No! I wish I were a Smith,
indeed I do! The name is frequent, not common, that's all.'

Margaret was puzzled, and looked at his face, as if she were thinking
out the problem.

'No,' she said suddenly, and with decision. 'You are not a Jew. That's
impossible!'

'I'm not a Jew.' He laughed this time. 'But I know several very
interesting Jews, and I don't dislike them at all. I really should not
mind being called Solomon Isaacs! I would not have changed the name
either.'

'You might have been called Isidore Guggenheimer,' Margaret suggested,
smiling.

'Well--that! For purposes of literature, it would not be practical.'

'You forget that you have not told me your real name yet. You see, if I
should ever happen to think of you again, I'd rather not think of you
under a pseudonym, unless it were in connection with your books.'

'That's the only way in which you are likely to think of me,' he
answered. 'But if you really want to know, my first name is Thomas,
diminutive Tom--plain Tom.'

'I like that much better than Edmund,' said Margaret, who had simple
tastes. 'Is the other one as nice?'

'I don't know what you might think of it,' Lushington answered. 'It is
neither common nor uncommon, and not at all striking, but I cannot tell
you what it is. I'm sorry to make a mystery of it, for my father was
nobody in particular, and I was nobody in particular until I was heard
of as Lushington, the critic. And I've been Lushington so long that I'm
used to it. I was called so at school and at Oxford.'

'As long ago as that!' Margaret again seemed relieved.

'Yes. Oh, I've done nothing disgraceful, nor my father either! It's not
that. I cannot possibly explain, but it's the reason why I'm a
fraud--as far as you are concerned.'

'Only as far as I am concerned?'

'Nobody else happens to matter. Mrs. Rushmore receives all sorts of
interesting people, many of whom have played tricks with their names.
Why should she care? Why should anybody care? We have all done the
things we are known for, and we are not in love with Mrs. Rushmore,
though she is a very agreeable woman! She wouldn't care to call me Tom,
would she?'

'I don't know,' Margaret answered with a laugh. 'She might!'

'At all events, it's not necessary to tell her,' said Lushington.

'No. But suppose that I should not care to call you Tom either, and yet
should wish to call you something, don't you know? That might happen.'

Lushington did not answer at once, and Margaret was a little
displeased, for she had said more than she had ever meant to say to
show him what she was beginning to feel. She held her head rather high
as they walked on under the great trees, and her eyes sparkled coldly
now and then.

She had known for a long time that he loved her, and to-day he had told
her so, almost roughly; and for some time, also, she had understood
that she was growing fond of him. But now that she held out her hand,
metaphorically, he would not take it.

'I don't want to know your secret, if it is as important as that,' she
said at last. 'A man who hides his real name so carefully must have
some very good reason for doing it.'

She emphasised the words almost cruelly and looked straight before her,
and her eyes sparkled again. His lips parted to make a quick retort,
but he checked himself, and then spoke quietly.

'I have never done anything I am ashamed of,' he said.

'I don't think it's very nice to do what you are doing now,' Margaret
retorted, coolly. 'It doesn't inspire confidence, you know.'

'Can't we part without quarrelling?'

'Oh, certainly! Do you mean to go away?'

'You leave me no choice. Shall we turn back to the house? It will
soon be over. I can leave before dinner. It will be easy to find an
excuse.'

'Yes! Those proofs you have been talking of lately--your
publishers--anything will do!'

Margaret was thoroughly angry with him and with herself by this time,
and he was deeply hurt, and they turned and walked stiffly, with their
noses in the air, as if they never meant to speak to each other again.

'It's very odd!' Margaret observed at last, as if she had made a
discovery.

'What is very odd?'

'I never liked you as much as I did a quarter of an hour ago, and I
never disliked you as much as I do now! Do you understand that?'

'Yes. You make it very clear. I never heard any thing put more
plainly.'

'I'm glad of that. But it's very funny. I detest you just now, and yet,
if you go away at once, I know I shall be sorry. On the whole, do you
know?--you had better not leave to-night.'

Lushington turned sharply on her.

'Are you playing with me?' he asked, in an angry tone.

'No,' she answered with exasperating coolness, 'I don't think I am.
Only, you are two people, you see. It confuses me. You are Mr.
Lushington, and then, the next minute, you're--Tom. I hate Mr.
Lushington. I believe I always did. I wish I might never see him
again.'

'Oh indeed! How about Tom?'

'Tom is rather bearable than otherwise,' Margaret answered, laughing
again. 'He knows that I think so, too, and it's no reason why he should
be always trying to keep out of the way!'

'He has no right to be in the way.'

'Then he ought never to have come here. But since he has, I would
rather have him stay.'

When she had thus explained herself with perfect frankness and made
known her wishes, Margaret seemed to think that there was nothing more
to be said. But Lushington thought otherwise.

'Why do you hate Mr. Lushington?' he asked.

'Because he is a fraud,' Margaret answered. 'As you have just told me
that he is, you cannot possibly deny it, and you can't quarrel with me
for not liking him. So there!'

All her good-humour had come back, the cold sparkle in her eyes had
turned into afternoon sunshine, and she swung her closed parasol gently
on one finger by its hook as she walked, nodding her head just
perceptibly as if keeping time with it. She expected an answer, a laugh
perhaps, or a retort; but nothing came. She glanced sideways at
Lushington, thinking to meet his eyes, but they were watching the
ground as he walked, a yard before his feet. She turned her head and
looked at his face, and she realised that it was a little drawn, and
had grown suddenly pale, and that there were dark shadows under his
eyes which she had never seen before. The healthy, shy, rather too
youthful mask was gone, and in its place she saw the features of a
mature man who was quietly suffering a great deal. She fancied that he
must often look as he did now, when he was alone.
