her life, now she is where she means to make 
war upon them. She is the personification of 
truth and honesty, but I do not see why the 
scrubby untrained rose should be set against 
the perfected one. It's very nice for it to bloom 
along the wayside, and the common people who 
are supposed to be grateful for a bit of beauty 
tread it underfoot. But it is no sweeter than 
the other that holds up its head in royal bravery. 
You really disparage truth when you do not 
make it attractive. It is a grand and noble thing 
and should not have an ugly face put upon it. 
Ugliness is not strength. So I am going along 
to keep her from aceticism, to make her believe 
in beauty and sweetness and light. Incidentally 
 
I shall learn something. There is accurate think- 
ing, there is a sifting out of the non-essential, 
and the proper training of the will, which is a 
sort of heart dicipline as well. Then the true 
use of the aesthetic faculties, the distinction be- 
tween vanity and self-appreciation. Meanwhile 
I shall mend her clothes and introduce some 
innovation that will improve her personal ap- 
pearance. Perhaps mine as well." 
The eyes were full of a sort of joyous merri- 
ment, the mouth was smiling and expressive. 
There was a dimple in the cheek on the slightest 
movement, and a cleft in the rather square chin, 
an expression of intelligence and half-suppressed 
mirth. 
"You love Miss Kent very much," Helen 
said. 
"Yes. Hard lines made us sisters. Blood 
doesn't always count in heart relationship. You 
see I wasn't sure whether I'd get more than a 
'thank you,' for my years of service, and of course 
she couldn't pray for hers to end. But we meant 
to keep together. Why can't two women love 
as well as a man and a woman? They may not 
be the strict complement of each other And 
suddenly everything changed, yet the old regard 
showed no flaws. But then you and Miss Craven 
know all about friendship. She is very rich, we 
are only moderate. I like economy. I even don't 
mind a little pinch. I have some idea of becom- 
ing a writer on household economics. Oh, what 
was that!" 
They both ran into the hall. Something lay 
in a little heap on the floor. Miss Grace Aldred 
was coming from the opposite direction. 
"Oh, it's one of the twins, and she has been 
knocked senseless. I suppose she came down 
head first. She was singing a second ago." 
They tried to revive her but in vain. 
"She must be taken up in the Infirmary and 
the doctor summoned. She may have some 
broken bones. Oh, Miss Logan — " 
Miss Logan had picked up the limp child and 
was mounting the stairs. The waxen hands hung 
over her shoulder, but the face was hidden in 
her neck. She carried her to the room where 
there were three white cots, none of them oc- 
cupied now. A group of girls followed, and as 
she laid her down peered forward. 
"Her arms are not broken," said Miss Logan, 
trying them. "Wouldn't it be as well to undress 
her? She's unconscious — " 
"The doctor has been summoned. Girls, you 
 
may be dismissed Miss Logan, you are like a 
trained nurse." 
''I have had a good deal of experience in this 
line," she replied. 
Nurse Mary came. They tried restoratives 
again, they examined every limb, but could dis- 
cover no further injury. The child lay uncon- 
scious, only there was a faint pulsation of the 
heart. 
Helen looked about for Miss Craven. She was 
in the schoolroom, telling the younger children 
stories from mythology, dressed in her own soft- 
ened imaginings. Helen sat and listened. 
"Why doesn't Elma come back?" her sister 
queried presently. 
"Now you must go out in the court and have 
a good run," Miss Craven said when the stories 
were finished. The court was enclosed, and the 
weather without was gloomy and drizzling. 
"I must go and find Elma," and Wilma lingered 
in an indecisive manner. 
"She is engaged just now with Mrs. Aldred," 
Helen said quietly. "Have a merry time, all of 
you, and a good run." 
"Then I'll go with you. Miss Craven," and 
the child clasped her arm, swinging it to and fro, 
and glancing up appealingly. 
"Can't I have Miss Craven a little while?" 
pleaded Helen. 
Wilma turned reluctantly. The two girls 
passed through the corridor and upstairs to their 
own room where Helen related the mishap. 
"My darling Elma !" exclaimed Juliet turning 
pale. "Oh, let us go to her." 
Nearly an hour elapsed before the doctor ar- 
rived. He made a very thorough examination 
and looked grave. 
"She has struck on her head, but what the in- 
jury is, except concussion, I cannot now decide. 
She may lie this way for hours. I will be in 
again at bedtime." 
The gravity of the case was not explained. 
Wilma begged pathetically to see her sister, but 
Miss Craven devoted herself to the child until 
it was bedtime. Then she made a protest about 
sleeping alone, but Juliet read her to sleep. 
In vain were all the doctor's efforts to restore 
consciousness, though he remained a long while. 
And the next morning there was no change. 
"An operation may be necessary," he remarked 
in a softened tone, glancing up inquiringly. 
"Then we must send for her father," said Mrs. 
Aldred, her voice full of anxiety. 
"Yes, send at once," was his reply. 
 
Mr. Gartney was away from home, and did not 
get the message until late at night So another 
day of suspense passed. 
Yet there seemed faint indications of a re- 
turn to consciousness in a slight movement of the 
brow as if from pain. The doctor worked as- 
siduously. Mr. Gartney's anxiety was almost 
heartbreaking, yet he could not consent to bring 
himself to an operation. There was a faint flut- 
ter of the pulse, but her heartbeats seemed to be 
slower. 
"I am afraid it must be done," said the doctor. 
"There is such a thing as waiting too long." 
But while they were watching, the eyes that 
had been half-closed opened wide, yet seemed to 
note nothing. Presently a quiver passed over the 
pale lips. The doctor administered a powerful 
stimulant. The child glanced around. Then a 
faint cry escaped her. The nurse bent over. 
"I want my Miss Craven," and then she lapsed 
into unconsciousness again. 
"Send for Miss Craven," requested the doc- 
tor. 
Juliet came quietly into the room. The father's 
eyfes met hers imploringly and prayed her to 
save his child. The doctor brought her a chair. 
She took both of Elma's cold hands in hers and 
watched the marble face so like death. But 
moment after moment passed and there was no 
stir. 
"We can wait until to-morrow/' remarked the 
doctor. "Miss Craven, will you remain? If you 
are here you may catch some waking impres- 
sion. It seems a critical time." 
Mr. Gartney's eyes were raised again, and Jul- 
