The house was a newer one, its first story of adobe, as so many were
in the early days. It was not nearly so small, to begin with, and
there was so much entertainment buying furniture and supplying
household needs. Jason Chadsey had picked up a number of curious
articles from the ships coming in from foreign ports, some that would
have been the envy of a connoisseur.

But the early spring was rushing on again and every leaf and spear and
weed grew as if by magic.

One morning they had a visitor who came in a carriage, and Miss Holmes
glanced out in some surprise.

"Why, it's my friend Miss Alwood--you remember Miss Grace, Laverne. I
haven't seen her this long while," and the next instant she was
welcoming her warmly.

"We thought you had dropped out of existence. Why, even the Dawsons
have heard nothing from you--let me see--you went down to Santa Cruz
with an invalid lady----"

"Yes." Miss Alwood gave a short amused sound that was hardly a laugh,
and continued: "Well, there was plenty of money, but she was about as
queer as they make them. She had come from Baltimore, but she had some
of the worst New England features, though I think they do not belong
altogether to the Puritan birthright. But it kept one on the alert
attending to her whims. When she had been there a month her brother
came to see her. He thought she had better go on farther south--I
think she had consumption, the sort of wasting away without a cough.
While we were making preparations she was taken down to her bed. Mr.
Personette had to return here on urgent business matters. Four weeks
later she died. So he came back and there was the burial and all----"

Miss Alwood paused and a flush with an amused expression passed over
her face.

"And so you were released from bondage," suggested Miss Holmes; and
she, somehow, smiled, too.

"And accepted another. Mr. Personette, being a widower, made me an
offer of marriage. We are to be a not very far-away neighbor, as he
owns a house on Mason Street, and is really well-to-do, as we say at
home. There is a son of seventeen, a daughter two years younger, and
one of twelve. I went to hunt you up, but found the place deserted,
then looked up Miss Gaines and have been spending a week over wedding
gowns, though it is to be just a quiet marriage in church. He has had
housekeepers that were unsatisfactory, indeed, he was afraid the last
one would marry him out of hand," and this time she did laugh
heartily. "So you see I have made my fortune the first of the trio."

"Let me congratulate you on your good fortune. I suppose it is
that."

"Why, yes, as far as one can see. I'm not a romantic young girl, and
he is just forty, has made one fortune and lost it, and now is--well,
he spends money as if there would be no end to it. Do you remember the
old story of the bees that were taken to a place where the flowers
bloomed all the year round, and ceased laying up honey? That seems the
way with so many here. There were people who lost everything in the
great fire and in no time were on their feet again. It is in the air,
I think, or perhaps the fusion of so many people from everywhere. And
now Mr. Personette is prospering, and I am to share the prosperity and
have a home of my own, and like the bees, I'm not going to worry about
the future. You see I am already a recreant Yankee. Where is your
little girl?"

The little girl had been sitting on the window ledge of the next room,
and remembering the long journey round the Horn, often cheered by the
brightness of Miss Alwood. She sprang down now and came forward.

"What a little dot she keeps! Laverne, I am going to be your neighbor,
and I am to have a little girl who will be a playmate for you. I can't
answer about the other, girls begin to put on airs so soon. Do you go
to school?"

"No, I have taught her thus far. But it is rather lonely for a child.
There was no one about where we lived, but some distance below a
Spanish family which hardly knew whether to affiliate or not."

"They are very brilliant farther down the coast. Monterey is the place
to see them in their glory. I wish we had gone there, but Miss
Personette hated the strumming of a guitar and the click-clack of the
language, as she termed it. And now, can't you leave household cares
and come for a drive?"

"I have a splendid pony," said Laverne.

"Why, that is quite delightful. But you will not disdain my carriage,
I hope."

Miss Holmes rather hesitated, but Miss Alwood overruled all the
objections. And she remembered that Mr. Chadsey said they need not
expect him home to dinner. Now that he was so much nearer he came
back to an old-fashioned love for a midday dinner.

First they went down to Mason Street. There was quite a fine finished
block of houses, detached, with gardens on both sides. Down below it
was unfinished but the street had been straightened, the low places
were being filled up, the hillocks levelled.

"Oh," Miss Holmes began, with a depth of feeling that touched her
friend, "you can't think how glad I am this has happened to you. We
have had some hard things in our lives, and now we have really gone
into a new world."

"And I wish you the same good luck. I did not quite like your being
buried down in that out-of-the-way place."

"There were so few houses to be had when we came."

"Yes; there were people living in tents. There are a few of them now
on the outskirts. And building is going on everywhere. Oh, what do you
suppose it will be in twenty years?"

That really brought a stretch to the imagination and they looked
blankly at each other.

Improvements were going on everywhere with a rush startling to these
New England women.

There were new stores opened in the past two months. They passed Russ
Garden, one of the public places near the Mission Road, devoted to
amusements of various kinds, and thronged on Saturday afternoons. Down
by the Plaza the "steam paddys" were levelling the numerous sand hills
that lay between that and Happy Valley. Even the burned district of
less than a year ago was rising rapidly from its ashes.

"I've never had quite such a fine view of the town," Miss Holmes said.
"Heretofore we have only taken it in parts. What it will be when
finished----"

"Only New England cities get finished. I think I have heard of some
places that were fenced in and whitewashed, but they must have been
mere country towns," declared Miss Alwood laughingly.

They made a call on Miss Gaines, who now had a workroom full of girls
and piles of dazzling material. Nothing was too rich or too expensive
for these California dames, whose husbands made fortunes in a month or
cleared thousands of dollars in a day. Those early years were an
Arabian Nights' tale.

The three friends had a genial time together, and then Miss Holmes and
the little girl were set down at their own door. She was very quiet.

"What are you thinking of?" Miss Holmes asked at length.

"Of the little girl Miss Alwood is to have, and whether I shall like
her. Of course, she will not be like the Estenegas. And it seems queer
to have a new mother who isn't a real mother."

"You will understand that better by and by."

Laverne nodded. She could never have a new mother. She wondered a
little about her father. Uncle Jason never spoke of him. Of course he
was dead also.

Mrs. Dawson was very anxious to give Miss Alwood a wedding feast, and
indeed was fain to have her married in the parlor, but she preferred
the church. Mr. Personette was well known, and the church was
crowded. The two daughters walked in front and strewed flowers in
