politeness,"--with a sidelong glance at Max, who stood with folded
arms, watching her gravely.

The duke threw his hands above his head as if to call Heaven to witness
that he was a very much wronged man.

"Arnheim," he said to the young colonel, "go at once for a priest."

"A priest!" echoed the prince.

"Yes; the girl shall marry you to-night," declared his serene Highness.

"Not if I live to be a thousand!"  Doppelkinn struck the table with his
fist.

The girl smiled at Max.

"What?" cried the duke, all the coldness gone from his tones.  "You
refuse?"  He was thunderstruck.

"Refuse?  Of course I refuse!"  And the prince thumped the table again.
"What do you think I am in my old age,--an ass?  If you have any
fillies to break, use your own pastures.  I'm a vintner."  He banged
the table yet again.  "Why, I wouldn't marry the Princess Hildegarde if
she was the last woman on earth!"

"Thank you!" said the princess sweetly.

"You're welcome," said the prince.

"Silence!" bellowed the duke.  "Doppelkinn, take care; this is an
affront, not one to be lightly ignored.  It is international news that
you are to wed my niece."

"To-morrow it will be international news that I'm not!"  The emphasis
this time threatened to crack the table-leaf.  "I'm not going to risk
my liberty with a girl who has no more sense of dignity than she has."

"It is very kind of you," murmured the princess.

"She'd make a fine wife," went on the prince, ignoring the
interruption.  "No, a thousand times no!  Take her away--life's too
short; take her away!  Let her marry the fellow; he's young and may get
over it."

The duke was furious.  He looked around for something to strike, and
nothing but the table being convenient, he smashed a leaf and sent a
vase clattering to the floor.  He was stronger than the prince,
otherwise there wouldn't have been a table to thwack.

"That's right; go on!  Break all the furniture, if it will do you any
good; but mark me, you'll foot the bill."  The prince began to dance
around.  "I will not marry the girl.  That's as final as I can make it.
The sooner you calm down the better."

How the girl's eyes sparkled!  She was free.  The odious alliance would
not take place.

"Who is that?"

Everybody turned and looked at Max.  His arm was leveled in the
direction of a fine portrait in oil which hung suspended over the
fireplace.  Max was very pale.

"What's that to you?" snarled the prince.  He was what we Yankees call
"hopping mad."  The vase was worth a hundred crowns, and he never could
find a leaf to replace the one just broken.

"I believe I have a right to know who that woman is up there."  Max
spoke quietly.  As a matter of fact he was too weak to speak otherwise.

"A right to know?  What do you mean?" demanded the prince fiercely.
"It is my wife."

With trembling fingers Max produced his locket.

"Will you look at this?" he asked in a voice that was a bit shaky.

The prince stepped forward and jerked the locket from Max's hand.  But
the moment he saw the contents his jaw fell and he rocked on his heels
unsteadily and staggered back toward the duke for support.

"What's the matter, Prince?" asked the duke anxiously.  After all
Doppelkinn was an old crony, and mayhap he had been harsh with him.

"Where did you get that?" asked the prince hoarsely.

"I have always worn it," answered Max.  "The chain that went with it
originally will no longer fit my neck."

"Arnheim! . . .  Duke! . . .  Come and look at this!"--feebly.

"Good Heaven!" cried the duke.

"It is the princess!" said Arnheim in awed tones.

"Where did you get it?" demanded the prince again.

"I was found with it around my neck."

"Duke, what do you think?" asked the agitated prince.

"What do I think?"

"Yes.  This was around my son's neck the day he was lost.  If this
should be! . . .  If it were possible!"

"What?"  The duke looked from the prince to the man who had worn the
locket.  Certainly there wasn't any sign of likeness.  But when he
looked at the portrait on the wall and then at Max doubt grew in his
eyes.  They were somewhat alike.  He plucked nervously at his beard.

"Prince," said Max, "before Heaven I believe that I may be . . . your
son!

"My son!"

By this time they were all tremendously excited and agitated and white;
all save the princess, who was gazing at Max with sudden gladness in
her eyes, while over her cheeks there stole the phantom of a rose.  If
it were true!

"Let me tell you my story," said Max.  (It is not necessary for me to
repeat it.)

The prince turned helplessly toward the duke, but the duke was equally
dazed.

"But we can't accept just a story as proof," the duke said.  "It isn't
as if he were one of the people.  It wouldn't matter then.  But it's a
future prince.  Let us go slow."

"Yes, let us go slow," repeated the prince, brushing his damp forehead.

"Wait a moment!" said Colonel Arnheim, stepping forward.  "Only one
thing will prove his identity to me; not all the papers in the world
can do it."

"What do you know?" cried the prince, bewildered.

"Something I have not dared tell till this moment,"--miserably.

"Curse it, you are keeping us waiting!"  The duke kicked about the
shattered bits of porcelain.

"I used to play with the--the young prince," began Arnheim.  "Your
Highness will recollect that I did."  Arnheim went over to Max.  "Take
off your coat."  Max did so, wondering.  "Roll up your sleeve."  Again
Max obeyed, and his wonder grew.  "See!" cried the colonel in a high,
unnatural voice, due to his unusual excitement.  "Oh, there can be no
doubt!  It is your son!"

The duke and the prince bumped against each other in their mad rush to
inspect Max's arm.  Arnheim's finger rested upon the peculiar scar I
have mentioned.

"Lord help us, it's your wine-case brand!" gasped the duke.

"My wine case!"  The prince was almost on the verge of tears.

