“The gov’ner was a layin’ on his bed, and he 
gave a great sigh. 
“ ‘They don’t do so nowadays,’ he said. 
‘They go off and forget. I ’ve three likely sons 
out in the new countries, with flocks, an’ 
herds, an’ wives, an’ children, but it ’s many a 
long year since any of ’em has asked if I was 
alive. An’ I s’pose bime-by Jack will be like 
’em.’ 
“ ‘But Ben won’t,’ said Kitty, softly. ‘He 
will be like this one; won’t you, Ben?’ 
“'You may bet your life on that/ says I. 
'Gov’ner, you cheer up a bit. I 've got a good 
name, and I won’t go back on it. Maybe I ’ll 
see an opening ’tween this and spring, and 
you ’ll come out like a lark some warm day. 
Somehow it seems to me as if this Christmas 
was going to do something for us.’ 
“ 'O,’ said Kitty, with a great glow in her 
eyes, 'if there only was a real Santa Claus ! Or 
if we could have three wishes!’ 
''And then we planned what we would wish 
for, and afterward Mammy asked us to sing. 
Kitty knew some carols, she was a master 
hand to remember, and the gov’ner said he 
did n’t believe it was much better out on the 
plains of Judee where the shepherds kept 
watch. But it was, you know, though it was 
just as well for him to think he had some of 
the very best. 
''On Tuesday, it was, I see one of them 
lucky chances for a little speculation, and I run 
home to Mammy for a few dollars. 
“ ‘O, Ben," she said, ‘I 've just paid it away. 
Mr. McCann came in this morning and asked 
if I had the rent handy. He wanted to use 
some money, and was hard up.’ 
‘It ’s a mean shame !’ and I was mad as a 
hen in a brush fence. ‘He could n’t collect it 
anyhow until the first, and here it ’s only the 
23d. And if I only had two dollars I know I 
could double it to-day and again to-morrow.’ 
“ ‘I ’m so sorry, Ben. But then you might 
a’ lost it, and we ’ve a roof over our heads for 
all January.’ 
“ ‘Well, it can’t be helped,’ and I started off 
again. There was another fellow standing by 
to take the chance. What could I do? The 
ground was frozen up as dry as a chip, and 
there was no boots to black except for the 
reg’lars. I put in a ton of coal, and that was 
every living thing I found to do that day. 
“I ’d had my eye on a paper route for ever so 
long, but it did just seem as if I never could 
get money enough together again for any- 
 
thing. And all the streets were looking gay 
and the stores and markets trimmed up with 
evergreens. How jolly every one seemed! 
“Next day luck was dead against me again. 
Seventy-five cents was all I made. Not a 
stiver for Christmas ! I ’d seen so many things 
I wanted to buy Kitty, and I wanted a chicken 
to make some broth for the gov’ner. I began 
to wonder if it was all true what the man said 
on Sunday. Was there a great Lord up in 
heaven who knew all about cold, and hunger, 
and had no place to lay his head, and was at 
last given up to the cruel Jews to be put to 
death? 
“ ‘That ’s a sight worse than you, Ben 
Hewes,’ I said. And then I ran round looking 
at the gay shop-windows, and listening to the 
fun and laughs, and now and then a church 
bell ringing. If Kitty had been strong enough 
to go with me it would have been quite a little 
Christmas feast. But it was a awful cold 
night. I had an armful of evergreens, for you 
see I did n’t dare spend any of my money 
buying Christmas. I was turning round a cor- 
ner when I saw something huddled up on the 
step like a great dog. If I was rich I should 
have some dogs, I do like ’em so. I went to 
pat the shaggy fellow, but when I put out my 
hand I found it was n’t a dog at all. 
‘‘ ‘Lemme be,’ said the little kid, jerking 
away. ‘I ’m nice and warm in this corner, and 
I was ’most asleep.’ 
“ ‘But you ’ll freeze here,’ I said. ‘You had 
better go to the station-house.’ 
“ ‘No,’ and he began to cry. ‘I run away 
from a peeler. I don’t want to go to the Island. 
I want to get up to the heaven where Betty ’s 
gone, and where the good Lord takes care of 
little boys like me. I have n’t had a mouthful 
all day ’cept the good smell over there, and the 
man kicked me away. Does it take long to 
freeze?’ 
“‘Why, Jemmy Arno, is it you?’ and I 
dragged him out to the light. Sure enough! 
 
And his teeth were chattering as if they ’d 
been strung on wires. 
“The little kid did n’t know me. He blinked 
out of his great black eyes, and then began to 
whimper. I knew where he had lived, and 
this Betty Arno used to keep a peanut stand. 
“ Is Betty dead?’ says I. 
“‘Yes; and the woman turned me out o’ 
doors, and would n’t let me take the box Betty 
gave me. O, dear! I ’m so cold — so cold.’ 
“I thought of what the man said at the mis- 
sion-school. Maybe this was my Christmas! 
If doing for such a little chap was just the same 
as doing for the great Lord, and if He ’d say 
at the last, ‘Ben Hewes, I saw you that Christ- 
mas Eve, when you was too poor to send gifts 
to anybody, taking that half-starved little 
shaver in out of the cold, and I put it down in 
my ’count, and it ’s just as good as a rich man’s 
deed.’ So says I, ‘Come along. Jemmy. I ’ll 
give you a nice warm corner to sleep in, and a 
mouthful of supper. It ’s Christmas Eve, you 
know. Trot up brisk now.’ 
‘‘The poor little chap was crying and talking 
all in one breath, and wanting to sit down on 
every stoop, but I kept him up. ‘Here we are,* 
says I, opening the door. 
“ ‘O Ben, what has kept you so late?* cries 
Kitty; and then in the next breath, ‘What a 
splendid lot of greens.’ 
“ ‘And something else,* says I. ‘Santa 
Claus.’ 
“ ‘Why, Ben !* says Mammy. ‘Where did 
you pick up this poor thing?* 
“ ‘O don’t send me to the station-house nor 
the Island,* cries he, looking frightened out of 
his great eyes. ‘I never stole anything, nor 
sweared, and I *m so cold. O, is it nice and 
warm in heaven? Betty said it was.* 
“ ‘Come to the fire, poor creetur,* says 
Mammy. 
“I told her ’bout Betty Arno and her peanut- 
stand, and how that I had n’t seen her for as 
much as a month, and Jemmy said she was 
dead. And then how I had found him this bit- 
ter cold night, and I wanted to keep him, just 
as if it had been the great Lord. 
“ *And we ’ll have some Christmas after all,’ 
says Kitty, ‘only not like rich folks.’ 
“Mammy was afraid he was froze, so I 
brought in some snow and rubbed his ears, 
and nose, and his hands. Then Mammy 
washed him and set him by the stove to warm 
and dry, and give him a little broth first. My 
eyes! was n’t the kid hungry! If he ’d staid 
out in the cold all night I guess he ’d found a 
short road to heaven sure. 
“ ‘Maybe ’t would a’ been better,’ said 
Mammy. ‘Poor little lambs! I like to think 
