horror. At the same instant Plank rose and laid a 
hand on Mortimer's shoulder, but Mortimer shook him 
off with a warning oath. 
" You and I will settle with each other to-morrow ! " 
he said thickly, pointing a puffy finger at Plank. 
" You'll find me at the Algonquin Trust. Do you hear.'' 
That's where you'll settle this matter — in the president's 
office ! " He stood swaying and leering at Plank, re- 
peating loudly : " In Quarrier's office ! Understand ? 
That's where you'll settle up ! See .'' " 
Leila, white face quivering, shrank as though he had 
struck her, and he turned on her again, grinning : " As 
for you, you come home! And that'll be about all for 
yours." 
" Are you insane, to make a scene like this ? " w his- 
pered Plank. 
But Mortimer swung on him insultingly : " That's 
about all from you, too ! " he said. " Leila, are you 
coming? " 
He stepped heavily toward her; but Plank's sudden 
crushing grip was on his fat arm above the elbow, and 
he emitted a roar of surprise and pain. 
" Don't touch him ! Don't, in Heaven's name ! " 
stammered Leila, as Plank, releasing him, stepped back 
beside her chair. " Can't you see that I must go with 
him ! I — I must go." She cast one terrified glance 
around her, where scores of strange faces met hers ; and 
at every table people were standing up to see better. 
Plank, who had dropped Mortimer's arm as the lat- 
ter emitted his bellow of amazement, stepped toward him 
again, dropping his voice as he spoke: 
"You go! Do you hear.''" he said quietly. "I'll 
do what you ask me, to-morrow ! I will do what you ask, 
. if you'll go now ! " 
" You come — do you hear ! " snarled Mortimer, 
turning on his wife, who had already risen. " If you 
don't I'll make a row here that you'll never hear the 
end of as long as you live! And there'll be nothing to 
talk over in Quarrier's office, if I do." 
Leila looked at Plank, rose, and moved swiftly 
toward the veranda steps, her head resolutely lowered, 
the burning shame flaming in her face. Mortimer cast 
one triumphant glance at Plank, then waddled unstead- 
ily after his wife. 
" Hold on," he growled ; " I've a Mercedes here ! 
I'll drive you back — wait ! Here it is ! Here we are ! " 
And to Quarrier's machinist he said : " You get into the 
tonneau. I want to show Mrs. Mortimer what night- 
driving is. Do you hear.? I tell you I'm going to drive 
this machine and show you how ! " 
Leila scarcely heard him. She obeyed the impulse 
of his hand on her arm, and mounted to the seat, star- 
ing straight ahead of her with dazed and straining eyes 
that saw nothing. 
Then Mortimer clambered to his seat, and, without 
an instant's warning, opened up and seized the wheel. 
 
Unprepared, the machinist attempted to swing 
aboard, missed his footing in the uncertain light, and 
fell sprawling on the gravel. Plank saw him from the 
veranda and instantly vaulted the rail to the lawn below. 
" You damn fool ! " jelled Mortimer, looking 
around, " what in hell do you think you'll do? " And 
he clapped on full speed as Plank made a leap for the 
car and missed. 
Mortimer laughed, and turned his head to look 
back, and the next instant something seemed to wrench 
the steering-wheel from its roots. There was a blinding 
glare of light, a scream, and the great machine bounded 
into the air full length, turned completely over, and lay 
across a flower-bed, partly on one side. 
Something was afire, too. Men were rushing from 
the verandas, women screamed, and stood up wringing 
their hands; a mounted policeman came galloping 
through the darkness ; people shouted : " Throw sand on 
it! Get shovels, for God's sake! Lift that tonneau! 
There's a woman under it." 
But they were mistaken, for Leila lay at the foot 
of the slope, one little bloody hand clutching the dead 
grass ; and Plank knelt beside her, giving his orders 
quietly to those who came running down the hill from 
the roadway above, which was now fiercely illuminated 
by burning gasoline. At last they got sand enough to 
quench the fire and men sufficient to lift the weight 
from the dead man's neck, and drag what was left of 
him onto the grass. 
" Don't look," whispered Siward, drawing Sylvia 
back. 
He and she both had put their shoulders to the ton- 
neau along with the others; and now they stood there 
together in the shifting lantern-light, sickened, shiver- 
ing under the summer stars, staring at the gathering 
crowd around tliat shapeless lump on the grass. 
Plank passed them, walking beside an improvised 
stretcher, calm, almost smiling, as Sylvia sprang for- 
ward with a little sob of inquiry. 
" There's the doctor, over there ; that man is a doc- 
tor; he knows," repeated Plank with studied delibera- 
tion, looking down at Leila's deathly face. " He says 
it's all right ; he says he'll get a candle, and that he can 
tell by the flame's effect on the pupils of the eyes what 
exactly is the matter. No," to Siward beside him, 
pressing forward through the crowd which eddied from 
the dead man to the stretcher ; " no, there is not a bone 
broken. She is stunned, that's all ; she fell in the shrub- 
bery. We'll have an ambulance here pretty quick. 
Stephen," using his first name unconsciously, " won't 
you look out for Sylvia? I'm going back on the am- 
bulance. If you'll find somebody to drive my machine, 
I wish you would take Sylvia back. No, I don't want 
you to drive, Stephen — if you don't mind. Get that 
machinist, please. I'm rattled, and I don't want you to 
drive." 
Leila lay on the stretcher, her bloodless face up- 
turned to the stars. Beyond, under a blanket, some- 
thing else lay very still on the lawn. 
Plank beckoned a policeman, and whispered to him. 
Then, far away in the darkness, a distant clamour 
grew on the night air, nearer, nearer. 
Plank, standing beside the stretcher, raised his head, 
listening to the ambulance arriving at full speed. 
CHAPTER XV 
 
In September, her marriage to Siward excitingly 
imminent, Sylvia had been seized with a passion for 
wholesale renunciation and rigid self-chastisement. All 
that had been so materially desirable to her in life, all 
that she had heretofore worshipped, in and belonging 
to her own world, she now denied. Down went the min- 
iature golden calf from the altar in her private shrine, 
its tiny crashing fall making considerable racket 
throughout her world, and the planets and satellites 
adjacent to that section of the social system which she 
had long been expected to dominate. 
The spectacle of their youthful ruler-elect in sack- 
cloth as the future bride of a business man had more 
than disconcerted them. The amazing announcement 
of Quarrier's engagement to Agatha Caithness stupe- 
fied the elect, rendering in one harrowing instant null 
and void the thousand petty plans and plots, intrigues 
and schemes, upon which future social constructions on 
the social structure had been based. 
The grief and amazement of Major Belwether, al- 
ready distracted by his non-participation, through his 
own fault, in Plank's consolidation of Amalgamated 
with Inter-County, was pitiable to the verge of the un- 
pleasant. Like panic-stricken rabbits, his thoughts ran 
in circles, and he skipped in their wake, scurrying from 
Quarrier to Plarrington, from Harrington to Plank, 
 
from Plank to Siward, in distracted hope of recovering 
his equilibrium and squatting safely somewhere in some- 
body's luxuriantly perpetual cabbage-patch. He even 
squeezed under the fence and hopped humbly about old 
Peter Caithness, who suddenly assumed monumental 
proportions among those who had so long tolerated him. 
But Quarrier coldly drove him away and the in- 
creasing crowds besieging poor, bewildered old Peter 
Caithness trod upon the major, and there was nothing 
for him to do but to scuttle back to his own brush-heap 
