sion I shall go to my cousin Juan Moraga's. You 
will dine with us at the Presidio, and I shall escort 
you back to the ship." 



XIX 

It was ten o'clock when Eezanov, who had 
supped on the Juno, met Santiago in a sandy valley half a mile from the Presidio and mounted the 
horse his young friend himself had saddled and 
brought. The long ride was a silent one. The youth 
twas not talkative at any time, and Eezanov was 
;conscious of little else save an overwhelming desire to see Concha again. One secret of his success 
in life was his gift of yielding to one energy at a 
liime, oblivious at the moment to aught that might 
'distract or enfeeble the will. To-night, as he rode 
toward the Mission on as romantic a quest as ever 
came the way of a lover, the diplomat, the anxious 
director of a great company, the representative 
of one of the mighty potentates of earth, were 
submerged, forgotten, in the thrilling anticipation 
of his hour with the woman for whom every fibre 
of his being yearned. 

Nor ever was there more appropriate a setting 
for one of those inaugural chapters in mating, half 
appreciated at the time, that glimmer as a sort of 
morning twilight on mountain tops over the mild 




tua'dulations of matrimony. Tlie moon rode without a masking cloud across the ambiguous night 
blue of the California sky, a blue that looks like 
the fire of strange elements, where the stars glow; 
like silver coals, and out of whose depths intense 
shadows of blue and black fall; shadows in which 
all the under world seems to float and recombine, 
where houses are ghosts of ancient selves and 
men but the eidola of forgotten dust. To-night the 
little estate of Juan Moraga, the most isolated and 
eastern of the settlement, surrounded by its high 
white wall J looked as unreal and formless as the 
blue oval of water and black trees behind it, but 
Eezanov knew that it enfolded warm and palpitating womanhood and was steeped in the sweetness of Castilian roses. 

The riders, who had taken a path far to the 
east of the Mission, dismounted and tied their 
horses among the willows, then, in their dark 
cloaks but a part of the shadows, stole toward the 
wall designed to impress hostile tribes rather than 
to resist an onslaught ; at the first warning the settlement invariably fled to the church where walls 
were massive and windows high. 

In three of Moraga 's four walls was a grille, or 
wicket of slender iron bars, whence the open could 




be swept with glass, or gun at a pinch; and for 
the grille looking eastward went Eezanov as 
swiftly as the uneven ground would permit. As 
Concha watched him gather form in the moonlight and saw him jerk his cloak off impatiently, 
she flung her soft body against the wall and shook 
the bars with her strong little hands. But when 
he faced her she was erect and smiling; in a sudden uprush of spirits, almost indifferent. She 
wore a white gown and a rose in her hair. A rose- 
bush as dense as an arbor spread its prickly arms 
between herself and the windows of the house. 

" Good-evening," she whispered. 

Eezanov gave the grille an angry shake. (Santiago had considerately retired.) " Come out," 
he said peremptorily, " or let me in. ' ' 

a Tiiere is but one gate, senor, and that is directly in front of the house door, that stands 
open " 

'' Then I shall get over the wall " 

" Madre de Dios! You would leave your fine 
clothes and njore on the thorns. My cousin 
planted those roses not for ornament, but to let 
the blood of defiant lovers. Not one has come 
twice " 

" Do you think I came here to talk to you 



 

througH a grating? I am no serenading Spaniard. ' ' 

His eyes were blazing. Adobe is not stone. 
Eezanov took the light bars in both, hands and 
wrenched them ont; then, as Concha, divided between laughter and a sudden timidity, would have 
retreated, he dexterously clasped her neck and 
drew her head through the embrasure. As Santiago, who had watched Eezanov from a distance 
with some curiosity, saw his sister's beautiful face 
emerge from the wall to disappear at once behind another rampart, he turned abruptly on his 
heel and could have wept as he thought of Pilar 
Ortego of Santa Barbara. But there was a hope 
that he would be a cadet of the Southern 
Company before the year was out, and his 
parents and hers were indulgent. Even as 
he sighed, his own impending happiness infused him with an almost patronizing sympathy 
for the twain with the wall between, and 
he concealed himself among the willows that 
they might feel to the full the blessed isolation of 
lovers. His Pilar presented him with twenty-two 
hostages, and he lived to enjoy an honorable and a 
prosperous career, but he never forgot that night 
and the part he had played in one of the poignant and happy hours of his sister 's life. 



Day and night a great silence reigned in the 
Mission valley, broken only by the hoot of the 
owl, the singing of birds, the flight of horses across 
the plain. Even the low hnddle of Mission buildings and the few homes beyond looked an anomaly 
in that vast quiet valley asleep and unknown for 
so many centuries in the wide embrace of the hills. 
Its jewel oasis alone made it acceptable to the 
Spaniard, but to Eezanov the sandy desert, with 
its close companionable silences, its cool night air 
sweet with the light chaste fragrance of the roses, 
the simple, almost primitive, conditions environ- 
ing the girl, possessed a power to stir the depths 
of his emotions as no artful reinforcement to pas- 
sion had ever done. He forgot the wall. His ego 
melted in a sense of complete union and happiness. Even when they returned to earth and discussed the dubious future, he was conscious of 
an odd resignation, very alien in his nature, not 
only to the barrier but to all the strange condi- 
tions of his wooing. He had felt something of 
this before, although less definitely, and to-night 
he concluded that she had the gift of clothing the 
inevitable with the semblance and the sweetness 
of choice; and wondered how long it would be 
able to skirt the arid steppes of philosophy. 




She told liim that she had talked daily with 
'Father Abella. ' ' He will say nothing to admit he 
is weakening, but I feel sure he has realized not 
only that our marriage will be for the best interest 
of California, but that to forbid it would wreck my 
life; and from this responsibility he shrinks. I 
can see it in his kind, shrewd, perplexed eyes, in 
the hesitating inflections of his voice, to say nothing of the poor arguments he advances to mine. 
What of my father and mother! " 

" They look troubled, almost ill, but nothing 
could exceed their kindness to me, although they 
have pointedly given me no opportunity to intro- 
duce the subject of our marriage again. The Gov- 
