That evening she took her little boy and duti- 
fully went to her cousin's house. She made the 
short cut across the lawns of her old home (now 
occupied by summer strangers), and saw from a 
distance that Mr. Hart was walking towards her. 
The three met midway of the iron bridge — Caro- 
lyn clinging to the child, with her arm around 
him. 

" He is afraid of it," she pleaded, looking down 
into the chasm. " I used to love it when I was his 
age. But Joyce is not like me." 

Sterling Hart lifted the little fellow and carried 
him over. The preacher had his happiest look. 
His face was still and shining. 

" You honor me, Cousin Carolyn," he said. " I 
was on my way to you. But this is better. This 
pleases me. Will you go into the house ? Or is 
the piazza cooler ? " 

 



" I don't care," said Carolyn, uncomfortably. " I 
have only come to tell you something. It will not 
take long." 

They passed into the large, lonely house. He 
led her into his study among his books. 

" Cousin Sterling," began Cara, without looking 
at him, " I can't go on this way any longer. I don't 
know much about business, — I never was brought 
up to understand those things, — but I am sure 
there wasn't enough left of my property, after my 
father's — there can't be enough to support us. 
Don't think I don't guess what you have done, 
all you have been, how generous, how chivalrous. 
Cousin Sterling ! Cousin Sterling ! I would rather 
die than hurt your feelings, but I cannot go on 
like this. I must do something, — I must support 
myself and my child. I am going to teach draw- 
ing. Nannie is getting me up a class. They call it 
an Art School ! " One swift, mocking smile went 
up whimsically from her sad face to the preacher's 
listening one. 

" And I am going to be visiting housekeeper 
for some — for some of my old friends. An hour 
a morning for each house, you know. When I get 
used to it, that will be as easy as swimming. That 
was Mrs. Marriot's idea. I have quite a waiting list 
already. You did not think it would come to this 
when you converted her, did you ? " 

 

But the preacher would not smile. A frowning 
silence answered her. 

" That isn't all," added Carolyn, quite distinctly. 
" I have rented one of my rooms. I have rented 
my husband's office to this new person, this Dr. 
Royal. He is to live at Solomon Hops's," she 
went on timidly, for she was frightened at the 
displeasure on her cousin's commanding face. " He 
will take his meals there, and he will sleep there. 
This is only for office hours, and, you see, on 
account of the dentist, and poor Solomon can't live 
without a doctor in the house, — and he offers a 
very good rent, — and it pleases Nannie — " she 
floundered helplessly, and went over her depth in 
her broken words. 

" I can't have this," cried Sterling Hart. " I can- 
not have it ! " He rose to his great height, and 
stood against the background of his books. The 
quiet, the shelter, the thoughtfulness of the room, 
its familiar atmosphere of ease and dignity, for 
a moment overcame her, and she lifted to her 
cousin a piteous, homesick smile. He stretched 
out his arms. 

"See! "he said, "they are strong enough to 
carry it all." 

But she shook her head, and weeping, left him. 
He lifted the child, and in a silence that neither 
broke, walked beside her across the iron bridge, 

 

which, still as ever, spanned the gulf between 
himself and her. 

Even the boy did not talk. His respect for the 
ravine was too great. He shut his eyes that he 
might not see it, and cuddled on the preachers 
neck, his little head curled like a Maltese spaniel's 
beneath a master's chin. Joyce was always at his 
best and prettiest with Mr. Hart. The elf or the 
imp went out of him, and the Murillo cherub 
came in. The childless man liked the fatherless, 
unruly little fellow, and a big, warm hand patted 
him all the way across the iron bridge. 

" Mum — Mumma," suggested Joyce, when he 
had said his prayers that night, " if I were God, I 'd 
be like Mr. Cousin Sterling Hart. I ain't God," 
added the boy, argumentatively. " I know ain't 's 
bad grammar. You don't need to tell me rings I 
know. Say, Mum — Mumma, doesn't God ever 
talk bad grammar ? I should fink — why, I should 
fink He 'd do it zhust for fun. If I were God, you 
bet I 'd talk bad grammar. I 'd do it every Sunday, 
after shurch, Mumma." 

Dr. Royal came slowly up the path to the cot- 
tage. He had walked, it seemed, from Solomon's, 
and was evidently tired. The collie followed him, 
sniffing at his heels. Mrs. Dane had not witnessed
the meeting between the man and the doe, 

 

which occurred at a little distance from the house; 
but it struck her as doubtful whether Clyde 
recognized in the new lodger the derelict whom he had 
saved from the sea. The dog looked perplexed and 
excited, a trifle sullen. He stood with one ear up 
and one ear down, and studied the stranger, while 
Kathleen admitted him cordially. Afterwards 
Clyde came to the mistress, and said something 
which she did not understand. 

Mrs. Dane was sitting in the office in her 
black dress. She rose as the physician entered, 
and greeted him with that marked graciousness 
which one assumes to conceal a reluctant
welcome. She was pale about the mouth, but she had 
her charming manner. The physician observed 
her keenly. 

" You are very good to consider this matter," 
he began at once. " Pray believe that I appreciate 
your hospitality." 

" Let us call things by their true names from 
the first," replied Mrs. Dane, smiling cautiously. 
" It is not hospitality. It is business. You need an 
office, and I — " She stopped. 

" You are perfectly right, Madam," answered 
Dr. Royal, quickly. "We will call everything by 
its true name — if you do me the honor to admit 
me as your tenant. It is a pleasant room." He 
looked about it, sighing contentedly. " A man 
