free to marry. He may not want to do it, he may not be in love. That's
neither here nor there; the main thing is that he is as free as a man
should be to take any good opportunity--and marriage is included in the
list of good opportunities. If you become a slave to morbid notions, no
wonder you are depressed. Slaves usually are. Do you want to slink
through life? Then shake yourself, I tell you; learn to understand that
you're free to do what any decent man may do. That will take the
morbidness out of you. That will colour life for you. I don't say go
hunting for some one to love; I do say, don't avoid her when you meet
her."
"You preach a very gay sermon, Boots," he said, folding his arms. "I've
heard something similar from my sister. As a matter of fact I think you
are partly right, too; but if the inclination for the freedom you insist
I take is wanting, then what? I don't wish to marry, Boots; I am not in
love, therefore the prospect of home and kids is premature and vague,
isn't it?"
"As long as it's a prospect or a possibility I don't care how vague it
is," said the other cordially. "Will you admit it's a possibility?
That's all I ask."
"If it will please you, yes, I will admit it. I have altered certain
ideas, Boots; I cannot, just now, conceive of any circumstances under
which I should feel justified in marrying, but such circumstances might
arise; I'll say that much."
Yet until that moment he had not dreamed of admitting as much to
anybody, even to himself; but Lansing's logic, his own loneliness, his
disappointment in Gerald, had combined to make him doubt his own
methods of procedure. Too, the interview with Alixe Ruthven had not only
knocked all complacency and conceit out of him, but had made him so
self-distrustful that he was in a mood to listen respectfully to his
peers on any question.
He was wondering now whether Boots had recognised Alixe when he had
blundered into the room that night. He had never asked the question; he
was very much inclined to, now. However, Boots's reply could be only the
negative answer that any decent man must give.
Sitting there in the carpetless room piled high with dusty,
linen-shrouded furniture, he looked around, an involuntary smile
twitching his mouth. Somehow he had not felt so light-hearted for a
long, long while--and whether it came from his comrade's sermon, or his
own unexpected acknowledgment of its truth, or whether it was pure
amusement at Boots in the rôle of householder and taxpayer, he could not
decide. But he was curiously happy of a sudden; and he smiled broadly
upon Mr. Lansing:
"What about your marrying," he said--"after all this talk about mine!
What about it, Boots? Is this new house the first modest step toward the
matrimony you laud so loudly?"
"Sure," said that gentleman airily; "that's what I'm here for."
"Really?"
"Well, of course, idiot. I've always been in love."
"You mean you actually have somebody in view--?"
"No, son. I've always been in love with--love. I'm a sentimental sentry
on the ramparts of reason. I'm properly armed for trouble, now, so if
I'm challenged I won't let my chance slip by me. Do you see? There are
two kinds of sentimental warriors in this amorous world: the man and the
nincompoop. The one brings in his prisoner, the other merely howls for
her. So I'm all ready for the only girl in the world; and if she ever
gets away from me I'll give you my house, cellar, and back yard,
including the wistaria and both cats--"
"You have neither wistaria nor cats--yet."
"Neither am I specifically in love--yet. So that's all right--Philip.
Come on; let's take another look at that fascinating cellar of mine!"
But Selwyn laughingly declined, and after a little while he went away,
first to look up a book which he was having bound for Eileen, then to
call on his sister who, with Eileen, had just returned from a week at
Silverside with the children, preliminary to moving the entire
establishment there for the coming summer; for the horses and dogs had
already gone; also Kit-Ki, a pessimistic parrot, and the children's two
Norwegian ponies.
"Silverside is too lovely for words!" exclaimed Nina as Selwyn entered
the library. "The children almost went mad. You should have seen the
dogs, too--tearing round and round the lawn in circles--poor things!
They were crazy for the fresh, new turf. And Kit-Ki! she lay in the sun
and rolled and rolled until her fur was perfectly filthy. Nobody wanted
to come away; Eileen made straight for the surf; but it was an arctic
sea, and as soon as I found out what she was doing I made her come out."
"I should think you would," he said; "nobody can do that and thrive."
"She seems to," said Nina; "she was simply glorious after the swim, and
I hated to put a stop to it. And you should see her drying her hair and
helping Plunket to roll the tennis-courts--that hair of hers blowing
like gold flames, and her sleeves rolled to her arm-pits!--and you
should see her down in the dirt playing marbles with Billy and
Drina--shooting away excitedly and exclaiming 'fen-dubs!' and
'knuckle-down, Billy!'--like any gamin you ever heard of. Totally
unspoiled, Phil!--in spite of all the success of her first winter!--and
do you know that she had no end of men seriously entangled? I don't mind
your knowing--but Sudbury Gray came to me, and I told him he'd better
wait, but in he blundered and--he's done for, now; and so are my plans.
He's an imbecile! And then, who on earth do you think came waddling into
the arena? Percy Draymore! Phil, it was an anxious problem for me--and
although I didn't really want Eileen to marry into that set--still--with
the Draymores' position and tremendous influence--But she merely stared
at him in cold astonishment. And there were others, too, callow for the
most part. . . . Phil?"
"What?" he said, laughing.
His sister regarded him smilingly, then partly turned around and perched
herself on the padded arm of a great chair.
"Phil, am I garrulous?"
"No, dear; you are far too reticent."
"Pooh! Suppose I do talk a great deal. I like to. Besides, I always have
something interesting to say, don't I?"
"Always!"
"Well, then, why do you look at me so humorously out of those nice gray
eyes? . . . Phil, you are growing handsome! Do you know it?"
"For Heaven's sake!" he protested, red and uncomfortable, "what utter
nonsense you--"
"Of course it bores you to be told so; and you look so delightfully
ashamed--like a reproved setter-puppy! Well, then, don't laugh at my
loquacity again!--because I'm going to say something else. . . . Come
over here, Phil; no--close to me. I wish to put my hands on your
shoulders; like that. Now look at me! Do you really love me?"
"Sure thing, Ninette."
"And you know I adore you; don't you?"
"Madly, dear, but I forgive you."
"No; I want you to be serious. Because I'm pretty serious. See, I'm not
smiling now; I don't feel like it. Because it is a very, very important
matter, Phil--this thing that has--has--almost happened. . . . It's
about Eileen. . . . And it really has happened."
"What has she done?" he asked curiously.
His sister's eyes were searching his very diligently, as though in quest
of something elusive; and he gazed serenely back, the most unsuspicious
of smiles touching his mouth.
"Phil, dear, a young girl--a very young girl--is a vapid and
uninteresting proposition to a man of thirty-five; isn't she?"
"Rather--in some ways."
"In what way is she not?"
"Well--to me, for example--she is acceptable as children are
acceptable--a blessed, sweet, clean relief from the women of the Fanes'
set, for example?"
"Like Rosamund?"
"Yes. And, Ninette, you and Austin seem to be drifting out of the old
circles--the sort that you and I were accustomed to. You don't mind my
saying it, do you?--but there were so many people in this town who had
something besides millions--amusing, well-bred, jolly people who had no
end of good times, but who didn't gamble and guzzle and stuff themselves
and their friends--who were not eternally hanging around other people's
wives. Where are they, dear?"
"If you are indicting all of my friends, Phil--"
"I don't mean all of your friends--only a small proportion--which,
however, connects your circle with that deadly, idle, brainless
bunch--the insolent chatterers at the opera, the gorged dowagers, the
worn-out, passionless men, the enervated matrons of the summer capital,
the chlorotic squatters on huge yachts, the speed-mad fugitives from the
furies of ennui, the neurotic victims of mental cirrhosis, the jewelled
animals whose moral code is the code of the barnyard--!"
"Philip!"
"Oh, I don't mean that they are any more vicious than the idle and
mentally incompetent in any walk of life. East Side, West Side, Harlem,
Hell's Kitchen, Fifth Avenue, Avenue A, and Abingdon Square--the
denizens are only locally different, not specifically--the species
remains unchanged. But everywhere, in every quarter and class and set
and circle there is always the depraved; and the logical links that
connect them are unbroken from Fifth Avenue to Chinatown, from the
half-crazed extravagances of the Orchils' Louis XIV ball to a New Year's
reception at the Haymarket where Troy Lil's diamonds outshine the phony
pearls of Hoboken Fanny, and Hatpin Molly leads the spiel with Clarence
the Pig."
"Phil, you are too disgusting!"
"I'm sorry--it isn't very nice of me, I suppose. But, dear, I'm dead
tired of moral squalor. I do like the brightness of things, too, but I
don't care for the phosphorescence of social decay."
"What in the world is the matter?" she exclaimed in dismay. "You are
