out here, yet I find many of them enjoy a day 
at Coney Island and the shows with a great 
deal more zest. One woman came up in June 
with a half-sick baby, but she thought it very 
lonely, and the noise of the insects was dreary 
to her at night, while in the city one was 
always having music and singing. She only 
stayed a week. The baby is dead now.” 
“ It depends upon the point of view and 
what makes a person really happy.” 
“ Mr. Morse thought Mrs. Wilmarth and 
her friend had taken the work up at the right 
end. And he liked Mrs. Oakley so much. 
She is very happy in her marriage, isn’t she? ” 
“ It seems so. She helps on the paper ; she 
has a much wider range of mind. And she 
has found two girls who write passable verses. 
The college Miscellany would consign them to 
the waste-basket, but they really were very 
sweet. The wren, you know, has a dainty 
little song, and doesn’t ape the nightin- 
gale.” 
“ And the world is wide enough for both.” 
Juliet raised her soft eyes with a tender light 
in them 
 
“ And now I must attack a pile of letters. 
Adieu, until luncheon,” and Helen sped up- 
stairs to her room with its refined and attract- 
ive belongings. There was her first “ Vir- 
gin ” that had roused her sense of artistic 
beauty and divine motherhood, her photo- 
graphs of Mrs. Van Dorn at her best, Daisy 
Bell in the plenitude of girlish grace, and sev- 
eral other girls, though most of them were 
consigned to an album. 
Grace Trevor had written a bright and in- 
teresting account of herself. She and life were 
on excellent terms, and now Chris was begin- 
ning to have a lover who was agreeable all 
round. There was Mrs. Bell’s sweet, rather 
brief note. She was not very well, but Mar- 
jorie and Mr. Hollis were the dearest son and 
daughter a mother could have. There was a 
letter from Lorraine, who was up in the 
Adirondacks, walking, rowing, breathing the 
healthful air of firs and pines with their resin- 
ous fragrance; also one from Leslie, who was 
helping her brother get his house ready for 
his bride after their long engagement. They 
would be married and go off for a fortnight, 
then settle themselves. She was to have a 
room in the house for her own. 
“ Perhaps I ought to teach, instead of hav- 
ing this year of pleasure, but somehow, I 
can’t bear to go away from dear Alma Mater 
and leave you girls behind. Next year, in the 
general dispersion, I shall not feel so keen a 
pang. Helen, what is there about you that 
draws people? If I were rich I should adopt 
you and never let you go. It would be a 
threefold chain you could not break,” she 
wrote. 
Helen smiled, and then suddenly kissed 
the dear words. What if they should cast in 
their lots together like the two girls at Mrs. 
Aldred’s? She wondered what had become of 
them. She and Leslie might have a school 
somewhere. And Juliet! 
She wrote to Nat, and to Mrs. Wilmarth, 
and before she had come to the end, the 
luncheon-bell rang. 
“We must go to drive this afternoon,’ 
Juliet said. 
“ I have two letters to write, then I shall be 
at your service.” 
 
But she sat quite a while over Willard’s. 
The comfortable sense of comradeship had 
g'one, and what she was trying to put in its 
place would not fit. They might walk side 
by side without friction, but his levels were 
not hers, his outlook was bounded by temporal 
successes; he could not enter into her 
thoughts, though he might listen attentively. 
Oh, was she a silly romantic girl ? Was this 
what college was doing for her? 
She clasped her hands at the back of her 
head and glanced out of the window with 
unseeing eyes. There were men in the world 
who had different aims, who were strong of 
thought, who were earnest in the advancement 
of their fellow creatures, who had a breadth 
that raised one to new endeavors, who had a 
richness that outflowed, who saw possibilities 
in common lives, helped others to gain them, 
whose thought was for those around them, 
not simply for the enjoyment of the one soul 
taken into it, absorbed by it. 
She had not seen many men, after all — 
at least, no wide diversity of the opposite sex. 
What sort of prescience was this pervading 
She glanced out of the window with unseeing eyes, 
her, slowly but surely, a knowledge she had 
feared before with all her misgivings ? A 
rich inward sight, it seemed, over which no 
veil could be drawn that would shut it away. 
“ Helen,*’ called a soft voice. “ Cousin 
Helen," in an eager child-tone, “ are you ready 
for the drive? ” 
She sprang up. Had she been dreaming 
here for almost an hour? The silvery chimes 
rang out four o'clock. She hurried into a 
gown, thrust away the barely begun letter, 
and enjoyed the long delightful drive through 
shady, fragrant ways. 
There were callers in the evening, so she 
resolutely set to work the next morning. 
There was the visit to Hope to write about, 
her uncle and cousins, the old friends at the 
Center, Mr. Walters, the library, and the talk 
before the club, over which she made merry, 
the lecture given for the benefit of the library, 
and what a great success it was. 
There was no mention of Mr. Morse, how- 
ever. It would only lead to surmise and ques- 
tioning. Here was Mr. Lansing last evening, 
twice as gallant, who had been arranging a 
drive to a pretty cascady spot and a picnic 
supper, who was attentive and complimentary, 
and abounded in the pretty nothings of soci- 
ety — why, she would not think of dragging 
him in. Still, there was a feeling of insin- 
cerity that she could not banish, a misgiving 
that it was not honorable. And why, since 
she was not really engaged ? 
She told Juliet about her friend Leslie, and 
how she would have two rather lonesome 
weeks while her brother was away. On the 
sister's account, they had given up intimacies 
with many of their friends. 
“ I wish you would ask her here,” re- 
sponded Juliet quickly. “ There is quite a 
little society diversion just now. We shall 
be glad of a good tennis player, and Mr. 
Lansing has proposed private theatricals, just 
some simple amusing play.” 
“ I should be delighted to. Oh, do you 
remember our play down at Balem? What 
fun it was ! ” 
“ And I’ve had some nice calls on Mrs. Os- 
borne. The family is now abroad. Oh, how 
glad she would be to see you ! ” 
“ I’ll put on my hat and run over,’ laughed 
Helen. ‘‘Where are they? London — Paris 
— Berlin?” 
“ She is a charming woman. What a sum- 
mer that was ! ” 
The thought of Gordon Danforth came to 
Helen’s mind. Where was he, and what was 
