"And when do you expect to marry her?"

"God knows," said he, "I don't. The old man wouldn't give her a cent."

"And you couldn't support her?"

"I? Good heavens, Allan--do you suppose Betty would consent to be poor?"

"Have you asked her?" inquired Montague.

"I don't want to ask her, thank you! I've not the least desire to live
in a hovel with a girl who's been brought up in a palace."

"Then what do you expect to do?"

"Well, Betty has a rich aunt in a lunatic asylum. And then I'm making
money, you know--and the old boy will have to relent in the end. And
we're having a very good time in the meanwhile, you know."

"You can't be very much in love," said Montague--to which his brother
replied cheerfully that they were as much in love as they felt like
being.

This was on the train Monday morning. Oliver observed that his brother
relapsed into a brown study, and remarked, "I suppose you're going back
now to bury yourself in your books. You've got to give me one evening
this week for a dinner that's important."

"Where's that?" asked the other.

"Oh, it's a long story," said Oliver. "I'll explain it to you some
time. But first we must have an understanding about next week, also--I
suppose you've not overlooked the fact that it's Christmas week. And
you won't be permitted to do any work then."

"But that's impossible!" exclaimed the other.

"Nothing else is possible," said Oliver, firmly. "I've made an
engagement for you with the Eldridge Devons up the Hudson--"

"For the whole week?"

"The whole week. And it'll be the most important thing you've done.
Mrs. Winnie's going to take us all in her car, and you will make no end
of indispensable acquaintances."

"Oliver, I don't see how in the world I can do it!" the other protested
in dismay, and went on for several minutes arguing and explaining what
he had to do. But Oliver contented himself with the assurance that
where there's a will, there's a way. One could not refuse an invitation
to spend Christmas with the Eldridge Devons!

And sure enough, there was a way. Mr. Hasbrook had mentioned to him
that he had had considerable work done upon the case, and would have
the papers sent round. And when Montague reached his office that
morning, he found them there. There was a package of several thousand
pages; and upon examining them, he found to his utter consternation
that they contained a complete bill of complaint, with all the
necessary references and citations, and a preliminary draught of a
brief--in short, a complete and thoroughgoing preparation of his case.
There could not have been less than ten or fifteen thousand dollars'
worth of work in the papers; and Montague sat quite aghast, turning
over the neatly typewritten sheets. He could indeed afford to attend
Christmas house parties, if all his clients were to treat him like this!

He felt a little piqued about it--for he had noted some of these points
for himself, and felt a little proud about them. Apparently he was to
be nothing but a figure-head in the case! And he turned to the phone
and called up Mr. Hasbrook, and asked him what he expected him to do
with these papers. There was the whole case here; and was he simply to
take them as they stood?

No one could have replied more considerately than did Mr. Hasbrook. The
papers were for Montague's benefit--he would do exactly as he pleased
with them. He might use them as they stood, or reject them altogether,
or make them the basis for his own work--anything that appealed to his
judgment would be satisfactory. And so Montague turned about and wrote
an acceptance to the formal invitation which had come from the Eldridge
Devons.

Later on in the day Oliver called up, and said that he was to go out to
dinner the following evening, and that he would call for him at eight.
"It's with the Jack Evanses," Oliver added. "Do you know them?"

Montague had heard the name, as that of the president of a chain of
Western railroads. "Do you mean him?" he asked.

"Yes," said the other. "They're a rum crowd, but there's money in it.
I'll call early and explain it to you."

But it was explained sooner than that. During the next afternoon
Montague had a caller--none other than Mrs. Winnie Duval. Some one had
left Mrs. Winnie some more money, it appeared; and there was a lot of
red tape attached to it, which she wanted the new lawyer to attend to.
Also, she said, she hoped that he would charge her a lot of money by
way of encouraging himself. It was a mere bagatelle of a hundred
thousand or so, from some forgotten aunt in the West.

The business was soon disposed of, and then Mrs. Winnie asked Montague
if he had any place to go to for dinner that evening: which was the
occasion of his mentioning the Jack Evanses. "O dear me!" said Mrs.
Winnie, with a laugh. "Is Ollie going to take you there? What a funny
time you'll have!"

"Do you know them?" asked the other.

"Heavens, no!" was the answer. "Nobody knows them; but everybody knows
about them. My husband meets old Evans in business, of course, and
thinks he's a good sort. But the family--dear me!"

"How much of it is there?"

"Why, there's the old lady, and two grown daughters and a son. The
son's a fine chap, they say--the old man took him in hand and put him
at work in the shops. But I suppose he thought that daughters were too
much of a proposition for him, and so he sent them to a fancy
school--and, I tell you, they're the most highly polished human
specimens that ever you encountered!"

It sounded entertaining. "But what does Oliver want with them?" asked
Montague, wonderingly.

"It isn't that he wants them--they want him. They're cumbers, you
know--perfectly frantic. They've come to town to get into Society."

"Then you mean that they pay Oliver?" asked Montague.

"I don't know that," said the other, with a laugh. "You'll have to ask
Ollie. They've a number of the little brothers of the rich hanging
round them, picking up whatever plunder's in sight."

A look of pain crossed Montague's face; and she saw it, and put out her
hand with a sudden gesture. "Oh!" she exclaimed, "I've offended you!"

"No," said he, "it's not that exactly--I wouldn't be offended. But I'm
worried about my brother."

"How do you mean?"

"He gets a lot of money somehow, and I don't know what it means."

The woman sat for a few moments in silence, watching him. "Didn't he
have any when he came here?" she asked.

"Not very much," said he.

"Because," she went on, "if he didn't, he certainly managed it very
cleverly--we all thought he had."

Again there was a pause; then suddenly Mrs. Winnie said: "Do you know,
you feel differently about money from the way we do in New York. Do you
realize it?"

"I'm not sure," said he. "How do you mean?"

"You look at it in an old-fashioned sort of way--a person has to earn
it--it's a sign of something he's done. It came to me just now, all in
a flash--we don't feel that way about money. We haven't any of us
earned ours; we've just got it. And it never occurs to us to expect
other people to earn it--all we want to know is if they have it."
