"You darling!" he whispered, adoring her innocence. Then as he lay, head
cradled on her knees, looking up at her, all unbidden, a vision of the
future in its sharp-cut ominous desolation flashed into his vision--the
world without her!--the endless stretch of time--youth with no meaning,
effort wasted, attainment without desire, loneliness, arid, terrible
days unending.

"It is too--too senseless!" he breathed, stumbling to his feet as the
vague, scarcely formulated horror of it suddenly turned keen and bit
into him as he began to realise for the first time something of what it
threatened.

"What is it, Garry?" she asked in gentle concern, as he stood looking
darkly at her. "Is it time to go? You are tired, I know." She rose and
opened the great glass doors. "You poor tired boy," she whispered,
waiting for him. And as he did not stir: "What is the matter, Garry?"

"Nothing. I am trying to understand that our winter is ended."

She nodded. "Mother and Gray and Cecile and I go North in April.... I
wish we might stay through May--that is, if you--" She looked at him in
silent consternation. "Where will you be!"

He said in a sullen voice: "That is what I was thinking of--our
separation.... Do you realise that it is almost here?"

"No," she said faintly, "I cannot."

He moved forward, opening the glass doors wider; she laid one hand on
his arm as though to guide herself; but the eastern corridors were
bright with moonlight, every corner illuminated.

They were very silent until they turned into the south corridor and
reached her door; and there he suddenly gave way to his passionate
resentment, breaking out like a spoiled boy:

"Shiela, I tell you it's going to be unendurable! There must be some way
out, some chance for us.... I don't mean to ask you to do what
is--what you consider dishonourable. You wouldn't do it anyway, whether
or not I asked you--"

"But don't ask me," she said, turning very white. "I don't know what I
am capable of if I should ever see you suffer!"

"You couldn't do it!" he repeated; "it isn't in you to take your
happiness at their expense, is it? You say you know how they would feel;
I don't. But if you're asking for an annulment--"

"What? Do you mean divorce?"

"No.... That is--different--"

"But what--"

"You dear," he said, suddenly gentle, "you have never been a--wife; and
you don't know it."

"Garry, are you mad?"

"Shiela, dear, some day will you very quietly ask some woman the
difference between divorce and annulment?"

"Y-yes, if you wish.... Is it something you mayn't tell me, Garry?"

"Yes.... I don't know! You sometimes make me feel as though I could tell
you anything.... Of course I couldn't ... you darling!" He stepped
nearer. "You are so good and sweet, so utterly beyond evil, or the
vaguest thought of it--"

"Garry--I am not! And you know it!"

He only laughed at her.

"You don't think I am a horrid sort of saint, do you?"

"No, not the horrid sort--"

"Garry! How can you say such things when I'm half ready now to run away
with you!"

The sudden hint of fire in her face and voice, and something new in her
eyes, sobered him.

"Now do you know what I am?" she said, breathing unevenly and watching
him. "Only one thing keeps me respectable. I'd go with you; I'd live in
rags to be with you. I ask nothing in the world or of the world except
you. You could make me what you pleased, mould me--mar me, I
believe--and I would be the happiest woman who ever loved. That is
your saint!"

Flushed with her swift emotion, she stood a minute facing him, then laid
her hand on the door knob behind her, still looking him in the eyes.
Behind her the door slowly swung open under the pressure.

His own self-control was fast going; he dared not trust himself to speak
lest he break down and beg for the only chance that her loyalty to
others forbade her to take. But the new and deeper emotion which she had
betrayed had awakened the ever-kindling impatience in him, and now,
afire, he stood looking desperately on all he must for ever lose, till
the suffering seemed unendurable in the checked violence of his revolt.

"Good night," she whispered sorrowfully, as the shadow deepened on his
altered face.

"Are you going!"

"Yes.... And, somehow I feel that perhaps it is better not to--kiss me
to-night. When I see you--this way--Garry, I could find it in me to do
anything--almost.... Good night."

Watching him, she waited in silence for a while, then turned slowly and
lighted the tiny night-lamp on the table beside her bed.

When she returned to the open door there was no light in the hall. She
heard him moving somewhere in the distance.

"Where are you, Garry?"

He came back slowly through the dim corridor.

"Were you going without a word to me?" she asked.

He came nearer and leaned against the doorway.

"You are quite right," he said sullenly. "I've been a fool to let us
drift in this way. I don't know where we're headed for, and it's time I
did."

"What do you mean?"--in soft consternation.

"That there is no hope left for us--and that we are both pretty young,
both in love, both close to desperation. At times I tell you I feel like
a cornered beast--feel like showing my teeth at the world--like tearing
you from it at any cost. I'd do it, too, if it were not for your father
and mother. You and I could stand it."

"I would let you do it--if it were not for them," she said.

They looked at one another, both pale.

"Would you give up the whole moral show for me?" he demanded.

"Yes."

"You'd get a first-rate scoundrel."

"I wouldn't care if it were you."

"There's one thing," he said with a bluntness bordering on brutality,
"all this is changing me into a man unfit to touch you. I warn you."

"What!"

"I tell you not to trust me!" he said almost savagely. "With heart and
soul and body on fire for you--mad for you--I'm not to be trusted!"

"And I?" she faltered, deadly pale.

"You don't know what you're saying!" he said violently.

