life. I believe I've loved her a long while."
"I think neither of you really know what love is. No, I cannot consent
to it. I want her to go on having a good free time without any anxiety.
I have some right to her, being her guardian."
"But--I will wait--I didn't mean to ask her immediately."
"We are going on a journey presently. I cannot have her disturbed with
this. No, your attention must be devoted to business for the next two
years."
He drew a long breath. "But you don't mean I must break
off--everything?" and there was an unsteadiness in his voice.
"Oh, no. Not if you can keep to the old friendliness."
Then Chilian Leverett dropped into his easy-chair and thought. The child
had grown very dear to him, she was a gift from her father. A
tumultuous, uncomprehended pain wrenched his very soul. To live without
her--to miss her everywhere! To have lonely days, longer lonely evenings
when the dreariness of winter set in. And yet she had a right to the
sweet, rich draught of love. But she did not need it amid all the
pleasures of youth. Let her have two or three years, even if it was
blissful thoughtlessness. But he must put her on her guard. A young
fellow soon changed his mind. The old couplet sang itself in his brain:
          "If she be not fair for me,
           What care I how fair she be?"
Did he get over his early love and forget? We all say, "But ours was
different."
How to find the right moment? Ben did not come over. She was very busy
with this friend and that, youth finds so many interests. But one
evening, when they were sitting on the porch in the moonlight, the young
fellow walked slowly along, glanced at them, halted.
She flew down to the gate.
"Oh, Ben, what has happened?" she cried, the most bewitching anxiety in
her face. "Why, you have not been in--for weeks."
"Not quite two weeks." Had it seemed so long to her? To him it had been
months.
"Oh, come in. Cousin Chilian will be glad to see you."
The radiant cordiality in her face unnerved him.
"And you?" Yes, he must know.
"Do you have to ask that question?"
The sweet, dangerous eyes said too much, but the smile was that of
amusement.
So they walked up the path together. Mr. Leverett greeted him in a
friendly manner.
"I thought I ought to come in and say good-bye. I'm going off on some
business for father, and may not be back for several weeks."
"That sounds as if you needed an apology for coming at all," she
commented with half-resentful gayety.
He flushed and made no immediate reply.
"And we are going to take a journey as well. Up somewhere in Maine. Mr.
Giles Leverett insists we shall, for our health, but I think it is our
delightful company. He has to go to look after a large estate where some
people think of founding a town. Isn't it funny?" and she gave her
bewitching laugh that was like the notes of silver bells, soft, yet
clear. "They must go off and build up new places. And some people are
going West, as if there wasn't room here. Have you noticed that we are
overcrowded?"
"Well, sometimes along the docks it looks that way."
"I like a good many people. Often Merrits' is crowded, and it's funny to
catch bits of sentences. And at Plummer's as well. Did you ever read
right across the paper, one line in each column, and notice the odd and
twisted-up sense it made? That's about the way it sounds."
How bright and charming she was! Ben could not keep his eyes from her
radiant face. Was she really a coquette, Chilian wondered. Yet she was
so simple with it all, so seemingly careless of the effect. That was the
danger of it.
He lingered like one entranced. Poor young lad! Chilian began to feel
sorry for him.
She walked down to the gate with him, and hoped they would have a nice
time when autumn came, if he meant to stay in Salem.
A young man not in love would have called her a bright, merry, chatty
girl. He went away with the consciousness that she liked him very much.
Chilian asked her if she did.
She glanced up wonderingly.
"Why--he is nice, and being Polly's brother makes it--well, more
familiar. Then we can talk about Anthony. I believe he didn't like him
much at first, but he does now."
Oh, how could he put her on her guard! She was not dreaming of love.
Saltonstall's fancy had died out--no doubt this would, too. Lad's love.
Was it worth ruffling up the sunny artlessness? But he would watch the
young men closer now that he knew the danger line.
He said simply to himself that he could not give her up to any one else
so soon. There would be a long life of joy and satisfaction to her, and
he knew she would not grudge him these few years. Then, too, he was
quite certain she had not even had an imaginary fancy for these two
men--Ben was nothing but a boy.
Anthony Drayton was to join them. Miss Winn was to be Cynthia's
companion. Mrs. Stevens had refused to trust her precious self to any
wilds, and bear and wolf hunts, though Mr. Giles declared they were not
going to take guns along. He was not an enthusiastic hunter. As for
Chilian, such sport did not attract him.
The journey was partly by stage, partly on horseback, and one or two
days they left the ladies at the tavern where they stopped. Cynthia was
charmed and amused at the uncouthness of the people and their dialect in
some places, and positive good breeding in others. Anthony unearthed a
college chum who was tally man at a sawmill. The new town was really
making progress. A small chapel had been started, a schoolhouse built.
And twenty years later it was a pretty town; in fifty years an
enterprising city.
"Anthony's going to be a first-class fellow. I should like to have such
a son. Chilian, you and I should have married and have sons and
daughters growing up. But at my time of life I should want them grown
up. And smart, as well. I always feel sorry for the fathers of dull
lads, when they have plenty of means to educate them. Yes, I should want
mine to have a good supply of brains."
Chilian Leverett enjoyed the change very much and the breath of spruce
and pine was invigorating. But there was a little nervous feeling about
Cynthia. Cousin Giles was somewhat of a lady's man, and he was on the
continual lookout that Cynthia should not tire herself unduly, that she
be assisted over the rough places, that she should have the best of
everything. He was almost jealous at times.
But Cynthia moved about gayly, serenely, full of merry little quips,
seizing the small ridiculous events with such a sense of amusement that
she inspirited them all. And he could not notice that she paid any more
attention to Anthony than either of her seniors. There was such a
genuine frankness in all she said and did, a charm of manner that was
just herself, and had none of the arts of society, but came from a heart
that overflowed with spontaneous warmth, but was not directed to any
particular person.
Cousin Giles declared he was sorry to get back to Boston. He could not
remember when he had enjoyed such a good time. Then in a business way it
had been a success, which added to his satisfaction.
They really had to stay in Boston one night. They would fain have kept
Cynthia for a week, but she said she was tired of just changing from one
frock to another, and longed for more variety.
"And I'm so glad to get back home again," she cried delightedly. "I've
had a splendid time, and I like Anthony ever so much. Cousin Giles was
so nice and fatherly. He ought to adopt Anthony and give him his name,
and that would always make me think of father. But after all, home is
best. Oh, suppose I was a waif, just being handed from one to another!"
She looked frightened with the imaginary lot. She expressed emotions so
easily.
"You couldn't have been;" hoarsely.
"Cousin Chilian, if you had not been in the world, or if you hadn't been
willing to take me--I don't think father knew much about Cousin
Giles--why, I must have gone to strangers."
There were tears in her eyes, and a sweet melancholy in her voice.
She had so much to tell Cousin Eunice that it seemed really as if she
had taken the journey with them. She put on Jane's faded gingham
sunbonnet and gave her voice a queer nasal twang, and talked as some of
the women did up there in the wilderness, who thought a city "must be an
awfully crowdy place an' she jes' didn't see how people managed to live
in it. An' as fer the sea, give her dry land every time."
Then she talked the French-English patois of the emigrants from Canada,
and told of their funny attire, and their log huts, sometimes with only
one big room, with a stone chimney in the centre, and sawed logs for
seats.
"They did that in Salem nigh on to two hundred years ago," said Cousin
Eunice.
"How much people do learn by living," remarked the little girl sagely.
Then the olden round began. Being asked out to tea and inviting in
return, sewing bees, quilting parties when some girl was making an
outfit. And though the elders shook their heads at such a waste of time,
they went out to walk in the afternoon and stopped in the shops that
were making a show on Essex Street and Federal Street. There was Miss
Rust's pretty millinery parlor--it had a sofa in the front room and a
table with an embroidered cover that Cynthia had sent her. They talked
of new styles and colors, and were aghast at the thought that royalty
sometimes had as many as twenty hats and bonnets. She made pretty old
lady caps as well, and she did love to hear the young girls chatter. And
Molly Saunders was still baking gingerbread, that had delighted them as
school children, and no one made such good spruce and sassafras beer.
One evening at a dance she had a great surprise. Some one said, "Miss
