 



XIII 

They had come into the meadow where the snow 
battle was to be, and on its slope, against the dark weft 
of the young birch-trees, there was a mimic castle out- 
lined in the masonry of white blocks quarried from the 
drifts and built up in courses like rough blocks of 
marble. A decoration of green from the pines that 
mixed with the birches had been suggested rather than 
executed, and was perhaps the more effective for its 
sketchiness. 

" Yes, it's really beautiful," Miss Macroyd owned, 
and though she did not join her cries to those of the 
other girls, who stood scattered about admiring it, and 
laughing and chattering with the men whose applause, 
of course, took the jocose form, there was no doubt but 
she admired it. " What I can't understand is how Mrs. 
Westangle got the notion of this. There's the soprano 
note in it, and some woman must have given it to her." 

" Not contralto, possibly V Verrian asked. 

" I insist upon the soprano," she said. 

But he did not notice what she said. His eyes were 
following a figure which seemed to be escaping up 
through the birches behind the snow castle and plough- 
ing its way through the drifts ; in front of the structure 
they had been levelled to make an easier battle-field. 
He knew that it was Miss Shirley, and he inferred that 
she had been in the castle directing the farm-hands 
building it, and now, being caught by the premature 
arrival of the contesting forces, had fled before them 



and left her subordinates to finish the work. He felt, 
with a throe of helpless sympathy, that she was under- 
taking too much. It was hazardous enough to attempt 
the practice of her novel profession under the best of 
circumstances, but to keep herself in abeyance so far 
as not to be known at all in it, and, at the same time, 
to give way to her interest in it to the extent of coming 
out, with her infirmly established health, into that 
wintry weather, and superintending the preparations 
for the first folly she had planned, was a risk altogether 
too great for her. 

" Who in the world," Miss Macroyd suddenly de- 
manded, " is the person floundering about in the birch 
woods ?" 

" Perhaps the soprano," Verrian returned, hardily. 

Bushwick detached himself from a group of girls 
near by and intercepted any response from Miss Mac- 
royd to Verrian by calling to her before he came up, 
" Are you going to be One of the enemy, Miss Mac- 
royd?" 

" No, I think I will be neutral." She added, " Is 
there going to be any such thing as an umpire ?" 

" "We hadn't thought of that. There could be. The 
office could be created; but, you know, it's the post of 
danger." 

Verrian joined the group that Bushwick had left. 
He found a great scepticism as to the combat, mixed 
with some admiration for the castle, and he set himself 
to contest the prevalent feeling. What was the matter 
with a snow-fight? he demanded. It would be great 
fun. Decidedly he was going in for it. He revived the 
drooping sentiment in its favor, and then, flown with his 
success, he went from group to group and couple to 
couple, and animated all with his zeal, which came, he 
hardly knew whence ; what he pretended to the others 





was that they were rather bound not to let Mrs. West- 
angle's scheme fall through. Their doubts vanished 
before him, and the terms of the battle were quickly 
arranged. He said he had read of one of those mediaeval 
flower-fights, and he could tell them how that was done. 
Where it would not fit into the snow-fight, they could 
trust to inspiration ; every real battle was the effect of 
inspiration. 

He came out, and some of the young women and most 
of the young men, who had dimly known of him as 
a sort of celebrity, and suspected him of being a prig, 
were reconciled, and accepted him for a nice fellow, and 
became of his opinion as to the details of the amusement 
before them. 

It was not very Homeric, when it came off, or very 
mediaeval, but it was really lots of fun, or far more 
fun than one would have thought. The storming of the 
castle was very sincere, and the fortress was honestly 
defended. Miss Macroyd was made umpire, as she 
wished, and provided with a large snowball to sit on 
at a safe distance; as she was chosen by the men, the 
girls wanted to have an umpire of their own, who would 
be really fair, and they voted Verrian into the office. 
But he refused, partly because he did not care about 
being paired off with Miss Macroyd so conspicuous- 
ly, and partly because he wished to help the fight 
along. 

Attacks were made and repelled, and there were feats 
of individual and collective daring on the side of the 
defenders which were none the less daring because the 
assailants stopped to cheer them, and to disable them- 
selves by laughing at the fury of the foe. A detachment 
of the young men at last stormed the castle and so 
weakened its walls that they toppled inward; then the 
defenders, to save themselves from being buried under 

 

the avalanche, swarmed out into the open and made the 
entire force of the enemy prisoners. 

The men pretended that this was what might have 
been expected" from the beginning, but by this time the 
Berserker madness had possessed Miss Macroyd, too; 
she left her throne of snow and came forward shouting 
that it had been perfectly fair, and that the men had 
been really beaten, and they had no right to pretend 
that they had given themselves up purposely. The sex- 
partisanship, which is such a droll fact in women when 
there is any question of their general opposition to men, 
possessed them all, and they stood as one girl for the 
reality of their triumph. This did not prevent them 
from declaring that the men had behaved with out- 
rageous unfairness, and that the only one who fought 
with absolute sincerity from first to last was Mr. 
Verrian. 

Neither their unity of conviction concerning the gen- 
eral fact nor the surprising deduction from it in Ver- 
rian's case operated to make them refuse the help of 
their captives in getting home. When they had bound 
up their tumbled hair, in some cases, and repaired the 
ravages of war among their feathers and furs and 
draperies, in other cases, they accepted the hands of the 
late enemy at difficult points of the path. But they ran 
forward when they neared the house, and they were 
prompt to scream upon Mrs. Westangle that there never 
had been such a success or such fun, and that they were 
almost dead, and soon as they had something to eat they 
were going to bed and never going to get up again. 
