another along the Riva degli Schiavoni, from the ducal palace to the
public gardens, sat three men. All three were smoking execrable tobacco
in ancient pipes. Now and then this one or that consulted his watch
(grateful that he still possessed it), as if expecting some visitor. The
castaways of the American Comic Opera troupe were on the anxious seat
this morning.

"Well, what do you think?" asked Smith.

"Think? Why, she'll be here this morning, or I know nothing about women.
That ring was worth a cool thousand." O'Mally shook the nicotine from
his pipe. "She'll be here, never you worry. But," with a comic grimace,
"it's dollars to doughnuts that both of 'em will be stone-broke. I know
something about that innocent little game called roulette."

"But if she's broke, what the devil shall we do?" Smith put this
question in no calm frame of mind.

"Forty dollars; it's a heap just now."

"She said she had another plan," said Worth.

"If it's a plan which needs no investments, all well and good. But, on
my word, I wouldn't dare advance another cent." Smith's brow wore many
wrinkles.

"Nor I," said O'Mally.

"Positively, no," added Worth.

O'Mally mused. "A bill from your tailor will reach you here in eight
days, but money! Looks as if they had sent it via Japan."

"The one thing I'm sore about is the way she buncoed us into giving up
our return tickets to the chorus."

"Shame on you!" cried the generous O'Mally. "What chance had any of them
on this side? Ten to one, nobody home could have sent them money. We men
can get along somehow. But I wish I could get some good plug-cut. This
English shoe-string tobacco burns like hot lead."

"O'Mally, what's your opinion?"

"On what?"

"La Signorina," said Worth.

"What about her?"

"What do you think of her? She's not one of us; she belongs to another
class, and the stage is only an incident."

"Well, I don't know what to think. I've pumped Killigrew, but she seems
to be in the dark with the rest of us. That ring and the careless way
she offered it as security convinces me that she doesn't belong. But
what a voice! It lifts you out of your very boots."

"Even when she talks," said Smith. "Honestly, I'm glad she always wears
that veil. I might make a jackass of myself."

"It would be excusable," rejoined Worth, pressing the coal in his pipe
and blowing the strong, biting smoke above his head. "She is, without
exception, one of the most beautiful women I ever saw or care to see."
He rose and walked over to the window and gazed down upon the quay,
bright with morning sunshine and colorful with two human currents.

Smith and O'Mally exchanged a swift, comprehensive look. There was one
thing upon which they agreed fully, but they had not yet put it into
words. When Worth returned to his chair his two companions were
inspecting the faded designs in the carpet.

"In Rome there was a grand duke," Worth remarked.

"And how she played him!" laughed Smith.

"And there you are! Imagine an American comic opera star refusing to
dine with a real duke! If anything convinces me, it is that. Think of
the advertisement it would have been in New York! Think of the fat part
for the press agent! No," continued O'Mally, "she doesn't belong."

"The thing that sticks in my mind is the alternative which she has
promised to offer." Worth eyed the ceiling. "She said that if she failed
at Monte Carlo she had another plan. What? Pawning her jewels? I think
not. But whatever it is, I expect to be counted in."

"I, too," agreed Smith.

O'Mally took the small brilliant from his necktie and contemplated it
sadly. "The outsiders make fun of us for toting round these sparklers;
but often it's board and car-fare home. I paid seventy-five for this; I
might be able to raise thirty on it. Of course, she's backed us finely
with the hotel man; but if she shouldn't return, it's strapped the three
of us will be. And no letters at Cook's this morning."

"Oh, if worst comes to worst, the American consul will forward us to New
York. I'm not going to borrow any trouble." And Worth in his turn found
employment in the carpet patterns. Presently he got up briskly. "I'm
going down to the office."

"Bureau," corrected O'Mally.

"Bureau. There might be a note or something." Worth smiled.

When he was out of the way O'Mally nodded wisely to his friend Smith.

"I hope he won't make a fool of himself over her."

"He has the symptoms. I've seen 'em before," replied Smith jocularly.
"But he's an odd duffer, and there's no knowing what he'll do before the
round-up. It's a fine go, anyhow. Here we are, handsomely stranded
thousands of miles from home. The only chance I have of finding money in
a letter is to sign for next season and draw down enough to pay for a
steamer ticket. As for a bank account, Lord! I never had one. I have
made two offers for my versatile talents, but no line yet."

O'Mally laughed. "Same boat. I've written to my brother, who has always
held that I'm a good-for-nothing. And he may see in this predicament of
mine a good chance to be rid of me permanently. But I believe Worth has
a bank account at home. He is close-mouthed about his affairs. He
received some letters yesterday, but when I quizzed him he made out he
didn't hear me. I didn't crowd him. Hope he won't make a fool of himself
over La Signorina. Sh! he's coming back."

The door opened and Worth beckoned. "They are in the parlor, waiting. I
don't know what news they bring."

There was a brightness in his eyes that meant unmistakable things to his
two companions. They laid aside their pipes, tidied up a bit, and went
down to the stuffy salon. The two women rose as the men entered. There
was good cheer and handshaking. O'Mally's heart sank, however, as he
touched the hand of La Signorina. There was no joy in the pressure,
nothing but sympathy and subtle encouragement.

"Come," he said cheerfully, "put us out of our misery. Confess that you
are both broke, and that Monte Carlo is still on the map."

As a preamble La Signorina raised the inevitable veil to the rim of her
hat. Worth sat down in the darkest corner whence he could without
inconvenience feast his eyes upon her beauty. Her tale was short and
lightly told, with an interpolation now and then by Kitty.

"I was very foolish," said the erstwhile prima donna. "I might have
known that when one is unlucky one may become still more unlucky. The
superlative of bad luck has been my portion. But I did so wish to win. I
wanted to bring back enough gold to send you all to America."

"But what was to become of you?" asked Worth from behind his fortress of
shadow.

"I?" She paused with indecision. The question was not expected. "Oh,
Italy is my home. I shall find a way somehow. Put me out of your
thoughts entirely. But I am sorry to bring you this bitter
disappointment, for it must be bitter. You have all been so good and
patient in your misfortune."

"Forget it," said O'Mally. "Sure, we're no worse off than we were
before. And here we've had a whole week of hope and fine air-castles.
I've seen 'em tumble down so often that I've a shell like a turtle's
now. Forget it."

