is like the English tradition of the Red Skins, which 
has all but vanished from our superstition, but remains 
as powerful as ever in the constant fancy of those isl- 
anders. 
The English like their Niggers very, very black, and 
as their Niggers are English they know how to gratify 
the national preference: such a spread of scarlet lips 
over half the shining sable face is known nowhere else 
in nature or art; and it must have been in despair of 
rivalling their fellow-minstrels that the small Amer- 
ican troupe we saw at Aberystwyth went to the op- 
posite extreme and frankly appeared as the White 
N"eegurs. At Llandudno the blackness of the Niggers 
was absolute, so that it almost darkened the day as they 
passed our lodging, along the crescent of the beach on 
their way to their open-air theatre beyond it. They 
were followed by a joyous retinue of boys and girls, 
tradesmen's apprentices, donkeys, bath-chairs, and all 
the movable gladness of the watering-place, to the music 
of their banjos and the sound of their singing. They 
were going to a fold of the foot-hills called the Happy 
Valley, bestowed on the public for such pleasures by 
the local nobleman whose title is given to a principal 
street, and to other points and places, I suppose out of 
the public pride and gratitude. It is a charming 
 
amphitheatre overlooked by the lofty tops around, 
and there on the green slope the Niggers had set up 
their stage, and ranged the spectators' chairs in the 
classification of first, second, and third so dear to the 
British soul. There they cracked their jokes, and there 
they sang their songs; the songs were newer than the 
jokes, but they were both kinds delivered with a strong 
Cockney accent, and without an aspirate in its place. 
But it was all richly acceptable to the audience, who 
laughed and cheered and joined in the chorus when 
asked. Here, as everywhere, the crowd delighted equal- 
ly in songs of the sloppiest sentimentality and of hu- 
mor nighest indecency. 
On the afternoon of our visit the good lady next me 
could not contain her peculiar pride in the entertain- 
ment, and confided that she knew the leader of the 
troupe, who was an old friend of her husband's. It 
was indeed a time and place that invited to expansion. 
Nothing could have been friendlier and livelier than 
the spectacle of the spectators spread over the grassy 
slope, or sublimer than the rise of the hills around, or 
more enchanting than the summer sea, with the large 
and little shipping on it, and the passenger-steamers 
going and coming from Liverpool and all the points in 
the region round. The two headlands which mark the 
limits of the beautiful beach, Great Orme's Head, and 
Little Orme's Head, are both of a nobleness tempered 
to kindliness by the soft and manageable beauty of their 
forms. I never got quite so far as Little Orme's Head, 
for it was full two miles from our lodging, and a fort- 
night was not long enough for the journey, but with 
Great Orme's Head I was on terms of very tolerable 
intimacy. A road of the excellence peculiar to Eng- 
land passes round on the chin, so to speak, and though 
I never went the length of it, I went far enough to 
 
know the majesty of the seaward prospect. From the 
crown of the Head there is a view of perhaps all the 
mountains in Wales, which from this point appears en- 
tirely composed of mountains, blue, blue and enchant- 
ingly fair. On the townward side you may descend 
into the Happy Valley, as we did, and find always a 
joyous crowd listening to the Niggers. If, after some 
doubt of your way, you have the favor of a nice boy 
and an intelligent collie dog, whom the boy is helping 
herd home the evening cows of a pleasant farm, you 
will have a charming glimpse of the local civilization; 
and perhaps you will notice that the cows do not pay 
much attention to the boy, but obey the dog implicitly ; 
it is their Old World convention. 
IV 
From another side we had ascended the mountain 
by the tram line which climbs it to the top, and at 
every twist and turn lavishes some fresh loveliness of 
landscape upon your vision. Near by, we noticed many 
depressions and sinkages in the ground, and a conver- 
sable man in well - oiled overalls who joined us at a 
power-house, said it was from the giving way of the 
timbers in the disused copper-mines. Were they very 
old, we asked, and he said they had not been worked 
for forty years; but this, when you come to think of 
the abandoned Roman mines yet deeper in the hill, was 
a thing of yesterday. The man in the oily overalls had 
evidently not come to think of it, but he was otherwise 
a very intelligent mechanic, and of a hospitable mind, 
like all the rest of our chance acquaintance in Great 
Britain. I do not know that I like to think of those 
Eoman mines myself, where it is said the sea now 
 
surges back and forth: they must have been worked 
by British slaves, who may be fancied climbing pur- 
blindly out when the legions left Britain, and not join- 
ing very loudly in the general lamentation at their 
withdrawal, but probably tempering the popular grief 
with the reflection that the heathen Saxons could not 
be much worse. 
The hill-top was covered with the trippers who seem 
perpetually holidaying on their island, and who were 
always kind to their children when they had them, and 
to each other when they had not. They were commonly 
in couples, very affectionate and inoffensively young. 
They wandered about, and from time to time went and 
had tea at one of the tea-houses which are always at 
hand over there. Except the view there was not much 
to see; the ways were rough; now and then, you came 
to a pink cottage or a white one where the peasantry, 
again, sold tea. At one place in our walk over the oc- 
ciput of Great Orme's Head into the Happy Valley in 
its bosom, we fell a prey to a conspiracy of boys sell- 
ing mignonette : it appeared to be a mignonette trust, or 
syndicate, confining its commerce to that flower. 
I have no other statistics to offer concerning business 
on Great Orme's Head, or indeed in all Llandudno. 
One of the chief industries seemed to be coaching, for 
a score of delightful places are to be easily reached by 
the stages always departing from the hotels on the 
Parade. There was no particularly noticeable traffic 
in leek, though I suppose that as I did not see the 
national emblem in any Welshman's hat to be sure, 
it was not St. David's Day it must have been boiling 
in every Welshman's pot. I am rather ashamed to be 
joining, even at this remove, in the poor English joking 
which goes on about the Welsh, quite as much as about 
the Scotch, the Irish having become too grave a matter 
 
for joking. There are little burlesque manuals mak- 
ing merry with the language and its agglutinative pro- 
lixity, which I shall certainly not quote ; and there are 
postal-cards representing Welsh dames drinking tea in 
tall witch-hats, with one of them saying : " I wass en- 
joying myself shocking, look you." There was, of 
course, nothing serious in this joking; the Welsh, who 
have all the small commerce in their hands, gladly 
sold the manuals and postals, and I did not see one 
Englishman laughing over them. 
The Saeseneg visitors rather amused themselves with 
the sea and the resources of the heach and the bathing. 
As contrasted with the visitors at Aberystwyth, so dis- 
tinctly in the earlier and later stages of love-making, 
I should say those at Llandudno were domestic : fathers 
arid mothers who used the long phalanx of bathing- 
machines appointed to their different sexes, and their 
children who played in the sand. I thought the chil- 
dren charming, and I contributed tuppence to aid in 
the repair of the sand castle of two nice little boys 
which had fallen down; it now seems strange that I 
should have been asked for a subscription, but in Eng- 
land subscriptions spare nobody; though I wonder if 
two such nice little boys would have come to me for 
money in America. Besides the entertainment of ly- 
ing all afternoon on the beach, or sitting beside it in 
canopied penny chairs, there was more active diversion 
for all ages and sexes in the circus prevailing some- 
where in the background, and advertising itself every 
