is called the collage, that glueing of two natures together which is the result of a long 
liaison and which, when effected, is the strongest of life's fragile ties. The lady was, therefore, unvisited by any vulgar sense of jealousy. In addition, in spite of the collage, or 
more precisely, because of it, it was necessary 
that Malakoff should establish himself in a 



 

manner befitting his rank. The anterior 
misadventures of the steeplechase had disappointed her almost as thoroughly as they 
had him. 

"Very good," she resumed. "I will call 
on her to-morrow." 

Around the corner, meanwhile, the poetry 
of the engagement was also being discussed. 

"Of course, my dear," Mrs. Kandy remarked, "some mothers prefer Englishmen 
for their daughters, but where can they get 
a duke?" 

Meditatively Sally helped herself from a 
sac of bon-bons. "I don't see," she replied, 
"why they should want one at all." 

Mrs. Kandy waved her lorgnette. "That 
only shows how foolish you are. A duke 
makes a duchess, and wherever a duchess 
goes she is It." 

"And I don't love him." 

"On such a short acquaintance it would be 
most improper if you did. For that matter, 





when I married your father, I did not love 
him, either, but I admired him, and any girl 
can admire a duke." 

Sally shook her head. She was thinking 
of the man with laughing eyes. Thinking, 
too, of his attentions to Maud Barhyte, a 
New York girl whom she also knew, and 
whom she envied greatly. 

"I don't know," she answered at last. 

"But I do," retorted Mrs. Kandy. "Now 
ring for Perkins and go to bed." 

Sally did ring. A wooden-faced maid 
appeared. Later, when the woman was 
brushing the girl's hair, Sally said to 
her: 

"I am engaged to a duke." 

"Yes, mem." 

Had Sally said she was engaged to a baboon, the reply would have been the same. 
Perkins knew her business. It was not for 
her to manifest any interest in anything con 
cerning her employers. It was for her to 



 

attend to her duties. She did attend to them, 
and attended to them well. 

"But I will keep you, Perkins." 

"Thank you, mem." 

The brushing continued. Presently Perkins said: "If you please, mem, I m to be 
married too." 

In the mirror before her Sally looked at 
the woman in whose face there was not a 
vestige of expression. 

"His name is Arris, mem. He's butler 
and valet, mem, and been only in the best 



houses." 



"Harris!" Sally repeated. "Well, per 
haps, I may take him when I have a house 
of my own, but you will be Perkins just the 



same." 



"Thank you, mem." 

Such was Sally's wooing. The marriage 
was equally enchanting. 

Before it occurred, Malakoff, apprised by 
his avoue of the terms of Sam Kandy's will, 





laughed. It was not a pleasant laugh. Had 
Mrs. Kandy seen him at that moment, she 
would have been alarmed. Could she have 
read his thoughts, she would have known 
that her alarm was justified. 

There was the Due de Chose, who had 
bagged the booty of despoiled Venezuela; 
de la Deche, who had got the loot of the 
wreckage of the railways of the United 
States; Prince Eugene, the most obscure of 
the obscurest Napoleonides, who had gob 
bled the heiress of Monte Carlo's perfumed 
hell; Solferino, who had pocketed the prize 
American dot; d Ostende, who had received 
with his bride a ton of brewery guineas ; and 
he, Malakoff, who was as good as any of 
them, was done, done again, and out a beggarly million at that! 

He could still desist, and would have, but 
an idea occurred to him. It was then that he 
laughed. 

In accordance with local usage, the civil 



 

ceremony, which precedes the religious rites, 
took place at the Mairie of the precinct in 
which Malakoff resided. The formalities, 
brief in themselves, became exasperating by 
reason of a long delay which intervened. 

Afterward, at the Elysee Hotel, Malakoff 
requested a word with Mrs. Kandy. 

"Madam," he began, when Sally had 
gone, "in asking the hand of your daughter, 
I said it was not merely that I might have her 
