that this is the handsomest compliment to that seat of learning. The
open arches of the quadrangles of Magdalen and Christ Church are not
of mellow Carrara marble, nor do they offer to sight columns, slim and
elegant, that seem to frame the unglazed windows of a cathedral. To be
buried in the Campo Santo of Pisa, I may however further qualify, you
need only be, or to have more or less anciently been, illustrious, and
there is a liberal allowance both as to the character and degree of
your fame. The most obtrusive object in one of the long vistas is a most
complicated monument to Madame Catalani, the singer, recently erected
by her possibly too-appreciative heirs. The wide pavement is a mosaic of
sepulchral slabs, and the walls, below the base of the paling frescoes,
are incrusted with inscriptions and encumbered with urns and antique
sarcophagi. The place is at once a cemetery and a museum, and its
especial charm is its strange mixture of the active and the passive,
of art and rest, of life and death. Originally its walls were one vast
continuity of closely pressed frescoes; but now the great capricious
scars and stains have come to outnumber the pictures, and the cemetery
has grown to be a burial-place of pulverised masterpieces as well as of
finished lives. The fragments of painting that remain are fortunately
the best; for one is safe in believing that a host of undimmed
neighbours would distract but little from the two great works of
Orcagna. Most people know the “Triumph of Death” and the “Last Judgment”
 from descriptions and engravings; but to measure the possible good faith
of imitative art one must stand there and see the painter’s howling
potentates dragged into hell in all the vividness of his bright hard
colouring; see his feudal courtiers, on their palfreys, hold their noses
at what they are so fast coming to; see his great Christ, in judgment,
refuse forgiveness with a gesture commanding enough, really inhuman
enough, to make virtue merciless for ever. The charge that Michael
Angelo borrowed his cursing Saviour from this great figure of Orcagna is
more valid than most accusations of plagiarism; but of the two figures
one at least could be spared. For direct, triumphant expressiveness
these two superb frescoes have probably never been surpassed. The
painter aims at no very delicate meanings, but he drives certain gross
ones home so effectively that for a parallel to his process one must
look to the art of the actor, the emphasising “point”--making mime.
Some of his female figures are superb--they represent creatures of a
formidable temperament.

There are charming women, however, on the other side of the cloister--in
the beautiful frescoes of Benozzo Gozzoli. If Orcagna’s work was
appointed to survive the ravage of time it is a happy chance that
it should be balanced by a group of performances of such a different
temper. The contrast is the more striking that in subject the
inspiration of both painters is strictly, even though superficially,
theological. But Benozzo cares, in his theology, for nothing but the
story, the scene and the drama--the chance to pile up palaces and spires
in his backgrounds against pale blue skies cross-barred with pearly,
fleecy clouds, and to scatter sculptured arches and shady trellises over
the front, with every incident of human life going forward lightly and
gracefully beneath them. Lightness and grace are the painter’s great
qualities, marking the hithermost limit of unconscious elegance, after
which “style” and science and the wisdom of the serpent set in.
His charm is natural fineness; a little more and we should have
refinement--which is a very different thing. Like all les délicats of
this world, as M. Renan calls them, Benozzo has suffered greatly. The
space on the walls he originally covered with his Old Testament stories
is immense; but his exquisite handiwork has peeled off by the acre,
as one may almost say, and the latter compartments of the series are
swallowed up in huge white scars, out of which a helpless head or hand
peeps forth like those of creatures sinking into a quicksand. As
for Pisa at large, although it is not exactly what one would call
a mouldering city--for it has a certain well-aired cleanness and
brightness, even in its supreme tranquillity--it affects the imagination
very much in the same way as the Campo Santo. And, in truth, a city
so ancient and deeply historic as Pisa is at every step but the
burial-ground of a larger life than its present one. The wide empty
streets, the goodly Tuscan palaces--which look as if about all of them
there were a genteel private understanding, independent of placards,
that they are to be let extremely cheap--the delicious relaxing air,
the full-flowing yellow river, the lounging Pisani, smelling,
metaphorically, their poppy-flowers, seemed to me all so many
admonitions to resignation and oblivion. And this is what I mean by
saying that the charm of Pisa (apart from its cluster of monuments) is
a charm of a high order. The architecture has but a modest dignity; the
lions are few; there are no fixed points for stopping and gaping. And
yet the impression is profound; the charm is a moral charm. If I were
ever to be incurably disappointed in life, if I had lost my health,
my money, or my friends, if I were resigned forevermore to pitching my
expectations in a minor key, I should go and invoke the Pisan peace. Its
quietude would seem something more than a stillness--a hush. Pisa may be
a dull place to live in, but it’s an ideal place to wait for death.

Nothing could be more charming than the country between Pisa and
Lucca--unless possibly the country between Lucca and Pistoia. If Pisa is
dead Tuscany, Lucca is Tuscany still living and enjoying, desiring and
intending. The town is a charming mixture of antique “character” and
modern inconsequence; and! not only the town, but the country--the
blooming romantic country which you admire from the famous promenade
on the city-wall. The wall is of superbly solid and intensely “toned”
 brickwork and of extraordinary breadth, and its summit, planted with
goodly trees and swelling here and there into bastions and outworks and
little open gardens, surrounds the city with a circular lounging-place
of a splendid dignity. This well-kept, shady, ivy-grown rampart reminded
me of certain mossy corners of England; but it looks away to a prospect
of more than English loveliness--a broad green plain where the summer
yields a double crop of grain, and a circle of bright blue mountains
speckled with high-hung convents and profiled castles and nestling
villas, and traversed by valleys of a deeper and duskier blue. In one of
the deepest and shadiest of these recesses one of the most “sympathetic”
 of small watering-places is hidden away yet a while longer from
easy invasion--the Baths to which Lucca has lent its name. Lucca is
pre-eminently a city of churches; ecclesiastical architecture being
indeed the only one of the arts to which it seems to have given
attention. There are curious bits of domestic architecture, but no
great palaces, and no importunate frequency of pictures. The Cathedral,
however, sums up the merits of its companions and is a singularly noble
and interesting church. Its peculiar boast is a wonderful inlaid front,
on which horses and hounds and hunted beasts are lavishly figured in
black marble over a white ground. What I chiefly appreciated in the grey
solemnity of the nave and transepts was the superb effect of certain
second-storey Gothic arches--those which rest on the pavement being
Lombard. These arches are delicate and slender, like those of the
cloister at Pisa, and they play their part in the dusky upper air with
real sublimity.

At Pistoia there is of course a Cathedral, and there is nothing
unexpected in its being, externally at least, highly impressive; in its
having a grand campanile at its door, a gaudy baptistery, in alternate
layers of black and white marble, across the way, and a stately civic
palace on either side. But even had I the space to do otherwise I should
prefer to speak less of the particular objects of interest in the place
than of the pleasure I found it to lounge away in the empty streets the
quiet hours of a warm afternoon. To say where I lingered longest would
be to tell of a little square before the hospital, out of which you
look up at the beautiful frieze in coloured earthernware by the brothers
Della Robbia, which runs across the front of the building. It represents
the seven orthodox offices of charity and, with its brilliant blues and
yellows and its tender expressiveness, brightens up amazingly, to the
sense and soul, this little grey corner of the mediaeval city. Pi stoia
is still mediaeval. How grass-grown it seemed, how drowsy, how full of
idle vistas and melancholy nooks! If nothing was supremely wonderful,
everything was delicious.

{Illustration: THE HOSPITAL, PISTOIA.}

1874.





OTHER TUSCAN CITIES


I


I had scanted charming Pisa even as I had scanted great Siena in my
original small report of it, my scarce more than stammering notes of
years before; but even if there had been meagreness of mere gaping
vision--which there in fact hadn’t been--as well as insufficiency of
public tribute, the indignity would soon have ceased to weigh on my
conscience. For to this affection I was to return again still oftener
than to the strong call of Siena my eventual frequentations of Pisa, all
merely impressionistic and amateurish as they might be--and I pretended,
up and down the length of the land, to none other--leave me at the
hither end of time with little more than a confused consciousness of
exquisite quality on the part of the small sweet scrap of a place of
ancient glory; a consciousness so pleadingly content to be general and
