    or untrue, Duane, remember that it cannot affect my regard for you
    and yours.

    "If I had a father, whatever he might have done, or permitted others
    to do, would not, could not alter my affection for him.

    "Men say that women have no sense of honour. I do not know what
    that sense may be if it falters when loyalty and compassion are
    needed, too.

    "I have read the papers; I know only what I read and what you tell
    me. The rules that custom has framed to safeguard and govern
    financial operations, I do not understand; but, as far as I can
    comprehend, it seems to me that custom has hitherto sanctioned what
    disaster has now placed under a bann. It seems to me that the very
    men who now blame your father have all done successfully what he did
    so disastrously.

    "One thing I know: no kinder, dearer man than your father ever
    lived; and I love him, and I love his family, and I will marry his
    son when I am fit to do it."

And again she wrote:

    "I saw in the papers that the Algonquin Trust Company had closed its
    doors; I read the heartbreaking details of the crowds besieging it,
    the lines of frightened people standing there in the rain all night
    long. It is dreadful, terrible!

    "Who are these Wall Street men who would not help the Algonquin when
    they could? Why is the Clearing House so bitter? I don't know what
    it all means; I read columns about poor Jack Dysart--words and
    figures and technical phrases and stock quotations--and it means
    nothing, and I understand nothing of it save that it is all a fierce
    outcry against him and against the men with whom he was financially
    involved.

    "The papers are so gloomy, so eager in their search for evil, so
    merciless, so exultant when scandal is unearthed, that I can
    scarcely bear to read them. Why do they drag in unhappy people who
    know nothing about these matters? The interview with your mother and
    Naïda, which you say is false, was most dreadful. How cruel men are!

    "Tell them I love them dearly; tell your father, too. And, dear, I
    don't know exactly how Scott and I are situated, but if we can be of
    any financial use to you, please, please let us! Our fortune, when
    it came to us, was, I believe, all in first mortgages and railroad
    securities. I believe that Scott made some changes in our
    investments under advice from your father. I don't know what they
    were.

    "Don't bother your father with such details now; he has enough to
    think of lying there in his grief, bewildered, broken in mind and
    body. Duane, is it not more merciful that he is unable to understand
    what the papers are saying?

    "Dear, heart and soul I am loyal to you and yours."

She wrote again:

    "Yes, I had a talk with Scott. I did not know he had been receiving
    all those letters from your attorneys. Magnelius Grandcourt manages
    the investments. Scott's brokers are Stainer & Elting; our attorneys
    are, as you know, Landon, Brooks & Gayfield.

    "Duane, I absolutely forbid you to worry. My brother is of age,
    sound in mind and body, responsible for whatever he does or has
    done. It is his affair if he solicits advice, his affair if he
    follows it. Your father has no responsibility whatever in the matter
    of the Cascade Development and Securities Company. Besides, Scott
    tells me that what he did was against the advice of Mr. Tappan.

    "I remember last winter that he brought a Mr. Skelton to luncheon,
    and a horrid man named Klawber.

    "Poor Scott! He certainly knows nothing about business matters. I
    know he had no desire to increase his private fortune; he tells me
    that what interested him in the Cascade Development and Securities
    Company was the chance that cheap radium might stimulate scientific
    research the world over. Poor Scott!

    "Dear, you are not to think for one instant that any trouble which
    may involve Scott is due to you or yours. And if it were, Duane, it
    could make no difference to him or to me. Money and what it buys is
    such a pitiful detail in what goes to make up happiness. Who but I
    should understand that!

    "Loss of social prestige and position, is a serious matter, I
    suppose; I may show my ignorance and inexperience when I tell you
    how much more serious to me are other things--like the loss of faith
    in one's self or in others--or the loss of the gentler virtues,
    which means the loss of what one once was.

    "The loss of honour is, as you say, a pitiful thing; yet, I think
    that when that happens, love and compassion were never more truly
    needed.

    "Honour, as I understand it, is not to take advantage of others or
    of one's better self. This is a young girl's definition. I cannot
    see--if one has yielded once to temptation, and truly repents--why
    honour cannot be regained.

    "The honour of men and nations that seems to require arrogance,
    aggression, violence for its defence, I do not understand. How can
    the misdeeds of others impair one's true honour? How can punishment
    for such misdeeds restore it? No; it lies within one, quite
    intangible save by one's self.

    "Why should I not know, dear?--I who have lost my own and found it,
    have held it desperately for a while, then lost it, then regained
    it, holding it again as I do now--alas!--against no other enemy than
    I who write this record for your eyes!

    "Dear, I know of nothing lost which may not be regained, except
    life. I know of nothing which cannot be rendered tolerable through
    loyalty.

    "That material happiness which means so much to some, means now so
    very little to me, perhaps because I have never lacked it.

    "Yet I know that, once mistress of myself, nothing else could matter
    unless your love failed."

Again she wrote him toward the end of November:

    "Why will you not let me help you, dear? My fortune is practically
    intact so far, except that, of course, I met those obligations which
    Scott could not meet. Poor Scott!

    "You know it's rather bewildering to me where millions go to. I
    don't quite comprehend how they can so utterly vanish in such a
    short time, even in such a frightful fiasco as the Cascade
    Development Company.

    "So many people have been here--Mr. Landon and Mr. Gayfield, Mr.
    Stainer of Elting & Stainer, that dreadful creature Klawber, a very
    horrid man named Amos Flack--and dear, grim, pig-headed Mr.
    Tappan--old Remsen Tappan of all men!

    "He practically kicked out Mr. Flack and the creature Klawber, who
    had been trying to frighten Scott and me and even our lawyers.

    "And think, Duane! He never uttered one sarcasm, one reproach for
    Scott's foolishness; he sat grim and rusty as the iron that he once
    dealt in, listening to what Scott had to tell him, never opening
    that cragged jaw, never unclosing that thin line of cleavage which
    is his mouth.

    "We did not know what he had come for; but we know now. He is so
    good--so good, Duane! And I, who hated him as a child, as a girl--I
    am almost too ashamed to let him take command and untangle for us,
    with those knotted, steel-sinewed fingers of his, the wretched,
    tangled mess that has coiled around Scott and me.

    "Surely, this man Klawber is a very great villain; and it seems that
    Mr. Skelton and the wretched Flack creature are little less. As for
    Jack Dysart, it is all too sorrowful to think about. How must he
    feel! Surely, surely he could not have known what he was doing. He
    must have been desperate to go to Delancy Grandcourt. It was wrong;
    nothing on earth could have propped up the Algonquin, and why did he
