SAMUEL went to a bake shop and bought a 
loaf of bread and sat on the bench of the 
pubhc square and devoured it bit by bit. It was 
the cheapest thing he could think of, and quantity 
was what counted just then. 

Next he had to find a room to spend the night. 
He knew nothing about hotels and lodging- 
houses — he walked through the workingmen's 
quarter of the town, scanning the cottages hesi- 
tatingly. At last in the doorway of one he no- 
ticed a woman standing, an elderly woman, very 
thin and weary looking, but clean, and with a 
kindly face. So he stopped. 

" Please," said he, " could you tell me any 
place where I could hire a room? " 

The woman looked at him. " For how long? " 
she asked. 

" I'm not quite sure," he said. " I want it for 
one night, and then if I get a job, I may want 
it longer." 

" A job in Lockmanville? " said the woman. 

" Well, I've the promise of one," he replied. 

" There can't be very many," said she. " I've 
two rooms I've always rented," she added, " but 


when the glass works shut down the men went 
away. One of them owed me three dollars, too." 

" I — I'm not able to pay very much," said 
Samuel. 

" Come in," responded the woman; and he sat 
down and told her his story. And she told him 
hers. 

Mrs. Stedman was her name, and her husband 
had been a glass blower. He earned good wages 
— five dollars a day in the busy season. But he 
worked in front of a huge tank of white-hot glass 
and that was hard on a man. And once on a hot 
day he had gone suddenly dizzy, and fallen upon 
a mass of hot slag, and been frightfully burned 
in the face. They had carried him to the hospital 
and taken out one eye. And then, because of his 
family and the end of the season being near, he 
had gone to work too soon, and his wotmd had 
gone bad, and in the end he had died of blood- 
poisoning. 

" That was two years ago," said Mrs. Sted- 
man. " And I got no damages. We've barely, 
got along — this year's been worse than ever. It's 
the panic, they say. It seemed as if everything 
was shutting down." 

" It must be very hard on people here," said 
Samuel. 

" I've got three children — all girls," said Mrs. 
Stedman, " and only one old enough to work. 





That's Sophie — she's in the cotton mill, and that 
only started again last month. And they say it 
may run on half time all the year. I do sewing 
and whatever I can to help, but there's never 
enough." 

Samuel forgot his own troubles in talking with' 
this woman. His family had been poor on the 
farm, but they had never known such poverty 
as this. And here were whole streets full of peo- 
ple living the same sort of life; hanging over the 
abyss of destruction, and with no prospect save 
to struggle forever. Mrs. Stedman talked cas- 
ually about her friends and neighbors, and new 
glimpses came to make the boy catch his breath. 
Next door was Mrs. Prosser, whose husband was 
dying of cancer; he had been two years dying, 
and they had five small children. And on the 
other side were the Rapinskys, a Polish family; 
they had been strong in the possession of three 
grown sons, and had even bought a phonograph. 
And now not one of them had done a stroke of 
work for three months. 

To have been robbed and put in jail seemed a 
mere incident in comparison with such bitter and 
lifelong suffering; and Samuel was ashamed of 
having made so much fuss. He had stated, with 
some trepidation, that he was just out of jail; but 
Mrs. Stedman had not seemed to mind that. Her 
husband had been in jail once, during the big 





glass strike, and for nothing more than begging 
another man not to take his job. 

It was arranged that Samuel was to pay Her 
thirty-five cents for his supper and bed and break- 
fast, and if he wished to stay longer she would 
board him for four dollars a week, or he mighlj 
have the room alone for a dollar. 

The two younger children came in from school; 
they were frail and undersized httle girls, with 
clothing that was neatly but pitifully patched. 
And shortly after them came Sophie. 

Samuel gave a start of dismay when he saw 
her. He had been told that she worked in the 
cotton mill and was the mainstay of the family; 
and he had pictured a stiu-dy young woman, such 
as he had seen at home. Instead, here was a frail 
shp of a child, scarcely larger than the others. 
Sophie was thirteen, as he learned afterwards; but 
she did not look to be ten by his standards. She 
was grave and deliberate in her movements, and 
she gazed at the stranger with a pair of very big 
brown eyes. 

" This is Samuel Prescott," said her mother. 
" He is going to spend the night, and maybe 
board with us." 

" How do you do? " said Sophie, and took off 
the shawl from her head and sat down in a corner. 
The boy thought that this was shyness upon her 
part, but later on he reahzed that it was lassitude. 





The child rested her head upon her hand every 
chance that she got, and she never did anything 
that she did not have to.  

The next morning, bright and early, Samuel 
was on hand at the saloon, greatly to the amuse- 
ment of his friend Finnegan. He got down on 
his hands and knees and gave the place such a 
scrubbing as it had never had before since it was 
built. And in return Finnegan invited him to 
some breakfast, which Samuel finally accepted, 
because it would enable him to take less from the 
