good against one’s principles.” Again his glance appealed to Millner. “
You understand me, don’t you?”

Millner stirred his coffee in a silence not unclouded by perplexity.
“Theoretically, perhaps. It’s a pretty question, certainly. But I also
understand your father’s feeling that it hasn’t much to do with real
life: especially now that he’s got to make a speech in connection with
the founding of this Missionary College. He may think that any hint of
internecine strife will weaken his prestige. Mightn’t you have waited a
little longer?”

“How could I, when I might have been expected to take a part in this
performance? To talk, and say things I didn’t mean? That was exactly
what made me decide not to wait.”

The door opened and Mr. Spence re-entered the room. As he did so his son
rose abruptly as if to leave it.

“Where are you off to, Draper?” the banker asked.

“I’m in rather a hurry, sir--”

Mr. Spence looked at his watch. “You can’t be in more of a hurry than I
am; and I’ve got seven minutes and a half.” He seated himself behind the
coffee--tray, lit a cigar, laid his watch on the table, and signed
to Draper to resume his place. “No, Millner, don’t you go; I want you
both.” He turned to the secretary. “You know that Draper’s given up his
Bible Class? I understand it’s not from the pressure of engagements--”
 Mr. Spence’s narrow lips took an ironic curve under the straight-clipped
stubble of his moustache--“it’s on principle, he tells me. He’s
principled against doing good!”

Draper lifted a protesting hand. “It’s not exactly that, father--”

“I know: you’ll tell me it’s some scientific quibble that I
don’t understand. I’ve never had time to go in for intellectual
hair-splitting. I’ve found too many people down in the mire who needed a
hand to pull them out. A busy man has to take his choice between helping
his fellow-men and theorizing about them. I’ve preferred to help. (You
might take that down for the Investigator, Millner.) And I thank
God I’ve never stopped to ask what made me want to do good. I’ve just
yielded to the impulse--that’s all.” Mr. Spence turned back to his son.
“Better men than either of us have been satisfied with that creed, my
son.”

Draper was silent, and Mr. Spence once more addressed himself to his
secretary. “Millner, you’re a reader: I’ve caught you at it. And I know
this boy talks to you. What have you got to say? Do you suppose a Bible
Class ever hurt anybody?”

Millner paused a moment, feeling all through his nervous system the
fateful tremor of the balance. “That’s what I was just trying to tell
him, sir--”

“Ah; you were? That’s good. Then I’ll only say one thing more. Your
doing what you’ve done at this particular moment hurts me more, Draper,
than your teaching the gospel of Jesus could possibly have hurt those
young men over in Tenth Avenue.” Mr. Spence arose and restored his watch
to his pocket. “I shall want you in twenty minutes, Millner.”

The door closed on him, and for a while the two young men sat silent
behind their cigar fumes. Then Draper Spence broke out, with a catch
in his throat: “That’s what I can’t bear, Millner, what I simply
can’t bear: to hurt him, to hurt his faith in me! It’s an awful
responsibility, isn’t it, to tamper with anybody’s faith in anything?”



III


THE twenty minutes prolonged themselves to forty, the forty to fifty,
and the fifty to an hour; and still Millner waited for Mr. Spence’s
summons.

During the two years of his secretaryship the young man had learned the
significance of such postponements. Mr. Spence’s days were organized
like a railway time-table, and a delay of an hour implied a casualty
as far-reaching as the breaking down of an express. Of the cause of the
present derangement Hugh Millner was ignorant; and the experience of the
last months allowed him to fluctuate between conflicting conjectures.
All were based on the indisputable fact that Mr. Spence was
“bothered”--had for some time past been “bothered.” And it was one of
Millner’s discoveries that an extremely parsimonious use of the emotions
underlay Mr. Spence’s expansive manner and fraternal phraseology, and
that he did not throw away his feelings any more than (for all his
philanthropy) he threw away his money. If he was bothered, then, it
could be only because a careful survey of his situation had forced on
him some unpleasant fact with which he was not immediately prepared to
deal; and any unpreparedness on Mr. Spence’s part was also a significant
symptom.

Obviously, Millner’s original conception of his employer’s character had
suffered extensive modification; but no final outline had replaced the
first conjectural image. The two years spent in Mr. Spence’s service
had produced too many contradictory impressions to be fitted into any
definite pattern; and the chief lesson Millner had learned from them
was that life was less of an exact science, and character a more
incalculable element, than he had been taught in the schools. In the
light of this revised impression, his own footing seemed less secure
than he had imagined, and the rungs of the ladder he was climbing
more slippery than they had looked from below. He was not without
the reassuring sense of having made himself, in certain small ways,
necessary to Mr. Spence; and this conviction was confirmed by Draper’s
reiterated assurance of his father’s appreciation. But Millner had begun
to suspect that one might be necessary to Mr. Spence one day, and
a superfluity, if not an obstacle, the next; and that it would take
superhuman astuteness to foresee how and when the change would occur.
Every fluctuation of the great man’s mood was therefore anxiously noted
by the young meteorologist in his service; and this observer’s vigilance
was now strained to the utmost by the little cloud, no bigger than a
man’s hand, adumbrated by the banker’s unpunctuality.

When Mr. Spence finally appeared, his aspect did not tend to dissipate
the cloud. He wore what Millner had learned to call his “back-door
face”: a blank barred countenance, in which only an occasional twitch of
the lids behind his glasses suggested that some one was on the watch.
In this mood Mr. Spence usually seemed unconscious of his secretary’s
presence, or aware of it only as an arm terminating in a pen. Millner,
accustomed on such occasions to exist merely as a function, sat waiting
for the click of the spring that should set him in action; but the
pressure not being applied, he finally hazarded: “Are we to go on with
the Investigator, sir?”

Mr. Spence, who had been pacing up and down between the desk and the
fireplace, threw himself into his usual seat at Millner’s elbow.

“I don’t understand this new notion of Draper’s,” he said abruptly.
“Where’s he got it from? No one ever learned irreligion in my
household.”

He turned his eyes on Millner, who had the sense of being scrutinized
through a ground-glass window which left him visible while it concealed
his observer. The young man let his pen describe two or three vague
patterns on the blank sheet before him.

“Draper has ideas--” he risked at last.

Mr. Spence looked hard at him. “That’s all right,” he said. “I want
my son to have everything. But what’s the point of mixing up ideas and
principles? I’ve seen fellows who did that, and they were generally
trying to borrow five dollars to get away from the sheriff. What’s all
this talk about goodness? Goodness isn’t an idea. It’s a fact. It’s as
solid as a business proposition. And it’s Draper’s duty, as the son of a
wealthy man, and the prospective steward of a great fortune, to elevate
the standards of other young men--of young men who haven’t had his
opportunities. The rich ought to preach contentment, and to set the
example themselves. We have our cares, but we ought to conceal them. We
ought to be cheerful, and accept things as they are--not go about sowing
dissent and restlessness. What has Draper got to give these boys in his
Bible Class, that’s so much better than what he wants to take from them?
That’s the question I’d like to have answered?”

Mr. Spence, carried away by his own eloquence, had removed his
pince-nez and was twirling it about his extended fore-finger with the
gesture habitual to him when he spoke in public. After a pause, he went
on, with a drop to the level of private intercourse: “I tell you this
because I know you have a good deal of influence with Draper. He has a
high opinion of your brains. But you’re a practical fellow, and you must
see what I mean. Try to make Draper see it. Make him understand how it
