The others danced until supper time; midnight found them separating on
the stairs. Edgerton and Christine Rivett had rather a prolonged
leave-taking, then shook hands cordially in plain view of everybody.
Diana, passing with Silvette, said a careless good night to him.
Silvette, retaining her sister’s arm, detained him for a moment in
conversation; then they went away together, Diana dismissing him with an
inattentive nod.
But, as he was prepared for his pillow, a servant brought an envelope to
his door and tucked it under the sill.
Inside was a single line:
"Good night, Jim."
The handwriting was now familiar to him.
                              *CHAPTER VI*
                            *PACTA CONVENTA*
Guests arrived and guests departed from Adriutha, but the original
gathering remained.
The people who came and went were about the kind that Edgerton had
expected to encounter—people identified with nothing in particular
except money, and not always with that.
For, into the social mess at Adriutha an author or two was occasionally
stirred as seasoning; sometimes an artist became temporarily
englutenized over a week-end, emerging on Monday well fed and satiated
with hope of material results from cohabitation with wealth—which never
materialized.
Edgerton was inclined to take them all as cheerfully as he found them—at
their face value; and they were not always pretty.
Loyalty to obligation was inherent in his race, perhaps the strongest
trait in him; and all his inclinations toward what was easiest, his
content with the superficial, his tendency to drift, had not yet
radically altered this trait, nor perhaps other qualities latent under
the froth.
For a few days in the beginning, humorous curiosity, the novelty of his
anomalous position, the very rawness of the experience, amused him; but
the veneer of everything soon wore thin, revealing the duller surface
underneath.  Then came uneasiness and impatience; but loyalty to his
bargain and to his kindred were matters of course, and he determined to
find in these people something to interest him and render his sojourn
among them at least endurable.
After that first stormy night in June, the splendor of a limpid,
rain-washed morning had revealed to him the gross outward impossibility
of this place of millions—the vast, new "villa," red-tiled and
yellow-walled, hideous in its multiplicity of roofs, angles, terraces
and bays, with outlying works of rubble, concrete, and railroad-station
floral embellishment.
Scarring the green crypt of nature, staining the glass of the stream
with painted reflections of its architectural deformities, Adriutha
Lodge sprawled monsterlike and naked in the summer sunshine.
Garage, hothouses, stables, barns, a farm, a model dairy, like grewsome
spawn of a common architectural dam, affronted the woods and meadows of
this little valley set among the remote Berkshires.
There was no reticence left in that desecrated valley all vibrant with
the scream of discordant color, texture, and design.  Motor cars, too,
were noisy along the road; all day the silver-mounted trappings of
horses flashed in the sun.  Staccato echoes from power boats on the
artificial lake offended.  The House of Rivett challenged the Eternal
patience with a hundred lightning rods.
Edgerton, walking his horse beside Diana’s, suddenly drew bridle with an
uncontrollable gesture of disgust.
"Listen to me," he said; "where man’s despoiling labor pollutes nature,
sadness and resignation make heavy the hearts of her true lovers, but
where man’s abominable ignorance desecrates, reigns a more shocking
desolation which no modest heart ever forgives!"
Diana, surprised by the sudden and unexpected outburst, drew bridle
beside his standing horse.
A moment previous they had been amiably exchanging idle gossip from
their saddles, gradually falling back behind the others—Silvette,
Christine, Jack, and Colonel Curmew—who had cantered on forward; and
now, suddenly out of a clear sky, not apropos of anything, Edgerton had
flashed out the bolt of his contempt for the House of Rivett—for his ox,
his ass, his servants, and all that was Rivett’s.
"Jim," she remarked, "isn’t it rather bad taste of you to say that?"
"Why?  I am paid for being here."  But he realized that she was right,
and it made him sullen.
"His roof shelters you none the less," she said quietly.
"Yours is rather a fine-drawn sense of hospitality, it seems to me," he
retorted.
"I can’t snap at the hand that feeds me."
"Good Lord!  May a man not have his own ideas?"
"Under lock and key, yes."
"All right," he said, reddening; "only I supposed I could be frank with
you."
"Are we actually on any such footing?" she asked quietly.
"I thought so—even a footing on which I permit myself to accept such a
rebuke from you."
She turned in her saddle.
"Permit yourself?" she repeated.  "Do you mean condescend?"
"I mean what I say," he retorted sulkily, still smarting under her
rebuke.
Her cheeks were bright with anger, her lips compressed as though silence
had become an effort.  Presently, however, she looked across at him with
perfect sweetness and composure.
"No, you don’t mean what you say, Jim. If you did, you would be at a
disadvantage with me, and you don’t want to be that; nor do I wish to
be, ever."
He said obstinately: "I’m getting sick of this Adriutha business."
"I predicted you would."
"Well, I am....  It isn’t false pride; I don’t care what they think
about me.  If I chose to be a waiter in a Broadway café, their opinion
wouldn’t concern me....  I’m simply weary of the place, the majority of
the people—what they think and do, their private life, their mere coming
in and going out.... It isn’t the pitiable absurdity of their offensive
environment alone, the horror of the architecture, the gilded entrails
of their abode—it’s the whole bally combination! ... I’m sick—sick! And
that’s the truth, Diana."
"I think," she said, smiling, "that you are also a little bit bored with
us."
He looked up at her, perplexed, already beginning to be very much
ashamed of his outburst, already conscious of a painful reaction from
his unrestraint.
"Diana," he said impulsively, "I’m just a plain brute, and rather a
vulgar one; but, do you know, there isn’t anybody else in the world I’d
have permitted to hear that outburst—whether you take it as a compliment
or not."
"You mean you don’t care what I think of you?"
He thought for a moment.  "I can’t mean that, of course."
"You might, very easily."
"I couldn’t; I do care what you think of me.  Probably what I meant was
that I—dare say things to you; that I’ve a sort of instinct that I can
come to you in an emergency——"
"In other words, that I’ll stand anything from you?" she said, smiling.
"I don’t know about that, my friend."
He looked at her curiously.  "I believe you’ll stand a good deal from
me—and still like me.  I, somehow, count on it."
She met his gaze directly, unsmiling now.
"A hair divides my sentiments concerning you," she said.  "Extremes lie
on either side."
"Extremes?"
"I think so.  It would take very little to fix definitely my opinion of
you."
Sobered, but still curious, he sat his saddle more firmly while the
horses paced forward, shoulder against shoulder, along the forest road.
"I didn’t suppose you had any very violent opinions concerning me one
way or another," he said lightly.
"I haven’t—yet."
"Or would ever develop them, either," he added, laughing.
"I probably never shall."
He said, after another silence: "What was it about a hair dividing your
sentiments, and that extremes lay on either side?"
"I said that, Jim."
"Extremes of what?"
"Dislike—friendship—I suppose....  I’m a person addicted to extremes."
"Hatred is one extreme.  Did you mean that, Japonette?"
"It is conceivable, fair sir."
"And—the other extreme?"
"Which?"
"The opposite extreme to hate....  Is that conceivable, too?"
"Do you mean love?" she asked coolly.
"Yes, love, for example."
"Well, for example, ask yourself how likely I am to entertain that
sentimental extreme in your regard."
"Oh," he said; "then all you threaten me with is hatred!"
"Absolutely all, cousin James."
"Hobson’s choice for mine.  No matter how agreeable I may be, placid
friendship is my only reward; and if I’m not agreeable, hatred.  Is that
it?"
"Are you not satisfied?" she asked, lifting her prettily shaped eyes.
He made no reply.
Yet, he had been satisfied, except at intervals during the first flush
of their unconventional friendship, when she was still a fascinating
novelty to him, when the charming memory of the surprise was still
