
“Oh, he speaks very well--and I’ve never disliked him.”

It pulled her father up. “Is that all--when I think so much of him?”

She seemed to say that she had, to her own mind, been liberal and gone
far; but she waited a little. “Do you think very, very much?”

“Surely I’ve made my good opinion clear to you!”

Again she had a pause. “Oh yes, I’ve seen you like him and believe in
him--and I’ve found him pleasant and clever.”

“He has never had,” Lord Theign more or less ingeniously explained,
“what I call a real show.” But the character under discussion could
after all be summed up without searching analysis. “I consider
nevertheless that there’s plenty in him.”

It was a moderate claim, to which Lady Grace might assent. “He strikes
me as naturally quick and--well, nice. But I agree with you than he
hasn’t had a chance.”

“Then if you can see your way by sympathy and confidence to help him to
one I dare say you’ll find your reward.”

For a third time she considered, as if a certain curtness in her
companion’s manner rather hindered, in such a question, than helped.
Didn’t he simplify too much, you would have felt her ask, and wasn’t
his visible wish for brevity of debate a sign of his uncomfortable and
indeed rather irritated sense of his not making a figure in it? “Do you
desire it very particularly?” was, however, all she at last brought out.

“I should like it exceedingly--if you act from conviction. Then of
course only; but of one thing I’m myself convinced--of what he thinks of
yourself and feels for you.”

“Then would you mind my waiting a little?” she asked. “I mean to be
absolutely sure of myself.” After which, on his delaying to agree, she
added frankly, as to help her case: “Upon my word, father, I should like
to do what would please you.”

But it determined in him a sharper impatience. “Ah, what would please
me! Don’t put it off on ‘me’! Judge absolutely for yourself”--he
slightly took himself up--“in the light of my having consented to do for
him what I always hate to do: deviate from my normal practice of never
intermeddling. If I’ve deviated now you can judge. But to do so all
round, of course, take--in reason!--your time.”

“May I ask then,” she said, “for still a little more?”

He looked for this, verily, as if it was not in reason. “You know,” he
then returned, “what he’ll feel that a sign of.”

“Well, I’ll tell him what I mean.”

“Then I’ll send him to you.”

He glanced at his watch and was going, but after a “Thanks, father,” she
had stopped him. “There’s one thing more.” An embarrassment showed in
her manner, but at the cost of some effect of earnest abruptness she
surmounted it. “What does your American--Mr. Bender--want?”

Lord Theign plainly felt the challenge. “‘My’ American? He’s none of
mine!”

“Well then Lord John’s.”

“He’s none of his either--more, I mean, than any one else’s. He’s every
one’s American, literally--to all appearance; and I’ve not to tell
you, surely, with the freedom of your own visitors, how people stalk
in and out here.”

“No, father--certainly,” she said. “You’re splendidly generous.”

His eyes seemed rather sharply to ask her then how he could improve on
that; but he added as if it were enough: “What the man must by this time
want more than anything else is his car.”

“Not then anything of ours?” she still insisted.

“Of ‘ours’?” he echoed with a frown. “Are you afraid he has an eye to
something of yours?”

“Why, if we’ve a new treasure--which we certainly have if we possess
a Mantovano--haven’t we all, even I, an immense interest in it?” And
before he could answer, “Is that exposed?” she asked.

Lord Theign, a little unready, cast about at his storied halls; any
illusion to the “exposure” of the objects they so solidly sheltered was
obviously unpleasant to him. But then it was as if he found at a
stroke both his own reassurance and his daughter’s. “How can there be a
question of it when he only wants Sir Joshuas?”

“He wants ours?” the girl gasped.

“At absolutely any price.”

“But you’re not,” she cried, “discussing it?”

He hesitated as between chiding and contenting her--then he handsomely
chose. “My dear child, for what do you take me?” With which he
impatiently started, through the long and stately perspective, for the
saloon.

She sank into a chair when he had gone; she sat there some moments in a
visible tension of thought, her hands clasped in her lap and her dropped
eyes fixed and unperceiving; but she sprang up as Hugh Crimble, in
search of her, again stood before her. He presented himself as with
winged sandals.

“What luck to find you! I must take my spin back.”

“You’ve seen everything as you wished?”

“Oh,” he smiled, “I’ve seen wonders.”

She showed her pleasure. “Yes, we’ve got some things.”

“So Mr. Bender says!” he laughed. “You’ve got five or six--”

“Only five or six?” she cried in bright alarm.

“‘Only’?” he continued to laugh. “Why, that’s enormous, five or six
things of the first importance! But I think I ought to mention to you,”
 he added, “a most barefaced ‘Rubens’ there in the library.”

“It isn’t a Rubens?”

“No more than I’m a Ruskin.”

“Then you’ll brand us--expose us for it?”

“No, I’ll let you off--I’ll be quiet if you’re good, if you go straight.
I’ll only hold it in terrorem. One can’t be sure in these dreadful
days--that’s always to remember; so that if you’re not good I’ll come
down on you with it. But to balance against that threat,” he went on,
“I’ve made the very grandest find. At least I believe I have!”

She was all there for this news. “Of the Manto-vano--hidden in the other
thing?”

Hugh wondered--almost as if she had been before him. “You don’t mean to
say you’ve had the idea of that?”

“No, but my father has told me.”

“And is your father,” he eagerly asked, “really gratified?”

With her conscious eyes on him--her eyes could clearly be very conscious
about her father--she considered a moment. “He always prefers old
associations and appearances to new; but I’m sure he’ll resign himself
if you see your way to a certainty.”

“Well, it will be a question of the weight of expert opinion that I
shall invoke. But I’m not afraid,” he resolutely said, “and I shall
make the thing, from its splendid rarity, the crown and flower of your
glory.”

Her serious face shone at him with a charmed gratitude. “It’s awfully
beautiful then your having come to us so. It’s awfully beautiful your
