over-powered Langdon that he scarcely realised what was happening to him.

First, at their request, he sat cross-legged on the ground; and they
walked round and round him, inspecting him. Under such conditions no man
could be at his best; there was a silly expression on his otherwise
attractive face, which, as their attitude toward him seemed to waver
between indifference and disapproval, became unconsciously appealing.

"Kindly rise, Mr. Langdon," said Miss Challis, chairman of the board.

Langdon got up, and his ears turned red with a sudden and burning
self-consciousness.

"Please walk past us two or three times, varying your speed."

He walked in the various styles to which he had been accustomed, changing
speed at intervals and running the entire gamut between a graceful
boulevard saunter and a lost-dog sprint.

"Now," said the beautiful chairman, "be good enough to run past us
several times."

He complied and they studied his kangaroo-like action. Miss Vining even
bent over and felt of his ankles doubtfully, and to his vivid confusion
Miss Darrell strolled up, made him sit down on a log, placed one soft,
white finger on his mouth, and, opening it coolly, examined the interior.
Then they drew together, consulting in whispers, then Miss Challis came
with a stethoscope and listened to his pneumatic machinery, while Miss
Vining carelessly pinched his biceps and tried his reflexes. After which
Miss Darrell pushed a thermometer into his mouth, measured his pulses
and blood pressure, tested his sight and hearing and his sense of smell.
The latter was intensely keen, as he was very hungry.

Then Miss Challis came and stood behind him and examined,
phrenologically, the bumps on his head, while Miss Vining, seated at his
feet, read his palm, and Miss Darrell produced a dream book and a pack of
cards, and carefully cast his horoscope. But, except that it transpired
that he was going to take a journey, that somebody was going to leave him
money, and that a dark lady was coming over the sea to trouble him,
nothing particularly exciting was discovered concerning him.

Miss Challis, relinquishing his head, produced a crystal and gazed into
it. She did not say what she saw there. Miss Vining tried to hypnotise
him and came near hypnotising herself. Which scared and irritated her;
and she let him very carefully alone after that.

And all the while Ethra sat on a tree stump, hands tightly clasped in her
lap, looking on with pathetic eagerness and timidly searching the pretty
faces of the Board of Regents for any hopeful signs.

Presently the Board retired to a neighbouring cave to confer; and Langdon
drew a deep breath of relief.

"Well," he said, smiling at Ethra, "what do you think?"

"It will be horrid of them if they don't award you a blue ribbon," she
said.

"Good heavens!" he faltered, "do they give ribbons?"

"Certainly, first, second, third, and honourable mention. It is the
scientific and proper method of classification."

Fury empurpled his visage.

"That's the limit!" he shouted, but she silenced him with a gesture,
nodding her head toward the surrounding woods; and among the trees he
caught sight of scores and scores of pretty girls furtively observing the
proceedings.

"Don't let them see you display any temper or you'll lose their good
will, Mr. Langdon. Please recollect that there is no sentiment in this
proceeding; it is a scientific matter to be scientifically
recorded--purely a matter of eugenics."

Langdon gazed around him at the distant and charming faces peeping at
him from behind trees and bushes. Everywhere bright eyes met his
mischievously, gaily. An immense sense of happiness began to invade him.
The enraptured and fatuous smile on his features now became almost
idiotic as here and there, among the trees, he caught glimpses of still
more young girls strolling about, arms interlacing one another's waists.
The prospect dazzled him; his wits spun like a humming top.

"Are--are many ladies likely to come and--and court me?" he asked timidly
of Ethra.

A quick little pang shot through her; but she said with a forced smile:
"Why do you ask? Are you a coquette, Mr. Langdon?"

"Oh, no! But, for example, I wouldn't mind being rushed by that willowy
blonde over there. I'd also like to meet the svelte one with store puffs
and sorrel hair. She is a looker, isn't she?"

"She is certainly very pretty," said Ethra, biting her lips with
unfeigned vexation.

He gazed entranced at the distant throng for a while.

"And that little grey-eyed romp--the very young and slim one," he
continued enthusiastically. "Me for a hammock with her in the goosy-goosy
moonlight. . . . And I hope I'm going to meet a lot more--every one of
'em. . . . What on earth is that?" he exclaimed, changing countenance
and leaning forward. "By Jinks, it's a man!"

"Certainly. There are four men here. You knew that."

"I forgot," he said, glowering at the unwelcome sight of his own sex.

Ethra said: "Oh, yes, there are those first four men we caught--Mr.
Willett, Mr. Carrick, Mr. Smith, and Mr. Green." She added carelessly: "I
have been paying rather marked attention to Alphonso W. Green."

"To whom?" he asked, with a disagreeable sensation drenching out the
sparks of joy in his bosom.

"To Alphonso W. Green. . . . And I've jollied De Lancy Smith with
bon-bons a bit, too. They are having a lot of attention paid them--and
they're rather spoiled. But, of course, any girl can marry any one of
them if she really wants to."

Langdon gazed miserably at her; she seemed to be pleasantly immersed in
her own reflections and paid no further heed to him. Then he cast a
scowling glance in the direction of the young man who was gathering wild
flowers and arranging them in a little basket.

"Ethra," he began--and stopped short under the sudden and unexpected
unfriendliness of her glance. "Miss Leslie," he resumed, reddening, "I
wouldn't have come here unless I thought--hoped--believed--that you would
pay me m-m-marked----"

"Mr. Langdon!"

"What?"

"Men do not assume the initiative here. They make no advances; they wait
until a girl pays them attentions so unmistakable that----"

"Well, I did come here because of you!" he blurted out angrily.

"That is an exceedingly indelicate avowal!" she retorted. "If the Regents
hear you talk that way you won't be permitted to receive any girl
unchaperoned."

He gazed at her, bewildered; she stood a moment frowning and looking in
the direction of the cave whither the Board of Regents had retired.

"They're calling me," she exclaimed as a figure appeared at the cave
entrance and beckoned her.

"I won't be long, Mr. Langdon. I am perfectly confident that you have
passed the inspection!" And she walked swiftly across to the edge of the
thicket where the three Regents stood outside their cave.

As she came up one of them put her arm around her.

"My poor child," she said, "that man will never do."

"W-what!" faltered the girl, turning pale.

"Why, no. How in the world could you make such a mistake?"
