I cry and you are the means ! What is there for 
me, then, but to beseech you to have faith in me? I 
suppose, as yet, you have little or no cause though 
once or twice I have risen to you, even though perhaps 
you did not know it. I am almost happy now for 
I feel that this useless strife is at an end, this craving 
and wondering if you wish to leave me. And for all 
that, I despise you, too for your blind and wanton 
cruelty in wishing to crush what you have created ! 
How do you expect God to value your soul, when you 
so lightly value mine? 

But after all, will it help me to beseech you? The 
thing I honor in you is your desire to be right and 
I know that you will act toward me as your sense of 
right prompts you. You will act toward me as you 
feel you must do, to be true. Yes, be true to yourself, 



 

please; I am happy to trust in yourself so. If you 
believe that I will mar your life, I do not wish to go 
with you. I do not know why, but I feel that something 
has come to me to prevent my despair from returning ; 
I shall take care of my soul there must be something 
for me in this life. I have a feeling that perhaps you 
will think I am writing this last mute acceptance of 
your will, without knowing what I am doing. But I 
know that I shall struggle without you, I shall not die. 

And I wish that you would do one thing see me as 
soon as you can ; let it be early in the morning, and it 
shall be decided on that day whether I am to marry you 
or not. I shall leave you, not to see you again or 
knowing that I am to be your wife. I am sick unto 
death of fuming and sighing, tears and fears. 

What will you do, Thyrsis? I cannot write any 
more. 

I unfold the letter again. What, m the name of God, 
are you going to do? 



BOOK IV 
THE VICTIM APPROACHES 



A silence had fatten upon them. She sat watching 
where the light of the sun flickered among the birches; 
and he had the book in his hand, and was turning the 
pages idly. He read 

"I know these slopes; who knows them if not I?" 
And she smiled, and quoted in return 

"Here earnest thou in thy jocund youthful time, 
Here was thine height of strength, thy golden prime! 
And still the haunt beloved a virtue yields." 



1. IT was early one November afternoon, in his 
cabin in the forest, that Thyrsis wrote the last of his 
minstrel's songs. He had not been able to tell when 
it would come to him, so he had made no preparations ; 
but when the last word was on the paper, he sprang to 
his feet, and strode through the snow-clad forest to 
the nearest farm-house. The farmer came with a 
wagon, and Thyrsis bundled all his belongings into his 
trunk, and took the night-train for the city. 

He came like a young god, radiant and clothed in 
glory. All the creatures of his dreams were awake 
within him, all his demons and his muses ; he had but 
to call them and they answered. There was a sound 
of trumpets and harps in his soul all day ; he was like a 
man half walking, half running, in the midst of a great 
storm of wind. 

He had fought the good fight, and he had conquered. 
The world was at his feet, and he had no longer any 
fear of it. The jangling of the street-cars was music 
to him, the roar and rush of the city stirred his pulses 
this was the life he had come to shape to his will ! 

And so he came to Corydon, glorious and irresistible. 
His mind was quite made up he would take her ; he 
was master now, he had no longer any doubts or fears. 
He was thrilled all through him with the thought of 
her ; how wonderful it was at such an hour to have 
some one to communicate with some one in whose 





 

features he could see a reflection of his own exaltation ! 
He recollected the words of the old German poet 

"Der ist selig zu begriissen 
Der ein treues Herze weiss !" 

He went to Corydon's home. In the parlor he came 
upon her unannounced ; and she started and stared at 
him as at a ghost. She did not make a sound, but he 
saw the pallor sweep over her face, he saw her tremble 
and sway. She was like a reed shaken by the wind- 
so fragile and so sensitive! He got a sudden sense of 
the storm of emotion that was shaking her ; and it 
frightened him, while at the same time it thrilled him 
strangely. 

He came and took her hands in his, and gently touched 
her cheek with his lips. She stared at him dumbly. 

"It's all right, sweetheart," he whispered. "It's all 
right." And she closed her eyes, and it seemed as if 
to breathe was all she could do. 

"Come, dearest," he said. "Let us go out." 

And half in a daze she put on her hat and coat, and 
they went out on the street. He took her arm to steady 
her. 

"Well?" she asked. 

"It's all right, dearest," he said. 

"You got my letter?" 

"Yes, I got it. And it was a wonderful letter. It 
couldn't have been better." 

"Ah !" 

"And there's no more to be said. There's no re- 
fusing such a challenge. You shall come with me." 

"But Thyrsis ! Do you want me to come?" 

"Yes," he said, "I want you." 



 

And he felt a tremor pass through her arm. He 
pressed it tightly to his side. "I love you !" he whis- 
pered. 

"Ah Thyrsis !" she exclaimed. "How you have tor- 
tured me !" 
