
His sister gave him a tragic look, which he ignored, and a little later
luncheon was on and Cameron garrulous, and Querida his own gentle,
expressive, fascinating self, devotedly receptive to any woman who was
inclined to talk to him or to listen.

That evening Neville said to his sister: "There's a train at midnight; I
don't think I'll stay over--"

"Why?"

"I want to be in town early."

"Why?"

"The early light is the best."

"I thought you'd stopped painting for a while."

"I have, practically. There's one thing I keep on with, in a desultory
sort of way--"

"What is it?"

"Oh, nothing of importance--" he hesitated--"that Is, it may be
important. I can't be sure, yet."

"Will you tell me what it is?"

"Why, yes. It's a portrait--a study--"

"Of whom, dear?"

"Oh, of nobody you know--"

"Is it a portrait of Valerie West?"

"Yes," he said, carelessly.

There was a silence; in the starlight his shadowy face was not clearly
visible to his sister.

"Are you leaving just to continue that portrait?"

"Yes. I'm interested in it."

"Don't go," she said, in a low voice.

"Don't be silly," he returned shortly.

"Dear, I am not silly, but I suspect you are beginning to be. And over a
model!"

"Lily, you little idiot," he laughed, exasperated; "what in the world is
worrying you?"

"Your taking that girl to the St. Regis. It isn't like you."

"Good Lord! How many girls do you suppose I've taken to various places?"

"Not many," she said, smiling at him. "Your reputation for gallantries
is not alarming."

Ho reddened. "You're perfectly right. That sort of thing never appealed
to me."

"Then why does it appeal to you now?"

"It doesn't. Can't you understand that this girl is entirely
different--"

"Yes, I understand. And that is what worries me."

"It needn't. It's precisely like taking any girl you know and like--"

"Then let me know her--if you mean to decorate-public places with her."

They looked at one another steadily.

"Louis," she said, "this pretty Valerie is not your sister's sort, or
you wouldn't hesitate."

"I--hesitate--yes, certainly I do. It's absurd on the face of it. She's
too fine a nature to be patronised--too inexperienced in the things of
your world--too ignorant of petty conventions and formalities--too free
and fearless and confident and independent to appeal to the world you
live in."

"Isn't that a rather scornful indictment against my world, dear?"

"No. Your world is all right in its way. You and I were brought up in
it. I got out of it. There are other worlds. The one I now inhabit is
more interesting to me. It's purely a matter of personal taste, dear.
Valerie West inhabits a world that suits her."

"Has she had any choice in the matter?"

"I--yes. She's had the sense and the courage to keep out of the various
unsafe planets where electric light furnishes the principal
illumination."

"But has she had a chance for choosing a better planet than the one you
say she prefers? Your choice was free. Was hers?"

"Look here, Lily! Why on earth are you so significant about a girl you
never saw--scarcely ever heard of--"

"Dear, I have not told you everything. I have heard of her--of her
charm, her beauty, her apparent innocence--yes, her audacity, her
popularity with men.... Such things are not unobserved and unreported
between your new planet and mine. Harry Annan is frankly crazy about
her, and his sister Alice is scared to death. Mr. Ogilvy, Mr. Burleson,
Clive Gail, dozens of men I know are quite mad about her.... If it was
she whom you used as model for the figures in the Byzantine decorations,
she is divine--the loveliest creature to look at! And I don't care,
Louis; I don't care a straw one way or the other except that I know you
have never bothered with the more or less Innocently irregular gaieties
which attract many men of your age and temperament. And so--when I hear
that you are frequently seen--"

"Frequently?"

"Is that St. Regis affair the only one?"

"No, of course not. But, as for my being with her frequently--"

"Well?"

He was silent for a moment, then, looking up with a laugh:

"I like her immensely. Until this moment I didn't realise how much I do
like her--how pleasant it is to be with a girl who is absolutely
fearless, clever, witty, intelligent, and unspoiled."

"Are there no girls in your own set who conform to this standard?"

"Plenty. But their very environment and conventional traditions kill
them--make them a nuisance."

"Louis!"

"That's more plain truth, which no woman likes. Will you tell me what
girl in your world, who approaches the qualitative standard set by
Valerie West, would go about by day or evening with any man except her
brother? Valerie does. What girl would be fearless enough to ignore the
cast-iron fetters of her caste? Valerie West is a law unto herself--a
law as sweet and good and excellent and as inflexible as any law made by
men to restrain women's liberty, arouse them to unhappy
self-consciousness and infect them with suspicion. Every one of you are
the terrified slaves of custom, and you know it. Most men like it. I
don't. I'm no tea drinker, no cruncher of macaroons, no gabbler at
receptions, no top-hatted haunter of weddings, no social graduate of the
Ecole Turvydrop. And these places--if I want to find companionship in
any girl of your world--must frequent. And I won't. And so there you
are."

His sister came up to him and placed her arms around his neck.

"Such--a--wrong-headed--illogical--boy," she sighed, kissing him
leisurely to punctuate her words. '"If you marry a girl you love you can
