Which side of the turkey — why,” and he glanced 
up puzzled — “ how was it ? There was a catch 
somewhere — which side of the turkey ” 
There was a merry shout. 
“ Is eaten first,” prompted Chan, leaning over. 
“Is eaten first?” triumphantly. 
“ Why, the right, always. The other is left,” 
returned Marigold, with the grace of innocence. 
“ You see, it doesn’t matter which way you turn 
the turkey.” 
“But suppose there isn’t any left?” 
“ I’ve answered the one question.” 
 
‘‘ ril look up something to catch you. Have you 
any more of these things? 
On which side of the church do they 
always plant the yew-tree in England ? ” asked 
Linn. 
“ Why — on the right side.” 
Linn shook his head. 
On the left, then.” 
Another shake. 
Then they don’t plant it at all.” 
Why, they plant it on the outside,” said Tip, 
giving it away. I know that.” 
I know it too, now,” said Mr. Mann, with a 
droll smile. 
“ Children,” and their mother’s voice was re- 
proving, “ it isn’t nice to bother Mr. Mann with 
your silliness. You see, they are so little with 
grown-up people,” apologetically. 
It makes a bit of fun and brightens one’s wits. 
I’m a rather stupid old fellow,” 
You’re not old at all,” resented Prim. 
He bowed and said “ Thank you.” Prim won- 
dered what it was for. 
They went on being merry and eating. There 
was no left side to the turkey, and slices of the 
other were brought on. Then Lide cleared the 
table. There was a small piece of mince pie, a 
 
great beautiful preserved peach, and nuts galore, 
almonds and English walnuts, which were a treat. 
Then Marigold, seized with a remembrance of 
something she had read only a little while before, 
rose and held up her glass of fresh water, ex- 
claiming : 
‘‘ Here’s to your health, Mr. Mann, and ” — what 
came next? — “and may the best of everything 
come to you.” 
That was good, but it wasn’t quite as elegant 
as the real toast, and she sat down with a flushed 
face. 
He rose. “ Thank you most sincerely, my child. 
And here’s wishing we may all be together next 
Thanksgiving. You must all say ‘ Amen ’ to that.” 
They all said it reverently. Mr. Mann led the 
way to the library, and as Marigold entered he 
bent over and kissed her. 
It was growing a little dusky; the big tree at 
this corner of the house shut out some of the light. 
Then, too, the woods hid the westward sun. Mr. 
Mann stirred up the fire and made a brilliant 
blaze. 
“ Oh, let’s sit on the floor and watch it ! ” cried 
Prim. “ It’s always so comfortable. You want 
to slip off the chairs. They seem made especially 
for grown-up people. When I am rich I shall have 
 
a splendid wood-fire and sit on the floor with ever 
so many around me and tell them stories like 
Scheherazade.” 
“ Well, you might begin now. Here is the fire 
and the floor,” said the host. 
‘‘ I haven’t put my wonderful stories in the right 
shape yet. I want to learn about Persia and 
Arabia and all those mysterious Eastern countries 
where the queer things happen and there are genii 
and strings of jewels hanging on trees and 
people who can be transformed into different 
things.” 
“ How long will I have to wait.? ” 
“ Oh, Prim, tell him about the Kron,” exclaimed 
Linn. 
You must excuse them,” said Mrs. Firth depre- 
catingly. “ They are so much alone and they have 
to entertain each other, and sometimes it’s just 
foolishness.” 
“ But what is this about the — what did you call 
it?” glancing around. 
Laurel had crawled up on her mother’s lap and 
dropped asleep. Chan was on Mr. Mann’s knee, 
the others in a little huddle before the fire. 
It’s a funny long word that no one but Prim 
can say,” explained Chan. “ And now he’s clear 
inside of the earth where he makes ’ructions.” 
Why, yes, I want to hear about him.” 
Go on. Prim,” prompted Linn. 
It’s the Chrononhontontholagosphorus.” 
“The what!” ejaculated Mr. Mann, in amaze. 
“ The Chrononhontontholagosphorus.” 
He laughed until he shook Chan. “ That beats 
me,” he admitted. “ I never could remember it. 
And what about him ? ” 
Primrose had been so grave that she seemed in 
dead earnest. 
“ Go on,” prompted Linn again. 
“ Well, once clear up by the North Pole, where 
the cakes of ice float around in summer and freeze 
together in winter this big animal lived. There 
was a lot of bears — I don’t know whether you call 
them a drove or a herd. They’d crawled out and 
they were awful hungry, and they were white as 
snow, for the cold had bleached them all up. They 
looked around and espied this strange thing; he 
was lying in a heap then and didn’t look so big, and 
they said to each other, ‘ Oh, let us go over there 
and kill him. He’ll make us a good dinner.’ So 
they started off and took long strides from cake 
to cake and came along cautiously. The mean old 
thing never stirred until they were up quite close, 
when he made a spring and caught the foremost 
one with his huge paw. The others turned and 
 
fled while he was eating up their companion. Then 
they saw an immense whale, who had come up to 
breathe, and they said, ‘ There’s an awful creature 
up there on that cake of ice. Can’t you thrash 
round with that splendid big tail of yours and 
turn the cake over so he will drown? for we don’t 
believe he can swim a bit, and if he stays we’re 
afraid he will eat us all up.’ 
“ Now the whale was good-natured, for he had 
been swallowing loads of fishes, and he thought 
it would be quite fun. So he said, ‘Yes. Now 
you watch and see me.’ Then he began to make a 
terrible commotion, and the Chrononhontonthola- 
gosphorus looked up and began to teeter. The 
cake of ice broke loose and he was too clumsy 
to jump anywhere, but the other cakes broke loose, 
too. The whale kept on, and the bears danced and 
howled, their way of rejoicing, and the poor old 
fellow had to go on and on. Now you know, there 
is an open polar sea — the geography says so — and 
so that must be true. Well, he struck that, and 
then he floated on, but the whale was bound to 
drown him if he could, for he thought he couldn’t 
swim. He began to claw the cake of ice and that 
kept breaking off, and presently there was a great 
black pit, and over he went head first.” 
The children all drew a long breath when Prim 
 
made this pause, many times as they had heard 
the story. Mr. Mann started, too. 
‘‘ Oh, I hope that isn’t the end,” he said. A 
creature with such a long name ought to have a 
long life.” 
“ He is alive yet,” returned Prim solemnly. “ I 
don’t believe he will ever die. You see, up there 
the earth is sort of flattened and there’s a pole run- 
