So they passed on, side by side, while she sketched out her preliminary
work. And sometimes he was idly flippant and irresponsible, and
sometimes she thrilled unexpectedly at his quick, warm response to some
impulsive appeal that he share her admiration.
Under the careless surface, she divined a sort of perverse intelligence;
she was certain that what appealed to her he, also, understood when he
chose to; because he understood so much--much that she had not even
imagined--much of life, and of the world, and of the men and women in
it. But, having lived a life so full, so different from her own, perhaps
his interest was less easily aroused; perhaps it might be even a little
fatigued by the endless pageant moving with him amid scenes of
brightness and happiness which seemed to her as far away from herself
and as unreal as scenes in the painted arras hanging on the walls.
They had been speaking of operas in which armour, incorrectly designed
and worn, was tolerated by public ignorance; and, thinking of the
"horseshoe," where all that is wealthy, and intelligent, and wonderful,
and aristocratic in New York is supposed to congregate, she had mentally
placed him there among those elegant and distant young men who are to be
seen sauntering from one gilded box to another, or, gracefully posed,
decorating and further embellishing boxes already replete with jeweled
and feminine beauty; or in the curtained depths, mysterious silhouettes
motionless against the dull red glow.
And, if those gold-encrusted boxes had been celestial balconies, full of
blessed damosels leaning over heaven's edge, they would have seemed no
farther away, no more accessible to her, than they seemed from where she
sometimes sat or stood, all alone, to listen to Farrar and Caruso.
       *       *       *       *       *
The light in the armoury was growing a little dim. She bent more closely
over her note-book, the printed pages of Mr. Grenville, and the
shimmering, inlaid, and embossed armour.
"Shall we have tea?" he suggested.
"Tea? Oh, thank you, Mr. Desboro; but when the light fails, I'll have to
go."
It was failing fast. She used the delicate tips of her fingers more
often in examining engraved, inlaid, and embossed surfaces.
"I never had electricity put into the armoury," he said. "I'm sorry
now--for your sake."
"I'm sorry, too. I could have worked until six."
"There!" he said, laughing. "You have admitted it! What are you going to
do for nearly two hours if you don't take tea? Your train doesn't leave
until six. Did you propose to go to the station and sit there?"
Her confused laughter was very sweet, and she admitted that she had
nothing to do after the light failed except to fold her hands and wait
for the train.
"Then won't you have tea?"
"I'd--rather not!"
He said: "You could take it alone in your room if you liked--and rest a
little. Mrs. Quant will call you."
She looked up at him after a moment, and her cheeks were very pink and
her eyes brilliant.
"I'd rather take it with you, Mr. Desboro. Why shouldn't I say so?"
No words came to him, and not much breath, so totally unexpected was her
reply.
Still looking at him, the faint smile fading into seriousness, she
repeated:
"Why shouldn't I say so? Is there any reason? You know better than I
what a girl alone may do. And I really would like to have some tea--and
have it with you."
He didn't smile; he was too clever--perhaps too decent.
"It's quite all right," he said. "We'll have it served in the library
where there's a fine fire."
So they slowly crossed the armoury and traversed the hallway, where she
left him for a moment and ran up stairs to her room. When she rejoined
him in the library, he noticed that the insurgent lock of hair had been
deftly tucked in among its lustrous comrades; but the first shake of her
head dislodged it again, and there it was, threatening him, as usual,
from its soft, warm ambush against her cheek.
"Can't you do anything with it?" he asked, sympathetically, as she
seated herself and poured the tea.
"Do anything with what?"
"That lock of hair. It's loose again, and it will do murder some day."
She laughed with scarcely a trace of confusion, and handed him his cup.
"That's the first thing I noticed about you," he added.
"That lock of hair? I can't do anything with it. Isn't it horribly
messy?"
"It's dangerous."
"How absurd!"
"Are you ever known as 'Stray Lock' among your intimates?"
"I should think not," she said scornfully. "It sounds like a children's
picture-book story."
"But you look like one."
"Mr. Desboro!" she protested. "Haven't you any common sense?"
"You look," he said reflectively, "as though you came from the same
bookshelf as 'Gold Locks,' 'The Robber Kitten,' and 'A Princess Far
Away,' and all those immortal volumes of the 'days that are no more.'
Would you mind if I label you 'Stray Lock,' and put you on the shelf
among the other immortals?"
Her frank laughter rang out sweetly:
"I very much object to being labeled and shelved--particularly
shelved."
"I'll promise to read you every day----"
"No, thank you!"
"I'll promise to take you everywhere with me----"
"In your pocket? No, thank you. I object to being either shelved or
pocketed--to be consulted at pleasure--or when you're bored."
They both had been laughing a good deal, and were slightly excited by
their game of harmless double entendre. But now, perhaps it was
becoming a trifle too obvious, and Jacqueline checked herself to glance
back mentally and see how far she had gone along the path of friendship.
She could not determine; for the path has many twists and turnings, and
she had sped forward lightly and swiftly, and was still conscious of the
exhilaration of the pace in his gay and irresponsible company.
Her smile changed and died out; she leaned back in her leather chair,
gazing absently at the fiery reflections crimsoning the andirons on the
hearth, and hearing afar, on some distant roof, the steady downpour of
the winter rain.
Subtly the quiet and warmth of the room invaded her with a sense of
content, not due, perhaps, to them alone. And dreamily conscious that
this might be so, she lifted her eyes and looked across the table at
him.
"I wonder," she said, "if this is all right?"
"What?"
"Our--situation--here."
"Situations are what we make them."
"But," she asked candidly, "could you call this a business situation?"
He laughed unrestrainedly, and finally she ventured to smile, secretly
reassured.
"Are business and friendship incompatible?" he inquired.
"I don't know. Are they? I have to be careful in the shop, with younger
customers and clerks. To treat them with more than pleasant civility
would spoil them for business. My father taught me that. He served in
the French Army."
"Do you think," he said gravely, "that you are spoiling me for business
purposes?"
She smiled: "I was thinking--wondering whether you did not more
accurately represent the corps of officers and I the line. I am only a
temporary employee of yours, Mr. Desboro, and some day you may be angry
at what I do and you may say, 'Tonnerre de Dieu!' to me--which I
wouldn't like if we were friends, but which I'd otherwise endure."
"We're friends already; what are you going to do about it?"
She knew it was so now, for better or worse, and she looked at him
shyly, a little troubled by what the end of this day had brought her.
Silent, absent-eyed, she began to wonder what such men as he really
thought of a girl of her sort. It could happen that his attitude toward
her might become like that of the only men of his kind she had ever
encountered--wealthy clients of her father, young and old, and all of
them inclined to offer her attentions which instinct warned her to
ignore.
As for Desboro, even from the beginning she felt that his attitude
toward her depended upon herself; and, warranted or not, this sense of
security with him now, left her leisure to study him. And she concluded
that probably he was like the other men of his class whom she had
known--a receptive opportunist, inevitably her antagonist at heart, but
not to be feared except under deliberate provocation from her. And that
excuse he would never have.
Aware of his admiration almost from the very first, perplexed, curious,
uncertain, and disturbed by turns, she was finally convinced that the
matter lay entirely with her; that she might accept a little, venture a
little in safety; and, perfectly certain of herself, enjoy as much of
what his friendship offered as her own clear wits and common sense
permitted. For she had found, so far, no metal in any man unalloyed. Two
years' experience alone with men had educated her; and whatever the
alloy in Desboro might be that lowered his value, she thought it less
objectionable than the similar amalgam out of which were fashioned the
harmless youths in whose noisy company she danced, and dined, and
bathed, and witnessed Broadway "shows"; the Eddies and Joes of the
metropolis, replicas in mind and body of clothing advertisements in
street cars.
Her blue eyes, wandering from the ruddy andirons, were arrested by the
clock. What had happened? Was the clock still going? She listened, and
