tion. And poultry and a pig or two would help 
along in the living and fertilize the garden. Shall 
I turn farmer? ” laughing. 
“ Mr. Firth used to talk that way. And his 
fruit always brought high prices. He used to 
graft for the farmers, but, after all, they seemed 
not to care. He wondered that farmers were not 
wiser. Denby has scarcely changed since I was a 
little girl, only we have a nice new school-building, 
and once the church was repaired and cleaned up.’’ 
“ I wonder Mr. Burnham is not discouraged. 
Would it be out of order to call at the parson- 
age?” studying his wife’s face. 
Why, no. I should like to ; they were al- 
ways so good and friendly to us.” 
The minister was at home with the remnant of 
yesterday’s headache from an overheated room. 
Katy had a dreadful cold again; her eyes were red 
and swollen. 
I can’t understand how you manage to keep 
your crowd so well,” Mrs. Burnham said rather 
complainingly. “ Martha declared they looked so 
bright and rosy yesterday they were like a garden 
of flowers.” 
“Are we going to lose them, Mr. Mann?” in- 
quired the minister. “ I’m afraid Mr. Evans will 
want to gather them in.” 
“ Yes, he has spoken for them. You see, it is 
only a short walk to the chapel, and it might not 
always be convenient to send them over here.” 
“ Well, I’m sorry enough, though they will 
keep in the right way. And we shall miss them in 
the singing.” 
‘‘We shall miss you in many ways/’ said Mrs. 
Burnham to her guest in a heartsome tone. “ But 
we cannot grudge your good fortune. You were 
always so ready and helpful, and had so many 
ideas. I suppose it came largely from teaching.” 
Bessy wondered how much had come from the 
desire to make the best of everything. 
“ Martha returned home with a bit of business 
even if it was Sunday,” interposed Mr. Burnham. 
“ John Dale from the creamery wanted to know 
if he couldn’t rent the cottage. He’s a steady 
man, and has only four children. There are so 
few places to rent.” 
“ We have just given the Bachmans the refusal 
of it,” said Mr. Mann. 
“ Oh, I’m sorry. The Dales are nice American 
people, and the Bachmans are foreigners, and 
when they once get a foothold they are always 
sending for their relatives.” 
“ They seem nice, industrious people. Mr. 
Beers speaks well of them. Why don’t the cream- 
ery folks build some cottages ? ” 
“ Oh, I don’t suppose it would really pay, 
though the Dawson place over there houses three 
families.” 
“ It would improve the town.” 
They talked a little about the chapel, and parted 
with cordial hopes of seeing each other soon 
again. 
But you have the best of us. You can go 
driving around any time,” said Mrs. Burnham. 
She watched them off, and, turning to her husband, 
continued: ‘‘Bessy Firth is worthy of her good 
fortune, but it is one of the mysterious happenings, 
and it has set half the village wild with envy. I 
only hope the good fortune will last.” 
“ He seems to be a solid sort of man, but it must 
have taken some courage to begin with eight chil- 
dren,” and the minister smiled. 
Bessy wondered if they might stop a few mo- 
ments at Mrs. Briggs’s. “ It would delight her so. 
But there is Mr. Evans ” 
“ No, he isn’t there, and if he comes before we 
get back the whole eight can entertain him. Then 
there are two women to get the dinner,” and he 
laughed merrily. 
They met with the heartiest welcome. Mrs. 
Briggs took Bessy in her arms and kissed her. 
“ I haven’t gotten over my surprise yet,” de- 
clared Mrs. Briggs, as she smiled over to Mr. 
Mann. “ We thought we fairly owned Bessy 
Firth. And it was so sudden ” 
“ Yes,” he interposed to shield Bessy. “ I’d 
planned to adopt some of the children, but they 
wouldn’t leave their mother, and I don’t wonder 
at it. So, as I had plenty of room, I thought I 
might as well take them all in. I’ve always 
wanted a family of children.” 
Well, I guess you have a nice lot. Chan’s the 
sweetest little fellow, and Linn is about as good as 
they make ’em, and Rilla’s been a second mother 
this last year. We were talking about keeping 
Linn this winter, he’s so ready and handy, and we 
should have let him go to school. I do love to 
have a small boy around when he’s nice, but Mr. 
Beers seized on him. And I must say, Bessy, you 
deserved the good fortune. There’s not many 
mothers who would have shouldered the burden 
so cheerfully. And, Mr. Mann, you’ve won a 
prize.” 
He was delighted with the commendation. 
“ Come and sit here and tell me about your new 
house,” said Aunt Patty. “ You won’t mind, 
Mr. Mann? We’ve always been so interested in 
Bessy Firth.” 
And you have always been so kind,” returned 
Bessy. It is on a fine street and is so large I 
hardly know myself in it. Mr. Mann insisted that 
we should all come and keep Christmas with him. 
It was so sudden there wasn’t much time to talk 
it over, and I was so surprised.” 
Bessy blushed like a girl, and just then Mr. 
Briggs entered. 
Hello, in his familiar, hearty fashion. “ I 
thought there must be some quality! That’s a 
nice turnout of yours, Mr. Mann. You surely 
stole a march on us, and you’ve got about the best 
wife Denby can turn out. I don’t know so much 
about your husband, Mrs. Mann, but I s’pose it’s 
safe to congratulate you both. Let’s have a lit- 
tle wine. Mother.” 
Thank you in my wife’s name. She may re- 
port a year or two hence,” smiling. 
While she was getting out her currant wine 
and pound-cake, Lidie, the poor rheumatic 
daughter, came over to join Mrs. Mann. 
“ Mrs. Burnham told us about the wedding, but 
I’d like to hear it first hand,” said she. And the 
little girls dressed in white — how pretty they must 
have looked, and Mrs. Burnham said you looked 
like a girl yourself. And how is Tip? We miss 
Linn so much. Why, it seems as if you had been 
gone a month.” 
The men had a cordial chat. Mr. Briggs was 
glad they had such a good tenant for the house. 
We heard Dale wanted it and, though he’s a nice 
man, he has two of the worst boys, so I’m glad to 
have them a mile away. That Linn is a nice little
chap. Smart, too. We’ve kind of coveted 
him.” 
And when they get crowded, Mr. Mann, send 
some of them over here,” said Mrs. Briggs. 
“ Dear, how we shall miss them ! Our grandchil- 
dren are only babies as yet.” 
Bessy said they must go, as they were to have a 
guest at dinner. 
“ Doesn’t it almost seem as if you had set up a 
hotel, Mr. Mann ? ” asked grandma. 
‘‘A very delightful one. You must come over 
and see us before you forget how the children 
looked. I am sincerely glad to know Bessy’s 
friends.” 
Lidie and I will have to wait until pleasant 
weather, but we’ll surely come,” replied grandma. 
We won’t be so long about it,” remarked Mr. 
Briggs. “ I’m often over to Grafton and Ridge- 
wood, and we shall hope to see you, for we can’t 
