"It is always well to be prepared for life or death, Loskiel, my
younger brother."

"Oho!" said I, smiling. "You understood the express rider when he said
that Indians had fired on our pickets a week ago!"

The stern and noble countenance of the Sagamore relaxed into the
sunniest of smiles.

"My little brother is very wise. He has discovered that the Siwanois
have ears like white men."

"Aye--but, Sagamore, I was not at all certain that you understood in
English more than 'yes' and 'no.'"

"Is it because," he inquired with a merry glance at me, "my brother has
only heard as yet the answer 'no' from Mayaro?"

I bit my lip, reddened, and then laughed at the slyly taunting
reference to my lack of all success in questioning him concerning the
little maiden, Lois.

At the same time, I realized on what a friendly footing I already stood
with this Mohican. Few white men ever see an Iroquois or a Delaware
laugh; few ever witness any relaxation in them or see their coldly
dignified features alter, except in scorn, suspicion, pride, and anger.
Only in time of peace and amid their own intimates or families do our
Eastern forest Indians put off the expressionless and dignified mask
they wear, and become what no white man believes them capable of
becoming--human, tender, affectionate, gay, witty, talkative, as the
moment suits.

At Guy Park, even, I had never seen an Iroquois relax in dignity and
hauteur, though, of course, it was also true that Guy Johnson was never
a man to inspire personal confidence or any intimacy. Nor was Walter
Butler either; and Brant and his Mohawks detested and despised him.

But I had been told that Indians--I mean the forest Indians, not the
vile and filthy nomad butchers of the prairies--were like ourselves in
our own families; and that, naturally, they were a kindly,
warm-hearted, gay, and affectionate people, fond of their wives and
children, and loyal to their friends.

Now, I could not but notice how, from the beginning, this Siwanois had
conducted, and how, when first we met, his eye and hand met mine. And
ever since, also--even when I was watching him so closely--in my heart
I really found it well-nigh impossible to doubt him.

He spoke always to me in a manner very different to that of any Indian
I had ever known. And now it seemed to me that from the very first I
had vaguely realized a sense of unwonted comradeship with this Siwanois.

At all events, it was plain enough now that, for some reason unknown to
me, this Mohican not only liked me, but so far trusted me--entertained,
in fact, so unusual a confidence in me--that he even permitted himself
to relax and speak to me playfully, and with the light familiarity of
an elder brother.

"Sagamore," I said, "my heart is very anxious for the safety of this
little forest-running maid. If I could find her, speak to her again, I
think I might aid her."

Mayaro's features became smooth and blank.

"What maiden is this my younger brother fears for?" he asked mildly.

"Her name is Lois. You know well whom I mean."

"Hai!" he exclaimed, laughing softly. "Is it still the rosy-throated
pigeon of the forest for whom my little brother Loskiel is spreading
nets?"

My face reddened again, but I said, smilingly:

"If Mayaro laughs at what I say, all must be well with her. My elder
brother's heart is charitable to the homeless."

"And to children, also," he said very quietly. And added, with a gleam
of humour, "All children, O Loskiel, my littlest brother! Is not my
heart open to you?"

"And mine to you, Mayaro, my elder brother."

"Yet, you watched me at the fire, every night," he said, with keenest
delight sparkling in his dark eyes.

"And yet I tracked and caught you after all!" I said, smiling through
my slight chagrin.

"Is my little brother very sure I did not know he followed me?" he
asked, amused.

"Did you know, Mayaro?"

The Siwanois made a movement of slight, but good-humoured, disdain:

"Can my brother who has no wings track and follow the October swallow?"

"Then you were willing that I should see the person to whom you brought
food under the midnight stars?"

"My brother has spoken."

"Why were you willing that I should see?"

"Where there are wild pigeons there are hawks, Loskiel. But perhaps the
rosy throat could not understand the language of a Siwanois."

"You warned her not to rove alone?"

He inclined his head quietly.

"She refused to heed you! Is that true? She left Westchester in spite
of your disapproval?"

"Loskiel does not lie."

"She must be mad!" I said, with some heat. "Had she not managed to keep
our camp in view, what had become of her now, Sagamore?" I added,
reluctantly admitting by implication yet another defeat for me.

"Of course I know that you must have kept in communication with
her--though how you did so I do not know."

The Siwanois smiled slyly.

"Who is she? What is she, Mayaro? Is she, after all, but a camp-gypsy
of the better class? I can not believe it--yet--she roves the world in
tatters, haunting barracks and camps. Can you not tell me something
concerning her?"

The Indian made no reply.

"Has she made you promise not to?"

He did not answer, but I saw very plainly that this was so.

Mystified, perplexed, and more deeply troubled than I cared to admit to
myself, I rose from the door-sill, buckled on belt, knife, and hatchet,
and stood looking out over the river in silence for a while.

The Siwanois said pleasantly, yet with a hidden hint of malice:

"If my brother desires to walk abroad in the pleasant weather, Mayaro
will not run away. Say so to Major Parr."

I blushed furiously at the mocking revelation that he had noted and
understood the precautions of Major Parr.

"Mayaro," I said, "I trust you. See! You are confided to me, I am
responsible for you. If you leave I shall be disgraced. But--Siwanois
are free people! The Sagamore is my elder brother who will not blacken
my face or cast contempt upon my uniform. See! I trust my brother
Mayaro, I go."

The Sagamore looked me square in the eye with a face which was utterly
blank and expressionless. Then he gathered his legs under him, sprang
noiselessly to his feet, laid his right hand on the hilt of my knife,
and his left one on his own, drew both bright blades with a
simultaneous and graceful movement, and drove his knife into my sheath,
