we’d go off to some place in Europe, Paris, 
maybe, and have a beautiful house and ser- 
vants to wait on us and horses and a carriage 
and we’d travel about like grand folks. It 
would be as nice as that night when you went 
to the palace and danced with the Prince, and 
I’d buy you fine clothes and diamonds and I’d 
wait on you hand and foot; I don’t wonder the 
babies loved you. You are the sweetest thing 
the good God ever sent down here!” 

And then Marilla hugged Bridget and kissed 
her and they both cried out of pure love. 

'That Lizzie does very well and don’t 
bother me, but it isn’t like having some one to 
slip up to you with a smile of sunshine that 
warms your heart through and through.” 

Yet it was flattering to be so well loved, but 
she did not want to come back and be a nurse 
maid again. Ah, if she could only stay with 
Miss Armitage! She began to study a little, 
she was so eager to learn. The music 
enchanted her and she was delighted to pick out 
tunes with her soft touch. 

don't understand what Mrs. Johnson 
means/’ Miss Armitage said to the doctor. 

offered to adopt Marilla and educate her 
and see that she was well placed in life. I 
have no near relatives, and I don’t believe I 
shall ever marry, I like my life as it is, but she 
was so sort of mysterious and secretive and 
declared she could not give an answer at pres- 
ent, as if she had some further plans. I did 
make the most of her having a weak heart — 
you said so and Doctor Baker as well. Oh, do 
you believe there is any real danger?” 

She turned pale at the thought. 

'With care I think she will outgrow it. She 
has lived in an overstrained atmosphere with 
those children. Then it was a dreadful shock 
to have the old lady die that way when she was 
looking for a tender recognition. What hap- 
pened about a fortnight before?” 

'I do not know, I found her unconscious. 
The ladies were out, the old Aunt had a stroke. 
It is such a sweet, promising life, and can be 
developed into something worth while. You 
may think me visionary — ” 




Oh, why could she not see this other life 
that might be blessed and broadened by her 
love! 

am afraid there is something back of it all 
that I cannot fathom/’ she continued. "It 
haunts me. Suppose you were to see this 
Mrs. Johnson. A man can sometimes pene- 
trate plans — ” 

And he was in collusion with Mrs. Johnson, 
keeping the secret from the woman he loved, 
but if there should be some mistake! 

‘Yes, I will see Mrs. Johnson,” he said 
slowly. 

A light footfall came down the stairs, and 
Marilla flew to his side. 

"Oh, I thought I heard your voice,” and 
both small hands clasped his. 'Tairy god- 
mother I have spelled all those queer words 
until I can just feel them in my brain. Oh, 
doctor, when I wrote you that letter last sum- 
mer wasn’t some words wrongly spelled? 
You see I had forgotten some things, and I am 
learning so much. I want to stay here, and 
I don’t believe any one else wants me — only 
the babies might.” 

When she glanced up at times it seemed as 



if the pupil that was so much darker than the 
iris that it flooded it with the tint of the under 
wave that seemed to overflow the crest of the 
swell. They were unusual eyes, changing with 
every emotion. She looked quite well again, 
and the lips were rogy. 

"Oh, you don’t?’ ' with a queer little smile. 
'Well the babies can’t have you.” 

"Oh, Bridget thinks if she were rich she 
would run away with me,” and she laughingly 
detailed the woman’s plan for their journeying 
about. 

'If Bridget should get a windfall — servants 
do sometimes, we should have to keep a sharp 
eye on you both, and now I must go.” 

"Can’t he stay to dinner?” She crossed 
over and pressed Miss Armitage’s hand to her 
soft cheek. 

' Why we shall be glad to have him, but you 
must notify Jane and Norah.” 

She returned with the compliments of both. 
While they were waiting for the summons and 
being beguiled with her pleasant chatter he 
was thinking what a charming family group 
they would make. If he only had the old 
fortune! 



They had an enjoyable time and when they 
returned to the library she begged him to play 
chess. She was so fond of following the 
devious course of the opposing parties. 

"Office calls will not begin until eight/’ he 
said and she rolled up the table and brought 
out the beautiful chess men. She was always 
so deft it was a pleasure to watch her. 

He was playing for the white queen; he 
often did. This time he studied his moves 
cautiously. But Miss Armitage had played 
so much with her uncle. Then the telephone 
rang and he went astray. 

She answered it. “For Dr. Richards, a Mr. 
Lorimer was in the office, wanted to see him 
at once. Important; everything was pro- 
gressing finely. Could he not see the little 
heiress that evening?” 

He looked at Miss Armitage in ludicrous 
dismay. 

“What is it?” she asked. 

“Your sin finds you out, doesn’t it?” with 
an amused yet deprecating smile. “I suppose 
I ought to have explained before, but really 
I could hardly believe it would amount to 
