
There was a mild flutter of eyelids as she sat down beside Warrington
and began to chatter to him in Italian.  He made a brave show of
following her, but became hopelessly lost after a few minutes.  Elsa
spoke fluently; twelve years had elapsed since his last visit to Italy.
He admitted his confusion, and thereafter it was only occasionally that
she brought the tongue into the conversation.  This diversion, which
she employed mainly to annoy her neighbors, was, in truth, the very
worst thing she could have done.  They no longer conjectured; they
assumed.

Warrington was too strongly dazzled by her beauty to-night to be
mentally keen or to be observing as was his habit.  He never spoke to
his neighbor; he had eyes for none but Elsa, under whose spell he knew
that he would remain while he lived.  He was nothing to her; he readily
understood.  She was restless and lonely, and he amused her.  So be it.
He believed that there could not be an unhappier, more unfortunate man
than himself.  To have been betrayed by the one he had loved, second to
but one, and to have this knowledge thrust upon him after all these
years, was evil enough; but the nadir of his misfortunes had been
reached by the appearance of this unreadable young woman.  Of what use
to warn her against himself, or against the possible, nay, probable
misconstruction that would be given their unusual friendship?  Craig
would not be idle with his tales.  And why had she put on all this
finery to-night?  To subjugate him?

"You are not listening to a word I am saying!"

"I beg your pardon!  But I warned you that my Italian was rusty."  He
pulled himself together.

"But I have been rattling away in English!"

"And I have been wool-gathering."

"Not at all complimentary to me."

"It is because I am very unhappy; it is because Tantalus and I are
brothers."

"You should have the will to throw off these moods."

"My moods, as you call them, are not like hats and coats."

"I wish I could make you forget."

"On the contrary, the sight of you makes memory all the keener."

He had never spoken like that before.  It rather subdued her, made her
regret that she had surrendered to a vanity that was without aim or
direction.  Farthest from her thought was conquest of the man.  She did
not wish to hurt him.  She was not a coquette.

After dinner he did not suggest the usual promenade.  Instead, he
excused himself and went below.


They arrived at Penang early Monday morning.  Elsa decided that
Warrington should take her and Martha on a personally conducted tour of
the pretty town.  As they left for shore he produced a small beautiful
blue feather; he gave it to Elsa with the compliments of Rajah; and she
stuck it in the pugree of her helmet.

"This is not from the dove of peace."

"Its arch-enemy, rather," he laughed.  "I wish I had the ability to get
as furious as that bird.  It might do me a world of good."

"How long is it since you were here?"

"Four years," he answered without enthusiasm.  He would not have come
ashore at all but for the fact that Elsa had ordered the expedition.

There was no inclination to explore the shops; so they hired a landau
and rode about town, climbed up to the quaint temple in the hills, and
made a tour of the botanical gardens.

"Isn't it delicious!" murmured Elsa, taking in deep breaths of the warm
spice-laden air.  Since her visit to the wonderful gardens at Kandy in
Ceylon, she had found a new interest in plants and trees.

She thoroughly enjoyed the few hours on land, even to the powwow
Warrington had with the unscrupulous driver, who, at the journey's end,
substituted one price for another, despite his original bargain.  It
was only a matter of two shillings, but Warrington stood firm.  It had
of necessity become a habit with him to haggle and then to stand firm
upon the bargain made.  There had been times when half an hour's
haggling had meant breakfast or no breakfast.  It never entered into
his mind what Elsa's point of view might be.  The average woman would
have called him over-thrifty.  All this noise over two shillings!  But
to Elsa it was only the opening of another door into this strange man's
character.  What others would have accepted as penuriousness she
recognized as a sense of well-balanced justice.  Most men, she had
found, were afflicted with the vanity of spending, and permitted
themselves to be imposed on rather than have others think that money
meant anything to them.  Arthur would have paid the difference at once
rather than have stood on the pier wrangling.  As they waited for the
tender that was to convey them back to the ship, Elsa observed a
powerful middle-aged man, gray-haired, hawk-faced, steel-eyed, watching
her companion intently.  Then his boring gaze traveled over her, from
her canvas-shoes to her helmet.  There was something so baldly
appraising in the look that a flush of anger surged into her cheeks.
The man turned and said something to his companion, who shrugged and
smiled.  Impatiently Elsa tugged at Warrington's sleeve.

"Who is that man over there by the railing?" she asked in a very low
voice.  "He looks as if he knew you."

"Knew me?" Warrington echoed.  The moment he had been dreading had
come.  Some one who knew him!  He turned his head slowly, and Elsa, who
had not dropped her hand, could feel the muscles of his arm stiffen
under the sleeve.  He held the stranger's eye defiantly for a space.
The latter laughed insolently if silently.  It was more for Elsa's sake
than for his own that Warrington allowed the other to stare him down.
Alone, he would have surrendered to the Berserk rage that urged him to
leap across the intervening space and annihilate the man, to crush him
with his bare hands until he screamed for the mercy he had always
denied others.  The flame passed, leaving him as cold as ashes.  "I
shall tell you who he is later; not here."

For the second time since that night on the Irrawaddy, Elsa recorded a
disagreeable sensation.  It proved to be transitory, but at the time it
served to establish a stronger doubt in regard to her independence, so
justifiable in her own eyes.  It might be insidiously leading her too
far away from the stepping-off place.  The unspoken words in those
hateful eyes!  The man knew Warrington, knew him perhaps as a
malefactor, and judged his associates accordingly.  She thus readily
saw the place she occupied in the man's estimation.  She experienced a
shiver of dread as she observed that he stepped on board the tender.
She even heard him call back to his friend to expect him in from
Singapore during the second week in March.  But the dread went away,
and pride and anger grew instead.  All the way back to the ship she
held her chin in the air, and from time to time her nostrils dilated.
That look!  If she had been nearer she was certain that she would have
struck him across the face.

"There will be no one up in the bow," said Warrington.  "Will you go up
there with me?"

After a moment's hesitation, she nodded.

The Lascars, busy with the anchor-chains, demurred; but a word and a
gesture from the Sahib who had turned the hose on a drunken man
convinced them that the two would not be in the way.  A clatter of
steel against steel presently followed, the windlass whined and
rattled, and Elsa saw the anchor rise slowly from the deeps, bringing
up a blur of muddy water; and blobs of pale clay dripped from the
anchor-flukes.  A moment after she felt the old familiar throb under
her feet, and the ship moved slowly out of the bay.

"Do you know that that man came aboard?"

"I know it."  The wide half-circle of cocoanut palms grew denser and
lower as they drew away.  "This is the story.  It's got to be told.  I
should have avoided it if it had been possible.  He is the owner of the
plantation.  Oh, I rather expected something like this.  It's my run of
luck.  I was just recovering from the fever.  God knows how he found
out, but he did.  It was during the rains.  He told me to get out that
night.  Didn't care whether I died on the road or not.  I should have
but for my boy James.  The man sent along with us a poor discarded
