dishonoured, though she knew that she would be disgraced. To refuse on
that account seemed to her selfish. As a result finally she consented.
Yet in consenting she made one stipulation. Characteristic in itself,
it was that there must be nothing clandestine, that he must come for
her in the rue de la Pompe, and that from there, her boxes put on
whatever vehicle he brought, they would leave for darkness by daylight.

The plan pleased Verplank. He agreed at once. He told her that he
would come the next day.

When he had, she added: “To-night I go to the Opéra; the Helley-Quetgens
have asked me. It is my last look at this world.”

Then, shortly, the arrangements for the evasion completed, she left the
hotel.

Without, her motor waited. She told the groom to have it follow
her. The air tempted, though the sky was dirty. She thought of the
California glare, the eager glitter of New York. She wondered would
they go back there. Perhaps, she told herself, we shall at last see
Bora-Bora.

Her walk took her through the arcades of the rue de Rivoli to the
fountains of the Place de la Concorde. From there she was about to
enter the Champs Elysées when she became conscious of being accosted.

“Chère madame,” some one was saying, “I precipitate myself to renew the
expression of my homage.”

D’Arcy, hat in hand, was before her. At once, with a view to what the
French agreeably describe as the placing of landmarks--pour poser des
jalons--he asked to be permitted to accompany her.

Leilah smiled.

“Not for the world!”

She motioned at the motor. Then, with that graciousness which is
natural to the mondaine, with perhaps the desire also to attenuate
whatever there were of brusqueness in her reply, she added, as she got
in the car:

“I shall be at the Opéra with the Helley-Quetgens to-night. Could you
not look in?”

D’Arcy, habituated to the abruptest victories, accustomed to inflame,
with but a glance, by the mere exhibition of his Olympian good looks,
and, therefore, indifferent when not bored by the celerity of his
successes, but piqued by the tranquil air with which this woman had
always regarded him, thanked her, assured her that he would not fail to
be there, and replaced his hat.

Immediately he raised it again, straight from the head, high in the
air. Looking with brilliant eyes from a brilliant brougham, Violet
Silverstairs was dashing by.

Coincidentally, unobserved but observant, Barouffski was also passing
that way.

Leilah’s motor flew off and she sank back, wondering at herself,
wondering rather what influence, malign and unhallowed, could possibly
have prompted her to ask this man, whom she disliked as--in spite of a
theory to the contrary--honest women do dislike a man of his type. But
though, at the time, she could not understand what impelled her, later
it seemed to her that it must have been fate.

Barouffski had a different interpretation. At the Joyeuses he had
seen Leilah and d’Arcy together. Now, here they were again. The
circumstance, of which the fortuitousness was unknown to him, irritated
him for that very cause. But he could imagine and did. At once it was
clear to him that the brute was after the blue eyes of her bankbook.
The deduction, however erroneous, was easy. He was viewing the matter,
not, as he fancied, from d’Arcy’s standpoint, but from his own. In
spite of which, or rather precisely on that account, he told himself
that d’Arcy was a damned scoundrel. The humour of this quite escaped
him. But that perhaps was in the order of things.

Since the night at the Joyeuses, he had been measuring himself solely
against Verplank. Twice he had failed with him, but he knew that soon
they would be at each other again and for the next bout he had in view
a coup which, he felt, would do for him definitely. Meanwhile, if in
regard to Leilah he had been led into certain vivacities, he felt that
with time, which is the great emollient, her memory of these vivacities
would pass. Even otherwise, the law was with him. He proposed to see
to it that she was also--she and with her her purse. The one menace to
both had been Verplank. Here, now, apparently, was another. Here was
d’Arcy with his pseudo-Pheidian air, that famous yet false appearance
of a young and dissolute Olympian which made imbeciles turn and stare.
Ragingly Barouffski reflected that canaille though d’Arcy were, he
carried a great many guns, almost as many as Verplank, who, worse
luck, had, in addition, the signal advantage of being Leilah’s first
love--that love to which it is said one always returns.

But even as he sounded the stupidity of that aphorism, vaguely, for a
dim second, he intercepted a gleam refracted from truth. The danger
with which he had to contend, Verplank did not personify or d’Arcy
either, it was himself. When the golden six was tossed him, had he but
then known how to secure the box, there would now be no danger at all.
But truth, when it does not console, confounds. Barouffski put it from
him. It was too exasperating. “Bah!” he told himself, “if her attitude
does not change, a sojourn in the solitudes of Lithuania may alter it.”
Angrily he nodded. Things more surprising have occurred there.

On this day it was Leilah who surprised him.

Since he had called to her from the garden, she had encountered him
only in the hazards of entrances and halls. On such occasions she had
passed with an air of being unaware that there were anything save
chairs and tables about.

In part, it was this attitude which he thought certain solitudes might
change. Oddly enough, Leilah herself wished it altered. But to want
to do one thing and to do something else, happens to all of us, even
to the best. She despised Barouffski and yet in despising him knew
that the one contemptible thing is contempt. For what he had done,
she felt that no punishment could be too severe, yet in so feeling
she knew that he was only the embodiment of past misdeeds of her own.
Physically he had struck her. Spiritually, it was her own hand that had
dealt the blow. He had loosed the dogs on Verplank and she had judged
and condemned him for it, though she knew that not only she should not
judge at all, but that never perhaps do useless events occur. Clearly
these events were evil, but were not those which she planned evil too?

In this dilemma there was some slight consolation for her in the
knowledge that it was not her fault, at least not her present fault,
that she had been born with a nature so problematic. But the Vidyâ,
in teaching her that whatever we suffer is derived from our past; that
the people who wrong us--or seem to--are mere puppets come to claim
karmic debts which we owe; the Vidyâ, in teaching her that taught
her also that every life we lead here is but a day in school. Her
schooling, she felt, had as yet been insufficient. No doubt she would
know better when she came here again.

The thin gilt hope of that fortified her a little on this day when, to
Barouffski’s surprise, she sent for him and then, her head raised, said
distantly:

“The Helley-Quetgens have asked us to the Opéra. I am going. You are
free to do as you like.”

Here, obviously, was something new. At it and at her Barouffski looked
with shifting eyes. Uncertainly he rubbed his hands.

“But how then! I am at your orders. It is a festival to be where you
are.”

But as he did nothing without an object, he wondered what hers was.
Obviously, there was a reason. Yet, what? Could it be an olive branch?
He was too adroit to ask. Even otherwise, he lacked the opportunity.
Leilah had gone from the room.

It was in these circumstances that, on this night, she appeared at the
Opéra where Violet was complaining at having seen her with d’Arcy.

At the complaint, Silverstairs pulled at his moustache.

“I did not know that she had taken up with him.”

“I don’t know that she has either. But she was with him to-day in the
Champs Elysées.”
