side of the room, and upon it are cups and saucers, teapot, canister
and hot-water kettle. A plate of thin bread and butter, or sandwiches,
or biscuits, and another of sweet wafers or fancy cakes, stand on
this table. Sugar and cream and sliced lemon complete the outfit. The
kettle is kept boiling that fresh tea may be made when required, and
a servant enters when needed to take out the used cups. If there are
many callers, the services of this maid may be required to assist in
passing cups, and sugar and cream. Otherwise the hostess may attend
to such matters herself, chatting pleasantly as she does so. It is
not incumbent on a caller to take anything to eat or drink unless she
wishes to do this. When one attends half-a-dozen such “At Homes” in
an afternoon one would have to carry a bag like that worn by Jack the
Giant-Killer of fairy lore, if one were to accept refreshments at each
house. The hostess should, therefore, never insist that a guest eat and
drink if she has declined to do so.

      



In calling on a married woman a matron leaves one of her own cards and
two of her husband’s. Her card is for the hostess, one of her husband’s
is for the hostess and the other for the man of the house. If there
be several ladies in the family, as for instance, a mother and two
daughters, the caller leaves one of her own and one of her husband’s
cards for each woman, and an extra card from her husband for each man
of the household.

This is the general rule, but it must have some exceptions. For
instance, in a household where there are five or six women it is
ridiculous to leave an entire pack of visiting-cards. In this case
a woman leaves her card for “the ladies,” and leaves it with her
husband’s, also for “the ladies.” One of his cards is also left for the
man of the family. Or if there be several men it may be left simply for
“the gentlemen.”

If one knows that there is a guest staying at a house at which one
calls, one must send in one’s card for this guest. Or, if one have a
friend staying in the same town with one, and one calls on her, it is
a breach of good breeding not to inquire for the friend’s hostess and
leave a card for her whether she appear or not.

      

When an engagement is made known the members of the man’s family should
immediately call on his fiancée and her family, and a formal dinner
should be given for them within two weeks.

      



Custom clings to the black-edged card for those in mourning. It has
its uses and surely its abuses. For those in deep mourning it is a
convenience to send in the form of regrets, as the black edge gives
sufficient reason in itself for the non-acceptance of invitations.
It may also be sent with gifts to friends. If one uses it as a
calling-card the border should be very narrow. If one is in such deep
mourning that one’s card must appear with a half-inch of black around
it, one is certainly in too deep mourning to pay calls. Until the black
edge can be reduced to the less ostentatious eighth-of-an-inch width,
the owner would do well to shun society.

Nor should a black-edged card accompany an invitation to a social
function. Several seasons ago a matron introduced to society in a large
city a niece who had, eighteen months before, lost a brother. With the
hostess’ invitations to the reception was enclosed the card of the
young guest, and this card had a black border an eighth of an inch
wide. The recipients of the invitations were to be pardoned if they
wondered a bit at the incongruity of a person in mourning receiving at
a large party. Under the circumstances she should have declined to have
the social function given in her honor, or should have laid aside her
insignia of dolor.

If, then, one has reached the point where one is ready to reenter
society, let one give up the mourning-cards and again use plain white
bits of pasteboard.

      



In calling at a house after a bereavement, it is well, except when
the afflicted one is an intimate friend, to leave the card with a
message of sympathy at the door. One may, if one wishes, leave flowers
with the card. A fortnight after the funeral one may call and ask to
see the ladies of the family, adding that if they do not feel like
seeing callers they will please not think of coming down. Under such
circumstances only a supersensitive person will be hurt by receiving
the message that the ladies beg to be excused, and that they are
grateful for the kind thought that prompted the call.

The rule that we have just given applies to the household in which
there is serious illness. A call may consist of an inquiry at the door,
and leaving a card. This may be accompanied by some such message as,
“Please express my sincere hope that Mrs. Smith will soon be better,
and assure Mr. Smith that if I can be of any service to him, or Mrs.
Smith, I shall be grateful if he will let me know.”

      



One should always return a first call within three weeks after it has
been made. After a dinner, luncheon or card-party, a call must be
made within a fortnight. An afternoon tea requires no “party call.”
After a large reception one may call within the month. After a wedding
reception one must call within a fortnight on the mother of the bride,
and on the bride on her “At Home” day as soon as possible after her
return from the wedding trip. If one is in doubt as to the propriety of
calling after an invitation, it is better to err on the side of making
the call. One’s courteous intention will surely be appreciated while
not to call may seem an unpardonable omission.

      

In the case of an invitation extended without a first call having
been made, women sometimes express doubt as to the course they should
pursue. In the first place they will do well to realize that some of
the people who entertain most delightfully are extremely busy people
to whom the rigid routine of formal etiquette would be an intolerable
burden. A clever woman is known by nothing more certainly than by the
unerring instinct with which she relaxes her demands in such instances.
If the woman who wishes to entertain encloses her own card this may be
accepted as a substitute for the usual first call. The social value of
one dinner invitation transcends many calls. Even if the visiting-card
is not enclosed the recipient of the invitation will—if she be a
sensible woman—accept if she really wishes to do so. At this point,
however, social usage should begin to assert itself and the invited one
should not fail to make the customary call of appreciation after the
“party.” If one does not wish to make the acquaintance offered a formal
note of declination will serve to discourage further intrusion.



A rather surprising question sometimes asked is whether one should call
after a dinner or dance invitation that has been declined. Certainly,
the call should be made. One has been honored by one’s friends and
the fact that one was prevented by circumstances from actually
enjoying their hospitality makes no difference whatever with one’s
responsibility for expressing appreciation.

      

A card with a message written on it fills many convenient social
needs but it should never be used to take the place of a formal note.
So employed it suggests haste and a degree of indifference that are
contrary to the best breeding. The corners of cards are no longer
turned down for any purpose.

If one, on calling, is told by the servant opening the door that “Mrs.
Brown is not at home,” this does not mean literally that Mrs. Brown is
of necessity out of the house, neither does it mean that the servant
has been instructed to tell an untruth. “Not at home” is an accepted
abbreviation for “Not at home to visitors.” There are those to whom
the phrase will, however, always have a disagreeable ring, and if
Mrs. Brown have more tact and originality than the conventions demand
she will probably direct her maid to say instead, “Mrs. Brown is not
receiving to-day. She receives on Mondays.”

