"What can it all mean?  Not a line from father since Colombo, five
months gone."

"Do you think----"

"No, no!" replied Kathlyn hastily.  "Father sometimes forgets.  He may
be hunting miles from telegraph wires and railroads; it is only that he
should forget us so long.  Who knows?  He may have dropped down into
Borneo.  He wanted some pythons, so I heard him say."

The elder sister did not care to instil into the heart of her charge
the fear which was in her own.

"Who knows but there may be good news in the envelope?  Dad's always
doing something like that.  New Year's!"

The collie, released from the kitchen, came bounding in.  In his
exuberance he knocked over a cloisonne vase.  Both girls were glad to
welcome this diversion.  They rose simultaneously and gave chase.  The
dog headed for the outdoor studio, where they caught him and made
believe they were punishing him.

Quietly the watcher entered through the window, alert and tense.  He
flew to the desk, found the envelope, steamed it open at the kettle,
extracted the sealed envelope and Colonel Hare's note.  He smiled as he
read the letter and changed his plans completely.  He would not play
messenger; he would use a lure instead.  With his ear strained for
sounds, he wrote and substituted a note.  This houri of Sa'adi would
not pause to note the difference in writing; the vitalness of the
subject would enchain her thoughts.  It was all accomplished in the
space of a few minutes.  Smiling, he passed out into the fast settling
twilight.

They were shipping a lion to San Francisco, and the roaring and
confusion were all very satisfactory to the trespasser.

Midnight.  From afar came the mellow notes of the bells in the ancient
Spanish mission.  The old year was dead, the new year was born,
carrying with it the unchanging sound of happiness and misery, of
promises made and promises broken, of good and evil.

"The packet!" cried Winnie.

Kathlyn recognized in that call that Winnie was only a child.  All the
responsibility lay upon her shoulders.  She ripped the cover from the
packet and read the note.


"Kathlyn: If not heard from I'm held captive in Allaha.  Sealed
document can save me.  Bring it yourself to Allaha by first steamer.

"Father."


"I knew it," said Kathlyn calmly.  The fear in her heart had, as the
brown man had anticipated, blinded her to the fact that this was not
her father's characteristic blunt scrawl.

"Oh, Kit, Kit!"

"Hush, Winnie!  I must go, and go alone.  Where's the evening paper?
Ah, there it is.  Let me see what boat leaves San Francisco to-morrow.
The Empress of India, six a. m.  I must make that.  Now, you're your
father's daughter, too, Winnie.  You must stay behind and be brave and
wait.  I shall come back.  I shall find father, if I have to rouse all
India.  Now, to pack."

When they arrived at the station the passenger train had just drawn
out.  For a while Kathlyn felt beaten.  She would be compelled to wait
another week.  It was disheartening.

"Why not try the freight, then?" cried Winnie.

"You little angel!  I never thought of that!"

But the crew would not hear of it.  It was absolutely against the
company's rules.  Kathlyn could have cried.

"It isn't money, miss, it's the rules," said the conductor kindly.  "I
can't do it."

Kathlyn turned in despair toward the station.  It was then she saw the
boxed lion on the platform.  She returned to the conductor of the
freight.

"Why isn't that lion shipped?"

"We can't carry a lion without an attendant, miss.  You ought to know
that."

"Very well," replied Kathlyn.  She smiled at the conductor confidently.
"I'll travel as the lion's attendant.  You certainly can not object to
that."

"I guess you've got me," admitted the conductor.  "But where the
dickens will we put the cat?  Every car is closed and locked, and there
is not an empty."

"You can easily get the lion in the caboose.  I'll see that he doesn't
bother any one."

"Lions in the caboose is a new one on me.  Well, you know your dad's
business better than I do.  Look alive, boys, and get that angora
aboard.  This is Miss Hare herself, and she'll take charge."

"Kit, Kit!"

"Winnie!"

"Oh, I'll be brave.  I've just got to be.  But I've never been left
alone before."

The two girls embraced, and Winnie went sobbing back to the maid who
waited on the platform.

What happened in that particular caboose has long since been newspaper
history.  The crew will go on telling it till it becomes as fabulous as
one of Sindbad's yarns.  How the lion escaped, how the fearless young
woman captured it alone, unaided, may be found in the files of all
metropolitan newspapers.  Of the brown man who was found hiding in the
coat closet of the caboose nothing was said.  But the sight of him
dismayed Kathlyn as no lion could have done.  Any-dark skinned person
was now a subtle menace.  And when, later, she saw peering into the
port-hole of her stateroom, dismay became terror.

Who was this man?




CHAPTER II

THE UNWELCOME THRONE

Kathlyn sensed great loneliness when, about a month later, she arrived
at the basin in Calcutta.  A thousand or more natives were bathing
ceremoniously in the ghat--men, women and children.  It was early morn,
and they were making solemn genuflections toward the bright sun.  The
water-front swarmed with brown bodies, and great wheeled carts drawn by
sad-eyed bullocks threaded slowly through the maze.  The many white
turbans, stirring hither and thither, reminded her of a field of white
poppies in a breeze.  India!  There it lay, ready for her eager feet.
Always had she dreamed about it, and romanced over it, and sought it on
the wings of her spirit.  Yonder it lay, ancient as China, enchanting
as storied Persia.

If only she were on pleasure bent!  If only she knew some one in this
great teeming city!  She knew no one; she carried no letters of
introduction, no letters of credit, nothing but the gold and notes the
paymaster at the farm had hastily turned over to her.  Only by constant
application to maps and guide books had she managed to arrange the
short cut to the far kingdom.  She had been warned that it was a wild
and turbulent place, out of the beaten path, beyond the reach of iron
rails.  Three long sea voyages: across the Pacific (which wasn't), down
the bitter Yellow Sea, up the blue Bay of Bengal, with many a sea
change and many a strange picture.  What though her heart ached, it was
impossible that her young eyes should not absorb all she saw and marvel
over it.  India!

The strange elusive Hindu had disappeared after Hongkong.  That was a
