short and rather plump with an infantile face that made her look younger
than her years.
"Why Elly, I'm glad to see you back. Now this year you must study hard
and fill up some of the vacancies we graduates make." Then she glanced
around the group.
Elma flushed and then said a little awkwardly--"This is Miss Boyd, and
this Miss Nevins, and--I don't know all the names yet."
"You have more new scholars than we." Then she made a stiff little bow
and turned away to her own group.
"Girls, what do you think? Why, I nearly fainted with surprise. 'Looks
is often deceiving.' That girl I thought a princess in disguise is
Miss Boyd. Why she has airs and graces enough to amaze you. If her
mother is like that, will we ever dare to ask her to darn our
stockings?"
"Miss Boyd!" exclaimed a chorus of voices.
"Well, it's good we have learned the fact at once so we shall not make
any blunders. She'll be a sort of charity scholar working for her board
and training. Of course we shan't have anything to do with her as she
isn't in our set. Though it wouldn't be so bad but for the mother."
"That's real snobbish, Louie," said a girl.
"Well, I don't know, you have a right to choose your friends, and I
heard Mrs. Dane say something about their being very poor."
"Well, she's stylish and she has an air, and Mrs. Barrington wouldn't
take in any one objectionable. If my father should die I might be glad
to have some one take me in, and I expect to teach when I am through.
You see father has four more to educate."
"Well, Mattie Vincent, you can make a bosom friend of her for all that I
care."
"Oh girls, don't let's quarrel about her when we have just come and are
glad to see each other. I dare say Miss Boyd wont trouble us."
"She'll be pushing, and aspiring to the best--you'll see! One can tell
by the way she holds her head, and she could stare you out of
countenance with those bold black eyes. I shall keep on my guard. You'll
see me take her down if she presumes."
But Lilian Boyd did not presume. She went to church with her mother on
Sunday in a simple white pique frock, and spent the evening on the back
porch with Miss Arran, not even going in the parlor for the singing, and
on Monday school duties began. The classes received considerable
accessions from the day scholars. Lilian had two of the younger classes
and she found a real pleasure in the teaching. Then she was in the Latin
class and proved herself an excellent scholar.
The evening hour was sometimes rather trying. Some of the girls asked
foolish questions just to perplex her. Occasionally she suggested they
should ask Miss Davis. The younger ones were quite tractable, though now
and then a spirit of fun broke out, set a-foot generally by the larger
girls.
CHAPTER III
FOOD FOR CONSIDERATION
Lilian Boyd did not want to cross the line of division that was acutely
felt and yet so nicely projected that a faint move on her part would
bring about a rebuff. She had the youthful longing for girlish
friendships, for little confidences about books they liked, about aims
and the future. Some of the pupils were so attractive; and it was
because she was the caretaker's daughter; she saw it when they came in
to her mother with any errand, when they passed her in the halls with a
supercilious nod.
But then, why need she care? They would go their way presently and she
might remain. She knew she had won Mrs. Barrington's favor. That lady
made it a point of her joining the Sunday evening singing and she found
that she had a good, flexible voice.
One lovely October afternoon she thought she would walk down to the
river whose banks were now a blaze of color. Some one called and she
turned. It was Alice Nevins who was sometimes tiresome. The girls were
going down in town and one of them had really asked her if she would not
like to join them. A gratified light shone in her eyes for a moment.
There was something in the other's face that gave her a quick warning.
There was some plot underneath.
"Thank you very much but I cannot go this afternoon. I hope you will all
have a nice time."
Then she went to her room. Her mother was folding up some sewing. "There
is so little to do," and she smiled vaguely.
"Come out and walk with me."
"No, I don't feel equal to it, I will put a shawl about me and sit on
the porch."
"Shall I come and read to you?"
"No, dear, it is an effort to listen. I'll just sit and think."
"Mother, are you satisfied here?"
"Oh, my child, I could not have dreamed of anything so comfortable, and
for your sake--you are happy?" with a touch of wistfulness.
"Oh, it is so delightful, and then to think that I shall fit myself for
a nice position presently. Then mother dear we will have a few rooms and
a real home again."
"Oh, you are so good," in a tremulous tone.
Lilian kissed her. She wondered why her mother's eyes rested on her at
times with that unfathomable look and the lips would move, then
suddenly compress.
So she walked down past the summer house where the Virginia creeper was
flaunting long scarlet branches in the wind.
"Oh, Miss Boyd!"
She turned. Alice Nevins ran out. Her face was red and swollen with
weeping.
"Oh, what is the matter?"
"Let me come with you? Oh, I'm so homesick, and I just hate some of the
girls. They laugh when I blunder. I don't know things. I just hate
school! Papa would send me here. Mamma begged to take me abroad. I'm
sure I could have learned a great many things. People say travel is an
education. I hate to study books. Do you really love it?"
"Yes, very much, and for all it brings to you. Were you never at school
before?"
"Only a little. Then I had a governess. You see, I was growing fast and
mamma thought I oughtn't study. She wasn't very well and papa wanted to
take her somewhere in Italy, and he sent me here, and some of the girls
do make fun of me. Can't you feel it when they are laughing at you?"
Lilian flushed. "I try to think of something else. They are not really
worth minding."
"I know I'm not pretty. Oh, I wish I were! And you have such a lovely
complexion. How is it made up?"
"Made up? What do you mean?"
"One of the girls said it was, and that sometimes you painted."
Lilian was angry then.
"My paint and powder are soap and water," she returned, indignantly. "It
is a shame for a young girl to do such things."
"But you are pretty. Must your mother be the caretaker here? What does
she have to do?"
"She looks after the sewing and the mending. Yes, because we are poor,
we both have to earn our living. Some day I mean to teach and take care
of her."
"Where is your father?"
"Oh, he died when I was a baby."
"Well--I'm awful sorry. Do you like that Phillipa Rosewald?"
"I don't know much about her."
"She makes fun of so many things, and she tells you words that sound
wrong when you pronounce them. I said something yesterday and the girls
giggled and Miss Davis thought I did it purposely and I was marked
down."
"It was a very mean thing," Lilian's cheek glowed with indignation.
"Then Miss Rosewald tells such funny stories. Four or five of the girls
just hang together and they think they are everything. But I guess
father is as rich as any of their fathers. Only I wish I was real
handsome."
"Oh, my dear, I would think of my studies instead. Now let us talk them
over. What is it that bothers you most?"
"Oh, everything."
"But you must study. Now, won't you try this evening. I'll help you
all I can."
"Oh, I wish I was with mamma. I shall just tell her that I hate school.
What's the use of so much education anyhow? Girls get married."
Lilian felt that Mrs. Nevins was a very poor mother not to have taught
her daughter a little common sense. Then she asked how old Alice was.
"I was fifteen last May."
"And I will be sixteen in June. I wasn't quite fourteen when I was
promoted to the High School, where I spent two years."
"Oh, but I'm not going to teach or anything. Mamma said she would be
sure to send for me next vacation, but that is almost nine dreary
months away," with a profound sigh.
"And you ought to learn a good deal in that time, so that you will not
be classed with the ignorant and conceited girls who think their money
will cover everything. There are so many young people going abroad
nowadays, college girls who have all the nice points of travel by
heart?"
"Oh, dear, I just can't study!" desperately.
"Oh, try. Now this evening I will help you. You see," smiling, "very
little knowledge comes natural. It is true some acquire easier than
others, but it is the continued effort after all."
"Oh, dear, I wish you had been my sister. Papa is always bemoaning that
there are not more of us, but mamma says if there were I would have to
go without many things. I've some lovely jewelry but papa would put it
in the safe deposit, and he went and bought this cheap little watch for
school. My nice one cost one hundred dollars. It's a real beauty, and
mamma has lots of diamonds. I have two, they were birthday rings. Don't
