into which I got myself. One hears the saying, 
when unexpected encoxmters take place, "How 
small the world is!" But I thought the world 
was growing really too small when I went into a 
hotel tea-room to wait for Sylvia, and foimd 
myself face to face with Claire Lepage! 



 

The place appointed had been the "orange- 
room;" I stood in the door-way, sweeping the 
place with my eyes, and I saw Mrs. van Tuiver 
at the same moment that she saw me. She was 
sitting at a table with several other people, and 
she nodded, and I took a seat to wait. From my 
position I could watch her, in animated conversa- 
tion; and she could send me a smile now and 
then. So I was decidedly startled when I heard 
a voice, "Why, how do you do?" and looked up 
and saw Claire holding out her hand to me. 

"Well, for heaven's sake!" I exclaimed. 

"You don't come to see me any more," she 
said. 

"Why, no — no, I've been busy of late." So 
much I managed to ejaculate, in spite of my 
confusion. 

"You seem surprised to see me," she remarked 
— observant as usual, and sensitive to other 
people's attitude to her. 

"Why, naturally," I said. And then, recollect- 
ing that it was not in the least natiu'al — since she 
spent a good deal of her time in such places — I 
added, "I was looking for some one else." 

"May I do in the meantime?" she inquired, 
taking a seat beside me. "What are you so 
busy about?" 

"My child-labor work," I answered. Then, 
in an instant, I was sorry for the words, thinking 
she must have read about Sylvia's activities. I 
did not want her to know that I had met Sylvia, 
for it would mean a flood of questions, which I 



 

did not want to answer — nor yet to refuse to 
answer. 

But my fear was needless. "I've been out of 
town," she said. 

"Whereabouts?" I asked, making conversation. 

"A little trip to Bermuda." 

My mind was busy with the problem of getting 
rid of her. It would be intolerable to have 
Sylvia come up to us; it was intolerable to know 
that they were in sight of each other. 

Even as the thought came to me, however, I 
saw Claire start. "Look!" she exclaimed. 

"What is it?" 

"That woman there — in the green velvet! 
The fourth table." 

"I see her." 

"Do you know who she is?" 

"Who?" (I remembered Lady Dee's maxim 
about Ijong!) 

"Sylvia Castleman!" whispered Claire. (She 
always referred to her thus — seeming to say 
"I'm as much van Tuiver as she is!") 

"Are you sure?" I asked — lq order to say 
something. 

"I've seen her a score of times. I seem to be 
always running into her. That's Freddie Atkins 
she's talking to." 

"Indeed!" said I. 

"I know most of the men I see her with. But 
I have to walk by as if I'd never seen them. A 
queer world we live in, isn't it?" 

I could assent cordially to that proposition. 



"listen," I broke in, quickly. "Have you got 
anything to do? If not, come down to the 
Royalty and have tea with me." 

"Why not have it here?" 

"I've been waiting for some one from there, and 
I have to leave a message. Then I'll be free." 

She rose, to my vast relief, and we walked out. 
I could feel Sylvia's eyes following me; but I 
dared not try to send her a message — I would 
have to make up some explanation afterwards. 
"Who was your  well-dressed friend?" I could 
imagine her asking; but my mind was more 
concerned with the vision of what would happen 
if, in full sight of her companion, Mr. Freddie 
Atkins, she were to rise and walk over to Claire 
and myself! 



 



 

Seated in the "palm-room" of the other hotel, 
I sipped a cup of tea which I felt I had earned, 
while Claire had a little glass of the fancy-colored 
Hquids which the ladies in these places affect. 
The room was an aviary, with tropical plants and 
splashing fomitains — and birds of many gorgeous 
hues; I gazed from one to another of the splendid 
creatures, wondering how many of them were 
paying for their plumage in the same way as my 
companion. It would have taken a more prac- 
ticed eye than mine to say which, for if I had been 
asked, I would have taken Claire for a diplomat's 
wife. She had not less than a thousand dollars 
worth of raiment upon her, and its style made 
clear to all the world the fact that it had not 
been saved over from a previous season of pros- 
perity. She was a fine creature, who could 
carry any amount of sail; with her bold, black 
eyes she looked thoroiyhly competent, and it 
was hard to beheve in the fundamental softness 
of her character. 

I sat, looking about me, annoyed at having 
missed Sylvia, and only half listening to Claire. 
But suddenly she brought me to attention. 
"Well," she said, "I've met him." 
