foreigner up there on the snowy rocks! 
Cuckoo! Cuckoo! Cuckoo I 

The lieutenant of Yukon infantry, whose 
name was Gray, came back into the room. 

"There's a bird of sorts yelling like hell 
below," he said to the card players. 

Carfax ran over his curds, rejected three, 
and nodded. "Well, let him yell," he said. 

"What is it, a Boche dicky-bird insulting 
yon?" asked Gary, in his Yankee drawl. 









Flint, declining to draw cards, got up and 
went out into the sunshine. When he returned to the table, he said: "It's a cuckoo. 
... I wish to God I were out of this," he 
added. 

They continued to play for a while with 
out apparent interest. Each man had won 
his comrades money too many times to care 
when Carfax added up debit and credit and 
wrote down each man's score. In nine 
months, alternately beggaring one another, 
they had now, it appeared, broken about even. 

Gary, an American in British uniform, 
twitched a newspaper toward himself, 
slouched in his chair, and continued to read 
for a while. The paper was French and two 
weeks old; he jerked it about irritably. 

Gray, resting his elbows on his knees, sat 
gazing vacantly out of the narrow window. 
For a smart officer he had grown slovenly. 

"If there was any trout fishing to be had," 
he began; but Flint laughed scornfully. 

"What are you laughing at? There must 
be trout in the valley down there where that 
bird is," insisted Gray, reddening. 









"Yes, and there are cows and chickens and 
houses and women. What of it!" 

Gary, in his faded service uniform of a 
captain, scowled over his newspaper. "It's 
bad enough to be here," he said heavily; "so 
don't let's talk about it. Quit disputing." 

Flint ignored the order. 

"If there was anything sportin to do 

"Oh, shut up," muttered Carfax. "Do you 
expect sport on a hog-back?" 

Gray picked up a tennis ball and began to 
play it against the whitewashed stone wall, 
using the palm of his hand. Flint joined him 
presently ; Gary went over to the telephone, set 
the receiver to his ear and spoke to some officer 
in the distant valley on the French side, continuing a spiritless conversation while watch 
ing the handball play. After a while he rose, 
shambled out and down among the rocks to the 
spring where snow lay, trodden and filthy, and 
the big, black salamanders crawled half stupefied in the sun. All his loathing and fear of 
them kindled again as it always did at sight 
of them. "Dirty beasts," he muttered, stumping and stumbling among the stunted fir 









trees; "some day they'll bite some of these 
damn fools who say they can't bite. And 
that'll end em." 

Flint and Gray continued to play handball 
in a perfunctory way while Carfax looked on 
from the telephone without interest. Gary 
came back, his shoes and puttees all over wet 
snow. 

"Unless," he said in a monotonous voice, 
"something happens within the next few days 
I'll begin to feel queer in my head; and if I 
feel it coming on, I'll blow my bally nut off. 
Or somebody s." And he touched his service 
automatic in its holster and yawned. 

After a dead silence: 

"Buck up," remarked Carfax; "think how 
our men must feel in Belfort, never letting 
off their guns. Eoss rifles, too not a shot 
at a Boche since the damn war began !" 

"God!" said Flint, smiting the ball with 
the palm of his hand, "to think of those Ross 
rifles rusting down there and to think of the 
pink-skinned pigs they could paunch so 
cleanly. Did you ever paunch a deer? What 
a mess of intestines all over the shop!" 









Gary, still standing, began to kick the snow 
from his shoes. Gray said to him: "For a 
dollar of your Yankee money, I'd give you a, 
shot at me with your automatic you're that 
slack at practice." 

"If it goes on much longer like this I'll 
not have to pay for a shot at anybody," returned Gary, with a short laugh. 

Gray laughed too, disagreeably, stretching 
his facial muscles, but no sound issued. 

"We're all going crazy together up here; 
that's my idea," he said. "I don't know which 
I can stand most comfortably, your voices or 
your silence. Both make me sick." 

"Some day a salamander will nip you; 
then you'll go loco," observed Gary, balancing another tennis ball in his right hand. 
"Give me a shot at you?" he added. "I feel 
as though I could throw it clean through you. 
You look soft as a pudding to me." 

Far, clear, from infinite depths, the elf-like 
