unroll against the sky.
Looking upward, Warner felt a light touch on his elbow; Sister Eila had
slipped her arm through his.
Gazing into the sky under her white coiffe, the Sister of Charity stood
silent, intent, her gaze concentrated on the receding aëroplane.
When the first snowy puff ball appeared below it, her arm closed
convulsively on Warner’s, and remained so, rigid, while ball after ball
of fleece spotted the sky, spread a little, hung, and slowly dissolved
against the blue.
Down on the Saïs road four Red Cross motor ambulances were speeding in
the wake of the artillery.  A fifth ambulance came up the drive.  Sister
Félicité, seated beside the chauffeur, signaled to Sister Eila.
Warner said:
"Are you called for field duty?"
"On the telephone a few minutes ago.  They need us this side of Ausone."
He went with her to the ambulance and she swung on board.  As the
chauffeur started to back and make a demi-tour, Warner jumped on the
vehicle and shook hands with Dr. Senlis.
"Do you want a bearer?" he asked.
"Yes, if you don’t mind."
Sister Eila picked up a brassard bearing the conventional emblem, and
tied it around his left arm above the elbow.
He had not yet noticed the other figure in the ambulance; now he looked
around, stared, and suddenly a violent desire to laugh seized him.
"Asticot!" he exclaimed.
"Oui, c’est moi, M’sieu’," replied that smirking gentleman, with a
demureness that struck Warner as horrible.
"But why?" he asked, in frank amazement.
"Ah," rejoined Asticot complacently, "that is the question, M’sieu’.  I
myself do not know exactly why I am here."
But he knew well enough.  First of all, he had gotten all over any
terror of bullets in Africa.  Five years and fifty skirmishes had
blunted that sort of fear in him.
What he wanted to do was to see what was going on.  More than that, the
encounter with One Eye in Ausone had strangely moved this rat of the
Faubourgs. He desired to find that Disciplinary Battalion again—the
Battalion which had been for him a hell on earth—but he wanted to look
at it, pushed by a morbid curiosity.  If One Eye were there, perhaps
other old friends might still decorate those fierce and sullen ranks.
There was a certain lieutenant, too—gladly he would shoot him in the
back if opportunity offered.  He had dreamed for months of doing this.
But there was still another reason that incited Asticot to offer his
services to Sister Félicité as a bearer.  The ambulance had been called
to the Ausone Forest.  Somewhere within those leafy shades lurked
Wildresse.
Never before had such a hatred blazed in the crippled intellect of
Asticot as the red rage that flared within him when he learned that he
had been employed by a spy who had sold out France.
Anything else he could have understood, any other crime.  He was not
squeamish; nothing appalled him in the category of villainy except only
this one thing. Scoundrel as he was, he could not have found it in his
heart to sell his country.  And to remember that he had been employed by
a man who did sell France aroused within him a passion for revenge so
fierce that only a grip on the throat of Wildresse could ever satisfy
the craving that made his vision red as blood.
He wore a brassard, this voyou of the Paris gutters, set with the
Geneva cross.  And in his pocket was an automatic pistol.
From the rear seat Sister Eila could still see the Bristol biplane in
the sky, circling now high over Ausone Forest and the cultivated hills
beyond.  She never removed her eyes from it as the ambulance rolled on
through the dust beside the slower moving line of lorries.
Later the motor lorries turned east; a column of infantry replaced them,
trudging silently along in the sun, their rifles shouldered.  Then they
passed a battalion of chasseurs-à-pied in green and blue, swinging
along at a cheerful, lively pace toward the crash of rifles and machine
guns.
Across the river they saw the first German shells explode in the fields,
and dark columns of smoke rise and spread out over the bushes and
standing grain.
For some time, now, Warner had recognized the high whimper of bullets,
but he said nothing until Sister Eila mentioned the noises, guessing
correctly what were the causes.
Asticot shrugged and cuddled a cigarette which Warner had given him,
enjoying it with leering deliberation.
He was inclined to become loquacious, too, whenever a shell exploded
across the river.
"Baoum—baoum!" he sneered.  "Tiens!  Another overripe egg!  The Bosches
will starve themselves with their generosity!  Pan!  Pouf!  V’lan!
Zoum—zo——um! That is shrapnel, M’sieu’, as you know.  As for me, I do
not care for it.  Anything else on the carte du jour, but not shrapnel
for Bibi!  No!  For the big shells, yes; for the machine guns, yes; for
the Démoiselles Lebel, all right!  But no shrapnel, if you please——"
Sister Eila looked at him in smiling surprise.
"You would do well in the wards, with your cheerfulness," she said.  "I
always was certain that I should find in you some quality to admire."
Asticot looked at her, mouth open, as though thunderstruck.  Then, to
Sister Eila’s amazement, a blush turned his expressive features scarlet.
To be spoken to like that by a Sainte of Saint Vincent de Paul!  To be
admired by a Sister of Charity! He, Asticot, was commended, approved of,
encouraged!
It was too much for Asticot.  He turned redder and redder; he started to
relieve his terrible embarrassment by cursing, caught himself in time,
choked, passed his red bandanna over his battered visage, tried to
whistle, failed, and turned his ratty and distressed eyes upon Warner
for relief.
"Cheerfulness is a virtue," said Warner gravely. "You seem to possess
others, also; you have physical courage, you have exhibited gratitude
toward me which I scarcely expected.  It is a wonderful thing for a man,
Asticot, to be commended at all by Sister Eila."
Sister Eila smiled and flushed; then her face became serious and she
leaned forward and looked up at the Bristol biplane.  Under it the white
fleece of the shrapnel was still floating.
The ambulance stopped; hussars came riding on either side of it; an
officer gave an order to the driver, who turned out among some trees.
The road ahead was crowded with infantry deploying at a double—a
strange, gaunt, haggard regiment, white with dust, swinging out to
whistle signal into the patches of woodland and across the willow-set
meadows to the right.
Sullen sweating faces looked up everywhere among the bayonets; hard
eyes, thin lips, bullet heads, appeared through the drifting dust.
Here and there an officer spoke, and there seemed to be a ringing
undertone of iron in the blunt commands.
They came running in out of the stifling cloud of dust like a herd of
sulky vicious bulls goaded right and left by the penetrating whistle
calls and the menacing orders of their officers.
"One Eye!" yelled Asticot, waving his cap vigorously. "He!  Mon vieux!
How are you, old camp kettle?"
A soldier looked up with a frightful leer, waved his arm, and ran
forward.
"C’est un vieux copain à moi!" remarked Asticot proudly.  "M’sieu’,
voilà le Battalion d’Afrique!  Voilà Biribi qui passe!  Tonnerre de
Dieu!  There is Jacques! Hé!  Look yonder, M’sieu’!  That young one with
the head of a Lyceum lad!  Over there!  That is the gosse of
Wildresse!"
"What!"
"Certainly!  That is Jacques Wildresse of Biribi! Hé!  If he knew!  Eh?
Poor devil!  If he knew what we know!  And his scoundrel of a father out
there now in those woods!  C’est épatant!  Quoi!  B’en, such things
are true, it seems!  And when he looses his rifle, that lad, what if the
lead finds a billet in his own flesh and blood!  Eh?  Are such things
done by God in these days?"
An officer rode up and said to the chauffeur:
"Pull out of there.  Back out to the road!"
But, once on the road again, they were ordered into a pasture, then
ordered forward again and told to take station under a high bank crowned
with bushes.
No shells came over, but bullets did in whining streams.  The air
overhead was full of them, and the earth kept sliding from the bank
where the lead hit it with a slapping and sometimes a snapping sound,
like the incessant crack of a coach whip.
Firing had already begun in the woods whither the Battalion of Africa
had hurried with their flapping equipments and baggy uniforms white with
dust.  In the increasing roar of rifle fire the monotonous woodpecker
tapping of the machine guns was perfectly recognizable.
Branches, twigs, bits of bark, green leaves, came winnowing earthward in
a continual shower.  There was nothing to be seen anywhere except a few
mounted hussars walking their horses up and down the road, and the motor
cyclists who passed like skimming comets toward Ausone.
Sister Eila and Sister Félicité had descended to the road and seated
themselves on the grassy bank, where they conversed in low tones and
looked calmly into the woods.
Asticot, possessed of a whole pack of cigarettes, promenaded his good
fortune and swaggered up and down the road, ostentatiously coming to
salute when an automobile full of officers came screaming by.
The military chauffeur dozed over his steering wheel. Two white
butterflies fluttered persistently around his head, alighting sometimes
on the sleeves of his jacket, only to flit away again and continue their
whirling aerial dance around him.
For an hour the roar of the fusillade continued, not steadily, but
redoubling in intensity at times, then slackening again, but continuing
