gave them the opinion that the man was dead.  Happily a doctor was on
the way, Servan having given the call, as one of the Black Hundred had
been wounded badly.
But what to do with that mad woman up-stairs?  Hargreave advised them
to wait.  The house was surrounded; she could not possibly escape save
by one method, and perhaps that would be the best for her.  Hargreave
looked gravely at Norton as he offered this suggestion.  The reporter
understood: the millionaire was willing to give the woman a chance.
"And you are my father?" said Florence, still bewildered by the amazing
events.  "But I don't understand yet!" her gaze roving from the real
Jones to her father.
"I don't doubt it, child," said Hargreave.  "I'll explain.  When I
hired Jones here, who is really Jedson of the Scotland Yard, I did so
because we looked alike when shaven.  It was Jedson here who escaped by
the balloon; it was Jedson who returned the five thousand to Norton,
who watched the countess' apartment; it was Jedson who was wounded in
the arm.  I myself guarded you, my child.  Last night, unbeknown to
you, I left and the real Jones--for it is easier to call him
that!--took my place."
"And I never saw the difference!" exclaimed Florence.
"That is natural," smiled her father.  "You were thinking of Norton
here instead of me.  Eh?"
Florence blushed.
"Well, why not?  Here, Norton!"  The millionaire took Florence's hand
and placed it in the reporter's.  "It seems that I've got to lose her
after all.  Kiss her, man; in heaven's name, kiss her!"
And Norton threw his arms around the girl and kissed her soundly,
careless of the fact that he was observed by both enemies and friends.
Suddenly the policeman who had been standing by the side of Braine ran
into the living-room.
"He's alive!  Braine's alive; he just stirred."
"What?" exclaimed Norton and Hargreave in a single breath.
"Yes, sir!  I saw his hands move.  It's a good thing we sent for a
doctor.  He ought to be along about now."
Even as he spoke the bell rang: and they all surged out into the hall,
forgetting for the moment all about the million.  Olga hadn't killed
the man, then?  The doctor knelt beside the stricken man and examined
him.  He shrugged.
"Will he live?"
"Certainly.  A scalp wound, that laid him out for a few moments.  He'll
be all right in a few days.  He was lucky.  A quarter of an inch lower,
and he'd have passed in his checks."
"Good!" murmured Servan.  "So our friend will accompany me back to good
Russia?  Oh, we'll be kind to him during the journey.  Have him taken
to the hospital ward at the Tombs.  Now, for the little lady up-stairs."
A moment later Braine opened his eyes, and the policeman assisted him
to his feet.  Servan, with a nod, ordered the police to help the
wounded man to the taxicab which had just arrived.  Braine, now wholly
conscious, flung back one look of supreme hatred toward Hargreave; and
that was the last either Florence or her father ever saw of Braine of
the Black Hundred--a fine specimen of a man gone wrong through greed
and an inordinate lust for revenge.
The policeman returned to Hargreave.
"It's pretty quiet up-stairs," he suggested.  "Don't you think, sir,
that I'd better try that bedroom door again?"
"Well, if you must," assented Hargreave reluctantly.  "But don't be
rough with her if you can help it."
For Braine he had no sympathy.  When he recalled all the misery that
devil's emissary had caused him, the years of hiding and pursuit, the
loss of the happiness that had rightfully been his, his heart became
adamant.  For eighteen years to have ridden and driven and sailed up
and down the world, always confident that sooner or later that demon
would find him!  He had lost the childhood of his daughter; and now he
was to lose her in her womanhood.  And because of this implacable
hatred the child's mother had died in the Petrograd prison-fortress.
But what an enemy the man had been!  He, Hargreave, had needed all his
wits constantly; he had never dared to go to sleep except with one eye
open.  But in employing ordinary crooks, Braine had at length
overreached himself; and now he must pay the penalty.  The way of the
transgressor is hard; and though this ancient saying looks dingy with
the wear and tear of centuries, it still holds good.
But he felt sorry for the woman up above.  She had loved not wisely but
too well.  Far better for her if she put an end to life.  She would not
live a year in the God-forsaken snows of Siberia.
"My kind father!" said Florence, as if she could read his thoughts.
"I had a hard time of it, child.  It was difficult to play the butler
with you about.  The times that I fought down the desire to sweep you
up in my arms!  But I kept an iron grip on that impulse.  It would have
imperiled you.  In some manner it would have leaked out; and your life
and mine wouldn't have been worth a button."
Florence threw her arms around him and held him tightly.
"That poor woman up-stairs!" she murmured.  "Can't they let her go?"
"No, dear.  She has lost, and losers pay the stakes.  That's life.
Norton, you knew who I was all the time, didn't you?"
"I did; Mr. Hargreave.  There was a scar on the lobe of your ear; and
secretly I often wondered at the likeness between you and the real
Jones.  When I caught a glimpse of that ear, then I knew what the game
was.  And I'll add that you played it amazingly well.  The one flaw in
Braine's campaign was his hurry.  He started the ball rolling before
getting all the phases clearly established in his mind.  He was a brave
man, anyhow; and more than once he had me where I believed that prayers
only were necessary."
"And do you think that you can lead Florence to the million?" asked
Hargreave, smiling.
"For one thing, it is in her room, and has always been there.  It never
was in the chest."
"Not bad, not bad," mused the father.
"But perhaps after all it will be better if you show it to her
yourself."
"Just a little uncertain?" jibed the millionaire.
"Absolutely certain.  I will whisper in your ear where it is hidden."
Norton leaned forward as Hargreave bent attentively.
"You've hit it!  But how in the world did you guess it?"
"Because it was the last place any one would look for it.  I judged at
the start that you'd hide it in just such a spot, in some place where
you could always guard it, and lay your hands on it quickly if needs
said must."
"I'm mighty glad you were on my side," said Hargreave.  "In a few
minutes we'll go up and take a look at those packets of bills.  There's
a very unhappy young woman there at present."
"It is in my room?" cried Florence.
Hargreave nodded.
Meantime the Countess Olga hovered between two courses: a brave attempt
to escape by the window or to turn the revolver against her heart.  In
either case there was nothing left in life for her.  The man she loved
was dead below, killed by her hand.  She felt as though she was
treading air in some fantastical nightmare.  She could not go forward
or backward, and her heels were always within reach of her pursuers.
So this was the end of things?  The dreams she had had of going away
with Braine to other climes, the happiness she had pictured, all mere
chimeras!  A sudden rage swept over her.  She would escape, she would
continue to play the game to the end.  She would show them that she had
been the man's mate, not his pliant tool.  She raised the window and
stepped out onto the balcony .... into the hands of the policeman who
had patiently been waiting for her to do so!  Instantly she placed the
revolver at her temple.  A quick clutch, and the policeman had her by
the wrist.  She made one tigerish effort to free herself, shrugged, and
signified that she surrendered.
"I don't want to hurt you, Miss," said the policeman; "but if you make
any attempt to escape, I'll have to put the handcuffs on you."
"I'll go quietly.  What are you going to do with me?"
"Turn you over to the Russian agent.  He has extradition papers; and I
guess it's Siberia."
"For me?" She laughed scornfully.  "Do I look like a woman who would go
to Siberia?"
"Be careful, Miss.  As I said, I don't want to put the cuffs on unless
I have to."
She laughed again.  It did not have a pleasant sound in the officer's
ears.  He had heard women, suicidal bent, laugh like that.
"I'll ask you for that ring on your finger."
"Do you think there is poison in it?"
"I shouldn't be surprised," he admitted.
She slipped the ring from her finger and gave it to him.
"There is poison in it; so be careful how you handle it," she said.
The policeman accepted it gingerly and dropped it into his capacious
pocket.  It tinkled as it fell against the handcuffs.
At that moment the other policeman broke in the door.
"All right, Dolan; she's given up the game."
"She didn't kill the man after all," said Dolan.
"He's alive?" she screamed.
"Yes; and they've taken him off to the Tombs.  Just a scalp wound.
He'll be all right in a day or two."
"Alive!" murmured Olga.  She had not killed the man she loved, then?
And if they were indeed taken to Siberia, she would be with him until
the end of things.
With her handsome head proudly erect, she walked toward the door.  She
paused for a moment to look at the portrait of Hargreave.  Somehow it
seemed to smile at her ironically.  Then on, down the stairs, between
the two officers, she went.  Her glance traveled coolly from face to
face, and stopped at Florence's.  There she saw pity.
