filled with bodings.

While they were saying their parting words I slipped out and set my
course for Marget’s house to see what was happening there. I met many
people, but none of them greeted me. It ought to have been surprising,
but it was not, for they were so distraught with fear and dread that
they were not in their right minds, I think; they were white and
haggard, and walked like persons in a dream, their eyes open but seeing
nothing, their lips moving but uttering nothing, and worriedly clasping
and unclasping their hands without knowing it.

At Marget’s it was like a funeral. She and Wilhelm sat together on the
sofa, but said nothing, and not even holding hands. Both were steeped
in gloom, and Marget’s eyes were red from the crying she had been
doing. She said:

“I have been begging him to go, and come no more, and so save himself
alive. I cannot bear to be his murderer. This house is bewitched, and
no inmate will escape the fire. But he will not go, and he will be lost
with the rest.”

Wilhelm said he would not go; if there was danger for her, his place
was by her, and there he would remain. Then she began to cry again,
and it was all so mournful that I wished I had stayed away. There was
a knock, now, and Satan came in, fresh and cheery and beautiful, and
brought that winy atmosphere of his and changed the whole thing. He
never said a word about what had been happening, nor about the awful
fears which were freezing the blood in the hearts of the community,
but began to talk and rattle on about all manner of gay and pleasant
things; and next about music--an artful stroke which cleared away
the remnant of Marget’s depression and brought her spirits and her
interests broad awake. She had not heard any one talk so well and so
knowingly on that subject before, and she was so uplifted by it and so
charmed that what she was feeling lit up her face and came out in her
words; and Wilhelm noticed it and did not look as pleased as he ought
to have done. And next Satan branched off into poetry, and recited
some, and did it well, and Marget was charmed again; and again Wilhelm
was not as pleased as he ought to have been, and this time Marget
noticed it and was remorseful.

I fell asleep to pleasant music that night--the patter of rain upon the
panes and the dull growling of distant thunder. Away in the night Satan
came and roused me and said: “Come with me. Where shall we go?”

“Anywhere--so it is with you.”

Then there was a fierce glare of sunlight, and he said, “This is China.”

That was a grand surprise, and made me sort of drunk with vanity and
gladness to think I had come so far--so much, much farther than anybody
else in our village, including Bartel Sperling, who had such a great
opinion of his travels. We buzzed around over that empire for more than
half an hour, and saw the whole of it. It was wonderful, the spectacles
we saw; and some were beautiful, others too horrible to think. For
instance--However, I may go into that by and by, and also why Satan
chose China for this excursion instead of another place; it would
interrupt my tale to do it now. Finally we stopped flitting and lit.

We sat upon a mountain commanding a vast landscape of mountain-range
and gorge and valley and plain and river, with cities and villages
slumbering in the sunlight, and a glimpse of blue sea on the farther
verge. It was a tranquil and dreamy picture, beautiful to the eye
and restful to the spirit. If we could only make a change like that
whenever we wanted to, the world would be easier to live in than it is,
for change of scene shifts the mind’s burdens to the other shoulder and
banishes old, shop-worn wearinesses from mind and body both.

We talked together, and I had the idea of trying to reform Satan and
persuade him to lead a better life. I told him about all those things
he had been doing, and begged him to be more considerate and stop
making people unhappy. I said I knew he did not mean any harm, but that
he ought to stop and consider the possible consequences of a thing
before launching it in that impulsive and random way of his; then he
would not make so much trouble. He was not hurt by this plain speech;
he only looked amused and surprised, and said:

“What? I do random things? Indeed, I never do. I stop and consider
possible consequences? Where is the need? I know what the consequences
are going to be--always.”

“Oh, Satan, then how could you do these things?”

“Well, I will tell you, and you must understand if you can. You
belong to a singular race. Every man is a suffering-machine and
a happiness-machine combined. The two functions work together
harmoniously, with a fine and delicate precision, on the give-and-take
principle. For every happiness turned out in the one department the
other stands ready to modify it with a sorrow or a pain--maybe a
dozen. In most cases the man’s life is about equally divided between
happiness and unhappiness. When this is not the case the unhappiness
predominates--always; never the other. Sometimes a man’s make and
disposition are such that his misery-machine is able to do nearly
all the business. Such a man goes through life almost ignorant of
what happiness is. Everything he touches, everything he does, brings
a misfortune upon him. You have seen such people? To that kind of
a person life is not an advantage, is it? It is only a disaster.
Sometimes for an hour’s happiness a man’s machinery makes him pay years
of misery. Don’t you know that? It happens every now and then. I will
give you a case or two presently. Now the people of your village are
nothing to me--you know that, don’t you?”

I did not like to speak out too flatly, so I said I had suspected it.

“Well, it is true that they are nothing to me. It is not possible
that they should be. The difference between them and me is abysmal,
immeasurable. They have no intellect.”

“No intellect?”

“Nothing that resembles it. At a future time I will examine what man
calls his mind and give you the details of that chaos, then you will
see and understand. Men have nothing in common with me--there is no
point of contact; they have foolish little feelings and foolish little
vanities and impertinences and ambitions; their foolish little life is
but a laugh, a sigh, and extinction; and they have no sense. Only the
Moral Sense. I will show you what I mean. Here is a red spider, not so
big as a pin’s head. Can you imagine an elephant being interested in
him--caring whether he is happy or isn’t, or whether he is wealthy or
poor, or whether his sweetheart returns his love or not, or whether
his mother is sick or well, or whether he is looked up to in society
or not, or whether his enemies will smite him or his friends desert
him, or whether his hopes will suffer blight or his political ambitions
fail, or whether he shall die in the bosom of his family or neglected
and despised in a foreign land? These things can never be important to
the elephant; they are nothing to him; he cannot shrink his sympathies
to the microscopic size of them. Man is to me as the red spider is to
the elephant. The elephant has nothing against the spider--he cannot
get down to that remote level; I have nothing against man. The elephant
is indifferent; I am indifferent. The elephant would not take the
trouble to do the spider an ill turn; if he took the notion he might
do him a good turn, if it came in his way and cost nothing. I have done
men good service, but no ill turns.

“The elephant lives a century, the red spider a day; in power,
intellect, and dignity the one creature is separated from the other
by a distance which is simply astronomical. Yet in these, as in all
qualities, man is immeasurably further below me than is the wee spider
below the elephant.

“Man’s mind clumsily and tediously and laboriously patches little
trivialities together and gets a result--such as it is. My mind
creates! Do you get the force of that? Creates anything it desires--and
in a moment. Creates without material. Creates fluids, solids,
colors--anything, everything--out of the airy nothing which is called
Thought. A man imagines a silk thread, imagines a machine to make it,
imagines a picture, then by weeks of labor embroiders it on canvas
with the thread. I think the whole thing, and in a moment it is before
you--created.

“I think a poem, music, the record of a game of chess--anything--and
it is there. This is the immortal mind--nothing is beyond its reach.
Nothing can obstruct my vision; the rocks are transparent to me, and
darkness is daylight. I do not need to open a book; I take the whole
of its contents into my mind at a single glance, through the cover;
and in a million years I could not forget a single word of it, or its
place in the volume. Nothing goes on in the skull of man, bird, fish,
insect, or other creature which can be hidden from me. I pierce the
learned man’s brain with a single glance, and the treasures which cost
him threescore years to accumulate are mine; he can forget, and he does
forget, but I retain.
