am !" he interrupted. "And you and your brother 
must remember at any rate that though the 
natives of Mexico and Peru, when first discovered 
by the Spaniards, had never seen a horse and 
thought them very terrible, we have long ago 
got over that in our part of the country, and in 
deed, I think, are not much in fear of anything 
or anyone unless it be perhaps of finer ladies 
than our simple society and our homely manners 
have yet taught us to deal with. I pray the 
powers," he went on to his kinsman, for whom 
once more, despite his desire to the contrary, he 
felt himself "figure" all too unavoidably and 
confoundingly, "I pray the powers I mayn't 
want either for wit or for any other sort of cool 
ness when it's a question of your fine gentlemen 
by which I mean of my enjoying their notice 
and letting them not doubt of mine. But of 
course my very errand shows you how marked 
I am for the full ravage of female loveliness and 
for the advantage that it gains from the perfect 
gentility waiting upon it among you here. It 
must clearly do what it will with me, you see, 
and if the best it can do is likely to be to kill me 
why I'll at least go merrily to my death." 

Perry Midmore, listening to this, kept his face 
half averted, but his eye was now more judiciously 
watchful and he turned it askance in his atten 
tion. He would weigh things and be wise they 





  

might help to make him so, when his visitor ut 
tered them, if they couldn't always make him 
ready; all of which inward comment the visitor 
had again the vexed consciousness of not being 
able to keep him from suspecting. He had taught 
him within five minutes that there was, that 
there could be, such a thing, and its pointing it 
self at him, whatever its sense, was the new and 
the disquieting fact. Ralph laid a hand on his 
shoulder with a singular sudden impulse to prove 
that even if one's thought was at play, since this 
was on occasion of the perverse nature of thought, 
the letting it take its full course would really 
bring it round to a point, in fact to a succession 
of points, where another would recognise it as 
positively working for him; and the gesture did 
after an instant so far operate as that the other's 
queer little glare abated and he stood as stifHy 
passive as if, whatever this should mean, the least 
movement might perhaps precipitate some further 
complication. 

Mrs. Midmore meanwhile, Ralph saw, had so 
completely measured his own bright promise that, 
quite at her ease about it, her anxiety was all for 
her son's somehow interfering with the prospect; 
which she at the same time mightn't be able to 
take him up upon by reason of something divin- 
ably new and strange, something perhaps even 
beyond his usual show of shyness and that pro 
voked wonder at the cause of it. Ralph had in 





  

fact in this connection another of his sublime 
instants, as we may fairly call them, with this 
particular one possibly the most sublime since 
her next motion, though but a momentary look 
at him, of the supremely searchingest, played 
straight out of her desire to side with him, as it 
were, against any hindrance to a right under 
standing and a convenient, an elegant smoothness 
that her boy should stupidly offer. Wasn't there 
in her face during the moment a dim glimmer of 
inquiry? something like "What on earth is it, 
yes, that you're doing to him, what was it, yes, 
a few minutes ago, when if I hadn't been watching 
him he would have shuddered like a frightened 
horse who sniffs in the air the nearness of some 
creature of a sort he has never seen ? " The whole 
mother would have been in that, Ralph was after 
wards to make out, the mother deeply engaged 
for her daughter's benefit and pleasure, as well 
as for anything to the advantage of the race in . 
general that could be picked up by a sufficiently 
dignified long arm, and at the same time so rich 
in instincts that had for their centre the prior 
consequence of the head of the house, that she 
could almost know alarm in the midst of jubila 
tion, and at any rate seemed to turn upon the 
hero of the occasion, for the five seconds, the 
chill of a special quite tremendous suggestion. 
She wanted right resolutely to like and to further 
him it would be so good for them all, and if he 





  

was destined in any degree to counter this it 
wouldn't be by an effect upon her directly pro 
duced, but literally through her fond attention to 
Perry and even should that attention amount to 
impatience of Perry's attitude. He would but 
have to show personal fear, so to call it, or per 
haps to do no more than show that he was afraid 
in advance of knowing it, for that question of 
what might be the matter with him to lead to 
the other and the finer. Such might be taken 
then as the way in which the last wonder about 
the American cousin would doubtless usher itself 
in. It was, however, so far from having yet won 
an inch of the ground, or having indeed really 
foreshadowed its power to do this, that all Ralph 
knew, to the effect of joy, within the minute, was 
that she was just putting Perry as right as possi 
ble again by the renewed wealth of her tone. 

"Don't turn it upon us that we take you for a 
savage," she laughed to her visitor, "when you 
talk about killing and dying among us as if we 
were Red Men on the war-path ! If we're going 
to kill and eat you at any rate isn't that what 
your cannibals do ? we shall at least fatten you 
first for the table, and you needn't fear but that 
you'll enjoy that as much as you may suppose 
us to enjoy, as good judges, the next stage of the 
affair. I'm an excellent judge myself, please be 
lieve, and I shall decline to have you despatched 
before you're in perfect condition. Meanwhile 





  

therefore," she nobly continued, "we shall live 
upon you in this pleasant way and with Molly's 
good right to be helped to you first, always first, 
entirely understood by us. The only thing is 
that I'm not sure we're quite eager to share you 
at once with a hundred other people." 

Perry it was, rather remarkably, who spoke in 
answer to these fine words before Ralph had time 
to meet them obliged as the latter always was, 
