the crowd in a solid mass ; they packed the street in front 
of the office, while the heroic seven went up the steps and 
passed into the building. Wauchope made inquiry for 
Mr. Cartwright, and a clerk took in the message. 

They stood waiting; and meanwhile, one of the office- 
people, coming in from the street, beckoned to Hal. He 
had an envelope in his hand, and gave it over without a 
word. It was addressed, " Joe Smith," and Hal opened 
it, and found within a small visiting card, at which he 
stared. " Edward S. Warner, Jr." ! 

For a moment Hal could hardly believe the evidence of 
his eyesight Edward in North Valley! Then, turning 
the card over, he read, in his brother's familiar handwrit- 
ing, " I am at Cartwright's house. I must see you. The 
matter concerns Dad. Come instantly." 

Fear leaped into Hal's heart. What could such a mes- 
sage mean? 

He turned quickly to the committee and explained. 
" My father's an old man, and had a stroke of apoplexy 
three years ago. I'm afraid he may be dead, or very ill. 
I must go." 

" It's a trick ! " cried Wauchope excitedly. 

"No, not possibly," answered Hal. "I know my 
brother's handwriting. I must see him." 

" Well," declared the other, " we'll wait. We'll not see 
Cartwright until you get back." 



 

Hal considered this. " I don't think that's wise," he 
said. " You can do what you have to do just as well with- 
out me." 

" But I wanted you to do the talking ! " 

" No," replied Hal, " that's your business, Wauchope. 
You are the president of the union. You know what the 
men want, as well as I do j you know what they complain 
of. And besides, there's not going to be any need of talk- 
ing with Cartwright Either he's going to grant our de- 
mands or he isn't." 

They discussed the matter back and forth. Mary Burke 
insisted that they were pulling Hal away just at the criti- 
cal moment I He laughed as he answered. She was as 
good as any man when it came to an argument. If Wau- 
chope showed signs of weakening, let her speak up ! 



 So Hal hurried off, and climbed the street which 
led to the superintendent's house, a concrete bungalow set 
upon a little elevation overlooking the camp. He rang the 
bell, and the door opened, and in the entrance stood his 
brother. 

Edward Warner was eight years older than Hal; the 
perfect type of the young American business man. His 
figure was erect and athletic, his features were regular and 
strong, his voice, his manner, everything about him spoke 
of quiet decision, of energy precisely directed. As a rule, 
he was a model of what the tailor's art could do, but just 
now there was something abnormal about his attire as well 
as his manner. 

Hal's anxiety had been increasing all the way up the 
street. " What's the matter with Dad ? " he cried. 

" Dad's all right," was the answer — " that is, for the 
moment." 

"Then what — ?" 

"Peter Harrigan's on his way back from the East. 



 

He's due in Western City to-morrow. You can see that 
something will be the matte* with Dad unless you quit this 
business at once." 

Hal had a sudden reaction from his fear. " So that's 
all ! " he exclaimed. 

His brother was gazing at the young miner, dressed in 
sooty blue overalls, his face streaked with black, his wavy 
hair all mussed. " You wired me you were going to 
leave here, Hal ! " 

" So I was ; but things happened that I couldn't fore- 
see. There's a strike." 

" Yes ; but what's that got to do with it ? " Then, with 
exasperation in his voice, " For God's sake, Hal, how much 
farther do you expect to go ? " 

Hal stood for a few moments, looking at his brother. 
Even in a tension as he was, he could not help laughing. 
" I know how all this must seem to you, Edward. It's a 
long story ; I hardly know how to begin." 

" No, I suppose not," said Edward, drily. 

And Hal laughed again. " Well, we agree that far, at 
any rate. What I was hoping was that we could talk it all 
over quietly, after the excitement was past. When I ex- 
plain to you about conditions in this place — " 

But Edward interrupted. " Really, Hal, there's no use 
of such an argument. I have nothing to do with condi- 
tions in Peter Harrigan's camps." 

The smile left Hal's face. "Would you have pre- 
ferred to have me investigate conditions in the Warner 
camps ? " Hal had tried to suppress his irritation, but 
there was simply no way these two could get along. 
"We've had our arguments about these things, Edward, 
and you've always had the best of me — you could tell me 
I was a child, it was presumptuous of me to dispute your 
assertions. But now — well, I'm a child no longer, and 
we'll have to meet on a new basis." 

Hal's tone, more than his words, made an impression. 



 

Edward thought before he spoke. "Well, what's your 
new basis ? " 

" Just now I'm in the midst of a strike, and I can hardly 
stop to explain." 

" You don't think of Dad in all this madness ? " 

" I think of Dad, and of you too, Edward ; but this is 
hardly the time — " 

" If ever in the world there was a time, this is it ! " 

Hal groaned inwardly. "All right," he said, "sit 
down. I'll try to give you some idea how I got swept into 
this." 

He began to tell about the conditions he had found in 
this stronghold of the " G. F. C." As usual, when he 
talked about it, he became absorbed in its human as- 
pects ; a fervour came into his tone, he was carried on, as 
