they all walked on, now in silence, to his house, and he 
opened the door for them and they went in and sat down, 
Mary suddenly, weakly, as if she felt the weariness of 
her part. And immediately Ellen pulled herself together, 
as she had determined to do, on the way, and spoke. She 
was not now trembling and flushed with happiness, but 
deeply grave. 

" I*m not going to trouble anybody," said she. 

" No,'' said Larry. " We know that." 

" But," said Ellen, " if what I'm going to do is wrong, 
I shall do it just the same." 

Mary watched her with a dull intentness, conscious 
chiefly of her tired head. What was she going to 
do? Something that would tire everybody's head still 
more? 

" I don't know where I'm going," said Ellen. " I can't 
think." 



 

That was it, Mary thought. None of them could 
think. 

" But,'' said Ellen, in a voice that now made its way 
clearly, "I sha'n't stay with Ben. Not ever. Not as 
long as I live. Nobody'll know,'' she went on, turning to 
Mary with the look in her face that begged Mary to im- 
derstand her, "why I thought I could. I don't know. 
But I never will — never ! never ! " 

Mary seemed to hear the words through the closed door 
on the bridal night, and again her heart turned to Ben, 
pathetic in his deserted state. Larry's thoughts kept 
time with Ellen's words, an impetuous commentary. How 
could anything else have been expected, he raged, when 
youth was thrown uninstructed into its great natural 
battle? What was Ellen but a child when she had been 
drawn on by a million silent impulses to pledge herself 
to a compact as vague to her as it was safe and kindly? 
Even he had blunderingly influenced her before she was 
really awake, lest she go with her eyes the more darkly 
bandaged. He had made the love of man and woman the 
climax of earthly inheritance. Was it the climax? He 
was inclined still to think it was. But then there was, 
also, the honor and honesty of the lonely soul. Wasn't 
the great battle, after all, not the struggle to claim a 
mate, but the soul's striving to establish itself before the 
gods? 

" Anyhow," he said, out of this last challenge of possi- 
bilities too big for him, " Ellen's got to do the square 
thing." 

She couldn't know this was the breaking of a big wave 
that had heaved itself up in the sea of his mind ; it soimded 
like a million other whispers she had heard that day from 
the rote of the world's accepted fiats. 

" The square thing? " she echoed, turning to him, her 



 

face a sudden flame. " Does that mean living witli Ben 
because I promised to?" 

" No," said Hugh, in a savage protest. " No, by 
God ! " 

Mary Neale had never heard her sons use the great 
words men swear by, and it startled her. She turned to 
Hugh, the shocked look on her face, and he misread it, 
and asked her passionately, "What do you say? Do 
you want her to do that, to be respectable? " 

And again Mary heard the "Never! never!" through 
the closed door and said violently: 

" No ! no ! she can't." 

" So I say," said Larry. " I mean," he added to Ellen, 
in a gentleness that made her beg him to forgive her, in 
her heart, for thinking he could misread her, " you've 
got to do the square thing by yourself. If you don't 
love Ben — of course you don't love Ben, child ! " he 
added, despairing over her stupidity — "you can't live 
with him." 

" No," said Ellen, with a quick breath. " That's all 
then, all there is to it. Couldn't I stay a minute after 
you go? " She looked at Hugh and he got up and put 
out his hand to Mary who was pale, as if the strength 
had all gone out of her. 

" Come on, miun," said he. 

His thought was with her now. She was being tired 
tremendously, he saw. Whatever was to come, she must 
stay out of it. Ellen wasn't going to be hoodwinked into 
listening to Ben. He knew her old contrariness and 
smiled over it to himself. It would be their bulwark now. 
Mary Neale went without a word, and when the door 
had closed after them and Larry had come back to his 
seat, Ellen stretched out both hands and gave them to his 
eager ones. 

" Larry," she said, " dear — oh, now I know how dear 



 

wftlf you are. I know all about it — about everything. I 
saw it last night when I thought and thought — and to-day 
when Hugh came. And I saw how patient you've 
been with me. But, Larry, what shall I do now? '' She 

k p hardly waited for the answer he hesitated for the wisdom 

mti to give. " I've wasted so much time," she went on, " try- 

mi ing to do what other people do. Because I thought that 

j! I was the way." 

" So've I, Ellen," he said sadly. " Fve wasted all my 

bsv life. Not doing what other people do, but being sulky 
and lazy and keeping out of the game. I give you my 
word I never knew the gates of the universe were wide 
open to every one of us. I never began to learn it till I 
saw what men do when the devil peers up over the rim of 
the world and claws at them. But you're a baby yet. 
You've got the years before you." 

" You see," said she, " I've grown up. It isn't only 
because Hugh's come home. It's everything. Larry, 
I've grown up." 

He thought he knew why she had waked. The sound 
of the guns had waked her. The great vibration that 
shook the earth itself had jarred the atoms in her as they 
had in him, and the shell of habit and unproved tradi- 
tion had cracked and was fallen, and they — the inside 
being of them — saw light and felt the air. It was not 
that they saw grotesquely, through this waving of crea- 
tion in the winds of destiny, that they looked to them- 
selves like gods in this flare of a burning world and knew 
themselves to be, for all time, different. It was because 
they found the forces of honesty and calm decency were 
withstanding the forces that make for downfall and decay 
that they had waked to the certainty that truth is, justice 
