birches. From where she sat she saw the trail wandering across the
bleached grass in the direction of Hamblin, and the granite wall of the
Mountain falling away to infinite distances. On that side of the ridge
the valleys still lay in wintry shadow; but in the plain beyond the sun
was touching village roofs and steeples, and gilding the haze of smoke
over far-off invisible towns.

Charity felt herself a mere speck in the lonely circle of the sky. The
events of the last two days seemed to have divided her forever from
her short dream of bliss. Even Harney’s image had been blurred by that
crushing experience: she thought of him as so remote from her that he
seemed hardly more than a memory. In her fagged and floating mind only
one sensation had the weight of reality; it was the bodily burden of
her child. But for it she would have felt as rootless as the whiffs of
thistledown the wind blew past her. Her child was like a load that held
her down, and yet like a hand that pulled her to her feet. She said to
herself that she must get up and struggle on....

Her eyes turned back to the trail across the top of the Mountain, and
in the distance she saw a buggy against the sky. She knew its antique
outline, and the gaunt build of the old horse pressing forward with
lowered head; and after a moment she recognized the heavy bulk of the
man who held the reins. The buggy was following the trail and making
straight for the pine-wood through which she had climbed; and she knew
at once that the driver was in search of her. Her first impulse was
to crouch down under the ledge till he had passed; but the instinct of
concealment was overruled by the relief of feeling that someone was near
her in the awful emptiness. She stood up and walked toward the buggy.

Mr. Royall saw her, and touched the horse with the whip. A minute or two
later he was abreast of Charity; their eyes met, and without speaking he
leaned over and helped her up into the buggy.

She tried to speak, to stammer out some explanation, but no words came
to her; and as he drew the cover over her knees he simply said: “The
minister told me he’d left you up here, so I come up for you.”

He turned the horse’s head, and they began to jog back toward Hamblin.
Charity sat speechless, staring straight ahead of her, and Mr. Royall
occasionally uttered a word of encouragement to the horse: “Get along
there, Dan.... I gave him a rest at Hamblin; but I brought him along
pretty quick, and it’s a stiff pull up here against the wind.”

As he spoke it occurred to her for the first time that to reach the top
of the Mountain so early he must have left North Dormer at the coldest
hour of the night, and have travelled steadily but for the halt at
Hamblin; and she felt a softness at her heart which no act of his had
ever produced since he had brought her the Crimson Rambler because she
had given up boarding-school to stay with him.

After an interval he began again: “It was a day just like this, only
spitting snow, when I come up here for you the first time.” Then, as if
fearing that she might take his remark as a reminder of past benefits,
he added quickly: “I dunno’s you think it was such a good job, either.”

“Yes, I do,” she murmured, looking straight ahead of her.

“Well,” he said, “I tried----”

He did not finish the sentence, and she could think of nothing more to
say.

“Ho, there, Dan, step out,” he muttered, jerking the bridle. “We ain’t
home yet.--You cold?” he asked abruptly.

She shook her head, but he drew the cover higher up, and stooped to tuck
it in about the ankles. She continued to look straight ahead. Tears of
weariness and weakness were dimming her eyes and beginning to run over,
but she dared not wipe them away lest he should observe the gesture.

They drove in silence, following the long loops of the descent upon
Hamblin, and Mr. Royall did not speak again till they reached the
outskirts of the village. Then he let the reins droop on the dashboard
and drew out his watch.

“Charity,” he said, “you look fair done up, and North Dormer’s a goodish
way off. I’ve figured out that we’d do better to stop here long enough
for you to get a mouthful of breakfast and then drive down to Creston
and take the train.”

She roused herself from her apathetic musing. “The train--what train?”

Mr. Royall, without answering, let the horse jog on till they reached
the door of the first house in the village. “This is old Mrs. Hobart’s
place,” he said. “She’ll give us something hot to drink.”

Charity, half unconsciously, found herself getting out of the buggy and
following him in at the open door. They entered a decent kitchen with a
fire crackling in the stove. An old woman with a kindly face was setting
out cups and saucers on the table. She looked up and nodded as they
came in, and Mr. Royall advanced to the stove, clapping his numb hands
together.

“Well, Mrs. Hobart, you got any breakfast for this young lady? You can
see she’s cold and hungry.”

Mrs. Hobart smiled on Charity and took a tin coffee-pot from the fire.
“My, you do look pretty mean,” she said compassionately.

Charity reddened, and sat down at the table. A feeling of complete
passiveness had once more come over her, and she was conscious only of
the pleasant animal sensations of warmth and rest.

Mrs. Hobart put bread and milk on the table, and then went out of the
house: Charity saw her leading the horse away to the barn across the
yard. She did not come back, and Mr. Royall and Charity sat alone at the
table with the smoking coffee between them. He poured out a cup for her,
and put a piece of bread in the saucer, and she began to eat.

As the warmth of the coffee flowed through her veins her thoughts
cleared and she began to feel like a living being again; but the return
to life was so painful that the food choked in her throat and she sat
staring down at the table in silent anguish.

After a while Mr. Royall pushed back his chair. “Now, then,” he said,
“if you’re a mind to go along----” She did not move, and he continued:
“We can pick up the noon train for Nettleton if you say so.”

The words sent the blood rushing to her face, and she raised her
startled eyes to his. He was standing on the other side of the table
looking at her kindly and gravely; and suddenly she understood what he
was going to say. She continued to sit motionless, a leaden weight upon
her lips.

“You and me have spoke some hard things to each other in our time,
Charity; and there’s no good that I can see in any more talking now. But
I’ll never feel any way but one about you; and if you say so we’ll drive
down in time to catch that train, and go straight to the minister’s
house; and when you come back home you’ll come as Mrs. Royall.”

His voice had the grave persuasive accent that had moved his hearers at
the Home Week festival; she had a sense of depths of mournful tolerance
under that easy tone. Her whole body began to tremble with the dread of
her own weakness.

“Oh, I can’t----” she burst out desperately.

“Can’t what?”

She herself did not know: she was not sure if she was rejecting what he
offered, or already struggling against the temptation of taking what
she no longer had a right to. She stood up, shaking and bewildered, and
began to speak:

“I know I ain’t been fair to you always; but I want to be now.... I want
you to know... I want...” Her voice failed her and she stopped.

Mr. Royall leaned against the wall. He was paler than usual, but his
face was composed and kindly and her agitation did not appear to perturb
him.

“What’s all this about wanting?” he said as she paused. “Do you know
what you really want? I’ll tell you. You want to be took home and took
care of. And I guess that’s all there is to say.”

“No... it’s not all....”

“Ain’t it?” He looked at his watch. “Well, I’ll tell you another thing.
All I want is to know if you’ll marry me. If there was anything else,
I’d tell you so; but there ain’t. Come to my age, a man knows the things
