Gray's look at him betrayed on this a still finer 
interest in his interest. "You see the limits in 
me of that passion." 

"Well, my dear chap, I've seen greater limits 
to many things than your having your little secret 





 

tucked away under your thumb. Do you mind 
my asking," Horton risked, "whether what deters 
you from action — and by action I mean opening 
your letter — is just a real apprehension of the 
effect designed by the good gentleman ? Do you 
feel yourself exposed, by the nature of your mind 
or any presumption on Gaw's behalf, to give 
credit, vulgarly speaking, to whatever charge or 
charges he may bring ? " 

Gray weighed the question, his wide dark eyes 
would have told us, in his choicest silver scales. 
"Neither the nature of my mind, bless it, nor the 
utmost force of any presumption to the contrary, 
prevents my having found my uncle, in his wonderful latest development, the very most charming person that I've ever seen in my life. Why 
he impressed me as a model of every virtue." 

"I confess I don't see," said Horton, "how a 
relative so behaving could have failed to endear 
himself. With such convictions why don't you 
risk looking ? " 

Gray was but for a moment at a loss — he quite 
undertook to know. "Because the whole thing 
would be so horrible. I mean the question itself 
is — and even our here and at such a time discussing it." 

"Nothing is horrible — to the point of making 
one quake," Horton opined, "that falls to the 
ground with a smash from the moment one drops 
it. The sense of your document is exactly what's 





 

to be appreciated. It would have no sense at all 
if you didn't believe." 

Gray considered, but still differed. "Yes, to 
find it merely vindictive and base, and thereby 
to have to take it for false, that would still be 
an odious experience." 

"Then why the devil don't you simply destroy 
the thing?" Horton at last quite impatiently 
inquired. 

Gray showed perhaps he had scarce a reason, 
but had, to the very brightest effect, an answer. 
"That's just what I want you to help me to. To 
help me, that is," he explained, "after a little to 
decide for." 

"After a little?" wondered Horton. "After 
how long?" 

"Well, after long enough for me to feel sure 
I don't aet in fear. I don't want," he went on 
as in fresh illustration of the pleasure taken by 
him, to the point, as it were, of luxury, in feeling 
no limit to his companion's comprehension, or 
to the patience involved in it either, amusedly 
as Horton might at moments attempt to belie 
that, adding thereby to the whole service some- 
thing still more spacious — "I don't want to act 
in fear of anything or of anyone whatever; I 
said to myself at home three weeks ago, or whenever, that it wasn't for that I was going to come 
over; and I propose therefore, you see, to know 
so far as possible where I am and what I'm 





 

about: morally speaking at least, if not finan- 
cially." 

His friend but looked at him again on this in 
rather desperate diversion. "I don't see how 
you're to know where you are, I confess, if you 
take no means to find out." 

"Well, my acquisition of property seems by 
itself to promise me information, and for the 
understanding of the lesson I shall have to take 
a certain time. What I want," Gray finely ar- 
gued, "is to act but in the light of that." 

"In the light of time ? Then why do you begin 
by so oddly wasting it ? " 

"Because I think it may be the only way for 
me not to waste understanding. Don't be afraid," 
he went on, moving as by the effect of Horton's 
motion, which had brought that subject of appeal 
a few steps nearer the rare repository, "that I 
shall commit the extravagance of at all wasting 
you." 

Horton, from where he had paused, looked up 
at the ivory tower; though as Gray was placed 
in the straight course of approach to it he had 
after a fashion to catch and meet his eyes by the 
way. "What you really want of me, it's clear, 
is to help you to fidget and fumble — or in other 
words to prolong the most absurd situation; and 
what I ought to do, if you'd believe it of me, is 
to take that stuff out of your hands and just 
deal with it myself." 





 

"And what do you mean by dealing with it 
yourself?" 

"Why destroying it unread by either of us — 
which," said Horton, looking about, "I'd do in 
a jiffy, on the spot, if there were only a fire in 
that grate. The place is clear, however, and 
we've matches; let me chuck your letter in and 
enjoy the blaze with you." 

"Ah, my dear man, don't! Don't!" Gray 
repeated, putting it rather as a plea for indul- 
gence than as any ghost of a defiance, but in- 
stinctively stepping backward in defence of his 
treasure. 

His companion, for a little, gazed at the- cabi- 
net, in speculation, it might really have seemed, 
as to an extraordinary reach of arm. "You posi- 
tively prefer to hug the beastly thing?" 

"Let me alone," Gray presently returned, "and 
you'll probably find I've hugged it to death." 

Horton took, however, on his side, a moment 
for further reflection. "I thought what you 
