course, does not include the names of Americans married to Frenchmen: 
Mrs. Sharp, Miss Anne Morgan, Mrs. Tuck, Mrs. 
Bliss, Miss Elisabeth Marbury, Miss Elsie de Wolfe, 
Mrs. Robert Bacon, Mrs. W. K. Vanderbilt," Mrs. 
Whitney Warren, Mrs. Wharton, Mrs. Canfield Fisher, 
Miss Grace Ellery Channing, Mrs. Blake, Mrs. Car- 
roll of Carrollton, Mrs. Sherman, Mrs. Cooper 
Hewett, Miss Holt, Mrs. William H. Hill, Mrs. Shaw, 
Mrs. Frederick H. Allen, Mrs. Harry Payne Whit- 
ney, Miss Fairchild, Mrs. Younger, Mrs. Morton 
Mitchell, Mrs. Fleury, Mrs. Sales, Mrs. Hyde, Mrs. 
William Astor Chanler, Mrs. Ridgeley Carter, Miss 
Ethel Crocker, Miss Daisy Polk, Miss Janet Scudder, 
Mrs. Lathrop, Miss Vail, Mrs. Samuel Watson, Mrs. 
Armstrong Whitney, Mrs. Lawrence Slade, Miss Yan- 
dell, Mrs. Greene, Mrs. Duryea, Mrs. Depew, Mrs. 
Marion Crocker, Miss Mary Eyre, Mrs. Gros, Mrs. 
Van Heukelom, Mrs. Tarn McGrew, Mrs. Schoninger, 
Miss Grace Lounsbery, Mrs. Lawrence, the Princess 
Poniatowska, and Isadora Duncan. 
BOOK II 
FEMINISM IN PEACE AND WAR 
I 
THE THREAT OF THE MATRIARCHATE 
IT is possible that if the European War had been 
averted the history of Feminism would have made 
far different reading — say fifty years hence. The 
militant suffragettes of England had degenerated from 
something like real politicians into mere neurasthenics 
and not only had lost what little chance they seemed 
for a time to have of being taken seriously by the 
British Government, but had very nearly alienated 
the many thousands of women without the ranks that 
were wavering in the balance. This was their most 
serious mistake, for the chief handicap of the militants had been that too few women were disposed 
toward suffrage, or even interested. The history of 
the world shows that when any large body of people 
in a community want anything long enough and hard 
enough, and go after it with practical methods, they 
obtain it in one form or another. But the women of 
 
Britain as well as the awakening women of other nations east and west of the Atlantic, were so disgusted 
and alarmed by this persisting lack of self-control in 
embryonic politicians of their sex that they voted 
silently to preserve their sanity under the existing 
regime. It has formed one of the secret sources of 
the strength of the antis, that fear of the complete 
demoralization of their sex if freed from the immemorial restraints imposed by man. 
This attitude of mind does not argue a very distinguished order of reasoning powers or of clear 
thinking ; but then not too many men, in spite of their 
centuries of uninterrupted opportunity, face innovations or radical reforms with unerring foresight. 
There is a strong conservative instinct in the average 
man or woman, born of the hereditary fear of life, 
that prompts them to cling to old standards, or, if too 
intelligent to look inhospitably upon progress, to move 
very slowly. Both types are the brakes and wheel- 
horses necessary to a stable civilization, but history, 
even current history in the newspapers, would be dull 
reading if there were no adventurous spirits willing to 
do battle for new ideas. The militant women of Eng- 
land would have accomplished wonders if their nervous 
systems had not broken down under the prolonged 
strain. 
It is probable that after this war is over the women 
of the belligerent nations will be given the franchise 
by the weary men that are left, if they choose to insist 
upon it. They have shown the same bravery, endur- 
 
ance, self-sacrifice, resource, and grim determination 
as the men. In every war, it may be argued, women 
have displayed the same spirit and the same qualities, 
proving that they needed but the touchstone of opportunity to reveal the splendor of their endowment, but 
treated by man, as soon as peace was restored, as the 
same old inferior annex. 
This is true enough, but the point of difference is 
that never, prior to the Great War, was such an enormous body of women awake after the lethargic sub- 
mission of centuries, and clamoring for their rights. 
Never before have millions of women been supporting 
themselves; never before had they even contemplated 
organization and the direct political attack. Of course 
the women of Europe, exalted and worked half to 
death, have, with the exception of a few irrepressibles, 
put all idea of self-aggrandizement aside for the moment ; but this idea had grown too big and too dominant to be dismissed for good and all, with last year's 
fashions and the memory of delicate plats prepared by 
chefs now serving valiantly within the lines. The big 
idea, the master desire, the obsession, if you like, is 
merely taking an enforced rest, and there is persistent speculation as to what the thinking and the energetic women of Europe will do when this war is over, and how far men will help or hinder them. 
I have written upon this question in its bearings 
upon the women of France more fully in another 
chapter ; but it may be stated here that such important 
feminists as Madame Verone, the eminent avocat, and 
 
Mile. Valentine Thompson, the youngest but one of the 
ablest of the leaders, while doing everything to help 
and nothing to embarrass their Government, never 
permit the question to recede wholly to the back- 
ground. Mile. Thompson argues that the men in 
authority should not be permitted for a moment to 
forget, not the services of women in this terrible 
chapter of France's destiny, for that is a matter of 
course, as ever, but the marked capabilities women 
have shown when suddenly thrust into positions of 
authority. In certain invaded towns the wives of imprisoned or executed Mayors have taken their place 
almost automatically and served with a capacity unrelated to sex. In some of these towns women have 
managed the destinies of the people since the first 
month of the war, understanding them as no man has 
ever done, and working harder than most men are ever 
willing to work. Thousands have, under the spur, 
developed unsuspected capacities, energies, endurance, 
above all genuine executive abilities. That these 
women should be swept back into private life by the 
selfishness of men when the killing business is over, 
is, to Mile. Thompson's mind, unthinkable. In her 
newspaper, La Vie Feminine, she gives weekly instances of the resourcefulness and devotion of French 
womanhood, and although the women of her country 
have never taken as kindly to the idea of demanding 
the franchise as those of certain other nations, still 
it is more than possible that she will make many 
converts before the war is over. 
 
These are not to be "suffrage" chapters. There is 
no doubt in my mind that the women of all nations 
will have the franchise eventually, if only because it 
is ridiculous that they should be permitted to work 
like men (often supporting husbands, fathers, brothers) and not be permitted all the privileges of men. 
Man, who grows more enlightened every year — often 
sorely against his will — must appreciate this anomaly 
in due course, and by degrees will surrender the 
1 franchise as freely to women as he has to negroes and 
imbeciles. When women have received the vote for 
which they have fought and bled, they will use it with 
just about the same proportion of conscientiousness 
and enthusiasm as busy men do. One line in the credo 
might have been written of human nature a.d. 1914- 
1917: "As it was in the beginning, is now, and ever 
shall be." 
But while suffrage and feminism are related, they 
are far from identical. Suffrage is but a milestone 
in feminism, which may be described as the more or 
less concerted sweep of women from the backwaters 
into the broad central stream of life. Having for untold centuries given men to the world they now want 
the world from men. There is no question in the 
progressive minds of both sexes that, outside of the 
ever-recurrent war zones, they should hereafter divide 
the great privileges of life and civilization in equal 
shares with men. 
Several times before in the history of the world 
comparatively large numbers of women have made 
 
themselves felt, claiming certain equal rights with the 
governing sex. But their ambitions were generally 
confined to founding religious orders, obtaining admission to the universities, or to playing the intellectual game in the social preserves. In the wonderful 
thirteenth century women rivaled men in learning and 
accomplishments, in vigor of mind and decision of 
character. But this is the first time that millions of 
them have been out in the world "on their own," invading almost every field of work, for centuries sacrosanct to man. There is even a boiler-maker in the 
United States who worked her way up in poor-boy 
fashion and now attends conventions of boiler-makers 
on equal terms. In tens of thousands of cases women 
have made good, in the arts, professions, trades, businesses, clerical positions, and even in agriculture and 
