"Nor I," said I, frankly.  "It’s true, however, that I’ve had some
little practice in writing verses—er—recently."

"Have you been writing verses, Michael?"

"Yes."

"About what?"

"About you."

She became interested in my fishing line, and watched it intently.  But
it was only the current moving it.

"Thusis dear——"

She said hastily: "Remember the difference between courtship and the
other!"

"Won’t you let me make love to you?"

"I can’t, Michael!"

After a pause: "Would you let me if you could?"

"Yes," she said under her breath.

"Dear——"

"Please don’t say that!"

"I want to ask you one thing."

"What?"

"You’re not married, are you?"

"No."

"Then——"

"It’s a more hopeless barrier than that!" she interrupted with a sudden
catch in her breath.  "I can’t let you make love to me.  I can’t let you
love me!  I c-can’t love you—let myself—do it——"

Her voice was drowned in a terrific roar.  All the thunders of the skies
seemed to unite in one tremendous outburst.

Deafened, almost stunned, we sat there partly stupefied by the mighty
concussion which lengthened into bellowing thunder until the bank of the
stream trembled under our feet, and the umbrella wiggled in my hand.

"Good Lord!" I whispered; but Thusis sprang up with a little cry of
dismay.

"Don’t be afraid, darling!" I cried, preparing to gather her to my
breast.  But she was excitedly adjusting her field-glasses and focussing
them on the Bec de l’Empereur.

And then I perceived that the rain had ceased; that the sun was already
blazing through the pass below.

"The devil!" cried Thusis, stamping her pretty foot.  Then, in a fury of
despair, she turned to me and stretched out one arm, pointing toward the
valley pass.

And I saw that it had been utterly obliterated by the mighty avalanche,
the earth-shaking thunder of which had petrified us.

Suddenly the gray eyes of Thusis filled with tears of fury and
disappointment.

"Oh, Michael!  Michael!" she faltered, "what shall we do now!  We had
them all in the trap!  We were ready to spring it to-night!  Oh,
Michael! Michael!  M-my heart is b-broken——"

She walked blindly into my arms—she didn’t know what she was about, I
suppose.  I petted and soothed her; she hid her face on my breast.

"Darling," I said, "I can’t bear to see you suffer. I suppose that you
and Clelia and Josephine and Raoul had some scheme cooked up to kidnap
that bunch of huns at the house and get them over the frontier into
France.  Didn’t you, dear?"

"Y-yes.  And just l-look what’s happened!  Look at this act of God!  Why
has God let it rain?  Why has He let loose this avalanche at such a
moment!—at such an agonizing moment when we had all the rats trapped!
And our own agents on the frontier to let us through! ... Doesn’t God
realize that all civilization—all Christendom is tottering?  Doesn’t He
know what hell threatens it?  Why has He done this thing to us!  Can He
not see France bled white!—England reeling!—Italy agasp!—America only
half ready!—Naxos prostrate under the Greek tyrant’s usurping
heel!—Tenedos thrown to the Turk! I—I have begun to lose my faith in
God!" she cried violently; "the old gods were less cruel—less
indifferent.  And at least they displayed enough interest to take
sides!"

I continued to pet and comfort and soothe her as I would a half
hysterical child.

"God is on duty," I said.  "Who are we to divine His strategy?  Why take
even General Foch.  His own officers can’t penetrate his purpose; much
less can the huns.  But he drives the spirits of evil before him; he
hustles the hellish legions toward destruction in his own way.  The
maddened swine are stampeding, Thusis!  God’s ocean waits."

"Y-yes.  I—shall pull myself together....  I’m ashamed."

"No, you’re all right, Thusis.  Take heart.  And, if there’s any comfort
in knowing I’m with you, always, loyally, through life to death——"

I thought, against my breast, there was the slightest pressure in
response, but concluded that Thusis had merely braced herself to get
away and stand on her own legs.  Which she now did, resolutely, but
keeping her face averted.

We stood so, gazing down in silence at the snow-choked pass which now
cut us off from the world entire.

"After all," said I, "it pens in the huns as well as it cages us.  We
may get them yet."

The girl straightened up and turned toward me. Her features were
radiant, transfigured.

"Nous les aurons!" she cried, throwing her arm out toward the valley
with the superb gesture of some young goddess launching thunderbolts.




                                 *XIV*

                       *THE MYSTERIOUS MR. SMITH*


The distinguished company at the chalet had already gathered on the
veranda apparently to contemplate the flaming sunset when, separating
from Thusis in the woods behind the barn, I sauntered into view with rod
and creel.

Instantly I became a target for Teutonic eyes of the several sorts
peculiar to the hunnish race,—cold disapproving eyes, narrow
bad-tempered eyes, squinting eyes, gimlet eyes, pale pig-eyes,—all
intent on my approach.

"Hello!" cried King Constantine in his loud, bluff way, "have you had
any luck, O’Ryan?"

The fat Princess Pudelstoff began to pant cheerfully in anticipation of
finny food:

"I hope you’ve caught some trout," she said in a thick, good-natured
voice which the rolls of fat on her neck rendered husky and indistinct.
"I like to eat mine Meunière and Blaue-gesotten.  I like ’em breaded
and fried in butter.  I like plenty of melted butter."  She pried open
the creel cover as I passed.  "Where are the fish?" she asked with a
gulp of disappointment.

"I’m sorry, Princess——"
