on certain nights to speak from the classic soap-box on street
corners, urging the propaganda of their panacea, the Law of Love and
Service.
Twice already, despite her natural timidity and dread of public
speaking, Palla had faced idle, half-curious, half sneering crowds
just east or west of Broadway; had struggled through with what she had
come to say; had gently replied to heckling, blushed under insult,
stood trembling by her guns to the end.
Ilse was more convincing, more popular with her gay insouciance and
infectious laughter, and her unexpected and enchanting flashes of
militancy, which always interested the crowd.
And always, after these soap-box efforts, both Palla and Ilse were
insulted over the telephone by unknown men. Their mail, also,
invariably contained abusive or threatening letters, and sometimes
vile ones; and Estridge purchased pistols for them both and exacted
pledges that they carry them at night.
On the evening selected for Palla's third essay in street oratory, she
slipped her pistol into her muff and set out alone, not waiting for
Ilse, who, with John Estridge, was to have met her after dinner at her
house, and, as usual, accompany her to the place selected.
But they knew where she was to speak, and she did not doubt they would
turn up sooner or later at the rendezvous.
All that day the dull, foreboding feeling had been assailing her at
intervals, and she had been unable to free herself entirely from the
vague depression.
The day had been grey; when she left the house a drizzle had begun to
wet the flagstones, and every lamp-post was now hooded with ghostly
iridescence.
She walked because she had need of exercise, not even deigning to
unfurl her umbrella against the mist which spun silvery ovals over
every electric globe along Fifth Avenue, and now shrouded every
building above the fourth story in a cottony ocean of fog.
When finally she turned westward, the dark obscurity of the
cross-street seemed to stretch away into infinite night and she
hurried a little, scarcely realising why.
There did not seem to be a soul in sight--she noticed that--yet
suddenly, halfway down the street, she discovered a man walking at her
elbow, his rubber-shod feet making no sound on the wet walk.
Palla had never before been annoyed by such attentions in New York,
yet she supposed it must be the reason for the man's insolence.
She hastened her steps; he moved as swiftly.
"Look here," he said, "I know who you are, and where you're going. And
we've stood just about enough from you and your friends."
In the quick revulsion from annoyance and disgust to a very lively
flash of fright, Palla involuntarily slackened her pace and widened
the distance between her and this unknown.
"You better right-about-face and go home!" he said quietly. "You talk
too damn much with your face. And we're going to stop you. See?"
At that her flash of fear turned to anger:
"Try it," she said hotly; and hurried on, her hand clutching the
pistol in her wet muff, her eyes fixed on the unknown man.
"I've a mind to dust you good and plenty right here," he said. "Quit
your running, now, and beat it back again--" His vise-like grip was on
her left arm, almost jerking her off her feet; and the next moment she
struck him with her loaded pistol full in the face.
As he veered away, she saw the seam open from his cheek bone to his
chin--saw the white face suddenly painted with wet scarlet.
The sight of the blood made her sick, but she kept her pistol
levelled, backing away westward all the while.
There was an iron railing near; he went over and leaned against it as
though stupefied.
And all the while she continued to retreat until, behind her, his dim
shape merged into the foggy dark.
Then Palla turned and ran. And she was still breathing fast and
unevenly when she came to that perfect blossom of vulgarity and
apotheosis of all American sham--Broadway--where in the raw glare from
a million lights the senseless crowds swept north and south.
And here, where Jew-manager and gentile ruled the histrionic destiny
of the United States--here where art, letters, service, industry,
business had each developed its own species of human prostitute--two
muddy-brained torrents of humanity poured in opposite directions,
crowding, shoving, shuffling along in the endless, hopeless Hunt for
Happiness.
She had made, in the beginning of her street-corner career,
arrangements with a neighbouring boot-black to furnish one soap-box on
demand at a quarter of a dollar rent for every evening.
She extracted the quarter from her purse and paid the boy; carried the
soap-box herself to the curb; and, with that invariable access of
fright which attacked her at such moments, mounted it to face the
first few people who halted out of curiosity to see what else she
meant to do.
Columns of passing umbrellas hid her so that not many people noticed
her; but gradually that perennial audience of shabby opportunists
which always gathers anywhere from nowhere, ringed her soap-box. And
Palla began to speak in the drizzling rain.
For some time there were no interruptions, no jeers, no doubtful
pleasantries. But when it became more plain to the increasing crowd
that this smartly though simply gowned young woman had come to
Broadway in the rain for the purpose of protesting against all forms
of violence, including the right of the working people to strike, ugly
remarks became audible, and now and then a menacing word was flung at
her, or some clenched hand insulted her and amid a restless murmur
growing rougher all the time.
Once, to prove her point out of the mouth of the proletariat itself,
she quoted from Rosa Luxemburg; and a well-dressed man shouldered his
way toward her and in a low voice gave her the lie.
The painful colour dyed her face, but she went on calmly, explaining
the different degrees and extremes of socialism, revealing how the
abused term had been used as camouflage by the party committed to the
utter annihilation of everything worth living for.
And again, to prove her point, she quoted:
"Socialism does not mean the convening of Parliaments and the
enactment of laws; it means the overthrow of the ruling classes with
all the brutality at the disposal of the proletariat."
The same well-dressed man interrupted again:
"Say, who pays you to come here and hand out that Wall Street stuff?"
"Nobody pays me," she replied patiently.
"All right, then, if that's true why don't you tell us something about
the interests and the profiteers and all them dirty games the
capitalists is rigging up? Tell us about the guy who wants us to pay
eight cents to ride on his damned cars! Tell us about the geezers who
soak us for food and coal and clothes and rent!
"You stand there chirping to us about Love and Service and how we
oughta give. Give! Jesus!--we ain't got anything left to give. They
ain't anything to give our wives or our children,--no, nor there ain't
enough left to feed our own faces or pay for a patch on our pants!
Give? Hell! The interests took it. And you stand there twittering
about Love and Service! We oughta serve 'em a brick on the neck and
love 'em with a black-jack!"
"How far would that get you?" asked Palla gently.
"As far as their pants-pockets anyway!"
"And when you empty those, who is to employ and pay you?"
"Don't worry," he sneered, "we'll do the employing after that."
"And will your employees do to you some day what you did to your
employers with a black-jack?"
The crowd laughed, but her heckler shook his fist at her and yelled:
"Ain't I telling you that we'll be sitting in these damn gold-plated
houses and payin' wages to these here fat millionaires for blackin'
our shoes?"
"You mean that when Bolshevism rules there are to be rich and poor
just the same as at present?"
Again the crowd laughed.
"All right!" bawled the man, waving both arms above his head,
"--yes, I do mean it! It will be our turn then. Why not? What do we
want to split fifty-fifty with them soft, fat millionaires for?
Nix on that stuff! It will be hog-killing time, and you can bet your
thousand-dollar wrist watch, Miss, that there'll be some killin' in
little old New York!"
He had backed out of the circle and disappeared in the crowd before
Palla could attempt further reasoning with him. So she merely shook
her head in gentle disapproval and dissent:
"What is the use," she said, "of exchanging one form of tyranny for
another? Why destroy the autocracy of the capitalist and erect on its
ruins the autocracy of the worker?
"How can class distinctions be eradicated by fanning class-hatred? In
a battle against all dictators, why proclaim dictatorship--even of the
proletariat?
"All oppression is hateful, whether exercised by God or man--whether
the oppressor be that murderous, stupid, treacherous, tyrannical
bully in the Old Testament, miscalled God, or whether the oppressor be
the proletariat which screamed for the blood of Jesus Christ and got
it!
"Free heart, free mind, free soul!--anything less means servitude, not
service--hatred, not love!"
A man in the outskirts of the crowd shouted: "Say, you're some
rag-chewer, little girl! Go to it!"
She laughed, then glanced at her wrist watch.
There were a few more words she might say before the time she allowed
herself had expired, and she found courage to go on, striving to
explain to the shifting knot of people that the battle which now
