the breast.
Well, our Coureur-du-Bois, in his greasy leather, quills, and scarlet
braid, had other news for us less palatable.
For it seemed that we had lost two thousand men and all their artillery
when Fort Washington fell; that we had lost a hundred more men and
eleven vessels to Sir Guy Carleton on Lake Champlain; that the garrison
at Ty was a slim one and sick for the most, and the relief regiments
were so slow in filling that three New England states were drafting
their soldiery by force.
There were rumours rife concerning the summer campaign, and how the
British had a plan to behead our new United States by lopping off all
New England.
It was to be done in this manner: Guy Carleton's army was to come down
from the North through the lakes, driving Gates, descend the Hudson to
Albany and there join Clinton and his British, who were to force the
Highlands, march up the river, and so hold all the Hudson, which would
cut the head--New England--from the body of the new nation.
And to make this more certain, there was now gathering in the West an
army under Butler and Brant, to strike the Mohawk Valley, sweep through
it to Schenectady, and there come in touch with Burgoyne.
To oppose this terrible invasion from three directions we had forts on
the Hudson and a few troops; but His Excellency was engaged south of
these points and must remain there.
We had, at Ty, a skeleton army, and Gates to lead it, with which to face
Burgoyne. We had, in the Mohawk Valley, to block the west and show a
bold front to Brant and Butler, only fragments of Van Schaick's and
Livingston's Continental line, now digging breastworks at Stanwix, a
company at Johnstown, and at a crisis, our Tryon County militia, now
drilling under Herkimer.
And, save for a handful of Rangers and Oneidas, these were all we had in
Tryon to resist the hordes that were gathering to march on us from
north, west and south,--British regulars with horse, foot, and
magnificent artillery; partizans and loyalists numbering 1200; a
thousand savages in their paint; Highlanders, Canadians, Hessians; Sir
John Johnson's regiment of Royal Greens; Colonel John Butler's regiment
of Rangers; McDonald's renegades and painted Tories--God! what a
murderous horde; and all to make their common tryst here in County
Tryon!
Our grim, lank Forest Runner sprawled on the settle by the kitchen
table, smoking his bitter Indian tobacco and drinking rum and water,
well sugared; and Penelope and Nick and I sat around him to listen, and
look gravely at one another as we learned more and more of what it
seemed that Fate had in storage for us.
The hot spiced rum loosened the Runner's tongue. His name was Dick
Jessup; and he was a hard, grim man whose business, from youth--which
was peltry--had led him through perilous ways.
He told us of wild and horrid doings, where solitary settlers and lone
trappers had been murdered by Guy Carleton's outlying Iroquois, from
Quebec to Crown Point.
Scores and scores of scalps had been taken; wretched prisoners had
suffered at the Iroquois stake under tortures indescribable--the mere
mention of which made Penelope turn sickly white and set Nick gnawing
his knuckles.
But what most infuriated me was the thought that in the regiments of old
John Butler and Sir John Johnson were scores of my old neighbors who now
boasted that they were coming back to cut our throats on our own
thresholds,--coming back with a thousand savages to murder women and
children and ravage all with fire so that only a blackened desert should
remain of the valleys and the humble homes we had made and loved.
Jessup said, puffing the acrid willow smoke from his clay: "Where I lay
hidden near Oneida Lake, I saw a Seneca war party pass on the crust; and
they had fresh scalps which dripped on the snow.
"And, near Niagara, I saw Butler's Rangers manoeuvring on snow-shoes,
with drums and curly bugle-horns."
"Did you know any among them?" I asked sombrely.
"Why, yes. There was Michael Reed, kin to Henry Stoner."
"My cousin, damn him!" quoth Nick, calmly.
"He was a drummer in the Rangers of John Butler," nodded Jessup. "And I
saw Philip Helmer there in a green uniform, and Charles Cady, too, of
Fonda's Bush."
"All I ask," says Nick, "is to get these two hands on them. I demand no
weapons; I want only to feel my fingers closing on them." He sat staring
into space with the blank glare of a panther. Then, "Were they painted?"
he demanded.
"No," said Jessup, "but Simon Girty was and Newberry, too. There were a
dozen painted Tories or blue-eyed Indians,--whatever you call 'em,--and
they sat at a Seneca fire where the red post stood, and all eating
half-raw venison, guts and all----"
Penelope averted her pallid face and leaned her head on her hand.
Jessup took no notice: "They burned a prisoner that day. I was sick,
where I lay hidden, to hear his shrieks. And the British in their
cantonments could hear as plainly as I, yet nobody interfered."
"There could have been no British officer there," said Penelope, in the
ghost of a voice.
"Well, there were, then," said Jessup bluntly. Turning to me he added:
"There's a gin'rall there at Niagara, called St. Leger, and he's a
drunken son of a slut! We should not be afeard of that puffed up
bladder, and I hope he comes against us. But Butler has some smart
officers, like his son Walter, and Lieutenant Hare, and young Stephen
Watts----"
"You saw him there!" exclaimed Penelope.
"Yes, I saw him in a green uniform; and, with him also, a-horse, rode
Sir John Johnson, all in red, and Walter Butler in black and green, and
his long cloak a-trail to his spurs. By God, there is a motley crew for
you--what with Brant in the saddle, in paint and buckskins and fur robe,
and shaved like any dirty Mohawk; and Hiakatoo, like a blackened devil
out o' hell, all barred with scarlet and wearing the head of a great
wolf for a cap, as well as the pelt to cover his war-paint!--and
McDonald, with his kilt and dirk, and the damned black eyes of him and
the two buck-teeth shining on his lips!--God!" he breathed; and took a
long pull at his pannikin of spiced rum.
       
That evening Jessup left for Johnstown on his way to Albany with his
peltry; and took with him a letter which I wrote to the Commandant at
Johnstown fort.
But it was past the first of May before I had any notice taken of my
letter; and on a Sunday came an Oneida runner, bearing two letters for
me; one from the Commandant, acquainting me that it was not his
intention to garrison Fish House or Summer House, that Nick and I were
sufficient to stand watch on the Mohawk Trail and Drowned Lands and
report any movement threatening the Valley from the North, and that what
few men he had must go to Stanwix, where the fort had not yet been
completed.
The other letter was writ me from Fonda's Bush by honest John Putman:
     "Friend Jack" (says he), "this Bush is a desert indeed and all run
     off,--the Tories to Canady,--such as the Helmers, Cadys, Bowmans,
     Reeds, and the likes,--save Adam Helmer, who is of our
     complexion,--and our own people who are friends to liberty have
     fled to Johnstown excepting me,--all the women and children,--Jean
     De Silver's family, De Luysnes' people, the Salisburys, Scotts,
     Barbara Stoner, who married Conrad Reed and has gone to New York
     now; and all the Putmans save myself, who shall go presently in
     fear of the savages and Sir John.
     "Sir, it is sad to see our housen empty and our fields fallow, and
     weeds growing in plowed land. There remain no longer any cattle or
     fowls or any beasts at all, only the wild poultry of the woods come
     to the deserted doorsteps, and the red fox runs along the fence.
     "Your house stands empty as it was when you marched away. Only
     squirrels inhabit it now, and porcupines gnaw the corn-crib.
     "Well, friend Jack, this is all I have to say. I shall drive my
     oxen to Johnstown Fort tomorrow, and give this letter to the first
     runner or express.
     "I learn that you have bought the Summer House of the Commission. I
     wish you joy of it, but it seems a perilous purchase, and I fear
     that you shall soon be obliged to leave it.
     "So, wishing you health, and beholden to you for many
     kindnesses--as are we all who come from Fonda's Bush--I close, sir,
     with respect and my obedience and duty to my brave young friend who
     serves liberty that we old folk and our women and children shall
     not perish or survive as British slaves.
     "Sir, awaiting the dread onset of Sir John with that firmness which
     becomes a good American, I am,
     "Your obliged and humble servant,
     "JOHN PUTMAN.
The Oneida left in an hour for Ty.
And it was, I think, an hour later when Nick comes a-running to find me.
"A fire at Fish House," he cries, "and a dense smoke mounting to the
sky!"
I flung aside my letter, ran to the kitchen, and called Penelope.
"Pack up and be ready to leave!" said I. And, to Nick: "Saddle Kaya and
be ready to take Penelope a-horse to Mayfield block-house. Call my
Indian!"
As I belted my shirt and stood ready, my Saguenay came swiftly, trailing
his rifle.
"Come," said I, "we must learn why that smoke towers yonder to the
sky."
Penelope took me by the sleeve:
"Do nothing rash, John Drogue," she said in a breathless way.
"Get you ready for flight," said I, fixing a fresh flint. "Nick shall
run at your stirrup if it comes to that pinch----"
