winter and spring. He's been doing splendidly these 
last two or three years, and he owned some of the property west of Twin Peaks that is building up so fast. I 
know he sold it for quite a lot. . . . And I sometimes 
wonder if he doesn't get as tired of living in the same 
place year after year as I do. He could play golf at the 
Ingleside. ... I am sure he will. ... It would be the 
very best thing all round. Then we could run the house, 
and you and Mortimer would pay something — never 
mind what. . . . People would think it was the other 
way, if they thought anything about it. Families often 
double up in that fashion." 

"Maria! I can't believe it. It would be too perfect 
a solution, provided of course that we pay all we cost. 
I should insist upon keeping the slips as usual. You 
are an angel." 

"We Groomes and Ballingers always stand by one 
another, don't we? The Abbotts, too. Besides, it will 
certainly be no sacrifice on any of our parts. It will 
mean a great deal to me to spend six months in town, 
and I know that Tom has grown as tired of motoring 
back and forth every day as he used to be of the train." 

' ' It will be heavenly just having you. ' ' Alexina spoke 
with perfect sincerity. She had not faltered before the 
prospect of work, but that of Mortimer's society unrelieved for an indefinite time had filled her with something like panic. It had been the one test of her powers 
of endurance of which she had not felt assured. 

"That will give us time, too, to get on our feet agaia. 
Morty is very hopeful of this new business. I shall go 
out very little, and as Joan will be the natured center 
of attraction it will be understood that her friends, not 
mine, have the run of the house." 

Maria nodded. "It's just the thing for Joan. Really 
a godsend. She worries me more than all three of the 



 

boys. They are east at school for the winter and of 
course don't come home for the Christmas holidays. If 
you want to be housekeeper you may. I don't know anything I should like better than a rest from ordering 
dinner, after all these years." 

"Perfect ! I'll also take care of my room and Morty's. 
Then I'd be sure I wasn't really imposing on you. 
You 're a dead game sport, Maria, and I 'd like to drink 
your health. ' ' 



CHAPTER XV 



MORTIMER looked nonplussed when Alexina informed him at dinner of the immediate solution 
of their difficulties. He detested Tom and Maria Abbott; there were certain things he could forget in his 
aristocratic wife's presence, far as she had withdrawn, 
but never in theirs. Moreover he feared Abbott. He 
was as keen as a hawk; an unconsidered word and he 
might as well have told the whole story. "Well, he never 
talked much anyhow ; he would merely talk less. 

When Alexina asked him if he had any better plan to 
propose he was forced to shrug his shoulders and set his 
lips in a straight line of resignation. When she told 
him what her original plan had been he was so appalled, so humiliated at the bare thought of his wife 
in a servant's apron (to say nothing of the culinary arrangements) that he almost warmed to the Abbotts. 



Ten days later, on the eve of the Abbotts' arrival, the 
equanimity of spirit he was striving to regain by the 
simple process of thinking of something else when his 
late delinquencies obtruded themselves, received a severe 
shock. Alexina handed him a cheque for ten thousand 
dollars and asked him to place it to Gora's account in 
the bank where she kept her savings. 



 

"Where did you get it?" he asked stupidly, staring at 
the slip of paper so heavily freighted. 

"Anne Montgomery sold some of my things to a good- 
natured ignoramus whose husband made a fortune ia 
Tonopah. She doesn't know how to buy and Anne ad- 
vises her." 

' ' What did you seU ? Your jewels ? ' ' 

"Some. I never wear anything but the pearls anyhow; and it's bad taste to wear jewels unless you're 
wealthy. I had some old lace that is hard to buy now, 
and real lace isn't the fashion any more. New rich people always think it's just the thing. I also sold her two 
of the biggest and clumsiest of the Italian pieces. She 
is crazy about them. Anne told her that they were as 
good as a passport." 

Mortimer sprang to the only, the naive, the eternal 
masculine conclusion. 

"You do love me still!" The dull eyes of his spirit 
flashed with the sudden rejuvenation of his heavy body. 
"I never really believed you had ceased to care . . . 
you were capricious like all women ... a little spoilt. 
I knew that if I had patience . . . Only a loving wife 
)!f ould do such a thing. ' ' 

Alexina made a wry face at the banality of his climax, 
although the fatuous outburst had barely amused her. 

"No, I don't love you in the least, Mortimer, and never 
shall. Make up your mind to that. Love some one else 
if you like. ... I did this for two reasons: I did not 
have the courage to tell Gora the truth — and that I was 
too unjust and penurious to restore the money you had 
taken ; and as your wife it would have hurt my pride unbearably. ' ' 

"And you are not afraid to trust me with this money?" he asked, his voice toneless. 

"Not in the least. There's no other way to manage it 
and I fancy you know what would happen if you didn't 
hand it over. There is such a thing as the last straw. ' ' 



 



CHAPTER XV 



T T was a week later. Alexina was changing her dress. 
Maria had asked a number of her girlhood friends in 
for luncheon, and they were to exchange reminiscences 
in the old house over a table laden as of yore with the 
massive Ballinger silver, English eutglass, and French 
china. Alexina was about to take refuge with Janet 
Maynard. 

Her door opened unceremoniously and Gora entered. 

Alexina caught her breath as she saw her sister-ia- 
law's eyes. They looked like polar seas in a tropical 
Btorm. 

' ' Why, Gora, dear, ' ' she said lightly. ' ' I thought you 
were on an important case." 

' ' Man died last night. I have just been to see Mortimer. "When I got his note — just three lines — saying that 
he had received a cheque from Utica and deposited it to 
my account I knew at once — as soon as I had time to 
think — there was something wrong. The natural thing 
