And then came one of the strikers who had been in the
soup-kitchen--a fresh young fellow, proud to know a great man. “How
dy’do, Mr. T-S? I hear our friend, Mr. Carpenter, is going--”

“Cut out dis friend stuff!” cried T-S, irritably. “He may be
yours--he ain’t mine!”

I strolled up. “Hello, T-S!” I said.

“Oh, Billy! Hello!”

“So you’ve denied him three times!”

“Vot you mean?”

“Three times--and the cock hasn’t crowed yet! That man’s a prophet
for sure, T-S!”

The magnate pretended not to understand, but the deep flush on his
features gave him away.

“How dy’do, Mr. Westerly,” I said. “What do you think of Mr. T-S in
the role of the first pope?”

“You mean he’s going to act?” inquired the other, puzzled.

“Come off!” exclaimed Rankin, who knew better, of course.

“He’s going to be St. Peter,” I insisted, “and hold the keys to the
golden gate. He’s planning a religious play, you know, for this
fellow Carpenter. Maybe he might cast Mr. Westerly for a part--say
Pontius Pilate.”

“Ha, ha, ha!” said the secretary of our “M. and M.” “Pretty good!
Ha, ha, ha! Gimme a chance at these bunk-shooters--I’ll shut ‘em up,
you bet!”



XXXIII


The chairman of the meeting was a man named Brown, the president of
the city’s labor council. He was certainly respectable enough, prosy
and solemn. But he was deeply moved on this question of clubbing
strikers’ heads; and you could see that the crowd was only waiting
for a chance to shout its indignation. The chairman introduced the
president of the Restaurant Workers, a solid citizen whom you would
have taken for a successful grocer. He told about what had happened
last night at Prince’s; and then he told about the causes of the
strike, and the things that go on behind the scenes in big
restaurants. I had been to Prince’s many times in my life, but I had
never been behind the scenes, nor had I ever before been to a
labor-meeting. I must admit that I was startled. The things they put
into the hashes! And the distressing habit of unorganized waiters,
when robbed of their tips or otherwise ill-treated, to take it out
by spitting into the soup!

A couple of other labor men spoke, and then came James, the
carpenter with a religious streak. He had a harsh, rasping voice,
and a way of poking a long bony finger at the people he was
impressing. He was desperately in earnest, and it caused him to
swallow a great deal, and each time his Adam’s apple would jump up.
“I’m going to read you a newspaper clipping,” he began; and I
thought it was Judge Wollcott’s injunction again, but it was a story
about one of our social leaders, Mrs. Alinson Pakenham, who has four
famous Pekinese spaniels, worth six thousand dollars each, and
weighing only eight ounces--or is it eighty ounces?--I’m not sure,
for I never was trusted to lift one of the wretched little brutes.
Anyhow, their names are Fe, Fi, Fo, and Fum, and they have each
their own attendant, and the four have a private limousine in which
to travel, and they dine off a service of gold plate. And here were
hundreds of starving strikers, with their wives, also starving; and
a couple of thousand other workers in factories and on ranches who
were in process of having their wages “deflated.” The orator quoted
a speech of Algernon de Wiggs before the Chamber of Commerce,
declaring that the restoration of prosperity, especially in
agriculture, depended upon “deflation,” and this alone; and suddenly
James, the carpenter with a religious streak, launched forth:

“Go to now, you rich men, weep and howl for your miseries that are
coming upon you! Your riches are corrupted, and your garments are
moth-eaten! Your gold and silver is cankered; and the rust on it
shall be a witness against you, and shall eat your flesh as if it
were fire. You have heaped treasure together for the last days.
Behold the hire of the laborers, who have reaped your fields; you
have kept it back by fraud, and the cries of the reapers have
entered into the ears of the Lord! You have lived in pleasure on the
earth, and been wanton; you have nourished your hearts, as in a day
of slaughter. You have condemned and killed the just--”

At this point in the tirade, my old friend the ex-centre-rush, who
was standing in the wings with me, turned and whispered: “For God’s
sake, Billy, what kind of a Goddamn Bolshevik stunt is this,
anyhow?”

I answered: “Hush, you dub! He’s quoting from the Bible!”



XXXIV


President Brown of the Western City Labor Council arose to perform
his next duty as chairman. Said he:

“The next speaker is a stranger to most of you, and he is also a
stranger to me. I do not know what his doctrine is, and I assume no
responsibility for it. But he is a man who has proven his friendship
for labor, not by words, but by very unusual deeds. He is a man of
remarkable personality, and we have asked him to make what
suggestions he can as to our problems. I have pleasure in
introducing Mr. Carpenter.”

Whereupon the prophet fresh from God arose from his chair, and come
slowly to the front of the platform. There was no applause, but a
silence made part of curiosity and part of amazement. His figure,
standing thus apart, was majestic; and I noted a curious thing--a
shining as of light about his head. It was so clear and so beautiful
that I whispered to Old Joe: “Do you see that halo?”

“Go on, Billy!” said the ex-centre-rush. “You’re getting nutty!”

“But it’s plain as day, man!”

I felt some one touch my arm, and saw the little lady of the
anti-vivisection tracts peering past me. “Do you see his aura?” she
whispered, excitedly.

“Is that what it is?”

“Yes. It’s purple. That denotes spirituality.”

I thought to myself, “Good Lord, am I getting to be that sort?”

Carpenter began to speak, quietly, in his grave, measured voice. “My
brothers!” He waited for some time, as if that were enough; as if
all the problems of life would be solved, if only men would
understand those two words. “My brothers: I am, as your chairman
says, a stranger to this world of yours. I do not understand your
vast machines and your complex arts. But I know the souls of men and
women; when I meet greed, and pride, and cruelty, the enslavements
of the flesh, they cannot lie to me. And I have walked about the
streets of your city, and I know myself in the presence of a people
wandering in a wilderness. My children!--broken-hearted, desolate,
and betrayed--poorest when you are rich, loneliest when you throng
together, proudest when you are most ignorant--my people, I call you
into the way of salvation!”

He stretched out his arms to them, and on his face and in his whole
look was such anguish, that I think there was no man in that whole
great throng so rooted in self-esteem that he was not shaken with
sudden awe. The prophet raised his hands in invocation: “Let us
pray!” He bowed his head, and many in the audience did the same.
Others stared at him in bewilderment, having long ago forgotten how
to pray. Here and there some one snickered.

“Oh, God, Our Father, we, Thy lost children, return to Thee, the
Giver of Life. We bring our follies and our greeds, and cast them at
Thy feet. We do not like the life we have lived. We wish to be those
