something human about you now. Go to her and 
tell her. Put your arms around her and tell her 
you love her. Dear God, what a beautiful moment ! " 
The fire went out of Spurlodc's eyes and the 
sliadow of hopeless weariness feH upon him.   I 
can't make you understand; I can't make you see 
things as I see them. As matters now stand, I'm 
only a thief, not a blackguard. What ! —  add another 
drop to her cup? Who knows? Any day they 
may find me. So long as matters remain as they 
are, and they found me, there would be no shame 
for Ruth. Can't I make you see?" 
"But I'm telling you Ruth loves you. And her 
kind of love forgives everything and anything but 
infidelity." 
"You did not hear her when she spoke to her 
father; I did." 
"But she would understand you; whereas she 
will never understand her father. Spurlodc: 'tis 
Roundhead, sure enough. Go to her, I say, and 
take her in your arms, you poor benighted Iron- 
sides ! I can't make you see. Man, if you tell her 
you love her, and later they took you away to prison, 
who would sit at the prison gate until your term was 
up? Ruth. Why am I here — thirty years of 
loneliness? Because I know women, the good and the 
bad; and because I could not have the good, I would 
not take the bad. The woman I wanted was another 
man's wife. So here I am, king of all I survey, with 
a predilection for poker, a scorched liver, and a 
piano-player. But you! Ruth is your lawful wife. 
Not to go to her is wickeder than if I had run away 
with my friend's wife. You're a queer lad. With 
your pencil you see into the hearts of all; and without 
your pencil you are dumb and blind. Ruth is not 
another man's wife; she is all your own, for better 
or for worse. Have you thought of the monstrous 
lie you are adding to your theft? " 
''Lie?" said Spurlodc, astounded. 
"Aye — to pretend to her that you don't care. 
That's a most damnable lie; and when she finds 
out, 'tis then she will not forgive. She'll have this 
hour always with her; and you failed her. Gro to 
her." 
"I can't." 
"Afraid?" 
"Yes." 
This shnple admission disarmed McClintock. 
"Well, well; I have given out of my wisdom. I'd 
like to shake you imtil your bones rattled; but the 
bones of a Roundhead wouldn't rattle to any pur- 
pose. Lad, I admire you even in your folly. Mount- 
ains out of molehills and armies out of windmills; 
and you'll tire yourself in one direction and shatter 
yourself in the other. There is strength in you — 
misguided. You will torture yourself and torture 
her all through life; but in the end she will pour the 
  i ine of her faith into a sound chalice. I would 
tlaat you were my own ' 
"I, a thief?" 
 'Aye; thief. Roundhead and all. If a certain 
Isink in your sense of honour will not permit you to 
gjo to her as a lover, go to her as a comrade. Talk 
to her of the new story; divert her; for this day her 
lieart has been twisted sorely." 
McClintock without further speech strode toward 
liis bimgalow; and half an hour later Spurlock, pass-' 
ing, heard the piano-tuning key at work. 
Spurlock plodded through the heavy sand, leaden 
in the heart and mind as well as in the feet. But 
recently he had asked God to pile it all on him; and 
€rod had added this, with a fresh portion for Ruth. 
One thing —  he could be thankful for that —  the peak 
of his misfortunes had been reached; the world might 
come to an end now and not matter in the least. 
Love       to take her in his arms and to 
comfort her: and then to add to her cup of bitterness 
the knowledge that her husband was a thief! For 
himself he did not care; God could continue to 
grind and pulverize him; but to add another grain 
to the evil he had already wrought upon Ruth was 
imthinkable' The future? He dared not speculate 
upon that. 
He paused at the bamboo curtain of her room, 
which was in semi-darkness. He heard Rollo's 
stump beat a gentle tattoo on the floor. 
Silence for a moment. ''Yes. What is it?'' 
"Is there anything I can do?" The idiocy of the 
question filled him with the craving of laughter. 
Was there anything he could do! 
"No, Hoddy; nothing." 
"Would you like to have me come in and talk?" 
How tender that sounded! —  talk! 
"K you want to." 
Bamboo and bead tinkled and slithered behind 
him. The dusky obscurity of the room was twice 
welcome. He did not want Ruth to see his own 
stricken coimtenance; nor did he care to see hers, 
ravaged by tears. He knew she had been weepings 
He drew a chair to the side of the bed and sat down, 
terrified by the utter fallowness of his mind. Filled 
as he was with conflicting emotions, any stretch of 
silence would be dangerous. The fascination of 
the idea of throwing himself upon his knees and 
crying out all that was in his heart! As his eyes 
began to focus objects, he saw one of her arms 
extended upon the counterpane, in his direction, 
the hand clenched tightly. 
"I am very wicked," she said. "After all, he is 
my father, Hoddy; and I cursed him. But all those 
empty years! . . . My heart was hot. I'm 
sorry. I do forgive him; but he will never know 
now. 
Write him," urged Spurlock, finding sx>eech. 
''He would return my letters unopened or destroy 
them' 
That was true, thought Spurlodc. No matter 
what happened, whether the road smoothed out or 
became still rougher, he would always be carrying 
this secret with him; and each time he recalled it, 
the rack. 
"Would you rather be alone?" 
''No, It's kind of comforting to have you there. 
You understand. I sha'n't cry any more. Tell 
me a story — with apple-blossoms in it — about people 
who are happy." 
Miserably his thoughts shuttled to and fro in 
search of what he knew she wanted — a love story. 
Presently he began to weave a tale, sorry enough, 
with all the ancient claptraps and rusted platitudes. 
How long he sat there, reeling oflf this drivel, he 
never knew. When he reached the happy ending, 
he waited. But there was no sign from her. By 
and by he gathered enough courage to lean toward 
her. She had fallen asleep. The hand that had 
been clenched lay open, relaxed; and upon the palm 
he saw her mother's locket. 
CHAPTER XXVI 
SFURIOCK went out on his toes, careful 
lest the bamboo curtain rattle behind him. 
He went into the study and sat down at his 
table, but not to write. He drew out the check and 
the editorial letter. He had sold half a dozen short 
tales to third-rate magazines; but this letter had 
been issued from a distinguished editorial room, of 
international reputation. If he could keep it up — 
style and calibre of imagination —  within a year 
the name of Taber would become widely known. 
Everything in the world to live for! —  fame that he 
could not reap, love that he must not take! What 
was all this pother about hell as a future state? 
By and by things began to stir on the table: 
little invisible things. The life with which he had 
endued these sheets of paper began to beckon im- 
periously. So he sharpened a score of pencils, and 
after fiddling about and rewriting the last page he 
had written the previous night, he plunged into 
work. It was hot and dry. There were mysterious 
rustlings that made him glance hopefully toward the 
sea. He was always deceived by these rustlings 
