and Madeleine marvelled that it did not collapse. She was thankful that she was never 
obliged to enter it. Holt and her lawyer had 
been instructed to send their letters to Lacey's 
care, and Lacey when obliged to communicate 
with her, either called or sent his note by a 
messenger. 

Madeleine was so hustled, stepped on, 
whirled about, that she finally made friends 
with an old man who kept one of the second- 
hand shops, and, comparatively safe, used the 
doorway as her watch tower. 



 

One day she thought she saw Masters and 
darted out into the street. There she fought 
her way in the wake of a tall stooping man with 
black hair as mercilessly as if she were some 
frantic woman who had risked her all on the 
Stock Exchange. He entered the door of one 
of the tall buildings, and when she reached it 
she heard the sound of footsteps rapidly 
mounting. 

She followed as rapidly. The footsteps 
ceased. When she arrived at the fourth floor 
she knocked on every door in turn. It was 
evidently a building that housed men of the 
dingiest social status. Every man who an- 
swered her peremptory summons looked like a 
derelict. These were mere semblances of 
offices, with unmade beds, sometimes on the 
floor. In some were dreary looking women, 
partners, no doubt, of these forlorn men, whose 
like she sometimes saw down in the street. But 
her breathless search was fruitless. She knew 
that one of the men who grudgingly opened his 
door — looking as if he expected the police — 
was the man she had followed, and she was 
grateful that it was not Masters. 

She went slowly down the rickety staircase 




 

feeling as if she should sink at every step. It 
had been her first ray of hope in two weeks and 
she felt faint and sick under the reaction. 

She found a coupe in Broadway and was 
driven to her lodgings. The maid was waiting 
for her in the doorway, evidently perturbed. 

" There's a strange gentleman upstairs in the 
parlor, ma'am," she said. "Not Mr. Lacey. 
I didn't want to let him in but he would. He 
said — " 

She thrust the girl aside and ran up the steps. 
But when she burst into the parlor the man 
waiting for her was Ralph Holt. 

She dropped into a chair and began to cry 
hysterically. He had dealt with her in that 
state before, and Amanda had lived in Bleecker 
Street for nuny years. She was growing bored 
with the excessive respectability of her place, 
and was delighted to find that her mistress was 
human. Cold water, sal volatile, and hartshorn 
soon restored Madeleine's composure. She 
handed her hat to the woman and was alone 
with Holt. 

" I thought — perhaps you understand — " 

" I understand, all right. I hope you are not 
angry with me for following you." 



 

" I am only too glad to see you. I never 
knew a city could be so big and heartless. I 
have felt like a leaf tossed about in a perpetual 
cold wind. 'When did you arrive? " 

" The day after you did." 

"What? And you — you — have been 
looking for him? " 

"That is what I came for — partly. Yes, 
Lacey and I have combed the town.'' 

Madeleine sprang to her feet. "You've 
found him! I know it! Why don't you 
say so? " 

" Well, we know where he is. But it's no 
place for you." 

" Take me at once. I don't care what it is." 

" But I do. So does Lacey. His plan was 
to shanghai him and sober him up. But — 
well — it is your right to say whether he shall 
do that or not. You wanted to find him yourself. But Five Points is no place for you, and 
I want your permission to carry out Lacey's 
program." 

" What is Five Points? " 

" The worst sink in New York. Just imagine 
the Barbary Coast of San Francisco multiplied 
by two thousand. There is said to be nothing 
worse in London or Paris." 



 

" If you and Mr. Lacey do not take me there 
I shall go alone." 

" Be reasonable." 

" My reason works quite as clearly as if 
my heart were chloroformed. Langdon will 
know, when I track him to a place like that, 
what he means to me." 

" He probably will be in no condition to 
recognize you." 

" I'll make him recognize me. Or if I 
cannot you may use your force then, but he 
shall know later that I went there for him. 
Have you seen him? " 

Holt moved uneasily and looked away. 
" Yes, I have seen him." 

" You need not be so distressed. I shall not 
care what he looks like. I shall see him inside. 
Did you speak to him? " 

"He either did not recognize me or pretended not to." 

" Well, we go now." 

" Won't you think it over? " 

" I prefer your escort to that of a policeman. 
