High above the wind was surging. He 
had a curious sense of travelling through 
the depths of the sea in a vacuum, the roar 
of suspended waters just over his head. 
Behind, between the giant trees, was a 
moving column of horses and men. 
" Where are we ? " he asked Anastacio. 
" In the mountains, in a redwood forest. 
My pueblo is not far." 
" What mountains ? What forest ? " 
" That you will not know." 
"Where is Adan ? " 
" On a stout mustang between two faith 
ful followers of mine." 
" They are unnecessary. He would not 
leave me." 
" Perhaps not. Sometimes the white 
man lies and sometimes he is true." 
Roldan sat up ; his tired head had rested 
against the shoulder of his captor. 
"Suppose I get behind you," he said. 
" It will be more comfortable for us both. 
That is, if you can trust me," with an 
attempt at sarcasm. 
" I trust you. Get behind." 
Roldan slipped down, sprang up, then 
strained his eyes once more into the depths 
of the forest. Nothing moved but that 
winding procession. Occasionally a coy 
ote yapped or a wildcat yelled. Suddenly 
something fell against his face, pricking it 
gently. He looked over Anastacio's shoul 
der. They were passing into an open. 
The air was full of white, whirling par 
ticles. 
" It snows," said Anastacio ; " but we 
are soon there." 
" We are in the Sierras," thought Rol 
dan. He looked about with intense in 
terest; he had never seen snow before; 
and to penetrate the mystery of the mighty 
Sierras had been one of the hopes of his 
life. The ground was white, and crunched 
under the horses hoofs. The air was 
thick with snow-stars glittering under the 
full radiance of the moon. Roldan forgot 
that he was a captive. His mind had 
made its first impulse to the mysteries of 
night and solitude during the few moments 
between his entry into another forest and 
the encounter with the bear ; it now made 
its first real opening. He was vaguely 
troubled by the embryonic thoughts that 
in their maturity come to men who have 
lived and suffered, when they are alone in 
a forest at night, far from other men. 
Again they plunged into the forest. No 
snow penetrated the treetops, knit to 
gether by centuries and storms. All was 
black again, and the deep ocean of leaf 
and branch roared faintly overhead. 
Roldan felt oppressed and thoughtful. 
He looked into the future and saw himself 
a man. He would be governor of the Cal- 
ifornias, and make himself a good and 
great man, wiser than the idle caballeros 
who patronised him ; he would teach them 
the folly of their useless lives. 
 
" Look," said Anastacio, abruptly. " We 
are here. It is a pueblo of my fathers, 
and will serve us now." 
He pointed with his riding switch 
through the trees to a vague whiteness, 
and in a moment they emerged into an 
other open. It was a clearing some three 
hundred feet square, crowded with dilap 
idated hovels, white under a light fall of 
snow. It was in the heart of the Sierras, 
on the flat of a peak ; and high on every 
sfde reared other peaks, glittering with 
snow, black with redwoods. The snow 
clouds had passed. The moon rode in a 
dark blue sky set thick with stars. The 
silence, the repose, were appalling. 
Roldan jumped to the ground, and ac 
companied by Anastacio, ran up and down 
to get the cold and fatigue of night travel 
out of his body. In a few moments they 
were joined by Adan, who came waddling 
up, his broad face knit with perplexity and 
delight. 
" I leave you now," said Anastacio, " but 
remember if you attempt to escape you 
carry poisoned arrows in your backs." 
"Ay, Roldan ! " exclaimed Adan, when 
their formidable host was out of hearing. 
But this was more than we bargained for. 
I don't know whether I like it or not." 
" I must say I don't like the idea of 
