"It never empty, Miss Daisy, when de Lord Hisself be here. And
He not leave His chil'n alone. Miss Daisy know dat?"
I stretched forth my little hand and laid it in Darry's great
 black palm. There was an absolute confidence established
between us.
"Uncle Darry"  I said, "I do love him  but sometimes, I want
to see papa! "
And therewith my self-command was almost gone. I stood with
full eyes and quivering lips, my hand still in Darry's, who on
his part was speechless with sympathy.
"De time pass quick, and Miss Daisy see her pa',"  he said at
last.
I did not think the time passed quick. I said so.
"Do little missie ask de Lord for help?" Darry said, his eyes
by this time as watery as mine. "Do Miss Daisy know, it nebber
lonesome where de Lord be? He so good."
I could not stand any more. I pulled away my hand and stood
still, looking out of the window and seeing nothing, till I
could make myself quiet. Then I changed the subject and told
Darry I should like to go and see some of the other houses
again. I know now, I can see, looking back, how my childish
self-control and reserve made some of those impulsive natures
around me regard me with something like worshipful reverence.
I felt it then, without thinking of it or reasoning about it.
From Darry, and from Margaret, and from Mammy Theresa, and
from several others, I had a loving, tender reverence, which
not only felt for me as a sorrowful child, but bowed before me
as something of higher and stronger nature than themselves.
Darry silently attended me now from house to house of the
quarters; introducing and explaining and doing all he could to
make my progress interesting and amusing. Interested I was;
but most certainly not amused. I did not like the look of
things any better than I had done at first. The places were
not "nice;" there was a coarse, uncared-for air of everything
within, although the outside was in such well dressed
condition. No litter on the grass, no, untidiness of walls or
chimneys; and no seeming of comfortable homes when the door
was opened. The village, for it amounted to that, was almost
deserted at that hour; only a few crooning old women on the
sunny side of a wall, and a few half-grown girls, and a
quantity of little children, depending for all the care they
got upon one or the other of these.
"Haven't all these little babies got mothers?" I asked.
"For sure, Miss Daisy  dey's got modders."
"Where are the mothers of all these babies, Darry?" I asked.
"Dey's in de field, Miss Daisy. Home d'rectly."
"Are they working like men, in the fields?" I asked.
"Dey's all at work," said Darry.
"Do they do the same work as the men?"
"All alike, Miss Daisy." Darry's answers were not hearty.
"But don't their little babies want them?" said I, looking at
a group of girls in whose hands were some very little babies
indeed. I think Darry made me no answer.
"But if the men and women both work out," I went on, "papa
must give them a great deal of money; I should think they
would have things more comfortable, Darry. Why don't they have
little carpets, and tables and chairs, and cups and saucers?
Hardly anybody has teacups and saucers. Have you got any,
uncle Darry?"
" 'Spect I'se no good woman to brew de tea for her ole man,"
said Darry; but I thought he looked at me very oddly.
"Couldn't you make it for yourself, uncle Darry?"
"Poor folks don't live just like de rich folks," he answered
quietly, after a minute's pause. "And I don't count fur to
want no good t'ing, missie."
I went on with my observations; my questions I thought I would
not push any further at that time. I grew more and more
dissatisfied, that my father's workpeople should live in no
better style and in no better comfort. Even Molly Skelton had
a furnished and appointed house, compared with these little
bare stone huts; and mothers that would leave their babies for
the sake of more wages must, I thought, be very barbarous
mothers. This was all because, no doubt, of having no church
and no Bible. I grew weary. As we were going up the dell
towards the stables, I suddenly remembered my pony; and I
asked to see him.
Darry was much relieved, I fancy, to have me come back to a
child's sphere of action. He had out the fat little grey pony
and talked it over to me with great zeal. It came into my head
to ask for a saddle.
"Dere be a saddle"  Darry said doubtfully  "Massa Preston he
done got a saddle dis very day. Dunno where massa Preston can
be."
I did not heed this. I begged to have the saddle and be
allowed to try the pony. Now Preston had laid a plan that
nobody but himself should have the pleasure of first mounting
me; but I did not know of this plan. Darry hesitated, I saw,
but he had not the power to refuse me. The saddle was brought
out, put on, and carefully arranged.
"Uncle Darry, I want to get on him  may I ?"
"O' course  Miss Daisy do what she mind to. Him bery good,
only some lazy."
So I was mounted. Preston, Miss Pinshon, the servants'
quarters, the multiplication table, all were forgotten and
lost in a misty distance. I was in the saddle for the first
time, and delight held me by both hands. My first moment on
horseback! If Darry had guessed it he would have been terribly
concerned; but, as it happened, I knew how to take my seat; I
had watched my mother so often mounting her horse that every
detail was familiar to me; and Darry naturally supposed I knew
