Rolfe, in his shirt-sleeves and apron, came out of the door, holding
his hands up for the packets.
"Three for you, Jimmy," said the bareheaded express-rider, passing the
letters over. "Draw me a pot o' beer, for Heaven's sake."
"Where is your mate?" asked Rolfe, anxiously.
"Hiram? Full of war-arrows t'other side o' Crown Gap. Here's his
pouch."
"Scalped?" asked Rolfe, in a low voice.
"I reckon he is. He never knowed nothing after the third arrow. Them
Wyandottes done it."
A tap-boy hurried out with the brimming pewter, and the shadowy rider
emptied it at a gulp.
"'Nother, Jim," he said, stolidly.
"There's blood onto your jaw," said Rolfe, gloomily.
"Ay, they drew blood. I lost my hat"--here he swore fiercely--"and it
ain't even paid for, Jim!"
"You orter be glad you got through, Ben Prince," said Rolfe, grimly.
"I am--drat that boy! where's my beer? Oh, there you are, are you?
Gimme the pot and quit gaping. Hain't you never seed a express
before?"
An admiring circle of hostlers and kitchen wenches laughed
hysterically. The post-rider swaggered in his saddle and stretched out
his feet contentedly.
"Life ain't all skittles," he observed; "but beer is beer the round
world round!" and he drained the pot and tossed it dripping to an
honoured scullion.
"News o' Boston?" asked Rolfe, meaningly.
"Plenty! Plenty! Port Bill in force; Tommy Gage on top; Sam Adams
lying low; more redcoats landed, more on the way, more to come; rich
poorer; poor starving; that's all!"
He gathered his bridle and winked at a coy kitchen-maid.
"Your beau has went to Johnstown, Sairy," he said; "I seen him
a-training hay-foot, straw-foot, with old Sir Billy's Tryon County
milish. That reminds me, Jim"--turning to Rolfe--"I've a packet for a
certain Michael Cardigan, somewhere to be hunted up south o' Crown
Gap--"
"Right here!" said Rolfe, promptly, and the express passed the letter
to him. Then, with a careless, "See you later!" he wheeled his horse
short and galloped back along the alley, which rang with shouts of
"Good luck! Good luck! There's bed and bait for you here, Benny!"
The crowd on the steps flocked back into the kitchen, the door
closed, then opened to let out Rolfe, who advanced towards me, letter
in one hand, flaring candle in the other.
"Light the coach-lamps," I whispered, and, taking the candle and
letter, sat down on a pile of pine timber to read what Sir William had
sent me:
      "DEAR LAD,--By runners from the Cayuga, I know how gallantly
      you have conducted. Dearer than son you are to me, prouder am
      I than any parent. If what we had hoped and prayed for has
      failed--as I can no longer doubt--it is so ordained, and we
      struggle in vain. Nitor in adversum; nisi Dominus, frustra!
      "I am holding the Mohawks back by their very throats, but
      mischief brews at the Upper Castle, whither Joseph
      (Thayendanegea) has gone with the belts from me.
      "Red Jacket's conduct condemns me to uneasiness. He is an
      orator; the foul murder of Logan is his text. I need say no
      more, save that I still hold the Mohawks back.
      "Colonel John Butler, his conduct concerns me, and I needs
      must view it with grief and alarm. His dishonoured son,
      Walter Butler, is still absent; the elder Butler has retired
      to the lakes, where I am informed he is gathering Tory
      malecontents and foolish young Onondagas, for what ultimate
      purpose I can only imagine.
      "A most deadly and bitter feeling runs flood in Johnstown;
      nightly outrages are reported to me, and I fear that the
      so-called patriots are quite as blameworthy as are the
      loyalists. Whig and Tory hate and wait.
      "Dear lad, the sands of my life are running very swiftly. I
      am so tired, so tired! Come when you can; I have much to talk
      over ere these same sands run out, leaving a voided glass in
      the sunlight. If you, by hazard, pass through Fort Pitt, you
      will accompany Felicity on her return hither, which return I
      have instantly commanded her by this express. I have received
      a singular letter from my Lord Dunmore, which has astonished
      me. My answer to him I delay until Felicity returns.
      Doubtless she will travel hither by way of Richmond. The
      escort, which Lord Dunmore must furnish, will, on their
      return journey, take with them my reply to his Lordship.
      "If this letter reaches you in time, come back with Felicity;
      if not, come by the safe route through Richmond. Overtake her
      if you can do so.
      "Your Aunt Molly is well and sweetly anxious to see you safe
      home. Esk and Peter do flourish--yet I like not Peter's
      haunting the public houses where things are uttered to poison
      young minds. I have trounced him soundly seven times, and
      mean to continue.
      "The news from Boston is ominous. More ships are about to
      sail, bearing more troops and cannon. I know not how it will
      end! Ay--but I do know, and so must every thinking man.
      Praemonitus praemunitus!
      "Michael, I have had a most strange and unpleasant letter
      from Sir Peter Warren, who encloses with it certain amazing
      documents which he has carefully perused, to his great
      mortification and discontent. These papers were lately sent
      to him from Chatham dockyard, having been discovered under
      the cabin flooring of the war-ship Leda, which his brother
      lately commanded and which is now repairing at Chatham.
      "The documents concern Felicity--and us all--and I wish you
      to know that I no longer approve of your union with her, at
      least not until both she and you are fully acquainted with
