Bible," said Margaret. " Now stare, Ellen Chauncey, do !" 
"I aint staring," said Ellen indignantly, — "but I don't believe it is right to play it, if it is out of the Bible." 
" Well it is though," said George. " Now listen ; — I'll 
think of somebody in the Bible, — some man or woman, you 
know ; and you all may ask me twenty questions about him 
to see if you can find out who it is." 
" What kind of questions ?" 
" Any kind of questions — whatever you like." 
" That will improve your knowledge of scripture history," 
said Gilbert. 
" To be sure ; and exercise oui* memory,'' said Isabel 
Hawthorn. 
" Yes, and then we are thinking of good people and what 
they did, all the time," said little Ellen. 
" Or bad people and what they did," said William. 
" But I don't know enough about people and things in the 
Bible," said Margaret ; " I couldn't guess." 
" never mind — it will be all the more fun," said George. 
" Come ! let's begin. Who'll take somebody ?" 
"I think this will be fine !" said little Chauncey but 
Ellen — where's Ellen? — we want her." 
" No we don't want her ! — we've enough without her — 
she won't play !" shouted William, as the little girl ran up 
stairs. She persevered however. Ellen had left her sofa before this, and was found seated on the foot of her bed. As 
far and as long as she could she withstood her little friend's 
entreaties, and very unwilhngly at last yielded and went with 
her down stairs. 
" Now we are ready," said little Ellen Chauncey ; " I have 
told Ellen what the game is ; who's going to begin ?" 
" We have begun," said William. " Gilbert has thought 
of somebody. Man or woman ?" 
-Man." 
" Young or old ?" 
" Why — he was young first and old afterwards." 
" Pshaw, William ! what a ridiculous question," said his 
sister. " Besides you mustn't ask m,ore than one at a time. 
Rich or poor, Gilbert ?" 
" Humph ! — why I suppose he was moderately well off. I 
dare say I should think myself a lucky fellow if I had as 
much." 
" Are you answering truly, Gilbert ?" 
" Upon my honor !" 
" Was he in a high or low station of life," asked Miss Hawthorn ?" 
" Neither at the top nor the bottom of the ladder — a very 
respectable person indeed.'' 
" But we are not getting on," said Margaret ; " according 
to you he wasn't anything in particular ; what kind of a 
person was he, Gilbert ?" 
" A very good man." 
" Handsome or ugly ?" 
" History don't say." 
" Well, what does it say ?" said George — " what did ho 
do ?" 
" He took a journey once upon a time." 
"What for'?" 
"Do you mean why he went, or what was the object of 
his going ?" 
" Why the one's the same as the other, aint it ?" 
" I beg your pardon." 
" Well, what was the object of his going ?" 
" He went after a wife." 
" Samson ! Samson !" shouted William and Isabel and Ellen 
Chauncey. 
" No — it wasn't Samson either." 
" I can't think of anybody else that went after a wife," said 
George. That king — what's his name ? — that married 
Esther ?" 
The children screamed. " He didn't go after a wife, George, 
— his wives were brought to him. Was it Jacob ?" 
" No — he didn't go after a wife either," said Gilbert ; " he 
married two of them, but he didn't go to his uncle's to find 
them. You had better go on with your questions. You have 
had eight already. If you don't look out you won't catch 
me. Come !" 
Did he get the wife that he went after ?" asked Ellen 
Chauncey. 
" He was never married that I know of," said Gilbert. 
" What was the reason he failed ?" said Isabel. 
" He did not fail." 
" Did he bring home his wife then ? you said he wasn't 
married." 
" He never was, that I know of ; but he brought home a 
wife notwithstanding." 
" But how funny you are, Gilbert," said little Ellen, — " he 
had a wife and he hadn't a wife ; — what became of her ?" 
" She lived and flourished. Twelve questions ; — take care." 
" Nobody asked what country he was of," said Margaret, 
— " what was he, Gilbert ?" 
He was a Damascene. 
"A what?'' 
" Of Damascus — of Damascus. You know where Damas- 
cus is, don't you "?" 
Fiddle !" said Marianne, — " I thought he was a Jew. 
Did he hve before or after the flood ?" 
" After. I should think you might have known that." 
" W^ell, I can't make out anything about him," said 
Marianne. " We shall have to give it up." 
" No, no, — not yet," said William. " Where did he go 
after his wife ?" 
"Too close a question." 
" Then that don't count. Had he ever seen her before ?" 
" Never." 
" Was she willing to go with him 
Very willing. Ladies always are when they go to be 
married." 
" And what became of her ?" 
" She was married and lived happily, — as I told you." 
" But you said he wasn't married ?" 
" Well, what then? I didn't say she married him." 
" Whom did she marry ?" 
"Ah that is asking the whole ; I can't tell you." 
" Had they far to go ?" asked Isabel. 
" Several days' journey, — I don't know how far." 
" How did they travel ?'' 
" On camels." 
" Was it the Queen of Sheba !" said little Ellen. 
There was a roar of laughter at this happy thought, and 
poor little Ellen declared she forgot all but about the journey ; she remembered the Queen of Sheba had taken a journey, and the camels in the picture of the Queen of Sheba, 
and that made her think of her. 
The children gave up. Questioning seemed hopeless ; and 
Gilbert at last told them his thought. It was Eleazar, Abra- 
ham's steward, whom he sent to fetch a wife for his son 
Isaac. 
" Why haven't you guessed, little mumchance ?" said 
Gilbert to Ellen Montgomery. 
" I have guessed," said Ellen ; — " I knew who it was some 
time ago." 
" Then why didn't you say so ? and you haven't asked a 
single question," said George. 
" No, you haven't asked a single question," said Ellen 
Chauncey. 
" She is a great deal too good for that," said William ; 
" she thinks it is wicked, and that we are not at all nice proper-behaved boys and girls to be playing on Sunday ; she is 
very sorry she could not help being amused." 
" Do you think it is wricked, Ellen ?" asked her little friend. 
" Do you think it isn't right ?" said George Walsh. 
Ellen hesitated ; she saw they were all waiting to hear 
what she would say. She colored, and looked down at 
her little Bible which was still in her hand. It encouraged 
her. 
" I don't want to say anything rude," she began ; — " I don't 
think it is quite right to play such plays, or any plays." 
She was attacked with impatient cries of " Why not ?" 
"Why not?" 
" Because," said Ellen, trembling with the effort she made, — 
" I think Sunday was meant to be spent in growing better 
and learning good things ; and I don't think such plays would 
help one at all to do that ; and I have a kind of feeling that 
I ought not to do it." 
" Well I hope you'll act according to your feelings then," 
said William ; " I am sure nobody has any objection. You 
had better go somewhere else though, for we are going on ; 
we have been learning to be good long enough for one day. 
Come ! I have thought of somebody." 
Ellen could not help feeling hurt and sorry at the half 
sneer she saw in the look and manner of the others as well 
as in William's words. She wished for no better than to go 
away, but as she did so her bosom swelled and the tears 
started and her breath came quicker. She found AHce lying 
down and asleep. Miss Sophia beside her ; so she stole out 
again and went down to the library. Finding nobody, she 
took possession of the sofa and tried to read again ; reading 
somehow did not go well, and she fell to musing on what had 
just passed. She thought of the unkindness of the children ; 
how sure she was it was wrong to spend any part of Sunday 
in such games ; what Alice would think of it, and John, and 
her mother ; and how the Sundays long ago used to be spent, 
when that dear mother was with her ; and then she wondered 
how she was passing this very one, — while Ellen was sitting 
here in the library alone, what she was doing in that far-away 
land ; and she thought if there only wei-e such things as 
oracles that could tell truly, how much she should like to 
ask about her. 
Ellen !" said the voice of John from the window. 
She started up ; she had thought she was alone ; but there 
he was lying in the window seat. 
" What are you doing ?" 
" Nothing," said Ellen. 
" Come here. What are you thinking about ? I didn't 
know you were there till I heard two or three very long 
