got such a fine plan in our heads," said little Ellen, lowering 
her voice and speaking with open eyes and great energy, — 
" we are going to make presents this year ! — we children — 
won't it be fine ? — we are going to make what we like for 
anybody we choose, and let nobody know anything about it ; 
and then New Year's morning, you know, when the things 
are all under the napkins we will give ours to somebody to 
put where they belong, and nobody will know anything 
about them till they see them there. Won't it be fine ? I'm 
so glad you are here, for I want you to tell me what I shall 
make." 
"Who is it for?" said Ellen. 
" mamma ; you know I can't make for everybody, so I 
think I had rather it should be for mamma. I thought of 
making her a needlebook with white backs, and getting 
Gilbert Gillespie to paint them — he can paint beautifully, — 
and having her name and something else written very nicely 
inside — how do you think that would do ?" 
" I should think it would do very nicely," said Ellen, — 
" very nicely indeed." 
" I wish uncle George was at home though to write it for 
me, — he writes so beautifully ; I can't do it well enough." 
" I am afraid I can't either," said Ellen. " Perhaps somebody else can." 
" I don't know who. Aunt Sophia scribbles and scratches, 
and besides I don't want her to know anything about it. 
But there's another thing I don't know how to fix, and that's 
the edges of the leaves — the leaves for the needles — they 
must be fixed — somehow." 
** I oan show you how to do that," said Ellen brightening ; 
" mamma had a needlebook that was given to her that had 
the edges beautifully fixed ; and T wanted to know how it 
was done, and she showed me. I'll show you that. It takes 
a good while, but that's no matter." 
" O thank you ; how nice that is. no that's no matter. 
And then it will do very well, won't it ? Now if I can only 
catch Gilbert in a good humor — he isn't my cousin — he's 
Marianne's cousin — that big boy you saw down stairs — he's 
so big he won't have anything to say to me sometimes, but I 
guess I'll get him to do this. Don't you want to make some- 
thing for somebody ?" 
Ellen had had one or two feverish thoughts on this subject 
since the beginning of the conversation ; but she only said, — 
" It's no matter — you know I haven't got anything here ; 
and besides I shall not be here till New Year." 
" Not here till New Year ! yes you shall," said little Ellen, 
throwing herself upon her neck ; " indeed you aren't going 
away before that. I know you aren't — I heard grandmamma 
and aunt Sophia talking about it. Say you will stay here till 
New Year — do !" 
" I should like to very much indeed," said Ellen, " if Alice 
does." 
In the midst of half a dozen kisses with which her little 
companion rewarded this speech, somebody close by said 
pleasantly, — 
" What time of night do you suppose it is ?" 
The girls started ; — there was Mrs. Chauncey. 
" 0, mamma," exclaimed her little daughter, springing to 
her feet, " I hope you haven't heard what we have been talk- 
ing about ?" 
" Not a word," said Mrs. Chauncey, smiling, " but as to- 
morrow will be long enough to talk in, hadn't you better go 
to bed now ?" 
Her daughter obeyed her immediately, after one more hug 
to Ellen and telling her she was so glad she had come. Mrs. 
Chauncey stayed to see Ellen in bed and press one kind motherly kiss upon her face, so tenderly that Ellen's eyes were 
moistened as she withdrew. But in her dreams that night the 
rosy sweet face, blue eyes, and little plump figure of Ellen 
Chauncey played the greatest part. 
She slept till Alice was obliged to waken her the next 
morning ; and then got up with her head in a charming 
confusion of pleasures past and pleasures to come, — things 
known and unknown to be made for everybody's New Year 
presents, — linen collars and painted needlebooks ; and no 
sooner was breakfast over than she was showing and explaining to Ellen Chauncey a particularly splendid and mysterious 
way of embroidering the edges of needlebook leaves. Deep in 
this they were still an hour afterwards, and in the comparative merits of purple and rose-color, when a little hubbub arose 
at the other end of the room on the arrival of a new-comer. 
Ellen Chauncey looked up from her work, then dropped it, 
exclaiming, " There she is ! — now for the bag !" — and pulled 
Ellen along with her towards the party. A young lady was 
in the midst of it, talking so fast that she had not time to 
take off her cloak and bonnet. As her eye met Ellen's how- 
ever she came to a sudden pause. It was Margaret Duns- 
combe. Ellen's face certainly showed no pleasure ; Marga- 
ret's darkened with a very disagreeable surprise. 
" My goodness ! — Ellen Montgomery ! — how on earth did 
you get here P" 
" Do you know her?" asked one of the girls, as the two 
Ellens went off after " aunt Sophia." 
" Do I know her ? Yes — just enough, — exactly. How did 
she get here ?" 
" Miss Humphreys brought her." 
" Who's Miss Humphreys ?" 
" Hush !" said Marianne, lowering her tone, — " that's her 
brother in the window." 
"Whose brother? — her's or Miss Humphreys'?" 
" Miss Humphreys. Did you never see her ? she is here, 
or has been here, a great deal of the time. Grandma calls her 
her fourth daughter ; and she is just as much at home as if 
she was ; and she brought her here." 
" And she's at home too, I suppose. Well, it's no busi- 
ness of mine." 
" What do you know of her ?" 
" 0, enough — that's just it — don't want to know any 
more." 
" Well you needn't ; but what's the matter with her ?" 
"I don't know — I'll tell you some other time — she's a 
conceited little piece. We had the care of her coming up the 
river, that's how I come to know about her ; 'ma said it was 
the last child she would be bothered with in that way." 
Presently the two girls came back, bringing word to clear 
the table, for aunt Sophia was coming with the moroccos. 
As soon as she came Ellen Chauncey sprang to her neck and 
whispered an earnest question. " Certainly !" aunt Sophia 
said, as she poured out the contents of the bag ; and her little niece delightedly told Ellen she was to have her share as 
well as the rest. 
The table was now strewn with pieces of morocco of all 
sizes and colors, which were hastily turned over and examined with eager hands and sparkling eyes. Some were 
mere scraps, to be sure ; but others showed a breadth and 
length of beauty which was declared to be "first-rate," and 
" fine ;" and one beautiful large piece of blue morocco in 
particular was made up in imagination by two or three of the 
party in as many different ways. Marianne wanted it for a 
book-cover ; Margaret declared she could make a lovely reticule with it ; and Ellen could not help thinking it would make 
a very pretty needlebox, such a one as she had seen in the 
possession of one of the girls, and longed to make for Alice. 
" Well, what's to be done now ?" said Miss Sophia, — " or 
am I not to know ?" 
** you're not to know — you're not to know, aunt Sophy," 
cried the girls ; — you mustn't ask." 
" I'll tell you what they are going to do with 'em," said 
George Walsh, coming up to her with a mischievous face, 
and adding in a loud whisper, shielding his mouth with his 
hand, — they're going to make pr " 
He was laid hold of forcibly by the whole party screaming 
and laughing, and stopped short from finishing his speech. 
" Well then I'll take my departure," said Miss Sophia ; — 
" but how will you manage to devide all these scraps ?" 
" Suppose we were to put them in the bag again, and 
you hold the bag, and we were to draw them out without 
looking," said Ellen Chauncey, — " as we used to do with the 
sugar- plums." 
As no better plan was thought of this was agreed upon ; 
and little Ellen shutting up her eyes very tight stuck in her 
hand and pulled out a little bit of green morocco about the 
size of a dollar. Ellen Montgomery came next ; then Mar- 
garet, then Marianne, then their mutual friend Isabel Haw- 
thorn. Each had to take her turn a great many times ; 
and at the end of the drawing the pieces were found to be 
pretty equally divided among the party, with the exception 
of Ellen, who besides several other good pieces had drawn 
the famous blue. 
" That will do very nicely," said little Ellen Chauncey ; — 
" I am glad you have got that Ellen. Now aunt Sophy ! — 
one thing more — you know the silks and ribbons you pro- 
mised us." 
" Bless me ! I haven't done yet, eh ? Well you shall 
have them, but we are all going out to walk now ; I'll give 
them to you this afternoon. Come ! put these away and get 
on your bonnets and cloaks." 
A hard measure ! but it was done. After the walk came 
dinner ; after dinner aunt Sophia had to be found and waited 
on, till she had fairly sought out and delivered to their hands 
the wished-for bundle of silks and satins. It gave great 
satisfaction. 
" But how shall we do about dividing these ?" said little 
Ellen; — shall we draw lots again?" 
" No Ellen,'' said Marianne, "that won't do, because we 
might every one get just the thing we do not want. I want 
one color or stuff to go with my morocco, and you want another to go with yours ; and you might get mine and I might 
get yours. We had best each choose in turn what we like, 
beginning at Isabel." 
" Very well," said little Ellen, " I'm agreed." 
" Anything for a quiet life," said George Walsh. 
But this business of choosing was found to be very long and 
very difficult, *ach one was so fearful of not taking the exact 
piece she wanted most. The elder members of the family 
began to gather for dinner, and several came and stood 
round the table where the children were ; little noticed by 
them, they were so wrapped up in silks and satins. Ellen 
