the other half. To sleep was impossible. Thus far, in the many
difficulties he had encountered, a way of escape from them had opened
either on the right hand or on the left, but now no way of escape
presented itself. A hundred plans were suggested to his mind, canvassed
and then put aside. He saw but one measure of relief, if it could be
carried out; but that he had proposed already, and it was not approved.
The unhappy state in which she saw her husband deeply distressed Mrs.
Lawrence. Earnestly did she beg of him to tell her all that troubled
him, and let her bear a part of the burden that was upon him. At first
he evaded her questions; but, to her oft-repeated and tenderly urged
petition to be a sharer in his pains as well as his pleasures, he
mentioned the desperate state of affairs in the company of which he was
president.
"But, my dear husband," she replied to this, "you cannot be held
responsible for the losses the institution has sustained."
"True, Florence; but the odium, the censure, the distress that must
follow its failure,--I cannot bear to think of these. My credit, too,
will suffer, for I shall lose all I have invested in the stock, and
this fact, when known, will impair confidence."
"All this is painful and deeply to be regretted, Sidney," said the
wife, speaking in as firm a voice as she could assume. "But as it is a
calamity that cannot now be avoided, and is not the result of any wrong
act of yours, let a clear conscience sustain you in this severe trial.
Let the public censure, let odium be attached to your name--so long as
your conscience is clear and your integrity unsullied, these cannot
really hurt you."
But this appeal had little or no effect. The mind of the unhappy man
could not take hold of it, nor feel its force. It was repeated again
and again, and with as little effect. Finally he begged to be left to
his own reflections. In tears his wife complied with his request. That
night she slept as little as her miserable husband.
On the next day the ---- Insurance Company was dishonoured, and "went
into liquidation." On the day following Sidney Lawrence suspended
payment. Trustees were appointed to take charge of the effects of the
company, who immediately commenced a rigid examination into its
affairs. Lawrence made an assignment at the same time for the benefit
of his creditors.
One evening, about a week after his failure, Mr. Lawrence came home
paler and more disturbed than ever. There was something wild in the
expression of his countenance.
"Florence," said he, as soon as he was alone with her, "I must leave
for Cincinnati in the morning."
"Why?" eagerly asked the wife, her face instantly blanching.
"Business requires me to go. I have seen your father, and have made
arrangements with him for you to go to his house, with the children,
while I am away. This property, as I have before told you, has to be
sold, and the sale will probably take place while I am gone."
"How soon will you return?"
"I cannot tell exactly; but I will come back as quickly as possible."
There was something in the manner of her husband, as he made this
announcement, that startled and alarmed Mrs. Lawrence. She tried to ask
many questions, but her voice failed her. Leaning her head down upon
her husband's breast, she sobbed and wept for a long time. Lawrence was
much affected, and kissed the wet cheek of his wife with unwonted
fervour.
On the next morning, early, the unhappy man parted with his family. His
wife clung to him with an instinctive dread of the separation. Tears
were in his eyes, as he took his children one after another in his arms
and kissed them tenderly.
"God bless you all, and grant that we may meet again right early, and
under brighter skies!" he said, as he clasped his wife to his bosom in
a long embrace, and then tore himself away.
On the third day after Mr. Lawrence left, one of the city newspapers
contained the following paragraph:
"THE ---- INSURANCE COMPANY.--We understand that in the investigation
of the affairs of this concern, it has been discovered that Mr.
Lawrence, the president, proves to be a defaulter in the sum of nearly
a hundred thousand dollars. The public are aware that post-notes were
issued by the company to a large amount, and loaned to individuals on
good collateral security. These bore only the signature of the
president. It now appears that Mr. Lawrence used this paper without the
knowledge of the directors. He signed what he wanted for his own use,
and when these came due, signed others and negotiated them, managing
through the principal clerk in the institution, who it seems was an
accomplice, to keep the whole matter a secret. This was continued until
he had used the credit of the concern up to a hundred thousand dollars,
when it sank under the load. Preparations were made, immediately on the
discovery of this, to have him arrested and tried for swindling, but he
got wind of it and has left the city. We presume, however, that he will
be apprehended and brought back. His own private affairs are said to be
in a most deplorable condition. It is thought that not over twenty
cents in the dollar will be realized at the final settlement."
Here we drop a veil over the history of the man who made haste to be
rich, and was not innocent. His poor wife waited vainly for him to
return, and his children asked often for their father, and wondered why
he stayed so long away. Years passed before they again met, and then it
was in sorrow and deep humiliation.
LET HER POUT IT OUT.
I HOPE there is no coolness between you and Maria," said Mrs. Appleton
to her young friend, Louisa Graham, one evening at a social party. "I
have not seen you together once to-night; and just now she passed
without speaking, or even looking at you."
"Oh, as to that," replied Louisa, tossing her head with an air of
contempt and affected indifference, "she's got into a pet about
something; dear knows what, for I don't."
"I am really sorry to hear you say so," remarked Mrs. Appleton. "Maria
is a warm-hearted girl, and a sincere friend. Why do you not go to her,
and inquire the cause of this change in her manner?"
"Me! No, indeed. I never humour any one who gets into a pet and goes
pouting about in that manner."
"But is it right for you to act so? A word of inquiry or explanation
might restore all in a moment."
"Right or wrong, I never did and never will humour the whims of such
kind of people. No, no. Let her pout it out! That's the way to cure
such people."
"I don't think so, Louisa. She is unhappy from some real or imaginary
cause. That cause it is no doubt in your power to remove."
"But she has no right to imagine causes of offence; and I don't choose
to have people act as she is now acting towards me from mere imaginary
causes. No; let her pout it out, I say. It will teach her a good
lesson."
Louisa spoke with indignant warmth.
"Were you never mistaken?" asked Mrs. Appleton, in a grave tone.
"Of course, I've been mistaken many a time."
"Very well. Have you never been mistaken in reference to another's
action towards you?"
"I presume so."
"And have not such mistakes sometimes given you pain?"
"I cannot recall any instances just at this moment, but I have no doubt
they have."
"Very well. Just imagine yourself in Maria's position; would you not
think it kind in any one to step forward and disabuse you of an error
that was stealing away your peace of mind?"
"Yes; but, Mrs. Appleton, I don't know anything about the cause of
Maria's strange conduct. She may see that in my character or
disposition to which she is altogether uncongenial, and may have made
up her mind not to keep my company any longer. Or she may feel herself,
all at once, above me. And I'm not the one, I can tell you, to cringe
to any living mortal. I am as good as she is, or any one else!"
"Gently, gently, Louisa! Don't fall into the very fault you condemn in
Maria; that of imagining a sentiment to be entertained by another which
she does not hold, and then growing indignant over the idea and at the
person supposed to hold it."
"I can't see clearly the force of what you say, Mrs. Appleton; and
therefore I must come back to what I remarked a little while ago: She
must pout it out."
"You are wrong, Louisa," her friend replied, "and I cannot let you rest
in that wrong, if it is in my power to correct it. Perhaps, by relating
a circumstance that occurred with myself a few years ago, I may be able
to make an impression on your mind. I had, and still have, an esteemed
friend, amiable and sincere, but extremely sensitive. She is too apt to
make mistakes about other people's estimation of her, which, I often
told her, is a decided fault of character. That she has only to be
self-conscious of integrity, and then she will be truly estimated.
Well, this friend would sometimes imagine that I treated her coolly,
or indifferently, or thrust at her feelings, when I felt towards her
all the while a very warm affection. The consequence would be, that she
would assume a cold or offended exterior. But I never said to myself,
'Let her pout it out.' I knew that she was mistaken, and that she was
really suffering under her mistake; and I would always go to her, and
kindly inquire the cause of her changed manner. The result was, of
course, an immediate restoration of good feeling, often accompanied by
a confession of regret at having injured me by imagining that I
entertained unkind sentiments when I did not. On one occasion I noticed
a kind of reserve in her manner; but thinking there might be some
circumstances known only to herself, that gave her trouble, I did not
seem to observe it. On the next morning I was exceedingly pained and
surprised to receive a note from her, in something like the following
language--
"The fact is, Mrs. Appleton, I cannot and will not bear any longer your
manner towards me. You seem to think that I have no feelings. And
besides, you assume an air of superiority and patronage that is
exceedingly annoying. Last night your manner was insufferable. As I
have just said, I cannot and will not bear such an assumption on your
part. And now let me say, that I wish, hereafter, to be considered by
you as a stranger. As such I shall treat you. Do not attempt to answer
this, do not attempt to see me, for I wish for no humiliating
explanations.'
"Now what would you have done in such a case, Louisa?"
"I would have taken her at her word, of course," was the prompt reply;
"did not you?"
"Oh, no; that would not have been right."
"I must confess, Mrs. Appleton, that your ideas of right, and mine, are
very different. This lady told you expressly that she did not wish to
hold any further intercourse with you."
"Exactly. But, then, she would not have said so, had she not been
deceived by an erroneous idea. Knowing this, it became my duty to
endeavour to remove the false impression."
"I must confess, Mrs. Appleton, that I cannot see it in the same light.
I don't believe that we are called upon to humour the whims of every
