thought there was more in the family  but two aint enough to
go round; they're little ones."

"No, but put them down, and I'll make an omelette. Just get
the things ready for me, Barby, will you, while I run up to
see aunt Lucy. The hens have begun to lay?"

"La, yes  Philetus fetches in lots of eggs  he loves 'em, I
reckon  but you aint fit this minute to do a thing but rest,
Fleda."

"I'll rest afterwards. Just get the things ready for me,
Barby, and an apron; and the table  I'll be down in a minute.
And, Barby, grind some coffee, will you?"

But, as she turned to run upstairs, her uncle stood in her
way, and the supper vanished from Fleda's head. His arms were
open, and she was silently clasped in them, with so much
feeling on both sides, that thought, and well nigh strength,
for anything else on her part was gone. His smothered words of
deep blessing overcame her. Fleda could do nothing but sob, in
distress, till she recollected Barby. Putting her arms round
his neck, then she whispered to him that Mr. Carleton was in
the other room, and shortly explained how he came to be there,
and begged her uncle would go in and see him till supper
should be ready. Enforcing this request with a parting kiss on
his cheek, she ran off up stairs. Mr. Rossitur looked
extremely moody and cloudy for a few minutes, and then went in
and joined his guest. Mrs. Rossitur and her daughter could not
be induced to show themselves.

Little Rolf, however, had no scruples of any kind. He
presently edged himself into the room to see the stranger,
whom he no sooner saw than, with a joyous exclamation, he
bounded forward to claim an old friend.

"Why, Mr. Carleton," exclaimed Mr. Rossitur, in surprise, "I
was not aware that this young gentleman had the honour of your
acquaintance."

"But I have," said Rolf.

"In London, Sir, I had that pleasure," said Mr. Carleton.

"I think it was I had the pleasure," said Rolf, pounding one
hand upon Mr. Carleton's knee.

"Where is your mother?"

"She wouldn't come down," said Rolf; "but I guess she will
when she knows who is here" 

And he was darting away to tell her, when Mr. Carleton, within
whose arms he stood, quietly restrained him, and told him he
was going away presently, but would come again and see his
mother another time.

"Are you going back to England, Sir?"

"By and by."

"But you will come here again first?"

"Yes, if Mr. Rossitur will let me."

"Mr. Carleton knows he commands his own welcome," said that
gentleman, somewhat stately. "Go and tell your aunt Fleda that
tea is ready, Rolf."

"She knows," said Rolf. "She was making an omelette  I guess
it was for this gentleman."

Whose name he was not clear of yet. Mr. Rossitur looked vexed,
but Hugh laughed, and asked if his aunt gave him leave to tell
that. Rolf entered forthwith into discussion on this subject,
while Mr. Carleton, who had not seemed to hear it, engaged Mr.
Rossitur busily in another, till the omelette and Fleda came
in. Rolf's mind, however, was ill at ease.

"Aunt Fleda," said he, as soon as she had fairly taken her
place at the head of the table, "would you mind my telling
that you made the omelette for this gentleman?"

Fleda cast a confused glance, first at the person in question
and then round the table; but Mr. Carleton, without looking at
her, answered instantly 

"Don't you understand, Rolf, that the same kindness which will
do a favour for a friend, will keep him in ignorance of it?"

Rolf pondered a moment, and then burst forth 

"Why, Sir, wouldn't you like it as well for knowing she made
it?"

It was hardly in human gravity to stand this. Fleda herself
laughed, but Mr. Carleton, as unmoved as possible, answered
him, "Certainly not," and Rolf was nonplussed.

The supper was over. Hugh had left the room, and Mr. Rossitur
had before that gone out to give directions about Mr.
Carleton's horses. He and Fleda were left alone.

"I have something against you, fairy," said he, lightly,
taking her hand, and putting it to his lips. "You shall not
again do me such honour as you have done me to-day  I did not
deserve it, Elfie."

The last words were spoken half reproachfully. Fleda stood a
moment motionless, and then by some curious revulsion of
feeling, put both her hands to her face and burst into tears.

She struggled against them, and spoke almost immediately 

"You will think me very foolish, Mr. Carleton  I am ashamed
of myself  but I have lived here so long in this way  my
spirits have grown so quieted by different things, that it
seems, sometimes, as if I could not bear anything  I am
afraid" 

"Of what, my dear Elfie?"

But she did not answer, and her tears came again.

"You are weary and spent," he said, gently, repossessing
himself of one of her hands. "I will ask you another time what
you are afraid of, and rebuke all your fears."

"I deserve nothing but rebuke now," said Fleda.

But her hand knew, by the gentle and quiet clasp in which it
lay, that there was no disposition to give it.

"Do not speak to me for a minute," she said, hastily, as she
heard some one coming.

She went to the window, and stood there looking out, till Mr.
Carleton came to bid her good-bye.

"Will you permit me to say to Mrs. Evelyn," he said, in a low
tone, "that you left a piece of your property in her house,
and have commissioned me to bring it you?"

"Yes," said Fleda, hesitating, and looking a little confused;
"but  will you let me write a note instead, Mr. Carleton?"

"Certainly!  but what are you thinking of, Elfie? what grave
doubt is lying under your brow?"

All Fleda's shadows rolled away before that clear, bright eye.

"I have found by experience," she said, smiling a little, but
looking down, "that whenever I tell my secret thoughts to
anybody, I have some reason afterwards to be sorry for it."

"You shall make me an exception to your rule, however, Elfie."

Fleda looked up, one of her looks, half questioning, half
fearing, and then answered, a little hesitating 

"I was afraid, Sir, that if you went to Mrs. Evelyn's on that
errand  I was afraid you would show them you were
displeased."

"And what then?" said he, quietly.

"Only  that I wanted to spare them what always gives me a
cold chill."

"Gives you!" said Mr. Carleton.

"No, Sir  only by sympathy  I thought my agency would be the
gentlest."

"I see I was right," she said, looking up, as he did not
answer; "but they don't deserve it  not half so much as you
think. They talk  they don't know what. I am sure they never
meant half they said  never meant to annoy me with it, I mean
 and I am sure they have a true love for me  they have shown
it in a great many ways. Constance, especially, never showed
