closed up before us, and we see the opening to no other way, how can
we keep the faint heart from sinking?"

"Only as Peter was saved from sinking. If we look to God, He will lift
our hearts above the yielding billows. If we stand still, hopefully
and trustingly, the high mountain before us will become as a plain, so
that we can walk on in a smooth way, joyful and rejoicing."

"And so this high mountain, which has risen up so suddenly, will
soon be cleft for us or levelled to a plain, if we wait patiently and
confidingly for its removal?"

"Oh! I am sure of it, Edward," replied Mrs. Claire, with a beautiful
enthusiasm. "We are His creatures, and He loves us with an infinite
love. When his children are disposed to trust too much to the arm of
flesh, He sometimes shows them their weakness in order that they may
feel His strength. Faithfully and unselfishly, my husband, have you
tried to meet the suddenly increased demand upon us: and this out of
love for one of God's children. In the trial, weakness has prevailed
over strength. Suddenly your hands have fallen to your side powerless.
God saw it all; and permitted it all; and, in His own good time, will
supply, from other sources, all that is really needed. We have the
promise--our bread shall be given, and our water sure--not only
the natural food that sustains outward life, but the true bread of
heavenly affections, and the waters of pure truth, which nourish and
sustain the spirit."

Edith ceased speaking. Her husband did not make an immediate reply;
but lay pondering her words, and letting his thoughts expand their
wings in the purer atmosphere into which she had lifted him.

After that they conversed together hopefully of the future; not that
they saw the way more clearly before them, but heavenly confidence had
taken the place of human distrust.

It was, perhaps, eleven o'clock in the day--the doctor had been there,
and pronounced the condition of his patient favourable, but enjoined
quiet and prolonged rest from either bodily or mental exertion--and
the mind of Claire was beginning to run again in a slightly troubled
channel.

"Here is a letter for you," said his wife, coming into the room, after
a brief absence. "A young man just left it at the door."

Claire took the letter, wondering as he did so who it could be from.
On breaking the seal, and unfolding it, he was greatly surprised to
find within a check to his order for one hundred and fifty dollars,
signed Leonard Jasper; and still more surprised to read the
accompanying note, which was in these words:

"Enclosed you will find one hundred and fifty dollars, the sum due
you for Fanny Elder's maintenance during the past and current quarter.
When convenient, I should be glad to see you. Seeing that the child
has remained with you so long, I don't know that it will be advisable
to make a change now, although I had other views in regard to her.
However, when you call, we can settle matters in regard to her
definitively."

"Better to us than all our fears," murmured Claire, as he handed the
letter to his wife, who read it with a truly thankful heart.

"Our way is smooth once more," she said, smiling through outpressing
tears--"the mountain has become a level plain. All the dark clouds
have been swept from our sky, and the sun is shining even more
brightly than of old."

It was more than a week before Claire was sufficiently recovered to
go out and attend to business as usual. At the first opportunity,
he called upon Mr. Jasper, who received him with marked kindness of
manner.

"I do not, now," said the merchant, "entertain the same views in
regard to my ward that I did some time ago. Your opposition to
my wishes then, fretted me a good deal; and I made up my mind,
decisively, that so soon as she was twelve years of age, you must give
her up. It was from this feeling that I acted when I refused to pay
your last order. Since then, I have reflected a good deal on the
subject; and reflection has modified, considerably, my feelings. I
can understand how strong must be the attachment of both yourself and
wife, and how painful the thought of separation from a long-cherished
object of affection."

"The dread of separation, Mr. Jasper," replied Claire, "has haunted us
during the last two years like an evil spirit."

"It need haunt you no more, Edward," was the kindly spoken reply. "If
you still wish to retain the care of this child, you are free to do
so."

"You have taken a mountain from my heart, Mr. Jasper," was the young
man's feeling response.

"It is settled, then, Edward, that she remains with you. And now I
must say a word about her education. I wish that to be thorough.
She must have good advantages; better than the sum now paid for her
maintenance will procure."

Claire made no reply, and Jasper continued--

"I have this to propose. The bulk of property left by her father is
contained in two moderate-sized houses, one of which is at this time
without a tenant. It is a very comfortable house for a small family.
Just the thing, I should say, for you. If you will move into this
house, you shall have it rent free, as a set-off to the increased
charge Fanny will be to you in future. The three hundred per annum
will be paid as usual. How will that do?"

"The compensation, I think, will be greater than the service," replied
Claire.

"Not at all. During the next five or six years, or until she gains
her majority, you will find the cost of clothing and education a
constantly increasing sum. I know more about these things than you
do. And I am very sure, since I understand your relation to her, that
twice this expenditure, could not gain for her what she will have
while in your care. As her guardian, I feel it my duty to provide
liberally for her comfort and education, and to this you, of course,
can have nothing to object."

And Claire did not object. In a few weeks from that time he removed
into one of the houses mentioned by Jasper--a larger and far more
comfortable one than that in which he had lived for several years.
Here, with a thankful heart, he gathered his wife and children
around him. How happy they all were! Not selfishly happy--if such
contradictory terms may be used--but happy in the warmth of mutual
love. A heaven on earth was this little household. Shall we contrast
it with that of Leonard Jasper? No!--the opposite picture would leave
upon the reader's mind too sad an impression; and we will not burden
this chapter with another shadow.




CHAPTER XVIII.


During the five or six following years, a number of events occurred
bearing more or less seriously upon some of the actors in our story.
With Edward Claire and his family, life had flowed on in an even
current; and, but for the fact that his health never fairly recovered
from the shock it received in consequence of his having taxed his
physical system beyond its capability of endurance, the sunshine would
never have been a moment from his threshold.

The important addition made to his income through the new arrangement
volunteered by Fanny's guardian, gave to his external condition a more
favourable aspect. He was no longer troubled about the ways and means
of providing for his needful expenses. A much better situation, so far
as a higher salary was concerned, had, during this time offered; but,
as it required an amount of confinement and labour which he could not
give, without endangering his health, he wisely declined the offer.

Far less smoothly had the current of Leonard Jasper's life flowed
on. Twice during this period had he received visits from his old
acquaintance, Martin, and each time he was made poorer by five
thousand dollars. It was all in vain that he struggled and resisted.
The man had no compassion in him. He cared not who suffered loss, so
he was the gainer.

There were other miners at work sapping the foundations of Jasper's
fortune, besides this less concealed operator. Parker, the young man
who succeeded to the place of Claire, and who was afterward raised to
the condition of partner, with a limited interest, was far from
being satisfied with his dividend in the business. The great bulk of
Jasper's means were used in outside speculations; and as the result of
these became successively known to Parker, his thoughts began to run
in a new channel. "If I only had money to go into this," and, "If I
only had money to go into that," were words frequently on his tongue.
He regarded himself as exceedingly shrewd; and confidently believed
that, if he had capital to work with, he could soon amass an
independent fortune.

"Money makes money," was his favourite motto.

Unscrupulous as his partner, it is not surprising that Parker, ere
long, felt himself perfectly authorized to use the credit of the house
in private schemes of profit. To do this safely, it was necessary to
have a friend outside of the firm. Such a friend he did not find it
very hard to obtain; and as nearly the whole burden of the business
fell upon his shoulders, it was not at all difficult to hide every
