him all the change I had in my pocket, to buy souvenirs for 
his little folks at home, for you know I told you we had com- 
pared notes on sundry domestic points. I really flattered my- 
self that I was doing something quite liberal ; but this deceit- 
ful Swiss coin ! I found, when I came to tell C. about it, that 



 

the whole stock only amounted to about twenty cents : like a 
great many things in this world, it looked more than it was. 
The good man, however, seemed as grateful as if I had done 
something, wished all sorts of happiness to me and my chil- 
dren, and so we parted. Peace go with him in his Chamou- 
ni cottage. 




Saturday, July 9. Rose in a blaze of glory. Rode five 
mortal hours in a char-a-banc, sweltering under a burning sun. 
But in less than ten minutes after we mounted the mules and 
struck into the gorge, the ladies muffled themselves in thick 
shawls. "We seemed to have passed, almost in a moment, 
from the tropics into the frigid zone. A fur cloak was sug- 
gested to me, but as it happened I was adequately calorified 
without. Chancing to be the last in the file, my mule sudden- 
ly stopped to eat. 

" Allez, allez ! " said I, twitching the bridle. 

" I won't" said he, as plainly as ears and legs could speak. 

" Allez ! " thundered I, jumping off and bestowing a kick 
upon his ribs which made me suffer if it did not him. 

" I worCt? said he, stuffily. 

" Won't you ? " said I, pursuing the same line of inductive 
argument, with rhetorical flourishes of the bridle. 

" Never ! " he replied again, most mulishly. 

" Then if words and kicks won't do," said I, " let us see 
what virtue there is in stones ; " and suiting the action to the 
word, I showered him with fragments of granite, as from a 
catapult. At every concussion he jumped and kicked, but 
kept his nose in the same relative position. I redoubled the 
logical admonition ; he jumped the more perceptibly ; finally, 
after an unusually affecting appeal from a piece of granite, he 
fairly budged, and I seized the bridle to mount. 




 

" Not at all," said he, wheeling round to his first position, 
like a true proslavery demagogue. 

" Ah," said I ; and went over the same line of argument in 
a more solid and convincing manner. At length the salutary 
impression seemed permanently fastened on his mind ; he 
fairly gave in; and I rode on in triumph to overtake the 
party — having no need of a fur coat. 

Horeb, Sinai, and Hor ! "What a wilderness ! what a sudden change ! Nothing but savage, awful precipices of naked granite, snowy fields, and verdureless wastes ! In every other 
place in the Alps, we have looked upon the snow in the remote distance, to be dazzled with its sheeny effulgence — our- 
selves, meanwhile, in the region of verdure and warmth. 
Here we march through a horrid desert — not a leaf, not a 
blade of grass — over the deep drifts of snow ; and we find 
our admiration turns to horror. And this is the road that 
Hannibal trod, and Charlemagne, and Napoleon ! They were 
fit conquerors of Rome, who could vanquish the sterner des- 
potism of eternal winter. 

After an hour's perilous climbing, we reached, at last, the 
hospice, and in five minutes were sitting at the supper table, 
by a good blazing fire, with a lively company, chatting with a 
gentlemanly abbe, discussing figs and fun, cracking filberts and 
jokes, and regaling ourselves genially. But ever and anon 
drawing, with a half shiver, a little closer to the roaring fagots 
in the chimney, I thought to myself, " And this is our mid- 
summer nights' dream " ! 







LETTER XXXVI*. 

Dear : — 

During breakfast, we were discussing whether we could get 
through the snow to Mont St. Bernard. Some thought we 
could, and some thought not. So it goes here : we are gasping and sweltering one hour, and plunging through snow 
banks the next. 

After breakfast, we entered the char-a-banc, a crab-like, 
sideway carriage, and were soon on our way. Our path was 
cut from the breast of the mountain, in a stifling gorge, where 
walls of rock on both sides served as double reflectors to concentrate the heat of the sun on our hapless heads. To be 
sure, there was a fine foaming stream at the bottom of the 
pass, and ever so much fine scenery, if we could have seen it ; 
but our chars opened but one way, and that against the perpendicular rock, close enough, almost, to blister our faces ; and 
the sun beat in so on our backs that we were obliged to have 
the curtain down. Thus we were as uncognizant of the 
scenery we passed through as if we had been nailed up in a 
box. Nothing but the consideration that we were travelling 
for pleasure could for a moment have reconciled us to such 
inconveniences. As it was, I occasionally called out to C, in 
the back carriage, to be sure and take good care of the fur 
coat ; which always brought shouts of laughter from the whole 
party. The idea of a fur coat seemed .so supremely ridiculous 
to us, there was no making us believe we ever should or 
could want it. 







That was the most unpleasant day's ride I had in the Alps. 
"We stopped to take dinner in the little wretched village of 
Liddes. You have no idea what a disagreeable, unsavory 
concern one of these villages is. Houses, none of which look 
much better than the log barns in our "Western States, set close 
together on either side of a street paved with round stones ; 
coarse, sunburnt women, with their necks enlarged by the 
goitre ; and dirty children, with tangled hair, and the same 
disgusting disease, — these were the principal features of the 
scene. 

This goitre prevails so extensively in this region, that you 
seldom see a person with the neck in a healthy condition. 
The worst of the matter is, that in many cases of children it 
induces idiocy. Cases of this kind were so frequent, that, 
after a while, whenever I met a child, I began to search in its 
face for indications of the approach of this disease. 

They are called cretins. In many cases the whole head 
appears swelled and deformed. As usual, every one you look 
at puts out the hand to beg. The tavern where we stopped 
to dine seemed more like a great barn, or cavern, than any 
thing else. We go groping along perfectly dark stone passages, stumbling up a stone staircase, and gaining light only 
when the door of a kind of reception room opens upon us — a 
long, rough-looking room, without any carpet, furnished with 
a table, and some chairs, and a rude sofa. "We were shown 
to a bed room, carpetless, but tolerably clean, with a very 
high feather bed in each corner, under a canopy of white 
curtains. 

After dinner we went on towards St. Pierre, a miserable 
hamlet, where the mules were taken out of the chars, and we 
prepared to mount them. 







It was between three and four o'clock. Our path lav up a 
desolate mountain gorge. After we had ascended some way 
the cold, became intense. The mountain torrent, by the side 
of which we went up, leaped and tumbled under ribs of ice, 
and through banks of snow. 

I noticed on either side of the defile that there were high 
posts put up on the rocks, and a cord stretched from one to 
the other. The object of these, my guide told me. was to 
show the path, when this whole ravine is filled up with deep 
snow. 

I could not help thinking how horrible it must be to go up 
here in the winter. 
