she should die!"
There was a long silence.
"If we were only back to the mill." It was Mrs. Slade's voice.
"There, now! I don't want to hear that again," quickly spoke out the
landlord. "I made a slave of myself long enough."
"You had at least a clear conscience," his wife answered.
"Do hush, will you?" Slade was now angry. "One would think, by the way
you talk sometimes, that I had broken every command of the Decalogue."
"You will break hearts as well as commandments, if you keep on for a
few years as you have begun--and ruin souls as well as fortunes."
Mrs. Slade spoke calmly, but with marked severity of tone. Her husband
answered with an oath, and then left the room, banging the door after
him. In the hush that followed I retired to my chamber, and lay for an
hour awake, pondering on all I had just heard. What a revelation was in
that brief passage of words between the landlord and his excited
companion!
NIGHT THE FOURTH.
DEATH OF LITTLE MARY MORGAN.
"Where are you going, Ann?" It was the landlord's voice. Time--a little
after dark.
"I'm going over to see Mrs. Morgan," answered his wife.
"What for?"
"I wish to go," was replied.
"Well, I don't wish you to go," said Slade, in a very decided way.
"I can't help that, Simon. Mary, I'm told, is dying, and Joe is in a
dreadful way. I'm needed there--and so are you, as to that matter.
There was a time when, if word came to you that Morgan or his family
were in trouble--"
"Do hush, will you!" exclaimed the landlord, angrily. "I won't be
preached to in this way any longer."
"Oh, well; then don't interfere with my movements, Simon; that's all I
have to say. I'm needed over there, as I just said, and I'm going."
There were considerable odds against him, and Slade, perceiving this,
turned off, muttering something that his wife did not hear, and she
went on her way. A hurried walk brought her to the wretched home of the
poor drunkard, whose wife met her at the door.
"How is Mary?" was the visitor's earnest inquiry.
Mrs. Morgan tried to answer the question; but, though her lips moved,
no sounds issued therefrom.
Mrs. Slade pressed her hands tightly in both of hers; and then passed
in with her to the room where the child lay. A stance sufficed to tell
Mrs. Slade that death had already laid his icy fingers upon her brow.
"How are you, dear?" she asked, as she bent over and kissed her.
"Better, I thank you!" replied Mary, in a low whisper.
Then she fixed her eyes upon her mother's face with a look of inquiry.
"What is it, love?"
"Hasn't father waked up yet?"
"No, dear."
"Won't he wake up soon?"
"He's sleeping very soundly. I wouldn't like to disturb him."
"Oh, no; don't disturb him. I thought, maybe, he was awake."
And the child's lids drooped languidly, until the long lashes lay close
against her cheeks.
There was silence for a little while, and then Mrs. Morgan said in a
half-whisper to Mrs. Slade:
"Oh, we've had such a dreadful time with poor Joe. He got in that
terrible way again last night. I had to go for Doctor Green and leave
him all alone. When I came back, he was in bed with Mary; and she, dear
child, had her arms around his neck, and was trying to comfort him; and
would you believe it, he went off to sleep, and slept in that way for a
long time. The doctor came, and when he saw how it was, left some
medicine for him, and went away. I was in such hopes that he would
sleep it all off. But about twelve o'clock he started up, and sprung
out of bed with an awful scream. Poor Mary! she too had fallen asleep.
The cry wakened her, and frightened her dreadfully. She's been getting
worse ever since, Mrs. Slade.
"Just as he was rushing out of the room, I caught him by the arm, and
it took all my strength to hold him.
"'Father! father!' Mary called after him as soon as she was awake
enough to understand what was the matter--'Don't go out, father;
there's nothing here.'
"He looked back toward the bed, in a frightful way.
"'See, father!' and the dear child turned down the quilt and sheet, in
order to convince him that nothing was in the bed. 'I'm here,' she
added. 'I'm not afraid. Come, father. If there's nothing here to hurt
me, there's nothing to hurt you.'
"There was something so assuring in this, that Joe took a step or two
toward the bed, looking sharply into it as he did so. From the bed his
eyes wandered up to the ceiling, and the old look of terror came into
his face.
"'There it is now! Jump out of bed, quick! Jump out, Mary!' he cried.
'See! it's right over your head.'
"Mary showed no sign of fear as she lifted her eyes to the ceiling, and
gazed steadily for a few moments in that direction.
"'There's nothing there, father,' said she, in a confident voice.
"'It's gone now,' Joe spoke in a tone of relief. 'Your angel-look drove
it away. Aha! There it is now, creeping along the floor!' he suddenly
exclaimed, fearfully; starting away from where he stood.
"'Here, father'! Here!' Mary called to him, and he sprung into the bed
again; while she gathered her arms about him tightly, saying in a low,
soothing voice, 'Nothing can harm you here, father.'
"Without a moment's delay, I gave him the morphine left by Doctor
Green. He took it eagerly, and then crouched down in the bed, while
Mary continued to assure him of perfect safety. So long as he was
clearly conscious as to where he was, he remained perfectly still. But,
as soon as partial slumber came, he would scream out, and spring from
the bed in terror and then it would take us several minutes to quiet
him again. Six times during the night did this occur; and as often,
Mary coaxed him back. The morphine I continued to give as the doctor
had directed. By morning, the opiates had done their work, and he was
sleeping soundly. When the doctor came, we removed him to his own bed.
He is still asleep; and I begin to feel uneasy, lest he should never
awake again. I have heard of this happening."
"See if father isn't awake," said Mary, raising her head from the
pillow. She had not heard what passed between her mother and Mrs.
Slade, for the conversation was carried on in low voices.
Mrs. Morgan stepped to the door, and looked into the room where her
husband lay.
"He is still asleep, dear," she remarked, coming back to the bed.
"Oh! I wish he was awake. I want to see him so much. Won't you call
him, mother?"
"I have called him a good many times. But you know the doctor gave him
opium. He can't wake up yet."
"He's been sleeping a very long time; don't you think so, mother?"
"Yes, dear, it does seem a long time. But it is best for him. He'll be
better when he wakes."
Mary closed her eyes, wearily. How deathly white was her face--how
sunken her eyes--how sharply contracted her features!
"I've given her up, Mrs. Slade," said Mrs. Morgan, in a low, rough,
choking whisper, as she leaned nearer to her friend. "I've given her
up! The worst is over; but, oh! it seemed as though my heart would
break in the struggle. Dear child! In all the darkness of my way, she
has helped and comforted me. Without her, it would have been the
blackness of darkness."
"Father! father!" The voice of Mary broke out with a startling
quickness.
Mrs. Morgan turned to the bed, and laying her hand on Mary's arm said:
"He's still sound asleep, dear."
"No, he isn't, mother. I heard him move. Won't you go in and see if he
is awake?"
In order to satisfy the child, her mother left the room. To her
surprise, she met the eyes of her husband as she entered the chamber
where he lay. He looked at her calmly.
"What does Mary want with me?" he asked.
"She wishes to see you. She's called you so many times. Shall I bring
her in here?"
"No. I'll get up and dress myself."
"I wouldn't do that. You've been sick."
"Father! father!" The clear, earnest voice of Mary was heard calling.
"I'm coming, dear," answered Morgan.
"Come quick, father, won't you?"
"Yes, love." And Morgan got up and dressed himself--but with unsteady
hands, and every sign of nervous prostration. In a little while, with
the assistance of his wife, he was ready, and supported by her, came
tottering into the room where Mary was lying.
"Oh, father!"--What a light broke over her countenance.--"I've been
waiting for you so long. I thought you were never going to wake up.
Kiss me, father."
"What can I do for you, Mary?" asked Morgan, tenderly, as he laid his
face down upon the pillow beside her.
"Nothing, father. I don't wish for anything. I only wanted to see you."
"I'm here now, love."
"Dear father!" How earnestly, yet tenderly she spoke, laying her small
hand upon his face. "You've always been good to me, father."
"Oh, no. I've never been good to anybody," sobbed the weak,
broken-spirited man, as he raised himself from the pillow.
How deeply touched was Mrs. Slade, as she sat, the silent witness of
this scene!
"You haven't been good to yourself, father--but you've always been good
to us."
"Don't, Mary! don't say anything about that," interrupted Morgan. "Say
that I've been very bad--very wicked. Oh, Mary, dear! I only wish that
I was as good as you are; I'd like to die, then, and go right away from
this evil world. I wish there was no liquor to drink--no taverns--no
bar-rooms. Oh, dear! Oh, dear! I wish I was dead."
And the weak, trembling, half-palsied man laid his face again upon the
pillow beside his child, and sobbed aloud.
What an oppressive silence reigned for a time through the room!
"Father." The stillness was broken by Mary. Her voice was clear and
even. "Father, I want to tell you something."
"What is it, Mary?"
"There'll be nobody to go for you, father." The child's lips now
quivered, and tears filled into her eyes.
"Don't talk about that, Mary. I'm not going out in the evening any more
until you get well. Don't you remember I promised?"
"But, father"--She hesitated.
"What, dear?"
"I'm going away to leave you and mother."
"Oh, no--no--no, Mary! Don't say that."--The poor man's voice was
broken.--"Don't say that! We can't let you go, dear."
