to and from the Doxology, or numbering the books in the Bible, or some
other such device as we deemed within the pale of religious employments.
When all these failed, and it still wanted an hour of meeting time, we
looked up at the ceiling, and down at the floor, and all around into
every corner, to see what we could do next; and happy was he who could
spy a pin gleaming in some distant crack, and forthwith muster an
occasion for getting down to pick it up. Then there was the infallible
recollection that we wanted a drink of water, as an excuse to get out to
the well; or else we heard some strange noise among the chickens, and
insisted that it was essential that we should see what was the matter;
or else pussy would jump on to the table, when all of us would spring to
drive her down; while there was a most assiduous watching of the clock
to see when the first bell would ring. Happy was it for us, in the
interim, if we did not begin to look at each other and make up faces, or
slyly slip off and on our shoes, or some other incipient attempts at
roguery, which would gradually so undermine our gravity that there would
be some sudden explosion of merriment, whereat Uncle Phineas would look
up and say, "Tut, tut," and Aunt Kezzy would make a speech about
wicked children breaking the Sabbath day. I remember once how my cousin
Bill got into deep disgrace one Sunday by a roguish trick. He was just
about to close his Bible with all sobriety, when snap came a grasshopper
through an open window, and alighted in the middle of the page. Bill
instantly kidnapped the intruder, for so important an auxiliary in the
way of employment was not to be despised. Presently we children looked
towards Bill, and there he sat, very demurely reading his Bible, with
the grasshopper hanging by one leg from the corner of his mouth, kicking
and sprawling, without in the least disturbing Master William's gravity.
We all burst into an uproarious laugh. But it came to be rather a
serious affair for Bill, as his good father was in the practice of
enforcing truth and duty by certain modes of moral suasion much
recommended by Solomon, though fallen into disrepute at the present day.

This morning picture may give a good specimen of the whole livelong
Sunday, which presented only an alternation of similar scenes until
sunset, when a universal unchaining of tongues and a general scamper
proclaimed that the "sun was down."

But, it may be asked, what was the result of all this strictness? Did it
not disgust you with the Sabbath and with religion? No, it did not. It
did not, because it was the result of no unkindly feeling, but of
consistent principle; and consistency of principle is what even
children learn to appreciate and revere. The law of obedience and of
reverence for the Sabbath was constraining so equally on the young and
the old, that its claims came to be regarded like those immutable laws
of nature, which no one thinks of being out of patience with, though
they sometimes bear hard on personal convenience. The effect of the
system was to ingrain into our character a veneration for the Sabbath
which no friction of after life would ever efface. I have lived to
wander in many climates and foreign lands, where the Sabbath is an
unknown name, or where it is only recognized by noisy mirth; but never
has the day returned without bringing with it a breathing of religious
awe, and even a yearning for the unbroken stillness, the placid repose,
and the simple devotion of the Puritan Sabbath.


ANOTHER SCENE.

"How late we are this morning!" said Mrs. Roberts to her husband,
glancing hurriedly at the clock, as they were sitting down to breakfast
on a Sabbath morning. "Really, it is a shame to us to be so late
Sundays. I wonder John and Henry are not up yet; Hannah, did you speak
to them?"

"Yes, ma'am, but I could not make them mind; they said it was Sunday,
and that we always have breakfast later Sundays."

"Well, it is a shame to us, I must say," said Mrs. Roberts, sitting down
to the table. "I never lie late myself unless something in particular
happens. Last night I was out very late, and Sabbath before last I had a
bad headache."

"Well, well, my dear," said Mr. Roberts, "it is not worth while to worry
yourself about it; Sunday is a day of rest; every body indulges a little
of a Sunday morning, it is so very natural, you know; one's work done
up, one feels like taking a little rest."

"Well, I must say it was not the way my mother brought me up," said Mrs.
Roberts; "and I really can't feel it to be right."

This last part of the discourse had been listened to by two
sleepy-looking boys, who had, meanwhile, taken their seats at table with
that listless air which is the result of late sleeping.

"O, by the by, my dear, what did you give for those hams Saturday?" said
Mr. Roberts.

"Eleven cents a pound, I believe," replied Mrs. Roberts; "but Stephens
and Philips have some much nicer, canvas and all, for ten cents. I think
we had better get our things at Stephens and Philips's in future, my
dear."

"Why? are they much cheaper?"

"O, a great deal; but I forget it is Sunday. We ought to be thinking of
other things. Boys, have you looked over your Sunday school lesson?"

"No, ma'am."

"Now, how strange! and here it wants only half an hour of the time, and
you are not dressed either. Now, see the bad effects of not being up in
time."

The boys looked sullen, and said "they were up as soon as any one else
in the house."

"Well, your father and I had some excuse, because we were out late last
night; you ought to have been up full three hours ago, and to have been
all ready, with your lessons learned. Now, what do you suppose you shall
do?"

"O mother, do let us stay at home this one morning; we don't know the
lesson, and it won't do any good for us to go."

"No, indeed, I shall not. You must go and get along as well as you can.
It is all your own fault. Now, go up stairs and hurry. We shall not find
time for prayers this morning."

The boys took themselves up stairs to "hurry," as directed, and soon one
of them called from the top of the stairs, "Mother! mother! the buttons
are off this vest; so I can't wear it!" and "Mother! here is a long rip
in my best coat!" said another.

"Why did you not tell me of it before?" said Mrs. Roberts, coming up
stairs.

"I forgot it," said the boy.

"Well, well, stand still; I must catch it together somehow, if it is
Sunday. There! there is the bell! Stand still a minute!" and Mrs.
Roberts plied needle, and thread, and scissors; "there, that will do for
to-day. Dear me, how confused every thing is to-day!"

"It is always just so Sundays," said John, flinging up his book and
catching it again as he ran down stairs.

"It is always just so Sundays." These words struck rather unpleasantly
on Mrs. Roberts's conscience, for something told her that, whatever the
reason might be, it was just so. On Sunday every thing was later and
more irregular than any other day in the week.

"Hannah, you must boil that piece of beef for dinner to-day."

"I thought you told me you did not have cooking done on Sunday."

"No, I do not, generally. I am very sorry Mr. Roberts would get that
piece of meat yesterday. We did not need it; but here it is on our
hands; the weather is too hot to keep it. It won't do to let it spoil;
so I must have it boiled, for aught I see."

Hannah had lived four Sabbaths with Mrs. Roberts, and on two of them she
had been required to cook from similar reasoning. "For once" is apt,
in such cases, to become a phrase of very extensive signification.

"It really worries me to have things go on so as they do on Sundays,"
said Mrs. Roberts to her husband. "I never do feel as if we kept Sunday
as we ought."

"My dear, you have been saying so ever since we were married, and I do
not see what you are going to do about it. For my part I do not see why
we do not do as well as people in general. We do not visit, nor receive
company, nor read improper books. We go to church, and send the children
to Sunday school, and so the greater part of the day is spent in a
religious way. Then out of church we have the children's Sunday school
books, and one or two religious newspapers. I think that is quite
enough."

"But, somehow, when I was a child, my mother----" said Mrs. Roberts,
hesitating.

"O my dear, your mother must not be considered an exact pattern for
these days. People were too strict in your mother's time; they carried
the thing too far, altogether; every body allows it now."

Mrs. Roberts was silenced, but not satisfied. A strict religious
education had left just conscience enough on this subject to make her
uneasy.

These worthy people had a sort of general idea that Sunday ought to be
kept, and they intended to keep it; but they had never taken the trouble
to investigate or inquire as to the most proper way, nor was it so much
