At the meeting he was informed by Tim that he had been admitted to the
society on account of his knowledge of boats. They could not get along
without such a fellow; and he was accordingly appointed "master of
marine," and second in command to Tim himself. These honors and
compliments reconciled him to the society of the Rovers, and he began to
exhibit his energy of purpose in directing the details of the next
week's operations.

Saturday was appointed as the day for stocking the island with
provisions and other necessaries, ready for the reception of the entire
party on Sunday night. Tim and Charles were to attend to this duty in
person.

"Meet me at eight o'clock in the morning over by Joe Braman's landing,
Charley, and--"

"But school keeps; I can't go till afternoon."

"And then the Zephyrs will see what we are about."

"I can't help it."

"Yes you can; can't you 'hook Jack'?"

"I dare not."

"Humph! You are an idiot! Tell the fellows to-morrow that you are going
over to your uncle's, and they will tell the master."

Charles consented, after some argument.

"I will get Joe's boat, and we can pull off to the island and get the
money."

"Where will you buy the things?"

"We must go down to Rippleton. You must get some, and I will get some.
We will buy them at different stores, so no one will know but what they
are for the folks."

"And the tent?"

"We will get a piece of cotton cloth for that, and some needles and
thread. Leave all that to me. Now, be on hand in season."

"One thing, Tim: I may be seen in Rippleton."

"No matter if you are. Bluff 'em off if they say anything."

The Rovers were to "rendezvous"--Tim had found this word in the
"Adventures of the Bold Buccaneer"--at nine o'clock on Sunday evening at
the wood. The arrangements were all completed, and the band dispersed.

On Saturday Charles was true to his appointment, and met Tim on the
north side of the lake. The money was procured, and the provisions were
safely deposited in the boat. It is true, Charles was so much
embarrassed that he well-nigh betrayed the existence of the plot to the
shopkeepers; and he was very glad when this part of the business was
done.

Then a new difficulty presented itself. Suppose the Zephyrs should
visit Center Island that afternoon and discover the stores! They had not
thought of this before, and the risk was too great to be incurred. They
decided to conceal their stores on the main shore till night, and then
carry them off. A convenient place was found for this purpose, and the
articles were landed.

They then repaired to the island to mature their plans.

"Now, where shall we pitch the tent?" asked Charles, when they landed.

"On the high ground near the beach."

"We have no poles. Here is the May-pole; that will do for one."

"We can't pitch the tent, soldier fashion. We must drive down four
forked stakes; then put poles on the forks, and cover the whole with
cloth."

"But where are the stakes and the poles?"

"We can cut them in the woods. We will get Joe Braman's ax, and do it
this forenoon."

"Suppose they should make a raft, and come off to us?" suggested
Charles.

"We have two fast boats, and can easily keep out of their way," replied
Tim. "If they want to fight we can beat them off."

Charles did not approve of fighting, and thought it would be bad policy.
Tim was tolerably tractable now that he was having his own way, and was
not very strenuous in support of his own pugnacious views. When their
plans were fully digested they left the island to prepare the stakes.
Before noon they separated, and the truant returned home about the usual
time.

That afternoon he joined the Zephyrs in an excursion up the lake, and
another lighthouse was erected in the vicinity of a dangerous reef.

"What shall we do next week?" asked Charles, as they were returning
home.

"We are going up the river," replied Frank. "My father has consented to
it."

"Has he? That will be first rate."

"And so has George Weston."

Charles relapsed into deep thought. He was thinking how much better he
could enjoy himself with good boys than with such fellows as the Rovers;
for, though he was "master of marine" among them, he could not help
acknowledging to himself that they were not pleasant companions. They
used profane and vulgar language; were always disposed to quarrel.
Disputes which were settled peaceably in the clubs were decided by a
fight among the Rovers; and the ambitious "master" had many misgivings
as to his ability to control them. Tim could manage them very well; for,
if one was turbulent, he struck him and knocked him down; and Charles
had not the brute courage to do this.

"What are you thinking about, Charley?" asked Frank, pleasantly.

"Nothing," replied Charles, promptly, as he tried to laugh.

"You act rather queerly this afternoon; just as though you had something
on your mind."

"O, no; nothing of the kind."

"I hope you don't regret the expulsion of Tim Bunker."

"Certainly not."

Charles tried to be gay after that; but he could not. There was a weight
upon his soul which bore him down, and he felt like a criminal in the
presence of his companions. He was glad when the club landed, and the
members separated--glad to get away from them, for their happy, innocent
faces were a constant reproach to him.

Sunday was a day of rest; but every moment of it was burdened with a sin
against God and against himself. Every moment that he delayed to repent
was plunging him deeper and deeper in error and crime. Strangely enough,
the minister preached a sermon about the Prodigal Son; and the vivid
picture he drew of the return of the erring wanderer so deeply affected
the youthful delinquent that he fully resolved to do his duty, and
expose the Rovers' scheme.

The money had been spent in part; but, if they sent him to jail, it
would be better than to continue in wickedness. Then he thought what
Captain Sedley would say to him; that the club would despise him; and
that he would not be permitted to join the sports of the coming week--to
say nothing of being put in prison.

But his duty was plain, and he had resolved to do it. He had decided to
suffer the penalty of his transgression, whatever it might be, and get
back again into the right path as soon as he could.

Happy would it have been for him had he done so. On his way home from
church he unfortunately met Tim Bunker, who had evidently placed himself
in his way to confirm his fidelity to the Rovers.

Tim saw that he was meditating something dangerous to the success of his
scheme. Charles was cold and distant. He appeared to have lost his
enthusiasm.

"If you play us false, it will be all up with you," said Tim, in a low,
determined tone. "I can prove that you stole the purse. That's all."

It was enough to overthrow all Charles's good resolution. His fickle
mind, his shallow principle, gave way. Stifling his convictions of duty,
and silencing the "still small voice," he went home: and there was no
joy in heaven over the returning prodigal.

"Charles," said his father, sternly, as he entered the house, "you were
not at school yesterday!"

"I got late, and did not like to go," whined he.

"Where were you?"
