
It was agreed on all hands that they had been very successful;
and little Winifred openly rejoiced over the quantity they had
brought home for 'mother'; but still Elizabeth did not add her
store, and had nothing to say. When they got to the landing-
place, she would stay on the rocks to see how the boat was
made fast. Winifred ran up to the house with her basket, Miss
Cadwallader went to get ready for supper, Rufus followed in
her steps. Asahel and Elizabeth stayed in the sunset glow to
see Winthrop finish his part of the work; and then they walked
up together. Elizabeth kept her position on one side of the
oars, but seemed as moody as ever, till they were about half
way from the rocks; then suddenly she looked up into
Winthrop's face and said,

"Thank you. I ought to have said it before."

He bowed a little and smiled, in a way that set Elizabeth a
thinking. It was not like a common farmer's boy. It spoke him
as quiet in his own standing as she was in hers; and yet he
certainly had come home that day in his shirt sleeves, and
with his mower's jacket over his arm? It was very odd.

"What was it you said that strawberry-place was in the shadow
of sometimes?"

"Wut-a-qut-o?"

"What's that?"

"The big mountain over there. This was in the shadow of it a
little while ago."

"What a queer name! What does it mean?"

"It is Indian. I have heard that it means, the whole name, --
'He that catches the clouds.'"

"That is beautiful! --"

"You must be tremendously strong," she added presently, as if
not satisfied that she had said enough, -- "for you lifted me
as if I had been no more than a featherweight."

"You did not seem much more," he said.

"Strong! --" said Asahel --

But Elizabeth escaped from Asahel's exposition of the subject,
into her room.

She had regained her good-humour, and everybody at the table
said she had improved fifty per cent. since her coming to
Shahweetah. Which opinion Mr. Haye confirmed when he came a
day or two afterward.


CHAPTER X.


Cam. Be advised.
Flo. I am; and by my fancy: if my reason
Will thereto he obedient, I have reason;
If not, my senses, better pleased with madness,
Do bid it welcome.
WINTER'S TALE.


The young ladies' summering in the country had begun with good
promise; there was no danger they would tire of it. Mr. Haye
gave it as his judgment that his daughter had come to the
right place; and he was willing to spare no pains to keep her
in the same mind. He brought up a little boat with him the
next time he came, and a delicate pair of oars; and Elizabeth
took to boating with great zeal. She asked for very little
teaching; she had used her eyes, and now she patiently
exercised her arms, till her eyes were satisfied; and after
that the "Merry-go-round" had very soon earned a right to its
name. Her father sent her a horse; and near every morning her
blue habit was fluttering along the roads, to the great
admiration of the country people who had never seen a long
skirt before. And every afternoon, as soon as the sun hid
himself behind the great western mountain, her little white
boat stole out from the rocks and coasted about under the
point or lay in the bay, wandering through sunshine and shade;
loitering where the north wind blew softly, or resting with
poised oars when the sun was sending royal messages to earth
via the clouds. On horseback or in the boat, -- Miss Elizabeth
would not take exercise in so common a way as walking, -- she
did honour to the nurture of the fresh air. The thin cheek
rounded out; and sallow and pale gave place to the clear rich
colour of health.

Asahel was her general companion in the boat. Sometimes her
cousin condescended to enjoy a sail of a summer's evening, but
for the most part Asahel and Elizabeth went alone. Miss
Cadwallader would neither row nor ride, and was very apt to
eschew walking, unless a party were going along.

Over her books Elizabeth luxuriated all the rest of the time.
Morning, noon, and night. The labour of talking she left to
her cousin, who took to it kindly, and speedily made herself
very popular. And there was certainly something very pleasant
in her bright smile, always ready, and in her lovely face; and
something pleasant too in her exceeding dainty and pretty
manner of dressing. She fascinated the children's eyes, and if
truth be told, more than the children. She seemed to have a
universal spirit of good-humour. She never was so fast in a
book but she would leave it to talk to the old or play with
the young; and her politeness was unfailing. Elizabeth gave no
trouble, but she seemed to have as little notion of giving
pleasure; except to herself. That she did perfectly and
without stop. For the rest, half the time she hardly seemed to
know what was going on with the rest of the world.

So the summer wore on, with great comfort to most parties.
Perhaps Winthrop was an exception. He had given comfort, if he
had not found it. He had been his mother's secret stand-by; he
had been her fishmonger, her gamekeeper, her head gardener,
her man-at-need in all manner of occasions. His own darling
objects meanwhile were laid upon the shelf. He did his best.
But after a day's work in the harvest field, and fishing for
eels off the rocks till nine o'clock at night, what time was
there for Virgil or Graeca Minora? Sometimes he must draw up
his nets in the morning before he went to the field; and the
fish must be cleaned after they were taken. Sometimes a half
day must be spent in going after fruit. And whenever the farm
could spare him for a longer time, he was off to the woods
with his gun; to fetch home rabbits at least, if no other game
was to be had. But all the while his own ground lay waste. To
whomsoever the summer was good, he reckoned it a fruitless
summer to him.

In the multitude of their enjoyments of out-door things, the
girls took very naturally to the unwonted ways and usages of
the country household. The farm living and the farm hours
seemed to have no disgust for them. In the hot weather the
doors often all stood open; and they sat in the keeping-room,
and in the kitchen, and in their own room, and seemed to find
all pleasant.

So one night Elizabeth and Mrs. Landholm were alone in the
kitchen. It was a cool evening, though in midsummer, and they
had gathered round the kitchen fire as being the most
agreeable place. The children were long gone to bed; the rest
of the family had at length followed them; Elizabeth and Mrs.
Landholm alone kept their place. The one was darning some
desperate-looking socks; the other, as usual, deep in a book.
They had been very still and busy for a long time; and then as
Elizabeth looked up for a moment and glanced at the stocking-
covered hand of her neighbour, Mrs. Landholm looked up; their
eyes met. Mrs. Landholm smiled.

"Do you like anything so well as reading, Miss Elizabeth?"

"Nothing in the world! What are you doing, Mrs. Landholm?"

"Mending -- some of the boys' socks," she said cheerfully;
"farmers are hard upon their feet."

"Mending -- that?" said Elizabeth. "What an endless work!"

"No, not endless," said the mother quietly. "Thick shoes and a
great deal of stepping about, make pretty hard work with
stockings."

"But, Mrs. Landholm! -- it would be better to buy new ones,
than to try to mend such holes."

Mrs. Landholm smiled again -- a smile of grave and sweet life-
wisdom.

"Did it ever happen to you to want anything you could not
have, Miss Elizabeth?"

"No -- never," said Elizabeth slowly.

"You have a lesson to learn yet."

"I hope I sha'n't learn it," said Elizabeth.
