"Don't trouble yourself about that. Keep it; 
and I wish I had a hundred times as much to give 
you." 

" I shall never forget you, Mr. Xason. I shall be 
a man one of these days, and we shall meet again." 

The supper bell rang, and they separated. Harry 
felt the spirit of a man stirring within him. He felt 
that the world had cast him off, and refused him a 
home, even in the poorhouse. He was determined 
to push his way through life like a hero, and he 
nerved himself to meet whatever haidships and trials 
might be apportioned to him. 

After supper he went to his room, gathered up the 
"ew articles of clothing which constituted his ward- 
robe, and tying them up in a bundle , concealed them 
in a hollo »v stump back of the barn. 





At eight o'clock he went to bed as usual. He felt 
no desire to sleep, and would not have dared to do sc 
if he had. He heard the old kitchen clock stiit*. 
icn. The house was still, for all had long ago retii ed 
to their rest, and he could hear the sonorous snoies 
of the paupers in the adjoining rooms. His heait 
beat quick with anxiety. It was a novel position in 
which he found himself. He had been accustomed 
to do every thing fairly and " above board," and the 
thought of rising from his bed and sneaking out of 
the house like a thief was repulsive to him. But it 
was a good cause, in his estimation, and he did not 
waste much sentiment upon the matter. A conspira- 
cy had been formed to cheat him of his hopes and of 
his future happiness, and it seemed right to him that 
he should flee from those with whom he could not 
(successfully contend. 

Carefully and stealthily he crept out of bed, and 
put on his best clothes, which w;re nothing to boast 
of at that, for there was many a darn and many a 
patch upon the jacket and the trousers. Stockings 
and shoes were luxuries in which Harry was not in* 
dulged in the warm season ; but he had a pair 
each, which he took under his arm. 




Like a mouse he crept down stairs, and lea hed 
the back dooi of the house without having disturbed 
an)' of its inmates. There were no locks on the 
poorhouse doors, for burglars and thieves never in- 
vaded the home of the stricken, forsaken paupers. 

The door opened with a sharp creak, and Uarrj 
was sure he was detected. For several minutes he 
waited, but no sound was heard, and more carefully 
he opened the door wide enough to permit his pas- 
sage out. 

He was now in the open air, and a sensation of 
relief pervaded his mind. He was free. No man 
was his master in this world, and he had not learned 
to think much of the other world. As he passed 
througL the cow yard, he heard the old gray mare 
whinny, and he could not resist the temptation to 
pay her a parting visit. They had been firm friends 
for years, and as he entered the barn she seemed to 
ecognize him in the darkness. 

" Good by, old Prue. I am going away to leave 
you,' said Harry, in low tones, as he patted the mare 
upon her neck. " I hope they will use you well 
Next to Mr. Xason, you hav» been my best friend 
flood by, old Prue." 




The mare whinnied again, as though she perfect!) 
comprehended this affectionate speech, and wished to 
express her sympathy with her young friend in hri 
own most eloquent language. Perhaps Harry could 
not render the speech into the vernacular, but he had 
a high appreciation of her good feeling, and repeated 
his caresses. 

" Good by, old Prue ; but, before I go, I shall give 
you one more feed of oats — the very last." 

The localities of the barn were as familiar to him 
as those of his own chamber ; and taking the half 
peck measure, he filled it heaping full of oats at the 
grain chest, as readily as though it had been deal 
daylight. 

" Here, Prue, is the last feed I shall give you ; " 
&nd he emptied the contents of the measure into the 
trough. " Good by, old Prue ; I shall never see you 
again." 

The mare plunged her nose deep down into I lid 
savory mess, and seemed for a moment to forget hei 
friend in the selfish gratification of her appetite. Ii 
she had fully realized the unpleasant fact that ILirrj 
was going, perhaps she might have been less s-clfish 




for this was not the first time she had been indebted 
to him for extra rations. 

Passing through the barn, the runaway Mas again 
in the open air. Every thing looked gloomy and sad 
to him, and the scene was as solemn as a funeral. 
There were no sounds to be heard but the monoto- 
nous chirp of the cricket, and the dismal piping of 
the frogs in the meadow. Even the owl and the 
whip-poor-will had ceased their nocturnal notes, and 
the stars looked more gloomy than he had ever seen 
them before. 

There was no time to moralize over these things, 
though, as he walked along, he could not help think- 
ing how strange and solemn every thing seemed on 
that eventful night. It was an epoch in his history ; 
one of those turning points in human life, when all 
the works of nature and of art, borrowing the spiiit 
which pervades the soul, assume odd and unfamiliar 
forms. Harry was not old enough or wise enough to 
comprehend the importance of the step he was taking ; 
till he was deeply impressed by the strangeness with- 
'n and without. 

TYking his bundle from the hollow stump, he 



directed his step? o wards Pine Pleasant. He walked 
very slowly, for his feelings swelled within him, 
and retarded his steps. His imagination w;is busy 
with the past, or wandering vaguely to the unex- 
plored future, which with bright promises tempted 
him to press on to the goal of prosperity. he 
yearned to be a man ; to leap in an instant over the 
years of discipline, that yawned like a great gulf be- 
tween his youth and his manhood. He wanted to bo 
a man, that hio strong arm might strike great blows ; 
that he might win his way up to wealth and honor. 

Why coul in't he be a great man like Squire 
Walker. Squire West wouldn't sound bad. 

" One has only to be rich in order to be great,' 
thought he. " Why can't I be rich, as well as any 
body else : Who was that old fellow that saved up 
his fourpe ices till he was worth a hundred thousand 
dollars ? I can do it as well as he, though I won't 
be as mean as they say he was. any how. There aie 
thanees enough to get rich, and if I fail in one thing, 
why — "I can try again." 

Thut Harry mused as he walked along, and fixed a 
definite purpose before him to be accomplished in




life, It is true it was not a very lofty or a very nice
purpose, merely to be rich ; but he had been obliged
to do his own philosophizing. He had not yet discovered the true philosopher's stone. He had concluded, like the alchemists of old, that it was the art 
of turning any thing into gold. The paupers, in then 
poverty, had talked most and prayed most for that 
which they had not. Wealth was to them the loft. est 
