never be published; but if it be God’s system, nothing can hinder
its appearing. Besides, Mr. Brown, I ought not to be one man alone.
I count on your help. I hold it as a special providence, Mr. Brown,
that in our own church an opportunity will be given to testify to the
reality of disinterested benevolence. How glorious the opportunity for
a man to come out and testify by sacrificing his worldly living and
business! If you, Mr. Brown, will at once, at whatever sacrifice, quit
all connection with this detestable and diabolical slave-trade, you
will exhibit a spectacle over which angels will rejoice, and which will
strengthen and encourage me to preach and write and testify.’

Mr. Simeon Brown’s usual demeanour was that of the most leathery
imperturbability. In calm theological reasoning, he could demonstrate,
in the dryest tone, that, if the eternal torment of six bodies and
souls were absolutely the necessary means for preserving the eternal
blessedness of thirty-six, benevolence would require us to rejoice in
it, not in itself considered, but in view of greater good. And when he
spoke, not a nerve quivered; the great mysterious sorrow with which
the creation groaneth and travaileth, the sorrow from which angels
veil their faces, never had touched one vibrating chord either of body
or soul; and he laid down the obligations of man to unconditional
submission in a style which would have affected a person of delicate
sensibility much like being mentally sawn in sunder. Benevolence,
when Simeon Brown spoke of it, seemed the grimmest and unloveliest of
Gorgons; for his mind seemed to resemble those fountains which petrify
everything that falls into them. But the hardest-shelled animals have
a vital and sensitive part, though only so large as the point of a
needle; and the Doctor’s innocent proposition to Simeon, to abandon his
whole worldly estate for his principles, touched this spot.

When benevolence required but the acquiescence in certain possible
things which might be supposed to happen to his soul, which, after all,
he was comfortably certain never would happen, or the acquiescence in
certain suppositious sacrifices for the good of that most intangible
of all abstractions, Being in general, it was a dry, calm subject.
But when it concerned the immediate giving up of his slave-ships and
a transfer of business, attended with all that confusion and loss
which he foresaw at a glance, then he felt, and felt too much to see
clearly. His swarthy face flushed, his little blue eye kindled, he
walked up to the Doctor, and began speaking in the short, energetic
sentences of a man thoroughly awake to what he is talking about.

‘Doctor, you’re too fast. You are not a practical man, Doctor. You are
good in your pulpit;—nobody better. Your theology is clear;—nobody can
argue better. But come to practical matters, why, business has its
laws, Doctor. Ministers are the most unfit men in the world to talk on
such subjects; it’s departing from their sphere; they talk about what
they don’t understand. Besides, you take too much for granted. I’m not
sure that this trade is an evil. I want to be convinced of it. I’m sure
it’s a favour to these poor creatures to bring them to a Christian
land. They are a thousand times better off. Here they can hear the
gospel and have some chance of salvation.’

‘If we want to get the gospel to the Africans,’ said the Doctor,
‘why not send whole ship-loads of missionaries to them, and carry
civilization and the arts and Christianity to Africa, instead of
stirring up wars, tempting them to ravage each other’s territories,
that we may get the booty? Think of the numbers killed in the wars,—of
all that die on the passage! Is there any need of killing ninety-nine
men to give the hundredth one the gospel, when we could give the
gospel to them all? Ah, Mr. Brown, what if all the money spent in
fitting out ships to bring the poor negroes here, so prejudiced against
Christianity that they regard it with fear and aversion, had been spent
in sending it to them, Africa would have been covered with towns and
villages, rejoicing in civilization and Christianity!’

‘Doctor, you are a dreamer,’ replied Simeon, ‘an unpractical man. Your
situation prevents your knowing anything of real life.’

‘Amen! the Lord be praised there for!’ said the Doctor, with a
slowly-increasing flush mounting to his cheek, showing the burning
brand of a smouldering fire of indignation.

‘Now let me just talk common-sense, Doctor,—which has its time and
place, just as much as theology; and if you have the most theology, I
flatter myself I have the most common-sense: a business-man must have
it. Now just look at your situation,—how you stand. You’ve got a most
important work to do. In order to do it, you must keep your pulpit, you
must keep our church together. We are few and weak. We are a minority.
Now there’s not an influential man in your society that don’t either
hold slaves or engage in the trade; and, if you open upon this subject
as you are going to do, you’ll just divide and destroy the church.
All men are not like you; men are men, and will be, till they are
thoroughly sanctified, which never happens in this life,—and there will
be an instant and most unfavourable agitation. Minds will be turned off
from the discussion of the great saving doctrines of the gospel to a
side issue. You will be turned out; and you know, Doctor, you are not
appreciated as you ought to be, and it won’t be easy for you to get
a new settlement; and then subscriptions will all drop off from your
book, and you won’t be able to get that out; and all this good will be
lost to the world, just for want of common-sense.’

‘There is a kind of wisdom in what you say, Mr. Brown,’ replied the
Doctor, naïvely; ‘but I fear much that it is the wisdom spoken in James
iii. 15, which “descendeth not from above, but is earthly, sensual,
devilish.” You avoid the very point of the argument, which is, Is this
a sin against God? That it is, I am solemnly convinced; and shall I
“use lightness? or the things that I purpose do I purpose according
to the flesh, that with me there should be yea, yea, and nay, nay?”
No, Mr. Brown, immediate repentance, unconditional submission, these
are what I must preach as long as God gives me a pulpit to stand in,
whether men will hear or whether they will forbear.’

‘Well, Doctor,’ said Simeon, shortly, ‘you can do as you like; but I
give you fair warning, that I, for one, shall stop my subscription, and
go to Dr. Stiles’s church.’

‘Mr. Brown,’ said the Doctor, solemnly, rising, and drawing his tall
figure to its full height, while a vivid light gleamed from his blue
eye, ‘as to that, you can do as you like; but I think it my duty, as
your pastor, to warn you that I have perceived, in my conversation
with you this morning, such a want of true spiritual illumination
and discernment as leads me to believe that you are yet in the flesh,
blinded by that “carnal mind” which “is not subject to the law of God,
neither indeed can be.” I much fear you have no part nor lot in this
matter, and that you have need, seriously, to set yourself to search
into the foundations of your hope; for you may be like him of whom it
is written, (Isaiah xliv. 20,) “He feedeth on ashes: a deceived heart
hath turned him aside, that he cannot deliver his soul, nor say, is
there not a lie in my right hand?”’

The Doctor delivered this address to his man of influence with the
calmness of an ambassador charged with a message from a sovereign,
for which he is no otherwise responsible than to speak it in the most
intelligible manner; and then, taking up his hat and cane, he bade him
good morning, leaving Simeon Brown in a tumult of excitement which no
previous theological discussion had ever raised in him.




CHAPTER XI.

THE PRACTICAL TEST.


THE hens cackled drowsily in the barn-yard of the white Marvyn-house;
in the blue June-afternoon sky sported great sailing islands of cloud,
whose white, glistening heads looked in and out through the green
apertures of maple and blossoming apple-boughs; the shadows of the
trees had already turned eastward, when the one-horse waggon of Mrs.
Katy Scudder appeared at the door, where Mrs. Marvyn stood, with a
pleased, quiet welcome in her soft brown eyes. Mrs. Scudder herself
drove, sitting on a seat in front,—while the Doctor, apparelled in the
most faultless style, with white wrist-ruffles, plaited shirt-bosom,
immaculate wig, and well-brushed coat, sat by Mary’s side, serenely
unconscious how many feminine cares had gone to his getting-up. He
did not know of the privy consultations, the sewings, stitchings, and
starchings, the ironings, the brushings, the foldings and unfoldings
and timely arrangements, that gave such dignity and respectability to
his outer man, any more than the serene moon rising tranquilly behind a
purple mountain-top troubles her calm head with treatises on astronomy;
it is enough for her to shine,—she thinks not how or why.

There is a vast amount of latent gratitude to women lying undeveloped
in the hearts of men, which would come out plentifully, if they only
knew what they did for them. The Doctor was so used to being well
dressed, that he never asked why. That his wig always sat straight, and
even around his ample forehead, not facetiously poked to one side, nor
assuming rakish airs, unsuited to clerical dignity, was entirely owing
to Mrs. Katy Scudder. That his best broadcloth coat was not illustrated
with shreds and patches, fluff and dust, and hanging in ungainly
folds, was owing to the same. That his long silk stockings never had
a treacherous stitch allowed to break out into a long running ladder
was due to her watchfulness; and that he wore spotless ruffles on his
wrists or at his bosom was her doing also. The Doctor little thought,
while he, in common with good ministers generally, gently traduced the
Scriptural Martha and insisted on the duty of heavenly abstractedness,
how much of his own leisure for spiritual contemplation was due to the
Martha-like talents of his hostess. But then, the good soul had it in
him to be grateful, and would have been unboundedly so, if he had known
his indebtedness,—as, we trust, most of our magnanimous masters would
be.

Mr. Zebedee Marvyn was quietly sitting in the front summer parlour,
listening to the story of two of his brother church-members, between
whom some difficulty had arisen in the settling of accounts: Jim
Bigelow, a small, dry, dapper little individual, known as general
jobber and factotum, and Abram Griswold, a stolid, wealthy,
well-to-do farmer. And the fragments of conversation we catch are not
