upon our new carpet! An instant more, and we were in total darkness.
But, ere the light went out, a glance had revealed a scene that I
shall never forget. Our visitor, whose weight, as he tried his usual
balancing experiment, had caused the slender legs of his chair to
snap off short, had fallen backwards. In trying to save himself, he
had caught at the table, and wrenched that from its centre
fastening. Startled by this sudden catastrophe, my husband had
sprung to his feet, grasping his chair with the intent of drawing it
away, when the top of the back came off in his hand. I saw all this
at a single glance--and then we were shrouded in darkness.

Of the scene that followed, I will not speak. My lady readers can,
without any effort of the mind, imagine something of its
unpleasant reality. As for our visitor, when lights were brought in,
he was no where to be seen. I have a faint recollection of having
heard the street door shut amid the confusion that succeeded the
incident just described.

About a week afterwards, the whole of our cheap furniture was sent
to auction, where it brought less than half its first cost. It was
then replaced with good articles, by good workmen, at a fair price;
not one of which has cost us, to this day, a single cent for
repairs.

A housekeeping friend of mine, committed, not, long since, a similar
error. Her husband could spare her a couple of hundred dollars for
re-furnishing purposes; but, as his business absorbed nearly all of
his time and thoughts, he left with her the selection of the new
articles that were to beautify their parlors and chambers, merely
saying to her:

"Let what you get be good. It is cheapest in the end."

Well, my friend had set her heart on a dozen chairs, a new sofa,
centre table, and "what-not," for her parlors; and on a
dressing-bureau, mahogany bedstead, and wash-stand, for her chamber,
besides a new chamber carpet. Her first visit was to the ware-rooms
of one of our best cabinet makers; but, his prices completely
frightened her--for, at his rate, the articles she wanted would
amount to more than all the money she had to spend, and leave
nothing for the new chamber carpet.

"I must buy cheaper," said she.

"The cheapest is generally dearest in the end," returned the cabinet
maker.

"I don't know about that," remarked the lady, whose thoughts did not
take in the meaning of the man's words. "All I know is, that I can
get as good articles as I desire at lower prices than you ask."

It did not once occur to my friend, that it would be wisest to
lessen the number of articles, and get the remainder of the first
quality. No; her heart covered the whole inventory at first made
out, and nothing less would answer. So she went to an auction store,
and bought inferior articles at lower prices. I visited her soon
after. She showed me her bargains, and, with an air of exultation,
spoke of the cost.

"What do you think I paid for this?" said she, referring to a showy
dressing-bureau; and, as she spoke, she took hold of the suspended
looking-glass, and moved the upper portion of it forward. "Only
seventeen dollars!"

The words had scarcely passed her lips, ere the looking-glass broke
away from one of the screws that held it in the standards, and fell,
crashing, at our feet!

It cost just seven dollars to replace the glass. But, that was not
all--over thirty dollars were paid during the first year for
repairs. And this is only the beginning of troubles.

Cheap furniture is, in most cases, the dearest that housekeepers can
buy. It is always breaking, and usually costs more, in a year or
two, than the difference between its price and that of first-rate
articles; to say nothing of the vexation and want of satisfaction
that always attends its possession. Better be content with fewer
articles, if the purse be low, and have them good.

While on this subject, I will incorporate in these "Confessions" an
"Experience" of my sister and her husband, Mr. and Mrs. John Jones.
Mr. Jones is, in some respects, very much like Mr. Smith, and, as
will be seen in the story about to be given, my sister's ideas of
things and my own, run quite parallel to each other. The story has
found its way, elsewhere, into print, for Mr. Jones, like myself,
has a natural fondness for types. But its repetition here will do no
harm, and bring it before many who would not otherwise see it.




CHAPTER V.

IS IT ECONOMY?


THE "Experience" of my relative, Mr. John Jones, referred to in the
preceding chapter, is given in what follows. After reading it, we
think that few young housekeepers will commit the folly of indulging
to any very great extent in cheap furniture.

We had been married five years, and during the time had boarded for
economy's sake. But the addition of one after another to our family,
admonished us that it was getting time to enlarge our borders; and
so we were determined to go to housekeeping. In matters of domestic
economy both my wife and myself were a little "green," but I think
that I was the greenest of the two.

To get a house was our first concern, and to select furniture was
our next. The house was found after two months' diligent search, and
at the expense of a good deal of precious shoe leather. Save me from
another siege at house-hunting! I would about as soon undertake to
build a suitable dwelling with my own hands, as to find one "exactly
the thing" already up, and waiting with open doors for a tenant. All
the really desirable houses that we found ticketed "to let," were at
least two prices above our limit, and most of those within our means
we would hardly have lived in rent free.

At last, however, we found a cosey little nest of a house, just
built, and clean and neat as a new pin, from top to bottom. It
suited us to a T. And now came the next most important
business--selecting furniture. My wife's ideas had always been a
little in advance of mine. That is, she liked to have every thing of
the best quality; and had the weakness, so to speak, of desiring to
make an appearance. As my income, at the time, was but moderate, and
the prospect of an increase thereof not very flattering, I felt like
being exceedingly prudent in all outlays for furniture.

"We must be content with things few and plain," said I, as we sat
down one morning to figure up what we must get.

"But let them be good," said my wife.

"Strong and substantial," was my reply. "But we can't afford to pay
for much extra polish and filigree work."

"I don't want any thing very extra, Mr. Jones," returned my wife, a
little uneasily. "Though what I do have, I would like good. It's no
economy, in the end, to buy cheap things."

The emphasis on the word cheap, rather grated on my ear; for I was
in favor of getting every thing as cheap as possible.

"What kind of chairs did you think of getting?" asked Mrs. Jones.

"A handsome set of cane-seat," I replied, thinking that in this, at
least, I would be even with her ideas on the subject of parlor
chairs. But her face did not brighten.

"What would you like?" said I.

"I believe it would be more economical in the end to get good
stuffed seat, mahogany chairs," replied Mrs. Jones.

"At five dollars a-piece, Ellen?"

"Yes. Even at five dollars a-piece. They would last us our
life-time; while cane-seat chairs, if we get them, will have to be
renewed two or three times, and cost a great deal more in the end,
without being half so comfortable, or looking half-so well."

"Sixty dollars for a dozen chairs, when very good ones can be had
for twenty-four dollars! Indeed, Ellen, we mustn't think of such a
thing. We can't afford it. Remember, there are a great many other
things to buy."

"I know, dear; but I am sure it will be much more economical in the
end for us to diminish the number of articles, and add to the
quality of what we do have. I am very much like the poor woman who
preferred a cup of clear, strong, fragrant coffee, three times a
week, to a decoction of burnt rye every day. What I have, I do like
good."

"And so do I, Ellen. But, as I said before, there will be, diminish
as we may, a great many things to buy, and we must make the cost of
each as small as possible. We must not think of such extravagance as
mahogany chairs now. At some other time we may get them."

My wife here gave up the point, and, what I thought a little
remarkable, made no more points on the subject of furniture. I had
