
"Much more ready than anxious, Miss Faith."

"How do you like the shore to-day?" said Faith, dropping her voice, and
giving a glance of her eye to the fair, cool sunlight colours on the
water and shore and shipping--fresh as the very sea-breeze itself, and
glittering as the water's thousand mirrors could make them.

He turned and looked again, drawing in the breeze with a deep breath
that more than answered her question.

"How do you like this?" he said, handing her through the window a
little miniature tree of red sea-weed. Then, while she examined it, he
repeated,--

   "'When descends on the Atlantic
   The gigantic
   Storm-wind of the equinox,
   Landward in his wrath he scourges
   The toiling surges,
   Laden with sea-weed from the rocks;

   "'From Bermuda's reefs; from edges
   Of sunken ledges,
   In some far-off, bright Azore;
   From Bahama, and the dashing,
   Silver-flashing
   Surges of San Salvador;

   "'From the tumbling surf that buries
   The Orkneyan skerries,
   Answering the hoarse Hebrides;
   And from wrecks of ships, and drifting
   Spars, uplifting
   On the desolate, rainy seas;--

   "'Ever drifting, drifting, drifting
   On the shifting
   Currents of the restless main;
   Till in shelter d coves, and reaches
   Of sandy beaches,
   All have found repose again.'"


Faith's eye was upon the sprig of sea-weed while these verses were
repeating,--then she looked up at the speaker with an intenseness in
which oddly mingled some strong feeling of sorrow or regret.

"It's beautiful!"--she said,--"beautiful!--both the one and the other.
But there are a great many things there I don't understand,"--she added
once more with a smile. "If there was time--but there isn't.--Mr.
Linden, Reuben and I have been roasting clams."

"Yes, Miss Faith," he said answering the smile and stepping nearer the
window. "So one of my senses informed me. Do you know what that is in
your hand?"

"It's sea-weed, isn't it?"

"Yes. And moreover--Miss Faith, that is part of your marine Flora. Now
what about the clams?"

"My what?" said Faith. "First tell me, please, what you said."

"Your marine Flora."

"What is that?"

"The particular department of life in the sea, of which this is a
specimen."

Faith looked puzzled, and amused.

"You don't mean to enlighten me more than you can help," she said. "But
why do you call it Flora? you used that word before. And oh Mr.
Linden--You can't tell me now, for supper's all ready."

His eyes looked amused too, and laying a clover head on the window, he
said,

"That is part of your land Flora,"--then pushed the shutter to rather
quick, but softly; and Faith heard the reason thereof as follows.

"Wal sir--ef this be you, I've looked all over for you."

"How was it that you overlooked me then, sir?" was Mr. Linden's reply.

"Don't jes know," laughed Jem Williams,--"but Miss Cilly Deacon wants
you the worst kind."

"And where shall I go to receive her commands?" said Mr. Linden.

Faith heard their retreating steps, and turning to take off her apron
saw the dish of hot clams still on the stove, and that Reuben had
removed himself outside the door, quite beyond the conversation but not
beyond call. He stood looking thoughtfully out towards the muscle rocks.

"Oh Reuben! there you are. Come!" said Faith; "you're going in with me.
You're going to have some supper to-night, whoever else does. You
open the door, and I'll take in this dish. You keep by me, Reuben."

"Please let me take the dish, then, Miss Faith,--I can open the door
first."

But Faith had her own way, and followed by Reuben carried the clams
into the supper room, where some of the company were already seated,
and others stood waiting. Squire Deacon had not only given the desired
introduction, but had (self-denyingly) placed Mr. Linden next Miss
Cilly at the table,--where he stood.

"Here's a contribution," said Faith,--"if somebody 'll make a place for
it. Thank you, Mr. Deacon. Now Reuben,--come here."

And refusing more than one offer of a place at the table, Faith made
her way down to the 'well end' where there was room for two--at a
remote distance from the tea and coffee.

What else was there not, upon that table!

"Won't you take a seat, Mr. Linden?" said Miss Cecilia. "I hope you've
got room there. Jerushy, can't you shove down a little? I hope my
coffee-pot's not disagreeable."

"I hope not!" said Mr. Linden, surveying the coffee-pot. "How long does
it take to declare itself, Miss Deacon?"

"O it won't do anything, but spout coffee," said the young lady,--"if
you don't mind that. Won't you be helped to what you like, Mr. Linden?
I hope you have enjoyed our shore party this afternoon."

"Thank you"--said Mr. Linden, feeling perhaps that it was not their
party he had enjoyed,--"there has been a combination of pleasant
things. As far as I could judge the bathers enjoyed their particular
expedition."

"O yes, it was delightful--invigorating. Mr. Simlins, I think Mr.
Linden will like a piece of that cherry-pie with his clams. Do you take
cheese, Mr. Linden? Is your coffee agreeable? There is the cold tongue
by you, Jerushy.--I hope you like Pattaquasset."

"Ask Mr Linden whether Pattaquasset ain't a good place for handsome
gals," said Mr. Simlins, as he handed over the piece of cherry-pie. "He
knows by this time. I say there's a con-catenation of beauty now here
this afternoon. If you look from the top to the bottom of the table,
now, ain't it true, sir?"

Mr. Linden certainly looked from the top to the bottom of the table,
and then setting the plate of cherry-pie as far from his clams as he
could, he said,

"Miss Deacon--let me help you,--tell me where these cups belong, and I
will convey them to their destination."

"I thought they'd shove down somehow," said the young lady. "Jerushy,
do pass the coffee! They're for anybody down there who'll take
coffee. Tea'll be along presently," added Miss Cecilia, raising her
voice a little to give the information. "Don't you trouble yourself,
Mr. Linden."

But Mr. Linden secured one, and carrying it down to Faith, requested
her to stir it and taste it, and not give him the trouble of coming
back with the sugar-bowl.

"What will you have?" he said while she obeyed his directions. "Here
are all the pies that can be thought of except the musical one recorded
in history."

"And so," said Faith with a laughing flash of her usually soft eye,
"you immediately give me a desire for the one not here! It's like you,
Mr. Linden. No, thank you--I'll have none of these. I believe Reuben
has a desire for some of the clams he and I have roasted."

"I'm afraid I cannot get them away from Squire Deacon!" he said, "but
I'll try."

The Squire however held fast to the dish, and rising from his place
midway at the table, insisted upon taking it to Faith himself.

"Miss Faith," he said, "you have ruined my supper by sitting down here.
My appetite has quite forsaken me," (whereupon Jem Williams observed,
