charades. Miss Harrison brought down her stores of old and new finery;
and with much zeal and success charades and tableaux went on for some
length of time; to the extreme amusement of Faith, who had never seen
any before. They did not divert her from watching for the sound of Mr.
Linden's return; but it came not, and Miss Essie expected and hoped
aloud in vain. The hour did come, and passed, at which such gatherings
in Pattaquasset were wont to break up. That was not very late to be
sure. The Stoutenburghs, and the De Staffs, and finally Mr. and Mrs.
Somers, went off in turn; and Faith was left alone to wait; for she had
refused all offers of being set down by her various friends.
It happened that Mr. Linden had been, by no harmful accident but simply
by the untowardness of things, delayed beyond his time; and then having
a good distance to drive, it was some while after the last visiters had
departed when he once more reined up Jerry at the door. No servant came
to take him, and Mr. Linden applied himself to the bell-handle. But
there seemed a spell upon the house--or else the inmates were
asleep--for ring as he would, no one came.
To fasten Jerry and let himself in were the next steps--neither of
which took long. But in the drawing-room, to which he had been ushered
in the beginning of the evening, there was now no one. The lights and
the fires and the empty chairs were there; that was all. Mr. Linden
knew the house well enough to know where next to look; he crossed the
hall to a room at the other side, which was the one most commonly used
by the family, and from which a passage led to the library. No one was
here, and the room was in a strange state of confusion. Before he had
well time to remark upon it, Faith came in from the passage bearing a
heavy marble bust in her arms. The colour sprang to her cheeks; she set
down Prince Talleyrand quickly and came towards Mr. Linden, saying,
"There's fire in the library."
"My dear child!" he said softly, "what is the matter? What are you
about?"
"Why there is fire in the library--it's all on fire, or soon will be,"
she said hurriedly, "and we are bringing the things out. The fire can't
get in here--its a fireproof building only the inside will all burn up.
The servants are carrying water to the roof of the house, lest that
should catch. I am so glad to see you!"--
And Miss Sophy and the doctor came in, carrying one a picture, the
other an armful of books. Faith ran back through the passage. But
before she could set her foot inside the library, Mr. Linden's hand was
on her shoulder, and he stepped before her and took the survey of the
room in one glance.
Its condition was sufficiently unpromising. The fire had kindled in a
heap of combustible trumpery brought there for the tableaux. It had got
far beyond management before any one discovered it; and now was making
fast work in that corner of the room and creeping with no slow progress
along the cornices of the bookshelves. Short time evidently there was
for the family to remove their treasures from its destructive sweep.
One corner of the room was in a light blaze; one or two lamps mockingly
joined their light to the glare; the smoke was curling in grey wreaths
and clouds over and around almost everything. Here an exquisite bust of
Proserpine looked forlornly through it; and there a noble painting of
Alston's shewed in richer lights than ever before, its harmony of
colouring. The servants were, as Faith had said, engaged in
endeavouring to keep the roof of the house from catching; only one old
black retainer of the family, too infirm for that service, was helping
them in the labour of rescuing books and treasures of art from the
tire, which must take its way within the library. The wall it could not
pass, that being, as Faith had also said, proof against it.
"Stay where you are," Mr. Linden said, "and I will hand things to
you"--adding under his breath, "if you love me, Faith!" And passing
into the room he snatched Proserpine from her smoky berth and gave her
to the old servant, handing Faith a light picture.
"Don't let your sister come in here, Harrison," he said, springing up
the steps to the upper shelves of the bookcase nearest the fire--"and
don't let everybody do everything,--keep half in the passage and half
here."
"Yes, Sophy," said the doctor, "that is much better--don't you come in
here, nor Miss Faith. And don't work too hard," he said gently to the
latter as she came back after bestowing the picture. "I won't ask you
not to work at all, for I know it would be of no use."
"Just work like monkeys," Mr. Linden said from his high post, which was
a rather invisible one. "Reuben!--I am glad of your help."
"Reuben!" exclaimed Faith joyously. "How good that is. Give me those
books, Reuben."--
And after that the work went on steadily, with few words. It was too
smoky an atmosphere to speak much in; and the utmost exertions on the
part of every one of the workers left no strength nor time for it.
"Like monkeys" they worked--the gentlemen handing things out of the
smoke to the willing fingers and light feet that made quick disposition
of them. Quick it had need to be, for the fire was not waiting for
them. And in an incredibly short time--incredible save to those who
have seen the experiment tried,--books and engravings were emptied from
shelf after shelf--compartment after compartment--and lodged within the
house. Not a spare inch of space--not a spare second of time, it
seemed, was gone over; and the treasures of the library were in quick
process of shifting from one place to another. It was rather a weary
part Faith had to play, to stop short at the doorway and see the
struggle with smoke and fire that was going on inside; and an anxious
eye and trembling heart followed the movements of one of the workers
there whenever she returned to her post of waiting. She would rather
have been amid the smoke and the fire too, than to stand off looking
on; but she did what she was desired--and more than she was desired;
for she said not a word, like a wise child. Only did her work with no
delay and came back again. Two excellent workers were the doctor and
Mr. Linden; Reuben was a capital seconder; and no better runners than
the two ladies need have been found; while the old Judge and his old
serving man did what they could. There was every appearance that their
efforts would be successful; the fire was to be sure, greatly increased
and fast spreading, but so also the precious things that it endangered
were already in great measure secured. Probably very little would have
been lost to be regretted, if the workers had not suffered a slight
interruption.
Mr. Linden was in the middle of the room unlocking the drawers of the
library table, which was too large to be removed. Old Nero, the black
man, had taken one of the lamps which yet remained burning, a large
heavy one, to carry away. He was just opposite the table, when a stone
bust of some weight, which had stood above the bookcases, detached by
the failure of its supports, came down along with some spars of the
burning wood and fell against a rich screen just on the other side of
Nero. The screen was thrown over on him; he struggled an instant to
right himself and it, holding his lamp off at an awful angle towards
Mr. Linden; then, nobody could tell how it was, Nero had saved himself
and struggled out from the falling screen and burning wood, and Faith
and the lamp lay under it, just at Mr. Linden's feet. Yet hardly under
it--so instantly was it thrown off. The lamp was not broken, which was
a wonder; but Faith was stunned, and the burning wood had touched her
brow and singed a lock of hair.
In such a time of confusion all sorts of things come and go, unseen but
by the immediate actors. Dr. Harrison and Reuben were intent upon a
heavy picture; the Judge and his daughter were in the other room. And
Faith was lifted up and borne swiftly along to the drawing-room sofa,
and there was cold water already on her brow, before the others reached
her. She was only a little stunned and had opened her eyes when they
came up. They came round her, all the gang of workers, like a swarm of
bees, and with as many questions and inquiries. Faith smiled at them
all, and begged they would go back and finish what they were doing.
"I'll stay here a little while," she said; "my fall didn't hurt me a
bit, to speak of. Do go! don't anybody wait for me."
There seemed nothing else to be done; she would own to wanting nothing;
and her urgency at length prevailed with them, however reluctantly, to
leave her and go back to the library. But Mr. Linden stood still as the
others moved off.
"Where are you hurt?" he said in a low voice.
"I suppose the fall bruised me a little bit. It didn't do me any real
harm. Don't wait here for me."
"Where?" Mr. Linden said.
"Where it bruised me? A little on my head--and elbow--and side;
altogether nothing!"
He sat down by her, passing his hand softly over the scorched hair;
then said, "Let me see your arm."
"Oh no!--that's not necessary. I said I was bruised, but it isn't much."
"Faith, you have not told me the whole."
Her eye shrank from his instantly, and her colour flitted from red to
pale.
"There is nothing more I need tell you. They will all be back here--or
some of them--if you stay. I'll tell you anything you please to
morrow," she added with a smile. But he only repeated, "Tell me now--I
have a right to know."
Her lip took its childish look, but her eye met him now. "Don't look
so!"--she said, "as if there was any reason for it. I think some of the
fluid from that lamp ran down on my arm--and it smarts. Don't stay here
to look grave about me!--it isn't necessary."
He bent his head and gave her one answer to all that--then sprang up
and went for Dr. Harrison. Faith tried to hinder him, in vain.
There was little now to detain anybody in the library, he found, and a
good deal to drive everybody out of it. The fire had seemed to take
advantage of its unwatched opportunity and had put it pretty well out
of any one's power to rescue much more from its rapacity. Reuben and
Dr. Harrison were carrying out the drawers of the table, which Mr.
Linden had been unlocking; and the doctor dropped the one he held the
instant he caught the sense of Mr. Linden's words. He went through the
other way, summoning his sister.
Faith was lying very quietly and smiled at them, but her colour went
and came with odd suddenness. She would not after all let the doctor
touch her; but rising from the sofa said she would go up stairs and let
Sophy see what was wanting. The three went up, and Mr. Linden was left
alone.
He stood still for a moment where they left him, resting his face upon
his hand, but then he went back to the burning room; and stationing
himself at the doorway, bade all the rest keep back, and those that
could to bring him water. Reuben sprang to this work as he had done to
the other; some of the servants had come down by this time; and Mr.
Linden stood there, dashing the water about the doorway and into the
room, upon the floor, the great table, and such of the bookcases as he
could come near. The effect was soon evident. The blazing bits of
carved moulding as they fell to the floor, went out instead of getting
help to burn; and the heavier shelves and wainscot which being of hard
wood burned slowly, began to give out steam as well as smoke. The door
and doorway were now perfectly safe--the fire hardly could spread into
the passage, a danger which had been imminent when Mr. Linden came, but
