
“Sin may tempt them sometimes,” said 
her mother; “but if they pray, — ‘Teach


 


me thy way, O Lord; lead me in a plain 
path, because of mine enemies — then the 
Lord will answer them, ‘ This is the way : 
walk ye in it.’ None of the attacks 
of sin shall hurt them; for the Lord 
is a buckler to them that walk uprightly.” 

“And what then ?” said Debby. 

“Why, then/’ said her mother, “they 
walk in the way of peace and in the light 
of God’s countenance.” 

“And that makes them shine,” said 
Debby. “I remember all about my little 
stone.” 

“Yes, that makes them shine,” said her 
mother. “And so, with this glory about 
them and in their hearts, they walk in the 
fear of the Lord, and in love towards them 
that are without, redeeming the time. 
For any one who is travelling towards 
Zion ‘with a perfect heart’ wants to do 

every bit of work the Lord has given him 
to do, on the way.” 

“Then they always mind, I guess,” said 
Debby. 

“Ah, Debby,” said her mother, “they 
do a great deal more than that ! — they are 
eager to mind. ‘I made haste, and delayed not, to keep thy commandments,' 
said King David. Now, you know all 
minding is not like that.” 

“No, indeed,” said Debby, thinking how 
slowly she had gone up-stairs that very 
morning on some errand for her mother. 

“No, indeed,” her mother repeated. 
“Now the Bible says that the feet of the 
wicked run to evil ; but the righteous ‘ run 
the way of God’s commandments.’ Walk- 
ing is not enough for them : they must 
run. When there is any work to be 
done for the Lord, they say, ‘Here am I: 
send me.’ ” 


“I guess they feel good always, then,” 
said Debby. 

“They feel happy, — if that is what you 
mean,” said her mother. “No matter 
what troubles or difficulties they have to 
go through, ‘the word of the Lord is a 
lamp unto their feet and a light unto their 
path.’ Men may ill-treat them and throw 
them into prison; yet shall they ‘walk 
at liberty, for they seek his precepts.’ 

‘ Though I walk through the valley of the 
shadow of death, I will fear no evil; for 
thou art with me.’ Walking with God, 
none need be afraid.” 

“What more do they do?” said Debby. 

“They always walk in truth, for one 
thing,” said her mother. “And then, 
Debby, they try to do good to other people, and to bring them out of the ways of 
darkness. Oh, what walking that is ! 
‘ How beautiful upon the mountains are 




the feet of him that bringeth good tidings, 
that publisheth peace ; that bringeth good 
tidings of good, that publisheth salvation !’ ” 

“The good tidings,” said Debby : “ that’s 
the news that Jesus came to save people. 
Because when he was born the angels 
called it good tidings of great joy.” 

“Yes: you remember very well,” said 
her mother. “Now, the Bible says that 
every one that abide th in Jesus ought himself also so to walk even as he walked. 
How was that ?” 

“He went about doing good,” said 
Debby. “I learned that.” 

“Yes; and it was his meat and drink 
to do the will of God. And when we 
walk like him, Debby, then are our ‘feet 
shod with the preparation of the gospel of 
peace and there is no shoe like that for 
going over all rough places.” 


 


“And do all the little travellers Zion- 
ward walk so?” said Debby. 

“Ah,” said her mother, “they are all 
trying to walk so; for every one who follows Jesus will try to walk worthy of the 
Lord, unto all well-pleasing.’ When you 
tried to cross the brook once on a log, 
Debby, how did you contrive to do it?” 
“Why, you told me not to look about, 
mother,” said Debby; “and so I just 
looked at you and walked straight across. 
And I held out my hand, you know, and 
you took hold of it.” 

“Well,” said her mother, “in walking 
through this world, Debby, unless you 
want to make crooked paths for your feet, 
you must not look hither and thither to 
see how other people do, or to show what 
a steady head you have. Look only to 
Jesus; hold out your hand to him: then 
you will be a traveller Zionward.” 



“And they go to the kingdom of the Lord, 
and the mansions of the blest,” said Debby. 

“Yes/’ said her mother. “And where 
are those mansions?” 

“Oh, I know,” said Debby: “it’s in 
that chapter where I learned my verses 
last Sunday, where the Lord Jesus says, 
‘In my Father’s house are many mansions ; 
I go to prepare a place for you. ” 

“Now listen,” said her mother, “and I 
will read you a little hit about that, Debby. 
It tells of Zion, the heavenly Jerusalem: — 
“ ‘And the city had no need of the sun, 
neither of the moon to shine in it ; for the 
glory of God did lighten it, and the Lamb 
is the light thereof. And the nations of 
them which are saved shall walk in the 
light of it.’ 

“First they walk with God on earth, 
and then in the full light of his countenance in heaven.” 




CHAPTER III. 

The Sunday-school children at the village were going to have a strawberry feast 
over on Church Hill: there was nice 

green grass there, and great trees to give 
shade. And the children were to meet 
just where the brook runs out of the Hollow, and then walk together to the Hill. 
So, when it drew near four o’clock, Debby 
set out to walk to the place of meeting, 
red shoes and all. I really think that 
black ones would have looked better, for 
