Agnes, who had been sitting abstractedly on the parapet, with her head
drooped over the lily-spray, now seemed to collect herself. She rose up
in a grave and thoughtful manner, and, going forward to the shrine of
the Madonna, removed the flowers of the morning, and holding the vase
under the spout of the fountain, all feathered with waving maiden-hair,
filled it with fresh water, the drops falling from it in a thousand
little silver rings in the moonlight.

"I have a thought," said the monk to himself, drawing from his girdle
a pencil and hastily sketching by the moonlight. What he drew was a
fragile maiden form, sitting with clasped hands on a mossy ruin, gazing
on a spray of white lilies which lay before her. He called it, The
Blessed Virgin pondering the Lily of the Annunciation.

"Hast thou ever reflected," he said to Agnes, "what that lily might
be like which the angel Gabriel brought to our Lady?--for, trust
me, it was no mortal flower, but grew by the river of life. I have
often meditated thereon, that it was like unto living silver with a
light in itself, like the moon,--even as our Lord's garments in the
Transfiguration, which glistened like the snow. I have cast about in
myself by what device a painter might represent so marvelous a flower."

"Now, brother Antonio," said Elsie, "if you begin to talk to the child
about such matters, our Lady alone knows when we shall get to bed. I am
sure I'm as good a Christian as anybody; but, as I said, there's reason
in all things, and one cannot always be wondering and inquiring into
heavenly matters,--as to every feather in Saint Michael's wings, and
as to our Lady's girdle and shoestrings and thimble and work-basket;
and when one gets through with our Lady, then one has it all to go
over about her mother, the blessed Saint Anne (may her name be ever
praised!). I mean no disrespect, but I am certain the saints are
reasonable folk and must see that poor folk must live, and, in order to
live, must think of something else now and then besides them. That's
my mind, brother."

"Well, well, sister," said the monk, placidly, "no doubt you are right.
There shall be no quarreling in the Lord's vineyard; every one hath his
manner and place, and you follow the lead of the blessed Saint Martha,
which is holy and honorable."

"Honorable! I should think it might be!" said Elsie. "I warrant me, if
everything had been left to Saint Mary's doings, our Blessed Lord and
the Twelve Apostles might have gone supperless. But it's Martha gets
all the work, and Mary all the praise."

"Quite right, quite right," said the monk, abstractedly, while he
stood out in the moonlight busily sketching the fountain. By just such
a fountain, he thought, our Lady might have washed the clothes of
the Blessed Babe. Doubtless there was some such in the court of her
dwelling, all mossy, and with sweet waters forever singing a song of
praise therein.

Elsie was heard within the house meanwhile making energetic commotion,
rattling pots and pans, and producing decided movements among the
simple furniture of the dwelling, probably with a view to preparing for
the night's repose of the guest.

Meanwhile Agnes, kneeling before the shrine, was going through with
great feeling and tenderness the various manuals and movements of
nightly devotion which her own religious fervor and the zeal of her
spiritual advisers had enjoined upon her. Christianity, when it
entered Italy, came among a people every act of whose life was colored
and consecrated by symbolic and ritual acts of heathenism. The only
possible way to uproot this was in supplanting it by Christian ritual
and symbolism equally minute and pervading. Besides, in those ages
when the Christian preacher was utterly destitute of all the help
which the press now gives in keeping under the eye of converts the
great inspiring truths of religion, it was one of the first offices
of every saint whose preaching stirred the heart of the people, to
devise symbolic forms, signs, and observances, by which the mobile and
fluid heart of the multitude might crystalize into habits of devout
remembrance. The rosary, the crucifix, the shrine, the banner, the
procession, were catechisms and tracts invented for those who could not
read, wherein the substance of pages was condensed and gave itself to
the eye and the touch. Let us not, from the height of our day, with the
better appliances which a universal press gives us, sneer at the homely
rounds of the ladder by which the first multitudes of the Lord's
followers climbed heavenward.

If there seemed somewhat mechanical in the number of times which Agnes
repeated the "Hail, Mary!"--in the prescribed number of times she rose
or bowed or crossed herself or laid her forehead in low humility on
the flags of the pavement, it was redeemed by the earnest fervor which
inspired each action. However foreign to the habits of a Northern mind
or education such a mode of prayer may be, these forms to her were
all helpful and significant, her soul was borne by them Godward,--and
often, as she prayed, it seemed to her that she could feel the
dissolving of all earthly things, and the pressing nearer and nearer of
the great cloud of witnesses who ever surround the humblest member of
Christ's mystical body.

        "Sweet loving hearts around her beat,
          Sweet helping hands are stirred,
        And palpitates the veil between
          With breathings almost heard."

Certain English writers, looking entirely from a worldly and
philosophical standpoint, are utterly at a loss to account for the
power which certain Italian women of obscure birth came to exercise
in the councils of nations merely by the force of a mystical piety;
but the Northern mind of Europe is entirely unfitted to read and
appreciate the psychological religious phenomena of Southern races. The
temperament which in our modern days has been called the mediïstic, and
which with us is only exceptional, is more or less a race-peculiarity
of Southern climates, and gives that objectiveness to the conception
of spiritual things from which grew up a whole ritual and a whole
world of religious Art. The Southern saints and religious artists
were seers,--men and women of that peculiar fineness and delicacy of
temperament which made them especially apt to receive and project
outward the truths of the spiritual life; they were in that state of
"divine madness" which is favorable to the most intense conception of
the poet and artist, and something of this influence descended through
all the channels of the people.

When Agnes rose from prayer, she had a serene, exalted expression,
like one who walks with some unseen excellence and meditates on some
untold joy. As she was crossing the court to come towards her uncle,
her eye was attracted by the sparkle of something on the ground, and,
stooping, she picked up a heart-shaped locket, curiously made of a
large amethyst, and fastened with a golden arrow. As she pressed upon
this, the locket opened and disclosed to her view a folded paper. Her
mood at this moment was so calm and elevated that she received the
incident with no start or shiver of the nerves. To her it seemed a
providential token, which would probably bring to her some further
knowledge of this mysterious being who had been so especially confided
to her intercessions.

Agnes had learned of the Superior of the Convent the art of reading
writing, which would never have been the birthright of the peasant-girl
in her times, and the moon had that dazzling clearness which revealed
every letter. She stood by the parapet, one hand lying in the white
blossoming alyssum which filled its marble crevices, while she read and
seriously pondered the contents of the paper.

TO AGNES

        Sweet saint, sweet lady, may a sinful soul
        Approach thee with an offering of love,
        And lay at thy dear feet a weary heart
        That loves thee, as it loveth God above?
        If blessed Mary may without a stain
        Receive the love of sinners most defiled,
        If the fair saints that walk with her in white
        Refuse not love from earth's most guilty child,
        Shouldst thou, sweet lady, then that love deny
        Which all-unworthy at thy feet is laid?
        Ah, gentlest angel, be not more severe
        Than the dear heavens unto a loving prayer!
        Howe'er unworthily that prayer be said,
        Let thine acceptance be like that on high!

There might have been times in Agnes's life when the reception of this
note would have astonished and perplexed her; but the whole strain of
thought and conversation this evening had been in exalted and poetical
regions, and the soft stillness of the hour, the wonderful calmness
and clearness of the moonlight, all seemed in unison with the strange
incident that had occurred, and with the still stranger tenor of the
paper. The soft melancholy, half-religious tone of it was in accordance
with the whole undercurrent of her life, and prevented that start of
alarm which any homage of a more worldly form might have excited.
It is not to be wondered at, therefore, that she read it many times
with pauses and intervals of deep thought, and then with a movement
of natural and girlish curiosity examined the rich jewel which had
enclosed it. At last, seeming to collect her thoughts, she folded the
paper and replaced it in its sparkling casket, and, unlocking the door
of the shrine, laid the gem with its enclosure beneath the lily-spray,
as another offering to the Madonna. "Dear Mother," she said, "if indeed
it be so, may he rise from loving me to loving thee and thy dear Son,
who is Lord of all! Amen!" Thus praying, she locked the door and turned
thoughtfully to her repose, leaving the monk pacing up and down in the
moonlit garden.

Meanwhile the cavalier was standing on the velvet mossy bridge which
spanned the stream at the bottom of the gorge, watching the play of
moonbeams on layer after layer of tremulous silver foliage in the
clefts of the black, rocky walls on either side. The moon rode so
high in the deep violet-colored sky, that her beams came down almost
vertically, making green and translucent the leaves through which they
passed, and throwing strongly marked shadows here and there on the
flower-embroidered moss of the old bridge. There was that solemn,
