

 

" Still water runs deep, " quoted Mrs. Hunt. "I used 
to worry over your stay-at-home habits and eternal study 
of books, Sarah ; but I'm ready to say now that you was 
sensible to behave as you did, as it has turned out. I don't 
mean to flatter Mr. Hammond, but I'd ten times rather 
you had taken him than a dried-up widower like George 
Bond." 

" Thank you !" bowed Lewis, desirous of diverting atten 
tion from Sarah's growing uneasiness beneath her mother's 
congratulations. 

Mrs. Hunt held on her way. "I never had a fear lest 
Lucy shouldn't marry well. She was pretty and attractive, 
and knew too much about the world to throw herself away 
for the sake of love in a cottage. But now the danger is 
over, I will allow that I used to mistrust Sarah here some 
times. You was just queer enough to fall in love with some 
adventurer with a foreign name, and never a cent in his 
pocket yes, and marry him, too, in spite of all that could 
be said and done to prevent it. I was forever in a feaze 
about you ; fancying that you was born to make an out-and- 
out love-match the silliest thing a girl can do, in my 
opinion." 

" You never dreamed of her taking up, as the phrase is, 
with a humdrum individual like myself," said Lewis. " Nor, 
to be candid, did I, for a long time, Mrs. Hunt. Yet I can 
not say that I regret her action, disadvantageous to herself 
though it was. I wrote to you of our visit to New Orleans, 
did I not, sir ?" he continued to Mr. Hunt, inwardly a little 
disgusted by the frank revelations his mamma-in-law was 
making of her principles and plans. 

The subject so interesting to most wedded people, so embarrassing to one of the present party, was mot again introduced during the elder couple's stay. When Lewis returned 
to the library, after seeing them out, Sarah sat where he 



 

had left her, her hand shading her eyes deep in thought, 
or overcome by weariness. 

" You had better go up to your room, dear," said Lewis. 
" I wonder you are not worn out completely." 

She arose to obey ; walked as far as the door, then came 
back to him. 

" It may appear strange to you that I should speak openly 
of such a suspicion ; but I must beg you not to suppose for 
an instant that in my acceptance of your offer of marriage, 
I was actuated by mercenary motives. You look sur 
prised" she hurried on yet faster while her resolution 
lasted " but I could not rest without doing myself this act 
of justice. Much that mother said to-night might must 
have led you to this conclusion. I would not have you 
think worse of me than I deserve, and of this one act of 
baseness I am innocent." 

" My precious little wife, how excited you are ! and over 
what a nonsensical imagination ! Suspect you the noblest 
as well as the dearest of women of selling yourself, body 
and soul, for money? Listen to my speech now, dear 
Sarah !" 

He sat down and pulled her to his knee. " I esteem you, 
as I love you, above all the rest of your sex above any 
other created mortal. I know you to be a pure, high-minded 
woman. When I part with this persuasion, may I part also 
with the life that doubt on this point would render wretched ! Judge, then, whether it be possible for me to link this 
holy realization of womanhood with the thought of another 
character, which I will describe. I hold that she who 
enters the hallowed state of wedlock through motives of 
pecuniary interest, or ambition, or convenience indeed, 
through any consideration save that of love, single and 
entire, for him to whom she pledges her vows, stands, in the 
sight of her Maker and the angels, on a level with the most 



 

abandoned outcast that pollutes the earth she treads. I 
shock you, I see ; but on this subject I feel strongly. I 
have seen much, too much, of fashionable marriages formed 
for worldly aggrandizement for riches ; sometimes in pique 
at having lost a coveted lover. With my peculiar sentiments, I feel that I could endure no heavier curse than to 
contract an alliance like any of these. I repeat it, I believe 
in Woman as God made her and intended she should live, 
if for no other reason than because I recollect my mother, 
boy as I was when she died ; and because I know and have 
you, my true, blessed wife !" 



 



CHAPTER XII. 

A TEAR and five months had passed away since the even 
ing when Lewis Hammond held his conscience-stricken wife 
upon his knee, and told her in fervid words that singularly 
belied his calm and even demeanor at other times of his 
faith in and love for her, and his abhorrence of the sin she 
felt in her trembling soul that she had committed. Yet she 
had not the superhuman courage required to contradict a 
trust like this. There was no alternative but to keep up the 
weary, wicked mockery unto the end. 

" But in all these months she must have learned to care 
for him!" cries Mrs. Common Sense. "There is nothing 
disagreeable about the man. He is not brilliant ; yet he has 
intelligence and feeling, and is certainly attached to his wife. 
I have no doubt but that he indulges her in every reason able request, and comports himself in all respects like an ex 
emplary husband." 

Granted, to each and every head of your description, my 
dear madam ! But, for all that, his obdurate wife had not 
come to love him. I blush to say it ; but while we are stripping hearts let us not be squeamish ! There had been sea 
sons, lasting sometimes for weeks, when her existence was 
a continual warfare between repugnance to him and her 
sense of duty ; when she dreaded to hear his step in the 
hall, and shrank inwardly from his caress ; watched and 
fought, until strength and mind were well-nigh gone. Mark 
me ! I do not deny that this was as irrational as it was reprehensible ; but I have never held up my poor Sarah as a 
model of reason or propriety. From the beginning, I have 
made her case a warning. The fates forbid that I should 
commend it to any as an example for imitation ! A passion 
ate, proud, reticent girl ; a trusting, loving, deceived woman 
a hopeless, desperate bride whose heart lay like a pulseless 
stone in her breast at the most ardent love-words of her 
husband, and throbbed with wild, uncontrollable emotion 
at the fraternal tone and kiss of her lost and only love I 
have no plea for her, save the words of Infinite compassion 
and Divine knowledge of human nature and human woe : 
" Let him that is without sin among you cast the first stone 
at her!" 

The highly respectable firm of which Mr. Hammond was 
the junior member, was adding, if not field to field, thousand 
to thousand, of the wherewithal for the purchase of fields, 
or, what was better still, city lots. Mrs. Lewis Hammond 
had set up her carriage about a year after her marriage ; said 
equipage being a gift from her generous husband on the occasion of the first airing of the little " Baby Belle," as she 
was always called in the family. Not until subsequent events 
had endowed it witji deeper and saddest interest did Sarah 
read Aldrich's beautiful poem bearing the above title. 
Lewis's mother's name was Isabella. Her grandchild received the same, which became " Belle" on the mother's 
tongue, and then, because it was natural to say " Baby" too, 
the pretty alliteration was adopted. 

To a man of Lewis's domestic tastes the advent of this 
child was a source of the liveliest pleasure, and the tiny inmate of his household was another and a powerful tie, bind 
ing him to a home already dear. But to the mother's lonely 
life, so bare of real comfort or joy haunted by memory and 
darkened by remorse the precious gift came like a ray of 
Heaven's purest light, a strain of angel music, saying to 



 

care, " Sleep !" to hope, " Awake, the morning cometh !" Be 
neath the sunshine of so much love, the infant throve finely, 
and without being a greater prodigy than the nine hundred 
and ninety-nine miracles of beauty and sprightliness who, 
with it, composed the thousand " blessed babies" of the day, 
was still a pretty, engaging creature, whose gurgling laugh 
and communicative " coo" beguiled the mother's solitude, 
and made cheerful the lately silent house. 

It was late in the June afternoon, and arrayed in clean 
