shoots and twitches of pain that seemed to come from the broken ankle
and reach every part of her body; and she could not move about or turn
over to ease them by some change.
At last the weary hours began to grow less oppressive. The sun got low
in the sky; the air came with a little touch of freshness. How good it
was to see the sun lost behind the woods on the other side the road.
Juanita kindled her fire again and put on the kettle; for Daisy was to
have another cup of tea, and wanted it very much. Then, before the
kettle had boiled, came the doctor.
It was a pleasant variety. Dr. Sandford's face was a good one to see
come in anywhere, and in Daisy's case very refreshing. It was so noble a
face; the features fine, manly, expressive; with a sedate gravity that
spoke of a character above trifling. His calm, forceful eye was very
imposing; the thick auburn locks of his hair, pushed back as they were
from, his face, were beautiful to Daisy's imagination. Altogether he
fastened her attention whenever he came within reach of it; she could
not read those grave lines of his face; she puzzled over them. Dr.
Sandford's appearance was in some way bewitching to her. Truly many
ladies found it so.
He examined now the state of her foot; gave rapid comprehensive glances
at everything; told his orders to Mrs. Benoit. Finally, paused before
going, and looked into the very wise little eyes that scanned him so
carefully.
"Is there anything you want, Daisy?" he said with a physician's
familiarity.
"No, sir,--I thank you."
"Mrs. Benoit takes good care of you?"
"Very good."
The manner of Daisy's speech was like her looks; childlike enough, and
yet with a deliberate utterance unlike a child.
"What do you think about, as you lie there all day?" he said.
The question had been put with a somewhat careless curiosity; but at
that he saw a pink flush rise and spread itself all over Daisy's pale
face; the grey eyes looked at him steadily, with no doubt of some
thoughts behind them. Dr. Sandford listened for her answer. What was
the child thinking about? She spoke at last with that same sweet
deliberateness.
"I have been thinking, Dr. Sandford, about what Jesus did for me."
"What was that?" said the doctor in considerable surprise.
"Because it was so hard for me to keep still to-day, I thought--you
know--how it must have been--"
The flush deepened on the cheeks, and Daisy's eyes were swimming full of
tears. Dr. Sandford looked, in much surprise; perhaps he was at some
pains to comprehend what all this meant.
"How it must have been when?" said he, bending over Daisy's couch.
"You know, Dr. Sandford," she said tenderly. "When he was on the
cross--and couldn't move----"
Daisy gave way. She put her hands over her face. The doctor stood erect,
looking at her; glanced his grave eyes at Mrs. Benoit and at her again;
then made a step towards Juanita.
"No excitement is permitted," he said. "You must keep her from it. Do
you understand?"
"Yes, sir," Juanita said. But her face was all alight.
"Have you been reading some of those stories to her?"
"I have not been reading to her at all to-day, if his honour pleases."
"Daisy," said Dr. Sandford, coming back to the couch, "what put such
thoughts into your head?"
"I felt so badly to-day." She spoke with her usual collectedness again.
"Well, try and not mind it. You will feel better in a day or two. Do you
know when that happened that you were talking about?"
"Yes, sir."
"When was it?"
"More than eighteen hundred years ago."
"Do you think it is worth your while to be troubled for what happened
eighteen hundred years ago?"
"I think it is just the same as if it happened now," said Daisy, without
moving her eyes.
"Do you? By what power of reasoning?"
"I don't think I know how to reason," said Daisy. "It is feeling."
"How does feeling manage it?"
Daisy discerned the tone of the question, looked at her questioner, and
answered with tender seriousness:
"I know the Lord Jesus did that for me; and I know he is in heaven now."
The doctor kept silence a minute. "Daisy," said he, "you are under my
orders at present. You must mind me. You are to take a cup of tea, and a
piece of toast, if you like; then you are to go to sleep and keep quiet,
and not think of anything that happened more than an hour ago. Will
you?"
"I will try to be quiet," said Daisy.
She and the doctor looked at each other in a dissatisfied manner, she
wistfully, he disapprovingly, and then the doctor went out. Daisy's eyes
followed, straining after him as long as they could; and when she could
see him no longer they filled with tears again. She was looking as
intent and wistful as if she might have been thirty years old instead of
nine or ten, when Juanita came to her side with the tea she had been
making.
The tea and toast did Daisy good; and she was ready to enjoy a visit
from, her father, who spent the evening with her. But he would not let
her talk. The next day was hot again; however Daisy felt better. The
heat was more bearable. It was a very quiet day.
Both she and Juanita obeyed orders and did not talk much; nevertheless
Juanita sang hymns a great deal, and that was delightful to Daisy. She
found Juanita knew one hymn in particular that she loved exceedingly; it
was the one that had been sung in the little church the day she had
heard Mr. Dinwiddie preach; it fell in with the course of Daisy's
thoughts; and several times in the day she had Juanita sing it over.
Daisy's eyes always filled when she heard it; nevertheless Juanita could
not resist her pleading wish.
  "O the Lamb! the loving Lamb!--
   The Lamb on Calvary.
   The Lamb that was slain, but lives again,
   To intercede for me."
"I am so happy, Juanita," Daisy said after one of these times. "I am so
happy!"
"What makes it so, my love?"
"O because that is true--because he lives up there to take care of me."
"Bless the Lord!" said the black woman.
Towards evening of that day, Juanita had left the room to make her fire
and attend to some other things, when Daisy heard her own name hailed
softly from the window. She turned her head, and there was Preston's
bright face.
"My poor, poor little Daisy!"
"How do you do, Preston?" said Daisy, looking as clear as a moonbeam.
"There you are a prisoner!"
"It is a very nice prison."
"Don't, my dear Daisy! I'll believe you in anything else, you know; but
in this I am unable. Tied by your foot for six weeks, perhaps! I should
like to shoot Capt. Drummond."
"It was not Capt. Drummond's fault."
"Is it bad, Daisy?"
"My foot? It has been pretty bad."
"Poor Daisy! And that was all because you would not sing."
"Because I would not sing, Preston!"
"Yes, that is the cause of all the trouble that has been in the house.
Now, Daisy, you'll give it up?"
"Give what up?"
"Give up your nonsense, and sing."
"That?" said Daisy, and a slight flush came into the pale cheeks.
"Aunt Felicia wants you to sing it, and she will make you do it, when
you get well."
Daisy made no answer.
"Don't you see, my dear Daisy, it is foolish not to do as other people
do?"
"I don't see what my broken ankle has to do with what you are saying,
Preston."
"Daisy, what will become of you all these six weeks? We cannot go a
fishing, nor have any fun."
"You can."
"What will you do?"
"I guess I can have books and read, by and by. I will ask Dr. Sandford."
"Suppose I bring some books, and read to you?"
"O Preston! how nice."
"Well, I'll do it then. What shall I bring?"
"I wish you could bring something that would tell about these things."
"These things? What is that?"
"It is a trilobite. Capt. Drummond got it the other day. It was a fish
once, and now it is a stone; and I would like very much to know about
it."
"Daisy, are you serious?"
"Why, yes, Preston."
"My dear little Daisy, do not you go and be a philosopher!"
"Why, I can't; but why shouldn't I?"
"Philosophers are not 'nice,' Daisy, when they are ladies," said
Preston, shaking his head.
"Why not?"
"Because ladies are not meant to be philosophers."
"But I want to know about trilobites," said Daisy.
"I don't think you do. You would not find the study of fossils
interesting."
"I think I should--if you would help me, Preston."
"Well, we will see, Daisy. I will do anything for you, if you will do
one thing for me. O Daisy, do! Aunt Felicia has not given it up at
all."
"Good bye, Preston," said Daisy. "Now you must go, and not talk to me
any more this time."
Preston ran off. He was not allowed to come again for a day or two; and
Daisy was not allowed to talk. She was kept very quiet, until it was
found that the broken bone was actually healing and in a fair way to get
well. The pains in it were no longer so trying; the very hot days had
given place to a time of milder weather; and Daisy, under the care of
the old black woman, enjoyed her solitary imprisonment well enough.
Twice a day always her father visited her; once a day, Mrs. Randolph.
Her stay was never very long; Juanita's house was not a comfortable
place for her; but Mr. Randolph gave a large piece of his time and
attention to his suffering little daughter, and was indeed the first one
to execute Preston's plan of reading aloud for her amusement. A new and
great delight to Daisy. She never remembered her father taking such
pains with her before. Then, when her father and mother were gone, and
the cottage was still, Juanita and Daisy had what the latter called
their "good time." Juanita read the Bible and sang hymns and prayed.
