what she expected the coming year would find her to do; when she would
get to her place of destination, and what sort of a life she would have
of it when once there. Houses, and horses, and cows and sheep, were as
interesting to these good ladies as they were to Mrs. Powle; and
feeling less concern in the matter they were free to take more
amusement, and so no side feeling or hidden feeling disturbed their
satisfaction in the flow of information they were receiving. For
Eleanor gratified them patiently, in all which did not touch
immediately herself; but when they were gone she sighed. Even Mrs.
Powle was less trying; for her annoyances were at least of a more
dignified kind. Eleanor could meet them better.

"And this is the end of you!" she exclaimed the evening before Eleanor
was to sail. "This is the end of your life and expectations! To look at
you and think of it!" Despondency could no further go.

"Not the end of either, mamma, I hope," Eleanor responded cheerfully.

"The expectation of the righteous shall be for ever, you forget," said
Mrs. Caxton smiling. "There is no fall nor failure to that."

"O yes, I know!" said Mrs. Powle impatiently; "but just look at that
girl and see what she is. She might be presented at Court now, and
reigning like a princess in her own house; yes, she might; and
to-morrow she is going off as if she were a convict, to Botany Bay!"

"No, mamma," said Eleanor smiling. "I never can persuade you of
Australian geography."

"Well it's New South Wales, isn't it?" said Mrs. Powle.

Eleanor assented.

"Very well. The girl that brings you your luncheon when you get there,
may be the very one that stole my spoons three years ago. It's all the
same thing. And you, Eleanor, you are so handsome, and you have the
manners of a queen--Sister Caxton, you have no notion what admiration
this girl excited, and what admiration she could command!"

Mrs. Caxton looked from the calm face of the girl, certainly handsome
enough, to the vexed countenance of the mother; whose fair curls failed
to look complacent for once.

"I suppose Eleanor thinks of another day," she said; "when the Lord
will come to be admired in his saints and to be glorified in all them
that believe. That will be admiration worth having--if Eleanor thinks
so, I confess I think so too."

"Dear sister Caxton," said Mrs. Powle restraining herself, "what has
the one thing to do with the other?"

"Nothing," said Mrs. Caxton. "To seek both is impossible."

"Do you think it is wicked to receive admiration? I did not think you
went so far."

"No," said Mrs. Caxton, with her genial smile. "We were talking of
seeking it."

Mrs. Powle was silent, and went away in a very ill humour.




CHAPTER XIV.

IN PARTINGS.


  "The sun came up upon the left,
  Out of the sea came he!
  And he shone bright, and on the right
  Went down into the sea."


And the Tuesday came, and was fair; and under a bright sky the steamer
ran down to Gravesend with Eleanor and her friends on board. Not Julia;
Eleanor had given up all hopes of that; but Mrs. Caxton was beside her,
and on the other side of her was Mrs. Powle. It was a terribly
disagreeable journey to the latter; every feeling in her somewhat
passionless nature was in a state of fretful rebellion. The other
stronger and deeper characters were ready for the time and met it
bravely. Met it cheerfully too. The crisping breeze that curled the
waters of the river, the blue sky and fair sunlight, the bright and
beautiful of the scene around them, those two saw and tasted; with
hopeful though very grave hearts. The other poor lady saw nothing but a
dirty steamboat and a very unpropitious company. Among these however
were Eleanor's fellow-voyagers, Mr. Amos and his wife; and she was
introduced to them now for the first time. Various circumstances had
prevented their meeting in London.

"A very common-looking man,"--whispered Mrs. Powle to Eleanor.

"I don't know, mamma,--but very good," Eleanor returned.

"You are mad on goodness!" said Mrs. Powle. "Don't you see anything
else in a man, or the want of anything else? I do; a thousand things;
and if a man is ever so good, I want him to be a gentleman too."

"So do I," said Eleanor smiling. "But much more, mamma, if a man is
ever so much a gentleman, I want him to be good. Isn't that the more
important of the two?"

"No!" said Mrs. Powle. "I don't think it is; not for society."

Eleanor thought of Paul's words--"Henceforth know I no man after the
flesh"--What was the use of talking? she and her mother must have the
same vision before they could see the same things. And she presently
forgot Mr. Amos and all about him; for in the distance she discerned
signs that the steamer was approaching Gravesend; and knew that the
time of parting drew near.

It came and was gone, and Eleanor was alone on the deck of the "Diana;"
and in that last moment of trial Mrs. Powle had been the most overcome
of the three. Eleanor's sweet face bore itself strongly as well; and
Mrs. Caxton was strong both by life-habit and nature; and the view of
each of them was far above that little ship-deck. Mrs. Powle saw
nothing else. Her distress was very deep.

"I wish I had taken Julia to her!" was the outburst of her penitent
relentings; and Mrs. Caxton was only thankful, since they had come too
late, that they were uttered too late for Eleanor to hear. She went
home like a person whose earthly treasure is all lodged away from her;
not lost at all, indeed, but yet only to be enjoyed and watched over
from a distance. Even then she reckoned herself rich beyond what she
had been before Eleanor ever came to her.

For Eleanor, left on the ship's deck, at first it was hard to realize
that she had any earthly treasure at all. One part of it quitted,
perhaps for ever, with the home and the country of her childhood; the
other, so far, so vague, so uncertainly grasped in this moment of
distraction, that she felt utterly broken-hearted and alone. She had
not counted upon this; she had not expected her self-command would so
completely fail her; but it was so; and although without one shadow of
a wish to turn back or in any wise alter her course, the first
beginning of her journey was made amidst mental storms. Julia was the
particular bitter thought over which her tears poured; but they flooded
every image that rose of home things, and childish things and things at
Plassy. Mr. Amos came to her help.

"It is nothing," Eleanor said as well as she could speak,--"it is
nothing but the natural feeling which will have its way. Thank
you--don't be concerned. I don't want anything--if I only could have
seen my sister!"

"Mrs. Amos is about as bad," said her comforter with a sigh. "Ah well!
feeling must have its way, and better it should. You will both be
better by and by, I hope."

They were worse before they were better. For in a few hours sickness
took its place among present grievances; and perhaps on the whole it
acted as a relief by effecting a diversion from mental to bodily
concerns. It seemed to Eleanor that she felt them both together;
nevertheless, when at the end of a few days the sea-sickness left her
and she was able to get up again, it was with the sweet fresh quietness
of convalescence in mind as well as in body. She was herself again.
Things took their place. England was behind indeed--but Fiji was
forward--and Heaven was over all.

As soon as she was able to be up she went upon deck. Strength came
immediately with the fresh breeze. It was a cool cloudy day; the ship
speeding along under a good spread of canvas; the sea in a beautiful
state of life, but not boisterous. Nobody was on deck but some of the
sailors. Eleanor took a seat by the guards, and began to drink in
refreshment. It stole in fast, on mind as well as body, she hardly knew
how; only both were braced up together. She felt now a curious gladness
that the parting was over, the journey begun, and England fairly out of
sight. The going away had been like death; a new life was rising upon
her now; and Eleanor turned herself towards it with the same sweet
readiness as the good ship whose head is laid upon a new course.

There is a state of mind in which the soul may be aptly called the
garden of the Lord; when answering to his culture it brings forth
flowers and fruits for his pleasure. In such a state, the paradise
which Adam lost is half re-entered again; the moral victory is won over
"the works of the devil" which Christ came to destroy. The body is
dead, no doubt, because of sin; but the spirit is life, because of
righteousness. The air of that garden is peace; no hurricanes blow
there; the sunshine dwells therein; the odours of sweet things come
forth, and make known all abroad whose garden it is.
