you. Jake and Cyd shall go to do the heavy work."

"Who else? There is room enough in the cabin for four."

"There is no one else to go. So we shall have the more room ourselves,"
replied the planter, as he walked away.

Master Archy announced to Dandy and Cyd that they were to attend the
party, and both expressed their satisfaction at the privilege accorded
to them. They were directed to put the Isabel, which was the name of
the boat, in good order for the trip. She had to be thoroughly washed
and dried that she might be in readiness to receive her stores on the
following day, which was Tuesday, and they hastened off to perform their
task.

The Isabel was about twenty-five feet long. She was very broad on the
beam, and drew but very little water for a boat of her size. She was
provided with a centre board, and worked admirably on the wind. She had
been built expressly for the shallow waters of the lower lakes.

She was schooner-rigged, and could carry a heavy press of sail, which
the light winds of these inland lakes rendered necessary. The cabin was
twelve feet long, and nine feet wide at the broadest part, and contained
four berths. The "trunk," which was elevated about fifteen inches above
the deck, afforded a height of about five feet beneath. The berths,
which extended beneath the main deck, answered for beds by night, and
sofas by day.

The standing room, or open space abaft the cabin, was eight feet long,
with cushioned seats on three sides. Forward of the cabin there was a
"stow-hold," four feet long, in which the fuel and furnaces used for
cooking were kept. Under the cabin table, and under the berths and seats
in the standing room, were a plenty of lockers for the reception of
provisions and other articles required on board.

We are thus particular in describing the Isabel, because Dandy and his
friends were destined to make their home on board of her for some time.
They might have found many a worse dwelling place on shore, for the boat
had ample accommodations for them. The cabin was elegantly fitted and
furnished, and there was every thing on board which could be needed to
make them comfortable.

While Dandy and Cyd were cleaning the Isabel, the former boldly
announced his purpose to run away, and invited his friend to make one of
the party.

"Golly! Dis chile go for sure!" roared Cyd, displaying his wealth of
ivories, and dropping his scrubbing brush with amazement at the
magnificence of the idea.

"Hush, Cyd! You will tell every one on the place."

"No, sar! I won't tell no one ob it. Dat's de truf, Dandy."

"Be careful then, and don't speak so loud."

"But where you gwine?" demanded Cyd.

"I'm going into the swamp, and shall stay there till master thinks we
are all dead. Then I'm going to run down to the sea, and get on board of
some vessel that will carry us to the free states."

This prospect was rather too much for the simple comprehension of the
unlettered negro boy, and he only rolled the whites of his eyes in mute
astonishment.

"I've studied it all out, Cyd, and I know where to go, and how to get
there."

"Yes, Dandy, you knows ebery ting, and I'll foller you to de end ob de
world--dat's de truf," added Cyd.

"And Lily will go with us."

"Lily?"

"Yes; now keep your mouth shut, and don't look any different from what
you always do."

"Golly--yes; when you gwine to go, Dandy?"

"To-morrow night. Every thing will be put on board, ready for the
colonel to start early the next morning. Just as soon as all the people
in the house have gone to bed, we will meet here, and go on board."

"Den I shall be a free nigger?"

"Yes, if we get off, and the plan works well. But you must be very
careful."

"You kin trust dis chile, Dandy. You knows you kin."

"I do, or I should not have made you my companion."

Dandy instructed his sable friend very minutely in the duties he was to
discharge in connection with the enterprise. He had every confidence in
Cyd's discretion, and knew that he would rather die than betray him.

The Isabel was carefully cleaned, and left to dry in the bright sunshine
of a clear day. The next morning, the steward of the plantation laid out
the stores which were to go on board; and as their storage was a nice
matter, Dandy was charged with this duty. He was assisted by Archy's
boat crew, who conveyed the articles on board; and before sunset the
boat was ready for her cruise. Every locker was filled with meat,
vegetables, crackers, wines, liquors, fruits, cakes, cordials--with
every thing which could contribute to the comfort or luxury of the
excursionists. There were two barrels of water in the standing room, and
the choice fowling pieces of the planter and his son were in the cabin,
with a supply of ammunition sufficient to destroy half the game of the
parish.

To the supplies laid out by the steward, Dandy contrived to add a dozen
hams, nicely sewed up in canvas bags, and several kegs of crackers,
which he took from the store room. These articles were stowed in the
forward cuddy, and concealed beneath the fuel and furnaces, so that the
planter, when he inspected the boat, might not discover them. Some other
articles were placed in a convenient position on shore, that they might
be taken on board in the night.

At sunset, Colonel Raybone went off to the Isabel, and carefully
examined every part of her, to satisfy himself that there had been no
omissions in her outfit.

"You have done very well, Dandy," said the planter, when he had
completed his inspection. "How many hams have you put on board?"

"Six, sir," replied Dandy.

"We may be absent five or six weeks; you may put in six more," added
Colonel Raybone.

"Yes, sir."

He also ordered an additional supply of smoked beef and tongues, which,
of course, the caterer was glad to convey on board. When these stores
had been added to the stock, he was satisfied, and ordered Dandy and Cyd
to be on board by six in the morning.

The superintendent of these operations then locked up the cabin, and
went on shore. Though he was burning with excitement, he managed to
demean himself with his ordinary coolness, and Cyd looked as immovable
as a statue.

At the usual hour they retired to their several rooms, but not to sleep.
Dandy, as the conductor of the enterprise, was weighed down with the
responsibilities of his position. Though he had done every thing he
could to insure the success of the venture, he was still burdened with a
feverish anxiety lest something had been omitted, and with the dread
that something might happen to interfere with the plan.

There were many things which might intervene to thwart his purpose. If
the night should prove to be calm, there would be scarcely a hope of
success; for the Isabel was so large that the two boys could not row her
far enough, before daylight, to place them out of the reach of pursuit.
There was quite a fresh breeze when he went to his room; but he trembled
with fear lest it should subside before he could take advantage of it.

While Miss Edith was at dinner that day, he had found an opportunity to
whisper his purpose into the ear of Lily, and to give her such
instructions as the occasion required. He had no doubt that his
companions would meet him on the pier at the appointed time.

Fortunately for the success of the plan, the family retired at an
earlier hour than usual, and Dandy waited with impatience till the
stillness of the house assured him it was safe to leave his chamber. He
then tied up a portion of his clothing, and crept softly down stairs.
His heart beat with most tremendous pulsations. The opportunity for
which he had been watching and waiting had come, and issues more
terrible than those of life and death hung upon the success of the
enterprise. If he failed, if he was captured, he might expect the
auction block, for Colonel Raybone always sold a servant that attempted
to run away.

The destiny of poor Lily was also in his keeping, and for her to be sold
was to be consigned to a fate worse than death to a pure-minded girl--a
fate which both of them were old enough to understand.

"God be with me!" ejaculated Dandy, half a dozen times before he left
his chamber.

