he enjoyed the welcome refreshment, Mr. Raynes told 
him everything about the movements of the Confederate 
army in the vicinity, with full particulars of the battle 
of the preceding day. While the scout was thus answer- 
ing the ends of his mission, he was in no hurry to 
depart. 

General McClellan's "change of base" was not sus- 
pected by the rebels at this time. It was their purpose 
to flank the Union army on the right and left, and destroy 
it effectually. The dispositions had been made for this 
purpose ; and, as Mr. Raynes was a man of influence and 



 

intelligence, his information was as reliable as could be 
deduced from the preliminary movements of the rebel 
army. He was confident of success. The execution of 
the plan had already been commenced, and the right of 
the Union line was in the act of falling back. 

He expatiated upon the perils of the campaign, and 
the terrible fighting which was to be expected ; and mani- 
fested the utmost solicitude for the safety of his son, and 
hardly less for his guest. 

Somers prolonged his repast, that the old man might 
leave nothing unsaid that would be important for the 
Union generals to know. Sue occasionally joined in the 
conversation ; but she was quite serious now, as she con- 
templated the perils to which her brother and her friend 
from Alabama must be subjected. 

" Do you know where General Jackson is now?" 
asked Somers. 

" I don't know exactly where he is ; but I know what 
part he has to play in the great drama. The last we 
heard of him was, that he was watching McDowell, near 
Fredericksburg. If McDowell keeps quiet, Jackson will 
rush down on the left flank of the Yankees, and cut off 
their retreat." 

Are you sure ? " 

I am very sure. I can tell you why." 

Before he had time to tell him why, a knock at the 
door disturbed the conference ; and a young man, in 0- 
tattered rebel uniform, was ushered into the room. 




CHAPTER XII. 

THE DIGNIFIED YOUNG REBEL. 

S LIEUTENANT SOMERS, who had been very 
nervous and uneasy before, was exceedingly an- 
noyed by the appearance of another actor on the 
stage. He had become in some slight degree 
familiarized with the awkwardness of his situation ; for 
the fact, that no suspicion had yet been cast upon his 
identity, was encouraging, and he began to have some 
confidence in his position, open as it was to an assault 
from any direction. The advent of the tattered stranger 
was a new cause for alarm, and he at once became very 
anxious to beat a retreat. 

There is no night without some ray of lignt to gladden 
it. His first impression was that the visitor belonged to 
the Fourth Alabama, and would readily recognize him as 
an impostor ; but he was in a measure relieved to find 
that none of the family gave the soldier more than a 
friendly greeting, which proved him to be a stranger to 
them as well as to himself. Yet he might belong to the 
Fourth Alabama ; and then it occurred to him that tha 



 



man had come to inform Mr. Raynes of the death of his 
son while n picket duty. 

In the brief period which elapsed between the advent 
of the stranger, and the statement of the object of his 
visit, Somers was disturbed by a dozen fearful theories ; 
all of which seemed to end in a rebel prison at Rich- 
mond, and even in a rebel gallows, the fate of the spy. 
The minutes were fearfully long ; and, before the mo- 
mentous question of the object of the stranger's visit 
could be introduced, he decided to make an abrupt 
retreat. 

" Well, Mr. Raynes," said he, approaching the old 
man as he put on his cap, " I have already run a great 
risk in stopping here so long ; and, with many thanks to 
you for your kindness and for your generous hospitality, 
I must take my departure." 

" I suppose we cannot keep you any longer, Allan ; 
but you must promise to call again at the first convenient 
opportunity." 

" I promise you that I will the first time I can safely 
do so," responded Somers warmly, and with the fullest 
intention of redeeming his promise. " Good-by, sir !" 

" Good-by, my dear boy ! May you be spared in the 
hour when the strong men bite the dust ! ' : said Mr 
Raynes solemnly, as he gave his hand to Somers. 

" Good-by, Sue ! " added the young lieutenant, taking 
the hand of the Virginia damsel. 



 



"Adieu, my brave soldier-boy ! " she replied. 

"You are a soldier, I see," said the stranger, as 
Somers approached him ou his way out of the house. 

"Yes, sir," answered the latter nervously; for he 
would gladly have escaped any communication with the 
new-comer. 

"What regiment do you belong to?" persisted the 
dilapidated soldier. 

What business was that to him? Why should he 
trouble himself about other people's affairs? It sounded 
like a very impertinent question to the excited lieutenant, 
and he was tempted to inform the busy-body that it was 
none of his business ; but, as he had already earned a 
good character for civility with -the interesting family in 
whose presence he still stood, his bump of approbation 
would not permit him to forfeit their esteem by so incon- 
siderate a reply. 

" Good-by, all ! " said he with energy, turning away 
from the rebel soldier, and moving towards the door. 

"What regiment did you say you belonged to?" 
demanded the persistent rebel. 

" I didn't say," replied Somers, not in the most gentle 
tones. 

" Will you oblige me by telling me to what regiment 
you belong? " added the rebel. 

" I think I will not," continued Somers, more and 
more displeased with the persistence of the other. " I 


came very near being arrested as a deserter just now, 
though I have a pass in my pocket ; and I don't care 
about exposing myself to any further annoyance by my 
own indiscretion." 

"I assure you I am a friend, and I would not betray 
you if I knew you were a deserter," said the stranger in 
very civil tones. 

Thus appealed to, and perceiving that he was not 
gaining in the estimation of Mr. Eaynes by his reticence, 
he decided that he could not make the matter much 
worse by answering the question. 

"To the Fourth Alabama," he replied desperately: 
