
 

ther's iron hand upon him. In six months after the 
death of Mrs. Guy, the housekeeper's will was supreme 
in the family where wife and mother had been thrust 
aside, and held as of no account. 




CHAPTER XXIV. 



RS. Harte was a woman of superior 
mind, and some cultivation. Her 
husband, a lawyer of considerable 
promise, died just as he was rising 
to an eminent position at the bar, 
and she was left without an income. 
In order to sustain herself, she 
taught for a few years ; but not find 
ing, in this occupation, anything 
congenial, she gave up her scholars, and accepted the 
place of housekeeper in Mr. Guy's family. Her position 
there proved very far from being agreeable, and she was 
simply waiting for an opportunity to change, when the 
grave incidents attendant on the death of Mrs. Guy 
altered her purpose, and she determined to remain. A 
rich man was in her power, and that was an advantage 
not to be lightly thrown aside an advantage which 
she was just the woman to accept. 

Mrs. Harte was as thoroughly selfish in her ruling qual 
ity of mind, as Mr. Guy was in his ; and more subtle 
and cruel. He bore down opposition, when it presented 
itself, with the strong hand of conscious power ; but she 
wrought stealthily, gaining her ends by almost unappar- 
ent intrusions, and revealing them only when accom- 



 

plished. Both loved money ; but his love of money had 
its foundation in avarice, while hers rested on ambition. 
He desired morttey for its own sake ; she for the sake of 
power, position, and influence. Pride ruled with her, 
avarice with him. 

While it was not her intention to leave the house of 
Mr. Guy, she managed to give him the impression that 
she only waited for an opportunity to make a change. 
Most cunningly did she bend, at times, the brief pas 
sages of conversation which passed between them, so as 
to touch that memorable death scene, and always with 
a hint of overshadowing peril that sent a chill of fear 
to the heart of Adam Guy, and made him more dis 
tinctly conscious that he was fatally in her power. She 
waslt kind of terror in his house ; yet, on no account 
would he have that terror removed. A secret lay hid 
den in her bosom, the revelation of which might, at any 
time, put even his life in jeopardy. She must, therefore, 
be conciliated, and kept in friendly contact. There was 
safety in her friendship ; but disaster in her enmity. 

And so, as Mrs. Harte gradually assumed a controll 
ing position in Mr. Guy's family, Mr. Guy receded and 
left the way clear, taking her side in all contests with the 
older children, and compelling their acquiescence to 
her rule. 

Only a few months were needed, under the new order 
of things, to make Mr. Guy aware of the fact, that so 
far as his home-comforts were concerned, he had gained 
sensibly by the death of his wife. For a year or two, 
Lydia had been so indifferent tosvards him, that she neg 
lected many personal attentions ; and left him to care 



 

for himself. But now, a woman's thought and a wo 
man's hand were becoming more and more apparent in 
all things of his wardrobe, and in all the home arrange 
ments that touched him personally. The younger chil 
dren were kept more quiet when he was in the house, and 
the injunction was constantly falling on his ears, given 
half aside and in a hushed voice, " Don't do so ; it 
will annoy your father," or words of similar import. 

It was in vain that Mrs. Harte strove to conciliate or 
bend Adam, the oldest boy, to her will and she was 
equally unsuccessful with the sharp-tempered, clear- 
seeing Lydia. Her usurpation of Adam's prerogative in 
the family, was an offence neither to be forgotten nor 
forgiven. The boy had tasted of power, and could not 
relinquish it and accept submission. He was, therefore, 
a rebel in heart, and, on all suitable opportunities, a rebel 
in act. But, he put himself in antagonism to one 
against whom he strove in blindness, losing power in 
every struggle. Lydia, who, with all her ill-nature and 
waywardness, had loved her mother, could not bear 
to have a stranger take her place in the household. 
She was a girl of quick perception, and saw deeper than 
any one into the character of Mrs. Harte ; or to speak 
more accurately, had a truer impression of her charac 
ter and designs. John had a weaker side he was a 
sensualist and a spendthrift and Mrs. Harte, by occa 
sional indulgences, won him over to her will. 

Adam and Lydia, who felt, daily, that Mrs. Harte 
was gaining strength, united their forces in a league 
against her, and inaugurated an undying warfare. 
They watched her every movement, interpreting to each 



 

other her words and actions to suit themselves, and put 
ting all manner of obstructions in her way. But in 
every move she thwarted them without a seeming effort, 
turning, often, their machinations to their own discom 
fiture, and leading them, by a few well directed ques 
tions, to an exposure of themselves to their father. So 
things went on, the antagonism between Mrs. Harte and 
Adam and Lydia, gaining strength all the while, but 
taking on no appearance of anger, dislike, or stern re 
sistance on the part of the former. She was always 
cold, calm, dignified, and to the eyes of Mr. Guy, in 
the right. 

After the lapse of a year, Mrs. Harte's position was 
so well assured in her own mind, that she began to act 
with less caution. Up to this period, she received only 
the wages of a housekeeper, according to the original 
contract, twelve dollars a month. It was time to 
have some new and better arrangement to get nearer 
the full coffers on which her eyes had dwelt with covet 
ous longings. Mr. Guy seemed too well satisfied to let 
things move on as they were going. She was adminis 
tering all his affairs with order and economy, and home 
was more comfortable than it had been for years. Why 
should he desire a change ? For twelve dollars a month, 
he received a liberal service, and was satisfied. Not so 
Mrs. Harte. Patient waiting was at an end ; for she 
saw no sign of any new order of things in the family. 

It was now that an incident occurred that aroused her 
to immediate action. One day, while walking in the 
street, she saw in advance the familiar form of Mr. Guy, 
in company with a lady. Even her calm pulse leaped. 



 

What did this mean ? Who was this lady ? Her dress 
was elegant, and she walked with a self-conscious air. 
Mrs. Harte checked her pace, and lingered a little way 
behind them. They appeared to be in familiar conver 
sation, as if well acquainted. For the distance of 
nearly two squares, Mrs. Harte kept them in close ob 
servation ; then they stopped at the corner of a street, 
and after talking a few moments, separated. At part 
ing, Mr. Guy bowed with considerable formality, and 
with the air of one who evidently sought to make a 
good impression. 

The lady, who turned off from the main street, glanced 
back, two or three times, before Mr. Guy was out of 
sight. 

"Who is that? " came audibly from the lips of Mrs. 
Harte, as she stood still, like one who felt a sudden 
shock. Then pressing forward quickly, she followed 
the lady, and after passing her, turned at the next cor 
