She had never seen Mrs. Davis since the day of their 
parting at Orange. Her delicate intuitions warned her that 
Bichard preferred to have the acquaintance die out ; and it 
was not a pleasurable one to her. She shivered a little now, 
as, leaving the stage, she walked through the dirty street. 
The house appeared dingier and coarser than ever, and the 
blear-eyed stragglers, entering and leaving, filled her with 
dismay. Taking the private entrance, she knocked at the 
door of the back room. Mrs. Davis opened it, starting back 
in astonishment. 
" Land sakes ! What upon earth sent you here, child ? 
You look as if you was just raised from the dead. Do take 
a cheer, and thaw out a little ; you look a'most froze. Be you 
well ? " 
Margaret dropped into the chair. Her torture was too 
tense for words at the first moment. 
" Nothin's happened to you has it ? .You look kind o' 
skeery and ghost-like in them black cloze. Dr. Bertrand 
nor any on em' hain't been ugly have they ? " 
" No, mother." It seemed right to use the old term now. 
" But I came to ask you a question : why was I not Robert 
Bertrand's lawful wife ? " 
Mrs. Davis's face lighted up with an angry flush, as she 
 
said, in a quick, excited tone, " Has that man, has Dr. Ber- 
trand, dared to tell you this, after all his promises ? " 
Her great tenderness for Richard overcame her. Even in 
this agony she could not have him unjustly blamed, and she 
replied, with sobs that sounded in her voice only, 
" No ; he has been all that is kind and noble. He does 
not know that I have discovered his secret, or that I came 
here to-day. And now I want to know all, all, if it should 
kill me dead on the spot." 
There was a strange, terrible power in her eyes and voice. 
Mrs. Davis shrunk away, crying, 
" For Heaven's sake, Marg'ret, are you crazy ? " 
" No, but I think I shall be if you keep me waiting. 
Quick, quick ! you torture me to death ! " 
Mrs. Davis could not resist the imperious demand. In a 
hesitating tone, as if she feared she was doing wrong, she 
supplied the missing links in Margaret's history, softening 
to her honor be it said the terrible truth she was forced 
to reveal. 
The poor young thing listened with dry,, glittering eyes, 
and pulses that seemed to send a liquid fire of pain through 
her ice-cold frame. Long after it was finished, she sat like 
a statue. Frightened at her calmness, Mrs. Davis spoke 
again, kindly. 
A terrible cry broke from her white lips. She threw her- 
self at Mrs. Davis's feet, exclaiming, hoarsely, 
" Mother, please take me back. I will be satisfied with 
the old life. I will tend. in the shop, do anything you desire, 
only take me back ! I am nothing to the Bertrands. I 
have no right to their home, their love ! " 
There was a sense of justice and fitness in that rough 
woman's heart. She said, with a blunt earnestness that was 
almost tender, 
" You've the best right there, child, and Dr. Bertrand feels 
BO. He's a proud man, and wouldn't have done as he has, 
if his conscience hadn't led him just that way. He knows 
Robert acted shamefully. After the baby died, he come over 
here and fairly swore me to secrecy. He said he'd took you 
home, and that you never should leave them ; he won't hear 
to your goin' I can tell you that ! " 
" I cannot stay, I cannot stay," she moaned, crouching 
still lower. 
" Listen, child. You know this ain't any place for you. 
You're a sight too han'some to tend bar unless you liked the 
talk and fun. You don't ; you've tried it enough to know. 
I can feel you ain't my kind. God made you nicer and 
finer. I don't say this because you put on airs it's all 
nat'ral as the breath you draw. There ain't no company for 
you here. You want somethin' more than bread to eat, and 
you can have it at the Bertrands. They love you ; they're 
companions for you. Marg'ret, you'd die here." 
The poor girl wrung her hands. 
" Will you tell me how you found this all out ? " Mrs. 
Davis asked, after another long pause. 
Margaret related the incidents of the morning. 
" If I'd 'a known that first, you'd never got a word out o' 
me. You see Dr. Bertrand's been keepin' this from every- 
body, and tryin' his best to make you happy. There ain't 
nothin' for him to find out and twit you with. If he could, 
he'd call Robert out of his grave, and make him marry you ; 
and to leave him don't seem just the right kind of pay, when 
he's been so gen'rous. I know you ain't ungrateful, Mar- 
g'ret." 
Her forced strength gave way in a flood of tears. Mrs. 
Davis followed up the, impression, setting the truths of the case 
very clearly before her. If Margaret had related one unkind 
incident, her heart and home would have opened at once to 
the desolate one. But Dr. Bertrand would be deeply pained 
if she persisted in leaving them, and the explanation neces- 
sary for such a step could not fail to embarrass him. It was 
from this view that Margaret assented with shivering reluc- 
tance. She could not resolve to wound one so dear as Dr. 
 
Bertrand, in this painful manner. For many moments she 
sat in deep thought. 
" You'll stay and have some dinner ? " Mrs. Davis said, 
seeing her rise as if to depart. 
" No. If I must go back, it had better be immediately. 
I suppose it is best, for the present." Her tone was dreary 
in the extreme. It touched her listener. 
" Marg'ret," she said, holding the trembling form to her 
heart in an almost motherly clasp, " it is right. He meant, 
all along, to make you happy. But if you cant stay, come 
here, and I'll do my best for you. You shall go to school 
again till you're able to teach. Grod knows I'm sorry for 
you. I hate the day Robert Bertrand came in this house." 
There was a sad, clinging caress ; then, gathering her 
cloak about her, the poor child turned to leave the room 
with that touch of dignity always characterizing her. The 
clouds were lowering, the wind fiercer than ever. Uncon- 
sciously she said to herself, 
" ' My life is cold, and dark, and dreary.' " 
For the first few steps her limbs almost refused to support 
her. It seemed as if she must sink to the earth. Rallying 
a little, she tried to pray for strength to take up this cross, 
and bear it even to the Mount of Calvary, if need be. 
She was glad to reach home before Tessy. Changing her 
dress, she threw herself on her knees, and remained there 
until she heard a sweet, childish voice call, 
" Daisy, where are you ? " 
" In my room." She summoned all her endurance. 
" Daisy, darling, how cold you are ! You don't look a bit 
' crimson tipped,' unless it's the end of your nose. Where 
have you been ? " 
" I went out of an errand." It was all she could do to 
manage her voice. 
" And you just returned in time. There's a wretched 
storm beginning fine, cutting sleet. Let us go to the 
 
sitting-room, and play chess while we get nicely warm, as 
Dick and the dinner are not within our reach." 
She felt glad to grant the child's request. Tessy was try- 
ing to learn the game systematically, without talking, and 
the play seemed to promise a rest. To her the pieces had 
heretofore appeared like human beings ; but now she had no 
heart for the mimic warfare. And, by association, Robert's 
face and form rose before her the first bright dreams she 
had cherished, the terrible reality. Could she endure to the 
end ? And what would the end be ? 
Richard sprang up the steps with a bound. Taking in 
the situation, he congratulated Tessy. Another move, and 
the child laughingly exclaimed, " Checkmate ! " 
" What a bitter storm ! " Daisy said, walking towards the 
window. 
" Yes ; and I'm compelled to tramp out again. I found 
a slate full down stairs. My head aches, and I feel wonder- 
fully like staying at home, and being petted." 
Tessy sprang to his side, and began to administer. Then 
Archie entered with a merry greeting, and presently the 
dinner bell rang. 
The grayness of the day rendered Daisy's paleness less 
noticeable. She rarely had any color, save when excited. 
Archie sustained the principal part of the conversation, 
having some school troubles to relate ; so her silence passed 
unremarked. When Richard went out, they all repaired to 
the library, and, after it grew too dark to study, clustered 
together in the twilight to have a good talk, as Archie 
phrased it. 
" What should we do without Daisy ! " was Tessy's fervent 
exclamation. " Lily considers us a nuisance in the evening, 
and if she visits Bel twice a year, and stays six months each 
time, she won't be of much moment to us. And likely 
some time she'll be getting married. But, Daisy, you don't 
ever mean to have another lover do you ?" 
" No, dear." The tone was infinitely solemn and sweet. 
" I'm so glad ! It will be seven years before -I am as old 
as Lily, and it would break my heart if there wasn't some 
one at home to love me all that time ! " 
" You don't consider me of the slightest account," bristled 
up Archie. 
" O, you will have to go to college pretty soon, and then 
you will fall in love, and be married. I'll promise to like 
your wife some, but there can never be any one quite so dear 
as Daisy. You're such a little darling ! " and a rain of kisses 
covered the quiet face. 
" When you are grown, Tessy, you may stay at home, and 
