the dark red sandstone ; the rocky sides of the ravines are 
60 deep and steep, that no sunlight can get down into the 
cleft. Where these streams come out, and wherever lesser 
rivulets are met with along the shore between, there is 
beautiful vegetation; nowhere else. As you stand at the 
north end of the lake and look down, those eastern mountains stretch off in a long, straight line, away into the dim 
distance. On the west side the hills are not so high ; they 
are not more than fifteen hundred feet; and a projecting 
cape stands out and hinders the view. Over the sea there is 
always the rising mist, steaming up from its surface." 

" Birds don't fly over it, do they, sir ? " 

" Certainly. There is nothing to hinder. I never heard 
the woods fuller of birds than the thickets were around the 
spring of Ain-jidy ; that was, En-gedi ; and they flew where 
they had a mind. Among the cane brakes on the shore, 
where other springs run, there are partridges and quail and 
ducks and snipe, and more besides. I have seen the ducks 
swimming and diving on the lake. No, my boy, there is no 
death nor barrenness there, but what the salt and sulphur 
make ; that is enough. Once, no doubt, before the destruction of the cities of the plain, the lake was just a nice fresh- 
water lake, fed by the river Jordan and by all those streams 
and fountains that pour down occasionally along its shores. 
The valley of the cities probably lay at the south, occupying 
all the tract of this lower portion of the lake, which in 
autumn now is but three feet under water. It would be 
overflowed then as now, and even much farther south ; because the area of the lake being less, the evaporation would 
not keep down the waters to so low a level ; but as it is said 
this plain was well watered, like the land of Egypt, before the 
Lord destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah so the people could 
have very easily raised a low embankment to keep out the 
flood of the waters except at one season of the year, when 
the plain would have been all covered with them ; and indeed the water could have been let on and off at pleasure ; 
And 80 the growth and fertility of harvests and vegetation 





generally would have been just like that in the valley of the 
Nile. Now, the salt and sulphur which are the fruit of that 
convulsion — whatever it was — in which Sodom was over- 
thrown, I suppose have just turned the fertilising overflow 
into a source of death." 

" Is it a sad-looking place, uncle Sam ? " 

" Being so barren and so hot, yes ; not for any other reason, except that one remembers what was once and what 
was the cause of the change. No, it is beautiful At early 
morning and evening, when the glorious Syrian sun brings 
out the warm or the blue tints of the mountains cast and 
west, and the lake lies as still as a looking-glass, with wonderful reflections of the colour along its shores — the scene is 
lovely. At other times it is grand. The everlasting mist 
rising from the water is always there, sending up a thin haze 
even over the tops of the mountains." 

" What makes that mist, always there ? " 

"The continual evaporation. Think; this lake of water 
is low down in a deep, deep hollow of the rocks — thirteen 
hundred feet lower than the Mediterranean Sea— and with 
those two walls of rocky hills, fifteen hundred to two thousand feet above it on both sides. It is a steaming bowl of 
water, on a very large scale. AH the flood that the Jordan 
pours into it constantly, with all the springs on the shores 
below, and all the torrents that come down the wadys in 
winter, only keep the bowl just about so full. The hot sun 
evaporates the water as fast as it is supplied. After the 
winter torrents the lake is some feet higher ; and after the 
summer sun has had time to do its work, the level of the 
water is brought down again so many feet lower. In winter 
the shallow south end of the lake has thirteen feet depth of 
water ; late in the autumn it has only three." 

" You were going to tell us about Zoar, uncle Sam." 

" Was I ? Hardly, Tiny, for I have not much to tell But 
we know that it was on the eastern side of the plain, and we 
know that it was not so far off but that Lot could get to it 
between the dawn and the sunrising. It is supposed to 
have been here,— as I told you,— just east of where this odd 




tongue-shaped peninsula stretches out into the lake, at the . 
opening of a ravine which runs up back into the mountains. 
Zoar must have been in such a situation, to be out of the 
way of the destruction which overwhelmed the plain." 

"They must have got the smoke there, though," said 
Priscilla. 

" The smoke, and the heat of the fire. The smoke of the 
country was like the smoke of a furnace ; Zoar must have 
been as it were at the furnace mouth. It is no very great 
wonder that Lot feared to dwell in Zoar, and went up into 
the mountain, where the angel had bidden him to go at first. 
The Lord's counsel is always the safest for us to take. Up 
the wild, beautiful glen that leads back from the ruins of 
Zoar, I suppose Lot and his daughters may have taken their 
flight, even that very morning. In about four hours and a 
half of travel, a little town is reached now, which sits three 
thousand feet above the level of the old plain ; the town of 
Kerak, called in the Bible Kir Moab, Kavines and mountains all around it shut it in, except where this glen goes 
down to the shore of the Dead Sea. But Kerak was not 
there then. Lot and his family took up their dwelling 
somewhere in the mountains, and abode there; and so it 
came to pass that his two sons, Moab and Ammon, or their 
children, possessed that land ; and it is called after the name 
of one of them to this day." 

" Why did the angel say, ' Look not behind thee ? ' " 

"  Whatsoever things were written aforetime were written 
for our learning.' There are lessons for us, Prissy, all through 
these old histories ; and they were meant so. The Dead Sea 
is a type of the destruction to which this world is hastening, 
even as the river of Jordan hurries and pours into an abyss 
that is never full, and from which there is no outlet ; and 
we are warned as Lot was — ' Escape for thy life.' Lot's vnf e 
looked longingly back, and shared the fate of the place 
where her heart was. We must not look back. No, we 
must quit it, and 'stay not in all the plain.' " 

"But we cannot go out of the world," said liph. 





" Yes, we can !— with our hearts. ' He that loveth his life 
shall lose it/ our Lord said ; 'and he that hateth his life in 
this world shall keep it unto life eternal.' ' Come out from 
among them, and be ye separate, and touch not the unclean 
thing ; and I will receive you.' Lot's case is ours ; and like 
him we are apt to plead for some stopping-place as near the 
plain as possible. But the plain is a place of death. With 
all its fine scenery, the Dead Sea is well named ; no fish can 
live in it. Its shores are burned up with heat and salt 
There is no life nor freshness, except where some blessed 
little spring pours out its fresh waters, and heals the barrenness of the place. Like the work done in this dead world, 
wherever one Christian or body of Christians carries the 
water of life to those around. Otherwise it is a barren shore, 
with a line of driftwood marking the high-water level all 
round its borders ; driftwood brought down by the Jordan, 
piled together and sticking up through the sand ; charred 
and blanched and filled with salt, very desolate indeed to 
look at. It is like the ruins of past generations." 

"But the waters shall be healed," said my grandmother. 

"That is a wonderful word ? " said uncle Sam. 

" What is it, sir ? " Dan asked 

"The prophet Ezekiel had shown to him in a vision a 
wonderful temple, to be in a future day ; it perhaps means 
the spiritual temple which is built of living stones ; but 
however that be, the prophet saw coming out by the side of 
the altar in the court of it, the waters of a fountain. The 
waters flowed into the court and issued by the east gate, 
which, in the court of the real temple, would let them out 
into the deep valley of Jehoshaphat, which lies on that side 
of Jerusalem. At first the waters were a little stream, only 
up to the ankles : but when they were some distance down 
the valley, the stream had risen to be knee deep. Farther 
on, it was half the height of a man ; and after that, it grew 
to a river that could not be passed over ;' waters to swim 
in.' And it was told to the prophet, in the vision,  These 
waters issue out towards the east country, and go down into 




 

the plain ' — the word means the Jordan valley, translated 
 desert' here — 'and go into the sea; which being brought 
forth into the sea, the waters shall be healed.' " 
