already strewn upon the ground, and everybody enjoyed it but Joy. She
pricked her unaccustomed fingers on the sharp burs, and didn't like the
nuts when she had tasted of them.

"They're not the kind of chestnuts we have in Boston," she said; "ours
are soft like potatoes."

"Oh dear, oh dear, she thought they grew boiled!" and there was a
great laugh. Joy colored, and did not relish it very much. Gypsy was too
busy pulling off her burs to notice this. Presently the ground was quite
cleared.

"Now we must climb," said Gypsy. Gypsy was always the leader in their
plays; always made all their plans. Sarah Rowe was her particular
friend, and thought everything Gypsy did about right, and seldom opposed
her. Delia never opposed anybody.

"Oh, I don't know how to climb," said Joy, shrinking and shocked.

"But I'll show you. This isn't anything; these branches are just as
low as they can be. Here, I'll go first and help you, and Sarah can come
next."

So up went Gypsy, nimble as a squirrel, over the low-hanging boughs that
swayed with her weight.

"Come, Joy! I can't wait."

Joy trembled and screamed, and came. She crawled a little ways up the
lowest of the branches, and stopped, frightened by the motion.

"Catch hold of the upper bough and stand up; then you can walk it,"
called Gypsy, half out of sight now among the thick leaves.

Joy did as she was told—her feet slipped, the lower branch swung away
from under her, and there she hung by both hands in mid-air. She was not
more than four feet from the ground, and could have jumped down without
the slightest difficulty, but that she was altogether too frightened to
do. So she swung back and forth like a lantern, screaming as loud as she
could scream.

Gypsy was peculiarly sensitive to anything funny, and she quite forgot
that Joy was really frightened; indeed, used as she was to the science
of tree-climbing all her life, that a girl could hang within four feet
of the ground, and not know enough to jump, seemed to her perfectly
incomprehensible.

"Jump, Joy, jump!" she called, between her shouts of laughter.

"No, no, don't, you might break your arm," cried Delia Guest, who hadn't
the slightest scruple about telling a falsehood if she were going to
have something to laugh at by the means. Poor Joy was between Scylla and
Charybdis. (If you don't know what that means, go and ask your big
brothers; make them leave their chess and their newspapers on the spot,
and read you what Mr. Virgil has to say about it.) If she hung on she
would wrench her arms; if she jumped, she should break them. She hung,
screaming, as long as she could, and dropped when she could hang no
longer, looking about in an astonishment that was irresistibly funny, at
finding herself alive and unhurt on the soft moss.

The girls were still laughing too hard to talk. Joy stood up with a very
red face and began to walk slowly away without a word.

"Where are you goin?" called Gypsy from the branches.

"Home," said Joy.

"Oh, don't; come, we won't laugh any mote. Come back, and you needn't
climb. You can stay underneath and pick up while we throw down."

"No; I've had enough of it. I don't like chestnutting, and I don't like
to be laughed at, either. I shan't stay any longer."

"I'm real sorry," said Gypsy. "I couldn't help laughing at you, you did
look so terribly funny. Oh, dear, you ought to have seen yourself! I
wish you wouldn't go. If you do, you can find the way alone, I suppose."

"I suppose so," said Joy, doubtfully.

"Well, you'd better take Winnie; you know you brought him, and I can't
keep him here. It would spoil everything. Why, where is the child?"

He was nowhere to be seen.

"Winnie! Win—nie!"

There was a great splash somewhere, and a curious bubbling sound, but
where it came from nobody could tell. All at once Delia broke into
something between a laugh and a scream.

"O—oh, I see! Look there—down in that ditch beyond the
elder-bushes—quick!"

Rising up into the air out of the muddy ground, without any visible
support whatever, were a pair of feet—Winnie's feet, unmistakably,
because of their copper toes and tagless shoestrings—and kicking
frantically back and forth. "Only that and nothing more."

"Why, where's the—rest of him?" said Joy, blankly. At this instant
Gypsy darted past her with a sudden movement, flew down the knoll, and
began to pull at the mysterious feet as if for dear life.

"Why, what is she doing?" cried all the girls in a breath. As they
spoke, up came Winnie entire into the air, head down, dripping,
drenched, black with mud, gasping, nearly drowned.

Gypsy shook him and pounded him on the back till his breath came, and
when she found there was no harm done, she set him down on a stone,
wiped the mud off from his face, and threw herself down on the grass as
if she couldn't stand up another minute.

"Crying? Why, no; she's laughing. Did you ever?"

And down ran the girls to see what was the matter. At the foot of the
knoll was a ditch of black mud. In the middle of this ditch was a round
hole two feet deep, which had been dug at some time to collect water for
the cattle pasturing in the field to drink. Into this hole, Winnie, in
the course of some scientific investigations as to the depth of the
water, had fallen, unfortunately, the wrong end foremost, and there he
certainly would have drowned if Gypsy had not seen him just when she
did.

But he was not drowned; on the contrary, except for the mud, "as good as
new;" and what might have been a tragedy, and a very sad one, had
become, as Gypsy said, "too funny for anything." Winnie, however,
"didn't see it," and began to cry lustily to go home.

"It's fortunate you were just going," said Gypsy. "I'll just fill my
pail, and then I'll come along and very likely overtake you."

Probably Joy didn't fancy this arrangement any too well, but she
remembered that it was her own plan to take the child; therefore she
said nothing, and she and Winnie started off forlornly enough.

About five o'clock Gypsy walked slowly up the yard with her pail full of
nuts, her hat in her hand, and a gay wreath of maple-leaves on her head.
With her bright cheeks and twinkling eyes, and the broad leaves casting
their gorgeous shadows of crimson and gold upon her forehead, she made a
pretty picture—almost too pretty to scold.

Tom met her at the door. Tom was very proud of Gypsy, and you could see
in his eyes just then what he thought of her.

"What a little——" he began, all ready for a frolic, and stopped, and
grew suddenly grave.

"Where are Joy and Winnie?"

"Haven't they come?"

"No."




CHAPTER V

GYPSY MAKES A DISCOVERY


Gypsy turned very pale.

"Where are they?" persisted Tom. And just then her mother came out from
the parlor.

"Why, Gypsy, where are the children?"

"I'm afraid Joy didn't know the way," said Gypsy, slowly.

"Did you let her come home alone?"

"Yes'm. She was tired of the chestnuts, and Winnie fell into the ditch.
Oh, mother!"

Mrs. Breynton did not say one word. She began to put on her things very
fast, and Tom hurried up to the store for his father. They hunted
everywhere, through the fields and in the village; they inquired of
every shop-keeper and every passer, but no one had seen a girl in black,
with a little boy. There were plenty of girls, and an abundance of
little boys to be found at a great variety of places, but most of the
