put half that money in the Savings Bank in your name, 
so that if you and your mother want it at any time, you 
can use it." 

"No, Bill," said Charlie, earnestly, "you are very 
kind, but I couldn't consent to that." 

"And why not, my lad? What do I want of it? 



I've got neither chick nor child, and am not likely to 
have. I've taken a fancy to you, and the money'll do 
yon more good than me.'' \ 

"You are ver  kind," said Charlie, gratefhlly ; "but 
I mustn't take advantage of your generosity." 

" Nonsense, my lad. I know what it is to be a poor 
boy, without money or friends, and nowadays money 
will bring friends. Mayhap it'll start you in some 
business, and when you get rich you can pay me ; or 
if, by and by, I take a notion to come to anchor on 
shore, you'll give me a comer in your house, where I 
can smoke my pipe and spin my yams." 

"That I will, Bill," said Charlie, seizing the old 
sailor's rough hand. "If I have a roof. to cover me, 
it shall cover you too." 

"Thank you, my lad," said Bill. "I know you 
would." 

Under Bill Sturdy's rough exterior there was a kind 
heart which warmed to our young hero, partly because 
of his solitary position on board, partly on account of 
his manliness and attractive qualities. So they became 
fast friends. 

Charlie did not find his duties altogether distasteful. 
He was a bright, active boy, not without ambition, and 
resolved to do himself credit in his new position, how- 
ever it may have been forced upon him. For this rea- 
son it was that the captain and the mate, although they 
watched him with lynx eyes, hoping that he would afford 
them some pretext for showing their rancorous feelings 
towards him, watched ineffectually. By his activity, 
and his frank and manly disposition, he was fast ingratiating himself with the crew, who were the more 

 


 

disposed to espouse his cause, because they could not 
fail to notice the injustice with which the officers treated 
him. 

But trouble was brewing for Charlie, and soon the 
storm broke forth. -' 

The scuffle between Bill Sturdy and Antonio, of which 
Charlie was the occasion, will not have been forgotten. 
Antonio had before hated Bill on account of his superi- 
ority in strength, which deprived him of his former 
champion's life. This feeling was increased by the issue 
of the contest which had resulted in his humiliation and 
defeat, and his anger was also stirred up against Char- 
lie, who had been the occasion of it. Yet he did not 
dare to venture upon abuse, because it was generally 
derstood that Bill Sturdy had constituted himself Char- 
lie's especial friend and protector. 

But there were pther ways of compassing his end. 
Antonio was subtile. He felt that his revenge must be 
a more secret one, and he desired that it should involve 
both Bill Sturdy and his prot6gL If he could only 
involve Charlie in some offence which would draw upon 
him the active displeasure of the captain, and subject 
him to public punishment, he felt sure that Bill Sturdy 
would not stand tamely by and see it inflicted, while 
any interference would be insubordination, and get his 
rival into serious trouble. 

After reflection Antonio decided to implicate Charlie 
in a charge of theft. It happened that the captain had 
a valuable gold ring, set with diamonds, which, for rea- 
sons unnecessary to state, he prized even beyond its 
pecuniary value. Captain Brace, however, was not a 
careful man. He would sometimes take off his ring, 

 



and la  it down on the cabin, table. On one occasion 
Antonio, while upon deck, observed .the captain pass, 
and ascertained by a swift glance that the ring was not 
upon his finger. He watched his opportunity, and slip- 
ping down into the cabin, found, as he anticipated, the 
ring upon the table. It was the work of a moment to 
snatch and conceal it in his pocket. 

He returned to the work in which' he had been en- 
gaged, and resumed it, supposing he had not been 
observed. 

In this he was mistaken. 

Bill Sturdy had had his eye upon him from the time 
of his difficulty with him. He could see Antonio's 
craftiness in his face, and the apparent affability and 
conciliatory manner of the latter afterwards had by no 
means deceived him. 

" Look out for. squalls," thought he. " He's too fair 
seeming to be trusted. I've no doubt he's hatching up 
something or other. I'll keep a sharp lookout for him." 

When Antonio made his stealthy visit to the cabin, as 
above described, the vigilant eye of Bill Sturdy was 
upon him and his movements. 

In a moment he reappeared. Bill saw it all out of 
the corner of his eye, though he appeared to be looking 
in just the opposite direction. 

"What's the fellow up to?" he thought. "Some 
mischief, I reckon. What business has he in the 
cabin? I must watch him." 

Of course, Antonio's object will be understood. He 
meant to place the ring in Charlie's chest, and when the 
loss should be discovered by the captain, he would sug- 


gest that a general searcb hould be instituted, the result 
of which must involve our young hero. 

Charlie was, of course, quite unconscious of the 
machinations which were being formed against him, 
and even Bill was not yet quite certain for what pur- 
pose Antonio had made his visit to the cabin. 

Antonio felt the necessity of doing quickly what he 
had in contemplation. 

Going below, he made his way to the chest belonging 
to our hero, and, lifting the cover, Jbr it was unlocked,' 
let the ring drop into one comer. 

Bill Sturdy saw his second disappearance from the 
deck. He could not ascertain precisely what he was 
doing, without following him, — a thing which he did 
not wish to do, since it would arouse Antonio's suspi- 
cions, and place him on on his guard. 

Antonio came up with an expression of malicious 
satisfaction, which Bill did not fail to notice. 

"I wish," he thought, "I knew exactly what the 
fellow has been doing." 

Bill was destined to learn ere long. 

The captain went below, and glanced carelessly at the 
place, where he remembered to have left the ring. To 
his surprise, it had disappeared. 

" What can have become of it? " he thought. 

He instituted a careful examination, but did not suc- 
ceed in finding the lost article. 

He prized it beyond its actual value, which was con- 
siderable, and began to feel alarmed. It occurred to 
him that he might have been mistaken about leaving it 
on the table. It might possibly have been dropped 
upon deck. 

