see, and I made sure by feeling on the wall at the bed’s head for my
watchcase. It was there, and mine beyond a doubt, being peculiar in
shape and fabric. Had I been to a college wine party I could have
accounted for the vision, but a quiet evening in a grave professor’s
well-conducted family could produce no ill effects. ‘It’s an optical
illusion, or a prank of my mates; I’ll sleep and forget it,’ I said, and
for a time endeavored to do so, but curiosity overcame my resolve, and
soon I peeped again. Judge of my horror when I saw the sharp white
outline of a dead face, which seemed to be peeping up from the coffin.
It gave me a terrible shock for I was but a lad and had been ill. I hid
my face and quaked like a nervous girl, still thinking it some joke and
too proud to betray fear lest I should be laughed at. How long I lay
there I don’t know, but when I looked again the face was farther out and
the whole figure seemed rising slowly. The moon was nearly down, I had
no lamp, and to be left in the dark with that awesome thing was more
than I could bear. Joke or earnest, I must end the panic, and bolting
out of my room I roused my neighbor. He told me I was mad or drunk, but
lit a lamp and returned with me, to find my horror only a heap of
clothes thrown on the table in such a way that, as the moon’s pale light
shot it, it struck upon my black student’s gown, with a white card lying
on it, and produced the effect of a coffin and plate. The face was a
crumpled handkerchief, and what seemed hair a brown muffler. As the moon
sank, these outlines changed and, incredible as it may seem, grew like a
face. My friend not having had the fright enjoyed the joke, and
‘Coffins’ was my sobriquet for a long while.”

“You get worse and worse. Sir Jasper, do vary the horrors by a touch of
fun, or I shall run away,” said Blanche, glancing over her shoulder
nervously.

“I’ll do my best, and tell a story my uncle used to relate of his young
days. I forget the name of the place, but it was some little country
town famous among anglers. My uncle often went to fish, and always
regretted that a deserted house near the trout stream was not occupied,
for the inn was inconveniently distant. Speaking of this one evening as
he lounged in the landlady’s parlor, he asked why no one took it and let
the rooms to strangers in the fishing season. ‘For fear of the
ghostissess, your honor,’ replied the woman, and proceeded to tell, him
that three distinct spirits haunted the house. In the garret was heard
the hum of a wheel and the tap of high-heeled shoes, as the ghostly
spinner went to and fro. In a chamber sounded the sharpening of a knife,
followed by groans and the drip of blood. The cellar was made awful by a
skeleton sitting on a half-buried box and chuckling fiendishly. It seems
a miser lived there once, and was believed to have starved his daughter
in the garret, keeping her at work till she died. The second spirit was
that of the girl’s rejected lover, who cut his throat in the chamber,
and the third of the miser who was found dead on the money chest he was
too feeble to conceal. My uncle laughed at all this, and offered to lay
the ghosts if anyone would take the house.

“This offer got abroad, and a crusty old fellow accepted it, hoping to
turn a penny. He had a pretty girl, whose love had been thwarted by the
old man, and whose lover was going to sea in despair. My uncle knew this
and pitied the young people. He had made acquaintance with a wandering
artist, and the two agreed to conquer the prejudices against the house
by taking rooms there. They did so, and after satisfying themselves
regarding the noises, consulted a wise old woman as to the best means of
laying the ghosts. She told them if any young girl would pass a night in
each haunted room, praying piously the while, that all would be well.
Peggy was asked if she would do it, and being a stouthearted lass she
consented, for a round sum, to try it. The first night was in the
garret, and Peggy, in spite of the prophecies of the village gossips,
came out alive, though listeners at the door heard the weird humming and
tapping all night long. The next night all went well, and from that time
no more sharpening, groaning, or dripping was heard. The third time she
bade her friends good-bye and, wrapped in her red cloak, with a lamp and
prayer book, went down into the cellar. Alas for pretty Peggy! When day
came she was gone, and with her the miser’s empty box, though his bones
remained to prove how well she had done her work.

“The town was in an uproar, and the old man furious. Some said the devil
had flown away with her, others that the bones were hers, and all agreed
that henceforth another ghost would haunt the house. My uncle and the
artist did their best to comfort the father, who sorely reproached
himself for thwarting the girl’s love, and declared that if Jack would
find her he should have her. But Jack had sailed, and the old man ‘was
left lamenting.’ The house was freed from its unearthly visitors,
however, for no ghost appeared; and when my uncle left, old Martin found
money and letter informing him that Peggy had spent her first two nights
preparing for flight, and on the third had gone away to marry and sail
with Jack. The noises had been produced by the artist, who was a
ventriloquist, the skeleton had been smuggled from the surgeons, and the
whole thing was a conspiracy to help Peggy and accommodate the
fishermen.”

“It is evident that roguery is hereditary,” laughed Rose as the
narrator paused.

“I strongly suspect that Sir Jasper the second was the true hero of that
story,” added Mrs. Snowdon.

“Think what you like, I’ve done my part, and leave the stage for
you, madam.”

“I will come last. It is your turn, dear.” As Mrs. Snowdon softly
uttered the last word, and Octavia leaned upon her knee with an
affectionate glance, Treherne leaned forward to catch a glimpse of the
two changed faces, and looked as if bewildered when both smiled at him,
as they sat hand in hand while the girl told her story.

“Long ago a famous actress suddenly dropped dead at the close of a
splendidly played tragedy. She was carried home, and preparations were
made to bury her. The play had been gotten up with great care and
expense, and a fine actor was the hero. The public demanded a
repetition, and an inferior person was engaged to take the dead lady’s
part. A day’s delay had been necessary, but when the night came the
house was crowded. They waited both before and behind the curtain for
the debut of the new actress, with much curiosity. She stood waiting for
her cue, but as it was given, to the amazement of all, the great
tragedienne glided upon the stage. Pale as marble, and with a strange
fire in her eyes, strange pathos in her voice, strange power in her
acting, she went through her part, and at the close vanished as
mysteriously as she came. Great was the excitement that night, and
intense the astonishment and horror next day when it was whispered
abroad that the dead woman never had revived, but had lain in her coffin
before the eyes of watchers all the evening, when hundreds fancied they
were applauding her at the theater. The mystery never was cleared up,
and Paris was divided by two opinions: one that some person marvelously
like Madame Z. had personated her for the sake of a sensation; the other
that the ghost of the dead actress, unable to free itself from the old
duties so full of fascination to an ambitious and successful woman, had
played for the last time the part which had made her famous.”

“Where did you find that, Tavie? It’s very French, and not bad if you
invented it,” said Sir Jasper.

“I read it in an old book, where it was much better told. Now, Edith,
there is just time for your tale.”

As the word “Edith” passed her lips, again Treherne started and eyed
them both, and again they smiled, as Mrs. Snowdon caressed the
smooth cheek leaning on her knee, and looking full at him began the
last recital.

“You have been recounting the pranks of imaginary ghosts; let me show
you the workings of some real spirits, evil and good, that haunt every
heart and home, making its misery or joy. At Christmastime, in a country
house, a party of friends met to keep the holidays, and very happily
they might have done so had not one person marred the peace of several.
Love, jealousy, deceit, and nobleness were the spirits that played their
freaks with these people. The person of whom I speak was more haunted
than the rest, and much tormented, being willful, proud, and jealous.
Heaven help her, she had had no one to exorcise these ghosts for her,
and they goaded her to do much harm. Among these friends there were more
than one pair of lovers, and much tangling of plots and plans, for
hearts are wayward and mysterious things, and cannot love as duty bids
or prudence counsels. This woman held the key to all the secrets of the
house, and, having a purpose to gain, she used her power selfishly, for
a time. To satisfy a doubt, she feigned a fancy for a gentleman who once
did her the honor of admiring her, and, to the great scandal of certain
sage persons, permitted him to show his regard for her, knowing that it
was but a transient amusement on his part as well as upon hers. In the
hands of this woman lay a secret which could make or mar the happiness
of the best and dearest of the party. The evil spirits which haunted her
urged her to mar their peace and gratify a sinful hope. On the other
side, honor, justice, and generosity prompted her to make them happy,
and while she wavered there came to her a sweet enchantress who, with a
word, banished the tormenting ghosts forever, and gave the haunted woman
a talisman to keep her free henceforth.”

There the earnest voice faltered, and with a sudden impulse Mrs. Snowdon
bent her head and kissed the fair forehead which had bent lower and
lower as she went on. Each listener understood the truth, lightly veiled
in that hasty fable, and each found in it a different meaning. Sir
Jasper frowned and bit his lips, Annon glanced anxiously from face to
face, Octavia hid hers, and Treherne’s flashed with sudden intelligence,
while Rose laughed low to herself, enjoying the scene. Blanche, who was
getting sleepy, said, with a stifled gape, “That is a very nice, moral
little story, but I wish there had been some real ghosts in it.”

“There was. Will you come and see them?”

As she put the question, Mrs. Snowdon rose abruptly, wishing to end the
séance, and beckoning them to follow glided up the great stairway. All
obeyed, wondering what whim possessed her, and quite ready for any jest
in store for them.




