own grease, and sputtered out a farewell. Through the 
window came a faint glimmer of dawn, softening from 
gray to pink, from pink to crimson and gold. The air 
of the room grew chilly, and Stephen strained Hope 
close to his heart. 

" I've had such a nice sleep ! " she exclaimed at length, 
opening her lovely eyes, just as a faint streak of sunshine 
stole in the window. "And, O, it's morning! Did 
you hold me all night ? " and a conscious color fluttered 
up in her face. " You must be very, very tired I " 

Stephen felt stiff and cramped from the awkward 
position, but hardly fatigued. 

" You have been so kind ! " Her breath came with a 
sigh. "I wonder " But that was cut short by Mrs. 
Forsyth's awakening. 

" Mamma, dearest," and Hope bent to kiss her. 

" I'm so much better, Hope I I never thought to live 
the night through. I am so easy I no pain, and very 



 

little coughing. If we were still rich, I should want to 
get well ; but it's of no use." 

A greenish pallor had overspread her face, and her 
eyes were frightfully sunken. Stephen noted these sure 
signs of dissolution. 

Hope began to bustle about the room. 

" I'll go for some wood," Stephen said. 

"I'm sure we're very grateful to you," was Mrs. 
Forsyth's comment. "A perfect stranger, too we 
don't even know your name." 

"Stephen Dane," he answered. 

Hope was bending over the ashes, and did not even 
glance up. If Lucy Ellicott had ever heard any such 
name, she had forgotten it now. 

He went for the wood, and purchased a few luxuries 
for breakfast. Hope was a handy little housekeeper, 
swift, noiseless, and patient. How often she must have 
suffered from Mrs. Forsyth's unreasoning whims and 
fretful moods ! 

"I think," he began, presently, " that I must return 
to my friends and give some account of myself. You 
will not mind being left alone an hour or two?" 

" O, no. And mamma is so much better ! " 

He glanced furtively at the bed. " You have neigh- 
bors you can call on in an emergency ? " 

" We haven't made friends with any of them," Hope 



 

replied, with downcast eyes. " And they think us 
proud." 

"Any one will come in time of need," he said, 
thoughtfully. "I shall not be gone long." 

He bade Mrs. Forsyth a cheerful good morning. 
The fresh, keen air was inspiriting to him. Still, he 
hurried along, impelled by some vague sense of danger. 

He found Mr. and Mrs. Adams in a state of conster- 
nation, but he lost no time in explaining the cause of his 
absence. They both listened in astonishment. 

" To think that you should have met the child in such 
a plight ! Actually begging ! I wonder that Vennard 
did not rise out of his grave and haunt the villain who 
brought them to this. Yes, let us go immediately. 
Pet," to Mrs. Adams, " get your bonnet." 

"But Mr. Dane must have some breakfast. After 
watching all night, too ! " 

" I had some, thank you." 

"It could have been hardly worth the eating. Let 
me make you a cup of fresh coffee." 

" No, I must return as soon as possible." 

But " Pet " dallied after the fashion of women. She 
hafl her dress to change, orders to give for dinner, and 
a dozen other little matters to take up her time. Stephen 
paced the sitting-room and talked to his friend. At 
last they were started. 

Mrs. Adams held her breath with a strange awe and 



 

pity as they mounted the dirty steps. Stephen rapped 
lightly at the door. 

There was no answer, so he opened it and walked in, 
leaving them to follow. His first glance was at the 
bed. There lay Mrs. Forsyth, the eyes staring wide, 
but all meaning gone from them the under jaw 
dropped down, and a small purple thread of blood 
issuing from the mouth. 

"O ! " Hope raised herself from the foot of the bed, 
where she had been striving to hide from the fearful 
sight. Her eyes were tearless, her face white and 
frightened. 

"Is she dead? O, mamma ! mamma ! " 

Stephen placed his hand on the heart. It had stopped 
beyond a peradventure. Then he caught Hope as she 
was about to throw herself beside the dead body. 

"O," she said, brokenly, with a great, dry sob, "she 
did love me, and I loved her. It is so terrible to be 
all alone!" 

"You will never be alone again." Stephen's lips 
were close to her ear, his strong arms around her. 

" But you can't love me " 

" Yes, I can love you. I do love you." His voice 
came through waves of suppressed feeling. 

She buried her face on the great, true heart, that was 
to be hers forevermore. 

By this time Mrs. Adams had advanced to the bed. 



 

"O!" she exclaimed, "we are too late. Was this 
little thing all alone with her mother, when " 

Her voice recalled both Stephen and Hope. One is 
often alone with joy, but there are so many events con- 
nected with grief that bring us back to every-day life. 
Wisely ordered by a mind farther-reaching than ours. 

Stephen said, briefly, "How long ago?" 

" I don't know." There was a dreary grief in Hope's 
eyes. " She was talking, and she seemed so strong ! 
Then she began to cough." 

Stephen and Adams consulted together. Then the 
former started in pursuit of some kindly neighbor, while 
Adams went for an undertaker. Mrs. Adams tried 
to comfort Hope. The child listened that was all. 
There was but one voice that had power to soothe 
her. 

On Stephen's return he asked Hope to put on her 
hat and shawl, and go with him. 

" Mamma?" Her pale lips quivered. 

