and that kept the girls away. Besides, as 
Maude Clare said, " a lame girl isn't nice com 
pany; she can't go about; and then it makes 
you nervous to see an ugly crutch round all the 

time, though, to be sure, it isn't her fault." 


Gypsy stole into the dining-room, and 
looked around; crept to the closet door, and 
looked around; nobody was to be seen; nobody 
was to be heard. A little fleck of light fell 
through a chink in the kitchen door, and fell 
exactly upon the plate of crackers. 

She stepped in on the softest tiptoe, leaving 
the door open a crack behind her, for the sake 
of the light. The plate was large, and very 
full. She could not move it without rattling 
off its contents, and she reflected that to climb 
the side stairs dropping crackers all the way, 
and that within an entry 's width of Miss Ayer, 
would be an undertaking more rash than val 
orous. Accordingly she decided to put the 
crackers into her pocket. Maude had a plate 
upstairs, and school-girls are not particular. 

The last cracker was just in, when she heard 
a noise. Somebody groping for the door- 
handle, and before she could stir, somebody 
groping, groping, across the dining-room; then 
a resounding blow, and a crash, and a groan, 
and a voice, 



"Oh, the Land 's End! Oh, goodness gra 
cious mercy on me ! I ve gone over that 
rocking-chair again ! Nancy, Nancy ! Here ! 
You ve let that entry lamp go out, and this is 
the third time I ve broken my bones over Mrs. 
McMunn 's rocking-chair, this blessed night. 
Come right along with a match now, as quick 
as you can ! " 

Gypsy, in the closet, choked and gasped, 
and stuffed her mouth with crackers to keep 
herself from laughing. Nancy came, mutter 
ing, with a lamp, and the housekeeper scolded 
till her ankle-bones felt better. 

" You may leave the lamp," she said then. 
" I want to use it, to lock up for the night." 

Oh dear ! Oh dear ! she was coming into the 
closet ! Already her heavy steps sounded half 
way across the room, limped by the register, 
thundered up to the door. Gypsy had but an 
instant to think. A barrel, nearly empty, stood 
under the shelves. She whisked it out, climbed 
into it, gave a little lurch partly back under the 
shelves, and crouched there, waiting. Mrs. 



Holt came in with her lamp in her hand, and 
her spectacles on her nose. 

Gypsy held her breath. Mrs. Holt dusted a 
plate, and looked into the sugar-bowl; shook 
down the salt-cellars; looked in the macaroni 
drawer, and counted the tumblers. 

Gypsy, becoming suffocated, gave a little 
gasp. 

Mrs. Holt stopped, and looked around. 

" Another mouse, I declare ! Nancy, bring 
the trap." 

Nancy brought the trap, and the housekeeper, 
after setting it, put it down behind Gypsy 's 
barrel. 

" Nancy ! " she called again. Nancy came 
back. 

" Have you been meddling with this barrel, 
pushing it out in this style, from under the 
shelf ? " 

Nancy had not been meddling with the 
barrel, and Nancy wished, though this was in 
an undertone, that folks would mind their 
business, and let her go to bed in peace. 


Mrs. Holt took hold of the barrel with her 
stout arms, and rolled it up with a jerk into the 
corner, under the shelves. 

" I wouldn't have thought of its being so 
heavy," she remarked half aloud, as she paused 
for breath. "There must be more sugar left 
than I supposed." 

Upon that, she went out, shut the door, 
locked it, put the key in her pocket, and 
limped away. 

" And never thought a thing about the 
crackers ! " gasped Gypsy, through her stifled 
laughter. " Locked me in, with them in my 
pocket. Oh, I never did ! How the girls will 
laugh ! Oh dear, oh dear ! Now it 's only to 
jerk out my barrel from under this old shelf, 
and then in through the dumb waiter into the 
kitchen and up the back stairs. Nancy will be 
abed, or if she isn't, why, I 'll give her an old 
necktie to-morrow, and that will be the end of 
her. Now, Mrs. Halt, we 'll see ? " 

See, she did, in a very unexpected manner. 
For the sugar barrel absolutely refused to 


move. She jerked it and turned it ; she leaned 
over on this side, she leaned over on the other; 
she worked herself round in it; she jumped 
up and down in it that is to say, she rose and 
fell a very little way laboriously, bumping her 
head each time against the shelf. But all 
to no purpose. The barrel remained in statu 
quo. 

"You won't will you?" said Gypsy, 
apostrophising it slowly. " Now, my dear, if 
I were a barrel, I wouldn't ; I really would n t. 
I don't think it 's sweet-tempered in you ; and 
who has facilities for cultivating sweet temper, 
if you haven t? Now, if Jo Courtis gets over 
this in a term ! I don't see as there is anything 
to do but to call the daughters of Erin. 

" Nancy ! Dolly ! Nancy ! " Somebody was 
shuffling about the kitchen, but nobody 
answered. 

"Nancy!" 

The shuffling stopped, apparently in some 
alarm. 

" Nancy ! Nancy Donnavan I Let me out ! " 



" Arrah ! The howly mither ! What 's that 
now?" 

"It 's I locked up here in a barrel, and I 
can't get out ! " called Gypsy. " You crawl 
in the dumb waiter, and pull me out, you 
know. Nan-try, unfasten the dumb waiter, 
quick ! " 

The only answer was a quick stampede, as 
of some one hiding behind the pantry door, 
and a terrified, panting breath broken up into 
short cries of " Oh, Lor have mercy ! " " An 
it 's kilt intirely I am with the fear!" And 
"To think of their selthin afther a poor 
creether this time o night the very time this 
day year, me third cousin died of the liver com 
plaint, an me sole an alon in the kitchen ! 
Oh, good gracious ! " 

Gypsy, rinding that any ordinary noise which 
she could make rather complicated than bet 
