by other masters, we went to the Campo Santo, 
which is worthy to be seen, if only because of the 
beautiful Laschi monument by Vela, one of the 
greatest modern sculptors. It is nothing more than 
a very simple tomb, at the door of which stands a 
figure in flowing drapery, with folded hands and up- 
lifted eyes in an attitude exquisitely expressive of 
grief. The figure is said to be the portrait statue of 
the widow of him within the tomb, and the face is 
very beautiful. We asked if the widow was still 
young, and the custodian answered us in terms that 
ought to endear him to all women, if not to our 
whole mortal race, " Oh quite young, yet. She is 
perhaps fifty years old." 

After the Campo Santo one ought to go to that 
theatre which Palladio built for the representation of 
classic tragedy, and which is perhaps the perfectest 
reproduction of the Greek theatre in the world. Al- 
fieri is the only poet of modern times, whose works 



 

have been judged worthy of this stage, and no drama 
has been given on it since 1857, when the " (Edipus 
Tyrannus " of Sophocles was played. We found it 
very silent and dusty, and were much sadder as we 
walked through its gayly frescoed, desolate ante- 
rooms than we had been in the Campo Santo. Here 
used to sit, at coffee and bassett, the merry people 
who owned the now empty seats of the theatre, 
lord, and lady, and abbe*, who affected to be en- 
tertained by the scenes upon the stage. Upon my 
word, I should like to know what has become, in 
the other world, of those poor pleasurers of the past 
whose memory makes one so sad upon the scenes 
of their enjoyment here ! I suppose they have 
something quite as unreal, yonder, to satisfy them 
as they had on earth, and that they still play at 
happiness in the old rococo way, though it is hard 
to conceive of any fiction outside of Italy so per- 
fect and so entirely suited to their unreality as this 
classic theatre. It is a Greek theatre, for Greek 
tragedies ; but it could never have been for popular 
amusement, and it was not open to the air, though it 
had a sky skillfully painted in the centre of the roof. 
The proscenium is a Greek fagade, in three stories, 
such as never was seen in Greece ; and the architect- 
ure of the three streets running back from the prosce- 
nium, and forming the one unchangeable scene of all 
the dramas, is like the statues in the niches and 
on the gallery inclosing the auditorium Greek in 
the most fashionable Vicentine taste. It must have 
been but an operatic chorus that sang in the semi- 



 

circular space just below the stage and in front of 
the audience. Admit and forget these small blem- 
ishes and aberrations, however, and what a marvel- 
ous thing Palladio's theatre is ! The sky above the 
stage is a wonderful trick, and those three streets 
one in the centre and serving as entrance for the 
royal persons of the drama, one at the right for the 
nobles, and one at the left for the citizens present 
unsurpassed effects of illusion. They are not painted, 
but modeled in stucco. In perspective they seem 
each half a mile long, but entering them you find 
that they run back from the proscenium only some 
fifteen feet, the fronts of the houses and the statues 
upon them decreasing in recession with a well-or- 
dered abruptness. The semicircular gallery above 
the auditorium is of stone, and forty statues of mar- 
ble crown its colonnade, or occupy niches between 
the columns. 


IT was curious to pass, with the impression left by 
this costly and ingenious toy upon our minds, at once 
to the amphitheatre in Verona, which, next to the 
Coliseum, has, of all the works bequeathed us by the 
ancient Roman world, the greatest claim upon the 
wonder and imagination. Indeed, it makes even a 
stronger appeal to the fancy. We know who built 
the Coliseum, but in its unstoried origin, the Veronese 
Arena has the mystery of the Pyramids. Was its 
founder Augustus, or Vitellius, or Antoninus, or 
Maximian, or the Republic of Verona ? Nothing is 



 

certain but that it was conceived and reared by some 
mighty prince or people, and that it yet remains in 
such perfection that the great shows of two thousand 
years ago might take place in it to-day. It is so sug- 
gestive of the fierce and splendid spectacles of Ro- 
man times that the ring left by a modern circus on 
the arena, and absurdly dwarfed by the vast space 
of the oval, had an impertinence which we hotly re- 
sented, looking down on it from the highest grade of 
the interior. It then lay fifty feet below us, in the 
middle of an ellipse five hundred feet in length and 
four hundred in breadth, and capable of holding fifty 
thousand spectators. The seats that the multitudes 
pressed of old are perfect yet ; scarce a stone has 
been removed from the interior ; the sedile and the 
prefect might take their places again in the balus- 
traded tribunes above the great entrance at either 
end of the arena, and scarcely see that they were 
changed. Nay, the victims and the gladiators might 
return to the cells below the seats of the people, and 
not know they had left them for a day; the wild 
beasts might leap into the arena from dens as 
secure and strong as when first built. The ruin 
within seems only to begin with the aqueduct, which 
was used to flood the arena for the naval shows, but 
which is now choked with the dust of ages. With- 
out, however, is plain enough the doom which is 
written against all the work of human hands, and 
which, unknown of the builders, is among the memor- 
able things placed in the corner-stone of every edi- 
fice. Of the outer wall that rose high over the high- 



 

est seats of the amphitheatre, and encircled it with 
stately corridors, giving it vaster amplitude and 
grace, the earthquake of six centuries ago spared 
only a fragment that now threatens above one of the 
narrow Veronese streets. Blacksmiths, wagon-mak- 
ers, and workers in clangorous metals have made 
shops of the lower corridors of the old arena, and it 
is friends and neighbors with the modern life about 
it, as such things usually are in Italy. Fortunately 
for the stranger, the Piazza Bra flanks it on one 
hand, and across this it has a magnificent approach. 
It is not less happy in being little known to senti- 
ment, and the traveler who visits it by moonlight, 
has a full sense of grandeur and pathos, without any 
of the sheepishness attending homage to that bat- 
tered old coquette, the Coliseum, which so many 
emotional people have sighed over, kissing and after- 
wards telling. 

But he who would know the innocent charm of a 
ruin as yet almost wholly uncourted by travel, must 
go to the Roman theatre in Verona. It is not a fa- 
vorite of the hand-books ; and we were decided to 
see it chiefly by a visit to the Museum, where, besides 
an admirable gallery of paintings, there is a most in- 
teresting collection of antiques in bronze and marble 
found in excavating the theatre. The ancient edi- 
fice had been completely buried, and a quarter of 
the town was built over it, as Portici is built over 
Herculaneum, and on the very top stood a Jesuit 
convent. One day, some children, playing in the 
garden of one of the shabby houses, suddenly van- 



 

ished from sight. Their mother ran like one mad 
(I am telling the story in the words of the peasant 
who related it to me) to the spot where they had 
last been seen, and fell herself into an opening of the 
earth there. The outcry raised by these unfortu- 
nates brought a number of men to their aid, and in 
digging to get them out, an old marble stairway was 
discovered. This was about twenty-five years ago. 
A certain gentleman named Monga owned the land, 
and he immediately began to make excavations. He 
