fresh air; or yesterday has unstrung your nerves. But you were
so quiet, I thought nothing moved you. Do go and take a walk,
Daisy."

The major added a quiet word of urging, saying that if I could
go at once, he would see that I did not faint before I got
home.

I was bewildered, I think, or I should not have gone; but I
wanted to get away from the talk and to feel the fresh air; I
was stifled; and I went. My nervous perturbation was a
surprise to me. I had given up everything, I thought; I was
quite calm, ready for everything. I thought I was; and yet, so
little a word had unsettled me. So I went with the major. And
then, I was brought to myself presently by more than the fresh
air; for I found my friend somewhat too happy in his charge,
and more careful of me than I chose he should think there was
any occasion for. Moreover, I could not bear to accept his
care. I summoned my forces and plunged him into a depth of
political and philosophical discussion which he could not get
out of till he left me again at my own door. I reassured Mrs.
Sandford then; and sat down to my worsted embroidery with a
profound sense of how little my strength was. A few minutes
afterwards Dr. Sandford came in.

I had not seen him now for several weeks; and I never saw him
look better. It immediately struck me, that with him well, it
mattered comparatively little whether Mr. Thorold and I were
in the same place together or not. Dr. Sandford's clear blue
eye was not to be braved with impunity. No more was it to be
shunned. But I needed not to shun it. I met it full now. I
could, since last night. The disposal of my affairs, if it was
not in me, it certainly was not in him. He met me with a smile
and a look of pleasure; and sat down by me to watch the
progress of my worsted work. So ostensibly; but I soon knew
that he was watching not my work, but me.

"How have these weeks been with Miss Randolph? Dull?"

"No," I said; - "not dull."

"How have they escaped that?"

"There has been too much to interest, Dr. Sandford."

"Yet I see you at your Berlin wools. Pardon me - but whenever
I see a lady busy with her needle and a bit of canvass, I
always think she is hard up for something to think of. Pardon
again, Daisy. I know you have no mercy upon slang."

"See how mistaken you are, Dr. Sandford."

"In that? Not in that."

"No; but in your notions about wool and canvass."

"They are true!" said the doctor.

"Ah, but, don't you know that extremes meet?"

"What extremes?"

"All extremes, perhaps. I have been working worsted; for a
day or two, just because I had so much to think of."

"They have been exciting days," said the doctor slowly, "to a
sick man who could do nothing."

"Why not to a woman, for the same reason?"

"Have they tried you very much, Daisy?"

"Why, she was turning faint here a little while ago," broke in
Mrs. Sandford, "because I was giving an account of some
wounded soldiers I had read about in the papers; and the major
and I persuaded her to go out and take a walk to recover
herself."

"The major? - that is indefinite, though you use the definite
article. What major?"

"Oh, we have a number of military friends. They have kept us
alive since you have been shut up. What is this one, Daisy? He
is a very good one. Major Fairbairn."

"Fairbairn? I do not know him," said the doctor.

"It is not necessary that you should know everybody," said his
sister-in-law. "Daisy knows him very well."

"And likes him -" said the doctor; "or he could not have a
share in persuading Miss Randolph to anything."

"Yes, I like him," I said. I thought, the more friends in the
army I had, the better; and also, that Dr. Sandford must not
be permitted to push his lines too far.

"Who is Major Fairbairn?"

"I do not know; he is from Maine or New Hampshire, I think."

"Your parents, Daisy, would not desire these Northern
associations for you; would they?"

I do not know with what calm I faced the doctor and answered
him. "These Northern associations" - the words touched the
innermost beatings of my heart - if such an expression can be
used. Yet I looked at Dr. Sandford in absolute calm, knowing
all that the doctor did not know, and spoke with perfect
composure.

"I cannot escape them, you know, Dr. Sandford, unless I were
to go over to the enemy's lines; and I cannot do that."

"I would not wish that," said the doctor.

"Then your feelings continue all with the Northern men,
Daisy?"

"All -" I said.

I went back to my worsted work, but I had a sense that the
doctor was studying me. One cannot judge, of course, of one's
own manner, or know what is in it; so I cannot tell what had
been in mine. The doctor sat and considered me; I thought, in
some perplexity.

"Daisy's feelings are appreciated and returned by the Northern
men," Mrs. Sandford said, laughing. "Rides and walks - how
many rides and walks have you taken, Daisy, these forlorn
weeks, with officers of the Northern army? Oh! they are not
ungrateful."

Dr. Sandford made no answer, and when he spoke I knew he was
not making answer to these words. But they startled me.

"Is there anybody engaged in this struggle, Daisy, that you
are concerned for?"

"Certainly!" I said; - "several."

"I was not aware -" the doctor began.

"Some whom you know, and some whom you don't know, and on both
sides."

"You have a cousin, I believe, somewhere in the Southern army.
He was at West Point, if I remember."

"Preston Gary. I do not know where he is now, only he is among
them. They say, he is with Beauregard. I was very fond of him.
Then there is my brother; he either is with them or he will
be; and there are still others."

"On the Southern side," said the doctor.

"Those two are on the Southern side," I said. "Others are on
the Northern. I am there myself."

"Not exactly in the struggle," said the doctor; "and yet, I do
not know. These women!"

I think the doctor was baffled by my perfect quietness and
readiness. He spoke presently in a disengaged manner, -

"Mr. Ransom Randolph is in no danger at present. I know from a
word in a late letter from your father, that he is in Europe
still. Would you not like to get out of this confused state of
things, and join them there?"

"I would like better to go if it was peace here," I said.

"Would you? Then you are not afraid lest the rebels should
take Washington and confiscate the whole of us?"

"Major Fairbairn thinks the danger of that is past."

"He does! However, other dangers might arise -"

"I knew you would not think Washington very safe ground for
