hard knocks his head had received, and by the excitement of finding the
gold, that he took little note of his surroundings. His thought was
concentrated upon the bags of gold. He did not even think of the two
men whose conference he had disturbed, and did not seem to fear that
they would return and deprive him of his booty.

He was about to untie the string of one of the heavy bags, when a
bright glare overspread the space before him. The pile of dry seaweed,
which had been used to cover a sail-boat in the winter, was all in a
light blaze. The steward tried to quench the flames with his feet, but
his efforts were unavailing. The dry stuff burned like shavings, and
the more he kicked, the more the fire leaped up and spit at him. He
fought the flames as long as his courage held out, and then he
"allowed" that the Hotel de Poisson was a doomed structure.

Taking the money-bags, he retreated down the peninsula towards the
landing-place at the Point, lighted on his way by the burning building.
Crossing the plank, he reached the shore. There was a dory there, and
putting the three bags into it, the steward launched it, and pulled off
to the yacht. The treasure was conveyed to the cabin, and deposited
temporarily in a locker under a berth. The dory was towed back to the
shore, and placed where the steward had found it, that no early
fisherman might be deprived of his morning trip. Augustus was in a
flurry of excitement all this time, and had not even considered what he
should do with the bags. His present object was to secure the plunder
so that it could not be recovered by the robbers; and, having done
this, he was entirely satisfied with himself, and everybody else,
except Dock Vincent, to whom he owed a balance on account, for that
night's business.

There was an alarm of fire on shore. The bright glare of the flames
from the Hotel de Poisson penetrated the windows of a house near Dock
Vincent's, and lighted up the bed-chamber of a sleeping stone-cutter.
He gave the alarm; the bells rang, the engines rattled, and the whole
town was aroused from its peaceful slumbers. Hundreds of men, who had
worked hard all day, lost two hours of sleep for an old shanty which
was not worth five dollars.

The Hotel de Poisson was burned to the ground before many people had
gathered. Some good men thanked God that it had not been a poor man's
house; young men enjoyed the excitement of "running with the machine,"
and those with an eye for the picturesque were thankful that the
unsightly shanty had been removed from a place where it disfigured the
landscape. No one appeared to be sorry; but every one wondered how the
fire had caught. Various conjectures were suggested; but, after all, no
one knew anything about it. Some thought a straggler had used it as a
lodging, and set it on fire in lighting his pipe. Others thought some
bad boys had set the fire for fun.

If the two men who had met there to confer about their ill-gotten gold
were in the crowd, doubtless they were sadder and wiser men. Probably
they thought that the breaking of the lantern had communicated the
flame to the shanty. The people present knew nothing of the event in
the Hotel de Poisson wherein Mr. C. Augustus Ebénier had been the
principal actor. The finding of the half-melted remains of a lantern
had no significance or suggestiveness to them. The building burned up
clean, and there was nothing left of it but a few smoking timbers, and
a thin sprinkling of ashes on the ground and the rocks.

If the robbers, whoever they were, went to the fire, it is more than
likely that they searched eagerly among the ruins for the gold. If they
did, they saw nothing which looked like the fused coins of the
treasure. The old sail, in which the gold appeared to have been
concealed, or which had been thrown over its place of concealment, was
burned to tinder, and there was not a vestige of the bags or the money.




CHAPTER XIV.

"LOSE HIS OWN SOUL!"


The steward of The Starry Flag, after he had returned the dory to the
rocks, and secured the jolly-boat of the yacht, had an opportunity to
rest his fevered, mixed-up brain, and to consider his next step. The
four seamen of the schooner slept on shore, at their own homes, and
there was no one on board but the cook, who slumbered heavily in the
forecastle, and did not hear Augustus when he conveyed the bags to the
cabin.

Mr. Ebénier lighted a lamp, closed the cabin doors, and drew the silken
curtains over the ports in the upper part of the trunk, so that no one
could see what he was doing. Though it was not lawful for the steward
to use the wash-bowl in Mr. Watson's stateroom, he considered that the
present emergency would justify him in doing so. He performed his
ablutions with the utmost care, paying particular attention to his
wounded head. He then changed his clothing throughout, and devoted half
an hour to cleansing his plaid pants, which had been somewhat soiled by
contact with the burning seaweed. He even polished his boots before he
put them away.

So far as cleanliness was concerned, the steward was a gentleman, which
no unclean person can be. Having completed his toilet, and removed all
signs of the operation from the state-room, he sat down on a locker in
the cabin. He was thinking of the extraordinary incidents of the night.
He was fully satisfied that he had found Mr. Fairfield's treasure, and
that the opportunity entirely to free his young captain from suspicion
was within his grasp. It was a pleasant thought; but, after all, who
was Captain Fairfield? Only a young fellow behind whose chair at dinner
he was privileged to stand. He had seen him for the first time but a
few days before, and he did not feel under any peculiar obligations to
him.

Mr. Ebénier took the three bags of gold from the locker, and laid them
on the cabin table. It was midnight by the clock which hung in the
cabin--the dead hour of night, when all were sleeping. The fire on
shore had burned out, and all was still save the rolling sea. The
steward went to the door, opened it, passed up to the deck; there was
no one in sight, and hardly a light to be seen on the land. Returning
to the cabin, he poured out the contents of one of the bags on the
table, and proceeded to count the gold. It was a long job, and there
was more money than the steward had ever before seen together. On a
piece of paper he noted each hundred dollars with a tally-mark. His
last pile contained but fifty dollars. Counting up his marks, he made
thirty-eight of them; and the whole sum, according to his reckoning,
was thirty-eight hundred and fifty dollars.

The old man had lost four thousand dollars, and the steward, concluding
he had made a mistake, performed the agreeable task of counting the
gold a second time, but with the same result as before. After making
the allowance for the fifty dollars found in the captain's state-room,
the amount was one hundred dollars short. Mr. Ebénier had the impudence
to ask himself if this could be the miser's money, since it did not
hold out in the sum he had lost. But the bags were plainly marked, as
the fourth had been, "N. Fairfield," in the cramped handwriting of the
miser. Of course there could be no doubt in regard to the ownership of
the treasure, and Mr. Ebénier could not but wonder at the stupidity of
the thieves in hiding it in or under the old sail in the Hotel de
Poisson. But he did them the justice to conclude that it had only been
placed there for a short time, perhaps for but a few hours; at any
rate, their presence in the shanty indicated that it was to have been
removed during the night.

It had been removed during the night! The steward chuckled when he
thought of it, but his capacious intellect was agitated by a great
moral question. Thirty-eight hundred and fifty dollars was an immense
sum to a person in his station, who had never had even a hundred
dollars in his possession at one time. Honesty was a precious jewel,
but it was not possible for him to make thirty-eight hundred and fifty
dollars, at one stupendous haul, by being honest. He did not steal the
money. He did not rob the old man. If the steward had not suffered the
perils and discomforts of two broken heads, or rather one head broken
twice, the robbers, whoever they were, would doubtless have divided the
money between them, and the old man would never know what had become of
his cherished gold.

Mr. Ebénier asked himself if this was not a freak of fortune in his
favor; if the money was not a providential compensation for his
twice-broken head. Thirty-eight hundred and fifty dollars would be a
very handsome atonement for two such raps as he had received, and he
was Mammon-worshipper enough to feel willing that his head should be
pounded to a jelly at this rate, so long as the germ of his mighty
intellect was not extinguished.

The steward was a man of exquisite tastes, and was ambitious for social
recognition and distinction. In Paris a colored man was just as good
as, if not a little better than, a white man. His former master, in
Louisiana, had believed in Paris, and seeing with his eyes, he had been
fully converted to his master's faith. Mr. Ebénier wanted to go to
Paris, wanted to live there, even as a waiter in a café, if no better
situation presented itself. With the money before him, he could realize
his dream of luxury and splendor. He could convert these half eagles
into napoleons, and revel like a prince in the gay metropolis of
France. He would wear the finest of broadcloth, eat the most sumptuous
of dinners, and saunter up and down the Champs Elysées like a
gentleman. In short, thirty-eight hundred and fifty dollars, or nearly
twenty thousand francs in the currency of France, would make a
gentleman of him.

Mr. C. Augustus Ebénier was sorely tempted. It might be only once in
his lifetime that such a chance to be a gentleman would be presented to
him. He could put the gold into his carpet-bag, walk over to
Gloucester, and take the first train for Boston. No one would know what
had become of him; or, if they did, he would not be suspected of having
the gold. But he would be missed, and his absence might cause a
commotion. It would be better not to leave at present. The money could
be concealed on board of the yacht, and when he was disposed to abandon
the vessel it would be within his reach.
