or in part, through Holland and Belgium--the Rhine, the Maas, or Meuse,
and the Scheldt.

"By a reference to your navigation charts, young gentlemen, you will
often find banks and bars thrown up at the mouths of rivers. At the
mouth of the Scheldt, several miles from the shore, there are Thornton's
Ridge, The Rabs, Schouwen Bank, Steen Banks, and others of similar
formation. At the mouth of the Mississippi, in our own country, you are
aware that large vessels find great difficulty in getting over the bar.
If we take a tumbler full of Mississippi water, after heavy rains in the
north-west, and let it stand a few moments, a thick sediment settles at
the bottom. This sediment forms the bar at the mouth of the river. The
sand and mud are carried down by the current, and when the water has a
chance to rest, it deposits its burden upon the bottom."

"But why in that particular place?" asked an interested student.

"Because the current of the river comes to a halt where it meets the
inflowing tide of the gulf, or when it has spent its force. These bars
are sometimes formed by currents resulting from the combined action of
the sea and the flow of the river, or by winds. A heavy gale has been
known to change the aspect of a coast, to shut up a harbor, or to open
one where there had before been no inlet. Cape Cod presents some
remarkable instances of these physical revolutions.

"The great rivers of the Netherlands, in like manner, have brought down
their sands and mud, and deposited them on what now forms the shore of
the country. The forces of the ocean, against which the Dutchman of
to-day has to contend for the preservation of his life and property,
assisted in making this country a habitable region. Certain westerly and
south-westerly winds drive the waters of the Atlantic into the German
Ocean. The coast of the country, you see by the map, is exposed to the
longest sweep of the wind from the north-west, and the most violent
tempests to which Holland is exposed come from that direction. Now, what
is the effect of these storms?"

"They pile up the sand-bars," replied Captain Kendall.

"Precisely so; the dunes and ridges of sand which border the country
from the straits of Dover to the Texel are caused by these violent winds
from the north-west. The effect of this piling up of the sands was
eventually to limit, in a measure, the boundary of the sea. The dunes
and ridges formed the foundation for the dikes which the industrious and
persevering Dutchman has erected upon them, and by which he has made
his country. For the want of time, I shall defer the physical features
of Holland, and a more particular description of its dikes and ditches,
to a future occasion. In what country are we now?"

"In Belgium, sir," replied McLeish, who always answered when he could,
though in general knowledge he was far behind his American classmates.

"What is the French name?"

"La Belgique."

"The German?"

"Belgien."

"What is the French adjective?"

"Belge."

"There is a liberal newspaper published at Brussels, the capital of
Belgium, which is often quoted as political authority in the United
States, called the Indépendance Belge. What does the term mean?"

"'The Belgian Independent,' or 'The Independent Belgian,'" laughed
Pelham.

"But the first word is a noun."

"'The Belgian Freeman,' or something of that sort."

"Doubtless it will bear that rendering, though it means literally
'Belgian Independence.' Belgium is bounded on the north, and partly on
the east, by Holland; mostly on the east by the Rhenish provinces of
Prussia, forming a part of Germany; on the south-west by France; and on
the north-west by the German Ocean. It has an area of eleven thousand
three hundred and thirteen miles; that is, it is about the size of
Maryland, or of Massachusetts and Connecticut united.

"Its population in 1863 was about five millions, equal to the aggregate
of New York and Massachusetts. In New England, in 1860, there were fifty
persons to the square mile; in Massachusetts, which is the most densely
peopled of the United States, one hundred and seventy; but Belgium has
four hundred and forty souls to the square mile, and is the most
thickly-settled country in the world.

"Belgium contains nine provinces, the largest of which, in area, is
Luxembourg, though it is one of the smallest in population. The largest
in population is East Flanders."

"Flanders!" exclaimed Terrill; "I was hoping you would say something
about Flanders, for I had an idea it was Belgium."

"It is a part of it. Flanders has belonged to France, Spain, Austria,
and Holland, at times; but it was divided into two provinces by the King
of Holland, and became a part of the United Kingdom of Belgium when it
was established in 1830. It figures largely in history, and 'our army in
Flanders' is a proverb.

"The soil of Belgium is generally sandy and poor; but, by skill and
industry, the people obtain large crops from it. In a country so densely
peopled there could not be many large farms, and the majority of the
farmers cultivate what would not be more than a garden in America; but
the system of agriculture is not surpassed by that of any country in the
world. Flax-raising is the principal occupation of the farmers; but
grasses and roots receive particular attention. Horses, cattle, and
sheep are raised in great numbers.

"The manufactures of Belgium are very celebrated. The laces of Brussels
and Mechlin (Malines) have the highest reputation. Linen goods, carpets,
woollens, cottons, hosiery, are largely produced. The foreign and
domestic commerce of Belgium, largely carried on through the port of
Antwerp, is extensive.

"Belgium is a flat country, as we have said. There are no mountains,
though in the provinces of Liége and Brabant the American traveller will
find a variety of scenery similar to that in the eastern part of
Massachusetts and Connecticut. This portion of Belgium is a beautiful
garden.

"The government, according to the charter of 1831, is a constitutional,
representative, and hereditary monarchy; that is, it has a constitution,
a parliament, and the oldest son of the king is his successor. The
king's person is declared to be sacred, and his ministers, instead of
himself, are held responsible for the government acts. The legislative
branch consists of a senate and a chamber of representatives; but the
king must sign their acts before they can become laws.

"The members of both houses of the legislature are chosen by the people,
and are called deputies. Only citizens who pay a certain amount of
direct taxes can vote. The deputies who live out of the town in which
the session is held are paid sixty-two dollars a month. They are elected
for four years, half every two years. The political privileges of the
people are only less than those of our own country.

"The present king is Leopold I.[A] He is seventy-four years old, and for
the last fifty years has been a man of mark in Europe. He was for some
time in the service of the Emperor of Russia, and went to England with
the allied sovereigns, in 1814, where he became acquainted with, and
afterwards married, the Princess Charlotte, daughter of George IV.; but
she died within two years. In 1830 Leopold was elected King of Greece;
but he finally refused the crown, because the conditions he made were
not complied with. In 1831 he was elected King of the Belgians, and was
crowned the same year. The next year he married Louise, the daughter of
Louis Philippe, King of France. Leopold, Duke of Brabant, will succeed
him. He has several other sons and daughters, among them Marie
Charlotte, wife of Maximilian, Archduke of Austria, who has been elected
Emperor of Mexico. Leopold is one of the richest men in Europe.

[Footnote A: Leopold I. died Dec. 10, 1865, and was succeeded by his
son, Leopold II.]

"Nearly all the people of Belgium are Roman Catholics, there being but
about thirteen thousand Protestants and two thousand Jews; but the
largest religious liberty is allowed to all sects. A portion of the
salary of ministers of all denominations is paid from the national
treasury. While the Catholics receive seven hundred thousand dollars
from the state, the Protestants obtain eleven thousand, and the Jews two
thousand dollars. The salary paid by the state to the archbishop is four
thousand two hundred dollars, and to a bishop about three thousand.

"The history of Flanders is substantially the early history of Belgium.
Many changes were made in the territorial limit of the country from time
to time, in the hands of its different owners. The first mention of
this country in history is in the time of Julius Cæsar, who conquered
the Low Countries, and the Romans held them till the year 400, when they
were joined to the empire of the Franks. They formed part of the vast
realm of Charlemagne.

"After the Romans had abandoned the territory, several independent
nobles established themselves in the southern part of the Netherlands.
Among them were the Counts of Flanders, who became very powerful and
influential men. They are to be regarded as the founders of the Flemish
provinces. Having no male heirs, their possessions went to the house of
Burgundy. Philip, Duke of Burgundy, married Margaret, Countess of
Flanders, and, upon the death of her father, she brought to him the
country of Flanders and other valuable possessions.
