Jems dat is ser'ous; and Stark, and Carl and Sharlim "

"Sharlim?" said I, not knowing that this was the Caffir for
Charlemagne.

"Sharlim," Maria repeated. "He don' know much; but he has a
leanin' for de good t'ings. And Darry, he can tell who'll
come. I done forget all de folks' names."

"Why, Maria," I said, "I did not know there were so many
people at Magnolia that cared about the Bible."

"What has 'um to care for, chile, I should like fur to know.
Dere aint much mo' in dis world."

"But I thought there were only very few," I said.

" 'Spose um fifty," said Maria. "Fifty aint much, I reckon,
when dere's all de rest o' de folks what don't care. De Lord's
people is a little people yet, for sure; and de world's a big
place. When de Lord come Hisself, to look for 'em, 'spect He
have to look mighty hard. De world's awful dark."

That brought to my mind my question. It was odd, no doubt, to
choose an old coloured woman for my adviser; but indeed I had
not much choice; and something had given me a confidence in
Maria's practical wisdom, which early as it had been formed,
nothing ever happened to shake. So, after considering the
fire and the matter a moment, I brought forth my doubt.

"Maria," said I, "what is the best way  I mean, how can one
let one's light shine?"

"What Miss Daisy talkin' about?"

"I mean,  you know what the Bible says  'Let your light so
shine before men, that they may see your good works and
glorify your Father which is in heaven'?"

"For sure, I knows dat. Aint much shinin' in dese yere parts.
De people is dark, Miss Daisy; dey don' know. 'Spect dey would
try to shine, some on 'em, ef dey knowed. Feel sure dey
would."

"But that is what I wanted to ask about, Maria. How ought one
to let one's light shine?"

I remember now the kind of surveying look the woman gave me. I
do not know what she was thinking of; but she looked at me, up
and down, for a moment, with a wonderfully tender, soft
expression. Then turned away.

"How let um light shine?" she repeated. "De bestest way, Miss
Daisy, is fur to make him burn good."

I saw it all immediately; my question never puzzled me again.
Take care that the lamp is trimmed; take care that it is full
of oil; see that the flame mounts clear and steady towards
heaven; and the Lord will set it where its light will fall on
what pleases Him, and where it will reach mayhap, to what you
never dream of.

CHAPTER VI.

WINTER AND SUMMER.


From the Christmas holidays, I think I began slowly to mend.
My aunt watched me, and grumbled that kitchen amusements and
rides with Darry should prove the medicines most healing and
effectual; but she dared stop neither of them. I believe the
overseer remonstrated on the danger of the night gatherings;
but my aunt Gary had her answer ready, and warned him not to
do anything to hinder me, for I was the apple of my father's
eye. Miss Pinshon, sharing to the full my aunt's discontent,
would have got on horseback, I verily believe, to be with me
in my rides; but she was no rider. The sound of a horse's four
feet always, she confessed, stamped the courage out of her
heart. I was let alone; and the Sunday evenings in the
kitchen, and the bright morning hours in the pine avenues and
oak groves, were my refreshment and my pleasure, and my
strength.

What there was of it; for I had not much strength to boast for
many a day. Miss Pinshon tried her favorite recipe whenever
she thought she saw a chance, and I did my best with it. But
my education that winter was quite in another line. I could
not bear much arithmetic. Bending over a desk did not agree
with me. Reading aloud to Miss Pinshon never lasted for more
than a little while at a time. So it comes, that my
remembrance of that winter is not filled with school
exercises, and that Miss Pinshon's figure plays but a
subordinate part in its pictures. Instead of that, my memory
brings back first and chiefest of all, the circle of dark
faces round the kitchen light wood fire, and the yellow blaze
on the page from which I read; I a little figure in white,
sitting in the midst among them all. That picture  those
evenings  come back to me, with a kind of hallowed perfume of
truth and hope. Truth, it was in my lips and on my heart; I
was giving it out to those who had it not. And hope,  it was
in more hearts than mine, no doubt; but in mine it beat with
as steady a beat as the tickings of my little watch by my
side, and breathed sweet as the flowers that start in spring
from under the snow. I had often a large circle; and it was
part of my plan, and well carried into execution, that these
evenings of reading should supply also the place of the
missing prayer-meeting. Gradually I drew it on to be so
understood; and then my pieces of reading were scattered along
between the prayers, or sometimes all came at first, followed
by two or three earnest longer prayers from some of those that
were present. And then, without any planning of mine, came in
the singing. Not too much, lest as Maria said, we should "make
de folks up stairs t'ink dere war somethin' oncommon in de
kitchen;" but one or two hymns we would have, so full of
spirit and sweetness that often now-a-days they come back to
me, and I would give very much to hear the like again. So full
of music too. Voices untrained by art, but gifted by nature;
melodious and powerful; that took different parts in the tune,
and carried them through without the jar of a false note or a
false quantity; and a love both of song and of the truth which
made the music mighty. It was the greatest delight to me, that
singing, whether I joined them or only listened. One,  the
thought of it comes over me now and brings the water to my
eyes, 


"Am I a soldier of the cross 
Of the cross 
Of he cross 
A follower of the Lamb;
And shall I fear to own his cause,
Own his cause 
Own his cause, 
Or blush to speak His name?"


The repetitions at the end of every other line were: both
plaintive and strong; there was no weakness, but some
recognition of what it costs in certain circumstances to "own
His cause." I loved that dearly. But that was only one of
many.

Also the Bible words were wonderful sweet to me, as I was
giving them out to those who else had a "famine of the word."
Bread to the hungry, is quite another thing from bread on the
tables of the full.

The winter had worn well on, before I received the answer to
the letter I had written my father about the prayer-meetings
and Mr. Edwards. It was a short answer, not in terms but in
actual extent; showing that my father was not strong and well
yet. It was very kind and tender, as well as short; I felt
that in every word. In substance, however, it told me I had
better let Mr. Edwards alone. He knew what he ought to do,
about the prayer-meetings and about other things; and they
were what I could not judge about. So my letter said. It said
too, that things seemed strange to me because I was unused to
them; and that when I had lived longer at the South they would
cease to be strange, and I would understand them and look upon
them as every one else did.

I studied and pondered this letter; not greatly disappointed,
for I had had but slender hopes that my petition could work
anything. Yet I had a disappointment to get over. The first
practical use I made of my letter, I went where I could be
alone with it  indeed, I was that when I read it,  but I
went to a solitary lonely place, where I could not be
interrupted; and there I knelt down and prayed, that however
long I might live at the South, I might never get to look upon
evil as anything but evil, nor ever become accustomed to the
things I thought ought not to be, so as not to feel them. I
shall never forget that half hour. It broke my heart that my
father and I should look on such matters with so different
eyes; and with my prayer for myself, which came from the very
bottom of my heart, I poured out also a flood of love and
tears over him, and of petition that he might have better
eyesight one day. Ah yes! and before it should be too late to
right the wrong he was unconsciously doing.

For now I began to see, in the light of this letter first,
