
"You!" exclaimed his mother.

"I, mother!"

"Poor child, they were making fun of you!" sighed Mrs. Wittleworth.

"Not they. Everett bowed to me as gracefully as though I had been the
President. Winthrop was a little stiff; but what did I care for him, as
long as Choate and Everett were on good terms with me?"

"Your head is turned, Fitz."

"No matter if it is, so long as it is turned in the right direction.
Choate told Everett and Winthrop that I had formerly occupied a place
in his office, and that he had a high regard for me. He smiled
pleasantly, and so did Everett. Winthrop didn't take much notice of me.
Choate asked me if I wanted to see him for anything particular. I told
him I did; I wanted a little legal advice in the matter of Wittleworth
vs. Checkynshaw. He smiled very kindly upon me; he smiled as only
Choate can smile."

"What did he say to you?" demanded Mrs. Wittleworth, impatiently.

"He apologized for his inability to attend to the case at that time, as
he was engaged upon a matter of politics with Everett and Winthrop; but
he hoped he should find time to see me in the course of a week. Of
course I didn't care about breaking up his conference with Everett and
Winthrop; so I apologized for the interruption, and promised him I
would call upon him at his office the next day."

"I suppose he was very sorry he could not attend to the case," added
Mrs. Wittleworth.

"He appeared to be. He expressed his regrets; and, as he was attending
to the affairs of the nation, I could not be hard on him, you know."

"Certainly not," said his mother, amused in spite of the weakness of
her son.

"Choate is a good fellow--Choate is," added Fitz, rubbing his chin, and
puffing out his lips. "When he gets hold of this case, he will make
things fly, mother."

"What are you going to do, Fitz?" asked Mrs. Wittleworth, seriously.

"I'm not going to mince the matter any longer. I am going to bring a
suit against Checkynshaw for the block of stores, and the income
received from them for the last ten years," replied Fitz,
magnificently.

"You are!"

"I am; that is, when I say I am, of course I am going to do it in your
name, for I am the next heir to you. That will bring things to a head,
and we shall soon find out whether Checkynshaw is ready to stand trial
or not."

"We have no money to go to law with," pleaded the poor woman.

"We don't want any, mother. I have looked into this business, and what
I don't know about it isn't worth knowing. I know something about law,
for I used to keep my eyes and ears open when I was in the law
business."

Mr. Wittleworth had been an errand boy in Mr. Choate's office!

"I don't think you can go to law without money, Fitz. I have always
heard it was very expensive," added Mrs. Wittleworth.

"All we want, mother, is a copy of my grandfather's will. We attach the
block of stores, if necessary. Under the will it belongs to you, unless
Checkynshaw can produce your sister's child."

"Suppose he should produce her?"

"That's the very thing he can't do. If he does, of course our case
falls to the ground; but he can't."

"But if he does produce the child, where is the money to pay the
expenses?"

"The expenses won't be much. I shall say to Choate, 'Choate,' says I,
'here's a piece of property which belongs to my mother. You can go up
to the Registry of Probate, and read the will yourself. Give my mother
legal possession of it, and I will pay you five or ten thousand
dollars'--I haven't just decided exactly what to offer him. He takes
the case, brings the suit, and gets the property for you."

"Suppose he doesn't get it?"

"Then he will get nothing. When I was in the law business, cases were
sometimes taken in this way."

Mrs. Wittleworth was encouraged by this hopeful statement, and disposed
to let Fitz have his own way. Abject poverty was so terrible that she
could not afford to lose such a chance. Mr. Checkynshaw's conduct in
leaving his child in France, among strangers, for ten years, was
singular enough to beget suspicion.

The conversation was continued till the fire went out, and the chill
air of the room drove the intended litigants to their chambers. Fitz
did not come down till breakfast time the next morning. He lay in his
warm bed, building castles in the air, and thinking what a great man he
should be when the block of stores and its revenues were reclaimed from
the grasp of Mr. Checkynshaw. He thought it quite possible that he
could then go into a barber's shop and be shaved without any one having
the impudence to laugh at him.

Mrs. Wittleworth had thought a great deal about the property, but she
could not quite make up her mind to take such decided steps as those
indicated by her son. If the attempt was made, and proved to be a
failure, Mr. Checkynshaw would never forgive her, and might injure her
in revenge. When she came down stairs, she had decided to call upon the
banker, and state the case to him. If he chose to satisfy her that
Marguerite was still living, it would save trouble and future
disappointment.

"You can see him if you like, mother. I have no doubt he will smooth
you over. Checkynshaw is a plausible man--Checkynshaw is. He carries
too many guns for a woman. I would call myself if it were not for
letting myself down to his level," said Mr. Wittleworth, stroking his
chin, when his mother was ready to go.

"Don't be so silly, Fitz!"

"Checkynshaw won't stand trial, in my opinion. He is shrewd--he is."

"I only intend to ask him what he means to do," added Mrs. Wittleworth.

"He means to hold on to the property--that's what he means to do,
mother. He may try to buy you off--don't do it, on any account. Leave
this matter all to me. Me and Choate will fix it right. Now, be careful
what you do."

"I will not do anything," said his mother, as she put on her bonnet.

"I will see Choate to-day. Me and Choate will touch off a volcano under
Checkynshaw's feet in the course of a week or two," he added, as his
mother left the house.




CHAPTER XIV.

MR. CHECKYNSHAW IS LIBERAL.


Mrs. Wittleworth went directly to the door of the private office. She
had her doubts in regard to the interview which was to take place. Mr.
Checkynshaw had never treated her very handsomely. She had called upon
him only once since the downfall of her husband. The banker had
listened very coldly to her story of hardship and suffering. He had
taken Fitz into his employ at that time; but her reception was so cold,
and the great man's manner so forbidding, that she had resolved that
nothing but imminent starvation should induce her to repeat the visit.

Mr. Checkynshaw was a hard, selfish, money-getting man. He was not one
whom a poor relative would willingly approach with a tale of suffering.
Though this was not Mrs. Wittleworth's present errand, she dreaded the
result almost as much as though she had been an applicant for charity.
The banker was overbearing and haughty in his way. He bullied his
social inferiors, and looked upon them from a height which was
appalling to them. She opened the door and entered. The banker was
alone, sitting in the stuffed arm-chair at his desk.

"Ellen?" said he, glancing at her with an inquiring look, probably
satisfied that she had come to plead for the return of her son to the
place from which he had been discharged.

It did not occur to him that human impudence could extend so far as to
permit such people to bring a suit against him for their rights,
however well defined or clearly established. If he owed them anything,
or they had any claims against him, it was their duty to be solemnly
impressed by the loftiness of his social position, and humbly to beg
for what belonged to them.

"I thought I would come up and see you this morning, Mr. Checkynshaw,"
stammered the poor woman; and poverty had so subdued her, and so broken
