"Mother told me never to beg if I could help it," said Mark.

"Well, you can't help it," said the woman, flourishing the strap in a
threatening manner. "Do you see this?"

"Yes."

"Well, you'll feel it too, if you don't do as I tell you. Go out now."

"I'm so hungry," said Mark; "won't you give me a piece of bread?"

"Not a mouthful till you bring back twenty-five cents. Start now, or
you'll feel the strap."

The boy left the room with a slow step, and wearily descended the
stairs. I hope my young readers will never know the hungry craving
after food which tormented the poor little boy as he made his way
towards the street. But he had hardly reached the foot of the first
staircase when he heard a low voice behind him, and, turning, beheld
Mrs. Flanagan, who had hastily followed after him.

"Are you very hungry?" she asked.

"Yes, I'm faint with hunger."

"Poor boy!" she said, compassionately; "come in here a minute."

She opened the door of her own room which was just at the foot of the
staircase, and gently pushed him in.

It was a room of the same general appearance as the one above, but was
much neater looking.

"Biddy Flanagan isn't the woman to let a poor motherless child go
hungry when she's a bit of bread or meat by her. Here, Mark, lad, sit
down, and I'll soon bring you something that'll warm up your poor
stomach."

She opened a cupboard, and brought out a plate containing a small
quantity of cold beef, and two slices of bread.

"There's some better mate than you'll get of Mother Watson. It's cold,
but it's good."

"She never gives me any meat at all," said Mark, gazing with a look of
eager anticipation at the plate which to his famished eye looked so
inviting.

"I'll be bound she don't," said Mrs. Flanagan. "Talk of you being lazy!
What does she do herself but sit all day doing nothin' except drink
whiskey from the black bottle! She might get washin' to do, as I do, if
she wanted to, but she won't work. She expects you to get money enough
for both of you."

Meanwhile Mrs. Flanagan had poured out a cup of tea from an old tin
teapot that stood on the stove.

"There, drink that, Mark dear," she said. "It'll warm you up, and
you'll need it this cold night, I'm thinkin'."

The tea was not of the best quality, and the cup was cracked and
discolored; but to Mark it was grateful and refreshing, and he eagerly
drank it.

"Is it good?" asked the sympathizing woman, observing with satisfaction
the eagerness with which it was drunk.

"Yes, it makes me feel warm," said Mark.

"It's better nor the whiskey Mother Watson drinks," said Mrs. Flanagan.
"It won't make your nose red like hers. It would be a sight better for
her if she'd throw away the whiskey, and take to the tea."

"You are very kind, Mrs. Flanagan," said Mark, rising from the table,
feeling fifty per cent. better than when he sat down.

"Oh bother now, don't say a word about it! Shure you're welcome to the
bit you've eaten, and the little sup of tea. Come in again when you
feel hungry and Bridget Flanagan won't be the woman to send you off
hungry if she's got anything in the cupboard."

"I wish Mother Watson was as good as you are," said Mark.

"I aint so good as I might be," said Mrs. Flanagan; "but I wouldn't be
guilty of tratin' a poor boy as that woman trates you, more shame to
her! How came you with her any way? She aint your mother, is she."

"No," said Mark, shuddering at the bare idea. "My mother was a good
woman, and worked hard. She didn't drink whiskey. Mother was always
kind to me. I wish she was alive now."

"When did she die, Mark dear?"

"It's going on a year since she died. I didn't know what to do, but
Mother Watson told me to come and live with her, and she'd take care of
me."

"Sorra a bit of kindness there was in that," commented Mrs. Flanagan.
"She wanted you to take care of her. Well, and what did she make you
do?"

"She sent me out to earn what I could. Sometimes I would run on
errands, but lately I have sold matches."

"Is it hard work sellin' them?"

"Sometimes I do pretty well, but some days it seems as if nobody wanted
any. To-day I went round to a great many offices, but they all had as
many as they wanted, and I didn't sell but three boxes. I tried to sell
more, indeed I did, but I couldn't."

"No doubt you did, Mark, dear. It's cold you must be in that thin
jacket of yours this cold weather. I've got a shawl you may wear if you
like. You'll not lose it, I know."

But Mark had a boy's natural dislike to being dressed as a girl,
knowing, moreover, that his appearance in the street with Mrs.
Flanagan's shawl would subject him to the jeers of the street boys. So
he declined the offer with thanks, and, buttoning up his thin jacket,
descended the remaining staircase, and went out again into the chilling
and uninviting street. A chilly, drizzling rain had just set in, and
this made it even more dreary than it had been during the day.




CHAPTER VI.

BEN GIBSON.


But it was not so much the storm or the cold weather that Mark cared
for. He had become used to these, so far as one can become used to
what is very disagreeable. If after a hard day's work he had had a
good home to come back to, or a kind and sympathizing friend, he
would have had that thought to cheer him up. But Mother Watson cared
nothing for him, except for the money he brought her, and Mark found it
impossible either to cherish love or respect for the coarse woman whom
he generally found more or less affected by whiskey.



Cold and hungry as he had been oftentimes, he had always shrunk from
begging. It seemed to lower him in his own thoughts to ask charity of
others. Mother Watson had suggested it to him once or twice, but had
never actually commanded it before. Now he was required to bring home
twenty-five cents. He knew very well what would be the result if he
failed to do this. Mother Watson would apply the leather strap with
merciless fury, and he knew that his strength was as nothing compared
to hers. So, for the first time in his life, he felt that he must make
up his mind to beg.

He retraced his steps to the head of Frankfort Street, and walked
slowly down Nassau Street. The rain was falling, as I have said, and
those who could remained under shelter. Besides, business hours were
over. The thousands who during the day made the lower part of the city
a busy hive had gone to their homes in the upper portion of the island,
or across the river to Brooklyn or the towns on the Jersey shore. So,
however willing he might be to beg, there did not seem to be much
chance at present.

The rain increased, and Mark in his thin clothes was soon drenched to
the skin. He felt damp, cold, and uncomfortable. But there was no rest
for him. The only home he had was shut to him, unless he should bring
home twenty-five cents, and of this there seemed very little prospect.

At the corner of Fulton Street he fell in with a boy of twelve, short
and sturdy in frame, dressed in a coat whose tails nearly reached the
sidewalk. Though scarcely in the fashion, it was warmer than Mark's,
and the proprietor troubled himself very little about the looks.

This boy, whom Mark recognized as Ben Gibson, had a clay pipe in his
mouth, which he seemed to be smoking with evident enjoyment.

"Where you goin'?" he asked, halting in front of Mark.

"I don't know," said Mark.

"Don't know!" repeated Ben, taking his pipe from his mouth, and
spitting. "Where's your matches?"
