"Less than thirty," answered Shuffles.

"Twenty-eight. I had the curiosity to count them," interposed Paul.

"Twenty-eight," repeated the principal. "Very well; we can--"

"I hope you will excuse me, sir," said Shuffles, interrupting him. "If
this state of thing is caused by any dislike to me, sir, I am willing
to resign."

"So far as I know, you have done your duty, Shuffles; and to permit you
to resign would be to abandon the plan of the Academy Ship, and
acknowledge that discipline is an impracticable thing. You cannot
resign."

"Many of the fellows dislike me," added the captain.

"That is not your fault, as I understand the matter. That the runaways,
who, I suspect, are at the root of this mischief, should be prejudiced
against you, was to be expected. If others are also, it is because they
are misinformed. You can afford to wait till time justifies your good
intentions."

"I am willing to own that I have no desire to resign. I like the place,
but I am willing to sacrifice my own wishes for the peace of the ship."

"Peace is not to be bought on any such terms. Say nothing more about
resigning. Twenty-eight hands, you say, are ready to obey orders."

"Yes, sir."

"On an emergency, the captain and four lieutenants can officer the
ship. Masters, midshipmen, and pursers must do duty as seamen. They
will gladly consent to do so. Let it be voluntary on their part. How
many will that make?"

"Thirty-eight."

"Peaks, Bitts, and Leach will make forty-one. The Josephine is fully
manned, and can spare us nine more. That will make fifty. If we lay
aside the school work, we can sail the ship round the world with that
number."

Shuffles displayed a smile of satisfaction at this solution.

"But we will procure the services of a tug-boat to tow us to sea, so
that there will be no hard work in getting clear of the harbor," added
the principal. "Send Leavitt in the second cutter to the Josephine for
the extra hands, and let Foster go in the third for one of the
steam-tugs up by the jetties. Above all things, Captain Shuffles, do
not mention your plans to any person."

"I will not, sir," replied Shuffles, as he hastened on deck to put in
force the solution of the problem.

"What is to be the result of this, Mr. Lowington?" asked Paul.

"I don't know--nothing serious, however. The young gentlemen are
waiting very impatiently in their mess-rooms to be called and asked for
the explanation, which I doubt not is a very plausible one. Let them
wait," continued the principal, leading the way to the deck, where he
sat down with the Arbuckles, and was soon busy in conversation with
them, as though nothing had happened.




CHAPTER V.

THE ORDER OF THE FAITHFUL.


The appearance of Captain Shuffles on deck produced a decided sensation
among the officers, some of whom believed that the mutineers would be
dragged from the mess-rooms by the adult forward officers, and tied up
to the rigging. The decided character of the principal certainly
pointed to the most decided measures. Something terrible was to be
expected, and the young gentlemen were astonished when Mr. Lowington
came on deck, immediately after the captain, seated himself with the
Arbuckles, and began to converse with them as pleasantly as though no
mutiny had ever been dreamed of.

The captain called the officers around him, and all of them eagerly
obeyed the summons.

"We are going to sea immediately," said he, with none of the anxiety
which was visible in his face before. "As we are short-handed, I have a
favor to ask. Those below the rank of lieutenant, who are willing to
serve as seamen until the discipline of the ship can be restored, will
signify it by walking over to the starboard side."

All below the grade indicated, with a single exception, promptly
marched over to the other side of the ship. The four lieutenants
stepped out of the way, so that the single dissenter might stand alone.
It is hardly necessary to say that Perth was the person who was so
largely in the minority among the officers.

"You decline to serve with the other masters?" said Shuffles.

"I prefer to be excused. I have had considerable experience as a
seaman, and would like a little more as an officer," replied Perth,
politely.

"We shall dispense with the services of all the officers except the
lieutenants," added the captain. "There will be nothing for you to do,
but you shall not be compelled to serve as a seaman."

"Permit me to take his place," interposed Gordon, the senior past
officer.

"Thank you, Gordon," replied Shuffles.

"Please enroll me also as a seaman," added Haven, good-naturedly.

"And me also," laughed Paul.

"I suggest that the past officers take the places of the second, third,
and fourth lieutenants, who shall do duty as seamen," said Leavitt, the
second officer.

"By all means," added Foster, the third.

"With all my heart," followed Prescott, the fourth.

The captain adopted this suggestion, and Gordon, as second lieutenant,
was sent off to the Josephine in the second cutter, which was pulled by
three masters and the three midshipmen. When it was ready to leave, Mr.
Lowington stepped into the boat, for he desired to satisfy himself that
the crew of the consort were not also demoralized. Haven in the third
cutter, with a volunteer crew, left the ship to procure a tug-steamer.
Peaks, Bitts, Leach, and the head steward had been privately requested
to be on deck, in case any unexpected demonstration was made by the
mutineers.

In the steerage everything was very quiet. The sensation below was
decidedly superior to that on deck. The rebels were patiently waiting
to be called upon for an explanation of their remarkable conduct.
Probably none of them even noticed that the grating had been put upon
the main hatch by the cautious Peaks, to prevent them from leaving the
steerage. The boatswain's call had sounded twice, and they supposed the
faculty of the Academy were consulting upon the proper measures to be
taken. Most of them believed that they would be invited on deck, where
the principal would "preach" to them, as usual, and thus afford them an
opportunity to state their grievances. Perhaps, with the exception of
the runaways, they were willing to return to their duty after they had
recorded their protest. The principal still purposed to let them wait.

The third cutter, all of whose volunteer crew wore shoulder-straps,
came up to the gangway of the Josephine, which, like the ship, was all
ready to weigh anchor.

"You come with a very nobby crew," said Mr. Fluxion, as the principal
stepped upon the deck of the consort.

"The ship is in a state of mutiny," replied Mr. Lowington, with a smile
upon his face, which softened the astounding declaration.

"Mutiny!" exclaimed Mr. Fluxion.

"Precisely so. We called all hands to weigh anchor, and less than
thirty answered to the summons. We learned from them that the rest of
the crew refused to do duty till their grievances were heard. Do you
know of anything of this kind on board of your vessel?"

"We haven't called all hands yet, for we don't begin to get under way
till the ship mans the capstan. It is possible that we shall have the
same difficulty."

"Let your captain get under way at once, for the ship will be towed
out. If your crew is all right, I should like to transfer a few seamen
to the ship, for we are rather short-handed," added the principal.

Mr. Fluxion called Captain Terrill, and the order was given to pipe all
hands. As the boatswain's whistle sounded, the principal and the
vice-principal descended to the cabin. Mr. Lowington had begun to
explain his method of dealing with the difficulty, when a messenger
from the captain reported that twelve seamen refused to answer the
summons.

"Ascertain who they are, and get under way without disturbing them,"
