
" It would not tell me," said Norton, " because I should not understand the sign. I 
wish you would tell me now in words, Matilda." 




" I don't know if I can, but I'll try. You 
know water makes things clean, Norton ? " 
" Sometimes." 

" Well if it is used it does," said Matilda. 
" The water is a sign that I believe the Lord 
Jesus will take away my sins and make me 
clean, and good, if I trust him ; that he will 
wash my heart, and that he has begun to do 
it. And it will be a sign that I am his servant, because that is what he has commanded 
his servants." 
"What?" 

" That ; to be baptized, and join the 
church." 

" Matilda, a great many people are bap- 
tized, and keep all their sins just the same." 
" O, but those are make-believe people." 
" No, they are not ; they are real people." 
" I mean, they are make-believe Christians." 
" How do you know but you are ? " 
" I think I know," said Matilda, looking 
down. 

" But other people won't know. Your 




being baptized will not mean anything to 
them, only that somebody has coaxed you 
into it." 

" It will mean all that, Norton ; and if I am 
true they will see it means all that." 

" They might see it all the same without 
your being baptized. What difference would 
that make?" 

" It is obedience" said Matilda firmly. 
" And not to do it would be disobedience. 
And it is profession of faith ; and not to do 
it, would be to say that I don't believe." 

Norton looked amused, and pleased, and a 
little puzzled. 

" You have not told me anything about 
you, after all," he said ; " for I knew it all 
before." 

" How did you know it? " 

" Not this about your being baptized, you 
know, but about you," 

" What about me ? " 

" I say, Matilda, when will you come and 
play croquet again ? " 




" I don't know. But oh, Norton, I must 
go now. I forgot all about it. And there 
was something else I wanted to say. I wish 
you would be a servant of Jesus too ? " 

Matilda gave this utterance a little timidly. 
But Norton only looked at her and smiled? 
and finally closed the question by taking her 
in his arms and giving her two kisses thia 
time. It was done without a bit of shame- 
facedness on his part, and with the energy 
and the tenderness too of affection. Matilda 
was extremely astonished and somewhat discomposed; but the evident kindness excused 
the freedom, and on the whole she found 
nothing to object. Norton opened the iron 
gate for her, and she hurried off homewards 
without another word. 

In a dream of pleasure she hurried along, 
feeling that Norton Laval was a great gain 
to her, and that croquet was the most delightful of amusements, and that all the weariness 
of the day's work was taken out of her heart. 
She only regretted, as she went, that those 



poor people in Lilac lane had heard no reading ; but she resolved she would go to them 
to-morrow. 

There is one time, however, for doing every- 
thing that ought to be done ; and if that time 
is lost, no human calculation can make sure 
a second opportunity. Matilda was to find 
this in the case of Lilac lane. The next day 
weather kept her at home. The second day 
she was too busy to go on such an expedition. 
The third was Sunday. And when Monday 
came, all thoughts of what she had intended 
to do were put out of her head by her mother's 
condition. Mrs. Englefield was declared to 
be seriously ill. 

The doctor was summoned. Her fever 
had taken a bad turn, he said. It was a very 
bad turn ; for after a few days it was found 
to be carrying her swiftly to death's door. 
She was unable to see her children, or at 
least unable to recognize and speak to them, 
until the very last day ; and then too feeble. 
And the Sunday when Matilda had expected 




 

to be baptized, saw her mother's funeral instead. 
Anne and Letitia came up from New 
York, but were obliged to return thither immediately after the funeral ; and the two 
younger girls were left to their grief. It was 
well for them now that they, had plenty of 
business, plenty of active work on hand. It 
was a help to Maria ; after a little it diverted 
her thoughts and took her out of the strain of 
sorrow. And it was a help to Matilda, but 
in a more negative way. It kept the child 
from grieving herself ill, or doing herself a 
mischief with violent sorrow ; it was no relief. In every unoccupied moment, whenever 
the demands of household business left her 
free to do what she would, the little girl bent 
beneath her burden of sorrow. Kneeling before her open Bible, her tears flowed incessantly every moment when the luxury of indulgence could be allowed them. Mrs. Candy 
did not see the whole of this ; she was rarely 
in the girls' room ; yet she saw enough to 




oecome uneasy, and tried all that she knew to 
remedy it. Clarissa was kind, to her utmost 
power of kindness. Even Maria was stirred 
to try some soothing for her little sister. But 
Matilda could not be soothed. Maria's instances and persuasions did however at last 
urge her to the point of shewing a part of her 
thoughts and disclosing the thorn that pressed 
sharpest on her mind. It was, that she had 
not pleased her mother by doing her best in 
the studies she had pursued at school. Matilda had always been a little self-indulgent ; 
did not trouble herself with study ; made no 
effort to reach or keep a good place in her 
classes. Mrs. Englefield had urged and commanded her in vain. Not obstinately, but 
with a sort of gay carelessness, Matilda had 
let these exhortations slip; had studied when 
she was interested, and lagged behind her 
companions in the pursuits she found dry. 
And now, she could not forgive herself nor 
cease her sorrowing on account of this failure. 
Maria in despair at last took Mrs. Candy 



 

into her confidence, and besought her to comfort Matilda. Which Mrs. Candy tried her 
best to do. She represented, that Matilda 
had always been a good child ; had loved 
and honoured her mother, and constantly 
enjoyed her favour. Matilda heard, but 
