Sylvia colored a trifle at the scrutiny. 
"Yes, marriage is a matter of great importance. Eustace 
asked me if I had kept his little wife safe for him, Sylvia." 
" Mamma, that was nonsense, childish nonsense," and a 
scarlet heat flushed the young girl's face. 
" Nonsense for a man to remember ? You are very ungrate 
ful, Sylvia ;" and the mother sighed. 
She made no reply. There had been a time when Eustace 
Gilliat was a sort of hero to her, though it was more the 
family prestige and her admiration for his father than any real 
fancy for the boy. 
" Has there been any society here this winter?" Mrs. Red 
mond asked, sharply. 
"I thought it quite dull at first ; then I found Doctor Tre- 
wartha entertaining." 
" He is old enough to be your father." 
Mrs. Redmond silently studied her daughter. A fair, 
sweet girl, with beauty enough for almost any man's fancy. 
She had resolved to have her marry well ; if possible, to be 
come Mrs. Gilliat. She had a longing to queen it in that old 
house herself, in a position different from that of a guest. She 
 
had skilfully fanned Eustace's weak liking into quite a desire. 
There were no rivals at St. Albans, and if he would only stay. 
But she must lose no time in presenting Sylvia, for already 
the child began to have some opinions of her own. 
With the aid of Stella, her maid, Mrs. Redmond summoned 
sufficient energy to get her daughter ready in the course of the 
next two days. Doctor Trewartha made a friendly call, but 
his manner was most fatherly and unexceptionable. Mrs. 
McRae and Ruth paid their respects to Sylvia's mother, also. 
"That terrible woman !" and Mrs. Redmond fanned as if 
to clear the air. "So loud-voiced and man-like, and in such 
absolutely coarse health. A person of her age, too ; but it is 
in the blood, I suppose, in the blood." 
Sylvia started. Somehow it seemed as if the whole current 
of her life and belief had changed. How had she learned 
to look deeper than the surface ; to send down quick, earnest 
glances that challenged the souls she met ; to discern the 
weak, false, and meretricious, from the brave and true? A 
man or woman who worked out life in noble actions, like 
Mrs. McRae, or any other brave, fearless soul, was nobler, 
after all, than any puny being, backed by a long line of ances 
try. Had a taint of radicalism crept into her brain ? 
"Poor child, poor Sylvia," exclaimed Mrs. McRae, "she 
has outgrown her foolish mother, and that is a hard thing 
when one would fain reverence. I felt like taking her in my 
arms and bringing her to Cragness for all time. But I sup 
pose her happy childhood will come to an end shortly. Thank 
God that I have no daughters to sacrifice to Dagon." 
If Sylvia had indulged in a frantic hope of a reprieve at 
ihe last moment, she was doomed to disappointment. The 
day was cloudless, the dresses in order, the carriage not a 
moment behindhand. 
They passed down the road by the quarry. Victor Hurst 
and Trewartha stood talking, and both bowed. 
"Who is that young man, Sylvia?" her mother asked. 
 
"A connection of Mrs. McRae's. He has taken charge of 
the quarry, and " 
"That is enough," decisively. "That woman's blood 
would taint anything for me." 
A chill crept over Sylvia as she relapsed into silence. 
She had no keener eyes to-day for the beautiful road than 
her mother. Winding around the lofty hills bathed in pur 
ple splendor, passing narrow defiles where the wind swept 
through with the sad undertone of the sea, masses of rock 
tumbled together in great crags, veined with what seemed both 
silver and gold, and now and then a glimpse of the river, 
blue in its shaded depths as the sky above. But she did not 
see these grand shifting pictures ; and all she could think of 
was some poor wretch going to a dreaded fate : something 
which turned her cold and sick. 
It was almost dusk when they entered St. Albans, a tiny, 
quaint old town, perched on a level plateau between two 
mountains, while a host of smaller hills seemed to lie sleeping 
at its feet. For the last hour Mrs. Redmond had been exceed 
ingly irritable ; and Sylvia was glad to hear a pleasant voice. 
"So you have brought her back our little Sylvia;" and 
she felt her hand taken in a gracious clasp. 
"Oh, Mr. Gilliat!" 
" We are glad to see you again, my child, very glad ;" and 
yet it appeared to Sylvia there was a touch of pain and weari 
ness in the tone that she had never discerned there before. 
For all her complaints and fatigue, Mrs. Redmond under 
went a somewhat elaborate dressing at the hands of her tire 
woman. Mrs. Gilliat's prestige had gathered a number of 
notabilities at St. Albans, and this weak, foolish creature wished 
to shine among them it would always be the ambition of her 
vapid, narrow life. And now was added to it the zest of marry 
ing her daughter. 
Eustace Gilliat was lounging in the spacious parlor as they 
entered. To Sylvia he looked weaker and more effeminate 
 
than ever before, and something else that she discerned but 
could not reduce to words. The faded eyes were vicious, the 
mouth cruel and sensual, the drawling tone seemed to rasp 
every nerve. And when she contrasted him with such men as 
Trewartha and Victor Hurst, a shiver of disgust ran over 
her. 
Not a son to be proud of, was Eustace Gilliat. He appeared 
to have set at defiance all the laws and salient peculiarkies of 
his long line of ancestry. The strength, manliness, and beauty 
which had been a distinctive feature in them for generations, 
failed to catch the subtile trick here. Perhaps the blood was 
effete, worn out, or in some mysterious manner the father had 
failed to give the son his own physical vitality, as well as mental 
power. Or going still farther back, there might be some hid 
den but avenging curse. 
He had been recently expelled from a German university ; 
and his father had paid his gambling debts, that were a serious 
matter even to the Gilliat income. It could not be said that 
fate had exactly prospered him. True, he had held positions 
of trust and honor, his wife had won admiration abroad and at 
home ; but now she was suffering from a hopeless and incur 
able disease, and his son disappointed him at every turn. He 
had grown sensitive to a point of irritability ; and though he 
strove to be the light-hearted, gracious gentleman of past days, 
in his soul he knew every step was a wretched failure. 
CHAPTER XXI. 
" IN one light the case is hopeless. It is organic disease of 
long standing. You asked me for the truth, Mr. Gilliat, and 
under such circumstances, I always give a man or a woman a 
truthful answer." 
"But she is so much improved. Your skill has worked 
wonders. I wish we had known you before, Doctor Tre- 
wartha." 
Trewartha gave a short, rather incredulous laugh. 
"If we doctors could do everything, the laws that govern 
the universe would be set aside. And if we could rule our 
patients' habits, thoughts, emotions, and temper, we might add 
fifty years to their lives ; perhaps a hundred, who knows?" 
The genial ring Sylvia loved so well coming back to his voice. 
"The air and quiet are wonderfully in Mrs. Gilliat's favor. I 
should think she had been deeply worried and perplexed be 
fore the last attack ; and she was just in a situation to rally 
when I came, so I will not take undue credit. She may live 
years, but she must keep her mind tranquil, use no violent 
physical exertion, and above all things, not to be thwarted or 
opposed. The person who rouses her to any strong excite 
ment would be guilty of her murder." 
Doctor Trewartha uttered the last sentence strongly and 
clearly. 
"We shall all take the best of care of her," in a tremulous 
voice. 
"She needs that, and cheerful companionship. Many peo 
ple now-a-days hold their lives in their hands; it has become 
something more serious than a figure of speech. But by ob 
serving these rules, it is possible for her to live years longer." 
 
Sylvia Redmond* was pacing the long balcony outside, and 
the sound came through the open windows, though the voices 
were not raised. One sentence rang in her ears like the sound 
of a booming gun at sea when a ship is in danger. So she 
waited for the agile step, and strong, heartsome figure, whose 
very words were fraught with life and death, and filled her with 
a strange awe. 
"Ha, Midge!" and he put out his hand; surveying her 
with critical eyes. 
' ' Is it true what you said about Mrs. Gilliat that a person 
who roused her would be guilty of her murder?" 
Her lips were white and tremulous. 
" True as death itself, which never fails us, but is sure to 
come sooner or later. But there is nothing in it that need 
concern you, child. I gave the advice for others. She has 
been a magnificent woman, and her day has hardly declined. 
It vexes me to see men and women living out only half of 
their appointed time." 
Sylvia was silent. If she dared to tell him how this con 
cerned her. to ask him what she must do with all this weight 
of misery crushing her to the earth. 
" How you have changed, Midge. I can hardly realize that 
this is the wild, petulant little girl of three months ago. Why, 
you are a stylish, fashionable woman." 
He guessed it from the hard lines he mis-read in her face, 
from the almost haughty carriage of the head and the certain 
aplomb society gives to those who are easily trained. Her 
tight-fitting mauve silk made her look older, and the set, firm 
expression heightened the peculiar grace surrounding her. 
"Yes, I am a fashionable woman. I seem to have left 
