enemy."
"I do, when he deserves to be forgiven."
"None of your cant! I'm not going to a prayer-meeting with you now."
"It would do you good to go to one; and I know of no one who needs to
go any more than you."
"If you can hold your tongue long enough, we will proceed to business,
Phil."
"I have no business to proceed to; and I'm going to speak as I feel
inclined," I replied, resting the poker in a chair near me.
"I have business with you, if you have not with me. As I told you, I
never forgive an enemy."
"As I told you before, that is an Indian sentiment."
"Will you hold your tongue?"
"No, sir, I will not."
"You knocked me down in the street, and took my money from me."
"At your request I took it; and you were kind enough to pay me the
balance in my favor when we parted at the police station," I replied.
"You must give me back that money, Phil."
"Not if I know it. Let me remind you that the money belonged to me, and
that I did not charge you any interest upon it for the time you had it."
"The money wasn't yours. It belonged to Matt Rockwood. You stole it;
and I intended to get all I could for my friend here, Morgan Blair, to
whom all of it belongs."
"You and your friend seem to understand each other very well, except
so far as the pistol is concerned."
"I act for him. He is a young fellow, and don't know much about the
ways of the world."
"He appears to be learning very rapidly."
"He is the rightful heir of the man up the river, whose money you have.
I expect you to give it up to him."
"And I expect to do so myself, just as soon as he proves the claim.
Though I think I have a better right to the money than he has, I will
give it up whenever he satisfies me that he is the nephew of Matt
Rockwood. If this is your business with me, you can't get ahead any
farther with it to-night."
"Have you the note with you--the note of Mr.--What's his name?"
"Mr. Gracewood," added Blair.
"I respectfully decline to answer," I replied.
"But you must give it up before you leave this house."
"Then I shall stay here longer than you will want to board me."
"I don't intend to board you," sneered Lynch. "You will neither eat nor
drink till you give up this note, and the hundred dollars you got out
of me at the police station."
"So far as the money is concerned, I spent a part of it, and the rest I
left at my boarding-house."
"You can give me an order on your landlady for what you have left, and
Blair will go and get it."
"I will not give him that trouble."
"You prefer to stay here--do you?"
"I do; this isn't a bad place to stay, and I can stand it here a while."
"Consider well your situation, Phil. This is my room. I board here when
I am in town, and--"
"It's good enough for me, if it is for you."
"It is a gambling-house, and the people who live here are my friends. I
can bring in half a dozen men to help me."
"Bring them in," I replied, laughing, though I confess that I was not
very much amused.
"It's no joke."
"It will not be for you when you are done with it. When my father
misses me, he will be very likely to send for our friends, Mr. Lamar
and Mr. Gray."
"In a word, Phil, will you give me that note."
"In a word, I will not; and in another word, I will fight just as long
as I have a breath in my body, if you or anybody else attempts to
meddle with me."
"Phil, you go to prayer-meetings, and claim to be honest," continued
Lynch, changing his tone when he found that he did not terrify me.
"I do go to prayer-meetings when I can, and I try to be honest."
"I hope you will keep on trying. By the merest accident Blair stumbled
upon you, and turns out to be the heir of the man whose money you have.
He is the last of the Rockwoods. Do you think it is honest to keep him
out of his money?"
"I'm not so sure now that he stumbled upon me."
"Didn't he ask you something about the upper Missouri, and tell you he
had an uncle there? and didn't he tell you the name of his uncle before
you had mentioned it?"
"He certainly did; but since I have found out what company he keeps, I
begin to think you posted him up, and sent him to stumble upon me."
"That's absurd."
"Not at all. Didn't you hear me tell the whole story in the police
station, Mr. Leonidas Lynchpinne?"
"I never saw him till after that," replied Lynch, angrily, as he picked
up the pistol, which he had laid upon the table. "It is useless to
reason with you. Come, Blair, we will leave him here to think about it
till morning."
The villain moved towards the door, pointing his pistol at me. It was
capped, and I supposed it was loaded. Blair unlocked the door, and
retreated into the entry. Lynch followed his example, and as it was
possible that he might fire at me, I did not deem it prudent to be the
aggressor. I heard the door locked upon me.
  CHAPTER XX.
  IN WHICH PHIL IS STARTLED BY THE SIGHT OF A FAMILIAR FACE.
I actually laughed when I heard the bolt of the lock snapped upon me;
partly because I thought it was better to laugh over my mishaps than to
cry, and partly because the trick of which I had been made the victim
was simply ridiculous. Perhaps, if I had been a boy brought up in the
city, and had never been thrown upon my own resources in times of
peril, I might have taken a different view of the matter. I can easily
believe that many boys would have been intimidated, and given up the
money and the note. Lynch ought to have known me better, though I had
been a lamb at Leavenworth.
I seated myself in the rocking-chair, and looked around the room. There
was a luthern window in it, which opened upon the roof. A cheerful
coal fire burned in the grate, and the room was quite comfortable.
I examined the silver card box on the table, and the other articles
there; but I was not much interested in them, and soon gave myself up
to a consideration of the situation. Of course the whole trick was
intended to intimidate me; but I positively refused to be intimidated.
I supposed my persecutors would soon return, and renew the onslaught.
For my own part, I could not see what they intended to gain, even if
they obtained the note against Mr. Gracewood. It was stupid of them to
imagine that he would give up the money to total strangers. Still they
must have believed he would let them have the gold, for they could not
have taken all this trouble for the seventy dollars which I had. But
it was no use to speculate upon their intentions. The note was safe in
my pocket, and the money at my boarding-house. If I had supposed there
was any possibility of the villains obtaining the former, I would have
burned it on the spot, for I knew that Mr. Gracewood would pay the
money whether there was any legal document to show for it or not.
I rose from my chair, and walked to the door, in order to examine it.
This same Lynch had once before locked me into a room, and it was
possible that I might break this door open, as I had done on the former
occasion. But I found this was a different piece of work from that at
Leavenworth. It fitted well in the frame. I tried the handle, and found
that it was securely locked.
"No use, Phil," said a voice in the entry, which I recognized as that
of Morgan Blair.
It appeared that my late fellow-workman was stationed as a sentinel at
the door to prevent my escape.
"Where's Lynch?" I asked, placing my mouth at the key-hole.
"Down stairs. Are you ready to give up the note?"
"No."
"When you are, let me know."
I made no reply, but walked to the window to see what the prospect was
in that direction. I did not wish to stay in my prison a great while,
for I knew that my father would worry about me if I did not return
soon. I was in the hands of the enemy, and I was afraid that Lynch
would keep me in the room till the middle of the night, and then, with
the aid of others, overcome me, and rob me of the note. I was not so
well satisfied with the situation as at first, when I could realize the
possibilities of the occasion.
The window opened upon a steep roof. I raised the sash very carefully,
so that Blair might not know what I was about. But, then, I had hardly
a hope of being able to escape in this direction; for I did not see how
it was possible for me to descend to the street. However, I should be
out of the reach of my inquisitors, even if I passed the night on the
cold slates of the roof. I climbed out of the window, and my head swam
when I looked down the fearful depth below me. I was on the rear slope
of the roof, and beneath me was the back yard of the house.
The darkness rather favored me, for I could not so readily measure
distances, and in a short time I became accustomed to the giddy height,
though I thought it best not to look down. Holding on with one hand at
the side of the luthern window, I closed the lower sash, and dropped
the upper one. Grasping the inside of the window-frame for support, I
climbed up till my feet were placed upon the top of the two sashes.
I could then reach the roof of the luthern window. A ledge on the
top of it afforded me a good hold, and I drew myself up, though with
considerable difficulty, and my breath was all gone when I reached the
point, exhausted by the violence of my exertions.
I lay where I was a few moments to recover my wind and my strength. I
had placed the poker on the roof before I ascended, for I was afraid
that I might yet have to fight a battle. I had worked very carefully,
so as not to disturb the sentinel at the door of the room; and, so far
as I could judge, I had been successful, for I heard nothing of him. I
was on the top of the luthern window; and, so far as the inquisitors
were concerned, I was safe. I preferred to stay there, though the night
was quite chilly, rather than in the chamber of Lynch. But if I could
have my choice, it would suit me better to go home, and sleep in my
own bed.
About half way between the luthern window and the ridge-pole of the
house there was a skylight. The light shone up through it, and I
concluded from its position that it was used to light the entry where
Blair was keeping guard over the door. Lying down on the slated roof,
with my feet resting upon the luthern window, I found I could reach the
upper end of the skylight with my hands. I looked through the glass
into the entry below, and saw a gas-light burning there. Under me was
the door of the gambling-chamber, but Blair was not there. I tried to
raise the skylight; but it was secure, and could not be moved. It was
at least fourteen feet above the floor, and the space between the glass
and the ceiling of the entry was boxed in, forming a ventiduct for the
