The first result might have been Mrs. Leigh's utter ruin. The world may
finally forgive the man of genius anything; but for a woman there is no
mercy and no redemption.

This ruin Lady Byron prevented by her utter silence and great
self-command. Mrs. Leigh never lost position. Lady Byron never so
varied in her manner towards her as to excite the suspicions even of
her confidential old servant.

To protect Mrs. Leigh effectually, it must have been necessary to
continue to exclude even her own mother from the secret, as we are
assured she did at first; for, had she told Lady Milbanke, it is
not possible that so high-spirited a woman could have restrained
herself from such outward expressions as would at least have awakened
suspicion. There was no resource but this absolute silence.

Lady Blessington, in her last conversation with Lord Byron, thus
describes the life Lady Byron was leading. She speaks of her as
'wearing away her youth in almost monastic seclusion, questioned by
some, appreciated by few, seeking consolation alone in the discharge of
her duties, and avoiding all external demonstrations of a grief that
her pale cheek and solitary existence alone were vouchers for.'[16]

[Footnote 16: 'Conversations,' p. 108.]

The main object of all this silence may be imagined, if we remember
that if Lord Byron had not died,--had he truly and deeply repented,
and become a thoroughly good man, and returned to England to pursue a
course worthy of his powers, there was on record neither word nor deed
from his wife to stand in his way.

HIS PLACE WAS KEPT IN SOCIETY, ready for him to return to
whenever he came clothed and in his right mind. He might have had the
heart and confidence of his daughter unshadowed by a suspicion. He
might have won the reverence of the great and good in his own lands and
all lands. That hope, which was the strong support, the prayer of the
silent wife, it did not please God to fulfil.

Lord Byron died a worn-out man at thirty-six. But the bitter seeds he
had sown came up, after his death, in a harvest of thorns over his
grave; and there were not wanting hands to use them as instruments of
torture on the heart of his widow.




CHAPTER III.

RÉSUMÉ OF THE CONSPIRACY.


We have traced the conspiracy of Lord Byron against his wife up to its
latest device. That the reader's mind may be clear on the points of the
process, we shall now briefly recapitulate the documents in the order
of time.

I. March 17, 1816.--While negotiations for separation were
pending,--'Fare thee well, and if for ever.'

While writing these pages, we have received from England the testimony
of one who has seen the original draught of that 'Fare thee well.' This
original copy had evidently been subjected to the most careful and
acute revision. Scarcely two lines that were not interlined, scarcely
an adjective that was not exchanged for a better; showing that the
noble lord was not so far overcome by grief as to have forgotten his
reputation. (Found its way to the public prints through the imprudence
of a friend.)

II. March 29, 1816.--An attack on Lady Byron's old governess for having
been born poor, for being homely, and for having unduly influenced his
wife against him; promising that her grave should be a fiery bed,
&c.; also praising his wife's perfect and remarkable truthfulness and
discernment, that made it impossible for flattery to fool, or baseness
blind her; but ascribing all his woes to her being fooled and blinded
by this same governess. (Found its way to the prints by the imprudence
of a friend.)

III. September 1816.--Lines on hearing that Lady Byron is ill. Calls
her a Clytemnestra, who has secretly set assassins on her lord; says
she is a mean, treacherous, deceitful liar, and has entirely departed
from her early truth, and become the most unscrupulous and unprincipled
of women. (Never printed till after Lord Byron's death, but circulated
privately among the 'initiated.')

IV. Aug. 9, 1817.--Gives to M. G. Lewis a paper for circulation
among friends in England, stating that what he most wants is public
investigation, which has always been denied him; and daring Lady Byron
and her counsel to come out publicly. (Found in M. G. Lewis's portfolio
after his death; never heard of before, except among the 'initiated.')

Having given M. G. Lewis's document time to work,--

January 1818.--Gives the Fourth Canto of 'Childe Harold'[17] to the
public.

[Footnote 17: Murray's edition of 'Byron's Works,' Vol. ii. p. 189;
date of dedication to Hobhouse, Jan. 2, 1818.]

Jan. 25, 1819.--Sends to Murray to print for private circulation among
the 'initiated' the First Canto of 'Don Juan.'

Is nobly and severely rebuked for this insult to his wife by the
'Blackwood,' August 1819.

October 1819.--Gives Moore the manuscript 'Autobiography,' with leave
to show it to whom he pleases, and print it after his death.

Oct. 29, 1819, Vol. IV. Letter 344.--Writes to Murray, that he may read
all this 'Autobiography,' and show it to anybody he likes.

Dec. 10, 1819.--Writes to Murray on this article in 'Blackwood'
against 'Don Juan' and himself, which he supposes written by Wilson;
sends a complimentary message to Wilson, and asks him to read his
'Autobiography' sent by Moore. (Letter 350.)

March 15, 1820.--Writes and dedicates to I. Disraeli, Esq., a
vindication of himself in reply to the 'Blackwood' on 'Don Juan,'
containing an indignant defence of his own conduct in relation to his
wife, and maintaining that he never yet has had an opportunity of
knowing whereof he has been accused; accusing Sir S. Romilly of taking
his retainer, and then going over to the adverse party, &c. (Printed
for private circulation; to be found in the standard English edition
of Murray, vol. ix. p. 57.)

To this condensed account of Byron's strategy we must add the crowning
stroke of policy which transmitted this warfare to his friends, to be
continued after his death.

During the last visit Moore made him in Italy, and just before Byron
presented to him his 'Autobiography,' the following scene occurred, as
narrated by Moore (vol. iv. p. 221):--

 'The chief subject of conversation, when alone, was his marriage, and
 the load of obloquy which it had brought upon him. He was most anxious
 to know the worst that had been alleged of his conduct; and, as this
 was our first opportunity of speaking together on the subject, I did
 not hesitate to put his candour most searchingly to the proof, not
 only by enumerating the various charges I had heard brought against
 him by others, but by specifying such portions of these charges as I
 had been inclined to think not incredible myself.

 'To all this he listened with patience, and answered with the most
 unhesitating frankness; laughing to scorn the tales of unmanly outrage
 related of him, but at the same time acknowledging that there had
 been in his conduct but too much to blame and regret, and stating one
 or two occasions during his domestic life when he had been irritated
 into letting the "breath of bitter words" escape him, ... which he now
 evidently remembered with a degree of remorse and pain which might
 well have entitled them to be forgotten by others.

 'It was, at the same time, manifest, that, whatever admissions he
 might be inclined to make respecting his own delinquencies, the
 inordinate measure of the punishment dealt out to him had sunk deeply
 into his mind, and, with the usual effect of such injustice, drove him
 also to be unjust himself; so much so, indeed, as to impute to the
 quarter to which he now traced all his ill fate a feeling of fixed
 hostility to himself, which would not rest, he thought, even at his
 grave, but continue to persecute his memory as it was now embittering
 his life. So strong was this impression upon him, that, during one of
 our few intervals of seriousness, he conjured me by our friendship,
 if, as he both felt and hoped, I should survive him, not to let
 unmerited censure settle upon his name.'

In this same account, page 218, Moore testifies that

 'Lord Byron disliked his countrymen, but only because he knew that his
 morals were held in contempt by them. The English, themselves rigid
 observers of family duties, could not pardon him the neglect of his,
 nor his trampling on principles; therefore, neither did he like being
 presented to them, nor did they, especially when they had wives with
 them, like to cultivate his acquaintance. Still there was a strong
 desire in all of them to see him; and the women in particular, who did
 not dare to look at him but by stealth, said in an under-voice, "What
 a pity it is!" If, however, any of his compatriots of exalted rank and
 high reputation came forward to treat him with courtesy, he showed
 himself obviously flattered by it. It seemed that, to the wound which
 remained open in his ulcerated heart, such soothing attentions were as
 drops of healing balm, which comforted him.'

When in society, we are further informed by a lady quoted by Mr.
