had spent the afternoon, he only said, ‘I should have foreseen this. But
the child--she is only a child, Rosa!--did her best!’ and he looked
so mournful that I, knowing he blamed me for his bantling’s freak of
temper, told him plainly that he cared a thousand times more for this
diminutive bundle of hypocrisy than he ever did for me, and that his
absurd favoritism was fast begetting in me a positive dislike for her. I
couldn’t endure the sight of the sulky little mischief-maker for a week
after her complaint of barbarity had brought the look into his face I
knew so well.”

“O Rosa, she is your own flesh and blood! and, as her father said, a
mere baby yet! You said, too, that she refused to assign any cause to
him for her singular conduct.”

“She might better have made open outcry than have left upon his mind
the impression that I had banished her cruelly and unnecessarily. But
I despair of giving you an idea of how provoking she can be. She is a
Chilton, through and through, in feature, manner, and disposition--one
of those ‘goody’ children, you know! a class of animals that are simply
intolerable to me. She is too precocious and unbaby-like to be in the
least interesting. You should have seen my little Violet to understand
what a constant disappointment Florence is. She was myself in miniature,
and moreover the most witching, prankish, peppery elf that was ever
made. The best trait in Florence’s character was her love for her
baby-sister. She gave up everything to her while she was alive, and they
told me that she would not eat, and scarcely slept, for days after her
death. Her father will have it that she is singularly sensitive, and
has marvellous depths of feeling; but if this be so, it is queer I
never found it out. Nobody could help adoring Violet--my sweet, lost,
beautiful angel!”

The hysterical sobs were pumping up the tears now in hot torrents, and
these Mrs. Sutton was fain to assuage by loving arts she would not--but
for the danger of allowing them to flow--have been in the temper to
employ, so full was her heart of yearning pity for the hardly-used
babe, and displeasure at the mother’s weak selfishness. It was easier to
forgive and forget Rosa’s sins; to lessen, in the retrospect, her worst
faults into foibles, than it would have been to overlook the more venal
failings of one less mercurial, and whose personal fascinations did not
equal hers.

Ere the close of another day, Mrs. Sutton had excused her unnatural
insensibility to her child’s virtues and affection, by representing to
herself how fearfully disease had warped judgment and perception; had
cast over the enormities she could not palliate the pall of solemn
remembrance of the truth that death’s dark door was already as surely
shut between mother and daughter, as if the grave held the former. A
week of chill March rains and wind was disastrous to the patient, who
had seemed to draw her main supplies of strength from the sunshine
admitted freely to her room, with the spring air, redolent with the
delicious odors of the freshly-turned earth, the budding trees, and
early blossoms from the garden beneath her windows. She shrank and
shivered under the ungenial sky, while the drizzling mist soaked life
and animation out of the fragile body. Occasional fits of delirium,
increased difficulty of breathing, and a steady decline of the slender
remains of vital force, warned her attendants that their care would not
be required much longer. She was still obstinate in her disbelief of the
grave nature of her malady. The most distant reference to her decease
would arouse her to angry refutation of the hinted doubt of her
recovery, and excited her to offer proof of her declaration that she was
less ill than others supposed; she would summon up a poor counterfeit
of energy and mirth, more ghastly than her previous lassitude; deny
that she suffered from any cause, save the unfailing nervous depression
consequent upon the unfavorable weather.

Then came a day on which the sun looked forth with augmented splendor
from his sombrely curtained pavilion; when the naked branches of the
deciduous trees, the serried lances of the evergreens, and the
broad leaves of the tent-like magnolias--the pride of the Tazewell
place--shone as from a bath of molten silver. The battered flowers
ventured into later and healthier bloom, and a robin, swinging upon
the lilac spray nearest Rosa’s window, sang blithe greeting to the
reinstated spring.

Rosa heard him--opened her eyes, and smiled.

“One--maybe the very same--used to sing there every morning when I was a
girl--used to awake me from my second nap. I could sleep all night then,
and never dream once!”

A messenger had been sent, at daybreak, for her sisters and brother, who
resided several miles away, but as yet Mrs. Sutton and Frederic were her
only nurses. She had dozed almost constantly during the night, and
been delirious when awakened to take nourishment or tonics, muttering
senseless and disconnected words, and moaning in pain, the location and
nature of which she could not describe to the solicitous watchers.

“I remember that Mabel and I,” she continued, dreamily, after a long
pause--then correcting herself, “I ask your pardon, Frederic! I said I
wouldn’t speak of her ever again to you, but we were so much together in
those days. Moreover, it has troubled me at times, that you did not know
who your real friends were, and she did like you--and--and--what am I
saying! You shouldn’t let me run on so!”

She raised her hand with difficulty, and tried to wipe away the film
gathering over her dilated eyes.

“Never mind, my darling! Do not attempt to talk! You are too weak and
tired!” said her husband, tenderly.

“Tired!” catching at the word, “That is it! There is nothing else the
matter, whatever Dr. Ritchie and the rest of them may say. Tired! for
how many years I have been THAT! It seems like a thousand. This world is
a tiresome place to most people, I think I shall never forget how jaded
Mabel looked that week,” breaking off, as before, with a frightened
start, such as a dreamer gives when he fancies he is falling from an
immeasurable height. “Indeed, Fred, dear!” feeling for his hand upon
the coverlet, “I did not mean to wound or offend you. It was a terrible
ordeal for you, my love! But you came out of it as silver seven times
refined. That is what the text says--isn’t it? And you and Aunt Rachel
are friends once more! That is one good deed I have done. I hope it
will be recorded up THERE! Heaven knows there are not so many that I can
afford to have one overlooked!”

Another season of dozing, and she awoke, rubbing her hands feebly
together, as to cleanse them.

“My hands ought to be whiter--purer! I know what ails them. I should
have picked up the letter she--Mrs. Sutton--wrote you. But I loved you
so--even then!” beseechingly. “You will not hate me when I am gone? I
mean when you get back to Philadelphia, and I am well enough to be left
here. I was sure, if you got it, you would come to Ridgeley, and I let
it go down the stream--down--down! Frederic!”

“I am here, dearest!” slipping his arm under, and raising her, as her
shrill cry rang out, and she grasped the empty air. “Rosa, my WIFE!”

“I thought I was strangling--in the water! I am your wife--am I not? She
couldn’t take you from me if she were here. I wish she were! I always
liked Mabel. She was a good, true woman--but she did not love you as I
did!”

Panting for breath, she leaned upon her husband’s breast, and her
eyelids fell together again. Only for a moment! Then a smile--fond,
sweet, and penitent--played among the ashy shadows encircling her mouth.
“Poor little Florence! I am sorry I was cross to her. Tell her so,
papa!” Her husband stooped to kiss her, laid her back upon the pillows,
closed the sightless eyes, and left Mrs. Sutton alone with the dead.




CHAPTER XVII. -- AFTER FIFTEEN YEARS.


“OLD Mrs. Tazewell has departed this life at last!” said Winston Aylett,
entering his own parlor one bleak November evening on his return from
the village post-office. “I met Al. Branch on the road just now. For a
wonder he was sober--in honor of the occasion, I suppose. He and Gus.
Tabb are to sit up with the corpse to-night.”

“When did she die?” queried his wife, drawing her skirts aside, that he
might get nearer the fire.

“At twelve o’clock to-day. That is, she ceased the unprofitable business
of respiration at that hour. She died, virtually, five years ago. She
has been little better than a mummy for that period.”

“Poor old lady!” said Mabel Dorrance, regretfully, from her corner
of the hearth. “Hers was a kind heart, while she could think and act
intelligently. One of my earliest recollections is of the dainties
with which she used to ply me when I visited Rosa. She was an indulgent
parent and mistress, yet I suppose few even of those most nearly related
to her will mourn her loss.”

“It would be very foolish if they did!” Mr. Aylett picked up the tongs
to mend the fire. “And very unnatural did they not rejoice at being
rid of a burden. The old place has been going to destruction all these
years, and it could not be sold while she cumbered the upper earth.”

No one replied directly to this delicate and feeling observation, and
Mrs. Aylett presently diverted the conversation slightly by saying,--

“And Alfred Branch has gone to tender his services to the family! There
is something romantic in his constancy to a memory. From the day of
Rosa’s death, he has embraced every chance of testifying his respect
for and wish to serve her friends. He is a sadder wreck than was Mrs.
Tazewell. You would hardly recognize him, Mabel. His hair and beard are
white as those of a man of sixty-five, and his face bloated out of all
comeliness.”
