draft, which I had carefully copied, in the desk, and I intended to
carry this home, in order to ascertain at some future time whether my
figures were correct or not. When I obtained the invoices I could tell
whether I had made a failure or not in the act of taking a trial
balance. I was not satisfied that I was so utterly stupid as my
employer made me out to be.
"Those bills ought to have been entered on the lumber book," said I,
when the junior partner had disposed of my papers.
"That's of no consequence at all. The lumber book is a humbug," he
replied; "I don't believe in it; indeed, I had even forgotten that
there was any such book. The firm don't recognize it, and I think it is
liable to lead us all into blunders and errors, as it has you."
He went to the other side of the desk, where the objectionable volume
lay, turned over its leaves, and glanced at its pages. He was still
very nervous, for the effects of his sudden attack of illness appeared
not to have left him.
"No reliance whatever can be placed on this book, and I am disposed to
destroy it."
"I thought it was a very good thing. Faxon uses it a great deal, and
says he can tell what stock he has on hand, when a customer comes,
without going out of the counting-room."
"It is not reliable. The only way to know what stock we have is by
looking it over."
Very likely he would have destroyed it if Mr. Collingsby had not called
him into the private counting-room at this moment. He evidently had a
hearty grudge against the book, which I thought was entirely
groundless.
"Mr. Whippleton don't think much of your lumber book," said I, when the
head salesman came in a moment later.
"Why, what's the matter with it?" asked the man.
"He says it is not reliable."
"I think it is; and since I adopted it, two or three other concerns
have kept one like it, after asking me about it. What's the reason it
isn't reliable?"
"You may neglect to enter invoices or sales."
"Your ledger wouldn't be good for anything if you neglected to carry
all your items to its pages."
I was about to specify more particularly that the firm had about forty
thousand dollars' worth of stock on hand more than appeared in the
lumber book, when Mr. Whippleton returned. He evidently understood what
I was doing, and told me to make up the bank account.
"You needn't say anything to Faxon about his book. Let him keep it, if
he wishes to do so," said he.
"I did say something to him."
"You did? What did you say?"
"I only told him you didn't think his book was reliable."
"That's no more than the truth, but you need not mention the matter
again. It will only make unpleasant feeling. Smooth it over if he says
anything more about it, and let the matter drop."
I was rather puzzled, but I went on with the bank account.
"And by the way, Phil, you needn't say anything to Mr. Collingsby about
those invoices," he added, a little while after.
"I shall not be likely to do so. He hardly ever speaks to me, and I
never do to him, unless it is to answer a question."
"He's very fussy and particular. It was careless in me to leave those
papers at home, but it is all right now. This is a fine day, Phil, and
we will take a sail about four o'clock if you like."
I did like; I always liked to take a sail. I had been with him a dozen
times already, and had been promoted to the position of able seaman on
board, for I had taken the helm, and actually worked the boat alone for
hours at a time. I had been out with the junior partner in some pretty
heavy blows, and enjoyed them too. In fact, I considered myself as
competent to handle the Florina as I was to make out a trial balance. I
looked into the theory of sailing a boat, and understanding the
principles, I found the practice easy.
After the business of the day was done, we embarked, and sailed with a
stiff breeze to the head of the lake. Mr. Whippleton was more than
usually kind and considerate, but he appeared to be thoughtful and
troubled. He gave me the helm, and went into the cabin as soon as we
were out of the river. He sat at the table, with a pencil and paper,
and seemed to be absorbed in some difficult calculation.
At dark we were off Indiana City. I reported to Mr. Whippleton, and he
came on deck. He told me to come about, and I did so without any
assistance from him. He talked a little about the business of the firm,
but soon relapsed into silence. His manner was somewhat strange, but I
attributed it to his ill health. We had an abundant supply of
provisions on board, such as crackers, sardines, lambs' tongues; and we
usually took our supper on board, as we did not return to the city till
nine or ten. Sometimes we cooked ham and eggs, beefsteak, or a mutton
chop, and made coffee. I was cook and steward generally, but this time
my employer brought up some eatables, and we took our supper in the
standing-room. I noticed that he had no appetite, and I was really
afraid that he would be seriously ill.
The next day I carried home all the papers relating to my trial
balance, and locked them up in my valise. Mr. Whippleton staid in the
counting-room all day for the next week, but nothing more was said of
my unfortunate attempt to prove my zeal. He did not, however, bring the
missing invoices, and I ventured to mention the matter again. He had
forgotten all about them, but would attend to it the next day.
Another week elapsed before he produced them. I looked them over, and
they appeared to be correct. They were in the ordinary forms, with the
printed headings of the establishments at which the lumber had been
purchased. As soon as he gave them to me I took up the lumber book.
"You needn't enter them on that book, Phil," said the junior partner;
"I don't believe in that book, and I won't have anything to do with it.
File them away, and don't say anything about them to any one."
Of course I obeyed my orders, but I confess that I began to think
something was wrong. The Whippleton idea of honesty was not very high.
The cash amounts of these invoices had been paid, and I supposed the
lumber had been received in the yard. But Mr. Whippleton was a partner
in the concern, and he could not mean to cheat himself. My curiosity
was excited, but as a clerk I had no right to meddle with what did not
concern me.
When I went to bed that night I could not sleep, for my mind would
dwell upon the mysterious invoices. I heard the clock on a church
strike twelve, and still I was awake. A few minutes later I heard a
knock at my door. Mrs. Whippleton had been sick for a week, and I found
that the summons came from her nurse. The landlady was worse, and she
wanted to see me at once. I hastily dressed myself, and went to her.
"Phil, I know you are honest; everybody says so. I want to see you,"
said she, as I entered.
I could not imagine what my honesty had to do with the matter, but I
waited for an explanation.
CHAPTER XI.
IN WHICH PHIL TAKES CHARGE OF MRS. WHIPPLETON'S EARTHLY TREASURE.
I had not seen Mrs. Whippleton for a week, during which time she had
been confined to her room, and I was surprised at the change which had
taken place in her during that time. She appeared to have lost one half
of her flesh, and her face was very thin and pale.
"I didn't like to call you up at this time of night, Philip, but I
wanted to see you very bad," said she, in feeble tones. "I'm a very
sick woman."
"I hope you will get better," I answered.
"I hope so too, but there's no knowin'."
"I didn't know you were very sick."
"Perhaps I hain't been till to-day. The doctor looked kind o' anxious
to-night when he came; and I've been a good deal worried."
"You must be calm, Mrs. Whippleton."
"I try to be, but I can't; and I don't think anybody could in my
situation. I don't know but I'm goin' to die."
"Let us hope not. But I trust you are prepared to die," I added, with
due solemnity; for I confess that the dreadful thing about her case was
the idea of being hurried into eternity with only the worldly wisdom
she had preached to me to sustain her in the trying ordeal.
"No, I'm not prepared to die. I've got thirty thousand dollars--"
"I wouldn't trouble myself about money, Mrs. Whippleton," I interposed.
"That's what I wanted to see you for," said she, looking at me with
apparent astonishment.
"Do not think of business while you are sick, Mrs. Whippleton."
"But I must think of it. I have felt so bad today, that I didn't know
as I should get well."
"So much the more need, then, of thinking of other things than money."
"I suppose you think I'm a very great sinner," she added.
"We are all sinners, Mrs. Whippleton; and we are all great sinners."
"Well, I ain't any worse'n the rest on 'em. But I don't want to talk
about them things now. I've got somethin' else on my mind. I've got
thirty thousand dollars--"
"But I would not think of that now."
"I must think on't. It worries me. I know you are an honest young man,
Philip; and I can't say that I know of another one in the whole world."
"That's a harsh judgment; but if I am honest, it is because I believe
in God and try to do his will."
"I suppose you are right, Philip. I wish I was better than I am; but as
I ain't, 'tain't no use to cry about it. I didn't send for you to
preach to me, though I hain't no kind o' doubt I need it as bad as any
on 'em. Ever since I fust see you in the steam car I believed you was
honest, and meant to do just about what's right. Set up a little closer
to me, for I don't want to tell the world what I'm goin' to say to you.
I believe I can trust you, Philip."
"I always try to do what is right, and I have no doubt I succeed better
than those that don't try at all," I replied, finding that it was
useless to attempt to talk to her of anything except money and
business; though I hoped, when these important topics were disposed of,
that she would be reasonable on matters of more consequence.
Certainly her appearance was very much altered, and she spoke of dying.
Young as I was, I had already been in the presence of death, and I
thought that matters of the soul's concern ought to be attended to
before anything else.
"You knew that my son Charles has been here to-night?" continued Mrs.
Whippleton.
"No, I have not seen him."
"He was; and he has been here every night for a week, pestering me
almost to death, when I'm sick. He's fretting what little life there is
left to me out of my body."
"Why, what's the matter with him?"
"He wants money--all I've got in the world, if I'll give it to him. He
says he shall be ruined if he can't get it."
"Indeed!"
"I don't know nothin' about it, but he says something's wrong in the
firm. He wants forty thousand dollars, and must have it, or be ruined
