with evident approval. Not that the house compared with the homes of
many of my young readers who are favored by fortune. It was not
magnificent, but it was neat, and well furnished, and looked bright and
cheerful. To Rufus it appeared even elegant. He had a glimpse of the
parlor through the half-opened door, and it certainly was so, compared
with the humble boarding-house in Franklin Street, not to mention the
miserable old tenement house on Leonard Street, which the readers of
"Rough and Ready" will easily remember.

"I say, Miss Manning, this is jolly," said Rufus, in a tone of
satisfaction.

"Isn't it a nice house, Rufie?" said little Rose.

"Yes, it is, Rosie;" and Rough and Ready, to call him for once by his
old name, felt happy in the thought that his little sister, whose life,
thus far, had been passed in a miserable quarter of the city, would now
be so much more favorably situated.

At this moment Mrs. Clayton made her appearance.

"Good-morning, Miss Manning," she said, cordially; "I am sorry the
servant left you standing in the hall. Good-morning, my dear,"
addressing Rose; "is this young man your brother?"

"He is my brother," said Rose; "but he isn't a young man. He's a boy."

Rufus smiled.

"Maybe I'll be a young man in twenty or thirty years," he said. "Miss
Manning tells me," he continued, "that you have a small room which you
will let for five dollars a week with board."

"Yes," said the landlady; "my price has always been five and a half, but
as your sister would like to have you here, I will say five to you."

"Can I look at it?"

"Yes, I will go up and show it to you at once."

They followed Mrs. Clayton up two flights of stairs. The door of the
vacant room was already open. It was a hall bedroom of ordinary size.
The head of the bed was on the same side as the door, the room being
just wide enough for it. Between the foot of the bed and the window, but
on the opposite side, was a bureau with a mirror. There were a washstand
and a couple of chairs beside it. A neat carpet covered the floor, and
the window was screened by a shade.

"You see it is pretty good size for a hall bedroom," said the landlady.
"There is no closet, but you can hang your clothes on that row of pegs.
If there are not enough, I will have some more put in."

"I think there will be enough," said Rufus, thinking, as he spoke, of
his limited wardrobe. He was not much better off than the man who
carried all his clothes on his back, and so proclaimed himself
independent of trunk-makers.

"Well, Rufus, what do you think of the room?" asked Miss Manning.

"I'll take it," said our hero, promptly. He had been on the point of
calling it bully, when it occurred to him that perhaps such a word
might not be the most appropriate under the circumstances.

"When will you come, Mr. ----?" here the landlady hesitated, not having
been made acquainted with the last name of our new boarder. Here it
occurs to me that as yet our hero has not been introduced by his full
name, although this is the second volume of his adventures. It is quite
time that this neglect was remedied.

"Rushton," said Rufus.

"When will you take possession of the room, Mr. Rushton?"

"I'll be here to-night to dinner," said Rufus, "Maybe I won't send my
trunk round till to-morrow."

"I didn't know you had a trunk, Rufie," said Rose, innocently.

"I don't carry my trunk round all the time like an elephant, Rosy," said
her brother, a little embarrassed by his sister's revelation, for he
wanted to keep up appearances in his new character as a boarder at an
up-town boarding-house.

"Rufus, wouldn't you like to go up and see my room?" interposed Miss
Manning; "it's on the next floor, but, though rather high up, I think
you will like it."

This opportune interruption prevented Rose from making any further
reference to the trunk.

So they proceeded upstairs.

Though Mr. Colman had not yet sent in the additional furniture promised
by his wife, the room was looking bright and pleasant. The carpet had a
rich, warm tint, and everything looked, as the saying is, as neat as a
pin.

"This is to be my room," said Miss Manning, with satisfaction,--"my room
and Rosy's. I hope you will often come up to visit us. How do you like
it?"

"Bully," said Rufus, admiringly, unconsciously pronouncing the forbidden
word.

"I think we shall be very comfortable here," said Miss Manning.

Here a child's step was heard upon the stairs, and Jennie Colman
entered.

"Mamma would like to see you downstairs, Miss Manning," she said.

"Good-morning, my dear," said her new governess. "Rufus, this is one of
my pupils."

"Is that your husband, Miss Manning?" asked Jennie, surveying Rufus with
attention.

Rufus laughed, and Miss Manning also.

"He would be rather a young husband for me, Jennie," she said. "He is
more suitable for you."

"I am not old enough to be married yet," she answered, gravely; "but
perhaps I will marry him some time. I like his looks."

Rufus blushed a little, not being in the habit of receiving compliments
from young ladies.

"Have you got that doll for me, Jennie?" asked Rose, introducing the
subject which had the greatest interest for her.

"Yes, I've got it downstairs, in mamma's room."

They went down, and at the door of Mrs. Colman's room Miss Manning said,
"Won't you come in, Rufus? I will introduce you to Mrs. Colman."

"Yes, come in," said Jennie, taking his hand.

But Rufus declined, feeling bashful about being introduced.

"It's time for me to go to the office," he said; "some other time will
do."

"You'll be here in time for dinner, Rufus?"

"Yes," said our hero, and putting on his hat he made his escape, feeling
considerably relieved when he was fairly in the open air.

"I s'pose I'll get used to it after a while," he said to himself.

"I am glad you have come, Miss Manning," said Mrs. Colman, extending her
hand. "You will be able to relieve me of a great deal of my care. The
children are good, but full of spirits, and when I have one of my
nervous headaches, the noise goes through my head like a knife. I hope
you won't find them a great deal of trouble."

"I don't anticipate that," said the new governess, cheerfully; "I am
fond of children."

"Do you ever have the headache?"

"Very seldom."

"Then you are lucky. Children are a great trial at such a time."

"Have you the headache this morning, Mrs. Colman?" asked Miss Manning,
in a tone of sympathy.

"Not badly, but I am seldom wholly free from it. Now suppose we talk a
little of our plans. It is time the children were beginning to learn to
read. Can your little girl read?"

"A little; not very much."

"I suppose it will be better not to require them to study more than an
hour or two a day, just at first. The rest of the time you can look
after them. I am afraid you will find it quite an undertaking."

"I am not afraid of that," said Miss Manning, cheerfully.

