" Oh," and she looked up gayly, " I was thinking of 
the time Miss Jessie took us out in the sleigh, and 
how pleasant it was. Such a surprise too ! " 

"It was very kind, indeed, one of the happy 
memories of our past life." 



 



Kathie drew a long breath. "Something else 
came into my mind, Aunt Euth. I feel as if I 
ought to return some of these favors to others." 


"What particular person is to have this pleas- 
ure ? ' and Aunt Euth smiled kindly. 

A dainty little flush went up to her temples. 
" You know that Mrs. Gardiner has been very sick. 
She is getting better ; and when I was there yester- 
day the doctor said that if she could go to ride it 
would do her a great deal of good. But there does 
not seem to be any one to take her ; and then I thought 
how happy Miss Jessie made us last winter, and 
I would like to do the same thing, though she is 
not as poor as we were then. And she was very 
kind to us too. The day Uncle Eobert came home, 
she told me that as soon as the strawberries were 
ripe mamma must send me to get some." 

" It would be right pleasant, Kathie, as we know 
by experience. I am glad to find you so con- 
siderate." 

" Then, Aunt Euth, let us drive that way. If 
she knows that you trust me she may not feel at 
all afraid ; and the ponies are so very gentle." 

" I think that a good plan," answered Aunt Euth. 
approvingly. 





So on their return they went round by Mrs. 
Gardiner's. They passed the old house in their 
way. 

" How odd it seems ! " said Kathie. " I sometimes 
wonder if I really am the little girl who used to 
live there, and if all these wonderful things have 
happened to me since last Christmas ! " 

Lucy Gardiner had been sweeping the piazza and 
the broad-stones down the path. She stopped, 
broom in hand, delighted to see Kathie. 

"Mamma is better!" she exclaimed, joyfully. 
" She walked out in the garden this morning. 
Will you come in ? ' 

Kathie sprang down and tied the ponies, for 
Aunt Euth preferred sitting still; it was so much 
exertion to get her out and in again. 

" You can drive all by yourself, - - isn't that 
splendid ! " exclaimed Lucy, in wide-eyed astonish- 
'ment. " And to have a pony ! ' 

" I 'm coming in," said Kathie, with her cheery 
smile. "I want to see your mother a moment." 

Mrs. Gardiner was in the sitting-room, pillowed 
in the rocking-chair. She held out her hand to 
Kathie with a pleased look. 



 

" I saw you in the carriage," she said. " How 
much comfort you and Aunt Euth must take to- 
gether ! And you are very kind to come so often." 

" I wanted to ask a favor this morning,' 
Kathie began, timidly. " The doctor said you might 
go to ride, and I thought that I would like to take 
you if " 

"My dear Kathie," said Mrs. Gardiner, in sur- 
prise, "how thoughtful you are! Do you really 
mean to spend your time upon a poor sick woman 
when you might be enjoying it better ? ' 

" But I seem to have so much time to play and 
all that, and no work to do, so I think I ought to 
be useful in some way. And it will be a pleasure. 
You see I brought Aunt Euth, that you might know 
it was perfectly safe." 

" I used to drive a good deal when I was a girl. 
We lived on a farm and had horses. I should not 
be at all afraid." 

"And if you would go this afternoon " 

" Why, I think I might," she said, slowly, glancing 
out at the quivering sunshine and the low, easy 
carriage. " It would be a great treat, for I get so 
tired of staying here day after day, and they are so 




hurried at the shop that Mr. Gardiner cannot get 
off an hour." 

Just then Lucy ran in, her dimpled face rosy with 
the exercise of work. 

" Kathie has asked me to go out in her pretty car- 
riage," said her mother. 

" mamma, isn't that delightful ! I only wish 
some one would give me a pony." 

Both of the girls looked at each other and then 
laughed. " I was thinking of the day your uncle 
asked you to direct him," said Lucy, and Kathie re- 
joined, " So was I." 

" How grand you 'll be, mamma ! I saw Kathie 
taking out Miss Jessie Darrell one day last week." 

" Then if you will go this afternoon ; will three 
be too early ? " 

" no. I shall take a nap after dinner and be 
in a state to enjoy the drive wonderfully." 

Lucy had to kiss Kathie half a dozen times before 
she let her go, and call her the dearest little thing in 
the world, and not a bit proud because she lived in a 
handsome house and had a pony. 

So Kathie went away much pleased with her suc- 
cess, and drove directly home. The house was very 



 

quiet. Uncle Eobert had gone to the next town and 
taken Freddy with him, while Eob and Dick Grayson 
were away on a small fishing expedition. 

Aunt Eutli's room was considered a general sitting- 
room, and thither Kathie brought her work-basket, to 
rest herself, she said. Mrs. Alston was making her a 
dress, and she employed her leisure time working a 
pair of slippers for Uncle Eobert. As they were to 
be a surprise, she had to do them when he was not 
present. Aunt Euth read aloud to them. 

They passed very many happy days together. 
Some of the village people thought Mrs. Alston 
exceedingly plain and deficient in both taste and 
ambition. But it was her desire, while the children 
were small at least, to live as simply as possible. 
Their one servant found herself not overworked, for 
the mistress took the charge of household matters, 
and Hugh, being very handy and obliging, did many 
little favors for them. It was Mrs. Alston's desire to 
make her brother's home as pleasant as she could, 
and not to burden him with unnecessary cares or 
