touched by the attentions. 
A spasm of the old jealous feeling stole over her. 
She did not love to share whatever was hers with 
any other person, and that Emma should show her 
gladness at his coming, that he should appear so 
pleased with her wordless recognition But what if 
their friendship was older, certainly, and it might 
 
be something deeper than friendship. Ada had been 
quick to spy out the meaning of such things. 
Then she suddenly checked her surmises, and put 
aside her pained, exacting self. Why should not Mr. 
Langdon care for Emma ? and why should she thrust 
away the simple pleasures of friendship because an- 
other had something sweeter and finer ? 
So the cloudy brow cleared up, and the perplexity 
seemed to roll away like a summer mist. Strange, 
too, she felt better after the effort had been made, and 
she resolved as well not to whisper her suspicion to 
Kathie, to take pattern by the child's delicacy and 
reticence. 
They had a lovely drive, and found a group gath- 
ered at the wide-open hall door to welcome them. 
Farmer Strong and his sons had made a little im- 
provement at the front this spring. There was a new 
fence and a neat gate, and two clumps of evergreens 
beautified the old-fashioned door-yard. Then the 
stone steps had been relaid, and the whole place 
wore an improved air. 
Mr. and Mrs. Strong were profuse in their welcome. 
Indeed, they esteemed the visit of any friend of 
Kathie as quite a compliment. Ada took off her hat 
and sack in the best room, gave a glance at herself 
in the old-fashioned glass, and then they were all 
marshalled out to supper. 
The table literally groaned with good things. To 
be sure, the China was in the most glaring of colors, 
and the forks steel, with only two tines ; but the cloth 
was snowy white and thick as velvet, and napkins, 
and the most generous hospitality. The " children " 
were ranged down one side, with Cousin Ellen to look 
after them, and Ada admitted that they behaved very 
well, if they were rather free with their English. 
" Your friend doesn't look very rugged, Miss Kathie. 
City girls are 'most always pale and thin. They stay 
in the house, sit up late nights, and lace too much, 
and then never have any appetite. Why, child, you 
don't eat enough to keep a mouse alive ! " 
Ada blushed and smiled, yet appeared a little dis- 
mayed at the quantity on her plate, that she had 
taken to please Mrs. Strong. Kathie explained that 
her friend had been an invalid for some time. 
" There is nothing in the world like good country 
air and wholesome food," declared the farmer, " and 
then not too much study. Gals get worn out before 
they are women nowadays." 
Sarah colored warmly. She did not want hei 
father to air his pet hobby before Kathie's stylish 
friend, and changed the conversation with a grace 
that one would hardly have expected. Uncle Eobert 
understood it and assisted, meeting Sarah's quick, 
grateful glance. How much tact, and what a fine 
sense the girl was developing ! 
Presently the strangeness wore off, and they were 
all exceedingly cordial. Even Ada seemed to catch 
the infection, and laid aside her sense of dignity, for- 
got the obtrusive self that usually haunted her. 
They had the loveliest of moonlight to ride home 
in, though the Strongs would fain have kept them 
later in the evening. 
Kathie leaned back in her seat and gave a halt- 
sigh. 
" Are you tired ? " asked her uncle. 
" Pleasantly tired " ; and she smiled a little. " I
had to go all over the farm to see every new tree and 
shrub, and the horses and cows and chickens, and 
everything. We have talked steadily, I believe, 
and I feel as if I had been ' out visiting.' It was 
very good of you to come, Ada, and gives you a little 
glimpse of real country. I hope you were not wearied." 
" On the contrary, I was a good deal interested. 
But how do they manage with so many children ? ' 
" I suppose it doesn't seem a great many to them. 
And how nice it will be when they are grown up and 
married, and come home to Thanksgiving dinners ! I 
wish we had a dozen children." 
Ada thought how often she had wished herself an 
only child, and how, since the reverse of fortune, she 
had almost grudged the money spent upon the others. 
Ah, how narrow and selfish her soul really was ! 
" How generous it was of you to take so much 
pains with that Sarah Strong ! ' Ada said, as they 
were preparing for bed. " But I should be afraid 
that people of that stamp would presume." 
" If there is anything nice, and any lifting up in 
this world, why shouldn't they get their share ? 
And I often think they have more real, true deli- 
cacy than many of whom you might rightfully ex- 
pect it." 
" That was going out of the way to find work, I am 
sure," Ada said, with a half-smile, rather doubtful, as 
if she was not fully satisfied. 
" Was it ? No, I think it came right in my way. 
And it seemed to be one of the very ' least of these.' 
ver since all the good and enchanting fortune came 
to me I have been trying to give thanks, not in words 
only, but in making other lives a little bit pleasanter, 
if I could ; and I feel as if it was the poor and barren 
ways that wanted to be taught to blossom, not those 
with roses already in them." 
A great choking seemed to rise in Ada's throat. 
Something had been in her heart for many days, at 
times vexing her through very perverseness, and then 
rendering her grateful in spite of herself. 
" I heard,' she began, in a low tone, averting her 
face, " that you might have gone to the White Moun- 
tains with a pleasant party. You gave it up in order 
to" 
" Not altogether," exclaimed Kathie, with a quick 
flush and a little quiver through all her pulses. 
Mamma could not go, nor Emma, and I would 
rather have stayed at home anyhow. But I am 
very glad if ' 
" It has been a pleasant visit, and I have improved 
in health, perhaps in some other ways as well. You 
were very kind to think of it, to do it. Good night." 
Ada's voice was husky, and she turned abruptly 
away. Kathie did not feel slighted because there 
 
was no warmer demonstration. She understood that 
it would be very hard for Ada, after always having 
held herself loftily above her, to confess herself in 
any secondary position. And Kathie had learned the 
grandest and sweetest part of Divine charity, not to 
seek her own. It was enough that the work was 
done. So long as the sheaves came in, it made little 
difference whether they were laid at her feet or not. 
" The boys are on their homeward route," said 
Uncle Eobert one morning. " Eob is in despair 
because vacation is so nearly over." 
Mrs. Alston smiled. Eob would be himself only 
to the end of boyhood, or even life. 
Ada had letters too. A brief, rather fault-finding, 
note from her mother, and quite a lengthy letter from 
her father. He had been spending several days at the 
seaside, but from the tone of his reference to it Ada 
judged that it had not been much of a rest or refresh- 
ment. He seemed, indeed, weary and discouraged. 
Their cook was discharged, and the house shut up. 
Edward had insisted upon his brother's sharing his 
home comforts, which he had been very glad to do. 
Was it the difference in love and devotion and ten- 
derness that so moved him ? 
 
Ada's eyes had been opened to many things. Here- 
tofore it seemed as if she and her mother had been 
the greatest sufferers by their reverses. Had not her 
father lost incalculably as well ? In past times his 
home had proved bright and elegant, made so by an 
abundance of money and choice serving, rather than 
that any one had studied his comfort. Now there 
were toilsome, perplexing days, but who ever tried to 
brighten the evenings ? Her mother was full of the 
worry of servants and the many privations she had to 
endure, or, if there were no guests in, often spent 
the evening on the sofa with a headache. He was 
trying to make it better for them all, but was it 
not their duty to do something in return ? 
According to Aunt Ruth, the boys had enjoyed 
themselves royally, and been no trouble to anybody. 
They had fished and hunted, explored rivers and 
mountains and the camps of friendly Indians, been 
lost two or three times, and had several hair-breadth 
escapes. And, above all, she confessed to Kathie that 
Bruce was the tenderest and manliest of sons. 
The days flew by so rapidly that, before one was 
really expecting it, a telegram came from New York, 
announcing that a whole party were on their way to 
 
Brookside, the two others being Jessie and Mr. Mere- 
