“No, not in this case. So I told you to keep the change, did I?”

“Yes, sir.”

“Then you’d better do it.”

“Do you mean it?” asked Tom, astonished.

“To be sure. I never break my word.”

“Then I’ll do it,” said Tom. “Aint I in luck this morning, though?”

“Yes, I think you are. As I probably know more of business than you, my
young friend, will you permit me to give you a piece of advice?”

“All right,” said Tom.

“Then, as gold is at a premium, you had better sell that gold piece, and
take the value in currency.”

“Where can I sell it?” asked Tom.

“I don’t, in general, solicit business, but, if you have confidence in
my integrity, you may call at my office, No. — Wall Street, any time
to-day, and I will give you the market value of the gold.”

“I don’t understand all them big words,” said Tom, rather puzzled, “but
I’ll go as soon as I have sold my papers.”

“Very good. You may ask for Mr. Dunbar. Can you remember the name?”

Tom said she could, repeating it two or three times, to become familiar
with it.

An hour later she entered the broker’s office, looking about her for her
acquaintance of the morning.

“Ah, there you are,” said the broker, recognizing her.

“So you want to sell your gold?”

“Yes, sir.”

“Gold sells at 141 to-day. Will that be satisfactory?”

“Yes, sir.”

“Mr. Johnson,” said Mr. Dunbar, addressing a clerk, “give that young
lady value in currency for five dollars in gold.”

Tom handed in the gold, and received in return seven dollars and five
cents. She could hardly credit her good luck, not being familiar with
the mysteries of banking.

“Thank you, sir,” said she gratefully, to the broker.

“I hope you will favor us with any future business you may have in our
line,” said Mr. Dunbar, with a friendly smile.

“Yes, sir,” answered Tom, rather mystified by his manner, but mentally
deciding that he was one of the jolliest gentlemen she had ever met.

When Tom emerged from the office, and was once more in the hurry and
bustle of Wall Street, it is very doubtful whether, in that street of
millionnaires and men striving to become such, there was a single one
who felt so fabulously wealthy as she.




                              CHAPTER XXI
                   TOM FALLS INTO THE ENEMY’S HANDS.


Tom found herself the possessor of seven dollars and fifty cents,
including the quarter which she owed to Mrs. Murphy for money advanced.
It was not yet eleven o’clock. She decided to call on Mrs. Murphy, pay
back the loan, and inform her of her good luck.

Mrs. Murphy was seated at her stand, keeping a sharp lookout for
customers, when she espied Tom approaching.

“Have you sold your papers, Tom?” she asked.

“Yes, Mrs. Murphy. Here’s the money I borrowed of you.”

“Keep it longer; you’ll maybe nade it. I aint afraid to trust you.”

“I don’t need it. I have been lucky. See there!” and Tom displayed a
roll of bills.

“Where’d ye get all them?” asked the apple-woman, in amazement.

“A gentleman paid me a gold piece for a ‘Herald,’ and wouldn’t take any
change.”

“Is it truth you’re tellin’, Tom?”

“Of course it is. Do you think I’d tell you a lie?”

“Tell me all about it, Tom.”

Tom did so, to the intense interest of Mrs. Murphy, who, after
ejaculations as to Tom’s luck, added, “I wish he’d buy some apples of
me, and trate me in the same way. And what are you goin’ to do wid your
money, Tom, dear?”

“I’m going to get a square meal pretty soon, Mrs. Murphy. If you’ll come
along, I’ll treat you.”

“Thank you, Tom, all the same, but I can’t lave my business. You’d
better put it in the savings-bank, where it’ll be safe. Maybe you might
lose it.”

“Have you got any money in the savings-bank?”

“No, Tom, dear. It takes all I earn for the rint, and atin’ for the
childers.”

“I want to live with you, Mrs. Murphy, if you’ll take me.”

“Shure and I’d be glad to have you, Tom, if you’ll put up wid my poor
room.”

“I’d rather be there than at Mrs. Merton’s,” said Tom.

After some negotiation, Mrs. Murphy agreed to take Tom as a boarder,
furnishing her with lodging, breakfast and supper, for a dollar and a
half a week. It seemed a small sum, but it would be a welcome addition
to the apple-woman’s weekly income, while it would take Tom from the
streets, and give her a cheerful and social home.

“I’ll pay you now for a week,” said Tom. “Then I’ll be all right even if
I lose the money.”

After some persuasion, Mrs. Murphy was induced to accept the payment in
advance.

“Now I’ll go and get some dinner,” said Tom.

Tom directed her steps to the Belmont House Restaurant, on Fulton
Street. It has two rooms,—one for ladies, the other for gentlemen; and
is well-patronized by a very respectable class, chiefly clerks and
business men. It was of a higher grade than the restaurants which those
in Tom’s line of business were accustomed to frequent. Her dress,
however, prevented any surprise being felt at her entrance. She sat down
at a table, and looked over a bill of fare. She observed that roast
turkey was marked forty cents. This was rather a large price for one in
her circumstances to pay. However, she had been in luck, and felt that
she could afford an unusual outlay.

“Roast turkey and a cup of coffee!” ordered Tom, as the waiter
approached the table.

“All right, miss,” said that functionary.

Soon the turkey was set before her, with a small dish of cranberry
sauce, and a plate of bread and butter. Two potatoes and the cup of
coffee made up Tom’s dinner. She surveyed it with satisfaction, and set
to with an appetite.

“I should like to live this way every day,” thought Tom; “but I can’t
afford it.”

The waiter brought a check, and laid it beside her plate. It was marked
45 cents.

Tom walked up to the desk near the door, and paid her bill in an
independent manner, as if she were accustomed to dine there every day.
In making the payment she had drawn out her whole stock of money, and
still held it in her hand as she stood on the sidewalk outside. She
little guessed the risk she ran in doing so, or that the enemy she most
dreaded was close at hand. For just at the moment Tom stood with her
face towards Broadway, granny turned the corner of Nassau and Fulton
Streets, and bore down upon her, her eyes sparkling with joy and
anticipated triumph. She was not alone. With her was a man of
thirty-five, bold and reckless in expression, but otherwise with the
dress and appearance of a gentleman.

“There’s the gal now!” said granny, in excitement.
