his presence in the cutter was not even suspected.

The first cutter was sent to the town for Dr. Winstock and Mr. Mapps,
and in an hour or two the excitement had entirely subsided. The
routine of the ship went on as before, and as there was little work to
be done, the absentees were hardly missed.

At half past eight the next morning, the signal, "All hands, attend
lecture," was flying on board of the Young America. The boats from
the Josephine and the Tritonia came alongside the ship, bringing all
the officers and crews of those vessels. Paul Kendall and lady, and
their friends, were brought off from the shore; Shuffles and his wife
also appeared, and a further delegation from each of the yachts asked
admission to the ship to hear the lecture, or rather to attend the
exercise in geography and history, for the occasion was even less
formal than on the first cruise of the ship. The steerage was crowded,
after the boatswain had piped the call, and Mr. Mapps was doubtless
duly flattered by the number of his audience. On the foremast hung a
large map of Sweden and Norway.

"If you please, young gentlemen, we will begin with Scandinavia," said
the professor, taking his place near the foremast, with the pointer in
his hand. "What was Scandinavia?"

"The ancient name of Norway, Sweden, and Denmark," replied one of the
students.

"The barbarous tribes from the northern part of Europe at different
times invaded the southern sections, conquering various other tribes,
occupying their territory, and thus mingling with all the people from
whom originated the present nations of Europe. Thus, in remote ages,
the Scandinavians, among others, by their conquests and their
emigration, have contributed largely to the modern elements of
society. With this explanation we will look at Scandinavia in detail,
beginning with Norway. Between what degrees of latitude does it lie?"

"Between forty and ninety," replied an enthusiastic youth.

"True--quite right; and a safe answer. If you had said between one and
ninety, the answer would have been just as good for any other country
as for Norway. I would like to have the jacket fit a little closer."

"Between fifty-eight and seventy-one, north," answered one who was
better posted.

"Exactly right; about the same latitude as Greenland, and our
newly-acquired Alaska. Our ship is anchored in the same parallel as
the northern part of Labrador, and one degree south of the southern
point of Greenland. But it is not as 'cold as Greenland, here,' the
temperature being some twelve degrees milder, because the warm waters
of the Gulf Stream are discharged upon its shores. You know its
boundaries. It is one thousand and eighty miles from the Naze to the
North Cape, and varies from forty to two hundred and seventy miles in
width. How many square miles has it?"

"One hundred and twenty-three thousand square miles."

"Or a little larger than the six New England States, New York, and New
Jersey united. The country is mountainous, and abounds in picturesque
scenery. Precipices, cataracts, and rushing torrents are very numerous
in the central and northern parts. The Vöringfos is a waterfall, and
the Rjukanfos, near the central part, are cataracts of about nine
hundred feet perpendicular descent; but of course the volume of water
is not very large. The highest mountains are between eight and nine
thousand feet high. Norway has an abundance of rivers, but none of
them are very long. The coast, as you have seen, is fringed with
islands, which, with the numerous indentations, form a vast number of
bays, straits, channels, and sounds, which are called fjords here.
One of the principal of these is Christiania Fjord, which you will
ascend in a few days. The country also abounds in lakes, which, as in
most mountainous regions, are very narrow, being simply the widenings
of the rivers. The largest of these is Miösen Lake, fifty-five miles
long, and from one to twelve wide.

"The soil is not very good, and the Norwegians are not progressive
farmers. They cling to the methods of their sires, and modern
improvements find but little favor among them. The winter is long, and
the summer short; but by a provision of provident nature, the crops
mature more rapidly than in some of the southern climes, as grain has
been reaped six weeks after it was sowed. The principal crops are the
grains; but the supply is not equal to the demand, and considerable
importations are received from Denmark and Russia. In the south the
farmers devote themselves to stock-raising, while in the north the
Lapps derive nearly all the comforts of life from the reindeer, the
care of which is their chief industry.

"The extensive product of pine and fir have created a vast trade in
lumber, which constitutes three fourths of the exports to the United
Kingdom, and a considerable portion of the inhabitants in the wooded
districts are employed in cutting, sawing, and sending to market the
wealth of the forests. Next in importance to this are the fisheries,
which yield about five million dollars a year. Cod, haddock, and
herring are cured for exportation, and are an important source of
revenue. Besides these, the roe of the cod is sent to France, Italy,
and Spain, as bait for sardines. Norway supplies London with lobsters.
Norway iron, as well as Swedish, is very celebrated; but the mines are
poorly managed, as are those of copper and silver.

"The kingdom of Norway is divided into eighteen provinces, which are
called Amts. Its population, in 1865, was one million seven hundred
thousand, showing an increase of about two hundred thousand in ten
years. The government is a constitutional monarchy."

"I thought it was a part of Sweden," said one of the students.

"Not at all. The King of Sweden is also the King of Norway; but each
country has its own independent and separate government. Each has its
own legislature, makes its own laws, and raises and expends its own
revenues. The king exercises his functions as ruler over both kingdoms
through a council of state, composed of an equal number of Swedes and
Norwegians, whose duty it is to advise the sovereign, and, in
accordance with a peculiar feature of monarchy, to take the
responsibility when any blunder is made; for "the king can do no
wrong." If anything is wrong, some one else did it. Having the same
king, who rules over each nation separately, is the only connection
between Norway and Sweden. The former pays about one hundred and
twenty thousand dollars of his civil list, and he is obliged to reside
in Norway during a small portion of each year.

"The constitution of Norway is one of the most democratic in Europe.
The legislative and part of the executive power is vested in the
Storthing, which means the 'great court,' composed of the
representatives of the people. The king has but little power, though
he has a limited veto upon the acts passed by the legislative body. He
can create no order of nobility, or grant any titles or dignities. The
members of the Storthing are elected indirectly by the people; and
when they assemble, they divide themselves into two houses,
corresponding to our Senate and House of Representatives. All acts
must pass both chambers, and in case of disagreement, the two bodies
come together, and discuss the subject.

"The religion of Norway is Lutheran, and few of any other sect are to
be found; formerly, no other was tolerated, but now religious freedom
prevails, though Jesuits and monks of any order are sternly excluded.
The clergy, who are generally very well educated, have an average
income of about a thousand dollars a year, and I think are better paid
than even in our own country. The people are well instructed, and one
who cannot read and write is seldom found.

"The early history of Norway is that of most of the countries of
Europe--a powerful chief subjugated his neighbors, and united the
tribes into a nation. Harold the Fair-haired, whose father had
conquered the southern part of the country, fell in love with Gyda,
the daughter of a petty king, who refused to wed him till he had
absolute sway over the entire country. Pleased with the lady's spirit,
he vowed never to cut or comb his hair till all Norway lay at his
feet. It appears that he eventually had occasion for his barber's
services, and wedded the lady. This was in the ninth century; and the
victories of Harold drove many of the Norsemen, or Northmen, to seek
their fortunes in other lands. They discovered and colonized Greenland
and Iceland, and even established settlements on the continental
portion of North America. Traces of them have been found on the Gulf
of St. Lawrence, and some claim that they founded settlements farther
south. They figure largely in the early history of England and
Scotland, and even carried their piratical arms into Russia, Flanders,
France, Italy, and other territories.

"A son of Harold, who had been educated in England, brought
Christianity into Norway; but, it was three centuries before the new
faith had established itself. Like the Hindoos, Greeks, and Romans,
the ancient Scandinavians had a mythology, upon which their religion
was based. They believed that in the beginning all was chaos, in which
was a fountain that sent forth twelve rivers. These streams flowed so
far from their source that the waters froze, and the ice, defying the
modern law of nature, sank till the fathomless deep was filled up. Far
south of the world of mist, in which this miracle was wrought, was a
world of fire and light, whence proceeded a hot wind that melted the
ice, from the drops of which came the ice-giant, whose name was Ymir,
and from whom proceeded a race of ice-giants. From the wedding of the
ice and heat of the two extremes of the world came a cow, from which
ran four streams of milk, the food of the ice-giants. While this
wonderful beast was licking the salt stones in the ice, which formed
her diet, a quantity of human hair grew out of them, and the next day
a human head was developed, and then appeared a whole man. Bör, the
son of this man, married a daughter of one of the ice-giants, and they
had three children, the oldest of whom was Odin, who became the rulers
of heaven and earth, because they were all good, while the children of
Ymir, the ice-giant, were evil. Then, as now, the Good and the Evil
were at war. Finally the ice-giant was slain, and being thrown into
space, the world was created from his body; his blood forming the sea
