things in glass and porcelain and bronze. Every foot of the counters
and of the floor, along the sides of the room, seemed to Matilda to be
filled with things to be looked at. Such beautiful basins and ewers,
just for washing! Such charming vases and flower glasses! Such handsome
clocks and statuettes and lamps! Then there were painted cups, and
flowered goblets and tumblers, and flasks wonderfully cut, and bowls,
large and beautiful, but clearly not for toilet use, that excited
Matilda's wonderment. She was lost in delight as well as wonder.
"Here," said David, and the word struck like a blow upon her nerves of
hearing,--"here is the article. Isn't that unexceptionable now?"
With the others, Matilda turned to see what he was pointing at. A glass
liqueur stand, with a crystal flask and tiny cups to match; as pretty
and elegant as it could be; even rare in its delicate richness among so
many delicate and rich things. The others were eager in their praise.
Matilda was silent.
"Don't you like it, Pink?" said Norton.
"It is as pretty as it can possibly be," Matilda answered. "But
Norton"--
"Then we might as well get it," said Norton. "We're all agreed. There's
no use in looking further when you are suited."
"So I think," said David. "I never do."
"That is as good as Mrs. Lloyd could do for herself," said Judith.
"But Norton"--said Matilda.
"Shall we have our names put on the cups?" said Norton.
"But Norton," said Matilda desperately, "we are not all agreed. I am
very sorry!--I like it very much--it's beautiful"--
"You are afraid you haven't money enough?" said Norton. "Never fear!
Davy and I will pay the largest half; you and Judy shall give less, but
it don't make any difference. I'll tell you! David and I will get the
stand and the flask; and you two shall give the cups."
"It isn't that," said Matilda, very much distressed; "it is not that,
Norton; it is something else. It is"--
"What in the world is it?" said Judy, balancing herself daintily on one
toe.
"It is--that I don't drink wine, you know."
"What's that to do?" said Judy, while the two boys both looked at
Matilda. "You haven't to drink or let it alone; it is not for your
use anyhow."
"No, I know that; but I don't think it is right--I mean,--I mean," said
Matilda, gathering courage, "I have promised to do all I can to prevent
people from drinking wine. I can't help in such a present as this."
"They don't drink wine out of these little cups," said David. "It is
something different; it is Noyau, or Curaçoa, or Chartreuse, or
Maraschino, or some of those things, you know."
"Yes, but it is stronger," said Matilda in a low voice. "It's stronger
than wine."
"She's temperance!" exclaimed Judith, turning round on one heel and
coming back into position. "She's temperance! We are all wicked at Mrs.
Lloyd's; we drink Hock and we sip Curaçoa. I suppose she has only been
where people drink gin and lager; and she thinks it's all alike."
"She has been at Briery Bank, Judy," said Norton, "where the wines are
as good as in Blessington Avenue."
"Then she ought to have learned better!" said Judy. "That's all I have
to say."
"But Pink," said Norton, and he was very kind, though he looked
vexed,--"this is not anything about your drinking or not drinking,
you know. Grandmamma will have her wine and she will offer her cordial,
just the same; it don't make any difference; only we want to give her
something she will like, and she will like this; don't you see?"
"Yes, Norton, I see," said Matilda, her eyes filling with tears; "I am
very sorry; but I wish you and David wouldn't have anything to do
with wine, either."
"She don't mention me!" exclaimed Judy. "Either I'm so good I'm safe;
or I'm so bad it's no use trying to take care of me. You poor boys, she
will try to take care of you. What impertinence!"
"No more than if you did it, Judy, come, now!" said Norton. "It's no
such thing; it's only nonsense. Now Pink, don't be nonsensical!"
"We can do it without her being in the affair, if she doesn't like it,"
said David. "But I do not understand," he went on, addressing himself
to Matilda. "Giving a present isn't drinking wine, is it?"
"No," said Matilda, who by this time could hardly speak at all. "But
Mr. David, it is helping somebody else to drink."
"Do you think what you do would help or hinder?"
"What you do might."
"We shall go on just the same, whatever way you take. What difference
can it make, whether your money is in it or not?"
"I don't know," said Matilda struggling;--"none, perhaps, whether my
money is in it. But my name would be in it."
"Do you think that would make any difference?--stop, Norton, I want to
understand what she will say. What would your name do, in it or out of
it?"
"Ridiculous! to spend time talking to her!" said Judy. "That is just
what she wants."
But David waited for his answer; and Matilda's eyes were all
glittering, while her little head took its inexpressible air of
self-assertion.
"I don't know--I can't, tell," she said, answering David as if she had
not heard Judy;--"it might do nothing, but I have promised to use it on
the right side."
"Promised whom?" said David. "Maybe it is a promise that need not
stand. Promised whom?"
"Yes, whom did you promise, Pink?" said Norton.
Matilda hesitated and then spoke.
"I promised the Lord Jesus Christ," she said slowly.
She was looking at nobody in particular, yet her eye caught the
expression of annoyance on Norton's face; she did not see the cloud of
disgust and surprise that came over David's. He turned away. Judith's
eyes snapped.
"Isn't that neat now?" she said. "We have got a saint among us, sure
enough. Well--saints know how to take care of their money; we all know
that. What are we poor sinners going to do for grandmamma's present?
that's the question. I propose that we get her a prayerbook, very
large, and black, with gilt clasps and her name on the cover; then
everybody will know that Mrs. Lloyd is a good woman and goes to church."
"Be still, Judy!" said her brother sternly.
"Propose something yourself then," said Judith. "We can't do anything
at Candello's, that's clear. I don't believe there's an innocent thing
here beside tea cups. I've seen people drink brandy and water in
tumblers; and bowls hold whiskey punch. Dear me! what a pity it is that
good things are so bad!"
"Hush, Judy!" said Norton; "you won't hurt anybody by being too good."
"It's a way I despise," said Judith coolly. "When I hurt anybody, I
like to know it. I never shut my eyes and fire."
"It's a wonder you don't take better aim, then," said Norton
impatiently. "You are firing wild just now. Matilda has a right to
think as she likes, and she don't shut her eyes and fire. There's
nothing of a coward about her. But then we don't think as she thinks,
about some things; and I say we'll get this liqueur stand and she shall
find something else for her part."
"I'll tell all about it, though, at home," said Judy.
"I dare say Matilda would as lieve you did," said Norton. "Come,
David--will you finish this business? You and I and Judy will go thirds
in it. I've got some other matters to attend to with Matilda, and time
is running away; and Monday school begins. Come, Pink--we have got to
go to Tiffany's."
"What o'clock is it, Norton?" Matilda asked as soon as they were
outside of the shop.
"Near twelve, Pink. I declare! time does run."
"Norton, couldn't we go home first, and go to Tiffany's after luncheon?
there'll be a long afternoon, you know."
"Every place is so crowded in the afternoon," said Norton. "But you
want to go home, Pink? Well, you shall. We shouldn't have much time
before luncheon, that's a fact."
So they got into a street car that was passing.
"Whatever made you say that, Pink?" Norton burst out when they were
seated. "David and Judy are set against you now."
"I think they were before, Norton."
"No, they weren't; or if they were, I don't care; they had nothing to
say. Now you have given them a handle."
"I didn't say anything very bad," said Matilda with her voice trembling
a little.
"No, but they'll take it so. What is it to us, what grandmamma, or any
one else, does with a thing after we have given it? That is none of
our affair. We only make the present."
"It would be very strange, though, to give anybody something you were
not willing he should use," said Matilda.
"Of course. I am willing. I don't care what anybody does with a thing,
after I have done with it."
"I care," said Matilda softly.
"Why? Now Pink, you don't. What do you care whether grandmamma drinks
curaçoa or not after dinner?"
Matilda hesitated.
"I wish she wouldn't," she said then again softly. "Then you and David
and Judy wouldn't."
"Why shouldn't we?" said Norton rather shortly.
"Because, people get too fond of such things. And it ruins them."
"It hasn't ruined me yet," said Norton.
But that was about as far as Matilda could go, and she burst into
tears. She kept them back bravely, while they were in the car, but she
could not find voice to reply to any of Norton's kind words, which were
meant to be very soothing; and as soon as they got home she went
straight to her room. Norton went to his mother.
"We have had a splendid confounded time! mamma," he burst out.
"Splendid and confounded?" his mother repeated.
"No, ma'am. Splendidly confounded, I should have said. We went to get
grandmamma's present. And Pink, she has contrived to make David and
Judy as mad with her as they can be; and that's saying a good deal,
when you are talking English. Now how it's to be undone, I don't know.
I suppose Pink is crying her eyes out about it. She had no heart to go
to Tiffany's or anything. We are going after dinner, though."
"But what is the matter? what has she done, Norton?"
"Came out with temperance and religion, and all that sort of thing,
to David and Judy; fancy it, mamma! and more than that, with the very
part of religion that they like least of all. Wouldn't help us buy a
liqueur stand for grandmamma, because she doesn't think it is right to
use cordials."
"What a child!" exclaimed Mrs. Laval.
"She's got pluck," said Norton, picking up a pin from the floor and
energetically giving it a cast into the fire; "she's a brick, she is! I
knew that the first day I saw her; but mamma, she is very soft in that
