fellows they used to have in Scotland?"
"What for?" asked Laybold.
"They want to make him secretary of the treasury."
"Why so?" inquired Jones.
"Because they need a financier; for the fellow would certainly be one.
There, do you see that French conjunction on the shore? Hear him bark."
"That is a dog," protested Laybold.
"What of it? Isn't it afin que? Well, those are strange people,"
continued Scott, shaking his head.
"What's the matter with them?"
"Matter? Did you oversee the 'finny tribe' walking about on shore
before?"
"You are a monster, Scott," laughed Jones.
"Yes, a sea-monster; and if I were monarch of all I surveyed, I should
have plenty of Finns. Do you suppose those women have any nephews and
nieces?" asked Scott, still gazing at the group of men, women, and
children, who had gathered on the beach to see the squadron.
"Of course they have."
"Then we must go on shore and be introduced to them."
"But we can't speak Finnish."
"In that case we shall be obliged to finish speaking."
"But why should we be introduced to the 'women with nephews and
nieces?'"
"Because it is eminently proper and right that American young gentlemen
should be acquainted with finance. The boats are coming, and I am like
that shed on the beach."
"I don't see it."
"Yes--Finnish shed. Come, tumble down the hatchway," said Scott, as he
led the way to the steerage.
Mr. Mapps, the instructor in geography and history, was already at
his post, which post was the foremast of the ship, whereon was hung a
large map of Finland, drawn by himself on the back side of another map,
with black paint and a marking brush; for he had not been able to find
a printed one on a large scale. The students from the consorts soon
appeared, and a few raps with the professor's pointer procured silence.
"Where are we now, young gentlemen?" he began.
"Here, sir," responded Scott.
"A little more definitely, if you please."
"Eastern hemisphere, sir," added Scott.
"Excellent; but couldn't you venture to come a little nearer to the
point."
"Near Åbo, in Finland," said another student.
"Right; but the little ring which you see over the A in the printed
name of the town makes the pronunciation as though it were written
O-bo. The proper style of the country is the Grand Duchy of Finland;
and in his relations to it, the Czar of Russia has been called the
Emperor Grand Duke. The Finnish name of the country is Suomema, which
means 'the region of lakes.' You see, by a glance at the map,--which
is rather rudely drawn,--that this is the character of the country,
even to a greater degree than in Norway and Sweden. It has the Gulf
of Bothnia on the west, and the Gulf of Finland on the south, with
Finmark, a province of Norway, on the north, and Russia proper on the
east."
"But where is Lapland?" asked a student.
"Lapland is a region which belongs to Russia and Norway, and part of
it is included in Finland. The name is not applied to a political
division, but to the country of a particular people. Finland has
about one hundred and forty thousand square miles of territory; about
the size of Montana Territory, more than half as large as Texas, or
eighteen times as large as Massachusetts. Its population is about the
same as this last state--in round numbers, one million four hundred
thousand. A large portion of the country is a desolate region. In the
southern part; the soil is good, and in former times Finland was the
granary of Sweden; but its agriculture has since declined. Vast forests
cover a considerable portion of its territory, and the lumber from
them is the principal source of wealth to the people, who are also
largely engaged in the fisheries. There are some extensive cotton
and iron manufactures. All the principal towns are on the coast,
except Tavastehus; but the largest place, Helsingfor, has only sixteen
thousand inhabitants.
"Not much is known of the early history of Finland; but the country
was governed in tribes by chiefs, or kings. They took to the water
very naturally, and became pirates, harassing the Swedes to such a
degree, that Eric, their king, sent an expedition to Finland in the
twelfth century, where he established Swedish colonies, and introduced
Christianity. One of the colonies was planted here in Åbo, where the
first Christian church in the country was built. From this time the
Swedes and Finns blended, and the history of Finland was merged in that
of Sweden. Birger Jarl built Tavastehus, and confirmed the conquest.
But Russia coveted this desolate region, and first conquered Wyborg,
its most eastern province, and the Finns fought with Sweden in the
various wars with her powerful neighbor. The people suffered terribly
from these wars, and from famine. From 1692 to 1696, sixty thousand
perished from famine in the province of Åbo alone. In the wars of
Charles XII., thousands of Finns were sacrificed, and five regiments
of them were killed or captured during the march into the Ukraine, and
in the battle of Pultowa. After this battle, in 1709, in which Charles
XII. was totally defeated, the Russians invaded the whole of Finland,
and held it until 1721, when, with the exception of Wyborg, it was
restored to Sweden.
"In 1741 the Swedes made an attempt to recover what they had lost, but
utterly failed. Again, in 1788, Gustavus III., commanding the Swedish
army in person, tried to regain the ancient province of Wyborg; but
a conspiracy at home compelled him to return, and the favorable
opportunity was lost. In 1790 the king renewed the attack by sea, and
his fleet of thirty-eight vessels was blockaded at Wyborg by a Russian
squadron of fifty-one ships. The Swedes cut their way out of the trap,
but with the loss of fifteen ships. The fleet, reduced by these heavy
losses, was again attacked by the Russians in overwhelming force; but
the result was a glorious victory for the Swedes, in which their enemy
lost fifty-three vessels and four thousand men. This event ended the
war for the time, and a treaty honorable to the Swedes was signed.
In 1808 Finland was again invaded by the Russians, without even the
formality of a declaration of war. The Swedes were unprepared for the
contest, and slowly retired to the north, fighting several battles, and
gaining some unimportant victories, but were completely overwhelmed in
the battle of Orawais. By the treaty which followed, all of Finland and
the Aland Islands were ceded to Russia.
"By a special grant of Alexander I., graciously renewed by his
successors, Finland retains her ancient constitution, which provides
for a national parliament. The right to legislate and impose taxes
upon the people is nominally in this body, but is really exercised by
a senate appointed by the Emperor Grand Duke. The executive power is
in the hands of a governor general, who represents the sovereign. The
people still retain their national customs and language, and when you
go on shore this afternoon, you will find very little that is Russian.
The money is in marks and pennies, with the decimal system; and
Russian paper is not current in Finland. A mark is worth about twenty
cents of our money, and four of them make one ruble, the gold value of
which is eighty cents. The currency of Russia in actual circulation is
all paper, so that the value of the ruble is reduced about twenty per
cent. Finland also has a paper currency, which is of depreciated value,
as is the case in all countries where gold and silver are not in actual
use."
The professor finished his lecture, and the students were about to
separate, when the stroke of the bell called them to order again,
and Mr. Lowington stepped upon the platform. The officers and seamen
were all attention in an instant, for it was expected that he would
say something upon the exciting subject which had been so thoroughly
discussed in all the vessels of the squadron.
"Young gentlemen," the principal began, "I have something to say to
you concerning the application which has been made to me to make
certain of the offices of the squadron elective. I have not the
slightest objection to the plan, if the elections can be fairly and
honorably conducted. I have considered the plan in substance, which
has been presented to me several times, and I like it, though in its
practical workings I think that grave objections will be developed.
By the present plan, one with very little experience and very little
seamanship may reach the highest offices, especially, as will sometimes
happen, when the nautical branch of the institution receives less
attention in any one month than the scholastic. By the plan you
propose, you may elect the least worthy of the officers to the rank of
captain. Votes may be bought and sold, and electioneering excitements
carried to excess. The plan in use has worked very well, and I am not
aware that any injustice has ever been worked by it. It has always
happened that the best and most reliable students have attained the
highest places; though I must acknowledge that it may not always happen
so. For a change, I am willing to try your plan."
A demonstration of applause greeted this announcement, but it came
mainly from the officers.
"But I wish to say, that though I have considered substantially the
same plan several times, I should not now introduce it if you had not
asked for it. The present is certainly the fairest plan, for it places
all upon an absolute equality, and under it every officer is indebted
entirely to his own merit for his position, and not at all to the favor
of his instructors or his friends among the ship's company. A change,
therefore, is more properly inaugurated by you than by me.
"I am informed by the committee that the vote was not unanimous,
and one member of the committee did not choose to appear with the
delegation."
"He was notified of the meeting of the committee," said De Forrest.
"I was notified," replied Scott; "but the meeting of the committee was
held in the after cabin, which I am not permitted to enter."
The opposition applauded till the snap of the bell silenced them.
"This does not look exactly like fair play, especially as Scott is
supposed to represent the opposition to the change."
"He was notified of the time when the committee would wait upon you,
sir, in the main cabin, but he declined to attend," answered De Forrest.
"If there was a preliminary meeting of the committee, he ought not to
have been excluded from it," added Mr. Lowington. "Your proceedings
must be revised, and the opposition must be heard."
"Mr. Lowington, as a member of the committee, I withdraw all
opposition," interposed Scott.
"I do not know that you are authorized to do so," replied the
principal; "but I am very glad to see this spirit of accommodation on
your part."
"I don't think the new plan is so fair as the old one; but I wish to
have a fair trial of it. The new method was got up by the nobs in the
cabin--"
"The what?" inquired the principal, with a smile.
