frightened you, almost," said the minister 
smiling. Matilda did not say what was the 
matter. 
" Have you been quite well ? " 
" Yes, sir." 
" You were not in your place on Suday." 
No, sir." 
And Matilda's tone of voice gave an unconscious commentary upon her very few 
words. 
" And you have not been to take tea with 
me in a great while." 
" No, Mr. Richmond." 
" Suppose you corne to-day." 
" O I cannot, sir." 
" Why not ? I think you can." 
" I don't know whether my aunt would let 
me." 
" We will go and ask her." 
" O no, sir ; she is not at home, Mr. Rich 
mond. She has gone to New York." 
" For how long ? " 
" Only till nine o'clock to-night." 
" Then there can be no possible harm in 
your coming to take tea at the parsonage." 
" I don't know whether she would let me," 
said Matilda, with an evident intimation that 
^he doubt was barrier enough. 
" You think she would not like it? " 
" I think perhaps she would not. 
Thank you, Mr. Richmond!" 
" But Tilly, I want to talk to you. Have 
you nothing to say to me ? " 
" Yes, sir. A great deal," said the child 
with the look of slow meditation. The 
minister considered her for a moment. 
" I shall take the decision of the question 
upon myself, Tilly, and I will make it all 
right with your aunt. Come to the parsonage, or rather, go to the parsonage ; and I will 
join you there presently. I hePve half an 
hour's business first to attend to. You must 
carry those strawberries home ? Very well ; 
then go straight to the parsonage and wait 
there for me." 
Arid with an encouraging nod and smile, 
Mr. Richmond walked off. Matilda took her 
basket home ; carried the key of the house 
door to Maria at Mrs. Trembleton's ; and set 
her face up Butternut street. 
She was very glad ; it seemed like getting 
out of prison ; though she was not altogether 
satisfied in her mind that Mr. Richmond 
might be able to make it all right with Mrs. 
Candy. She was obliged to risk that, for 
Mr. Richmond's invitation had had the force 
of an injunction. So she took the good of 
the moment, and turned in at the gate of the 
parsonage lane with something like a feeling 
of exultation and triumph. The shadow of 
the elms was sweet on the road ; the smooth 
quiet of the grounds, railed off' from worldly 
 
business and care, seemed proper only to the 
houses of peace which stood upon them. 
The old creamy brown church on one side ; 
on the other the pretty new Sunday school 
house ; in front, at the end of the avenue of 
elms, the brown door of the parsonage. Ma 
tilda felt as if her own - life had got away 
from out of peaceful enclosures; and she 
walked up the avenue slowly ; too slowly for 
such a young life-traveller. She had no need 
to knock this time, but just opened the door 
and went straight to Mr. Richmond's study. 
That was peace itself. It was almost too 
pleasant, to Matilda's fancy. A cool matting 
was on the floor; the light softened by green 
hanging blinds ; the soft gloom of books, as 
usual, all about; Mr. Richmond's table and 
work materials and empty chair telling of his 
habitual occupation ; and on his table a jar 
of beautiful flowers, which some parishioner's 
careful hand had brought for his pleasure. 
The room was sweet with geranium and lily 
odours ; and so still and pure-breathed, that 
 
the flowers in their depth of colour and 
wealth of fragrance seemed to speak through 
the stillness. Matilda did not ask what they 
said, though maybe she heard. She came a 
little way into the room, stood still and looked 
about her a while ; and then the child flung 
herself down on her knees beside a chair and 
burst into a passion of weeping. 
It lasted so long and was so violent that 
she never heard Mr. Richmond come in. And 
he on his part was astonished. At the first 
sound of his voice Matilda stopped crying 
and let him raise her from the floor ; but he 
did not put her into a chair. Instead of that 
he sat down himself and drew her to his side. 
Of course he asked what the matter was. 
Also of course Matilda could not tell him. 
Mr. Richmond found that out, and then took 
another road to his object. He let Matilda 
get quite quiet ; gave her a bunch of grapes 
to eat, while he seemed to busy himself 
among his books and papers ; at last put 
that down and took Matilda's plate from her. 
" You do not come to church in the evening 
lately, I observe, Tilly," he remarked. 
" No, sir. Aunt Candy does not like me to 
go." 
" And you have not been to the prayer 
meeting either, or to the meetings of our 
Commission. The ' Band ' is called our 
* Christian Commission,' now." 
" No, sir." And Matilda's eyes watered. 
" For the same reason ? " 
" Yes, sir." 
" Not because you have lost pleasure in 
such meetings ? " 
" O no, Mr. Richmond ! Did you think I 
had ? " she asked timidly. 
" I could not know, you know," said Mr. 
Richmond, " and I wanted to ask you. I 
am very glad to hear it is no bad reason that 
keeps you away." 
" I didn't say that, Mr. Richmond," Ma 
tilda answered slowly. " Could it be a good 
reason ? " 
" Why it might," said Mr. Richmond cheerfully. " You might be not well enough ; or 
you might have more important duties to do 
at home ; or you might be unwilling to come 
alone ; and all those might be good reasons 
for staying away." 
" It was no such reason," said Matilda. 
There was silence. 
" You wanted to talk to me, you said," 
Mr. Richmond observed. 
" Yes, Mr. Richmond, I do ; if I only knew 
how." 
"Is it so difficult? It never used to be 
very difficult, Matilda." 
" No, sir ; but things are different." 
" You are not different, are you ? " 
" I don't know " said Matilda slowly ; 
" I am afraid so. I feel very different." 
" In what way ? " 
" Mr. Richmond,," she went on, still slowly, 
and as if she were meditating her words, 
" I don't see how I can do just right." 
" In what respect ? " said the minister very 
quietly. Again Matilda paused. 
" Mr. Richmond is it always wrong to 
hate people ? " 
" What things should make it right for us 
to hate people ? " 
" I don't know" said Matilda in the same 
considering way ; " when there isn't the 
least thing you can love them for, or like 
them?" 
" What if the Lord had gone by that rule 
in dealing with us ? " 
" O, but he is so good." 
" And has commanded us to be just as 
good, has he not ? " 
" But can we, Mr. Richmond ? " 
"What do you think, Tilly, the Lord 
meant when he gave us the order? " 
" He meant we should try." 
" Do you think he meant that we should 
only try ? do you think he did not mean that 
we should be as he said? " 
" And love hateful people ? " 
What do you think, Tilly ? " 
" O Mr. Richmond, I think I'm no't good." 
 
" What is the matter, my dear child ? " Mr. 
Richmond said tenderly, as Matilda burst into 
quiet tears again. " What troubles you ? " 
