blended prettily enough in effect with the flags ; and 
at first glance I received quite as much pleasure 
from the frescoes that advised me where to buy my 
summer clothing, as from any bunting I saw. 

I had the good fortune on the morning of this first 
Jubilee day to view the interior of the Coliseum 
when there was scarcely anybody there, — a trifle 
of ten thousand singers at one end, and a few thou- 
sand other people scattered about over the wide 
expanses of parquet and galleries. The decorations 



 

within, as without, were a pleasure to the eyes that 
love gayety of color ; and the interior was certainly 
magnificent, with those long lines of white and hlue 
drapery roofing the balconies, the slim, lofty columns 
festooned with flags and drooping banners, the arms 
of the States decking the fronts of the galleries, and 
the arabesques of painted muslin everywhere. I do 
not know that my taste concerned itself with the 
decorations, or that I have any taste in such things ; 
but I testify that these tints and draperies gave no 
small part of the comfort of being where all things 
conspired for one's pleasure. The airy amplitude 
of the building, the perfect order and the perfect 
freedom of movement, the ease of access and exit, 
the completeness of the arrangements that in the 
afternoon gave all of us thirty thousand spectators a 
chance to behold the great spectacle as well as to 
hear the music, were felt, I am sure, as personal 
favors by every one. These minor particulars, in 
fact, served greatly to assist you in identifying your- 
self, when the vast hive swarmed with humanily, 
and you became a mere sentient atom of the mass. 

It was rumored in the morning that the cere- 
monies were to begin with prayer by a hundred 
ministers, but I missed this striking feature of the 
exhibition, for I did not arrive in the afternoon till 
the last speech was being made by a gentleman 
whom I saw gesticulating effectively, and whom I 
suppose to have been intelligible to a matter of 
twenty thousand people in his vicinity, but who,was 
to me, of the remote, outlying thirty thousand, a 



 

voice merely. One word only I caught, and I 
report it here that posterity may know as much as 
we thirty thousand contemporaries did of 

THE president's SPEECH. 


I do not know if I shall he ahle to give an idea of 
the immensity of this scene ; but if such a reader as 
has the dimensions of the Coliseum accurately fixed 
in his mind will, in imagination, densely hide all that 
interminable array of benching in the parquet and 
the galleries and the slopes at either end of the edi- 
fice with human heads, showing here crowns, there 
occiputs, and yonder faces, he will perhaps have 
some notion of the spectacle as we beheld it from 
the northern hill-side. Some thousands of heads 
nearest were recognizable as attached by the usual 
neck to the customary human body, but for the rest, 
we seemed to have entered a world of cherubim. 
Especially did the multitudinous singers seated far 
opposite encourage this illusion ; and their fluttering 
fens and handkerchiefs wonderfiilly mocked the 
movement of those cravat-like pinions which the 
fency attributed to them. They rose or sank at the 
wave of the director's baton ; and still looked like 
an innumerable flock of cherubs drifting over some 
slopes of Paradise, or settling upon it, — if cherubs 
ean settle. 



 

The immensity was quite as striking to the mind 
as to the eye, and an absolute democracy was appre- 
ciable in it. Not only did all artificial distinctions 
cease, but those of nature were practically obliter- 
ated, and you felt for once the full meaning of unan- 
imity. No one was at a disadvantage ; one was as 
wise, as good, as handsome as another. In most 
public assemblages, the foolish eye roves in search 
of the vanity of female beauty, and rests upon some 
lovely visage, or pretty figure ; but here it seemed to 
matter nothing whether ladies were well or ill-look- 
ing ; and one might have been perfectly ascetic 
without self-denial. A blue eye or a black, — what 
of it ? A mass of blonde or chestnut hair, this sort 
of walking-dress or that, — you might note the 
difference casually in a few hundred around you ; 
but a sense of those myriads of other eyes and 
chignons and walking-dresses absorbed the impres- 
sion in an instant, and left a dim, strange sense of 
loss, as if all women had suddenly become Woman. 
For the time, one would have been preposterously 
conceited to have felt his Httleness in that crowd ; 
you never thought of yourself in an individual 
capacity at all. It was as if you were a private in an 
army, or a very ordinary billow of the sea, feeling 
the battle or the storm, in a collective sort of way, 
but unable to distinguish your sensations from those 
of the mass. If a rafter had fallen and crushed you 
and your unimportant row of people, you could 
scarcely have regarded it as a personal calamity, but 
might have found it disagreeable as a shock to that 



 

great body of humanity. Recall, then, how aston- 
ished you were to be recognized by some one, and 
to have your hand shaken in your individual charac- 
ter of Smith. "Smith? My dear What's-your- 
name, I am for the present the fifty-thousandth part 
of an enormous emotion ! " 

It was as difficult to distribute the various facts of 
the whole effect, as to identify one's self. I had only 
a public and general consciousness of the delight 
given by the harmony of hues in the parquet below ; 
and concerning the orchestra I had at first no dis- 
tinct impression save of the three hundred and thirty 
violin-bows held erect like standing wheat at one 
motion of the director's wand, and then falling as if 
with the next he swept them down. Afterwards 
files of men with horns, and other files of men with 
drums and cymbals, discovered themselves ; while far 
above all, certain laborious figures pumped or groimd 
vnth incessant obeisance at the apparatus supplying 
the organ with wind. 

What helped, more than anything else, to restore 
you your dispersed and wandering individuality was 
the singing of Parepa-Rosa, as she triumphed over 
the harmonious rivalry of the orchestra. There wg,s 
something in the generous amplitude and robust 
cheerfulness of this great artist that accorded well with 
the ideal of the occasion ; she was in herself a great 
musical festival ; and one felt, as she floated down 
the stage with her far-spreading white draperies, and 
swept the audience a colossal courtesy, that here was 
the embodied genius of the Jubilee. I do not trust 



 

myself to speak particularly of her singing, for I 
have the natural modesty of people who know noth- 
ing about music, and I have not at command the 
phraseology of those who pretend to understand it ; 
but I say that her voice filled the whole edifice with 
delicious melody, that it soothed and composed and 
utterly enchanted, that, though two hundred Adolins 
accompanied her, the greater sweetness of her note 
prevailed over all, like a mighty will commanding 
many. What a sublime ovation for her when a 
hundred thousand hands thundered their acclaim ! 
A victorious general, an accepted lover, a successftd 
young author, — these know a measure of bliss, I 
dare say ; but in one throb, the singer's heart, as it 
leaps in exultation at the loud delight of her applau- 
sive thousands, must out-enjoy them all. Let me 
lay these poor little artificial flowers of rhetoric at 
the feet of the divine singer, as a faint token of grat- 
itude and eloquent intention. 
