pected around Angel's Camp, in Calaveras county, during three 
weeks, but had no success. Then we wandered on foot amoncr 
the mountains, sleeping under the trees at night, for the weather 
was mild, but still we remained as centless as the last rose of 
summer. That is a poor joke, but it is in pathetic harmony 
with the circumstances, since we were so poor ourselves. In 
accordance with the custom of the country, our door had always 
stood open and oi'r board welcome to tramping miners — they 
drifted along nearly every day, dumped their paust shovels 
by the threshold and took " pot luck " with us — and now on 
our own tramp we never found cold hospitality. 

Our wanderings were wide and in many directions ; and now 
I could give the reader a vivid description of the Big Trees 
and the marvels of the Yo Semite — but what has this reader 
done to me that I should persecute him ? I will deliver him 
into the hands of less conscientious tourists and take his bless- 
ing. Let me be charitable, though I fail in all virtues else. 

Some of the plirases in the above are mining technicahties, purely, and may be 
a little obscure to the general reader. In ' placer diggings " the gold is scattered 
all through the surface dirt; in ''pocket" diggings it is concentrated in one little 
spot ; in " quartz " the gold is in a solid, continuous vein of rock, enclosed between 
distinct walls of some other kind of stone — and this is the most laborious and 
expensive of all the different kinds of mining. " Prospecting " is hunting for a 
' placer; 'indications are signs of its presence;  panning out" refers to the 
washing process by which the grains of gold are separated from the dirt ; a 'pros- 
pect" is what one finds in the first panful of dirt — and its value determines whether 
it is a good or a bad prospect, and whether it is worth while to tarry there or seek 
further. 



CHAPTER LXII. 

AFTER a three months' absence, I found myself in San 
Francisco again, without a cent. When my credit was 
about exhausted, (for I had become too mean and lazy, now, to 
work on a morning paper, and there were no vacancies on the 
evening journals,) I was created San Francisco correspond- 
ent of the Enterprise and at the end of five months I was out 
of debt, but my interest in my work was gone ; for my corres- 
pondence being a daily one, without rest or respite, I got 
unspeakably tired of it. I wanted another change. The vag- 
abond instinct Mas strong npon me. Fortune favored and I 
got a new berth and a delightful one. It was to go down to 
the Sandwich Islands and write some letters for the Sacramento 
Union, an excellent journal and liberal with employes. 

"We sailed in the propeller Ajax, in the middle of winter. 
The almanac called it winter, distinctly enough, but the weather 
was a compromise between spring and summer. Six days out 
of port, it became summer altogether. We had some thirty 
passengers ; among them a cheerful soul by the name of Wil- 
liams, and three sea-worn old whaleship captains going down 
to join their vessels. These latter plaj'ed euchre in the smok- 
ing room day and night, drank astonishing quantities of raw 
whisky without being in the least affected by it, and were the 
happiest people I think I ever saw. And then there was" the 
old Admiral — " a retired whaleman. He was a roaring, ter- 
riiic combination of wind and lightning and thunder, and earn- 
est, whole-soided profanity. But nevertheless he was tender-hearted 
as a girl. He was a raving, deafening, devastating 
typhoon, laying waste the cowering seas but with an unvexed 
refuge in the centre where all comers were safe and at rest. 
Nobody could know the " Admiral " without liking him ; and 
in a sudden and dire emergency I think no friend of his would 
know which to choose — to be Cbirsed by him or 
prayed for by a less efficient person. 

His title of "Admiral " was more 
strictly "official" 
than any ever worn 
by a naval officer 
before or since, perhaps — for it was the 
voluntary offering of a whole nation, 
and came direct 
from the people 
themselves without any intermedi- 
ate red tape — the 
people of the Sandwich Islands. It 
was a title that the ukee captains. 

came to him freighted with affection, and honor, and apprecia- 
tion of his unpretending merit. And in testimony of the gen- 
uineness of the title it was publicly ordained that an exclusive 
flag should be devised for him and used solely to welome his 
coming and wave him God-speed in his going. From that 
time forth, whenever his ship was signaled in the offing, or he 
catted his anchor and stood out to sea, that ensign streamed 
from the royal halliards on the parliament house and the nation 
lifted their hats to it with spontaneous accord. 

Yet he had never fired a gun or fought a battle in his life. 
When I knew him on board the Ajax, he was seventy-two 
years old and had plowed the salt water sixty-one of them. 
For sixteen years he had gone in and out of the harbor of 
Honolulu in command of a w'haleship, and for sixteen more 
had been captain of a San Francisco and Sandwich Island passenger
packet and had never had an accident or lost a vessel. 
The simple natives knew him for a friend who never failed 
them, and regarded him as children regard a father. It was a 
dangerous thing to oppress them when the roaring Admiral 
was around. 

Two years before I knew the Admiral, he had retired from 
the sea on a competence, and had sworn a colossal nine-jointed 
oath that he would " never go within smelling distance of the 
salt water again as long as he lived." And he had conscien- 
tiously kept it. That is to say, he considered he had kept it, 
and it would have been more than dangerous to suggest to 
him, even in the gentlest way, that making eleven long sea voy- 
ages, as a passenger, during the two years that had transpired 
since he " retired," was only keeping the general spirit of it 
and not the strict letter. 

The Admiral knew only one narrow line of conduct to pur- 
sue in any and all cases where there was a fight, and that was 
to shoulder his way straight in without an inquiry as to the 
rights or the merits of it, and take the part of the weaker 
side. — And this was the reason why he was always sure to be 
present at the trial of any universally execrated criminal to 
oppress and intimidate the jury with a vindictive pantomime 
of what he would do to them if he ever caught them out of 
the box. And this was why harried cats and outlawed dogs 
that knew him confidently took sanctuary under his chair in 
time of trouble. In the beginning he was the most frantic 
and bloodthirsty Union man that drew breath in the shadow 
of the Flag ; but the instant the Southerners began to go down 
before the sweep of the Northern armies, he ran up the Con- 
federate colors and from that time till the end was a rampant 
and inexorable secessionist. 

He hated intemperance with a more uncompromising animosity
than any individual I have ever met, of either sex ; and 
he was never tired of storming against it and beseeching friends 
and strangers aUke to be wary and drink with moderation. 
And yet if any creature had been guileless enough to intimate 
that his absorbing nine gallons of " straight " whisky during 
our voyage was any fraction short of rigid or inflexible abste- 
miousness, in that self-same moment the old man would have 
spun him to the uttermost parts of the earth in the whirlwind 
of his wrath. Mind, I am not saying his whisky ever affected 
his head or his legs, for it did not, in even the slightest degree. 
He was a capacious container, but he did not hold enough for 
that. He took a level tumblerful of whisky every morning before 
he put his clothes on — ' to sweeten his bilgewater," he said. — 
He took another after he got the most of his clothes on, " to set- 
tle his mind and give him his bearings." He then shaved, and 
put on a clean shirt ; after which he recited the Lord's Prayer 
in a fervent, thundering bass that shook the ship to her kelson 
and suspended all conversation in the main cabin. Then, at 
this stage, being invariably " by the head," or " by the stern,''" 
or " listed to port or starboard," he took one more to " put hini 
on an even keel so that he would mind his helium and not 
miss stays and go about, every time he came up in the wind."" 
— And now, his state-room door swung open and the sun of 
his benignant face beamed redly out upon men and women and 
children, and he roared his " Shipmets a'hoy !" in a way that 
was calculated to wake the dead and precipitate the final resur- 
rection ; and forth he strode, a picture to look at and a presence to 
enforce attention. Stalwart and portly ; not a gray hair; broad- 
brimmed slouch hat ; semi-sailor toggery of blue navy flannel 
— roomy and ample ; a stately expanse of shirt-front and a lib 
eral amount of black silk neck-cloth tied with a sailor knot ; 
large chain and imposing seals impending from his fob ; awe- 
inspiring feet, and " a hand like the hand of Providence," a& 
his whaling brethren expressed it ; wrist-bands and sleeves 
pushed back half way to the elbow, out of respect for the warm 
weather, and exposing hairy arms, gaudy with red and blue 
anchors, ships, and goddesses of liberty tattooed in India ink. 



But these details were only secondary matters — his face was 
the lodestone that chained the eye. It was a sultry disk, glow- 
ing determinedly out tlirough a weather beaten mask of mahog- 
any, and studded with warts, seamed with scars, " blazed " all 
over with unfailing fresh slips of the razor; and with cheery 
«yes, under shaggy brows, contemplating the world from over 
