" Yes," I answered. 
" I want it !" He spoke in a quick, imperative tone 
of voice. 
I was coming from behind the bar to show him up 
stairs, when a hand pushed open the street door sud 
denly and with force. I turned, and our lady visitor 
of the night before, with her veil drawn aside, looked 
at us with her large, dark, passion-lighted eyes. 
I saw the gambler blanch. He stood as if par 
alyzed. With a bound the woman sprang upon 
him, and ere he had time to gain an attitude of de 
fence had flung one hand spitefully in his face, and 
with the other stabbed him in the throat. 
I saw the blood gush over the woman 's hand. At 
sight of it she dropped the dagger with which she 
had wounded L and vanished through the door. 
All passed so quickly that it seemed the work of an 
instant. No attempt was made to follow her. 
An exclamation of horror fell from the gambler 's 
lips as he drew his hand from his throat and saw 
that it was covered with blood. Almost at the same 
moment his two friends came in from the street. 
" She 's done it for me," he gasped as they came 
up to where he stood. And then he cursed her with 
a foul profanity such as I had rarely if ever heard. 
No attempt was made to follow the woman. L 
was taken up stairs, and the nearest surgeon sent for. 
In the mean time every possible effort was made to 
stanch the flow of blood. 
The wound proved dangerous, but not fatal. After 
it was closed and dressed by the surgeon, his friends 
took him away in a carriage. An effort was made 
to keep the matter out of the newspapers, but the 
reporters got hold of it, and made it the sensation 
of the hour, at least among the flash and profession 
als. I don 't  know that people generally gave it more 
than a passing thought, but readers of the Police 
Gazette and kindred papers had an appetizing mor- 
ceau served up with quite a variety of sensational 
pictures, not one of which gave the stabbing incident 
correctly. 
Few men can look at blood without a shudder 
human blood, I mean and I am not of the number. 
A thrill of horror ran through me as I saw the glit 
ter of steel in the woman 's hand, the quick, flashing 
stroke and the gush of blood. I was so paralyzed 
for the moment that I could not stir, and L 
stood with his hands dabbling about his throat until 
his two friends came in from the street. They had 
 
met the woman just outside of the door, but not 
knowing what she had done, made no attempt to 
stop her. 
Only a week before, there had been a fight in the 
bar-room, during which a man had been badly cut, 
and now we had another stabbing affair. I could not 
get used to such things. They shocked my nerves 
terribly. If bad-looking fellows came in and we 
saw them pretty often I felt uneasy until they went 
away. If two men who had been drinking freely 
got to arguing with each other in voices raised to a 
higher pitch than usual, I was in a state of uncom 
fortable suspense until the battle of words was over. 
I had seen these little disputes over trifles run too 
often into quarrels that ended in blows. There was 
no counting on men after a glass or two. The most 
quiet were sometimes the most quarrelsome after 
drinking. Over and over again have I seen men 
who had come in with a good-humored face and a 
pleasant word for every one, change in half an hour 
to ill-natured, snarling curs. It kept one on the ten 
ter-hooks of anxiety and fear all the while. 
It took me a good while to get over this affair. I 
have not seen the gambler L in our city since, 
nor have I heard anything of the woman who made 
the attempt on his life. As for the gentleman whose 
resemblance to the gambler came near costing him 
his life, he did not make another call at " The Re 
treat," wherever else he may have gone. 
CHAPTER XIV. 
THE weeks and months passed on, and we gath 
ered in our harvests. " Were they bountiful ?" 
Yes. " But as a man soweth, so shall he reap." We 
had full harvests, but I do not think either Lloyd or 
I carried our sheaves with rejoicing. 
As for me, I had no one to care for or think about 
but myself. I had no wife or children to set them 
selves in opposition to my schemes, or to feel dis 
graced by my business. I went and came, and did 
as I pleased. It was different with my partner, Tom 
Lloyd. The harvest I reaped was not all grain and 
sweet-scented clover no, not by any means but as 
he gathered in he found more of juiceless brambles 
and stinging-nettles than wheat or hay. His harvest 
was indeed accursed. 
I had long since ceased to visit in his family. The 
opposition of his wife and daughter Maggy was so 
strong and unyielding that I found it unpleasant 
from the beginning to meet them. Maggy, as I have 
already said, was unusually attractive, of a sen 
sitive mental organization, and superior to most girls 
in her condition. Lloyd had been very fond and 
proud of her, as well he might be. 
My readers will remember the incident of her faint- 
ing in school, and the utter prostration of mind and 
body that followed. The young teacher Mark Wat 
son never called to see her again, and Maggy never 
went back to school. A gulf had opened suddenly 
between them, and it did not close. 
It was two or three months before Maggy showed 
interest in anything. During most of this time she 
suffered from physical as well as nervous prostration. 
For a whole week after she had the fainting spell at 
school she lay in a dull, half-unconscious state, an 
swering no questions and showing no interest in 
anything. Lloyd was very much alarmed and anx 
ious about her. His old tender love for her came 
back, and I know the thought that he had really 
brought her to this haunted him like a spectre and 
hurt him like a throbbing sore. 
" How is Maggy ?" I asked, one morning, several 
days after her trouble at school. Lloyd had come 
in at a much later hour than usual. His face wore 
an anxious expression. 
He merely shook his head in reply, and shut his 
lips tightly. 
" Not worse ?" I ventured to say. 
" Don 't know. Can t make it out," he replied, 
gloomily. 
" Hasn 't she rallied any within a day or two ?" 
" A little, maybe. She 's more restless, and starts 
and moans in her sleep." 
" Does she answer when you speak to her ?" 
" No. This morning I sat down by her bed, and 
 
taking her hand, squeezed it tightly, saying, Maggy 
dear " 
His voice broke a little, and I saw his lips work 
nervously. But he recovered his self-possession, 
and went on. 
" Maggy dear," I said, is there nothing I can do 
for you ? But for all I could see in her face her 
eyes were shut my voice made no impression. I 
tried again and again. I said, If you love me, 
Maggy, just press my hand. But she did not seem 
to hear. Oh, Hiram, it 's dreadful to see her so. 
I'm frightened about it. I haven t an instant 's peace 
of mind." 
He went back and forth between his home and the 
saloon several times each day. All his old love, 
which had seemed under the excitement and cross 
purposes attendant on the starting of our new busi 
ness wcllnigh crushed out, stirred once more in his 
heart and regained its old power. 
After about two weeks, Maggy began to recover 
from the shock she had received. To my question 
as to how she was, Lloyd answered, with a troubled 
look on his face, 
" I don 't  know what to think about her, Hiram. 
I'm sometimes afraid her mind 's gone. I 'd give al 
most anything to know just what happened at school 
if that teacher said anything wrong to her. Blast 
his heart ! If I was sure he 'd done or said anything 
out of the way, I 'd murder him." 
" That wouldn 't mend matters," I replied. 
 
" It would teach him a lesson, confound him !" he 
answered. 
A few days after, he seemed a little more cheerful, 
and to my question about Maggy said, 
" I hope she 'll come all right. Yesterday she sat 
up for an hour or two and talked a little. But her 
face is so sad, Hiram. I never saw anything like it. 
It makes the tears come into my eyes to look at 
her." 
Slowly her life-pulses came beating back, but 
never with the old strength and fullness. After a 
few weeks she began to take some interest in house 
hold matters, and to care for her two younger broth 
ers, Harvey and Willy, the latter not yet six years 
