stocked with its hardware; even a carpet lay on the floor, for Mrs.
Lloyd having heard from David a laughing declaration of Matilda's
present longing for an old carpet, had immediately given permission to
the children to rummage in the lumber room and take anything they found
that was not too good. Matilda was very much afraid there would be
nothing that did not come under that description; however, a little old
piece of carpet was found that somehow had escaped being thrown away,
and that would be, she judged, a perfect treasure to Mrs. Staples; it
was sent by the hands of a very much astonished footman to Mrs. Leary's
house, and by Mrs. Leary herself put down on the floor; Matilda having
bargained for the cleaning of the floor as a preliminary.

Her imagination dwelt upon that carpet, and the furnished, comfortable
look it gave the room, with as much recurring delight as other people
often find in the thought of their new dresses and jewels. With more,
perhaps. Everything was ready now. Mr. Wharncliffe was engaged to tell
the good news to Sarah and her mother, and the moving was to take place
on Thursday of the next week. All was arranged; and on Monday Matilda
sickened.

What could be the matter? Nobody knew at first; only it was certain
that the little girl was ill. Dull and feverish and miserable, unable
to hold herself up, or to think much about anything when she was laid
in bed. It was needful to send for the doctor; and Mrs. Laval took her
station by Matilda's pillow.

How time went, for some days thereafter, Matilda but dimly knew. She
was conscious now and then of being very sick, heavy and oppressed and
hot; but much of the time was spent in a sort of stupor. Occasionally
she would wake up to see that Mrs. Laval was bending tenderly over her,
offering a spoonful of medicine or a glass of apple water; it was
sometimes night, with the gas burning low, sometimes the dusk of
evening; sometimes the cool grey of the morning seemed to be breaking.
But of the hours between such points Matilda knew nothing; she kept no
count of days; a general feeling of long weariness and dull headaches
filled up all her consciousness; she reasoned about nothing.

So that it was quite a new experience, at waking one morning, to feel
Mrs. Laval's lips pressed to hers for a kiss, and to hear a cheerful
voice say,--

"My darling is better!"

Matilda looked up.

"I believe I have been sick," she said, in a weak little voice.

"Indeed you have, darling--very sick. But you are better now. How do
you feel?"

"Better," Matilda answered in that same faint, thin little
voice;--"weak."

"Of course you are weak! Here is something to make you stronger."

Mrs. Laval brought a tea-cup presently, and fed Matilda with soda
biscuit dipped in tea; very nice it seemed; and then she went off again
into a sweet deep sleep.

When she awaked from this, it was high day, and the light was let into
the room as it had not been for a good while. It all looked natural,
and yet new; and Matilda's eyes went from one object to another with a
sort of recognizing pleasure; feeling languid too, as if her eyelids
could just keep open and that was all. But the light seemed sweet. And
her gaze lingered long on the figure of Mrs. Laval, who was standing by
the mantle-piece; going over with quiet pleasure every graceful outline
and pretty detail; the flow of her soft drapery; the set of the dainty
little French muslin cap which set lightly on her hair. Till Mrs. Laval
turned, and smiled to see her eyes open.

"Ready for breakfast?" she said gayly.

"I don't believe I could get up, mamma," said the weak little voice.

"Get up! I don't believe you could! But what do you think of having
breakfast in bed? Wait; you shall have your face washed first."

She brought a basin and bathed Matilda's face and hands, first with
water and then with cologne. It was pleasant to be tended so, and the
fine, soft, sweet damask was pleasant, with which the drying was done.
Then Mrs. Laval rang the bell, and presently came up a tray which she
took from the servant's hands and brought to the bedside herself. Then
Matilda was raised up and propped up with pillows, till she could see
what was on the plate.

"How nice that cologne is! I haven't had breakfast in a good while
before, have I?"

"No, my darling." And Mrs. Laval stooped to press her lips fondly.
"What do you say to a little bit of roast bird?"

Matilda was very glad of it; and she enjoyed the delicate thin slice of
toast, and the fragrant tea out of a sort of eggshell cup; the china
was so thin it was semi-transparent. She made a bird's breakfast, but
it was very good, and did her good.

"Mamma," she said, as she drank the last drops from that delicate
cup,--"it must be a dreadful thing to be poor! When one is sick, I
mean."

"You never will be, darling," said Mrs. Laval.

She was slowly but surely mending all that day. The next morning she
had another roast bird for breakfast, and could eat more of it.

"Norton wants to see you dreadfully," Mrs. Laval said as she was
feeding her. "And so does David, I believe. How have you and David got
to be such good friends?"

"I don't know, mamma. I like David very much."

"Do you?" said Mrs. Laval laughing; "perhaps that is the reason. Like
makes like, they say. You are one of the few people that like David
Bartholomew!"

"Am I? Why, mamma? Don't you like him?"

"Certainly; he is my nephew. I ought to like him."

"But that don't make us like people," said Matilda meditatively.

"What? that little word ought? No, I think it works the other way."

"But I think I like everybody," Matilda went on. "Everybody some. I
don't like all people one as much as another."

"No," said Mrs. Laval. "That would be too indiscriminate. Well, David
likes you. That is not strange. And he wants to see you."

"Yes, and Norton. Mamma, I think I would like better to be up, before I
see the boys."

"I shall not let them come in before that."

So one or two days still passed, in sleeping and resting and waking to
feel stronger every time; and then one afternoon Matilda was taken up
and dressed in a warm wrapper, and placed in a delightful easy chair
which Mrs. Laval had had brought up for her. She felt very weak, but
exceedingly comfortable. Then she saw the door of her room slowly
pushed inwards, and the bright head of Norton softly advancing beyond
it. So soon as he caught sight of Matilda in her easy chair, he came in
with two bounds, knelt down before her, and taking her in his arms
kissed her over and over.

"There is one person glad to see you," remarked Mrs. Laval.

Matilda's eyes were glittering with tears; she said not a word.

"Glad?" echoed Norton. "Pink, the house has been too stupid for
anything without you. It's astonishing, what a difference one girl
makes."

"One girl--" said Mrs Laval.

"Ah!" said Norton. "I didn't say anything about the other. It wouldn't
distress me at all to have Judy shut up in her room a few days."

"But not by sickness!" said his mother.

"Not particular how, mamma; do Judy no harm either. She wants taking
down somehow."

"Why, Norton," said Matilda, "I thought you were so busy with your
greenhouse, you wouldn't miss me much. And Judy and you were getting on
nicely with the flowers, I thought."

"Nicely!" repeated Norton. "She doesn't care any more for the flowers
than if they were grown to make door mats of. Greenhouse! why, it's as
much as I can do to prevent her pulling all the buds off; and when
she's got them, as I said, she don't care the least for them. No; the
one thing Judy Bartholomew cares for is mischief; and the second is her
own way."

"Gently, Norton!" said his mother. "I know somebody else that likes his
own way."

"Yes, ma'am, and can't get it--worse luck!"

"O Norton!" said Matilda.

