
“Cross, that’s all.” Pinky threw out the sentence in at snappish,
mind-your-own-business tone.

The motherly woman, who had leaned forward, a look of kindly interest on
her face, drew back, chilled by this repulse, but kept her eyes upon the
child, greatly to Pinky’s annoyance. After riding for half a mile, Pinky
got out and took another car. Andy was passive. He had ceased crying,
and was endeavoring to get back some of the old spirit of brave
endurance. He was beginning to feel like one who had awakened from a
beautiful dream in which dear ideals had almost reached fruition, to
the painful facts of a hard and suffering life, and was gathering up
his patience and strength to meet them. He sat motionless by the side of
Pinky, with his eyes cast down, his chin on his breast and his lips shut
closely together.

Another ride of nearly half a mile, when Pinky left the car and struck
away from the common thoroughfare into a narrow alley, down which she
walked for a short distance, and then disappeared in one of the small
houses. No one happened to observe her entrance. Through a narrow
passage and stairway she reached a second-story room. Taking a key from
her pocket, she unlocked the door and went in. There was a fire in
a small stove, and the room was comfortable. Locking the door on the
inside she said to Andy, in a voice changed and kinder,

“My! your hands are as red as beets. Go up to the stove and warm
yourself.”

Andy obeyed, spreading out his little hands, and catching the grateful
warmth, every now and then looking up into Pinky’s face, and trying with
a shrewder insight than is usually given to a child of his age to read
the character and purposes it half concealed and half made known.

“Now, Andy,” said Pinky, in a mild but very decided way--“your name’s
Andy?”

“Yes, ma’am,” answered the child, fixing his large, intelligent eyes on
her face.

“Well, Andy, if you’ll be a good and quiet boy, you needn’t be afraid of
anything--you won’t get hurt. But if you make a fuss, I’ll throw you at
once right out of the window.”

Pinky frowned and looked so wicked as she uttered the last sentence that
Andy was frightened. It seemed as if a devouring beast glared at him out
of her eyes. She saw the effect of her threat, and was satisfied.

The short afternoon soon passed away. The girl did not leave the room,
nor talk with the child except in very low tones, so as not to attract
the attention of any one in the house. As the day waned snow began to
fall, and by the time night set in it was coming down thick and fast. As
soon as it was fairly dark, Pinky wrapped a shawl about Andy, pinning it
closely, so as to protect him from the cold, and quietly left the house.
He made no resistance. A car was taken, in which they rode for a long
distance, until they were on the outskirts of the city. The snow had
already fallen to a depth of two or three inches, and the storm was
increasing. When she left the car in that remote neighborhood, not a
person was to be seen on the street. Catching Andy into her arms, Pinky
ran with him for the distance of half a block, and then turned into a
close alley with small houses on each side. At the lower end she stopped
before one of these houses, and without knocking pushed open the door.

“Who’s that?” cried a voice from an upper room, the stairway to which
led up from the room below.

“It’s me. Come down, and be quiet,” answered Pinky, in a warning voice.

A woman, old and gray, with all the signs of a bad life on her wrinkled
face, came hastily down stairs and confronted Pinky.

“What now? What’s brought you here?” she demanded, in no friendly tones.

“There, there, Mother Peter! smooth down your feathers. I’ve got
something for you to do, and it will pay,” answered Pinky, who had shut
the outside door and slipped the bolt.

At this, the manner of Mother Peter, as Pinky had called her, softened,
and she said,

“What’s up? What deviltry are you after now, you huzzy?”

Without replying to this, Pinky began shaking the snow from Andy and
unwinding the shawl with which she had bound him up. After he was free
from his outside wrappings, she said, looking toward the woman,

“Now, isn’t he a nice little chap? Did you ever see such eyes?”

The worn face of the woman softened as she turned toward the beautiful
child, but not with pity. To that feeling she had long been a stranger.

“I want you to keep him for a few days,” said Pinky, speaking in
the woman’s ears. “I’ll tell you more about it after he’s in bed and
asleep.”

“He’s to be kept shut up out of sight, mind,” was Pinky’s injunction,
in the conference that followed. “Not a living soul in the neighborhood
must know he’s in the house, for the police will be sharp after him.
I’ll pay you five dollars a week, and put it down in advance. Give him
plenty to eat, and be as good to him as you can, for you see it’s a fat
job, and I’ll make it fatter for you if all comes out right.”

The woman was not slow to promise all that Pinky demanded. The house in
which she lived had three rooms, one below and two smaller ones above.
From the room below a stove-pipe went up through the floor into a
sheet-iron drum in the small back chamber, and kept it partially heated.
It was arranged that Andy should be made a close prisoner in this room,
and kept quiet by fear. It had only one window, looking out upon the
yard, and there was no shed or porch over the door leading into the yard
below upon which he could climb out and make his escape. In order to
have things wholly secure the two women, after Andy was asleep, pasted
paper over the panes of glass in the lower sash, so that no one could
see his face at the window, and fastened the sash down by putting a nail
into a gimlet-hole at the top.

“I guess thatt will fix him,” said Pinky, in a tone of satisfaction.
“All you’ve got to do now is to see that he doesn’t make a noise.”

On the next morning Andy was awake by day-dawn. At first he did not know
where he was, but he kept very still, looking around the small room and
trying to make out what it all meant. Soon it came to him, and a vague
terror filled his heart. By his side lay the woman into whose hands
Pinky had given him. She was fast asleep, and her face, as he gazed in
fear upon it, was even more repulsive than it had looked on the night
before. His first impulse, after comprehending his situation, was to
escape if possible. Softly and silently he crept out of bed, and made
his way to the door. It was fastened. He drew the bolt back, when it
struck the guard with a sharp click. In an instant the old woman was
sitting up in bed and glaring at him.

“You imp of Satan!” she cried, springing after him with a singular
agility for one of her age, and catching him by the arm with a vice-like
grip that bruised the tender flesh and left it marked for weeks, drew
him back from the door and flung him upon the bed.

“Stay there till I tell you to get up,” she added, with a cruel threat
in her voice. “And mind you, there’s to be no fooling with me.”

The frightened child crept under the bed-clothes, and hid his face
beneath them. Mother Peter did not lie down again, but commenced
dressing herself, muttering and grumbling as she did so.

“Keep where you are till I come back,” she said to Andy, with the same
cruel threat in her voice. Going out, she bolted the door on the other
side. It was nearly half an hour before the woman returned, bringing a
plate containing two or three slices of bread and butter and a cup of
milk.

“Now get up and dress yourself,” was her sharply-spoken salutation to
Andy as she came into the room. “And you’re to be just as still as a
mouse, mind. There’s your breakfast.” She set the plate on a table and
went out, bolting, as before, the door on the other side. Andy did not
see her again for over an hour. Left entirely alone in his prison,
his restless spirit chafed for freedom. He moved about the apartment,
examining everything it contained with the closest scrutiny, yet without
making any noise, for the woman’s threat, accompanied as it had been
with such a wicked look, was not forgotten. He had seen in that look a
cruel spirit of which he was afraid. Two or three times he thought he
heard a step and a movement in the adjoining chamber, and waited, almost
holding his breath, with his eyes upon the door, expecting every moment
to see the scowling face of his jailer. But no hand touched the door.

Tired at last with everything in the room, he went to the window and
sought to look out, as he had already done many times. He could not
understand why this window, was so different from any he had ever seen,
and puzzled over it in his weak, childish way. As he moved from pane to
pane, trying to see through, he caught a glimpse of something outside,
but it was gone in a moment. He stepped back, then came up quickly to
the glass, all the dull quietude of manner leaving him. As he did so a
glimpse of the outside world came again, and now he saw a little hole in
the paper not larger than a pin’s head. To scrape at this was a simple
instinct. In a moment he saw it enlarging, as the paper peeled off
from the glass. Scraping away with his finger-nail, the glass was soon
cleared of paper for the space of an inch in diameter, and through this
opening he stood gazing out upon the yards, below, and the houses that
came up to them from a neighboring street. There was a woman in one
of these yards, and she looked up toward the window where Andy stood,
curiously.

“You imp of Satan!” were the terrible words that fell upon his ears at
this juncture, and he felt himself caught up as by a vulture. He knew
