clothes and stuff: I suppose he will paint ‘Pub. Docs’ on them and frank
them home. That’s good economy, isn’t it?”
“Yes, yes, but child, all Congressmen do that. It may not be strictly
honest, indeed it is not unless he had some public documents mixed in
with the clothes.”
“It’s a funny world. Good-bye, uncle. I’m going to see that chairman.”
And humming a cheery opera air, she departed to her room to dress for
going out. Before she did that, however, she took out her note book and
was soon deep in its contents; marking, dashing, erasing, figuring, and
talking to herself.
“Free! I wonder what Dilworthy does think of me anyway? One . . . two .
. . eight . . . seventeen . . . twenty-one . . . ‘m’m . . . it takes a
heap for a majority. Wouldn’t Dilworthy open his eyes if he knew some
of the things Balloon did say to me. There . . . . Hopperson’s influence
ought to count twenty . . . the sanctimonious old curmudgeon. Son-in-law
. . . sinecure in the negro institution. . . . That about gauges him. .
. . The three committeemen . . . sons-in-law. Nothing like a son-in-law
here in Washington or a brother-in-law. . . . And everybody has ‘em. .
. .Let’s see: . . . sixty-one. . . . with places . . . twenty-five . .
. persuaded--it is getting on; . . . . we’ll have two-thirds of Congress
in time . . . Dilworthy must surely know I understand him. Uncle
Dilworthy . . . . Uncle Balloon!--Tells very amusing stories . . .
when ladies are not present . . . I should think so . . . .’m . . . ‘m.
Eighty-five. There. I must find that chairman. Queer. . . . Buckstone
acts. . . . Seemed to be in love . . . . . I was sure of it. He promised
to come here . . . and he hasn’t. . . . Strange. Very strange . . . . I
must chance to meet him to-day.”
Laura dressed and went out, thinking she was perhaps too early for Mr.
Buckstone to come from the house, but as he lodged near the bookstore
she would drop in there and keep a look out for him.
While Laura is on her errand to find Mr. Buckstone, it may not be out
of the way to remark that she knew quite as much of Washington life as
Senator Dilworthy gave her credit for, and more than she thought proper
to tell him. She was acquainted by this time with a good many of the
young fellows of Newspaper Row; and exchanged gossip with them to their
mutual advantage.
They were always talking in the Row, everlastingly gossiping, bantering
and sarcastically praising things, and going on in a style which was a
curious commingling of earnest and persiflage. Col. Sellers liked this
talk amazingly, though he was sometimes a little at sea in it--and
perhaps that didn’t lessen the relish of the conversation to the
correspondents.
It seems that they had got hold of the dry-goods box packing story about
Balloon, one day, and were talking it over when the Colonel came in. The
Colonel wanted to know all about it, and Hicks told him. And then Hicks
went on, with a serious air,
“Colonel, if you register a letter, it means that it is of value,
doesn’t it? And if you pay fifteen cents for registering it, the
government will have to take extra care of it and even pay you back its
full value if it is lost. Isn’t that so?”
“Yes. I suppose it’s so.”.
“Well Senator Balloon put fifteen cents worth of stamps on each of those
seven huge boxes of old clothes, and shipped that ton of second-hand
rubbish, old boots and pantaloons and what not through the mails as
registered matter! It was an ingenious thing and it had a genuine touch
of humor about it, too. I think there is more real talent among our
public men of to-day than there was among those of old times--a far more
fertile fancy, a much happier ingenuity. Now, Colonel, can you picture
Jefferson, or Washington or John Adams franking their wardrobes through
the mails and adding the facetious idea of making the government
responsible for the cargo for the sum of one dollar and five cents?
Statesmen were dull creatures in those days. I have a much greater
admiration for Senator Balloon.”
“Yes, Balloon is a man of parts, there is no denying it”
“I think so. He is spoken of for the post of Minister to China, or
Austria, and I hope will be appointed. What we want abroad is good
examples of the national character.
“John Jay and Benjamin Franklin were well enough in their day, but the
nation has made progress since then. Balloon is a man we know and can
depend on to be true to himself.”
“Yes, and Balloon has had a good deal of public experience. He is an old
friend of mine. He was governor of one of the territories a while, and
was very satisfactory.”
“Indeed he was. He was ex-officio Indian agent, too. Many a man would
have taken the Indian appropriation and devoted the money to feeding and
clothing the helpless savages, whose land had been taken from them by
the white man in the interests of civilization; but Balloon knew their
needs better. He built a government saw-mill on the reservation with the
money, and the lumber sold for enormous prices--a relative of his did
all the work free of charge--that is to say he charged nothing more than
the lumber would bring.” “But the poor Injuns--not that I care much for
Injuns--what did he do for them?”
“Gave them the outside slabs to fence in the reservation with. Governor
Balloon was nothing less than a father to the poor Indians. But Balloon
is not alone, we have many truly noble statesmen in our country’s
service like Balloon. The Senate is full of them. Don’t you think so
Colonel?”
“Well, I dunno. I honor my country’s public servants as much as any one
can. I meet them, Sir, every day, and the more I see of them the more I
esteem them and the more grateful I am that our institutions give us the
opportunity of securing their services. Few lands are so blest.”
“That is true, Colonel. To be sure you can buy now and then a Senator or
a Representative but they do not know it is wrong, and so they are not
ashamed of it. They are gentle, and confiding and childlike, and in my
opinion these are qualities that ennoble them far more than any amount
of sinful sagacity could. I quite agree with you, Col. Sellers.”
“Well”--hesitated the Colonel--“I am afraid some of them do buy their
seats--yes, I am afraid they do--but as Senator Dilworthy himself said
to me, it is sinful,--it is very wrong--it is shameful; Heaven protect
me from such a charge. That is what Dilworthy said. And yet when you
come to look at it you cannot deny that we would have to go without the
services of some of our ablest men, sir, if the country were opposed
to--to--bribery. It is a harsh term. I do not like to use it.”
The Colonel interrupted himself at this point to meet an engagement with
the Austrian minister, and took his leave with his usual courtly bow.
CHAPTER XXXVI.
In due time Laura alighted at the book store, and began to look at the
titles of the handsome array of books on the counter. A dapper clerk
of perhaps nineteen or twenty years, with hair accurately parted and
surprisingly slick, came bustling up and leaned over with a pretty smile
and an affable--
“Can I--was there any particular book you wished to see?”
“Have you Taine’s England?”
“Beg pardon?”
“Taine’s Notes on England.”
The young gentleman scratched the side of his nose with a cedar pencil
which he took down from its bracket on the side of his head, and
reflected a moment:
“Ah--I see,” [with a bright smile]--“Train, you mean--not Taine. George
Francis Train. No, ma’m we--”
“I mean Taine--if I may take the liberty.”
The clerk reflected again--then:
“Taine . . . . Taine . . . . Is it hymns?”
“No, it isn’t hymns. It is a volume that is making a deal of talk just
now, and is very widely known--except among parties who sell it.”
The clerk glanced at her face to see if a sarcasm might not lurk
somewhere in that obscure speech, but the gentle simplicity of the
beautiful eyes that met his, banished that suspicion. He went away and
conferred with the proprietor. Both appeared to be non-plussed. They
thought and talked, and talked and thought by turns. Then both came
forward and the proprietor said:
“Is it an American book, ma’m?”
“No, it is an American reprint of an English translation.”
“Oh! Yes--yes--I remember, now. We are expecting it every day. It isn’t
out yet.”
“I think you must be mistaken, because you advertised it a week ago.”
“Why no--can that be so?”
“Yes, I am sure of it. And besides, here is the book itself, on the
counter.”
She bought it and the proprietor retired from the field. Then she asked
the clerk for the Autocrat of the Breakfast Table--and was pained to see
the admiration her beauty had inspired in him fade out of his face. He
said with cold dignity, that cook books were somewhat out of their line,
but he would order it if she desired it. She said, no, never mind.
Then she fell to conning the titles again, finding a delight in the
inspection of the Hawthornes, the Longfellows, the Tennysons, and other
favorites of her idle hours. Meantime the clerk’s eyes were busy, and no
doubt his admiration was returning again--or may be he was only gauging
her probable literary tastes by some sagacious system of admeasurement
only known to his guild. Now he began to “assist” her in making a
selection; but his efforts met with no success--indeed they only annoyed
her and unpleasantly interrupted her meditations. Presently, while she
was holding a copy of “Venetian Life” in her hand and running over a
familiar passage here and there, the clerk said, briskly, snatching up
a paper-covered volume and striking the counter a smart blow with it to
dislodge the dust:
“Now here is a work that we’ve sold a lot of. Everybody that’s read it
likes it”--and he intruded it under her nose; “it’s a book that I can
recommend--‘The Pirate’s Doom, or the Last of the Buccaneers.’ I think
it’s one of the best things that’s come out this season.”
Laura pushed it gently aside with her hand and went on and went on
filching from “Venetian Life.”
“I believe I do not want it,” she said.
The clerk hunted around awhile, glancing at one title and then another,
but apparently not finding what he wanted.
However, he succeeded at last. Said he:
“Have you ever read this, ma’m? I am sure you’ll like it. It’s by the
author of ‘The Hooligans of Hackensack.’ It is full of love troubles and
mysteries and all sorts of such things. The heroine strangles her own
mother. Just glance at the title please,--‘Gonderil the Vampire, or The
Dance of Death.’ And here is ‘The Jokist’s Own Treasury, or, The Phunny
Phellow’s Bosom Phriend.’ The funniest thing!--I’ve read it four times,
ma’m, and I can laugh at the very sight of it yet. And ‘Gonderil,’--I
assure you it is the most splendid book I ever read. I know you will
like these books, ma’m, because I’ve read them myself and I know what
they are.”
“Oh, I was perplexed--but I see how it is, now. You must have thought
I asked you to tell me what sort of books I wanted--for I am apt to say
things which I don’t really mean, when I am absent minded. I suppose I
did ask you, didn’t I?”
