"'Jane Lanneau, from Ginevra. Florence, January 1st, 18--.' I have
surely seen that handwriting before! 'Ginevra!'" he repeated slowly,
and the pretty name fell musically from his tongue. "There is poetry
in the word!"

"You would have said so, had you known her!" Mrs. Baxter winked away
two unbidden tears that glazed her eyes, without forming and
dropping--swallowed anew and very hard. "She always reminded me of a
plaintive poem set to music. That is, in the later years of an
existence which was all song and sunniness when it was fresh and
new."

Orrin fluttered a few leaves; commented upon the grace and finish
of a decoration here and there, and went back to the inscription. It
was strongly like Jessie Kirke's writing, but the resemblance was
undoubtedly accidental. The one line had been penned, he learned
from the date, before she was born.

"She was the Helena to my Hermia," pursued the hostess. "We lived
the same life until her marriage, which preceded mine by five years.
She was my senior by some months, but in heart and soul we were
twins!"--pressing her hands gradually together, beginning at the
wrists, and passing upward to the finger-tips, to express the idea
of oneness. "And by a most extra-or-di-nary coincidence, we both
married clergymen!"

"Another evidence of the perfect harmony of soul existing between
you. Did I understand you to say that she is not living?"

"Alas! she has been in her grave for fifteen years. I never saw her
after her marriage, which was a surprise to all her friends. We
anticipated a brilliant union for her. But she bestowed herself, her
talents, her beauty, upon a clerical widower who was twelve years
older than herself. My poor Ginevra! it was a strange ending to her
sanguine dreams. Mr. Kirke was a scholarly man, it is true, and a
thorough gentleman, and of his devotion to her there could be no
doubt. It was such worship as few women can inspire. I believe
that he tried faithfully to make her happy, but my personal
acquaintanceship with him was very slight."

"Kirke!" repeated Orrin, more deliberately and with less emphasis
than was his wont, and he was always the reverse of abrupt. His lazy
articulation now was almost a drawl. "I know a gentleman--a
clergyman of that name--Rev. Donald L. Kirke, resident, now, and I
fancy for many years, at Dundee--"

"It is the very same!" Mrs. Baxter started tragically, and leaned
gaspingly toward him, her throat swelling like a pouter pigeon's.
"And you know him, you say? Tell me something about him--about his
family! My sweet cousin left a child, I know. Does it still live?
Dundee! yes! that was the quaint Scotch name of my Ginevra's new
home. I have always associated it with 'The Cotter's Saturday
Night.' You recollect 'Dundee's wild, warbling measures'? Do sit
down and tell me all!"

"You should visit Dundee," said Orrin, sauntering back to the
fireplace, but declining the seat she offered. "It is a beautiful
valley--sheltered from storms by a barricade of picturesque hills. I
was there in May, and the climate and flowers--especially the wealth
of roses, reminded me of sunny Provence. I became quite well
acquainted with Mr. Kirke. He is, as you describe him, a thorough
gentleman--one of the genuine 'old school'--handsome, refined, and
scholarly. His daughters, of whom there are two, are cultivated
ladies. The younger--who is, I presume, the child to whom you
refer--is, I have heard, very like her beautiful mother. You would
be interested in her, first, for your cousin's sake, but very soon
for her own. This matter of family likeness is a curious one. I see
now what was the resemblance that puzzled me last Spring. Miss
Jessie Kirke might easily be mistaken for your daughter."

"If she were, what a happy woman I should be!" cried the flattered
lady, casting up her brown eyes, and raising her clasped hands to a
level with her chin. "The relief afforded by your charming
description is beyond expression. I have never dared inquire
respecting my lost darling's babe. And she is really a Lanneau!
Heaven bless her! I feared--how I feared! to hear that she had
grown up an awkward rustic, whose faint likeness to her parent would
pain, not gratify me. Therefore I have maintained no correspondence
with Mr. Kirke since our exchange of letters immediately after his
wife's decease. 'Jessie Kirke!' what a riante, piquante,
bewitching name!"

"I wish you could prevail upon her father to entrust her to you for
a time. She would be a feature in our society this winter. Her face
and manners are strikingly attractive, and hers is a style of beauty
that will improve with years and knowledge of the world. Her bearing
and conversation have much of the fascination which is, I suspect, a
family gift. She will grow handsomer until--I cannot say when.
Women, like leaves, have their time to fade, and this trying season
lies, with a large majority, a little on the bright side of thirty.
The Lanneaus have not lost the secret they brought from fair
France--the magic that purchases the gift of perennial youth."

"Fie! fie! how you digress! I am dying for information of my beloved
young cousin, and you launch into irrelevant gallantries--flattery
that is thrown away, let me tell you, upon one of my age and
gravity!" frowned Mrs. Baxter with her forehead, her lips openly
refractory, and her eyes dancing with delight. "Do sit down and
tell me more!"

"I cannot, thank you! I have already bored you with a visit three
times as long as I meant it should be. Your cousin does the family
credit. I can award her no higher praise. Au revoir!"

"One second!" she entreated, detaining him. "The discoveries of this
evening seem trifles to you. To me they are an EVENT! I shall write
to the precious lamb to-morrow. Please give me her address in full."

Orrin dictated, and she wrote it upon her ivory tablets.

"Perhaps it would be as well not to mention me in connection with
this renewal of your intercourse with Mr. Kirke's family," he said,
carelessly. "Your friendship will be the more welcome if it is
supposed that it has its root in your fond recollection of your
lamented relative. Excuse the suggestion--but from what I have seen
of father and daughters, I am inclined to think them sensitive and
proud--as they have a right to be. Your tact hardly needed this
hint, however. There is a ring! I have loitered here shamefully! Do
you know that your beautiful drawing-room is likened, about town, to
Circe's cave?"




CHAPTER VI.


Mr. Wyllys was careful not to repeat his visit within a week. He
could trust to the natural growth of the seed he had sown, and he
was too politic to appear solicitous, on his own account, for the
resumption of cousinly intercourse between the houses of Baxter and
Kirke. He did not overrate his influence with the would-be leader of
Hamilton society. Four days after his party call, he had a note from
Jessie.


    "DEAR COUSIN ORRIN:

     "I enclose a letter received last night from Mrs. Baxter, wife
     of the President of Marion College. She is, I have learned from
     this, my nearest living relative, outside my immediate family
     circle, being my mother's first cousin. I never heard of her
     until the arrival of this communication. My father knew her,
     years ago, but did not remember whom she had married. I little
     imagined when I listened to Roy's praises of his friend, Dr.
     Baxter, that I had any personal interest in, or connection
     with his family. Mrs. Baxter writes, you see, in an
     affectionate strain, and is urgent in her request that I should
     pass the winter with her. My father and sister agree with me
     that you are the proper person to consult with regard to my
     answer to the invitation. You are, doubtless, acquainted with
     Mrs. Baxter, and are certainly more au fait to the usages of
     Hamilton polite society than we are.

     "Tell me freely what you think I ought to do--freely as if I
     were in blood, as I am in heart,

    "Your Kinswoman,

    "JESSIE KIRKE."


"Here is an example of hereditary transmission that would stagger
Wendell Holmes himself!" thought Orrin, scanning the epistle, letter
by letter. "The chirography of the girl, who could not write at the
time of her mother's death, is precisely similar to hers--as similar
as it is unlike that of the sister by whom she was educated. It is a
nut to crack for those who carp at the idea that the handwriting is
a criterion of character, who attribute variety of penmanship to
educational influences entirely. What has my fair 'kinswoman'
inherited from her matronal progenitor besides her features and
carriage, and these sloping, slender Italian characters, I wonder?
It may be worth my while to investigate the question as a
psychological phenomenon."

To secure the facilities for doing this, he resolved to run down to
Dundee the next day.

The early train he had condemned in the spring, started now before
daylight, and he called himself a fool, as he took his place in the
