and Bessie and I went over to look at it. Why 
not walk over now ? We can all go, and these 
lovely days cannot last long." 

" I should like to go, John, if you have the 
time," said Sibyl. 

" Yes ; I can postpone the visit I intended to 
make. As Aunt Faith says, these warm, still 
days cannot last long." 

The cemeterjr was about half a mile distant, a 
forest glade sloping to the lake, with a brook in a 
little ravine running through the centre. But 
few graves were there, for the land was but new- 
ly consecrated to its use, but the great forest- 
trees were old, and in the spring, wild flowers 
grew everywhere, and wild birds sang in the fo- 
liage. Now, the trees were dyed in scarlet and 
gold, and the colored leaves dropped slowly 
down upon the ground, for the air was still and 
hazy with the purple mists of Indian summer. 
Hugh's monument stood on a little eminence 
overlooking the lake. It was of marble, a slen- 
der shaft broken at the top, with a profusion of 
roses growing over the broken place, carved in 
the marble with life-like fidelity, so that the stone 
itself seemed to have blossomed. Below, on one 
side of the base was Hugh's name and age, and 
on the opposite face was the sentence, " I shall 
go to him, but he shall not return to me." 

" I like it," said Mr. Leslie, standing with un- 
covered head beside the grassy mound ; " it ex- 
presses the idea of the broken young life, and 
the roses of hope, faith, and even joy which have 
grown up to cover the place." 

" It is appropriate that it stands here over- 
looking the lake," said Sibyl. "Hugh was so 
fond of the water, and, on this very lake lie lost 
his life, — gave it up for the sake of others." 

" And I like the monument on account of the 
sentence," said Bessie, who sat by the side of the 
grave arranging a bunch of autumn leaves. 

" The monument is only raised to Hugh's 
earthly memory," said Aunt Faith. "Hugh is 
not here ; I never feel that I am nearer to him 
here than at home. But I like to honor the 

place where his mortal body lies, and I like to 
think when I die, those who love me will like- 
wise honor my grave." 

Bessie completed her wreath and laid it on 
the mound, and then they all went back to the 
old stone house, quiet and thoughtful, but not 
sad ; the faith within their hearts was too 
earnest, and the hope too bright for sadness. 

After tea they sat together on the piazza ; the 
night was warm, and the full-moon shone 
through the haze, giving the landscape a magi- 
cal softness and beauty. Tom and Gem were 
there also, and at Tom's feet were the three dogs, 
Turk, somewhat sobered, Grip, less hilarious 
than formerly, but Pete Trone, Esquire, as 
vivacious as ever, investigating ever}' corner of 
the garden as though he never saw it before, 
and coming back after each foray with increased 
importance, the air of a philosopher who had 
discovered all the secrets of the moonlight. 
Friends came in and joined the family circle. 
Rose Saxon, Edith Chase, who had become one 

of Bessie's firm friends, and Walter Hart. An 
hour or two of pleasant conversation ensued, 
and Tom delivered some bright sayings, retiring 
within the shadow, overcome with boyish em- 
barrassment when the company applauded him. 
Finally, when the visitors had all gone, Aunt 
Faith rose ; " I hope you will stay to prayers, 
John," she said ; " it is late, but the bright 
moonlight seems to postpone the hour of sleep- 
ing." 

" Yes, Aunt Faith," replied Mr. Leslie ; " we 
will stay, and Sibyl can play the hymn." 

He read a chapter from the Bible, then they 
all sang a hymn and knelt a few moments in 
prayer. With affectionate farewells, they parted 
for the night, Sibyl and her husband going home 
through the moonlight, and the others separat- 
ing to their respective rooms. 

As Bessie stood before her dressing-table, 
brushing out her thick curls, she noticed the 
lines about her mouth, and the hollows in her 
temples. " I am growing old," she thought, 



 

with a half-smile, " and yet, I am only seventeen. 
How long this year has been ; it is like a life- 
time. But yet, it has been a precious year ; it 
has taught me hope and peace. I shudder when 
I think how I felt a year ago." 

Going across the room, she lifted a little 
curtain which hung before a picture ; the frame 
contained only a fragment of paper, and through 
the glass the faint pencilled words of Hugh's 
last message could be seen. " Bessie, try to be 
good, dear. I love you." Bessie read the 
words over several times, and then, dropping 
the little curtain, she fell on her knees by the 
bedside, and prayed Hugh's prayer. " Lord I 
believe ; help Thou mine unbelief. Lord, be 
merciful to me a sinner." 

Seasons of despondency came to Bessie 
Darrell ; often her pillow was wet with tears ; 
often she was obliged to mourn over her short- 
comings, often she prayed in deep contrition for 
forgiveness of sins, — sins belonging to her quick 
impulsive nature, besetting sins with which she 



 

must struggle to the last. But she never lost 
her faith, she never ceased to look forward to 
the other country. Through trouble, through 
care, through sickness, through affliction, 
through life, and through death she held fast to 
the hope that abideth forever. Busy and active, 
she gave her time first to her Aunt Faith, then 
to Tom and Gem, and afterwards to the poor 
and afflicted. She worked hard, and in the 
very labor she found peace at the last; she 
tried to make others happy, and, in the end, she 
found happiness for herself. 

Aunt Faith sat by her table, thinking. She 
was thinking of her loved ones, her father and 
mother, her brothers and sisters, her husband, 
and last of all, of Hugh. " For the past month 
my strength has seemed to fail ; it may be that I 
am nearer home than I know," she thought. 

" But all my times are in Thy hand, dear 
Lord, and whether I go soon, or whether I must 
tarry many years longer, Thou knowest. Only 
grant me Thy constant aid, for without Thee I 



 

can do nothing." She knelt in prayer, prayed 
for her children as well as herself. Many tears 
had she shed over them, many times of .trial and 
apparent failure had darkened her way since the 
five orphans were given into her charge. But 
the promise was sure, and although this life may 
not be long enough for the harvest, although the 
laborer may see only the bud here on earth, that 
bud will surely blossom and ripen into fruit in 
heaven. 

" He that goeth on his way weeping, and 
beareth forth good seed, shall doubtless come 
again with joy, and bring his sheaves with him." 
Psalm cxxvi. 
