civilized trait, and my whole life coarse and poor, and all my
associations hopelessly degraded. I think his ideas are hard and narrow,
and I believe that even my little experience would prove them false; but
then, they are his, and I can't reconcile them with what I see is good
in him."
Kitty spoke with half-averted face where she sat beside one of the front
windows, looking absently out on the distant line of violet hills beyond
Charlesbourg, and now and then lifting her glove from her lap and
letting it drop again.
"Kitty," said Mrs. Ellison in reply to her difficulties, "you oughtn't
to sit against a light like that. It makes your profile quite black to
any one back in the room."
"O well, Fanny, I'm not black in reality."
"Yes, but a young lady ought always to think how she is looking. Suppose
some one was to come in."
"Dick's the only one likely to come in just now, and he wouldn't mind
it. But if you like it better, I'll come and sit by you," said Kitty,
and took her place beside the sofa.
Her hat was in her hand, her sack on her arm; the fatigue of a recent
walk gave her a soft pallor, and languor of face and attitude. Mrs.
Ellison admired her pretty looks with a generous regret that they should
be wasted on herself, and then asked, "Where were you this afternoon?"
"O, we went to the Hôtel Dieu, for one thing, and afterwards we looked
into the court-yard of the convent; and there another of his pleasant
little traits came out,--a way he has of always putting you in the wrong
even when it's a matter of no consequence any way, and there needn't be
any right or wrong about it. I remembered the place because Mrs. March,
you know, showed us a rose that one of the nuns in the hospital gave
her, and I tried to tell Mr. Arbuton about it, and he graciously took it
as if poor Mrs. March had made an advance towards his acquaintance. I do
wish you could see what a lovely place that court-yard is, Fanny. It's
so strange that such a thing should be right there, in the heart of this
crowded city; but there it was, with its peasant cottage on one side,
and its long, low barns on the other, and those wide-horned Canadian
cows munching at the racks of hay outside, and pigeons and chickens all
about among their feet--"
"Yes, yes; never mind all that, Kitty. You know I hate nature. Go on
about Mr. Arbuton," said Mrs. Ellison, who did not mean a sarcasm.
"It looked like a farmyard in a picture, far out in the country
somewhere," resumed Kitty; "and Mr. Arbuton did it the honor to say it
was just like Normandy."
"Kitty!"
"He did, indeed, Fanny; and the cows didn't go down on their knees out
of gratitude, either. Well, off on the right were the hospital buildings
climbing up, you know, with their stone walls and steep roofs, and
windows dropped about over them, like our convent here; and there was an
artist there, sketching it all; he had such a brown, pleasant face, with
a little black mustache and imperial, and such gay black eyes that
nobody could help falling in love with him; and he was talking in such a
free-and-easy way with the lazy workmen and women overlooking him. He
jotted down a little image of the Virgin in a niche on the wall, and one
of the people called out,--Mr. Arbuton was translating,--'Look there!
with one touch he's made our Blessed Lady.' 'O,' says the painter,
'that's nothing; with three touches I can make the entire Holy Family.'
And they all laughed; and that little joke, you know, won my heart,--I
don't hear many jokes from Mr. Arbuton;--and so I said what a blessed
life a painter's must be, for it would give you a right to be a vagrant,
and you could wander through the world, seeing everything that was
lovely and funny, and nobody could blame you; and I wondered everybody
who had the chance didn't learn to sketch. Mr. Arbuton took it
seriously, and said people had to have something more than the chance to
learn before they could sketch, and that most of them were an affliction
with their sketchbooks, and he had seen too much of the sad effects of
drawing from casts. And he put me in the wrong, as he always does. Don't
you see? I didn't want to learn drawing; I wanted to be a painter, and
go about sketching beautiful old convents, and sit on camp-stools on
pleasant afternoons, and joke with people. Of course, he couldn't
understand that. But I know the artist could. O Fanny, if it had only
been the painter whose arm I took that first day on the boat, instead of
Mr. Arbuton! But the worst of it is, he is making a hypocrite of me, and
a cowardly, unnatural girl. I wanted to go nearer and look at the
painter's sketch; but I was ashamed to say I'd never seen a real
artist's sketch before, and I'm getting to be ashamed, or to seem
ashamed, of a great many innocent things. He has a way of not seeming to
think it possible that any one he associates with can differ from him.
And I do differ from him. I differ from him as much as my whole past
life differs from his; I know I'm just the kind of production that he
disapproves of, and that I'm altogether irregular and unauthorized and
unjustifiable; and though it's funny to have him talking to me as if I
must have the sympathy of a rich girl with his ideas, it's provoking,
too, and it's very bad for me. Up to the present moment, Fanny, if you
want to know, that's the principal effect of Mr. Arbuton on me. I'm
being gradually snubbed and scared into treasons, stratagems, and
spoils."
Mrs. Ellison did not find all this so very grievous, for she was one of
those women who like a snub from the superior sex, if it does not
involve a slight to their beauty or their power of pleasing. But she
thought it best not to enter into the question, and merely said, "But
surely, Kitty, there are a great many things in Mr. Arbuton that you
must respect."
"Respect? O, yes, indeed! But respect isn't just the thing for one who
seems to consider himself sacred. Say revere, Fanny; say revere!"
Kitty had risen from her chair, but Mrs. Ellison waved her again to her
seat with an imploring gesture. "Don't go, Kitty; I'm not half done with
you yet. You must tell me something more. You've stirred me up so,
now. I know you don't always have such disagreeable times. You've often
come home quite happy. What do you generally find to talk about? Do tell
me some particulars for once."
"Why, little topics come up, you know. But sometimes we don't talk at
all, because I don't like to say what I think or feel, for fear I should
be thinking or feeling something vulgar. Mr. Arbuton is rather a blight
upon conversation in that way. He makes you doubtful whether there isn't
something a little common in breathing and the circulation of the blood,
and whether it wouldn't be true refinement to stop them."
"Stuff, Kitty! He's very cultivated, isn't he? Don't you talk about
books? He's read everything, I suppose."
"O yes, he's read enough."
"What do you mean?"
"Nothing. Only sometimes it seems to me as if he hadn't read because he
loved it, but because he thought it due to himself. But maybe I'm
mistaken. I could imagine a delicate poem shutting up half its sweetness
from his cold, cold scrutiny,--if you will excuse the floweriness of the
idea."
"Why, Kitty! don't you think he's refined? I'm sure, I think he's a
very refined person."
"He's a very elaborated person. But I don't think it would make much
difference to him what our opinion of him was. His own good opinion
would be quite enough."
"Is he--is he--always agreeable?"
"I thought we were discussing his mind, Fanny. I don't know that I feel
like enlarging upon his manners," said Kitty, slyly.
"But surely, Kitty," said the matron, with an air of argument, "there's
some connection between his mind and his manners."
"Yes, I suppose so. I don't think there's much between his heart and his
manners. They seem to have been put on him instead of having come out of
him. He's very well trained, and nine times out of ten he's so
exquisitely polite that it's wonderful; but the tenth time he may say
something so rude that you can't believe it."
"Then you like him nine times out of ten."
"I didn't say that. But for the tenth time, it's certain, his training
doesn't hold out, and he seems to have nothing natural to fall back
upon. But you can believe that, if he knew he'd been disagreeable, he'd
be sorry for it."
"Why, then, Kitty, how can you say that there's no connection between
his heart and manners? This very thing proves that they come from his
heart. Don't be illogical, Kitty," said Mrs. Ellison, and her nerves
added, sotto voce, "if you are so abominably provoking!"
"O," responded the young girl, with the kind of laugh that meant it was,
after all, not such a laughing matter, "I didn't say he'd be sorry for
you! Perhaps he would; but he'd be certain to be sorry for himself.
It's with his politeness as it is with his reading; he seems to consider
it something that's due to himself as a gentleman to treat people well;
and it isn't in the least as if he cared for them. He wouldn't like to
fail in such a point."
"But, Kitty, isn't that to his credit?"
"Maybe. I don't say. If I knew more about the world, perhaps I should
admire it. But now, you see,"--and here Kitty's laugh grew more natural,
and she gave a subtle caricature of Mr. Arbuton's air and tone as she
spoke,--"I can't help feeling that it's a little--vulgar."
Mrs. Ellison could not quite make out how much Kitty really meant of
what she had said. She gasped once or twice for argument; then she sat
up, and beat the sofa-pillows vengefully in composing herself anew, and
finally, "Well, Kitty, I'm sure I don't know what to make of it all,"
she said with a sigh.
"Why, we're not obliged to make anything of it, Fanny, there's that
comfort," replied Kitty; and then there was a silence, while she brooded
over the whole affair of her acquaintance with Mr. Arbuton, which this
talk had failed to set in a more pleasant or hopeful light. It had begun
like a romance; she had pleased her fancy, if not her heart, with the
poetry of it; but at last she felt exiled and strange in his presence.
She had no right to a different result, even through any deep feeling in
the matter; but while she owned, with her half-sad, half-comical
consciousness, that she had been tacitly claiming and expecting too
much, she softly pitied herself, with a kind of impersonal compassion,
as if it wore some other girl whose pretty dream had been broken. Its
ruin involved the loss of another ideal; for she was aware that there
had been gradually rising in her mind an image of Boston, different
alike from the holy place of her childhood, the sacred city of the
antislavery heroes and martyrs, and from the jesting, easy, sympathetic
Boston of Mr. and Mrs. March. This new Boston with which Mr. Arbuton
inspired her was a Boston of mysterious prejudices and lofty
reservations; a Boston of high and difficult tastes, that found its
social ideal in the Old World, and that shrank from contact with the
reality of this; a Boston as alien as Europe to her simple experiences,
and that seemed to be proud only of the things that were unlike other
American things; a Boston that would rather perish by fire and sword
than be suspected of vulgarity; a critical, fastidious, and reluctant
Boston, dissatisfied with the rest of the hemisphere, and gelidly
self-satisfied in so far as it was not in the least the Boston of her
fond preconceptions. It was, doubtless, no more the real Boston we know
