" God has been very good to us all," he said, with deep 
emotion. " I want you to feel that she had even then a 
sister's love and sympathy for you. It was very hard for 
her to be refused shut out, as it were." 

" And we were cruel in our coldness," returned Madge, 
with some of the old vehemence. " But you need never 
fear for the future, Clement." 

"Our hearts have clustered closely around this dear old 
spot, for which we have made so many efforts. And I 
want you all to feel that our coming can make no differ- 
ence. It must ever be Home Nook to all of us, the place 
where each one is most welcome, the centre of our family 
circle amid all the chances and changes. It is to belong 
to father while he lives, the gift of his children. For we 
have all toiled to this end, and God has mercifully crowned 
our labors." 

It was true. Each one had borne a part cheerfully. 
Labor and sacrifice had gone hand in hand, and now they 
were all together once more, a happy household. 

By the time Mr. Graham returned, they were all the 
warmest of friends. Clement was delighted to have them 
lay aside their prejudices so readily. Rose took her place 
in the circle with a tender and touching winsomeness, and 
Madge declared laughingly that she felt better acquainted 
with her than with Clement. 

Indeed, it was hard to realize that this tall, handsome, 
foreign-looking man belonged to them. Nothing about 
him was familiar. The rich, mellow laugh was like a waft 
of music blowing up from a strange shore, and the easy, 
indescribable grace and indolence amused Madge won- 
derfully. 

She and Philip sat alone on the porch a long while that 
evening. 

" It is just like a dream," she said, with a happy ring in 
her voice. " I think now that there couldn't be a mori 



 

delightful solution of the problem. And I honor Clement 
for making the place really and truly papa's." 

" Clement is a noble fellow. Somehow I cannot help 
feelbig glad that a little good fortune has come to him 
You know he will put nearly all his money in the house. 
Rose, he said, would have no marriage settlements at all, 
and insists that she will never touch the sum placed in 
trust. It will be enough to give Clement a fine business 
position somewhere. I like this old-fashioned notion of 
perfect confidence in one another." 

" Since Clement has been most loyal and unselfish with 
us, we can trust him in all things else. I think she will 
never need to question his devotion or integrity." 

No, indeed." 

And then both were silent, going over in their own 
hearts the paths by which they had been led. How they 
had all changed since the old days shaken off the 
crudeness, the hasty, unreasoning beliefs and prejudices, 
grown broader, more generous, more truly loyal to God, 
more tenderly considerate of each other! The path had 
been marked by many tears, many failures, many despair- 
ing moments ; but here and there a Bethel had been reared, 
on which the angels had descended, and it would never be 
so dark again, for God had become the light thereof! 

For a while there was quite a gala time. Every old 
haunt had to be revisited by Clement, old friends looked 
up, old stories told. By degrees he learned the many 
struggles they had not thought worth while to trouble him 
with, since it would hardly be in his power to relieve all. 

He had insisted now that Philip should resign his posi- 
tion as head of the family, and be free to follow out his 
first plans. At the same time Philip received a most 
excellent offer from the firm. Mr. Osborne was about to 
retire, and since the firm was in a sound and prosperous 
financial condition, Ward had persuaded his father to 
make this generous proposition. 





"It is more than kind in Mr. Graharr.," Philip said. 
"A sure road to competency in the course of the next 
ten years, and an offer that is seldom made to a young 
man with no capital." 

"And you will hardly let it slip," returned Eleanor. 
"For I think we have all learned that a wise and judi- 
cious uso of money benefits our fellow-creatures as well as 
ourselves. Industry and prudence are commended as 
highly as mere selfish aims and grasping covetousness are 
held up to abhorrence." 

"But Philip's old dream was to be a physician, you 
know," said Madge. 

" I believe it is my dream no longer." 

" O, Philip ! Surely your seven years' toil and waiting 
should have some reward." 

He smiled gravely, and was silent for several minutes, 
while the others watched him. 

"I believe I never realized so thoroughly our depen- 
dence upon God as during my illness and the discouraging 
months that followed. Not that I could do this all at 
once. I had many dark and despairing hours, many hard 
struggles with doubt and unbelief; but I felt that if I lost 
Him I lost everything, and when I could do nothing but 
cling blindly, I never quite gave up my hope. I placed my 
life and my future in His hands, and I found consolation in 
the hour of trial, strength against temptation, tender well- 
springs of gratitude, and fervent trust. With my firm 
belief and my wider knowledge of the world, my soul 
began to yearn over all those thoughtless ones rushing 
swiftly down the path to destruction. When we believe 
firmly and truly that those who do evil shall enter into 
condemnation, no heart can be so cold or cruel as not to 
desire to snatch them from the rapid and dangerous cur- 
rent. I felt then how high and holy a work it was " 

Philip's voice faltered a little. Mrs. Ashburton crossed 
the room, and laid her hand upon his shoulder. 



 

" I understand it, my son," she said, in her soft, sweet 
tone. " God has called you to a higher and holier work 
And it seems, since we have been prospered, dispersed 
and gathered together again, kept through many dangers, 
and allowed to meet once more in the full possession of 
life and health, we owe Him some thank-offering. What 
better than that one of our number should be consecrated 
to His service ? " 

"If He will accept my humble and earnest endeavor, 
and allow me to labor in so glorious a cause. He seems 
to make the way plain for me now. I have discussed the 
matter with Clement, who heartily approves. Ton will 
not stand in need of my services at home, and I can read- 
ily give up the prospect of personal advancement and 
fortune." 

" God speed you," said his father, solemnly. 

There could be no objection, Philip had performed 
every duty faithfully, and they all felt that he ought to be 
free to follow his own wishes. 

"It is nobler," said Madge, long afterwards, as they 
stood quite alone uttering their good nights. "Not but 
that any sphere in life can be made worthy; but this, 
with its high duties, seems to bring one nearer to God, 
and has in it fewer selfish aims. And that you should 
have thought of it so long ago ! But if you had enlisted, 
Philip, or at least gone away ?" 

"That was my sorest trial; I will confess it now. A 
clergyman's hands, of all others, should be clean ar.d pure, 
not stained with a brother's blood though God forbid 
tb.at I should misjudge those who have given their lives 
for the cause. But I saw no other resource at the time, 
and made the sacrifice, trusting to God. He opened a 
door of escape." 
