alligators and unending lies. The last phrase was added by Miss Sharp,
who laboriously wrote down the Okeechobee stories current on the St.
Johns, about buried cities, ruins of temples on islands, rusty convent
bells, and the like, only to have them all demolished by the stern
researches of the Professor. The Professor was not romantic.

    “A buried city on the brim
     Of Okeechobee was to him
       A lie, and nothing more!”

We found Jacksonville a thriving, uninteresting brick-and-mortar town,
with two large hotels, from whence issued other tourists and invalids,
with whom we sailed up the river as far as Enterprise, and then on a
smaller steamer up the wild, beautiful Ocklawaha, coming back down the
St. Johns again as far as Tocoi, where, with the clear consciences of
tourists who have seen every thing on the river, we took the mule train
across the fifteen miles to the sea, arriving toward sunset at the shed
and bonfire which form the railroad dépôt of St. Augustine. This shed
has never been seen open. What it contains no one knows; but it has a
platform where passengers are allowed to stand before their turn comes
to climb into the omnibus. The bonfire is lighted by the waiting darkies
as a protection against the evening damps. But they builded better than
they knew, those innocent contrabands; their blazing fire only mildly
typifies the hilarious joy of the Ancient City over the coming of its
annual victim, the gold-bearing Northern tourist.

“But where is the town?” demanded Aunt Diana.

“‘Cross de ribber, mistis. De omnibuster waitin’,” replied a colored
official, armed with a bugle. John Hoffman, having given directions as
to his trunks, started off on foot through the thicket, with an evening
cigar for company. Aunt Diana, however, never allowed desertion from her
camp, whether of regulars or volunteers. She had her eye upon Mokes; she
knew he was safe; so she called after the retreating figure, “Mr.
Hoffman! Mr. Hoffman! We shall not know where to go without you.”

“St. Augustine Hotel,” replied Hoffman, over his shoulder.

“But you?”

“Oh, I never ride in that omnibus;” and the tall figure disappeared
among the trees. He was gone; but Mokes remained, eyes and all. Mokes
had large eyes; in fact very large, and pale green; but his fortune was
large also, and Aunt Diana had a prophetic soul. Was not Iris her dear
sister’s child? So she marshaled us into the omnibus, which started off
across the thicket, through the ever-present and never-mended mud hole,
and out into a straight road leading toward the town through the deep
white sand, which, logged over with the red legs of the saw-palmetto,
forms the cheerful soil of Eastern Florida. The road was built on a
causeway over a river and its attendant salt marshes; on the east side
we could see two flags and the two spires of the city rising above the
green.

“What river is this?” asked Aunt Diana, as we rolled over a red bridge.

“The San Sebastian,” replied Miss Sharp, reading slowly from her
guide-book in the fading light. “‘After three hours and one-half of this
torture the exhausted tourist finds himself at the San Sebastian River,
where a miserable ferry conveys him, more dead than alive, to the city
of St. Augustine.’”

“But here is no ferry,” I said.

“The ‘exhausted tourist,’ however, is here,” observed Sara, wearily.

“The guide-book is at least so far correct that we may reasonably
conclude this to be the St. Sebastian--so called, I presume, from the
mythical saint of that name,” remarked the Professor, peering out over
his spectacles.

“Allow me,” said Miss Sharp, eagerly producing a second small volume
from her basket. “This saint was, I believe, thrown into a well--no,
that isn’t it. He was cast into a dungeon, and rescued by--by flying
dragons--”



“Oh no, Miss Sharp,” said Iris, as the baffled governess wrestled with
the fine print. “Sebastian was the one noted for his arrows; don’t you
remember the picture in my hand-book?”

Leaving the causeway, the omnibus entered the town through a gate of
foliage, great pride-of-India-trees mingling their branches over the
street for some distance, forming a green arched way whose vista made
beautiful the entrance to the Ancient City, like the shaded pathway that
led to the lovely land of Beulah in the old pictures of Pilgrim’s
Progress. On each side we could see a residence back among the
trees--one of stone, large and massive, with an orange grove behind, the
golden fruit gleaming through the glossy foliage, and protected by a
picturesque hedge of Spanish-bayonets; the other a wide house surrounded
by piazzas overhung with ivy and honeysuckle, a garden filled with roses
and every variety of flower, gray moss drooping from the trees at the
gate, and a roof painted in broad stripes which conveyed a charming
suggestion of coolness, as though it were no roof at all, but only a
fresh linen awning over the whole, suited to the tropical climate. Sara
said this, and added that she was sure there were hammocks there too,
hanging somewhere in shady places.

“Really, very meritorious,” remarked Aunt Diana, inspecting the houses
through her glasses, and bestowing upon them, as it were, her
metropolitan benediction.

In the mean while the colored official was gayly sounding his bugle, and
our omnibus rolled into the heart of the city--a small square, adorned
with a monument. We noticed the upturned faces of the people as we
passed; they were all counting. “One, two, three--only seven in all,”
said a young girl, with the beautiful hopeless hectic on her cheek.
“One, two--seven, only seven,” said a gentleman leaning on the railing
near the post-office, with the weary invalid attitude we knew so well,
having seen it all along the St. Johns. We learned afterward that one of
the daily occupations of the invalids of St. Augustine is to watch this
omnibus come in, and count the passengers, invariably announcing the
number with a triumphant “only,” as much as to say, “Aha! old town!”
thus avenging themselves for their enforced stay. It makes no difference
how many come; the number may be up in the hundreds, but still the
invalids bring out their “only,” as though they had confidently expected
thousands.



“Oh, the water, the blue water!” cried Iris, as we turned down toward
the harbor. “Shall I not sail upon you, water? Yea, many a time will I!”

“Are you fond of aquatic excursions, Mr. Mokes?” inquired Aunt Diana,
taking out her vinaigrette. “What an overpowering marshy odor!”

“Oh, the dear salt, the delicious salt breath of the sea!” murmured
Sara, leaning out with a tinge of color in her cheeks.

No, Mokes was not fond of aquatic excursions in the sort of craft they
had about here: if he had his yacht, now!

“Voilà,” exclaimed Iris, “an officer! ‘Ah, ah, que j’aime un militaire,
j’aime un militaire, j’aime un--’”

“Iris,” interrupted Aunt Di, “pray do not sing here in the street.”

“Oh, aunt, you stopped me right on the top note,” said Iris, glancing
down the street after the uniform.

Arrived at the hotel, Aunt Diana began inspecting rooms. Sara wished to
go to one of the boarding-houses, and John Hoffman, who met us on the
piazza, proposed his. “I have staid there several times,” he said. “The
Sabre-boy waits on the table, and a wild crane lives in the back-yard.”

“The crane, by all means,” said Sara, gathering together her
possessions. I preferred to be with Sara; so the three of us left the
hotel for Hospital Street, passing on our way Artillery Lane, both names
belonging to the British occupancy of the venerable little city.

“This is the Plaza,” said John, as we crossed the little square; “the
monument was erected in 1812, in honor of the adoption of a Spanish
constitution. The Spanish constitution, as might have been expected,
died young; but St. Augustine, unwilling to lose its only ornament for
any such small matter as a revolution away over in Spain, compromised by
taking out the inscribed tablets and keeping the monument. They have
since been restored as curiosities. Castelar ought to come over and see
them.”

The house on Hospital Street was a large white mansion, built of
coquina, with a peaked roof and overhanging balcony. We knocked, and a
tall colored youth opened the door.

“The ‘Sabre,’” said John, gravely introducing him.

“Why ‘Sabre?’” I said, as we waited for our hostess in the pleasant
parlor, adorned with gray moss and tufted grasses; “to what language
does the word belong?”

“Child language,” replied John. “There was a little girl here last year,
who, out of the inscrutable mysteries of a child’s mind, evolved the
fancy for calling him ‘the Sabre-boy.’ Why, nobody knew. His real name
is Willfrid, but gradually we all fell into the child’s fancy, until
every body called him the Sabre-boy, and he himself gravely accepted
the title.”



A tap at the window startled us. “The crane,” said John, throwing open
the blind. “He too has come to have a look at you.”
