very tolerably happy.' 
" Yes, just as happy as one need be. All 
that could be crowded into our small lives." 

'I dare say we should be absolute curios- 
ities to some people. Everybody now-a-days has 
a silk walking-suit, and some handsome thread 
lace, and I don't believe there are any poor 



 

people but just us. But then we have had thp 
love and comfort and enjoyment and no time to 
worry about our rich neighbors. It has been a 
life full of pleasantness and peace." 

That was true enough. There were many, 
many things beside raiment, if one could only 
get at the real completeness and harmony, the 
secret of soul life. 

Jennie Fairlie would help us sew. With their 
good servant she declared she had nothing to do. 
Miss Churchill sent us both an elegant poplin 
suit, or at least the materials. It was a simple 
wardrobe to be sure. One pretty light silk dress, 
one dark silk with a walking-jacket. We made 
morning robes and some inexpensive house gar- 
ments. Then it would be summer so soon, and 
there was nothing equal to fresh, cool white. 
We were not used to crying for the moon, we had 
found early in life that it was quite a useless 

proceeding. 

Altogether we kept our secrets pretty well, 
and when the truth leaked out at last, every- 
body was so surprised that they could only 
exclaim. Aunt Letty Perkins was brave enough 
to come and see if it was really so. 

" Well, I am beat ! " she declared. " And doing 


well, too! I always said there never was any- 
one like Mis' Endicott for luek. Girls often do 
hang on so where there is a lot, and you've 
enough left. Fanny is the flower of the family 

to be sure, but she is making a big step to get 
in with the Churchills. Ain't afraid she'll be 
puffed up with pride and vanity, are you ? ' 

"I think I can trust her," replied mamma 
with a funny smile in the corners of her mouth. 


I remember the morning as one recalls a half 
dream, the misty impression between sleeping 
and waking. The peculiar confusion pervading 
the house, the strange mislaying of handker- 
chiefs and gloves, the voices that were so full 
of tears and gay little laughs, the half sentences, 
the clasp of hands as one went in or out of a 
room, the long, loving glances as if each would 
fain garner all the past into one sweet remem- 
brance. Winthrop and Stephen, one rather grave 
but very tender to mamma and the little ones, 
the other full of life and vivacity, the happiest 
of the happy. 

Fan had one little say though her eyes were 
bright with tears. 

tk I hope I can be as good and sweet in my 
life as mamma has been in hers. And I will 
not ask any liigln-r happiness." 



 



We walked up the church aisle. The chil- 
dren stood around, back of them Louis, Nelly 
and mamma, and then a host of eager parish 
faces. Does any one take it all in then, the sol- 
emn questions, the still more solemn promises ? 

Mr. Churchill gave us both away. Papa's 
voice had a little falter in it, and I dared not 
look up. " For better, for worse," " till death do 
us part," rang clearly in heart and brain. The 
forever of human love, when it is love and no 
base counterfeit. 

A little kissing, a few tears, some tremulous 
whispers and sad, sad good-byes. We whose 
farthest journey had been the brief sojourn at 
Martha's Vineyard, took up the great pilgrimage 
of a new life. 



I cannot tell you anything about it, or Stephen. 
It was a happy confusion of strange places and 
watchful care, bits of affection shining out of 
the tiniest rift. Honeymoons, I suppose, are 
much alike, but it is right for each to think 
his and hers the best and most delightful. 

One afternoon the carriage set us down in so 



 

quiet a street that I could hardly believe it was 
New York. And when I entered the house my 
new house, I doubted more than ever, for every- 
body was there. One kissed me until I thought 
the breath of life was surely gone, then another 
took me up. I have a dim suspicion that my 
sleeves were worn threadbare, and if my hair 
had not been all fast in my head, I am afraid 
the difference would have been discoverable. 

" Why you are rounder and rosier than ever!' 
declared Fan, inspecting me. 

She was elegant as a princess, and had her 
light silk dress trimmed with applique lace. 

It seemed as if I never could get done look- 
ing at mamma, and papa hovered around me as 
if I was indeed an unusual si^ht. 


Somehow I managed to get up-stairs to my 
own pretty room, to wash my face, what there 
was left of it, and straighten my gown. And 
there was Beauty, my lovely half-grown kitten 
that some one had brought from the old home. 

I heard Stuart's voice outside the door and 
called him in. 

Stuart," I said with rnuoh dignity, "this is 
Miss Beauty Endicott, a nice, orderly, well 
brought-up kitten, and mine. I want you to 

respect her and treat her with the courtesy of 
a gentleman." 

"Oh, fudge!' he returned. "What are you 
doing with a kitten when you are married ? I 
thought it was only old maids who were death 
on cats." 

"It is boys who are death on cats;' I replied 
severely. "And then I never did expect to 
be married. I always supposed ' 

" Oh, you couldn't have been an old maid ! 
your nose never can be sharp, and your chin 
has that great dimple in it, and you are such a 
funny little dumpling altogether! If you say 
much I'll put you in my pocket and carry you 
off. No doubt Stephen would feel immensely 
relieved, but what could the cat do ? ' 

"You are an incorrigible boy!' 

"But we will have jolly times for all that," 
and he whistled to Tim, who put her head within 
the door. 

