might secure other lives from destruction . It is well 
worth while to set down this noble fact, and well worth 
while to put it in italics, too. 

The “ cub 99 pilot is early admonished to despise all 
perils connected with a pilot’s calling, and to prefer 
any sort of death to the deep dishonor of deserting his 
post while there is any possibility of his being useful in 


it. And so effectively are these admonitions incul- 
cated that even young and but half-tried pilots can be 
depended upon to stick to the wheel, and die there 
when occasion requires. In a Memphis graveyard is 
buried a young fellow who perished at the' wheel a 
great many years ago, in White River, to save the 
lives of other men. He said to the captain that if the 
fire would give him time to reach a sandbar, some 
distance away, all could be saved, but that to land 
against the bluff bank of the river would be to insure 
the loss of many lives. He reached the bar and 
grounded the boat in shallow water ; but by that time the 
flames had closed around him, and in escaping through 
them he was fatally burned. He had been urged to fly 
sooner, but had replied as became a pilot to reply: 

“ I will not go. If I go, nobody will be saved. If 
I stay, no one will be lost but me. I will stay.” 

There were two hundred persons on board, and no 
life was lost but the pilot's. There used to be a 
monument to this young fellow in that Memphis grave- 
yard. While we tarried in Memphis on our down 
trip, I started out to look for it, but our time was so 
brief that I was obliged to turn back before my object 
was accomplished. 

The tugboat gossip informed me that Dick Kennet 
was dead — blown up, near Memphis, and killed; that 
several others whom I had known had fallen in the war 
— one or two of them shot down at the wheel ; that 
another and very particular friend, whom I had steered 
many trips for, had stepped out of his house in New' 
Orleans, one night years ago, to collect some money 
in a remote part of the city, and had never been seen 
again — was murdered and thrown into the river, it was 
thought; that Ben Thornburg was dead long ago; 
also his wild “ cub,” whom I used to quarrel with all 
through every daylight watch. A heedless, recktest 


creature he was, and always in hot water, always in 
mischief. An Arkansas passenger brought an enor- 
mous bear aboard one day, and chained him to a lifeboat 
on the hurricane-deck. Thornburg’s “ cub ’* could not 
rest till he had gone there and unchained the bear, to 
"see what he would do.” He was promptly gratified. 
The bear chased him around and around the deck, for 
miles and miles, with two hundred eager faces grinning 
through the railings for audience, and finally snatched 
off the lad’s coat-tail and went into the texas to chew 
it. The off-watch turned out with alacrity, and left 
the bear in sole possession. He presently grew lone* 
some, and started out for recreation. He ranged the 
whole boat — visited every part of it, with an advance 
guard of fleeing people in front of him and a voiceless 
vacancy behind him; and when his owner captured 
him at last, those two were the only visible beings 
anywhere; everybody else was in hiding, and the boat 
was a solitude. 

I was told that one of my pilot friends fell dead at 
the wheel, from heart disease, in 1869. The captain 
was on the roof at the time. He saw the boat break- 
ing for the shore; shouted, and got no answer; ran 
up, and found the pilot lying dead on the floor. 

Mr. Bixby had been blown up in Madrid bend ; was 
not injured, but the other pilot was lost. 

George Ritchie had been blown up near Memphis — 
blown into the river from the wheel, and disabled. 
The water was very cold; he clung to a cotton-bale — 
mainly with his teeth — and floated until nearly ex- 
hausted, when he was rescued by some deck-hands 
who were on a piece of the wreck. They tore open 
the bale and packed him in the cotton, and warmed 
the life back into him, and got him safe to Memphis. 
He is one of Bixby’ s pilots on the Baton Rouge t ow. 

Into the life of a steamboat clerk, now dead, had 


dropped a bit of romance — somewhat grotesque ro- 
mance, but romance nevertheless. When I knew him 
he was a shiftless young spendthrift, boisterous, good- 
hearted, full of careless generosities, and pretty con- 
spicuously promising to fool his possibilities away 
early, and come to nothing. In a Western city livec 
a rich and childless old foreigner and his wife; and lr 
their family was a comely young girl — sort of friend, 
sort of servant. The young clerk of whom I have beer 
speaking, — whose name was not George Johnson, but 
who shall be called George Johnson for the purposes of 
this narrative, — got acquainted with this young girl, 
and they sinned ; and the old foreigner found them out 
and rebuked them. Being ashamed, they lied, and 
said they were married ; that they had been privately 
married. Then the old foreigner's hurt was healed, 
and he forgave and blessed them. After that, they 
were able to continue their sin without concealment. 
By and by the foreigner's wife died; and presently he 
followed after her. Friends of the family assembled to 
mourn ; and among the mourners sat the two young 
sinners. The will was opened and solemnly read. It 
bequeathed every penny of that old man’s great wealth 
to Mrs. George Johnson  

And there was no such person. The young sinners 
fled forth then and did a very foolish thing : married 
themselves before an obscure justice of the peace, and 
got him to antedate the thing. That did no sort of 
good. The distant relatives flocked in and exposed 
the fraudful date with extreme suddenness and sur- 
prising ease, and carried off the fortune, leaving the 
Johnsons very legitimately, and legally, and irrevocably 
chained together in honorable marriage, but with not 
so much as a penny to bless themselves withal. Such 
are the actual facts ; and not all novels have for a base 
so telling a situation. 



CHAPTER L. 

THE “ORIGINAL JACOBS rl 

WE had some talk about Captain Isaiah Sellers, now 
many years dead. He was a fine man, a high- 
minded man, and greatly respected both ashore and on 
the river. He was very tall, well built, and hand- 
some; and in his old age — as I remember him — his 
hair was as black as an Indian’s, and his eye and hand 
were as strong and steady and his nerve and judgment 
as firm and clear as anybody’s, young or old, among 
the fraternity of pilots. He was the patriarch of the 
craft; he had been a keelboat pilot before the day of 
steamboats; and a steamboat pilot before any other 
steamboat pilot, still surviving at the tim£ I speak of, 
had ever turned a wheel. Consequently, his brethren, 
held him in the sort of awe in which illustrious survi- 
vors of a bygone age are always held by their asso- 
ciates. He knew how he was regarded, and perhaps 
this fact added some trifle of stiffening to his natural 
dignity, which had been sufficiently stiff in its original 
state. 

He left a diary behind him ; but apparently it did 
not date back to his first steamboat trip, which was 
said to be 1811, the year the first steamboat disturbed 
the waters of the Mississippi. At the time of his death 
a correspondent of the St. Loins Republican culled the 
following items from the diary : 


In February, 1825, he shipped on board the steamer Rambler , at 
Florence, Ala., and made during that year three trips to New Orleans and 
back — this on the General Carrol, between Nashville and New Orleans. 
It was during his stay on this boat that Captain Sellers introduced the tap 
of the bell as a signal to heave the lead; previous to which time it was the 
custom for the pilot to speak to the men below when soundings we
wanted. The proximity of the forecastle to the pilot-hov' , no doubt, len- 
dered this an easy matter; but how different on one oi our palaces of the 
present day ! 

In 1827 we find him onboard the President, a boat of two hundred and 
eighty-five tons burden, and plying between Smithland and New Orleans. 
Thence he joined the Jubilee in 1828* and on this boat he did his first 
piloting in the St. Louis trade; his first watch extending from Herculaneum 
to St. Genevieve. On May 26, 1836, he completed and left Pittsburg in 
