"Why, I shall earn some more!" Hal exclaimed with his gay laugh. "It is
just what it is for, Granny, to spend. I'm thankful to be able to earn
it."
It was the middle of October now; and there had been some severe frost
already. Tender out-doors plants were a mass of blackened ruins.
"You will have to go over for me, Charlie," said Hal, "because I cannot
leave school. The stage starts at nine."
Charlie was in ecstasies. She rose by daylight on Thursday morning, to
curl her hair, Kit said; and could hardly wait for Hal to cut and pack
the flowers.
"I am sure I shall be left!" she declared twenty times at least.
Hal thought of it all the way to school. It seemed different from any
other earnings, and gave him an exquisite pleasure. His own lovely
darlings, his dream actually coming to pass.
Charlie was superbly generous, and left the stage at the Cross-roads,
when she might have ridden half a mile farther.
The children were just being dismissed: so she rushed in full of
excitement.
"O Hal! he said they were lovely, and the carnations magnificent. He
wondered how you raised them. They were a great deal prettier than his."
Hal blushed like a girl. He had sent the carnations at a venture.
"And here's the bill and the money."
Charlie was as proud as if it had been her own. Hal's fingers trembled
as he opened it. There they all were:--
    Three dozen Roses      $1.50
    Two dozen Heliotrope     .75
    Fuchsias                 .75
    One dozen Carnations     .48
                           -----
                           $3.48
"Oh!" exclaimed Hal with a glad cry: "it's just splendid! And he liked
them all?"
"Yes. There's going to be a great wedding in Salem. Such hosts and
hosts of flowers! And Jim Street took me for fifteen cents!"
"So there's more than three dollars profit," Hal returned. "Now you
must run home, Charlie, and get some dinner. I have not enough for two."
"I don't see why I can't stay. I should like to see your school, Hal,
when all the children are in."
"But Granny will be troubled. Yes, you had better go, Charlie. You have
been so good this morning, that you must not spoil it all. And then
she'll be glad to hear."
Charlie went reluctantly. Granny was overjoyed The three dollars looked
as large to her as a hundred would have to many a one.
Hal could hardly wait until four o'clock. He hurried home, and ran up
stairs; but the poor flowers had been shorn of their crown of glory.
"I can't bear to look at 'em," said Granny with a quiver in her voice.
"The poor dear things, that seemed jest like human creeturs! I used
to talk to 'em every time I came in."
"But they'll soon be lovely again; and it pleases me so much to think
that I can make a little money. I shall have the green-house some day;
and you won't have any thing to do but walk round in it like a queen."
Granny smiled. Every plan of Hal's was precious to her.
The heliotrope appeared to be the better for the pruning; and some of
the tuberoses shot up a tall spike for buds.
Then Hal had a few demands from the neighbors round. Mr. Thomas's next
call was early in November, when he asked Hal to bring all the flowers
that were available. It being Saturday morning, he went in with them
himself, and became the happy recipient of five dollars and a quarter.
Then he took a ramble in a bookstore, and, being attracted by the first
few pages of "Charles Auchester," purchased the book.
Kit went nearly wild over it. Hal read it aloud; and he held his breath
at the exquisite description of Charles's first concert, and the
tenderness and sweetness of the Chevalier. Though part of it was rather
beyond their comprehension, they enjoyed it wonderfully, nevertheless.
The little room up stairs became quite a parlor for them. The stove
kept it nice and warm; and they used to love to sit there evenings,
inhaling the fragrance, and watching the drowsy leaves as they nodded
to each other: it seemed to Hal that he had never been so happy in the
world. He ceased to long for Florence.
They did very well on their chickens this year, clearing forty dollars.
Granny thought they were quite rich.
"You ought to put it in the bank, Hal! it's just a flow of good luck on
every side."
And, when he received his pay for November, he actually did put fifty
dollars in the bank, though there were a hundred things he wanted with
it.
The latter part of December Hal's flowers began to bloom in great
profusion. The alyssum and candytuft came out, and the house was sweet
with tuberoses. There being more than Mr. Thomas wanted, he took a box
full to Newbury one Saturday morning, and found Mr. Kirkman, to whom
the flowers were quite a godsend. Eight dollars! Hal felt richer than
ever.
He had set his heart upon buying some Christmas gifts. At first he
thought he would break the fifty dollars; but it was so near the end of
the month that he borrowed a little from Dr. Meade instead. He came
home laden with budgets; but both Kit and Charlie were out, fortunately.
"Now, Granny, you will keep the secret," he implored. "Don't breathe
a hint of it."
Very hard work Granny found it. She chuckled over her dish-washing;
and, when Dot asked what was the matter, subsided into an awful
solemnity. But Wednesday morning soon came.
They all rushed down to their stockings, which Kit and Charlie had
insisted upon hanging up after the olden fashion. Stockings were empty
however, as Santy Claus' gifts were rather unwieldy for so small a
receptacle.
Kit started back in amazement. A mysterious black case with a brass
handle on the top.
"O Hal! you are the dearest old chap in the world; a perfect darling,
isn't he Granny? and I never, never can thank you. I've been thinking
about it all the time, and wondering--oh, you dear, precious fiddle!"
Kit hugged it; and I am not sure but he kissed it, and capered around
the room as if he had lost his senses.
Charlie's gift was a drawing-book, a set of colored pencils, and a new
dress; Granny's a new dress; and Dot's a muff and tippet, a very pretty
imitation of ermine. How delighted they all were! Kit could hardly eat
a mouthful of breakfast.
Granny gave them a royal dinner. Altogether it was almost as good as
the Christmas with "The old woman who lived in a shoe."
Yet there were only four of them now. How they missed the two absent
faces!
Shortly after this they had a letter from Joe. He had actually been
at Canton, seen John Chinaman on his native soil in all the glory of
pigtail and chop-stick. Such hosts of funny adventures it would have
been hard to find even in a book. He meant to cruise around in that
part of the world until he was tired, for he was having the tallest
kind of sport.
February was very pleasant indeed. Hal stirred up the soil in his cold
frames, and planted some seeds. His flowers were still doing very well,
the slips having come forward beautifully. On the whole, it had proved
a rather pleasant winter, and they had been very happy.
Granny declared that she was quite a lady. No more weaving carpet, or
going out to work,--nothing but "puttering" about the house. She was
becoming accustomed to the care of the flowers, and looked after them
in a manner that won Hal's entire heart.
Easter was to fall very early. Mr. Thomas had engaged all Hal's
flowers, and begged him to have as many white ones as possible. So
he fed the callas on warm water, with a little spirits of ammonia in
it, and the five beautiful stalks grew up, with their fairy haunt of
loveliness and fragrance. Dot used to look at them twenty times a day,
as the soft green turned paler and paler, bleaching out at last to that
wonderful creamy white with its delicate odor.
Outside he transplanted his heads of lettuce, sowed fresh seeds
of various kinds, and began to set slips of geranium. On cold or
stormy days they kept the glass covered, and always at night. It was
marvellous, the way every thing throve and grew. It seemed to Hal that
there was nothing else in the world so interesting.
Kit had begun to take lessons on his violin; but he soon found there
was a wide difference between the absolute drudgery of rudiments,
and the delicious dreams of melody that floated through his brain.
Sometimes he cried over the difficulties, and felt tempted to throw
away his violin; then he and Hal would have a good time with their
beloved Charles Auchester, when he would go on with renewed courage.
After Easter the flowers looked like mere wrecks. Hal cut most of the
roses down, trimmed the heliotrope and fuchsias, and planted verbenas.
His pansies, which had come from seed, looked very fine and thrifty,
and were in bud. So he mentioned that he would have quite a number of
bedding-plants for sale.
Indeed, the fame of Hal's green-house spread through Madison. It was a
marvel to everybody, how he could make plants grow in such a remarkable
fashion, and under not a few disadvantages. But he studied the soil
and habits minutely; and then he had a "gift,"--as much of a genius for
this, as Kit's for music, or Charlie's for drawing.
But with these warm spring days Hal grew very pale and thin. It
seemed to him sometimes as if he could not endure the peculiar wear
and anxiety of the school. There were thirty-five scholars now; and,
although he tried to keep respectable order, he found it very hard
work. He had such a tender, indulgent heart, that he oftener excused
than punished.
His head used to ache dreadfully in the afternoon, and every pulse in
his body would throb until it seemed to make him absolutely sore. The
gardening and the school were quite too much.
"Granny," said Charlie one evening, "I am not going to school any more."
Granny opened her eyes in surprise.
"I am going to work."
"To work?"
It was astonishing to hear Charlie declare such sentiments.
"Yes,--in the mill."
"What will you do?"
"Sarah Marshall began last fall: it's cleaning specks and imperfections
out of the cloth; not very hard, either, and they give her four and a
half a week."
"That's pretty good," said Granny.
"Yes. I shall have to do something. I hate housework and sewing, and--I
want some money."
"I'm sure Hal's as good as an angel."
"I don't want Hal's. Goodness knows! he has enough to do, and it's high
time I began to think about myself."
Granny was overwhelmed with admiration at Charlie's spirit and
resolution, yet she was not quite certain of its being proper until she
had asked Hal.
