

 

strange that you can 't remember how such things 
torment me." 

" I suppose it's my weak health, dear," answered 
the mother. " I didn 't use to be so. But now I 
don 't really seem to have the strength to be sensi 
ble. I know it's silly as well as you. The talk 
just seems to keep going on of itself, slipping out, 
slipping out. But you needn 't mind. Mr. Ferris 
won 't think you could ever have done anything out 
of the way. I'm sure you don 't act with him as 
if you d ever encouraged anybody. I think you're 
too haughty with him, Florida. And now, his 
flowers." 

" He's detestable. He's conceited and presum 
ing beyond all endurance. I don 't care what he 
thinks of me. But it's his manner towards you 
that I can 't tolerate." 

" I suppose it's rather free," said Mrs. Vervain. 
" But then you know, my dear, I shall be soon get 
ting to be an old lady ; and besides, I always feel as 
if consuls were a kind of one of the family. He's 
been very obliging since we came ; I don 't know 
what we should have done without him. And I 
don 't object to a little ease of manner in the gen 
tlemen ; I never did." 

He makes fun of you," cried Florida : " and 
there at the convent," she said, bursting into angry 
tears, " he kept exchanging glances with that monk, 

as if he He's insulting, and I hate 

him ! " 



 

" Do you mean that he thought your mother 
ridiculous, Florida?" asked Mrs. Vervain gravely. 
" You must have misunderstood his looks ; indeed 
you must. I can 't imagine why he should, I re 
member that I talked particularly well during our 
whole visit ; my mind was active, for I felt unusu 
ally strong, and I was interested in everything. 
It's nothing but a fancy of yours ; or your preju 
dice, Florida. But it's odd, now I've sat down 
for a moment, how worn out I feel. And thirsty." 

Mrs. Vervain fitted on her glasses, but even then 
felt uncertainly about for the empty vase on the 
table before her. 

"It isn t a goblet, mother," said Florida; "I ll 
get you some water." 

 Do ; and then throw a shawl over me. I'm 
sleepy, and a nap before dinner will do me good. 
I don 't see why I'm so drowsy of late. I suppose 
it's getting into the sea air here at Venice ; though 
it's mountain air that makes you drowsy. But 
you're quite mistaken about Mr. Ferris. He isn 't  
capable of anything really rude. Besides, there 
would n t have been any sense in it." 

The young girl brought the water and then knelt 
beside the sofa, on which she arranged the pillows 
under her mother, and covered her with soft wraps. 
She laid her cheek against the thinner face. 
" don 't mind anything I've said, mother ; let's 
talk of something else." 

The mother drew some loose threads of the 



 

daughter's hair through her slender fingers, but said 
little more, and presently fell into a deep slumber. 
Florida gently lifted her head away, and remained 
kneeling" before the sofa, looking into the sleeping 
face with an expression of strenuous, compassionate 
devotion, mixed with a vague alarm and self-pity, 
and a certain wondering anxiety. 



III. 

Dox IPPOLITO had slept upon his interview with 
Ferris, and now sat in his laboratory, amidst the 
many witnesses of his inventive industry, with the 
model of the breech-loading cannon on the work 
bench before him. He had neatly mounted it on 
wheels, that its completeness might do him the 
greater credit with the consul when he should show 
it him, but the carriage had been broken in his 
pocket, on the way home, by an unlucky thrust 
from the burden of a porter, and the poor toy lay 
there disabled, as if to dramatize that premature 
explosion in the secret chamber. 

His heart was i i these inventions of his, which 
had as yet so grudgingly repaid his affection. For 
their sake he had stinted himself of many needful 
things. The meagre stipend which he received 
from the patrimony of his church, eked out with 
the money paid him for baptisms, funerals, and 
marriages, and for masses by people who had friends 
to be prayed out of purgatory, would at best have 
barely sufficed to support him ; but he denied him 
self everything save the necessary decorums of dress 
and lodging ; he fasted like a saint, and slept hard 
as a hermit, that he might spend upon these un 
grateful creatures of his brain. They were the 



 

work of his own hands, and so he saved the ex 
pense of their construction ; but there were many 
little outlays for materials and for tools, which he 
could not avoid, and with him a little was all. 
They not only famished him ; they isolated him. 
His superiors in the church, and his brother priests, 
looked with doubt or ridicule upon the labors for 
which he shunned their company, while he gave up 
the other social joys, few and small, which a priest 
might know in the Venice of that day, when all 
generous spirits regarded him with suspicion for 
his cloth's sake, and church and state were alert 
to detect disaffection or indifference in him. But 
bearing these things willingly, and living as fru 
gally as he might, he had still not enough, and he 
had been fain to assume the instruction of a young 
girl of old and noble family in certain branches of 
polite learning which a young lady of that sort 
might fitly know. The family was not so rich as 
it was old and noble, and Don Ippolito was paid 
from its purse rather than its pride. But the slen 
der salary was a help ; these patricians were very 
good to him ; many a time he dined with them, 
and so spared the cost of his own pottage at home ; 
they always gave him coffee when he came, and 
that was a saving ; at the proper seasons little pres 
ents from them were not wanting. In a word, his 
condition was not privation. He did his duty as a 
teacher faithfully, and the only trouble with it was 
that the young girl was growing into a young 



 

woman, and that he could not go on teaching her 
forever. In an evil hour, as it seemed to Don 
Ippolito, that made the years she had been his 
pupil shrivel to a mere pinch of time, there came 
from a young count of the Friuli, visiting Venice, 
an offer of marriage ; and Don Ippolito lost his 
place. It was hard, but he bade himself have pa 
tience; and he composed an ode for the nuptials of 
his late pupil, which, together with a brief sketch 
of her ancestral history, he had elegantly printed, 
according to the Italian usage, and distributed 
among the family friends ; he also made a sonnet 
to the bridegroom, and these literary tributes were 
handsomely acknowledged. 

He managed a whole year upon the proceeds, 
and kept a cheerful spirit till the last soldo was 
