are inexperienced, it may be that we shall not succeed, it may be that
the girl is past saving; but it's worth while to try, and try our very
best."

Harry was saying this just as he put his latch-key into the door of
his house.

It was suddenly opened from within, and Maggie stood before them with
her bonnet and shawl on, ready to pass out. There was a hard, sharp,
desperate expression in her face as she pressed forward to pass them.

"Maggie, child," said Eva, laying hold of her arm, "where are you
going?"

"Away--anywhere--I don't care where," said Maggie, fiercely, trying to
pull away.

"But you mustn't," said Eva, laying hold of her.

"Maggie," said Harry, stepping up to her and speaking in that calm,
steady voice which controls passionate people, "go into the house
immediately with Mrs. Henderson; she will talk with you."

Maggie turned, and sullenly followed Eva into a little sewing room
adjoining the parlor, where she had often sat at work.

"Now, Maggie," said Eva, "take off your bonnet, for I'm not going to
have you go into the streets at this hour of the night, and sit down
quietly here and tell me all about it. What has happened? What is the
matter? You don't want to distress your mother and break her heart?"

"She hates me," said Maggie. "She says I've disgraced her and I
disgrace you, and that it's a disgrace to have me here. She and Uncle
Mike both said so, and I said I'd go off, then."

"But where could you go?" said Eva.

"Oh, I know places enough! They're bad, to be sure. I wanted to do
better, so I came away; but I can go back again."

"No, Maggie, you must never go back. You must do as I tell you. Have I
not been a friend to you?"

"Oh, yes, yes, you have; but they say I disgrace you."

"Maggie, I don't think so. I never said so. There is no need that
you should disgrace anybody. I hope you'll live to be a credit to
your mother--a credit to us all. You are young yet; you have a good
many years to live; and if you'll only go on and do the very best you
can from this time, you can be a comfort to your mother and be a good
woman. It's never too late to begin, Maggie, and I'll help you now."

Maggie sat still and gazed gloomily before her.

"Come, now, I'll sing you some little hymns," said Eva, going to her
piano and touching a few chords. "You've got your mind all disturbed,
and I'll sing to you till you are more quiet."

Eva had a sweet voice, and a light, dreamy sort of touch on the piano,
and she played and sung with feeling.

There were truths in religion, higher, holier, deeper than she felt
capable of uttering, which breathed themselves in these hymns; and
something within her gave voice and pathos to them.

The influence of music over the disturbed nerves and bewildered moral
sense of those who have gone astray from virtue, is something very
remarkable. All modern missions more or less recognize that it has
a power which goes beyond anything that spoken words can utter, and
touches springs of deeper feeling.

Eva sat playing a long time, going from one thing to another; and
then, rising, she found Maggie crying softly by herself.

"Come, now, Maggie," she said, "you are going to be a good girl, I
know. Go up and go to bed now, and don't forget your prayers. That's a
good girl."

Maggie yielded passively, and went to her room.

Then Eva had another hour's talk, to persuade Mary that she must not
be too exacting with Maggie, and that she must for the future avoid
all such encounters with her. Mary was, on the whole, glad to promise
anything; for she had been thoroughly alarmed at the altercation
into which their attempt at admonition had grown, and was ready to
admit to Eva that Mike had been too hard on her. At all events, the
family honor had been sufficiently vindicated, and, if Maggie would
only behave herself, she was ready to promise that Mike should not
be allowed to interfere in future. And so, at last, Eva succeeded in
inducing Mary to go to her daughter's room with a reconciling word
before she went to bed, and had the comfort of seeing the naughty girl
crying in her mother's arms, and the mother petting and fondling her
as a mother should.

Alas! it is only in the good old Book that the father sees the
prodigal a great way off, and runs and falls on his neck and kisses
him, before he has confessed his sin or done any work of repentance.
So far does God's heavenly love outrun even the love of fathers and
mothers.

"Well, I believe I've got things straightened out at last," said Eva,
as she came back to Harry; "and now, if Mary will only let me manage
Maggie, I think I can make all go smooth."




CHAPTER XXVIII.

REASON AND UNREASON.


The next morning being Monday, Dr. Campbell dropped in to breakfast.
Since he and Eva had met so often in Maggie's sick room, and he had
discussed the direction of her physical well-being, he had rapidly
grown in intimacy with the Hendersons, and the little house had come
to be regarded by him as a sort of home. Consequently, when Eva sailed
into her dining-room, she found him quietly arranging a handful of cut
flowers which he had brought in for the center of her breakfast table.

"Good morning, Mrs. Henderson," he said, composedly. "I stepped into
Allen's green-house on my way up, to bring in a few flowers. With the
mercury at zero, flowers are worth something."

"How perfectly lovely of you, Doctor," said she. "You are too good."

"I don't say, however, that I had not my eye on a cup of your coffee,"
he replied. "You know I have no faith in disinterested benevolence."

"Well, sit down then, old fellow," said Harry, clapping him on the
shoulder. "You're welcome, flowers or no flowers."

"How are you all getting on?" he said, seating himself.

"Charmingly, of course," said Eva, from behind the coffee-pot, "and as
the song says, 'the better for seeing you.'"

"And how's my patient--Maggie?"

"Oh, she's doing well, if only people will let her alone; but her
mother, and uncle, and relations will keep irritating her with
reproaches. You see, I had got her in beautiful training, and she was
sewing for me and making herself very useful, when, Sunday evening,
when I was gone out, her uncle came to see her, and talked and bore
down upon her so as to completely upset all I had done. I came home
and found her just going out of the house, perfectly desperate."

"And ready to go to the devil straight off, I suppose?" said the
Doctor. "His doors are always open."

"You see," said Harry, "things seem to be so arranged in this world
that if man, woman or child does wrong or gets out of the way, all
society is armed to the teeth to prevent their ever doing right
again. Their own flesh and blood pitch into them with reproaches and
expostulations, and everybody else looks on them with suspicion, and
nobody wants them and nobody dares trust them."

"Just so," said Dr. Campbell, "the world is an army--it can't stop for
anything. 'Wounded to the rear,' is the word, and the army must go on
and leave the sick and wounded to die or be taken by the enemy. For
my part, I never thought Napoleon was so much out of the way when he
recommended poisoning the sick and wounded that could not be moved. I
think I should prefer to be comfortably and decently poisoned myself
in such a case. The world isn't ripe yet for the doctrine; but I
think all people who get broken down, and don't keep step physically
and morally, had better be killed at once. Then we could get on
comfortably, and in a few generations should have a nice population."

"Come, now, Doctor; I'm not going to have that sort of talk," said
Eva. "In short, you've got to keep on as you have been doing--working
for the wounded in the rear. And now tell me if I could do a better
thing for Maggie than keep her here in our house, under my own eye and
influence, till she gets quite strong and well, and help her to live
down the past?"

"Well, that's a sensible putting of the thing," said Dr. Campbell, "if
you will be foolish enough to take the trouble; but I forewarn you
that girls that have been through her experiences are troublesome to
manage. Their nerves are all in a jangle; they are sore everywhere,
and the very good that is in them is turned wrong side outward;
