" I have the means of bringing her to remembrance, 
you know ; " and he gave a heartless laugh. 
" And you think — It would be a great fortune to 
lose, Jasper!" 
There was an avaricious gleam in her eye that gave 
her a very unpleasant expression. 
" I do not mean to lose it," he returned positive!}'. 
" I kept the secret so long — it must have been for 
your sake. She never should have had a penny after 
all her airs and contempt of me, who would have been 
the best friend she ever had ! " 
The woman clinched her bony fingers with some old, 
revengeful feeling. 
" You will come out on the winning side, Aunt Mill}*. 
No more keeping old lady boarders then ! Now I must 
take, a little run down to the lower end of the city. I 
may not be back until night, and never mind about 
supper." 
" But, Jasper, you have not told me anything ! " 
" Do not spoil the broth by taking all the flavoring 
out of it beforehand. When I have anything to tell, 
you shall hear it, surely. In a month or so, maybe. 
There is the key — shake out those traps a little, and 
hang them up. I must be off to keep an engagement." 
With that, he sprang lightly down the stairs and let 
himself out almost noiselessfy. His next business was 
with Leonard Colby. 
He found Mr. Colby in his office as usual, but was 
invited into the private room at once. He fancied that 
the lawyer's brow wore a rather thoughtful and haggard 
expression. 
"I have been expecting you for several daj*s," lie 
began in a rather distant tone. 
" Oh, there was no hurry," and Cameron settled him- 
self in an easy position. "I did not know but your 
fertile brain might find a better way out of the difficulty." 
" You have seen Mrs. — " 
i ' Mrs. Cameron — yes . " 
u Have you come to any conclusion?" 
"We have been making a kind of agreement. By 
Jove  Colby, I have half a mind to win the woman 
and the fortune both ! She is a fine, spirited creature, 
and with a peculiar beauty that gives her the air of a 
tragedy queen, at times. Suppose, in about a month, I 
bring her down here and introduce her as my wife, and 
we have the business fairly settled ? Can you be ready ? " 
Colby had grown ghastly pale, while listening to this 
confident speech. 
"She does not love you, Cameron. You cannot 
make me believe that!" he tried to say in a steady 
voice. 
"Oh, I shall not chaff you with impossibilities, 
never fear that. There was the foundation of an old 
girlish passion. In those days she thought me an 
Apollo or demi-god. Tremaine was more to her taste 
after sober consideration. She never had the confidence 
to tell him of the escapade, thinking I was dead, and 
that he would not be likely to hear it from others. Of 
course, it surprised him immensely ! " 
"How did he learn it?" 
"She was afraid to go with mc and confess, so I 
went alone. Tremaine took it pretty hard. She has 
gone to stay with a friend of hers, at my request, and 
he has made no effort to see her thus far." 
"The case looks bad for her ; but, Cameron, I must 
see her, must hear from her own lips what choice she 
designs to make of her own free will." 
"I am not sure that she will be allowed any choice. 
Tremaine may wish to repudiate her ; if he should, she 
might return to her first love quite easily." 
" Cameron, men do not talk of women in that fashion 
whom they love and respect." 
" Well, I will confess that several times I have had 
an almost tigerish desire to call her mine once more. 
I have been tempted to rush to the very extent of the 
law and compel her to fulfil her first vows. So much 
for my feelings on that score, which I take it is pretty 
near love. A higher motive has urged me to wait. If 
she comes to me of her own free will, I shall forget 
the past — " 
"In consideration of the fortune, perhaps. Would 
you be as generous to a woman with no fortune?" the 
lawyer asked dryly. 
"That would be entirely my own affair. She has a 
fortune, which is your chief concern at present. We 
have made an agreement — for a month she is to remain 
in seclusion, and most kindly gives me the privilege of 
visiting her. If. during that time, I succeed in making 
a favorable impression, and Mr. Tremaine evinces a 
disinclination to renewttieir former relations — for that 
may influence her — the matter may be amicably set- 
tled. I see no reason why I should not use my best 
endeavors, since I find that I do care for her." 
Jasper Cameron announced this with great apparent 
honesty. Colby realized, turn whichever way he might, 
that he was still in the man's grasp. 
"Suppose she should decide even then not to return 
to you?" 
" If I fail to gain her own free consent, I shall give 
her up. I am not so much of a villain as you think. 
But in that case I shall see every penny of her fortune 
restored to her just the same. You proposed trusting 
to her generosity — why should not I ? If she does 
not care to accept me for her husband, she would give 
a good deal for legal liberty. I could easily place it in 
her way, you know ! " 
Yes, the man was hemmed in on every side. Ruin 
stared him in the face. 
" So I give you a month's grace, which js more than 
every one would do, granting that you do not mean to 
flit in the meanwhile. Matters may look brighter for 
you then." 
That was with Jasper Cameron's old, gay assurance. 
For an instant a wild idea entered Colby's brain. 
Suppose he took what he had and sought some other 
clime ? But there was the infamy to be cast upon his 
dear, innocent children — no, he could not endure that 
they should dl rise up and ha^ him. 
" You said the last time you were here that she knew 
nothing of the fortune ? " • 
"Very-true. She does not." 
" I think she will feel that the fortune was her great 
attraction in your eyes." 
"Well, I mean that she shall have it in any case," 
Cameron returned with a kind of dogged pertinacity. 
" Then you have given up an idea that you advanced 
in our other talk on this subject?" 
Drops of perspiration started out on Colby's pallid . 
brow, and he uttered the words rather huskily. He 
had been brooding over the temptation daily, and now 
to have it taken out of his way, seemed an actual loss. 
He was not sharp enough to guess that Jasper Cameron 
waited for this moment. 
" What was that?" with an assumption of forgetful- 
ness. "Oh, that you should buy me off instead of 
Mrs. Tremaine ! She has a small fortune of twelve or 
fifteen thousand, and at our first interview offered me 
every penny not to stand in the way of her legal freedom. 
If she had more, a larger sum would doubtless be at 
my disposal. That was before we had made our pres- 
ent conditions." 
Jasper Cameron lounged back in his chair and glanced 
carelessly at the lawyer. The next proposition was to 
come from him. 
"The story is such a very unusual one," Colby said, 
slowly. " And she must appear — " 
"Which she will in good time — but the day she 
appears, we commence proceedings. You have already 
seen Mrs. Mildred Cameron, and heard her story ; you 
have also seen a copy of the dead woman's confession, 
and the affidavit made by Giles Walsingham's daughter- 
in-law. There can be no doubt as to Dora's identity — 
but we may even And her mother." 
' * Enough," Colby exclaimed abruptly. " If I thought 
that Tremaine would forgive his wife, and that she 
desired to return to him — " and the lawyer wiped his 
forehead. 
"What then?" 
Colby groaned in desperation. He was hard pushed 
by his adversary. 
" I tell you what I will do, Colby. Granting that it 
is in our power to settle the affair, half of the fortune 
will content me. You cannot make any better terms 
out of any of them." 
"And if this were offered you as the husband of 
Dora—" 
" I would engage to keep my secret, in any case, and 
destroy these proofs in  your presence. Moreover, on 
the other hand, I should leave the country and place 
sufficient evidence in Mrs. Tremaine' s hands to enable 
her to get a divorce without any difficulty. I have no 
doubt that they would settle it amicably after awhile. 
AH this I engage to do, unless she should evince some 
returning tenderness for me. You cannot say but that 
I ana generous," and he laughed. 
" No one knows what you are!" returned Colby, 
gloomily. 
u Well, decide at j'our leisure. I am going away for 
a few days — and wheu I return, will look in upon you. 
Au ravoir," and making a jaunty bow, he walked out 
