
I sat down and folded my hands ; trouble had come, 
but it was not what I apprehended, the old story of 
military life, love, and desertion ; the ever-present bal- 
lad of the "gay young knight who loves and rides 
away." This was something different. 

" I love her, I love her madly, in spite of myself," 
said Eodney, pouring forth his words with feverish 
rapidity. " I know it is an infatuation, I know it is 
utterly unreasonable, and yet I love her. I have 
striven against it, I have fought with myself, I have 
written out elaborate arguments wherein I have clearly 
demonstrated the folly of such an affection, and I have 
compelled myself to read them over slowly, word for 
word, when alone in my own room, and yet I love 
her ! Ignorant, I know she would shame me ; shal- 
low, I know she could not satisfy me ; as a wife she 
would inevitably drag me down to misery, and yet I 
love her ! I had not been on the island a week before 
I saw her, and marked her beauty. Months before 
you invited her to the fort I had become infatuated 
with her singular loveliness ; but, in some respects, 
a race of the blood-royal could not be prouder than 
these French fishermen. They will accept your money, 
they will cheat you, they will tell you lies for an extra 
shilling ; but make one step toward a simple acquaint- 
ance, and the door will be shut in your face. They 
will bow down before you as a customer, but they will 



 

not have you for a friend. Thus I found it impossible 
to reach Jeannette. I do not say that I tried, for all 
the time I was fighting myself; but I went far enough 
to see the barriers. It seemed a fatality that you 
should take a fancy to her, have her here, and ask me 
to admire her, admire the face that haunted me by 
day and by night, driving me mad with its beauty. 

" I realized my danger, and called to my aid all the 
pride of my race. I said to my heart, ' You shall not 
love this ignorant half-breed girl to your ruin.' I rea- 
soned with myself, and said, ' It is only because you 
are isolated on this far-away island. Could you pre- 
sent this girl to your mother ? Could she be a com- 
panion for your sisters ? ' I was beginning to gain 
a firmer control over myself, in spite of her presence, 
when you unfolded your plan of education. Fatality 
again. Instantly a crowd of hopes surged up. The 
education you began, could I not finish ? She was but 
young; a few years of careful teaching might work 
wonders. Could I not train this forest flower so that 
it could take its place in the garden? But, when I 
actually saw this full-grown woman unable to add the 
simplest sum or write her name correctly, I was again 
ashamed of my infatuation. It is one thing to talk 
of ignorance, it is another to come face to face with it. 
Thus I wavered, at one moment ready to give up all 
for pride, at another to give up all for love. 

" Then came the malicious suggestion of negro blood. 



 

Could it be proved, I was free ; that taint I could not 
pardon. [And here, even as the surgeon spoke, I 
noticed this as the peculiarity of the New England 
Abolitionist. Theoretically he believed in the equality 
of the enslaved race, and stood ready to maintain the 
belief with his life, but practically he held himself 
entirely aloof from them; the Southern creed and 
practice were the exact reverse.] I made inquiries 
of Father Piret, who knows the mixed genealogy of 
the little Trench colony as far back as the first voya- 
geurs of the fur trade, and found as I, shall I say 
hoped or feared ? that the insinuation was utterly 
false. Thus I was thrown back into the old tumult. 
" Then came that evening in this parlor when Jean- 
nette made the coffee and baked little cakes over the 
coals. Do you remember the pathos with which she 
chanted File, file, pauvre Marie; File, jtte, pour le 
prisonnier ? Do you remember how she looked when 
she repeated ' Ivry ' ? Did that tender pity, that ring- 
ing inspiration, come from a dull mind and shallow* 
heart? I was avenged of my enforced disdain, my 
love gave itself up to delicious hope. She was capable 
of education, and then ! I made a pretext of old 
Antoine's cough in order to gain an opportunity of 
speaking to her alone ; but she was like a thing pos- 
sessed, she broke from me and sprang over the icy 
cliff, her laugh coming back on the wind as I followed 
her down the dangerous slope. On she rushed, jump- 




ing from rock to rock, waving her hand in wild glee 
when the moon shone out, singing and shouting with 
merry scorn at my desperate efforts to reach her. It 
was a mad chase, but only on the plain below could 
I come up with her. There, breathless and eager, I 
unfolded to her my plan of education. I only went 
so far as this : I was willing to send her to school, 
to give her opportunities of seeing the world, to pro- 
vide for her whole future. I left the story of my love 
to come afterward. She laughed me to scorn. As 
well talk of education to the bird of the wilderness ! 
She rejected my offers, picked up snow to throw in 
my face, covered me with her French sarcasms, danced 
around me in circles, laughed, and mocked, until I was 
at a 'loss to know whether she was human. Finally, 
as a shadow darkened the moon, she fled away ; and 
when it passed she was gone, and I was alone on the 
snowy plain. 

" Angry, fierce, filled with scorn for myself, I deter- 
mined resolutely to crush out my senseless infatuation. 
I threw myself into such society as we had ; I assumed 
an interest in that inane Miss Augusta; I read and 
studied far into the night ; I walked until sheer fatigue 
gave me tranquillity ; but all I gained was lost in that 
encounter at the Arch : you remember it ? When I 
saw her on that narrow bridge, my love burst its bonds 
again, and, senseless as ever, rushed to save her, to 
save her, poised on her native rocks, where every inch 



 

was familiar from childhood ! To save her, sure- 
footed and light as a bird ! I caught her. She strug- 
gled in my arms, angrily, as an imprisoned animal 
might struggle, but so beautiful ! The impulse came 
to me to spring with her into the gulf below, and so 
end the contest forever. I might have done it, I 
cannot tell, but, suddenly, she wrenched herself out 
of my arms and fled over the Arch, to the farther side. 
I followed, trembling, blinded, with the violence of my 
emotion. At that moment I was ready to give up my 
life, my soul, into her hands. 

" In the woods beyond she paused, glanced over her 
shoulder toward me, then turned eagerly. ' Voilci? she 
said, pointing. I looked down and saw several silver 
pieces that had dropped from my pocket as I sprang 
over the rocks, and, with an impatient gesture, I thrust 
them aside with my foot. 

"' Nonj she cried, turning toward me and stooping 
eagerly, 'so much! O, so much! See! four shil- 
lings ! ' Her eyes glistened with longing as she held 
the money in her hand and fingered each piece lov- 
ingly. 

"The sudden revulsion of feeling produced by her 
words and gesture filled me with fury. ' Keep it, and 
buy yourself a soul if you can ! ' I cried ; and turning 
away, I left her with her gains. 

" ' Merci, monsieur? she answered gayly, all unmind- 
ful of my scorn ; and off she ran, holding her treasure 

 



 

tightly clasped in both hands. I could hear her sing- 
ing far down the path. 

"It is a bitter thing to feel a scorn for yourself! 
Did I love this girl who stooped to gather a few shil- 
lings from under my feet ? Was it, then, impossible 
