3 cups loaf sugar.

2 glasses white wine.

2 quarts fresh milk, boiling hot.

Wash the lemons, grate all the peel from one into a bowl; add the
sugar, and squeeze the juice of the three over these. After two hours
add the wine, and then, quickly, the boiling milk. Strain through a
flannel jelly-bag. Cool and set in the ice until wanted.


CLARET CUP.

1 (quart) bottle of claret.

1 (pint) bottle of champagne.

½ pint best sherry.

2 lemons, sliced.

¼ pound loaf sugar dissolved in 1 cup cold water.

Let the sugar, water and sliced lemon steep together half an hour
before adding to the rest of the ingredients. Shake all well together
in a very large pitcher twenty or thirty times, and make thick with
pounded ice, when you are ready to use it.

There is no better receipt for the famous “claret cup” than this.


VERY FINE PORTEREE.

1 pint bottle best porter.

2 glasses pale sherry.

1 lemon peeled and sliced.

½ pint ice-water.

6 or 8 lumps of loaf sugar.

½ grated nutmeg.

Pounded ice.

This mixture has been used satisfactorily by invalids, for whom the
pure porter was too heavy, causing biliousness and heartburn.


GINGER CORDIAL.

2 table-spoonfuls ground ginger, fresh and strong.

1 lb. loaf sugar.

½ pint best whiskey.

1 quart red currants.

Juice of 1 lemon.

Crush the currants in a stone vessel with a wooden beetle, and strain
them through a clean, coarse cloth, over the sugar. Stir until the
sugar is dissolved; add the lemon, the whiskey, and the ginger. Put
it into a demijohn or a stone jug, and set upon the cellar-floor for
a week, shaking up vigorously every day. At the end of that time,
strain through a cloth and bottle. Seal and wire the corks, and lay the
bottles on their sides in a cool, dry place.

An excellent summer drink is made by putting two table-spoonfuls of
this mixture into a goblet of iced water. It is far safer for quenching
the thirst, when one is overheated, than plain ice-water or lemonade.


MILK-PUNCH. (Hot.)

1 quart milk, warm from the cow.

2 glasses best sherry wine.

4 table-spoonfuls powdered sugar.

4 eggs, the yolks only, beaten light.

Cinnamon and nutmeg to taste.

Bring the milk to the boiling point. Beat up the yolks and sugar
together; add the wine; pour into a pitcher, and mix with it, stirring
all the time, the boiling milk. Pour from one vessel to another six
times, spice, and serve as soon as it can be swallowed without scalding
the throat.

This is said to be an admirable remedy for a bad cold if taken in the
first stages, just before going to bed at night.


MULLED ALE.

3 eggs, the yolks only.

A pint of good ale.

2 table-spoonfuls loaf sugar.

A pinch of ginger, and same of nutmeg.

Heat the ale scalding hot, but do not let it quite boil. Take from the
fire and stir in the eggs beaten with the sugar, and the spice. Pour
from pitcher to pitcher, five or six times, until it froths, and drink
hot.


MULLED WINE.

2 eggs, beaten very light with the sugar.

1 table-spoonful white sugar.

2 full glasses white wine.

½ cup boiling water.

A little nutmeg.

Heat the water, add the wine; cover closely and bring almost to a boil.
Pour this carefully over the beaten egg and sugar; set in a vessel of
boiling water and stir constantly until it begins to thicken. Pour into
a silver goblet, grate the nutmeg on the top, and let the invalid drink
it as hot as it can be swallowed without suffering.


A SUMMER DRINK. (Very good.)

2 lbs. Catawba grapes.

3 table-spoonfuls loaf sugar.

1 cup of cold water.

Squeeze the grapes hard in a coarse cloth, when you have picked them
from the stems. Wring out every drop of juice; add the sugar, and when
this is dissolved, the water, surround with ice until very cold; put a
lump of ice into a pitcher, pour the mixture upon it, and drink at once.

You can add more sugar if you like, or if the grapes are not quite ripe.


RUM MILK-PUNCH.

1 cup milk, warm from the cow.

1 table-spoonful of best rum.

1 egg, whipped light with a little sugar.

A little nutmeg.

Pour the rum upon the egg-and-sugar; stir for a moment and add the
milk; strain and drink.

It is a useful stimulant for consumptives, and should be taken before
breakfast.


CLEAR PUNCH.

½ cup ice-water.

1 glass white wine (or very good whiskey).

White of 1 egg whipped stiff with the sugar.

1 table-spoonful of loaf sugar.

A sprig of mint.

Pounded ice.
