
Ben had walked but a few steps, when he felt a hand upon his shoulder.

Looking round hastily, he met the gaze of the young man. He had thought
at first it might be a policeman, and he felt relieved when he saw his
mistake.

"You are the boy who just now took a couple of pies from a stall?" said
the reporter.

"Yes," said Ben, hesitatingly, his face crimsoning as he spoke.

"Do you mind telling me why you did so?"

There was something in his tone which reassured Ben, and he determined
to tell the truth frankly.

"I have eaten nothing to-day," he said.

"You never took anything before?"

"No," said Ben, quickly.

"I suppose you had no money to buy with?"

"No, I had not."

"How does it happen that a boy as well dressed as you are, are in such a
position?"

"I would rather not tell," said Ben.

"Have you run away from home?"

"Yes; I had a good reason," he added, quickly.

"What do you propose to do? You must earn your living in some way, or
starve."

"I thought I might get a place in a store; but I have tried half a
dozen, and they won't take me."

"No, your chance will be small, unless you can bring good references.
But you must be hungry."

"I am," Ben admitted.

"That can be remedied, at all events. I am just going to get some
dinner; will you go with me?"

"I have no money."

"I have, and that will answer the purpose for this time. We will go back
to Fulton Street."

Ben turned back thankfully, and with his companion entered the very
restaurant in which he had dined the day before.

"If you are faint, soup will be the best thing for you to begin on,"
said the young man; and he gave an order to the waiter.

Nothing had ever seemed more delicious to Ben than that soup. When he
had done justice to it, a plate of beefsteak awaited him, which also
received his attention. Then he was asked to select some dessert.

"I am afraid you are spending too much for me," he said.

"Don't be afraid of that; I am glad that you have a good appetite."

At length the dinner was over. Ben felt decidedly better. His
despondency had vanished, and the world again seemed bright to him. It
is hard to be cheerful, or take bright views of life on an empty
stomach, as many have learned beside our young adventurer.

"Now," said his new-found friend, "I have a few minutes to spare.
Suppose we talk over your plans and prospects, and see if we can find
anything for you to do."

"Thank you," said Ben; "I wish you would give me your advice."

"My advice is that you return to your home, if you have one," said the
reporter.

Ben shook his head.

"I don't want to do that," he answered.

"I don't, of course, know what is your objection to this, which seems to
me the best course. Putting it aside, however, we will consider what you
can do here to earn your living."

"That is what I want to do."

"How would you like selling papers?"

"I think I should like it," said Ben; "but I have no money to buy any."

"It doesn't require a very large capital. I will lend you, or give you,
the small amount which will be necessary. However, you mustn't expect
to make a very large income."

"If I can make enough to live on, I won't care," said Ben.

He had at first aimed higher; but his short residence in the city taught
him that he would be fortunate to meet his expenses. There are a good
many besides Ben who have found their early expectations of success
considerably modified by experience.

"Let me see. It is half-past one o'clock," said the reporter, drawing
out his watch. "You had better lay in a supply of 'Expresses' and
'Evening Posts,' and take a good stand somewhere, and do your best with
them. As you are inexperienced in the business it will be well to take a
small supply at first, or you might get 'stuck.'"

"That's so."

"You must not lay in more than you can sell."

"Where can I get the papers?"

"I will go with you to the newspaper offices, and buy you half a dozen
of each. If you succeed in selling them, you can buy more. To-morrow you
can lay in some of the morning papers, the 'Herald,' 'World,'
'Tribune,' or 'Times.' It will be well also to have a few 'Suns' for
those who do not care to pay for the higher-priced papers."

"Thank you," said Ben, who was eager to begin his business career.

They rose from the table, and set out for the offices of the two evening
papers whose names have been mentioned.




CHAPTER VIII.

BEN COMMENCES HIS BUSINESS CAREER.


Ben soon took his stand in the street, with a roll of papers under his
arm, supplied by the generosity of his new acquaintance. It was rather a
trying ordeal for a country boy, new to the city and its ways. But Ben
was not bashful. He was not a timid boy, but was fully able to push his
way. So, glancing at the telegraphic headings, he began to call out the
news in a business-like way. He had already taken notice of how the
other newsboys acted, and therefore was at no loss how to proceed.

He met with very fair success, selling out the twelve papers which had
been bought for him, in a comparatively short time. It might have been
that the fact that he was neater and better dressed operated in his
favor. At any rate, though a new hand, he succeeded better than those
who were older in the business.

But his neat dress operated to his disadvantage in another quarter. His
business rivals, who were, with scarcely an exception, dressed with no
great pretensions to style or neatness, looked upon the interloper with
a jealous eye. They regarded him as "stuck up," in virtue of his
superior dress, and were indignant to find their sales affected by his
competition.

"Who's he? Ever seen him afore?" asked Tim Banks of a newsboy at his
side.

"No; he's a new chap."

"What business has he got to come here and steal away our trade, I'd
like to know?" continued Tim, eying Ben with no friendly glance.

At that moment a gentleman, passing Tim, bought an "Evening Post" of
Ben. It was the third paper that Ben had sold since Tim had effected a
sale. This naturally increased his indignation.

"He's puttin' on airs just because he's got good clo'es," said the other
newsboy, who shared Tim's feelings on the subject.

"Let's shove him out," suggested Tim.

"All right."

Tim, who was a boy of twelve, with a shock head, which looked as if it
