handsome, with brown-red curly hair, like mine, and blue 
eyes, but the best, merriest, frolicking baby in the whole 
world, when he grew large enough to enjoy such things. 

"Louis was exceedingly delighted. "What a brave 
worker he was in the Master's vinej-ard ! The world was 
full of wide meaning and rich promises for him. Instead 
of disdaining it, and sighing for heaven, he tried to make 
it the better, even for one clean soul rescued from the 
depths. There was in him a large steadfastness and 
truth, that seemed to lift e very-day Avork above any mere 
drudgery. Like, and yet unlike, papa, yet living in the 
same accord, feeling the continual presence, the shaping 
and placing of some wiser hand, the going-forth in con 
tinual gladness, and sowing by the wayside, knowing full 
well that ha should reap, if he fainted not. 

" Oddly enough, there came to us presently the news of 
Daisy's engagement. It had been a pet plan all along 
of Dr. Kinnard's, it seemed. There was to be a rectory 
built at Edgerly (they had finished a very nice church) , 
and then Daisy was to go in bridal robes, and be its 
keeper. 

" That spring I was not so well, ' run-down,' as peo 
ple sa} r . Stephen was a good deal alarmed, and asked 
Dr. Kinnard to come in and see me. It ended by my 
being sent to Edgerly for the summer. 

" Daisy was married the first of Juna, and came home a 
fortnight afterward to take possession of her new house. 
She was such a sweet, sensible, unaffected body ; and then 
her experience in parish-work stood her in good stead. 
Mr. Dudley was very fond of her ; not foolishly so, but 
Avith a grave, inherent tenderness good to see. 





" I think it is best that people should occasionally go out 
of their own narrow bounds, and study the lives of others. 
I began to take a great interest in Nelly's. She had 
grown more like mamma than any of us, and had that 
s \veet, pleasant wisdom, that large awaiting and hopeful 
outlook. She kept up with her husband ; and he was a 
strongly intellectual man, rather severe on shams, and 
' isms ' that would not bear clear winnowing, but not an 
unfair opponent. They had gathered around them a charm 
ing and cultured circle ; but she was as entertaining to 
some of the doctor's poor patients, who came in with 
wan, sickly babies, and wanted comforting, as if they were 
chosen friends. I told her, one day, that she would be a 
powerful rival to Daisy. 

" She had managed to gain over her young step-son, 
who adored her, and grandmother, who was a really 
pleasant old lady, thinking ' my son's wife ' qould not 
possibly be mistaken on any point. I knew she had 
Avorked hard for these two victories. 

" Then Miss Maud came home from school, bringing a 
friend with her. This was the first time Nelly had really 
taken her under her care. I used to watch her wise way 
of planning and working. She made it so pleasant for 
the two girls, offering them her ponj'-carriage, asking 
other young people in to tea, arranging some parties to 
the woods, and, somehow, being in the midst of all with 
her beautiful, animated face, and her inspiring voice. It 
was odd to take note of Maud as well. She seemed so 
afraid of yielding to her stepmother's influence, and 
regarded her with a kind of distrustful jealousy that was 
often overpowered by Nelly's pure goodness. Sometimes 
the doctor would be quite vexed. I used to smile at the 
manner in which Nelly restrained him. Once, indeed, he 
appealed to me to know if I did not consider him hen 
pecked. It was so ridiculous, that we all laughed. 

" After her friend went away, Maud's aunt sent for her. 
 

I think she did not really care to go ; but no one made 
any demur. She only remained a fortnight, however ; and, 
after she returned, we all remarked a little change in her. 
She began to pay Nelly a pleasant respect. She so 
seldom gave her any name in speaking to her, and 
seemed to delight in having different tastes and desires ; 
but now she deferred to her occasionally, and appeared 
really glad when circumstances compelled her to adopt 
her stepmother's way of thinking. Altogether, I thought 
her much improved. 

" The day before she returned to school, she was up in 
Nelly's room a long while. I noticed, when she came to 
supper, that she had been ciying ; but she was so unusu 
ally gracious, that I knew nothing had gone wrong. 

"That night, of her own accord, she came and kissed 
Nelly as she was going to bed. 

" Wheu she was quite up stairs, Nelly rose, crossed 
over to her husband, and, putting her arms around his 
neck, said in a tone of deep emotion, 

" ' Barton, congratulate me. I have won my kingdom 
at length. I have entered in, and taken possession.' 

" 'My darling!' 

"If she could be such a mother to another woman's 
children, what would she not be to her own ! 

" They sent me home well and rosy. I began to have 
some doubt as to whether I had the very best husband in 
the family, when there were two such men as Dr. Kinnard 
and Mr. Dudley. 

" But he was the best to me." 



" Five years after Bessie's marriage, we all met at the 
rectory to welcome her home, though now it was golden, 
glowing September. The dear old house overflowed, 
not only with children and grandchildren, but talk and 





laughter. Papa's hair was quite silvery, and his gentle, 
absent-minded waj's were so sweet ; and mamma was a 
grandmother out of a story-book. Fan was stout and 
rose . Winthrop had been elected a member of Congress ; 
and they were getting to be quite grand people. Babies 
grew and multiplied : there were five now. No want or 
trouble seemed to come near there. Mr. Churchill was 
quite ailing now and then ; but Miss Esther would be 
stately and elegant to the last. 

" I suppose I ought to bring myself in next. We were 
prospering, though not back to the old point. And yet 
we care little for that. The serenity of our souls is not 
disturbed about money. There are a few silvery threads 
finding their way about Stephen's temples ; but he smiles 
over them, while his eyes still keep their kindly, half- 
shady light. We have a wonderful little girl, who is quite 
the family beauty. She makes us think of him hourly ; and 
we talk about him now with a tender sweetness that leaves 
no pain. 

"Nelly eclipses us all, I think. She always was tall 
and elegant ; but now she seems rounded out to the perfec 
tion of sjTumetiy, and adorned with the perfection of col 
oring. The years have crowned her with their richness ; 
and her own motherhood glorifies her hardly less than 
that she accepted at her marriage. It has brought its 
own reward. She is so lovely with this grown son and 
daughter ; she makes so much of every grace and tender 
ness, that they unconsciously emulate her. Edgerly people 
talk of them as being such a happy family ; and it is true 
enough. If Dr. Kinnard's summer was late, it is none 
the less glowing. Beside Frances, he has twin-boys, 
pretty as pictures. 

" There is Daisy and her husband, and a little daughter 
Daisy, whose sweetness of mind and soul shines out, and 
makes her beautiful with the something that alwaj-s 
puzzles people. And there is radiant Bess, Queenie 





always now, bright, dazzling, stylish from the crown of 
her head to her dainty foot, with her rippling, rapid talk, 
her laughs of saucy, suggestive music, her piquant waj's, 
oddly like her handsome, pink-cheeked mother-in-law. 
They have left one little girl asleep in a graveyard at 
Florence : they have another with them, and Grand 
