
We stumbled about also on the south side of the town, and saw the
reputed place of St. Paul’s escape, which has been lately changed.
It is a ruined Saracenic tower in the wall, under which is Bab Kisan,
a gate that has been walled up for seven hundred years. The window does
not any more exist from which the apostle was let down in a basket, but
it used to be pointed out with confidence, and I am told that the basket
is still shown, but we did not see it. There are still some houses on
this south wall, and a few of them have projecting windows from which a
person might easily be lowered. It was in such a house that the harlot
of Jericho lived, who contrived the escape of the spies of Joshua. And
we see how thick and substantial the town walls of that city must have
been to support human habitations. But they were blown down.

Turning southward into the country, we came to the tomb of the porter
who assisted Paul’s escape, and who now sleeps here under the weight
of the sobriquet of St. George. A little farther out on the same road is
located the spot of Said’s conversion.

Near it is the English cemetery, a small high-walled enclosure,
containing a domed building surmounted by a cross; and in this
historical spot, whose mutations of race, religion, and government would
forbid the most superficial to construct for it any cast-iron scheme
of growth or decay, amid these almost melancholy patches of vegetation
which still hover in the Oriental imagination as the gardens of all
delights, sleeps undisturbed by ambition or by criticism, having at
last, let us hope, solved the theory of “averages,” the brilliant
Henry T. Buckle.

Not far off is the Christian cemetery. “Who is buried here?” I asked
our thick-witted guide.

“O, anybody,” he replied, cheerfully, “Greeks, French, Italians,
anybody you like”; as if I could please myself by interring here any
one I chose.

Among the graves was a group of women, hair dishevelled and garments
loosened in the abandon of mourning, seated about a rough coffin open
its entire length. In it lay the body of a young man who had been
drowned, and recovered from the water after three days. The women lifted
up his dead hands, let them drop heavily, and then wailed and howled,
throwing themselves into attitudes of the most passionate grief. It
was a piteous sight, there under the open sky, in the presence of an
unsympathizing crowd of spectators.

Returning, we went round by the large Moslem cemetery, situated at the
southwest corner of the city. It is, like all Moslem burying-grounds,
a melancholy spectacle,—a mass of small whitewashed mounds of mud or
brick, with an inscribed headstone,—but here rest some of the most
famous men and women of Moslem history. Here is the grave of Ibn’
Asâker, the historian of Damascus; here rests the fierce Moawyeh, the
founder of the dynasty of the Omeiyades; and here are buried three of
the wives of Mohammed, and Fatimeh, his granddaughter, the child of
Ali, whose place of sepulture no man knows. Upon nearly every tomb is a
hollow for water, and in it is a sprig of myrtle, which is renewed every
Friday by the women who come here to mourn and to gossip.

Much of the traveller’s time, and perhaps the most enjoyable part of
it, in Damascus, is spent in the bazaars, cheapening scarfs and rugs and
the various silken products of Syrian and Persian looms, picking over
dishes of antique coins, taking impressions of intaglios, hunting for
curious amulets, and searching for the quaintest and most brilliant
Saracenic tiles. The quest of the antique is always exciting, and the
inexperienced is ever hopeful that he will find a gem of value in a heap
of rubbish; this hope never abandons the most blase tourist, though
in time he comes to understand that the sharp-nosed Jew, or the oily
Armenian, or the respectable Turk, who spreads his delusive wares
before him, knows quite as well as the Seeker the value of any bit
of antiquity, not only in Damascus, but in Constantinople, Paris, and
London, and is an adept in all the counterfeits and impositions of the
Orient.

The bazaars of the antique, of old armor, ancient brasses, and of
curiosities generally, and even of the silver and gold smiths, are
disappointing after Cairo; they are generally full of rubbish from
which the choice things seem to have been culled; indeed, the rage for
antiquities is now so great that sharp buyers from Europe range all the
Orient and leave little for the innocent and hopeful tourist, who is
aghast at the prices demanded, and usually finds himself a victim of his
own cleverness when he pays for any article only a fourth of the price
at first asked.

The silk bazaars of Damascus still preserve, however, a sort of
pre-eminence of opportunity, although they are largely supplied by the
fabrics manufactured at Beyrout and in other Syrian towns. Certainly no
place is more tempting than one of the silk khans,—gloomy old courts,
in the galleries of which you find little apartments stuffed full of the
seductions of Eastern looms. For myself, I confess to the fascination of
those stuffs of brilliant dyes, shot with threads of gold and of silver.
I know a tall, oily-tongued Armenian, who has a little chamber full of
shelves, from which he takes down one rich scarf after another, unfolds
it, shakes out its shining hues, and throws it on the heap, until
the room is littered with gorgeous stuffs. He himself is clad in silk
attire, he is tall, suave, insinuating, grave, and overwhelmingly
condescending. I can see him now, when I question the value put upon
a certain article which I hold in my hand and no doubt betray my
admiration of in my eyes,—I can see him now throw back his head, half
close his Eastern eyes, and exclaim, as if he had hot pudding in his
mouth, “Thot is ther larster price.”

I can see Abd-el-Atti now, when we had made up a package of scarfs, and
offered a certain sum for the lot, which the sleek and polite trader
refused, with his eternal, “Thot is ther larster price,” sling the
articles about the room, and depart in rage. And I can see the Armenian
bow us into the corridor with the same sweet courtesy, knowing very
well that the trade is only just begun; that it is, in fact, under good
headway; that the Arab will return, that he will yield a little from the
“larster price,” and that we shall go away loaded with his wares,
leaving him ruined by the transaction, but proud to be our friend.

Our experience in purchasing old Saracenic and Persian tiles is perhaps
worth relating as an illustration of the character of the traders of
Damascus. Tiles were plenty enough, for several ancient houses had
recently been torn down, and the dealers continually acquire them from
ruined mosques or those that are undergoing repairs. The dragoman found
several lots in private houses, and made a bargain for a certain number
at two francs and a half each; and when the bargain was made, I spent
half a day in selecting the specimens we desired.

The next morning, before breakfast, we went to make sure that the lots
we had bought would be at once packed and shipped. But a change had
taken place in twelve hours. There was an Englishman in town who was
also buying tiles; this produced a fever in the market; an impression
went abroad that there was a fortune to be made in tiles, and we found
that our bargain was entirely ignored. The owners supposed that the
tiles we had selected must have some special value; and they demanded
for the thirty-eight which we had chosen—agreeing to pay for them two
francs and a half apiece—thirty pounds. In the house where we had
laid aside seventy-three others at the same price, not a tile was to be
discovered; the old woman who showed us the vacant chamber said she knew
not what had become of them, but she believed they had been sold to an
Englishman.

We returned to the house first mentioned, resolved to devote the day if
necessary to the extraction of the desired tiles from the grip of their
owners. The contest began about eight o’clock in the morning; it was
not finished till three in the afternoon, and it was maintained on our
side with some disadvantage, the only nutriment that sustained us being
a cup of tea which we drank very early in the morning. The scene of the
bargain was the paved court of the house, in which there was a fountain
and a lemon-tree, and some rose-trees trained on espaliers along the
walls. The tempting enamelled tiles were piled up at one side of the
court and spread out in rows in the lewân,—the open recess
where guests are usually received. The owners were two Greeks,
brothers-in-law, polite, cunning, sharp, the one inflexible, the other
yielding,—a combination against which it is almost impossible to trade
with safety, for the yielding one constantly allures you into the
grip of the inflexible. The women of the establishment, comely Greeks,
clattered about the court on their high wooden pattens for a time, and
at length settled down, in an adjoining apartment, to their regular work
of embroidering silken purses and tobacco-pouches, taking time, however,
for an occasional cigarette or a pull at a narghileh, and, in a constant
chatter, keeping a lively eye upon the trade going on in the court. The
handsome children added not a little to the liveliness of the scene, and
their pranks served to soften the asperities of the encounter; although
I could not discover, after repeated experiments, that any affection
lavished upon the children lowered the price of the tiles. The Greek
does not let sentiment interfere with business, and he is much more
difficult to deal with than an Arab, who occasionally has impulses.

Each tile was the subject of a separate bargain and conflict. The dicker
went on in Arabic, Greek, broken English, and dislocated French, and was
participated in not only by the parties most concerned, but by the
young Greek guide and by the donkey-boys. Abd-el-Atti exhibited all the
qualities of his generalship. He was humorous, engaging, astonished,
indignant, serious, playful, threatening, indifferent. Beaten on one
grouping of specimens, he made instantly a new combination; more than
once the transaction was abruptly broken off in mutual rage, obstinacy,
and recriminations; and it was set going again by a timely jocularity or
a seeming concession. I can see now the soft Greek take up a tile which
had painted on it some quaint figure or some lovely flower, dip it in
the fountain to bring out its brilliant color, and then put it in the
sun for our admiration; and I can see the dragoman shake his head in
slow depreciation, and push it one side, when that tile was the one we
had resolved to possess of all others, and was the undeclared centre of
contest in all the combinations for an hour thereafter.

When the day was two thirds spent we had purchased one hundred tiles,
jealously watched the packing of each one, and seen the boxes nailed
and corded. We could not have been more exhausted if we had undergone
