his partner, the retiring pilot, would say something 
like this : — 
" I judge the upper bar is making down a little 
at Hale's Point ; had quarter twain with the lower 
lead and mark twain i with the other." 
" Yes, I thought it was making down a little, lant 
trip. Meet any boats ? " 
"Met one abrest the head of 21, but she was 
away over hugging the bar, and I couldn't make 
her out entirely I took her for the Sunny South 
— hadn't any skylights forward of the chimneys." 
And so on. And as the relieving pilot took the 
wheel his partner would mention that we were in 
such-and-such a bend, and say we were abreast of 
viuch-and-such a man's wood-yard or plantation. 
This was courtesy ; I supposed it was necessity. 
But Mr. W came on watch : all twelve minutes 
late, on this particular night — a tremendous breach 
of etiquette ; in fact, it is the unpardonable sin 
among pilots. So Mr. B gave him no greeting 
whatever, but simply surrendered the wheel and 
marched out of the pilot-house without a word. I 
was appalled ; it was a villainous night for black- 
ness, we were in a particular wide and blind part 
1 Two fathoms. Quarter twain is 2 fathoms, 13 feet, 
three is three fathoms. 
2 '' Partner" is technical for '' the other pilot." 
of the river, where there was no shape or substance 
to anything, and it seemed incredible that Mr. h — 
should have left that i)oor fellow to kill the boat 
trying to find out where he was. But I resolved 
that I would stand by him any way. He should 
find that he was not wholly friendless. So I stood 
around, and waited to be asked where we were. 
But Mr. W plunged on serenely through the 
solid firmament of black cats that stood for an at- 
mosphere, and never opened his mouth. Here is a 
proud devil, thought I ; here is a limb of Satan that 
would rather send us all to destruction than put 
himself under obligations to me, because I am not 
yet one of the salt of the earth and privileged to 
snub captains and lord it over everything dead and 
alive in a steamboat. I presently climbed up on 
the bench ; I did not think it was safe to go to 
sleep while this lunatic was on watch. 
However, I must have gone to sleep in the course 
of time, because the next thing I was aware of was 
the fact that day was breaking, Mr. W gone, and 
Mr. B at the wheel again. So it was four o'clock 
and all well — but me; I felt like a skinful of dry 
bones and all of them trying to ache at once. 
Mr. B asked me what I had stayed up there for. 
I confessed that it was to do Mr. W a benevo- 
lence ; tell him where he was. It took five minutes 
for the entire prepostero sness of the thing to filter 
into Mr. B 's system, and then I judge it filled 
him nearly up to the chin; because he paid me a 
compliment — and not much of one either. He 
said, — 
" Well, taking you by-and-large, you do seenr to 
be more different kinds of an ass than any creature 
I ever saw before. What did you suppose he want- 
ed to know for ?" 
I said I thought it might be a convenience to him. 
" Convenience ! Dash ! Didn't I tell you that a 
man's got to know the river in the night the same 
as he'd know his own front hall ? " 
" Well, I can follow the front hall in the dark if 
I know it is the front hall ; but suppose you set me 
down in the middle of it in the dark and not tell 
me which hall it is ; how am  to know ? " 
" Well you've got to, on the river I " 
" All right. Then I'm glad I never said anything 
to Mr. W ." 
" I should say so. Why, he'd have slammed you 
through the window and utterly ruined a hundred 
dollars' worth of window-sash and stuff." 
I was glad this damage had been saved, for it 
would have made me unpopular with the owners. 
They always hated anybody who had the name of 
being careless, and injuring things. 
I went to work, now, to learn the shape of the 
river ; and of all the eluding and ungraspable ob- 
jects that ever I tried to get mind or hands on, that 
was the chief I would fasten my eyes upon a sharp 
wooded point that projected far into the river some 
li 's ahead of me, and go to laboriously photographing 
its shape upon my brain ; and just as I was be- 
ginning to succeed to my satisfaction, we would 
draw up toward it and the exasperating thing would 
begin to melt away and fold back into the bank ! 
If there had been a conspicuous dead tree standing 
upon the very point of the cape, I would find that 
tree inconspicuously merged into the general forest, 
and occupying the middle of a straight shore, when 
I got abreast of it. No prominent hill would stick 
to its shape long enough for me to make up my mind 
what its form really was, but it was as dissolving 
and changeful as if it had been a mountain of butter 
in the hottest corner of the tropics. Nothing ever 
had the same shape when I was coming down stream 
that it had borne when I went up. I mentioned 
these little difficulties to Mr. B . He said, — 
" That's the very main virtue of the thing. If 
the shapes didn't change every three seconds they 
wouldn't be of any use. Take this place where we 
are now, for instance. As long as that hill over 
yonder is only one hill, I can boom right along the 
way I'm going, but the moment it splits at the top 
and forms a V, I know I've got to scratch to star- 
board in a hurry, or I'll bang this boat's brains out 
asfainst a rock: and then the moment one of the 
prongs of the V swings behind the other, I've got to 
waltz to larboard again, or I'll have a misunder- 
standing with a snag that would snatch the keelson 
out of this steamboat as neatly as if it were a silver 
in your hand. If that hill didn't change its shape 
on bad nights there would bean awful steamboa\) 
grave-yard around here inside of a jear." 
It was plain that I had got to learn the shape of 
the river in all the different ways that could be 
thought of, — upside down, wrong end first, inside 
out, fore-and-aft, and " thortships," — and then know 
what to do on gray nights when it had'nt any shape 
at all. So I set about it. In the coui-se of time I 
began to get the best of this knotty lesson, and 
my self-complacency moved to the front once more. 
Mr. B was all fixed, and ready to start it to the 
rear again. He opened on me after this fashion : — 
"How much water did we have in the middle 
crossing at Hole-in-the-Wall, trip before last ? " 
I considered this an outrage. I said : 
" Every trip, down and up, the leadsmen are sing- 
ing through that tangled place for three quarters of 
an hour on a stretch. How do you reckon I can 
remember such a mess as that ? " 
" My boy, you've got to remember it. You've got 
to remember the exact spot and the exact marks the 
boat lay in when we had the shoalest water, in 
every one of the two thousand shoal places between 
St. Louis and New Orleans ; and you musn't get the 
shoal soundings and marks of one trip mixed up 
with the shoal soundings and marks of another, 
either, for they're not often twice alike. You must 
keep them separate." 
When I came to myself again, I said, — 
" When I get so that I can do that, I'll be able to 
raise the dead, and then I won't have to pilot a steam- 
boat in order to make a living. I want to retire 
from this business. I want a slush-bucket and a 
brush ; I'm only fit for a roustabout. I haven't got 
brains enough to be a pilot ; and if I had I wouldn't 
liave stxcngth enough to carry them around, unless 
I went on crutches." 
" Now drop that ! When I say I'll learn* a man 
the river I mean it. And you can depend on it I'll 
learn him or kill him." 
There was no use in arguing with a person like 
this. I promptly put such a strain on my memory 
that by and by even the shoal water and the countless 
crossing marks began to stay with me. But the result 
V as just the same. I never could more than get one 
knotty thing learned before another presented itself. 
Now I had often seen pilots gazing at the water and 
pretending to read it as if it were a book ; but it 
was a book that told me nothing. A time came at 
last, however, when Mr, B seemed to think me 
far enough advanced to bear a lesson on water-read- 
ing. So he began : — 
" Do you see that long slanting line on the face £ 
the water ? Now that's a reef. Moreover, it's a bluff 
reef. There is a solid sand-bar under it that is nearly 
as straight up and down as the side of a house. 
There is plenty of water close up to it, but mighty 
little on top of it. If you were to hit it you would 
knock the boat's brains out. Do you see w're the 
line fringes out at the upper end and begins to fade 
away ? " 
" Yes, sir." 
" Well, that is a low place ; that is the head of the 
