“She is a very pretty girl,” laughed Tom.
“Tell me what I don’t know. What is she?”
“She is the daughter of a small merchant, who is in rather shaky
circumstances, they say. He lives on Tremont Street, and has three
marriageable daughters.
“If they are all as passable as the one I have just seen, their chances
are good.”
“I don’t know about that,” added Tom, laughing. “Miss Lilian dresses
magnificently, you perceive; and whoever marries one of those girls
will find money a cash article. You shall see them all to-morrow.”
“I should say that a wife like this Miss Oliphant was cheap at any
price.”
“I think so myself, if a fellow can afford such an expensive luxury.
But, Paley, we must not waste our time,” added Tom, glancing at the Old
South clock. “I must find a man who can do a good thing for me at the
bank.”
“So must I.”
We parted, and as I walked down the street, I could not help recalling
the vision of loveliness I had beheld in the person of Miss Lilian
Oliphant. I was on my way to one of the insurance offices frequented
by my uncle, Captain Halliard, a retired shipmaster, who dabbled in
stocks, and was a director in the Japan Marine Insurance Company.
He had influence, and I relied principally upon him to engineer my
application at the bank. He was a man of the world in the broadest
sense of the term. He believed in making money, and in getting ahead
in business, and though he paid a reasonable respect to conventional
forms, I am not quite certain that he believed in anything higher. In
character and purposes, he was the very antipode of my mother, whose
brother he was.
I found him reading a newspaper in the office. He dropped it when he
saw me, and I thought he looked very anxious. He had undertaken to
procure me the situation I was ambitious to obtain, and though I don’t
think he cared much for me individually, he was persistent in carrying
out any scheme upon which he had fixed his mind.
“Paley, your chance is small,” said he, candidly, after we had passed
the time of day.
My heart sank within me.
“I am sorry to hear it,” I replied, gloomily.
“Tom Flynn has the inside track.”
As usual! It seemed to be laid down as the immutable law of
circumstances that Tom should always come out just a little ahead of
me. I was vexed. Tom had six hundred dollars a year, while I had but
five hundred. It was cruel and unjust to me. His income was to be
doubled, and mine to remain as it was.
“I was afraid Tom would get ahead of me,” I added. “But I would rather
he should have the place than any other person, if I can’t get it.”
“Nonsense, Paley. Don’t talk bosh! I haven’t given up all hope yet,
by any means. Tom is well enough, I dare say, but you must have this
place, if possible.”
“I should like to have it,” I added, hopelessly.
“Paley, what was that story about Tom which was kept so still in
Springhaven?” continued Captain Halliard in a low tone. “I heard your
mother say something about it, when she was speaking about your being
intimate with him. I have forgotten about it.”
“His employers in Springhaven thought that he took money from the safe.”
“Exactly so; that was the idea,” added my uncle, rubbing his hands
involuntarily.
“But I don’t think there was any foundation for the suspicion,” I
protested, rather faintly, too faintly to produce any decided effect.
“We are not called upon to try the case,” he replied, chuckling at his
own cunning.
“But I don’t wish to have anything to say about that old affair.”
“Then you needn’t have anything to say about it, except to me. I have
begun to manage this business, and I shall finish it.”
“I don’t want to injure Tom in the estimation of any one,” I added.
“Don’t be a spooney, Paley. You must look out for your own chances. You
can have this place, if we can get Tom off the track.”
Although I was not the author of the brilliant idea foreshadowed in
my uncle’s remarks, I permitted him to develop it. I told him all I
knew about Tom’s affair with Gorham & Welch. If I stated that those
who knew anything about the matter now generally believed that the
junior partner was the thief, I stated it so mildly that my uncle took
no notice of it. I confess that I virtually assented to his scheme;
at least, I offered no decided opposition to it. I knew that Captain
Halliard had only to whisper the fact that Tom had been suspected, and
had lost his situation in consequence of this suspicion, to throw my
chief competitor out of the field.
Practically, I assented to the scheme; if I did anything to prevent
its being carried into execution, I only “fastened the door with a
boiled carrot.” I wanted the place, not alone for its emoluments, but
in order, in the race of life, to surpass my friend. I regard this weak
yielding as my first crime—the crime against my friend, one of the
basest and most loathsome in the calendar of offences. This was my real
fall; and it was this, it has since seemed to me, which made me capable
of all that followed.
I left my uncle in the office, and went back to the store in which I
was employed. Between the bright vision of Miss Oliphant’s loveliness
and the dark one of my own perfidy, I was nervous and uneasy all the
rest of the day. What was the use of being over nice? If I did not
look out for myself, no one would look out for me! I think I did not
sleep an hour that night, and the next day I performed my duties
mechanically. About one o’clock I was rather startled to see Tom Flynn
enter the counting-room.
“Paley, my dear fellow, I congratulate you,” said he, grasping my hand.
“What’s the matter, Tom?” I asked.
“Why, haven’t you heard of it?”
“Heard of what?”
“You have been appointed discount clerk in the Forty-ninth National
Bank. ’Pon my soul, I am glad to be the first to tell you of it,” added
Tom, with enthusiasm, as he rung my hand.
Iniquity had prospered, but only for a time.
CHAPTER II.
MISS LILIAN OLIPHANT.
[Illustration]
HOW could I look Tom Flynn in the face, after what I had done, or
permitted to be done? He had been my competitor in the race for the
situation in the bank, and probably would have obtained it if my uncle
had not whispered the old slander in the ears of Mr. Bristlebach, the
president. It is true this plan had originated with Captain Halliard,
but I consented to it, to say the very least. I could have prevented
him from carrying it into operation. I could have protested in the
strongest of terms that there was no truth in the story, and that I
would not take the place if it were procured for me by such a base
sacrifice of honor and integrity.
I did not do so. If I protested at all, it was so faintly that my
worldly-minded uncle only regarded it as a piece of “buncombe.” It is
not for me to blame him, for I regard myself as equally guilty of the
infamous deed—more guilty, for Tom was my friend. It is a satisfaction
for me now to know that I blushed when my old schoolfellow entered
the counting-room; and to remember that my conscience stung me like
a hot iron when he informed me that the situation had been given to
me. It was not the glorious triumph which I had anticipated, and I
could hardly felicitate myself that I was to step immediately into the
enjoyment of a salary of twelve hundred a year. I could not even enjoy
the triumph of being, for once, actually ahead of my fortunate friend.
“I congratulate you, Paley, with all my soul,” said Tom, with
enthusiasm. “I should have liked the place myself, but I am really
better satisfied with the result, than I should have been if I had been
successful.”
“You don’t mean that, Tom,” I suggested; and I felt that I was almost
incapable of giving birth to a lofty emotion.
“‘Pon my word, I do, Paley. I was thinking this forenoon that, if
the place fell to me, I should reproach myself for having stood in
your way. I never should have felt just right about it. Now I am
satisfied—more than satisfied; I am delighted with the result.”
“I thank you, Tom. I didn’t expect any such magnanimity from any person
in this world;” but I comforted myself with the thought that, if the
place had been assigned to him, he would have contrived to endure the
disappointment which fell to my lot.
“If I had known that you were an applicant, with any chance of success,
I would not have entered the field. But it is all right as it is; and I
am as much pleased as you are,” added Tom.
“I don’t exactly see how I happened to get the place,” I replied, in
order to tempt him to tell what he knew about the canvass, rather than
because I was astonished at the result.
“I do,” answered Tom, laughing. Your uncle, Captain Halliard, has
a great deal of influence with Mr. Bristlebach, the president.
Rhodes—you know Rhodes?”
“I know of him; he’s book-keeper in the Forty-ninth National.”
“Yes; well, he says Captain Halliard had a long talk with Mr.
Bristlebach this forenoon. I have no doubt he made a strong personal
appeal for you, and that settled the case.”
I should very gladly have believed that I owed my good luck to the
personal influence of my uncle, but I was confident that he had used
that old slander to procure my appointment. Tom left me after I had
promised to meet him at Mr. Oliphant’s in the evening. I was sad, and
I felt mean. I was tempted to go to Mr. Bristlebach and undo what
my uncle had done. I could even procure a letter from Mr. Gorham
testifying to the integrity of Tom. Alas! I had not the courage to
do justice to my friend. A salary of twelve hundred dollars was too
glittering a prize to be thrown away; and after all it was possible
that Tom had been guilty—possible, but not at all probable.
Before the store closed I received official notice of my appointment,
and informed my employers of my intention to leave them. They did not
say much, and I am not sure that they were very sorry to have me go. I
went to my boarding-house, and dressed myself with the utmost care for
the occasion in the evening. Miss Lilian Oliphant was a bright vision
before my eyes. I wondered that she had been condescending enough to
notice a person so insignificant as I was. I was thinking only of her,
and as the happy moment drew near when I was to see her again, I even
forgot my own infamy towards Tom.
Twelve hundred a year! It was an immense sum for a young fellow like
me, and with such a foundation for an air-castle, I pictured to myself
a pleasant home with Lilian as the presiding genius of the place,
shedding unutterable bliss upon my existence. Twelve hundred dollars
would hire a house, furnish it, and enables me to live like a lord. If
Lilian did dress well, if she was rather extravagant, I could stand the
pressure with the magnificent income which would be mine.
I was admitted to the parlor in which the family were seated. Tom and
two other gentlemen were there, conversing with the young ladies, all
