In a few days, sir, I hope we may be able to con- 
tinue on our way. It would be simply unbearable 
pain to her to know that we had driven you away, 
and you must stay to show that you have forgiven 
the wrong we have done you." 
Bartlett: "That 's nothing, less than nothing. 
But I was thinking I don't care for myself in 
the matter that Miss Wyatt is proposing a very 
unnecessary annoyance for you all. My friend 
can remain and assure her that I have no feeling 
whatever about the matter, and in the mean time 
I can remove the embarrassment of my pres- 
ence." 
General Wyatt: "Sir, you are very considerate, 
very kind. My own judgment is in favor of your 
course, and yet" 
Cummings: "I think my friend is right, and 
that when he is gone " 
General Wyatt : " Well, sir ! well, sir ! It may 
 
be the best way. I think it is the best. We will 
venture upon it. Sir," to Bartlett, "may I 
have the honor of taking your hand?" Bartlett 
lays down his burden on the piano, and gives his 
hand. " Thank you, thank you ! You will not re- 
gret this goodness. God bless you! May you 
always prosper." 
Bartlett: " Good-by ; and say to Miss Wyatt" 
At these words he pauses, arrested by an incom- 
prehensible dismay in General Wyatt's face, and 
turning about he sees Cummings transfixed at 
the apparition of Miss Wyatt advancing directly 
toward himself, while her mother coming behind 
her exchanges signals of helplessness and despair 
with the General. The young girl's hair, thick and 
bronze, has been heaped in hasty but beautiful 
masses on her delicate head; as she stands with 
fallen eyes before Bartlett, the heavy lashes lie 
dark on her pale cheeks, and the blue of her eyes 
shows through their transparent lids. She has a 
fan with which she makes a weak pretense of play- 
ing, and which she puts to her lips as if to hide the 
low murmur that escapes from them as she raises 
her eyes to Bartlett's face. 
VIII. 
CONSTANCE, MRS. WYATT, and the others. 
Constance, with a phantom-like effort at hau- 
teur: "I hope you have been able to forgive the 
annoyance we caused you, and that you won't let 
it drive you*away." She lifts her eyes with a slow 
effort, and starts with a little gasp as they fall 
upon his face, and then remains trembling before 
him while he speaks. 
Bartlett, reverently : " I am to do whatever you 
wish. I have no annoyance but the fear that 
that" 
Constance, in a husky whisper : " Thanks ! " As 
she turns from him to go back to her mother, she 
moves so frailly that he involuntarily puts out his 
hand. 
Mrs. Wyatt, starting forward : "No ! " But Con- 
stance clutches his extended arm with one of her 
pale hands, and staying herself for a moment lifts 
her eyes again to his, looks steadily at him with 
her face half turned upon him, and then, making a 
slight, sidelong inclination of the head, releases his 
arm and goes to her mother, who supports her to 
one of the easy-chairs and kneels beside her when 
she sinks into it. Bartlett, after an instant of hesi- 
tation, bows silently and withdraws, Cummings 
having already vanished. Constance watches him 
going, and then hides her face on her mother's 
neck. 
II. 
DISTINCTIONS AND DIFFERENCES. 
CONSTANCE and MRS. WYATT. 
Constance : " And he is still here ? He is going 
to stay on, mother ? " She reclines in a low fold- 
ing chair, and languidly rests her head against one 
of the pillows with which her mother has propped 
her; on the bright-colored shawl which has been 
thrown over her lie her pale hands loosely holding 
her shut fan. Her mother stands half across the 
parlor from her, and wistfully surveys her work, to 
see if some touch may not yet be added for the 
girl's comfort. 
Mrs. Wyatt : u Yes, my child. He will stay. 
He told your father he would stayi" 
Constance : " That 's very kind of him. He 's 
very good." 
Mrs. Wyatt, seating herself before her daughter : 
" Do you really wish him to stay ? Remember 
 
 
how weak you are, Constance. If you are taking 
anything upon yourself out of a mistaken sense 
of duty, of compunction, you are not kind to your 
poor father or to me. Not that I mean to re- 
proach you." 
Constance : " Oh, no. And I am not unkind to 
you in the way you think. I 'm selfish enough in 
wishing him to stay. I can't help wanting to see 
him again and again, it's so strange, so strange. 
All this past week, whenever I 've caught a glimpse 
of him, it 's been like an apparition ; and when- 
ever he has spoken, it has been like a ghost speak- 
ing. But I haven't been afraid since the first 
 
time. No, there 's been a dreary comfort in it ; 
you won't understand it ; I can't understand it my- 
self; but I know now why people are glad to see 
their dead in dreams. If the ghost went, there 
would be nothing." 
Mrs. Wyatt : " Constance, you break my heart ! " 
Constance : " Yes, I know it ; it 's because I Ve 
none." She remains a little space without speak- 
ing, while she softly fingers the edges of the fan 
lying in her lap. " I suppose we shall become 
more acquainted, if he stays ? " 
Mrs. Wyatt : " Why, not necessarily, dear. You 
need know nothing more of him than you do now. 
He seems very busy, and not in the least inclined 
to intrude upon us. Your father thinks him a little 
odd, but very gentlemanly." 
Constance, dreamily : " I wonder what he would 
think if he knew that the man whom I would have 
given ray life did not find my love worth having? 
I suppose it was worthless ; but it seemed so 
much in the giving ; it was that deceived me. He 
was wiser. Oh, me ! " After a silence : " Mother, 
why was I so different from other girls ? " 
Mrs. Wyatt : " So different, Constance ? You 
were only different in being lovelier and better 
than others." 
Constance : " Ah, that 's the mistake ! If that 
were true, it could never have happened. Other 
girls, the poorest and plainest, are kept faith with , 
but I was left. There must have been something 
about me that made him despise me. Was I silly, 
mother ? Was I too bold, too glad to have him 
care for me ? I was so happy that I couldn't help 
showing it. May be that displeased him. I must 
 
have been dull and tiresome. And I suppose I 
was somehow repulsive, and at last he couldn't 
bear it any longer and had to break with me. Did 
I dress queerly ? I know I looked ridiculous at 
times ; and people laughed at me before him." 
Mrs. Wyatt : " Oh, Constance, Constance ! Can't 
you understand that it was his unworthiness alone, 
his wicked heartlessness ? " 
Constance, with gentle slowness : " No, I can't 
understand that. It happened after we had learned 
to know each other so well. If he had been fickle, 
it would have happened long before that. It was 
something odious in me that he didn't see at first. 
I have thought it out. It seems strange now that 
people could ever have tolerated me." Desolately : 
" Well, they have their revenge." 
Mrs. Wyatt : " Their revenge on you, Constance ? 
What harm did you ever do them, my poor child ? 
Oh, you mustn't let these morbid fancies over- 
come you. Where is our Constance that used to 
be, our brave, bright girl, that nothing could 
daunt, and nothing could sadden ? " 
Constance, sobbing : " Dead, dead ! " 
 
Mrs. Wyatt : " I can't understand ! You are so 
young still, and with the world all before you. 
Why will you let one man's baseness blacken it 
all and blight your young life so ? " Where is your 
pride, Constance ? " 
Constance : " Pride ? What have I to do with 
pride ? A thing like me ! " 
Mrs. Wyatt: "Oh, child, you're pitiless! It 
seems as if you took a dreadful pleasure in tor- 
turing those who love you." 
Constance : " You 've said it, mother. I do. I 
know now that I am a vampire, and that it 's my 
hideous fate to prey upon those who are dearest to 
