spiritual man, then, our lives having been in hea 
ven while our bodies were yet upon the earth, we 
shall simply rise, by death, out of the material 
into the spiritual plane of existence, and live con 
sciously, as we lived before actually, among the 



 

angels. But, if our lives have been selfish and 
worldly, we shall pass by death into a conscious 
association with spirits of a like character, who 
have been our soul 's companions while our bo 
dies and our thoughts have been in this outward 
world." 

" You bewilder me, Grace," said Mrs. Fleet- 
wood, with a troubled look. " I can 't see clear. 
By God 's mercy, I hope to pass into heaven, 
when I leave this world. My Saviour died for 
me. I trust in him. He is able to save to the 
uttermost." 

" Dear aunt," said Grace, " we must be like- 
minded with the Saviour if we would dwell with 
him forever. His infinite mercy has redeemed us 
from the power of hell. He bowed the heavens, 
and came down, that he might raise us out of our 
sad condition; and as he bowed the heavens once 
for all mankind, so he bows it now and forever 
for each individual of the human race, and thus 
makes redemption perpetual. But we must be 
born again natural life, which is selfish, must 



 

die in us through self-denial, in order that spirit 
ual life may be born in our souls. As He loved 
us, and gave himself for us, so must we love 
others, and give ourselves for them. This life of 
love is the life to come, and without its birth in 
our hearts here, we cannot enter heaven." 

The shadow fell deeper on Mrs. Fleetwood 's 
countenance. This same doctrine may have been 
preached in her ears again and again, many times 
over, but, certainly, never before had it gone down 
to the region of conviction. Loving others, and 
giving her life for others, had been no part of 
Mrs. Fleetwood 's creed. Self bounded her world. 
And as her thought went forward to that " life to 
come" of which she had spoken, it was pictured 
as a life in which all delight was selfish instead 
of reciprocal or beneficent. But that common 
perception of truth, which, when a truth is first 
stated, gives it a real embodiment, now struck 
her mind with conviction, and sobered her feel 
ings. Grace had moved the foundations of her 
hope in heaven. 



From that hour there was a change in Mrs. 
Fleetwood. In the walk and conversation of her 
niece, she saw a beautiful illustration of her more 
interior doctrine. Grace never seemed to think 
of herself, nor to feel that in serving another she 
was robbing her own spirit. Always cheerful, 
always ready to communicate, always reaching 
forth the willing hand, she so embodied for Mrs. 
Fleetwood the true life of heaven, that she grew 
at last to comprehend and to desire it. 

"Thank God for the life to come!" It was 
many years afterward that Mrs. Fleetwood said 
this again, but with what a new and Higher 
meaning in her thought ! 








VIII. 

THE FACE AND THE LIFE. 

" YI THAT kind of a looking man was he ?" I 
asked. 

"I saw his face only for a moment. It did 
not impress me favorably. But faces in repose 
do not always give a right index of character." 

" I am not sure of that," said I. " The face in 
repose is, I think, the true face. We all have 
two lives, the external for the world, the internal 
for ourselves. And we are with ourselves, living 
our own internal lives, more than we are with the 
world living our external lives. Our external is 
a constrained and superficial thing, to be put on 
and off as interest, pleasure, or love of reputation 
may dictate. But our internal is made up of our 
real ends and purposes is our very self, and si 
lently, but surely, day by day, and year by year, 



 

is it writing on our faces a true record of our cha 
racters. This is why the countenances of the 
good grow beautiful as they grow old ; and why 
the countenances of the selfish and evil grow 
more and more repulsive with age." 

" I think there must be exceptions to this," remarked my friend. 

"There may be apparent exceptions, but no 
real ones, for there is an eternal relation between 
cause and effect." 

" Look at Dr. Mayfield," said he. 

" You cite a strong case," I answered. 

" Did you ever know a better man ?" 

" I think him one of the best of men," said I. 

"And yet, his face in repose is as hard as 
iron." 

" It is very hard, and very homely," I ad 
mitted. 

" Yet all this fades when it lights up in con 
versation, and you wonder if it can be the same 
face you looked upon a little while before." 

" If you study that face when the glow of ex- 




ternal thought and feeling has died away," said I, 
"you will not find among its hard angles and 
deep lines any lurking signs of cruelty." 

" No ; it is not a cruel face." 

" Nor do we find covetousness there." 

" It could not be there," ray friend answered, 
promptly ; " for of all vices, Doctor Mayfield is 
freest of this." 

" Nor envy, discontent, or fretfulness." 

"No." 

" Hard and homely as his face is, it does not 
repel you." 

"No," replied my friend, "there is nothing 
about Doctor Mayfield to repel. Everybody is 
attracted by him." 

"If internally he were cruel, selfish, envious 
and discontented, these repulsive qualities would 
radiate from his countenance when in repose, and 
no one could mistake the signs. And so, in 
looking more narrowly at this strong case, I 
find that it does not invalidate the theory. In 
the instance of Doctor Mayfield, it seems that a 
