half off, and was arraying herself in a fresh print ; and she 
was down stairs almost as soon as the visiter knocked. 
Diana opened the door. She knew Mrs. Starling was deep 
in supper preparations, mingled with provisions for the 
next day's lunches. 
Uniforms have a great effect, to eyes unaccustomed to 
them. How Lieut. Knowlton came to be wearing his 
uniform in the country, so far away from any post, I don't 
know ; perhaps he did. He said, that he had nothing else 
he liked for riding in. But a blue frock, with gold bars 
across the shoulders and military buttons, is more graceful 
than a frieze coat. And it was a gracious, graceful head 
that was bared at the sight of the door-opener. 
 
'You see,' he said with a smile, ' I couldn't go by ! 
The other day I was your pensioner, in kindness. Now I 
want to come in my own character, if you'll let me.' 
' Is it different from the character I saw the other day ? ' 
said Diana, as she led the way into the parlour. 
' You did not see my character the other day, did 
you ? ' 
' I saw what you shewed me ! ' 
He laughed, and then laughed again ; looking a little 
surprised, a good deal amused. 
' I would give a great deal to know what you thought 
of me.' 
' Why would you ? ' Diana said, quite quietly. 
' That I might correct your mistakes, of course.' 
' Suppose I made any mistakes,' said Diana, ' you could 
only tell me that you thought differently. I don't see that 
I should be much wiser.' 
' I find I made a mistake about you ! ' he said laughing 
again, but shaking his head. ' But every person is like a 
new language to those that see him for the first time ; 
don't you think so ? One has to learn the signs of the 
language by degrees, before one can read it off like a 
book.' 
' I never thought about that,' said Diana. ' No ; I 
think that is true of some people ; not everybody. All the 
Pleasant Valley people seem to me to belong to one language. All except one, perhaps.' 
' Who is the exception ? ' Mr. Knowlton asked 
quickly. 
' I don't know whether you know him.' 
' O I know everybody here or I used to.' 
' I was thinking of somebody who didn't use to be here. 
He has only just come. I mean Mr. Masters.' 
 
' The parson ? ' 
' Yes.' 
' I don't know him much. I suppose he belongs to the 
parson language, to carry on our figure. They all do.' 
' He don't, said Diana. ' That is what struck me in 
him. What are the signs of the " parson " language ? ' 
' A black coat and a white neckcloth, to begin with.' 
' He dresses in gray,' said Diana laughing, ' or in white ; 
and wears, any sort of a cravat.' 
'To go on, Generally a grave face and a manner of 
great propriety ; with a square way of arranging words.' 
' Mr. Masters has no manner at all ; and he is one of 
the most entertaining people I ever knew.' 
' Jolly sort, eh ? ' 
' No, I think not,' said Diana ; ' I don't know exactly 
what you mean by jolly ; he is never silly, and he does not 
laugh much particularly ; but he can make other people 
laugh.' 
' Well, another sign is, they put a religious varnish over 
common things. Do you recognize that ? ' 
' I recognize that, for I have seen it ; but it isn't true 
of Mr. Masters.' 
' I give him up,' said young Knowlton. ' I am sure I 
shouldn't like him.' 
' Why, do you like these common signs of the " parson 
language," as you call it, that you have been reckoning ?' 
The answer was a decided negative accompanied with 
a laugh again ; and then Diana's visiter turned the conversation to the country, and the place, and the elm-trees ; 
looked out of the window and observed that the haymakers 
were at work near the house, and finally said he must go 
out to look at them nearer ; he had not made hay since he 
was a boy. 
He went out, and Diana went back to her mother in 
the lean-to. 
' Mother, young Mr. Knowlton is here.' 
' Well keep him out o' my way ; that's all I ask.' 
' Haven't you got through yet ? ' 
' Through ! There was but one single pan of gingerbread left this noon ; and there ain't more'n three loaves 
o' bread in the pantry. What's that among a tribe o' such 
grampuses ? I've got to make biscuits for tea, Di ; and 
I may as well get the piecrust off my hands at the same 
time ; it'll be so much done for to-morrow. I wish you'd 
pick over the berries. And then I'll find you something 
else to do. If I had six hands and two heads, I guess I 
could about get along.' 
' But mother, it won't do for nobody to be in the 
parlour.' 
' I thought he was gone ? ' 
' Only gone out into the field to see the haymakers.' 
' Queer company ! ' . said Mrs. Starling, leaving her 
bowl of dough, with flowery hands, to peer out of a window. 
You may make your mind easy, Di ; he won't come in 
again ; I declare ! he's got his coat off and he's gone at it 
himself ; ain't that him ? ' 
Diana looked and allowed that it was. Mr. Knowlton 
had got a rake in hand, his coat hung on the fence, and he 
was raking hay as busily as the best of them. Diana gave 
a little sigh, and turned to her pan of berries. This young 
officer was a new language to her, and she would have 
liked, she thought, to spell out a little more of its graceful 
peculiarities. The berries took a good while. Meantime 
Mrs. Starling's biscuit went into the oven, and a sweet 
smell began to come thereout. Mrs. Starling bustled about 
setting the table ; with cold pork and pickles, and cheese 
 
and berry pie, and piles of bread brown and white. Clearly, 
the haymakers were expected to supper. 
' Mother,' said Diana doubtfully when she had washed 
her hands from the berry stains, 'will you bring Mr. 
Knowlton out here to tea, if he should possibly stay ? ' 
' He's gone, child, this age.' 
' No, he isn't.' 
' He ain't out yonder any more.' 
' But his horse stands by the fence under the elm.' 
' I wish he was further, then ! Yes, of course he'll 
come here, if he takes supper with me to-night. I don't 
think he will. I don't know him, and I don't know as I 
want to.' 
But this vaguely expressed hope was disappointed. The 
young officer came in, a little while before supper ; laughingly asked Diana for some water to wash his hands ; and 
followed her out to the lean-to. There he was introduced 
to Mrs. Starling, and informed her he had been doing her 
work, begging to know if that did not entitle him to some 
supper. I think Mrs. Starling was a little sorry then that 
she had not made preparations to receive him more 
elegantly but it was too late now ; she only rushed a 
little nervously to fetch him a finer white towel than those 
which usually did kitchen duty for herself and Diana ; and 
then the biscuits were baked, and the farm hands came 
streaming in. 
There were several of them, now in haying time, headed by Josiah Davis, Mrs. Starling's ordinary stand-by. 
Heavy and clumsy, warm from the hay field, a little awkward at sight of the company, they filed in and dropped 
into their several seats round one end of the table ; and 
Mrs. Starling could only play all her hospitable arts around 
her guest, to make him forget if possible his unwonted 
companions. She served him assiduously with the best she 
had on the table ; she would not bring on any dainties 
extra ; and the young officer took kindly even to the pork 
and pickles, and declared the brown bread was worth 
working for ; and when Mrs. Starling let fall a word of 
regretful apology, assured her that in the times when he 
was a cadet he would have risked getting a good many 
marks for the sake of such a meal. 
'What are the marks for?' inquired Mrs. Starling 
curiously. 
' Bad boys,' he told her ; and then went off to a discussion of her hay crop, and a dissertation on the delights 
of making hay and the pleasure he had had from it that 
afternoon ; 'something he did not very often enjoy.' 
' Can't you make hay anywheres ? ' Mrs. Starling asked 
a little dryly. 
He gravely assured her it would not be considered 
military. 
' I don't know wh'at military means,' said Mrs. Starling. 
' You are military, ain't you ? ' 
' Mean to be,' he answered seriously. 
' Well, you are. Then, I should think, whatever you 
do would be military.' 
But at this giving of judgment, after a min-ute of, perhaps, endeavour for self-control, Mr. Knowlton broke 
down and laughed furiously. Mrs. Starling looked stern. 
Diana was in a state of indecision, whether to laugh with 
her friend or frown with her mother ; but the infection of 
fun was too much for her ; the pretty lips gave way. Maybe that was encouragement for the offender ; for he did 
not show any embarrassment or express any contrition. 
' You do me too much honour,' he said as soon as he 
could make his voice steady ; ' you do me too much honour ; 
Mrs. Starling. I assure you, I have been most unmilitary 
this afternoon ; but really I am no better than a boy when 
the temptation takes me ; and the temptation of your 
meadow and those long winrows was too much for me. I 
enjoyed it hugely. I am coming again, may I ? ' 
' You'll have to be quick about it then,' said Mrs Starling, not much mollified ; ' there ain't much more haying to 
do on the home lot, I guess. Ain't you most done, Josiah?' 
' How ? ' said that worthy from the other end of the 
