It troubled father very much, kept him weak and de- 
spondent. There was no use of appealing to Frank or 
Robert. 
“ But to see the work of your lifetime go,” he said 
with a sigh. 
“ Better that than life and health,” returned mamma. 
‘‘ Though I would be willing to sell the house, if it would 
save you.” 
When papa could get about, a meeting of the creditors 
was called, and a statement laid before them. There was 
a good deal of stock on hand, but no demand for it. Two 
of the largest creditors pressed for their money. One 
was going to Europe, to remain for years. 
It was decided at last to make an assignment, and sell 
out the stock. Part of it was taken to a neighboring 
town. There was enough to meet all claims. Mr. Sar- 
gent’s kindly note was settled, and the doctor’s bill 
paid, and then we looked our future square in the face. 
There was the house, with its mortgage of two thousand 
dollars, and just five hundred beside. There was my sal- 
ary of three hundred and fifty. Father was still ver}- 
feeble. The least exertion seemed to exhaust all his 
strength. 
He wrote to uncle James, and received a very cordial 
letter, inAuting him to come. 
“You must go, and stay at least three months. And 
then you must travel around three months more. You 
have never had a good long holiday in your life. It has 
been nothing but work.” 
“What will you do, Bessie?” with a faint, yearning 
smile. 
 
‘ ‘ I’ll manage, never you fear. I ought to be a professor 
of economy by this time.” 
Father went down to New York to spend a week with 
uncle Robert. They were making great changes in their 
business, going into manufacturing and wholesale. Army 
boots and shoes were to become a specialty A new 
partner with considerable ready money had been added. 
This was about the middle of March. Theo seemed so 
languid ! Her appetite was nothing. She used to faint 
dead away with a little over-exertion ; and yet she had 
such wonderful will and spirits ! She kept bright and 
laughing, and declared it was only a touch of spring 
fever ; and didn’t we know it was a very stylish accom- 
plishment to swoon away gracefully ? She would not 
begin a new quarter of singing-lessons, but said, “Wait 
until fall.” 
One lovely moonlight evening Mr. Sargent called in. 
Theo had gone to bed with a headache. When these 
severe ones came on, there was nothing for hei but a dark, 
quiet room, and entire rest. Mother was busy in the 
kitchen, and Dell and Dick were studying lessons. 
“ You are looking pale and weary,” Mr. Sargent said 
kindly. “ Suppose we go out for a walk? These spring 
days are very trying. It is too cool without a fire, and 
too warm with one. Out of doors it is delightful.” 
I put on my hat and sack. He drew my arm gently 
through his, and we walked up the street, toward the 
country part of the town. Somewhere in the distance 
beyond, there was a frog-pond ; and to-night the echoes 
seemed to have a hopeful, spring-like sound. 
“ How quiet you are ! ” he began presently. “ There 
is no new trouble, surely? ” 
“ There is no need of new troubles. We are not done 
with the old ones,” I answered. 
“ My poor little girl, I think you have had your full 
share. I wish I could do or say something to comfort.” 
He drew me closer, with an indescribably tender motion. 
I felt so weak, depressed, and his sympathy touched the 
tenderest chord of my being, moved me to tears. I gave 
a little, half-strangled sob in my breath, before I was 
aware. 
‘ ‘ O my love ! my tired little darling ! ’ ’ 
We both stopped. There was a great open space, and 
just beyond a straggling grove of trees that had thus far 
defied the march of improvement. The city had not gone 
out so rapidly this way. 
His arms fell : nay, the hands closed in a quick, tense 
grip ; and through my tears I knew it was. not the clasp 
of happy love, or any delicious vision seen in the dis- 
tance. It struck a chill to my soul, prepared me instantly 
for what was coming. 
“ Christabel,” why is it that people always give you 
j"Our full name in the instant of trouble, anger, or pain? — 
“ Christabel, I was a coward, and worse, to utter those 
endearing words, and yet I love you, love you as I 
have no right to love any woman, save the one to whom 
my word is plighted. Yet what makes the right and 
wrong, the honor and the dishonor? I have tried not 
only to guard myself, but to guard you, as any tender 
brother might have done. I have lingered within sight of 
you, watched you when others were around, and said, 
‘ Thus far, and no farther ; ’ and now all my mortal weak- 
ness has found a voice. O Christabel ! can it ever be for- 
given, this sin against you? ’’ 
I put out my hand blindly. Since he had not deceived 
me wilfully, since he must suffer, might we not as well 
have the fellowship in our anguish ? 
“ My little darling ! A man ought to take you to his 
heart, and make paths for your poor tired feet, carry you 
over rough ways. Shall I do it? ” 
He seemed to ask the question as much of himself as 
of me. Should I, could I, go to happiness treading over 
another woman’s heart? 
 
“ No, no ! I cried, with a pang that seemed to wrench 
my very soul apart. 
“You despise me ! any good woman would.” 
“ I am not a good woman, then. I do not despise, nor 
hate, hardly blame. I see now how you have tried ; but 
it is hard — to give up all in a moment.” 
“ Let me tell you my story, and you shall be the judge. 
If you think honor binds me, and must be obeyed at any 
cost, I will bow my head humbly, and take up the frag- 
ments. If not, nothing shall induce me to sacrifice two 
souls.” 
He was deathly pale ; but his firm lips and resolute eyes 
indicated much mental strength. 
“ Tell me,” I said huskily. “ I must hear all now.” 
“ Miss Adelaide Adams and I have been neighbors 
alway's. She and my next sister are just of an age. We 
went to the same academy in our native town, studied 
together, graduated ; and then I left home for Harvard. 
Two years later I brought a friend home with me, Walter 
Heywood, some three or four years my senior. My sister 
was engaged at this time : the elder one was very well 
married. Miss Adams is rather tall and fine-looking, 
with a distinguished presence, and decidedly intellectual 
Tvithout being an original genius, but is very highly 
accomplished. I always liked her very much. 
“ Well, she and my friend Heywood became engaged. 
It was a bitter disappointment to my mother, who in her 
heart had chosen her for me. They were very happy. 
He had one of those bright, joyous, hopeful tempera- 
ments, while she was rather grave, more of the woman 
than the girl. He went to California to establish a 
branch house : he belonged to a large and rich mercan- 
tile firm. In a year or two he was to return for the mar- 
riage. The time was appointed, not the da}-, but the 
month. Heywood was taken ill with a fever, and died in 
ten days. It was an awful stroke to her, a shock to us all. 
“ Her father died shortly after. She let out her place, 
and came to make her home with my mother, though she 
had brothers married, and a very nice Income of her own. 
I went back and forth. I do not think I can recall all the 
steps of gradual regard ; but, when I came to Northwood, 
we had been engaged something over a year.’’ 
“ And she loves you! ” I cried. How could a woman 
help loving him, when she felt she had the right? “ And 
she loved the other too,” I added, after a moment’s pause. 
“ She loved Heywood — yes; I think she did truly. 
She loves my mother and me ; and she is quite an exclu- 
sive woman in her tenderest regards. Well, I came to 
Northwood to settle myself, as my uncle desired. I met 
you and your sister, and you were delightful young girls. 
Christabel, do you remember the night I rode up in the 
cars, when that Mr. Miller was with you? He loved you, 
I saw at once. I cannot tell you how I was interested. 
You seemed so delicate, dainty, and refined, and he was so 
different ! ‘ Can she love him ? can she many him ? ’ I 
kept asking myself, and have her whole life marred and 
blurred, either lowered to his ways, or else worn out in 
a few years in the vain struggle to lift him up? ” 
“ But he is going to marry Miss Taylor,” I cried. 
You see women can love him.” 
“Miss Tajdor is — well, stylish, accomplished, but not 
refined. She will laugh at his blunders ; then she is 
strong enough to mould him a little to her way of think- 
ing. She will not be in an agony of mortification over 
him, such as your sensitive soul would experience. 
“•You and your sister were so bright with the glow of 
youth and pleasure. I did not dream of any danger. 
Honestly I did not think there was any thing in my sedate, 
rather elderly manner that would attract a young girl 
strongly. I would be a brother to you, standing off when 
other pleasures were offered, coming a little nearer when I 
was needed. I liked you very much. There were times 
 
when I wanted to establish the right of a brotherly friend- 
