think of his evil deeds; and one occurred to him, indeed, it often came
to his mind. It was a lie,—a deliberate, awful lie, that never injured
anybody but himself. John knew he was not wicked enough to tell a lie
to injure anybody else.
This was the lie. One afternoon at school, just before John's class
was to recite in geography, his pretty cousin, a young lady he held
in great love and respect, came in to visit the school. John was a
favorite with her, and she had come to hear him recite. As it happened,
John felt shaky in the geographical lesson of that day, and he feared
to be humiliated in the presence of his cousin; he felt embarrassed to
that degree that he couldn't have "bounded" Massachusetts. So he stood
up and raised his hand, and said to the schoolma'am, "Please, ma'am,
I've got the stomach-ache; may I go home?" And John's character for
truthfulness was so high (and even this was ever a reproach to him)
that his word was instantly believed, and he was dismissed without
any medical examination. For a moment John was delighted to get out
of school so early; but soon his guilt took all the light out of the
summer sky and the pleasantness out of nature. He had to walk slowly,
without a single hop or jump, as became a diseased boy. The sight of a
woodchuck at a distance from his well-known hole tempted John, but he
restrained himself, lest somebody should see him, and know that chasing
a woodchuck was inconsistent with the stomach-ache. He was acting a
miserable part, but it had to be gone through with. He went home and
told his mother the reason he had left school, but he added that he
felt "some" better now. The "some" didn't save him. Genuine sympathy
was lavished on him. He had to swallow a stiff dose of nasty "picra,"
the horror of all childhood, and he was put in bed immediately. The
world never looked so pleasant to John, but to bed he was forced to
go. He was excused from all chores; he was not even to go after the
cows. John said he thought he ought to go after the cows,—much as
he hated the business usually, he would now willingly have wandered
over the world after cows,—and for this heroic offer, in the condition
he was, he got credit for a desire to do his duty; and this unjust
confidence in him added to his torture. And he had intended to set his
hooks that night for eels. His cousin came home, and sat by his bedside
and condoled with him; his schoolma'am had sent word how sorry she was
for him, John was such a good boy. All this was dreadful. He groaned
in agony. Besides, he was not to have any supper; it would be very
dangerous to eat a morsel. The prospect was appalling. Never was there
such a long twilight; never before did he hear so many sounds outdoors
that he wanted to investigate. Being ill without any illness was a
horrible condition. And he began to have real stomach-ache now; and it
ached because it was empty. John was hungry enough to have eaten the
New England Primer. But by and by sleep came, and John forgot his woes
in dreaming that he knew where Madagascar was just as easy as anything.
It was this lie that came back to John the night he was trying to
be affected by the revival. And he was very much ashamed of it, and
believed he would never tell another. But then he fell thinking whether
with the "picra," and the going to bed in the afternoon, and the loss
of his supper, he had not been sufficiently paid for it. And in this
unhopeful frame of mind he dropped off in sleep.
And the truth must be told, that in the morning John was no nearer to
realizing the terrors he desired to feel. But he was a conscientious
boy, and would do nothing to interfere with the influences of the
season. He not only put himself away from them all, but he refrained
from doing almost everything that he wanted to do. There came at that
time a newspaper, a secular newspaper, which had in it a long account
of the Long Island races, in which the famous horse "Lexington" was a
runner. John was fond of horses, he knew about Lexington, and he had
looked forward to the result of this race with keen interest. But
to read the account of it now he felt might destroy his seriousness
of mind, and—in all reverence and simplicity he felt it—be a means
of "grieving away the Holy Spirit." He therefore hid away the paper
in a table drawer, intending to read it when the revival should be
over. Weeks after, when he looked for the newspaper, it was not to be
found, and John never knew what "time" Lexington made, nor anything
about the race. This was to him a serious loss, but by no means so
deep as another feeling that remained with him; for when his little
world returned to its ordinary course, and long after, John had an
uneasy apprehension of his own separateness from other people in his
insensibility to the revival. Perhaps the experience was a damage to
him; and it is a pity that there was no one to explain that religion
for a little fellow like him is not a "scheme."
XVII
WAR
Every boy who is good for anything is a natural savage. The scientists
who want to study the primitive man, and have so much difficulty in
finding one anywhere in this sophisticated age, couldn't do better than
to devote their attention to the common country boy. He has the primal,
vigorous instincts and impulses of the African savage, without any of
the vices inherited from a civilization long ago decayed, or developed
in an unrestrained barbaric society. You want to catch your boy young,
and study him before he has either virtues or vices, in order to
understand the primitive man.
Every New England boy desires (or did desire a generation ago, before
children were born sophisticated, with a large library, and with the
word "culture" written on their brows) to live by hunting, fishing,
and war. The military instinct, which is the special mark of barbarism,
is strong in him. It arises not alone from his love of fighting, for
the boy is naturally as cowardly as the savage, but from his fondness
for display,—the same that a corporal or a general feels in decking
himself in tinsel and tawdry colors and strutting about in view of the
female sex. Half the pleasure in going out to murder another man with
a gun would be wanting if one did not wear feathers and gold lace and
stripes on his pantaloons. The law also takes this view of it, and will
not permit men to shoot each other in plain clothes. And the world also
makes some curious distinctions in the art of killing. To kill people
with arrows is barbarous; to kill them with smooth-bores and flintlock
muskets is semi-civilized; to kill them with breech-loading rifles is
civilized. That nation is the most civilized which has the appliances
to kill the most of another nation in the shortest time. This is the
result of six thousand years of constant civilization. By and by, when
the nations cease to be boys, perhaps they will not want to kill each
other at all. Some people think the world is very old; but here is an
evidence that it is very young, and, in fact, has scarcely yet begun to
be a world. When the volcanoes have done spouting, and the earthquakes
are quaked out, and you can tell what land is going to be solid and
keep its level twenty-four hours, and the swamps are filled up, and the
deltas of the great rivers, like the Mississippi and the Nile, become
terra firma, and men stop killing their fellows in order to get
their land and other property, then perhaps there will be a world that
an angel wouldn't weep over. Now one half the world are employed in
getting ready to kill the other half, some of them by marching about in
uniform, and the others by hard work to earn money to pay taxes to buy
uniforms and guns.
John was not naturally very cruel, and it was probably the love of
display quite as much as of fighting that led him into a military
life; for he in common with all his comrades had other traits of the
savage. One of them was the same passion for ornament that induces
the African to wear anklets and bracelets of hide and of metal, and to
decorate himself with tufts of hair, and to tattoo his body. In John's
day there was a rage at school among the boys for wearing bracelets
woven of the hair of the little girls. Some of them were wonderful
specimens of braiding and twist. These were not captured in war, but
were sentimental tokens of friendship given by the young maidens
themselves. John's own hair was kept so short (as became a warrior)
that you couldn't have made a bracelet out of it, or anything except
a paint-brush; but the little girls were not under military law, and
they willingly sacrificed their tresses to decorate the soldiers they
esteemed. As the Indian is honored in proportion to the scalps he can
display, the boy at John's school was held in highest respect who could
show the most hair trophies on his wrist. John himself had a variety
that would have pleased a Mohawk, fine and coarse and of all colors.
There were the flaxen, the faded straw, the glossy black, the lustrous
brown, the dirty yellow, the undecided auburn, and the fiery red.
Perhaps his pulse beat more quickly under the red hair of Cynthia Rudd
than on account of all the other wristlets put together; it was a sort
of gold-tried-in-the-fire color to John, and burned there with a steady
flame. Now that Cynthia had become a Christian, this band of hair
seemed a more sacred if less glowing possession (for all detached hair
will fade in time), and if he had known anything about saints he would
have imagined that it was a part of the aureole that always goes with
a saint. But I am bound to say that, while John had a tender feeling
for this red string, his sentiment was not that of the man who becomes
entangled in the meshes of a woman's hair; and he valued rather the
number than the quality of these elastic wristlets.
John burned with as real a military ardor as ever inflamed the
breast of any slaughterer of his fellows. He liked to read of war,
of encounters with the Indians, of any kind of wholesale killing in
glittering uniform, to the noise of the terribly exciting fife and
drum, which maddened the combatants and drowned the cries of the
wounded. In his future he saw himself a soldier with plume and sword
and snug-fitting, decorated clothes,—very different from his somewhat
roomy trousers and country-cut roundabout, made by Aunt Ellis, the
village tailoress, who cut out clothes, not according to the shape of
the boy, but to what he was expected to grow to,—going where glory
awaited him. In his observation of pictures, it was the common soldier
who was always falling and dying, while the officer stood unharmed in
the storm of bullets and waved his sword in a heroic attitude. John
determined to be an officer.
It is needless to say that he was an ardent member of the military
company of his village. He had risen from the grade of corporal to that
of first lieutenant; the captain was a boy whose father was captain
of the grown militia company, and consequently had inherited military
aptness and knowledge. The old captain was a flaming son of Mars, whose
nose militia war, general training, and New England rum had painted
with the color of glory and disaster. He was one of the gallant old
soldiers of the peaceful days of our country, splendid in uniform, a
martinet in drill, terrible in oaths, a glorious object when he marched
at the head of his company of flintlock muskets, with the American
banner full high advanced, and the clamorous drum defying the world.
In this he fulfilled his duties of citizen, faithfully teaching his
uniformed companions how to march by the left leg, and to get reeling
drunk by sundown; otherwise he didn't amount to much in the community;
his house was unpainted, his fences were tumbled down, his farm was a
waste, his wife wore an old gown to meeting, to which the captain never
went; but he was a good trout-fisher, and there was no man in town who
spent more time at the country store and made more shrewd observations
upon the affairs of his neighbors. Although he had never been in an
asylum any more than he had been in war, he was almost as perfect a
