about three minutes, pour over the steak, when you have removed the
threads. The skewers are to be withdrawn by the carver.
SALSIFY FRITTERS.
Scrape, wash, and grate the roots into a mixture made of a beaten egg,
one cup of milk, and enough flour for a very thin batter. Thicken with
the grated salsify; salt and pepper, and drop, in large spoonfuls, into
boiling lard or dripping. Drain in a hot colander. Eat while fresh.
SCALLOPED TOMATOES.
Drain off the liquor from a can of tomatoes; salt it, and put aside for
another day’s soup. Strew the bottom of a bake-dish with fine crumbs;
cover with tomatoes, sliced thin. Scatter over these a little minced
onion and some bits of butter, with pepper, salt, and sugar. Proceed
thus until the tomatoes are used up. Cover thickly with crumbs, fit a
plate or tin lid over the scallop, and bake half an hour. Brown quickly
upon the upper grating of the oven.
FIG CUSTARD PUDDING.
  1 lb. best Naples figs.
  1 quart of milk.
  Yolks of five eggs and whites of two.
  ½ package of gelatine soaked in half cup of water.
  1 cup sweet fruit jelly, slightly warmed.
  4 tablespoonfuls of sugar.
  Flavor to taste.
Soak the figs in warm water until quite soft. Split them; dip each
piece in jelly, and line a buttered mould with them. Heat the milk,
stir into the beaten eggs and sugar, return to the farina-kettle,
and cook until it thickens well. Set by to cool. Beat the whites of
two eggs to a stiff froth. Melt the soaked gelatine by adding two
tablespoonfuls of boiling water, and setting it within a vessel of hot
water. Stir until melted, and let it cool. When it begins to congeal,
whip with the Dover egg-beater, gradually, into the whisked whites,
until all is white and thick. Beat into the cold custard rapidly and
thoroughly, and fill the fig-lined mould. Set on ice, or in a cold
place, until firm. Dip the mould in hot water to loosen the pudding
when you are ready for it. It is delicious.
  Second Week.      Friday.
  ——
  Split Pea Soup, without Meat.
  Baked Halibut.      Chicken and Ham Pudding.
  Mashed Potatoes.      Mixed Pickles.
  ——
  Cottage Pudding.
  Wine Sauce.
  ——
SPLIT PEA SOUP, WITHOUT MEAT.
  1 pint of split peas.
  2 onions.
  2 stalks of celery.
  Bunch of sweet herbs.
  1 carrot.
  1 turnip.
  3 tablespoonfuls of butter, cut into bits and rolled in flour.
  Tomato juice, saved from yesterday.
  Pepper, salt, and fried bread.
  3 quarts of water.
Soak the peas all night. In the morning, put them on, with the
vegetables and herbs cut small, and the tomato juice; cover with the
water, and cook slowly three hours, or until you can rub all to a pulp
through a colander. Season; simmer fifteen minutes, stir in the butter,
cook five minutes longer, and pour upon the fried bread in the tureen.
BAKED HALIBUT.
Lay a cut of halibut, weighing five pounds, in salt and water for
two hours. Wipe dry, and score on top. Bake an hour, basting often
with butter and water melted together. Test with a fork to see if
it be done, and transfer to a hot dish. Strain the gravy from the
dripping-pan to a saucepan. Stir in a tablespoonful of walnut catsup,
the juice of a lemon, and a tablespoonful of butter, cut up in three
tablespoonfuls of browned flour. Boil, and pour into a sauce-boat.
CHICKEN AND HAM PUDDING.
  The meat from yesterday’s chickens, minced fine.
  Half as much cooked ham, also minced.
  ½ lb. pipe macaroni, broken into inch lengths.
  2 beaten eggs.
  1 tablespoonful of butter.
  1 cup of gravy.
  Pepper and salt.
Add a little hot water to the chicken broth reserved yesterday; strain,
heat, and cook the macaroni tender in it. Drain the latter; mix well
with the ham and chicken, beaten eggs, butter, and seasoning. Pour into
a greased pudding-mould with a tight top, and boil for two hours. Dip
the mould into cold water for half a minute; invert a hot dish, and
strike gently upon top and upon sides to turn it out.
MASHED POTATOES.
Pare and boil until a fork will pierce the largest. Drain off the
water, leaving the potatoes in the pot. Set back on the range, strew
with salt, and dry for three minutes. Whip up with a stout, four-tined
fork until they are a mass of meal. Add, then, a great spoonful of
butter, a cup of milk, salt, if necessary, whipping all in lightly.
Form into a smoothed mound in a vegetable-dish. Pass with the fish.
MIXED PICKLES
Should go around with both fish and meat, to-day.
COTTAGE PUDDING.
  1 cup of sugar.
  1 tablespoonful of butter.
  2 eggs.
  1 cup of sweet milk.
  3 cups of prepared flour.
  1 teaspoonful of butter.
Cream the butter and sugar. Beat in the yolks, then the milk, salt,
and the beaten whites alternately with the flour. Bake in a buttered
mould until a straw will come out clean from the middle; turn out upon
a plate. Eat hot with wine sauce.
WINE SAUCE.
  ½ cup of butter.
  2½ cups of powdered sugar.
  2 glasses of pale sherry.
  ½ cup of boiling water.
  1 teaspoonful of nutmeg.
Cream butter and sugar, whipping up, by degrees, with the hot water.
Beat five minutes before adding, gradually, the wine and sugar. Heat in
a tin vessel set in boiling water, stirring often, but not to a boil.
Leave in warm water until you are ready for it. Stir up from the bottom
as you serve.
  Second Week.      Saturday.
  ——
  Bone Soup.
  Pigeon Pie.      Roast Sweet Potatoes.
  Grape Jelly.      Baked Hominy.
  ——
  Willie’s Favorite Pudding.
  ——
BONE SOUP.
  6 or seven lbs. of uncooked bones, beef, mutton, veal, and salt
          pork, bought in market for a trifle, and pounded to pieces.
  2 minced carrots.
  2 turnips.
  2 onions.
  2 stalks of celery.
  Bunch of sweet herbs.
  Salt and pepper.
  ½ cup tapioca, soaked two hours in one cup of cold water.
  5 quarts of water.
Put on the bones and vegetables early in the day. Purchase soup meat a
day beforehand, whenever you can. Cover with half the water. When the
scum arises after the boil is reached, remove it, and pour in another
quart of cold water. This will bring up more scum. Skim, after boiling
again, and pour in the rest of the water. When no more scum comes up,
cover the pot, and cook gently four hours, if you can give it so much
time. Divide the liquor into two parts. Set away half in a stone jar,
with the bones in the bottom, fit on the lid, having salted the liquor.
This is Sunday’s “stock.” Strain the rest through a fine soup-sieve,
without pressing the residuum in the bottom, season it, and having
skimmed it carefully after the boil, stir in the soaked tapioca. Simmer
twenty minutes, and it is ready.
PIGEON PIE.
Clean, wash, and cut the pigeons into quarters. Wipe dry and fry
lightly in butter or dripping. Sprinkle well with salt and pepper. Have
ready a greased pudding-dish and a good paste, made according to the
receipt given on Friday of last week. Lay some pieces of pigeon in the
bottom of the dish, and cover with a mixture of chopped eggs, and the
giblets, boiled tender in a little water, then minced. More pigeons,
and another layer of the force-meat. Stir two tablespoonfuls of butter,
rolled in flour, into the hot water in which the giblets were boiled;
season, and pour enough into the pie to half cover the birds. Cover
with a thick crust with a slit in the middle, and bake an hour if the
pie be of fair size. Glaze with beaten egg, just before you take it
from the oven.
ROAST SWEET POTATOES.
Parboil them, and lay in a moderate oven until soft to the touch. Wipe,
and serve with the skins on.
BAKED HOMINY.
  1 cupful cold boiled hominy (the small grained).
  2 cups of milk.
  1 large spoonful melted butter.
  2 teaspoonfuls of sugar.
  3 eggs.
  A little salt.
Rub the butter into the hominy until there are no lumps left. Work up
very thoroughly. Scald the milk; pour upon the beaten yolks and sugar,
add the salt, and beat, by degrees, into the hominy. At the last, whip
in the frothed whites, and pour into a buttered bake-dish. Put at once
into the oven and bake until lightly browned.
WILLIE’S FAVORITE PUDDING.
  1 loaf stale baker’s bread.
  ½ cup of powdered suet.
  ¼ lb. of citron, chopped fine.
  ½ lb. sweet almonds, blanched and cut in thin strips.
  5 pippins, also chopped.
  2 cups of milk.
  1 cup of powdered sugar.
