are so few ladies " — It had slipped from him, but 
it seemed to have no personal slant for Lydia. 
" Oh, yes ; I told Thomas," she said. " No ; 
it 's only a country school. Once I thought I 
should go down to the State Normal School, and 
study drawing there ; but I never did. Are you 
— are you a painter, Mr. Staniford? " 
He could not recollect that she had pronounced 
his name before ; he thought it came very winningly 
from her lips. " No, I 'm not a painter. I 'm not 
anything." He hesitated ; then he added recklessly, 
" I'm a farmer." 
"A farmer?" Lydia looked incredulous, but 
grave. 
" Yes ; I 'm a horny-handed son of the soil. 
 
I 'm a cattle-farmer ; I 'm a sheep-farmer ; I don't 
know which. One day I 'm the one, and the next 
day I 'm the other." Lydia looked mystified, and 
Staniford continued : " I mean that I have no pro- 
fession, and that sometimes I think of going into 
farming, out West." 
" Yes ? " said Lydia. 
" How should I like it ? Give me an opinion, 
Miss Blood!' 
" Oh, I don't know," answered the girl. 
" You would never have dreamt that I was a 
farmer, would you ? " 
" No, I should n't," said Lydia, honestly. " It 's 
very hard work." 
" And I don't look fond of hard work ? " 
"I didn 't say that." 
" And I 've no right to press you for your mean- 
ing." 
" What I meant was — I mean — Perhaps if you 
had never tried it you didn 't know what very hard 
work it was. Some of the summer boarders used 
to think our farmers had easy times." 
" I never was a summer boarder of that descrip- 
tion. I know that farming is hard work, and I 'm 
going into it because I dislike it. What do you 
think of that as a form of self-sacrifice? " 
" I don't see why any one should sacrifice him- 
self uselessly." 
" You don't ? You have very little conception of 
martyrdom. Do you like teaching school ? " 
 
" No," said Lydia promptly. 
" Why do you teach, then ? " Stamford had 
blundered. He knew why she taught, and he felt 
instantly that he had hurt her pride, more sensitive 
than that of a more sophisticated person, who 
would have had no scruple in saying that she did 
it because she was poor. He tried to retrieve him- 
self. " Of course, I understand that school-teaching 
is useful self-sacrifice." He trembled lest she 
should invent some pretext for leaving him ; he 
could not afford to be left at a disadvantage. " But 
do you know, I would no more have taken you for a 
teacher than you me for a farmer." 
" Yes? "said Lydia. 
He could not tell whether she was appeased or 
not, and he rather feared not. " You don't ask 
why. And I asked you why at once." 
Lydia laughed. "Well, why?" 
" Oh, that \s a secret. I 'll tell you one of these 
days." He had really no reason ; he said this to 
gain time. He was always honest in bis talk with 
men, but not always with women. 
" I suppose I look very young," said Lydia. "I 
used to be afraid of the big boys." 
" If the boys were big enough," interposed Stan- 
iford, " they must have been afraid of you." 
Lydia said, as if she had not understood, " I had 
hard work to get my certificate. But I was older 
than I looked." 
" That is much better," remarked Staniford, 
 
" than being younger than you look. I am twenty- 
eight, and people take me for thirty-four. I 'm a 
prematurely middle-aged man. I wish you would 
tell me, Miss Blood, a little about South Bradfield. 
I 've been trying to make out whether I was ever 
there. I tramped nearly everywhere when I was a 
student. What sort of people are they there ? " 
" Oh, they are very nice people," said Lydia. 
"Do you like them?" 
" I never thought whether I did. They are 
nearly all old. Their children have gone away ; 
they don't seem to live ; they are just staying. 
When I first came there I was a little girl. One 
day I went into the grave-yard and counted the 
stones ; there were three times as many as there 
were living persons in the village." 
" I think I know the kind of place," said Stam- 
ford. " I suppose you 're not very homesick ? " 
" Not for the place," answered Lydia, evasively. 
" Of course," Staniford hastened to add, " you 
miss your own family circle." To this she made no 
reply. It is the habit of people bred like her to 
remain silent for want of some sort of formulated 
comment upon remarks to which they assent. 
Staniford fell into a musing mood, which was 
without visible embarrassment to the young girl, 
who must have been inured to much severer si- 
lences in the society of South Bradfield. He re- 
mained staring at her throughout his reverie, which 
in fact related to her. He was thinking what sort 
 
of an old maid she would have become if she had 
remained in that village. He fancied elements of 
hardness and sharpness in her which would have 
asserted themselves as the joyless years went on, 
like the bony structure of her face as the softness 
of youth left it. She was saved from that, what- 
ever was to be her destiny in Italy. From South 
Bradfield to Venice, — what a prodigious transi- 
tion ! It seemed as if it must transfigure her. 
" Miss Blood," he exclaimed, " I wish I could be 
with you when you first see Venice ! " 
"Yes?" saidLydia. 
Even the interrogative comment, with the rising 
inflection, could not chill his enthusiasm. "It is 
really the greatest sight in the world." 
Lydia had apparently no comment to make on 
this fact. She waited tranquilly a while before she 
said, " My father used to talk about Italy to me 
when I was little. He wanted to go. My mother 
said afterwards — after she had come home with 
me to South Bradfield — that she always believed 
he would have lived if he had gone there. He had 
consumption." 
" Oh ! " said Staniford softly. Then he added, 
with the tact of his sex, " Miss Blood, you mustn 't 
take cold, sitting here with me. This wind is 
chilly. Shall I go below and get you some more 
wraps : 
"No, thank you," said Lydia; " I believe I will 
go down, now." 
 
She went below to her room, and then came out 
into the cabin with some sewing at which she sat 
and stitched by the lamp. The captain was writ- 
ing in his log-book ; Dunham and Hicks were play- 
ing checkers together. Staniford, from a corner of 
a locker, looked musingly upon this curious family 
circle. It was not the first time that its occupa- 
tions had struck him oddly. Sometimes when they 
were all there together, Dunham read aloud. Hicks 
knew tricks of legerdemain which he played clev- 
erly. The captain told some very good stories, 
and led off in the laugh. Lydia always sewed and 
listened. She did not seem to find herself strangely 
placed, and her presence characterized all that was 
said and done with a charming innocence. As a 
bit of life, it was as pretty as it was quaint. 
" Really," Staniford said to Dunham, as they 
turned in, that night, " she has domesticated us." 
"Yes," assented Dunham with enthusiasm; 
" isn 't she a nice girl ? " 
" She 's intolerably passive. Or not passive, 
either. She says what she thinks, but she doesn 't 
seem to have thought of many things. Did she 
ever tell you about her father ? " 
" No," said Dunham. 
" I mean about his dying of consumption ? " 
" No, she never spoke of him to me. Was he " — 
" Um. It appears that we have been upon terms 
of confidence, then." Staniford paused, with one 
boot in his hand. " I should never have thought 
it." 
" What was her father ? " asked Dunham. 
" Upon my word, I don't know. I didn 't seem 
to get beyond elemental statements of intimate fact 
with her. He died in California, where she was 
born ; and he always had a longing to go to Italy. 
That was rather pretty." 
" It 's very touching, I think." 
" Yes, of course. We might fancy this about 
Lurella : that she has a sort of piety in visiting the 
