flowing into a new Mississippi, thirty miles or more west of the present
one. We know that the Sierra Nevada has been upheaved; that a large
stream ran on what is now the mountain side, and that it has been
succeeded by a new river farther west, and we must infer that the death
of the old and the birth of the new river were caused by the upheaval."

Reference is here made to the Big Blue Lead, the largest dead river
known in California, which has been traced for a distance of sixty-five
miles, from Little Grizzly, in Sierra County, to Forest Hill, in Placer
County. The original river, however, is thought to have run for many
hundreds of miles. Eventually traces of its existence may be found
elsewhere.

It is not to be supposed that Tom and his friends knew anything about
dead rivers, or troubled themselves as to how the rich deposits had been
made, or how long they had been waiting discovery. They were chiefly
engaged with more practical considerations. They found a rich harvest in
the ravines, and they went to work energetically.

The work was monotonous, and a detailed account of their progress would
be tiresome. What we chiefly care about is results, and these may be
gathered from a conversation which took place some five months later.

Under a tent, at night-fall, reclined the three friends. They looked
contented, and on good terms with the world; but, though prosperous,
they certainly did not look it. In fact, they were all three
exceedingly, almost disreputably, shabby. They looked more like tramps
than respectable gold-miners.

"Tom, you are looking very ragged," said Dick Russell, surveying our
hero critically.

"I know it, Dick. I feel as though I had just come out of a rag-bag. I
can't say that you look much better, nor Ferguson either."

"This rough work is hard on clothing," said Russell. "I wish there were
a ready-made clothing store near by."

"So do I. I would pay a high price for a good suit."

"If our friends at home could see us, what would they think, eh, Tom?"

"That we were candidates for the poor-house."

"That's so. I've been into several poor-houses in the course of my life,
but I never saw any of the inmates quite so poorly clad as we are."

"You are right," said Ferguson; "but there are generally compensations.
I was taking account of stock, and I estimate that I have from sixteen
to eighteen hundred dollars' worth of gold-dust."

"I have nearly as much," said Tom.

"My pile won't vary far from Tom's," said Russell.

"That is a pretty good showing for five months, my friend," said the
Scotchman.

"It will make up for the old clothes," said Tom.

"I have been thinking," said Ferguson, "that we need a vacation. What do
you say to starting next week for San Francisco?"

"I agree," said Russell, promptly.

"And I," said Tom. "I should like to see John Miles."

"Very well. We will continue our work about a week longer, and then
start."




CHAPTER XXVIII.

A RICH DEPOSIT.


About the middle of the next forenoon Tom suddenly stopped work.

"What's the matter, Tom? Are you tired?"

"No, but I feel like exploring a little. Who goes with me?"

"Not I," answered Ferguson. "Let well enough alone."

"I'll go with you," said Russell. "I should like a holiday. Besides, we
may discover something."

"'A rolling stone gathers no moss,'" said Ferguson.

"True, but there's another proverb: 'All work and no play makes Jack a
dull boy.' Tom and I will try a little play."

The two friends sauntered away in an idle mood; yet, combining business
with pleasure, they watched carefully the surface indications, ready to
avail themselves of any that were favorable.

"It's a strange life we are leading, Tom," said Russell. "It is free,
and independent, and healthful; but I shouldn't like to live so all my
life."

"Nor I," answered Tom. "No amount of gold would repay me."

"Because gold is only valuable for what it will bring. Here it brings
nothing."

"Except the hope of future ease and comfort," suggested Tom.

"Of course; that is what we are working for. We have made a good
beginning."

"Yes, Dick. I have almost accomplished what I have had in view ever
since I left home."

"I know. You mean paying off your father's mortgage."

"That's it. It amounts to twenty-two hundred dollars, and I have but a
few hundred dollars more to earn. I would stay here a month or two
longer, if my clothes would hold together; but I can't risk it."

"You need rest, at any rate, Tom, leaving clothes out of the question."

As he spoke, Tom, without special thought, drove his pick into the
ground. It was a lucky inspiration. Some shining particles attracted the
attention of Russell.

"Tom," he exclaimed, in excitement, "do you see that, and that? I
believe you've struck a bonanza."

Upon that both set to work in earnest. A further investigation showed
that Russell was right. Tom, by good luck, had chanced upon a deposit of
far greater richness than any they had yet encountered.

"If it holds out, our fortunes are made, Tom," said Russell. "Go and
call Ferguson, and I will remain on guard till you come back."

Tom stood not on the order of his going, but went at once.

"What's the matter, Tom?" asked the Scotchman, as, panting and
breathless, Tom stood before him. "Has anything happened to Russell?"

"No; it's good news--splendid news, Mr. Ferguson. We've found a place
ten times as rich as this. Come at once, and see."

Ferguson made preparations to accompany Tom with what seemed to our hero
to be provoking deliberation. In truth the Scotchman, with his national
caution, was rather skeptical as to Tom's news, and did not suffer
himself to become enthusiastic or excited. Tom had hard work to
accommodate his impatient steps to the measured pace of his more sedate
companion. When at length they reached the spot they found Russell no
less impatient.

"I thought you would never come," he said.

"Tom wanted to fly," said Ferguson; "but I am too old for that. Now,
what is it you have found?"

When he was shown what had been discovered he admitted that it was very
promising.

"If it holds out, we shall be lucky," he said.

"It will hold out," said Russell, enthusiastically.

"It isn't well to be too confident," said Ferguson, cautiously.

"You are very cold-blooded, Mr. Ferguson," said Russell, impatiently.
"Won't anything excite you?"

"What good would it do to become excited?" returned the Scotchman. "I am
as ready to test the matter as you are, and I shall rejoice if your
sanguine expectations are realized. Do not expect too much, however, and
you will guard against possible disappointment."

But there was no disappointment awaiting them. They worked steadily for
two weeks, with marvelous results. In this time they unearthed six
thousand dollars' worth of gold, which by arrangement they divided
equally between them; and still the gold deposit was far from being
exhausted.
