everybody's business is nobody's; and we are so apt to forget that the
world does move, and the condition of things changes all the time," and
Jack's eyes dropped thoughtfully.
"See here, Darcy, take Brock's Hall, and talk to the men to-morrow
night," began the doctor eagerly. "They will listen to you because to a
certain extent you are in sympathy with them, one of their number; and
you do seem to have some clear ideas on the subject. No: we'll say
Wednesday night, and I will get out some posters."
Jack laughed. "What shall I tell them? I can't see how to get about the
remedy clearly myself. The trade-unions have not hit it either. When
they say to a man, 'Because I will not work for a certain sum, you shall
not,' they lean on a reed that will surely break, and pierce themselves.
Hunger is stronger than theory. No: I shall have to give the point a
more thorough study before I become a blatant apostle."
Philip Maverick blew out a curling whiff of smoke, and looked at his
visitor through it. Darcy gave him a curious feeling, as if a good deal
of excellent material were running to waste, that if shaped and trained,
and brought up to higher purposes, might be of much good service to the
world. Did he realize it himself? He was twenty-four, and had a good
position as things went; and Dr. Maverick had heard the women of the
house were prudent and thrifty, and had a nice home. Was Darcy bounded
in by conservatism, or afraid of losing? or was he honest when he said
he did not know just what to do? Yet he did not look like the kind of
man to go plodding all his days.
"Darcy, you puzzle me!" he began abruptly. "With that great body of
yours, those strong arms and hands that look as if they could wrest
Nature's secrets from her mighty soul, with that brow, and the resolute
mouth, it seems as if you ought to be in better business than making
cloth: pardon me. You don't use up half your energy. You ought to be
planning a ship-canal across Darien, or tunnelling mountains. You're the
square man; and how upon earth did you ever get fitted so smoothly to a
round hole?"
Jack laughed, and told his story very simply. To him there was neither
romance nor heroism in it, just a plain every-day sort of compulsion.
The tunnelling would have been much more to his mind.
"Go on with the problem," said Dr. Maverick abruptly. "In the next five
years I think we will all have use for our wits. We are going to see
another change in matters, that will require more wisdom than is needed
in mere money-making. See here, I'm interested in the thing. Let us go
out, and hear what the men say about it."
Maverick rose, and put on his great-coat, and lighted another cigar.
Then the two started together.
Maverick had been in the town just six months. He had studied medicine
in Philadelphia and Paris, taken a three-years ramble over Europe, when
a college friend begged him to come to Yerbury, and step into a vacant
place. And he had what he fancied an excellent reason for it.
CHAPTER VIII.
THE men were, for the most part, in sullen earnest. From their narrower
outlook they could not see that capital was on the eve of a great
revulsion; that credit had been stretched to its utmost. They had their
own pet plans, their own indolences and careless habits; and, as was
natural, their own desires were the sweetest to them.
There were labor-meetings and harangues. There was a good deal of talk
about the rights of labor and the tyranny of capital; of the rich mill
and factory owners living in palaces, and the men in hovels; of what
England had done, and of what we surely were coming to,--the rich
growing richer, and the poor poorer. But Jack remarked that of the
speakers there was not one who owned a little plot of ground, or had a
bank-account. Two of them were disaffected English weavers, a third an
Irishman, and the only Yerbury man was a quick-tongued, but shiftless
fellow who had started in business for himself, and failed; a kind of
handy Jack-at-all-trades, and correspondingly good for nothing.
Before the close of the week the men in Watkins's shoe-shop had struck.
There was quite an army of them now. The saloons were filled daily and
nightly. Jack thought, with a little grimness, that they might better
save their money for next week's bread.
Several of the men in his room dropped in to see what he thought; and
the result was, that on the following Monday morning ten of them
presented themselves with a tolerably cheerful demeanor, and accepted
the situation. By Tuesday night every vacant place was filled with
hungry, haggard-looking men from Coldbridge. They were jeered at, and
annoyed in various ways: the Yerbury men were called rats and turncoats
and cowards. The mills were driven. There was another great and
successful sale; in fact, amid the failures and difficulties about, Hope
Mills loomed up like a star of the first magnitude.
In the spring Mrs. Eastman and Miss Lawrence went to Europe; and Fred
joined a party of young men on a pleasure-tour through California. Even
Mrs. Lawrence was persuaded to try Saratoga in the summer. The great
house was muffled, and left in the charge of servants; but greenhouses,
graperies, and all the elegant adjuncts were cared for as assiduously as
ever. David Lawrence used to think it over. Sometimes he was tempted to
sell out his palatial residence, but who was there to buy? Other men had
been caught with just such elephants on their hands. The papers were
full of offers "at an immense sacrifice."
Business grew duller and duller. There was a very great overplus of
every thing, it seemed, in the world. Harvests were so abundant, and
prices so low, they were not worth the moving. Fruit lay and rotted on
the ground: you could get nothing for it. And yet there were wan-eyed
and hungry women and children who would have feasted regally on this
waste. Mothers of families turned and patched and darned, and said there
could be no new garments this winter, while store-shelves groaned under
the accumulation of goods. Men were failing on this side and that; the
Alton & West Line Railway stock came down with a crash, and banks were
shaky. Hope Mills were closed for a month to make some repairs, as
business was rather slow just now.
There was a great quaking in real estate as well. The large
property-owners held on stiffly: times would improve; land was worth
more to-day than ever, because every year there were more people, and
they required more houses, and the thing would somehow right itself.
Jack had taken his two feminines off to a great roomy farmhouse, where
they had a horse at their command. Sylvie and Miss Barry were summering
at the White Mountains. Dr. Maverick found a good deal of sickness among
the poorer classes, low fevers and various troubles, that he knew well
enough came from insufficient diet. But what was to be done? There was
so little work, so much lost time, the inexorable rent, and the
importunate grocer's bill. Up on Hope Terrace the luscious grapes fell
to the ground, and were swept up as so much litter; the fresh, lovely
vegetables passed their prime unheeded, and were tossed in the
garbage-pit.
September came in hot and sultry. Hope Mills started, but many another
place did not open. There was a strange, deathly-quiet undercurrent,
like the awful calm before a thunder-shower. Wages took another tumble,
and now no one had the courage to make much of a fight.
The second week in October there came an appalling crash. Yerbury Bank
closed its doors one morning,--the old bank that had weathered many a
gale; that was considered as safe and stanch as the rock of Gibraltar
itself; that held in trust the savings of widows and orphans, the
balance of smaller business-men who would be ruined: indeed, it would
almost ruin Yerbury itself.
There was the greatest consternation. People flew up the street,
bank-book in hand; but the dumb doors seemed only to give back a
pitiless glance to entreaties. What was it? What had happened? "Every
penny I had in the world was in it," groaned one; and the saddening
refrain was repeated over and over, sometimes with tears, at others with
curses.
The old officers of Yerbury Bank had been men of the highest integrity.
Some were dead; some had been pushed aside by the new, fast men who
laughed at past methods, as if honor, honesty, and truth were virtues
easily outgrown. Among these were the Eastmans. George was considered
shrewd and far-sighted, and for two years had been one of the directors,
as well as Horace. They paid the highest rate of interest, which
attracted small savings from all around. There had been no whisper or
fear about it, so solid was its olden reputation. There were people who
would as soon have doubted the Bible.
Two days after this, George Eastman sailed for Europe, on a sudden
summons,--his wife's illness. There had been a meeting called, and a
short statement made. Owing to sudden and unexpected depreciation in
railway-bonds and improvement-bonds, and what not, it was deemed best to
suspend payment for the present. In a few weeks all would be straight
again, with perhaps a trifling loss to depositors. Already the directors
had been very magnanimous. Mr. Eastman and several others had turned
over to the bank a large stock of mortgages: in fact, the virtue of
these men was so lauded that the losses seemed to be quite thrown into
the background.
But the examination revealed a sickening mass of selfishness and
cupidity; transactions that were culpably careless, others dishonorable
to the last degree. If the larger depositors had not been warned, there
was certainly a remarkable unanimity of thought, as, for the past
fortnight, they had been steadily drawing out their thousands. Wild
railroad-speculations, immense mortgages on real estate that now lay
flat and dead: scanty available assets that would hardly pay twenty
cents on a dollar.
This was what David Lawrence heard when he returned from St. Louis, a
heavy-hearted, dispirited man. Two recent failures had borne heavily
upon him. If last winter had been dull, there was no adjective to apply
to this. His first step was to mortgage Hope Terrace. He had deeded it
to his wife, unincumbered; but now it appeared his only chance of
salvation. Mrs. Lawrence made a feeble protest at first, and demanded
that Fred should be sent for, but there was no time. He met his pressing
notes, and was tided over; but, oh! what was to be the end of it all?
An indignation-meeting was called; and so high ran popular feeling, that
new directors were appointed for the bank. Mr. Lawrence would have fain
declined, but the community insisted. In this time of general distrust,
they came back to the loyal gentleman, who, whatever his pride might be,
had never deceived one of them.
Alas! had he not enough perplexity of his own, that this new sorrow and
shame should stare him in the face, bow him to the earth?
Not his own son, thank God! not any blood kin; and yet his daughter's
husband, his fair Gertrude, of whom he had been so proud years ago! He
went back suddenly to that old time, and seemed to see them all again as
little children, a merry household; and his pale, delicate Fred, for
whom his heart beat so anxiously. How they had welcomed his coming!--a
son to hand down the name, a son to lean upon in his old age. Nay, those
were the extremes of life: why should not men count on their sons
through the burden and heat of middle life? Why wait until the evening
for comfort?
Where was he now? Did he think of the one who had toiled that he might
spend? for, now that he looked at it with awesome calmness, like a thing
standing apart, it was one long, dreary pilgrimage of toil. To what end?
Was gathering together riches the noblest use of a man made in God's
