
"Yes," I said; "I have some tea here, and the 
Settle is boiling; shall I make it?" 

She lifted her two hands and let them fall upon 
her knees, which I suppose with such people is the 
gesture which answers to an exclamation point; 
and I waited no further answer, but went on to 



 

make the tea, and then poured it out and gave her 
a cup. Ernestine I served with the other. Miss 
Forella tasted hers, doubtfully, as never having 
made acquaintance with tea in such cups before, 
then declared it was good and drank it off. But 
Mrs. Palimpset sat and looked at the table and at 
the stove, and did nothing, till I took up the cup 
and held it to her and bade her drink. That finished her; she swallowed half of it, set down the 
cup, and burst into tears. I thought it was best 
then to leave her to herself, and I carried Miss 
Forella away. 

" Where's the carriage ? " she exclaimed. " It 
isn't here." 

" It is gone home. Do you think I would leave 
the man and the horses standing in the cold all 
this while?" 

"That's awfully mean of you. We shall have 
to walk all the way home." 

"It will not hurt either of us." 

" Well, I'm not sorry I went with you. I never 
saw such a lark in my life." 

" Will you go and see her again, and comfort her 
up, now and then ? " 

"I? I expect to be in the poor-house myself. I 
haven't got any more money." 

"You can give comfort, without giving money." 

" Can you ? It is the only thing that comforts 
me." 

" Then I am afraid you do not know much about 
the article." 



 

"I tell you what; I think Mr. Iredell has made 
one mistake in his life. I do believe you can give 
comfort, Desire, even without cups of tea ; and that 
cup of tea was so good! I believe I should like the 
English fashion of five o'clock teas. Well, good 
bye. I am sorry our ways divide ; but I suppose 
they always will ! " 

So I had a brisk walk home alone, which I 
enjoyed. 



March 5. 

MR. RILEY has been quite a frequent visiter 
here, ever since he was delivered from his 
difficulties. Olive likes him, and he certainly is a 
pleasant man and a pleasant talker. Last night he 
was here, and Dr. Odenwalder also came in. The 
latter is a peculiar person, but he too can be extremely agreeable. He is a scholar, and a travelled 
man ; and when he chooses can bring forth a great 
deal of precious material from his various stores. 
A few days ago Olive and I each had the surprise 
of a gift from Mr. Iredell; how kind he is, to remember me! in the shape of two books by Mr. 
Ruskin. Olive's is the ki Queen of the Air," mine 
" St. Mark's Rest." I was reading it when Dr. 
Odenwalder came in; and as Olive was occupied 
with Mr. Riley, he came and sat down by me. He 
found out what I was reading, and I confessed my 
ignorance of architecture and architectural terms. 



 

Now Dr. Odenwalder is learned in ecclesiastical lore 
of all kinds, and architecture among the rest. He 
began to explain and illustrate with his pencil. 
Then I remembered a portfolio of exquisite archi 
tectural views in the library, and fetched it. The 
doctor was charmed with them; and now he ex 
plained and illustrated at length and in detail. 
Nave and transept, choir and screen, vaulting 
and groining, cusps and brackets, clerestories and 
chantries, and stalls, buttresses, piers, columns and 
arches; what did he not tell me! And not a bare 
dictionary of terms, but he explained how things 
came to be, what they grew from, how they developed; and "Byzantine," and "Komanesque" and 
" Transition " and " Gothic," were terms that recurred again and again. I am afraid there was 
too much in his lecture to be all remembered; but 
there was a great deal to be enjoyed. After the 
gentlemen were gone I still sat studying the photographs and thinking ; and at last I said, suddenly 
breaking the silence which had set in, 

"I begin to see, that all the fine arts are only 
different ways of saying the same things?" 

"What are you thinking of?" said Olive. 

"The fine arts all of them with special appli 
cation to architecture." 

" I never could see anything in architecture," returned Olive. "It is only a way of building." 

"You might say that poetry is only a way of 
putting words together, as well." 

"I might, and I should. What more is it?" 



 

"Thoughts, I should say." 

" Well, expressed by words." 

"And architecture is thoughts expressed by 
lines." 

"Thoughts in lines!" exclaimed Olive contemptuously. 

" Yes. I am so glad I can see it." 

"What thoughts do you read in the architecture 
of this blessed city, for instance ? " 

"It is manifest that none can be read where 
none were written. I was thinking of noble architecture, of the times that are past, especially; 
what you have in this portfolio. But words may 
be masoned together, as well as stones, and be as 
dead as they. And architecture records facts, I 
suppose, as well as thoughts. Oh how beautiful, 
how beautiful! -" 

" What ? " 

"This abbey of Rivaulx, built in the twelfth 
century." 

" What thoughts do you see there ? " inquired 
Olive, bending over curiously to look at the photo 
graph. 

" It was built by the Cistercian monks, I think, 
in the palmy days of their order, when it was full 
of the influence of Bernard of Cluny. I think I 
heard Mr. Iredell say so; and now I begin to un 
derstand it." 

" What do you understand ? " 

"The power of mind upon stone; at least I think 
I do. Can't you see in those beautiful old lines 



 

some trace of the purity and severity, and love of 
truth, and beauty of it, that was in them ? " 
