May-be he will hire you out again ; and I dare say he'll 
spend every penny she has, and treat her badly and, may- 
be go off and leave her ; and then what could you do ? 
For you know David says ' Put not your trust in princes, 
nor in any child of man j ' not that we've any princes in 
this country, but the Jews had, and David knew all about 
'em. And you shall just stay here and write to her, and 
it'll all come right somehow. I've faith to believe that. 
But you never heard anything of the girl your own mar 
had?" 

"Maggie? No. Kate used to think she had lost me 
on purpose. I don't know;" and there came a dreamy, 
far-off look in the child's eyes. 

"What is your other name?" asked Miss Madeira. 





"The name mamma used to call me?" Nora. But 
Kate didn't like it. She said it sounded Irish." 

" No, I meant your father's name." 

" I don't know. I have forgotten. It was a hard name, 
and I did remember it at first, but it has quite gone out of 
my mind. And so many other things. I was so little 
then, you know ; " and Queenie gave a womanly sigh. 

"And you haven't any pictures or trinkets? " 

"No. That ugly Mother Mell took the chain I wore 
around my neck. You don't think I could find Maggie 
again, do you ? " and the eyes were alight with eager wist- 
fulness. 

"I suppose not, child. May-be well, it's all in the 
hands of Providence, my dear, and the two sparrows sold 
for a farthing, with all the hairs of our head numbered ; 
though it must be a eight of trouble when it keeps coming 
out every day. Now you wouldn't believe that when I 
was young I had a nice, thick head of hair, which Saint 
Paul says is a woman's glory, and he being a bachelor, 
though I don't know what he'd say now with women 
preaching in our churches, and going in business, and all 
that ; but when they've families to support, as so many of 
'em have, with husbands drunk so much of the time that 
wives could never ask 'em a question at home, for they 
wouldn't be sober enough to answer it, or only by smash- 
ing all the dishes ; and though I believe in Saint Paul and 
do think he was the salt of the earth, it is my opinion the 
men of his time were different, or he wouldn't have ad- 
vised wives to ask 'em questions;" and Miss Maderia 
paused, quite out of breath, then suddenly caught herself 
up, with the abrupt question, " What did she do with it?" 

" The chain ? " asked Titania, a little bewildered by the 
rapid, inconsequent monologue. 

" Oh, no, your hair. You said she cut it off." 

"Yes. Mrs. Winsteado I don't know. There wera 
such beautiful curls, at least she wouldn't let me curl it, 



"

and Dick always liked it so. But it was first cut in the 
hospital." 

Well, may-be t'was a snare, child, and you're pretty 
enough without, though I oughtn't to say so ; and it will 
all grow again in good time, and I do s'pose God made it, 
and it's just like floss silk for all the world. And I do be- 
lieve you've told the truth, every word, though it sounds 
like something out of a book ; and since you've no home 
and no folks till you hear from Mrs. What-you-call-her, that 
let herself be married for her money, why you might as 
well stay here " 

"Oh, if you will let me, good, kind Miss Madeira!" and 
the soft voice trembled with joy. 

"I've lived alone so long t'will seem queer like, what 
with being set in my ways, and no children, and going out 
so much of the time, and being poor; for you can't eat 
your house, though it's good to have a shelter for your 
head, and a bed of your very own " 

" And I will wait upon you, and you shall teach me to 
sew ; though I can sew quite good already, for Mrs. Win- 
stead was always making dresses." 

" I could take it home, you see, I do sometimes; but the 
change is good, going out, as Miss Burgess says. And 
I do believe your dress is dry, for I can't say that old sack 
is improvin' to looks, though its good and warm, and you 
might wear it out in the rain for a month and not hurt it." 

Titania slipped into her own attire, while Miss Madeira 
watched her with wondering eyes. It seemed as if she grew 
more beautiful every moment. The pearly skin, with its 
youthful plumpness, the rounded limbs, the graceful move- 
ments, nay, the very step, now that she was free from Mrs. 
Winstead's surveillance, was instinct with seductive grace. 
The lonely heart yearned toward this vision of loveliness 
with a more than mother's tenderness, and that almost 
bashful longing and fear, when one wants, but hardly 
dares to take. Every pulse throbbed witli a strange, sweet 





pleasure, the rapture of possession, though it was an un- 
known language to her, in which she knew not even the 
a, b, c. 

" And, I declare to goodness, if it isn't most noon ! 
Where has all the time gone? I haven't swept up the 
house, and I didn't even brush off the porch, I was so took 
with a start seeing something piled up in the corner, and 
thinking it was a dog, and being afeared of dogs mostly, and 
they always a-mussing up every place so ; and there, the 
sun's a-coming out, which is a good omen, and I don't think 
I'll be sorry, for you look as much like an angel as them 
that came to Abraham, or was it Lot ? or both may-be, 
for I can't remember as I used, only you ought to be dressed 
in white, but it's too cool for winter." 

" Let me help you," said Titania, springing up quickly, 
"lean sweep and dust very nicely; Hannah said so, at 
Mrs. Winstead's. I should be so glad to help." 

She did it with such dexterity and ease, the smiles com- 
ing and going in her fair young face, and her ready 
thoughts seeming to anticipate Miss Madeira's desires, 
until suddenly the worthy woman dropped into a chair, and 
let the long, limp hands fall into her lap. 

" Well, you do beat everything I ever see ! r she ejacu- 
lated. " Why, you could earn a sight o' money going out. 
There'd be lots of people glad to have you. Not that I 
want you to go," as the sweet little face overclouded sud- 
denly, " but you need never be in want while you're so 
handy, for you'd be a treasure anywhere. And now lem 
me see ; we ought to have something nice, but I've that 
cold meat, and oh," with an air of immense relief, " a meat 
pie will be just the thing, and a pudding, but it must be 
rice, for I haven't any suet or any raisins ; living so much 
alone, you see, and not cooking much except on Saturdays, 
being brought up to keep the Sabbath holy." 

They had a royal feast, and were like two children about 





it. Titania glowed with happiness ; and with every word, 
every movement, nay, even the glance of her soft, dark 
limpid eyes riveted the chain that held Miss Madeira cap- 
tive. And it seemed to Titania that she had known noth- 
ing so delightful since the feasts with Dolly St. John. 







CHAPTER XXTT. 

A BBEATH OF HAPPINESS. 

' I DON'T know what you'll do to-day," said Miss Madeira 
the next morning, with a rather lugubrious cast of counte- 
