and glasses before them ; one had a plate of olives 
also, another had some other tit-bit or provocative; 
one seemed to be in converse with Mr. Copley, who 
was not beyond converse yet, though Rupert saw 
he had been some time drinking. His face was 
flushed a little, his eyes dull, his features overspread with that inane stupidity which comes from 
long continued and purely sensual indulgence of 
any kind, especially under the fumes of wine. To 
the side of this man, Rupert saw Dolly go. She 
went in, as I said, with a light, quick step, looked 
at nobody else, made straight to her father, and 
laid a hand upon his shoulder. With that she 
threw back her head covering a little, it was 
some sort of a scarf, of white and brown worsted 
knitting, which lay around her head like a glory, 
in Rupert's eyes, and shewed her face to her father. Fair and delicate and sweet, bright and 
grave at once, for she did look bright even there, 
she stood at his side like his good angel, with her 
little hand upon his shoulder. No wonder Mr. 
Copley started and looked frightened; that was 
the first look; and then confused. Rupert understood it all, though he could not hear what was 
said. He saw the man was embarrassed. 
" Dolly ! " said Mr. Copley, falling back upon his 
first thought, as the easiest to speak of, " what is 
the matter ? " 
"Nothing with me, father. Will you take me 
home?" 
" Where's your mother? " 
 
" She is at home. But it is pretty late, father." 
" Where's Lawrence ? " 
" I don't know." 
" Where is Rupert, then ? " 
" He is out, somewhere. Will you go home with 
me, father ? " 
" How did you come here ? " said Mr. Copley, 
sitting a little straighter up and now beginning to 
replace or conceal confusion with displeasure. 
" I will tell you. I will tell you on the way. 
But shall we go first, father? I don't like to stay 
here." 
" Here ? What in the name of ten thousand 
devils ! Who brought you here ? " 
" I am alone," said Dolly. " Hadn't we better 
go, father? and then we can talk as we go." 
At this point a half tipsy Venetian arose and 
stepping before the pair with a low reverence said 
something to Mr. Copley, of which Dolly only understood the words, " La bella signorina;" they 
made her however draw her scarf forward over her 
face and brought Mr. Copley to his feet. He could 
stand, she saw, but whether he could walk very 
well was open to question. 
"Signer, signor " he began stammering and 
incensed. Dolly seized his arm. 
" Shall we go, father ? It is so late, and mother 
might want me. It is very late, father. Never 
mind anything, but come ! " 
Mr. Copley was sufficiently himself to see the 
necessity; nevertheless his score must be paid; 
 
and his head was in a bad condition for reckoning. He brought out some silver from his pocket 
and stood somewhat helplessly looking at it and 
at the shopman alternately; then with an awkward 
movement of his elbow contrived to throw over a 
glass, which fell on the floor and broke. Everybody was looking now at the father and daughter, 
and words came to Dolly's ears which made her 
cheek burn. But she stood calm, self-possessed, 
waiting, with a somewhat lofty air of maidenly 
dignity; helped her father solve the reckoning, 
paid for the glass, and at last got hold of his arm 
and drew him away; after a gentle, grave salutation to the attendant which he answered profoundly and which brought everybody in the little shop to his feet in involuntary admiration and respect. 
Dolly looked at nobody, yet with sweet courtesy 
made a distant sign of acknowledgment to their 
homage, and the next minute stood outside the 
shop in the dark little street and the rnild still air. 
I think, even at that minute, with the strange, startling inappropriateness of license which thoughts 
give themselves, there flashed across her a sense 
of the ironical contrast of things without and within her; without, Venice and her historical past and 
her monumental glory; within, a trembling little 
heart and present danger and a burden of dishonour. But that was only a flash ; the needs of the 
minute banished all thinking that was not connected with action; and the moment's business 
was to get her father home. She had no thought 
now for the picturesque revealings of the moonlight and obscurings of the shadow. Yet she was 
conscious of them, in that sharp flash of contrast. 
At getting upon his feet and out into the air and 
gloom of the little street, Mr. Copley's head was 
very contused; or else he had taken more wine 
than his daughter guessed. He was not fit to 
guide himself, or to take care of her. As he 
seemed utterly at a standstill, Dolly naturally and 
unconsciously set her face to go the way she had 
come; for one or two turnings at least she was 
sure of it. Before those one or two turnings were 
made, however, she was shocked and scared to find 
that her father's walk was wavering; he swayed a 
little on his feet. The street was empty ; and if it 
had not been, what help could Dolly ask for ? A 
pang of great terror shot through her. She took 
her father's arm, to endeavour to hold him fast; a 
task rather too much for her little hands and slight 
frame; and feeling that in spite of her he still 
moved unsteadily and that she was an insufficient 
help, Dolly's anguish broke forth in a cry; natural 
enough in its unreasoningness 
" father, don't ! remember, I am all alone ! " 
How much was in the tone of those last words 
Dolly could not know; they hardly reached Mr. 
Copley's sense, though they went through and 
through another hearer. The next minute Eupert 
stood before the pair, and was offering his arm to 
Mr. Copley. Not trusting his patron, in the circumstances, to take care of his young mistress, 
 
Rupert had disobeyed her orders so far as to keep 
the two figures in sight; he had watched them 
from one turning to another, and had seen that his 
help was needed, even before he heard Dolly's cry. 
Then, with a spring, he was there. Mr. Copley 
leaned now upon his arm, and Dolly fell behind, 
thankful unspeakably for the relief. She knew by 
this time that she could never have found her way ; 
and it was plain her father could not. 
" Rupert," said Mr. Copley, half recognizing the 
assistance afforded him "you're a good fellow! 
and always in the way when you aren't wanted; 
by George ! " But he leaned on his arm heavily. 
Dolly followed close; she could not well keep 
beside them ; and felt in that hour more thoroughly lonely perhaps than at any other of her life be- 
fore or after. Rupert was a relief; and yet so the 
shame was increased. She stepped along through 
moonlight and shadow, through moonlight and 
shadow, feeling that light was gone out of her pathway of life forever, as far as this world was con- 
cerned. What was left, when her father was lost 
to her ? her father ! and riot by death, that would 
not have been to lose him utterly; but now his 
very identity was gone. Her father, wliorn all 
her life she had loved; manly, frank, able, active, 
taking the lead in every society where she had 
seen him, making other men do his bidding always, until the passion of gaining and the lust 
of drink got hold of him ! Was it the same, that 
figure in front of her, leaning on somebody's arm 
 
and glad to lean, and going with lame unsteady 
gait whither he was led, so like the way his mental 
course had been lately ? Was that her father ? The 
bitterness of Dolly's feeling it is impossible to put 
into words. Tears could bring no relief, and nature did not summon them to the impossible service. The fire at her heart would have burnt them 
up; for there was a strange passion of resistance 
and sense of wrong mixed with Dolly's bitter pain. 
The way was not short, and it seemed threefold the 
length it was; every step was so hard, and the crowd 
of thoughts was so disproportionately great. 
They were rather ruminating thoughts of grief 
and pain, than considerative of what was to be 
done. For the first, the thing was to get Mr. Copley home. Dolly did not look beyond that. She 
was glad to find herself arrived at St. Mark's again ; 
and presently they were all three in the gondola. 
Mr. Copley leaned in a corner, laid his head against 
a cushion, and slept, or seemed to sleep. The other 
two were as silent; but I think both felt at the 
moment as if they would never sleep again. Eupert's face was in shadow ; he watched Dolly's face 
which was in light. She forgot it could be watched ; 
her eyes stared into the moonshine, not seeing it, or 
looking through it ; the sweet face was so very grave 
that the watcher felt his heart ache. Not the gentle gravity of young maidenhood, looking into the 
vague light; but the anxious, searching gaze of 
older life looking into the vague darkness. Rupert did not dare speak to her, though he longed. 
 
What would he not have given for the right and 
the power to comfort ! But he knew he had neither. He had sense enough not to try. 
It was customary for Mr. Copley, after he had 
been late out at night, to keep to his room until a 
late hour the next morning; so Dolly knew what 
she had to expect. It suited her very well this time, 
for she must think what she would say to her father 
when she next saw him. She took care that a cup 
of coffee such as he liked was sent him; and then, 
after her own slight breakfast, sat down to plan 
her movements. So Rupert found her, with her 
Bible in her lap, but not reading; sitting gazing 
out upon the bright waters of the lagoon. He 
