
Turn out, and eat with rich sweet sauce.


BELLE’S DUMPLINGS.

    1 quart prepared flour.
    2½ tablespoonfuls lard and butter mixed.
    2 cups of milk, or enough to make a soft dough.

Roll out a quarter of an inch thick, cut into oblong pieces, rounded
at the corners; put a great spoonful damson, cherry, or other tart
preserve in the middle and roll into a dumpling. Bake three-quarters
of an hour, brush over with beaten egg while hot, set back in the oven
three minutes to glaze.

Eat hot with brandy or wine sauce.


Or,

You may make a roll-pudding of it by rolling out the paste into an
oblong sheet, spreading thickly with the preserves, folding it up as
one would a travelling-shawl to be put into a strap, pinching the ends
together that the juice may not escape, and boiling in a floured cloth
fitted to the shape of the “roley-poley.” Boil an hour and a half.


BOILED PUDDINGS.

You can boil puddings in a bowl, a mould, or a cloth. The mould should
have a closely-fitting top, and be buttered well—top and all—before the
batter or dough is put in. These moulds are usually made with hasps or
other fastening. In lack of this, you had better tie down the cover
securely. I once boiled a pudding in a tin pail, the top of which I
made more secure by fitting it over a cloth floured on the inside, lest
the pudding should stick. The experiment succeeded admirably, and I
commend the suggestion to those who find, after the pudding is mixed,
that their mould leaks, or the bowl that did duty as a substitute has
been broken, and nothing said to “the mistress” about it. If you use
a bowl, butter it, and tie a floured cloth tightly over the top. If a
cloth, have it clean and sweet, and flour bountifully on the inside. In
all, leave room for batter, bread, rice, and cracker puddings to swell.
Tie the string very tightly about the mouth of the bag, which must be
made with felled seams at sides and bottom, the better to exclude the
water.

The water must be boiling when the pudding goes in, and not stop
boiling for one instant until it is done. If it is in a bag, this
must be turned several times, under water, to prevent sticking or
scorching to the sides of the pot. The bag must also be entirely
covered, while the water should not quite reach to the top of a mould.
If you use a basin, dip the cloth in boiling water before dredging with
flour on the inside.

When the time is up, take mould, basin, or cloth from the boiling pot,
and plunge instantly into cold water; then turn out without the loss
of a second. This will prevent sticking, and leave a clearer impression
of the mould upon the contents.

Boiled puddings should be served as soon as they are done, as they soon
become heavy.

Many of the baked puddings I have described are quite as good boiled.
As a safe rule, double the time of baking if you boil.


BERRY PUDDING.

    1 pint of milk.
    2 eggs.
    1 saltspoonful salt.
    ¼ teaspoonful soda, dissolved in hot water.
    ½ teaspoonful cream-tartar, sifted through a cup of flour, and
        added to enough flour to make a thick batter.
    1 pint blackberries, raspberries, currants, or huckleberries,
        well dredged with flour—stirred in at the last.


HUCKLEBERRY PUDDING. 

    1 pint milk.
    2 eggs.
    1 quart flour—or enough for thick batter.
    1 gill baker’s yeast.
    1 saltspoonful salt.
    1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved in boiling water.
    Nearly a quart of berries—well dredged with flour.

Make a batter of eggs, milk, flour, yeast, salt, and soda, and set it
to rise in a warm place about four hours. When you are ready to boil
it, stir in the dredged fruit quickly and lightly. Boil in a buttered
mould or a floured cloth for two hours.

This will be found lighter and more wholesome than boiled pastry.

Eat hot with sweet sauce.


FRUIT VALISE PUDDING. 

    1 quart flour.
    1 tablespoonful lard, and same of butter.
    1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved in hot water.
    2 teaspoonful cream-tartar—sifted through the flour.
    1 saltspoonful salt.
    2 cups milk, or enough to make the flour into soft dough.
    1 quart berries, chopped apples, sliced peaches, or other fruit;
        jam, preserves, canned fruit, or marmalade may be substituted
        for the berries.

Roll out the crust less than half an inch thick—indeed, a quarter of
an inch will do—into an oblong sheet. Cover thickly with the fruit
and sprinkle with sugar. Begin at one end and roll it up closely, the
fruit inside. In putting this in, leave a narrow margin at the other
end of the roll, which should be folded down closely like the flap of a
pocket-book. Pinch the ends of the folded roll together, to prevent the
escape of the fruit, and baste up in a bag, the same size and shape as
the “valise.” Flour the bag well before putting in the pudding, having
previously dipped it—the cloth—into hot water, and wring it out.

Boil an hour and a half. Serve hot with sauce, and cut crosswise in
slices half an inch thick.


BOILED APPLE DUMPLINGS. (No. 1.) 

Make a paste according to the above receipt; cut in squares, and put
in the centre of each an apple, pared and cored. Bring the corners
together; enclose each dumpling in a small square cloth, tied up
bag-wise, leaving room to swell. Each cloth should be dipped in hot
water, wrung out and floured on the inside before the apple is put in.

Boil one hour.


APPLE DUMPLINGS. (No. 2.) 

    1 quart flour.
    ¼ lb. suet.
    1 teaspoonful salt.
    ½ teaspoonful soda dissolved in hot water.
    1 teaspoonful cream-tartar sifted in the flour.
    Cold water enough to make into a tolerably stiff paste.

Roll out, cut into squares, put in the middle of each a fine, juicy
apple, pared and cored. Fill the hole left by the core with marmalade,
or with sugar wet with lemon-juice. Stick a clove in the sugar. Close
the paste, tie up in the cloths, when you have wet them with hot water
and floured them, and boil one hour.

A pleasing idea for dumpling cloths is to crochet them in a close
stitch with stout tidy cotton. They are easily done, wash and wear
well, and leave a very pretty pattern upon the paste when they are
opened. Crochet them round, with a cord for drawing run into the outer
edge.


BOILED FRUIT PUDDING.

Prepare a paste in accordance with either of the foregoing receipts,
but roll into one sheet. Lay apples, peaches, or berries in the centre,
paring and slicing the fruit; sprinkle with sugar, and close the paste
over them as you would a dumpling. Dip a stout cloth in hot water,
flour the inside, put in the pudding, tie tightly, and boil two hours
and a half.

Eat hot with sauce.


RICE DUMPLINGS. 

    1 lb. rice boiled without stirring, until soft, and at the top dry.
    12 pippins, pared and cored.
    Strawberry marmalade or crab-apple jelly.

Let the rice cool upon a sieve or coarse cloth, that it may dry at the
same time. Dip your dumpling cloths in hot water; wring them out and
flour well inside. Put a handful of the cold rice upon each, spreading
it out into a smooth sheet. Lay in the centre an apple; fill the hole
