perception embraced several things besides the con- 
sciousness of his own pleasure. He saw that Gordon 
looked well and happy, but that he looked older, too, 
and more serious, more marked by life. He looked 
as if somethilig had happened to him — as, in fact, 
something had. Bernard saw a latent spark in his 
friend's eye that seemed to question his own for an 
impression of Blanche — to question it eagerly, and 
yet to deprecate judgment. He saw, too — with the 
fact made more vivid by Gordon's standing there 
beside her in his manly sincerity and throwing it 
into contrast — that Blanche was the same little pos- 
turing coquette of a Blanche whom, at Baden, he 
would have treated it as a broad joke that Gordon 
Wright should dream of marrying. He saw, in a 
word, that it was what it had first struck him as 
being — an incongruous imion. All this was a good 
deal for Bernard to see in the course of half a min- 
ute, especially through the (rather opaque medium of 
a feeling of irreflective joy; and his impressions at 
this moment have a value only in so far as they were 
destined to be confirmed by larger opportunity. 

" You have come a little sooner than we expected," 
said Gordon ; " but you are all the more welcome." 

" It was rather a risk," Blanche observed. " One 





should be notified, when one wishes to make a good 
impression." 

" Ah, my dear lady," said Bernard, " you made 
your impression — as far as I am concerned — a long 
time ago, and I doubt whether it would have gained 
anything to-day by your having prepared an effect." 

They were standing before the fire-place, on the 
great hearth-rug, and Blanche, while she listened to 
this speech, was feeling, with uplifted arm, for a curl 
that had strayed from her chignon. 

" She prepares her effects very quickly," said Gor- 
don, laughing gently. " They follow each other very 
fast ! " 

Blanche kept her hand behind her head, which 
was bent slightly forward ; her bare arm emerged 
from her hanging sleeve, and, with her eyes glancing 
upward from under her lowered brows, she smiled at 
her two spectators. Her husband laid his hand on 
Bernard's arm. 

" Isn 't she pretty ? " he cried ; and he spoke with 
a sort of tender delight in beiug sure at least of this 
point. 

" Tremendously pretty ! " said Bernard. " I told 
her so half an hour before you came in." 

" Ah, it was time I should arrive ! " Gordon ex- 
claimed. 

Blanche was manifestly not in the least discom- 
posed by this frank discussion of her charms, for the 





air of distinguished esteem adopted by both of her 
companious diminished the crudity of their remarks. 
But she gave a little pout of irritated modesty — it 
was more becoming than anything she had done yet 
— and declared that if they wished to talk her over, 
they were very welcome ; but she should prefer their 
waiting till she got out of the room. So she left them, 
reminding Bernard that he was to send for his luggage 
and remain, and promising to give immediate orders 
for the preparation of his apartment. Bernard opened 
the door for her to pass out ; she gave him a charming 
nod as he stood there, and he turned back to Gordon 
with the reflection of her smile in his face. Gordon 
was watching him ; Gordon was -dying to know what 
he thought of her. It was a curious mania of Gor- 
don's, this wanting to know what one thought of the 
women he loved; but Bernard just now felt abun- 
dantly able to humor it. He was so pleased at seeing 
him tightly married. 

" She 's a delightful creature," Bernard said, with 
cordial vagueness, shaking hands with his friend again. 

Gordon glanced at him a moment, and then, color- 
ing a little, looked straight out of the window; 
whereupon Bernard remembered that these were just 
the terms in which, at Baden, after his companion's 
absence, he had attempted to qualify Angela Vivian. 
Gordon was conscious — he was conscious of the 
oddity of his situation. 





" Of course it surprised you," lie said, in a moment, 
still looking out of the window. 

" What, my dear fellow ? " 

" My marriage." 

" Well, you know," said Bernard, " everything sur- 
prises me. I am of a veiy conjectural habit of mind. 
All sorts of ideas come into my head, and yet when 
the simplest things happen I am always rather startled. 
I live in a reverie, and I am perpetually waked up by 
people doing things." 

Gordon transferred his eyes from the windoAV to 
Bernard's face — to his whole person. 

" You are waked up ? But you fall asleep again ! " 

" I fall asleep very easily," said Bernard. 

Gordon looked at him from head to foot, smiling 
and shaking his head. 

"You are not changed," he said. "You have 
travelled in unknown lands; you have had, I sup- 
pose, all sorts of adventures ; but you are the same 
man I used to know." 

" I am sorry for that ! " 

" You have the same way of representing — of mis- 
representing, yourself." 

" Well, if I am not changed," said Bernard, " I can 
ill afford to lose so valuable an art." 

"Taking you altogether, I am glad you are the 
same," Gordon answered, simply; "but you must 
come into my part of the housa" 





XVII. 

Yes, he was conscious — he was very conscious; 
so Bernard reflected during the two or three first days 
of his visit to his friend. Gordon knew it must seem 
strange to so irreverent a critic that a man who had 
once aspired to the hand of so intelligent a girl — 
putting other things aside — as Angela Vivian should, 
as the Ghost in " Hamlet " says, have "declined upon" 
a young lady who, in force of understanding, was so 
very much Miss Vivian's inferior ; and this knowledge 
kept him ill at his ease and gave him a certain piti- 
able awkwardness. Bernard's sense of the anomaly 
grew rapidly less acute; he made various observa- 
tions which helped it to seem natural. Blanche was 
wonderfully pretty ; she was very graceful, innocent, 
amusing. Since Gordon had determined to marry a 
little goose, he had chosen the animal with extreme 
discernment. It had quite the plumage of a swan, 
and it sailed along the stream of life with an ex- 
traordinary lightness of motion. He asked himself 
indeed at times whether Blanche were really so silly 
as she seemed ; he doubted whether any woman could 
be so silly as Blanche seemed. He had a suspicion 



