listener has to do with our lives. Mrs. Manning, fond of 
reminiscence and long narratives which were apt to run off at 
random, so that, whereas you began with the Browns, you 
ended with something about the Smiths, and never heard the 
Brown story at all, actually retained Ambrose Cranch at her 
table for eleven years because he listened well. But she did 
not realize it ; neither did he. A simpler, more unplotting 
soul never existed than that in the saw-miller's body. A 
word now as to that body : it had a good deal to do with its 
owner's life, and our story. (O brothers and sisters, if Justice 
holds the balance, how handsome some of us are going to be 
in the next life !) Ambrose Cranch was tall and thin, what is 
called rawboned ; all his joints were large and prominent, 
from his knuckles to his ankles. He had large, long feet and 
hands, and large, long ears ; his feet shambled when he 
walked, his arms dangled from the shoulders like the arms of 
a wooden doll, and he had a long, sinewed throat, which no 
cravat or collar could hide, though he wore them up to his 
ears. Not that he did so wear them, however: he had no 
idea that his throat was ugly ; he never thought about it at 
all. He had a long face, small, mild blue eyes, thin, lank 
brown hair, a large mouth, and long, narrow nose ; he was, also, 
the most awkward man in the world. Was there no redeem 
ing point ? Hardly. His fingers were nicely finished at the 
ends, and sometimes he had rather a sweet smile. But in the 
contemplation of his joints, shoulders, elbows, wrists, and 
knuckles, even the student of anatomy hardly got as far as 
his finger-ends ; and as to the smile, nobody saw it but the 
Mannings, who did not care about it. In origin he was, as 
before mentioned, a nondescript, having come from the up- 
country, where Southern ways shade off into mountain rough 
ness ; which again gives place to the river-people, and they, 
farther on, to the Hoosiers and Buckeyes, who are felicitously 
designated by the expressive title of "Western Yankees." 
He had inherited the saw-mill from an uncle, who had tried 
to make something of it, failed, and died. Ambrose, being a 
patient man, and one of smallest possible personal expendi 
ture, managed to live, and even to save a little money but 
only a little. He had been there twelve years, and was now 
thirty-eight years old. All this the whole town of Wilbarger 
knew, or might have known ; it was no secret. But the saw 
mill had a secret of its own, besides. Up stairs, in the back 
part, was a small room with a lock on the door, and windows 
with red cloth nailed over them in place of glass. Here Am 
brose spent many moments of his day, and all of his even- 
ings, quite alone. His red lights shone across the marsh, and 
could be seen from Vickery Island and the drawbridge ; but 
they were not visible on the Wilbarger side, and attracted, 
therefore, no attention. However, it is doubtful whether they 
would have attracted attention anyway. Wilbarger people 
did not throw away their somewhat rarely excited interest 
upon Ambrose Cranch, who represented to them the flattest 
commonplace. They knew when his logs came, they knew 
the quantity and quality of his boards, they saw him super 
intending the loading of the schooner that bore them away, 
and that was all. Even the two negroes who worked in the 
mill one bright, young, and yellow ; the other old, slow, and 
black felt no curiosity about the locked room and Cranch's 
absences ; it was but a part of his way. 
What was in this room, then ? Nothing finished as yet, 
save dreams. Cranch had that strong and singular bias of 
mind which makes, whether successful or unsuccessful, the 
inventor. 
It was a part of his unconsequence in every way that all 
persons called him " Bro " even his negro helpers at the 
mill. When he first came to live with Mrs. Manning, she 
had tried hard to speak of him as " Mr. Cranch," and had 
taught her daughter to use the title ; but, as time wore on, 
she had dropped into Bro again, and so had Marion. But, 
now that Marion was twenty-five and her own mistress, she 
had taken up the custom of calling him " Ambrose," the only 
person in the whole of Wilbarger who used, or indeed knew, 
the name. This she did, not on his account at all, but on her 
own ; she disliked nicknames, and did not consider it digni 
fied to use them. Cranch enjoyed her " Ambrose " greatly, 
and felt an inward pride every time she spoke it ; but he said 
nothing, 
There was a seminary at Wilbarger a forlorn, ill-sup 
ported institution, under the charge of the Episcopal Church 
of the diocese. But the Episcopal Church of the diocese 
was, for the time being, extremely poor, and its missions and 
schools were founded more in a spirit of hope than in any 
certainty of support ; with much the same faith, indeed, which 
its young deacons show when they enter (as they all do at the 
earliest possible moment) into the responsibilities of matri 
mony. But in this seminary was, by chance, an excellent 
though melancholy-minded teacher a Miss Drough, equally 
given to tears and arithmetic. Miss Drough was an adept at 
figures, and, taking a fancy to Marion Manning, she taught 
her all she knew up to trigonometry, with chess problems and 
some astronomy thrown in. Marion had no especial liking 
for mathematics in the beginning, but her clear mind had fol 
lowed her ardent teacher willingly : at twenty-five she was 
a skilled arithmetician, passably well educated in ordinaiy 
branches, well read in strictly old-fashioned literature, and 
not very pious, because she had never liked the reverend gen 
tleman in charge of the seminary and the small church a 
thin man who called himself " a worm," and always ate all 
the best bits of meat, pressing, meanwhile, with great cor 
diality, the pale, watery sweet-potatoes upon the hungry 
schoolgirls. She was also exceedingly contemptuous in man 
ner as to anything approaching flirtation with the few cava 
liers of Wilbarger. It is rather hard to call them cavaliers, 
since they no longer had any good horses ; but they came 
from a race of cavaliers, the true " armed horsemen " of 
America, if ever we had any. The old-time Southerners 
went about on horseback much more than on foot or in car 
riages ; and they went armed. 
" Bro, will you mend the gate-latch ? " said Mrs. Manning 
at the breakfast-table. They did not breakfast early ; Mrs. 
Manning had never been accustomed to early breakfasts : the 
work at the saw-mill began and went on for three hours be 
fore the saw-miller broke his fast. Bro mended the latch, 
and then, after a survey of the garden, went up to the open 
window of the dining-room and said : 
" Shall I water the flowers, Miss Marion ? They look 
sadly this morning." 
" Yes, if you please, Ambrose," replied the erect young 
person within, who was washing the cups, and the few old 
spoons and forks she called " the silver." The flowers were 
a link between them ; they would not grow, and every body 
told her they would not save Bro, who believed in them to the 
last, and watched even their dying struggles with unfailing 
hope. The trouble was that she set her mind upon flowers 
not suited to the soil ; she sent regularly for seeds and slips, 
and would have it that they must grow whether they wished 
to or not. Whatever their wishes were, floral intentions ne 
cessarily escaping our grosser senses, one thing was certain 
grow they did not, in spite of Bro's care. He now watered 
the consumptives of the day tenderly ; he coaxed straggling 
branches and gently tied up weak ones, saw with concern 
that the latest balsam was gone, and, after looking at it for a 
while, thought it his duty to tell its mistress. 
" I am sorry, Miss Marion," he said, going to the window- 
sill, " but the pink balsam is dead again." 
" What can you mean by dead again " ? said a vexed 
but clear voice within. " It can not be dead but once, of 
course." 
" We have had a good many balsams," replied Bro apolo 
getically, " and even a good many pink ones, like this ; I for 
get sometimes." 
" That is because you have no real love for flowers," said 
the irate young mistress from her dish-pan : she was provoked 
at the loss of the balsam it was her last one. 
Bro, who could not see her from where he stood, waited a 
moment or two, shuffled his feet to and fro on the sand, and 
noiselessly drummed on the sill with his long fingers ; then 
he went slowly down to the shore, where his boat was drawn 
up, and rowed himself across to the saw-mill. He felt a sort 
of guilt about that pink balsam, as though he had not per 
haps taken enough care of it ; but, in truth, he had watched 
every hair s-breadth of its limp, reluctant growth, knew its 
moist veining accurately, and even the habits and opinions, as 
it were, of two minute green inhabitants, with six legs, of the 
size, taken both together, of a pin's point, who considered the 
stalk quite a prairie. 
When she was eighteen and nineteen years old, Marion 
Manning had refused several suitors, giving as a reason to 
her mother that they were all detestable ; since then, she had 
not been troubled with suitors to refuse. There were girls 
with more coloring and brighter eyes in Wilbarger, and girls 
with warmer hearts : so said the gossips. And, certainly, 
the calm reserve, the incisive words, and clear gray eyes that 
looked straight at you of Marion Manning were not calculated 
to encourage the embarrassed but at the same time decidedly 
favor-conferring attentions of the youths of the town. Mrs. 
Manning, in the course of the years they had been together, 
had gradually taken Bro as a humble confidant : he knew of 
the offers and refusals ; he knew of the succeeding suitorless 
period which Mrs. Manning, a stanch believer in love and 
romance, bewailed as wasted time. " I could never have resisted young Echols," she said, " sitting there on the door-step 
as he used to, with the sun shining on his curly hair. But 
there ! I always had a fancy for curls." Bro received these 
confidences with strict attention, as valuable items. But one 
peculiarity of his mind was that he never generalized ; and 
thus, for instance, instead of taking in the fact that curly hair 
plays a part in winning a heart, he only understood that Mrs. 
Manning, for some reason or other, liked kinks and twists in 
the covering of the head ; as some persons liked hempen 
shoestrings, others leathern. 
