“Mail is in by this time.”
And with these artless excuses the three boys leaped off the posts, as
if one spring moved them, as a group of girls came chattering down the
path. The blue cloud floated away beside Frank, the scarlet feather
marched off with the Admiral, while the fur cap nodded to the gray hat
as two happy faces smiled at each other.
The same thing often happened, for twice a-day the streets were full
of young couples walking to and from school together, smiled at by the
elders, and laughed at by the less susceptible boys and girls, who went
alone or trooped along in noisy groups. The prudent mothers had tried to
stop this guileless custom, but found it very difficult, as the fathers
usually sympathized with their sons, and dismissed the matter with the
comfortable phrase, “Never mind; boys will be boys.” “Not forever,”
 returned the anxious mammas, seeing the tall lads daily grow more manly,
and the pretty daughters fast learning to look demure when certain names
were mentioned.
It could not be stopped without great parental sternness and the danger
of deceit, for co-education will go on outside of school if not inside,
and the safest way is to let sentiment and study go hand in hand, with
teachers and parents to direct and explain the great lesson all are
the better for learning soon or late. So the elders had to give in,
acknowledging that this sudden readiness to go to school was a comfort,
that the new sort of gentle emulation worked wonders in lazy girls and
boys, and that watching these “primrose friendships” bud, blossom,
and die painless deaths, gave a little touch of romance to their own
work-a-day lives.
“On the whole I’d rather have my sons walking, playing, and studying
with bright, well-mannered girls, than always knocking about with rough
boys,” said Mrs. Minot at one of the Mothers’ Meetings, where the good
ladies met to talk over their children, and help one another to do their
duty by them.
“I find that Gus is more gentle with his sisters since Juliet took him
in hand, for he wants to stand well with her, and they report him if he
troubles them. I really see no harm in the little friendship, though I
never had any such when I was a girl,” said Mrs. Burton, who adored her
one boy and was his confidante.
“My Merry seems to be contented with her brothers so far, but I
shouldn’t wonder if I had my hands full by and by,” added Mrs. Grant,
who already foresaw that her sweet little daughter would be sought after
as soon as she should lengthen her skirts and turn up her bonny brown
hair.
Molly Loo had no mother to say a word for her, but she settled matters
for herself by holding fast to Merry, and declaring that she would have
no escort but faithful Boo.
It is necessary to dwell a moment upon this new amusement, because it
was not peculiar to Harmony Village, but appears everywhere as naturally
as the game parties and croquet which have taken the place of the
husking frolics and apple-bees of olden times, and it is impossible to
dodge the subject if one attempts to write of boys and girls as they
really are nowadays.
“Here, my hero, see how you like this. If it suits, you will be ready to
march as soon as the doctor gives the word,” said Ralph, coming into the
Bird Room that evening with a neat little crutch under his arm.
“Ha, ha, that looks fine! I’d like to try it right off, but I won’t till
I get leave. Did you make it yourself, Ral?” asked Jack, handling it
with delight, as he sat bolt upright, with his leg on a rest, for he was
getting on capitally now.
“Mostly. Rather a neat job, I flatter myself.”
“I should say so. What a clever fellow you are! Any new inventions
lately?” asked Frank, coming up to examine and admire.
“Only an anti-snoring machine and an elbow-pad,” answered Ralph, with a
twinkle in his eye, as if reminded of something funny.
“Go on, and tell about them. I never heard of an anti-snorer. Jack
better have one,” said Frank, interested at once.
“Well, a rich old lady kept her family awake with that lively music, so
she sent to Shirtman and Codleff for something to stop it. They thought
it was a good joke, and told me to see what I could do. I thought it
over, and got up the nicest little affair you ever saw. It went over the
mouth, and had a tube to fit the ear, so when the lady snored she woke
herself up and stopped it. It suited exactly. I think of taking out a
patent,” concluded Ralph, joining in the boys’ laugh at the droll idea.
“What was the pad?” asked Frank, returning to the small model of an
engine he was making.
“Oh, that was a mere trifle for a man who had a tender elbow-joint and
wanted something to protect it. I made a little pad to fit on, and his
crazy-bone was safe.”
“I planned to have you make me a new leg if this one was spoilt,” said
Jack, sure that his friend could invent anything under the sun.
“I’d do my best for you. I made a hand for a fellow once, and that
got me my place, you know,” answered Ralph, who thought little of such
mechanical trifles, and longed to be painting portraits or modelling
busts, being an artist as well as an inventor.
Here Gus, Ed, and several other boys came in, and the conversation
became general. Grif, Chick, and Brickbat were three young gentlemen
whose own respectable names were usually ignored, and they cheerfully
answered to these nicknames.
As the clock struck seven, Frank, who ruled the club with a rod of iron
when Chairman, took his place behind the study table. Seats stood about
it, and a large, shabby book lay before Gus, who was Secretary, and kept
the records with a lavish expenditure of ink, to judge by the blots. The
members took their seats, and nearly all tilted back their chairs and
put their hands in their pockets, to keep them out of mischief; for, as
every one knows, it is impossible for two lads to be near each other
and refrain from tickling or pinching. Frank gave three raps with an old
croquet-mallet set on a short handle, and with much dignity opened the
meeting.
“Gentlemen, the business of the club will be attended to, and then
we will discuss the question, ‘Shall girls go to our colleges?’ The
Secretary will now read the report of the last meeting.”
Clearing his throat, Gus read the following brief and elegant report:--
“Club met, December 18th, at the house of G. Burton, Esq. Subject: ‘Is
summer or winter best fun?’ A lively pow-wow. About evenly divided.
J. Flint fined five cents for disrespect to the Chair. A collection of
forty cents taken up to pay for breaking a pane of glass during a free
fight of the members on the door-step. E. Devlin was chosen Secretary
for the coming year, and a new book contributed by the Chairman.”
“That’s all.”
“Is there any other business before the meeting?” asked Frank, as the
reader closed the old book with a slam and shoved the new one across the
table.
Ed rose, and glancing about him with an appealing look, said, as if sure
his proposition would not be well received, “I wish to propose the name
of a new member. Bob Walker wants to join, and I think we ought to let
him. He is trying to behave well, and I am sure we could help him. Can’t
we?”
All the boys looked sober, and Joe, otherwise Brickbat, said, bluntly,
“I won’t. He’s a bad lot, and we don’t want any such here. Let him go
with chaps of his own sort.”
“That is just what I want to keep him from! He’s a good-hearted boy
enough, only no one looks after him; so he gets into scrapes, as we
should, if we were in his place, I dare say. He wants to come here, and
would be so proud if he was let in, I know he’d behave. Come now, let’s
give him a chance,” and Ed looked at Gus and Frank, sure that if they
stood by him he should carry his point.
But Gus shook his head, as if doubtful of the wisdom of the plan, and
Frank said gravely: “You know we made the rule that the number should
never be over eight, and we cannot break it.”
“You needn’t. I can’t be here half the time, so I will resign and let
Bob have my place,” began Ed, but he was silenced by shouts of “No, no,
you shan’t!” “We won’t let you off!” “Club would go to smash, if you
back out!”
“Let him have my place; I’m the youngest, and you won’t miss me,” cried
Jack, bound to stand by Ed at all costs.
“We might do that,” said Frank, who did object to small boys, though
willing to admit this particular one.
“Better make a new rule to have ten members, and admit both Bob and Tom
Grant,” said Ralph, whereat Grif grinned and Joe scowled, for one lad
liked Merry’s big brother and the other did not.
“That’s a good idea! Put it to vote,” said Gus, too kind-hearted to shut
the door on any one.
“First I want to ask if all you fellows are ready to stand by Bob, out
of the club as well as in, for it won’t do much good to be kind to him
here and cut him at school and in the street,” said Ed, heartily in
earnest about the matter.
“I will!” cried Jack, ready to follow where his beloved friend led, and
the others nodded, unwilling to be outdone by the youngest member.
“Good! With all of us to lend a hand, we can do a great deal; and I tell
you, boys, it is time, if we want to keep poor Bob straight. We all turn
our backs on him, so he loafs round the tavern, and goes with fellows
we don’t care to know. But he isn’t bad yet, and we can keep him up, I’m
sure, if we just try. I hope to get him into the Lodge, and that will be
half the battle, won’t it, Frank?” added Ed, sure that this suggestion
would have weight with the honorable Chairman.
“Bring him along; I’m with you!” answered Frank, making up his mind at
once, for he had joined the Temperance Lodge four years ago, and already
six boys had followed his example.
“He is learning to smoke, but we’ll make him drop it before it leads
to worse. You can help him there, Admiral, if you only will,” added Ed,
giving a grateful look at one friend, and turning to the other.
“I’m your man;” and Gus looked as if he knew what he promised, for he
had given up smoking to oblige his father, and kept his word like a
hero.
“You other fellows can do a good deal by just being kind and not
twitting him with old scrapes, and I’ll do anything I can for you all
to pay for this;” and Ed sat down with a beaming smile, feeling that his
cause was won.
The vote was taken, and all hands went up, for even surly Joe gave in;
so Bob and Tom were duly elected, and proved their gratitude for the
honor done them by becoming worthy members of the club. It was only
boys’ play now, but the kind heart and pure instincts of one lad showed
the others how to lend a helping hand to a comrade in danger, and win
him away from temptation to the safer pastimes of their more guarded
lives.
Well pleased with themselves--for every genuine act or word, no matter
how trifling it seems, leaves a sweet and strengthening influence
behind--the members settled down to the debate, which was never very
long, and often only an excuse for fun of all sorts.
“Ralph, Gus, and Ed are for, and Brickbat, Grif, and Chick against, I
suppose?” said Frank, surveying his company like a general preparing for
battle.
