mathematics, and anything else that may be needed."

"Have you studied any of these already?"

"Yes, sir."

"Where?"

"At the Geauga Seminary. I can refer you to the teachers there. I have
studied under them for three years, and they know all about me."

"What is your name?"

"James A. Garfield."

"There is something in that young man," said one of the trustees to Mr.
Williams. "He seems thoroughly in earnest, and I believe will be a hard
worker."

"I agree with you," was the reply.

James was informed that his petition was granted, and he at once made
arrangements for his residence at Hiram.




CHAPTER XIV.

AT HIRAM INSTITUTE.


Hiram, the seat of the Eclectic Institute, was not a place of any
pretension. It was scarcely a village, but rather a hamlet. Yet the
advantages which the infant institution offered drew together a
considerable number of pupils of both sexes, sons and daughters of the
Western Reserve farmers, inspired with a genuine love of learning, and
too sensible to waste their time on mere amusement.

This is the account given of it by President B.A. Hinsdale, who for
fifteen years has ably presided over its affairs: "The institute
building, a plain but substantially built brick structure, was put on
the top of a windy hill, in the middle of a cornfield. One of the cannon
that General Scott's soldiers dragged to the City of Mexico in 1847,
planted on the roof of the new structure, would not have commanded a
score of farm houses.

"Here the school opened at the time Garfield was closing his studies at
Chester. It had been in operation two terms when he offered himself for
enrollment. Hiram furnished a location, the Board of Trustees a building
and the first teacher, the surrounding country students, but the
spiritual Hiram made itself. Everything was new. Society, traditions,
the genius of the school, had to be evolved from the forces of the
teachers and pupils, limited by the general and local environment. Let
no one be surprised when I say that such a school as this was the best
of all places for young Garfield. There was freedom, opportunity, a
large society of rapidly and eagerly opening young minds, instructors
who were learned enough to instruct him, and abundant scope for ability
and force of character, of which he had a superabundance.

"Few of the students who came to Hiram in that day had more than a
district-school education, though some had attended the high schools and
academies scattered over the country; so that Garfield, though he had
made but slight progress in the classics and the higher mathematics
previous to his arrival, ranked well up with the first scholars. In
ability, all acknowledged that he was the peer of any; soon his
superiority to all others was generally conceded."

So James entered upon his duties as janitor and bell-ringer. It was a
humble position for the future President of the United States; but no
work is humiliating which is undertaken with a right aim and a useful
object. Of one thing my boy-reader may be sure--the duties of the
offices were satisfactorily performed. The school-rooms were well cared
for, and the bell was rung punctually. This is shown by the fact that,
after the two weeks of probation, he was still continued in office,
though doubtless in the large number of students of limited means in the
institute there was more than one that would have been glad to relieve
him of his office.

It will hardly be supposed, however, that the position of janitor and
bell-ringer could pay all his expenses. He had two other resources. In
term-time he worked at his trade of carpenter as opportunity offered,
and in the winter, as at Chester, he sought some country town where he
could find employment as a teacher.

The names of the places where he taught are not known to me, though
doubtless there is many an Ohio farmer, or mechanic, or, perchance,
professional man, who is able to boast that he was partially educated by
a President of the United States.

As characteristic of his coolness and firmness, I am tempted to record
an incident which happened to him in one of his winter schools.

There were some scholars about as large as himself, to whom obedience to
the rules of the school was not quite easy--who thought, in
consideration of their age and size, that they might venture upon acts
which would not be tolerated in younger pupils.

The school had commenced one morning, when the young teacher heard angry
words and the noise of a struggle in the school-yard, which chanced to
be inclosed. The noise attracted the attention of the scholars, and
interfered with the attention which the recitation required.

James Garfield stepped quietly outside of the door, and saw two of his
oldest and largest pupils engaged in a wrestling match. For convenience
we will call them Brown and Jones.

"What are you about, boys?" asked the teacher The two were so earnestly
engaged in their conflict that neither returned an answer.

"This must be stopped immediately," said James, decisively. "It is
disrespectful to me, and disturbs the recitations."

He might as well have spoken to the wind. They heard, but they continued
their fight.

"This must stop, or I will stop it myself," said the teacher.

The boys were not afraid. Each was about as large as the teacher, and
they felt that if he interfered he was likely to get hurt.

James thought he had given sufficient warning. The time had come to act.
He stepped quickly forward, seized one of the combatants, and with a
sudden exertion of strength, threw him over the fence. Before he had
time to recover from his surprise his companion was lifted over in the
same manner.

"Now, go on with your fighting if you wish," said the young teacher;
"though I advise you to shake hands and make up. When you get through
come in and report."

The two young men regarded each other foolishly. Somehow all desire to
fight had been taken away.

"I guess we'll go in now," said Brown.

"I'm with you," said Jones, and Garfield entered the school-room, meekly
followed by the two refractory pupils. There was not much use in
resisting the authority of a teacher who could handle them with such
ease.

James did not trouble them with any moral lecture. He was too sensible.
He felt that all had been said and done that was required.

But how did he spend his time at the new seminary, and how was he
regarded? Fortunately we have the testimony of a lady, now residing in
Illinois, who was one of the first students at Hiram.

"When he first entered the school," she writes, "he paid for his
schooling by doing janitor's work, sweeping the floor and ringing the
bell. I can see him even now standing in the morning with his hand on
the bell-rope, ready to give the signal, calling teachers and scholars
to engage in the duties of the day. As we passed by, entering the
school-room, he had a cheerful word for every one. He was probably the
most popular person in the institution. He was always good-natured, fond
of conversation, and very entertaining. He was witty and quick at
repartee, but his jokes, though brilliant and sparkling, were always
harmless, and he never would willingly hurt another's feelings.

"Afterward he became an assistant teacher, and while pursuing his
classical studies, preparatory to his college course, he taught the
English branches. He was a most entertaining teacher--ready with
illustrations, and possessing in a marked degree the power of exciting
the interest of the scholars, and afterward making clear to them the
lessons. In the arithmetic class there were ninety pupils, and I can not
remember a time when there was any flagging in the interest. There were
never any cases of unruly conduct, or a disposition to shirk. With
scholars who were slow of comprehension, or to whom recitations were a
burden, on account of their modest or retiring dispositions, he was
specially attentive, and by encouraging words and gentle assistance
would manage to put all at their ease, and awaken in them a confidence
in themselves. He was not much given to amusements or the sports of the
playground. He was too industrious, and too anxious to make the utmost
of his opportunities to study.

"He was a constant attendant at the regular meetings for prayer, and
his vigorous exhortations and apt remarks upon the Bible lessons were
impressive and interesting. There was a cordiality in his disposition
which won quickly the favor and esteem of others. He had a happy habit
of shaking hands, and would give a hearty grip which betokened a
