house, she saw Mrs. Touchett emerge from the portico, accom- 
panied by her visitor. Her aunt had evidently proposed to Lord 
Warburton that they should come in search of her. She was 
in no humour for visitors, and if she had had time she would 
have drawn back, behind one of the great trees. But she saw 
that she had been seen and that nothing was left her but to 
advance. As the lawn at Gardencourt was a vast expanse, this 
took some time ; during which she observed that, as he walked 
beside his hostess, Lord Warburton kept his hands rather stiffly 
behind him and his eyes upon the ground. Both persons appar- 
ently were silent ; but Mrs. Touchett's thin little glance, as she 
directed it toward Isabel, had even at a distance an expression. 
It seemed to say, with cutting sharpness, " Here is the eminently 
amenable nobleman whom you might have married !" When 
Lord Warburton lifted his own eyes, however, that was not 
what they said They only said, " This is rather awkward, you 
know, and I depend upon you to help me." He was very grave, 
very proper, and for the first time since Isabel had known him, 
he greeted her without a smile. Even in his days of distress he 
had always begun with a smile. He looked extremely self- 
conscious. 

" Lord Warburton has been so good as to come out to see me," 
said Mrs. Touchett. " He tells me he didn't know you were 
still here. I know he's an old friend of yours, and as I was 
told you were not in the house, I brought him out to see for 
himself." 

" Oh, I saw there was a good train at 6.40, that would get me 
back in time for dinner," Mrs. Touchett's companion explained, 
rather irrelevantly. " I am so glad to find you have not gone." 

" I am not here for long, you know," Isabel said, with a 
certain eagerness. 




" I suppose not ; but I hope it's for some weeks. You came 
to England sooner than a than you thought   " 

" Yes, I came very suddenly." 

Mrs. Touchett turned away, as if she were looking at the 
condition of the grounds, which indeed was not what it should 
be ; while Lord Warburton hesitated a little.- Isabel fancied he 
had been on the point of asking about her husband rather con- 
fusedly and then had checked himself. He continued immiti- 
gably grave, either because he thought it becoming in a place 
over which death had just passed, or for more personal reasons. 
If he Was conscious of personal reasons, it was very fortunate 
that he had the cover of the former motive ; he could make the 
most of that. Isabel thought of all this. It was not that his 
face was sad, for that was another matter ; but it was strangely 
inexpressive. 

" My sisters would have been so glad to come if they had 
known you were still here if they had thought you would see 
them," Lord Warburton went on. " Do kindly let them see you 
before you leave England." 

" It would give me great pleasure ; I have such a friendly 
recollection of them." 

" I don't know whether you would come to Lockleigh for a 
day or two ? You know there is always that old promise." And 
his lordship blushed a little as he made this suggestion, which 
gave his face a somewhat more familiar air. " Perhaps I'm not 
right in saying that just now ; of course you are not thinking of 
visiting. But I meant what would hardly be a visit. My sisters 
are to be at Lockleigh at Whitsuntide for three days ; and if 
you could come then as you say you are not to be very long in 
England I would see that there should be literally no one 
else." 

Isabel wondered whether not even the young lady he was 
to marry would be there with her mamma ; but she did not 
express this idea. " Thank you extremely," she contented 
herself with saying ; " I'm afraid I hardly know about Whit- 
suntide." 

" But I have your promise haven't I  for some other 
time." 

Tki-e was an interrogation in this ; but Isabel let it pass. 
She looked at her interlocutor a moment, and the result of her 
observation was that as had happened before she felt sorry 
for him. "Take care you don't miss your train," she said. 
And then she added, " I wish you every happiness." 


He blushed again, more than before, and he looked at his 
watch. 

" Ah yes, 6.40 ; I haven't much time, but I have a fly at the 
door. Thank you very much." It was not apparent whether 
the thanks applied to her having reminded him of his train, or 
to the more sentimental remark. " Good-bye, Mrs. Osmond ; 
good-bye." He shook hands with her, without meeting her eye, 
and then he turned to Mrs. Touchett, who had wandered back 
to them. With her his parting was equally brief ; and in a 
moment the two ladies saw him move with long steps across 
the lawn. 

" Are you very sure he is to be married ? " Isabel asked of 
her aunt. 

" I can't be surer than he ; but he seems sure. I congratulated 
him, and he accepted it." 

" Ah," said Isabel, " I give it up ! " while her aunt returned 
to the house and to those avocations which the visitor had 
interrupted. 

She gave it up, but she still thought of it thought of it 
while she strolled again under the great oaks whose shadows were 
long upon the acres of turf. At the end of a few minutes she 
found herself near a rustic bench, which, a moment after she had 
looked at it, struck her as an object recognised. It was not 
simply that she had seen it before, nor even that she had sat 
upon it; it was that in this spot something important had hap- 
pened to her- -that the place had an air of association. Then 
she remembered that she had been sitting there six years before, 
when a servant brought her from the house the letter in which 
Caspar Goodwood informed her that he had followed her to 
Europe ; and that when she had read that letter she looked up to 
hear Lord Warburton announcing that he should like to marry 
her. It was indeed an historical, an interesting, bench; she 
stood and looked at it as if it might have something to say to her. 
She would not sit down on it now she felt rather afraid of it. 
She only stood before it, and while she stood, -the past came 
back to her in one of those rushing waves of emotion by which 
people of sensibility are visited at odd hours. The effect of this 
agitation was a sudden sense of being very tired, under the influ- 
ence of which she overcame her scruples and sank into the 
rustic seat. I have said that she was restless and unable to 
occupy herself ; and whether or no, if you had seen her there, 
you would have admired the justice of the former epithet, you 
would at least have allowed that at this moment she was the 



 

image of a victim of idleness. Her attitude had a singular 
absence of purpose ; her hands, hanging at her sides, lost 'them- 
selves in the folds of her black dress ; her eyes gazed vaguely 
before her. There was nothing to recall her to the house, the 
two ladies, in -their seclusion, dined early and had tea at an 
indefinite hour. How long she had sat in this position she could 
not have told you ; but the twilight had grown thick when she 
became aware that she was not alone. She quickly straightened 
herself, glancing about, and then saw what had become of her 
solitude. She was sharing it with Caspar Goodwood, who stood 
looking at her, a few feet off, and whose footfall, on the unreson- 
ant turf, as he came near, she had not heard. It occurred to her, 
in the midst of this, that it was just so Lord Warburton had 
surprised her of old. 

She instantly rose, and as soon as Goodwood saw that he was 
seen he started forward. She had had time only to rise, when 
with a motion that looked like violence, but felt like she knew 
not what he grasped her by the wrist and made her sink again 
into the seat. She closed her eyes ; he had not hurt her,- it was 
only a touch that she had obeyed. But there was something in 
his face that she wished not to see. That was the way he had 
looked at her the other day in the churchyard ; only to-day it 
was worse. He said nothing at first ; she only felt him close to 
her. It almost seemed to her that nq one had ever been so close 
to her as that. All this, however, took but a moment, at the 
end of which she had disengaged her wrist, turning her eyes 
upon her visitant. 

" You have frightened me," she said. 

" I didn't mean to," he answered, " but if I did a little, no 
matter. I came from London a wbile ago by the train, but I 
couldn't come here directly. There was a man at the station who 
got ahead of me. He took a fly that was there, and I heard him 
give the order to drive here. I don't know who he was, but I 
