" She will be a dark-eyed blonde," Bartley decided. 
" Is that nice ? " asked Marcia. 
" With the telescope sight, they 're warranted to 
kill at five hundred yards." 

" Oh, for shame, Bartley ! To talk of baby 's ever 
killing!" 

" Why, that 's what they all come to. It 's what 
you came to yourself." 

" Yes, I know. But it 's quite another thing with 
baby." She began to mumble it with her lips, and 
to talk baby-talk to it. In their common interest in 
this puppet they already called each other papa and 
mamma. 

Squire Gaylord came alone, and when Marcia, 
greeted him with " Why, father ! Where 's mother ? " 
he asked, " Did you expect her ? Well, I guess your 
mother 's feeling rather too old for such long winter 
journeys. You know she don 't go out a great deal. 
Iguess she expects your family down there in the 
summer." 



 

The old man was considerably abashed by the baby 
when it was put into his arms, and being required to 
guess its name he naturally failed. 

" Flavia ! " cried Marcia, joyfully. " Bartley named 
it after you." 

This embarrassed the Squire still more. " Is that 
so ? " he asked, rather sheepishly. " Well, it 's quite 
a compliment." 

Marcia repeated this to her husband as evidence 
that her father was all right now. Bartley and the 
Squire were in fact very civil to each other ; and 
Bartley paid the old man many marked attentions. 
He took him to the top of the State House, and 
walked him all about the city, to show him its 
points of interest, and introduced him to such of 
his friends as they met, though the Squire 's dress- 
coat, whether fully revealed by the removal of his 
surtout, or betraying itself below the skirt of the lat 
ter, was a trial to a fellow of Bartley 's style. He went 
with his father-in-law to see Mr. Warren in Jefferson 
Scattering Batkins, and the Squire grimly appreciated 
the burlesque of the member from Cranberry Centre; 
but he was otherwise not a very amusable person, and 
off his own ground he was not conversable, while he 
refused to betray his impressions of many things that 
Bartley expected to astonish him. The Events edito 
rial rooms had no apparent effect upon him, though 
they were as different from most editorial dens as tap 
estry carpets, black-walnut desks, and swivel chairs 
could make them. Mr. Witherby covered him with 
urbanities and praises of Bartley that ought to have 
delighted him as a father-in-law; but apparently the 
great man of the Events was but a strange variety of 
the type with which he was familiar in the despised 
country editors. He got on better with Mr. Atherton, 
who was of a man 's profession. The Squire wore his 
hat throughout their interview, and everywhere ex- 



 

cept at table and in bed ; and as soon as he rose from 
either, he put it on. 

Bartley tried to impress him with such novel traits 
of cosmopolitan life as a table d hote dinner at a 
French restaurant; but the Squire sat through the 
courses, as if his barbarous old appetite had satisfied 
itself in that manner all his life. After that, Bartley 
practically gave him up ; he pleaded his newspaper 
work-, and left the Squire to pass the time as lie could 
in the little house on Clover Street, where he sat half a 
day at a stretch in the parlor, with his hat on, reading 
the newspapers, his legs sprawled out towards the 
grate. In this way he probably reconstructed for 
himself some image of his wonted life in his office 
at home, and was for the time at peace ; but other 
wise he was very restless, except when he was with 
Marcia. He was as fond of her in his way as he 
had ever been, and though he apparently cared noth 
ing for the baby, he enjoyed Marcia 's pride in it ; 
and he bore to have it thrust upon him with the 
surly mildness of an old dog receiving children 's 
caresses. He listened with the same patience to all 
her celebrations of Bartley, which were often tedious 
enough, for she bragged of him constantly, of his 
smartness and goodness, and of the great success 
that had crowned the merit of both in him. 

Mr. Halleck had called upon the Squire the morn 
ing after his arrival, and brought Marcia a note from 
his wife, offering to have her father stay with them 
if she found herself too much crowded at this event 
ful time. " There ! That is just the sort of people 
the Hallecks are ! " she cried, showing the letter to 
her father. "And to think of our not going near them 
for mouths and months after we came to Boston, for 
fear they were stuck up ! But Bartley is always just 
so proud. Now you must go right in, father, and not 
keep Mr. Halleck waiting. Give me your hat, or 



 

you 'll  be sure to wear it in the parlor." She made 
him stoop down to let her brush his coat-collar a 
little. " There ! Now you look something like." 

Squire Gaylord had never received a visit except 
on business in his life, and such a thing as one man 
calling socially upon another, as women did, was un 
known to the civilization of Equity. But, as he 're 
ported to Marcia, he got along with Mr. Halleck ; 
and he got along with the whole family when he 
went with Bartley to tea, upon the invitation Mr. 
Halleck made him that morning. Probably it ap 
peared to him an objectless hospitality ; but he spent 
as pleasant an evening as he could hope to spend 
with his hat off and in a frock-coat, which he wore 
as a more ceremonious garment than the dress-coat 
of his every-day life. He seemed to take a special 
liking to Olive Halleck, whose habit of speaking her 
mind with vigor and directness struck him as com 
mendable. It was Olive who made the time pass for 
him ; and as the occasion was not one for personal 
sarcasm or question of the Christian religion, her 
task in keeping the old pagan out of rather abysmal 
silences must have had its difficulties. 

" What did you talk about ? " asked Marcia, requir 
ing an account of his enjoyment from him the next 
morning, after Bartley had gone down to his work. 

" Mostly about you, I guess," said the Squire, with 
a laugh. "There was a large sandy-haired young 
woman there " 

" Miss Kingsbury," said Marcia, with vindictive 
promptness. Her eyes kindled, and she began to 
grow rigid under the coverlet. " Whom did she talk 
with ? " 

" Well, she talked a little with me ; but she talked 
most of the time to the young man. She engaged to 
him?" 

" No," said Marcia, relaxing. " She 's a great friend 



 

of the whole family. I don 't know what they meant 
by telling yon it was to be just a family party, when 
they were going to have strangers in," she pouted. 

" Perhaps they didn 't count her. " 

"No." But Marcia 's pleasure in the affair was 
tainted, and she began to talk of other things. 

Her father stayed nearly a week, and they all found 
it rather a long week. After showing him her baby, 
and satisfying herself that he and Bartley were on 
good terms again, there was not much left for Marcia. 
Bartley had been banished to the spare room by the 
