was?" 

" I did not know at first. It puzzled and confused me. 
Then I came upon a clew. The reason of the check is 
my secret," she says proudly, <' but it was not done for any 
purpose of my own." 

" I can only say that you are very foolish, and that this 
is the first time any womanly scruples, so called, have in- 
terfered with your business habits. Think again. It is 
weak, — a bad precedent. The man is laughing at your 
credulity, doubtless." 

She is too worn for even this to sting. Rising witb a 
kind of icy dignity, she says, — 

" Tou will wait until I decide when the steps shall be
taken." 

He bows, revolving some other purpose in his mind. 
Miss Ormiston walks slowly out ; the dreary house is the 
best, after all. She is her own mistress there, and con- 
siders the subject ; as if, alas I there was any other step 
to be taken. Having committed herself to this path, she 
must walk on to the bitter end. 

After she has gone, Philip Donaldson lifts a sheet of 
paper, and there is a letter partly written underneath. 
He goes on with it now. She has not bound him by any 
promise not to consult St. George. He takes an immense 
satisfaction in demolishing another theory. "You were 
wild," he says, " or utterly misinformed when you an- 
nounced an engagement or tiie possibility of one between 
Miss Ormiston and that fellow Jeffries. I had the hardi- 
hood to tax her with it, and the horror and disgust in her 
face were evident. I should have been answered without 



 



 





any words. He is the son of Mrs. Treverton, and these 
practices explain his resources. The man should not be 
allowed to foist himself upon society in this manner, and 
he is certainly dangerous, as this bit of paper shows. 
There is some undercurrent that I cannot inquire into, but 
you may be more free to act for the best interests of all. 
Some sense of honor or trust about a third person, for 
I am certain it has nothing to do with herself, binds her. 
Tou owe her interests some watchfulness at this period, 
as you expect shortly to leave them altogether in my hands 
again. I feel like refusing so much responsibility." 

For Donaldson cannot, even now, resign his friend 
to this ill-fated step. Not that he in any way connects 
Miss Allahre with the mystery, but whereas, under other 
curcumstances, he would have delicately refrained from 
adding the least thought to disturb his friend's serenity, 
he is now glad to fling in any sort of firebrand to rouse 
him. 



 



 

It 's night, and Christmas Ormiston sits alone in the 
room that held them all twenty-four hours ago. Mrs. 
Byrne has retired with a headache. The fire has been 
blazing brightly, but has now fallen into a dull smoulder. 
The light is turned low, and the room has a kind of awe- 
someness that is like her own mood. 

What step to take she cannot decide ; indeed, she is not 
certain that she is free to take any. She has allowed 
herself to be drawn into these others' lives until she is 
confused, and does not know how much of her own she 
has a right to take back, since she has given the greatest 
of all, unsought. Ever in this dusky solitude she feels the 
strange betraying heat flash up to her very brow. She 
has beheld the possibility of a rich, glowing, satisfying 
future, that she could be quite content if she had not 
seen, but having seen, can never shut her eyes entirely to 
the remembrance. Whenever the fatal vision flashed upon 
her, she had consoled herself that it was not of her seek- 
ing, that it had been a far-wandering shaft of light out of 
a dear sky, and could hardly be deemed the precursor of 
a tempest. She has not allowed herself to look at it with 
the faintest longing ; she has been more than honest to 
Dolly Allaire, as in the nature of events she had to be. 
However unwise or ill-judged the marriage may be, 
because she has seen this possibility she has steeled herself 
the more securely against it. She has a sense of being 
beaten down under Dolly's unworthiness, of being ren- 
dered somehow less worthy herself in having helped on 
such a matter whose foundation-stone was selfish untruth* 



 



 





The old, old story of touching the pitch ; she has defiled 
her pure honor and truth with the one, and she must keep 
silence with the other. Even now she shrinks in horror 
from the thought that after Dolly's marriage the man may 
haunt her and extort money. If she had been brave 
enough to dare the whole truth ! Could she run the risk 
of being so horribly misunderstood, of being accused 
of a motive that would have stung her to the very 
quick? 

Bight or wrong, it is nearly finished. They will go out 
of her life, never, perhaps,to enter it again. They have 
taken the sparkle and left her the dregs. For she dares to 
face this truth to her own soul, that having met the man 
she might have loved, she is rendered incapable for all 
time of loving any pther. Dolly's way of snatching up 
loves and trying them on is utterly abhorrent to her, and 
will make her more reticent all the years to come. 

So there will be nothing to interfere with the first part 
of her father's desire for her. She will have her inherit- 
ance as he planned, and rule here ; she has not missed the 
other woman's inheritance, the bitter-sweet of love. How 
the years stretch out ; she is still so young, and it is a 
long way to old age. The golden grains of time are yet 
in tiie uncounted mountains, veiled behind clouds, and as 
their solemn glory yields grain by grain only, no one can 
hurry, no one can shorten the days. Every hour must be 
lived through, and she is so weary at the very outset, so 
disquieted, so torn by doubts and vague questionings. 

She keeps her vigU till past midnight. Even then she 
does not sleep. There is a strange oppression. She 
misses the anxiety of Dolly, though she is glad to be by 
herself a brief while, still there looms up before her the 
awful uncertainty. Now that it is done, she is afraid she 
has not saved Dolly from the real danger, the persecution 
of a handsome adventurer with no conscience and no 
remorse. How much better or nobler has the young girl 



 



 



 

been, only in her case there was imprudent passion instead 
of mercenary consideration ? 

The house seems quiet the next day, as if some one had 
died. There comes a telegram ; Dolly stood the journey 
very well and is improving. On the next day a letter, 
tender, half -penitent for the trouble she has made, hope- 
ful, inconsequent, eager, and full of interest in bridal 
