linen shade where the sun was coming too brightly in; and then she stood 
for some minutes upon the hearth rug, grave and thoughtful, one eyebrow 
arched in meditation as society never saw it arched. Her concluding 
thought might be summed up thus:--"When she is under my care, my young 
gentleman, I think she will not be under yours. Preposterous!" 
Mr. Digby had his thoughts too as he drove homeward. They will never get 
on together, he said to himself. It will not be happy for Rotha, nor 
easy. And yet--it is the best thing I can do for her just now. She must 
have a woman's care; and whose could be so proper as her aunt's? Besides, 
I shall see her frequently; I shall know all that concerns her, for Rotha 
will tell me; and if things go wrong, I can at any time put in my hand 
and set them straight. I am sorry--but this is the thing to do; and there 
is no help for it. 
In spite of all which certainty in his own mind, Mr. Digby looked forward 
with positive uneasiness to the telling Rotha what was in store for her. 
There was no help for that either; it must be done; and Mr. Digby was not 
one to put off a duty because it was disagreeable. 
The next morning Rotha was at her drawing again, and Mr. Digby lay on the 
lounge, thinking how he should begin what he had to say. Rotha was 
looking particularly well; fresh and bright and happy; very busily intent 
over her drawing. How the girl had improved in these weeks, softened and 
refined and grown mannerly. She has good blood in her, thought Mr. Digby; 
her features shew it, and so do her instincts, and her aptitudes.----
"How would you like to go to school, Rotha?" 
She looked up, with the flash of interest and of feeling which came so 
readily to her eye. 
"I shouldn't like it as well as this, Mr. Digby,"--("this" meant the 
present course and manner of her education;) "but I suppose you could not 
go on teaching me always." 
"I am not tired of it, Rotha; but I think it would be better in many 
respects for you to be at school for a while. You will like it, too." 
"When shall I go, Mr. Digby?" she asked in a subdued voice, without 
looking up this time. 
"The sooner the better, now. The schools have all begun their terms some 
weeks ago. And then, Rotha, you must have a home in the city. You could 
not live out here at Fort Washington, and attend school in New York. I 
shall be obliged to go back to the city, too." 
"Then I would like to go," said Rotha simply. 
"But you must have more care than mine, my child; at least you must have 
other care. You must have some lady friend, to look after you as I cannot 
do. I am going to put you under your aunt's protection." 
Rotha's pencil fell from her hand and she raised her head now. 
"My aunt?" she repeated. 
"Yes. Your mother's sister; Mrs. Busby. You knew you had an aunt in the 
city?" 
Rotha disregarded the question. She left her seat and came and stood 
before the lounge, in the attitude of a young tragedy queen; her hands 
interlocked before her, her face pale, and not only pale but spotted with 
colour, in a way that shewed a startling interruption of the ordinary 
even currents of the blood. 
"O Mr. Digby," she cried, "not her! not her! Do not give me up to her!" 
"Why not?" he asked gently. 
"She is not good. She is not a good woman. I don't like her. I can't bear 
the thought of her. I don't want to have anything to do with her.  
Please, keep me from her! O Mr. Digby, don't let her have me!" These 
words came out in a stream.
"My dear Rotha, is this reasonable? What cause have you to dislike your 
aunt?" 
"Because she wasn't good to mother--she didn't love her--she wasn't kind 
to her. She is not a good woman. She wouldn't like me. I don't like her 
dreadfully, Mr. Digby!" 
The words Rotha would have chosen she did not venture to speak. 
"Hush, hush, child! do not talk so fast. Sit down, and let us see what 
all this means." 
"O Mr. Digby, you will not put me with her?" 
"Yes, Rotha, it is the best. We will try it, at least. Why Rotha!--
Rotha!--" 
She had flung herself down on the floor, on her knees, with her head on a 
chair; not crying, not a tear came; nor sobbing; but with the action of 
absolute despair. It would have done for high tragedy. Alas, so it is 
with trouble when one is young; it seems final and annihilating. Age 
knows better. 
"Rotha," Mr. Digby said very quietly after a minute, "why do you dislike 
your aunt so? You do not know her." 
"O Mr. Digby," cried the girl in accents of misery, "are you going to 
give me up to somebody else? Are you going to give me up to her?" 
"No. Not to her nor to anybody. I am not going to give you up to anybody. 
Look here, Rotha. Look up, and bring your chair here and sit down by me, 
and we will talk this over. Come!" 
Yielding to the imperative tone in his words, she obeyed; rose up and 
brought her chair close and sat down; but he was startled to see the 
change in her face. It was livid; and it was woe-begone. She took her 
place submissively; nevertheless he could perceive that there was a 
terrible struggle of pain going on in the girl. He put out his hand, took 
hers kindly and held it. 
"Rotha--my child--I am not going to give you up to anybody," he repeated 
gravely. 
Rotha thought it practically amounted to that, to place her in her aunt's 
house; words were not at command. A sort of sob wrung from her breast. 
"What do you know about your aunt?" 
"Not much,--but too much," Rotha laconically answered. 
"Tell me what you know." 
"I know she wasn't good to mother." Then, as Mr. Digby made no reply to 
this unanswerable statement, she went on;--"She is a hard woman; she 
didn't help her. She is rich, rich! and we were--She has everything in 
the world; she can do whatever she likes; she rides about in her 
beautiful carriage; and we--we were--you know!--we were--if it hadn't 
been for you--" 
Rotha had choked and swallowed several times, and then the gathered 
passion overcame her. Thoughts and feelings and memories came like the 
incoming waves on a level shore piling up one upon another, until they 
could bear their own weight and rush no more and broke all together. The 
girl had striven to command herself and prevent the outbreak which Mr. 
Digby did not like; and the restraint had acted like the hindrance of the 
underlying sands, and allowed the tide of feeling to swell till there was 
no longer any check to it. Restraint was gone now, although Rotha did try 
to keep her sobs down; passion and grief burst out now and then in a wail 
of despair, and she struggled with the sobs which seemed to come from a 
breaking heart. 
Mr. Digby let the storm have its way, meanwhile feeling a renewed 
presentiment that the aunt and niece would never get on well together. In 
the granite of Mrs. Busby's composition there lay, he judged, a good deal 
of iron, in the rough state of unpurified ore. Waves beat on such rock 
without making much impression, only breaking themselves to pieces. Would 
such encounters take place between them? Rotha's character was not soft, 
and did not lack its iron either; but in another and much more refined 
form, and in a widely different combination. Had he done well after all? 
And yet what else could he do? And at any rate it was too late now to go 
back. 
He waited till the passion of the storm had somewhat lulled, and then 
called Rotha gently. Gently, but there was a certain ring in his voice 
too; and Rotha obeyed. She rose from the floor, dried her eyes and came 
and stood by the couch. She was in no manner relieved; passion had merely 
given place to an expression of helpless despair. 
"Sit down, Rotha," said Mr. Digby. And when she had done it he took her 
hand again. 
"You ought not to allow yourself such outbursts," he went on, still very 
gently. 
"I could not help it. I tried--" 
"I believe you tried; and for a time you did help it." 
"I know it displeases you," she said. "I did not want to do so before 
you." 
"It is not because it displeases me, that I want you not to do it; but 
because it is not right." 
"Why not right?" she asked somewhat defiantly. 
"Because it is not right for any one ever to lose command of himself." 
Rotha seemed to prick up her ears at that, as if the idea were new, but 
she said nothing. 
"You will ask me again perhaps why? Rotha, if you lose command of 
yourself, who takes it?" 
Rotha's eye carried a startled inquiry now. "I suppose--nobody," she 
said. 
"Do you think we have such an enemy as we have, and that he will let such 
an advantage go unimproved? No; when you lose command of yourself Satan 
takes it,--and uses it." 
"What does he do with it?" said Rotha in full astonishment. 
"According to circumstances. To tempt you to wrong, or to tempt you to 
folly; or if neither of those, to break down your mental and bodily 
powers, so that you shall be weaker to resist him next time." 
"Mr. Digby--do you think so?" 
"Certainly. And when people go on in a way like this, giving ground to 
Satan, he takes all they give, until finally he has the whole rule of 
them. Then they seem to their neighbours to be slaves of passion, or of 
greed, or of drink; but really they are 'possessed of the devil,' and 
those are the chains in which he holds them." 
"Mr. Digby," said Rotha humbly, "do you think I have been losing ground?" 
"I think you have been gaining ground, for a good while." 
"I am sorry," she said simply. "But how can I help it, Mr. Digby?" 
"You remember," he said. "You must be under one king or the other; there 
is no middle ground. 'Whosoever committeth sin, is the servant of 
sin';--but, 'If the Son shall make you free, ye shall be free indeed.'" 
Rotha drew a deep sigh, and one or two fresh tears fell. 
"Now," said he very gently, "do not let us get excited again, but let us 
talk quietly. What is all this about?" 
"You are sending me away," said Rotha; "and you are all I have got." 
"You are not going to lose me. That is settled. Now go on. What next?" 
"But I shall not be with you?" 
"Not every day, as here. But I hope to see you very often; and you can 
always write to me if you have anything in particular upon your mind." 
"Then," said Rotha, her voice several shades clearer, "you are sending me 
to be with a person that I don't--respect." 
"That is serious! Are you sure you are justified in such an opinion, with 
no more grounds?" 
"I cannot help it," said Rotha. "I do not think I have reason to respect 
her." 
"Then how are you going to get along together?" 
"I am sure I do not know." 
"Rotha, I may ask this of you. I ask of you to behave as a lady should, 
in your aunt's house. I ask you to be well-bred and well-mannered always; 
whatever you feel." 
