
Tom responded, in a strong, earnest voice, and 
with great animation; 

“Then shall the king’s law be law of mercy, from 
this day, and never more be law of blood! Up 
from thy knees and away! To the Tower and say 
the king decrees the Duke of Norfolk shall not die!”  
The words were caught up and carried eagerly 
from lip to Hp far and wide over the hall, and as 
Hertford hurried from the presence, another pro- 
digious shout burst forth; 

“The reign of blood is ended! Long live Edward 
king of England!” 


CHAPTER XII 

AS soon as Miles Hendon and the little prince 
were clear of the mob, they struck down 
through back lanes and alleys toward the river. 
Their way was unobstructed until they approached 
London Bridge; then they plowed into the multitude 
again, Hendon keeping a fast grip upon the prince’s 
—no, the king’s— wrist. The tremendous news 
was already abroad, and the boy learned it from a 
thousand voices at once — “The king is dead!” 
The tidings struck a ctdll to the heart of the poor 
little waif, and sent a shudder through his frame. 
He realized the greatness of his loss, and was filled 
with a bitter grief; for the grim tyrant who had 
been such a terror to others had always been gentle 
with him. The tears sprung to his eyes and blurred 
all objects. For an instant he felt himself the most 
forlorn, outcast, and forsaken of God’s creatures — 
then another cry shook the night with its far-reaching 
thunders; “Long live King Edward the Sixth!” 
and this made his eyes kindle, and thrilled him with 
pride to his fingers’ ends. “Ah,” he thought, 
“how grand and strange it seems — am king!” 

Our friends threaded theh way slowly through the 
throngs upon the Bridge. This structure, which had 
stood for six hundred years, and had been a noisy 
and populous thoroughfare all that time, was a curious 
affair, for a closely packed rank of stores and 
shops, with family quarters overhead, stretched along 
both sides of it, from one bank of the river to the 
other. The Bridge was a sort of town to itself; it 
had its inn, its beerhouses, its bakeries, its haberdasheries, 
its food markets, its manufacturing industries, and 
even its church. It looked upon the two 
neighbors which it linked together — London and 
Southwark — as being well enough, as suburbs, but 
not otherwise particularly important. It was a close 
corporation, so to speak; it was a narrow town, 
of a single street a fifth of a mile long, its population 
was but a village population, and everybody in 
it knew all his fellow-townsmen intimately, and had 
known their fathers and mothers before them — and 
all their little family affairs into the bargain. It had 
its aristocracy, of coiurse — its fine old families of 
butchers, and bakers, and what not, who had occu- 
pied the same old premises for five or six hundred 
years, and knew the great history of the Bridge from 
beginning to end, and all its strange legends; and 
who always talked bridgy talk, and thought bridgy 
thoughts, and lied in a long, level, direct, substantial 
bridgy way. It was just the sort of population to 
be narrow and ignorant and self -conceited. Children 
were bom on the Bridge, were reared there, grew to 
old age and finally died without ever having set a 
foot upon any part of the world but London Bridge 
alone. Such people would naturally imagine that 
the mighty and interminable procession which 

moved througii its street night and day, with its 
confused roar of shouts and cries, its neighings and 
bellowings and bleatings and its muffled thundertramp, 
was the one great thing in this world, and 
themselves somehow the proprietors of it. And so 
they were in effect — at least they could exhibit it 
from their windows, and did — for a consideration 
whenever a returning king or hero gave it a fleeting 
splendor, for there was no place like it for affording 
a long, straight, uninterrupted view of marching 
columns. 

Men bom and reared upon the Bridge found life 
unendurably dull and inane elsewhere. History tells 
of one of these who left the Bridge at the age of 
seventy-one and retired to the country. But he 
could only fret and toss in his bed; he could not go 
to sleep, the deep stillness was so paiaful, so awful, 
so oppressive. When he was worn out with it, at 
last, he fled back to his old home, a lean and haggard 
specter, and fell peacefully to rest and pleasant 
dreams under the lulling music of the lashing waters 
and the boom and crash and thunder of London 
Bridge. 

In the times of which we are writing, the Bridge 
furnished “object lessons” in English history, for 
its children — namely, the livid and decaying heads 
of renowned men impaled upon iron spikes atop of 
its gateways. But we digress. 

Hendon’s lodgings were in the little inn on the 
Bridge. As he neared the door with his small friend, 
a rough voice said: 

“So, thou’rt come at last! Thou’lt not escape 

again, I warrant thee; and if pounding thy bones to 
a pudding can teach thee somewhat, thoult not 
keep us waiting another time, mayhap” — and John 
Canty put out his hand to seize the boy. 

Miles Hendon stepped in the way, and said: 

“Not too fast, friend. Thou art needlessly rough, 
methinks. What is the lad to thee?” 

“If it be any business of thine to make and 
meddle in others’ affairs, he is my son.” 

“’Tis a lie!” cried the little king, hotly. 

“Boldly said, and I believe thee, whether thy 
small head-piece be sound or cracked, my boy. 
But whether this scurvy ruffian be thy father or no, 
’tis all one, he shall not have thee to beat thee and 
abuse, according to his threat, so thou prefer to 
abide with me.” 

“I do, I do — know him not, I loathe him, and 
win die before I will go with him.” 

“Then ’tis settled, and there is naught more to 
say.” 

“We win see, as to that!” exclaimed John Canty, 
striding past Hendon to get at the boy; “by force 
shall he — ” 

“If thou do but touch him, thou animated offal, 
I will spit thee like a goose!” said Hendon, barring 
the way and laying his hand upon his sword-hilt. 
Canty drew back. “Now mark ye,” continued 
Hendon, “I took this lad under my protection 
when a mob of such as thou would have mishandled 
him, mayhap killed him; dost imagine I will desert 
him now to a worser fate? — for whether thou art his 
father or no — and sooth to say, I think it is a lie —  

a decent swift death were better for such a lad than 
life in such brute hands as thine. So go thy ways, 
and set quick about it, for I like not much bandying 
of words, being not overpatient in my nature.” 

John Canty moved off, muttering threats and 
curses, and was swallowed from sight in the crowd. 
Hendon ascended three flights of stairs to his room, 
with his charge, after ordering a meal to be sent 
thither. It was a poor apartment, with a shabby 
bed and some odds and ends of old furniture in 
it, and was vaguely lighted by a couple of sickly 
candles. The little king dragged himself to the bed 
and lay down upon it, almost exhausted with hunger 
and fatigue. He had been on his feet a good part 
of a day and a night, for it was now two or three 
o’clock in the morning, and had eaten nothing 
meantime. He murmured drowsily: 

“Prithee, call me when the table is spread,” and 
sunk into a deep sleep immediately. 

A snule twinkled in Hendon’s eye, and he said 
to himself: 
