This was the first personal accent which Yorke 
had caught in the doctor 's voice. Thinking, 
perhaps, to pursue a faint advantage, which he 
vaguely felt would be of interest to him when he 
grew stronger and had nothing else to do but 
study this young woman, he proceeded irrel 
evantly : 

" I did not know that you stayed here, till to 
day. It has been fortunate for me. It will be 
more fortunate still, if you are going to keep me 
on this bed all summer. Our hostess has been 
talking of you. She gave you such a pretty 
name ! I 've forgotten exactly what it was." 

" We will move you to the lounge to-morrow," 
replied the doctor, rising. Yorke made no an 
swer. He felt as if he were too sick a man to be 
snubbed. He found it more natural to think that 
his overthrown strength ought to have appealed 
to her chivalry, than to question if he had pre 
sumed upon the advantage which it gave him. In 
the subdued light of the sick-room all the values 
of his face were deepened ; he looked whiter for 
its setting of black hair, and his eyes darker for 
the pallor through which they burned. But the 
doctor was not an artist. She observed, and said 
to herself, " That is a cinchona look." 

She moved the night-lamp, gave a few orders, 



 

herself adjusted liis window and blinds, and, step 
ping lightly, left him. She did not go out-of-doors, 
but crossed the hall, and disappeared in her own 
part of the house. He heard, soon after, what he 
now knew to be the office-bell. It rang four or 
five times ; and he heard the distant feet of pa 
tients on the graveled walk that led to her door. 
After this there was silence, and he thought, 
" They have let her alone to rest now." It had 
not occurred to him before that she could be tired. 
He was restless, and did not sleep easily, and 
waked often. Once, far on in the night he 
thought it must have been, a noise in the back 
yard roused him. It was Handy rolling out the 
basket phaeton. Yorke heard whispers and 
hushed footfalls, and then the brisk trot of the 
gray pony. There was a lantern on the phaeton, 
which went flashing by his window, and crossed 
his wall with bright bars like those of a golden 
prison. He wished the blinds were open. He 
thought, " Now they have called that poor girl 
out again ! He pictured the desolate Maine 
roads. A vision of the forest pi esented itself to 
him : the great throat of blackness ; the outline of 
near things, wet leaves, twigs, fern-clumps, and 
fallen logs ; patches of moss and lichens, green 
and gray ; and the light from the lonely carriage 



 

streaming out ; above it the solitary figure of the 
caryatid, courageous and erect. He hoped the 
boy went with her. He listened some time to 
hear her return, but she did not come. 

When he awoke again it was about seven 
o clock. He was faint, and while he was ringing 
for his beef-tea, the phaeton came into the yard. 

" Put up the pony, Handy," he heard her say ; 
" she is tired out. Give me Old Oak, to-day." 

Yorke listened, feeling the strength of a new 
sensation. Was it possible that this young woman 
had practice enough to keep two horses ? He 
knew nothing of the natural history of cloctresses. 
He had thought of them chiefly as a species of 
higher nurse, poor women, who wore unbecom 
ing clothes, took the horse-cars, and probably 
dropped their " #'s," or said, " Is that so ? " 

It was later than usual, that morning, when 
Doctor Zay came round to him. It was another 
of those sentient, vivid June days, and the block 
of light on the brown carpet seemed to throb as 
she crossed it. The apple-blossoms on the bureau 
had begun to droop. She herself looked pale. 

"You are tired!" began the patient impul 
sively. 

" I have been up all night," said the doctor 
shortly. She sat down with the indefinable air 



 

which, holds all personalities at arms-length, and 
went at once to work. She examined the wounded 
arm, she bathed and bandaged the injured foot; 
she had him moved to the lounge, with Mr. 
Butterwell 's assistance. She was incommunicative as 
a beautiful and obedient machine. Yorke longed 
to ask what was the matter with her, but he did 
not dare. He felt sorry to* see her look so worn ; 
but he perceived that she did not require his 
sympathy. She looked more delicate for her 
weariness, which seemed to be subtly at odds with 
her professional manner. He would have liked 
to ask her a great many things, but her abstraction 
forbade him. He contented himself with the 
pathological ground upon which alone it was 
practicable to meet this exceptional young woman, 
and renewed his entreaties to be allowed to use 
his foot. 

"You do not trust me," she said, suddenly, lay 
ing down the sponge with which she had been 
bathing his arm. 

" You wrong me, Doctor Lloyd. I think I have 
proved that I do," 

"That is true. You have," she said, softening. 
" Trust me a while longer, then. No. Stay. Put 
your foot down, if you want to. Gently slowly 
but put it down." 



 

He did so. A low outcry escaped him ; lie grew 
very pale. 

" Now put it back," said the doctor grimly. 
But with that she melted like frost, and shone ; 
she hovered over him ; all the tenderness of the 
healer suffused her reticent face. 

" I am sorry to let you hurt yourself, but you 
will feel better ; you will obey me now. Is the 
pain still so sharp ? Give me the foot." As if 
it had been her property, she took the aching 
ankle in her warm, strong, and delicate hands, 
and for a few moments rubbed it gently and 
gravely ; the pain subsided under her touch. 

" What am I going to do ? " cried Yorke, de 
spairingly. 

" You are going to do admirably, Mr. Yorke, on 
invention for a while, on courage by and by. Your 
crutches will be here to-morrow night." 

Waldo Yorke looked at the young lady with a 
kind of loyal helplessness. He felt so subdued by 
his anomalous position that, had she said, " I have 
sent to Bangor for your work-basket," or, " to 
Omaha for your wife," he would scarcely have
experienced surprise. He repeated, " My crutches ? " 
in a vague, submissive tone. 

" I sent to Bangor for a pair of Whittemore 
crutches three days ago," replied the doctor quietly. 



" I should not want yon to use them before to-morrow. 
The stage will bring them at five o clock. 
If I should be out, do not meddle with them. No, 
on the whole, I had them addressed to myself. I 
