which the young member took in order to impress his views upon his
fellow members; but, as a specimen of his oratory at that time, and
because it will explain them sufficiently, I quote from a speech made
by him in the regular session during the year 1814:

“The humble aid which it would be in my power to render to measures
of Government shall be given cheerfully, if Government will pursue
measures which I can conscientiously support. Badly as I think of the
original grounds of the war, as well as of the manner in which it
has hitherto been conducted, if even now, failing in an honest and
sincere attempt to procure just and honorable peace, it will return
to measures of defence and protection such as reason and common sense
and the public opinion all call for, my vote shall not be withholden
from the means. Give up your futile object of invasion. Extinguish the
fires that blaze on your inland frontier. Establish perfect safety and
defense there by adequate force. Let every man that sleeps on your soil
sleep in security. Stop the blood that flows from the veins of unarmed
yeomanry and women and children. Give to the living time to bury and
lament their dead in the quietness of private sorrow.

“Having performed this work of beneficence and mercy on your inland
border, turn and look with the eye of justice and compassion on your
vast population along the coast. Unclinch the iron grasp of your
Embargo. Take measures for that end before another sun sets upon you.
With all the war of the enemy on your commerce, if you would cease
to war on it yourselves you would still have some commerce. Apply
that revenue to the augmentation of your navy. That navy will in turn
protect your commerce. Let it no longer be said that not one ship of
force, built by your hands, yet floats upon the ocean.

“Turn the current of your efforts into the channel which national
sentiment has already worn broad and deep to receive it. A naval
force, competent to defend your coast against considerable armaments,
to convoy your trade, and perhaps raise the blockade of your rivers,
is not a chimera. It may be realized. If, then, the war must be
continued, go to the ocean. If you are seriously contending for
maritime rights, go to the theater where alone those rights can be
defended. Thither every indication of your fortune points you. There
the united wishes and exertions of the nation will go with you. Even
our party divisions, acrimonious as they are, cease at the water’s
edge. They are lost in attachment to national character on the element
where that character is made respectable. In protecting naval interests
by naval means, you will arm yourselves with the whole power of
national sentiment, and may command the whole abundance of the national
resources. In time you may enable yourselves to redress injuries in the
place where they may be offered, and, if need be, to accompany your own
flag throughout the world with the protection of your own cannon.”

My young reader, without knowing much about the matter at issue, will
nevertheless be struck with the statesmanlike character of these
utterances. It is not often that a new member of Congress is able to
discuss public matters with such fullness of knowledge, and in a tone
of such dignity and elevation of sentiment. His fellow legislators were
not long in learning that the new member from New Hampshire was no raw
novice, but a publicist of remarkable ability, knowledge, and a trained
orator. In a discussion which sprang up between Mr. Webster and Mr.
Calhoun, the conceded leader of the House, the honors were at least
divided, if Mr. Webster did not win the larger portion.

While the young man was thus coming into national prominence his
residence in Washington helped him in a professional way. He began to
practice in the Supreme Court of the United States, being employed in
several prize cases. Judge Marshall was at that time chief justice, and
of him the young lawyer formed an exalted opinion. “I have never seen a
man,” he writes, “of whose intellect I had a higher opinion.”

On the 18th of April, 1814, the session of Congress terminated, and
Mr. Webster undertook the long and toilsome journey from Washington
to his New Hampshire home. It was not the same home which he left
when he was called a year earlier to attend the special session. His
house and library were destroyed by fire, and though the loss was
but six thousand dollars, it was a severe set-back to a lawyer whose
professional income had never exceeded two thousand dollars. He bore
the loss, however, with equanimity, since it involved only a loss of
money. His talent and education remained, and these were to earn him
hundreds of thousands of dollars in the years to come.




CHAPTER XXIII.

JOHN RANDOLPH AND WILLIAM PINKNEY.


Mr. Webster served four years in Congress as a Representative from his
native State. He had reached the age of thirty-one when he entered
the public service, and therefore, though not the youngest, was
among the youngest members of that important body. As we have seen,
though without previous legislative experience, he advanced at once
to a leading place and took prominent part in all the discussions
of important questions, his opinions always carrying weight. He was
opposed to the administration and its war policy, but he opposed it in
no factious spirit.

He distinguished himself particularly by his speeches on finance.
When a bill was proposed to establish a national bank, with a capital
of fifty millions of dollars, of which only four millions was to be
specie, and the balance to consist of Government stocks, then very much
depreciated, Mr. Webster rode forty miles on horseback from Baltimore
to Washington, in order to defeat what he regarded as a scheme to
create an irredeemable paper currency, fraught with widespread mischief
to the country. The vigorous speech which he made defeated the bill.
It is interesting to record that Mr. Calhoun, when the vote was
announced, walked across the floor of the House to where Mr. Webster
stood, and holding out both hands to him, told him that he should rely
upon his help to prepare a new bill of a proper character. When this
assurance was given Mr. Calhoun’s feelings were so stirred that he
burst into tears, so deeply did he feel the importance of some aid for
the Government, which he felt with Mr. Webster’s co-operation might be
secured.

It may be stated here that these great men cherished for each other
mutual respect and friendship, widely as they differed on some points.
The Senator from South Carolina showed this in a notable manner when he
arose from his deathbed (his death followed in a few days), and sat in
his place to listen to his great friend’s seventh of March speech, in
1850, looking a wan and spectral auditor from the next world.

The battle for sound money which Mr. Webster fought then has been
renewed in later years, as some of my young readers may be aware. In
his speeches he showed a thorough mastery of the subject which he
discussed. He showed the evils of a debased coin, a depreciated paper
currency, and a depressed and falling public credit, and it is largely
due to his efforts that the country emerged from its chaotic financial
condition with as little injury as it did.

I have spoken of Mr. Webster’s relations then and later to Mr. Calhoun.
Among the members of the House representing Virginia was the famous
John Randolph, of Roanoke, with whom it was difficult for any one
to keep on good terms. He saw fit to take offense at something said
by Mr. Webster, and sent him a challenge. Webster was never charged
by any man with physical cowardice, but he thoroughly despised the
practice of dueling. He was not to be coerced into fighting by any fear
that cowardice would be imputed to him. This may seem to us a very
trivial matter, but seventy years ago and even much later, it required
considerable moral courage to refuse a challenge. I place on record, as
likely to interest my readers, the letter in which Mr. Webster declined
to give satisfaction in the manner demanded.

“SIR: For having declined to comply with your demand yesterday in the
House for an explanation of words of a general nature used in debate,
you now ‘demand of me that satisfaction which your insulted feelings
require,’ and refer me to your friend, Mr.——, I presume, as he is the
bearer of your note, for such arrangements as are usual.

“This demand for explanation you, in my judgment, as a matter of right
were not entitled to make on me, nor were the temper and style of your
own reply to my objection to the sugar tax of a character to induce me
to accord it as a matter of courtesy.

“Neither can I, under the circumstances of the case, recognize in you a
right to call me to the field to answer what you may please to consider
an insult to your feelings.

“It is unnecessary for me to state other and obvious considerations
growing out of this case. It is enough that I do not feel myself bound
at all times and under any circumstances to accept from any man who
shall choose to risk his own life an invitation of this sort, although
I shall be always prepared to repel in a suitable manner the aggression
of any man who may presume upon such a refusal.

  “Your obedient servant,

  “DANIEL WEBSTER.”

Mr. Randolph did not press the matter nor did he presume upon the
refusal, but the matter was adjusted amicably. Nearly forty years
later a similar reply to a challenge was sent by a later Senator from
Massachusetts, Henry Wilson, and in both cases the resolute character
of the men was so well known that no one dared to taunt the writer with
cowardice.

While upon the subject of physical courage I am tempted to transcribe
from Mr. Harvey’s interesting volume an anecdote in which the famous
lawyer, William Pinkney, is prominently mentioned. In answer to the
question whether he ever carried pistols, Mr. Webster answered:

“No, I never did. I always trusted to my strong arm, and I do not
believe in pistols. There were some Southern men whose blood was hot
