"Yes," answered Dewey. "I cannot bear to feel that I am in the same city
and refrain from seeing her."

"Will she know you in your present rig?" suggested Bradley.

"I shall lose no time in buying a new outfit," said Dewey. "There must
be shops where all articles of dress can be obtained ready-made."

"I was afraid you were going as you are," said Bradley. "Of course she'd
be glad to see you, but she might be sensitive about her friends; and
that wouldn't be agreeable to you, I'm thinkin'."

"I thank you for your kind suggestion, my good friend," said Dewey; "no
doubt you are right."

Richard Dewey swallowed a hasty supper, and then sought the clothing
shops, where he had no difficulty in procuring a ready-made outfit. So
many persons came from the mines in his condition, desiring similar
accommodation, that he was not required to go far to secure what he
wanted.

Then, having obtained from Ben the proper directions, he took his way to
the house of Mrs. Armstrong, which he reached about eight o'clock.

"Can I see Miss Florence Douglas?" he asked.

Mrs. Armstrong, hearing the request, came herself to the door. She was
feeling anxious about the prolonged absence of her young friend.

"May I ask your name, sir?" she inquired.

"Richard Dewey."

"'Richard Dewey'?" repeated Mrs. Armstrong, in amazement. "Why, I
thought you were sick in bed!"

"What made you think so?" asked Dewey, in equal amazement.

"Your own note. Miss Douglas, on receiving it, went away at once with
the messenger, and has not returned."

"I have sent no note, and no messenger has come from me. I don't
understand you," said Richard Dewey, bewildered.

It was soon explained, and the bitter disappointment of Dewey may well
be imagined. This feeling was mingled with one of apprehension for the
personal safety of the young lady.

"This is indeed alarming," he ejaculated. "Who can have planned such an
outrage?"

"I will tell you, sir," said a voice.

Turning quickly, Richard Dewey's glance rested upon Jones.




CHAPTER XXVIII.

JONES CHECKMATES ORTON CAMPBELL.


"Who are you?" inquired Richard Dewey, not favorably impressed by the
appearance of the man who addressed him.

"You wouldn't know if I should tell you," said Jones; "so I may as well
say that I came out to San Francisco with Orton Campbell."

"Orton Campbell in the city?" exclaimed Dewey, apprehensively. "Had he
anything to do with the disappearance of Miss Douglas?"

"Everything, sir; but I can't tell you about it in the street. I will go
with you to your hotel."

"Tell me on the way," said Richard Dewey. "First, has any harm befallen
Florence--Miss Douglas?"

"None as yet."

"Is any threatened?"

"The loss of her liberty; but I will help you to thwart Orton Campbell."

Jones told the story, which need not be repeated here, as it is already
known to the reader. He had difficulty in restraining Mr. Dewey from
starting out instantly to the rescue of the young lady, but on his
representing that she was safe, and that it would be soon enough to go
out in the morning, Richard Dewey yielded.

A little before eight o'clock, Jones, driving the same carriage in which
he had conveyed Florence to her place of captivity, halted in front of
Mrs. Bradshaw's dwelling.

"Remain in the carriage, Mr. Dewey," he said, "and I will see if I can't
secure the young lady without any fuss."

"Won't it be better for me to accompany you?"

"I think not, sir. Mrs. Bradshaw knows I am the one who brought Miss
Douglas here, and she will think it is all right. Stay!" he continued,
with a sudden thought. "I have an idea. Mr. Campbell told Mrs. Bradshaw
that the young lady was insane. I will make her think that you are the
doctor from the asylum come to take Miss Douglas back with you."

"Did Orton Campbell really intend such an outrage?" asked Richard Dewey,
in a tone of horror.

"Yes, if Miss Douglas wouldn't consent to marry him."

"Go, then, and lose no time."

Jones knocked at the door, which was opened by Mrs. Bradshaw in person.
She naturally regarded Jones with surprise, not anticipating so early a
call.

"How is Miss Douglas?" he asked.

"Very contrary," answered the landlady. "I can't get her to eat. It's my
belief she means to starve herself."

"It's a crazy freak," said Jones, shrugging his shoulders. "Well, I've
come to take her away."

"To take her away--so soon?" asked Mrs. Bradshaw, in surprise.

"Yes, Mr. Orton thought it best."

"Is he with you?"

"No."

"I think I see some one in the carriage."

"To be sure. It's the mad doctor from the asylum. Don't let Miss Douglas
know it," continued Jones, lowering his voice, "or she wouldn't consent
to go with us."

"I see," answered the landlady, nodding. "Do you want to go up now?"

"Yes; let me see her alone, so that I can tell her a story which will
quiet her suspicions."

"Mr. Campbell hasn't paid me all he promised yet," said Mrs. Bradshaw,
rather uneasily.

"Oh, that's all right," said Jones. "He never forgets his promise--and
seldom keeps it," he said to himself.

Florence was sitting on the lounge in her room in rather a despondent
state of mind when the door opened, and she looked up, expecting to see
Orton Campbell.

Jones closed the door behind him, and then, putting his hand over his
lips, said, "Miss Douglas, I bring you good news."

"Are you not the man who brought me out here yesterday?"

"The same one."

"Then how have you the face to show yourself in my presence?"

"Because I am come to free you from your imprisonment."

Florence started to her feet in some excitement. "If this were true!"
she exclaimed. "But no; you are an agent of Orton Campbell, and this is
some new trick of his."

"I was an agent of Orton Campbell, but he deceived me, and I am his
enemy."

"Is he with you?" asked Florence, suspiciously.

"No; but in the carriage outside is one whom you will be glad to meet."

"Who is it?"

"Richard Dewey."

"You brought me a note from him which he never wrote. How do you expect
