haps?" 

" O my boy, we cannot decide this in a moment ! You 
are worn out with excitement, and must have a little rest ; 
and I must think it over. Can I see her some time ? " 

" Yes. She has been sent here. She is in the hospital. 
Every care and attention will be paid her." 

" Then we will not settle that point to-night. Sit down 
here and rest." 



CHAPTER XVII. 

IN spite of Robert Alston's splendid physique and buoy- 
ant temperament, his night's vigil and the anxiety of the 
past week had begun to tell upon him. He looked worn 
and haggard ; his lips seemed compressed to a thin, bluish 
line. His uncle had tried to make him sleep some through 
the night, but the greater part of it had been spent in 
restlessly pacing the floor, even if he refrained from 
impatient questioning. He had asked for leave of absence 
from the counting-house, so he could have the day to 
devote to his uncle and the sadder errands. 

There were many little things that had not been related 
in the hurried story of the evening before. The young 
man did not spare himself, and yet it seemed as if the 
foolish girl had made fully as great a sacrifice, unless she 
had counted on the possible wealth of the youth. It was 
quite evident she had taken no special interest in any of 
his pursuits, neither had it been from any ardent regard 
for him. 

They went together to see her. There was one cut at 
the edge of her hair, and the discolor from bruises had not 
quite disappeared. Seen there, in that strange life-in- 
death state, the face had come back to a curious, youtliful 
beauty, the beauty put in marble when a soul is not needed. 
The skin was fine and soft, full of sinuous blue pencillings, 
the rounded chin had a deep dimple, the full, curved lips 
were closed even now with a coquettish half smile, and the 
long bronze lashes shadowed the pale cheeks. Once, she 
opened her eyes. They were of that infantile, purple blue, 





and Mr. Conover, well versed in the ways and wiles of 
womankind, could readily understand how dangerous their 
snares might be for unwary youth. Yet it had seemed as 
if that would be the least of all temptations to Robert 
Alston. 

They saw one of the physicians presently. It was merely 
an iteration of the verdict. There was no reason why she 
should not live ; her physical injuries had not been severe, 
but the brain had suffered beyond any repair. 

" She will be harmless," he said in a gentle tone ; 
''never violent, and probably sink into mild idiocy. Of 
course she will need continual care. I think I should 
advise an asylum, unless she has friends, such as mother 
or sister. Even then it is a tiresome charge to one unused 
to such cases." 

' ' Do you know anything about her mother ? " Uncle 
Robert asked afterward. 

Rob gave a shiver of disgust. "No," he answered; 
''they quarrelled bitterly the last time she was here, and 
they are not people one would care to hunt up, even if we 
could." 

" Of course," the elder said gravely, " there is only one 
thing to do at present. When she is discharged from here 
she must be placed somewhere in safety, and provision 
made for her. An asylum will be the best." 

If she had died ! They could not but think of that sim- 
ple ending to the tragedy, and yet God had not chosen 
so to make it. And how to take the next important step 
rightly and truly for this young soul was a matter of 
grave consideration to Robert Conover. 

As the)' emerged from the hospital he said to his nephew, 
" Rob, will you take me to see the child? " 

The young man flushed vividly, but assented Uncle 
Robert made no comment, but presently his nephew broke 
the silence. 

" I suppose you will think me heartless," in a kind of 




justifying tone, u only you can't see all at once, Uncle 
Robert, and understand how pressed I was on every side. 
She did not want the child at home, and it was very trou- 
blesome at night. Then I needed my strength and ener- 
gies for business. It was much cheaper to put it out, a 
consideration I could not afford to despise, and it seemed 
to me much better. I do suppose it weakened the tie ; I 
never can make it my child. I feel as if I had no busi- 
ness with a child." 

'' And you surety have not, Robert, at your age. It is 
a sad commentary on early marriages. I never imagined 
you could be beguiled into such a step, and so this was one 
of the points never discussed. There is too slight a 
responsibility attached to it nowadays. I am not sure 
but among our other studies we ought to educate young 
men for marriage, train them to the gravity, the sacred- 
ness of the step, the awful solemnity of the vow, ' for 
better, for worse.' " 

'' How could I have done it ? I ask myself the question 
over and over again. I had been drinking a little wine 
that night, but that didn't take away my senses. And I 
didn't care for marriage, either ; I had not been thinking 
of it " 

" Just what I said. If it had been held as a solemn 
sacrament, more important than joining a church even, or 
any secular step in life, you could not have done it. 
Didn't you say last night you were warned." 

" Yes, two or three of the fellows talked about them in 
a rather sneering manner, which always made me feel as 
if I wanted to get up and fight. And yet they were 
received in society, in some society, for Addie's music 
made her a great favorite. And no one quite knew until 
the sister went to Europe ; then a great deal of gossip came 
out about them. But it was too late for me." 

Uncle Robert understood more clearly than his nephew 
how it had happened ; how a few moments of inconsiderate 





imprudence had wrecked, if not a whole life, at least sev- 
eral years of it. A beautiful, designing girl, vain, selfish, 
with no thought beyond her own present pleasure and 
advancement, fancying, no doubt, this would be a road to 
health and indulgence. While he could not absolve the 
tad from a great share of the responsibility, he still felt he 
was not all to blame. 

" It is remarkable how you kept her from making any 
overtures to the family," he said, a little astonished that 
it had been done so successfully. 

" When her mother threatened so, in the summer, I took 
my stand boldly. I said you and mother would not receive 
them. Honestly, I did not think you would, and I declared 
if they did it I would go entirely away and take some 
steps to have the marriage annulled. I am not sure but I 
should have then and there, only the trouble and disgrace 
seemed so horrible ! Then Addie suddenly changed and 
went at her mother in a fury. She loved me and she was 
not going to give me up, and she would wait until I was in 
some position to take care of her. She seemed so sorry 
and begged me to forgive her, and cried, and I didn't 
know what else to do. I thought something might happen 
to open a way out of it for me ; she might get tired and 
obtain a divorce. I was almost crazy." 

" You hid it very successfully." 

"Isn't it strange how we can live such double lives? 
But there was everything to help. Kathie was the great 
interest, you know, and I tried to act natural, not to 
overdo any where. It was for such a little while. I couldn't 
have kept it up very long. I think now Mrs. Weeks found 
