upright vigilance. Christina crossed the room with the 
step and smile of a ministering angel, and introduced 
herself to the young lady from Northampton. She had 
once told Rowland that she would show him some day 
how gracious her manners could be ; she was now re 
deeming her promise. Rowland, watching her, saw 
Mary Garland rise slowly in response to her greeting, 
and look at her with serious deep -gazing eyes. The 
almost dramatic opposition of these two keenly interest 
ing girls touched Rowland with a nameless apprehension, 
and after a moment he preferred to turn away. In doing 
so he noticed Roderick. The young sculptor was stand 
ing planted on the train of a lady 's dress, gazing across 



 

at Christina 's movements with undisguised earnestness. 
There were several more pieces of music ; Rowland sat 
in a corner and listened to them. When they were over 
several people began to take their leave, Mrs. Hudson 
among the number. Rowland saw her come up to 
Madame Grandoni, clinging shyly to Mary Garland 's 
arm. Mary had a brilliant eye and a deep colour in her 
cheek. The two ladies looked about for Roderick, but 
Roderick had his back turned. He had approached 
Christina, who, with an absent air, was sitting alone, 
where she had taken her place near her innocent rival, 
looking at the guests pass out of the room. Christina 's 
eye, like Mary s, was bright, but her cheek was pale. 
Hearing Roderick 's voice, she looked up at him sharply ; 
then silently, with a single quick gesture, she motioned 
him away. He obeyed her, and came and joined his 
mother in bidding good -night to Madame Grandoni. 
Christina in a moment met Rowland 's glance and 
immediately beckoned him to come to her. He was 
familiar with her spontaneity of movement, and was not 
particularly surprised. She made a place for him on 
the sofa beside her ; he wondered what was coming now. 
He was not sure it was not a mere fancy, but it seemed 
to him that he had never seen her look just as she was 
looking then. It was a humble, touching, appealing 
glance, which threw into wonderful relief the nobleness 
of her beauty. " How many more metamorphoses," he 
asked himself, "am I to be treated to before we have 
done?" 

"I want to tell you," said Christina, "I have taken 
an immense fancy to Miss Garland. Aren't you glad ?" 

"Delighted !" exclaimed poor Rowland. 

" Ah, you don 't believe it," she said, with soft dignity. 

"Is it so hard to believe?" 

" Not that people in general should admire her, but 
that I should. But I want to tell you ; I want to tell 
some one, and I can't tell Miss Garland herself. She 



thinks me already a horrid false creature, and if I were 
to express to her frankly what I think of her I should 
simply disgust her. She would be quite right ; she has 
repose, and from that point of view I and my doings 
must seem monstrous. Unfortunately I haven't repose. 
I am trembling now ; if I could ask you to feel my arm, 
you would see ! But I want to tell you that I admire 
Miss Garland more than any of the people who call 
themselves her friends except, of course, you. Oh, I 
know that ! To begin with, she is extremely handsome, 
and she doesn 't know it." 

"She is not generally thought handsome," said Row 
land. 

" Evidently ! That 's the vulgarity of the human mind. 
Her head has great character, great natural style. If a 
woman is not to be a brilliant beauty in the regular way, 
she will choose, if she 's wise, to look like that. She will 
not be thought pretty by people in general, and desecrated, 
as she passes, by the stare of every vile wretch who chooses 
to thrust his nose under her bonnet ; but a certain number 
of intelligent people will find it one of the delightful things 
of life to look at her. That lot is as good as another ! 
Then she has a beautiful character !" 

"You found that out soon !" said Rowland, smiling. 

" How long did it take you ? I found it out before I 
ever spoke to her. I met her the other day in Saint 
Peter 's ; I knew it then. I knew it do you want to 
know how long I have known it ?" 

"Really," said Rowland, "I didn 't mean to cross- 
examine you." 

" Do you remember mamma 's ball in December ? We 
had some talk, and you then mentioned her not by name. 
You said but three words, but I saw you admired her, 
and I knew that if you admired her she must have a 
beautiful character. That 's what you require !" 

" Upon my word," cried Rowland, "you make three 
words go very far !" 



 

" Oh, Mr. Hudson has also spoken of her." 

" Ah, that 's better !" said Rowland. 

" I don 't know ; he doesn 't like her." 

"Did he tell you so?" The question left Rowland 's 
lips before he could stay it, which he would have done 
on a moment 's reflection. 

Christina looked at him intently. "No!" she said 
at last. " That would have been dishonourable, wouldn 't 
it ? But I know it from my knowledge of him. He 
doesn 't like perfection ; he is not bent upon being safe 
in his likings ; he is willing to risk something ! Poor 
fellow, he risks too much !" 

Rowland was silent ; he did not care for the thrust ; 
but he was profoundly mystified. Christina beckoned 
to her poodle, and the dog marched stiifly across to her. 
She gave a loving twist to his rose-coloured top-knot and 
bade him go and fetch her burnous. He obeyed, gathered 
it up in his teeth, and returned with great solemnity, 
dragging it along the floor. 

"I do her justice. I do her full justice," she went 
on, with soft earnestness. I like to say that, I like to 
be able to say it. She is full of intelligence and courage 
and devotion. She doesn 't do me a grain of justice ; but 
that is no harm. There is something so fine in the aver 
sions of a good woman ! " 

If you would give Miss Garland a chance, " said 
Rowland, " I am sure she would be glad to be your 
friend. " 

"What do you mean by a chance? She has only to 
take it. I told her I liked her immensely, and she 
frowned as if I had said something disgusting. She 
looks very handsome when she frowns." Christina rose 
with these words and began to gather her mantle about 
her. "I don 't often like women," she went on. "In 
fact I generally detest them. But I should like to know 
that one well. I should like to have a friendship with 
her ; I have never had one ; they must be very delightful. 


But I slia n't have one now not if she can help it ! Ask 
her what she thinks of me ; see what she will say. I 
don 't want to know ; keep it to yourself. It 's too sad. 
So we go through life. It 's fatality that 's what they 
call it, isn 't it ? We please the people we don 't care for, 
we displease those we do ! But I appreciate her, I do 
her justice ; that 's the most important thing. It 's be 
cause I have imagination. She has none. Never mind ; 
it 's her only fault. I do her justice ; I understand very 
well." She kept softly murmuring and looking about 
for Madame Grandoni. She saw the good lady near the 
door, and put out her hand to Rowland for good-night. 
She held his hand an instant, fixing him with her eyes, 
the living splendour of which at this moment was some 
thing transcendent. "Yes, I do her justice," she re 
peated. " And you do her more ; you would lay down 
your life for her." With this she turned away, and be 
fore he could answer she left him. She went to Madame 
Grandoni, grasped her two hands, and held out her fore 
head to be kissed. The next moment she was gone. 

