or abuse him--he was utterly indifferent. But he would sacrifice a great
deal for the approbation of a woman, and he often got it; for women,
generally speaking, like best the men who hang upon their words and will
do anything under heaven for a smile and a word of praise--as is
natural.

Consequently, Leonora's evident interest in himself had pleased Julius
from the very first, and he had often done things for the sake of
hearing her say something flattering, which had meant more than he had
realised. There was no doubt whatever that his vanity had played an
important part in bringing him into his present position. Nor was he a
very exceptional man in this respect, save in the degree of his
qualities. Hundreds of men fall in love every day with women who flatter
them, and the passion is not less strong because it is of a low order.

It was over now, however, and the plunge was taken. The falling in love
was accomplished, and the being in love had begun. Henceforth the two
main considerations in his mind were to make life convenient and easy
for Leonora, in order that she might not cease to love him out of
discontent, and then to get over his inevitable meeting with Marcantonio
as soon as possible and as well as possible. He easily saw that these
two things were inseparable. If all question of future complication were
not removed at once by a decisive meeting with Carantoni, Leonora might
live in a state of fear and trembling for months to come. In order to
meet him it was necessary to have some place of abode for the time,
where Leonora might be happy--of course she should not know of the
encounter until it was over--and at the same time the spot must be so
chosen as to be tolerably accessible. He had intended to go to France
when it was over, and had therefore sent his box to Turin, meaning to
take it as soon as he felt free to move; Turin suggested Piedmont, and
Piedmont suggested a place where he had once spent a month in the
summer,--scenery, trout-fishing, considerable comfort, and not a soul
there excepting some of the local society of Turin, who found it
convenient and cheap. He at once determined to go thither, and to send
Marcantonio information of the fact, in order that he might find him as
soon as he pleased.

He no more expected, or wished, to avoid a duel than Marcantonio
himself. The one virtue which never deserted him was his courage. He
would let his adversary have a shot at him if he liked, but he himself
would fire in the air, of course. He did not think much about it, to
tell the truth, for he accepted the fact as the consequence of his
action, and occupied himself in providing for it without any judgment of
himself, for good or evil. He had once said to Leonora that the
enjoyment belonged to the man who ate, and not to the man who carved,
and she had guessed rightly that however well he might analyse the lives
of others, he never analysed his own. He had got the forbidden fruit and
he was glad of it, and meant to keep it all for himself, inwardly
rejoicing at the anger of those who would have prevented him, if they
could. And with all this, the fruit gave him an intense delight,
independently of the triumph of having obtained it. He was not a man who
tired of anything he liked so long as the thing itself did not change
and remained as sweet as ever.

There he sat at the helm all through the hours from midnight to dawn,
and Leonora slept peacefully in the cool sea air, at rest after all her
excitement and fatigue. Gradually the moonlight seemed to lose
distinctness, while gaining more strength and permeating the shadows of
the boat which had before been dark and well defined. The breeze blew
cooler and fresher than ever, bearing a faint chill in its breath, and
the water, from being like black velvet strewn with diamonds, turned
gradually grey and misty, so that the waves could all be seen with their
small crests and sharp rough edges. In front the rocky height of Ischia
seemed to tower to the sky, and soon it caught the first soft tinge of
the dawn. Quickly the rosy light crept downwards, falling gently from
tree to tree and from rock to rock, till it reached the water, and the
sea rippled and laughed in the sweetness of the summer morning.

Leonora moved in her sleep, and Julius, who was watching her, saw her
lips tremble a little as though she were talking in her dreams. Then she
started slightly, put out her hand, and opened her eyes. The blood
mounted to her cheeks as she met her lover's glance, and he looked from
the colour on the water to the colour on her face, and he saw that the
blush of the woman was fairer than the blush of the summer sea. She sat
up and turned from him a moment, and her hands were busy with her hair.

"Have you slept well, my dear one?" asked Julius. "I am afraid you were
terribly uncomfortable."

"Oh, so well," said she, still looking away and deftly putting a hairpin
in its place. "But I dreamed just as I woke up."

"What did you dream, sweetheart?" asked Julius, stretching his stiffened
limbs. He had scarcely moved for four hours; he could have borne it for
four hours longer if he had not wanted anything,--but he had risked
waking her in order to get a cigarette.

"I dreamed about you," said she. "You behaved so badly, I am not sure I
shall forgive you,--ever." She gave him a hesitating look as she bent
her head to arrange her hair.

"Tell me, darling," said he, laughing.

"It is nothing to laugh at," she answered. "And besides,--I don't know
whether I ought to tell you." She stopped and watched him with a little
shy laugh.

"Please do."

"Well,--of course this is in the strictest confidence,--you will never
tell any one. Do give me the bag, dear. I want the cologne water."

"And the hairpins and the handkerchiefs," added Julius, laughing, as he
stooped to get the bag out of the stern-sheets. "Please tell me the
dream."

Leonora took a handkerchief and wet it from the bottle of cologne water.
Then she began to dab it on her face.

"I dreamed that you"--dab--"picked me up in your arms and"--dab,
dab--"carried me down the stairs,"--dab, dab, dab,--"and just as you
were putting me into the"--dab--"into the boat, you dropped me into the
sea." A furious succession of dabs, then more cologne water and another
handkerchief.

"But you said something about that last night. You made me put you down
on the rocks, because you said you had dreamed I dropped you. Was that
another dream?"

Julius was watching her operations with a half-amused interest.

"Yes," said she, drying her face, "I dreamed it all over again, just
now."

"But when did you dream it first, dear? Yesterday?"

"Oh no! Ever so long ago,--ages ago." She looked down at the flower she
had put in her dress at the last minute. It was still fresh, and she
arranged it a little.

"Before you knew me?" asked Julius.

"Oh yes,--that is--before"--she blushed again.

"When was it?" he asked, amused and delighted.

"It was before that evening," she said at last, "when you met me in the
church. How long ago is that?"

"About ten years, I should think," said Julius gravely. It seemed an
endless time.

"Is it not strange?--and then, that I should dream it all again--it is
so funny. Why should you have dropped me? It would have been so easy to
carry me into the boat, and yet you seemed to stumble on purpose, and we
both fell in and were drowned. Is it not very odd?"

She seemed to have settled herself now, for the remainder of the
journey; the sun had risen quickly over the land while they were
talking, and she put up a parasol which lay on the opposite seat. She
did it unconsciously, not realising that she had not brought one with
her, but when she held it up, she looked at the handle and saw that it
was not one of her own. Then she remembered.

"Did you get it for me?" she asked, smiling.

"Yes," said Julius; "I knew you would want it, so I sent out for it last
night."

"A puggia!" shouted one of the men from behind the sail.

Julius put the helm up accordingly, and, as the boat fell off a little,
a big fishing smack ran across her bows.

A dozen rough fellows were lounging about in their woollen caps and
dirty shirts. They laughed gayly at the crazy foreigners as they went
by, and some of them waved their caps.

"Buon viaggio, eccellenza!" they shouted. Julius waved his hand in
answer to the greeting. Leonora was pleased.

"At all events," said she, "some one has wished us a pleasant journey.
It was sweet of you to get the parasol, dear."

So they chattered together awhile, and presently the boat went round
the point of the island to the north side, and they took in the sails,
and the six men pulled her lustily along under the shore, until they
reached the little harbour of Casamicciola.

"We can stay here and rest all day," said Julius, as they entered the
