
Onawandah took no further notice of them, but seemed to be very lame
with the old wound in his foot, which prevented his being obliged to
hunt with the men. He was resting and slowly gathering strength for the
hard task he had set himself, while he waited for a safe time to save
the children. They understood, but the suspense proved too much for
little Eunice, and she pined with impatience to be gone. She lost
appetite and color, and cast such appealing glances at Onawandah, that
he could not seem quite indifferent, and gave her a soft word now and
then, or did such acts of kindness as he could perform unsuspected. When
she lay awake at night thinking of home, a cricket would chirp outside
the wigwam, and a hand slip in a leaf full of berries, or a bark-cup of
fresh water for the feverish little mouth. Sometimes it was only a
caress or a whisper of encouragement, that re-assured the childish
heart, and sent her to sleep with a comfortable sense of love and
protection, like a sheltering wing over a motherless bird.

Reuben stood it better, and entered heartily into the excitement of the
plot; for he had grown tall and strong in these trying months, and felt
that he must prove himself a man to sustain and defend his sister.
Quietly he put away each day a bit of dried meat, a handful of parched
corn, or a well-sharpened arrowhead, as provision for the journey; while
Onawandah seemed to be amusing himself with making moccasins and a
little vest of deer-skin for an Indian child about the age of Eunice.

At last, in the early autumn, all the men went off on the war-path,
leaving only boys and women behind. Then Onawandah's eyes began to
kindle, and Reuben's heart to beat fast, for both felt that their time
for escape had come.

All was ready, and one moonless night the signal was given. A cricket
chirped shrilly outside the tent where the children slept with one old
squaw. A strong hand cut the skin beside their bed of fir-boughs, and
two trembling creatures crept out to follow the tall shadow that flitted
noiselessly before them into the darkness of the wood. Not a broken
twig, a careless step, or a whispered word betrayed them, and they
vanished as swiftly and silently as hunted deer flying for their lives.

Till dawn they hurried on, Onawandah carrying Eunice, whose strength
soon failed, and Reuben manfully shouldering the hatchet and the pouch
of food. At sunrise they hid in a thicket by a spring and rested, while
waiting for the friendly night to come again. Then they pushed on, and
fear gave wings to their feet, so that by another morning they were far
enough away to venture to travel more slowly and sleep at night.

If the children had learned to love and trust the Indian boy in happier
times, they adored him now, and came to regard him as an earthly
Providence; so faithful, brave, and tender was he,--so forgetful of
himself, so bent on saving them. He never seemed to sleep, ate the
poorest morsels, or went without any food when provision failed; let no
danger daunt him, no hardship wring complaint from him, but went on
through the wild forest, led by guides invisible to them, till they
began to hope that home was near.

Twice he saved their lives. Once, when he went in search of food,
leaving Reuben to guard his sister, the children, being very hungry,
ignorantly ate some poisonous berries which looked like wild cherries,
and were deliciously sweet. The boy generously gave most of them to
Eunice, and soon was terror-stricken to see her grow pale, and cold, and
deathly ill. Not knowing what to do, he could only rub her hands and
call wildly for Onawandah.

The name echoed through the silent wood, and, though far away, the keen
ear of the Indian heard it, his fleet feet brought him back in time, and
his knowledge of wild roots and herbs made it possible to save the child
when no other help was at hand.

"Make fire. Keep warm. I soon come," he said, after hearing the story
and examining Eunice, who could only lift her eyes to him, full of
childish confidence and patience.

Then he was off again, scouring the woods like a hound on the scent,
searching everywhere for the precious little herb that would counteract
the poison. Any one watching him would have thought him crazy, as he
rushed hither and thither, tearing up the leaves, creeping on his hands
and knees that it might not escape him, and when he found it, springing
up with a cry that startled the birds, and carried hope to poor Reuben,
who was trying to forget his own pain in his anxiety for Eunice, whom he
thought dying.

"Eat, eat, while I make drink. All safe now," cried Onawandah, as he
came leaping toward them with his hands full of green leaves, and his
dark face shining with joy.

The boy was soon relieved, but for hours they hung over the girl, who
suffered sadly, till she grew unconscious and lay as if dead. Reuben's
courage failed then, and he cried bitterly, thinking how hard it would
be to leave the dear little creature under the pines and go home alone
to father. Even Onawandah lost hope for a while, and sat like a bronze
statue of despair, with his eyes fixed on his Wild Rose, who seemed
fading away too soon.

Suddenly he rose, stretched his arms to the west, where the sun was
setting splendidly, and in his own musical language prayed to the Great
Spirit. The Christian boy fell upon his knees, feeling that the only
help was in the Father who saw and heard them even in the wilderness.
Both were comforted, and when they turned to Eunice there was a faint
tinge of color on the pale cheeks, as if the evening red kissed her; the
look of pain was gone, and she slept quietly, without the moans that had
made their hearts ache before.

"He hears! he hears!" cried Onawandah, and for the first time Reuben saw
tears in his keen eyes, as the Indian boy turned his face to the sky,
full of a gratitude that no words were sweet enough to tell.

All night Eunice lay peacefully sleeping, and the moon lighted
Onawandah's lonely watch, for Reuben was worn out with suspense, and
slept beside his sister.

In the morning she was safe, and great was the rejoicing; but for two
days the little invalid was not allowed to continue the journey, much as
they longed to hurry on. It was a pretty sight, the bed of hemlock
boughs spread under a green tent of woven branches, and on the pillow of
moss the pale child watching the flicker of sunshine through the
leaves, listening to the babble of a brook close by, or sleeping
tranquilly, lulled by the murmur of the pines. Patient, loving, and
grateful, it was a pleasure to serve her, and both the lads were
faithful nurses. Onawandah cooked birds for her to eat, and made a
pleasant drink of the wild-raspberry leaves to quench her thirst. Reuben
snared rabbits, that she might have nourishing food, and longed to shoot
a deer for provision, that she might not suffer hunger again on their
journey. This boyish desire led him deeper into the wood than it was
wise for him to go alone, for it was near nightfall, and wild creatures
haunted the forest in those days. The fire, which Onawandah kept
constantly burning, guarded their little camp where Eunice lay; but
Reuben, with no weapon but his bow and hunting knife, was beyond this
protection when he at last gave up his vain hunt and turned homeward.
Suddenly, the sound of stealthy steps startled him, but he could see
nothing through the dusk at first, and hurried on, fearing that some
treacherous Indian was following him. Then he remembered his sister, and
resolved not to betray her resting-place if he could help it, for he had
learned courage of Onawandah, and longed to be as brave and generous as
his dusky hero.

So he paused to watch and wait, and soon saw the gleam of two fiery
eyes, not behind, but above him, in a tree. Then he knew that it was an
"Indian devil," as they called a species of fierce animal that lurked in
the thickets and sprang on its prey like a small tiger.

"If I could only kill it alone, how proud Onawandah would be of me,"
thought Reuben, burning for the good opinion of his friend.

It would have been wiser to hurry on and give the beast no time to
spring; but the boy was over bold, and, fitting an arrow to the string,
aimed at the bright eye-ball and let fly. A sharp snarl showed that some
harm was done, and, rather daunted by the savage sound, Reuben raced
away, meaning to come back next day for the prize he hoped he had
secured.

But soon he heard the creature bounding after him, and he uttered one
ringing shout for help, feeling too late that he had been foolhardy.
Fortunately, he was nearer camp than he thought. Onawandah heard him,
and was there in time to receive the beast, as, mad with the pain of the
wound, it sprung at Reuben. There was no time for words, and the boy
could only watch in breathless interest and anxiety the fight which went
on between the brute and the Indian.

It was sharp but short; for Onawandah had his knife, and as soon as he
could get the snarling, struggling creature down, he killed it with a
skilful stroke. But not before it had torn and bitten him more
dangerously than he knew; for the dusk hid the wounds, and excitement
kept him from feeling them at first. Reuben thanked him heartily, and
accepted his few words of warning with grateful docility; then both
hurried back to Eunice, who till next day knew nothing of her brother's
danger.

Onawandah made light of his scratches, as he called them, got their
supper, and sent Reuben early to bed, for to-morrow they were to start
again.

Excited by his adventure, the boy slept lightly, and waking in the
night, saw by the flicker of the fire Onawandah binding up a deep wound
in his breast with wet moss and his own belt. A stifled groan betrayed
how much he suffered; but when Reuben went to him, he would accept no
help, said it was nothing, and sent him back to bed, preferring to
endure the pain in stern silence, with true Indian pride and courage.

Next morning, they set out and pushed on as fast as Eunice's strength
allowed. But it was evident that Onawandah suffered much, though he
would not rest, forbade the children to speak of his wounds, and pressed
