and planted a sledgehammer hit with his right in Tom's face. The Topover
went just where Oscar Chester had gone on a similar occasion at
Plattsburg--on the ground, flat on his back. Doubtless the leader of the
young ruffians was greatly astonished, not to say confounded, at this
unexpected reception, for his historical studies had been neglected, and
he had never heard of the Battle of Plattsburg, at least the particular
one to which we refer.

Dory did not think it necessary to push the battle any farther at the
present moment, though Tom instantly sprang to his feet, in spite of
some confusion in his ideas. With one eye on his assailant, Dory
retreated a few steps, and then resumed his march on the wharf.

"Hold on! I hain't licked you yet, and I'm go'n to do it afore I get
through," said Tom, moving towards his intended victim.

"I can't wait for you to do it now," replied Dory, as he broke into a
run.

But Tom began to swear like a pirate, and rushed after Dory. The latter
had no difficulty in keeping out of his way, and he reached the wharf
just as the villains in the boats had shoved them clear of the pier.
Kidd had put six of the party in each barge, and they had manned the
oars. But they had been obliged to leave their leader behind.

Tom Topover now observed this bit of strategy, and he divided his vials
of wrath between the coxswain and his lieutenant.




CHAPTER XIII.

A VICTORY FOR THE TOPOVERS.


Dory Dornwood reached the wharf too late to prevent the ruffians from
getting off in the boats; and his failure filled him with consternation.
It was not for a few minutes, as Tom Topover had said, that the ruffians
wanted them, but for all day, or for a week or a month, if they were not
sooner taken from them. Living on the river and near the lake, such
fellows would naturally take to the water, and all or most of them knew
how to handle an oar, but not one of them could be called a skilful
boatman, though Kidd Digfield claimed to be a sailor on the ground that
he had made two trips in a lumber schooner.

Even if the Topovers were competent to handle a common row-boat, it was
quite another thing to manage a barge fifty feet long, pulled by twelve
oars. If they succeeded in getting the boats out of the river, they were
likely to swamp them in the waves, smash them on the rocks, or grind
their cedar bottoms on the gravelly beaches. Dory had a genuine
affection for the Winooski, and it grieved him sorely to see her in the
hands of such a villainous crew as the Topovers.

Of course there was nothing to be done at Beech Hill until the barges
were recovered. The wind was northwest and blowing fresh, as on the day
before, and it was dangerous for an unskilful crew to venture out on the
lake. The lives of the reckless party would be in peril as well as the
boats.

Dory had but a few moments to consider the matter. Matt Randolph and
Oscar Chester were near him, out of breath after the run they had made.
Tom Topover had retreated to the shore of the pond; and the coxswain of
the Winooski, not wishing to engage in a fight, had neglected to follow
him. Nim Splugger had taken command of the Gildrock, and Kidd Digfield
of the Winooski. They had made sure to put a couple of lengths between
the barges and the wharf, and in this position they were as safe from
any interference of the boys on shore as though they had been in the
middle of the lake.

There was no boat at the grove, and no means of pursuing the captors of
the barges. In fact, nothing at all could be done, and for the moment
the situation looked hopeless to the coxswains. Kidd proceeded to give
directions to his crew as soon as the immediate danger of capture was
passed. Taking the tiller-lines himself, he brought something like order
out of the confusion in his crew. After a great deal of sharp talk, he
succeeded in getting his fellows so that they could pull a stroke
together, and the Winooski slowly moved towards the lower end of the
lake.

Kidd could not help seeing the chief Topover on the shore, and as soon
as his crew were in working order, he headed to the point where he
stood. Dory immediately observed the change in the course of the
Winooski, and understood the purpose of her present coxswain, which was
to take Tom on board. By this time Matt and Oscar were as near the spot
where Tom was waiting for the boat as Dory was.

"Head them off!" shouted Dory, as he started at the top of his speed.

"Pull lively, fellers!" yelled Kidd Digfield, when he saw the three
students running towards his leader.

They did pull with all their might, and as the Winooski was bound to go
ahead when the oars crossed her gunwale, she was too much for the
runners on the shore. Dory hoped one of the clumsy oarsmen would "catch
a crab" at that important moment, but not one of them gratified his
desire. He was within a couple of rods of Tom, and was all ready to
pitch into him, when Kidd ordered his crew to stop rowing, and then to
back water.

The inexperienced coxswain had not calculated well, and the boat lost
her headway when her sharp bow was within ten feet of the shore. Dory's
hopes swelled when he saw the boat come to a stand, and he increased his
speed.

"Pull again!" shouted Kidd, almost crazy with excitement, when he
realized that he was losing the game.

But his undisciplined crew were in confusion, and only half of them
could bring their oars to bear. The barge went ahead again just as Dory
was about to pounce on Tom Topover. The leader of the ruffians saw his
peril, and he did not seem to be "spoiling for a fight" at just that
moment, perhaps because his late victim had been reinforced by a couple
of his companions. He had not another instant to spare, and Tom made a
vigorous leap for the bow of the Winooski.

The stem of the barge was not more than three or four feet distant when
the Topover made his leap, but the pointed bow was an ugly foundation to
strike upon. He could not throw his body into the fore sheets, but he
succeeded in grasping the gunwale with both hands, while the lower half
of his body went into the water. Unfortunately the force of his blow had
been imparted to the forward part of the barge, and it had been shoved
farther away from the shore.

Tom Topover dragged himself into the Winooski. Seizing a boathook, he
stood up in the bow of the boat, evidently intending to use it in case
of need in defending himself from an attack of his pursuers. The two
coxswains reached the shore with their wind about gone, to find that ten
feet of deep water lay between them and the nearest part of the
Winooski. They could leap into the water and swim to her, and Oscar
Chester proposed to do so; but this would have been folly, for the
ruffians could easily beat them off with their oars and the boathooks.

Nim Splugger, who had assumed the command of the Gildrock, did not claim
to be a sailor, though he had often pulled an oar. He lacked confidence
in his own ability, and was therefore not so imperative in his orders
as Kidd. The boat was clear of the wharf, and he took time to arrange
his crew at the oars. Before he could get them into working order, their
attention was attracted to Tom and the movements of the Winooski. They
rested on their oars, watching the issue of the affair near the shore.

"Now, back her, fellers!" yelled Kidd Digfield, as soon as he saw that
Tom was in the boat.

"No, you don't back her, Kidd!" roared Tom Topover. "That ain't no way
to do it! Pull on this side," and the leader pointed to the starboard
side; "back on t'other!"

Tom was right, if he did not claim to be a sailor, and Kidd was wrong,
for backing her would only have sent the barge along parallel with the
shore, with the chances of a deviation which would have thrown the stern
within reach of the students on shore. Tom called his disciples by name,
and told each one what to do. Kidd took in his captain's idea, and
helped him with his words. Under their united directions, the head of
the Winooski was thrown around, and she was forced out into the lake.

"I hain't done with you yet, Dory," yelled Tom, shaking his fist at the
proper coxswain of the barge. "Afore you are a week older I'll give you
the biggest lickin' you ever got in your life. I'll crack half the bones
in your body! I'll mash your head till you won't know it from a last
year's punkin!"

"You had better bring those boats back before you get into hot water,"
replied Dory, more in grief than in anger. "Let me tell you that you are
stealing them, and Captain Gildrock will haul you up before the court
for it."

"Shut up, you monkey milksop! When we've done with the boats we'll set
'em a-fire!" returned Tom.

"I can't stand this! I shall boil over!" exclaimed Oscar Chester. "I
should like to get near enough to that scallawag to pitch into him."

"Keep cool, Oscar," said Dory. "We can't do anything just now, and it's
no use to boil over."

"What makes that fellow so down on you, Dory?" asked Matt Randolph. "He
didn't say anything to Oscar and me."

"Perhaps I gave him reason to be down upon me, though I only defended
