know, however, she had learned, that such love as their marriage was to
have at present must be supplied principally by herself, and she had
accustomed her mind to accept this idea; if she was ever discontented,
she had only to recall the dreary void of her life before she knew him,
and she was reconciled. But while she was still arranging her existence
upon these foundations, a new element rose; her jealousy was excited,
and it was the strongest passion she had. She discovered that Lucian was
very apt to be more or less in love with every attractive woman, every
lovely young girl, he happened to meet. True, it was only a temporary
absorption; but it was real enough while it lasted. To this the jealous
wife could not accustom herself, this she found herself unable to take
"lightly." All the moodiness came back to her eyes, she grew suspicious
and sharp; such good looks as she had were obscured, in her unhappiness
she seemed larger and more round-shouldered than ever.

She was too proud to appeal to her husband, to tell him that he was
torturing her. So they lived on. He was wholly unconscious of the extent
of her sufferings, though he knew that she had a jealous nature; he felt
that he was a good husband, he had really married her more to please her
than to please himself; she had not so much as one unkind word, one
unkind look, with which to reproach him. He never neglected her, she
could not say that he did. She did not say it; her only wish was that he
would neglect some other persons. She preferred this condition of
things, however, racked though she often was, to any open discussions
between them, any explanations; her instinct warned her that
explanations might be worse than the reality. A woman who loves is
capable of any cowardice; or is it--any courage?

Margaret's little conversational cushion had brought to Mrs. Spenser's
mind the thought that she had perhaps been speaking acrimoniously. She
did not mean to be acrimonious; but she was not a southerner, as Lucian
was, by birth at least, and he was making a great deal of this southern
origin of his whenever he was with Garda Thorne. He was with her every
day; true, his wife was present, and other persons; and Garda herself
was engaged to Mrs. Rutherford's nephew, Evert Winthrop, who had gone
north for three weeks or so on business just before they came. But there
might be fifty wives and five hundred other persons present, poor
Rosalie thought, Lucian would look at that beautiful girl and talk to
that beautiful girl, engaged or not engaged, whenever he pleased. She
accused him in her heart of not having told her that there was any such
person in Gracias. But the truth was (and she knew it) that, as she had
never been able to respond with sympathy to allusions on his part to
such acquaintances, much less to any recitals concerning them, he had
learned (as he had not a grain of malice) not to make them. As for
Gracias, she herself had proposed their coming there; she had not cared
to spend the winter in New York or Washington, and see her husband
cajoled by society; she had never loved society, and now she hated it;
Lucian's content was not in the least dependent upon it, fortunately. He
had described this little Florida town to her with a good deal of
amusing decoration, she had thought that she should like to see it for
herself; in her painstaking, devoted way she had studied the sketches he
had made while there until she was much better acquainted with them than
he was himself. There had been no sketch of Garda Thorne, no sketch in
words or water-colors; but perhaps if her jealousies had been less
evident, there might have been. She knew that her jealousies were a
weakness. That did not make them any the less hard to bear; it was, each
separate time, as if Lucian and the person he was for the moment
admiring were engaged in stabbing her to the heart; only, in some
miraculous way, she lived on.

On the present occasion she said no more about southern patriotism, but
gazed in silence at the near shores as the skiffs glided round the next
bend. They were in a wide salt-marsh, a flat reedy sea; the horizon
line, unbroken by so much as a bush, formed an even circle round them.
It was high tide, the myriad little channels were full, the whole marsh
was afloat; the breeze fanning their faces had a strong salty odor, the
sedges along shore were stiff with brine. Tall herons waded about, or,
poised on one leg among the reeds, gazed at them, as they passed, with
high-shouldered indifference; now and then a gray bird rose from the
green as they approached, and with a whir of wings sped away before
them, sounding his peculiar wild cry. The blue seemed to come down and
rest on the edge of the marsh all round them, like the top of a tent; it
was like sailing through a picture of which they could always see
(though they never reached it) the frame.

The stream they were following was not one of the marsh channels; it was
a tide-water creek which penetrated several miles into Patricio, and
after a while they came to the solid land.

"The odor of Florida--I perceive it," said Lucian; "the odor of a
pitch-pine fire! And I don't know any odor I like better." The stream
wound on, the banks grew higher, palmettoes began to appear; they all
leaned forward a little in the golden air, they formed the most graceful
groups of curiosity. At length as the skiffs turned the last bend, a
house came into sight. It was a ruin.

But the pitch-pine fire was there, all the same; it had been made on the
ground behind a small out-building. This out-building had preserved
three of its sides and the framework of its roof; the roof had been
completed by a thatch of palmetto, the vanished façade had been gayly
replaced by a couple of red calico counterpanes suspended from the
thatch. Here lived a family of "poor whites"--father, mother, and six
children; their drawing-room was the green space before the kitchen;
their bedchambers were behind the calico façade; their kitchen was an
iron pot, at this moment suspended over the fragrant fire. The father
had just come home in his roughly made cart, drawn by the most wizened
of ponies, with a bear which he had killed in a neighboring swamp; the
elder boys were bringing up fish from their dug-out in the creek; the
mother, her baby on her arm, lifted her bed-quilt wall to smile
hospitably upon the visitors. They did not own the land, these people;
they were not even tenants; they were squatters, and mere temporary
squatters at that. They had nothing in the world beyond the few poor
possessions their cart could hold; they were all brown and well, and
apparently perfectly happy.

"They look contented," said Margaret, as, after accepting the
hospitalities of the place, which the family hastened to offer--the best
in their power--a clean gourd with water from the mansion's old well, a
look at the bear, the baby, and the pet alligator of tender years
confined in a pen near by, they took their way along an old road leading
down the island towards the south.

"They are contented," said Lucian. "For one thing, they are never
cold; poor people can stand a great deal when winter is taken out of
their lives. Here, too, they can almost get their food for the
asking--certainly for the hunting and fishing. Yes, yes: if I had to be
very poor--if we had to be very poor, Rosalie--I should say, with all
my heart, let it be in Florida!"

These sallies of Lucian's fancy were always rather hard for his wife;
she admired them, of course--she admired everything Lucian said; but she
could not see any reasonable connection between their life, under any
emergencies that could come to it, and the life of people who lived
behind a façade of counterpane, who caught bears, and ate them from an
iron pot. However, there must be one, since Lucian saw it; she smiled
assent, therefore, and did her best to answer warmly, "Oh yes, in
Florida!"

"But I suppose they have very little chance to improve here--to rise,"
began Margaret.

"I don't want them to rise," said Lucian, in his light way; "too much
'rising,' in my opinion, is the bane of our American life. The ladder's
free to all, or rather the elevator; and we spend our lives, the whole
American nation, in elevators."

Rosalie fully agreed with her husband here. This was a subject upon
which she had definite opinions. She thought that every one should be as
charitable as possible, and she herself lived up to this belief by
giving away a generous sum in charity every year. Her ideas were
liberal; she thought that "the poor" should have plenty of soup and
blankets in the winter, as well as coals (somehow, in charity, it seemed
more natural to say "coals"); there should be a Christmas-tree for every
Sunday-school, with a useful present for each child; she would have
liked, had it been possible, to reintroduce May-poles on May-day;
May-day would come at the North about the last of June. She had a
dislike for the free-school system; she thought school-girls should not
have heels to their shoes; she thought there should be a property
qualification attached to the suffrage. She looked at Torres, who was by
her side, wondering if he would understand these ideas if she should
explain them; and she thought that perhaps he might. She was doing her
best, as Lucian's wife--she had been doing it ever since she arrived in
Gracias--to discover the "gold mine" which he saw in this young man; so
far (as she had but little sense of humor) she had not succeeded. Once
she asked Lucian what it was that he found so amusing in the Cuban.

"Oh, well, he has so many fixed ideas, you know," Lucian answered.

His wife said nothing, she, too, had fixed ideas; she could not see,
though she tried to, humbly enough, how any one could help having them.
Torres could now speak a little English; but as Rosalie could talk in
Spanish in a slow, measured sort of way, their conversations, which were
never lively, were carried on in the last-named language; it was
understood in Gracias that they were "great friends."

Torres had been brought from his retirement by Lucian. Lucian, who told
everybody that he delighted in him, had gone down to the Giron
plantation to find him on the very day of his arrival in Gracias; and
Torres, yielding to his friend's entreaties, had consented to appear
again in "society."

In his own estimation, the Cuban had never swerved from his original
posture, of waiting. He had not believed one word of his aunt's story of
Garda's engagement; women were credulous where betrothals were
concerned; they were, indeed, congenitally weak in all such matters.
Manuel--a masculine mind though unregulated--was still absent, engaged
in seeing the world (at Key West); but he had been able to obtain a
good deal of consolation from the society of the Señor Ruiz, who had not
credited the ridiculous tale any more than he himself had.

