cross the little field which lay between his old 
home and his new, and to disappear for whole 
spaces of time from the view of the colonel's 
family. 

It was one evening in November. Mrs. Barker 



 

was just sitting down to her tea, and Christopher 
was preparing himself to leave her. I should remark that Mrs. Barker had called on the former 
Mrs. Blumenfeld, and established civil relations 
between the houses. 

" Won't you stay, Christopher ? " asked his sister. 

"No thank ye. I've got a little woman over 
there, who's expecting me." 

" Does she set as good a table for you as I used 
to do? in those days when I could," the house 
keeper added with a sigh. 

" Well, she aint just up to some o your arts," said 
Christopher, with a contented face in which his 
blue eye twinkled with a little slyness; "but I'll 
tell you what, she can cook a dish o pot pie that 
you can't beat, nor nobody else; and her rye bread 
is just uncommon ! " 

" Rye bread ! " said the housekeeper with an 
utterance of disdain. 

" I'll bring a loaf over," said Christopher nodding 
his head; "and you can give some to Miss Esther 
if you like. Good night ! " 

He made few steps of it through the dark cold 
evening to the house that had become his home. 
The room that received him might have pleased 
a more difficult man. It was as clean as hands 
could make it; bright with cleanliness; lighted and 
warmed with a glowing fire, and hopeful with a 
most savoury scent of supper. The mistress of 
the house was busy about her hearth, looking neat 
and comfortable enough to match her room. As 




Christopher came in she lit a candle that stood on 
the supper table. Christopher hugged himself at 
this instance of his wife's thrift, and sat down. 

" You've got something that smells uncommon 
good there ! " said he approvingly. 

" I allays du think a hot supper's comfortable at 
the end o a cold day," returned the new Mrs. 
Bounder. " I don't care what I du as long's I'm 
busy with all the world all the day long; I kin take 
a piece and a bite and go on; but when it comes 
night, and I hev time to think I'm tired, then I 
like a good hot something or other." 

" What have you got there ? " said Christopher, 
peering over at the dish on the hearth which Mrs. 
Bounder was filling from a pot before the fire. 
She laughed. 

" You wouldn't be any wiser if I told you. It's 
a little o everything. Give me a good garden, and 
I kin live as well as I want to, and cost no one 
more'n a few shillin's, neither. Taint difficult, if 
you know how. Now see what you say to that." 

She dished up her supper, put a plate of green 
pickles on the table, filled up her tea-pot, and cut 
some slices from a beautiful brown loaf, which must 
have rivalled the rye though it was not that colour. 
Christopher sat down, said grace reverently, and 
attacked the viands; while the mistress poured him 
out a cup of tea. 

" Christopher," she said as she handed it to him, 
"I'd jes like to ask you something." 

" What is it?" 



 

" I'd like to know jes why you go through that 
performance ? " 

" Performance ? " echoed Christopher. " What 
are you talkin about ? " 

"I mean, that bit of a prayer you think it is right 
to make, whenever you're goin to put your fork to 
your mouth." 

"Oh! I couldn't imagine what you were driv 
ing at. Why do I do it ? " 

"I'd like to know, if you think you kin tell." 

" Respectable folks always does it." 

" Hm ! I don know about that. So it's for respectability you keep it up ? " 

" No,-" said Christopher a little embarrassed how 
to answer. "It's proper. Don't you know the 
Bible bids us give thanks ? " 

"Wall, hev you set out to du all the rest o the 
things the Bible bids you du? that's jes what I'm 
comin to." 

A surly man would not perhaps have answered 
at all, resenting this catechizing; but Christopher 
was not surly, and not at all offended. He was 
perplexed a little ; looked at his wife in some sly 
wonder at her, but answered not. 

" Ef I began, I'd go through. I wouldn't make 
no half way with it; that's all I was goin to say," 
his wife went on, with a grave face that shewed 
she was not jesting. 

" It's saying a good deal ! " remarked Christopher, 
still looking at her. 

" It's sayin a good deal, to make the first prayer; 





but if I made the first one, I'd make all the rest. 
I don't abide no half work in my garden, Christopher ; that's what I was thinkin ; and I don't be 
lieve Him you pray to likes it no better." 

Christopher was utterly unprepared to go on 
with this subject; and finally gave up trying, and 
attended to his supper. After a little while his 
wife struck a new theme. She was not a trained 
rhetorician; but when she had said what she had 
to say she was always contented to stop. 

" How are things going up your way to-day ? " 
she asked. 

" My way is down here, I'm happy to say." 

"Wall, up to the colonel's, then. What's the 
news?" 

"Aint no sort o news. Never is. They're al 
ways at the old things. The colonel he lies on his 
sofy, and Miss Esther she goes and comes. They 
want to get a house in town, now she's goin so 
regular; only they can't find one to fit." 

Kint find a house ? I thought there was houses 
enough, in all New York." 

" Houses enough, but they all is set up so high 
in their rents, you see." 

" Is that the trouble ? " 

" That is exactly the trouble ; and Miss Esther, I 
can see she doesn't know just what to do." 

"They aint gittin along well, Christopher?" 

