Daisy came in the next morning. 
" Oh, mamma," she cried, " I was so surprised at the 
visit — I suppose Bertie told you. But for the child I 
should not have known him. He seems so much taller 
than I remember him, quite the grande seignior^ indeed ; 
but desperately pale. He said he was quite well now, and 
had recovered from his troublesome cough. Oh, can noth- 
ing be done to bring you two together? You should be 
living in ease and luxury, and have your rightful position, 
your share of his wealth. I spoke of you — " 
"Daisy! Daisy!" The tone was one of intense pain. 
" Mamma, I shall speak of your love and your devotion 
to us all," said the daughter proudly. " What did you do 
that was wrong — for it could not have been wrong to go 
away from that horrible home. You worked there. Peo- 
ple sometimes talk as if you never did anything until you 
took the store ; but I remember how you used to sit and 
sew your poor, sweet eyes out making button-holes and 
all that, to get us bread. I hate the very thought of it ; " 
and Daisy stamped her foot fiercely. " I had almost for- 
gotten, but it came back so vividly when I talked to papa, 
only, do you know, it seems as if it must be some other 
man ; he is so changed. He is a true gentleman as to 
manners." 
"He was a gentleman years before," said her mother. 
" He proposed to take me out driving, and I consented. 
I think he would like to see Celia, but I should be afraid 
of her clear eyes looking him through and finding some 
sham or dregs at the bottom. He feels very proud of 
her." 
 
Bertie settled to school and to his pony. The boys 
who had known him were Jiardly allowed to know him 
now, being vouchsafed merely a patronizing nod as he 
passed. It cut the mother's heart. He was taking up 
" world's scorn " at an early age. 
Celia spent several days now and then with her mother, 
but she was quite urgent about the new arrangement. In 
October her lover went home for his aunt's funeral, visited 
his friend, and then some connections. Mrs. Sherrard 
learned this. Few steps that her son took but what came 
to her knowledge sooner or later. Little did he imagine 
her perfect system of espionage. Now her heart relented 
a little toward him. Some other mother's might have 
softened, hers was too strong. 
From thence he went westward. If he had been fancy 
free, Miss Fairfax's charms were not of a kind to awaken 
his admiration, so he scarcely gave her a passing thought. 
By day and night the choice to be made was ever pres- 
ent. How could he resign all that was as very life to 
him ! He thought of his friend, and yet Purcell meant 
no such strait as that of Sherrard's. To his meagre salary 
of seven or eight hundred and his house, such an income 
as Celia and Fairfax could have made, would have been 
affluence. 
Mrs. Sherrard brought matters to a crisis. If Celia 
Marshall would give up her son of her own volition, he 
might in a moment of passion espouse Margaret Fairfax. 
She had kept this for her reserve stroke. At her dicta- 
tion the faithful abigail wrote a letter, and when she 
mailed it — for no one else would have been trusted — she 
brought back a paper with a marked account of an elope- 
ment in high life. Silly and headstrong, Margaret Fair- 
fax had eloped with a young man in her father's employ, 
a kind of upper gardener, hurried to the step by the 
knowledge that her father's choice might be laid before 
her. That Fairfax sent it to his mother with infinite 
relish was most true. Could Celia Marshall have done 
such a thing? He remembered, too, the rather good- 
looking but illiterate fellow, and had been disgusted with 
a freedom he had detected between them. So the proud 
old blood could stoop to this ! At least such a marriage as 
he contemplated was honorable in the estimation of the 
sensible world. 
Celia' s letter came to her at Mrs. Howarth's. She had 
been out to a pretty artistic tea, given by a party of young 
ladies, and the Howarth carriage brought her home. 
There were visitors in the drawing-room, but she did not 
care to go down. As she was drawing off her gloves, her 
eye fell upon the letter. The handwriting she did not 
know, but the postmark sent a little thrill through her. 
She had heard from Fairfax that very day, but it seemed 
as if his letter was a little labored, lacked the spontaneous 
grace that rendered them so exquisite. 
She laid aside her bonnet and wrap, and sat down 
to read. The envelope was of a plain business kind, be- 
tokening no particular delicacy. " Madam," it began — • 
"Mrs. Sherrard desires me to write to you on some 
matters concerning her son." 
Celia sat in amazement many seconds without going 
further. Some swift presentiment told her what to ex- 
pect, but she could never have imagined such deliberate, 
cruel selfishness, such an insult to be offered from one 
woman to another. The writer went briefly over the 
ground, seeming to be amazed that a girl who had espoused 
a life of labor, who had been reared in her mother's milli- 
nery store, should dare to aspire to the heir of Sherrard 
House ; should expect to win a husband by her base, mer- 
cenary plots, even if she had imposed upon too cred- 
ulous society with her arts of the counter. Mr. Fair- 
fax Sherrard was expected to marry his cousin, whom he 
had gone to visit. Failing in this — if Miss Marshall dared 
hold him by promises speciously extorted, Sherrard House 
 
and a mother's affection would no longer be his. M Neither 
you nor your husband will ever step inside of it while I 
live, nor after I am dead. With me my race shall end, and 
my last will shall show to the world that a Sherrard knows 
how to punish an ingrate son." 
After Celia's first perusal, she sat looking at it with 
strained, fascinated eyes, as if the power to move them 
had left her brain. A dull, numbing sensation, as if one 
might be perishing from cold, crept over her, shuddered 
through the warm pulses, surged slowly, heavily against 
her heart, and it seemed as if she might be dying. The 
lights faded, but even in the obscurity those bitter words 
show like a tracery of flame, burning as they go. From 
his mother !
Celia did not cry out nor even clasp her hands in those 
moments of extreme anguish. The weary, fluttering 
breath returned with a keen pain, there was a throbbing 
in her temples, a ringing in her ears as if she had been 
miles under the sea. Oh! Ohl If any mother had pleaded 
tenderly for a son she could not yield to another's love, 
Celia must have been generously moved. She was capable 
of the most entire self-abnegation. 
Then she tried to think in a slow, dull way, with pain- 
ful labor. She had not used any specious or base designs, 
she had hardly cared at first — it was so new and strange. 
Any simple friendship would have sufficed her. She had 
been loth to wear his ring, and had yielded reluctantly ; 
she had made him listen to everything in her past, that 
could ever be tortured to her discredit by unkind lips. 
She had told him her hopes and aims. He, knowing all, 
had chosen her frankly, irrevocably it seemed,and after all 
this she had come to love him. Had he been a true and 
loyal lover ? Was there no bond in his past that partly 
held him to another? No, a hundred times no! She 
would answer for him there. This was some figment, 
some scheme of another's brain, not any word he had ev«r 
given. 
But she remembered now how he had always evaded any 
talk about his mother, sometimes indeed making little 
oomments that had jarred against her tender soul. He 
must have known the feeling it would create, the breach 
it would cause, and therein she could not hold him blame- 
less. If he had said — "My mother is steeped in pre- 
judice, and I shall have to fight my way, perhaps marry 
without her consent, she would have been warned. And 
with some sad prescience she felt that she could never 
make up to him what he should lose. He was born for 
wealth, luxury, leisure, he was like some choice plant that 
needed favoring circumstances. Not even her most de- 
voted love could make him forget what he had given up 
for her. The sunshine and perennial summer must be 
his; he would droop in a trying and uncongenial at- 
mosphere, while it would brace her, gird her up to effort. 
Was she the stronger? 
Reverently she gathered up the sweet dream. It had 
never been for her — it was a sad, sad mistake ; a sorrow 
that wrenched every fibre of her being. Like a corpse 
she spread it out tenderly, she crossed the pale, lifeless 
hands, shrouding it with sweet remembrance that it might 
be fair to look upon even in after days. But the service 
and the open grave were all yet to come — oh, how could 
she stand by and hear the dull thud of the brown, ugly 
earth! 
She threw herself upon the bed. She hardly seemed 
conscious, and yet neither did she sleep. All night long 
a wild desire to fly, crossed with a sense of baffled escape, 
a fruitless struggle like that of some wild hunted thing at 
bay with no chance of release, haunted her. She must 
meet inquiring looks, vague questions, and oh, grief of 
griefs ! she must choose for him the qui&k, sharp pang, 
rather than the lingering decline when love itself might 
fail ; for to cost him so high a price and not be able to 
repay would be infinitely worse than death to her. 
 
Some time, but it seemed as if she had gone through 
cycles of existence, she saw the gray dawn steal through 
