
 

the fellow who was at Inkerman, 'I should think 
you would be so proud of it,' and he reflects a while, 
and says, ' Well, the fact is, you know, there were 
so many of us.'" 

" Yes, I remember that," said James Bellingham, 
smiling for pleasure in it. "But I don't see why 
you claim the credit of being a craven civilian, 
Bromfield," he added, with a friendly glance at his 
brother-in-law, and with the willingness Boston men 
often show to turn one another's good points to the 
light in company; bred so intimately together at 
school and college and in society, they all know 
these points. " A man who was out with Garibaldi 
in '48," continued James Bellingham. 

" Oh, a little amateur red-shirting," Corey inter 
rupted in deprecation. "But even if you choose 
to dispute my claim, what has become of all the 
heroism ? Tom, how many club men do you know 
who would think it sweet and fitting to die for 
their country ? " 

" I can't think of a great many at the moment, 
sir," replied the son, with the modesty of his gene 
ration. 

"And I couldn't in '61," said his uncle. "Never 
theless they were there." 

" Then your theory is that it 's the occasion that 
is wanting," said Bromfield Corey. " But why 
shouldn't civil service reform, and the resumption of 
specie payment, and a tariff for revenue only, inspire 
heroes ? They are all good causes." 

" It 's the occasion that 's wanting," said James 



Bellingham, ignoring the persiflage. " And I 'm very 
glad of it." 

" So am I," said Lapham, with a depth of feeling 
that expressed itself in spite of the haze in which his 
brain seemed to float. There was a great deal of the 
talk that he could not follow ; it was too quick for 
him ; but here was something he was clear of. " I 
don't want to see any more men killed in my time." 
Something serious, something sombre must lurk 
behind these words, and they waited for Lapham to 
say more ; but the haze closed round him again, and 
he remained silent, drinking Apollinaris. 

"We non-combatants were notoriously reluctant 
to give up fighting," said Mr. Sewell, the minister ; 
" but I incline to think Colonel Lapham and Mr. 
Bellingham may be right. I dare say we shall have 
the heroism again if we have the occasion. Till it 
comes, we must content ourselves with the every 
day generosities and sacrifices. They make up in 
quantity what they lack in quality, perhaps." 

" They 're not so picturesque," said Bromfield 
Corey. " You can paint a man dying for his 
country, but you can't express on canvas a man 
fulfilling the duties of a good citizen." 

" Perhaps the novelists will get at him by and by," 
suggested Charles Bellingham. " If I were one of 
these fellows, I shouldn't propose to myself anything 
short of that." 

" What ? the commonplace ? " asked his cousin. 

" Commonplace ? The commonplace is just that 
light, impalpable, aerial essence which they Ve never 



 

got into their confounded books yet. The novelist 
who could interpret the common feelings of common 
place people would have the answer to ' the riddle 
of the painful earth ' on his tongue." 

" Oh, not so bad as that, I hope," said the host ; 
and Lapham looked from one to the other, trying to 
make out what they were at. He had never been so 
up a tree before. 

" I suppose it isn't well for us to see human nature 
at white heat habitually," continued Bromfield Corey, 
after a while. " It would make us vain of our 
species. Many a poor fellow in that war and in 
many another has gone into battle simply and purely 
for his country's sake, not knowing whether, if he 
laid down his life, he should ever find it again, or 
whether, if he took it up hereafter, he should take it 
up in heaven or hell. Come, parson !" he said, turn 
ing to the minister, " what has ever been conceived 
of omnipotence, of omniscience, so sublime, so divine 
as that?" 

" Nothing," answered the minister quietly. " God 
has never been imagined at all. But if you suppose 
such a man as that was Authorised, I think it will 
help you to imagine what God must be." 

" There 's sense in that," said Lapham. He took 
his cigar out of his mouth, and pulled his chair a 
little toward the table, on which he placed his 
ponderous fore-arms. " I want to tell you about a 
fellow I had in my own company when we first went 
out. We were all privates to begin with ; after a 
while they elected me captain I 'd had the tavern 




stand, and most of 'em knew me. But Jim Millon 
never got to be anything more than corporal ; 
corporal when he was killed." The others arrested 
themselves in various attitudes of attention, and 
remained listening to Lapham with an interest that 
profoundly flattered him. Now, at last, he felt that 
he was holding up his end of the rope. " I can't say 
he went into the thing from the highest motives, 
altogether ; our motives, are always pretty badly 
mixed, and when there 's such a hurrah-boys as there 
was then, you can't tell which is which. I suppose 
Jim Millon's wife was enough to account for his 
going, herself. She was a pretty bad assortment," 
said Lapham, lowering his voice and glancing round 
at the door to make sure that it was shut, " and she 
used to lead Jim one kind of life. Well, sir," con 
tinued Lapham, synthetising his auditors in that form 
of address, " that fellow used to save every cent of 
his pay and send it to that woman. Used to get me 
to do it for him. I tried to stop him. ' Why, Jim,' 
said I, ' you know what she'll do with it.' ' That 's 
so, Cap,' says he, ' but I don't know what she 'll do 
without it.' And it did keep her straight straight 
as a string as long as Jim lasted. Seemed as it 
there was something mysterious about it. They had 
a little girl, about as old as my oldest girl, and 
Jim used to talk to me about her. Guess he done 
it as much for her as for the mother ; and he said to 
me before the last action we went into, ' I should 
like to turn tail and run, Cap. I ain't comin' out o' 
this one. But I don't suppose it would do.' ' Well, 



 

not for you, Jim,' said I. ' I want to live,' he says ; 
and he bust out crying right there in my tent. ' I 
want to live for poor Molly and Zerrilla' that's 
what they called the little one ; I dunno where they 
got the name. ' I ain't ever had half a chance ; and 
now she 's doing better, and I believe we should get 
along after this.' He set there cryin' like a baby. 
But he wan't no baby when he went into action. I 
hated to look at him after it was over, not so much 
because he 'd got a ball that was meant for me by a 
sharpshooter he saw the devil takin' aim, and he 
jumped to warn me as because he didn't look like 
Jim ; he looked like fun ; all desperate and savage. 
I guess he died hard." 

The story made its impression, and Lapham saw 
it. " Now I say," he resumed, as if he felt that he 
was going to do himself justice, and say something 
to heighten the effect his story had produced. At 
the same time he was aware of a certain want of 
