was studyin' for the ministry. Abner stood it ez long 
ez he could an' then he died, too." 

' I should think the grandchildren might prove to 
have minds of their own," said Oswald. 

' But ye see, she allers had the whip-hand," said 
Si, proving his case by means of finger and thumb, 
dimly seen in the fire-light. "She allers had the 
money. Abner went into speculations an' lost all but 

the house-lot an' the timber land that belonged to old 
Mis' Nye ; lost all he had, ye see. So th' old Ma'am 
has had to take her money to support 'em all ; they've 
had to feel it, too ! " 

'' Is the old lady very rich ? " 

' Yes, I suppose she's a rich woman. The Nyes 
have always been well on't, money an' bank-stock 
an' railroad shares. Lawyer Sims, over to Stowe, gets 
her dividends out ; he's close-mouthed ; never can get 
him to tell how much the old woman owns, but I guess 
it's a good deal. She's done a good many things for 
'em all ; sent 'Lizabeth to school over to Weston, and 
I s'pose she'll do the same for the boy. He'll have to 
be a minister to keep up the family, or th' old Ma'am'll 
worry him into consumption ; all the Nyes are given 
that way." 

It had been some time since Si had found an in- 
terested listener who was not perfectly familiar with 
the facts he was relating ; it inspired him to loquacity. 
He would have been greatly surprised, at the end of 
the evening, to know how much time his speech oc- 
cupied ; but like most people who are garrulous, the 
only impression left on his mind was that Oswald was 
' a sociable fellow." 

The two smoked a pipe together ; the young man 
only half hearing some of the old sea-dog's reminiscen- 
ces, but wrapped in an agreeable atmosphere of smoke, 
warmth, and indolence. Si took his leave at ten, prof- 
fering the use of his boat, with great cordiality, for the 
next morning, because Jim was going to Stowe to see 
about getting some shoes to make. 

" Lord ! he'd never finish a set, if he got 'em," parenthetically, 
"but it does him good to try to do suthin', 
once in a while ; makes him feel like other folks." 

Oswald accepted the offer of the boat ; but the next 
morning found him also on his way to Stowe, in the 
only wagon belonging to the Sea View. 

His mood had changed ; and, no longer caring for 
sea-dreams or fowl, he was on his way to Boston by 
the early train. 



CHAPTER V. 

most apparent effect of Philip's day with Os- 
wald was a bad cold ; a less visible result, a pleas- 
ant excitement in remembering that he had gained a 
fragment of real information about the theater. This 
was the first person he had ever met who bore the air 
of having an intimate knowledge of the life of which the 
boy dreamed. The last few years had been filled with 
dreams, assuming the more gigantic proportions as 
they depended so entirely on imagination for their 
growth. At first he had brought them within the 
scope of known facts ; dramatic life existed and men 
had written plays, but as a younger child he went no 
further than imagining himself listening to Shakespeare 
(which he knew better than any school-book), on a real 
stage. But once give the rein to imagination, especial- 
ly if the mind has been starved of experience of life, 
and where will one stop ? Philip had, at least, that 
tiny germ of genius which will grow fit to cope with 
deeds if circumstances favor it a passionate desire to 
create. The capacity for work might not be there, 
nor the power of mastering technicalities, but the 
longing was strong. 

He had been hemmed in from all intercourse with life 
outside Stratford by circumstances which he was too 
young, if not too irresolute, to overcome. There were 



 

few books at home, and all but his dear Shakespeare 
were calculated to fit a religious bent of mind What 
could have been expected ? Healthy mental growth 
was impossible for want of good food ; was it any won- 
der that the rootlets of fancy should suck the juices 
the unknown and find their way luxuriantly into 
untrodden soil ? Since he must color his thought in- 
ependently of outward suggestions, there was every 
eason that his intense nature should make the hues as 
rich and varied as possible. 

Elizabeth was never shut out from his gorgeous and 
:loud-topping palaces. Because she listened not only 
with patience to his visions, but with interest only 
second to his own, he invited her in and made her 
with himself, actor in his brilliant pageants He was 
to do, while she was to share the fruits of his work 
Sometime, as he told her, there would be a play full 
of power and pathos, to take great cities by storm, and 
lizabeth would sit beside him while he should receive 
the praises of crowded theaters. He was glad he was 
young. It could not be many y ears before the 
play would be written ; and there was a childish 
triumph m the thought that people would speak 
his youth while they wondered the more at his 
genius. 

_ Oswald's coming was something tangible as float- 
ing sea-weed from that unknown land. That some 
one spoke of theaters as places, actors as living exist- 
ces, was almost like having a dream begin to come 
To Elizabeth, the advent of the young man 
was something beyond the ordinary, though no roman- 
fancies were connected with it. But the days 





were unusually lacking of interest, that fall ; she had 
seen no faces but those with which she had been 
familiar all her life. And this was a handsome face 



that broke the monotony, at last ; one with warm brown 
hair and eyes, and a soft, youthful outline of feature. 
Whatever disagreeable characteristics he might possess, 
which no one could be expected to guess from an 
evening's acquaintance, Oswald had the exterior and 
carried the air of a fine creature ; and as such he might 
easily inspire with active pleasure a nature open to 
beautiful influences. Elizabeth, therefore, felt a 
momentary pang of disappointment when Philip 
brought the news that he was gone ; a feeling quite 
overbalanced by the boy's passionate regret. 

" I wanted to see him again, I thought he would 
stay ! " he cried. 

" I suppose he only came down for a few days' gun- 
ning," said Elizabeth. " It wouldn't be very comforta- 
ble to stay long in that bare house, you know ! ' 

" But he had just begun to talk to me about the 
things I wanted to know," mourned Philip, the pathos 
of his tone in no wise lessened by the hoarseness which 
was a reminder of his morning on the water. "I 
couldn't ask him all the questions I wanted to, then, 
but I meant to go on ; he liked to talk, I know he 
did." 

Grandmother had not deigned to notice that Philip 
had a cold ; whenever he took one in a legitimate way, 
by carrying water or wood, or sitting in the chill and 
draughty church, she harassed him with remedies ; 
but the present case was quite outside her sympathies. 
On the subject of his absence that morning she main- 



tained a silence which betrayed the state of her mind 
only too plainly. 

Philip was nursing a secret project more daring 
than he had ever seriously entertained. Oswald's few- 
