
"Ha, ha!  I ’m free!  I ’m free!" cried Snap, catching up the
silver-covered square that seemed to fall from heaven; and running to a
great white sea of flour, he went in head first, holding the yeast-cake
clasped to his breast as if his life depended on it.

Lily watched breathlessly, while a curious working and bubbling went on,
as if Snap was tumbling about down there like a small earthquake.  The
other cake-folk stood round the shore with her; for it was a great
event, and all were glad that the dear fellow was promoted so soon.
Suddenly a cry was heard, and up rose a beautiful white figure on the
farther side of the sea.  It moved its hand, as if saying "Good-by," and
ran over the hills so fast they had only time to see how plump and fair
he was, with a little knob on the top of his head like a crown.

"He ’s gone to the happy land, and we shall miss him; but we ’ll follow
his example and soon find him again," said a gentle Sponge cake, with a
sigh, as all went back to their work; while Lily hurried after Snap,
eager to see the new country, which was the best of all.

A delicious odor of fresh bread blew up from the valley as she stood on
the hill-top and looked down on the peaceful scene below.  Fields of
yellow grain waved in the breeze; hop-vines grew from tree to tree; and
many windmills whirled their white sails as they ground the different
grains into fresh, sweet meal, for the loaves of bread that built the
houses like bricks and paved the streets, or in many shapes formed the
people, furniture, and animals.  A river of milk flowed through the
peaceful land, and fountains of yeast rose and fell with a pleasant foam
and fizz.  The ground was a mixture of many meals, and the paths were
golden Indian, which gave a very gay look to the scene. Buckwheat
flowers bloomed on their rosy stems, and tall corn-stalks rustled their
leaves in the warm air that came from the ovens hidden in the hillsides;
for bread needs a slow fire, and an obliging volcano did the baking
here.

"What a lovely place!" cried Lily, feeling the charm of the homelike
landscape, in spite of the funny plump people moving about.

Two of these figures came running to meet her as she slowly walked down
the yellow path from the hill.  One was a golden boy, with a beaming
face; the other a little girl in a shiny brown cloak, who looked as if
she would taste very nice.  They each put a warm hand into Lily’s, and
the boy said,--

"We are glad to see you.  Muffin told us you were coming."

"Thank you.  Who is Muffin?" asked Lily, feeling as if she had seen both
these little people before, and liked them.

"He was Ginger Snap once, but he’s a Muffin now.  We begin in that way,
and work up to the perfect loaf by degrees.  My name is Johnny Cake, and
she’s Sally Lunn.  You know us; so come on and have a race."

Lily burst out laughing at the idea of playing with these old friends of
hers; and all three ran away as fast as they could tear, down the hill,
over a bridge, into the middle of the village, where they stopped,
panting, and sat down on some very soft rolls to rest.

"What do you all do here?" asked Lily, when she got her breath again.

"We farm, we study, we bake, we brew, and are as merry as grigs all day
long.  It’s school-time now, and we must go; will you come?" said Sally,
jumping up as if she liked it.

"Our schools are not like yours; we only study two things,--grain and
yeast.  I think you ’ll like it.  We have yeast to-day, and the
experiments are very jolly," added Johnny, trotting off to a tall brown
tower of rye and Indian bread, where the school was kept.

Lily never liked to go to school, but she was ashamed to own it; so she
went along with Sally, and was so amused with all she saw that she was
glad she came.  The brown loaf was hollow, and had no roof; and when she
asked why they used a ruin, Sally told her to wait and see why they
chose strong walls and plenty of room overhead.  All round was a circle
of very small biscuits like cushions, and on these the Bread-children
sat.  A square loaf in the middle was the teacher’s desk, and on it lay
an ear of wheat, with several bottles of yeast well corked up.  The
teacher was a pleasant, plump lady from Vienna, very wise, and so famous
for her good bread that she was a Professor of Grainology.

When all were seated, she began with the wheat ear, and told them all
about it in such an interesting way that Lily felt as if she had never
known anything about the bread she ate before. The experiments with the
yeast were quite exciting,--for Fraulein Pretzel showed them how it
would work till it blew the cork out, and go fizzing up to the sky if it
was kept too long; how it would turn sour or flat, and spoil the bread
if care was not taken to use it just at the right moment; and how too
much would cause the loaf to rise till there was no substance to it.

The children were very bright; for they were fed on the best kinds of
oatmeal and Graham bread, with very little white bread or hot cakes to
spoil their young stomachs.  Hearty, happy boys and girls they were, and
their yeasty souls were very lively in them for they danced and sung,
and seemed as bright and gay as if acidity, heaviness, and mould were
quite unknown.

Lily was very happy with them, and when school was done went home with
Sally and ate the best bread and milk for dinner that she ever tasted.
In the afternoon Johnny took her to the cornfield, and showed her how
they kept the growing ears free from mildew and worms. Then she went to
the bakehouse; and here she found her old friend Muffin hard at work
making Parker House rolls, for he was such a good cook he was set to
work at once on the lighter kinds of bread.

"Well, is n’t this better than Candy-land or Saccharissa?" he asked, as
he rolled and folded his bits of dough with a dab of butter tucked
inside.

"Ever so much!" cried Lily.  "I feel better already, and mean to learn
all I can.  Mamma will be so pleased if I can make good bread when I go
home.  She is rather old-fashioned, and likes me to be a nice
housekeeper.  I did n’t think bread interesting then, but I do now; and
Johnny’s mother is going to teach me to make Indian cakes to-morrow."

"Glad to hear it.  Learn all you can, and tell other people how to make
healthy bodies and happy souls by eating good plain food.  Not like
this, though these rolls are better than cake. I have to work my way up
to the perfect loaf, you know; and then, oh, then, I ’m a happy thing."

"What happens then?  Do you go on to some other wonderful place?" asked
Lily, as Muffin paused with a smile on his face.

"Yes; I am eaten by some wise, good human being, and become a part of
him or her.  That is immortality and heaven; for I may nourish a poet
and help him sing, or feed a good woman who makes the world better for
being in it, or be crumbed into the golden porringer of a baby prince
who is to rule a kingdom.  Is n’t that a noble way to live, and an end
worth working for?" asked Muffin, in a tone that made Lily feel as if
some sort of fine yeast had got into her, and was setting her brain to
work with new thoughts.

"Yes, it is.  I suppose all common things are made for that purpose, if
we only knew it; and people should be glad to do anything to help the
world along, even making good bread in a kitchen," answered Lily, in a
sober way that showed that her little mind was already digesting the new
food it had got.

She stayed in Bread-land a long time, and enjoyed and learned a great
deal that she never forgot.  But at last, when she had made the perfect
loaf, she wanted to go home, that her mother might see and taste it.

"I ’ve put a good deal of myself into it, and I ’d love to think I had
given her strength or pleasure by my work," she said, as she and Sally
stood looking at the handsome loaf.

"You can go whenever you like; just take the bread in your hands and
wish three times, and you ’ll be wherever you say.  I ’m sorry to have
you go, but I don’t wonder you want to see your mother.  Don’t forget
what you have learned, and you will always be glad you came to us," said
Sally, kissing her good-by.

"Where is Muffin?  I can’t go without seeing him, my dear old friend,"
answered Lily, looking round for him.

"He is here," said Sally, touching the loaf. "He was ready to go, and
chose to pass into your bread rather than any other; for he said he
loved you and would be glad to help feed so good a little girl."

"How kind of him!  I must be careful to grow wise and excellent, else he
will be disappointed and have died in vain," said Lily, touched by his
devotion.

Then, bidding them all farewell, she hugged her loaf close, wished three
times to be in her own home, and like a flash she was there.

Whether her friends believed the wonderful tale of her adventures I
cannot tell; but I know that she was a nice little housekeeper from that
day, and made such good bread that other girls came to learn of her.
She also grew from a sickly, fretful child into a fine, strong woman,
because she ate very little cake and candy, except at Christmas time,
when the oldest and the wisest love to make a short visit to Candyland.




[Illustration: As soon as he was alone, Jocko ... jumped on his back.
PAGE 70.]



