an eulogist, paid him--years after their separation--this one sincere
tribute: "With all his vagaries," she said, "I have never known my son
to tell a lie." Other encomiums have, of course, been passed upon him,
but it is impossible to imagine one more glorious than this. Over and
above his disregard of sham and falsehood, beyond his theory of force
and the seductions of his ethics, Schopenhauer is chiefly remarkable in
this: that he was the first to detect and logically explain that
universal nausea which, circulating from one end of Europe to the
other, presents those symptoms of melancholy and disillusion which,
patent to every observer, are indubitably born of the insufficiencies
of modern civilization.

Where, then, it may be asked, for this malady of the refined, are the
borderlands of happiness to be found? From the standpoint of this
teacher the answer is that they are discoverable simply and solely in
an unobtrusive culture of self, in a withdrawal from every aggressive
influence, and above all in a supreme indifference which, culpable
though alluring, permits the neophyte to declaim with Baudelaire,--

     "Résigne-toi, mon cœur, dors ton sommeil de brute."

       *       *       *       *       *

The foregoing attempt to winnow some of the finer fibres of thought
from the six volumes which form the complete edition of Schopenhauer's
works leaves admittedly much to be desired. There has been, as the
phrase goes, an embarras des richesses, and in consequence much
attendant indecision as to the choice to be made of different yet
equally interesting topics. The passages that have been selected and
annotated in this and in the preceding chapter have been, it may be
explained, so selected, because they seemed, when arranged with some
attempt at orderly sequence, to present in the fewest possible words
the essence of the main idea which runs through the entire philosophy,
and which in the absence of some such arrangement demands a
concentration more prolonged than is usually at the disposal of the
ordinary reader. Those who are already acquainted with Schopenhauer's
works, and who may do the present writer the honor of reading this
exposition, will perhaps object to it on the ground that it does not
enter sufficiently into the scientific side of the doctrine, and
through this neglect leaves the reader in the dark as to its true
value. To this presumable objection the writer begs leave to make
answer that the scientific aspect of the doctrine has been so
exhaustively treated by others that it has seemed to him a waste of
time to enter into any further consideration of a subject whose true
value, in spite of the numberless controversies and arguments which it
continues to create, still remains undetermined. Moreover, as will have
been readily seen, the foregoing pages have in no sense been addressed
to the scientist, and that for the reason that exact information is
only obtainable from the philosophy itself, or from such a complete
and, therefore, voluminous analysis as would be out of place in a
treatise of this description. The aim of these chapters is but to draw
in outline the principal features of this doctrine, and in so doing to
present in the absence of complete translations a little of that vigor
and color which has raised the original to the prominent position it
holds among the foremost works of modern thought. No attempt at the
polemical has been made, and this for the reason that it is seldom
advisable to attack the truth; the notations and criticisms which have
been offered have been prepared, not with the wish to controvert, but
rather with the hope that they might serve to a clearer understanding
of the whole philosophy.




CHAPTER V.

THE GREAT QUIETUS.


It is related of Schopenhauer that he was in the habit of putting down
a gold piece on the table d'hôte where he dined, and of taking it up
again when the dinner was ended. This gold piece, he explained to his
Boswell, was for the waiter the first time that any one of the
different officers, who frequented the dining-room, was heard
discussing a loftier topic than that which is circled in wine, woman,
and song. As the story runs, no occasion ever presented itself in which
he could in this manner express his pleasure and contentment; but had
he lived long enough to meet Lieutenant Von Hartmann there is little
doubt that the gold piece would have formed an immediate and rightful
part of the waiter's perquisites.

This gentleman, who is now no longer an officer, but simply a thinker
and a man of letters, may, in many respects, be regarded as
Schopenhauer's direct descendant. To the world at large very little
concerning him is known, and that little is contained in a modest
autobiography which appeared a few years ago, and to which his
publisher has since added a supplement.

The meagre details that are furnished therein amount, in brief, to
this: Eduard von Hartmann was born in 1842, in Berlin, in which city he
passed an uneventful boyhood. The school which he attended, and which
like most other schools forced the pupils to master a quantity of
subjects whose usefulness may be questioned, brought him into an almost
open revolt against a system of education which, in nine cases out of
ten, is nothing more than a pure waste of time. On leaving the
gymnasium he decided, for reasons which to the average German must seem
fantastic, to enter the military service at once instead of passing the
usual semesters at a university. To this budding pessimist student life
seemed to offer but dull variations between commonplaceness and
vulgarity: to listen or not to listen to sundry poorly expressed
lectures by day, to engulf at night a certain quantity of beer in stone
measures, and to diversify these occupations in receiving slashes on
the cheek-bone, or in affording amusement to the Hebes of Prussian
restaurants, was not to him the life that was called ideal. Very
wisely, then, and in accordance with the example which his father had
already given, he chose in a military career a profession most apt to
satisfy those inclinations of the scientist and of the artist which had
already begun to exert an influence upon him.

In the year 1858 Herr von Hartmann entered the crack artillery regiment
of Berlin as volunteer. He then passed three years at the artillery
school, intermingling the scientific studies of his profession with
artistic and philosophic researches, and frequenting meanwhile the
refined society to which his family belonged. About this time a
rheumatic affection, which had first declared itself toward the close
of his school-days, became complicated with a fracture of some of the
delicate machinery of the knee. The injury was both painful and
incurable, and in 1864 he was obliged to resign his position, and
thereupon left the army with the grade of first lieutenant. These
latter details are given by way of counterbalance to the calumnies of
his enemies, who, in explaining his pessimism by the state of his
health,--which they insinuate was brought about by excessive and
unusual debauchery,--have in one way and another managed to vituperate
his chief work into nine editions.

On leaving the army he sought a career first as painter and then as
musician; it did not take him long, however, to discover that his
vocation was not such as is found in purely artistic pursuits; "the
bankruptcy of all my ambitions," he says, "was complete; there remained
to me but one thing, and that was thought." It was from thought, then,
that he demanded a consolation and an employment, and turning to
metaphysics he began at once to plan his "Philosophy of the
Unconscious." Meanwhile, for his own distraction and instruction he had
written a few essays, of which but one was destined to see the light of
day. This monograph, "Die dialektische Methode," was so favorably
viewed at Rostock, that he received therefrom the degree and title of
Doctor of Philosophy.

"The Philosophy of the Unconscious," when completed, remained a year in
his closet, and was only published in 1868, owing to an accidental
meeting with an intelligent publisher. Before, as since, the appearance
and success of this work, which is very generally considered as the
chief philosophical event of the last two decades, Dr. von Hartmann has
lived at Berlin, where he endeavors in every-day life to prove the
practical value of evolutionary pessimism, which it is his wish to
substitute for the indifferentism and quietist doctrines of
Schopenhauer.

Personally, Dr. von Hartmann is a very attractive individual, and his
attractiveness is increased by the fact that there is nothing
commonplace, and at the same time nothing affected about him. When I
called at his house, I found him coiled up in a rug on one of those
long chairs that are familiar to every ocean traveler. My first
impression was that I was in the presence of a giant; and as the
Berlinese as a race are notoriously tall, I was only surprised at the
great size of his head, which differed singularly from that of the
ordinary Prussian. His hair was brushed back from his forehead in the
manner popularly termed à la Russe, but which is more noticeable in
Vienna than in St. Petersburg; his eyes, which were large and luminous,
possessed an expression of such indulgence as would put the most timid
visitor at ease. Owing partly to the arrangement of his hair, his
forehead seemed to me to be the most expansive that I had ever seen;
the lower part of his face was hidden in a beard which descended very
nearly to his waist, while as for his moustache, it is, I think, the
longest in metaphysics. In some way or another I had gotten to believe
that it was part of the professional philosopher to be both
self-contained and absent-minded; I always pictured him as a class as
wearing spectacles far down on the nose, as being somewhat snuffy, and
carelessly tired in loose and shabby dressing-gown. I can give no
reason for this fancy of mine other than that it is one of those
pictures which we all draw of people and places that we have not seen.
If I remember rightly, Mr. Sala said that he imagined Leipzig to be a
city of very squat houses, in which dwelt little girls in blue skirts,
and this until he got there and found that it was precisely like any
other of its kind.

As a child, and indeed until very lately, I invariably thought of
Hungary as having red roads, bordered by crimson houses and bluffs of
green, while all about I saw in fancy splendid horses prancing in rich
caparisons; but, as any traveler will admit, Hungary, in point of
