sion as to the architect employed by Francis L, and 
the honor of having designed this splendid residence 
has been claimed for several of the Italian artists who 
early in the sixteenth century came to seek patronage 
in France. It seems well established to-day, however, 
that Chambord was the work neither of Primaticcio, 
of Vignola, nor of II Rosso, all of whom have left 
some trace of their sojourn in France; but of an 
obscure yet very complete genius, Pierre Nepveu, 
known as Pierre Trinqueau, who is designated in the 
papers which preserve in some degree the history of 
the origin of the edifice, as the maistre de I ceuvre de 
maqonnerie. Behind this modest title, apparently, we 
must recognize one of the most original talents of 
the French Renaissance; and it is a proof of the vigor 
of the artistic life of that period that, brilliant pro 
duction being everywhere abundant, an artist of so 
high a value should not have been treated by his con- 





temporaries as a celebrity. We manage things very 
differently to-day. 

The immediate successors of Francis I. continued 
to visit Chambord; but it was neglected by Henry IV., 
and was never afterwards a favorite residence of any 
French king. Louis XIV. appeared there on several 
occasions, and the apparition was characteristically 
brilliant; but Chambord could not long detain a 
monarch who had gone to the expense of creating a 
Versailles ten miles from Paris. With Versailles, Fon- 
tainebleau, Saint-Germain, and Saint-Cloud within easy 
reach of their capital, the later French sovereigns had 
little reason to take the air in the dreariest province 
of their kingdom. Chambord therefore suffered from 
royal indifference, though in the last century a use 
was found for its deserted halls. In 1725 it was oc 
cupied by the luckless Stanislaus Leszczynski, who 
spent the greater part of his life in being elected 
King of Poland and being ousted from his .throne, 
and who, at this time a refugee in France, had found 
a compensation for some of his misfortunes in marry 
ing his daughter to Louis XV. He lived eight years 
at Chambord, and filled up the moats of the castle. 
In 1748 it found an illustrious tenant in the person 
of Maurice de Saxe, the victor of Fontenoy, who, how 
ever, two years after he had taken possession of it, 
terminated a life which would have been longer had 
he been less determined to make it agreeable. The 
Revolution, of course, was not kind to Chambord. 





It despoiled it in so far as possible of every vestige 
of its royal origin, and swept like a whirlwind through 
apartments to which upwards of two centuries had 
contributed a treasure of decoration and furniture. In 
that wild blast these precious things were destroyed 
or forever scattered. In 1791 an odd proposal was 
made to the French Government by a company of 
English Quakers who had conceived the bold idea of 
establishing in the palace a manufacture of some 
peaceful commodity not to-day recorded. Napoleon 
allotted Chambord, as a "dotation," to one of his 
marshals, Berthier, for whose benefit it was converted, 
in Napoleonic fashion, into the so-called principality 
of Wagram. By the Princess of Wagram, the marshal 's 
widow, it was, after the Restoration, sold to the 
trustees of a national subscription which had been 
established for the purpose of presenting it to the in 
fant Duke of Bordeaux, then prospective King of 
France. The presentation was duly made; but the 
Comte" de Chambord, who had changed his title in 
recognition of the gift, was despoiled of his property 
by the Government of Louis Philippe. He appealed 
for redress to the tribunals of his country; and the 
consequence of his appeal was an interminable litiga 
tion, by which, however, finally, after the lapse of 
twenty-five years, he was established in his rights. In 
1871 he paid his first visit to the domain which had 
been offered him half a century before, a term of 
which he had spent forty years in exile. It was from 
Chambord that he dated his famous letter of the 5th 

  

of July of that year, the letter, directed to his so- 
called subjects, in which he waves aloft the white 
flag of the Bourbons. This amazing epistle , which is 
virtually an invitation to the French people to re 
pudiate, as their national ensign, that immortal tricolor, 
the flag of the Revolution and the Empire, under 
which they have won the glory which of all glories 
has hitherto been dearest to them, and which is as 
sociated with the most romantic, the most heroic, the 
epic, the consolatory, period of their history, this 
luckless manifesto, I say, appears to give the measure 
of the political wisdom of the excellent Henry V. It 
is the most factitious proposal ever addressed to an 
eminently ironical nation. 

On the whole, Chambord makes a great impression ; 
and the hour I was there, while the yellow afternoon 
light slanted upon the September woods, there was a 
dignity in its desolation. It spoke, with a muffled 
but audible voice, of the vanished monarchy,  which 
had been so strong, so splendid, but to-day has be 
come a sort of fantastic vision, like the cupolas and 
chimneys that rose before me. I thought, while I 
lingered there, of all the fine things it takes to make 
up such a monarchy; and how one of them is a su 
perfluity of mouldering, empty palaces. Chambord is 
touching, that is the best word for it; and if the 
hopes of another restoration are in the follies of the 
Republic, a little reflection on that eloquence of ruin 
ought to put the Republic on its guard. A sentimental 
tourist may venture to remark that in the presence of 





several chateaux which appeal in this mystical manner 
to the retrospective imagination, it cannot afford to be 
foolish. I thought of all this as I drove back to Blois 
by the way of the Chateau de Cheverny. The road 
took us out of the park of Chambord, but through a 
region of flat woodland, where the trees were not 
mighty, and again into the prosy plain of the Sologne, 
a thankless soil, all of it, I believe , but lately much 
amended by the magic of cheerful French industry 
and thrift. The light had already begun to fade, and 
my drive reminded me of a passage in some rural 
novel of Madame Sand. I passed a couple of timber 
and plaster churches, which looked very old, black, 
and crooked, and had lumpish wooden porches and 
galleries encircling the base. By the time I reached 
Cheverny, the clear twilight had approached. It was 
late to ask to be allowed to visit an inhabited house; 
but it was the hour at which I like best to visit almost 
anything. My coachman drew up before a gateway, 
in a high wall , which opened upon a short avenue, 
along which I took my way on foot; the coachmen in 
those parts being, for reasons best known to them 
selves, mortally averse to driving up to a house. I 
answered the challenge of a very tidy little portress, 
who sat, in company with a couple of children, en 
joying the evening air in front of her lodge, and who 
told me to walk a little further and turn to the right. 
I obeyed her to the letter, and my turn brought me 
into sight of a house as charming as an old manor in 
a fairy tale. I had but a rapid and partial view of 



Cheverny; but that view was a glimpse of perfection. 
A light, sweet mansion stood looking over a wide green 
lawn, over banks of flowers and groups of trees. It 
had a striking character of elegance, produced partly 
by a series of Renaissance busts let into circular niches 
in the facade. The place looked so private, so reserved, 
that it seemed an act of violence to ring, a stranger 
and foreigner, at the graceful door. But if I had not 
rung I should be unable to express as it is such a 
pleasure to do my sense of the exceeding courtesy 
with which this admirable house is shown. It was 
near the dinner-hour, the most sacred hour of the 
day; but I was freely conducted into the inhabited 
apartments. They are extremely beautiful. What I 
chiefly remember is the charming staircase of white 
embroidered stone, and the great salle des gardes and 
chambre a coucher dn roi on the second floor. Che 
verny, built in 1634, i g f a much later date than the 
other royal residences of this part of France; it be 
longs to the end of the Renaissance, and has a touch 
