he came and stood upon the terrace in the darkness, 
for there was no moon. He wore again his arms, and 
his purple cloak was about him, for he had his duty 
to perform in visiting the fortress. The starlight 
glimmered faintly on his polished helmet and duskily 
made visible his marble features and his beard. He 
stood with his back to the pillars of the balustrade, 
looking towards the myrtles of the garden, for he knew 
that Nehushta would come to the wonted tryst. He 
waited long, but at last he heard a step upon the 



 

gravel path and the rustle of the myrtles, and presently in the faint light he could see the white skirt 
of her garment beneath the dark mantle moving 
swiftly towards him. He sprang forward to meet her 
and would have taken her in his arms, but she put 
him back and looked away from him while she walked 
slowly to the front of the terrace. Even in the gloom 
of the starlight Zoroaster could see that something 
had offended her, and a cold weight seemed to fall 
upon his breast and chilled the rising words of loving 
greeting. 

Zoroaster followed her and laid his hand upon her 
shoulder. Unresponsive, she allowed it to remain 
there. 

" My beloved," he said at last, trying in vain to 
look into her averted face, " have you no word for me 
to-night ? " Still she answered nothing. " Has your 
sorrow made you forget our love?" he murmured 
close to her ear. She started back from him a little 
and looked at him > Even in the dusk he could see 
her eyes flash as she answered : 

" Had not your own sorrow so utterly got the mas- 
tery over you to-day that you even refused to look at 
me ? " she asked. " In all that long hour when we 
were so near together, did you give me one glance ? 
You had forgotten me in the extremity of your grief! " 
she cried scornfully. "And now that the first torrent of your tears has dwindled to a little stream, you 
have time to remember me I I thank my lord for the 
notice he deigns to give his handmaiden, but — I need 
it not. Well — why are you here ? " 

Zoroaster stood up to his height and folded his 



 

arms deliberately, facing Nehushta, and he spoke 
calmly, though there was in his voice the dulness of 
a great and sudden pain. He knew men well enough, 
but he knew little of women. 

" There is a time to be sorrowful and a time for 
joy," he said. " There is a time for weeping and a 
time for the glances of love. I did as I did, because 
when a man has a great grief for one dead and when 
he desires to show his sorrow in doing honour to one 
who has been as a father to him, it is not meet that 
other thoughts should be in his mind ; not even those 
thoughts which are most dear to him and nearest to 
his heart. Therefore I looked not at you when we 
were burying our master, and though I love you and 
in my heart look ever on your face, yet to-day my 
eyes were turned from you and I saw you not. 
Wherefore are you angry with me ? " 

" I am not angry," said Nehushta, " but think you 
love me little that you turn from me so easily." She 
looked down, and her face was quite hidden in the 
dark shadow. Then Zoroaster put his arm about her 
neck and drew her to him, and, though she resisted a 
little, in a moment her head rested on his breast. 
Then she struggled again. 

" Nay, let me go, for you do not love me ! " she 
said, half in a whisper. But he held her close. 

'' Nay, but you shall not go, for I do love you," he 
answered tenderly. 

"Shall not?" cried she, turning in his arms, half 
fiercely; then her voice sank and thrilled softly. 
" Say that I will not," she murmured, and her arms 
went round him and pressed him passionately to her. 



 

" Oh, my beloved, why do you ever seem so cold ? so 
cold — when I so love you?" 

" I am not cold," he said fondly, " and I love you 
beyond all poAver of words to tell. Said we not that 
you had your way and I mine ? Who shall tell us 
which is the sweeter music when both unite in so 
grand a harmony ? Only doubt not, for doubting is 
as the drop that falls from the eaves upon the marble 
corner-stone, and, by ever falling, wears furrows in 
the stone that the whole ocean could not soften." 

" I will not doubt any more," said Nehushta suddenly, " only — can you not love me a little sometimes 
in the way I do you? It is so sweet, — my way of 
loving." 

" Indeed I will try, for it is very sweet," answered 
Zoroaster, and, bending down, he kissed her lips. 
Far off from the tower the melancholy cry of an owl 
echoed sadly across the gardens, and a cool damp 
breeze sprang up suddenly from the east. Nehushta 
shuddered slightly, and drew her cloak about her. 

" Let us walk upon the terrace," she said, " it is 
cold to-night — is not this the last night here? " 

"Yes; to-morrow we must go hence upon our 
journey. This is the last night." 

Nehushta drew closer to her lover as they paced 
the terrace together, and each wound one arm about 
the other. For some minutes they walked in silence, 
each perhaps recalling the many meetings upon that 
very terrace since the first time their lips met in love 
under the ivory moonlight of the month Tammuz, 
more than a year ago. At last Nehushta spoke. 

" Know you this new king ? " she asked. " I saw 



 

him but for a few moments last year. He was a 
young prince, but he is not fair." 

" A young prince with an old man's head upon 
his shoulders," answered Zoroaster. ''He is a year 
younger than I — but I would not have his battles to 
fight ; nor, if I had, would I have taken Atossa to be 
my wife." 

" Atossa ? " repeated Nehushta. 

"Yes. The king has already married her — she 
was the wife of Cambyses, and also of the false 
Smerdis, the Magian, whom Darius has slain." 

"Is she fair? Have I not seen her?" asked 
Nehushta quickly. 

" Indeed, you must have seen her at the court in 
Shushan, before we came to Ecbatana. She was just 
married to Cambyses then, but he regarded her little, 
for he was ever oppressed with wine and feasting. 
But you were a child then, and were mostly with the 
women of your house, and you may not have seen 
her." 

" Tell me — had she not blue eyes and yellow hair ? 
Had she not a cruel face — very cold?" 

"Aye, it may be that she had a hard look. I 
remember that her eyes were blue. She was very 
unhappy ; therefore she helped the Magian. It was 
not she that betrayed him." 

"You pitied her even then, did you not?" asked 
Nehushta. 

" Yes — she deserved pity." 

" She will have her revenge now. A woman with 
a face like hers loves revenge." 
