courts, objects of considerable interest to the youths who had come up
for the entrance examination--chiefly pale men in rather shabby clothes
with old gowns and battered caps, and a general appearance of being the
worse for wear.

Angleside had been in Cambridge before and consequently lost no time in
returning to Billingsfield when the examination was over. Short was to
spend the summer at the vicarage, reading hard until the term began, when
he was to go up and compete for a minor scholarship; Angleside was to
wait until he heard whether he had passed, and was then going abroad to
meet his father and to rest from the extreme exertion of mastering the
"Apology" and the first books of the "Memorabilia." John drove over to
meet the Honourable Cornelius, who was in a terrible state of anxiety and
left him no peace on the way asking him again and again to repeat the
answers to the questions which had been proposed, reckoning up the ones
he had answered wrong and the ones he thought he might have answered
right, and coming each time to a different conclusion, finally lighting a
huge brierwood pipe and swearing "that it was a beastly shame to subject
human beings to such awful torture." John calmed him by saying he fancied
Cornelius had "got through"; for John's words were a species of gospel to
Cornelius. By the time they reached the vicarage Angleside felt sanguine
of his success.

The vicar was not visible. It was a strange and unheard of thing--there
were visitors in the drawing-room. This doubtless accounted for the fact
that the fly from the Duke's Head was standing on the opposite side of
the road. The two young men went into their study, which was on the
ground floor and opened upon the passage which led to the drawing-room
from the little hall. Angleside remarked that by leaving the door open
they would catch a glimpse of the visitor when he went out. But the
visitor stayed long. The curiosity of the two was wrought up to a high
pitch; it was many months since there had been a real visitor at the
vicarage. Angleside suggested going out and finding old Reynolds--he
always knew everything that was going on.

"If we only wait long enough," said Short philosophically, "they are sure
to come out."

"Perhaps," returned Cornelius rather doubtfully.

"They" did come out. The drawing-room door opened and there was a sound
of voices. It was a woman's voice, and a particularly sweet voice, too.
Still no one came down the passage. The lady seemed to be lingering in
taking her leave. Then there was a sound of small feet and suddenly a
little girl stood before the open door of the study, looking wonderingly
at the two young men. Short thought he had never seen such a beautiful
child. She could not have been more than seven or eight years old, and
was not tall for her age; a delicate little figure, all in black, with
long brown curls upon her shoulders, flowing abundantly from beneath a
round black sailor's hat that was set far back upon her head. The child's
face was rather pale than very fair, of a beautiful transparent paleness,
with the least tinge of colour in the cheeks; her great violet eyes gazed
wonderingly into the study, and her lips parted in childlike uncertainty,
while her little gloved hand rested on the door-post as though to get a
sense of security from something so solid.

It was only for a moment. Both the young fellows smiled at the child
unconsciously. Perhaps she thought they were laughing at her; she turned
and ran away again; then passed a second time, stealing a long glance at
the two strangers, but followed immediately by the lady, who was probably
her mother, and whose voice had been heard for the last few moments. The
lady, too, glanced in as she went by, and John Short lost his heart then
and there; not that the lady was beautiful as the little girl was, but
because there was something in her face, in her figure, in her whole
carriage, that moved the boy suddenly as she looked at him and sent the
blood rushing to his cheeks and forehead.

She seemed young, but he never thought of her age. In reality she was
nine-and-twenty years old but looked younger. She was pale, far paler
than the little girl, but she had those same violet eyes, large, deep and
sorrowful, beneath dark, smooth eyebrows that arched high and rose a
little in the middle. Her mouth was perhaps large for her face but her
full lips curved gently and seemed able to smile, though she was not
smiling. Her nose was perhaps too small--her face was far from
faultless--and it had the slightest tendency to turn up instead of down,
but it was so delicately modelled that an artist would have pardoned it
that deviation from the classic. Thick brown hair waved across her white
forehead and was hidden under the black bonnet and the veil thrown back
over it. She was dressed in black and the close-fitting gown showed off
with unconscious vanity the lines of a perfectly moulded and perfectly
supple figure. But it was especially her eyes which attracted John's
sudden attention at that first glance, her violet eyes, tender, sad,
almost pathetic, seeming to ask sympathy and marvellously able to command
it.

It was but for a moment that she paused. Then came the vicar, following
her from the drawing-room, and all three went on. Presently Short heard
the front door open and Mr. Ambrose shouted to the fly.

"Muggins! Muggins!"

No one had ever been able to say why Abraham Boosey, the publican, had
christened his henchman with an appellation so vulgar, to say the least
of it--so amazingly cacophonous. The man's real name was plain Charles
Bird; but Abraham Boosey had christened him Muggins and Muggins he
remained. Muggins had had some beer and was asleep, for the afternoon was
hot and he had anticipated his "fours."

Short saw his opportunity and darted out of the study to the hall where
the lady and her little girl were waiting while the vicar tried to rouse
the driver of the fly by shouting at him. John blushed again as he passed
close to the woman with the sad eyes; he could not tell why, but the
blood mounted to the very roots of his hair, and for a moment he felt
very foolish.

"I'll wake him up, Mr. Ambrose," he said, running out hatless into the
summer's sun.

"Wake up, you lazy beggar!" he shouted in the ear of the sleeping
Muggins, shaking him violently by the arm as he stood upon the wheel.
Muggins grunted something and smiled rather idiotically. "It was only the
young gentleman's play," he would have said. Bless you! he did not mind
being shaken and screamed at! He slowly turned his horses and brought the
fly up to the door. John walked back and stood waiting.

"Thank you," said the lady in a voice that made his heart jump, as she
came out from under the porch and the vicar helped her to get in. Then it
was the turn of the little girl.

"Good-bye, my dear," said the vicar kindly as he took her hand.

"Good-bye," said the child. Then she hesitated and looked at John, who
was standing beside the clergyman. "Good-bye," she repeated, holding out
her little hand shyly towards him. John took it and grew redder than ever
as he felt that the lady was watching him. Then the little girl blushed
and laughed in her small embarrassment, and climbed into the carriage.

"You will write, then?" asked Mr. Ambrose as he shut the door.

"Yes--and thank you again. You are very, very kind to me," answered the
lady, and John thought that as she spoke there were tears in her voice.
She seemed very unhappy and to John she seemed very beautiful. Muggins
cracked his whip and the fly moved off, leaving the vicar and his pupil
standing together at the iron wicket gate before the house.

"Well? Do you think Angleside got through?" asked Mr. Ambrose, rather
anxiously.

Short said he thought Angleside was safe. He hoped the vicar would say
something about the lady, but to his annoyance, he said nothing at all.
John could not ask questions, seeing it was none of his business and was
fain to content himself with thinking of the lady's face and voice. He
felt very uncomfortable at dinner. He thought the excellent Mrs. Ambrose
eyed him with unusual severity, as though suspecting what he was thinking
about, and he thought the vicar's grey eye twinkled occasionally with the
pleasant sense of possessing a secret he had no intention of imparting.
As a matter of fact Mrs. Ambrose was supremely unconscious of the fact
that John had seen the lady, and looked at him with some curiosity,
observing that he seemed nervous and blushed from time to time and was
more silent than usual. She came to the conclusion that he had been
working too hard, as usual, and that night requested him to take two
little pellets of aconite, and to repeat the dose in the morning. Whether
it was the result of the homoeopathic medicine or of the lapse of a few
hours and a good night's rest, it is impossible to say; John, however,
was himself again the next morning and showed no further signs of
nervousness. But he kept his eyes and ears open, hoping for some news of
the exquisite creature who had made so profound an impression on his
heart.

In due time the joyful news arrived from Cambridge that the Honourable
Cornelius had passed his examination and was at liberty to matriculate at
the beginning of the term. The intelligence was duly telegraphed to his
father, and in a few hours came a despatch in answer, full of
affectionate congratulation and requesting that Cornelius should proceed
at once to Paris, where his father was waiting for him. The young man
took an affectionate leave of the vicar, of Mrs. Ambrose and especially
of John Short, for whom he had conceived an almost superstitious
admiration; old Reynolds was not forgotten in the farewell, and for
several days after Angleside's departure the aged gardener was observed
to walk somewhat unsteadily and to wear a peculiarly thoughtful
expression; while the vicar observed with annoyance that Strawberry, the
old mare, was less carefully groomed than usual. Strangely coincident
with these phenomena was the fact that Simon Gunn's yellow cat seemed to
have entirely repented of her evil practices, renouncing from the day
when Cornelius left for Paris her periodical invasion of the asparagus
beds at the foot of the garden. But the vicar was too practical a man to
waste time in speculating upon the occult relations of seemingly
disconnected facts. He applied himself with diligence to the work of
preparing John Short to compete for the minor scholarship. The labour was
congenial. He had never taken a pupil so far before, and it was a genuine
