  God by their prayers and supplications may receive our supplications
  and those we pray for, our holy fathers and bishops, and all that
  have fallen asleep before us, believing it is of great advantage to
  their souls to be prayed for while the holy and tremendous sacrifice
  lies upon the altar."

A memorial of this custom has come into the Protestant Church in the
Episcopal Eucharistic service where occur these words: "And we also
bless thy Holy Name for all thy servants departed this life in thy faith
and fear, beseeching Thee to give us grace so to follow their good
examples, that we with them may be partakers of thy Heavenly Kingdom."
It will be seen here the progress of an idea, its corruption and its
reform.

The original idea with the primitive Christian was this: "My friend is
neither dead nor changed. He is only gone before me, and is promoted to
higher joy; but he is still mine and I am his. Still can I pray for him,
still can he pray for me; and as when he was here on earth we can be
mutually helped by each other's prayers."

Out of this root--so simple and so sweet--grew idolatrous exaggerations
of saint worship and a monstrous system of bargain and sale of prayers
for the dead. The Reformation swept all this away--and, as usual with
reformations, swept away a portion of the primitive truth--but it
retained still the Eucharistic memorial of departed friends as a
fragment of primitive simplicity.

The Church, furthermore, appointed three festivals of commemoration of
these spiritual members of the great Church Invisible with whom they
held fellowship--the festivals of All Souls, of All Angels, of All
Saints.

Two of these are still retained in the Episcopal Church the feast of
St. Michael and All Angels, and the feast of All Saints. These days
are derived from those yearly anniversaries which were common in the
primitive ages.

[Here we have a formal deprecation of the tendency of modern orthodoxy
to withdraw from what was once regarded as a proper religious belief and
sentiment, and which modern Spiritualists warmly accept, and make one of
the chief grounds for their doctrine of intercommunication between the
departed dead and the living. We expect to give our readers other papers
by Mrs. Stowe in continuation of her discussion on the subject.

       

In the following letter, or extract from a letter, from Mr. Andrew
Jackson Davis, one of the leading lights and exponents of Spiritualism
at the present day, we have a voice from the inside, furnishing some
information with regard to the state of spiritualistic affairs in
America, and some of the expected results of the movement.]

"Spiritualism, for the most part, is a shower from the realm of
intelligences and uncultured affections. It is rapidly irrigating and
fertilizing everything that has root and the seed-power to grow. It
is starting up the half-dead trees of Sectarianism, causing the most
miserable weeds to grow rapid and rank, and of course, attracting very
general attention to religious feelings and super-terrene existences.

"As an effect of this spiritualistic rain, you may look for an
immense harvest of both wheat and tares--the grandest growths in great
principles and ideas on the one hand, and a fearful crop of crudities
and disorganizing superstitions on the other. There will be seen
floating on the flood many of our most sacred institutions. Old
wagon-ruts, long-forgotten cow-tracks, every little hole and corner in
the old highways, will be filled to the brim with the rain. You will
hardly know the difference between the true springs and the flowing
mud-pools visible on every side. Many noble minds will stumble as they
undertake to ford the new streams which will come up to their very
door-sills, if not into their sacred and established habitations.
Perhaps lives may be lost; perhaps homes may be broken up; perhaps
fortunes may be sacrificed; for who ever heard of a great flood, a storm
of much power, or an earthquake, that did not do one, or two, or all
of these deplorable things? Spiritualism is, indeed, all and everything
which its worst enemies or best friends ever said of it;--a great rain
from heaven, a storm of violence, a power unto salvation, a destroyer
and a builder too--each, and all, and everything good, bad, and
indifferent; for which every one, nevertheless, should be thankful, as
eventually all will be when the evil subsides, when the severe rain is
over, and the clouds dispersed--when even the blind will see with new
eyes, the lame walk, and the mourners of the world be made to rejoice
with joy unspeakable.

"Of course, my kind brother, you know that I look upon 'wisdom'
organized into our daily lives, and 'love' inspiring every heart, as the
only true heaven appointed saviour of mankind. And all spiritual growth
and intellectual advancement in the goodnesses and graces of this
redeemer I call an application of the Harmonial Philosophy. But I find,
as most likely you do, that it is as hard to get the Spiritualists to
become Harmonial Philosophers as to induce ardent Bible-believers to
daily practice the grand essentials which dwell in the warm heart of
Christianity."

       

It is not long since the writer was in conversation with a very
celebrated and popular minister of the modern Church, who has for
years fulfilled a fruitful ministry in New England. He was speaking of
modern Spiritualism as one of the most dangerous forms of error--as an
unaccountable infatuation. The idea was expressed by a person present
that it was after all true that the spirits of the departed friends were
in reality watching over our course and interested in our affairs in
this world.

The clergyman, who has a fair right, by reason of his standing and
influence to represent the New England pulpit, met that idea by a prompt
denial. "A pleasing sentimental dream," he said, "very apt to mislead,
and for which there is no scriptural and rational foundation." We have
shown in our last article what the very earliest Christians were in
the habit of thinking with regard to the unbroken sympathy between the
living and those called dead, and how the Church by very significant and
solemn acts pronounced them to be not only alive, but alive in a fuller,
higher, and more joyful sense than those on earth.

We may remember that among the primitive Christians the celebration of
the Lord's Supper was not as in our modern times a rare and unfrequent
occurrence, coming at intervals of two, three, and even six months, but
that it occurred every Sunday, and on many of the solemn events of life,
as funerals and marriages, and that one part of the celebration always
consisted in recognizing by a solemn prayer the unbroken unity of the
saints below and the saints in heaven. We may remember, too, that it was
a belief among them that angels were invisibly present, witnessing and
uniting with the eucharistic memorial--a belief of which we still have
the expression in that solemn portion of the Episcopal communion service
which says, "Wherefore with angels and archangels, and with all the
company of heaven, we laud and magnify thy Holy Name."

This part of the eucharistic service was held by the first Christians
to be the sacred and mysterious point of confluence when the souls of
saints on earth and the blessed in heaven united. So says Saint
Chrysostom:

  "The seraphim above sing the holy Trisagion hymn; the holy
  congregation of men on earth send up the same; the general assembly
  of celestial and earthly creatures join together; there is one
  thanksgiving, one exultation; one choir of men and angels rejoicing
  together."

And in another place he says:

  "The martyrs are now rejoicing in concert, partaking of the mystical
  songs of the heavenly choir. For if while they were in the body
  whenever they communicated in the sacred mysteries they made part of
  the choir, singing with the cherubim, 'holy, holy, holy,' as ye all
  that are initiated in the holy mysteries know; much more now, being
  joined with those whose partners they were in the earthly choir,
  they do with greater freedom partake of those solemn glorifications
  of God above."

The continued identity, interest and unbroken oneness of the departed
with the remaining was a topic frequently insisted on among early
Christian ministers--it was one reason of the rapid spread of
Christianity. Converts flocked in clouds to the ranks of a people who
professed to have vanquished death--in whose inclosure love was forever
safe, and who by so many sacred and solemn acts of recognition consoled
the bereaved heart with this thought, that their beloved, though
unseen, was still living and loving--still watching, waiting, and caring
for them.

Modern rationalistic religion says: "We do not know anything about
them--God has taken them: of them and their estate we know nothing:
whether they remember us, whether they know what we are doing, whether
they care for us, whether we shall ever see them again to know them, are
all questions vailed in inscrutable mystery. We must give our friends up
wholly and take refuge in God."

But St. Augustine, speaking on the same subject, says:

  "Therefore, if we wish to hold communion with the saints in eternal
  life we must think much of imitating them. They ought to recognize
  in us something of their virtues, that they may better offer their
  supplications to God for us. These [virtues] are the foot-prints
  which the blessed returning to their country have left, that we
  shall follow their path to joy. Why should we not hasten and run
  after them that we too may see our fatherland? There a great crowd
  of dear ones are awaiting us, of parents, brethren, children, a
  multitudinous host are longing for us--now secure of their own
  safety, and anxious only for our salvation."

Now let us take the case of some poor, widowed mother, from whose heart
