
" It is so large ! " Doris answers, with a sigh. 

"Yes, it seems to me it would have been more sensi- 
ble for Lloyd to have arranged for renting it while the 
baby was so small. We would have kept it on those 
terms ; still, my family has decreased as well. There are 
two less of us. Must we ask your permission, Mrs. 
Wentworth, to see Olive?" she inquires blandly, " for we 
are staying unconscionably " ; and with that she rises. 

Doris feels as if some one had struck her. She rises also 
and replies graciously. 

"I want you to feel quite at home. I know Lloyd 
would be most glad if he knew his cousin had taken any 
pleasure with aught of his." 

" I suppose Olive has hardly been in a state to take 
much pleasure," Mrs. Wentworth says, with an expression 
that is nearest a scornful smile. " Her mind was so shat- 
tered by the news of her cousin's death that we have been 
very anxious about her ; indeed, when I heard she was here, 
I felt as if my last hope had gone, for it seemed to me the 
sight of these old familiar places would undo all that had 
been done. No doubt it did at first." 

Doris does not answer this unkind thrust. They go up 
together, but she turns to her own room, while Mrs. Fair 
comes out to receive them. ~ 

Some time afterwards Mrs. Fair comes to inquire if she 
may take baby into Miss Olive's room. He is awake and in 



 



 



 

his best humor, and has grown very fond of the nurse. 
There is a sense of dissatisfaction in her face that Doris 
is quick to translate. The invitation has not been extended 
to the mother. 

However, they pause to say good by as they go, and in 
the face of Louise she espies an interest that was not 
evident before. 

" I do not know how you feel about going out," Mrs. 
Wentworth says, at her departure. '' Some people are so 
strict in their first year of mourning. But, of course, 
we shall be pleased to see you." 

" Thank you," Doris replies, gently. " I know Lloyd 
would like you to retain a warm affection for his old home, 
and to be no stranger in it." 

That is all she can say now. The rest seems such hollow 
mockery. Then she returns to her babe and sits alone, 
until the autumnal twilight falls. There is a tap at her 
door, and she answers, but it is not Marie with the lights. 

Mrs. Fair enters and sits down on the ottoman where 
Doris's feet are resting. 

" Mrs. Wentworth," she begins, " I have been telling 
Olive who you are, and why we allowed the matter to pass 
as we did. Her mother said something that rendered it 
necessary. It may make a slight difference for a day or 
two. Oh, all this is very hard for you ! " And Mrs. Fair 
takes the small hands lying in Doris's lap, and after a 
warm clasp presses them to her lips. 

" It is a shame, when you have come here, a stranger, 
but having a right no one can deny. I know the marriage 
was a great blow to them, and yet they are not mercenary 
people ; but it is done, and you certainly were not to 
blame for marrying the man you loved. I do believe, if 
Miss Olive were allowed to have her own way, she would 
remain here. She could not endure their talk of a 
removal." 

Doris wipes away a few tears. Olive's rather imperi- 



 



 



 

OU8 preference for Sister Angela has been balm to the 
torn and lonely heart. She hates to lose even that. It 
has been quite an interest to play at being nursemaid 
even. 

" She has supposed you so very different, she has come 
to like you unaware ; and though there are reasons why she 
must feel humiliated — '' 

''No, no," cries Doris. "I like her all the better, 
because she loved her cousin so much. I sometimes feel — " 
And Doris suddenly checks herself. Is it because she has 
not loved him in this desperate, overwhelming manner ? 
Had Olive some finer, better right? 

'"Miss Olive has always been rather curious, and had an 
aversion to society. It is trying to be the only plain one 
in a handsome family. Then there has been a spinal 
trouble that certainly has worn upon her nerves and 
health, so there is some allowance to be made for her." 

'' Do not let her quite hate me," pleads Doris. 

" I think she will love you. Dr. Prescott believes that 
you and the baby will be the means of rousing her to a 
true life. In many ways she is still a child. Mrs. Stir- 
ling seems much older." 

'' Will they take her away?" Doris asks. 

" Not yet. The doctor must decide when it will be safe 
for her to go. I have not offended you?" Mrs. Fair 
asks. 

" Oh, no, no ! I did not like to deceive her at first." 

" You are sweet enough to be Saint Angela." 

Doris raises her face to kiss Mrs. Fair. Tender as she 
is, she is choice of her caresses, but this woman has been 
so motherly kind. 

That evening Doris sits alone and reads, — the old 
poems Lloyd loved so well. How can she spend all the 
years in this great house alone ? She feels doubly desolate 
to-night, as if she had been again bereaved. The old 
prayer comes back, — " Give us patience under our afflictions." 
She can do nothing but endure. She cannot 
hurry anything. All her strength is helplessness. Yet it 
seems as if in some other place she might lead a useful, 
helpful, pleasant life. 

The next morning Mrs. Ashmead makes her appear- 
ance, escorted by Judge Minturn. She is quite tall, with 
a delicate, high-bred air that reminds Doris of Miss Van 
Antwerp. Iler voice shows cultivation, and her pronun- 
ciation has the least touch of formality, but it is very 
pleasant. She is past forty, and though there is little of 
youth about her, still less are there any signs of age, 
except in the serene grace that enfolds her as if she were 
thoroughly accustomed to it. There is a dignity that at 
first somewhat overawes Doris. Her face is refined rather 
than handsome, and Doris thinks the old term "gentle- 
woman " suits her exactly. , 

»She has listened to the judge's proposal, and admits 
that he has interested her very much in Mrs. Wentworth. 
They will spend a month together, and then consider a 
future engagement. 

Doris is quite satisfied. She has arranged the room 
adjoining hers, and shows Mrs. Ashmead to it ; then takes 
her through her own, and a spare chamber that the Gil- 
berts occupied. Certainly Mrs. Ashmead will be a little 
protection against them, and yet she blushes at the 
thought. The baby has gone out for his morning airing. 
They wander through the library and the large dining- 
