



a moment, as if there might be something indecent in the 
confession, or dangerous in the recipient ; and then, 
evidently, she was mastered by the comfort of being able to 
justify herself for an eccentricity that had excited notice, 
as well as by the luxury of discharging her soul of a long 
accumulation of timid, sacred sentiment. ' Already, when 
I was fifteen years old, I wanted to sell all I had and give 
to the poor. And ever since, I have wanted to do some- 
thing ; it has seemed as if my heart would break if I 
shouldn't be able ! ' 

Hyacinth was struck with a great respect, which, how- 
ever, did not prevent him (the words sounded patronising, 
even to himself), from saying in a moment, ' I suppose you 
are very religious.' 

Lady Aurora looked away, into the thickening dusk, at 
the smutty housetops, the blurred emanation, above the 
streets, of lamplight. ' I don't know one has one's ideas 
some of them may be strange. I think a great many clergy- 
men do good, but there are others I don't like at all. I dare- 
say we had too many, always, at home ; my father likes 
them so much. I think I have known too many bishops ; 
I have had the church too much on my back. I daresay 
they wouldn't think at home, you know, that one was 
quite what one ought to be \ but of course they consider 
me very odd, in every way, as there's no doubt I am. I 
should tell you that I don't tell them everything ; for what's 
the use, when people don't understand ? We are twelve at 
home, and eight of us are girls ; and if you think it's so 
very splendid, and she thinks so, I should like you both to 
try it for a little ! My father isn't rich, and there is only 
one of us married, and we are not at all handsome, and 



 

oh, there are all kinds of things,' the young woman went on, 
looking round at him an instant, shyly but excitedly. 'I 
don't like society ; and neither would you if you were to see 
the kind there is in London at least in some parts,' Lady 
Aurora added, considerately. ' I daresay you wouldn't 
believe all the humbuggery and the tiresomeness that one 
has to go through. But I've got out of it ; I do as I like, 
though it has been rather a struggle. I have my liberty, 
and that is the greatest blessing in life, except the reputation 
of being queer, and even a little mad, which is a greater 
advantage still. I'm a little mad, you know ; you needn't 
be surprised if you hear it. That's because I stop in town 
when they go into the country ; all the autumn, all the 
winter, when there's no one here (except three or four 
millions), and the rain drips, drips, drips, from the trees in 
the big, dull park, where my people live. I daresay I 
oughtn't to say such things to you, but, as I tell you, I'm 
a little mad, and I might as well keep up my character. 
When one is one of eight daughters, and there's very little 
money (for any of us, at least), and there's nothing to do 
but to go out with three or four others in a mackintosh, one 
can easily go off one's head. Of course there's the village, 
and it's not at all a nice one, and there are the people to 
look after, and heaven knows they're in want of it ; but one 
must work with the vicarage, and at the vicarage there are 
four more daughters, all old maids, and it's dreary, and it's 
dreadful, and one has too much of it, and they don't under- 
stand what one thinks or feels, or a single word one says to 
them ! Besides they are stupid, I admit the country poor ; 
they are very, very dense. I like Camberwell better,' said 
Lady Aurora, smiling and taking breath, at the end of her 





nervous, hurried, almost incoherent speech, of which she 
had delivered herself pantingly, with strange intonations and 
grotesque movements of her neck, as if she were afraid 
from one moment to the other that she would repent, not 
of her confidence, but of her egotism. 

It placed her, for Hyacinth, in an unexpected light, and 
made him feel that her awkward, aristocratic spinsterhood 
was the cover of tumultuous passions. No one could have 
less the appearance of being animated by a vengeful irony ; 
but he saw that this delicate, shy, generous, and evidently 
most tender creature was not a person to spare, wherever 
she could prick them, the institutions among which she had 
been brought up and against which she had violently reacted. 
Hyacinth had always supposed that a reactionary meant a 
backslider from the liberal faith, but Rosy's devotee gave a 
new value to the term ; she appeared to have been driven 
to her present excesses by the squire and the parson and 
the conservative influences of that upper-class British home 
which our young man had always supposed to be the highest 
fruit of civilisation. It was clear that her ladyship was an 
original, and an original with force ; but it gave Hyacinth 
a real pang to 'hear her make light of Inglefield (especially 
the park), and of the opportunities that must have abounded 
in Belgrave Square. It had been his belief that in a world 
of suffering and injustice these things were, if not the most 
righteous, at least the most fascinating. If they didn't give 
one the finest sensations, where were such sensations to be 
had ? He looked at Lady Aurora with a face which was a 
tribute to her sudden vividness, and said, ( I can easily 
understand your wanting to do , some good in the world, 
because you're a kind of saint.' 



 

' A very curious kind ! ' laughed her ladyship. 

'But I don't understand your not liking what your 
position gives you.' 

' I don't know anything about my position. I want to 
live ! ' 

' And do you call this life ? ' 

' I'll tell you what my position is, if you want to know : 
it's the deadness of the grave ! ' 

Hyacinth was startled by her tone, but he nevertheless 
laughed back at her, ' Ah, as I say, you're a kind of saint ! ' 
She made no reply, for at that moment the door opened, 
and Paul Muniment's tall figure emerged from the blackness 
of the staircase into the twilight, now very faint, of the 
rqom. Lady Aurora's eyes, as they rested upon him, seemed 
to declare that such a vision as that, at least, was life. 
Another person, as tall as himself, appeared behind him, 
and Hyacinth recognised with astonishment their insinuating 
friend Captain Sholto. Muniment had brought him up for 
Rosy's entertainment, being ready, and more than ready, 
always, to usher in any one in the world, from the prime 
minister to the common hangman, who might give that 
young lady a sensation. They must have met at the ' Sun 
and Moon,' and if the Captain, some accident smoothing 
the way, had made him half as many advances as he had 
made some other people Hyacinth could see that it wouldn't 
take long for Paul to lay him under contribution. But what 
the mischief was the Captain up to? It cannot be said 
that our young man arrived, this evening, at an answer to 
that question. The occasion proved highly festal, and the 
hostess rose to it without lifting her head from the pillow 
Her brother introduced Captain Sholto as a gentleman who 





had a great desire to know extraordinary people, and she 
made him take possession of the chair at her bedside, out 
of which Miss Pynsent quickly edged herself, and asked him 
who he was, and where he came from, and how Paul had 
made his acquaintance, and whether he had many friends 
in Camberwell. Sholto had not the same grand air that 
hovered about him at the theatre ; he was shabbily dressed, 
very much like Hyacinth himself; but his appearance gave 
our young man an opportunity to wonder what made him 
so unmistakably a gentleman in spite of his seedy coat and 
trousers in spite too, of his rather overdoing the manner 
of being appreciative even to rapture and thinking every- 
thing and every one most charming and curious. He stood 
out, in poor Rosy's tawdry little room, among her hideous 
attempts at decoration, and looked to Hyacinth a being 
from another sphere, playing over the place and company 
a smile (one couldn't call it false or unpleasant, yet it was 
distinctly not natural), of which he had got the habit in 
camps and courts. It became brilliant when it rested on 
Hyacinth, and the Captain greeted him as he might have 
done a dear young friend from whom he had been long and 
painfully separated. He was easy, he was familiar, he was 
exquisitely benevolent and bland, and altogether incom- 
prehensible. 
