him ; and now shall he leave her because he 's tired 
of her * " 

"Yes," said Sewell, recovering from the first 
confusion which his wife 's unexpected difference of 
opinion had thrown him into, " I should think that 
was the very best reason in the world why he should 
leave her. Would his marrying make matters worse 
or better if he were tired of her ? As for wickedness, 
I should feel myself guilty if I did not do my utmost 
to prevent marriages between people when one or other 
wished to break their engagement, and had not the 
moral courage to do so. There is no more pernicious 
delusion than that one 's word ought to be kept in 




such an affair, after the heart has gone out of it, 
simply because it 's been given." 

" David ! " 

But Sewell was not to be restrained. " I am right 
about this, Lucy, and you know it. Half the miser 
able marriages in the world could be prevented, if 
there were only some frank and fearless adviser at 
hand to say to the foolish things that if they no 
longer fully and freely love each other they can 
commit no treason so deadly as being true to their 
word. I wish," he now added, "that I could be the 
means of breaking off every marriage that the 
slightest element of doubt enters into beforehand. I 
should leave much less work for the divorce courts. 
The trouble conies from that crazy and mischievous 
principle of false self-sacrifice that I' m always crying 
out against. If a man has ceased to love the woman 
he has promised to marry or vice versa the best 
possible thing they can do, the only righteous thing, 
is not to marry." 

Mrs. Sewell could not deny this. She directed an 
oblique attack from another quarter, as women do, 
while affecting not to have changed her ground at 
all. " Very well, then, David, I wish you would 
have nothing to do with that crazy and mischievous 
principle yourself. I wish you would let this ridicu 
lous Barker of yours alone from this time forth. 
He has found a good place, where he is of use, and 
where he is doing very well. Now I think your 
responsibility is fairly ended. I hope you won't 
meddle with his love affairs, if he has any ; for if you 



 

do, you will probably have your hands full. He is 
very good looking, and all sorts of silly little geese 
will be falling in love with him." 

"Well, so far his love troubles are purely conjec 
tural," said Sewell with a laugh. "I' m bound to 
say that Barker himself didn't say a word to justify 
the conjecture that he was either in love or wished 
to be out of it, However, I've  given him some 
wholesome advice which he'll be all the better for 
taking, merely as a prophylactic, if nothing else." 

"I am tired of him," sighed Mrs. Sewell. " Is he 
going to keep perpetually turning up, in this way ? 
I hope you were not very pressing with him in your 
invitations to him to call again ?" 

Sewell smiled. " You were not, my dear." 

" You let him take too much of your time. I 
was so provoked, when I heard you going on with 
him, that I came down to put an end to it." 

" Well, you succeeded," said Sewell easily. " Don't 
you think he 's greatly improved in the short time 
he 's been in the city ? " 

"He 's very well dressed. I hope he isn't 
extravagant." 

" He 's not only well dressed, but he 's beginning 
to be well spoken. I believe he 's beginning to 
observe that there is such a thing as not talking 
through the nose. He still says, ! don't know as, 
but most of the men they turn out of Harvard say 
that; I've  heard some of the professors say it." 

Mrs. Sewell was not apparently interested in this. 



XXII. 

THAT night Lemuel told Mrs. Harmon that she 
must not expect him to do anything thenceforward 
but look after the accounts and the general manage 
ment ; she must get a head-waiter, and a boy to run 
the elevator. She consented to this, as she would 
have consented to almost anything else that he 
proposed. 

He had become necessary to the management of 
the St. Albans in every department ; and if the lady 
boarders felt that they could not now get on with 
out him, Mrs. Harmon was even more dependent. 
With her still nominally at the head of affairs, and 
controlling the expenses as a whole, no radical 
reform could be effected. But there were details of 
the outlay in which Lemuel was of use, and he had 
brought greater comfort into the house for less 
money. He rejected her old and simple device of 
postponing the payment of debt as an economical 
measure, and substituted cash dealings with new 
purveyors. He gradually but inevitably took charge 
of the store-room, and stopped the waste there ; 
early in his administration he had observed 


 

the gross and foolish prodigality with which the 
portions were sent from the carving-room, and after 
replacing Mrs. Harmon 's nephew there, he esta 
blished a standard portion that gave all the needed 
variety, and still kept the quantity within bounds. 
It came to his taking charge of this department 
entirely, and as steward he carved the meats, and 
saw that nothing was in a way to become cold 
before he opened the dining-room doors as head- 
waiter. 

His activities promoted the leisure which Mrs. 
Harmon had always enjoyed, and which her 
increasing bulk fitted her to adorn. Her nephew 
willingly relinquished the dignity of steward. He 
said that his furnaces were as much as he wanted 
to take care of ; especially as in former years, when 
it had begun to come spring, he had experienced a 
stress of mind in keeping the heat just right, when 
the ladies were all calling down the tubes for more 
of it or less of it, which he should now be very glad 
not to have complicated with other cares. He said 
that now he could look forward to the month of 
May with some pleasure. 

The guests, sensibly or insensibly, according to 
their several temperaments, shared the increased 
ease that came from Lemuel 's management. The 
service was better in every way; their beds were 
promptly made, their rooms were periodically swept ; 
every night when they came up from dinner they 
found their pitchers of ice-water at their doors. 
This change was not accomplished without much of 



 OR, 

that rebellion and renunciation which was known at 
the St. Albans as kicking. Chambermaids and table- 
girls kicked, but they were replaced by Lemuel, who 
went himself to the intelligence office, and pledged 
the new ones to his rule beforehand. There was 
even some kicking among the guests, who objected 
to the new portions, and to having a second bill sent 
them if the first remained unpaid for a week ; but the 
general sense of the hotel was in Lemuel 's favour. 

He had no great pleasure in the reform he had 
effected. His heart was not in it, except as waste 
and disorder and carelessness were painful to him. 
He suffered to promote a better state of things, as 
many a woman whose love is for books or pictures 
