niver a chick or child to do a hand’s turn.’ I hadn’t much faith in
her, remembering my other humbug, but I did pity the old mummy; so I
got some tea and sugar, and a shawl, and used to give her my odd
pennies as I passed. I never told at home, they made such fun of my
efforts to be charitable. I thought I really was getting on pretty
well after a time, as my old Biddy seemed quite cheered up, and I
was planning to give her some coal, when she disappeared all of a
sudden. I feared she was ill, and asked Mrs. Maloney, the fat woman,
about her.

“‘Lord love ye, Miss dear, it’s tuk up and sint to the Island for
tree months she is; for a drunken ould crayther is Biddy Ryan, and
niver a cint but goes for whiskey,--more shame to her, wid a fine
bye av her own ready to kape her daycint.’

“Then I WAS discouraged, and went home to fold my hands, and see
what fate would send me, my own efforts being such failures.”

“Poor thing, it WAS hard luck!” said Elizabeth, as they sobered down
after the gale of merriment caused by Marion’s mishaps, and her
clever imitation of the brogue.

“Now tell of your success, and the scarlet runner,” added Maggie.

“Ah! that was SENT, and so I prospered. I must begin ever so far
back, in war times, or I can’t introduce my hero properly. You know
Papa was in the army, and fought all through the war till
Gettysburg, where he was wounded. He was engaged just before he
went; so when his father hurried to him after that awful battle,
Mamma went also, and helped nurse him till he could come home. He
wouldn’t go to an officer’s hospital, but kept with his men in a
poor sort of place, for many of his boys were hit, and he wouldn’t
leave them. Sergeant Joe Collins was one of the bravest, and lost
his right arm saving the flag in one of the hottest struggles of
that great fight. He had been a Maine lumberman, and was over six
feet tall, but as gentle as a child, and as jolly as a boy, and very
fond of his colonel.

“Papa left first, but made Joe promise to let him know how he got
on, and Joe did so till he too went home. Then Papa lost sight of
him, and in the excitement of his own illness, and the end of the
war, and being married, Joe Collins was forgotten, till we children
came along, and used to love to hear the story of Papa’s battles,
and how the brave sergeant caught the flag when the bearer was shot,
and held it in the rush till one arm was blown off and the other
wounded. We have fighting blood in us, you know, so we were never
tired of that story, though twenty-five years or more make it all
as far away to us as the old Revolution, where OUR ancestor was
killed, at OUR Bunker Hill!

“Last December, just after my sad disappointments, Papa came home to
dinner one day, exclaiming, in great glee: ‘I’ve found old Joe! A
messenger came with a letter to me, and when I looked up to give my
answer, there stood a tall, grizzled fellow, as straight as a
ramrod, grinning from ear to ear, with his hand to his temple,
saluting me in regular style. “Don’t you remember Joe Collins,
Colonel? Awful glad to see you, sir,” said he. And then it all came
back, and we had a good talk, and I found out that the poor old boy
was down on his luck, and almost friendless, but as proud and
independent as ever, and bound to take care of himself while he had
a leg to stand on. I’ve got his address, and mean to keep an eye on
him, for he looks feeble and can’t make much, I’m sure.’

“We were all very glad, and Joe came to see us, and Papa sent him on
endless errands, and helped him in that way till he went to New
York. Then, in the fun and flurry of the holidays, we forgot all
about Joe, till Papa came home and missed him from his post. I said
I’d go and find him; so Harry and I rummaged about till we did find
him, in a little house at the North End, laid up with rheumatic
fever in a stuffy back room, with no one to look after him but the
washerwoman with whom he boarded.

“I was SO sorry we had forgotten him! but HE never complained, only
said, with his cheerful grin,’ I kinder mistrusted the Colonel was
away, but I wasn’t goin’ to pester him.’ He tried to be jolly,
though in dreadful pain; called Harry ‘Major,’ and was so grateful
for all we brought him, though he didn’t want oranges and tea, and
made us shout when I said, like a goose, thinking that was the
proper thing to do, ‘Shall I bathe your brow, you are so feverish?’

“‘No, thanky, miss, it was swabbed pretty stiddy to the horsepittle,
and I reckon a trifle of tobaccer would do more good and be a sight
more relishin’, ef you’ll excuse my mentionin’ it.’

“Harry rushed off and got a great lump and a pipe, and Joe lay
blissfully puffing, in a cloud of smoke, when we left him, promising
to come again. We did go nearly every day, and had lovely times; for
Joe told us his adventures, and we got so interested in the war that
I began to read up evenings, and Papa was pleased, and fought all
his battles over again for us, and Harry and I were great friends
reading together, and Papa was charmed to see the old General’s
spirit in us, as we got excited and discussed all our wars in a
fever of patriotism that made Mamma laugh. Joe said I ‘brustled up’
at the word BATTLE like a war-horse at the smell of powder, and I’d
ought to have been a drummer, the sound of martial music made me so
‘skittish.’

“It was all new and charming to us young ones, but poor old Joe had
a hard time, and was very ill. Exposure and fatigue, and scanty
food, and loneliness, and his wounds, were too much for him, and it
was plain his working days were over. He hated the thought of the
poor-house at home, which was all his own town could offer him, and
he had no friends to live with, and he could not get a pension,
something being wrong about his papers; so he would have been badly
off, but for the Soldiers’ Home at Chelsea. As soon as he was able,
Papa got him in there, and he was glad to go, for that seemed the
proper place, and a charity the proudest man might accept, after
risking his life for his country.

“There is where I used to be going when you saw me, and I was SO
afraid you’d smell the cigars in my basket. The dear old boys always
want them, and Papa says they MUST have them, though it isn’t half
so romantic as flowers, and jelly, and wine, and the dainty messes
we women always want to carry. I’ve learned about different kinds of
tobacco and cigars, and you’d laugh to see me deal out my gifts,
which are received as gratefully as the Victoria Cross, when the
Queen decorates HER brave men. I’m quite a great gun over there, and
the boys salute when I come, tell me their woes, and think that Papa
and I can run the whole concern. I like it immensely, and am as
proud and fond of my dear old wrecks as if I’d been a Rigoletto, and
ridden on a cannon from my babyhood. That’s MY story, but I can’t
begin to tell how interesting it all is, nor how glad I am that it
led me to look into the history of American wars, in which brave men
of our name did their parts so well.”

A hearty round of applause greeted Marion’s tale, for her glowing
face and excited voice stirred the patriotic spirit of the Boston
girls, and made them beam approvingly upon her.

“Now, Maggie, dear, last but not least, I’m sure,” said Anna, with
an encouraging glance, for SHE had discovered the secret of this
friend, and loved her more than ever for it.

Maggie blushed and hesitated, as she put down the delicate muslin
cap-strings she was hemming with such care. Then, looking about her
with a face in which both humility and pride contended, she said
with an effort, “After the other lively experiences, mine will sound
very flat. In fact, I have no story to tell, for MY charity began at
home, and stopped there.”

“Tell it, dear. I know it is interesting, and will do us all good,”
 said Anna, quickly; and, thus supported, Maggie went on.

“I planned great things, and talked about what I meant to do, till
Papa said one day, when things were in a mess, as they often are at
our house, ‘If the little girls who want to help the world along
would remember that charity begins at home, they would soon find
enough to do.’

“I was rather taken aback, and said no more, but after Papa had gone
to the office, I began to think, and looked round to see what there
was to be done at that particular moment. I found enough for that
day, and took hold at once; for poor Mamma had one of her bad
headaches, the children could not go out because it rained, and so
were howling in the nursery, cook was on a rampage, and Maria had
the toothache. Well, I began by making Mamma lie down for a good
long sleep. I kept the children quiet by giving them my ribbon box
and jewelry to dress up with, put a poultice on Maria’s face, and
offered to wash the glass and silver for her, to appease cook, who
was as cross as two sticks over extra work washing-day. It wasn’t
much fun, as you may imagine, but I got through the afternoon, and
kept the house still, and at dusk crept into Mamma’s room and softly
built up the fire, so it should be cheery when she waked. Then I
went trembling to the kitchen for some tea, and there found three
girls calling, and high jinks going on; for one whisked a plate of
cake into the table drawer, another put a cup under her shawl, and
cook hid the teapot, as I stirred round in the china closet before
opening the slide, through a crack of which I’d seen, heard, and
smelt ‘the party,’ as the children call it.

“I was angry enough to scold the whole set, but I wisely held my
tongue, shut my eyes, and politely asked for some hot water, nodded
to the guests, and told cook Maria was better, and would do her work
if she wanted to go out.

“So peace reigned, and as I settled the tray, I heard cook say in
her balmiest tone, for I suspect the cake and tea lay heavy on her
conscience, ‘The mistress is very poorly, and Miss takes nice care
of her, the dear.’

