
“Really, I can’t say,” said Mrs. Brinkley, with a smile of distaste.
“I’m afraid your question isn’t quite in my line of thinking; it’s more
in Miss Cotton’s way. You’d better ask her some time.”

“No,” said Alice sadly; “she would flatter me.”

“Ah! I always supposed she was very conscientious.”

“She’s conscientious, but she likes me too well.”

“Oh!” commented Mrs. Brinkley to herself, “then you know I don’t like
you, and you’ll use me in one way, if you can’t in another. Very
well!” But she found the girl’s trust touching somehow, though the
sentimentality of her appeal seemed as tawdry as ever.

“I knew you would be just,” added Alice wistfully.

“Oh, I don’t know about atonements!” said Mrs. Brinkley, with an effect
of carelessness. “It seems to me that we usually make them for our own
sake.”

“I have thought of that,” said Alice, with a look of expectation.

“And we usually astonish other people when we offer them.”

“Either they don’t like it, or else they don’t feel so much injured as
we had supposed.”

“Oh, but there’s no question--”

“If Miss Anderson--”

“Miss Anderson? Oh--oh yes!”

“If Miss Anderson for example,” pursued Mrs. Brinkley, “felt aggrieved
with you. But really I’ve no right to enter into your affairs, Miss
Pasmer.”

“Oh Yes, yes!--do! I asked you to,” the girl implored.

“I doubt if it will help matters for her to know that you regret
anything; and if she shouldn’t happen to have thought that you were
unjust to her, it would make her uncomfortable for nothing.”

“Do you think so?” asked the girl, with a disappointment that betrayed
itself in her voice and eyes.

“I never feel I myself competent to advise,” said Mrs. Brinkley. “I can
criticise--anybody can--and I do, pretty freely; but advice is a more
serious matter. Each of us must act from herself--from what she thinks
is right.”

“Yes, I see. Thank you so much, Mrs. Brinkley.”

“After all, we have a right to do ourselves good, even when we pretend
that it’s good to others, if we don’t do them any harm.”

“Yes, I see.” Alice looked away, and then seemed about to speak again;
but one of Mrs. Brinkley’s acquaintance came up, and the girl rose with
a frightened air and went away.

“Alice’s talk with you this morning did her so much good!” said Mrs.
Pasmer, later. “She has always felt so badly about Miss Anderson!”

Mrs. Brinkley saw that Mrs. Pasmer wished to confine the meaning of
their talk to Miss Anderson, and she assented, with a penetration of
which she saw that Mrs. Pasmer was gratefully aware.

She grew more tolerant of both the Pasmers as the danger of greater
intimacy from them, which seemed to threaten at first seemed to pass
away. She had not responded to their advances, but there was no reason
why she should not be civil to them; there had never been any open
quarrel with them. She often found herself in talk with them, and was
amused to note that she was the only Bostonian whom they did not keep
aloof from.

It could not be said that she came to like either of them better. She
still suspected Mrs. Pasmer of design, though she developed none beyond
manoeuvring Alice out of the way of people whom she wished to avoid; and
she still found the girl, as she always thought her, as egotist, whose
best impulses toward others had a final aim in herself. She thought her
very crude in her ideas--cruder than she had seemed at Campobello, where
she had perhaps been softened by her affinition with the gentler and
kindlier nature of Dan Mavering. Mrs. Brinkley was never tired of saying
that he had made the most fortunate escape in the world, and though
Brinkley owned he was tired of hearing it, she continued to say it with
a great variety of speculation. She recognised that in most girls of
Alice’s age many traits are in solution, waiting their precipitation
into character by the chemical contact which time and chances must
bring, and that it was not fair to judge her by the present ferment of
hereditary tendencies; but she rejoiced all the same that it was not Dan
Mavering’s character which was to give fixity to hers. The more she saw
of the girl the more she was convinced that two such people could only
make each other unhappy; from day to day, almost from hour to hour, she
resolved to write to Mavering and tell him not to come.

She was sure that the Pasmers wished to have the affair on again, and
part of her fascination with a girl whom she neither liked nor approved
was her belief that Alice’s health had broken under the strain of her
regrets and her despair. She did not get better from the change of
air; she grew more listless and languid, and more dependent upon Mrs.
Brinkley’s chary sympathy. The older woman asked herself again and again
what made the girl cling to her? Was she going to ask her finally to
intercede with Dan? or was it really a despairing atonement to him,
the most disagreeable sacrifice she could offer, as Mr. Brinkley had
stupidly suggested? She believed that Alice’s selfishness and morbid
sentiment were equal to either.

Brinkley generally took the girl’s part against his wife, and in a heavy
jocose way tried to cheer her up. He did little things for her; fetched
and carried chairs and cushions and rugs, and gave his attentions the
air of pleasantries. One of his offices was to get the ladies’ letters
for them in the evening, and one night he came in beaming with a letter
for each of them where they sat together in the parlour. He distributed
them into their laps.

“Hello! I’ve made a mistake,” he said, putting down his head to take
back the letter he had dropped in Miss Pasmer’s lap. “I’ve given you my
wife’s letter.”

The girl glanced at it, gave a moaning kind of cry, and fell beak in her
chair, hiding her face in her hands.

Mrs. Brinkley, possessed herself of the other letter, and, though past
the age when ladies wish to kill their husbands for their stupidity,
she gave Brinkley a look of massacre which mystified even more than
it murdered his innocence. He had to learn later from his wife’s more
elicit fury what the women had all known instantly.

He showed his usefulness in gathering Alice up and getting her to her
mother’s room.

“Oh, Mrs. Brinkley,” implored Mrs. Pasmer, following her to the door,
“is Mr. Mavering coming here?”

“I don’t know--I can’t say--I haven’t read the letter yet.”

“Oh, do let me know when you’ve read it, won’t you? I don’t know what we
shall do.”

Mrs. Brinkley read the letter in her own room. “You go down,” she said
to her husband, with unabated ferocity; “and telegraph Dan Mavering at
Wormley’s not to came. Say we’re going away at once.”

Then she sent Mrs. Pasmer a slip of paper on which she had written, “Not
coming.”

It has been the experience of every one to have some alien concern come
into his life and torment him with more anxiety than any affair of his
own. This is, perhaps, a hint from the infinite sympathy which feels
for us all that none of us can hope to free himself from the troubles of
others, that we are each bound to each by ties which, for the most part,
we cannot perceive, but which, at the moment their stress comes, we
cannot break.

Mrs. Brinkley lay awake and raged impotently against her complicity with
the unhappiness of that distasteful girl and her more than distasteful
mother. In her revolt against it she renounced the interest she had
felt in that silly boy, and his ridiculous love business, so really
unimportant to her whatever turn it took. She asked herself what it
mattered to her whether those children marred their lives one way or
another way. There was a lurid moment before she slept when she wished
Brinkley to go down and recall her telegram; but he refused to be a fool
at so much inconvenience to himself.

Mrs. Brinkley came to breakfast feeling so much more haggard than she
found either of the Pasmers looking, that she was able to throw off
her lingering remorse for having told Mavering not to come. She had the
advantage also of doubt as to her precise motive in having done so; she
had either done so because she had judged it best for him not to see
Miss Pasmer again, or else she had done so to relieve the girl from the
pain of an encounter which her mother evidently dreaded for her. If one
motive seemed at moments outrageously meddling and presumptuous, the
other was so nobly good and kind that it more than counterbalanced it in
Mrs. Brinkley’s mind, who knew very well in spite of her doubt that she
had, acted from a mixture of both. With this conviction, it was both
a comfort and a pang to find by the register of the hotel, which she
furtively consulted, that Dan had not arrived by the morning boat, as
she groundlessly feared and hoped he might have done.
