in the least disturbed when he had n't. He was popular 
to the dangerous extent that makes one's vices seem 
a kind of social introduction, and not in Jack's circle 
alone, be it said. 
Every crew wanted him. Drunk or so- 
ber, as a shipmate he was at par. It 
was usually easy for him to borrow. The 
fellows made up his fines for him, there 
was always somebody to go bail for 
him when he got before the police 
court. Arrested perhaps a half dozen 
times a year, in his maddest years, he never was 
sent to the House in his 
life. There were always people enough who thought it 
a pity to let such a good fellow go to prison. He had 
— I was going to say as a matter of course he had — 
curly hair. One should not omit to notice that he was 
splendidly tattooed. He was proud, as seamen are, of 

his brawny arms, dashed from wrist to shoulder with 
the decorative ingenuity of his class. Jack had aesthetic 
views of his own, indeed, about his personal allowance 
of indigo. He had objected to the customary medley 
of anchors, stars, and crescents, and exhibited a certain 
reserve of taste, which was rather interesting. On his 
left arm he bore a very crooked lighthouse rising from 
a heavy sea ; he was, in fact, quite flooded along the 
bicipital muscle with waves and billows, but nothing 
else interfered with the massive proportions of the effect. 
This was considered a masterly design, and Jack 
was often called upon to push up his sleeve and explain 
how he came by the inspiration. 

Upon the other arm he wore a crucifix, ten inches 
long ; this was touched with blood-red ink ; the dead 
Christ hung upon it, lean and pitiful. Jack said he took 
the crucifix against his drowning. It was an uncommonly 
large and ornate crucifix. 

Jack was a steady drinker at nineteen. At twenty- 
five he was what either an inexperienced or a deeply 
experienced temperance missionary would have called 
incurable. The intermediate grades would have confi- 
dently expected to save him. 

Of course he reformed. He would not have been in- 
teresting if he had not. The unmitigated sot has few 
attractions even for seafaring society. It is the foil and 
flash, the by-play and side-light of character, that " lead 
us on." Jack was always reforming. After that night 
when he was brought home on the bob-sled, the little 
boy was as steady and as miserable as he knew how to 
be for a long time ; he drew the unfortunate inference 
that the one involved the other. By the time his 
mother's grave was green with the scanty Fairharbor 

church-yard grass, — for even the sea-wind seems to 
have a grudge against the very dead for choosing dry 
graves in Fairharbor, and scants them in their natural 
covering, — by that time rank weeds had overgrown the 
sorrow of the homeless boy. He and his step-father 
"got on " less than ever now, as was to be expected ; 
and when one day Jack announced with characteristic 
candor that he was going to get drunk, if he went to 
Torment for it, the two parted company ; and the crumbling 
cottage knew Jack no more. By and by, when his 
step-father was drowned at Georges', Jack borrowed the 
money for some black gloves and a hat-band. He had 
the reputation of being a polite fellow ; the fishermen 
spelled it t-o-n-y. Truth to tell, the old dory-mate had 
wondered sometimes on Sunday afternoons if he had 
been the man to manage Jack ; and felt that the main 
object of his second marriage had been defeated. 

Jack, as I say, was always reforming. Every temper- 
ance society in the city had a hand at him. They were 
of the old-fashioned, easy type which took their respon- 
sibilities comfortably. They held him out on a pair of 
moral tongs, and tried to toast his misdemeanors out of 
him, before a quick fire of pledges and badges ; and when 
he tumbled out of the tongs, and asked the president 
and treasurer why they didn't bow to him in the street 
when he was drunk, or why, if he was good enough for 
them in the lodge-room, he wasn't good enough to shake 
hands with before folks on the post-office steps, or pro- 
pounded any of those ingenious posers with which his 
kind are in the habit of disturbing the benevolent spirit, 
they snapped the tongs to, and turned him over to the 
churches. 

These touched him gingerly. They invited him into 

the free pews, — a dismal little row in the gallery, — 
sent him a tract or two, and asked him a few well-meant 
and very confusing religious questions, to which Jack's 
replies were far from satisfactory. One ardent person, 
a recent convert, coaxed him into a weekly prayer-meet- 
ing. It was a very good, honest, uninteresting prayer- 
meeting, and there were people sitting there beside him 

with clean lives and clear faces whose motives Jack was 
not worthy to understand, and he knew enough to know 
it. But it happened to be a foreign mission prayer-meet- 
ing, devoted to the Burmese field ; which was, therefore, 
be it said, not so much an argument against foreign missions,
as a deficient means of grace to the fisherman. 
Jack was terribly bored. He ran his hands through his 
curls, and felt for his tobacco, and whispered to tie 



young convert to know if there weren't any waits in the 
play so a man could get out without hurting anybody's 
feelings. But just then the young convert struck up a 
hymn, and Jack stayed. 

He liked the singing. His restless, handsome face 
took on a change such as a windy day takes on toward 
dusk, when the breeze dies clown. When he found 
they were singing Rock of Ages, he tried to sing it too, 
— for he was a famous tenor on deck. But when he had 
sung a line or two, — flash ! down in one of the empty 
pews in front, he saw a thin old lady with blue eyes, sitting 
in a black alpaca dress with her hands clasped on 
her gingham apron. 

"That's my mother. Have I got the jim-jams?" 
asked this unaccustomed worshiper of himself. But 
then he remembered that he was sober. He could sins: 
no longer after this, but bowed his head and looked into 
his old felt hat, and wondered if he were going to cry, 
or get religion. In point of fact, he did neither of these 
things, because a very old church-member arose just 
then, and said he saw a poor castaway in our midst to- 
night, and he besought the prayers of the meeting for 
his soul. Jack stopped crying. He looked hard at the 
old church-member. He knew him ; had always known 
him. The fisherman waited till that prayer was 
through, — it was rather a long prayer, — and then he 
too sprang to his feet. He looked all around the deco- 
rous place ; his face was white with the swift passion of 
the drinking man. 

" I never spoke in meetin' in my life," said Jack in an 
unsteady voice. " I ain't religious. I drink. But I 'm 
sober to-night, and I 've got something to say to you. I 
heard what that man said. I know him. He 's old Jim 


Crownoby. I 've always knowed Jim Crownoby. He 
owns a sight of property in this town. He 's a rich 
man. He owns that block on Black street. You know 
he does. You can't deny it. Nor he can't neither. 
All I want to say is, I 've got drunk in one of them 
places of his, time and again ; and if there ain't anybody
but him to pray for my soul, I 'd rather go to the 
devil." 

Jack stopped short, jammed on his hat, and left the 
meeting. In the shocked rustle that followed, some one 
had the tact to start " Rescue the perishing," as the 
fisherman strode down the broad aisle. He did not go 
again. The poor young convert followed him up for a 
week or two, and gave him an expensive Testament, 
bought out of an almost invisible personal income, in 
vain. 

"I've no objections to you," said Jack candidly; 
" I 'm much obliged to ye for yer politeness, sir. But 
them churches that sub-leases to a rum-seller, I don't 
think they onderstand a drinkin' man. Hey ? Well, 
ain't he their biggest rooster, now ? Don't he do the 
heft of the payin', and the tallest of their crowin', 
consequent ? Thought so. Better leave me go, sir. 
I ain't a pious man ; I 'm a fisherman." 

" Fishes," said Jack, " is no fools." 

He gave voice to this remark one day in Boston, 
when he was twenty-five years old. He was trying to 
