other victory ; she maintained, as she informed her 
brother, that there was no possible policy but a 
policy of confidence. " Lord help us, is that what 
they call confidence ? " the young man exclaimed, 
o-uessing the way they all looked at each other; 
and he wondered how they would look next at 
poor Mr. Dosson. Fortunately he could always fall 
back, for reassurance, upon that revelation of their 
perfect manners ; though indeed he thoroughly 
knew that on the day they should really attempt 
interference make a row which might render 
him helpless and culminate in a rupture their 
courtesy would show its finest flower. 

Mr. Probert s property was altogether in the 
United States : he resembled various other persons 
to whom American impressions are mainly accept 
able in the form of dividends. The manner in 
which he desired to benefit his son on the occasion 
of the latter s marriage rendered certain visitations 
and reinvestments necessary in that country. It 
had long been his conviction that his affairs needed 
looking into; they had gone on for years and 
years without an overhauling. He had thought 
of going back to see, but now he was too old and 
too tired and the effort was impossible. There was 
nothing for it but for Gaston to go, and go quickly, 
though the moment was rather awkward. The idea 
was communicated to him and the necessity ac 
cepted ; then the plan was relinquished : it seemed 
such a pity he should not wait till after his marriage, 
when he would be able to take Francie with 
him. Francie would be such an introducer. This 
postponement would have taken effect had it not 
suddenly come out that Mr. Dosson himself wanted 
to go for a few weeks, in consequence of some 
news (it was a matter of business), that he had un- 





expectedly received. It was further revealed that 
that course presented difficulties, for he could not 
leave his daughters alone, especially in such a 
situation. Not only would such a proceeding 
have given scandal to the Proberts, but Gaston 
learned, with a good deal of surprise and not a 
little amusement, that Delia, in consequence of 
peculiar changes now wrought in her view of 
things, would have felt herself obliged to protest 
on the score of propriety. He called her 
attention to the fact that nothing would be more 
simple than, in the interval, for Francie to go 
and stay with Susan or Margaret ; Delia herself in 
that case would be free to accompany her father. 
But this young lady declared that nothing would 
induce her to quit the European continent until she 
had seen her sister through, and Gaston shrank 
from proposing that she too should spend five weeks 
in the Place Beauvau or the Rue de Lille. 
Moreover he was startled, he was a good deal 
mystified, by the perverse, unsociable way in which 
Francie asserted that, as yet, she would not lend 
herself to any staying. After, if he liked, but 
not till then. And she would not at the moment 
give the reasons of her refusal ; it was only very 
positive and even quite passionate. 

All this left her intended no alternative but 
to say to Mr. Dosson, " I am not such a fool as 
I look. If you will coach me properly, and trust 
me, I will rush across and transact your business 





as well as my father s." Strange as it appeared, 

Francie could resign herself to this separation 

from her lover it would last six or seven weeks 

rather than accept the hospitality of his 

sisters. Mr. Dosson trusted him; he said to him, 

&lt; Well, sir, you've  got a big brain," at the end of 

a morning they spent with papers and pencils; 

upon which Gaston made his preparations to sail. 

Before he left Paris Francie, to do her justice, 

confided to him that her objection to going in 

such an intimate way even to Mme. de Brecourt s 

had been founded on a fear that in close quarters 

she would do something that would make them 

all despise her. Gaston replied, in the first place, 

that this was gammon and in the second he wanted 

to know if she expected never to be in close 

quarters with her new kinsfolk. "Ah, yes, but 

then it will be safer we shall be married ! " she 

returned. This little incident occurred three days 

before the young man started ; but what happened 

just the evening previous was that, stopping 

for a last word at the Hotel dc I Univers et de 

Cheltenham on his way to take the night express 

to London (he was to sail from Liverpool), he 

found Mr. George Flack sitting in the red satin 

saloon. The correspondent of the Reverberator 

had come back. 



IX. 



ME. FLACK S relations with his old friends did 
not, after his appearance in Paris, take on that 
familiarity and frequency which had marked their 
intercourse a year before : he let them know 
frankly that he could easily see the situation was 
quite different. They had got into the high set 
and they didn 't care about the past : he alluded 
to the past as if it had been rich in mutual vows, 
in pledges now repudiated. " What s the matter ? 
Won 't you come round there with us some day ? " 
Mr. Dosson asked ; not having perceived for him 
self any reason why the young journalist should 
not be a welcome and congruous figure in the 
Cours la Heine. 

Delia wanted to know what Mr. Flack was 
talking about : didn 't he know a lot of people 
that they didn 't know and wasn 't it natural they 
should have their own society ? The young man s 
treatment of the question was humorous, and it 
was with Delia that the discussion mainly went 







forward. When he maintained that the Dossons 
had " shed " him, Mr. Dosson exclaimed, " Well, I 
guess you 'll grow again ! " And Francie observed 
that it was no use for him to pose as a martyr, in 
asmuch as he knew perfectly well that with all 
the celebrated people he saw and the way he flew 
round he had the most enchanting time. She was 
aware she was a good deal less accessible than she 
had been the previous spring, for Mesdames do 
Brecourt and de Cliche (the former much more 
than the latter) took a considerable number of her 
hours. In spite of her protest to Gaston against 
a premature intimacy with his sisters, she spent 
whole days in their company (they had so much 
