though afar, he had followed his career with affectionate interest, and
the day before Weldon's wedding he had caused Tiffany to send the bride
a service of silver which was mentioned by the reporters as "elegant"
and "chaste." On returning to New York, Tristrem naturally found the
door of the house in Gramercy Park wide open, and it came about that it
was in that house that his wavering patriotism was riveted.

This event, after the fashion of extraordinary occurrences, happened in
a commonplace manner. One Sunday evening he was bidden there to dine. He
had broken bread in the house many times before, but the bread breaking
had been informal. On this particular occasion, however, other guests
had been invited, and Tristrem was given to understand that he would
meet some agreeable people.

When he entered the drawing-room, he discovered that of the guests of
the evening he was the first to arrive. Even Weldon was not visible; but
Mrs. Weldon was, and, as Tristrem entered, she rose from a
straight-backed chair in which she had been seated, and greeted him with
a smile which she had copied from a chromo.

Mrs. Weldon was exceedingly pretty. She was probably twenty-two or
twenty-three years of age, and her intellect was that of a girl of
twelve. Her manner was arch and noticeably affected. She had an
enervating way of asking unnecessary questions, and of laughing as
though it hurt her. On the subject of dress she was very voluble; in
brief, she was prettiness and insipidity personified--the sort of woman
that ought to be gagged and kept in bed with a doll.

She gave Tristrem a little hand gloved with Suède, and asked him had
he been at church that morning. Tristrem found a seat, and replied that
he had not. "But don't you like to go?" she inquired, emphasizing each
word of the question, and ending up with her irritating laugh.

"He does," came a voice from the door and Weldon entered. "He does, but
he can resist the temptation." Then there was more conversation of the
before-dinner kind, and during its progress the door opened again, and a
young girl crossed the room.

She was dressed in a gown of canary, draped with madeira and fluttered
with lace. Her arms and neck were bare, and unjewelled. Her hair was
Cimmerian, the black of basalt that knows no shade more dark, and it was
arranged in such wise that it fell on either side of the forehead,
circling a little space above the ear, and then wound into a coil on the
neck. This arrangement was not modish, but it was becoming--the only
arrangement, in fact, that would have befitted her features, which
resembled those of the Cleopatra unearthed by Lieutenant Gorringe. Her
eyes were not oval, but round, and they were amber as those of leopards,
the yellow of living gold. The corners of her mouth drooped a little,
and the mouth itself was rather large than small. When she laughed one
could see her tongue; it was like an inner cut of water-melon, and
sometimes, when she was silent, the point of it caressed her under lip.
Her skin was of that quality which artificial light makes radiant, and
yet of which the real delicacy is only apparent by day. She just lacked
being tall, and in her face and about her bare arms and neck was the
perfume of health. She moved indolently, with a grace of her own. She
was not yet twenty, a festival of beauty in the festival of life.

At the rustle of her dress Tristrem had arisen. As the girl crossed the
room he bethought him of a garden of lilies; though why, for the life of
him, he could not have explained. He heard his name mentioned, and saw
the girl incline her head, but he made little, if any, acknowledgment;
he stood quite still, looking at her and through her, and over her and
beyond. For some moments he neither moved nor spoke. He was unconscious
even that other guests had come.

He gave his hand absently to a popular novelist, Mr. A. B. Fenwick
Chisholm-Jones by name, more familiarly known as Alphabet, whom Weldon
brought to him, and kept his eyes on the yellow bodice. A fair young
woman in pink had taken a position near to where he stood, and was
complaining to someone that she had been obliged to give up cigarettes.
And when the someone asked whether the abandonment of that pleasure was
due to parental interference, the young woman laughed shortly, and
explained that she was in training for a tennis tournament. Meanwhile
the little group in which Tristrem stood was re-enforced by a new-comer,
who attempted to condole with the novelist on the subject of an
excoriating attack that one of the critics had recently made on his
books, and suggested that he ought to do something about it. But of
condolence or advice Mr. Jones would have none.

"Bah!" he exclaimed, "if the beggar doesn't like what I write let him
try and do better. I don't care what any of them say. My books sell, and
that's the hauptsache. Besides, what's the use in arguing with a
newspaper? It's like talking metaphysics to a bull; the first you know,
you get a horn in your navel." And while the novelist was expressing his
disdain of all adverse criticism, and quoting Emerson to the effect that
the average reviewer had the eyes of a bug and the heart of a cat,
Tristrem discovered Mrs. Weldon's arm in his own, and presently found
himself seated next to her at table.

At the extreme end, to the right of the host, was the girl with the
amber eyes. The novelist was at her side. Evidently he had said
something amusing, for they were both laughing; he with the complacency
of one who has said a good thing, and she with the appreciation of one
accustomed to wit. But Tristrem was not permitted to watch her
undisturbed. Mrs. Weldon had a right to his attention, and she exercised
that right with the pertinacity of a fly that has to be killed to be got
rid of. "What do you think of Miss Finch?" she asked, with her stealthy
giggle.

"Her name isn't Finch," Tristrem answered, indignantly.

"Yes it is, too--Flossy Finch, her name is; as if I oughtn't to know!
Why, we were at Mrs. Garret and Mlle. de l'Entresol's school together
for years and years. What makes you say her name isn't Finch? I had you
here on purpose to meet her. Did you ever see such hair? There's only
one girl in New York----"

"It is black," Tristrem assented.

"Black! Why, you must be crazy; it's orange, and that dress of hers----"

Tristrem looked down the table and saw a young lady whom he had not
noticed before. Her hair, as Mrs. Weldon had said, was indeed the color
of orange, though of an orange not over-ripe. "I thought you meant that
girl next to Royal," he said.

"That! Oh! that's Miss Raritan."

Mrs. Weldon's voice had changed. Evidently Miss Raritan did not arouse
in her the same enthusiasm as did Miss Finch. For a moment her lips lost
their chromo smile, but presently it returned again, and she piped away
anew on the subject of the charms of Flossy Finch, and after an
interlude, of which Tristrem heard not one word, she turned and
cross-questioned the man on her left.

The conversation had become very animated. From Royal's end of the table
came intermittent shrieks of laughter. The novelist was evidently in his
finest form. "Do you mean to tell me," Miss Finch asked him across the
table, "do you mean to say that you don't believe in platonic
affection?"

"I never uttered such a heresy in my life," the novelist replied. "Of
course I believe in it; I believe in it thoroughly--between husband and
wife."

At this everyone laughed again, except Tristrem, who had not heard, and
Mrs. Weldon, who had not understood. The latter, however, felt that Miss
Finch was distinguishing herself, and she turned to Tristrem anew.

"I want you to make yourself very agreeable to her," she said. "She is
just the girl for you. Don't you think so? Now promise that you will
talk to her after dinner."

"Talk metaphysics to a bull, and the first thing you know--the first
thing you know--I beg your pardon, Mrs. Weldon, I didn't mean to say
that--I don't know how the stupid phrase got in my head or why I said
it." He hesitated a moment, and seemed to think. "H'm," he went on, "I
am a trifle tired, I fancy."

Mrs. Weldon looked suspiciously at the glasses at his side, but
apparently they had not been so much as tasted; they were full to the
rim. She turned again to the guest at her left. The dinner was almost
done. She asked a few more questions, and then presently, in a general
lull, she gave a glance about her. At that signal the women-folk rose in
a body, the men rising also, to let them pass.

Tristrem had risen mechanically with the others, and when the ultimate
flounce had disappeared he sat down again and busied himself with a cup
of coffee. The other men had drawn their chairs together near him, and
over the liqueurs were discussing topics of masculine interest and
flavor. Tristrem was about to make some effort to join in the
conversation, when from beyond there came the running scale that is the
prelude to the cabaletta, Non più mesta, from Cenerentola. Then,
abruptly, a voice rang out as though it vibrated through labyrinths of
gold--a voice that charged the air with resonant accords--a voice
prodigious and dominating, grave and fluid; a voice that descended into
the caverns of sound, soared to the uttermost heights, scattering notes
like showers of stars, evoking visions of flesh and dazzling steel, and
in its precipitate flights and vertiginous descents disclosing
landscapes riotous with flowers, rich with perfume, sentient with
beauty, articulate with love; a voice voluptuous as an organ and
languorous as the consonance of citherns and guitars.

Tristrem, as one led in leash, moved from the table and passed into the
outer room. Miss Raritan was at the piano. Beyond, a group of women sat
hushed and mute; and still the resilient waves of song continued. One by
one the men issued noiselessly from the inner room. And then, soon, the
voice sank and died away like a chorus entering a crypt.

Miss Raritan rose from the piano. As she did so, Weldon, as it becomes a
