"You may be right," he said, "but in this matter I venture to think that
you and I can make a bargain without any outside help."

"You can, at any rate, state your proposition, Mr. Wolverton."

"Have you any idea as to the amount of your wheat crop?"

"Robert tells me there will be not far from fourteen hundred bushels."

Wolverton's eyes showed his pleasure. If he made the bargain proposed,
this would bring him an excellent profit. "Very good!" he said. "It will
be a great help to you."

"Yes; I feel that we are fortunate, especially when I consider that the
ranch has been carried on by a boy of sixteen."

"Well, Mrs. Burton, I am a man of few words. I will give you a dollar
and a half a bushel for your wheat, and this will give you, on the basis
of fourteen hundred bushels, twenty-one hundred dollars. You are a very
fortunate woman."

"But, Mr. Wolverton, Robert tells me he expects to get at least two
dollars a bushel."

It must be remembered that grain was then selling at "war prices."

"I don't know what the boy can be thinking of," said Wolverton,
contemptuously. "Two dollars a bushel! Why don't he say five dollars at
once?"

"He gained his information from a St. Louis paper."

"My dear madam, the price here and the price in St. Louis are two
entirely different matters. You must be aware that it will cost a good
deal to transport the wheat to St. Louis."

"Surely it cannot cost fifty cents a bushel?"

"No; but it is a great mistake to suppose that you can get two dollars a
bushel in St. Louis."

"I must leave the matter to Robert to decide."

"Excuse my saying that this is very foolish. The boy has not a man's
judgment."

"Nevertheless, I must consult him before deciding."

Mrs. Barton spoke so plainly that Wolverton said, sullenly: "Do as you
please, Mrs. Burton, but I would like to settle the matter to-night."

Robert was sent for, and, being near the house, entered without delay.

Mr. Wolverton's proposition was made known to him.

"Mr. Wolverton," said Bob, regarding that gentleman with a dislike he
did not attempt to conceal, "You would make a very good bargain if we
accepted your proposal."

"Not much," answered Wolverton, hastily. "Of course I should make a
little something, but I am chiefly influenced in making the offer, by a
desire to save your mother trouble."

"You would make seven hundred dollars at least, out of which you would
only have to pay for transportation to St. Louis."

"That is a very ridiculous statement!" said Wolverton, sharply.

"Why so? The wheat will fetch two dollars a bushel in the market."

"Some one has been deceiving you."

"Shall I show you the paper in which I saw the quotations?"

"No; it is erroneous. Besides, the expense of carrying the grain to
market will be very large."

"It won't be fifty cents a bushel."

"Young man, you are advising your mother against her best interests.
Young people are apt to be headstrong. I should not expect to make much
money out of the operation."

"Why, then, do you make the offer?"

"I have already told you that I wished to save your mother trouble."

"We are much obliged to you, but we decline your proposal."

"Then," said Wolverton, spitefully, "I shall have to hold you to the
terms of the mortgage. I had intended to favor you, but after the tone
you have taken with me, I shall not do so."

"To what terms do you refer, Mr. Wolverton?" asked the widow.

"I will tell you. I have the right at the end of six months to call for
a payment of half the mortgage--fifteen hundred dollars. That will make,
in addition to the interest then due, sixteen hundred and fifty
dollars."

"Can this be true?" asked Mrs. Burton, in dismay, turning to Robert.

"It is so specified in the mortgage," answered Wolverton, triumphantly.
"You can examine it for yourself. I have only to say, that, had you
accepted my offer, I would have been content with, say, one quarter of
the sum, knowing that it would be inconvenient for you to pay half."

Bob, as well as his mother, was taken by surprise, but in no way
disposed to yield.

"We should be no better off," he said. "We should lose at least five
hundred dollars by accepting your offer, and that we cannot afford to
do."

"You refuse, then," said Wolverton, angrily.

"Yes."

"Then all I have to say is that you will rue this day," and the agent
got up hastily, but upon second thought sat down again.

"How do you expect to get your grain to market?" he asked.

"I shall take it myself."

"What do you mean?"

"I shall store it on a boat I have purchased, and Clip and I will take
it to St. Louis."

"You must be crack-brained!" ejaculated Wolverton. "I never heard of a
more insane project."

"I hope to disappoint you, Mr. Wolverton. At any rate, my mind is made
up."

Wolverton shuffled out of the room, in impotent rage.

"We have made him our enemy, Robert," said his mother, apprehensively.

"He was our enemy before, mother. He evidently wants to ruin us."

As Wolverton went home, one thought was uppermost in his mind. "How
could he prevent Bob from making the trip to St. Louis?"




CHAPTER XVII.

WOLVERTON'S POOR TENANT.


Bob hired a couple of extra hands, and made haste to finish harvesting
his wheat, for he was anxious to start on the trip down the river as
soon as possible. His anticipations as to the size of the crop were
justified. It footed up fourteen hundred and seventy-five bushels, and
this, at two dollars per bushel, would fetch in market nearly three
thousand dollars.

"That's a pretty good crop for a boy to raise, mother," said Bob, with
pardonable exultation. "You haven't lost anything by allowing me to run
the ranch."

"Quite true, Robert. You have accomplished wonders. I don't know what I
could have done without you. I know very little of farming myself."

"I helped him, missis," said Clip, coveting a share of approval for
himself.

"Yes," said Bob, smiling. "Clip has been my right-hand man. I can't say
he has worked very hard himself, but he has superintended the others."

"Yes, missis; dat's what I done!" said Clip, proudly.

He did not venture to pronounce the word, for it was too much for him,
but he was vaguely conscious that it was something important and
complimentary.

"Then I must buy Clip a new suit," said Mrs. Burton, smiling.
