would collect, collate, and colligate the dis- 
array of their facts before they theorize. 

Men have dedicated their lives to the classi- 
fication of an insect, or the cultivation of an ac- 
cent. Why not study the power which makes 
one man able to make another say Peter Piper, 
across the width of the house, with the doors 
shut ? The spirit which gave to the world her 
great scientific gospel devoured itself till it 
knew why the flesh of a creature invisible with- 
out the miscroscope, was of the color of the leaf 
on which it lived and died. Why, then, should 
not a man keep tally of the relative number 
of times that a blindfold subject will select the 
right card from a pack ? " High authorities " 
have wearied themselves to account for the 
difference in the molars and premolars within 
the jaws of the dog and the Tasmanian wolf. 
May not a scientist eat mustard, to see if his 
mesmeric recipient will say that his mouth is 



 



burnt ? Or even ask why a valuable piece of 
property stands unrented for a generation, 
because a dead woman is said to be heard sob- 
bing in it? In brief, are not the methods 
which overcome the mysteries of matter en- 
titled to the same exercise and to the same 
respect that they have had, when they are ap- 
plied to the mysteries of mind ? Here, we 
say, are the facts. Hundreds of people, whose 
word of honor is as good intellectual coin as 
that of the reader of this page or the writer 
of this paper have testified to the conveyance 
of thought, without visible or audible or tan- 
gible media, from embodied mind to embodied 
mind ; to the tragic or the trivial incidents of 
mesmerism ; to the coincidence of dreams ; to 
the prophecy of mental convictions ; to the 
visual appearance of the distant living ; to 
the sight or sign of what is thought to be the 
more distant dead. 

Thousands of sensible and reliable men and 
women to - day believe these things on the 
strength of personal experience ; and, believ- 
ing, accept them with such explanation of their 
own as they may, in default of any from silent 
science. It would seem as if these circum- 





stances were of as much importance to science 
as the transverse lamellae in the beak of a 
shoveler duck, or the climate of the lowlands 
under the equator during the severe part of 
the glacial period. 

A cautious Spiritualist, prominently identi- 
fied with the movements of his sect, in reply to 
inquiries made for use in this paper writes : — 

" I think it would be within bounds to say, that in 
this country, the number who have by personal inves- 
tigation come into what they believe to be a knowl- 
edge of spirit return and manifestation is not less 
than 2,000,000, and that a still larger number have 
experienced enough to satisfy them that there 4 is 
something in it,' but how much they don't know.'' 

Estimates two or three times as large are 
made by less careful zealots. The writer of 
the article on Spiritualism in the " American 
Encyclopaedia," says : — 

"As the organized bodies of Spiritualists include 
but a small proportion of those who wholly or par- 
tially accept these phenomena, it is impossible to 
make even an approximate estimate of their num- 
ber." 

In Great Britain, the number is supposed 
to be larger than among ourselves. Here, let 



 



us say, to take the most modest figures, are 
two millions of our people, intelligent enough 
to conduct the affairs and obey the laws of 
average civilized society, who habitually and 
confidently approach the awful verities of 
death through the unexplained trance which 
we content ourselves with calling a morbid 
nervous condition ; people whose main reli- 
gious faith is formulated — God help them ! — 
in the columns of papers most of which we 
never read if we can help it, or in the pages 
of what they are pleased to call a New Bible, 
spiritually communicated through mediums of 
the sect. Say what we may (and we ought to 
say it) of the nonsense, say what we may of 
the fraud, of the jugglery, the hysteria, the 
blasphemy mixed to a mush with the whole 
matter, the significant fact remains, that here 
is a huge class not of the lowest or most illit- 
erate, while not yet, to any marked extent, of 
the wisest or highest, who believe themselves, 
in our highly-illuminated times, to have found 
some means of access to the consciousness of 
their dead. Here is the massive bulwark of 
the mystery — be it from within or from with- 
out ; were it from above or from below ; call it 





a base trick or a glorious possibility — where 
the Prince of the Power of the Air intrenches 
himself ; that he gives or assumes to give, or 
is believed to give to the starving human heart, 
bereaved of its bread of life, the crumbs from 
the table of Love and Death. Were it not as 
great a deed, is it not as large a duty, to hunt 
down the facts behind this faith, to grip the 
truth from out this error, to have this law that 
lies between the body and the soul, as it were 
to discover the link between a monkey and a 
man ? 

Modern science is systematically severe in 
the conditions which she lays upon the spirit 
of inquiry. The spirit of inquiry may, in 
turn, demand something of her. We say a 
great deal in these days about the scientific 
basis of thought and action. What do we 
mean by it ? We suppose ourselves to mean 
that a subject shall be approached with two 
qualifications : equipment and candor ; the 
presence of equivalent ability, and the absence 
of nullifying prejudice. These two endow- 
ments we have the right to expect of any in- 
vestigators who penetrate the unexplored upon 






the map of Truth. We may assume that the 
eminent officers and members of the psychical 
societies represent a wide enough range of 
training, psychological and physiological, re- 
ligious and skeptical, to deprive us of all ne- 
cessity to question their possession of the first 
of these conditions. As to the latter, we have 
read of the chemist who said to a philosopher : 
"But the chemical facts, my dear sir, are 
precisely the reverse of what you suppose." 
" Have the goodness, then," was the instanta- 
neous reply, " to tell me what they are, that 
I may explain them on my system." Such a 
spirit, which, alas ! is newer than the story, 
would be worse than no spirit at all, in the 
attempt to bring down so subtle and mock- 
ing a truth as that which flies or floats in ob- 
scure psychical phenomena. We have to deal 
now with wings, not clay ; we must use arrows 
