have Eve tell him how we were prospering with the 
house. This autumn aunt Carry's last daughter was 
married, so her soul would be no more perplexed 
with that anxiety. 
Our weeks absolutely flew by. Sadie Brooke 
made us two brief visits, and it seemed to me that 
she grew in beauty and in fun. We laughed unceas 
ingly when she was with us. Mr. Palmer came over 
one evening, and his engagement did not seem to 
burden him with gravity. 
" Isn't it funny," said Sadie, " that I should come 
over here, and find a lover ? Oh ! do you remember 
that first gay visit to the station? and what good 
times we had here last summer ? O Eve Thurston ! 
 
you are a confirmed match-maker. There's Gordon 
Pryor going the way of all the rest after Helen. He 
was awfully sweet on you, and jealous as a pasha last 
summer. Are you going to remain single, and laugh 
at your friends, as you see them floundering in the 
marshes of matrimony after a will-o'-wisp ? " 
" No," returned Eve solemnly. " I'm going to be 
married myself, when Mr. Right comes along." 
The blue velvet dress was lovely. It seemed as if 
Eve had never looked so beautiful in any thing save 
white. The cloth was dainty and jaunty, with its 
soft gray-fur trimming and muff. The club, the teas, 
the parties, and weddings came off in their succes 
sion. How Eve found time to paint, and embroider 
a little, and also to take an interest in church work, 
really puzzled me. 
Eve went down and spent the day before Christ 
mas with the Brookes. Sadie had five maids of 
honor, and was bewitching in silk and lace and 
flowers. I went down in the evening, and escorted 
my sister. The church was beautiful in its Christ 
mas adornments, and the wedding like a picture. 
Mrs. Palmer returned home, changed her dress, and 
they took the night-train to Baltimore, where Mr. 
Palmer's mother and an invalid sister lived, and who 
had begged they should come there for a Christmas 
dinner. 
 
I brought Eve out of all the splendor to our own 
little cottage. Joe had a bright fire in the grate, and 
some fragrant coffee on the stove. Was she so 
happy, so serenely content ? O Eve, my darling ! I 
wished that night I could be a millionnaire for your 
sake. You were worthy of the best. 
" Do you know," said Eve gayly, as she sipped her 
coffee, " that I have a new scheme ? I shall make 
your life a burden, Adam, but not about an apple. 
Here is Joe to do landscape-gardening. Here are 
you who can make a dry twig grow, if you stick it 
into the ground ; and I can make bouquets and 
bargains. The world is sighing for flowers. It is 
smothered in them, and yet, like Alexander the 
Great, ' it sighs for new curiosities to conquer.' We 
must become florists. We must go into a real garden. 
That is a subject for you to dream out on this 
blessed Christmas Eve. It has come to me like an 
inspiration ! " 
We both stared at her, the eyes lustrous and 
merry, the mouth daintily sweet, the cheek like a 
sun-kissed peach. 
Then she laughed. The clock was striking. 
" Merry Christmas ! Merry Christmas ! " she cried, 
and kissed me, then turned to Joe with the sweetness 
of a sister. 
" Miss Eve," he said huskily, " you know I would 
do any thing for you. I'd go round the world. 
You have helped to make a man of me, and, by God's 
help, I mean never to shame your work. All my 
life long you will be to me an angel holding out your 
hand ; and if ever I should be tempted to go wrong, 
I will come and cling to it." 
Did we need to be any happier ? I forgot I was a 
poor young fellow on forty-five dollars a month. 
 
CHAPTER XIV 
WINTER BLOOMS IN EDEN 
EVE and I went to church Christmas morning. 
The sound of her voice in the hymns and carols will 
never vanish from my heart or brain, for it touched 
both. We were to go to the Corwins's for a two- 
o'clock dinner, and to the Morrisons's for the evening, 
as they were to have a grand Christmas-tree. Joe 
was to take Ruth Montgomery down to Northwood, 
to hear quite a famous singer. 
Altogether it was delightful. Just afterward came 
a cold snap and a splendid snow-storm. Joe hired a 
pretty cutter, and made the most of the pleasure. 
Certainly, the lad had a good deal of shrewdness in 
turning a penny, as old country people say. 
Some time after this, Helen came up again. It was 
quite evident that Pryor was in earnest. Eve took 
him in hand in an indescribable manner, as if she had 
been his sister. It was curious, but at first it almost 
seemed to me as if he had offered Eve an indignity. 
She spoke of it one evening when they had gone out 
sleigh-riding. 
" Having loved you, I do not see how he could love 
any other woman ! " I exclaimed. 
" O you foolish Adam ! Could it make me any 
happier if he went mourning and moody? He is 
young, vigorous, enthusiastic, and, I think, a bright, 
energetic young man ; the kind of person to have 
a happy home, wife and children, and prosper with 
them all. He has improved very much in a year, 
and the Gaylord connection will be just the thing 
for him. Helen was very noble about it. She was 
afraid at first that I might have cared ; and he was 
brave enough to tell her that he had liked me very 
much, and he desired us always to be friends. Helen 
will love him dearly, and that is just what he wants 
and needs. I am glad to have it so." 
" I wonder if you like Estradura better ? " I said 
slowly, watching her with eager eyes. 
" Not that way. We are very good friends." 
I remembered Pryor's jealousy of him, and smiled. 
"All the girls will be married presently," I con 
tinued ; and I know there was a suggestion of loneli 
ness in my tone. 
"Well, Dr. Johnson advised us to keep our 
friendships in repair. I have begun with Ce.lia Hil- 
dreth. And Mrs. Wilbur is to have a charming 
niece come from Georgia to spend next summer 
with her, and, of course, she will fall in love with 
me. My poor Adam, you will never stand any 
chance ! " 
She looked so utterly bewitching as she said this, 
with an assumption of melancholy, that I was com 
pelled to laugh. 
" Well, I am content to wait a while. Our league 
was for five years, you know ; and by that time we 
may each have a thousand dollars." 
" What a dismal tone ! A thousand dollars, and 
two thousand dollars' worth of enjoyment." 
Certainly we did not lack for the latter. Some 
one seemed to be coming all the time. Mrs. Har- 
wood was over and staid a week. She was not feel 
ing very well ; had been " dissipating too much," she 
declared. She used to lie in the hammock, with some 
pillows, and a bright shawl thrown over her, reading, 
or watching the grate-fire. We had taken to cannel- 
coal now, and its bright blaze pleased her wonder 
fully. She used to watch Eve as she flitted about. 
I remember this winter she wore a beautiful deep red 
gown, with a good deal of white lace about her neck ; 
and, somehow, it seemed to make her look taller and 
slenderer. 
We talked and read a great deal about green 
houses, and plants of all kinds. Our little green 
house had done very well. We had banked it up 
on the exposed sides, and had a double door. The 
 
roof was of double sashes ; and we covered them with 
matting and old carpets, or boards, on very cold 
nights ; but on days that were pleasant and sunny, 
we let them have the light. The pansies bloomed 
abundantly in February. Sweet alyssum, mignon 
ette, and some of the hardier red geraniums, kept 
in flower. 
Our chickens were doing pretty well, not as 
wonderfully as some we read about, but they gave 
us a profit ; while our neighbors' sat on the roost, or 
huddled together in some sunny corner. We gave 
them hot cooked food every morning. It stood on 
the back of the stove, and we kept our fires all night. 
I put plenty of red pepper in it, and we gave them 
an abundance of warm water to drink. In their 
water-kettle I generally kept a few old bits of iron 
that were in a state of rust. For dinner they had a 
light meal of wheat, buckwheat, and oats, and at 
night a solid meal of corn. Twice a week a sheep's 
pluck, and pounded or ground bone and oyster-shells. 
During December new-laid eggs went up to fifty 
cents; in January they touched sixty; February, 
still at fifty; in March, forty and thirty-five. All 
our refuse vegetables went to them ; and we let them 
