and a telephone; our first venture in this line.  These wires were
for private service only, as yet, and must be kept private until
a riper day should come.  We had a gang of men on the road, working
mainly by night.  They were stringing ground wires; we were afraid
to put up poles, for they would attract too much inquiry.  Ground
wires were good enough, in both instances, for my wires were
protected by an insulation of my own invention which was perfect.
My men had orders to strike across country, avoiding roads, and
establishing connection with any considerable towns whose lights
betrayed their presence, and leaving experts in charge. Nobody
could tell you how to find any place in the kingdom, for nobody
ever went intentionally to any place, but only struck it by
accident in his wanderings, and then generally left it without
thinking to inquire what its name was.  At one time and another
we had sent out topographical expeditions to survey and map the
kingdom, but the priests had always interfered and raised trouble.
So we had given the thing up, for the present; it would be poor
wisdom to antagonize the Church.
As for the general condition of the country, it was as it had been
when I arrived in it, to all intents and purposes.  I had made
changes, but they were necessarily slight, and they were not
noticeable.  Thus far, I had not even meddled with taxation,
outside of the taxes which provided the royal revenues.  I had
systematized those, and put the service on an effective and
righteous basis.  As a result, these revenues were already quadrupled,
and yet the burden was so much more equably distributed than
before, that all the kingdom felt a sense of relief, and the praises
of my administration were hearty and general.
Personally, I struck an interruption, now, but I did not mind it,
it could not have happened at a better time.  Earlier it could
have annoyed me, but now everything was in good hands and swimming
right along.  The king had reminded me several times, of late, that
the postponement I had asked for, four years before, had about
run out now.  It was a hint that I ought to be starting out to seek
adventures and get up a reputation of a size to make me worthy
of the honor of breaking a lance with Sir Sagramor, who was still
out grailing, but was being hunted for by various relief expeditions,
and might be found any year, now.  So you see I was expecting
this interruption; it did not take me by surprise.
CHAPTER XI
THE YANKEE IN SEARCH OF ADVENTURES
There never was such a country for wandering liars; and they were
of both sexes.  Hardly a month went by without one of these tramps
arriving; and generally loaded with a tale about some princess or
other wanting help to get her out of some far-away castle where
she was held in captivity by a lawless scoundrel, usually a giant.
Now you would think that the first thing the king would do after
listening to such a novelette from an entire stranger, would be
to ask for credentials--yes, and a pointer or two as to locality
of castle, best route to it, and so on.  But nobody ever thought
of so simple and common-sense a thing at that.  No, everybody
swallowed these people’s lies whole, and never asked a question
of any sort or about anything.  Well, one day when I was not
around, one of these people came along--it was a she one, this
time--and told a tale of the usual pattern.  Her mistress was
a captive in a vast and gloomy castle, along with forty-four other
young and beautiful girls, pretty much all of them princesses;
they had been languishing in that cruel captivity for twenty-six
years; the masters of the castle were three stupendous brothers,
each with four arms and one eye--the eye in the center of the
forehead, and as big as a fruit.  Sort of fruit not mentioned;
their usual slovenliness in statistics.
Would you believe it?  The king and the whole Round Table were
in raptures over this preposterous opportunity for adventure.
Every knight of the Table jumped for the chance, and begged for it;
but to their vexation and chagrin the king conferred it upon me,
who had not asked for it at all.
By an effort, I contained my joy when Clarence brought me the news.
But he--he could not contain his.  His mouth gushed delight and
gratitude in a steady discharge--delight in my good fortune,
gratitude to the king for this splendid mark of his favor for me.
He could keep neither his legs nor his body still, but pirouetted
about the place in an airy ecstasy of happiness.
On my side, I could have cursed the kindness that conferred upon
me this benefaction, but I kept my vexation under the surface
for policy’s sake, and did what I could to let on to be glad.
Indeed, I  said  I was glad.  And in a way it was true; I was as
glad as a person is when he is scalped.
Well, one must make the best of things, and not waste time with
useless fretting, but get down to business and see what can be
done.  In all lies there is wheat among the chaff; I must get at
the wheat in this case: so I sent for the girl and she came.  She
was a comely enough creature, and soft and modest, but, if signs
went for anything, she didn’t know as much as a lady’s watch.  I said:
“My dear, have you been questioned as to particulars?”
She said she hadn’t.
“Well, I didn’t expect you had, but I thought I would ask, to make
sure; it’s the way I’ve been raised.  Now you mustn’t take it
unkindly if I remind you that as we don’t know you, we must go
a little slow.  You may be all right, of course, and we’ll hope
that you are; but to take it for granted isn’t business.   You 
understand that.  I’m obliged to ask you a few questions; just
answer up fair and square, and don’t be afraid.  Where do you
live, when you are at home?”
“In the land of Moder, fair sir.”
“Land of Moder.  I don’t remember hearing of it before.
Parents living?”
“As to that, I know not if they be yet on live, sith it is many
years that I have lain shut up in the castle.”
“Your name, please?”
“I hight the Demoiselle Alisande la Carteloise, an it please you.”
“Do you know anybody here who can identify you?”
“That were not likely, fair lord, I being come hither now for
the first time.”
“Have you brought any letters--any documents--any proofs that
you are trustworthy and truthful?”
“Of a surety, no; and wherefore should I?  Have I not a tongue,
and cannot I say all that myself?”
“But  your  saying it, you know, and somebody else’s saying it,
is different.”
“Different?  How might that be?  I fear me I do not understand.”
“Don’t  understand ?  Land of--why, you see--you see--why, great Scott,
can’t you understand a little thing like that?  Can’t you understand
the difference between your-- why  do you look so innocent and idiotic!”
“I?  In truth I know not, but an it were the will of God.”
“Yes, yes, I reckon that’s about the size of it.  Don’t mind my
seeming excited; I’m not.  Let us change the subject.  Now as
to this castle, with forty-five princesses in it, and three ogres
at the head of it, tell me--where is this harem?”
“Harem?”
“The  castle, you understand; where is the castle?”
“Oh, as to that, it is great, and strong, and well beseen, and
lieth in a far country.  Yes, it is many leagues.”
“ How  many?”
“Ah, fair sir, it were woundily hard to tell, they are so many,
and do so lap the one upon the other, and being made all in the
same image and tincted with the same color, one may not know
the one league from its fellow, nor how to count them except
they be taken apart, and ye wit well it were God’s work to do
that, being not within man’s capacity; for ye will note--”
“Hold on, hold on, never mind about the distance;  whereabouts 
does the castle lie?  What’s the direction from here?”
“Ah, please you sir, it hath no direction from here; by reason
that the road lieth not straight, but turneth evermore; wherefore
the direction of its place abideth not, but is some time under
the one sky and anon under another, whereso if ye be minded that
it is in the east, and wend thitherward, ye shall observe that
the way of the road doth yet again turn upon itself by the space
of half a circle, and this marvel happing again and yet again and
still again, it will grieve you that you had thought by vanities
of the mind to thwart and bring to naught the will of Him that
giveth not a castle a direction from a place except it pleaseth
Him, and if it please Him not, will the rather that even all castles
and all directions thereunto vanish out of the earth, leaving the
places wherein they tarried desolate and vacant, so warning His
creatures that where He will He will, and where He will not He--”
“Oh, that’s all right, that’s all right, give us a rest; never mind
about the direction,  hang  the direction--I beg pardon, I beg
a thousand pardons, I am not well to-day; pay no attention when
I soliloquize, it is an old habit, an old, bad habit, and hard
to get rid of when one’s digestion is all disordered with eating
food that was raised forever and ever before he was born; good
land! a man can’t keep his functions regular on spring chickens
thirteen hundred years old.  But come--never mind about that;
let’s--have you got such a thing as a map of that region about
you?  Now a good map--”
“Is it peradventure that manner of thing which of late the unbelievers
have brought from over the great seas, which, being boiled in oil,
and an onion and salt added thereto, doth--”
“What, a map?  What are you talking about?  Don’t you know what
a map is?  There, there, never mind, don’t explain, I hate
explanations; they fog a thing up so that you can’t tell anything
about it.  Run along, dear; good-day; show her the way, Clarence.”
Oh, well, it was reasonably plain, now, why these donkeys didn’t
prospect these liars for details.  It may be that this girl had
a fact in her somewhere, but I don’t believe you could have sluiced
it out with a hydraulic; nor got it with the earlier forms of
blasting, even; it was a case for dynamite.  Why, she was a perfect
ass; and yet the king and his knights had listened to her as if
she had been a leaf out of the gospel.  It kind of sizes up the
whole party.  And think of the simple ways of this court: this
wandering wench hadn’t any more trouble to get access to the king
in his palace than she would have had to get into the poorhouse
in my day and country.  In fact, he was glad to see her, glad
to hear her tale; with that adventure of hers to offer, she was
as welcome as a corpse is to a coroner.
Just as I was ending-up these reflections, Clarence came back.
I remarked upon the barren result of my efforts with the girl;
hadn’t got hold of a single point that could help me to find
the castle.  The youth looked a little surprised, or puzzled,
