after the game. He knew that he could do nothing to hinder the 
progress of events, and he knew that if his brother came to Greif- 
enstein, he should need all his strength and energy in dealing with 
him. There was nothing to do but to wait. As for Clara's secret, 
the more he thought about it, the more persuaded he was that it 
was not connected with Rieseneck, but with some other person. 
He grew anxious, however, as he watched her, for it was now clear 
that unless something occurred to revive her vital energy and her 



 

spirits, she must soon become an invalid altogether, even if she did 
not die of her sufferings. 

More than once, Greifenstein proposed to go away, to travel, to 
spend the winter in a southern climate, but she refused to leave 
her home, with a firmness that surprised him. There was Greif, 
she said, and Greif must be considered. When he was married 
they might go away and leave the castle to the young couple. 
Until then she would not move. Greifenstein could not but see 
the wisdom of this course. Meanwhile he attempted to induce his 
wife to live more in the open air, to ride, to drive, to do anything. 
But she confessed that she was too weak to face the inclement weather. 

Greifenstein was a kind-hearted man in his own peculiar way, 
and he began to be sorry for her. She no longer distressed his 
sense of fitness, as formerly, by her inopportune interruptions, her 
wild smiles, her hysterical laughter, her pitifully flippant talk. 
He said to himself that she must be ill indeed, to be so serious 
and quiet. Perhaps she needed amusement. His ideas of diversion 
were not of a very gay nature, and since she would neither leave the 
house nor the country he did not quite see what he could do to 
amuse her. But the thought that it was necessary for her health 
grew until he felt that it was his duty to do something. Then he 
hesitated no longer and made a desperate attempt, involving a 
considerable sacrifice to his own inclinations. He proposed to read 
aloud to her out of the best German authors. Even poor Clara, 
whose sense of humour was almost wholly gone, smiled faintly and 
opened her faded eyes very wide at the suggestion. 

' What an extraordinary idea ! ' she exclaimed. 

The time when Greifenstein made his proposition was the 
evening, when the two sat in their easy-chairs on each side of the 
great heraldically carved chimney-piece in the drawing-room. 
They generally read to themselves, and each had a small table with 
a shaded lamp and a pile of books. 

' My dear,' answered Greifenstein, ' it is not a question of ideas. 
I have examined the matter and I have come to the conclusion that 
you must be amused. It is therefore my duty to provide you with 
amusement. As I cannot sing, nor dance, and as you do not play 
cards, I cannot think of any more fitting method of diverting you 
than by reading aloud. German literature offers much variety. 
You have only to choose the author you prefer, and I will read as 
much as you like.' 

Greifenstein was absolutely in earnest, and delivered his remarks 
in his usual dry and matter-of-fact way. When he had finished 
speaking he took up the volumes that were on his table, one after 



 

the other, and looked at the titles on the covers, as though already 
trying to decide upon the one which would best suit his purpose. 
Clara did not find a ready answer to his arguments, and her smile 
had disappeared. Her wasted hands lay idly in her lap, and her 
tired head sank forward upon her breast. She wished it were all 
over, and that she might fall asleep without the dread of waking. 
Greifenstein did not notice her. 

' What shall it be ? ' he asked. She raised her face slowly and 
looked at him. 

' Oh, Hugo, I would rather not ! ' she exclaimed faintly. 

Her husband laid down the volume he had last taken up, leaned 
back in his chair, folded his knotted hands over his knee and looked 
at her intently. 

' Clara/ he said after a few moments, ' what is the matter with 
you?' 

' Nothing, nothing at all ! ' she answered, with a feeble effort to 
look cheerful. 

' There is no object in telling me that,' returned Greifenstein, 
still keeping his eyes fixed upon her. ' There is something the 
matter with you, and it is something serious. I have watched 
you for a long time. Either you are bodily ill, or else some matter 
troubles your mind.' 

'Oh no ! Nothing, I assure you,' she replied in a scarcely 
audible tone. 

'I repeat that it is of no use. I do not wish to question 
you, my dear,' he continued, almost kindly. 'Whatever your 
thoughts are, they are your own. But I cannot see you wasting 
away before my eyes without wishing to help you. It is part of 
my duty. Now a man is stronger than a woman, and less imagin- 
ative. It may be that you are distressing yourself with little 
reason, and that, if you would confide in me, I might demonstrate 
to you that you have no cause for repining. Consider well, whether 
you can tell me your trouble, and give me an answer.' 

Clara listened, at first scarcely heeding what he said. Then as 
she realised the nature of his request and thought of her secret, 
she fancied that she must go mad. It seemed as though some 
diabolical power were at hand, forcing her slowly, slowly, against her 
will, to rise up from her chair, to tell the story, to speak the truth. 
Her brain reeled. She could hear the fatal words ringing through 
the room in the familiar tones of her own voice, distinctly, one by 
one, omitting nothing in the immensity of her self-accusation. 
She could feel the icy horror creeping through bone and marrow, 
as the truth tortured her in the utterance of it. She could see 



 

Greifenstein's grey face transformed with rage and hatred, she 
trembled under the inhuman savageness of his fiery eyes, she saw 
his tall body rise up before her, and his hand raised to strike, and 
she covered her face to die. 

It was only a waking dream. The stillness roused her to life, 
her hands dropped from her eyes, and she saw her husband sitting 
quietly in his place and gazing at her with the same kindly, anxious 
glance as before. She had not spoken, nor uttered any sound, and 
Greifenstein had not seen the death-pallor under her paint. He 
had only seen her lift her hands to her face and take them away 
again almost immediately. In that moment she had suffered the 
pain of hell, but her secret was still her own. That terrible, 
unseen power that had pressed her to speak was gone, and no one 
knew what was in her heart. 

'You are certainly very far from well/ said Greifenstein, 
returning to the attack with characteristic pertinacity. * Can you 
not make up your mind to tell me ? ' 

' No ! ' she cried suddenly in a terrified voice. Then out of 
sheer fright she made an enormous effort over herself, and laughed 
aloud. Under the influence of that mortal dread, in the supreme 
exertion she made to destroy the effect of the monosyllable that 
had escaped her lips, the laugh sounded natural. It was well 
done, for it was done for life or death, and if it failed she was 
betrayed. . That single * No ' had been almost enough to ruin all, 
but her laugh saved her, though she trembled in every weakened 
joint when its echoes died away among the carved rafters of the great 
room, and she felt the drops of cold perspiration moving softly over 
her forehead towards the rouge on her cheeks. 

' Ah,' exclaimed Greifenstein, ' that sounds more like yourself. 
Perhaps we ought to talk more in the evening. It does me good 
to hear you laugh nowadays. Let us talk, by all means. I am 
sure all this is only a foolish fit of melancholy, is it not ? ' 

' Oh, no doubt it is. Let us try and talk, if you like.' 

' I am too silent a man for you, Clara,' said her husband 
reflectively. ' It is certainly my duty to make an effort.' 

' It is just as much mine,' she answered with an earnestness 
that attracted his notice. She was thinking that unless she roused 
herself, the fearful scene that had been enacted in her imagination 
might some day take place in reality. 

' No,' said Greifenstein. ' It is you who are ill, and it is you 
who must be amused. Now, what do you say to my proposition ? 
Shall I read something to you ? Shall it be Goethe, or Schiller, 
or Heine ? You know all the modern writers well enough.' 



 

