
"She is farther down the river. As you seem to be a little sensitive to
the fact that I have not consulted you in regard to the naval operations
of this enterprise, I can tell you in a few words all there is of them,"
continued Captain Carboneer. "As you are aware, as soon as our plan was
matured by you, I left Mobile with Lieutenant Haslett, though you knew
nothing about him, for Nassau. We had no difficulty in getting out of
the bay, for the blockade was not then enforced. At Nassau I engaged a
couple of English engineers, and a few other officers, with thirty
seamen, mostly English, who were looking for prize-money. I had to take
my force to Quebec, for no steamer offered for New York. I sent them all
here in small parties, and Haslett posted them along the river when I
told him they would be needed to-night."

"I did not leave Mobile till two weeks later with Corny," added the
major. "But I got here sooner than you did."

"You were more fortunate in finding a steamer. I believe I have a
capital crew, though I shall obtain more men at Bermuda, or some other
port. There are plenty of good English sailors who are willing to fight
on either side if there is a good showing for prize-money; and I have
no doubt I shall capture a dozen vessels before we reach the Bermudas,
which will fully satisfy them, especially as the government will pay
the value of all vessels we are compelled to burn on the high seas."

"You will have the advantage over everything that floats, for I was told
that the Bellevite made twenty knots an hour, and had done twenty-two,"
said Major Pierson. "At what time do you think you will get on board of
the steamer?"

"By one or two in the morning, I hope; but it will depend upon the
steamer Haslett engages, though he told me he had bargained for an old
one with a walking-beam; but that will answer our purpose. I believe he
had to buy her, though she was of no great value."

At a creek which appeared to be the rendezvous of the conspirators,
the boat left the river; but there was no steamer, though quite a number
of men had gathered there. Leaving the party in the boat to follow out
the remaining details of their enterprise, which, by this time, in the
absence of anything like an obstacle, they regarded as so many mere
formalities, it becomes necessary to make another visit to the mansion
of Captain Passford. This gentleman had gone to the city upon important
business connected with the fitting out of the Bellevite, and he had not
returned when the clock in the great hall struck ten, which was at about
the time Captain Carboneer and his companions went into the creek five
miles down the river.

"There is no knowing when your father will come home, Florry," said Mrs.
Passford, as she suspended her work on a stocking she was knitting for
the soldiers. "But I can't imagine what has become of Christy. He never
stays out as late as this unless he tells us of it beforehand."

"I am really worried about him, mother," replied the beautiful daughter,
looking up from the stocking on which she was employed. "He went away in
the Florence, and something may have happened to him."

"I think not, Florry: there has been no storm, or heavy blow, and
he thinks he is as safe in his boat as he is on shore," added Mrs.
Passford, with an effort to control the fears of the daughter. "He may
have gone down to the city. He is very indignant at the delay in giving
the order to have the steamer sent to the navy yard, and wherever he is,
I am confident he is doing something in connection with the steamer."

"I wish I knew whether the Florence was at the boathouse," continued
Florry. "He said he was going out in the boat; but perhaps he did not.
Perhaps he is with father."

"There is the front-door bell," added Mrs. Passford, with a start.
"It cannot be your father or Christy, for both of them have latch-keys.
Who could come here at this time in the evening?"

"Mr. Paul Vapoor," said the man-servant, who answered the bell.

The gentleman announced walked into the sitting-room without any
ceremony, for he had long been a familiar visitor. He was dressed in
the full uniform of a chief engineer of the navy. Removing his cap, he
politely bowed to the two ladies; and any one who was looking might have
seen that Miss Florry blushed a little when she saw him; and very likely
if Major Pierson had witnessed the roses on her fair cheek, he might
possibly have concluded that it would have been useless to postpone the
capture of the Bellevite to enable him to fortify his position near her.

"I beg your pardon, ladies, for calling so late," said Mr. Vapoor, as he
drew a long envelope from his pocket. "But I thought Christy might wish
to see what is in this envelope before he retired."

"Why, what is in it?" asked Mrs. Passford.

"Christy's commission as a midshipman in the navy."

"But Christy is not at home, and we are somewhat anxious about him,"
added the mother, stating the facts in regard to her son.

Paul Vapoor volunteered to go in search of him, and left the house.




CHAPTER VI

THE CABIN OF THE FLORENCE


If Captain Carboneer had felt any especial interest in the Florence as
a sailing yacht, he might have desired to see the cabin of the craft,
which had always been the delight of Christy Passford. He had expended
a great deal of his pocket-money upon the arrangement and furnishing of
the cabin of his yacht, not only because he spent a considerable portion
of his vacation hours in it, but because it had been a perpetual study
with him to enlarge and improve it.

It is very difficult to get three pints of liquid into a quart measure,
and it was a conundrum of this sort that Christy was studying upon
when he tried to make a parlor, bedroom, and dining-saloon of the very
limited space in the forward part of the Florence. Though he could
hardly get the three pints into the quart measure, he had done the best
he could, and succeeded to a rather remarkable degree. But spite of the
miracle which had been wrought in the cabin, Captain Carboneer did not
even try the door of the apartment when he and his companions went on
board of the yacht. He was so absorbed in the enterprise in which he was
engaged, that his indifference to the miracle of the cabin may be
excused.

Even the double doors of the cabin were of handsome wood, elaborately
polished; and they were not secured with the usual appliance of a
padlock, but were provided with an expensive mortise-lock, which could
be operated upon either side. If Captain Carboneer had tried to open
that door, he would have found that it was fastened; but perhaps he
could not have discovered that it had been secured upon the inside.
Unless, therefore, he had taken the trouble to break open the door, he
could not have ascertained that Christy Passford was actually in the
cabin.

Possibly, if he had opened the door by any means, he would not have
discovered that the proprietor of the boat was in this dainty apartment,
for the skipper had taken a great deal of pains to conceal himself so
that he should not be seen, even if the intruders in the Florence had
succeeded in opening the doors without the aid of the key in his pocket.
Though he had two very nice berths in the cabin, miraculously arranged
as to space, Christy did not occupy one on the present occasion, for in
that case the unbidden visitors would have seen him if their curiosity
had led them to force the doors.

When the cook of the Florence, usually the skipper of the craft, was
engaged in the practice of the culinary art, he seated himself on what
looked like a box in front of the stove. But the interior of this box
was really a part of the cabin, for it contained the feet of any one
occupying the berth on the starboard side. The cookroom had no end of
bins, lockers and drawers to contain the variety of provisions and
stores necessary to get up a dinner for the skipper and his guests, when
he had any. And even all these places could not contain everything that
was needed on board. Under the two berths were large, though not very
deep, lockers, one of which contained the jib-topsail of the craft, and
other spare sails, while the opposite one was the fuel locker of the
sloop.

As the boat had not been used for a long time in cruising, the fuel
receptacle was empty, though a spare gaff-topsail had been thrown
into it. This locker was big enough to admit the body-corporate of
the skipper. It was not a particularly clean place, for a portion of it
had been economized for the stowage of the charcoal, which the skipper
preferred to wood. But he did not rebel at the blackness of the retreat
he had chosen, for he wore his boating dress, which was hardly stylish
enough for a dude or a dandy.

But Skipper Passford did not crawl into this black hole for the fun of
the thing. He had been spending his time in waiting for a movement to be
made in regard to the Bellevite. He staid in the house all the forenoon,
and, after lunch, he sailed down the river in the Florence, though with
no object in doing so beyond passing the time. Not far from the beach
where he had afterwards left the yacht, he discovered a boat rowed by
two men with a third in the stern sheets.

The breeze was quite gentle, though the Florence would sail at a very
tolerable speed when there was the least apology for a wind. She was
doing so on the present occasion, and Christy had stretched himself out
on the cushioned seat, with the spokes of the wheel where he could steer
without any exertion, or next to none. The idleness of his days since
his return from the eventful cruise of the Bellevite seemed to have
infected him with an unnatural indolence.
