and semi-tropical gardens very prettily laid out in walks and
labyrinths, and adorned with trees and flowers. Even in the heat of
summer at night the lake is sure to offer a breeze, and with waltz music
and moonlight and ices and tinkling glasses with straws in them and
love’s young dream, even the ennuyé globe-trotter declares that it is
not half bad.

The city, indeed, offers opportunity for charming excursions in
all directions. Parties are constantly made up to visit the river
plantations, to sail up and down the stream, or to take an outing across
the lake, or to the many lovely places along the coast. In the winter,
excursions are made to these places, and in summer the well-to-do take
the sea-air in cottages, at such places as Mandeville across the lake,
or at such resorts on the Mississippi as Pass Christian.

I crossed the lake one spring day to the pretty town of Mandeville, and
then sailed up the Tehefuncta River to Covington. The winding Tchefuncta
is in character like some of the narrow Florida streams, has the same
luxuriant overhanging foliage, and as many shy lounging alligators to
the mile, and is prettier by reason of occasional open glades and large
moss-draped live-oaks and China-trees. From the steamer landing in the
woods we drove three miles through a lovely open pine forest to the
town. Covington is one of the oldest settlements in the State, is the
centre of considerable historic interest, and the origin of several
historic families. The land is elevated a good deal above the
coast-level, and is consequently dry. The town has a few roomy oldtime
houses, a mineral spring, some pleasing scenery along the river that
winds through it, and not much else. But it is in the midst of pine
woods, it is sheltered from all “northers,” it has the soft air, but
not the dampness, of the Gulf, and is exceedingly salubrious in all the
winter months, to say nothing of the summer. It has lately come
into local repute as a health resort, although it lacks sufficient
accommodations for the entertainment of many strangers. I was told by
some New Orleans physicians that they regarded it as almost a specific
for pulmonary diseases, and instances were given of persons in what was
supposed to be advanced stages of lung and bronchial troubles who had
been apparently cured by a few months’ residence there; and invalids
are, I believe, greatly benefited by its healing, soft, and piny
atmosphere.

I have no doubt, from what I hear and my limited observation, that all
this coast about New Orleans would be a favorite winter resort if it had
hotels as good as, for instance, that at Pass Christian. The region
has many attractions for the idler and the invalid. It is, in the first
place, interesting; it has a good deal of variety of scenery and of
historical interest; there is excellent fishing and shooting; and if the
visitor tires of the monotony of the country, he can by a short ride on
cars or a steamer transfer himself for a day or a week to a large and
most hospitable city, to society, the club, the opera, balls, parties,
and every variety of life that his taste craves. The disadvantage of
many Southern places to which our Northern regions force us is that they
are uninteresting, stupid, and monotonous, if not malarious. It seems
a long way from New York to New Orleans, but I do not doubt that the
region around the city would become immediately a great winter resort if
money and enterprise were enlisted to make it so.

New Orleans has never been called a “strait-laced” city; its Sunday
is still of the Continental type; but it seems to me free from the
socialistic agnosticism which flaunts itself more or less in Cincinnati,
St. Louis, and Chicago; the tone of leading Presbyterian churches is
distinctly Calvinistic, one perceives comparatively little of religious
speculation and doubt, and so far as I could see there is harmony
and entire social good feeling between the Catholic and Protestant
communions. Protestant ladies assist at Catholic fairs, and the
compliment is returned by the society ladies of the Catholic faith when
a Protestant good cause is to be furthered by a bazaar or a “pink tea.”
Denominational lines seem to have little to do with social affiliations.
There may be friction in the management of the great public charities,
but on the surface there is toleration and united good-will. The
Catholic faith long had the prestige of wealth, family, and power, and
the education of the daughters of Protestant houses in convent schools
tended to allay prejudice. Notwithstanding the reputation New Orleans
has for gayety and even frivolity—and no one can deny the fast
and furious living of ante-bellum days—it possesses at bottom an
old-fashioned religious simplicity. If any one thinks that “faith” has
died out of modern life, let him visit the mortuary chapel of St. Roch.
In a distant part of the town, beyond the street of the Elysian Fields,
and on Washington avenue, in a district very sparsely built up, is
the Campo Santo of the Catholic Church of the Holy Trinity. In this
foreign-looking cemetery is the pretty little Gothic Chapel of St. Roch,
having a background of common and swampy land. It is a brown stuccoed
edifice, wholly open in front, and was a year or two ago covered with
beautiful ivy. The small interior is paved in white marble, the windows
are stained glass, the side-walls are composed of tiers of vaults, where
are buried the members of certain societies, and the spaces in the wall
and in the altar area are thickly covered with votive offerings, in wax
and in naive painting—contributed by those who have been healed by the
intercession of the saints. Over the altar is the shrine of St. Roch—a
cavalier, staff in hand, with his clog by his side, the faithful animal
which accompanied this eighth-century philanthropist in his visitations
to the plague-stricken people of Munich. Within the altar rail are rows
of lighted candles, tended and renewed by the attendant, placed there
by penitents or by seekers after the favor of the saint. On the wooden
benches, kneeling, are ladies, servants, colored women, in silent
prayer. One approaches the lighted, picturesque shrine through the
formal rows of tombs, and comes there into an atmosphere of peace and
faith. It is believed that miracles are daily wrought here, and one
notices in all the gardeners, keepers, and attendants of the place the
accent and demeanor of simple faith. On the wall hangs this inscription:

“O great St. Roch, deliver us, we beseech thee, from the scourges of
God. Through thy intercessions preserve our bodies from contagious
diseases, and our souls from the contagion of sin. Obtain for us
salubrious air; but, above all, purity of heart. Assist us to make good
use of health, to bear suffering with patience, and after thy example to
live in the practice of penitence and charity, that we may one day enjoy
the happiness which thou hast merited by thy virtues.

“St. Roch, pray for us.

“St. Roch, pray for us.

“St. Roch, pray for us.”

There is testimony that many people, even Protestants, and men, have had
wounds cured and been healed of diseases by prayer in this chapel. To
this distant shrine come ladies from all parts of the city to make
the “novena”—the prayer of nine days, with the offer of the burning
taper—and here daily resort hundreds to intercede for themselves or
their friends. It is believed by the damsels of this district that if
they offer prayer daily in this chapel they will have a husband within
the year, and one may see kneeling here every evening these trustful
devotees to the welfare of the human race. I asked the colored woman who
sold medals and leaflets and renewed the candles if she personally knew
any persons who had been miraculously cured by prayer, or novena, in St.
Roch. “Plenty, sir, plenty.” And she related many instances, which were
confirmed by votive offerings on the walls. “Why,” said she, “there was
a friend of mine who wanted a place, and could hear of none, who made a
novena here, and right away got a place, a good place, and” (conscious
that she was making an astonishing statement about a New Orleans
servant) “she kept it a whole year!”

“But one must come in the right spirit,” I said.

“Ah, indeed. It needs to believe. You can’t fool God!”

One might make various studies of New Orleans: its commercial life; its
methods, more or less antiquated, of doing business, and the leisure
for talk that enters into it; its admirable charities and its mediaeval
prisons; its romantic French and Spanish history, still lingering in
the old houses, and traits of family and street life; the city politics,
which nobody can explain, and no other city need covet; its sanitary
condition, which needs an intelligent despot with plenty of money and an
ingenuity that can make water run uphill; its colored population—about
a fourth of the city—with its distinct social grades, its superstition,
nonchalant good-humor, turn for idling and basking in the sun, slowly
awaking to a sense of thrift, chastity, truth-speaking, with many
excellent order-loving, patriotic men and women, but a mass that
needs moral training quite as much as the spelling-book before it can
contribute to the vigor and prosperity of the city; its schools and
recent libraries, and the developing literary and art taste which will
sustain book-shops and picture-galleries; its cuisine, peculiar in its
mingling of French and African skill, and determined largely by a market
unexcelled in the quality of fish, game, and fruit—the fig alone would
go far to reconcile one to four or five months of hot nights; the
climatic influence in assimilating races meeting there from every region
of the earth.

But whatever way we regard New Orleans., it is in its aspect, social
tone, and character sui generis; its civilization differs widely from
that of any other, and it remains one of the most interesting places in
the republic. Of course, social life in these days is much the same in
all great cities in its observances, but that of New Orleans is
markedly cordial, ingenuous, warmhearted. I do not imagine that it
could tolerate, as Boston does, absolute freedom of local opinion on all
subjects, and undoubtedly it is sensitive to criticism; but I believe
that it is literally true, as one of its citizens said, that it is still
more sensitive to kindness.

The metropolis of the South-west has geographical reasons for a great
future. Louisiana is rich in alluvial soil, the capability of which has
not yet been tested, except in some localities, by skilful agriculture.
But the prosperity of the city depends much upon local conditions.
Science and energy can solve the problem of drainage, can convert all
the territory between the city and Lake Pontchartrain into a veritable
garden, surpassing in fertility the flat environs of the city of Mexico.
And the steady development of common-school education, together with
technical and industrial schools, will create a skill which will make
New Orleans the industrial and manufacturing centre of that region.

