head of the list, stands dawn in the tropics. It is sudden as love, and
just as fair. Throughout the night the ship had been sailing beneath
larger stars than ours, in waters that were seamed and sentient with
phosphorus; but now the ship was in the harbor, day had chased the
stars, the water was iridescent as a syrup of opals, at the horizon was
the tenderest pink, overhead was a compound of salmon and of blue; and
beyond, within rifle range, was an amphitheatre of houses particolored
as rainbows, surmounted by green hills, tiared with the pearl points of
cathedral steeples, and for defensive girdle, the yellow walls of a
crumbling fort.

"On this side," thought one who lounged on deck, "it seems bounded by
beauty," and he might have added, "by ignorance on the other." He was a
good-looking young fellow, dressed Piccadilly-fashion, and yet, despite
the cut of his coat, the faint umber of his skin and the sultry un-Saxon
eyes marked him as being of Latin blood. His name was Ruis Ixar. He was
the son of a certain Don Jayme, who was then Governor of Puerto
Principe, and in Castile, Count, Grandee of Spain, and Marquis, to boot.
Don Jayme had emptied his coffers in discreet rivalry of his king, and
his king, who admired prodigal fathers, had given him leave to replenish
them in the New World. This permission Don Jayme had for some time past
made the most of, now by exactions, now by fresh taxes, by peculations
and speculations, and also by means of a sugar plantation a few leagues
beyond Santiago de Cuba, in the harbor of which his son, that morning,
was preparing to disembark.

Don Jayme had been domiciled in the neighborhood for five years, and the
five years had been to him five Kalpas of time.

He felt desolate as a lighthouse. He had come expecting to make a rapid
fortune, and in that expectation he had been wearisomely deceived. The
province which he had intended to wring dry as an orange had been well
squeezed by earlier comers, and as for his hacienda, he found it more
profitable to let the cane rot uncut than to attempt to extract the
sugar. He hated Cuba, as every true Spaniard does, and the portion of
Cuba which he administered hated him. He longed for Madrid, for the pomp
and ceremonial of court; and particularly did he desire that his son
should enjoy an income suited to his rank. Though he had not as yet
succeeded in replenishing more than one or two of the many emptied
coffers, there was no valid reason why his sole descendant should be
poor. And if his son were rich, the former splendor of the Ixars would
blaze anew. Don Jayme was a selfish man, as men brought up in court
circles are apt to be; he was not a good man, he was not even a
good-looking man, but the bit of lignum vitæ which served him for heart
was all in all for that son. It was for him he had come to Cuba, and if
the coming had been a partial failure, that partial failure would be
wholly retrieved did he succeed in supplying the heir to his title with
a well dowered wife.

So argued Don Jayme. But he was careful to argue with no one save his
most intimate friend, to-wit, himself. To his son he said nothing; he
merely wrote him to take ship, and sail.

It so happened that when this communication was received, Ruis Ixar was
as anxious for a trip to the New World as Don Jayme was for a return to
the Old. He was tired of the Puerto del Sol; he was tired too of the
usual young woman that lives over the way. He wanted a taste of
adventure; and moreover obedience to his father's behests had been the
groundwork of his education. He had therefore taken ship with alacrity,
and on this melting morning of December, as he gazed for the first time
at the multicolored vista before him, he was in great and expectant
spirits. Concerning the town itself, had he been put on the rack he
could have confessed to but two items of information: one was that his
father was chief official; and the other that there was not a book-shop
within its walls. To the latter fact he was utterly indifferent; he had
learned it haphazard on the way over: but the former was not without its
charm. The influence of that charm presently exerted itself. He was
conveyed from the ship in a government boat, and two hours later, while
his fellow-passengers were still engaged in feeing the supervisors of
the custom-house, he had reached the hacienda behind the hills.

The hacienda, or ingenio as it is more properly called, was several
miles of yellow striated with red, punctuated with palms and cut by
paths that were shaded with the great glistening leaves of the banana,
while here and there, Dantesque and unnatural in its grandeur, rose the
ceiba, its giant arms outstretched as though to shield the toiler from
the suffocation of the purple skies. And beneath, for contrast, the
brilliance of convolvuli and granadillas opposed the tender green. At
the southernmost end was Don Jayme's habitation, a one-story edifice,
built quadrangularwise, tiled and steep of roof, and semi-circled by a
veranda so veiled with vines that at a distance the house seemed a
massive mound of pistache.

"Even in Andalusia," thought Ruis, as the volante brought him to the
door, "there is nothing equal to this." Like all his race, he had a
quick eye to the beautiful, and for the moment he was bewildered by the
riot of color. And while the bewilderment still lingered, a gentleman,
slim and tall, entirely in white, with face and hands of the shade of
Turkish tobacco, kissed him on either cheek.

"God be praised, my son," he murmured, "you are here."

And with that he led him into the cool of the veranda. It had been years
since they had met, there was much to be said, and in that grave
unvociferous fashion which is peculiar to the Spaniard of Castile, in a
language which nightingales might envy, father and son discussed topics
of common and personal interest.

Thereafter for some little time, a fortnight to be exact, things went
very well indeed. Ruis expressed himself enchanted with his new home.
The plantation was a wonder to him, the half-naked negroes and their
wholly nude progeny a surprise, and the brutality with which they were
treated caused him a transient emotion. In turtle fishing he found an
agreeable novelty, and in the shooting of doves and the blue-headed
partridge he became an immediate adept. But when a fortnight had come
and gone he felt vaguely bored; he grew tired of strange and sticky
fruits, the call of chromatic birds jarred, discordant, on his nerves,
the turtles lost their allurement, the weight of purple days oppressed
him. In brief, he thought he had quite enough of rural life in the
tropics. Aside from his father, there was not, on the estate, a soul of
his own race with whom he could exchange a word. And though he had
nothing whatever to say, yet such is the nature of youth that he
heartily wished himself back in Spain. The young girl that lived there
over the way he would have hailed as life's full delight, and two or
three of her scrappy letters, which through some oversight he had
neglected to turn into cigarette-lighters, he set to work to decipher
anew. The writer of them was an ethereal young person with a pretty
taste for fine sentiments, and as Ruis possessed himself of the candors
of her thought, he very much wished that he could kneel immediately at
her feet.

From the early forenoon until the sun has begun to set it is not at all
agreeable, or prudent either, for the unacclimated to be astir in that
part of the planet in which Don Jayme's hacienda was situated. But the
mornings are mellow indeed, the dusk is languorous in its beauty, and as
for the nights, none others in all the world can compare with them. The
stars are as lilies set in parterres of indigo. In the air is a perfume
and a caress.

And Ruis, out of sheer laziness, made the most of the dusk and the early
hours. At sunrise he was on horseback scouring the country, now over the
red road in the direction of the town, and again across the savannas,
past cool thin streams and ravines that were full of shadow, mystery,
and green. And when the sun had lost its ardor he would be off again,
and return in company with the moon. As a rule he met but few people,
sometimes a man or two conveying garden produce to the sea-port,
sometimes women with eggs and poultry, now and then a negro, and once a
priest. But practically the roads were unfrequented, and without
incident or surprise.

One morning, however, as his horse was bearing him homeward, he caught
sight of an object moving in the distance. At first he fancied that it
might be one of the men he was wont to meet, but soon he saw that it was
a woman, and as he drew nearer he noticed that she was young, and, in a
moment, that she was fair to see. By her side stood a horse. The saddle
was on the ground, and she was busying herself with the girth. At his
approach she turned her head. Her mouth was like a pomegranate filled
with pearls; her face was without color, innocent of the powdered
egg-shells with which Cuban damsels and dames whiten their cheeks; and
in her eyes was an Orient of dreams. She was lithe and graceful, not
tall; perhaps sixteen. About her waist a crimson sash was wound many
times, her gown was of gray Catalonian calico, and her sandalled feet
were stockingless.

"A Creole," thought Ruis; and raising his right hand to the left side of
his broad-brimmed hat, he made it describe a magnificent parabola
through the air, and as he replaced it, bowed.

"Your servant, Señorita," he said.

"And yours, Don Ruis," she replied.

"You know my name, Señorita! May I ask how you are called?"

"I am called Fausta," she answered; and as she spoke Ruis caught in her
voice an accent unknown to the Madridlenes of his acquaintance, the
accent of the New World, abrupt, disdainful of sibilants, and resolute.
He dismounted at once.

"You have had an accident, Doña Fausta; let me aid you."

But the girth was beyond aid; it was old and had worn itself in twain.
And as he examined it he noticed that the saddle was not of the kind
that women prefer.

"It is needless, Don Ruis. See, it is an easy matter." And with that she
unwound her crimson girdle, and in a moment, with dexterous skill, she
removed the broken girth, replaced the saddle on the horse, and bound it
to him with the sash. "But I thank you," she added, gravely.

