"Oh, Justine," the old lady cried, and clutched the girl by the arm,
"persuade him not to." And fixing him with her glittering eyes, she
added, "If you go, sir, you leave an Aiken void."

The jest passed him unnoticed. He felt that something had been said
which called for applause, for Mrs. Metuchen was laughing immoderately.
But his eyes were in Justine's as were hers in his.

"You will ride, will you not? I see you have your habit on." And with
that, Justine assenting, he led her down the steps and aided her to the
saddle.

There are numberless tentative things in life, and among them an amble
through green, deserted lanes, where only birds and flowers are, has
witcheries of its own. However perturbed the spirit may have been, there
is that in the glow of the morning and the gait of a horse that can make
it wholly serene. The traveller from Sicily will, if you let him, tell
of hours so fair that even the bandits are coerced. Man cannot always be
centred in self; and when to the influence of nature is added the
companionship of one whose presence allures, the charm is complete. And
Roland, to whom such things hitherto had been as accessories, this
morning felt their spell. The roomy squalor of the village had been
passed long since. They had entered a road where the trees arched and
nearly hid the sky, but through the branches an eager sunlight found its
way. Now and then in a clearing they would happen on some shabby, silent
house, the garden gay with the tender pink of blossoming peach; and at
times, from behind a log or straight from the earth, a diminutive negro
would start like a kobold in a dream and offer, in an abashed, uncertain
way, a bunch of white violets in exchange for coin. And once an old man,
trudging along, saluted them with a fine parabola of hat and hand; and
once they encountered a slatternly negress, very fat and pompous, seated
behind a donkey she could have carried in her arms. But practically the
road was deserted, fragrant, and still.

And now, as they rode on, interchanging only haphazard remarks, Roland
swung himself from his horse, and, plucking a spray of arbutus, handed
it to the girl.

"Take it," he said; "it is all I have."

His horse had wandered on a step and was nibbing at the grass, and, as
he stood looking up at her, for the first time it occurred to him that
she was fair. However a girl may seem in a ball-room, if she ever looks
well she looks best in the saddle; and Justine, in spite of his
criticism, did not sit her horse badly. Her gray habit, the high white
collar and open vest, brought out the snuff-color of her eyes and hair.
Her cheeks, too, this morning must have recovered some of the flush they
had lost, or else the sun had been using its palette, for in them was
the hue of the flower he had gathered and held.

She took it and inserted the stem in the lapel of her coat.

"Are you going?" she asked.

"What would you think of me if I remained?"

"What would I? I would think--"

As she hesitated she turned. He could see now it was not the sun alone
that had been at work upon her face.

"Let me tell. You would think that a man with two arms for sole income
has no right to linger in the neighborhood of a girl such as you. That
is what you would think, what anyone would think; and while I care
little enough about the existence which I lead in the minds of other
people, yet I do care for your esteem. If I stay, I lose it. I should
lose, too, my own; let me keep them both and go."

"I do not yet see why?"

"You don't!" The answer was so abrupt in tone that you would have said
he was irritated at her remark, judging it unnecessary and ill-timed.
"You don't!" he repeated. "Go back a bit, and perhaps you will remember
that after I saw you at your house I did not come back again."

"I do indeed remember."

"The next day I saw you in the Park; I was careful not to return."

"But what have I done? You said last night--"

"Why do you question? You know it is because I love you."

"Then you shall not go."

"I must."

"You shall not, I say."

"And I shall take with me the knowledge that the one woman I have loved
is the one woman I have been forced to leave."

"Roland Mistrial, how can you bear the name you do and yet be so unjust?
If you leave me now it is because you care more for yourself than you
ever could for me. It is not on my account you go: it is because you
fear the world. There were heroes once that faced it."

"Yes, and there were Circes then, as now."

As he made that trite reply his face relaxed, and into it came an
expression of such abandonment that the girl could see the day was won.

"Tell me--you will not go?"

Roland caught her hand in his, and, drawing back the gauntlet of kid, he
kissed her on the wrist. "I will never leave you now," he answered;
"Only promise you will not regret."

"Regret!" She smiled at the speech--or was it a smile? Her lips had
moved, but it was as though they had done so in answer to some prompting
of her soul. "Regret! Do you remember you asked me what I would think if
you remained? Well, I thought, if you did, there were dreams which do
come true."

At this avowal she was so radiant yet so troubled that Roland detained
her hand. "She really loves," he mused; "and so do I." And it may be,
the forest aiding, that, in the answering pressure which he gave, such
heart as he had went out and mingled with her own.

"Between us now," he murmured, "it is for all of time."

"Roland, how I waited for you!"

Again her lips moved and she seemed to smile, but now her eyes were no
longer in his, they were fixed on some vista visible only to herself.
She looked rapt, but she looked startled as well. When a girl first
stands face to face with love it allures and it frightens too.

Roland dropped her hand; he caught his horse and mounted it. In a moment
he was at her side again.

"Justine!"

And the girl turning to him let her fresh lips meet and rest upon his
own. Slowly he disengaged the arm with which he had steadied himself on
her waist.

"If I lose you now--" he began.

"There can be no question of losing," she interrupted. "Have we not come
into our own?"

"But others may dispute our right. There is your cousin, to whom I
thought you were engaged; and there is your father."

"Oh, as for Guy--" and she made a gesture. "Father, it is true, may
object; but let him. I am satisfied; in the end he will be satisfied
also. Why, only the other day I wrote him you were here."

"H'm!" At the intelligence he wheeled abruptly.

Already Justine had turned, and lowering her crop she gave her horse a
little tap. The beast was willing enough; in a moment the two were on a
run, and as Roland's horse, a broncho, by-the-way, one of those eager
animals that decline to remain behind, rushed forward and took the lead,
"Remember!" she cried, "you are not to leave me now."

But the broncho was self-willed, and this injunction Roland found or
pretended it difficult to obey; and together, through the green lane and
out of it, by long, dismal fields of rice, into the roomy squalor of the
village and on to the hotel, they flew as though some fate pursued.
Justine never forgot that ride, nor did Roland either.

At the verandah steps Mrs. Metuchen was in waiting. "I have a telegram
from your father," she called to Justine. "He wishes you to return
to-morrow."

"To-morrow?" the girl exclaimed.

"Thorold has learned I am here, and has told," her lover reflected. And
swinging from his saddle he aided the girl to alight.

"To-morrow," Mrs. Metuchen with large assumption of resignation replied;
"and we may be thankful he did not say to-day."

And as Roland listened to the varying interpretations of the summons
which, during the absence of her charge, Mrs. Metuchen's riotous
imagination had found time to conceive, "Thorold has told," he repeated
to himself, "but he has told too late."

