within the tropics; he is also found in the Mediterranean sea, and
also in the gulf of Lyons, where he is peculiarly savage. The blue
shark, seen in the English channel, is seldom dangerous; others,
larger but less harmless, infest the northern seas, and are often
pursued by the whalers merely for sport. Then there is the spotted or
tiger shark, not very large but exceedingly rapacious; the hammer
shark, which derives its name from the peculiar shape of its head, and
the ground shark, which is the most to be dreaded of any, since he
lies deep down in the water, and rising suddenly, seizes his prey
without any one suspecting his vicinity."

"Suppose a man is so unfortunate as to fall overboard, and a shark is
in the neighborhood," said I, "what can he do to save himself? Is
there no hope of escaping from his dreadful jaws?"

"The best means I have seen tried," he replied, "and with good effect
is, if a man is a good swimmer, to throw himself on his back, splash
the water with his feet, and shout with all his strength. The shark is
a great coward and easily frightened--noise will always drive him off.
When I was on a voyage to the West Indies, two or three years ago, I
had a Newfoundland dog with me, who was accustomed to spring into the
water from any height, and after anything. I was greatly attached to
the animal, and you may imagine my alarm as, one day we were lying
becalmed off the West India islands, I saw him jump down and with,
loud barkings, as if delighted with the sport, swim after a large
shark that was playing around the ship. I expected nothing else but to
see him devoured in an instant, but to my astonishment the monster
turned and swam vigorously, evidently frightened by the barking of the
dog who continued to follow him, until a boat was let down and himself
brought back by the sailors.

"A singular method," continued my learned fellow-passenger, "is
practised by the divers who collect pearls on the coast of Ceylon.
They often let themselves down an hundred feet in order to reach the
mud banks where the pearl oysters are to be found, and whilst they are
filling their baskets they must watch carefully on all sides lest a
shark fall upon them. If they see one near, they stir up the mud, and
then while the enemy is blinded by the turbid water they rise as
quickly as possible to the surface. Many escape in this manner, but
many also fall victims. Fair ladies as they adorn their persons with
these costly ornaments think little of the suffering by which they are
obtained,--the arduous adventurous life, or of the unfortunates who
are annually swallowed by those savages of the deep. When one
considers how often those poor Indians must dive to the bottom, to say
nothing of the loss of life, before a string of pearls can be
obtained, we may confidently assert that every necklace has been
purchased by at least the life of one human being."

Scudding now before a fresher wind, we steered towards the south and
soon found ourselves in a colder climate. The flying fish played
lively as ever around the ship, and one night so many fell on deck as
to furnish an excellent mess for breakfast. Black dolphins, the
greatest enemy of their flying neighbors, tumbled playfully about in
the rippling water, and at times encircled the ship in great numbers.
Their motion is swift and vigorous,--so much so that it is scarcely
possible to strike them with a harpoon.

On the 20th of October we reached the latitude of the Cape of Good
Hope. Flocks of sea birds fluttered around our masts, for this colder
region is the home of the beautiful sea dove, the great white
albatross and an innumerable multitude of smaller kinds, that on the
approach of stormy weather seem to rise, as by the stroke of a
magician's wand, from the sea. One of the few changes one meets with
on a voyage to Africa is angling for birds, for they are as easily
taken as the finny tribe, by baiting a fish-hook with a piece of fat
meat, and especially so in those rough seas, upon whose surface little
to nourish can be found, they seize greedily upon the hook, which
fastens itself readily in their crooked bills. All these sea birds are
clothed with a coat of feathers so thick and elastic that except in
one or two places they are invulnerable to a bullet.

The fable of the Flying Dutchman is well known--the Demon ship is
still supposed to traverse his unwearied but unprofitable course in
the neighborhood of the Cape. The weather is stormy almost throughout
the year, the skies ever dark and cloudy, but while other ships,
scarcely able to keep themselves steadily afloat, dare show but one or
two storm sails, the phantom ship is scudding before the gale under a
full press of canvass. Our captain assured us with an expression of
countenance which showed that he himself believed what he asserted,
that he had once seen the Dutchman under crowded sail in Table Bay
hardly two English miles distant; that he had altered his course in
order to come up with him, but all at once he vanished, and although
he steered a long time in the same direction, he found no trace of
him. The thing easily explains itself when one considers that the sky
is always dark and foggy, the sea rough and tempestuous, and not
seldom sudden storms of hail and snow prevent the voyager from seeing
a quarter of a mile before him; how easy then to lose sight of a
vessel in an instant.

Much more dangerous than the Flying Dutchman are the floating bodies
of ice, found also in these latitudes; and which often cause great
damage to ships, for owing to the thickness of the atmosphere they are
not seen, until they are driven against them. A few years ago an
English frigate in doubling the Cape, ran foul of an iceberg with such
force that she sprung a leak, and broke the rudder in splinters.
Luckily a puff of wind that streamed from a cleft in the ice and threw
back the sails, freed the ship from her perilous condition since
another stroke upon the iceberg would have dashed her to pieces.

There is no climate where gurnets are found in such numbers as in the
neighborhood of the Cape. In stormy or cloudy nights the sparkle of
these beautiful sea-fish is the brightest. The troubled waves as they
dash their foam-crested waters against the ship, glitter as though
thousands of brilliant stars were seen among them, and as the rushing
keel divides them in her course, the effect is indescribable, and
recalls to the mind of the spectator tales of fairies and sea-nymphs
that come up from their ocean caves to gaze with bright and curious
eyes on the daring mortals that invade their realm.

After doubling the Cape, we had sailed a whole week with a steady and
favorable wind towards the Isle of Bourbon, when on one clear day
whilst all were assembled on the deck, we were startled by a cannon
shot fired at no great distance, and came booming over the waters like
the voice of thunder. The captain was hastily summoned from his cabin,
but ere he made his appearance a second report broke upon the deep
stillness that succeeded the first. At the same moment a sailor on the
lookout called out from above, that he "saw a light over the bows of
the ship, but could not make out what it was." "Is it a ship,"
inquired the captain, as he began hastily to ascend the mainmast. "No,
sir!" was the answer, "the light is too large to come from a ship's
lantern, and it cannot be the Isle of Bourbon." "It must be a vessel
on fire," exclaimed the captain, as many cannon shots broke upon the
silent air, "Bourbon lies much farther to the north. Aloft there!
crowd on sail--in order to carry help to those unfortunates before it
is too late!"

Whilst the sailors were busy in executing the captain's orders, he
bade the gunners fire the cannon so that the crew of the burning ship
might know that help was near. In half an hour from the first alarm,
we could plainly discern the blazing vessel with the naked eye, and
soon after distinguished the whirling columns of flame as they
towered above the masts. The night, too, had come on, and the
impression made by the lurid light that shone far over the quiet
waters, and the booming sound of cannon that from time to time burst
on its stillness, was one too awful to be soon forgotten. "If we only
do not reach them too late!" cried one of the passengers who, like the
sailors, never even turned their eyes away from the burning spectacle.
"I hope the crew have taken to their boats before this," said the
captain, who with his nightglass to his eye was steadfastly regarding
the unfortunate ship.

The breeze springing up more freshly, we sailed with increased speed
towards the distressed vessel, the forepart of which was now one sheet
of flame; we saw the angry fiery element enveloping the foremast from
top to bottom as in a garment, now sweep over to the mainmast, the
sails of which were instantly on fire. How far the conflagration had
proceeded inside we could not ascertain; but we were very certain the
crew had left her and taken to the boats, for our continued cannon
shots were answered by muskets fired from the barge and jolly boat.

As we approached carefully so as to avoid danger to ourselves from the
collision with the burning ship, a wild cry arose from the foredeck of
the latter--piercing yet mournful, and while pained and astonished we
looked about to discover what it meant, a spectacle singular as
fearful met our eyes. The ship had a number of animals on board which
were being taken to England for a menagerie. In their haste to leave,
the crew had either forgotten to unloose them, or feared that by
liberating them, they might meet in their rage a worse enemy than even
the fire. In wild and unavailing efforts, they dashed furiously
against the iron bars that inclosed them, and their fearful cries
almost drowned the hissing and crackling sound of the flames. At
length they reached the mizzenmast, and the falling yards loosened a
plank or two of one of the cages--a noble lion with flowing mane and
glaring eyes burst forth and sprung overboard. At the same instant an
elephant had freed himself from the rope which fettered his hind legs.
Flourishing his long proboscis he rushed into the midst of the fire,
but soon driven back by the heat he retreated to a portion of the
foredeck which had not yet ignited, and his death-cry echoed loud and
mournfully over the dusky ocean.

The falling of the mainmast ended the sad catastrophe. The cages of
the other animals had taken fire, and their wild occupants bursting
through the half burned planks, showed their dark forms here and
there on the deck, and maddened with pain, shrieked aloud in agony
as they plunged into the sea. The elephant drew himself up as for a
last effort, and was about to spring overboard, as one bright,
blinding glare shot athwart our eyes, and the next moment, vessel,
animals, all had vanished as if by magic. The explosion that followed
instantly--the sparkling brands that were hurled in all directions,
explained that the flames had reached the magazine and thus blown up
