The big loaf and sausage took them nicely through the next day; but by
Tuesday only crusts remained, and sorrel-soup, slightly flavored with
the last scrap of sausage, was all they had to eat.
On Wednesday morning, Trudel had plaited her long yellow braids with
care, smoothed down her one blue skirt, and put on her little black silk
cap, making ready for the day’s work. She was weak and hungry, but
showed a bright face as she took her old basket and said,--
"Now I am off to market, grandmother, to sell the hose and get medicine
and milk for father.  I shall try to pick up something for dinner.  The
good neighbors often let me run errands for them, and give me a kuchen,
a bit of cheese, or a taste of their nice coffee.  I will bring you
something, and come as soon as I can."
The old woman nodded and smiled, as she scoured the empty kettle till it
shone, and watched the little figure trudge away with the big empty
basket, and, she knew, with a still emptier little stomach.  "Coffee!"
sighed the grandmother; "one sip of the blessed drink would put life
into me.  When shall I ever taste it again?" and the poor soul sat down
to her knitting with hands that trembled from weakness.
The Platz was a busy and a noisy scene when Trudel arrived,--for the
thrifty Dutchwomen were early afoot; and stalls, carts, baskets, and
cans were already arranged to make the most attractive display of fruit,
vegetables, fish, cheese, butter, eggs, milk, and poultry, and the small
wares country people came to buy.
Nodding and smiling, Trudel made her way through the bustle to the booth
where old Vrow Schmidt bought and sold the blue woollen hose that adorn
the stout legs of young and old.
"Good-morning, child!  I am glad to see thee and thy well-knit
stockings, for I have orders for three pairs, and promised thy
grandmother’s, they are always so excellent," said the rosy-faced woman,
as Trudel approached.
"I have but one pair.  We had no money to buy more yarn.  Father is so
ill mother cannot work; and medicines cost a deal," said the child, with
her large hungry eyes fixed on the breakfast the old woman was about to
eat, first having made ready for the business of the day.
"See, then, I shall give thee the yarn and wait for the hose; I can
trust thee, and shall ask a good price for the good work.  Thou too wilt
have the fever, I ’m afraid!--so pale and thin, poor child!  Here, drink
from my cup, and take a bite of bread and cheese.  The morning air makes
one hungry."
Trudel eagerly accepted the "sup" and the "bite," and felt new strength
flow into her as the warm draught and good brown bread went down her
throat.
"So many thanks!  I had no breakfast.  I came to see if I could get any
errands here to-day, for I want to earn a bit if I can," she said with a
sigh of satisfaction, as she slipped half of her generous slice and a
good bit of cheese into her basket, regretting that the coffee could not
be shared also.
As if to answer her wish, a loud cry from fat Mother Kinkle, the
fish-wife, rose at that moment, for a thievish cur had run off with a
fish from her stall, while she gossiped with a neighbor.
Down went Trudel’s basket, and away went Trudel’s wooden shoes
clattering over the stones while she raced after the dog, dodging in and
out among the stalls till she cornered the thief under Gretchen Horn’s
milk-cart; for at sight of the big dog who drew the four copper-cans,
the cur lost heart and dropped the fish and ran away.
"Well done!" said buxom Gretchen, when Trudel caught up the rescued
treasure a good deal the worse for the dog’s teeth and the dust it had
been dragged through.
All the market-women laughed as the little girl came back proudly
bearing the fish, for the race had amused them.  But Mother Kinkle said
with a sigh, when she saw the damage done her property,--
"It is spoiled; no one will buy that torn, dirty thing.  Throw it on the
muck-pile, child; your trouble was in vain, though I thank you for it."
"Give it to me, please, if you don’t want it. We can eat it, and would
be glad of it at home," cried Trudel, hugging the slippery fish with
joy, for she saw a dinner in it, and felt that her run was well paid.
"Take it, then, and be off; I see Vrow von Decken’s cook coming, and you
are in the way," answered the old woman, who was not a very amiable
person, as every one knew.
"That’s a fine reward to make a child for running the breath out of her
body for you," said Dame Troost, the handsome farm-wife who sat close by
among her fruit and vegetables, as fresh as her cabbages, and as rosy as
her cherries.
"Better it, then, and give her a feast fit for a burgomaster.  You can
afford it," growled Mother Kinkle, turning her back on the other woman
in a huff.
"That I will, for very shame at such meanness! Here, child, take these
for thy fish-stew, and these for thy little self," said the kind soul,
throwing half a dozen potatoes and onions into the basket, and handing
Trudel a cabbage-leaf full of cherries.
A happy girl was our little house-wife on her way home, when the milk
and medicine and loaf of bread were bought; and a comfortable dinner was
quickly cooked and gratefully eaten in Dort’s poor house that day.
"Surely the saints must help you, child, and open people’s hearts to our
need; for you come back each day with food for us,--like the ravens to
the people in the wilderness," said the grandmother when they sat at
table.
"If they do, it is because you pray to them so heartily, mother.  But I
think the sweet ways and thin face of my Trudel do much to win kindness,
and the good God makes her our little house-mother, while I must sit
idle," answered Vrow Dort; and she filled the child’s platter again that
she, at least, might have enough.
"I like it!" cried Trudel, munching an onion with her bread, while her
eyes shone and a pretty color came into her cheeks.  "I feel so old and
brave now, so glad to help; and things happen, and I keep thinking what
I will do next to get food.  It’s like the birds out yonder in the
hedge, trying to feed their little ones. I fly up and down, pick and
scratch, get a bit here and a bit there, and then my dear old birds
have food to eat."
It really was very much as Trudel said, for her small wits were getting
very sharp with these new cares; she lay awake that night trying to plan
how she should provide the next day’s food for her family.
"Where now, thou dear little mother-bird?" asked the "Grossmutter" next
morning, when the child had washed the last dish, and was setting away
the remains of the loaf.
"To Gretti Jansen’s, to see if she wants me to water her linen, as I
used to do for play.  She is lame, and it tires her to go to the spring
so often.  She will like me to help her, I hope; and I shall ask her for
some food to pay me. Oh, I am very bold now!  Soon will I beg if no
other way offers."  And Trudel shook her yellow head resolutely, and
went to settle the stool at grandmother’s feet, and to draw the curtain
so that it would shield the old eyes from the summer sun.
"Heaven grant it never comes to that!  It would be very hard to bear,
yet perhaps we must if no help arrives.  The doctor’s bill, the rent,
the good food thy father will soon need, will take far more than we can
earn; and what will become of us, the saints only know!" answered the
old woman, knitting briskly in spite of her sad forebodings.
"I will do it all!  I don’t know how, but I shall try; and, as you
often say, ’Have faith and hold up thy hands; God will fill them.’"
Then Trudel went away to her work, with a stout heart under her little
blue bodice; and all that summer day she trudged to and fro along the
webs of linen spread in the green meadow, watering them as fast as they
dried, knitting busily under a tree during the intervals.
Old Gretti was glad to have her, and at noon called her in to share the
milk-soup, with cherries and herrings in it, and a pot of coffee,--as
well as Dutch cheese, and bread full of coriander-seed. Though this was
a feast to Trudel, one bowl of soup and a bit of bread was all she ate;
then, with a face that was not half as "bold" as she tried to make it,
she asked if she might run home and take the coffee to grandmother, who
longed for and needed it so much.
"Yes, indeed; there, let me fill that pewter jug with a good hot mess
for the old lady, and take this also.  I have little to give, but I
remember how good she was to me in the winter, when my poor legs were so
bad, and no one else thought of me," said grateful Gretti, mixing more
coffee, and tucking a bit of fresh butter into half a loaf of bread with
a crusty end to cover the hole.
Away ran Trudel; and when grandmother saw the "blessed coffee," as she
called it, she could only sip and sigh for comfort and content, so glad
was the poor old soul to taste her favorite drink again.  The mother
smelled it, and came down to take her share, while Trudel skipped away
to go on watering the linen till sunset with a happy heart, saying to
herself while she trotted and splashed,--
"This day is well over, and I have kept my word.  Now what can I do
to-morrow?  Gretti does n’t want me; there is no market; I must not beg
yet, and I cannot finish the hose so soon.
"I know!  I ’ll get water-cresses, and sell them from door to door.
They are fresh now, and people like them.  Ah, thou dear duck, thank
thee for reminding me of them," she cried, as she watched a mother-duck
lead her brood along the brook’s edge, picking and dabbling among the
weeds to show them where to feed.
Early next morning Trudel took her basket and went away to the meadows
that lay just out of the town, where the rich folk had their summer
houses, and fish-ponds, and gardens.  These gardens were gay now with
tulips, the delight of Dutch people; for they know best how to cultivate
them, and often make fortunes out of the splendid and costly flowers.
When Trudel had looked long and carefully for cresses, and found very
few, she sat down to rest, weary and disappointed, on a green bank from
which she could overlook a fine garden all ablaze with tulips.  She
admired them heartily, longed to have a bed of them her own, and feasted
her childish eyes on the brilliant colors till they were dazzled, for
the long beds of purple and yellow, red and white blossoms were splendid
to see, and in the midst of all a mound of dragon-tulips rose like a
queen’s throne, scarlet, green, and gold all mingled on the ruffled
leaves that waved in the wind.
Suddenly it seemed as if one of the great flowers had blown over the
wall and was hopping along the path in a very curious way!  In a minute,
however, she saw that it was a gay parrot that had escaped, and would
have flown away if its clipped wings and a broken chain on one leg had
not kept it down.
Trudel laughed to see the bird scuttle along, jabbering to itself, and
looking very mischievous and naughty as it ran away.  She was just
thinking she ought to stop it, when the garden-gate opened, and a pretty
little boy came out, calling anxiously,--
"Prince!  Prince!  Come back, you bad bird! I never will let you off
your perch again, sly rascal!"
"I will get him;" and Trudel ran down the bank after the runaway, for
the lad was small and leaned upon a little crutch.
"Be careful!  He will bite!" called the boy.
"I ’m not afraid," answered Trudel; and she stepped on the chain, which
brought the "Prince of Orange" to a very undignified and sudden halt.
