" Yes." 

"Why do I . Excuse me, Mrs. Maudel, but will 

you allow me to ask why you ask ? " 

" Oh, certainly. There 's no reason why I 



  

shouldn't say, for I wish you to be very frank with 
me. I ask because there are two young ladies in 
this house ; and, in a certain way, I have to take 
the place of a mother to them. I needn't explain 
why ; you know all the people here, and you under- 
stand. I have nothing to say about them, but I 
should not be speaking to you now if they were 
not all rather helpless people. They do not know 
the world they have come to live in here, and they 
cannot help themselves nor one another. But you 
do know it, Mr. Beaton, and I am sure you know 
just how much or how little you mean by coming 
here. You are either interested in one of these 
young girls or you are not. If you are, I have 

nothing more to say. If you are not ." Mrs. 

Mandel continued to smile, but the smile had grown 
more perfunctory, and it had an icy gleam. 

Beaton looked at her with surprise that he graveh' 
kept to himself. He had always regarded her as a 
social nullity, with a kind of pity, to be sure, as a 
civilised person living among such people as the 
Dryfooses, but not without a humorous contemi)t ; 
he had thought of her as Mandel, and sometimes 
as old Mandel, though she was not half a score of 
years his senior, and was still well on the sunny side 
of forty. He reddened, and then turned an angry 
pallor. " Excuse me again, Mrs. Mandel. Do you 
ask this from the young ladies ? " 

" Certainly not," she said, with the best tenii>er, 
and with something in her tone that convicted 
Beaton of vulgarity in putting his question of her 



  

authority in the form of a sneer. " As I have sug- 
gested, they would hardly know how to help them- 
selves at all in such a matter. I have no objection 
to saying that I ask it from the father of the young 
ladies. Of course, in and for myself I should have 
no right to know anything about your affairs. I 
assure you the duty of knowing isn't very plea?ant." 
The little tremor in her clear voice struck Eeaton as 
something rather nice. 

"I can very well believe that, Mrs. Mandel," he said, 
with a dreamy sadness in his own. He lifted his eyes, 
and looked into hers. " If I told you that I cared 
nothing about them in the way you intimate ? " 

" Then I should prefer to let you characterise 
your own conduct in continuing to come here for 
the year past, as you have done, and tacitly leading 
them on to infer differently." They both mechani- 
cally kept up the fiction of plurality in speaking of 
Christine, but there was no doubt in the mind of 
either which of the young ladies the o the i- meant. 

A good many thoughts went tlirough Beaton's 
mind, and none of them were flattering. Ho had 
not been unconscious that the part he had played 
towai'd this girl was ignoble, and that it had grown 
meaner as the fancy which her beauty had at first 
kindled in him had grown cooler. He was aware 
that of late he had been amusing himself with her 
passion in a way that was not less than cruel, not 
because he wished to do so, but because he was 
listless and wished nothing. He rose in saying, " I 
might be a little more lenient than you think, Mrs. 



  

Mandc'l ; Init I -won't trouble yoii with any palliating 
theory. I will not come any more." 

He bowed, and Mrs. Mandel said, " Of course, it 's 
only your action that I am concerned with." 

She seemed to him merely triumphant, and ho 
could not conceive what it liad cost her to nerve 
herself up to her too easy victory. He left Mrs. 
Mandel to a far harder lot than had fallen to him, 
and he went away hating her as an enemy who had 
humiliated him at a moment when he particularly 
needed exalting. It was really very simple for him 
to stop going to see Christine ]ryfoos, but it was 
not at all simple for Mrs. Mandel to deal with the 
consequences of his not coming. He only thought 
how lightly she had stopped him, and the poor 
woman whom he had left trembling for what she 
had been obliged to do embodied for him the con- 
science that accused him of unpleasant thing?;. 

" By heavens ! this is piling it up," he said to 
himself through his set teeth, realising how it had 
happened right on top of that stupid insult from 
Mrs. Horn. Now he should have to give up his 
place on Every Other week ; he couhl not heep that, 
under the circumstances, even if some pretence were 
not made to get rid of him ; he must hurry and an- 
ticipate any such pretence ; lie must sec Fulkerson at 
once ; he wondered where he should find him at that 
hour. He thought, with bitterness so real that it gave 
him a kind of tragical satisfaction, how certainly ho 
could find him a little later at Mrs. Leighton's ; and 
Fulkerson's happiness became an added injury. 




The thing had of course come about just at the 
wrong time. There never had been a time when 
Beaton needed money more ; when lie had spent 
what he had and what he expected to have so reck- 
lessly. He was in debt to Fulkerson personally 
and officially for advance payments of salary. The 
thought of sending money home made him break 
into a scoffing laugh, which he turned into a cough 
in order to deceive the passers. What sort of face 
should he go to Fulkerson with and tell him that he 
renounced his employment on Every Other week; 
and what should ]jfi do when he had renounced it ? 
Take pupils, perhaps ; open a class ? A lurid con- 
ception of a class conducted on those principles of 
shameless flattery at which Mrs. Horn had hinted — 
he believed now she had meant to insult him — pre- 
sented itself. Why should not he act upon the sug- 
gestion ? He thought — with loathing for the whole 
race of women-dabblers in art — how easy the thing 
would be : as easy as to turn back now and tell that 
old fool's girl that he loved her, and rake in half his 
millions. Why should not he do that ? No one else 
cared for him ; and at a year's end, probably, one 
woman would be like another as far as the love was 
concerned, and probably he should not be more tired 
if the woman were Christine Dryfoos than if she 
were Margaret Vance. He kept Alma Leighton out 
of the question, because at the bottom of his heart 
he believed that she must be for ever unlike every 
other woman to him. 

The tide of his confused and aimless reverie had 



  

earned him far down-town, he thought; but when 
he looked up from it to see where he was, he found 
himself ou Sixth wenue, only a little below Thirty- 
ninth Street, very hot and blown ; that idiotic fur 
overcoat was stifling. He could not possibly walk 
down to Eleventh ; he did not want to walk even to 
the Elevated station at Thirty-fourth ; he stopped at 
the corner to wait for a surface-car, and fell again 
into his bitter fancies. After a while he roused him- 
self and looked up the track, but there was no car 
coming. He found himself beside a policeman, who 
was lazily swinging his club by its thong from his 
wrist. 

