Herald and the JForld, and she added to its spiny 
convolutions from them. She read the new adver- 
tisements aloud with ardour and with faith to believe 
that the apartments described in them were every 
one truthfully represented, and that any one of them 
was richly responsive to their needs. "Elegant, 
light, largo, single, and outside flats " were offered 
with " all improvements — bath, ice-box, etc." — for 
$25 and 830 a month. The cheapness was amazing. 
The Wagram, the Esmeralda, the Jacinth, advertised 
them for $40 and -SCO, "with steam-heat and eleva- 
tor," rent free till November. Others, attractive 
from their air of conscientious scruple, announced 
" first-class flats ; good order ; reasonable rents." The 
Helena asked the reader if she had seen the " cabinet 
finish, hard-wood floors, and frescoed ceilings " of its 
$50 flats ; the Asteroid affirmed that such apart- 
ments, with " six light rooms and bath, porcelain 
wash-tubs, electric bells, and hall-boy," as it offered 
for $75 were iinapproached by competition. There 




was a sameness in the jargon whicli tended to con- 
fusion. Mrs. March got several flats on her list 
which promised neither steam-heat nor elevators ; 
she forgot herself so far as to include two or three 
as remote from the down-town region of her choice 
as Harlem. But after she had rejected these the 
nondescript vertebrate was still voluminous enough 
to sustain her buoyant hopes. 

The waiter, who remembered them from year to 
year, had put them at a window giving a pretty good 
section of Broadway, and before they set out on 
their search  the y had a moment of reminiscence. 
They recalled the Broadway of five, of ten, of twenty 
years ago, swelling and roaring with a tide of gaily 
painted omnibuses and of picturesque traffic that the 
horse-cars have now banished from it. The grind of 
their wheels and the clash of their harsh bells im- 
perfectly fill the silence that the omnibuses have left, 
and the eye misses the tumultuous perspective of 
former times. 

They went out and stood for a moment before 
Grace Church, and looked down the stately thorough- 
fare, and found it no longer impressive, no longer 
characteristic. It is still Broadway in name, but now 
it is like any other street. You do not now take 
your life in your hand when you attempt to cross it ; 
the Broadway policeman who supported the elbow 
of timorous beauty in the hollow of his cotton-gloved 
palm and guided its little fearful boots over the 
crossing, while he arrested the billowy omnibuses on 
cither side witli r.n imperious glance, is gone, and all 



 

that certain processional, barbaric gaiety of the yVxce 
is gone. 

"Palmyra, Baalbcc, Timour of the Desert," said 
March, voicing their common feeling of the change. 

They turned and went into the beautiful church, 
and found themselves in time for the matin service. 
Rapt far from New York, if not from earth, in the 
dim richness of the painted light, the hallowed music 
took them with solemn ecstasy ; the aerial, aspiring 
Gothic forms seemed to lift them heavenward. They 
came out, reluctant, into the dazzle and bustle of the 
street, with a feeling that they were too good for it, 
which they confessed to each other with whimsical 
consciousness. 

" But no matter how consecrated we feel now," he 
said, " we mustn't forget that we went into the 
church for precisely the same reason that we went 
to the Vienna Cafe for breakfast — to gratify an 
aesthetic sense, to renew the faded pleasure of travel 
for a moment, to get back into the Europe of our 
youth. It was a purely Pagan impulse, Isabel, and 
we 'd better own it." 

" I don't know," she returned. " I think we re- 
duce ourselves to the bare bones too much. I wisli 
we didn't always recognise the facts as we do. Some- 
times I should like to blink them. I should like to 
think I was devouter than I am, and younger and 
prettier." 

' Better not ; you couldn't keep it up. Honesty 
is the best policy even in such things." 

 ' No : I don't like it, Basil. I should rather waib 



 

till the last day for some of my motives to come to 
the top. I know they 're always mixed, but do let 
me give them the benefit of a doubt sometimes." 

"Well, well, have it your own way, my dear. 
But I prefer not to lay up so many disagreeable sur- 
prises for myself at that time." 

She would not consent. " I know I am a good deal 
younger than I was. I feel quite in the mood of 
that morning when we walked down Broadway on 
our wedding journey. Don't you ? " 

" Oh yes. But I know I 'm not younger ; I 'm 
only prettier." 

She laughed for pleasure in his joke, and also for 
unconscious joy in the gay New York weather, in 
which there was no arrihe pensde of the east wind. 
They had crossed Broadway, and were walking over 
to Washington Square, in the region of which they 
now hoped to place themselves. The primo tenore 
statue of Garibaldi had already taken possession of 
the place in the name of Latin progress, and they 
met Italian ftices, French faces, Spanish faces, as they 
strolled over the asphalte walks, under the thinning 
shadows of the autumn-stricken sycamores. They 
met the familiar picturesque raggedness of southern 
Europe with the old kindly illusion that somehow 
it existed for their appreciation, and that it found 
adequate compensation for poverty in this. March 
thought he sufficiently expressed his tacit sympathy 
in sitting down on one of the iron benches with his 
wife, and letting a little Neapolitan put a superfluous 
shine on his boots, whilc their desultory comment 



 

wandcrcJ "with equal esteem to the ohl-fashioncd 
American respectability which keeps the north side 
of the square in vast mansions of red brick, and the 
international shabbiness which has invaded the 
southern border, and broken it up into lodging- 
houses, shops, beer gardens, and studios. 

They noticed the sign of an apartment to let on 
the north side, and as soon as the little boot-black 
could be bought off they went over to look at it. 
The janitor met them at the door and examined 
them. Then he said, as if still in doubt, "It has 
ten rooms, and the rent is twenty-eiglit hundred 
dollars." 

"It wouldn't do, then," March replied, and left 
him to divide the responsibility between the paucity 
of the rooms and the enormity of the rent as he best 
might. But their self-love had received a wound, 
and they questioned each other what it was in their 
appearance made him doubt their ability to pay so 
much. 

"Of course we don't look like Kew- Yorkers," 
sighed Mrs. March, "and we've walked through 
the Square. That might be as if we had walked 
along the Park Street mall in the Common before 
we came out on Beacon. Do you suppose he could 
have seen you getting your boots blacked in that 
way?" 

" It 's useless to ask," said March. " But I never 
can recover from this blow." 

"Oh pshaw! You know you hate such things 
as Ixadly as I do. It was very impertinent of him." 
