has a soft poetical nature, and she makes beautiful afghans. But the
judge prefers Miss Polly."

"Does he really admire her?" said Eve, with a sudden inspiration.

"Beyond everything," answered Cousin Sarah Cray, clasping her plump
hands.

"Then will you please go out and tell him that she is coming here to
tea, that she will be here immediately?"

"Mercy! But she won't."

"Yes, she will; I will go and ask her. Do please make haste, Mrs. Cray;
we are so afraid, Cicely and I, that he will try to whip a negro."

"Mercy!" said Cousin Sarah Cray again, this time in alarm; stout as she
was, she ran swiftly through the hall and across the veranda, her cap
strings flying, and disappeared on the way to the stables.

Eve carried little Jack up-stairs, and gave him to Deely, the
house-maid; then, retracing her steps, she went out through the
side-gate, and up the street to the home of the Misses Wingfield. The
door stood open, Miss Polly was in the hall. She was a handsome woman,
vigorous, erect, with clear blue eyes, and thick sandy hair closely
braided round her well-shaped head. Eve explained her errand. "But
perhaps Miss Leontine told you?" she added.

"No, Lonny told me nothing; she went straight to her room. I noticed
that she had been crying; but she is so sweet that she cries rather
easily. Whip, indeed! I'd rather shoot."

"We must keep the judge from being whipped," Eve answered.

"Yes, I suppose so; he is an old man, though he doesn't look it. I will
go with you, of course. Or rather I will follow you in a few moments."

The post-office of Gary Hundred was opposite the Wingfield house; as Eve
crossed the broad street on her way back, the postmaster appeared at his
door, and beckoned to her mysteriously. He was a small elderly negro,
with a dignified manner; he wore blue goggles; Eve knew him slightly,
she had paid several visits to the office, and had been treated with
deferential attention. When she reached the sidewalk, therefore, she
paused.

"Would yer min' droppin' in fer one brief momen', miss? 'Portant
marter."

Eve stepped over the low sill of the small building--it was hardly more
than a shed, though smartly whitewashed, and adorned with bright green
blinds--and the postmaster immediately closed the door. He then
cautiously took from his desk a letter.

"Dere's sump'n' rudder quare 'bout dishyer letter, miss," he said,
glancing towards the window to see that no one was looking in. "Carn't
be too pertikler w'en it's guv'ment business; en so we 'lowed to ax de
favior ef you'd sorter glimpse yer eye ober it fer us."

"Read a letter?" said Eve. "Whose letter?"

"Not de letter, but him outside, miss. Whoms is it? Dat's de p'int. En
I wouldn't have you s'pose we 'ain't guv it our bes' cornsideration. We
knows de looks ob mos' ob 'em w'at comes yere; but dishyer one's
diffunt. Fuddermo', de stamp's diffunt too."

The postmaster's wife, a little yellow woman, was looking anxiously at
them from the small window in the partition of the real post-office, a
space six feet by three.

Eve took the letter. "It's an English stamp. And the name is plainly
written, 'Henry Barker, Esquire; Gary Hundred.'"

"No sech pusson yere. Dat's w'at I tol' Mister Cotesworth," said the
yellow woman, triumphantly.

"Do you mean to tell me that you cannot read?" said Eve, surveying
"Mister Cotesworth," with astonishment.

The government official had, for the moment, an abashed look. "We
'lowed," he began, "dat as you's fum de Norf--"

But his wife interrupted him. "He reads better'n mos', miss, Mister
Cotesworth does. But his eyes done got so bad lately--dat's w'at. Take
de letter, Mister Cotesworth, and doan' trouble de lady no mo'. Fine
wedder, miss." She came round and opened the door officiously; "seem lak
we 'ain't nebber see finer."

Miss Polly arrived at Cousin Sarah Cray's; she walked with apparent
carelessness round towards the stables, where the judge was
superintending the rubbing down and the feeding of the horse. A saddle
had been brought out, and was hanging on the fence; Cousin Sarah hovered
anxiously near.

"Grandpa is going out for a ride," explained Cicely. "But I told him
that the poor horse must be fed first, in common charity; he has been
so far already--to Bellington and back."

"Oh, but the judge is not going, now that I have come," said Miss Polly;
"he wouldn't be so uncivil." She went up to him; smiling winningly, she
put out her beautiful hand.

The judge was always gallant; he took the fair hand, and, bending his
head, deposited upon it a salute.

Miss Polly smiled still more graciously. "And is a stable-yard a place
for such courtesies, judge?" she said, in her rich voice, with her
luscious, indolent, Southern pronunciation. "Oh, surely not--surely not.
Let us go to Cousin Sarah Cray's parlor; I have something to tell you;
in fact, I came especially to see you." Looking very handsome and very
straight, she took his arm with a caressing touch.

The judge admired Miss Polly deeply.

And Miss Polly kept a firm hold upon his arm.

The judge yielded.




VII.


"Sea-beaches," said Eve,--"the minds of such people; you can trace the
line of their last high tide, that is, the year when they stopped
reading. Along the judge's line, one finds, for instance, Rogers; he
really has no idea that there have been any new poets since then."

"Dear me! We have always thought Horatio remarkably literary," protested
Cousin Sarah Cray. "That's his step now, I think."

The judge came in, little Jack on his shoulder. "I believe he has
dropped some--some portions of his clothing on the stairs," he said,
helplessly. "It's astonishing--the facility he has."

"And he has pulled off his shoes," added Eve, taking the little
reprobate and kissing him. "Naughty Jack. Tacks!"

"Esss, tacks!" repeated Jack, in high glee. "Dey gets in Jack's foots."
That was all he cared for her warning legend.

The judge sat down and wiped his forehead. "I have received a shock," he
said.

"Pity's sake!--what?" asked Cousin Sarah Cray, in alarm. Poor Cousin
Sarah dealt in interjections. But it might be added that she had lived
through times that were exclamatory.

"Our old friend, Roland Pettigru, is dead, Sarah; the news comes to us
in this--this Sheet, which, I am told, is published here." He drew a
small newspaper from his pocket. "With your permission, ladies, I will
read to you the opening sentence of an obituary notice which this--this
Sheet--has prepared for the occasion." He put on his spectacles, and,
holding the paper off at a distance, read aloud, with slow, indignant
enunciation, as follows: "'The Great Reaper has descended amongst us.
And this time he has carried back with him sadly brilliant sheaves; for
his arrows have been shot at a shining mark' (arrows for a reaper!"
commented the judge, surveying his audience squintingly, over his
glasses), "'and the aim has been only too true. Gaunt Sorrow stalks
abroad, we mourn with Pettigru Hill; we say--and we repeat--that the
death of Roland Pettigru has left a vortex among us.' Yes, vortex,
ladies;--the death of a quiet, cultivated gentleman a vortex!"

At this moment Deely, the house-maid, appeared at the door; giving her
calico skirt a twist by way of "manners," she announced, "Miss Wungfy."

Miss Leontine entered, carrying five books standing in a row upon her
left arm as though it had been a shelf. She shook hands with Cousin
Sarah Cray and Eve; then she went through the same ceremony with the
judge, but in a confused, downcast manner, and seated herself on a
slippery ottoman as near as possible to the door.

"I hope you liked the books? Pray let me take them," said Eve, for Miss
Leontine was still balancing them against her breast.

"Literature?" remarked the judge, who also seemed embarrassed. He took
up one of the volumes and opened it. "Ah, a novel."

"Yes, but one that will not hurt you," Eve answered. "For Miss Leontine
prefers those novels where the hero and heroine are married to begin
