coat, taking the position already established for her. After 
they had worked for more than an hour, with much less talk 
than the day before, Nick being extremely absorbed and 
Miriam wearing in silence the kindest, most religious air of 
consideration for the sharp tension she imposed upon him at 
the end of this period of patience, pervaded by a holy calm, 
our young lady suddenly got up and exclaimed, " I say, I must 
see it ! " with which, quickly, she stepped down from her place 
and came round to the canvas. She had, at Nick's request, 
not looked at his work the day before. He fell back, glad to 
rest, and put down his palette and brushes. 

" All bien, c'est tape " Miriam cried, as she stood before the 
easel. Nick was pleased with her ejaculation, he was even 
pleased with what he had done ; he had had a long, happy 
spurt and felt excited and sanctioned. Miriam, retreating 
also a little, sank into a high-backed, old-fashioned chair that 
stood two or three yards from the picture, and reclined in it, 
with her head on one side, looking at the rough resemblance. 
She made a remark or two about it, to which Nick replied 
standing behind her and after a moment leaning on the top of 
the chair. He wag away from his work and his eyes searched 
it with a kind of fondness of hope. They rose, however, as he 
presently became conscious that the door of the large room 
opposite to him had opened without making a sound and that 
some one stood upon the threshold. The person on the 
threshold was Julia Dal low. 





As soon as he perceived her Nick wished he had posted a 
letter to her the night before. He had written only that 
morning. Nevertheless there was genuine joy in the words 
with which he bounded towards her " Ah, my dear Julia, 
what a jolly surprise ! " for her unannounced descent spoke 
to him above all of an irresistible desire to see him again 
sooner than they had arranged. She had taken a step forward, 
but she had done no more, stopping short at the sight of the 
strange woman, so divested of visiting-gear that she looked 
half undressed, who lounged familiarly in the middle of the 
room and over whom Nick had been still more familiarly 
hanging. Julia's eyes rested on this embodied unexpectedness, 
and as they did so she grew pale so pale that Nick, observing 
it, instinctively looked back to see what Miriam had done to 
produce such an effect. She had done nothing at all, which 
was precisely what was embarrassing; only staring at the 
intruder, motionless and superb. She seemed, somehow, in 
indolent possession of the place, and even in that instant Nick 
noted how handsome she looked ; so that he exclaimed some- 
where, inaudibly, in a region beneath his other emotions : 
" How I should like to paint her that way ! " Mrs. Dallow 
transferred her eyes for a single moment to Nick's ; then they 
turned away away from Miriam, ranging over the room. 

" I've got a sitter, but you mustn't mind that ; we're taking 
a rest. I'm delighted to see you," said Nick. He closed the 
door of the studio behind her ; his servant was still at the 
outer door, which was open and through which he saw Julia's 
carriage drawn up. This made her advance a little further, 
but still she said nothing ; she dropped no answer even when 
Nick went on, with a sense of awkwardness : " When did you 
come back ? I hope nothing has gone wrong. You come at a 
very interesting moment," he continued, thinking as soon as 
he had spoken that they were such words as might have made 
her laugh. She was far from laughing ; she only managed to 
look neither at him nor at Miriam and to say, after a little, 
when he had repeated his question about her return : 

"I came back this morning I came straight here." 

" And nothing's wrong, I hope? " 

" Oh, no everything's all right," she replied very quickly 
and without expression. She vouchsafed no explanation of her 
premature return and took no notice of the seat Nick offered 
her ; neither did she appear to hear him when he begged her 
not to look yet at the work on the easel it was in such a 
dreadful state. He was conscious, as he phrased it, that his 





request gave to Miriam's position directly in front of his 
canvas an air of privilege which her neglect to recognize in 
any way Mrs. Dallow's entrance or her importance did nothing 
to correct. But that mattered less if the appeal failed to reach 
Julia's intelligence, as he judged, seeing presently how deeply 
she was agitated. Nothing mattered in face of the sense of 
danger which took possession of him after she had been in the 
room a few moments. He wanted to say : " What's the diffi- 
culty ? Has anything happened ? " but he felt that she would 
not like him to utter words so intimate in presence of the 
person she had been rudely startled to find between them. He 
pronounced Miriam's name to Mrs. Dallow and Mrs. Dallow's 
to Miriam, but Julia's recognition of the ceremony was so 
slight as to be scarcely perceptible. Miriam had the air of 
waiting for something more before she herself made a sign ; 
and as nothing more came she continued to be silent and not 
to budge. Nick added a remark to the effect that Mrs. Dallow 
would remember to have had the pleasure of meeting Miss 
Rooth the year before in Paris, that day, at her brother 
Peter's ; to which Mrs. Dallow rejoined, " Ah, yes," without 
any qualification, while she looked down at some rather rusty 
studies, on panels, which were ranged along the floor, resting 
against the base of the wall. Her agitation was evidently a 
pain to herself ; she had had a shock of extreme violence, and 
Nick saw that as Miriam showed no symptom of offering to 
give up her sitting her stay would be of the briefest. He 
wished Miriam would do something say she would go, get up, 
move about ; as it was she had the appearance of watching 
from her point of vantage Mrs. Dallow's discomfiture. He 
made a series of inquiries about Julia's doings in the country, 
to two or three of which she gave answers monosyllabic and 
scarcely comprehensible, while she turned her eyes round and 
round the room as if she were looking for something she 
couldn't find for an escape, for something that was not 
Miriam. At last she said it was at the end of a very few 
minutes : 

" I didn't come to stay when you're so busy. I only 
looked in to see if you were here. Good-bye." 

" It's charming of you to have come. I'm so glad you've 
seen for yourself how well I'm occupied," Nick replied, not 
unaware that he was very red. This made Mrs. Dallow look 
at him, while Miriam considered them both. Julia's eyes had 
something in them that he had never seen before a flash of 
fright by which he was himself frightened. " Of course I'll 





see you later," he added, laughing awkwardly, while she 
reached the door, while she opened it herself and got off 
without a good-day to Miriam. " I wrote to you this morning 
you've missed my letter," he repeated behind her, having 
already given her this information. The door of the studio 
was very near that of the house, but before Mrs. Dallow had 
reached the street the visitors' bell was set ringing. The 
passage was narrow and she kept in advance of Nick, antici- 
pating his motion to open the street-door. The bell was 
tinkling still when, by the action of her own hand, a gentle- 
man on the step stood revealed. 

" Ah my dear, don't go ! " Nick heard pronounced in quick, 
soft dissuasion and in the now familiar accents of Gabriel 
Nash. The rectification followed more quickly still, if that 
were a rectification which scarcely improved the matter : " I
beg a thousand pardons. I thought you were Miriam." 

Gabriel gave way, and Mrs. Dallow dashed out of the 
house. Her carriage, a victoria with a pair of horses who had 
got hot, had taken a turn up the street, but the coachman 
had already perceived his mistress and was rapidly coming 
back. He drew near ; not so fast however but that Gabriel 
Nash had time to accompany Mrs. Dallow to the edge of the 
pavement with an apology for the freedom into which he had 
blundered. Nick was at her other hand, waiting to put her 
into her carriage and freshly disconcerted by the encounter 
with Nash, who somehow, as he stood making Julia an 
explanation that she didn't listen to, looked less eminent than 
usual, though not more conscious of difficulties. Nick coloured 
deeper and watched the footman spring down as the victoria 
drove up ; he heard Nash say something about the honour of 
having met Mrs. Dallow in Paris. Nick wanted him to go 
into the house ; he damned inwardly his want of delicacy. 
He desired a word with Julia alone as much alone as the two 
inconvenient servants would allow. But Nash was not too 
much discouraged to say : " You came for a glimpse of the 
great model? Doesn't she sit? That's what I wanted too, 
this morning just a look, for a blessing on the day. Ah, 
but you, madam " 

Julia had sprung into the carriage while he was still speak- 
ing and had flashed out to the coachman a "Home ! " which 
of itself set the vehicle in motion. The carriage went a few 
