feet to keep thee warm ; I have provided thee againsl 
every thing except the Tschutski; I can do nothing t€ 
shield thee from them.' 
 
i " * Well,' I answered, * perhaps God will guard me, so 
that I can reach my Fatherland in safety.' 
"And with this confidence in His unbounded providence 
that watches above all, I began my wanderings over more 
than ten thousand versts. Our caravan consisted of thirty 
men, and one hundred dogs. We were divided into eight 
sleighs, to each of which twelve well-trained Siberian dogs 
were harnessed. A Kamtschatdale, in snow shoes, ran 
before us to pilot the way. The position of the sun by 
day, or the stars at night, was his only chart to steer by, 
for upon this ocean-like plain of frozen snow, no tree nor 
hillock is to be seen. Did we stop to refresh ourselves 
and dogs, or to sleep, we pitched a tent, where we boiled 
some tea and ate frozen fish, but when it was high holiday 
with us, we added a bit of rough reindeer's flesh ; the dogs 
that drew the sledges were very well contented with dried 
terrings. 
" For many weeks that we traversed this dreary snow 
region, we saw no human habitations except a few mis- 
erable huts occupied by peasants as miserable looking as 
their homes. After leaving the last hovel, under whose 
hospitable roof we had been refreshed, and thawed our 
half frozen limbs at its cheerful fire, we saw no dwelling, 
nor met any living creature for fifteen days. The cold 
was piercing, and Vapors such as we see only on our most 
wintry days, arose from the snow, threatening such parts 
of our faces as we left uncovered. No sound interrupted 
the silence that reigned over the illimitable expanse, save 
that at times some solitary dog, half buried in snow, 
howled his complaint to the moon. Our monotonous 
journey was, lioweer, one day rendered more lively by 
the sight of our Kamtschatdale pilot returning at Ml 
flight. The caravan made an instantaneous halt ; the 
Cossacks, seizing their weapons, sprang from the sledges, 
and drew up in military array, as if ready to give battle, 
and the dogs laid down on the snow howling piteously. I 
thrust my head through the opening in front of the sleigh,- 
and gliinced over the snow-blinding plain ; nothing but 
glare and glitter met my eyes except at one point, where 
a dark spot, looking like a swarm of birds, seemed to be 
hovering over the waste. 
"'What is the matter?' I at length inquired of our interpreter, who was running about wringing his hands. 
" ' Nothing, at present,' he answered in a tone of despair ; ' but there will be before long. All is over with us ; 
there are the Tschutski !' 
" A sudden thrill passed over me, but I thought ' may 
God's will be done,' and so I resumed my former position 
in the sledge, determined calmly to await the issue. In 
the meantime the dark cloud came nearer, still growing 
larger, until at last a large troop of reindeer dashing over 
the snow, together with a number of men armed with 
javelins, were plainly visible. As near as I could guess, 
they numbered two hundred. Our Cossacks, although at 
first very valiant, and eager for battle, at sight of an enemy 
so disproportionate, lost all courage, and concealed their 
weapons, some of them trying to hide themselves by creep- 
ing under the sledges. The Tschutski, after raising a 
piercing yell enough to deafen us, and making a few 
arrows whistle round our ears, fell upon the caravan, and 
 
with pointed lances threatened immediate destruction. 
Every one believed his last hour had come, and com- 
mended his soul to Heaven. Our leader still retained so 
much presence of mind as to endeavor to conciliate them ; 
he offered, through the interpreter, a large present of glass 
beads, tea, and tobacco, but they only laughed at him as 
though they would have said, ' You offer us gifts of that 
which is our own ; does not the whole caravan belong to 
us,' and then began at once to plimder, and in due form. 
They bade our people lay down on their faces ; then ran- 
sacked the sledges, dividing all our stores of tea, brandy, 
tobacco, fish, weapons, merchandize, whatever we had 
among themselves. When they came to my sleigh, they 
seemed surprised at the coolness with which I had been 
watching their proceedings ; but my equipments, particu- 
larly my sleigh and clothing, which were of more costly 
workmanship than those of the rest, made such an im- 
pression on the Tschutski chief, that he asked the inter- 
preter who I was. The latter, a pretty shrewd fellow, 
hoping to move his compassion towards the whole party, 
replied that I was a royal prisoner, who had suffered a 
great deal during a long banishment to Siberia, and the 
term of exile being expired, I was now on my return to 
Eussia. The warriors listened attentively to the inter- 
preter's story, and the chieftain asked many questions as 
to my life, offence, and future destiny, still manifesting, as 
I could plainly see, greater interest as the interpreter pro- 
ceeded in the recital. Calling some of the oldest warriors 
aside, they consulted for a while together, and then com- 
municating the result of their deliberation to the band, in 
 
a few minutes the booty was restored to the several places 
from whence it had been taken. Our Cossacks ventured 
to lift up their heads and look round, then gradually ari- 
sing from their prostrate position, the whole caravan 
resumed its former order, and without having been des- 
poiled of the least article, was soon in readiness for our 
onward march. 
" But our adventure was not yet at an end, for the sor- 
cerer of the party, without whom they never travel, 
approached quite close to me, scratched a few strange 
characters on the snow, spun round them in a circle on 
one leg, keeping time to the movement with strokes on a 
drum. Having thus worked himself into a frenzy, with 
foaming mouth and every feature distorted, he fell to the 
earth, muttering a form of conjuration that filled me with 
horror, for he looked like one into whom an evil spirit had 
entered and was tormenting. After this by no means 
pleasant ceremony was ended, came another particularly 
flattering to me ; the whole party of the Tschutski, with 
their leader at the head, advanced in rank towards my 
sledge, muttered a few words which I did not understand, 
and kissed their hands to me. This, the interpreter 
afterwards told me, was done in consequence of the orac- 
ular prediction of the sorcerer, who, according to the 
custom of the Shamans, had used the above mentioned 
incantation to know whether the fates were propitious, 
and so foretold that I should reach home in safety. 
' Before we separated, the Tschutski presented me with 
Bome fine skins of reindeer and the Siberian foX; and I on 
the other hand, delighted that they had not harmed one of 
Us to the value of one hair, fully indemnified them by gifts 
of tobacco and packages of coral and strung glass beads. 
At last we parted, the horde of wanderers retracing the 
way to their own bleak steppes, we pursuing ours towards 
dvilization and Europe, whose borders we reached without 
further adventure or molestation." 
NiSHNi fovoGOEOD, situated at the junction of the Oka 
and Wolga, and on the highway from Moscow to Siberia, 
is a city containing thirty thousand inhabitants, but at the 
time of the fair it becomes the assembling place for more 
than three hundred thousand persons, who flock thither 
from all parts of Europe and Asia. As but a compara- 
tively small number of those strangers find lodgings in the 
city, and also the magnificent bazaar, with its three hun- 
dred shops, is by far too small for all the merchandize 
brought thither to be exhibited, temporary houses and 
booths, made of boards, bark, or mats, are erected without 
the gates, and stretch like a long street for miles along the 
plain. The banks of the rivers are lined with boats, that 
serve for shops and magazines ; and between the difierent 
selling places are innumerable eating houses, wine, beer, and 
brandy shops ; theatres, menageries, and other places of 
amusement offer their allurements to the passers by. 
It would be impossible by words, to give a true picture 
of the varied figures and scenes that appear at this fair, 
which bears a likeness to none other in the whole world. 
One may form some idea of the huge piles of merchandize 
* The fair at Nishni Novogorod, in the south of Russia, is said to be the 
first in the world as to the amount and variety of the articles exhibited annu- 
ally for sale. The quantity of goods sold at this fair are said to amount to 
ninety-four millions of rubles, about fifteen million pounds sterling 
which for six weeks are offered for sale in this busy mart, 
when we are told that the actual proceeds amount to more 
than a hundred millions of rubles. Every thing that 
could possibly be wanted, is to be found here, from the 
most expensive article of luxury to the most common 
which may be needed by the lowliest peasant. Business 
is carried on at this season on the most gigantic scale, and 
it is only to pass along the row of shops that you may be 
at once provided with all that is necessary either for com- 
fort or superfluity. Old leather and costly furs, wooden 
chests and the finest mahogany furniture, Circassian cover- 
lets and India shawls, boots and Brabant laces, old clothes 
and robes of costly embroidery, casks of brandy and dia- 
monds, barrels of salted herrings and perfumes from Arabia, 
are all mingled together. In short, every thing which one 
would have trouble to procure even in a large city, is col- 
lected in this wonderful market. Here a German, from 
the black forest, is exchanging a cuckoo clock with a 
ragged Cossack for a few rubles, whilst his neighbor, a 
smoking Italian, is flattering a haughty Bucharian in gold 
embroidered robes, into the purchase of a watch set with 
diamonds, which he values at hundreds of ducats. A Si- 
berian is bartering several thousand hundred-weights of 
iron for a few pearls, and a Frenchman beside him is 
, trading off some casks of wine with a merchant from 
