rings and gewgaws there is all thy mother's. But he coaxed so to give
thee something. I hope thou thanked him prettily."
She hung her head, while a warm color came into her face, and raised her
eyes hesitatingly.
"I would not be pleased at first because he said I was a prisoner, and
that Americans were traitors."
"He loves to tease thee, Primrose. Yet he has a deep and fervent
affection for thee."
Primrose hid her face on the ample shoulder. "I kissed him," she
murmured softly. "Was it very wrong? For he coaxed so about it."
"Why, no, child. Thine own brother? But it is not proper to kiss outside
of one's family, and now thou art growing a large girl and may see many
gallants. So be wise and careful."
Patty did her hair high on her head, but Madam Wetherill bade her take
it down again and tie it with a ribbon. And her white muslin dress was
short and scant, just coming to her ankles and showing the instep of her
pretty clocked stockings. There were lace frills to her puffed sleeves,
and a lace tucker, with a pretty bow on one shoulder. But it seemed as
if she looked more beautiful than ever before.
Everybody made much of her. It appeared to be an easy road to Captain
Nevitt's heart. Even the handsome Major André, who had come because
Nevitt had talked so much about his little sister and Madam Wetherill,
and also because he was likely to meet some of the attractive young
women of the town, and "Primrose was like a little fairy for beauty, and
that her smiles were bewitching."
A very great time it was indeed. There were ombre and quadrille tables,
piquet and guinea points for the elders, while the black fiddlers in the
end of the hall inspired the feet of the younger portion. With the
dancing there were jest and laughter and compliments enough to give a
novice vertigo. Primrose was daintily shy and clung close to her
brother, of which he was very proud, as she had never shown him quite
such favor before.
Anabella Morris was setting up for a young lady, being nearly two years
older than Primrose. Mrs. Morris had taken a certain Captain Decker in
her house to lodge, who seemed very devoted to her daughter. She had not
succeeded in capturing a husband yet, but it seemed quite possible with
all this influx of masculines. The glowing and attractive description of
"Fairemount" given before, as a place "where no woman need go without a
husband," had not held good of late years.
The supper was in keeping with all the rest. There were solids in the
way of cold meats served up in various fashions, there were wines of all
kinds, and lighter refreshments of cake, floating islands, jellies,
whipped sillabubs, curds and cream, and all the delicacies in vogue.
There were healths drunk, toasts and witty replies, and, after a
complimentary mention of the hostess, someone asked whether that
pestilent old Quaker Samuel Wetherill was any relative, expressing
ironical regret that he was not present.
Madam Wetherill rose tall and stately, with the most courteous
self-possession.
"My husband and Mr. Samuel Wetherill's grandfather came from different
towns in old England, but there may have been some of the same blood in
their veins. And I think if my husband had espoused a cause he believed
right, and gave of his means and influence courageously, fought, and
should, perhaps, die for it, I should honor him as a brave man. For
there will many brave men die on both sides."
There was a moment's silence, then hearty applause without a dissentient
sound.
And when, toward morning, the servants were carrying away dishes and
putting out lights, Madam Wetherill came and jingled three guineas in
her hands, close to Janice Kent.
"I was thinking of our poor fellows and the sick and wounded to-night,
and resolved that when they return to the city they shall have a greater
welcome than this. And that rampant old Tory Ralph Jeffries, whom I
should not have asked but for his daughter's sake, insisted upon playing
when he was half fuddled. He is shrewd enough when sober, but to-night I
won his guineas. And now I tell thee, Janice, what I will do. These new
people are ready enough with their play and have plenty of money.
Whatever I win I shall lay aside for our poor fellows."
"That is a fine scheme," and Janice Kent laughed.
"We must get out to the farm some day and see if we cannot send
provisions before these British troops lay hands on it. For it will take
a great deal to feed eighteen thousand men, and I doubt if they suffer
at any time from honest scruples."
"It was a grand time. There are many handsome young men among them. But
I think that Major André bears off the palm. There is music in his
laugh, and his handsome face is enough to turn a girl's head. They are
to act a play, I believe. Miss Becky Franks was talking of it to the
Shippens."
Madam Wetherill sighed a little.
Already the quiet streets of the town had taken on a new aspect. There
were fiddling and singing in many of the decorous old taverns. Men were
shouting Tory broadsides of ridiculous verse; selling places for the
races, when Tarleton was to ride, as that was sure to draw crowds, or
hawking tickets for plays. Women were careful about going in the streets
unattended, and cavaliers became general.
A few days later Captain Nevitt came in to escort the ladies out to
Cherry Farm, as, somehow, many duties and engagements had intervened
since his arrival until, as he admitted, he was quite ashamed of the
lack of respect due his uncle. It was a bright, clear winter day, with a
sky of wonderful blue, against which the distant trees stood out
distinctly, the hemlocks looking almost black against it. The soldiers'
barracks stretched out, giving a strange appearance to the once peaceful
city. Groups of men were lounging idly about, and confusion seemed to
predominate. But they soon left the city behind them, and rode along the
Schuylkill, where the wintry landscape, leafless trees, and denuded
cornfields met their glance, dreary now, but to be ruinous by and by.
Primrose had a pony of her own and rode beside her aunt, with her
brother as her guard, while Lieutenant Vane was her aunt's escort.
Primrose wore a blue cloth coat and skirt, trimmed with fur, and her
white beaver hat was tied under her chin. Many women used a thin, silken
sort of mask to protect their complexion from wind and dust, but Madam
Wetherill had discarded it and did not always insist upon Primrose
wearing one.
Many of the beautiful houses destroyed later on were standing now. A few
had been taken as outposts for the army, others looked lonely enough
closed for the season, as it had not been considered prudent to leave
even the farmer in charge, after the battle of Germantown.
"Primrose does credit to someone's training," Captain Nevitt remarked.
"Is it a long ride?"
"We are used to this fashion of getting about and hardly think of
fatigue. It would be a poor weakling who could not stand a few miles.
The roads are rough for the chaise."
How pretty she looked in her white and blue. She smiled at him. They had
been quite good friends since the night of the dance, though there had
been no opportunity of teasing each other.
But she was not thinking of his regard nor his pleasure just now. She
seemed to have changed mysteriously, to have grown out of careless
childhood, and taken a great deal of thought about the country. When
she remembered that General Howe had come with his army to subdue it and
that her brother was in the soldiery she shrank from him. How could she
love him? He had pleaded for her sweet mother's sake, and that touched
her inmost soul.
She had listened with frightened eyes and a breathless throbbing of the
heart to the account of the battle of Germantown, and her fears for her
beloved country often outran her hopes when she had a quiet time to
think. The servants had been forbidden to tell her the more awesome part
of it, only she knew General Washington had been beaten and forced to
retreat, and the British hailed it as a great victory.
The young lieutenant and the stately dame found many things to talk
about, as well-bred people often do, skirting over the thin places, for
by this time he understood that madam's heart was not on the English
side. But he was confident when it was all over that she would accept
defeat gracefully.
The ascent from the city was gradual. In the distance they noted the
small gray stone houses, looking frosty in the wintry air, with here and
there a larger one, like the Chew House, to be famous long afterward in
history. Then they turned aside and lost sight of it. Captain Nevitt
thought he would like to have been in the fray, but he did not say so.
"Thou art very quiet, little one. I have heard people offer a penny for
one's thoughts, a big English penny," smilingly.
"Mine do not go as cheap as that," answered the maiden.
"A crown, then?"
"I do not think I will sell them."
"Thou art not very much in love with the cousins?" he said presently.
She colored quickly and turned her face to him, quite unaware of
betrayal until he laughed.
"Ah, I have thy thoughts without the penny! Is it the tall Quaker cousin
madam talks about, or the other--William Penn?"
"His name is simply Penn, Penn Morgan. And he is not an own cousin.
Surely it is not strange if I did think about them."
"Do not be offended. I shall like them if they have thy affection."
"Thou hast small mind of thy own if thou takest a girl's whims for thy
pattern," she answered with a show of disdain. "Whether I like them or
not is my own affair. And Patty declares I change about with every puff
of wind."
"Nay, I shall not believe that until I follow the changes, or they are
made in my behalf."
"Oh, you know why I am cross to you! I cannot like a redcoat! But
because my own mamma loved you----"
"Primrose, thou art quite too peppery in temper with thy brother,"
interrupted Madam Wetherill gently. "The Henrys will think I have
indulged thee ruinously."
She looked up laughingly. The soft yellow hair was blown about her like
a cloud, and the great bow under her chin gave her a coquettish air.
What a changeful little sprite she was!
They were coming in sight of the great barns and outhouses for the
cattle, and nestled down among them was the house, looking really
smaller. A line of blue smoke from the chimney was floating over to the
west, betokening a storm wind not far off. Someone was coming from the
barn, a stoutish man who walked with a cane, and paused to wonder at the
party.
"That is your uncle, your father's brother," said Madam Wetherill.
CHAPTER XIII.
UNDER THE ROSE.
Madam Wetherill made her brief explanation to show why she had ventured
to bring two dashing redcoats, in their military trappings, to the home
of the plain Quaker. James Henry looked at his nephew with many lines of
doubt in his face and evident disapprobation.
"I have planned for the last two years to come over," said the winsome
voice with the sound of glad, merry youth in it that jarred on the
