
I have insisted so much upon the Mediterranean character of this region
that it is necessary to emphasize the contrasts also. Reserving details
and comments on different localities as to the commercial value of
products and climatic conditions, I will make some general observations.
I am convinced that the fig can not only be grown here in sufficient
quantity to supply our markets, but of the best quality. The same may be
said of the English walnut. This clean and handsome tree thrives
wonderfully in large areas, and has no enemies. The olive culture is in
its infancy, but I have never tasted better oil than that produced at
Santa Barbara and on San Diego Bay. Specimens of the pickled olive are
delicious, and when the best varieties are generally grown, and the best
method of curing is adopted, it will be in great demand, not as a mere
relish, but as food. The raisin is produced in all the valleys of
Southern California, and in great quantities in the hot valley of San
Joaquin, beyond the Sierra Madre range. The best Malaga raisins, which
have the reputation of being the best in the world, may never come to
our market, but I have never eaten a better raisin for size, flavor, and
thinness of skin than those raised in the El Cajon Valley, which is
watered by the great flume which taps a reservoir in the Cuyamaca
Mountains, and supplies San Diego. But the quality of the raisin in
California will be improved by experience in cultivation and handling.

The contrast with the Mediterranean region--I refer to the western
basin--is in climate. There is hardly any point along the French and
Italian coast that is not subject to great and sudden changes, caused by
the north wind, which has many names, or in the extreme southern
peninsula and islands by the sirocco. There are few points that are not
reached by malaria, and in many resorts--and some of them most sunny and
agreeable to the invalid--the deadliest fevers always lie in wait. There
is great contrast between summer and winter, and exceeding variability
in the same month. This variability is the parent of many diseases of
the lungs, the bowels, and the liver. It is demonstrated now by
long-continued observations that dampness and cold are not so inimical
to health as variability.

The Southern California climate is an anomaly. It has been the subject
of a good deal of wonder and a good deal of boasting, but it is worthy
of more scientific study than it has yet received. Its distinguishing
feature I take to be its equability. The temperature the year through is
lower than I had supposed, and the contrast is not great between the
summer and the winter months. The same clothing is appropriate, speaking
generally, for the whole year. In all seasons, including the rainy days
of the winter months, sunshine is the rule. The variation of temperature
between day and night is considerable, but if the new-comer exercises a
little care, he will not be unpleasantly affected by it. There are coast
fogs, but these are not chilling and raw. Why it is that with the
hydrometer showing a considerable humidity in the air the general effect
of the climate is that of dryness, scientists must explain. The constant
exchange of desert airs with the ocean air may account for the anomaly,
and the actual dryness of the soil, even on the coast, is put forward as
another explanation. Those who come from heated rooms on the Atlantic
may find the winters cooler than they expect, and those used to the
heated terms of the Mississippi Valley and the East will be surprised at
the cool and salubrious summers. A land without high winds or
thunder-storms may fairly be said to have a unique climate.



I suppose it is the equability and not conditions of dampness or dryness
that renders this region so remarkably exempt from epidemics and endemic
diseases. The diseases of children prevalent elsewhere are unknown here;
they cut their teeth without risk, and cholera infantum never visits
them. Diseases of the bowels are practically unknown. There is no
malaria, whatever that may be, and consequently an absence of those
various fevers and other disorders which are attributed to malarial
conditions. Renal diseases are also wanting; disorders of the liver and
kidneys, and Bright's disease, gout, and rheumatism, are not native. The
climate in its effect is stimulating, but at the same time soothing to
the nerves, so that if "nervous prostration" is wanted, it must be
brought here, and cannot be relied on to continue long. These facts are
derived from medical practice with the native Indian and Mexican
population. Dr. Remondino, to whom I have before referred, has made the
subject a study for eighteen years, and later I shall offer some of the
results of his observations upon longevity. It is beyond my province to
venture any suggestion upon the effect of the climate upon deep-seated
diseases, especially of the respiratory organs, of invalids who come
here for health. I only know that we meet daily and constantly so many
persons in fair health who say that it is impossible for them to live
elsewhere that the impression is produced that a considerable proportion
of the immigrant population was invalid. There are, however, two
suggestions that should be made. Care is needed in acclimation to a
climate that differs from any previous experience; and the locality that
will suit any invalid can only be determined by personal experience. If
the coast does not suit him, he may be benefited in a protected valley,
or he may be improved on the foot-hills, or on an elevated mesa, or on a
high mountain elevation.

One thing may be regarded as settled. Whatever the sensibility or the
peculiarity of invalidism, the equable climate is exceedingly favorable
to the smooth working of the great organic functions of respiration,
digestion, and circulation.

It is a pity to give this chapter a medical tone. One need not be an
invalid to come here and appreciate the graciousness of the air; the
color of the landscape, which is wanting in our Northern clime; the
constant procession of flowers the year through; the purple hills
stretching into the sea; the hundreds of hamlets, with picturesque homes
overgrown with roses and geranium and heliotrope, in the midst of orange
orchards and of palms and magnolias, in sight of the snow-peaks of the
giant mountain ranges which shut in this land of marvellous beauty.




CHAPTER IV.

THE WINTER OF OUR CONTENT.


California is the land of the Pine and the Palm. The tree of the
Sierras, native, vigorous, gigantic, and the tree of the Desert, exotic,
supple, poetic, both flourish within the nine degrees of latitude. These
two, the widely separated lovers of Heine's song, symbolize the
capacities of the State, and although the sugar-pine is indigenous, and
the date-palm, which will never be more than an ornament in this
hospitable soil, was planted by the Franciscan Fathers, who established
a chain of missions from San Diego to Monterey over a century ago, they
should both be the distinction of one commonwealth, which, in its seven
hundred miles of indented sea-coast, can boast the climates of all
countries and the products of all zones.

If this State of mountains and valleys were divided by an east and west
line, following the general course of the Sierra Madre range, and
cutting off the eight lower counties, I suppose there would be conceit
enough in either section to maintain that it only is the Paradise of the
earth, but both are necessary to make the unique and contradictory
California which fascinates and bewilders the traveller. He is told that
the inhabitants of San Francisco go away from the draught of the Golden
Gate in the summer to get warm, and yet the earliest luscious cherries
and apricots which he finds in the far south market of San Diego come
from the Northern Santa Clara Valley. The truth would seem to be that in
an hour's ride in any part of the State one can change his climate
totally at any time of the year, and this not merely by changing his
elevation, but by getting in or out of the range of the sea or the
desert currents of air which follow the valleys.

To recommend to any one a winter climate is far from the writer's
thought. No two persons agree on what is desirable for a winter
residence, and the inclination of the same person varies with his state
of health. I can only attempt to give some idea of what is called the
winter months in Southern California, to which my observations mainly
apply. The individual who comes here under the mistaken notion that
climate ever does anything more than give nature a better chance, may
speedily or more tardily need the service of an undertaker; and the
invalid whose powers are responsive to kindly influences may live so
long, being unable to get away, that life will be a burden to him. The
person in ordinary health will find very little that is hostile to the
orderly organic processes. In order to appreciate the winter climate of
Southern California one should stay here the year through, and select
the days that suit his idea of winter from any of the months. From the
fact that the greatest humidity is in the summer and the least in the
winter months, he may wear an overcoat in July in a temperature,
according to the thermometer, which in January would render the overcoat
unnecessary. It is dampness that causes both cold and heat to be most
felt. The lowest temperatures, in Southern California generally, are
caused only by the extreme dryness of the air; in the long nights of
December and January there is a more rapid and longer continued
radiation of heat. It must be a dry and clear night that will send the
temperature down to thirty-four degrees. But the effect of the sun upon
this air is instantaneous, and the cold morning is followed at once by a
warm forenoon; the difference between the average heat of July and the
average cold of January, measured by the thermometer, is not great in
the valleys, foot-hills, and on the coast. Five points give this result
of average for January and July respectively: Santa Barbara, 52°, 66°;
San Bernardino, 51°, 70°; Pomona, 52°, 68°; Los Angeles, 52°, 67°; San
Diego, 53°, 66°. The day in the winter months is warmer in the interior
and the nights are cooler than on the coast, as shown by the following
figures for January: 7 A.M., Los Angeles, 46.5°; San Diego, 47.5°; 3
P.M., Los Angeles, 65.2°; San Diego, 60.9°. In the summer the difference
is greater. In June I saw the thermometer reach 103° in Los Angeles when
it was only 79° in San Diego. But I have seen the weather unendurable in
New York with a temperature of 85°, while this dry heat of 103° was not
oppressive. The extraordinary equanimity of the coast climate (certainly
the driest marine climate in my experience) will be evident from the
average mean for each month, from records of sixteen years, ending in
1877, taken at San Diego, giving each month in order, beginning with
January: 53.5°, 54.7°, 56.0°, 58.2°, 60.2°, 64.6°, 67.1°, 69.0°, 66.7°,
62.9°, 58.1°, 56.0°. In the year 1877 the mean temperature at 3 P.M. at
San Diego was as follows, beginning with January: 60.9°, 57.7°, 62.4°,
