young man she had ever met. But of course she could not give utterance
to the thought that was in her mind, and remained silent.

"To change the subject," said Lindsay, after a pause, "may I ask what
are your plans if you have any?"

"I must try to earn some money. If--if you would advise me."

"With pleasure. Let me ask, first, what you can do."

"I used to do some copying for a lawyer at Port Jervis."

"You are used, then, to copying legal documents?"

"I have done considerable of it."

"You do not use the typewriter?"

"No, I have never learned."

Alfred Lindsay paused, and his expressive face showed that he was busy
thinking.

"I am a lawyer," he said at length, "and I have copying to do, of
course. Would you mind calling upon me at my office to-morrow morning?"

"I shall be very glad to do so," answered Ruth, her eyes lighting up
with new-born hopes.

"I think I can promise you something to do."

"Oh, sir, you don't know how your words cheer me. This is where I live.
Thank you very much for your kind escort."

"Don't mention it. I will expect you to-morrow," and the young man took
off his hat as respectfully as if Ruth, instead of being a poor girl in
search of work, were a lady in his own set.




CHAPTER XXI.

LUELLA'S PAINFUL DISCOVERY.

"What business had that girl with you, papa?" asked Luella Ferguson,
when, stung by her insolence, Ruth had left the house.

"She told you," answered the father evasively.

"Is it true that you were trustee of any property belonging to her?"

"Well, there is some truth in it. Her father was an old schoolmate of
mine, though we were never intimate, and when he died, considerably to
my surprise, he asked me to settle his estate."

"How much did it amount to?"

"After paying all bills, including funeral expenses, there was
seventy-five dollars left."

"A fine estate, upon my word!" said Luella with a scornful laugh.
"Really, the girl is a great heiress."

"She thought she ought to have been. What do you think she and her
mother expected?"

"Something amusing, no doubt."

"They thought that they would realize ten thousand dollars, and be
completely provided for."

"They must be fools!"

"We won't use so harsh an expression. Women know very little about
business."

"Some women, papa. You will please make an exception in my case."

"Well, I admit, Luella," said her father complacently, "you do seem to
have a sharp eye to your own interests."

"Why shouldn't I? I come honestly by it, papa, don't I?"

"Well, perhaps----"

"You have been pretty sharp yourself, eh, papa? I fancy you have a
pretty good sum of money salted down--that's the term, isn't it?"

"Well, I have something, but I don't care to make a boast of it. There
would be plenty who would want a share--for instance, Mrs. Fenton."

"That reminds me; her son is a train-boy on the Erie road."

"Did you see him?"

"Yes, he made himself very obnoxious by his impertinent intermeddling.
He insisted upon my removing my poor Fido, in order to give that girl a
seat."

"What concern was it of his?"

"None at all, but he made such a fuss that I had to do it."

"You need not have done so. The train boy has no authority in such
matters."

"He called the conductor, and he took my poor darling into the baggage
car. Papa, can't you get him discharged?"

"I have no influence with the Erie officials, my dear. Besides, if I
deprive him of his chance to make a living, he and his mother will be
importuning me for money. Better leave well enough alone!"

This was the sort of argument that weighed with Luella Ferguson. She
was meanness personified, and would rather save money than be revenged
upon Fred.

"Do you think you will have any more trouble with this girl who called
to-night?"

"I should not be surprised if she called again to ask me to help her to
employment."

"If she does, advise her to go out to service. She could get a position
as chambermaid without difficulty."

"Remember, Luella, that in her own town she has held a good social
position. She may have too much pride."

"Then let her starve!" said Luella, harshly. "It is preposterous for a
pauper to be proud."

"She is not exactly a pauper," said Mr. Ferguson, who was not quite so
venomous in his hatred as his daughter.

"I forgot--she has a fortune of seventy-five dollars. Will you do me a
favor?"

"What is it?"

"If the girl comes again, turn her over to me."

"Very well, my dear. I shall be glad to do so. It will relieve me from
embarrassment."

"I shall feel no embarrassment. I shall rather enjoy it."

"By the way, Luella, how are you getting on with young Lindsay?"

Luella flushed a little, and a softer light shone in her eyes. She had
very little heart, but such as she had was given to Alfred Lindsay. At
first attracted by his wealth and social position--for on his mother's
side he belonged to one of the Knickerbocker families--she had ended by
really falling in love with him. In his company she appeared at her
best. Her amiable and attractive manners were not wholly assumed, for
the potent spell of love softened her and transformed her from a hard,
cynical, selfish girl to a woman seeking to charm one who had touched
her heart.

"He comes to see me very often, papa," she answered, coyly.

"And he seems impressed?"

"I think so," said Luella, lowering her eyes, while a gratified smile
lighted up her face.

"He has never actually proposed?" asked Ferguson eagerly.

"Well, not exactly, but from his manner I think he will soon."

"I hope so, Luella. There is no one whom I would more prefer for a
son-in-law."

"I shall not say him nay, papa."

"Of course not. He is rich and of distinguished family. He will make a
very suitable mate for you."

"Yes, papa, I appreciate that, but you too are rich and of high social
