must be. 

"Mr. Winterburne has been here," exclaims Cynthia 
the moment Regina enters; "and he has comforted mother 
so much ! There is something inspiriting in his very tone 
— don't you think so ? And he isn't cast down " — . 

" I do not see why he should be," Eegina answers with 
a curious internal irritation. " His mine is one of the won- 
ders even in this belt of iron lands. Mr. Sayre thinks he 
could realize a fortune by selling it out at once ; and he 
has had applications for the right to use his process else- 
where. It is only us, we three women, whose lot will be 
materially changed, for Perdita " — 

"It is curious they do not return," interrupts Cynthia. 
"I know just what Perditi will do. S!ie will persuade 
Jasper to let matters reraa,in mostly as they are: she is a 
generous little soul." 





" She will have nothing at all to say ; and — I would 
not, could not, live on Jasper Bradley's money ! " she 
declares passionately. 

"I thought you liked Jasper. Eegina, you are the 
most unaccountable person lever saw;" and Cynthia 
sighs. 

Meanwhile the lawyei's are busy, trying to get at any 
fact that can throw a ray of light on the subject ; yet it 
seems only remarkable. No wisdom can argue it into 
absolute criminality. It has no certain marks of forgery, 
tliough it is examined with glasses and by various experts. 
The signatures are in a paler ink that shows yellowish 
traces ; the will must have been written out at one time 
and signed at another. The large wafer, put on as a seal, 
betrays evident indications of age. 

One evening, just as the shadows are falling, a hack 
winds up the road, and two people alight. There is a 
rather chilly feeling in the air ; the wind soughs through 
the great trees, and the porch is deserted. Perdita Bradley 
shivers as they cross it, her husband's arm around her. 
She has been so eagerly, childishly happy all these days, 
that this is an unlooked-for, dismal ending. There are no 
lights, save a dim one in Mr. Bradley's room up-stairs. 

" Oh, do you suppose they have gone ? " cries Perdita in 
sudden affright. 

"They have acted on their own pleasure," he returns 
ironically. " They might have remained to welcome us 
home, but since they did not see fit — Perhaps the stately 
Eegina did not care to witness your delight, my darling." 

He has been a rapturous lover this fortnight, and Perdita 
is bewildered by her happiness. With a young girl's easily 
roused vanity she has come to believe that Regina stood 
ready to snatch at her good-fortune. Jasper has not said 
it in so many words, but implied it with delicate assurance. 
Still, all the old affection rushes back to her, and she does 
feel lonely without them. 

Mrs. Grouse admits them, greatly amazed. 

" You never sent a bit of word, or things would a' been 



 

better," she begins somewhat resentfully. She cannot 
imagine a bride coming home in this manner. 

" They will all be right enough presently," declares 
Jasper in his airy fashion. " Get us something to eat and 
a cup of tea. Make up a fire. Ugh ! the house is chilly. 
It will be a dismal place in winter. How you all endured 
it " — and he glances at Perdita. " Where is my father ? " 
with a sudden anxiety. 

" He must be asleep, I think ; he had his supper a good 
hour ago. There's been a great time — have you heard ? " — 

The woman looks at him with an uncertain air. 

" I have not heard a word — how could we ? We were 
seldom twenty -four hours in the same place. Has he been 
ill ? You know I told you to send for a physician at once. 
And those people all away," nodding toward the hall, and 
evincing traces of excitement. 

" Then there's lots of news. And a will's been found.** 

" A will ? " cries Jasper. " Where, pray, could a will 
come from ? " Then he laughs incredulously. " Mrs. 
Grouse, you must be out of your mind : solitude has made  
you mad." 

" A will ? " Perdita has taken off her hat with its mul- 
titude of waving plumes, but her wrap is still ai'ound her. 
Her small face seems to rise out of it, ghost-like, and her 
brown eyes have terrified lights in them. " A will ? " She 
catches the housekeeper's arm and turns her about, for 
that person is a little sulky at the doubtful manner in 
which tidings that have been the talk of the town are 
received. " Where was it ? What was it ? " and her voice 
trembles with excitement. 

"Perdita!" Jasper's arms are about her, turning her 
so that her face drops on his shoulder, and he holds her 
too tight for any escape. 

" Yes, where was it, Mrs. Grouse ? " he asks jauntily. 
" I thought every rafter of the old house, every crook and 
cranny, had been searched." 

" It was in that serittur thing. I don't see any sense 
of such outlandish names, when you could call it a closet, 





or a wardrobe with a chest of drawers, or a book-case. 
They were going to move it up into your father's room. 
Mr. Gedicke was here taking it apart, and the will fell 
out — so old 'twould hardly hold together." 

" Well, what was in it ?. " still incredulously. 

" Why, your father takes everything. They're saying in 
the town it isn't right, and the t'other young man," making 
a gesture with her head, "is working all his might and 
main to upset it. I don't see why the old thing had to 
come to light ; you were all well enough off, and now you'd 
have half, anyway." 

" Oh, yes, Jasper ; " Perdita cries in a smothered tone. 
" Let everything be as it was before. And maybe there's 
something wrong about it." 

" That is for the lawyers to determine. My father has 
always insisted that he was sole heir. And it is not my 
province to decide anything." 

Perdita shivers with certainty of evil. 

" How cold yOu are ! " he says. " Come, Mrs. Grouse, give 
us a tire at once and a cup of tea. This midget of mine is 
half frozen." 

He kisses some warmth back to her cold little face. It 
was so that morning, she remembers. All this time she 
has had a wretched secret buried in his extravagant tender- 
ness, and now it has suddenly waked, a very ghost, and 
stares at her. Oh, what shall she do ! These two weeks 
have been so full of gayety that she has had no time to 
think. He has swallowed her up, as it were, by a kind of 
overpowering influence. But she owes so much to her 
aunt and cousins — can she see them wronged ? 

He hovers about caressingly, puts her into the great arm- 
chair, and draws her to the fire that Mrs. Grouse is evolving 
our of dry brushwood and dead cedar branches. It blazes, 
crackles, sends up a shower of bright sparks, and she loses 
a little of the haunted feeling. 

" Now, midget, get good and warm while I run up-stairs 
and look at the father a moment." 

When the door closes Perdita starts from her chair. 



 
