yesterday; but I haven't seen her, and I don't know whether it's true or
not."

"What is her name?" asked the detective, who from the beginning had
broken up his English, and imparted a strong French accent to it.

"I did not hear any one mention her name, Mounseer. That vessel this
side of the island is the mail steamer from New York; she got in
yesterday," continued Joseph.

"That is important; if the Dornoch is the Confederate man-of-war that
arrived at St. George's yesterday, this steamer brought letters from
Davis to her captain," said the Frenchman to Christy, in French.

"But Davis could not have learned that the Ionian had been captured
before the mail steamer left New York," added Christy, in the same
language.

"No matter for that, Christophe. I did not resign my place at Davis's
warehouse till the morning we sailed; and I have his letter to the
captain of the Dornoch with my other papers on board of the Chateaugay,
and I know that was the only letter written to him. As he has no
information in regard to the Ionian, he will not wait for her."

"I remember; you showed me the letter."

Joseph listened with a show of wonder on his face to this conversation
which he could not understand. The detective directed him to carry the
two valises to the hotel named; but Christy interposed in French, and
insisted that it would look better for him to carry his own valise, and
the point was yielded. The Atlantic Hotel was on Front Street, the
harbor being on one side of it. A couple of rooms were assigned to them,
one of them quite small, which was taken by Christy, in order to keep up
appearances.

M. Rubempré registered his name, putting "and servant" after it, Paris,
and spoke even worse English than he had used to Joseph. Breakfast had
been ordered, but Christy, being only a servant, had to take his meal at
a side table. The detective was not dressed like a gentleman, and the
landlord seemed to have some doubts about his ability to pay his bills,
though he had baggage. He was not treated with anything like deference,
and he saw the difficulty. After breakfast he took a handful of English
gold from his pocket, and asked the landlord to change one of the coins
for smaller money. Mine host bowed low to him after this exhibition.

"I want to see the American consul," said M. Rubempré, in his own
language.

"I will go with you, but I think I will not see him, for he may take it
into his head that I am not a Frenchman," added Christy.

"You can come with me, and stay outside."

When they reached the consulate, which was on the same street as the
hotel, they found about a dozen sailors in front of the building. They
were a very rough and hard-looking set of men. They appeared to be
considerably excited about something, and to be bent on violence in some
direction; but the strangers could make nothing of the talk they heard,
though "the bloody spy" was an expression frequently used.




CHAPTER X

IMPORTANT INFORMATION OBTAINED


Christy walked behind the detective in his capacity as servant. It was
soon evident to them that the ruffians gathered in the street meant
mischief. On the staff over their heads floated the flag of the United
States. Though Mr. Gilfleur was an alien, his companion was not. Of
course he knew that the islands were the resort of blockade-runners,
that they obtained their supplies from the two towns of Hamilton and St.
George's. This fact seemed to explain the occasion of the disturbance in
this particular locality.

"What does all this mean, Christophe?" asked M. Rubempré, falling back
to join Christy at the door of the consulate.

"I should judge that these ruffians intended to do violence to the
American consul," replied Christy. "I heard in New York that he was
faithful in the discharge of his duty to his government, and doubtless
he has excited the indignation of these ruffians by his fidelity. His
principal business is to follow up the enforcement of the neutrality
laws, which compels him to watch these blockade-runners, and vessels of
war intended for the Confederate States."

"That was my own conclusion," added the Frenchman, speaking his own
language, as usual. "I should say that his position is not a pleasant
one."

"Here comes the bloody spy!" shouted several of the ruffians.

Looking down the street, they saw a dignified-looking gentleman
approaching, whom they supposed to be the consul, Mr. Alwayn. He did not
seem to be alarmed at the demonstration in front of his office. The
disturbers of the peace fell back as he advanced, and he reached the
door where the detective and his companion were standing without being
attacked. The mob, now considerably increased in numbers, though
probably more than a majority, as usual, were merely spectators, hooted
violently at the representative of the United States.

The gentleman reached the door of his office, and by this time the
ruffians seemed to realize that simple hooting did no harm, and they
rushed forward with more serious intentions. One of them laid violent
hands on the consul, seizing him by the back of his coat collar, and
attempting to pull him over backwards. Christy felt that he was under
the flag of his country, and his blood boiled with indignation; and,
rash as was the act, he planted a heavy blow with his fist under the ear
of the assailant, which sent him reeling back among his companions.

"No revolvers, Christophe!" said the detective earnestly, as he placed
himself by the side of the young man.

Christy's revolver was in his hip-pocket, where he usually carried it,
and the detective feared he might use it, for both of them could hardly
withstand the pressure upon them; and the firing of a single shot would
have roused the passions of the mob, and led to no little bloodshed.
M. Rubempré was entirely cool and self-possessed, which could hardly be
said of the young naval officer.

  [Illustration:
  "He planted a heavy blow with his fist under the ear of his
  assailant." Page 116.]

By this time Mr. Alwayn had opened the front door of the office, and
gone in. The detective backed in after him, and then pushed Christy in
after the consul. The ruffians saw that they were losing their game, and
they rushed upon the door. One of them crowded his way in, but M.
Rubempré, in a very quiet way, delivered a blow on the end of the
assailant's nose, which caused him to retreat, with the red fluid
spurting from the injured member.

Taking his place, two others pushed forward, and aimed various blows at
the two defenders of the position; but both of them were skilled in this
sort of play, and warded off the strokes, delivering telling blows in
the faces of the enemy. Mr. Alwayn had partially closed the door; but he
was not so cowardly as to shut out his two volunteer defenders. As soon
as they understood his object, they backed in at the door, dispersing
the ruffians with well-directed blows, and the consul closed and locked
the door. Before any further mischief could be done, the police came and
dispersed the rioters. The consul fared better on this occasion than on
several others, in one of which he was quite seriously injured.

As soon as order was restored, Mr. Alwayn conducted his defenders to his
office, where he thanked them heartily for the service they had rendered
him. During the mélee M. Rubempré had tried to address the ruffians in
broken French, for he did not for a moment forget his assumed character.
He used the same "pigeon-talk" to the consul, and Christy, in the little
he said, adopted the same dialect.

"I see you are not Americans, my friends," said the official.

"No, saire; we are some Frenchmen," replied the detective, spreading out
his two hands in a French gesture, and bowing very politely.

"Being Frenchmen, I am not a little surprised that you should have
undertaken to defend me from this assault," added Mr. Alwayn.

"Ze Frenchman like, wat was this you call him, ze fair play; and ve
could not prevent to put some fingers in tose pies. Ver glad you was not
have the head broke," replied M. Rubempré, with another native flourish.
"Mais, wat for de canaille make ze war on you, saire? You was
certainment un gentleman ver respectable."

Mr. Alwayn explained why he had incurred the hostility of the
blockade-runners and their adherents, for he was sometimes compelled to
protest against what he regarded as breaches of neutrality, and was
obliged in the discharge of his duty to look after these people very
closely, so that he was regarded as a spy.

"Oh! it was ze blockheads, was it?" exclaimed the Frenchman.

"Hardly the blockheads," replied the consul, laughing at the blunder of
the foreigner. "It is the blockade-runners that make the trouble."

"Blockade-runners! Merci. Was there much blockadeers here in ze
islands?" asked M. Rubempré, as though he was in total ignorance of the
entire business of breaking the blockade.
