"I passed through the deserted ball-room, and my heart sank as I thought
of what was over and done. The polished floor was strewn with withered
blossoms, with torn and crumpled favours from the dance, with shreds of
gauze and lace; many chairs were overturned; the light streamed down
like day upon a great desolation; the heated air was faint with the sad
odour of dead flowers. There was the corner where we sat, she and I,
to-night, last week, a week before that--where we shall never sit again,
for neither of us would. I shivered as I went out into the night.

"Through the dark streets I went, not knowing and not caring whither,
nor hearing the tinkling mandolines and changing songs of the revellers
who passed me on their homeward way."

At this point a mandoline was really heard in the very faintest tones
from behind the scenes, playing scarcely above a whisper, as it were,
the famous "Tout pour l'amour" waltz of Waldteuffel.

"Suddenly," the voice resumed, above the delicate notes of the
instrument, "the bells rang out and I knew that my last Carnival was
dead." Here deep-toned bells struck twelve, while the mandoline still
continued. "Then, all at once, I was aware of two figures in the gloom,
advancing towards the door of a church in front of me. The one was a
woman, a nun in white robe and black hood, whose saintly violet eyes
seemed to shine in the darkness. The other was a monk."

The Contessa dell' Armi came slowly forward, her pale, clear face lifted
and thrown into strong relief by the black head-dress, grasping a heavy
rosary in her folded hands. Behind her came San Giacinto, recognisable
only by his colossal stature, his face hidden in the shadow of a black
cowl. Both were admirable, and a murmur of satisfaction ran through the
room.

"As they reached the door," continued the reader, "a wild train of
maskers broke into the street."

Ghisleri entered from the opposite side, arrayed somewhat in the manner
of Mephistopheles, a mandoline slung over his shoulder, on which he was
playing. Donna Adele and a dozen others followed him closely, in every
variety of brilliant Carnival dress, dancing forward with tambourines
and castanets, their eyes bright, their steps cadenced to the rhythm of
the waltz tune which now broke out loud and clear--fair young women with
flushed cheeks, all life, and motion, and laughter; and young men
following them closely, laughing, and talking, and singing, all dancing
in and out with changing steps. Then all at once the music died away to
a whisper; the nun and the monk stood back as though in horror against
the church door, while the revellers grouped themselves together in
varied poses around them, Ghisleri the central figure in the midst,
bowing with a diabolical smile before the white-robed nun.

"In front of all," said the voice again, "stood one whose face I shall
never forget, for it was like my own. The features were mine, but upon
them were reflected all the sins of my life, and all the evil I have
done. I thought the other revellers did not see him."

Again the music swelled and rose, and the train of dancers passed on
with song and laughter, and disappeared on the opposite side of the
stage. Ghisleri alone stood still before the saint-like figure of the
Contessa dell' Armi, bowing low and holding out to her a tall red glass.

"He who was like me stayed behind," continued the reader, "and the light
from his glass seemed to shine upon the saintly woman's face, and she
drew back as though from contamination, to the monk's side for
protection. I knew her face when I saw it--the face I have known too
long, too well. Then he who was like me spoke to her, and the voice was
my own, but as I would have had it when I have been worst."

As the reader ceased Ghisleri began to speak. His voice was strong, but
capable of considerable softness and passionate expression, and he did
his best to render his own irregular verses both intelligible and moving
to his hearers, in which effort he was much helped by the dress he wore
and by the gestures he made use of.

   "So we meet at the last! You the saint, I the time-proved sinner;
    You the young, I the old; I the world-worn, you the beginner;
    At the end of the season here, with a glass of wine
    To discuss the salvation and--well--the mine and thine
    Of all the souls we have met this year, and dealt with,
    Of those you have tried to make feel, and those I've felt with:
    Though, after all, dear Saint, had we met in heaven
    Before you got saintship, or I the infernal leaven
    That works so hot to kill the old angel in me--
    If you had seen the world then, as I was able to see
    Before Sergeant-Major Michael gave me that fall,--
    Not a right fall, mind you, taking the facts in all,--
    We might have been on the same side both. But now
    It is yours to cry over lost souls, as it's mine to show them how
    They may stumble and tumble into the infernal slough.
    So here we are. Now tell me--your honour true--
    What do you think of our season? Which wins? I? You?
    Ha, ha, ha! Sweet friend, you can hardly doubt
    The result of this two months' hard-fought wrestling bout.
    I have won. You have lost the game. I drive a trade
    Which I invented--perhaps--but you have made.
    Without your heaven, friend Saint, what would be my hell?
    Without your goodness, could I hope to do well
    With the poor little peddler's pack of original sin
    They handed me down, when they turned me out to begin
    My devil's trade with souls. But now I ask
    Why for eternal penance they gave me so light a task?
    You have not condescended from heaven to taste our carnival feast,
    But if you had tasted it, you would admit at least
    That the meats were passably sweet, and might allure
    The nicest of angels, whose tastes are wholly pure.
    Old friend--I hate you! I hate your saintly face,
    Your holy eyes, your vague celestial grace!
    You are too cold for me, whose soul must smelt
    In fires whose fury you have never felt.
    But come, unbend a little. Let us chatter
    Of what we like best, of what our pride may flatter,--
    Salvation and damnation--there's the theme--
    Your trade and mine--what I am, and what you seem.
    Come, count the souls we have played for, you and I,
    The broken hearts you have lost on a careless jog of the die,
    Hearts that were broken in ire, by one short, sharp fault of the head,
    Souls lifted on pinions of fire, to sink on wings of lead.
    We have gambled, and I have won, while you have steadily lost,
    I laughing, you weeping your senseless saintly tears each time you
      tossed.
    So now--give it up! Dry your eyes; your heaven's a dream!
    Sell your saintship for what it is worth, and come over--the Devil's
      supreme!
    Make Judas Iscariot envy the sweets of our sin--
    Poor Judas, who ended himself where I could have wished to begin!
    A chosen complexion--hell's fruit would not have been wasted
    Had he lived to eat his fill at the feast he barely tasted.
    Ah, my friend, you are horribly good! Oh! I know you of old;
    I know all your virtues, your graces, your beauties; I know they are
      cold!
    But I know that far down in the depths of your crystalline soul
    There's a spot the archangel physician might not pronounce whole.
    There's a hell in your heaven; there's a heaven in my hell. There we
      meet.
    What's perdition to you is salvation to me. Ah, the delicate sweet
    Of mad meetings, of broken confessions, of nights unblest!
    Oh, the shadowy horror of hate that haunts love's steps without rest,
    The desire to be dead--to see dead both the beings one hates,
    One's self and the other, twin victims of opposite fates!
    How I hate you! You thing beyond Satan's supremest temptation,
    You creature of light for whom God has ordained no damnation,
    You escape me, the being whose searing hand lovingly lingers
    On the neck of each sinner to brand him with five red-hot fingers!
    You escape me--you dare scoff at me--and I, poor old pretender,
    Must sue for your beautiful soul with temptation more tender
    Than a man can find for a woman, when night in her moonlit glory
    Silvers a word to a poem, makes a poem of a commonplace story!
    So I sue here at your feet for your soul and the gold of your heart,
    To break my own if I lose you--Lose you? No--do not start.
    You angel--you bitter-sweet creature of heaven, I love you and hate
      you!
    For I know what you are, and I know that my sin cannot mate you.
    I know you are better than I--by the blessing of God!--
    And I hate what is better than I by the blessing of God!
    What right has the Being Magnificent, reigning supreme,
    To wield the huge might that is his, in a measure extreme?
    What right has God got of his strength to make you all good,
    And me bad from the first and weighed down in my sin's leaden hood?
    What right have you to be pure, my angel, when I am foul?
    What right have you to the light, while I, like an owl,
    Must blink in hell's darkness and count my sins by the bead--
    While you can get all you pray for, the wine and the mead
    Of a heavenly blessing, showered upon you straight--
    Because you chance to stand on the consecrate side of the gate?
    Ah! Give me a little nature, give me a human truth!
    Give me a heart that feels--and falls, as a heart should--without
      ruth!
    Give me a woman who loves and a man who loves again,
    Give me the instant's joy that ends in an age of pain,
    Give me the one dear touch that I love--and that you fear--
    And I will give my empire for the Kingdom you hold dear!
    I will cease from tempting and torturing, I will let the poor sinner
      go,
    I will turn my blind eyes heavenward and forget this world below,
    I will change from lying to truth, and be forever true--
    If you will only love me--and give the Devil his due!"

It had been previously arranged that at the last words the nun should
thrust back his Satanic majesty and take refuge in the church. But it
turned out otherwise. As he drew near the conclusion, Ghisleri crept
stealthily up to the Contessa's side, and threw all the persuasion he
possessed into his voice. But it was most probably the Contessa's love
