of those odorous murrhine vases, 
which Pompey had found in Armenja, 
and which on their first appearance 
set Rome wild; he, too, was invited 
to die. 
But, though Agrippina dealt in 
death, she dealt in seductions too. 
 
Rome, that had adored Caligula, 
promptly fell under his sister's sway. 
There was a splendor in her eyes, 
which so many crimes had lit; in her 
carriage there was such majesty, the 
pomp with which she surrounded herself was so magnificent, that Rome, 
enthralled, applauded. Beyond, on 
the Rhine, a city which is to-day 
Cologne, rose in honor of her sover- 
eignty. To her wishes the senate 
was subservient, to her indiscretions 
blind. Claud, who meanwhile had 
been wholly sicfhtless, suddenly sliowcd 
signs of discernment. A woman, 
charged with illicit commerce, 
was brought to his tribunal. He 
condemed her, of course. "In my 
case," he explained, "matrimony has 
not been successful, but the fate that 
destined mc to marry impure women 
destined me also to punish them." It 
was then that Agrippina ordered of 
 
Locusta that famous stew of poison 
and mushrooms, which Nero, in allusion to Claud's apotheosis, called the 
food of the gods. The fate that destined Claud to marry Agrippina destined her to kill him. 
It was under her care, between a 
barber and a ballerine, amid the 
shamelessness of his stepfather's place, 
where any day he could have seen his 
mother beckon indolently to a centurion and pointing to some lover who 
had ceased to please, make the gesture 
which signified Death, that the young 
Enobarbus— Nero, as he subsequently 
called himself — was trained for the 
throne. 
He had entered the world like a 
tiger cub, feet first; a circumstance 
which is said to have disturbed his 
mother, and well it might. During 
his adolescence that lady made herself feared. He was but seventeen 
 
when the pretorians called upon him 
to rule the world; and at the time an 
ingenuous Ind, one who blushed like 
Lalage, very readily, particularly at 
the title of Father of the Country, 
which the senate was anxious to give 
him ; endowed with excellent instincts, 
which he had got no one knew whence; 
a trifle petit titattre, perhaps, perfuming the soles of his feet, and careful 
about the arrangement of his yellow 
curls, but withal generous, modest, 
sympathetic — in short, a flower in a 
cesspool, a youth not over well-fitted 
to reign. But his mother was there; 
as he developed so did his fear of her, 
to such proportions even that he gave 
certain orders, and his mother was 
killed. That duel between mother 
and son, terrible in its intensity and 
unnameable horror, even the Borgias 
could not surpass. Tacitus has told 
it, dramatically, as was his wont. 
 
he told it in Latin, in which tongue 
it had best remain. 
At that time the ingenuous lad had 
disappeared. The cub was full-grown. 
Besides, he had tasted blood. Octa- 
via, the slender maiden, who with her 
brother, Britannicus, and her sister, 
Antonia, had been his playmates; who 
was almost his own sister; whose earliest memories interhnked with his, 
and who had become his wife, had 
been put to death; not that she had 
failed to please, but because a lady, 
Sabina Poppcea, who, Tacitus says, 
lacked nothing except virtue, had declined to be his mistress. At the 
time Sabina was married. But 
divorce was easy. Sabina got one at 
the bar; Nero with the axe. The 
twain were then united. Nero seems 
to have loved her greatlj-, a fact, as 
Suetonius puts it, which did not pre- 
vent him from kicking her to death. 
 
Already he had poisoned Britannicus, 
and with Octavia decapitated and 
Agrippina gone, of the imperial house 
there remained but Antonia and him- 
self. The latter he invited to marry 
him; she declined. He invited her to 
die. He was then alone, the last of 
his race. Monsters never engender. 
A thinker who passed that way 
thought him right to have killed his 
mother; her crime was in giving him 
birth. 
Therewith he was popular; more 
so even than Caligula, who was a poet, 
and as such apart from the crowd, 
while Nero was frankly canaille —  well- 
meaning at that — which Caligula 
never was. During .the early years 
of his reign he could not do good 
enough. The gladiators were not 
permitted to die; he would have no , 
shedding of blood; the smell of it was  
distasteful. He would listen to no 
 
denunciations ; when a decree of death 
was brought to him to sign, he re- 
gretted that he knew how to write. 
Rome had never seen a gentler prince, 
nor yet one more splendidly lavish. 
The people had not only the necessities 
of life, but the luxuries, the superfluities, too. For days and days in the 
Forum there was an incessant shower 
of tickets that were exchangeable, not 
for bread or trivial sums, but for gems, 
pictures, slaves, fortunes, ships, villas 
and estates. The creator of that 
shower was bound to be adored. 
It was that, no doubt, which awoke 
him. A city like Rome, one that had 
over a million inhabitants, could make 
a terrific noise, and when that noise 
I was applause, the recipient found it 
 heady. Nero got drunk on popularity, 
 and heredity aiding where the prince 
 had been emerged the cad, a poseur 
I that bored, a beast that disgusted, a 
caricature of the impossible in a crimson frame. 
"What an artist the world is to 
lose! " he exclaimed as he died ; 
and artist he was, but in the Roman 
sense; one that enveloped in the same 
contempt the musician, acrobat and 
actor; one that branded every public 
performer with an appellation which 
even yet has not been rehabilitated. 
It was the artist that played the tlute 
while gladiators died and lovers em- 
braced; it was the artist that enter- 
tained the crowd. 
As an artist Nero would have made 
the fortune of a dozen concert-halls. 
Fancy the attraction — an emperor 
before the footlights; but fancy the 
boredom also. The joy at the announcement of his first appearance was 
so great that thanks were offered to 
the gods; and the verses he was to 
sing, graven in gold, were dedicated 
 
to the Capitoline Jove. The joy was 
brief. The exits of the theatre were 
closed. It was treason to attempt to 
leave. People pretended to be dead, 
in order to be carried out, and well 
they might. The star was a fat man 
with a husky tenorino voice, who sang 
drunk and half-naked to a, protecting 
claque of ten thousand hands. 
But it was in the circus that Nero 
was at his best ; there, no matter 
though he were last in the race, it 
was to him the palm was awarded, or 
rather it was he that awarded the 
palm to himself, and then quite magnificently shouted, "Nero, Caesar, victor in the race, gives his crown to 
the People of Rome!" 
On the stage he had no rivals, and 
