
"I should say so, Obed."

The commissioner made out a receipt, which Obed put away carefully in
his pocket.

"That's better than carrying the nugget round," he said.

"I suppose you will go to Melbourne," said the commissioner.

"Yes, we shall start in a day or two."

Here Obed paused, for it occurred to him that there were practical
difficulties in the way of carrying out his plan.

"That is," he added slowly, "if we can raise the money. I suppose we
can't borrow on the nugget?"

"No, but I can suggest a way out of your difficulties. You can sell your
claim. It will realize a good round sum, as the one from which the
nugget has been taken."

"That's so, Mr. Commissioner. Thank you for the suggestion. Boys, there
is still some business before us. We'll realize something extra, it
seems. I don't care how much, if it's only enough to take us to
Melbourne."

Just then a miner entered the office, and seeing the nugget instantly
made it his purpose to report the lucky find throughout the camp. The
effect was instant and electrical. Every miner stopped work, and there
was a rush to the commissioner's office to see the nugget. All were
cheered up. If there was one nugget, there must be more. Confidence was
restored to many who had been desponding. Obed and the two boys were the
heroes of the hour, and the crowd came near lifting them on their
shoulders, and bearing them off in triumph.

Obed felt that this was a good time to sell the claim.

"Boys," he said, "we struck it rich and no mistake. How rich I don't
know. There may be other nuggets where this came from. But I and my
partners want to go back to America. The claim's for sale. Who wants
it?"




CHAPTER XXIX.

SELLING THE CLAIM.

"Let's adjourn to the mine," said Tom Lewis, a short, sturdy
Englishman.

"Yes, let's see the place where the nugget was found," echoed another.

"All right! I'm agreeable," said Obed.

Followed by a crowd of miners, Obed Stackpole strode to the claim where
he had "struck it rich." In spite of his homely face and ungainly form
there was more than one who would have been willing to stand in his
shoes, homeliness and all. The day before little notice was taken of
him. Now he was a man who had won fame at a bound.

They soon stood around the lucky claim.

"It isn't much to look at, gentlemen," said Obed, "but looks is
deceptive, as my old grandmother used to tell me. 'Handsome is as
handsome does,' and this 'ere hole's done the handsome thing for me and
my partners, and I venture to say it hasn't got through doin' handsome
things. It's made three of us rich, and it's ready to make somebody else
rich. Who'll be the lucky man? Do I hear a bid!"

"Fifty pounds," said Tom Lewis.

"That'll do to start on, but it won't do to take. Fifty pounds I am
offered. Who says a hundred?"

A German miner offered a hundred, and Tom Lewis raised ten pounds.

A Scotch miner, Aleck Graham, offered a hundred and twenty-five.

From that time the bids rose slowly. Obed showed himself an excellent
auctioneer--indeed he had had some experience at home--and by his dry
and droll remarks stimulated the bidding when it became dull, and did
not declare the claim sold till it was clear no higher bid could be
obtained.

"Three hundred pounds, and sold to Frank Scott," he concluded. "Mr.
Scott, I congratulate you. I calculate you've made a pretty good
investment, and I shouldn't wonder if you'd find another nugget within a
week. 'Birds of a feather flock together,' as my writing-book says, and
'it never rains but it pours.'"

Frank Scott came forward and made arrangements for the payment of the
sum he had offered. Within five minutes he was offered an advance of
twenty-five pounds for his bargain, which put him in good humor, though
he declined it. I may as well say here, since we are soon to bid
farewell to Bendigo, that the claim yielded him double the amount of his
investment, and though this was not up to his expectations, he had no
reason to regret his purchase.

The little crowd of miners were just separating when two new-comers
appeared on the scene. They were the well-matched pair who had met
earlier in the morning at the deserted cabin. For convenience' sake we
will call them Colson and Ropes, the former being the man who had stolen
the nugget, as he supposed.

"What's all this crowd?" said Colson in a tone of curiosity.

Ropes put the question to Tom Lewis, who chanced to be passing.

"Haven't you heard about the nugget?" asked Lewis.

"What nugget?" asked Colson innocently.

"That slab-sided Yankee, Obed Stackpole, found a nugget last night--a
regular monster--and he's been selling his claim. I bid for it, but I
didn't bid high enough."

"Where's the nugget?" asked Colson eagerly.

"In charge of the commissioner, who will send it under escort to
Melbourne."

Colson expected this intelligence. Still he looked downcast. The chance
of getting hold of it under such circumstances seemed very small.

"What did the claim go for?" questioned Ropes.

"Three hundred pounds. Frank Scott bought it."

"That's a pretty steep price."

"Yes, but there may be another nugget."

"And there may not."

"Then he'll be a loser. Of course there's a risk."

"Is the Yankee going to stay around here?" asked Colson.

"No; he and the two boys are going to Melbourne. I believe they are
going back to America."

"It's a shame that such a prize should go to Americans," said Colson, in
a discontented tone.

He would have been very glad to head a movement for robbing Obed and the
boys of the proceeds of their lucky discovery, on this flimsy ground.
But Tom Lewis was a fair-minded man.

"I don't see what that has to do with it," said he. "They found it, and
they have a right to it. Of course, I'd rather it had been me; but it
wasn't, and there's an end of it."

"Some people are born lucky!" grumbled Colson, as Lewis walked away. "I
never had any luck."

"The nugget you found wasn't quite so valuable," returned Ropes grimly.

"No; I tugged away for nothing. My arms and shoulders are stiff enough
this morning. And now the nugget is out of our reach."

"But not the three hundred pounds," said Ropes significantly.

"The price of the claim?"

"Yes."

"That's true, but it won't do us any good."

"The Yankee will carry that with him. It's worth trying for."

The suggestion seemed to strike Colson favorably. The two held a
whispered consultation, which seemed to yield mutual satisfaction. They
were, indeed, congenial spirits, and agreed upon one point, that it was
better to make a living by knavery than by doing honest work for honest
wages. Yet there is no harder or more unsatisfactory way of living than
this. Ill-gotten gains seldom benefit the possessor, and the plans of
wicked men often fail altogether.
