fields, entertaining the tU of the slums. Are 
you going to send out a cargo of sick babies ? " 

" Well, I haven't been asked to yet. But there 





are two elderly ladies, invalids, I believe, to 
whom I am to be the bearer of good news. I 
suppose it is good news when one pays up an old, 
outlawed debt, and when some money comes to 
place you above the necessity of struggling for 
bread." 

" It is a sacrilege to turn it into an Old Wo- 
men's Hospital ! " Winchester flung out angrily. 

" Has the place any special interest for you } " 
asked Olmstead in a dignified manner. 

" Interest ! " Winchester roused himself in a 
severely upright position. " It was my father's 
house and mine. I was born there ! I'm not a 
sentimental man — hard-headed and hard-hearted 
you no doubt think me by this time ; but there 
is not a room in that old house, a tree, nor a 
stone, that isn't dear to me ! My father's uncle 
held it, and, having no children of his own, 
adopted my father. There was a great tract of 
ground here, and the nucleus of a mill. My father 
added to it, and built rows of houses for his 
workmen. He had a good, sharp business-head. 
Over there, at Chester House, my mother came as 
a bride. Great-uncle loved her as a daughter. I 
can remember her there, — a small, sweet woman, 
with fair face and a soft voice. She had such a 
pretty garden ! — great borders of May pinks that 
kept all the air fragrant, and later such gorgeous 





carnations, — white, pink, and soft-colored reds 
such as we seldom see now. There were beds 
of lavender, thyme, and sweet herbs. And such 
roses ! " 

There was a long silence. Winchester was 
staring into vacancy. 

" You interest me wonderfully," said the other 
in a gentle tone. " And then " — 

" She died. Then the old uncle died. He 
had willed everything to my father. Some other 
people started up with the claim that he had only 
a life-right, and could not will it away. My 
father fought it, and beat them. Then they tried 
it again, and were beaten. After a while they 
made a third attempt, with a batch of papers 
they had found, which my father always in- 
sisted were forged. Well, they won, — this girl's 
mother. They were going to make a clean sweep 
of everything. The woman had no soul, no con- 
science ! Father bought in the mill site. All 
the property here was sold. Then there were 
some awfully tight times. The woman died, and 
father made an offer for Chester House, but it 
could not be sold till this girl came of age. That 
was two and a half years ago. He had gone over 
to the great majority then, but I made my essay, 
and — was refused, of course," with a contemptu- 
ous bitterness. "They have never lived there. 





The place has been rented out, the farm to one 
party, the house to another. Some very nice peo- 
ple have had it, living there about nine months of 
the year. The man died early this season, and 
the last I heard the real owner was to try it. 
But she's one of the high lights of fashion, and 
charity is fashionable nowadays." 

Olmstead had never been so interested in his 
fellow-boarder. There was a depth of sentiment 
to him that had lain unsuspected. He was curi- 
ously excited about the present owner. 

"There are worse undertakings than charity, 
though I am beginning to feel that some of them 
are ill-judged. But perhaps this young woman 
may have some kind of regard that you do not 
understand." 

" Nonsense ! Why, this girl's mother had never 
been inside the house ! She had no doubt indoc- 
trinated her daughter with a tremendous hatred 
of our branch of the family. There is nothing to 
do now but to wait and tire her out, or to snap up 
the place through a third party. In some cases 
I could exercise untiring patience. But if she 
should donate it to a society — you see, she's had 
a sharp, shrewd, speculating sort of guardian, 
who has turned her money over and over for her. 
I was surprised myself when I found out how 
much she had. Good heavens ! Well, you see 





now why I am interested, and why I keep a sharp 
look-out. I wonder if you will find it on your con- 
science to warn her ?" 

The tone stirred an instant flash of resentment. 
Calming himself by a strong effort, he made 
answer quietly : — 

" When you have known me longer, you may be 
able to judge me more correctly." 

"I beg your pardon, Olmstead ; I do sincerely. 
This business stirs up all the bad blood in me. 
And I think you had a story I interrupted. You 
are to carry the tidings of good fortune to two old 
ladies. Well, I hope you will make them very 
happy. And allow me also to hope they will 
prove worthy. " 

" The great point of interest to me was the 
other side of the matter." 

" Isn't the money come honestly by ? We 
have so many queer questions of ethics nowa- 
days." 

Olmstead was silent. Winchester's careless 
words had started another problem in his 
thoughts. 

"Well.?" 

" It is a matter of restitution. It might not 
interest you. I do not want to bore you." 

" Nonsense, my good fellow ! I didn't hesitate 
to bore you with this feud of the rival houses. 





And some day I may have a similar question to 
decide. Restitution ! So the other party had de- 
frauded, or thought he had." 

He piqued Olmstead by the inflection of doubt 
in his tone. 

"He had. He had been rather an unscrupu- 
lous business man, keeping within the letter of 
the law perhaps. I don't know about his life. 
At one time, twenty years or so before, he took 
money of various people to invest. He had 
known of these two women, and persuaded them 
to intrust a part of their small means to his ma- 
nipulations. For a while all went on well. Then 
came a financial crisis, and every one had to take 
his share of the loss." 

" That was right enough," declared Winchester 
fiercely. "Doesn't everybody know " — 

