"Certainly not, sir. He was running away from the two blockaders that
were pursuing him, and had beaten them both. He was absolutely sure of
his escape till he encountered the fleet in shore when the St. Regis
came upon the scene," added Mr. Baskirk.
"Her captain had no particular respect for our steamer when he saw her,
and kept on his course as if in contempt of her, till we dropped a shot
near him. If he had headed to the south when he first made out the St.
Regis, he would have improved his chances, but he would only have given
us a longer chase. Let Captain Bristler out of the brig, Mr. Baskirk; we
will see if he can behave himself any better; but I will not allow any
man to swear at me if I can help myself."
A little later Captain Bristler came on deck in charge of the ship's
corporal. He was dressed in his best clothes, and his personal
appearance had been greatly improved.
"Captain Passford," said he, raising his cap to the commander, "under
the influence of my awful disappointment at the failure of the Raven to
outsail you, I was rude and ungentlemanly, and some of my forecastle
habits came back to me. I beg your pardon; and I shall show you that I
know how to be a gentleman, if I did forget myself for a time."
"That is sufficient, and I accept your apology, Captain Bristler,"
replied Christy with abundant dignity.
"I did not believe there was a ship in the Federal navy that could
outsail the Raven, for she was built more for speed than for cargo,"
continued the captain of the prize.
"The St. Regis is not the only one that can outsail the Raven. I have
served in a steamer that could beat her four knots an hour in an
emergency," added Christy.
"What steamer is that, Captain?" asked Captain Bristler.
"That is not important, but it was the one that outsailed and captured
the St. Regis when she had another name."
"Then your ship was a blockade-runner?"
"She was, and also a Confederate man-of-war; she was the Trafalgar."
"Ah! Then I know her very well; and the company owning the Raven, of
which I am a member, offered nearly double what it cost to build the
Raven for her," replied Captain Bristler. "I can understand now how I
happened to be so thoroughly beaten in the last chase. She was built for
a yacht, and no money was spared upon her."
By this time the two steamers that had first chased the Raven had
stopped their screws, and a boat was on its way from each of them. The
two cutters came up to the gangway, and the officer in each ascended to
the deck. Christy permitted the captain of the Raven to take care of
himself, while he waited for the visitors to present themselves.
"I am very glad to see you, Mr. Amblen!" exclaimed Christy, as he
extended his hand; for he recognized in the first officer the gentleman
who had been his third lieutenant in the Bronx.
"I am delighted to see you again, Captain Passford," replied Lieutenant
Amblen, for such was his present rank. "I am now the executive officer
of the Muskegon. I have the pleasure of presenting to you Mr. Cartright,
first lieutenant of the St. Croix."
"I am happy to meet you, Mr. Cartright."
"I have often heard of you, Captain Passford, and I am glad to see you
in command of so fine and fast a steamer as the St. Regis, though I
never heard of her before," added the executive officer of the St.
Croix. "Of course you are aware that there is a steamer in sight to the
westward of us."
"I am aware of it; and for that reason we should hasten our present
business," replied Christy, as he glanced at the steamer in the distance
and the trails of smoke astern of her. "I do not know who is the ranking
officer here; and I have not yet reported to the admiral, for I took
part in the chase from the moment of my arrival."
"You are a lieutenant"--Mr. Amblen began.
"A lieutenant-commander, if you please," interposed Christy with a
smile.
"Then you are the ranking officer, Captain Passford, for both of the
other commanders are lieutenants," added the executive officer of the
Muskegon. "We are ready to transmit your orders to our superiors."
"My orders will depend somewhat upon the steamer astern of us; and if
you will excuse me a few moments, I shall soon be ready to issue them,"
replied Christy, as he took his spy-glass from the brackets, and
directed it to the approaching steamer from the west. "What do you
make of her, Mr. Baskirk?"
The executive officer had been observing the steamer astern with his
glass; and she was not more than four miles distant by this time.
"She is a large vessel, I judge, not less than a thousand tons. She has
all sail set and drawing, and she seems to be making very rapid progress
through the water," replied the first lieutenant. "But there are not
less than three steamers pursuing her, though they are a long way astern
of her."
"I make out the chasers, and I should judge that she is getting away
from them," added Christy.
"The leading steamer is turning her head to the south!" exclaimed Mr.
Baskirk, with no little excitement in his manner.
"I only wonder she has not done so before," added the commander,
rejoining the officers of the other steamers. "I believe Captain Wright
of the Muskegon outranks Captain Boyden of the St. Croix," he continued.
"He does, Captain Passford," replied Mr. Amblen.
"If you will excuse me a moment, I will write an order for him;" and
Christy retired to his cabin for this purpose.
His communication directed Captain Wright to take possession of the
Raven, and treat her precisely as though she were the prize of the
Muskegon and her consort; and constructively she was concerned in
the capture of the vessel, especially in the distribution of the
prize-money. He added to the order the fact that what appeared to be a
blockade-runner astern of his ship was outsailing her pursuers, and the
St. Regis being a very fast steamer, his duty did not permit him to make
any further delay in taking part in the chase.
With this order in the hands of Mr. Amblen, Christy took leave of the
two officers and they departed in their boats. But he was obliged to
await the arrival of one or both of the blockaders before starting the
screw, for he was not willing to leave any number of his crew in charge
of the prize. While he was waiting, he wrote a letter to the acting
admiral of the station, announcing his arrival, and copying into it the
material portion of his orders from the department.
The Muskegon was the first to come alongside of the Raven, which she did
on the starboard side. Captain Wright, crossing the deck of the Raven,
presented himself to Captain Passford on the quarter-deck of the St.
Regis; he was received with Christy's accustomed politeness, and the
prize was handed over to him verbally, as it had been done before in
writing.
Captain Wright began to compliment Captain Passford, with whose
brilliant reputation he was already very familiar; but Christy
interposed, declaring that he was in a great hurry, and could hear no
more, if his orders were clearly understood. Mr. Baskirk had directed
the recall of all the ship's company, with the exception of a master's
mate, who was to remain on board to give any further information needed
to the officers of the Muskegon, and to be a witness in New York at the
prize court.
Captain Bristler and his effects were sent back to the Raven, the
grappling irons and the fasts were cast off, and the St. Regis backed
out from her position on the port side of the prize. During all this
time Christy was very busy with his glass. As Mr. Baskirk had
discovered, the leading steamer had three blockaders in chase of her.
She was now headed to the south, having done so as soon as she saw the
four vessels lying in her course.
"Make the course south-west by south, Mr. Baskirk," said the young
commander, after he had brought his trigonometry into use again.
Then it became a very exciting question to ascertain which was the
faster steamer of the two.
CHAPTER XXXI
A VICTORIOUS UNION
The fog was coming and going in the distance, and at times the land
could be just discerned. In spite of the number and vigilance of the
blockading fleet, several hundred blockade-runners had succeeded in
making their way into Cape Fear River, though several hundred also had
been captured, not to mention a very considerable number that had been
run ashore or burned when escape became hopeless.
It was the policy of the Confederacy to send out vessels to prey upon
the commerce of the United States. Some of them began their depredations
without making a port in the South, and a few of the swift steamers that
succeeded in getting into Mobile, Wilmington, and other safe places,
were fitted out for the work of destruction. The fog that prevailed
inshore was favorable to blockade-runners; and if there was a vessel of
this character in Cape Fear River, the early morning had been such as to
tempt her to try to make her way through the blockaders to sea.
"She is not one of the ordinary steamers that run in and out of the
river," said Mr. Baskirk, while he and the commander were still watching
the progress of the chase, and Paul Vapoor was warming up the engine as
he had done before.
"She is larger than the St. Regis, but hardly equal in size to the
Bellevite," added Christy. "She cannot draw more than twelve or fourteen
feet of water, or she could not have come out through those shallow
channels at the mouth of Cape Fear River. She seems to have the speed
to run away from her pursuers; but probably not one of them can make
fifteen knots an hour."
The three pursuers of the blockade-runner had changed their course when
the chase did so; but it was already evident that they had no chance to
overhaul her. They were still three miles astern of her, while the St.
Regis, at sunset, was not more than three. Not a shot had been fired by
any one of the steamers, and it would have been a waste of ammunition to
do so.
"We are gaining on her," said Christy, half an hour later. "That steamer
is making sixteen knots at least."
"If she has found out that we can outsail her, very likely she will
count upon the darkness to enable her to give us the slip," suggested
Mr. Baskirk.
"Mr. Vapoor has come to his bearings, and in another half hour we shall
be within one mile of her. But I am afraid we shall not be able to
settle this affair finally to-night," replied Christy.
The darkness gathered around the two ships, and none of the steamers in
the distance could any longer be seen. The officers could just make out
the steamer ahead, which still kept on her course. The midship gun was
now brought into use, and a round shot was sent on its mission to her;
but with little chance of hitting her in the increasing gloom, for the
sky was obscured with clouds, and all the signs indicated fog during the
night, which would be exceedingly favorable to the chase. A flash was
seen in the distance, and then came the roar of a heavy gun.
"She is not merely a blockade-runner; for it appears now that she is an
armed vessel, and has some heavy metal on board," said Christy.
"But no shot has come within hearing," added Mr. Baskirk. "Perhaps she
only wished to inform us that she could bite as well as bark."
