took the Freshman out of the coffin, not 
many minutes too soon. The three principals 
in that memorable event looked at each 
other with something of the curious tender 
ness of reconciled sections after civil war. 
Donald colored slightly. Trouncey shook his 
big head. But Lee was quiet, self-possessed, 
and cool. It is the delightful thing about 





college friendships, that they easily override 
grudges and trifles, and gather together all 
sorts of sympathies and loyalties, from all 
kinds of natures ; each bound to many by 
that young glow and fervor of feeling which 
adoration for his Alma Mater, and nothing 
else in life, can give a man. 

But Donald was thinking of another 
thing. 

Donald had a sore throat. He was won 
dering what effect this was likely to have 
upon the daily elocutionary drill which he 
practiced for the De Courtney. 

There was but one competitor whom Marcy 
really feared ; his most important rival, 
a fellow by the name of Hallo well, who had 
entered Harle and the Junior class that year. 
Tom Hallowell was four years older than 
Donald ; and a more practiced writer. But 
he was a poorer speaker. Donald depended 
upon his own elocution, perhaps quite as 
much as he was justified in doing. For 
some reason, nobody could tell just why, 
Hallowell was not popular in Harle College. 
For one thing, he had gone too hard and too 
fast into class politics. He was a brilliant, 
black - mustached, self - satisfied fellow, who 
had a vague name for being too shrewd, 



 

what is called " a little tricky," in short, a 
college politician. Yet no misdemeanor had 
ever been clearly proved against him ; and 
Don used to say good-naturedly : 

"What 's the matter with Hallowell? 
He 's all right." 

Donald was on excellent terms with his 
rival. This was considered good form. 



CHAPTER XV. 

THE DE COURTNEY. 

THAT sore throat following the ducking 
in Harle harbor proved to be no light matter 
to Donald Marcy. He was not very ill. 
His superb health gave him force to throw off 
a chill which would have endangered the life 
of a weaker boy. But he worried through a 
rasping, obstinate inflammation of the larynx, 
which came to the verge of a case of laryn 
gitis, and could not be fooled with. 

The Professor of elocution sent Donald to 
a doctor ; and the doctor ordered the daily 
drill for the De Courtney stopped for two 
weeks. 

This was a great blow to Don. He writhed 
under it smartly. He had never known what 
it was to be thwarted by sickness in any 
thing that he wished exceedingly to do ; and 
his rebellious, young soul rose defiant at the 
first stroke of tyranny on the part of the 
body ; whose terrible power over human success
he had never thought of. 



 

Jamie Fleet comforted him, and took care 
of him like a mother and a sister and a chum 
combined in one thoughtful, unselfish, tender 
fellow. But even Jamie could not console
the worried boy. The fellows came in, 
but what could the fellows do? His 
mother wrote him, advising some of her doc 
tor 's troches ; which gave him a sick head 
ache immediately. His father sent word that 
he was too busy to write, and that Donald 
probably deserved the misfortune. Tom 
Hallowell condoled with him ; but there was 
a spark of ill-concealed delight in his rival 's 
eye. Miss Merry Gorond stopped him on 
College Street, hung upon his arm, and in 
sisted on expressing her sympathy through 
a dotted red lace veil, and in a new walking- 
jacket of tan-colored corduroy, with gloves 
to match. 

" Say Marcy ! So sorry for you that 
you've got balked on the De Courtney ! " 

" Not at all," said Donald, bowing icily. 
" I have by no means abandoned competing 
for the De Courtney." 

" Oh, well, what 's the odds ? " asked Miss 
Merry lightly. " It 's a stupid thing, any 
how. I never knew any real society fellows 
to get it. Don't be down, Don, why don't 





you ever come to see a girl, in these 
days?" 

" I have been very busy, Miss Merry." 

" You have never forgotten nor forgiven 
me," said Merry, in a changed tone. " And 
yet," she said, "I didn't do anything 
in particular to vex you so." Her eyes 
fell. Her handsome face grew grave. 

" I am not your judge, Miss Merry,"'re 
plied Donald coldly. " Besides," he added, 
" I was not wholly pleased with myself, 
either, that evening. I think the less we 
say of it, the better." 

"Good-morning," he pursued, with some 
embarrassment, for Merry did not answer. 
Her eyes looked dark and dim. If she had 
been a different girl, he would have thought 
those real tears which she bent to hide from 
him. But, somehow, Merry 's emotion did 
not touch him. It trickled off his sensibility. 
He lifted his hat to her with cold 
courtesy, and passed on. A vision of a different
girl passed with him, and seemed to 
keep step with him, a girl with elastic 
tread, and sweet, bright, modest face ; she 
did not touch him ; but there was something 
in her look which enfolded him as if he 
walked in a sunlit cloud, and trod upon the 




summer air. When he got back to his room 
he found a letter from her, written from 
Northampton. Fay did not write often. 
She graduated this year ; and was too busy 
to think too much even of Don. 

DEAR MR. DON, I wouldn't be blue about 
it, would you ? I own, it 's awfully hard. I 
was so upset when you wrote me about it, that 
I put my mucilage brush into the ink-bottle, 
pasted my thesis with it, and then sprinkled my 
luncheon with sachet-powder. I think it 's too 
bad, but really, sir, I don't believe it 's going 
to make a bit of difference ! No, I don't ! It 's 
