of the poor and deficient. The greatest men of the age should be
employed to devote their lives to the happiness of the poor little blind
boys, and of the little girls born deaf, and of the vacantly staring
blear-eyed youths whom nature had made carelessly, and whom God had sent
into the world, perhaps, as a means of grace to those more richly
endowed. For old Alexander was charitable to every one--even to the
Supreme Being, whose motives he ventured to judge. He was incapable of
an unkind thought, and in the heaven of his old fancy he would have
founded an asylum for reformed devils and would not have hesitated to
beg a subscription of Satan himself, being quite ready to believe that
the Prince of Hell might have his good moments. He would have prayed
cheerfully for ‘the puir deil.’ There is no limit to the charity of such
over-kind hearts. Nothing seems to them so bad but that, by gentleness
and persuasion, it may at last be made good.

He knew, of course, for Robert had told him, that he was not to have the
millions even during the few remaining years of his life, and he bore
his brother no malice for the decision. Robert promised him that he
should have plenty of money for his poor people, but did not hesitate to
say that if he had the whole property he would pauperize half the city
of New York in six months.

“You’d give every newsboy and messenger boy in the city a roast turkey
for dinner every day,” laughed Robert.

“If I thought it might improve the condition of poor boys, I certainly
should,” answered the philanthropist, gravely. “I’m fond of roast turkey
myself--with cranberry sauce and chestnuts inside. Why shouldn’t the
poor little fellows have it, too, if every one had enough money?”

“If there were enough money to go round, creation would be turned into a
kitchen for a week, and into a hospital for six months afterwards,”
observed Robert Lauderdale. “Fortunately, money’s scarcer than
greediness.”

And on the whole, there was much wisdom in this plain view, which to
Robert himself presented a clear picture of the condition of mankind in
general in regard to money and its distribution.

It would not have been natural if even the least money-loving members of
the family had not often speculated, each in his or her own way, about
the chances of receiving something very considerable when old Robert
died. He had been generous to them all, according to his lights, but he
had not considered that any of them were objects of charity. The true
conditions of his brother’s household life had been carefully concealed
from him, until Katharine had, almost accidentally, given him an insight
into her father’s family methods, so to say. Nevertheless, he had long
known that Alexander Junior must have much more money than he was
commonly thought to possess, and his mode of living, as compared with
his fortune, proved conclusively that he hoarded what he had. He must
have known that a large share of the estate must ultimately come to him,
and he could assuredly have had no doubts as to its solidity, since it
consisted entirely in land and houses. What was he hoarding his income
for? That was the question which naturally suggested itself to Robert,
and the only answer he could find, and the one which accorded perfectly
with his own knowledge of his nephew’s character, was that Alexander was
a miser. As the certainty solidified in the rich man’s mind, he became
more and more determined that Alexander Junior should know nothing of
the dispositions of the will.

And he had rigidly kept his own counsel until that day when he had
confided in Katharine. When he was well again, or, at all events, so far
recovered as to feel sure that he might live some time longer, he
regretted what he had done. Weakened by illness, he had acted on impulse
in making a young girl the repository of his secret intentions.
Moreover, he had not intended to part with the right to change them
whenever he should see fit, and the problem of the distribution of
wealth continued to absorb his attention. He had great faith in
Katharine, but, after all, she was not a man, as he told himself
repeatedly. She might be expected to confide in John Ralston, who might,
on some unfortunate day, drink a glass of wine too much and reveal the
facts of the case. He would have been even more disturbed than he was,
had he known that Alexander Junior suspected his daughter of knowing the
truth.

Robert Lauderdale had certainly not made her life easier for her by
what he had done. During several days her father from time to time
repeated his questions.

“I hope that you are in an altered frame of mind, Katharine,” he said.
“This perpetual obstinacy on the part of my child is very painful to
me.”

“I might say something of the same kind,” Katharine answered. “It’s
painful--as you choose to call it--to me, to be questioned again and
again about a thing I won’t speak of. Why will you do it? You seem to
think that I hold my tongue out of sheer eccentricity, just to annoy
you. Is that what you think? If so, you’re very much mistaken.”

“It’s the only possible explanation of your undutiful conduct. I repeat
that I’m very much pained by your behaviour.”

“Look here, papa!” cried Katharine, turning upon him suddenly. “Don’t
drag in the question of duty. It’s one’s duty to keep a secret when
one’s heard it--whether one wanted to hear it or not. There’s no reason
in the world why I should repeat to you what uncle Robert told me--any
more than why I should go and tell Charlotte, or Hester Crowdie, or
anybody else.”

“Katharine!” exclaimed Alexander Junior, sternly, “you are very
impertinent.”

“Because I tell you what I think my duty is? I’m sorry you should think
so. And besides, since you seem so very anxious that I should betray a
secret, I’m afraid that it wouldn’t be very safe with you.”

Alexander Junior did not wince under the cut. He was firmly persuaded
that he was in the right.

“If you were not a grown-up woman, I should send you to your room,” he
said, coldly.

“Yes, I realize the advantage of being grown up,” answered Katharine,
with contempt.

“But I shall not tolerate this conduct any longer,” continued Alexander
Junior. “I will not be defied by my own daughter.”

“Charlotte defied you for twenty years,” replied Katharine, “and she’s
not half as strong as I am. And I never defied you, and I don’t now.
That’s not the way I should put it. I’m not so dramatic, and as long as
I won’t,--why, I won’t, that’s all,--and there’s no need of calling it
defiance, nor by any other big name.”

Alexander was a cold man, and it was not likely that he should lose his
temper again as he had when he had walked home with her from Robert
Lauderdale’s. He began to recognize that in the matter of imposing his
will forcibly, he had met his match. He had generally succeeded in
dominating those with whom he came into close relations in life, but his
hard and freezing exterior had contributed more to the effect than his
intellectual gifts. Finding that his personality failed to produce the
usual result, he temporized, for he was not good at sharp answers.

“There’s no denying the fact,” he said, “that uncle Robert has told you
about his will. Can you deny that?”

The latter question is a terrible weapon, and is the favourite one of
dull persons when dealing with truthful ones, because it is so easily
used and so effective. Katharine was familiar with it, and knew that her
father had few others, and none so strong. She met it in the approved
fashion, which is as good as any, though none are satisfactory.

“That’s an absurd question,” she answered. “You’ve made up your mind
beforehand, and nothing I could say would make you change it. If I
denied that uncle Robert had told me anything about his will, you
wouldn’t believe me.”

“Certainly not!” replied Alexander, falling into the trap like a
school-boy.

“Then it’s clear that nothing I can say can make you change your
mind--in other words, that you’re prejudiced,” said Katharine, in cool
triumph. “And as that’s undeniable, from your own words, I don’t see
that it’s of the slightest use to ask me questions.”

Her father bit his clean-shaven upper lip and frowned severely.

“I don’t know where you get such sophistries from!” he answered, in
impotent arrogance. “Unless it’s that Mr. Griggs who teaches you,” he
added, taking a new line of aggression.

“Why do you say ‘that’ Mr. Griggs, as though he were an adventurer or a
fool?” enquired Katharine, arching her black brows.

“Because I suspect him of being both,” answered Alexander Junior,
jumping at the suggestion with an affectation of keenness.

Katharine laughed.

“That’s too absurd, papa! You’d have said just the same thing if I’d
said ‘murderer’ and ‘thief.’ You know as well as I do that Mr. Griggs is
a distinguished man,--I didn’t say that he was a great genius,--who has
got where he is by hard work and good work. He’s no more of an
adventurer than you are.”

“I’ve heard strange stories of his youth, which I shall certainly not
repeat to you,” answered Alexander, snapping his lips in the fine
consciousness of his own really unimpeachable virtue.

One proverb, at least, is true, amidst many high-sounding, conventional
