
Rod. At last I am safe. Old Norna will conceal me till I can find means
to leave the land. Ha!--voices within there. Ho, there! old wizard,
hither! I have need of thee!

                                                        [Enter Adrian.

Adrian. What wouldst thou?

Rod. Nought. Get thee hence! I seek old Norna.

Adrian. Thou canst not see her; she is not here.

Rod. Not here? 'Tis false,--I heard a woman's voice within there. Let me
pass!

Adrian. 'Tis not old Norna, and thou canst not pass.

Rod. Ah, then, who might it be, my most mysterious sir?

Adrian. The Lady Leonore.

Rod. Ha!--how came she hither? By my soul, thou liest! Stand back and
let me go. She is mine!

Adrian. Thou canst only enter here above my lifeless body. Leonore is
here, and I am her protector and thy deadliest foe. 'Tis for thee to
yield and leave this cell.

Rod. No more of this,--thou hast escaped me once. Draw and defend
thyself, if thou hast courage to meet a brave man's sword!

Adrian. But for Leonore I would not stoop so low, or stain my sword; but
for her sake I'll dare all, and fight thee to the last.

                            [They fight their way out. Enter Rodolpho.

Rod. At length fate smiles upon me. I am the victor,--and now for
Leonore! All danger is forgotten in the joy of winning my revenge on
this proud girl! Thou art mine at last, Leonore, and mine forever!
[Rushes towards the inner cave. Spirit of Theresa rises.] There 'tis
again! I will not fly,--I do defy it! [Attempts to pass. Spirit touches
him; he drops his sword and rushes wildly away.] 'Tis vain: I
cannot--dare not pass. It comes, it follows me. Whither shall I fly?

                                        [Exit. Enter Adrian wounded.

Adrian. I have saved her once again,--but oh, this deathlike faintness
stealing o'er me robs me of my strength. Thou art safe, Leonore, and I
am content. [Falls fainting.]

                                                       [Enter Leonore.

Leonore. They are gone. Ah, what has chanced? I heard his voice, and now
'tis still as death. Where is my friend? God grant he be not hurt! I'll
venture forth and seek him [sees Adrian unconscious before her]. Oh,
what is this? Adrian, kind friend, dost thou not hear me? There is blood
upon his hand! Can he be dead? No, no! he breathes, he moves; this mask,
I will remove it,--surely he will forgive.

                             [Attempts to unmask him; he prevents her.

Adrian [reviving]. Nay, nay; it must not be. I am better now. The blow
but stunned me,--it will pass away. And thou art safe?

Leonore. I feared not for myself, but thee. Come, rest thee here, thy
wound is bleeding; let me bind it with my kerchief, and bring thee wine.
Let me serve thee who hath done so much for me. Art better now! Can I do
aught else for thee?

Adrian. No more, dear lady. Think not of me, and listen while I tell
thee of the dangers that surround thee. Count Rodolpho knows thou art
here, and may return with men and arms to force thee hence. My single
arm could then avail not, though I would gladly die for thee. Where then
can I lead thee,--no place can be too distant, no task too hard for him
whose joy it is to serve thee.

Leonore. Alas! I know not. I dare not seek my home while Count Rodolpho
is my foe; my servants would be bribed,--they would betray me, and thou
wouldst not be there to save. Adrian, I have no friend but thee. Oh,
pity and protect me!

Adrian. Most gladly will I, dearest lady. Thou canst never know the joy
thy confidence hath wakened in my heart. I will save and guard thee with
my life. I will guide thee to a peaceful home where no danger can
approach, and only friends surround thee. Thy Louis dwelt there once,
and safely mayst thou rest till danger shall be past. Will this please
thee?

Leonore. Oh, Adrian, thou kind, true friend, how can I tell my
gratitude, and where find truer rest than in his home, where gentle
memories of him will lighten grief. Then take me there, and I will prove
my gratitude by woman's fondest friendship, and my life-long trust.

Adrian. Thanks, dear lady. I need no other recompense than the joy 'tis
in my power to give thee. I will watch faithfully above thee, and when
thou needest me no more, I'll leave thee to the happiness thy gentle
heart so well deserves. Now rest, while I seek out old Norna, and
prepare all for our flight. The way we have to tread is long and weary.
Rest thee, dear lady.

Leonore. Adieu, dear friend. I will await thee ready for our pilgrimage,
and think not I shall fail or falter, though the path be long, and
dangers gather round us. I shall not fear, for thou wilt be there. God
bless thee, Adrian.

                                                             [Tableau.

                                CURTAIN.


                             SCENE TWELFTH.

                    [Room in the castle of Louis.
                    Leonore singing to her lute.]

    The weary bird mid stormy skies,
      Flies home to her quiet nest,
    And 'mid the faithful ones she loves,
      Finds shelter and sweet rest.

    And thou, my heart, like to tired bird,
      Hath found a peaceful home,
    Where love's soft sunlight gently falls,
      And sorrow cannot come.

Leonore. 'Tis strange that I can sing, but in this peaceful home my
sorrow seems to change to deep and quiet joy. Louis seems ever near, and
Adrian's silent acts of tenderness beguile my solitary hours, and daily
grow more dear to me. He guards me day and night, seeking to meet my
slightest wish, and gather round me all I hold most dear. [Enter a
Page.] Angelo, what wouldst thou?

Page. My master bid me bring these flowers and crave thee to accept them
lady.

Leonore. Bear him my thanks, and tell him that his gift is truly
welcome. [Exit Page.] These are the blossoms he was gathering but now
upon the balcony; he hath sent the sweetest and the fairest [a letter
falls from the nosegay]. But what is here? He hath never sent me aught
like this before [opens and reads the letter].

    Dearest Lady,--Wilt thou pardon the bold words I here address
    to thee, and forgive me if I grieve one on whom I would bestow
    only the truest joy. In giving peace to thy heart I have lost
    mine own. I was thy guide and comforter, and soon, unknown to
    thee, thy lover. I love thee, Leonore, fondly and truly; and
    here I ask, wilt thou accept the offering of a heart that will
    forever cherish thee. If thou canst grant this blessed boon,
    fling from the casement the white rose I send thee; but if thou
    canst not accept my love, forgive me for avowing it, and drop
    the cypress bough I have twined about the rose. I will not pain
    thee to refuse in words,--the mournful token is enough. Ask
    thine own heart if thou, who hast loved Louis, can feel aught
    save friendship for the unknown, nameless stranger, who through
    life and death is ever
        Thy loving                                       Adrian.

Oh, how shall I reply to this,--how blight a love so tender and so true?
I have longed to show my gratitude, to prove how I have revered this
noble friend. The hour has come when I may make his happiness, and prove
my trust. And yet my heart belongs to Louis, and I cannot love another.
Adrian was his friend; he loved him, and confided me to him. Nobly hath
he fulfilled that trust, and where could I find a truer friend than he
who hath saved me from danger and from death, and now gives me the power
to gladden and to bless his life. Adrian, if thou wilt accept a sister's
love and friendship, they shall be thine. Louis, forgive me if I wrong
thee; for though I yield my hand, my heart is thine forever. This rose,
Adrian, to thee; this mournful cypress shall be mine in memory of my
blighted hopes [goes to the window and looks out]. See! he is
waiting yonder by the fountain for the token that shall bring him joy or
sorrow. Thou noble friend, thy brave, true heart shall grieve no longer,
for thus will Leonore repay the debt of gratitude she owes thee [flings
the rose from the window]. He hath placed it in his bosom, and is
coming hither to pour forth his thanks for the poor gift bestowed. I
will tell him all, and if he will accept, then I am his.

                                        [Enter Adrian with the rose.

Adrian. Dear lady, how can I tell thee the joy thou hast given me. This
