Mrs. Wilson studied the pale little face. It had a curious waxen
whiteness like a camellia. The eyes were large and wistful, but shining
in tender gratitude; the brows were finely pencilled; the hair was
growing to more of a chestnut tint, and curled loosely about her
forehead. She was strangely pretty now, with the pathetic beauty that
touches one’s heart.
“Tell yer wot, Dil, us fellers’ll chip in an’ save up a bit ’n’ send
youse off to the country like the ’ristocrockery. You don’t happen to
know of some nice, cheapish place?” and Patsey glanced questioningly at
the visitor.
“There are very nice places where it doesn’t cost anything. Country
people often take children for a fortnight or so. My daughters went to a
beautiful seaside place last summer that a rich lady fitted up for
clerks and shop-girls. Of course they are older than you, young ladies,
but—let me think a bit—”
Mrs. Wilson had never known much besides poverty. Youth, married life,
and widowhood had been a struggle. She hired the whole front house, and
rented furnished rooms to young men whose incomes would not afford
luxurious accommodations. Her sister was in poor health; her two girls
were in stores. Her son, who should have been her mainstay and comfort,
was in an insane asylum, the result of drink and excesses.
“I can’t remember, but I must have heard my girls talking about places
where they take ‘little mothers,’—the children who tend babies, and give
them a lovely holiday in a beautiful country place, where they can run
about the green fields and pick flowers and play and sing, or sit about
and have nothing to do. I will try to learn something about them.”
“I don’t b’leve I could go ’way,” said Dil, with soft-toned
doubtfulness.
“I wish you’d talk her out’n havin’ any babies. She ain’t no ways strong
’nuff. An’ we boys kin take keer o’ her. She airns her livin’ over ’n’
over agin. She’s had ’nuff to do wid kids all her life,” protested her
champion.
“But Nelly’s so sweet, and ’companies me so much,” Dil said longingly.
“But you orter be chirkin’ up a bit, ’stead er gittin’ so thin, an’
faintin’. ’Twas nawful, Dil. You looked jes’ ’s if youse wos dead.”
“It didn’t hurt any, Patsey;” and she smiled over to him. "’Twas queer
like ’s if all the bells in the world was ringin’ soft an’ sweet, an’
then you went sailin’ off. ’Twas worse when I went to ketch my breath
afterward. But I’m all right now.”
She glanced up smilingly to Mrs. Wilson, who took the soft little hands
in hers, for soft they were in spite of the hard work they had done.
Patsey had whisked the table up to the side of the room and brushed up
the crumbs. Then he sat down and watched Dil.
Mrs. Wilson said she must go in home, but she would run over in the
morning. Patsey expressed his thanks in a frank, boyish manner, and
Dil’s eyes said at least half of hers.
Then Mrs. Brian and her husband returned, and she stopped to hear what
kind of a picnic they had had. Between the three they told all the story
and the fright.
“Yes; she must give up all but Nelly, for her mother wouldn’t know how
to stand it on such a short notice. The child achilly cries for you on
Sundays, her mother told me. But we can’t have you killed for any babies
in the land,” said Mrs. Brian emphatically.
“That’s the talk!” exclaimed Patsey.
“Why, I feel jes’ as well as ever, an’ all rested like,” and Dil sat up,
smiling. “We walked so much to-day, but to-morrow I’ll be all right.”
She seemed quite right the next morning. When Mrs. Brian’s “man” had
gone, she came in and helped Dil with the breakfast things. Mrs. Cairns
would leave her baby for the half-day, and Nelly came. Mrs. Wilson
looked in upon her, with a bit of sewing in her hand. Dil did not try to
do anything besides entertain the little ones. How sweet and naturally
she did it!
But she was so tired she lay on the lounge a long while in the
afternoon. Nelly played about, and talked in her pretty broken fashion.
Dil dreamed of the vision she had seen.
About five Mrs. Wilson came in, her thin face lighted with eagerness.
“I must tell you something quite delightful,” she began. “I sew for
several ladies; and one of them, a Miss Lawrence, came in about an hour
ago. She’s interested in several charities, and I asked her about the
places where they sent poor tired children to recruit. My dear, she is
on the committee of a society; and they have a beautiful large
country-house, where they can take in from twenty to thirty children.
There’s a housekeeper and nurses, and different young ladies go up to
stay a week or two at a time. They read to the children, and take them
out in the woods, and help them at playing games; and there are music
and singing, and great shady trees to sit under, and a barn full of
new-mown hay, where they can play and tumble. Why, it made me wish I was
a little girl!”
Mrs. Wilson put her hand on her side, for she had talked herself out of
breath.
Dil’s eyes shone with delight. She could see it all in a vivid manner.
“Miss Lawrence couldn’t stay to-day; but she is coming to-morrow
morning, and wants to see you. She was so interested in the way all you
children are living here. She’s a lovely woman; and if there were more
like her, who were willing to pay fair prices for work, the poor would
be much the gainer.”
“You’re so good to me! Everybody is now,” said the child gratefully.
Dil thought she hadn’t done much of anything that day, but she was
really afraid to tell Patsey how tired she felt. He would wash up the
dishes.
“That’ll be jes’ the daisy, Dil!” he said, when he heard about Miss
Lawrence. “You want some country air, an’—an’ reel fresh country milk.
An’ don’t you worry. We’ll git along. You jes’ go an’ hev a good time.”
Oh, could she go to such a blessed place—like Central Park all the time?
She was quite shy and embarrassed when Miss Lawrence called. A large,
pleasant-looking woman, with indications of wealth and refinement that
Dil felt at once, and she seemed so much farther away than Mrs. Wilson.
But she questioned Dil very gently, and drew her out with a rare art.
The pale face and evident weakness appealed to her,—seemed, indeed, to
call for immediate attention.
“I shall put you on our next week’s list,” Miss Lawrence said with
gracious interest. “If any one ever earned a rest, I think you have. And
I will come in to-morrow evening and talk it over with your brother and
the boys.”
The “boys” made themselves scarce, except Patsey and Owen, although
Shorty went and sat on Mrs. Brian’s stoop. But Miss Lawrence had seen
boys before, and even ventured on a dainty bit of slang that won Patsey
at once. He was eager for Dil to go and get some red cheeks like Owen.
It didn’t seem as if the two could be brother and sister.
If Miss Lawrence had seen the sleeping accommodations she would have
been more than shocked; and yet there were hundreds in the city not as
well housed, and few of the real poor as tidily kept.
“It would be jes’ lovely to go,” admitted Dil, with curious reluctance.
“But a whole week!”
“Two weeks!” almost shouted Patsey. “An’ youse’ll come home so fat wid
de new milk an’ all, yer clo’es won’t fit yer. We’ll jes’ hev to make an
auction an’ sell em’ second-hand.”
“An’ take half the money an buy her some new ones,” said Owen with a
laugh. “T’other half we’ll put in the bank.”
Shorty had come sneaking back, and joined in the merriment.
“’N’ I kin cook purty good, ’n’ wash dishes,” began Patsey, when Dil
interrupted,—
“Oh, you will be careful of thim, won’t you?”
“Careful! I’ll treat ’em as if they was aiggs. An’ I’ll make the boys
stan’ roun’, so’s to keep the house—well—decent!” and he made a funny,
meaning face. “Je-ru-sa-lem! what a hole we had when youse come! An’ now
it’s like a pallis.”
Not like the palace Dil remembered in the book that had been such a
treat to her and Bess.
Everybody made it easy for Dil. Mrs. Brian would see to the boys, and
Mrs. Wilson offered to keep Nelly until her return. Still, it was Friday
before Dil could really make up her mind.
On Saturday Dil took Nelly and went up to Madison Square. The policeman
kept out of her way; he could not bear to face her look of
disappointment. But just at the last she took him inadvertently.
“You see, I’m sure he’ll come soon,” she said with a confidence that
seemed like a presentiment. “’Cause he’ll be thinkin’ ’bout the Sat’day
he made the picture of Bess an’ me. An’ I want him to know where I’ve
gone; so I’ve writ it out. I’ve been studyin’ writin’.”
“She looks like a ghost,” the man said to himself as his eyes followed
her. “She’s that changed in a year no one would know her except for her
eyes. If he don’t come soon, he won’t see her at all, to my thinking.
Hillo! what a scheme! I’ll hunt him up. Why didn’t I think of it before!
John Travis! Seems to me I’ve heard something about John Travis.”
Sunday was a soft, cloudy day, with a touch of rain. Every boy stayed at
home—you couldn’t have driven them away. They promised to give Mrs.
Brian the rent every night, so as to be provided for next Monday. They
sang some of their prettiest songs for her; they didn’t know many hymns,
but they had a spirit of tenderest devotion in their hearts.
The boys said good-by to her the next morning in a rather sober fashion.
Patsey and Owen were going to take her to the ferry. Mrs. Brian brought
down her satchel, and Dil put in her white dress, some aprons, and
various small matters. She was to wear her best pink gingham. Mrs.
Wilson was full of hope, Mrs. Brian extremely jolly, and was sure Barnum
would want her for a “fat girl” when she came back.
Dil’s similitudes were very limited, but Cinderella and the fairy
godmother did come into her mind.
Miss Lawrence was in the waiting-room with half a dozen girls. She came
and greeted Dil cordially, and told her she looked better already. The
child’s eyes brightened with a sunny light.
Owen said good-by in a boy’s awkward fashion, and gave her the bag.
Patsey was reluctant, and he turned slowly away.
Then he came back.
“Good-by, Dil, dear,” he said again with deep tenderness as he stooped
to kiss her. He was so much taller, though only a few months older. And
always Patsey Muldoon was glad he came back for that kiss.
Then Miss Lawrence bought tickets and ushered her small procession, nine
of them now, through the narrow way and out on the boat. They huddled
together at first like a flock of sheep. Dil noticed one little
hump-backed girl, who had large, light eyes and golden hair in ringlets.
She was not like Bess, and yet she moved Dil’s sympathetic heart. Had a
drunken father “hurted her”?
She felt shy of the others, they all seemed in such spirits. As they
were going off the boat, she drew nearer the unfortunate child and
longed to speak.
An impudent leer crossed the other face.
“Who yer lookin’ at? Mind yer own biz. I’m jes’ as good as youse!” was
the unexpected salutation.
“Yes,” answered Dil meekly, her enthusiastic pity quenched.
Dil’s seat was in the window end, and her companion a stolid little
