less, for her sorrowful bewilderment as to the exact cause of this, the
first quarrel.
CHAPTER II.
SOME women and many men are compounded and shaped into sentient beings
without the infusion of so much as a pennyweight of tact.
Many women and a few men combine with this deficiency—which is, in
itself, a deformity—a fatal facility for saying exactly the wrong thing
when the wrong thing will do most harm.
Miss Marvel had taken all the honors in this line which native bias and
feminine fussiness could win, and she wove a new spray into her laurel
wreath one day in the March succeeding the winter in which Barton Ashe
and Agnes Welles were made one—in law and gospel.
The morrow would be his wife’s birthday, and Barton had in his breast
pocket a tiny box containing a sapphire ring for her, when he arose
to resign his seat in the street car to the dashing spinster, whom he
recognized as soon as she entered. He had never seen her since his
wedding eve, but she was not a woman to be forgotten or overlooked.
She was in great force to-day, gorgeously appareled and flushed beyond
high-rouge mark by three hours at a literary breakfast, given at
Delmonico’s to a distinguished foreigner.
“I am surcharged with electric thought,” she confided to Mr. Ashe when
she had taken the vacated place with a cavalier nod that might mean
“Thanks,” or “That’s only decent, my good man.”
“Ah!” said Barton, in naïve wonderment, for the want of anything else
to say.
“Surcharged! bristling! I could fancy that at the approach of the
negative pole I should crackle and emit sparkles like a brisk battery.
Such a feast of intellect! such flow of soul! such scintillating wit!
Three hours of such intercourse were worth ten—a thousand cycles of
Cathay. Our guest was superb! such dignity and such graciousness of
affability as can only coexist in an Old World product.”
She spoke loudly, after the manner of the New World product (genus
homo, feminine gender). Several solid men peered at her around or over
the evening papers. Two giddy girls, who had taken without thanks or
scruples seats from weary men, smiled undisguisedly. Barton, standing
in the aisle, holding on by the strap, his knees abraded by the jet
passementerie of Miss Marvel’s velvet skirt, could not budge an inch.
He must hear and, hearing, essay reply of some sort. “Ah!” albeit the
safest and most commodious monosyllable in the language, cannot go on
forever.
“The lunch was largely attended, I suppose?” he ventured in tones
studiously lowered.
“By every woman in New York who is worth the notice of an intelligent
being. With one distinguished exception. Mrs. Ashe’s absence was the
occasion of universal regret. As a well-wisher let me warn you that you
may be mobbed some day for your unconscionable cruelty to the highest
order of created things; for imprisoning the eagle and stilling the
song of the lark. At least fifty people asked me to-day why Agnes
Welles had disappeared from the literary firmament. For one and all, I
had one and the same reply. ‘She has taken the bridal veil,’ I said,
tears in eyes and voice. ‘In consequence of that piece of barbarity,
and for no other cause, the places that once knew her know her no
more.’ One woman—I won’t divulge her name, lest you should hate
her—said she ‘should as soon think of chaining a thrush to the leg of
a kitchen chair as of obliging that glorious young thing to resign her
Heaven-appointed mission for the position of caterer, housekeeper, and
seamstress.’ I shall work that bon mot into my next literary letter
to the Boston Globe. Another delightfully satirical creature advised
me to take up the cause of ‘Great Women Married to Small Men,’ in my
next series of papers upon ‘Unconsidered Wrongs of Our Sex.’ You see
the reputation you are earning for yourself with the powers that be!”
Barton Ashe was a sensible man, well educated and well bred. Under
favoring circumstances, as when inspired by the society of his wife
and her loving appreciation, he was quick with repartee and apt at
fence even with a wordy woman. Under the present onslaught he was
furious and dumb. Had a man insulted him, and less grossly, he would
have knocked him down or given him his card and demanded a meeting
elsewhere. This berouged and bedizened old maid compromised him in the
eyes of solid men and giddy girls by entering into conversation with
him at all. Each shrill word was a prickle in a pore of his mental
cuticle. She advertised his wife as one of her kind, arraigned him as
despot and churl, menaced him with public exposure, and posed as Agnes’
champion against the oppressor on whose side was the power of law and
tradition—made him ridiculous to all within the sound of her brazen
tongue—and he was powerless.
He did the only thing possible to a man calling himself a gentleman,
when baited to desperation in a public place by a woman who passes for
a lady—he lifted his hat silently and pulled the strap to stop the car.
Other passengers than Miss Marvel marked the dark face and blazing
eyes, and curious regards wandered back to the offender, smiling to
herself at this new proof of her ability to, in her favorite phrase,
“drive a poisoned needle under a man’s fifth rib.”
“Great Women Married To Small Men!”
The most offensive count in the unanswered indictment seemed to be
flung after him by the shrieking March wind. Until this moment of
intensest exasperation he had never consciously compared himself
mentally with his wife. That spiritually she was purer and better he
was ever ready to admit. The gallant alacrity with which men yield the
palm of virtue and piety to women may be due to the candor of real
greatness, but a keen student of human contrarieties is excusable for
likening it, sometimes, to the ostentatious generosity of the child who
surrenders to a playfellow the wholesome “cookey,” while he holds fast
to the plum cake for his own delectation.
“Great” and “Small” were explicit terms that threw our hero upon the
hostile-defensive. Agnes was a pearl among women, as good, true, and
sweet as any man need covet for a lifelong companion. She kept his
house well and his home bright, her sympathies were ready, her love
was poured out upon him in unstinted measure, she studied his tastes,
humored his few foibles, in brief, filled his life, or so much of it as
she could reach, most satisfactorily. Her mind was fairly stocked with
miscellaneous information; she had remarkable facility in composition
and graceful fancies, and, above all, the happy knack of saying, in a
telling way, things people cared to hear. Being in “the literary ring,”
she had secured a respectable audience, and, being a tactful woman,
she had kept it.
“Great,” she was not, in any sense of the word, except according to the
perverted standard of the “Club” gang, the mutual-admiration circle,
with whom every poetaster was a Browning, and the writer of turgid
essays a Carlyle or Emerson.
He gave a scornful snort in repeating the adjective. Agnes would be
the first to deprecate the application of it to herself. Yet—if she
had not invited the commendation of the Précieuses ridicules—had her
name never been bandied from mouth to mouth in public, the antithetical
“small” had never been fitted to him. Husband and wife were in false
positions. That was clear—and galling. Almost as clear, and harder to
endure, was his conviction that the situation could not be altered for
the better.
He had not made up his mind to graceful acceptance of the inevitable
when he fitted the latchkey in the door of his own house.
The popular impression as to the housewifery of pen-wrights had no
confirmation within the modest domicile of which Agnes Ashe was the
presiding genius. During her mother’s protracted invalidism and her own
betrothal she had studied domestic economy, including cookery, with
the just regard to system and thoroughness that made her successful in
her other profession of authorship. Her computations were correct and
her methods dainty. She deserved the more honor for all this because
she was not naturally fond of household occupations. If she reduced
dusting to a fine art, mixing and baking to an exact science, it was
conscientiously, not with love for the duties themselves.
Once, when praised for excellent housekeeping by a friend in her
husband’s hearing, her native sincerity made her say:
“You are mistaken in supposing that the drudgery connected with
home-making is easy or pleasant to me. If I did not feel it my duty
to go into the kitchen sometimes, and to arrange rooms, I doubt if I
should ever do either. Nor am I fond of sewing.”
“Yet your needle-work is exquisitely neat,” said the surprised visitor.
“Because I hold myself to the necessity of doing well what I undertake.
It is all business, not delight.”
After the visitor had gone, Barton gave a gentle and needful caution.
“Don’t talk in that way to acquaintances, dear,” he said. “I don’t want
people to report that your tastes are unfeminine.”
“Surely there are other feminine tastes besides love for needle,
broom, and egg-beater?” Agnes protested, no less gently. “Why should
every woman be proficient in baking, when every man is not compelled
to learn book-keeping? I am faithful in the discharge of domestic
duties because I love you and consider your happiness rather than
selfish ease. I love my home, and to enjoy the effect of clean, orderly
rooms and well-served meals, I am willing to perform tasks for which
I have no real liking. The game is well worth the candle—a good many
waxlights, in fact—but I question if you, for example, really like to
draw up conveyances and make searches.”
“Illustration is not argument,” said Barton dryly. “You are undeniably
a clever woman, my love, but your reasoning would hardly convince a
jury. Women’s efforts in that direction are what we style ‘special
pleading.’”
This talk was held two months ago. Agnes knew better, by now, than
to attempt argument with him, and his love grew apace because of the
forbearance he mistook for conviction of his ability to direct thought
with action. She was the dearer for being dutiful. The docility with
which she listened to his dicta, never betraying a suspicion that they
were dogmas, won him to forgetfulness of the circumstance that she was
his senior by six years and a blue-stocking.
She was in the front hall when he got home to-night, receiving the
adieu of a spectacled personage whom she introduced as “Mr. Rowland of
Boston.”
“Charmed, I am sure,” said the stranger airily. “The more that I am
positive of enlisting Mr. Ashe’s powerful interest upon my side, and
that of the book-loving public. If Mrs. Ashe will pardon the additional
trespass upon her time, I should like to explain to you, my dear sir,
the nature of my petition to her, and now to yourself.”
They returned to the parlor, and he had his say. It was succinct
and comprehensive. He wished to engage Mrs. Ashe to write one of a
projected series of popular novels. Her coadjutors would be authors of
repute; the programme was attractive and must take immensely with the
best class of readers. His terms were liberal.
In any other mood than that for which Miss Marvel was chiefly
responsible, even a prejudiced man must have been gratified by the
compliment to his wife implied in the application. It acted upon
the chafed surface of husbandly vanity and dignity like moral aqua
fortis. Barton listened with lowering brow and compressed lips while
