it; it was my partner, in fact, Mr. Willoughby. I told him that it was
for a young lady. That's his taste, I suppose."

"The taste is perfect," said Miss Billy. For poor Miss Billy, browbeaten
though she was by almost everybody, possessed a very delicate and true
perception in all such matters.

"I have been perfectly happy ever since it came," Ruth declared, as
she took the ring, slipped it on her finger, and looked at the effect.

"You make me proud, Miss Ruth."

"Don't you want to be a little prouder?" and she came up to him
coaxingly. "I am sure Genevieve has been asking you to go with her to
the Colored Home?" This quick guess made Chase laugh. "For it is the
weekly reception day, and all her old women have on their clean turbans.
The Colored Home is excellent, of course, but it won't fly away;
there'll be more clean turbans next week. Meanwhile, I have something
very pressing. I have long wanted Miss Mackintosh to make a bust of
Petie Trone, Esq. And she won't, because she thinks it is frivolous. But
if you will go with me, Mr. Chase, and speak of it as a fine thing to
do, she will be impressed, I know; for she has a sort of concealed
liking for you." Chase made a grimace. "I don't mean anything fiery,"
Ruth went on; "it's only a reasonable scientific interest. She is at the
barn now: won't you come? For Petie Trone, Esq., is not a young dog any
longer. He is more than eight years old," concluded the girl,
mournfully.

Genevieve, who had been greatly struck by the ring, glanced at Chase
with inward despair, as her sister-in-law made this ineffective
conclusion. They had left the dairy, and were standing in the garden,
and her despair renewed itself as, in the brighter light, she noted
Ruth's faded dress, and the battered garden hat, whose half-detached
feather had been temporarily secured with a large white pin.

But Chase was not looking at the hat. "Of course I'll go," he answered.
"We'll have the little scamp in bronze, if you like. Don't worry about
his age, Miss Ruth; he is so tremendously lively that he will see us all
out yet."

"Come, then," said Ruth, exultingly. She linked her arm in Miss Billy's.
"You must go, too, Miss Billy, so that you can tell mother that I did
not tease Mr. Chase too hard."

Maud Muriel's studio was in an unused hay-barn. Here, ranged on rough
shelves, were her "works," as Miss Billy called them--many studies of
arms, and hands, and a dozen finished portrait-busts in clay. The
subjects of the busts appeared to have been selected, one and all, for
their strictly commonplace aspect; they had not even the distinction of
ugliness. There were three old men with ordinary features, and no marked
expression of any kind; there were six middle-aged women, each with the
type of face which one forgets the moment after seeing it; and there
were three uncompromisingly uninteresting little boys. The modelling was
conscientious, and it was evident in each case that the likeness was
faithful.

"But Petie Trone, Esq., is a pretty dog," objected the sculptress,
when Ruth had made her request, backed up by Chase, who described the
"dogs and animals of all sorts" which he had seen in bronze and marble
in the galleries abroad. No one laughed, as the formal title came out
from Maud's lips, Asheville had long ago accepted the name; Petie Trone,
Esq., was as well known as Mount Pisgah.

"Don't you like pretty things?" Chase asked, gazing at the busts, and
then at the studies of arms and hands--scraggy arms with sharp elbows
and thin fingers, withered old arms with clawlike phalanges, lean arms
of growing boys with hands like paws, hard-worked arms with distorted
muscles--every and any human arm and hand save a beautiful one.

"Prettiness is the exception, not the rule," replied Maud, with
decision. "I prefer to model the usual, the average; for in that
direction, and in that only, lies truth."

"Yes; and I suppose that if I should make a usual cur of Petie Trone,
Esq., cover him with average mud, and beat him so that he would cower
and slink in his poor little tail, then you would do him?" said Ruth,
indignantly.

"See here, Miss Mackintosh, your principles needn't be upset by one
small dog. Come, do him; not his bust, but the whole of him. A
life-sized statue," added Chase, laughing; "he must be about eleven
inches long! Do him for me," he went on, boldly, looking at her with
secret amusement; for he had never seen such an oaken bearing as that of
this Asheville spinster.

Maud Muriel did not relax the tension of her muscles; in fact, she could
not. The condition called "clinched," which with most persons is
occasional only, had with her become chronic. Nevertheless, somehow, she
consented.

"I'll get the darling this minute," cried Ruth, hurrying out. And Chase
followed her.

"Well, here you are again! What did I tell you?" said the sculptress to
Miss Billy, when they were left alone.

"I did not mean to come, Maud Muriel. I really did not intend--" Billy
began.

"What place, Wilhelmina, is paved with good intentions? Now, of
course, we shall be going home with each other all the rest of the day!"
declared the sculptress, good-humoredly.

Meanwhile, outside, Ruth was suggesting to Horace Chase, coaxingly, that
he should wait until she could find her dog, and bring him to the barn.
"Because if you are not with me, Maud Muriel will be sure to change
her mind!"

"Not she. She is no more changeable than a telegraph pole. I am afraid I
must leave you now, Miss Ruth; for the men are waiting to see me about
the horses."

"Whose horses?"

"Mine."

"Did you send for them? Oh, I love horses too. Where are they?"

"At the Old North stables. So you like horses? I'll drive the pair
round, then, in a day or two, to show them to you." And after shaking
hands with her--Chase always shook hands--he went towards the village;
for Maud Muriel's barn was on the outskirts. In figure he was tall,
thin, and muscular. He never appeared to be in haste; all his movements
were leisurely, even his words coming out with deliberation. His voice
was pitched in a low key; his articulation was extremely distinct;
sometimes, when amused, he had a slight humorous drawl.

Ruth looked after him for a moment. Then she went in search of her dog.

A little later Anthony Etheridge paid his usual morning visit to the
post-office. On his return, when near his own abode, he met Horace
Chase.

"A mail in?" inquired Chase, quickly, as he saw the letters.

"No; they came last night. I am never in a hurry about mails,"
answered Etheridge. "You younger fellows have not learned, as I have,
that among every six letters, say, four at least are sure to be more or
less disagreeable. Well, have you decided? Are you coming to my place?"
For Etheridge had rooms in a private house, where he paid for a whole
wing in order that his night's rest should not be disturbed by other
tenants, who might perhaps bring in young children; with his usual
thriftiness, he had offered his lower floor to Chase.

"Well, no, I guess not; I'm thinking of coming here," Chase answered,
indicating the hotel near by with a backward turn of his thumb. "My
horses are here; they came last night. I'm making some arrangements for
them, now."

Anthony Etheridge cared more for a good horse than for anything else in
the world. In spite of his title of Commodore, sailing had only a second
place in his list of tastes. He had commanded a holiday squadron only, a
fleet of yachts. Some years before, he had resigned his commandership
in the Northern club. But he was still a commodore, almost in spite of
himself, for he had again been elected, this time by the winter yacht
club of St. Augustine. At the word "horses" his face had lighted up.
"Can I have a look at them?" he said, eagerly. "Did they stand the
journey well?"

"O. K. They're round in the stable, if you want to come."

The three horses were beautiful specimens of their kind. "The pair, I
intend to drive; I found that there was nothing in Asheville, and as I'm
going to stay awhile longer (for the air is bringing me right up), I had
to have something," Chase remarked. "The mare is for riding."

"She looks like a racer?"

"Well, she has taken one prize. But I shall never race her again; I
don't care about it. I remember when I thought a race just heaven! When
I wasn't more than nineteen, I took a prize with a trotter; 'twas a very
small race, to be sure; but a big thing to me. Not long after that,
there was another prize offered for a well-matched pair, and by that
time I had a pair--temporarily--bays. One of them, however, had a white
spot on his nose. Well, sir, I painted his nose, and won the premium!"
He broke into a laugh.

"Was that before you invented the Bubble Baking-powder?" inquired
Etheridge.

