
At her side Bancroft had abruptly surged. 
No one had heard him enter, and now the 
women turned, a trifle confused. 

But in the happiness of the moment Mrs. 
Smithwick forgot her dislike, and in little 
gulps she spluttered : 

" Myrrha is Lord Cloden, I mean. Oh, 
don't you understand ? They are they are 
engaged. " 

It was Bancroft's turn to step back. 

" Is it true, Myrrha ? " 

But the girl could have had no answer 
ready. She looked at him, then turned her 
head. 

" If it be true, Lord Cloden, I cannot 
very well congratulate you, for I had 
thought, God forgive me, that she was to 
be my wife." 

" Ah, indeed," murmured his lordship. 
" I can't very well express my regrets." 

The girl drew him to the window. 





" He did think so," she moaned. "What 
must he think of me now ? What must you 
think of me? What am I to do ? Girls 
don't go into nunneries any more, or I 
would. I would pass my life slaving for 
charity's sake. Tell me, what I am to do." 

In her perplexity she wrung her small 
hands, and she was at once so pretty and so 
miserable that the earl smiled. 

" You are an angel, Myrrha ; be satisfied 
with that. Don't try to be a saint ; it is a 
step backward." 



CHAPTER IV 

WHAT MAY BE READ IN THE PAPER 

AT the announcement of the engagement 
Bancroft had neither changed color nor 
fainted away, but the effect of the stab 
which Quain had dealt was but a vertigo in 
comparison. The love of his life had gone 
down in a trice ; he was as one who, falling 
asleep in Arcadia, awakes on the banks of 
the Styx. It was not alone that he loved, 
like many before and since he loved his 
love ; it was not only the girl, it was the 
hopes he had of her which made her to him 
what she was that little blue flower we call 
the ideal, for whose possession men balk the 
grave, barter life, and then marvel at its 
nothingness. It was that she was to him 
the goal of existence, beyond which happi- 
ness extends, and without which existence 
itself is idle. 





Men worthy of the name cannot eat three 
meals a day, however well served, with noth- 
ing but the morrow's repasts for a future. 
There is that in the human heart which 
makes aspirations and ambitions requisite to 
its pulsations ; there must be a chimera to 
pursue, even though we may suspect the 
chase to be futile, even though we have 
spelled from books of bronze that, quarried, 
the chimera massacres. 

A man who has no beliefs may be sin- 
cerely religious. Bancroft was, but his 
religion was the bella domia who had im- 
paradised his mind. It was for her he ate 
the three meals a day, went downtown, up- 
town, and read the morning papers. Devo- 
tion may be what we accept from others, 
yet it was what he gave to her, regretting 
only that it was not more to give, convulsed 
as by a spasm merely at thought of her lithe 
white arms. Nothing, no guerdon, no crown 
could equal the possibility of their embrace. 
And just when he seemed about to intercept 
the gleam of a coming day in which that 





sweetness might be his; at the moment when 
almost within his grasp glowed that flower 
for which for two years, ignored, rebuffed, 
subjugated yet never despairful, ceaselessly 
he had striven, it was as though he stood 
face to face with death to see it snatched 
from his hand by another. 

Cloden had declared himself the happiest 
man in the world. Bancroft said nothing, 
but he felt the most miserable. When he 
reached his room it was like entering a 
desert, and when he closed the door he 
wondered should he have the strength to 
leave it. 

Life is a song, but death is its refrain. 
And for a while the echo of that burden rip- 
pled harmoniously in his ears, as it has and 
will ripple in the ears of the strongest. The 
man who has never contemplated suicide 
has never loved ; and Bancroft loved so well 
that, at the first shock of the inevitable, 
suicide seemed the only solution, the one 
path to that peace which passes all under- 
standing. 





But to the soul that is sinking hope 
throws a straw. Mentally and physically 
his days had been far too actively employed 
to suffer him now more than a momentary 
contemplation of such a release. It went 
as it had come ; and at once, through the 
influence of that curious optimism which 
visits the condemned, one by one he began 
to review the chances of escape. So many 
presented themselves that when an hour 
had gone the man who sixty minutes before 
had been fumbling death was sound asleep. 
" Nos de"sespoirs sans fin," some one some- 
where has sagely said, " ne durent qu'un 
moment." 

But he slept with that wariness which 
dogs and lovers share, and he awoke, if 
not refreshed, at least alert. 

" I have seen that man before," he de- 
cided as he dressed. " But where ? " 

Then, mentally, he bolted at the eccen- 
tricity of his own thought. " I am daft," 
he told himself. But the thought remained, 
declining to be dismissed. 




Breakfast over he prowled about until an 
opportunity, which meanwhile he had deter- 
mined to seek, occurred. Myrrha went into 
the sitting-room ; he followed and locked 
the door. 

" Nobody can come in except through the 
window, and out of it any one who comes 
will go. Myrrha, I want ten minutes with 
