Bayard had been singularly gentle and patient with his tormentors
up to this moment. But now he gathered himself, and fought for his
life like a man. Brand after brand, the inventions of theology were
flung hissing upon him.

Did he believe that heathen, unacquainted with Christ, were saved?

What did he hold became of the souls of those who died in infancy?

If they happened to be born dead, what was their fate?

Explain his views on the doctrine of Justification by Faith.

State explicitly his conception of the Trinity. Had none? Ah--ah!

Were the three Persons in the Trinity separate as qualities or as
natures? Did not know? Ah--ah.

State the precise nature, province, and character of each Person.
Did not feel qualified to do so? Ha--hum.

What was the difference between Arianism and Socinianism?

Did the Son exist coördinate with, and yet subordinate to the
Father?

What is the distinction between the attributes and the faculties of
the Deity?

Did an impenitent person ever pray?

Describe the doctrine of Free Will.

Is a sinner ever able to repent, of his own choice?

Is he punished for not being able to do so?

Is the human race responsible for the guilt of Adam?

Why not?

Explain the process of sanctification, and the exact province of
the Holy Spirit.

Carefully elucidate your views on Total Depravity.

Could a man--did we understand you?--become regenerate without
waiting for the compelling action of the Holy Spirit?

Is there any Scriptural ground for belief in the possibility of a
second probation? What? Please repeat that reply.

Did not the first sin of a child justly expose him to eternal
punishment? What?

At this point in the trial, Bayard was acutely conscious of the
controlled voice of Professor Carruth, who had asked no question
up to that moment. Dear old Professor! he was trying to haul his
favorite student out of the fire before it was too late.

“But,” he asked gently, “is not one act of sin an infinite wrong?”

“I believe it is; or it may reasonably become so.”

“Is it not a wrong committed against an Infinite Being?”

“Yes, sir, it is.”

“Does not an infinite wrong committed against an Infinite Being
deserve an infinite punishment?” pleaded the Professor of Theology.

“You have taught me so, sir.”

A rustle swept the house. The stern face of the Professor melted in
its sudden, winning fashion. He drew in his breath. At least, the
reputation of the Department was secured!

“Do you not believe what you have been taught?”

“Professor,” said Bayard, smiling, “do you?”

It being well known that the now conservative Professor of Theology
had been the liberal and the progressive of his first youth, this
reply created a slight smile. But the Professor did not smile. The
crisis was too serious.

“The candidate does not deny the doctrine,” he urged. “He will
undoubtedly grow into it as other men have done before him.”

“Whether men are eternally damned”--began Bayard.

“Job,” whispered the Italian back by the door, “he swear at ’em!”

“No, he ain’t,” said the sober fellow. “It’s the way they talk in
churches.”

“What tongue is it they do speak?” persisted the Italian.

“Blamed if I know,” whispered Job Slip with unusual decorum. “I
think it’s High Dutch.”

“No, it ain’t; it’s Latin,” corrected the sober fellow. “I can make
out a word now and then. They translate parts as they go along.
It’s darn queer gibberish, ain’t it? I guess the natives used to
talk like that in Bible times.”

“All this row,” said Job Slip, whose befuddled brain was actively
busy with the personal fate of a minister who could knock him down,
“all this d---- row’s along of me. It’s because he was late to
meetin’!”

The Italian nodded seriously. But the girl in the reefer said:--

“Shut up there! The second round’s on, now.”

“Explain the difference between verbal and plenary inspiration,”
demanded the small clergyman in a small, suspicious voice.

“There! I said it was High Dutch!” whispered Job Slip
triumphantly.

“Explain the difference,” repeated the small clergyman.

The candidate explained.

“Is every word of the Old and New Testament of the Scriptures
equally inspired by Almighty God?”

“Please give me your definition of inspiration,” said Bayard,
wheeling upon his questioner.

The small clergyman objected that this was the candidate’s business.

“It is one of the maxims of civil law that definitions are
dangerous,” replied Bayard with a smile. But it was no time for
smiling, and he knew it. He parried for a little in the usual
technicalities of the schools; but it was without hope or interest.
He knew now how it would all end. But he was not conscious of a
moment’s hesitation. His soul seemed elate, remote from his fate.
He looked out across the lake of faces upturned to his. He had
now grown quite pale, and the natural fairness of his skin and
delicacy of his features added to the effect of transparence which
his high face gave. The dullest eye in the audience observed, and
the coldest lip long afterwards acknowledged, the remarkable beauty
of the man. With a sudden and impressive gesture of the hand, as
if he cast the whole merciless scene away from him, he stepped
unexpectedly forward, and in a ringing voice he said:--

“Fathers and brothers of the church! I believe in God Almighty,
Maker of heaven and earth. I believe in Jesus Christ his Son, our
Lord and Saviour. I believe in the sacredness and authority of the
Bible, which contains the lesson and the history of His life. I
believe in the guilt and the misery of sin, and I have spent the
best years of my youth in your institutions of sacred learning,
seeking to be taught how to teach my fellow-men to be better. I
solemnly believe in the Life Eternal, and that its happiness and
holiness are the gifts of Jesus Christ to the race; or to such of
us as prove fit survivors, capable of immortality. I do not presume
to explain how or why this is or may be so; for behold we are shown
mysteries, of which this is one. If I am permitted to guide the
people who have loved and chosen me, I expect to teach them many
truths which I do not understand. I shall teach them none which I
do not believe. Fathers and brothers, I show you my soul! Deal with
me as you will!”

He stood for a space, tall, white, still, with that look--half
angel, half human--which was peculiar to his face in moments of
exaltation. His dazzling eyes blazed for an instant upon his
tormentors, then fell upon his people and grew dim. He saw their
uplifted faces pleadingly turned to him: troubled men whom he
had been able to guide; bereaved women whom he had known how to
comfort. Oh, his people! Tears were on their cheeks. Their faces
swam before him. How dear, in those few months that he had served
them, they had grown! To stand disgraced before them, a stigma
on his Christian name forever, their faith deceived, their trust
disappointed,--his people, to be his no more!

“God!” he said in his heart. “Was there any other way?”

An instant’s darkness swept over him, and his soul staggered in it.
