"If they fire I shall leg it; so will the lordly 
Reginald; so will we all." 

Braith dug his hands into the pockets of his 
velveteens, and shook his head. 

"No," he said, "I've  got some work to do. 
So have you, Rex." 

"Come on, we're off," shouted Thaxton from 
the stairway. 





Clifford seized Gethryn's arm, Elliott and 
Rhodes crowded on behind. A small earthquake 
shock followed as the crowd of students launched 
itself down the. stairs. 

"Braith doesn't approve of my cutting the 
atelier so often," said Gethryn,"and he's right. 
I ought to have stayed." 

"Reggie going to back out?" cooed Clifford. 

"No," said Rex. "Here's Rhodes with a 
cab." 

"It's too hot to walk," gasped Rhodes. "I 
secured this. It was all I could get. Pile in." 

Rex sprang up beside the driver. 

"Aliens!" he cried, "to the Obelisk!" 

"But, monsieur " expostulated the cabby, "it 
is to-day the revolution. I dare not." 

"Go on, I tell you, "roared Rhodes. "Clifford, 
take his reins away if he refuses." 

Clifford made a snatch at them, but was repulsed by the indignant cabby. 

"Go on, do you hear?" shouted-the Colossus. 
The cabman looked at Gethryn. 

"Go on!" laughed Rex, "there is no danger." 

Jehu lifted his shoulders to the level of 
bis shiny hat, and giving the reins a jerk, 



 

muttered, "Crazy English! Heu heu Cocotte!" 

In twenty minutes they had arrived at the 
bridge opposite the Palais Bourbon. 

"By Jove!" said Gethryn, "look at that 
crowd! The Place de la Concorde is black with 
them!" 

The cab stopped with a jolt. Half a dozen 
policemen stepped into the street. Two seized 
the horses heads. 

"The bridge is forbidden to vehicles, gentlemen," they said, courteously. "To cross, one 
must descend." 

Clifford began to argua, but Elliott stopped 
him. 

"It's only a step," said he, paying the relieved 
-cabby. "Come ahead!" 

In a moment they were across the bridge, and 
pushing into the crowd, single file. 

"What a lot of troops and police!" said Elliott, panting as he elbowed his way through the 
dense masses. "I tell you, the mob are bent on 
mischief." 

The Place de la Concorde was packed and 
jammed with struggling, surging humanity. 





Pushed and crowded up to the second fountain, 
clinging in bunches to the Obelisk, overrunning 
the first fountain, and covering the pedestals 
of the "Cities of France," it heaved, shifted, 
undulated, like clusters of swarming ants. 

In the open space about the second fountain 
was the Prefect of the Seine, surrounded by a 
staff of officers. He looked worn and anxious, 
as he stood mopping the perspiration from his 
neck, and glancing nervously at his men, who 
were slowly and gently rolling back the mob. 
On the bridge, a battalion of red-legged soldiers lounged, leaning on their rifles. To the 
right were long lines of cavalry, in shining 
helmets and cuirasses. The men sat motionless 
in their saddles, their armor striking white fire 
in the fierce glow of the midday sun. Ever and 
anon the faint flutter of a distant bugle an 
nounced the approach of more regiments. 

Among the shrubbery of the Gardens, a glimmer of orange and blue betrayed the lurking 
presence of the Guards. Down the endless 
vistas of the double and quadruple rows of trees 
stretching out to the Arc, and up the Cour la 
Reine, long lines of scarlet were moving toward 



 

the central point, the Place de la Concorde. 
The horses of a squadron of hussars pawed and 
champed across the avenue, the men, in their 
pale blue jackets, presenting a cool relief to the 
universal glare. The Champs Elysees was deserted, excepting by troops. Not a civilian was 
to be seen on the bridge. In front of the Madeleine three points of fire blazed and winked in 
the sun. They were three cannon. 

Suddenly, over by the Obelisk, began a hoarse 
murmur, confused and dull at first, but growing 
louder, until it swelled into a deafening roar. 
"Long live Boulanger!" "Down with Ferry!" 
"Long live the Republic!" As the great wave 
of sound rose over the crowd, and broke sul 
lenly against the somber masses of the Palace 
of the Bourbons, a thin, shrill cry from the extreme right answered, "Vive la Commune!" 
Elliott laughed nervously. 

"They'll charge those howling Belleville an 
archists!" 

Clifford began, in pure deviltry, to whistle 
the Carmagnole. 

"Do you want to get us all into hot water?" 
whispered Thaxton. 





"Monsieur is of the Commune?" inquired a 
little man, suavely. 

And, the devil still prompting Clifford,  
answered: "Because I whistled the Carmag 
nole? Bah!" 

The man scowled. 

"Look here, my friend," said Clifford, "my 
political principles are yours, and I will be happy to drink at your expense." 

The other Americans exchanged looks, and 
Elliott tried to check Clifford's folly before it 
was too late. 

"Espion!" muttered the Frenchman, adding, 
a little louder, "Sale Allemand!" 

Gethryn looked up startled. 

"Keep cool," whispered Thaxton; "if they 
think we are Germans we're done for." 

Carleton glanced nervously about. "How 
they stare, "he whispered. "Their eyes pop out 
