We done it, and in another minute it was blow- 
ing a gale and the sand beat against us by the 
shovelful and the air was so thick with it we couldn't 
see a thing. In five minutes the boat was level 
full and we was setting on the lockers buried up to 
the chin in sand, and only our heads out, and could 
hardly breathe. 

Then the storm thinned, and we see that mon- 
strous wall go a-sailing off across the Desert, awful 
to look at, I tell you. We dug ourselves out and 
looked down, and where the caravan was before 
there wasn't anything but just the sand ocean now, 
and all still and quiet. All them people and camels 
was smothered and dead and buried — buried under 
ten foot of sand, we reckoned — and Tom allowed it 
might be years before the wind uncovered them, and 
all that time their friends wouldn't ever know what 
become of that caravan. Tom said : 

' Now we know what it was that happened to 
the people we got the swords and pistols from.' 

Yes, sir, that was just it. It was as plain as 
day now. They got buried in a sand-storm, and 
the wild animals couldn't get at them, and the wind 
never uncovered them again till they was dried to 
leather and warn't fit to eat. It seemed to me we 
had felt as sorry for them poor people as a person 
could for anybody, and as mournful too, but we 
was mistaken ; this last caravan's death went 
harder with us — a good deal harder. You see, the 
others was total strangers, and we never got to 
feeling acquainted with them at all, except, maybe, 
a little with the man that was watching the girl, 
but it was different with this last caravan. We 
was huvvering around them a whole night and 
'most a whole day, and had got to feeling real 
friendly with them, and acquainted. I have found 
out that there ain't no surer way to find out 
whether you like people or hate them than to travel 
with them. Just so with these. We kind of liked 
them from the start, and travelling with them put 
on the finisher. The longer we travelled with 

them, and the more we got used to their ways, the 
hetter and better we liked them and the gladder 
and gladder we was that we run across them. We 
had come to know some of them so well that we 
called them by name when we was talking about 
them, and soon got so familiar and sociable that 
we even dropped the Miss and the Mister and just 
used their plain names without any handle, and it 
did not seem unpolite, but just the right thing. 
Of course it wasn't their own names, but names we 
give them. There was Mr. Elexander Robinson 
and Miss Adaline Robinson, and Colonel Jacob 
McDougal, and Miss Harryet McDougal, and Judge 
Jeremiah Butler and Young Bushred Butler — and 
these was big chiefs, mostly, that wore splendid 
great turbans and simmeters and dressed like 
the Grand Mogul— and their families. But as 
soon as we come to know them good, and like 
them very much, it warn't Mister, nor Judge, 
nor nothing, any more, but only Elleck, and 
Addy, and Jake, and Hattie, and Jerry, and Buck, 
and so on. 

And, you know, the more you join in with people 
in their joys and their sorrows, the more nearer 
and dearer they come to be to you. Now, we warn't 
cold and indifferent, the way most travellers is — we 
was right down friendly and sociable, and took a 
chance in everything that was going ; and the cara- 
van could depend on us to be on hand every time, 
it didn't make no difference what it was. 

When they camped, we camped right over them, 
ten or twelve hundred foot up in the air. When they 
et a meal, we et ourn, and it made it ever so much 
homeliker to have their .company. WTien they had 
a wedding, that night, and Buck and Addy got 
married, we got ourselves up in the very starchiest 
of the professor's duds for the blow-out ; and when 
they danced we j'ined in and shook a foot up 
there. 

But it is sorrow and trouble that brings you the 
nearest, and it was a funeral that done it with us. 
It was next morning, just in the still dawn. We 
didn't know the diseased, and he warn't in our set, 
but that never made no difference— he belonged to 
the caravan, and that was enough ; and there warn't 
no more sincerer tears shed over him than the 
ones we dripped on him from up there eleven hun- 
dred feet on high. 

Yes, parting with this caravan was much more 
bitterer than it was to part with them others, which 
was comparative strangers, and been dead so long, 
anyway. We had knowed these in their lives, and 
was fond of them, too, and now to have death 
snatch them from right before our faces whilst we 
was looking, and leave us so lonesome and friend- 
less in the middle of that big Desert, it did hurt so, 
and we wished we mightn't ever make any more 
friends on that voyage if we was going to lose them 
again like that. 

We couldn't keep from talking about them, and 
they was all the time coming up in our memory, 
and looking just the way they looked when we was 
all alive and happy together. We could see the 
line marching, and the shiny spearheads a- winking 
in the sun, we could see the dromedaries lumbering 
along, we could see the wedding and the funeral, 
and more oftener than anything else we could see 
them praying, because they don't allow nothing to 
prevent that : whenever the call came, several times 
a day, they would stop right there, and stand up 
and face the east and lift back their heads, and 
spread out their arms and begin, and four or five 
times they would go down on their knees, and then 
fall forwards and touch their forehead to the 
ground. 

Well, it warn't good to go on talking about 
them, lovely as they was in their life, and dear to 
us in their life and death both, because it didn't do 
no good, and made us too down-hearted. Jim 
allowed he was going to live as good a life as he 
could, so he could see them again in a better world ; 
and Tom kept still and didn't tell him they was 
only Mohammedans — it warn't no use to disappoint 
him, he was feeling bad enough just as it was. 

When we woke up next morning we was feeling 
a little cheerfuller, and had had a most powerful 
good sleep, because sand is the comfortablest bed 
there is, and I don't see why people that can afford 
it don't have ' it more. And it's terrible good 
ballast, too ; I never see the balloon so steady 
before. 

Tom allowed we had twenty tons of it, and 
wondered what we better do with it ; it was good 
sand, and it didn't seem good sense to throw it 
away. Jim says : 

' Mars Tom, can't we tote it back home en sell 
it ? How long'll it take ? ' 

' Depends on the way we go.' 

' Well, sah, she's wuth a quarter of a dollar a 
load at home, en I reckon we's got as much as 
twenty loads, hain't we ? How much would dat 
be?' 

' Five dollars.' 

' By jings, Mars Tom, le's shove for home right 
on de spot ! Hit's more'n a dollar en a half apiece, 
hain't it ? ' 

'Yes.' 

' Well, ef dat ain't makin' money de easiest 
ever I struck ! She jes' rained in — never cos' us a 
lick o' work. Le's mosey right along, Mars Tom.' 

But Tom was thinking and ciphering away so 
busy and excited he never heard him. Pretty soon 
he says : 

' Five dollars — sho ! Look here, this sand's 
worth— worth — why, it's worth no end of money.' 

' How is dat, Mars Tom ? Go on, honey, go 
on!' 
