ual occupation was reporting sports, and who had 
a dun idea that every big will must be contested. 

Necessarily the affair made a great deal of talk. 
The newspapers discussed it for days, and turned 
over the scheme in every light, the most saying 
that it was a noble gift to the city that had been 
intended, while only one or two doubted if chari- 
ty institutions of this sort really helped the poor. 
Regret, of course, was expressed that the second 
will had never been executed, but with this regret 
was the confidence that the widow would carry 
out, eventually, Henderson's plans. 

This revelation modified the opinion in regard 
to Henderson. He came to be regarded as a public 
benefactor, and his faithful wife shared the credit 
of his noble intention. 



CHAPTER XXI 

WAITING for something to turn up, Jack found a 
weary business. He had written to Mavick after 
the newspaper report that that government officer 
had been in the city on Henderson's affairs, and 
had received a very civil and unsatisfactory reply. 
In the note Mavick had asked him to come to 
Washington and spend a little time, if he had noth- 
ing better on hand, as his guest. Perhaps no of- 
fence was intended, but the reply enraged Jack. 
There was in the tone of the letter and in the 
manner of the invitation a note of patronage that 
was unendurable. 

" Confound the fellow's impudence !" said Jack 
to himself ; and he did not answer the invitation. 

Personally his situation was desperate enough, 
but he was not inclined to face it. In a sort of 
stupor he let the law take its course. There was 
nothing left of his fortune, and his creditors were 
in possession of his house and all it contained. 
" Do not try to keep anything back that legally 
belongs to them," Edith had written when he in- 
formed her of this last humiliation. Of course 
decency was observed. Jack's and Edith's ward- 





robes, and some pieces of ancestral furniture that 
he pointed out as belonging to his wife, were re- 
moved before the auction flag was hung out. 

When this was over he still temporized. Edith's 
affectionate entreaties to him to leave the dreadful 
city and come home were evaded on one plea or 
another. He had wild schemes of going off West 
or South of disappearing. Perhaps he would 
have luck somewhere. He couldn't ask aid or seek 
occupation of his friends, but some place where he 
was not known he felt that he might do something 
to regain his position, get some situation, or make 
some money lots of men had done it in a new 
country and reinstate himself in Edith's opinion. 

But he did not go, and days and weeks went by 
in irresolution. No word came from Carmen, and 
this humiliated Jack more than anything else 
not the loss of her friendship, but the remem- 
brance that he had ever danced attendance on her 
and trusted her. He was getting a good many 
wholesome lessons in these days. 

One afternoon he called upon Miss Tavish. There 
was no change in her. She received him with her 
usual gay cordiality, and with no affectation. 

" I didn't know what had become of you," she 
said. 

"I've been busy," he replied, with a faint at- 
tempt at a smile. 

"Yes, I know. It's been an awful time, what 





with Henderson's death and everything else. Al- 
most everybody has been hit. But," and she looked 
at him cheerfully, " they will come up again ; up and 
down; it is always so. Why, even I got a little 
twist in that panic." The girl was doing what she 
could in her way to cheer him up. 

"I think of going off somewhere to seek my 
fortune," said Jack, with a rueful smile. 

" Oh, I hope not ; your friends wouldn't like 
that. There is no place like New York, I'm sure." 
And there was a real note of friendliness and en- 
couragement in her tone. " Only," and she gave 
him another bright smile, " I think of running away 
from it myself, for a time. It's a secret yet. Car- 
men wants me to go abroad with her." 

" I have not seen Mrs. Henderson since her hus- 
band's death. How is she ?" 

" Oh, she bears up wonderfully. But then she 
has so much to do, poor thing. And then the let- 
ters she gets, the begging letters. You've no idea. 
I don't wonder she wants to go abroad. Don't 
stay away so long again," she said as Jack rose to 
go. " And, oh, can't you come in to dinner to- 
morrow night just Carmen I think I can per- 
suade her and nobody else ?" 

" I'm sorry that I have an engagement," Jack 
answered. 

" Well, some other time. Only soon." 

This call did Jack temporarily a world of good. 





It helped his self -esteem. But it was only tem- 
porary. The black fact stared him in the face 
every morning that he was ruined. And it came 
over him gradually that he was a useless member 
of society. He never had done anything ; he was 
not trained or fitted to do anything. And this 
^ was impressed upon him in the occasional attempts 
he made to get employment. He avoided as much 
as possible contact with those who knew him. 
Shame prevented him from applying to them for 
occupation, and besides he very well knew that to 
those who knew him his idle career was no recom- 
mendation. Yet he formed a habit of going down- 
town every day and looking for work. His ap- 
pearance commanded civility, but everywhere he 
met with refusal, and he began to feel like a well- 
bred tramp. There had been in his mind before 
no excuse for tramps. He could see now how they 
were made. 

It was not that he lacked capacity. He knew 
a great deal, in an amateurish way, about pict- 
ures, books, bric-a-brac, and about society. Why 
shouldn't he write ? He visited the Loan Exhibi- 
tion, and wrote a careful criticism on the pictures 
and sent it to a well-known journal. It was re- 
turned with thanks : the journal had its own art crit- 
ic. He prepared other articles about curious books, 
and one about porcelain and pottery. They were 
all returned, except one which gave the history of 



a rare bit of majolica, which had been picked up 
for - fifty cents and then sold for five hundred dol- 
lars, and was now owned by a collector who had 
paid four thousand dollars for- it. For that the 
newspaper sent him five dollars. That was not 
encouraging, and his next effort for the same jour- 
nal was returned. Either he hadn't the newspa- 
per knack, or the competition was too great. 

He had ceased going to his club. It was too 
painful to meet his acquaintances in his altered 
circumstances, and it was too expensive. It even 
annoyed him to meet Major Fairfax. That philos- 
