
The audience tittered, and the discomfited witness. 
retired in a state of great embarrassment. 

Mr. Wakeman took the stand and swore that he 
saw the twins kick the plaintiff off the platform. 
The defense took the witness. 

"Mr. Wakeman, you have sworn that you saw 
these gentlemen kick the plaintiff. Do I understand 
you to swear that you saw them both do it?"' 

"Yes, sir," — with decision. 

"How do you know that both did it?" 

"Because I saw them do it." 

The audience laughed, and got another warning 
from the court. 

"But by what means do you know that both, and 
not one, did it?" 

"Well, in the first place, the insult was given to 
both of them equally, for they were called a pair of 
scissors. Of course they would both want to resent 
it, and so — " 

"Wait! You are theorizing now. Stick to facts 
— counsel will attend to the arguments. Go on." 

"Well, they both went over there — that I saw.'* 

"Very good. Go on." 





 

"And they both kicked him — I swear to it." 

"Mr. Wakeman, was Count Luigi, here, willing 
to join the Sons of Liberty last night?" 

"Yes, sir, he was. He did join, too, and drank 
a glass or two of whisky, like a man." 

"Was his brother willing to join?" 

"No, sir, he wasn't. He is a teetotaler, and was 
elected through a mistake." 

"Was he given a glass of whisky?" 

"Yes, sir, but of course that was another mis- 
take, and not intentional. He wouldn't drink it. 
He set it down." A slight pause, then he added, 
casually and quite simply: "The plaintiff reached 
for it and hogged it." 

There was a fine outburst of laughter, but as the 
justice was caught out himself, his reprimand was 
not very vigorous. 

Mr. Allen jumped up and exclaimed: "I protest 
against these foolish irrelevancies. What have they 
to do with the case?" 

Wilson said: "Calm yourself, brother, it was 
only an experiment. Now, Mr. Wakeman, if one 
of these gentlemen chooses to join an association 
and the other doesn't; and if one of them enjoys 
whisky and the other doesn't, but sets it aside and 
leaves it unprotected" (titter from the audience), 
"it seems to show that they have independent 
minds, and tastes, and preferences, and that one 
of them is able to approve of a thing at the very 
moment that the other is heartily disapproving of 
it. Doesn't it seem so to you?" 

"Certainly it does. It's perfectly plain. 



 

"Now, then, it might be — I only say it might 
be — that one of these brothers wanted to kick the 
plaintiff last night, and that the other didn't want 
that humiliating punishment inflicted upon him in 
that public way and before all those people. Isn't 
that possible?" 

"Of course it is. It's more than possible. I 
don't believe the blond one would kick anybody. 
It was the other one that — " 

"Silence!" shouted the plaintiff's counsel, and 
went on with an angry sentence which was lost in 
the wave of laughter that swept the house. 

"That will do, Mr. Wakeman," said Wilson, 
"you may stand down." 

The third witness was called. He had seen the 
twins kick the plaintiff. Mr. Wilson took the 
witness. 

"Mr. Rogers, you say you saw these accused 
gentlemen kick the plaintiff?" 

"Yes, sir." 

"Both of them?" 

"Yes, sir." 

"Which of them kicked him first?" 

"Why — they — they both kicked him at the same 
time." 

•"Are you perfectly sure of that?" 

"Yes, sir." 

"What makes you sure of it?" 

"Why, I stood right behind them, and saw them 
do it." 

"How many kicks were delivered?" 

"Only one." 


' ' If two men kick, the result should be two kicks, 
shouldn't it?" 

"Why — why — yes, as a rule." 
'Then what do you think went with the other 
kick?" 

"I — well — the fact is, I wasn't thinking of two 
being necessary, this time." 

"What do you think now?" 

"Well, I — I'm sure I don't quite know what to 
think, but I reckon that one of them did half of the 
kick and the other one did the other half." 

Somebody in the crowd sung out: "It's the first 
sane thing that any of them has said." 

The audience applauded. The judge said: "Si- 
lence! or I will clear the court." 

Mr. Allen looked pleased, but Wilson did not 
seem disturbed. He said : 

"Mr. Rogers, you have favored us with what you 
think and what you reckon, but as thinking and 
reckoning are not evidence, I will now give you a 
chance to come out with something positive, one 
way or the other, and shall require you to produce 
it. I will ask the accused to stand up and repeat 
the phenomenal kick of last night. " The twins stood 
up. "Now, Mr. Rogers, please stand behind them." 

A Voice: "No, stand in front!" (Laughter. 
Silenced by the court.) Another Voice: "No, give 
Tommy another highst!" (Laughter. Sharply re- 
buked by the court.) 

"Now, then, Mr. Rogers, two kicks shall be de- 
livered, one after the other, and I give you my 
