
Sir Adam glanced at Mrs. Bowring sharply from beneath his shaggy brows.

"Oh yes," she said calmly. "We met before he was married."

The grey-headed man slowly nodded assent, but said nothing.

"Before his first marriage?" inquired Lady Johnstone gravely. "You know
that he has been married twice."

"Yes," answered Mrs. Bowring. "Before his first marriage."

Again Sir Adam nodded solemnly.

"How interesting!" exclaimed Lady Johnstone. "Such old friends! And to
meet in this accidental way, in this queer place!"

"We generally live abroad," said Mrs. Bowring. "Generally in Florence.
Do you know Florence?"

"Oh yes!" cried the fat lady enthusiastically. "I dote on Florence. I'm
perfectly mad about pictures, you know. Perfectly mad!"

The vision of a woman cast in Lady Johnstone's proportions and perfectly
mad might have provoked a smile on Mrs. Bowring's face at any other
time.

"I suppose you buy pictures, as well as admire them," she said, glad of
the turn the conversation had taken.

"Sometimes," answered the other. "Sometimes. I wish I could buy more.
But good pictures are getting to be most frightfully dear. Besides, you
are hardly ever sure of getting an original, unless there are all the
documents--and that means thousands, literally thousands of pounds. But
now and then I kick over the traces, you know."

Clare could not help smiling at the simile, and bent down her head.
Brook was watching her, he understood and was annoyed, for he loved his
mother in his own way.

"At all events you won't be able to ruin yourself in pictures here,"
said Mrs. Bowring.

"No--but how about the porters?" suggested Sir Adam.

"My dear Adam," said Lady Johnstone, "unless they are all Shylocks here,
they won't exact a ducat for every pound of flesh. If they did, you
would certainly never get back to England."

It was impossible not to laugh. Lady Johnstone did not look at all the
sort of person to say witty things, though she was the very incarnation
of good humour--except when she thought that Brook was in danger of
being married. And every one laughed, Sir Adam first, then Brook, and
then the Bowrings. The effect was good. Lady Johnstone was really
afflicted with curiosity, and her first questions to Mrs. Bowring had
been asked purely out of a wish to make advances. She was strongly
attracted by the quiet, pale face, with its excessive refinement and
delicately traced lines of suffering. She felt that the woman had taken
life too hard, and it was her instinct to comfort her, and warm her and
take care of her, from the first. Brook understood and rejoiced, for he
knew his mother's tenacity about her first impressions, and he wished to
have her on his side.

After that the ice was broken and the conversation did not flag. Sir
Adam looked at Mrs. Bowring from time to time with an expression of
uncertainty which sat strangely on his determined features, and whenever
any new subject was broached he watched her uneasily until she had
spoken. But Mrs. Bowring rarely returned his glances, and her eyes never
lingered on his face even when she was speaking to him. Clare, for her
part, joined in the conversation, and wondered and waited. Her theory
was strengthened by what she saw. Clearly Sir Adam felt uncomfortable in
her mother's presence; therefore he had injured her in some way, and
doubted whether she had ever forgiven him. But to the girl's quick
instinct it was clear that he did not stand to Mrs. Bowring only in the
position of one who had harmed her. In some way of love or friendship,
he had once been very fond of her. The youngest woman cannot easily
mistake the signs of such bygone intercourse.

When they rose, Mrs. Bowring walked slowly, on her side of the table, so
as not to reach the door before Lady Johnstone, who could not move fast
under any circumstances. They all went out together upon the terrace.

"Brook," said the fat lady, "I must sit down, or I shall die. You know,
my dear--get me one that won't break!"

She laughed a little, as Brook went off to find a solid chair. A few
minutes later she was enthroned in safety, her husband on one side of
her and Mrs. Bowring on the other, all facing the sea.

"It's too perfect for words!" she exclaimed, in solid and peaceful
satisfaction. "Adam, isn't it a dream? You thin people don't know how
nice it is to come to anchor in a pleasant place after a long voyage!"

She sighed happily and moved her arms so that their weight was quite at
rest without an effort.

Clare and Johnstone walked slowly up and down, passing and repassing,
and trying to talk as though neither were aware that there was something
unusual in the situation, to say the least of it. At last they stopped
at the end farthest away from the others.

"I had no idea that my father had known your mother long ago," said
Brook suddenly. "Had you?"

"Yes--of late," answered Clare. "You see my mother wasn't sure, until
you told me his first name," she hastened to add.

"Oh--I see. Of course. Stupid of me not to try and bring it into the
conversation sooner, wasn't it? But it seems to have been ever so long
ago. Don't you think so?"

"Yes. Ever so long ago."

"When they were quite young, I suppose. Your mother must have been
perfectly beautiful when she was young. I dare say my father was madly
in love with her. It wouldn't be at all surprising, you know, would it?
He was a tremendous fellow for falling in love."

"Oh! Was he?" Clare spoke rather coldly.

"You're not angry, are you, because I suggested it?" asked Brook
quickly. "I don't see that there's any harm in it. There's no reason why
a young man as he was shouldn't have been desperately in love with a
beautiful young girl, is there?"

"None whatever," answered Clare. "I was only thinking--it's rather an
odd coincidence--do you mind telling me something?"

"Of course not! What is it?"

"Had your father ever a brother--who died?"

"No. He had a lot of sisters--some of them are alive still. Awful old
things, my aunts are, too. No, he never had any brother. Why do you
ask?"

"Nothing--it's a mere coincidence. Did I ever tell you that my mother
was married twice? My father was her second husband. The first had your
name."

"Johnstone, with an E on the end of it?"

"Yes--with an E."

"Gad! that's funny!" exclaimed Brook. "Some connection, I dare say. Then
we are connected too, you and I, not much though, when one thinks of it.
Step-cousin by marriage, and ever so many degrees removed, too."

"You can't call that a connection," said Clare with a little laugh, but
her face was thoughtful. "Still, it is odd that she should have known
your father well, and should have married a man of the same name--with
the E--isn't it?"

"He may have been an own cousin, for all I know," said Brook. "I'll ask.
He's sure to remember. He never forgets anything. And it's another
coincidence too, that my father should have been married twice, just
like your mother, and that I should be the son of the second marriage,
too. What odd things happen, when one comes to compare notes!"

While they had walked up and down, Lady Johnstone had paid no attention
to them, but she had grown restless as soon as she had seen that they
stood still at a distance to talk, and her bright blue eyes turned
towards them again and again, with sudden motherly anxiety. At last she
could bear it no longer.

"Brook!" she cried. "Brook, my dear boy!" Brook and Clare walked back
towards the little group.

"Brook, dear," said Lady Johnstone. "Please come and tell me the names
of all the mountains and places we see from here. You know, I always
want to know everything as soon as I arrive."

Sir Adam rose from his chair.

"Should you like to take a turn?" he asked, speaking to Mrs. Bowring and
standing before her.

She rose in silence and stepped forward, with a quiet, set face, as
though she knew that the supreme moment had come.

