
Gentle Mrs. Churchill appeared for the moment transformed. She looked as
though she could strike him. "Never mind your Quixotic ideas. Tell me
whether he is in love with Eva; it all depends upon that."

"I don't know, I am sure," answered Bartholomew. He began to think. "I
can't say at all; he would conceal it from me."

"Because he felt his inferiority. I am glad he has that grace."

"He wouldn't be conscious of any inferiority save that he is poor. It
would be that, probably, if anything; of course he supposes that Eva is
rich."

"Would to Heaven she were!" said the mother. "Added to every other
horror of it, poverty, miserable poverty, for my poor child!" She sat
down and hid her face.

"It may not be as bad as you fear, nor anything like it. Do cheer up a
little, Fanny. When Eva comes back, ten to one you will find that
nothing at all has happened--that it has been a mere ordinary excursion.
And I promise you I will take Rod away with me to-morrow."

Mrs. Churchill rose and began to pace to and fro, biting her lips, and
watching the water. Mademoiselle, who was still hovering near, she waved
impatiently away. "Let no one in," she called to her.

There seemed, indeed, to be nothing else to do, as Bartholomew had said,
save to wait. He sat down and discussed the matter a little.

Fanny paid no attention to what he was saying. Every now and then broken
phrases of her own burst from her: "How much good will her perfect
French and Italian, her German, Spanish, and even Russian, do her down
in that barbarous wilderness?"--"In her life she has never even buttoned
her boots. Do they think she can make bread?"--"And there was Gino. And
poor Pierre." Then, suddenly, "But it shall not be!"

"I have been wondering why you did not take that tone from the first,"
said Bartholomew. "She is very young. She has been brought up to obey
you implicitly. It would be easy enough, I should fancy, if you could
once make up your mind to it."

"Make up my mind to save her, you mean," said the mother, bitterly. She
did not tell him that she was afraid of her daughter. "Should you
expect me to live at Punta Palmas?" she demanded, contemptuously, of
her companion.

"That would depend upon Rod, wouldn't it?" answered Bartholomew, rather
unamiably. He was tired--he had been there an hour--of being treated
like a door-mat.

At this Fanny broke down again, and completely. For it was only too
true; it would depend upon that stranger, that farmer, that unknown
David Rod, whether she, the mother, should or should not be with her own
child.

A little before sunset the boat came into sight again round the western
cliffs. Fanny dried her eyes. She was very pale. Little Mademoiselle,
rigid with anxiety, watched from an upper window. Bartholomew rose to go
down to the beach to receive the returning fugitives. "No," said Fanny,
catching his arm, "don't go; no one must know before I do--no one." So
they waited in silence.

Down below, the little boat had rapidly approached. Eva had jumped out,
and was now running up the rock stairway; she was always light-footed,
but to her mother it seemed that the ascent took an endless time. At
length there was the vision of a young, happy, rushing figure--rushing
straight to Fanny's arms. "Oh, mamma, mamma," the girl whispered, seeing
that there was no one there but Bartholomew, "he loves me! He has told
me so! he has told me so!"

For an instant the mother drew herself away. Eva, left alone, and
mindful of nothing but her own bliss, looked so radiant with happiness
that Bartholomew (being a man) could not help sympathizing with her.
"You will have to give it up," he said to Fanny, significantly. Then he
took his hat and went away.

Fifteen minutes later his place was filled by David Rod.

"Ah! you have come. I must have a few words of conversation with you,
Mr. Rod," said Fanny, in an icy tone. "Eva, leave us now."

"Oh no, mamma, not now; never again, I hope," answered the girl. She
spoke with secure confidence; her eyes were fixed upon her lover's face.

"Do you call this honorable behavior, Mr. Rod?" Fanny began. She saw
that Eva would not go.

"Why, I hope so," answered Rod, surprised. "I have come at once, as soon
as I possibly could, Mrs. Churchill (I had to take the boat back first,
you know), to tell you that we are engaged; it isn't an hour old yet--is
it, Eva?" He looked at Eva smilingly, his eyes as happy as her own.

"It is the custom to ask permission," said Fanny, stiffly.

"I have never heard of the custom, then; that is all I can say,"
answered Rod, with good-natured tranquillity, still looking at the
girl's face, with its rapt expression, its enchanting joy.

"Please to pay attention; I decline to consent, Mr. Rod; you cannot have
my daughter."

"Mamma--" said Eva, coming up to her.

"No, Eva; if you will remain here--which is most improper--you will have
to hear it all. You are so much my daughter's inferior, Mr. Rod, that I
cannot, and I shall not, consent."

At the word "inferior," a slight shock passed over Eva from head to
foot. She went swiftly to her lover, knelt down and pressed her lips to
his brown hand, hiding her face upon it.

He raised her tenderly in his arms, and thus embraced, they stood there
together, confronting the mother--confronting the world.

Fanny put out her hands with a bitter cry. "Eva!"

The girl ran to her, clung to her. "Oh, mamma, I love you dearly. But
you must not try to separate me from David. I could not leave him--I
never will."

"Let us go in, to our own room," said the mother, in a broken voice.

"Yes; but speak to David first, mamma."

Rod came forward and offered his arm. He was sorry for the mother's
grief, which, however, in such intensity as this, he could not at all
understand. But though he was sorry, he was resolute, he was even stern;
in his dark beauty, his height and strength, he looked indeed, as
Bartholomew had said, a man.

At the sight of his offered arm Mrs. Churchill recoiled; she glanced all
round the terrace as though to get away from it; she even glanced at the
water; it almost seemed as if she would have liked to take her child and
plunge with her to the depths below. But one miserable look at Eva's
happy, trustful eyes still watching her lover's face cowed her; she took
the offered arm. And then Rod went with her, supporting her gently into
the house, and through it to her own room, where he left her with her
daughter. That night the mother rose from her sleepless couch, lit a
shaded taper, and leaving it on a distant table, stole softly to Eva's
side. The girl was in a deep slumber, her head pillowed on her arm.
Fanny, swallowing her tears, gazed at her sleeping child. She still
saw in the face the baby outlines of years before, her mother's eye
could still distinguish in the motionless hand the dimpled fingers of
the child. The fair hair, lying on the pillow, recalled to her the short
flossy curls of the little girl who had clung to her skirts, who had had
but one thought--"mamma."



"What will her life be now? What must she go through, perhaps--what
pain, privation--my darling, my own little child!"

The wedding was to take place within the month; Rod said that he could
not be absent longer from his farm. Fanny, breaking her silence,
suggested to Bartholomew that the farm might be given up; there were
other occupations.

"I advise you not to say a word of that sort to Rod," Bartholomew
answered. "His whole heart is in that farm, that colony he has built up
down there. You must remember that he was brought up there himself, or
rather came up. It's all he knows, and he thinks it the most important
thing in life; I was going to say it's all he cares for, but of course
now he has added Eva."

Pierre came once. He saw only the mother.

When he left her he went round by way of the main street of Sorrento in
order to pass a certain small inn. His carriage was waiting to take him
back to Castellamare, but there was some one he wished to look at first.
It was after dark; he could see into the lighted house through the low
uncurtained windows, and he soon came upon the tall outline of the young
farmer seated at a table, his eyes bent upon a column of figures. The
Belgian surveyed him from head to foot slowly. He stood there gazing
for five minutes. Then he turned away. "That, for Americans!" he
murmured in French, snapping his fingers in the darkness. But there was
a mist in his boyish eyes all the same.

The pink villa witnessed the wedding. Fanny never knew how she got
through that day. She was calm; she did not once lose her self-control.
