helped by the vacancy that is in mine.' 

This interruption of his lost me a remark or two of the 
other talk ; however, I caught the King's next question : 

' But tell me who you are, and what would you ? ' 

' I am called Joan the Maid, and am sent to say that the 
King of Heaven wills that you be crowned and consecrated 
in your good city of Rheims, and be thereafter Lieutenant 
of the Lord of Heaven, who is King of France. And He 
willeth also that you set me at my appointed work and give 
me men-at-arms.' After a slight pause she added, her eye 

lighting at the sound of her words, ' For then will I raise 
the siege of Orleans and break the English power ! ' 

The young monarch's amused face sobered a little when 
this martial speech fell upon that sick air like a breath blown 
from embattled camps and fields of war, and his trifling 
smile presently faded wholly away and disappeared. He 
was grave now, and thoughtful. After a little he waved 
his hand lightly, and all the people fell away and left those 
two by themselves in a vacant space. The knights and 
I moved to the opposite side of the hall and stood there. 
We saw Joan rise at a sign, then she and the King talked 
privately together. 

All that host had been consumed with curiosity to see 
what Joan would do. Well, they had seen, and now they 
were full of astonishment to see that she had really per- 
formed that strange miracle according to the promise in 
her letter ; and they were fully as much astonished to find 
that she was not overcome by the pomps and splendours 
about her, but was even more tranquil and at her ease in 
holding speech with a monarch than ever they themselves 
had been, with all their practice and experience. 

As for our two knights, they were inflated beyond 
measure with pride in Joan, but nearly dumb, as to speech, 
they not being able to think out any way to account for her 
managing to carry herself through this imposing ordeal 
without ever a mistake or an awkwardness of any kind to 
mar the grace and credit of her great performance. 

The talk between Joan and the King- was long and 
earnest, and held in low voices. We could not hear, but 
we had our eyes and could note effects ; and presently we 
and all the house noted one eff"ect which was memorable 
and striking, and has been set down in memoirs and his- 
tories and in testimony at the Process of Rehabilitation by 
some who witnessed it ; for all knew it was big' with mean- 
ing, though none knew what that meaning was at that 
time, of course. For suddenly we saw the King shake off 
his indolent attitude and straighten up like a man, and at 



the same time look immeasurably astonished. It was as 
if Joan had told him something almost too wonderful for 
belief, and yet of a most uplifting and welcome nature. 

It was long before we found out the secret of this con- 
versation, but we know it now, and all the world knows it. 
That part of the talk was like this — as one may read in all 
histories. The perplexed King asked Joan for a sign. He 
wanted to believe in her and her mission, and that her 
Voices were supernatural and endowed with knowledge 
hidden from mortals ; but how could he do this unless these 
Voices could prove their claim in some absolutely unassail- 
able way ? It was then that Joan said : 

' I will give you a sign, and you shall no more doubt. 
There is a secret trouble in your heart which you speak of 
to none — a doubt which wastes away your courage, and 
makes you dream of throwing all away and fleeing from 
your realm. Within this little while you have been pray- 
ing, in your own breast, that God of His grace would re- 
solve that doubt, even if the doing of it must show you 
that no kingly right is lodged in you.' 

It was that that amazed the King, for it was as she had 
said : his prayer was the secret of his own breast, and none 
but God could know about it. So he said : 

' The sign is sufficient. I know, now, that these Voices 
are of God. They have said true in this matter ; if they 
have said more, tell it me — I will believe.' 

' They have resolved that doubt, and I bring their very 
words, which are these : Thou art lawful heir to the King 
thy father, and true heir of France. God has spoken it. 
Now lift up thy head, and doubt no more, but give me 
men-at-arms and let me get about my work.' 

Telling him he was of lawful birth was what straight- 
ened him up and made a man of him for a moment, remov- 
ing his doubts upon that head, and convincing him of his 
royal right ; and if any could have hanged his hin- 
dering and pestiferous council and set him free, he would 
have answered Joan's prayer and set her in the field. But 
no, those creatures were only checked, not checkmated ; 
they could invent some more delays. 

We had been made proud by the honours which had so 
distinguished Joan's entrance into that place — honours re- 
stricted to personages of very high rank and worth— but 
that pride was as nothing compared with the pride we had 
in the honour done her upon leaving it. For whereas those 
first honours were shown only to the great, these last, up 
to this time, had been shown only to the royal. The King 
himself led Joan by the hand down the great hall to the 
door, the glittering multitude standing and making rever- 
ence as they passed, and the silver trumpets sounding those 
rich notes of theirs. Then he dismissed her with gracious 
words, bending low over her hand and kissing it. Always 
— from all companies, high or low — she went forth richer 
in honour and esteem than when she came. 

And the King did another handsome thing by Joan, for 
he sent us back to Coudray Castle torch-lighted and in 
state, under escort of his own troop — his guard of honour 
— the only soldiers he had ; and finely equipped and be- 
dizened they were, too, though they hadn't seen the colour 
of their wages since they were children, as a body might 
say. The wonders which Joan had been performing before 
the King had been carried all around by this time, so the 
road was so packed with people who wanted to get a sight 
of her that we could hardly dig through ; and as for talking 
together, we couldn't, all attempts at talk being drowned 
in the storm of shoutings and huzzas that broke out all 
along as we passed, and kept abreast of us like a wave the 
whole way. 

CHAPTER VII 

We were doomed to suffer tedious waits and delays, and 
we settled ourselves down to our fate and bore it with a 
dreary patience, counting the slow hours and the dull days, 
and hoping for a turn when God should please to send it. 


The Paladin was the only exception — that is to say, he was 
the only one who was happy and had no heavy times. This 
was partly owing to the satisfaction he got out of his 
clothes. He bought them when he first arrived. He bought 
them at second hand — a Spanish cavalier's complete suit, 
wide-brimmed hat with flowing plumes, lace collar and 
cuffs, faded velvet doublet and trunks, short cloak hung 
from the shoulder, funnel-topped buskins, long rapier, and 
all that — a graceful and picturesque costume, and the 
Paladin's great frame was the right place to hang it 
for effect. He wore it when off duty ; and when he swag- 
gered by with one hand resting on the hilt of his rapier, 
and twirling his new moustache with the other, everybody 
stopped to look and admire ; and well they might, for he 
was a fine and stately contrast to the small French gentle- 
man of the day squeezed into the trivial French costume 
of the time. 

He was king bee of the little village that snuggled under 
the shelter of the frowning towers and bastions of Cou- 
dray Castle, and acknowledged lord of the taproom of the 
inn. When he opened his mouth there, he got a hearing. 
Those simple artisans and peasants listened with deep and 
wondering interest ; for he was a traveller and had seen 
the world — all of it that lay between Chinon and Domremy, 
at any rate — and that was a wide stretch more of it than 
they might ever hope to see ; and he had been in battle, 
and knew how to paint its shock and struggle, its perils 
and surprises, with an art that was all his own. He was 
cock of that walk, hero of that hostelry ; he drew custom 
as honey draws flies ; so he was the pet of the innkeeper, 
and of his wife and daughter, and they were his obliged 
and willing servants. 

Most people who have the narrative gift — that great 
and rare endowment — have with it the defect of telling 
their choice things over the same way every time, and this 
injures them and causes them to sound stale and weari- 
