sake, and, of course, in due ecclesiastical remembrance 
of the strictly canonical saint of similar 
cognomen, was accordingly bestowed upon the 
church. 

In the year of our Lord eighteen hundred and 
another numeral, which I am requested not to indi 
cate, but I may not deny that it is a recent one, the 
popular rector of Saint Agatha's took a winter va 
cation. He was an imposing and imperious man, 
full of years and honors, in the full sway of his 
professional fame, when he fell a victim, like any 
common person, to the grippe. 

In the attempt to recover from this vulgar malady, 
he was forced to observe that his select physician 
had drugged him, via an exclusive bronchitis, into 
a minister's sore throat, such as any ordinary country 
parson might develop for lack of an overcoat, 
or a fire in his bedroom. Without undue delay or 

reluctance, the rector of Saint Agatha's took ship 
for the south of France; and in the comfortable 
way in which such things are done in such quarters, 
the church was set trundling upon the wheels of a 
two-months " supply." This was managed so grace 
fully by the experienced vestry of Saint Agatha's 
that hardly a visible jar occurred in the parish 
machinery. Many of the people did not know that 
their rector had gone until a canon from London 
sonorously filled the pulpit one Sunday morning. 
A distinguished Middle State clergyman followed 
the next week; the West sent her brightest and 
best the succeeding Sunday ; and so it went. 

Eminent variety easily occupied that sacred desk. 
The wardens of St. Agatha's have but to say, Come, 
and he cometh who weigheth the honor of minister 
ing in this aristocratic pulpit. In brief, the most 
distinguished men in the denomination cordially 
supplied. On the whole, perhaps the parish enjoyed 
their rector's vacation as much as he did. 

Now, upon the vestry there chanced at that time 
to be one man who was "different." One does find 
such people even among the officers of fashionable 
churches. This man (he was, by the way, a grand- 
nephew of the old lady who built the church when 

Saint Agatha's was an unendowed experiment) had 
occasional views not wholly in harmony with the 
policy of his brother officers ; and, being himself 
a heavy rate-payer, was allowed, sometimes, by the 
courtesy of the majority, when his notion was not 
really in bad form, you know, to have his way. 
He did not get it so often but that he was glad to 
make the most of it when he did; and when his 
turn came to control the supply for that Sunday 
with which this narrative has to do, he asked the 
privilege of being intrusted with the details of the 
business. This request, as from a useful man of 
certain eccentricities, was indulgently granted ; and 
thus there occurred the events which I am privileged 
to relate. 

It was just before Lent, and the winter had been 
a cold one. One Friday evening in early March 
there came up, or came down, a drifting snow-storm. 
It was bad enough in town, but in the suburbs it 
was worse, and in the country it was little less than 
dangerous to passengers through the wide, wind 
swept streets, the choking lanes, and bitter moors. 

An old clergyman, the pastor of a scattered 
parish, sat in his study on that Friday night, and 


thanked God that the weekly evening service was 
over, and his day's work done. He would have 
regretted being called out again that night, for he 
had got quite wet in walking to church and back, 
and the cold from which he had been suffering for 
a week past might not be benefited thereby. This 
fact in itself was a matter of no concern, under 
ordinary conditions, to the old clergyman, who, being a 
lonely man in a forlorn country boarding-house, with 
nobody to take care of him, was accustomed to live 
under the shadow of a " common cold," and who 
paid no more attention to his own physical 
discomforts in the face of daily duty than he paid to the 
latest fashion in sable trimmings in the front pews 
at Saint Agatha s. There was no fur trimming on 
his overcoat, which was seven years old and pitiably 
thin. But he had been invited to supply at Saint 
Agatha's next Sunday, and to that unexampled honor 
and opportunity he gave the pathetic attention 
half personal pleasure, half religious fervor of an 
overlooked and devout man. In the course of a 
forty-years ministry he had not been asked to 
preach in a city pulpit. The event was tremendous 
to him. He had been agitated by the invitation, 
which ran in some such way as this : 




" He had been invited to supply at St. Agath 


. . . "In closing, permit me to say, sir, that it 
would be agreeable to us to welcome among us the 
grandson of our first pastor, that young rector who 
died in the bud of his youth and Christian originality. 
The fact of your ancestry will give to your 
presence a peculiar interest for our people at large. 
But I beg to be allowed to add on behalf of the 
committee, that certain qualities in yourself and in 
your own work have led us to believe that you may 
exert positive influences upon us of which we stand 
in need. In your remote and rural parish your 
life has not passed unobserved. Your labors as a 
pastor, and your methods of preaching, have been 
an object of study to some of us. We have come 
to rate you, sir, as one of the men of God. There 
are not many. In meeting with our people, the 
writer personally hopes that you may be able to 
teach us something of the secret of your own happy 
and successful experience as a minister of Christ our 
Lord." . . . 

The old clergyman sat with his feet upon the 
base of his little cylinder coal-stove. His thin 
ankles shrank in the damp stockings which he had 
not been able to change since he came in out of the 



storm, because, owing to some personal preference 
of the laundress, he could not find any dry ones. 
His worn slippers flapped upon his cold feet when 
he moved. But he had on his flowered dressing- 
gown of ancient pattern and rustic cut ; his high 
arm-chair was cushioned in chintz and excelsior 
behind his aching head ; the green paper shade was 
on his study-lamp ; his best-beloved books (for the 
old saint was a student) lay within reach upon the 
table ; piled upon them were his manuscript sermons ; 
and he sighed with the content of a man who 
feels himself to be, although unworthy, in the loving 
arms of luxury. A rap at the door undeceived him. 
His landlady put in her withered face. 

" Sir," she said, " the widder Peek's a-dying. 
It's just like her to take a night like this but 
she's sent for you. I must say I don't call you fit 
to go." 

" A man is always fit to do his duty," said the 
old clergyman, rising. "I will go at once. Did 
she send any conveyance ? " 

"Catch her!" retorted the landlady. "Why, 
she hain't had the town water let in yet and she 
wuth her fifteen thousand dollars; nor she won't 
have no hired girl to do for her, not that none of 




em will stay along of her a week, and Dobson's 
boy's at the door, a drippin and cussin to get you, 
for he's nigh snowed under. She's a wuthless old 
heathen miser, the widder Peek." 

" Then there is every reason why I should not 
neglect her," replied the clergyman, in his authoritative, 
clerical voice. " Pray call the lad in from 
the weather, and tell him I will accompany him at 

once." 
