" He never was in any degree." 

Dennis looked doubtful. " Are you very 
sure ? " 

"Well," said his hostess, "I'm sure of the 
present. That's quite enough. He's not in love 
with her now I have the proof." 

"The proof?" 

Mrs. Beever waited a moment. "His request 
in itself. If he were in love with her he never 
would have made it." 

There was a momentary appearance on her 
companion's part of thinking this rather too fine ; 
but he presently said: "You mean because he's 
completely held by his deathbed vow to his 
wife?" 

"Completely held." 

" There's no likelihood of his breaking it ? " 

"Not the slightest." 

Dennis Vidal exhaled a low, long breath which 
evidently represented a certain sort of relief. 
" You're very positive ; but I've a great respect 





for your judgment." He thought an instant, 
then he pursued abruptly : " Why did he wish 
her invited ? " 

" For reasons that, as he expressed them to me, 
struck me as natural enough. For the sake of 
old acquaintance for the sake of his wife's 
memory." 

"He doesn't consider, then, that Mrs. Bream's 
obsession, as you term it, had been in any degree 
an apprehension of Rose?" 

" Why should he ? " Mrs. Beever asked. 
"Rose, for poor Julia, was on the point of 
becoming your wife." 

" Ah ! for all that was to prevent ! " Dennis 
ruefully exclaimed. 

"It was to prevent little enough, but Julia 
never knew how little. Tony asked me a month 
ago if I thought he might without awkwardness 
propose to Miss Armiger a visit to the other 
house. I said ' No, silly boy ! ' and he dropped 
the question; but a week later he came back 
to it. He confided to me that he was ashamed, 
for so long, to have done so little for her; and 
she had behaved, in a difficult situation, with such 
discretion and delicacy that to have 'shunted' 
her, as he said, so completely was a kind of 



 

outrage to Julia's affection for her and a slur 
upon hers for his wife. I said to him that if 
it would help him a bit I would address her a 
suggestion that she should honour me with her 
company. He jumped at that, and I wrote. 
She jumped and here she is." 

Poor Dennis, at this, gave a spring, as if the 
young lady had come into sight. Mrs. Beever 
reassured him, but he was on his feet and he 
stood before her. "This, then, is their first 
meeting ? " 

" Dear, no ! they've met in London. He often 
goes up." 

"How often?" 

" Oh, irregularly. Sometimes twice a month." 

"And he sees her every time?" 

Mrs. Beever considered. " Every time ? I 
should think hardly." 

"Then every other?" 

"I haven't the least idea." 

Dennis looked round the garden. "You say 
you're convinced that in the face of his promise 
he has no particular interest in her. You 
mean, however, of course, but to the extent of 
marriage." 

" I mean," said Mrs. Beever, " to the extent of 





anything at all." She also rose; she brought 
out her whole story. " He's in love with another 
person." 

" Ah," Dennis murmured, " that's none of my 
business ! " He nevertheless closed his eyes an 
instant with the cool balm of it. " But it makes 
a lot of difference." 

She laid a kind hand on his arm. " Such a lot, 
I hope, then, that you'll join our little party ? " 
He looked about him again, irresolute, and 
his eyes fell on the packages gathered hard by, 
of which the nature was betrayed by a glimpse 
of flaxen curls and waxen legs. She immediately 
enlightened him. " Preparations for a birthday 
visit from the little girl at the other house. 
She's coming over to receive them." 

Again he dropped upon a seat : she stood there 
and he looked up at her. "At last we've got 
to business ! It's she I've come to ask about." 

"And what do you wish to ask?" 

"How she goes on I mean in health." 

" Not very well, I believe, just to-day ! " Mrs. 
Beever laughed. 

"Just to-day?" 

" She's reported to have a slight cold. But 
don't be alarmed. In general she's splendid." 



 

He hesitated. " Then you call it a good 
little life?" 

" I call it a beautiful one ! " 

"I mean she won't pop off?" 

"I can't guarantee that," said Mrs. Beever. 
"But till she does " 

" Till she does ? " he asked as she paused. 

She paused a moment longer. "Well it's a 
comfort to see her. You'll do that for yourself." 

" I shall do that for myself," Dennis repeated. 
After a moment he went on: "To be utterly 
frank, it was to do it I came." 

" And not to see me f Thank you ! But I 
quite understand," said Mrs. Beever; "you 
looked to me to introduce you. Sit still where 
you are, and I will." 

"There's one thing more I must ask you. 
You see ; you know ; you can tell me." He 
complied but a minute with her injunction ; 
again, nervously, he was on his feet. "Is Miss 
Armiger in love with Mr. Bream ? " 
