and quite regardless of what they might really be. She had said to
herself that Tebaldo was 'romantic,' and as his life hitherto might
certainly have been well described by some such word, he had no
difficulty in keeping up the illusion for her.

He saw that she listened with wonder and delight to his tales of wild
doings in Sicily, and he had not the slightest difficulty in finding as
many of them to tell her as suited his purpose. He had been more
intimately connected with one or two of his stories than he chose to
tell her; but he was ready at turning a difficulty of that sort, and
when he introduced himself he treated his own personality and actions
with that artistic modesty which leaves vague beauties to the
imagination. Never having had any actual experience of the rude deeds of
unbridled humanity, Miss Lizzie liked revengeful people because they
were 'romantic.' She liked to think of a man who could carry off his
enemy's bride in the grey dawn of her wedding day, escape with her on
board a ship, and be out of sight of land before night--because such
deeds were 'romantic.' She liked to know that a band of thirty desperate
men could bid defiance to the government and the army for months, and
she loved to hear of Leone, the outlaw chief, who had killed a dozen
soldiers with his own hand in twenty minutes, before he fell with
twenty-seven bullets in him--that was indeed 'romantic.' And Tebaldo had
seen Leone himself, many years ago, and remembered him and described
him; and he had seen most of the people whose extraordinary adventures
he detailed to the girl, and had known them and spoken with them, had
shot with them for wagers, had drunk old wine of Etna at their weddings,
and had followed some of them to their graves when they had been killed.
A good many of his acquaintances had been killed in various 'romantic'
affairs.

Everything he told her appealed strongly to Lizzie Slayback's
imagination, and he had the advantage, if it were one, of being really a
great deal like the people he described, daring, unscrupulous,
physically brave and revengeful, very much the type which is so often
spoken of in Calabria with bated breath, as 'a desperate man of Sicily.'
For the Italian of the mainland is apt both to dread and respect the
stronger man of the islands.

In addition to his accomplishments as a story-teller, Tebaldo possessed
the power of seeming to be very much in love, without ever saying much
about it. He flattered the girl, telling her that she was beautiful and
witty and charming, and everything else which she wished to be; and when
his eyelids were not drooping at the corners as they did when he was
angry, he had a way of gazing with intense and meaning directness into
Lizzie Slayback's dark blue eyes, so that Vittoria would no longer have
envied her, for she blushed and looked away, half pleased and half
disturbed.

Aliandra Basili thought Francesco much more ready and apt to anticipate
her small wishes and to understand her thoughts than his brother. But
when he chose to take the trouble, with cool calculation, Tebaldo knew
well enough how to make a woman believe that he was taking care of her,
which is what many women most wish to feel. With Aliandra, whom he loved
as much as he was capable of loving anyone, Tebaldo felt himself almost
too much at his ease to disguise his own selfishness. But he gave
himself endless trouble for Miss Slayback, and she was sometimes touched
by little acts of his which showed how constantly she was in his
mind--as indeed she was, much more than she knew.

In her moments of solitude, which were few, for she hated to be alone,
she reflected more than once that her money must seem a great inducement
to a poor Italian nobleman; but she was too much in love with the
'romantic' to believe that Tebaldo wished to marry her solely for her
fortune. It was too hard to believe, when she looked at her own face in
the mirror and saw how young, and pretty, and smiling she really was.
Her dark lashes gave her blue eyes so much expression that she could not
think herself not loved, a mere encumbrance to be taken with a fortune,
but not without, in exchange for a title. She was fond of her refined
but not very remarkable self, and it would have been hard to convince
her that Tebaldo's silent looks and ever-ready service meant nothing but
greed of money. Very possibly, she admitted, he could not have thought
of marrying her if she had been poor, but she believed it equally
certain that if she had been an ugly, rich, middle-aged old maid, he
would never have thought of it either.

Besides, Tebaldo had watched with great satisfaction the growing
intimacy between her and his sister, and he took care to play his comedy
before Vittoria as carefully as before Miss Slayback herself. Vittoria,
as he knew, was very truthful, and if her friend asked questions about
him, she would repeat accurately what he had said in her presence, if
she gave any information at all. To his face, Vittoria accused him of
wishing to marry for money, but so long as he affirmed that he loved
Miss Slayback, Vittoria would never accuse him behind his back, nor tell
tales about his character which might injure his prospects. Though he
knew that she rarely believed him and never trusted him, he knew that he
could trust her. That fact alone might have sufficiently defined their
respective characters.




CHAPTER XXII


Tebaldo had not been at all willing to believe that Aliandra Basili
really meant to treat him differently after the meeting in which she had
defined her position so clearly, but he soon discovered that she was in
earnest. She was not a person to change her mind easily, and she had
decided that it was time to end the situation in one way or the other.
Tebaldo must either marry her, or cease to persecute her with his
attentions. In the latter case she intended to marry Francesco.

Like most successful singers, and, indeed, like most people who succeed
remarkably in any career, she possessed the extraordinary energy which
ultimately makes the difference between success and failure in all
struggles for pre-eminence. Many have the necessary talent and the other
necessary gifts; few have, besides these things, the restless, untiring
force to use them at all times to the extreme limit of possibility.
People who have the requisite facility but not the indispensable energy
find it so hard to realise this fact that they have inverted our modern
use of the word 'genius' to account for their own failures. The
ancients, and even the mediævals, when beaten in a fair fight by men
more enduring than themselves, were always ready to account for their
defeat on the ground of a supernatural intervention against them.
Similarly the people who are clever enough to succeed, nowadays, but not
strong enough, nor patient enough, attribute to the man who surpasses
them some sort of supernatural inspiration, which they call genius, and
against which they tell themselves that it is useless to strive.
Socrates called his acute sense of right and wrong his familiar spirit,
his dæmon; but in those days of the supremacy of the greatest art the
world has ever seen, or ever will see, at a time when most people still
believed in oracles, no one ever attributed any such familiar spirit to
Sophocles, to Praxiteles, nor to Zeuxis, nor to any other poets,
sculptors, or painters. The Muses had become mere names even then, and
the stories about them were but superstitious fables.

That restless energy was part of the Sicilian singer's nature. Whether
her other gifts were great enough for greatness remained to be seen, and
the question had nothing to do with Tebaldo Pagliuca. Her singing gave
him pleasure, but it was not what chiefly attracted him. He was in love
with her in a commonplace and by no means elevated way, and artistic
satisfaction did not enter into his passion as a component factor. There
was nothing so elevated about it.

Aliandra's very womanly nature made her vaguely aware of this, and she
had a physical suspicion, so to say, that if Tebaldo ever lost his head,
he would be much more violent than his brother, who had frightened her
so badly one evening at the theatre. She was inclined to think that it
would not be safe to irritate Tebaldo too much; yet she was sure that it
was of no use to prolong the present ambiguous situation, in which she
was practically accepting and authorising the love of a man who would
not marry her if he could help it.

After she had finally told him what she meant to do, nothing could move
her, and she entirely refused to see him alone. Hitherto she had used
her privilege as an artist in this respect, and had often sent away her
worthy aunt, the Signora Barbuzzi, during his visits. But now, when he
came, the black-browed, grey-haired, thin-lipped old woman kept her
place beside her niece on the little green sofa of the little hired
drawing-room, her withered fingers steadily knitting black silk
stockings. This was her only accomplishment, but it was an unusual one,
and she was very proud of it, and of her wonderful eyes, which never
needed glasses, and could count the minute black stitches even when the
light was beginning to fail on a winter's afternoon.

Then Tebaldo sat uneasily on his chair, and wished the old woman might
fall dead in an apoplexy, and that he had the evil eye, and by mere
wishing could bring her to destruction. And Aliandra leaned back in the
other corner of the sofa, behind her aunt, and smiled coolly at what
Tebaldo said, and answered indifferently, and looked at her nails
critically but wearily when he said nothing, as if she wished he would
go away. And he generally went at the end of half an hour, unable to
bear the situation much longer than that, after he had discovered that
the Signora Barbuzzi was in future always to sit through his visits.

'And now, my daughter,' said the aunt one day when he had just gone,
'the other will come in a quarter of an hour. The sun sets, the moon
rises, as we say.'

Which invariably happened. Francesco did not like being caught with
Aliandra by his brother, as has been already seen. He had, therefore,
hit upon the simple plan of spying upon him, following him at a distance
until he entered Aliandra's house, and then sitting in a little
third-rate café opposite until he came out. Tebaldo, who was extremely
particular about the places he frequented, because he wished to behave
altogether like a Roman gentleman, would never have entered any such
place as Francesco made use of for his own purposes. Francesco knew
that, and felt perfectly safe as he sat at his little marble table, with
a glass of syrup and soda water, his eyes fixed on the big front door
which he could see through the window from the place he regularly
