"I do not doubt it, but we must watch all our thoughts and actions."

Captain Sedley returned to the boat-house to give further directions
concerning the building. Before two o'clock all the boys, with the
exception of Tony Weston, were gathered on the beach.

"I hope he will come," said Frank, much concerned at the absence of his
friend.

"I hope so," added Charles.

"Here is Uncle Ben. Hurrah!" shouted several of the boys.

"I arn't goin' with you this afternoon," said the veteran, as he laid
an armful of oars, boat-hooks, and other furniture belonging to the
Zephyr, which had been carried to the house for safe keeping, upon the
beach.

"Not going with us, Uncle Ben?" asked Frank.

"Your father is going," replied the old sailor, as he drew the boat in
shore, and put the oars and other articles in their places on board.

"Here he comes," added Frank.

"Where is Tony?" asked Captain Sedley, as he discovered the absence of
the widow's son.

"He has not come."

"I am sorry for that. We will go up and see where he is. Ben, take the
boat over to the flat rock."

"Ay, ay, sir."

The boys scampered over to the place of embarkation, followed by
Captain Sedley.

"Frank, you may take Tony's place," said his father when they had
reached the rock, "and I will steer."

Frank leaped into the bow of the boat, and took the boat-hook.
Steadying her, he called the numbers, and the club all took their
places in excellent order, and sat waiting for further commands.

"Very well, boys; your discipline is most excellent," said Captain
Sedley. "Push off, Frank. Ready with the oars."

"Up oars!" said Uncle Ben, who stood on the rock.

The manoeuvre was executed with admirable precision.

"Shove off!" which was done by the bow and stroke oarsmen.

"Let fall!" said Ben.

The oars fell altogether on the water, and the boys shipped them.

"Give way together!" added Ben; and away went the Zephyr with the first
stroke of the oars.

Captain Sedley steered up the lake in the direction of the widow
Weston's cottage. The Zephyr darted like an arrow through the water,
her sharp bow cutting the tiny waves like a knife, making a most
musical ripple as it dashed a clear jet of white foam as high as the
gunwale.

It was scarcely three minutes before Captain Sedley gave the command
"Way enough!" The boat darted into a cove by the widow's house, and
Frank and his father landed.

Tony, it seemed, wished to join the club; but his mother, fearful lest
some of the boys should taunt him with the occurrences of the past few
days, desired him to remain at home. Captain Sedley's request, however,
was quite sufficient, and Tony followed Frank down to the boat.

"Three cheers for Tony Weston!" exclaimed Charles Hardy, as they came
in sight.

The cheers were given, but Captain Sedley could not but question the
motives of him who had proposed them.

"Now, Frank, you are coxswain again," said Captain Sedley. "You will do
better than I can; for I am not posted on man-of-war-boat tactics, and
Ben has trained you to naval discipline."

Tony took his place at the bow oar, and Frank in the stern-sheets. The
former was received with sympathy and kindness by the club, and the
poor boy felt how pleasant it was to have the good will of his
companions in the midst of his trials.

"Up oars!" said Frank, when all was ready for a start. "Let fall! Give
way!"

"Down the lake, Frank, towards the village," added Captain Sedley.

Again the beautiful Zephyr bounded over the waters; but after pulling a
few minutes, Captain Sedley directed Frank to cease rowing.

"Boys, we are going to have a uniform for the club," said he.

"A uniform!" repeated several of the boys.

"Hurrah!" shouted Charles Hardy.

"I have already spoken to Mr. Burlap, the tailor; and now we are going
down to have him take your measures."

"What will the uniform be, father?" asked Frank.

"White sailors' trousers, a blue jacket, and a white shirt trimmed with
blue. The hat will be a tarpaulin, with 'Zephyr' in gilt letters on the
front."

The boys all clapped their hands, as the only means in their power to
express their gratification.

"Now pull for Rippleton."

"Stand by! Give way!"

The Zephyr parted the waters before her graceful bow, and sped like a
rocket on her way. The beautiful boat excited a great deal of attention
at the village; and when the boys returned from the tailor's, hundreds
had collected on the bank to see them row.

Captain Sedley gratified the curiosity of the people by requiring Frank
to exercise the club for some time near the spot where they stood.
After a row across the lake, they returned, and the Zephyr was moored
in her new house, much to the delight of her enthusiastic crew.




CHAPTER XII

THE FIRST MEETING IN ZEPHYR HALL


In another fortnight the boat-house was entirely completed, furnished,
and ready for the occupancy of the club. School had closed for the
season, and the summer vacation had begun; but most of the boys, in
anticipation of the pleasure which the boat club promised them,
preferred to stay at home rather than go to the seashore or the
mountains, or visit their friends at a distance.

Mr. Burlap, the tailor, had exerted himself to the utmost; and the new
dress of the boat club was soon ready for use. The tarpaulins had been
purchased and lettered, and the uniforms had been hung up in the little
closets in the club-room of the boat-house. One was appropriated to
each member, whose number was painted upon the door.

Uncle Ben had given the boys several extra lessons in rowing in the
meantime, and the discipline of the club and the rowing were pronounced
perfect. The first meeting in the new hall was appointed to take place
on Monday morning, and punctually to the hour the members were all
assembled.

The hall had been tastefully furnished and decorated, under the
direction of Captain Sedley. On the floor was a very pretty carpet with
bright colors; on the walls hung several large maps and engravings in
frames, illustrative of various boat-scenes; and over the door leading
to the boat-house proper was painted in blue letters,--

    ZEPHYR BOAT CLUB.

On the window-curtains the name of the club was also painted. In the
middle of the room was placed a long table, around which were arranged
thirteen chairs for the members. The library cases were filled with
books, which had been selected with great care by Mr. and Mrs. Sedley.
On the table were placed various pamphlets and periodicals; and when
the club assembled, Uncle Ben was there, seated in the coxswain's
armchair, poring over the pages of the Sailor's Magazine.

The boys all came in and took their chairs, each of which was numbered;
and Uncle Ben cheerfully resigned his place to the coxswain.

"Order!" said Frank, rapping on the table.

Captain Sedley had instructed Frank in some of the forms of conducting
