
Take her at her dullest, I think we were very 
fond of Andover ; and though we dutifully im 
proved our opportunities to present ourselves in 
other circles of society, yet, like fisher-folk or 
mountain-folk, we were always uneasy away 
from home. I remember on my first visit to 
New York or Boston and this although my 
father was with me quietly crying my eyes 
out behind the tall, embroidered screen which 
the hostess moved before the grate, because 
the fire-light made me so homesick. Who for 
gets his first attack of nostalgia ? Alas ! so far 
 

as this recorder is concerned, the first was too 
far from the last. For I am cursed (or blessed) 
with a love of home so inevitable and so 
passionate as to be nothing less than ridiculous 
to my day and generation a day of rovers, a 
generation of shawl-straps and valises. 

" Do you never want to stay ?" I once asked 
a distinguished author whose domestic 
uprootings were so frequent as to cause remark even 
in America. 

"I am the most homesick man who ever 
lived," he responded sadly. " If I only pass a 
night in a sleeping-car, I hate to leave my berth." 

" You must have cultivated society in Andover," 
an eminent Cambridge writer once said 
to me, with more sincerity of tone than was 
to be expected of the Cambridge accent as ad 
dressed to the Andover fact. I was young 
then, and I remember to have answered, honestly 
enough, but with what must have struck 
this superior man as unpardonable flippancy : 

" Oh, but one gets tired of seeing only 
cultivated people ! " 

I have thought of it sometimes since, when, 
in other surroundings, the memory of that 
peaceful, scholarly life has returned poignantly 
to me. 

When one can "run in" any day to homes 
like those on that quiet and conscientious Hill, 


one may not do it ; but when one cannot, one 
appreciates their high and gentle influence. 

One of the historic figures of my day in 
Andover was Professor Park. Equally eminent 
both as a preacher -and as a theologian, his fame 
was great in Zion ; and "the world " itself had 
knowledge of him, and did him honor. 

He was a striking figure in the days which 
were the best of Andover. He was unquestion 
ably a genius ; the fact that it was a kind of 
genius for which the temper of our times is 
soon likely to find declining uses gives some 
especial interest to his name. 

The appearances are that he will be the last 
of his type, once so powerful and still so
venerable in New England history. He wears (for 
he is yet living) the dignity of a closing cycle ; 
there is something sad and grand about his 
individualism, as there is about the last great 
chief of a tribe or the last king of a dynasty. 

In his youth he was the progressive of evan 
gelical theology. In his age he stands the 
proud and reticent conservative, the now silent 
representative of a departed glory, a departed 
severity and, we must admit, of a departed 
strength from which the theology of our 
times has melted away. Like other men in 
such positions, he has had battles to fight, and 
he has fought them ; enemies to make, and he 
 

has made them. How can he keep them ? He 
is growing old so gently and so kindly ! Ardent 
friends and worshiping admirers he has always 
had, and kept, and deserved. 

A lady well known among the writers of our 
day, herself a professor's daughter from a New 
England college town, happened once to be 
talking with me in a lonely hour and in a mood 
of confidence. 

" Oh," she cried, " it seems some of these 
desolate nights as if I must go home and sit 
watching for my father to come back from 
faculty meeting ! " 

But the tears smote her face, and she turned 
away. I knew that she had been her dead
father's idol, and he hers. 

To her listener what a panorama in those 
two words : " Faculty meeting ! " 

Every professor's daughter, every woman 
from a university family, can see it all. The 
whole scholastic and domestic, studious and 
tender life comes back. Faculty meeting ! We 
wait for the tired professor who had the latest 
difference to settle with his colleagues, or the 
newest breach to soothe, or the favorite move 
to push ; how late he is ! He comes in softly, 
haggard and spent, closing the door quietly so 
that no one shall be wakened by this midnight 
dissipation. The woman who loves him most 
 

anxiously be it wife or be it daughter is 
waiting for him. Perhaps there is a little whis 
pered sympathy for the trouble in the faculty 
which he does not tell. Perhaps there is a little 
expedition to the pantry for a midnight lunch. 

My first recollections of Professor Park give 
me his tall, gaunt, but well-proportioned figure 
striding up and down the gravel walks in front 
of the house, two hours before time for faculty 
meeting, in solemn conclave with my father. 
The two were friends barring those inter 
ludes common to all faculties, when professional 
differences are in the foreground and the 
pacing of their united feet might have worn 
Andover Hill through to the central fires. For 
years I cultivated an objection to Professor 
Park as being the chief visible reason why we 
had to wait for supper. 

I remember his celebrated sermons quite 
well. The chapel was always thronged, and 
as there were no particular fire-laws in those 
days on Andover Hill the aisles brimmed 
over when it was known that Professor Park or 
Professor Phelps was to preach. I think I 
usually began with a little jealous counting of the 
audience, lest it should prove bigger than my 
father's ; but even a child could not long listen to 
Professor Park and not forget her small affairs, 
and all affairs except the eloquence of the man. 


Great, I believe it was. Certain distinguished 
sermons had their popular names, as "The 
Judas Sermon," or "The Peter Sermon," and 
drew their admirers accordingly. He was a 
man of marked emotional nature, which he often 
found it hard to control. A skeptical critic 
might have wondered whether the tears welled, 
or the face broke, or the voice trembled, always 
just at the right moment, from pure spontaneity. 
But those who knew the preacher personally 
never doubted the genuineness of the feeling 
that swept and carried orator and hearers down. 
We do not hear such sermons now. 

Professor Park has always been a man of 
social ease and wit. The last time I saw him, 
at the age of eighty-five, in his house in 
Andover, I thought, one need not say, "has been;" 
and to recall his brilliant talk that day gives me 
hesitation over the past tense of this reminiscence.
On the whole, with the exception of 
Doctor Holmes, I think I should call Professor 
Park the best converser, at least among 
eminent men whom I have ever met. 
