St. Julien with Yvette."
"Yvette has gone to Bannalec. I went home and found an awful fight
going on at the Groix Inn, and I was so frightened that I came to tell
you."
The fish dashed off at that moment, carrying all the line my reel held,
and I was compelled to follow him at a jump. Lys, active and graceful
as a young deer, in spite of her Pont-Aven sabots, followed along the
opposite bank until the fish settled in a deep pool, shook the line
savagely once or twice, and then relapsed into the sulks.
"Fight at the Groix Inn?" I called across the water. "What fight?"
"Not exactly fight," quavered Lys, "but the Red Admiral has come out
of his house at last, and he and my uncle are drinking together and
disputing about butterflies. I never saw my uncle so angry, and the Red
Admiral is sneering and grinning. Oh, it is almost wicked to see such
a face!"
"But Lys," I said, scarcely able to repress a smile, "your uncle and
the Red Admiral are always quarrelling and drinking."
"I know--oh, dear me!--but this is different, Monsieur Darrel. The Red
Admiral has grown old and fierce since he shut himself up three weeks
ago, and--oh, dear! I never saw such a look in my uncle's eyes before.
He seemed insane with fury. His eyes--I can't speak of it--and then
Terrec came in."
"Oh," I said more gravely, "that was unfortunate. What did the Red
Admiral say to his son?"
Lys sat down on a rock among the ferns, and gave me a mutinous glance
from her blue eyes.
Yves Terrec, loafer, poacher, and son of Louis Jean Terrec, otherwise
the Red Admiral, had been kicked out by his father, and had also been
forbidden the village by the Purple Emperor, in his majestic capacity
of mayor. Twice the young ruffian had returned: once to rifle the
bedroom of the Purple Emperor--an unsuccessful enterprise--and another
time to rob his own father. He succeeded in the latter attempt, but was
never caught, although he was frequently seen roving about the forests
and moors with his gun. He openly menaced the Purple Emperor; vowed
that he would marry Lys in spite of all the gendarmes in Quimperlé;
and these same gendarmes he led many a long chase through brier-filled
swamps and over miles of yellow gorse.
What he did to the Purple Emperor--what he intended to do--disquieted
me but little; but I worried over his threat concerning Lys. During
the last three months this had bothered me a great deal; for when Lys
came to St. Gildas from the convent the first thing she captured was my
heart. For a long time I had refused to believe that any tie of blood
linked this dainty blue-eyed creature with the Purple Emperor. Although
she dressed in the velvet-laced bodice and blue petticoat of Finistère,
and wore the bewitching white coiffe of St. Gildas, it seemed like a
pretty masquerade. To me she was as sweet and as gently bred as many a
maiden of the noble Faubourg who danced with her cousins at a Louis XV
fête champêtre. So when Lys said that Yves Terrec had returned openly
to St. Gildas, I felt that I had better be there also.
"What did Terrec say, Lys?" I asked, watching the line vibrating above
the placid pool.
The wild rose colour crept into her cheeks. "Oh," she answered, with a
little toss of her chin, "you know what he always says."
"That he will carry you away?"
"Yes."
"In spite of the Purple Emperor, the Red Admiral, and the gendarmes?"
"Yes."
"And what do you say, Lys?"
"I? Oh, nothing."
"Then let me say it for you."
Lys looked at her delicate pointed sabots, the sabots from Pont-Aven,
made to order. They fitted her little foot. They were her only luxury.
"Will you let me answer for you, Lys?" I asked.
"You, Monsieur Darrel?"
"Yes. Will you let me give him his answer?"
"Mon Dieu, why should you concern yourself, Monsieur Darrel?"
The fish lay very quiet, but the rod in my hand trembled.
"Because I love you, Lys."
The wild rose colour in her cheeks deepened; she gave a gentle gasp,
then hid her curly head in her hands.
"I love you, Lys."
"Do you know what you say?" she stammered.
"Yes, I love you."
She raised her sweet face and looked at me across the pool.
"I love you," she said, while the tears stood like stars in her eyes.
"Shall I come over the brook to you?"
II.
That night Yves Terrec left the village of St. Gildas vowing vengeance
against his father, who refused him shelter.
I can see him now, standing in the road, his bare legs rising like
pillars of bronze from his straw-stuffed sabots, his short velvet
jacket torn and soiled by exposure and dissipation, and his eyes,
fierce, roving, bloodshot--while the Red Admiral squeaked curses on
him, and hobbled away into his little stone cottage.
"I will not forget you!" cried Yves Terrec, and stretched out his hand
toward his father with a terrible gesture. Then he whipped his gun to
his cheek and took a short step forward, but I caught him by the throat
before he could fire, and a second later we were rolling in the dust
of the Bannalec road. I had to hit him a heavy blow behind the ear
before he would let go, and then, rising and shaking myself, I dashed
his muzzle-loading fowling piece to bits against a wall, and threw his
knife into the river. The Purple Emperor was looking on with a queer
light in his eyes. It was plain that he was sorry Terrec had not choked
me to death.
"He would have killed his father," I said, as I passed him, going
toward the Groix Inn.
"That's his business," snarled the Purple Emperor. There was a deadly
light in his eyes. For a moment I thought he was going to attack me;
but he was merely viciously drunk, so I shoved him out of my way and
went to bed, tired and disgusted.
The worst of it was I couldn't sleep, for I feared that the Purple
Emperor might begin to abuse Lys. I lay restlessly tossing among the
sheets until I could stay there no longer. I did not dress entirely;
I merely slipped on a pair of chaussons and sabots, a pair of
knickerbockers, a jersey, and a cap. Then, loosely tying a handkerchief
about my throat, I went down the worm-eaten stairs and out into the
moonlit road. There was a candle flaring in the Purple Emperor's
window, but I could not see him.
"He's probably dead drunk," I thought, and looked up at the window
where, three years before, I had first seen Lys.
"Asleep, thank Heaven!" I muttered, and wandered out along the road.
Passing the small cottage of the Red Admiral, I saw that it was dark,
but the door was open. I stepped inside the hedge to shut it, thinking,
in case Yves Terrec should be roving about, his father would lose
whatever he had left.
Then, after fastening the door with a stone, I wandered on through the
dazzling Breton moonlight. A nightingale was singing in a willow swamp
below, and from the edge of the mere, among the tall swamp grasses,
myriads of frogs chanted a bass chorus.
When I returned, the eastern sky was beginning to lighten, and across
the meadows on the cliffs, outlined against the paling horizon, I saw
a seaweed gatherer going to his work among the curling breakers on the
coast. His long rake was balanced on his shoulder, and the sea wind
carried his song across the meadows to me:
    St. Gildas!
    St. Gildas!
    Pray for us,
    Shelter us,
  Us who toil in the sea.
Passing the shrine at the entrance of the village, I took off my cap
and knelt in prayer to Our Lady of Faöuet; and if I neglected myself
in that prayer, surely I believed Our Lady of Faöuet would be kinder to
Lys. It is said that the shrine casts white shadows. I looked, but saw
only the moonlight. Then very peacefully I went to bed again, and was
only awakened by the clank of sabres and the trample of horses in the
road below my window.
"Good gracious!" I thought, "it must be eleven o'clock, for there are
the gendarmes from Quimperlé."
I looked at my watch; it was only half-past eight, and as the gendarmes
made their rounds every Thursday at eleven, I wondered what had brought
them out so early to St. Gildas.
"Of course," I grumbled, rubbing my eyes, "they are after Terrec," and
I jumped into my limited bath.
Before I was completely dressed I heard a timid knock, and opening my
door, razor in hand, stood astonished and silent. Lys, her blue eyes
wide with terror, leaned on the threshold.
"My darling!" I cried, "what on earth is the matter?" But she
only clung to me, panting like a wounded sea gull. At last, when I
drew her into the room and raised her face to mine, she spoke in a
heart-breaking voice:
"Oh, Dick! they are going to arrest you, but I will die before I
believe one word of what they say. No, don't ask me," and she began to
sob desperately.
When I found that something really serious was the matter, I flung
on my coat and cap, and, slipping one arm about her waist, went down
the stairs and out into the road. Four gendarmes sat on their horses
in front of the café door; beyond them, the entire population of St.
Gildas gaped, ten deep.
"Hello, Durand!" I said to the brigadier, "what the devil is this I
hear about arresting me?"
"It's true, mon ami," replied Durand with sepulchral sympathy. I looked
him over from the tip of his spurred boots to his sulphur-yellow sabre
belt, then upward, button by button, to his disconcerted face.
"What for?" I said scornfully. "Don't try any cheap sleuth work on me!
Speak up, man, what's the trouble?"
The Purple Emperor, who sat in the doorway staring at me, started to
speak, but thought better of it and got up and went into the house. The
gendarmes rolled their eyes mysteriously and looked wise.
"Come, Durand," I said impatiently, "what's the charge?"
"Murder," he said in a faint voice.
"What!" I cried incredulously. "Nonsense! Do I look like a murderer?
Get off your horse, you stupid, and tell me who's murdered."
Durand got down, looking very silly, and came up to me, offering his
hand with a propitiatory grin.
"It was the Purple Emperor who denounced you! See, they found your
handkerchief at his door----"
"Whose door, for Heaven's sake?" I cried.
"Why, the Red Admiral's!"
"The Red Admiral's? What has he done?"
"Nothing--he's only been murdered."
