stupendous descriptions hung upon its 
fame, he is disappointed ; but gradually 
the true grandeur of the rocky waste 
insists upon its own significance. A 
valley of some extent, flanked by hills 
and to-day traversed by a road, it is 
green with bracken and sterile under 
stone. Everywhere obtrudes the un- 
yielding rock, in bits fit for a giant's 
 

missile, in massive and uncouth forma- 
tion, like chaotic dwellings. Two such 
rocky citadels, grotesque, tremendous, 
attract and hold the eye. These are 
Castle Rock and the Devil's Cheese-ring 
(the latter word, according to some, sig- 
nifying cheese-knife or scoop). Tradition 
still declares that in this eerie spot the 
witch, Mabel Durham, or, as the name 
was corrupted, Mother Melldrum, had 
her abode, or possibly her rendezvous; 
and thither came John Ridd to seek her. 
Wise Mother Melldrum ! She knew the 
full value of scene-setting and accessories. 
Even the valiant John found himself 
depressed by the gloom of her surround- 
ings, though he had previously consid- 
ered the place " nothing to frighten 
anybody, unless he had lived in a gal- 
lipot." His nerves were as the bass 
string, and not the treble ; but among the 
suppliants for her uncanny aid there 
must have been those who here quivered 
and quaked in awe of the sorcerer Nature, 
if not the human witch. 

To extend one's walk along the valley 
and through the hospitable gate of Lee 
Abbey is to turn a page of romantic his- 
tory. This estate was some time the 
 

residence of the De Whichehalse family, 
Flemish refugees, whose line ended in 
revolt against the English crown. One 
spot in the grounds furnishes the initial 
note to this tragic history, — a cliff over- 
hanging the shore, and still known as 
Jennifred's Leap. Jennifred, according 
to the story, was beloved and deserted 
by Lord Auberley ; and, like Ophelia^ she 
could not survive the outrage of her 
maiden dream. One night she wandered 
away from the house, and next morning 
had not returned. Search waxed hot 
and frantic ; and at length they found 
her, happily dead, at the foot of the cliff 
where she had cast herself in heroic de- 
spair. Her father sought King James for 
justice against the recreant lover; but 
Auberley stood high in court favor, and 
the royal coward declared his inability to 
judge between them. Then came Mon- 
mouth's Rebellion ; and De Whiche- 
halse, burning for revenge, repudiated 
the royal party, and sought the woman- 
slayer in the ranks of its army, met him 
face to face, and struck him dead. The 
battle of Sedgemoor followed ; and De 
Whichehalse, like others of the defeated, 
attempted flight to Holland, whereupon 
 

the winds swept down upon him and the 
sea rose, quenching his stormy life and 
passions forever. But the lover of that 
ideal which is forever satisfying, though 
the actual betray, will scarcely waste 
thought upon this righteous maid-aven- 
ger. Rather will he choose to smile over 
the memory of that Marwood de Whiche- 
halse who kissed pretty Annie at the 
door, and in payment for his whistle was 
so sturdily clouted by the giant John. 

When John Fry and his valiant little 
charge made their way across Exmoor, 
from Tiverton to Oare, they halted at 
Dulverton ; and there it was that the im- 
mortal "farm-hand" demanded "Hot 
mootton pasty for twoo trarv'lers, at 
number vaive, in vaive minutes ! " The 
coach road from Lynton thither is char- 
acteristic and satisfying; for on either 
side lies the moor, barren, brown, crack- 
ling with coarse grass diversified by 
patches of heather, "the green of bracken, 
the red of whortleberry," and tenanted, 
as of old, by ponies and red deer. It is 
like Dartmoor as one sister resembles an- 
other, and yet strangely individual and 
different. Dartmoor is broken by abrupt 
hills and gigantic rocky remains: Ex- 
 

moor sweeps away in rolling billows. In 
the deep glens at the foot of these enor- 
mous earth-ridges hasten clear streams 
of varying size, but all swarming with 
fish; for the moor is the "mother of 
manie rivers." Over the sides of the 
ridges themselves trickle swifter rills, in 
goyals or gullies, to join the torrent be- 
low, — in winter a torrent, indeed; for 
then such mountain waters throw aside 
the decorum of habit, and swollen by the 
early rains leap forth, destructive and 
dauntless, to meet the sea. But in the 
centre of the great tract, peopled every- 
where by thousands of sheep, lie its 
monotony and dreariness of waste moor- 
land. It is when they approach the sea 
that the great downs become majestic 
and truly satisfying. Then they drop 
suddenly hundreds of feet, cleft perhaps 
by a romantic fissure, where sweeps some 
rushing streamlet, foam-fringed and vo- 
cal. Here and there are bogs, but alas 
for the partisan who would fain shudder 
over the bones of Carver Doone bleaching 
' below the ooze ! Not one, says a cool and 
unsympathetic authority, is dangerous. 

"It always rains on Exmoor," runs 
a proverb; and the couplet defining 
 

Dunkery's barometric qualification, an- 
nounces with the eccentric rhyming of a 
weather distich, — 

" When Dunkery's top cannot be seen, 
Homer will have a flooded stream." 

Clouds are the hourly attendants of an 
Exmoor sky ; but, when they lower on 
Dunkery, then the rain may be said to 
have given official warning of its ap- 
proach. To climb this beacon hill with- 
out a guide is to suffer some diminution 
of spiritual vainglory, unless, indeed, the 
gods go with you every step. The pleas- 
antest footway from Porlock leads, 
through the valley of the Horner, where 
that gurgling, shouting, utterly irrespon- 
sible water creature goes tumbling along 
over stone and shallow, slapping his 
sides, joking, singing, waking the valley 
to a madness of mirth. The air there is 
dark with " green things growing." You 
can scarcely make your way for love of 
the thickening leaves on either hand. 
Everywhere is the beauty woven out of 
ferns and brawling waters. Crossing the 
stream is by a foot-bridge made of one 
timber and a narrow hand-rail. Then 
you begin climbing, and perhaps like us 
find yourself, quite out of breath and be- 
 

wildered, in an upland open, apparently 
on the way to nowhere. In better 
company than the king of France, we 
marched down again, mounted another 
height and knew only that Exmoor was 
about us and that we were plainly lost. 
I have little remembrance of that day, 
save that it was full of hot sun and 
winy airs; that somehow the sound of 
