at Thanksgiving, he wished again to relinquish his 
last year at Harvard, and Cynthia had to summon all 
her forces to keep him to his promise of staying. He 
brought home the books with which he was working 
ofE his conditions, with a half-hearted intention of 
study, and she took hold with him, and together they 
fought forward over the ground he had to gain. His 
mother was almost willing at last that he should give 
up his last year in college. 

"What is the use?" she asked. "He's give up 
the law, and he might as well commence here first as 
last, if he's goin' to." 

The girl had no reason to urge against this ; she 
could only urge her feeling that he ought to go back, 
and take his degree with the rest of his class. 

" If you're going to keep Lion's Head the way you 




pretend you are," she said to him, as she could not 
say to his mother, " you want to keep all your Har- 
x'ard friends, don't you, and have them remember you ? 
Go back, Jeff, and don't you come here again till after 
you've got your degree. Never mind the Christmas 
vacation, nor the Easter. Stay in Cambridge, and 
work off your conditions. You can do it, if you try. 
Oh, don't you suppose I  should like to have you 
here ? " she reproached him. 

He went back, with a kind of grudge in his heart, 
which he confessed in his first letter home to her, 
when he told her that she was right and he was 
wrong. He was sure now, with the impulse which 
their work on them in common had given him, that 
he should get his conditions off, and he wanted her 
and his mother to begin preparing their minds to 
come to his Class Day. He planned how they could 
both be away from the hotel for that day. The house 
was to be opened on the 20th of June, but it was not 
likely that there would be so many people at once that 
they could not give the 21st to Class Day; Frank and 
his father could run Lion's Head somehow, or, if they 
could not, then the opening could be postponed till 
the 24th. At all events, they must not fail to come. 
Cynthia showed the whole letter to his mother, who 
refused to think of such a thing, and then asked, as 
if the fact had not been fully set before her, " When 
is it to be ? " 

"The 21st of June." 

" Well, he's early enough with his invitation," she 
grumbled. 



 

"Yes, he is," said Cynthia; and she laughed for 
shame and pleasure as she confessed, " I was thinking 
he was rather late." 

She hung her head, and turned her face away. But 
Mrs. Durgin understood. " You be'n expectin' it all 
along, then." 

" I guess so." 

"I presume," said the elder woman, "that he's 
talked to you about it. He never tells me much. I 
don't see why you should want to go. What's it like ? " 

" Oh, I don't know. But it's the day the gradu- 
ating class have to themselves, and all their friends 
come." 

" Well, I don't know why anybody should want to 
go," said Mrs. Durgin. " I sha'n't. Tell him he 
won't want to own me when he sees me. What am 
I goin' to wear, I should like to know ? What y(m 
goin' to wear, Cynthy ? " 



XXVIII. 

Jeff's place at Harvard had been too long fixed 
among the jays to allow the hope of wholly retrieving 
his condition now. It was too late for him to be 
chosen in any of the nicer clubs or societies, but he 
was not beyond the mounting sentiment of comradery, 
which begins to tell in the last year among college 
men, and which had its due efEect with his class. One 
of the men, who had always had a foible for human- 
ity, took advantage of the prevailing mood in another 
man, and wrought upon him to ask, among the fel- 
lows he was asking to a tea at his rooms, several 
fellows who were distinctly and almost typically jay. 
The tea was for the aunt of the man who gave it, a 
very pretty woman from New York, and it was so 
richly qualified by young people of fashion from Bos- 
ton that the infusion of the jay flavor could not spoil 
it, if it would not rather add an agreeable piquancy. 
This college mood coincided that year with a benevo- 
lent emotion in the larger world, from which fashion 
was not exempt. Society had just been stirred by 
the reading of a certain book, which had then a very 
great vogue, and several people had been down among 



 

the wretched at the North End doing good in a con- 
science-stricken effort to avert the millenium which 
the book in question seemed to threaten- The lady 
who matronized the tea was said to have done more 
good than you could imagine at the North End, and 
she caught at the chance to meet the college jays in 
a spirit of Christian charity. When the man who 
was going to give the tea rather sheepishly confessed 
what the altruistic man had got him in for, she praised 
him so much that he went away feeling like the hero 
of a holy cause. She promised the assistance and 
sympathy of several brave girls, who would not be 
afraid of all the jays in college. 

After all, only one of the jays came. Not many, 
in fact, had been asked, and when Jeff Durgin actu- 
ally appeared, it was not known that he was both the 
first and the last of his kind. The lady who was 
matronizing the tea recognized him, with a throe of 
her quickened conscience, as the young fellow whom 
she had met two winters before at the studio tea which 
Mr. Wcstover had given to those queer Florentine 
friends of his, and whom she had never thought of 
since, though she had then promised herself to do 
something for him. She had then even given him 
some vague hints of a prospective hospitality, and 
she confessed her sin of omission in a swift but 
graphic retrospect to one of her brave girls, while Jeff 
stood blocking out a space for his stalwart bulk amid 
the alien elegance just within the doorway, and the 
host was making his way towards him, with an out- 
stretched hand of hardy welcome. 




At an earlier period of his neglect and exclusion, 
Jeff would not have responded to the belated overture 
which had now been made him, for no reason that he 
could divine. But he had nothing to lose by accept- 
ing the invitation, and he had promised the altruistic 
man, whom he rather liked ; he did not dislike the 
giver of the tea so much as some other men, and so 
he came. 

The brave girl whom the matron was preparing to 
devote to him stood shrinking with a trepidation which 
she could not conceal at sight of his strange massive- 
ness, with his rust-gold hair coming down towards his 
thick yellow brows and mocking blue eyes in a dense 
bang, and his jaw squaring itself under the rather in- 
solent smile of his full mouth. The matron felt that 
her victim was perhaps going to fail her, when a voice 
at her ear said, as if the question were extorted, 
" Who in the world is that? " 

She instantly turned, and flashed out in a few in- 
spired syllables the fact she had just imparted to her 
treacheroiis heroine. " Do let me introduce him. Miss 
Lynde. I must do something for him, when he gets 
up to me, if he ever does." 

"By all means," said the girl, who had an impulse 
