her present conditions she was incapable of love. Beverly Peele would
have to go down among the memories before his wife could shake her
spirit free, and turn with swept brain and clear eyes to even a
conception of the love whose possibilities dwelt within her.
But she was fully alive to the picturesqueness of meeting this man once
more, and suddenly became possessed of the spirit of adventure. There
must be some sort of sequel to that old romance.
She withdrew to the shadow of a tree, where she could watch the
drawing-room through the window. Burr entered, slapped the visitor on
the back, and bore him away to the dining-room, presumably to have a
drink. When they returned, Mr. Peele was in the room. He shook hands
with the stranger more heartily than was his wont. In a few moments he
crossed over to the library, and Patience, seeing that her early hero
would be held in conversation for some time to come, followed her
father-in-law and asked casually who the visitor was.
“Oh, that’s Bourke, Garan Bourke, the legal idol,” sarcastically, “of
Westchester County. In truth he’s a brilliant lawyer enough, and one of
the rising men at the New York bar, although he will go off his head
occasionally and take criminal cases. I don’t forgive him that, if he
is always successful. However, we all have our little fads. I suppose
he can’t resist showing his power over a jury. I heard an enthusiastic
youngster assert the other day that Bourke whips up a jury’s grey matter
into one large palpitating batter, then moulds it with the tips of his
fingers while the jury sits with mouth open and spinal marrow paralysed.
Personally, I like him well enough, and rather hoped he and Hal would
fancy each other. But he doesn’t seem to be a marrying man. You’d better
go over and meet him. He’ll just suit you.”
Patience returned to her post. Burr had disappeared, Bourke was talking
to half a dozen women. In a few moments he rose to go. Patience went
hastily across the lawns to the narrow avenue of elms by the driveway.
No two were billing and cooing in its shadows, and Beverly was in bed
with a nervous headache.
The moon was large and very brilliant. One could have read a newspaper
as facilely as by the light of an electric pear. As Bourke rode to the
main avenue a woman came toward him. He had time to think her very
beautiful and of exceeding grace before she surprised him by laying her
hand on his horse’s neck.
“Well?” she said, looking up and smiling as he reined in.
“Well?” he stammered, lifting his hat.
“I am too heavy to ride before you now.”
He stared at her perplexedly, but made no reply.
“Still if I were up a tree—literally, you know—and a band of terrible
demons were shouting at a man beside a corpse—”
“What?” he said. “Not you?—not you? That homely fascinating little
girl—no, it cannot be possible—”
“Oh, yes,” lifting her chin, coquettishly. “I have improved, and grown,
you see. I was more than delighted when I saw you through the window. It
was rather absurd, but I disliked the idea of going in to meet you
conventionally—”
He laid his hand strongly on hers, and she treated him with a passivity
denied to Latimer Burr.
“I am going to tie up my horse and talk to you a while, may I?” America
and the law had not crowded all the romance out of his Irish brain, and
he was keenly alive to the adventure. He had forgotten her name long
since, and it did not occur to him that this lovely impulsive girl was
the property of another man; but although he had lived too long, nor yet
long enough, to lose his heart to the first flash of magnetism from a
pretty woman, yet his blood was thrilled by the commingling of
spirituality and deviltry in the face of this high-bred girl who cared
to give the flavour of romance to their acquaintance. He saw that she
was clever, and he had no intention of making a fool of himself; but he
was quite willing to follow whither she cared to lead. And it was night
and the moon was high; the leaves sang in a crystal sea; a creek
murmured somewhere; the frogs chanted their monotonous recitative to the
hushed melodies and discords of the night world; the deep throbbing of
steamboats came from the river.
He tied his horse to a tree, and they entered the avenue.
“You told me that it was a small world, and that we should probably meet
again,” she said; “and I never doubted that we should.”
“Oh, I never did either,” he exclaimed. He was racking his brains to
recall the conversation which had passed between them a half dozen years
ago, and for the life of him could not remember a word; but he was a man
of resource.
“I am glad that it is at night,” he continued, “even if the scene is not
so charming as Carmel Valley from that old tower. How beautiful the
ocean looked from there, and what a jolly ride we had in the pine
woods!”
She understood perfectly, and grinned in the dark.
“Ah! I remember I gave you some advice,” he exclaimed with suspicious
abruptness. “I thought afterward that it was great presumption on my
part.”
“I wonder if you had an ideal of your own in mind when you spoke?”
“An ideal?” He cursed his memory and floundered hopelessly. Even his
Irish wit for once deserted him.
“Oh, I hoped you had not forgotten it. Why, I have made a little ‘Night
Thoughts’ of what you said, and it has been one of the strongest forces
in my development. Shall I repeat it to you?”
“Oh, please.” He was blushing with pleasure, but sore perplexed.
And she repeated his comments and advice, word for word.
“Is it possible that you remember all that? I am deeply flattered.” And
he was, in fact.
“What more natural than that I should remember? I was a lonely little
waif, full of dreams and vague ideals, and with much that was terrible
in my actual life. I had never talked with a young man before—a man of
seventy was my only experience of your sex, barring boys, that don’t
count. And you swooped down into my life in the most picturesque manner
possible, and talked as no one in my little world was capable of
talking. So, you see, it is not so remarkable that I retain a vivid
impression of you and your words. I was frightfully in love with you.”
“Oh—were you? Were you?” He was very much at sea. It was true that she
had paid him the most subtle tribute one mind can pay to another, but
her very audacity would go to prove that she was a brilliant coquette.
He had a keen sense of the ridiculous, and he was still a little afraid
of her. He took refuge on the broad impersonal shore of flirtation,
where the boat is ever dancing on the waves.
“If you felt obliged to use the past tense you might have left that last
unsaid.”
“Oh, there are a thousand years between fifteen and twenty-one. I am
quite another person, as you see.”
“You are merely an extraordinary child developed; and you have carried
your memory along with you.”
“Oh, yes, the memory is there, and the tablets are pretty full; but
never mind me. I want to know if your ideals are as strong now as I am
sure they were then—if any one in this world manages to hold onto his
ideals when circumstances don’t happen to coddle them.”
“Oh, I don’t know,” he said. “I’m afraid I haven’t thought much about
them since that night. I doubt if I’d given too much thought to them
before. Deep in every man’s brain is an ideal of some sort, I imagine,
but it is seldom he sits down and analyses it out. He knows when he’s
missed it and locked the gates behind him, and perhaps, occasionally, he
knows when he’s found it—or something approximating it. We are all the
victims of that terrible thing called Imagination, which, I sometimes
think, is the sudden incursion of a satirical Deity. I have not
married—why, I can hardly say. Perhaps because there has been some
vague idea that if I waited long enough I might meet the one woman; but
partly, also, because I have had no very great desire to marry. I keep
bachelor’s hall over on the Sound, and the life is very jolly and free
of small domestic details. There are so many women that give you almost
everything you want—or at least four or five will make up a very good
whole—that I have never yet faced the tremendous proposition of going
through life expecting one woman to give me everything my nature and
mind demand. But there are such women, I imagine,” he added abruptly,
trying to see her face in one of the occasional splashes of moonlight.
“A very clever woman—Mrs. Lafarge; perhaps you know her—said to me the
other day, that many men and women of strong affinity took a good deal
of spirituality with them into marriage, but soon forgot all about
it—matrimony is so full of reiterant details, and everything becomes so
matter of course. Do you think that is true?”
“I am afraid it is. The imagination wears blunt. The Deity is sending
his electricity elsewhere—to those still prowling about the shores of
the unknown. Perhaps if one could keep the danger in mind—if one were
unusually clever—I don’t know. I fancy civilisation will get to that
point after a while. Unquestionably the companionship of man and woman,
when no essentials are lacking, is the one supremely satisfying thing in
life. If we loved each other, for instance—on such a night—it seems to
me that we are in tune—”
“But we don’t love each other, as it happens, and we met about three
quarters of an hour ago. We’ll probably hate each other by daylight.”
“Oh, I hope not,” he said, accepting the ice-water. “But tell me what
your ideals were. I hope they have proved more stable than mine.”
“Oh, mine were a sort of yearning for some unseen force in nature; I
suppose the large general force from which love is a projection. Every
mortal, except the purely material, the Beverly Peele type, for
instance, has an affinity with something in the invisible world, an
uplifting of the soul. Christianity satisfies the great mass, hence its
extraordinary hold. Do you suppose the real link between the soul of man
and the soul of nature will ever be established?”
He laughed a little, piqued, but amused. “You are very clever,” he said,
“and this is just the hour and these are just the circumstances for
impersonal abstractions. Well—perhaps the link will be established when
we have lived down this civilisation and entered upon another which has
had drilled out of it all the elements which plant in human nature the
instincts of cupidity and sordidness and envy and political corruption,
and all that goes to make us the aliens from nature that we are. About
all that keeps us in touch with her now are our large vices. There is
some tremendous spiritual force in the Universe which projects itself
into us, making man and nature correlative. What wonder that
man—particularly an imaginative and intelligent child—should be
affected and played upon by this Mystery? What wonder that the heathens
have gods, and the civilised a symbol called the Lord God?—a concrete
something which they can worship, and upon which unburden the load of
spirituality which becomes oppressive to matter? It is for the same
reason that women fall in love and marry earlier than men, who have so
many safety-valves. On the other hand, men who have a great deal of
emotional imagination and who can neither love nor accept religion take
refuge in excess. It is all a matter of temperament. Cold-blooded
people—those that have received a meagre share of this great vital
force pervading the Universe, which throws a continent into convulsions
or a human being into ecstasy—such, for instance, are religious only
because their ancestors were,—their brain is pointed that way. Their
