"So have I," said Wimpole.

"How can you hinder me?  You cannot prevent me from sending this letter,
nor from going to him if I choose.  And I have chosen to go. That ends
it."

"You are mistaken.  You are reckoning without me, and I will make it
impossible."

"You?  How?  Even if I send this letter?"

"Yes.  Come and walk a little, and we can talk.  If you insist upon it,
drop your letter into the box.  But it will only complicate matters, for
you shall not go back to Harmon."

Again she looked at him.  He had never spoken in this way, during all
the years of their acknowledged friendship and unspoken love.  She felt
that she resented his words and manner, but at the same time that she
loved him better and admired him more.  He was stronger and more
dominant than she had guessed.

"You have no right to say such things to me," she answered.  "But I will
walk with you for a few minutes.  Of course you can hinder me from
sending my letter now.  I can take it to the post office by and by."

"You cannot suppose that I mean to prevent you by force," said Wimpole,
and he stood aside to let her pass if she would.

"You said that it was a trial of strength," she answered.

She hesitated one moment, and then turned and began to walk with him.
They crossed the street to the side by which the river runs, away from
the hotels and the houses.  It was darker there and more quiet, and they
felt more alone. It would seem easier, too, to talk in the open air,
with the sound of the rushing water in their ears.  He was the first to
speak then.

"I want to explain," he said quietly.

"Yes."  She waited for him to go on.

"I suppose that there are times in life when it is better to throw over
one’s own scruples, if one has any," he began.  "I have never done
anything to be very proud of, perhaps, but I never did anything to be
ashamed of either. Perhaps I shall be ashamed of what I am going to say
now.  I don’t care.  I would rather commit a crime than let you wreck
your whole existence, but I hope you will not make me do that."

They had stopped in their walk, and were leaning against the railing
that runs along the bank.

"You are talking rather desperately," said Helen, in a low voice.

"It is rather a desperate case," Wimpole answered.  "I talk as well as I
can, and there are things which I must tell you, whatever you think of
me; things I never meant to say, but which have made up most of my life.
I never meant to tell you."

"What?"

"That I love you.  That is the chief thing."

The words did not sound at all like a lover’s speech, as he spoke them.
He had drawn himself up and stood quite straight, holding the rail with
his hands.  He spoke coolly, with a sort of military precision, as
though he were facing an enemy’s fire.  There was not exactly an effort
in his voice, but the tone showed that he was doing a hard thing at that
moment.  Then he was silent, and Helen said nothing for a long time.
She was leaning over the rail, trying to see the running water in the
dark.

"Thank you," she said at last, very simply, and there was another pause.

"I did not expect you to say that," he answered presently.

"Why not?  We are not children, you and I. Besides--I knew it."

"Not from me!"  Wimpole turned almost sharply upon her.

"No.  Not from you.  You wrote Henry a letter, many years ago.  Do you
remember?  I had to read everything when he went to the asylum, so I
read that, too.  He had kept it all those years."

"I am sorry.  I never meant you to know. But it does not matter now,
since I have told you myself."

He spoke coldly again, almost indifferently, looking straight before him
into the night.

"It matters a great deal," said Helen, almost to herself, and he did not
hear her.

She kept her head bent down, though he could not have seen her face
clearly if she had looked up at him.  Her letter burned her, and she
hated herself, and loved him.  She despised herself, because in the
midst of the greatest sacrifice of her life, she had felt the breath of
far delight in words that cost him so much.  Yet she would have suffered
much, even in her good pride, rather than have had them unspoken, for
she had unknowingly waited for them half a lifetime.  Being a good
woman, she was too much a woman to speak one word in return, beyond the
simple thanks that sounded so strangely to him, for women exaggerate
both good and evil as no man can.

"I know, I know!" he said, suddenly continuing.  "You are married, and I
should not speak.  I believe in those things as much as you do, though I
am a man, and most men would laugh at me for being so scrupulous. You
ought never to have known, and I meant that you never should.  But then,
you are married to Harmon still, because you choose to be, and because
you will not be free.  Does not that make a difference?"

"No, not that.  That makes no difference."  She raised her head a
little.

"But it does now," answered Wimpole.  "It is because I do love you, just
as I do, with all my heart, that I mean to keep you from him, whether it
is right or wrong.  Don’t you see that right and wrong only matter to
one’s own miserable self?  I shall not care what becomes of my soul if I
can keep you from all that unhappiness--from that real danger.  It does
not matter what becomes of me afterwards--even if I were to go straight
to New York and kill Harmon and be hanged for the murder, it would not
matter, so long as you were free and safe."

The man had fought in honourable battles, and had killed, and knew what
it meant.

"Is that what you intend to do?" asked Helen, and her voice shook.

"It would mean a great deal, if I had to do it," he answered quietly
enough.  "It would show that I loved you very much.  For I have been an
honourable man all my life, and have never done anything to be ashamed
of.  I should be killing a good deal, besides Henry Harmon, but I would
give it to make you happy, Helen. I am in earnest."

"You could not make me happy in that way."

"No.  I suppose not.  I shall find some other way.  In the first place,
I shall see Harmon and talk to him--"

"How?  When?"  Helen turned up her face in surprise.

"If you send what you have written, I shall leave to-night," said the
colonel.  "I shall reach New York as soon as your letter and see Harmon
before he reads it, and tell him what I think."

"You will not do that?"  She did not know whether she was frightened, or
not, by the idea.

"I will," he answered.  "I will not stay here tamely and let you wreck
your life.  If you mail your letter, I shall take the midnight train to
Paris.  I told you that I was in earnest."

Helen was silent, for she saw a new difficulty and more trouble before
her, as though the last few hours had not brought her enough.

"I think," said Wimpole, "that I could persuade Harmon not to accept
your generosity."

"I am not doing anything generous.  You are making it hard for me to do
what is right. You are almost threatening to do something violent, to
hinder me."

"No.  I know perfectly well that I should never do anything of that
sort, and I think you know it, too.  To treat Harmon as he deserves
would certainly make a scandal which must reflect upon you."

"Please remember that he is still my husband--"

"Yes," interrupted Wimpole, bitterly, "and that is his only title to
consideration."

Helen was on the point of rebuking him, but reflected that what he said
was probably true.

"Please respect it, then, if you think so," she said quietly.  "You say
that you care for me--no, I won’t put it so--you do care for me. You
love me, and I know you do.  Let us be perfectly honest with each other.
As long as you help me do right, it is not wrong to love me as you do,
though I am another man’s wife. But as soon as you stand between me and
my husband, it is wrong--wicked!  It is wicked, no matter what he may
have been to me.  That has nothing to do with it.  It is coming between
