opinions. 

He had warmly seconded his betrothed's wish 
that Thirza should at least spend a year or two 
with them to make amends for the despoiling of 
her own pretty home. 

The marriage was in the presence of a few 
choice friends only, but the reception was thronged 
all the afternoon, even when the bride had said 
her good-bye and been whirled away to the station. 
Mrs. Otis insisted upon Thirza spending the night 
with them, but she declared she wanted to be 
alone and think. 

Seth and Clara had been writing importunate 
letters. "Seth's wife was- very poorly and it did 
seem as if Thirza might give them a few weeks 
her own folks, too. Clara was having her house 
altered at last. Mother wasn't strong, and they 
did need her." She could always recall the night 



 

after Nina's marriage. The rooms were heavy 
with the odor of flowers ; it looked like a garden. 
She could not sleep, and she sat by the open win 
dow in a curiously expectant mood, as if with the 
dawn something would happen. 

The only thing that did happen was making up 
her mind to give up her pleasant rooms of which 
she had grown so fond. It could never be the 
same with new people. She would go to Wes- 
thorpe for the summer. After that circumstances 
should guide her. But she had a stranded sort of 
feeling, as if somewhere she must begin life over 
again. There were other women in the world 
perhaps some of them were longing as desperately 
as she to find the real clue through the labyrinth. 



CHAPTER XIV 

THE MAN'S NEED 

" YOU'VE just come in time," declared John 
Kent as he met his wife's sister at the station. 
" Laury can't live through the day. Clara went 
over last night." 

It was the middle of June, and Westhorpe was 
abloom with roses and syringa. There had been 
so much for Thirza to do. Her choicest belong 
ings had gone to the care of the Otis household, 
the others had been boxed and stored. Business 
engagements had to be planned. Then she had 
promised in the coming autumn she would be the 
guest of Mrs. Otis for a month or two, while she 
was settling her future. 

"We're all up in heaps and piles," as they drew 
near the house. Thirza shuddered at the con 
fusion. A tall boy leaned on the gate; the rest 
of the fence had been taken down, and this looked 
queer standing. 

" Mother's come home," he announced; "Aunt 
Laura's dead." 

The unemotional tone shocked Thirza. He 

gave a tug at his cap and a half nod. This was 
Jack, called so to distinguish him from his father. 

" So you have come at last," and Mrs. Kent 
kissed her sister as if it was a seal of condemna 
tion for her dilatoriness. " Poor Laura's gone, 
and she did so want to see you. Seth's about 
wild. What in the world he'll do ! Mother 
Albert's there now. I had to come home. You 
see what a mess we're in." 

Her mother had grown more than two years 
older, Thirza thought. Aunt Abby was more 
wrinkled and crooked; the children had grown, 
and all of them talked together. Clara was tired 
and cross and flung out bits of captiousness. By 
the time the supper table was cleared away and 
the children in bed, Thirza felt that a week must 
have elapsed since she left the city. 

Her mother told her all the news in the evening. 
" Laura had consumption as much as anything. 
She always kept worrying for her baby, an' now 
she's gone to him, poor thing! And what Seth'll 
do I can't see. 'Pears to me he grows more an' 
more careless like, clear discouraged, I s'pose, with 
such luck. He's took up some money, and what 
he'll do about the farm I can't see. If I was a 
younger woman I'd take hold and help him, but I 
ain't very strong now, an' I don't know how Clara'd 
ever manage with the mending if I wa'n't here." 



 

Thirza went out to the farm the next morning. 
Seth broke down when he saw her. He had 
aged unaccountably. Mrs. Albert and one of her 
married daughters were staying on until after the 
funeral. The little girls had gone back to their 
forlorn aspect, and Edith had forgotten Aunt 
Thirza, who had once roused her love. 

" Seth ain't had a bit of management," declared 
Mrs. Albert, complainingly. " All poor Laura's 
money has been frittered away. Her grand 
mother might as well have divided it among all 
the girls, and some of it would have done good. 
'Twas for her name, you know. And Seth raised 
money on a mor'gage, to pay up some debts and 
give Clara hers; and he doesn't seem to make a 
livin', let alone money. Our old house is sold, so 
I've a little money for my old age ; but it is a shame 
about all of Laura's. Some one will have to come 
here, too. I -can't stay. Mary's goin' in her new 
house, and I'm to have the ell part. I want my own 
home. So we shall be most of the summer settlin'. 
I don't see how he could afford a housekeeper. 
But Laura's folks have done their full share ; and 
we ain't any on us rich, to say, though I've got 
enough to keep me without bein' beholden." 

Thirza was glad when the melancholy rites were 
over and Mrs. Albert had gone home. But what 
was Seth to do ? 




" I couldn't even take the children to tide over," 
said Clara. " We've hardly a place for ourselves. 
I should feel it my duty to go there if I was 
single. I don't suppose you'll marry now, Thirza, 
if you haven't had chances in the city. You're 
quite getting along. And it does seem as if you 
might spare a month or two to your own kin in 
sorrow as well as to go pleasuring about. We 
haven't asked much of you. I must say I think 
you've had a pretty easy time." 

" Have I asked anything of you, or mother, or 
Seth ? " returned Thirza, with spirit. " I have 
been earning my own living." 

" And spending your legacy ! " 

" What I have spent I have made good again. 
It seems to me I have the same right to my own 
life as you or Seth. Being single does not make 
any difference. You both chose to marry. I 
have the same right of choice." 

" It does make a difference," declared Clara, illog- 
ically. " Old maids are expected to fill up the 
chinks, and have a little care for people in trouble." 

" I am not old enough to be forced into any 
chink just yet," returned Thirza, with a touch of 
spirit. " Laura's sisters stand in the same posi 
tion in regard to the children." 

" They're not single. They have families of 
their own; and their first duty is to them." 

