into the faces there, and, father, I hate them. I would not touch them
for worlds, those deformed, dirty, ugly, loathsome creatures. They are
so unbeautiful! And there surely can be no need of that. They might at
least have the beauty of cleanliness and of lovely thoughts. Apparently
I cannot get the habit of philanthropy, however well I may do with
church-going. For how can we help being repulsed by what is repulsive?
As well expect the bees to seek carrion instead of roses. But what do
the books mean when they talk about love of men? The more men need
love, the less one can love them. Write me, father. I feel as if I
should know a different side of you through your letters.

Later: O, I am glad I came, if only for this one thing--a little cat, a
little mangled cat, gaunt, wounded, dying. I killed her--mercifully.

[Sidenote: Mrs. Montrose to Ernest Hume]

Dear friend,--Only a word, to save my honor: for we lunch and tea and
dine with the world to-day. Your barbarian is more than perfect. He has
become a social sovereign, sweeping all before him; and he doesn't even
know it. He stands there in a circle of pretty girls and strenuous
spinsters, looks at them gravely with those great soft eyes, answers
their questions, and walks away in absolute unconsciousness. He says
people are so kind. On the contrary, they are enraptured with his
beauty and his miraculous truth-telling. And I begin to think Zoe may
really be in love with him. If nobody interferes with them, perhaps
they'll make a model Darby and Joan.

[Sidenote: Ernest Hume to Francis Hume]

Dear son,--So you don't love the poor! Well, don't force it. They are
not invariably beautiful. Don't trouble about them until you have found
out why they haven't Greek profiles, as a rule, and why they sometimes
fail in expressing their lovely thoughts. Why did the cat appeal to
you? Yet she wasn't beautiful. Something had maimed her. That might be
the case with two-legged creatures also. I have been thinking about you
a lot. In fact, for the last twenty years there hasn't been anything
else for me to think about, except what is gone. And that is a chapter
by itself. But I want to tell you this: if you are in a tight place of
any sort, moral or financial, come to me, and I shall be grateful. I'm
older, and I have lived in the world. I don't want to be a prig and
hamper you with moral maxims; but if you need me, I want to be there.
Moreover, I want you to grapple alone with life. That's the only way.
To catch systematically at another swimmer is to weaken yourself and
perhaps go down,--as I did, though not for the same reason. I went down
because I never was a strong swimmer in the beginning, and then I
didn't go in for training. Enough of metaphor. I've a sort of legacy,
though, to give you. I was thinking last night what a shame it is that
we never have a fair show with temptation, because a temptation is a
thing that's never recognized until you see its back: like the
hill-wives. But this you may remember; if something seems particularly
enticing to you, and you say, "It wouldn't do for all the world to take
this, but it will do for me," draw back. That is mirage. If you begin
to shield yourself behind what the great souls have done, that, too, is
mirage. The great souls are never so little as in forsaking law for
license. Do not despise what convention has decreed, unless you know it
to be trivial and false. The general consensus of mankind really means
something. A hot-headed and hot-hearted youngling in revolt against
harness is pretty sure to get a galled back--and nothing else. Pin
yourself to law; only make sure that the law is the highest possible.
So much for Polonius. Now, your legacy; and now I have to write things
almost too sacred to be written, and that never could be said. I have
always talked to you about your mother, because you have a right to
know her; but her loss is so fresh, that every word still hurts. She
was probably the most rounded, the purest, the most crystalline nature
ever made. Her perfection could never have been exceeded. Perhaps
Imogen only was her equal. Have you ever thought what it must have been
to such a woman to conceive and bear a child? She loved me. Our life
was as perfect as her desert. Now I know the thoughts--all she could
tell even me--of that girl-mother every day of all the weeks before
your birth. There is no word--at least from me--fine enough to describe
the course of that holy rapture. There is in a woman's love a certain
joy in the pain which is borne for love's sake, a certain ecstasy of
renunciation which no man ever feels. That once I saw it pictured. I
veil my face. She was not only divinely happy because you were coming;
she became divinely holy. Her child seemed to be a sacrifice to present
to God,--her God was very living, very near her,--and she had resolved
that he should be a perfect gift. She heard the most beautiful music,
and clothed herself in the finest fabrics. She had her room hung with
angelic faces, where her eyes could open first upon them in the
morning. Those are the pictures that hang in our cabin. I could never
tell you why I chose them. Mona Lisa was banished, though she loved
her, too. But she said, "He shall have the simplicity of God; he shall
not bear the beauty of the world." She read the most wonderful books
then, the simplest, the most exalted. I have tried to remember her
choice among them, and it seems to me now that she chose always what
had the wisdom of truth and love, and that she shrank from the
sparkling and clever. I cannot tell you all her thoughts about you, nor
all her hopes. For, indeed, the confidences were mine, and near as you
are to me, she is nearer. Perhaps I could never have told you if you
had not begun to see what it is to love a woman. But the substance of
it all seems to be this: she loved you before she saw you; she
worshiped the very thought of your coming. She seemed to feel that she
was not a passive instrument chosen to bring you into the world. (You
see I speak personally now of the Unknowable. It is because she did so.
To her, all the powers that fashion and rule were blended in One, and
He was warm and living, and she loved Him. Yet her idea was not
anthropomorphic. It was colossal. This was and is incomprehensible to
me; but I am trying now to enter her habit of mind.) A passive
instrument, did I write? She was, in a way, your creator. The vital
spark came from her God through love and her, and she would not hamper
it by any earthly clogs of groveling inheritance. Well--her watching
upon her arms was over. She saw her son. And then she gave him to me to
finish her work, and died. Now the knowledge of her great love and
expectation seems to belong to you, and I have only this to say: If you
feel yourself getting a little dusty in life, think what should be
expected of one who was so loved, so waited for. You are of royal
stock; for you were born of a woman so perfect that sometimes I wonder
now if I have not imagined her. But I have not. She was real. We do not
guess out things so beautiful. God--It--Nature--makes them, and then we
describe them in verse or music, and people say we create. Don't speak
to me of this; only make use of it when the time comes.

There isn't much to tell you about camp. I do many of the same old
things. Perhaps I shall go to you; for sometimes I think you will not
want to come back. Pierre misses you.

[Sidenote: To the Unknown Friend]

I hate vulgarity! Mrs. Montrose seems to be a very good woman, but she
is vulgar. Why, when women are middle-aged and portly, do they feel
at liberty to make rude personal speeches? She said to me yesterday:--

"If you want to marry Zoe, marry her soon." I was angry; I could only
look at her. She laughed, but she did flush. "Don't glare at me,
Ingomar," said she. "I'm speaking for your good. It isn't well for you
to marry her, but somehow you're the kind of a child I want to see
pleased. So keep on the spot. Captain Morton has come back, and he
knows Zoe has had some money left her. Be on the spot!" I walked away
without a word. Since then I have hardly seen Zoe. It is insulting to
go near her. As if I did not trust her! As if I would be "on the spot!"

[Sidenote: Zoe Montrose to Francis Hume]

I can't wait to tell you! so this goes round to you by messenger. You
couldn't guess it out in a lifetime. I am rich, truly rich! Uncle Obed
has died. He was a miser, God bless him! and he's left it all to me.
Did you ever hear of anything so absurd? Now I can buy myself elegant
leisure, as if it were something to be found at the shops. I can give
myself time to write my plays. I can even bring them out. Of course,
though I lead the horse to water I can't make him drink; and though I
were Midas I can't force the public to listen. Stay! is it impossible?
Go to! there shall be souvenir nights, and the newspapers shall be
fully primed. Actresses shall pose as injured wives, and scandals shall
be described in flaming headlines. All print is open to us. We are
rich, rich! I'm quite delirious with it.

[Sidenote: Francis Hume to Zoe Montrose]

Love,--You bewilder me. I didn't know you cared. Money? I didn't know
you wanted it. I believe we have a great deal. My father told me I need
not stint. Don't use yours. Please don't use it. Marry me to-morrow,
and take mine.

[Sidenote: Zoe Montrose to Francis Hume]

Don't use it? Why, I want to use it! You might as well ask a
new-crowned king to go and make a visit in central Africa, and pick up
all the gold he could carry. Be patient. I'll come to Africa by and by.
But just now I want to take mine ease in the opulence of my mind. I'm
having a new dress made of a queer dull green and blue, and I'll buy a
set of turquoises, God wot, and present them to myself from my dearest
friend. Uncle Obed lived and died in South America. I won't wear
mourning--I won't! I won't! Perhaps green and blue are mourning there.

[Sidenote: Francis Hume to Zoe Montrose]

Dearest lady,--Will you write me--just a word, only a word? You see I
could not get a whisper from you last night, and you were so brilliant
and sparkling, like a shining gem. Call me a baby, if you like. I don't
mind. Only say you love me. Just the three words, dear? And will you
take these little blue stones? I can see how they would look against
your skin; I held them near a pinkish rose, and then I saw you in my
mind and I threw the rose aside. Dear, the three words? I feel very
humble, very much of a beggar. Will you?

[Sidenote: Zoe Montrose to Francis Hume]

Now you are not sleeping, as I said when I saw the hollows coming under
your eyes, or you wouldn't fail in tact. It isn't like you. I want to
buy my turquoises myself. Don't you see how I am luxuriating in the
