At last the time seemed ripe for a final advance, and Brown gathered his 
courage together and resolved to make it. He would take along a contribu- 
tion of double the usual size, and win the mother over ; with her opposition 
annulled, the rest of the conquest would be sure and prompt. 

He took to the road in the middle of a placid Sunday afternoon in the soft 
Missourian summer, and he was equipped properly for his mission. He was 
clothed all in white linen, with a blue ribbon for a necktie, and he had on 
dressy tight boots. His horse and buggy were the finest that the livery stable 
could furnish. The lap robe was of white linen, it was new, and it had a 
hand-worked border that could not be rivaled in that region for beauty and 
elaboration. 

When he was four miles out on the lonely road and was walking his horse 
over a wooden bridge, his straw hat blew off and fell in the creek, and floated 
down and lodged against a bar. lie did not quite know what to do. He 
must have the hat, that was manifest ; but how was he to get it ? 

Then he had an idea. The roads were empty, nobody was stirring. Yes, 
he would risk it. He led the horse to the roadside and set it to cropping the 
grass ; then he undressed and put his clothes in the buggy, petted the horse 
a moment to secure its compassion and 
its loyalty, then hurried to the stream. 
He swam out and soon had the hat. 
When he got to the top of the bank the 
horse was gone ! 

His legs almost gave way under him. 
The horse was walking leisurely along 
the road. Brown trotted after it, say- 
ing, 'Whoa, whoa, there's a good fel- 
low ; " but whenever he got near enough 
to chance a jump for the buggy, the Jiorse 
quickened its pace a little and defeated 
him. And so this went on, the naked 
man perishing with anxiety, and expect- 
ing every moment to see people come in 
sight. He tagged on and on, imploring 
the horse, beseeching the horse, till ho 
had left a mile behind him, and was clos- 
ing up on the Taylor premises ; then at 
last he was successful, and got into the 
buggy. He flung on his shirt, his neck- 
tie, and his coat ; then reached for — but he was too late ; he sat suddenly 
down and pulled up the lap-robe, for he saw some one coming out of the 

gate — a woman, he thought. He wheeled the horse to the left, and struck 
briskly up the cross-road. It was perfectly straight, and exposed on both 
sides ; but there were woods and a sharp turn three miles ahead, and he was 
very grateful when he got there. As he passed around the turn he slowed 
down to a walk, and reached for his tr — too late again. 

He had come upon Mrs. Enderby, Mrs. Glossop, Mrs. Taylor, and Mary. 
They were on foot, and seemed tired and excited. They came at once to the 
buggy and shook hands, and all spoke at once, and said eagerly and earnestly, 
how glad they were that he was come, and how fortunate it was. And Mrs. 
Enderby said, impressively : 

"It looks like an accident, his coming at such a time ; but let no one pro- 
fane it with such a name ; he was sent — sent from on high." 

They were all moved, and Mrs. Glossop said in an awed voice : 

" Sarah Enderby, you never said a truer word in your life. This is no ac- 
cident, it is a special Providence. He was sent. He is an angel — an angel 
as truly as ever angel was — an angel of deliverance, say angel, Sarah En- 
derby, and will have no other word. Don't let any one ever say to me again, 
that there's no such thing as special Providences ; for if this isn't one, let 
them account for it that can." 

"Iknow it's so," said Mrs. Taylor, fervently, "John Brown, I could 
worship you ; I could go down on my knees to you. Didn't something tell 
you ? — didn't you feel that you were sent ? I could kiss the hem of your lap- 
robe." 

He was not able to speak ; he was helpless with shame and fright. Mrs. 
Taylor went on : 

"Why, just look at it all around, Julia Glossop. Any person can see 
the hand of Providence in it. Here at noon what do we see ? We see the 
smoke rising. I speak up and say, 'That's the Old People's cabin afire.' 
Didn't I, Julia Glossop ? " 

" The very words you said, Nancy Taylor. I was as close to you as I am 
now, and I heard them. You may have said hut instead of cabin, but in 
substance it's the same. And you were looking pale, too." 

" Pale ? I was that pale that if — why, you just compare it with this lap- 
robe. Then the next thing I said was, ' Mary Taylor, tell the hired man to rig up 
the team — we'll go to the rescue.' And she said, 'Mother, don't you know 
you told him he could drive to see his people, and stay over Sunday ?' And 
it was just so. I declare for it, I had forgotten it. 'Then,' said I, 'we'll go 
afoot.' And go we did. And found Sarah Enderby on the road." 

"And we all went together," said Mrs. Enderby. " And found the cabin 
set fire to and burnt down by the crazy one, and the poor old things so old and 
feeble that they couldn't go afoot. And we got them to a shady place and 
made them as comfortable as we could, and began to wonder which way 
to turn to find some way to get them conveyed to Nancy Taylor's house. 
And I spoke up and said — now what did I say ? Didn't I say, ' Providence 
will provide ' ? " 

" Why sure as you live, so you did ! I had forgotten it." 

"So had I," said Mrs. Glossop and Mrs. Taylor ; "but you certainly said 
it. Now wasn't that remarkable ? " 



" Yes, I said it. And then we went to Mr. Moseley's, two miles, and all 
of them were gone to the camp meeting over on Stony Fork ; and then we 
came all the way back, two miles, and then here, another mile — and Provi- 
dence has provided. You see it yourselves " 

They gazed at each other awe-struck, and lifted their hands and said in 
unison : 

"It's per-fectly wonderful." 

" And then," said Mrs. Glossop, " what do you think we had better do — 
let Mr. Brown drive the Old People to Nancy Taylor's one at a time, or put 
both of them in the buggy, and him lead the horse ? " 

Brown gasped. 

"Now, then, that's a question," said Mrs. Enderby. "You see, we are 
all tired out, and any way we fix it it's going to be difficult. For if Mr. 
Brown takes both of them, at least one of us must go back to help him, for 
he can't load them into the buggy by himself, and they so helpless." 

"That is so," said Mrs. Taylor. " It doesn't look — oh, how would this 
do ? — one of us drive there with Mr. Brown, and the rest of you go along to 
my house and get things ready. I'll go with him. He and I together can 
lift one of the Old People into the buggy ; then drive her to ray house and — 

"But who will take care of the other one ?" said Mrs. Enderby. "We 
musn't leave her there in the woods alone, you know — especially the crazy 
one. There and back is eight miles, you see." 

They had all been sitting on the grass beside the buggy for a while, now, 
trying to rest their weary bodies. They fell silent a moment or two, and 
struggled in thought over the baffling situation ; then Mrs. Enderby bright- 
ened and said : 

" I think I've got the idea, now. You see, we can't walk any more. 
Think what we've done : four miles there, two to Moseley's, is six, then back 
to here — nine miles since noon, and not a bite to eat ; I declare I don't see 
how we've done it ; and as for me, I am just famishing. Now, somebody's 
got to go back, to help Mr. Brown — there's no getting aiound that; but 
whoever goes has got to ride, not walk. So my idea is this : one of us to ride 
back with Mr. Brown, then ride to Nancy Taylor's house with one of the Old 
People, leaving Mr. Brown to keep the other old one company, you all to go 
now to Nancy's and rest and wait ; then one of you drive back and get the 
other one and drive her to Nancy's, and Mr. Brown walk." 

" Splendid !" they all cried. "Oh, that will do — that will answer per- 
fectly." And they all said that Mrs. Enderby had the best head for planning, 
in the company ; and they said that they wondered that they hadn't thought 
of this simple plan themselves. They hadn't meant to take back the compli- 
ment, good simple souls, and didn't know they had done it. After a consulta- 
tion it was decided that Mrs. Enderby should drive back with Brown, she 
being entitled to the distinction because she had invented the plan. Every- 
thing now being satisfactorily arranged and settled, the ladies rose, relieved 
and happy, and brushed down their gowns, and three of them started home- 
ward ; Mrs. Enderby set her foot on the buggy-step and was about to climb 
in, when Brown found a remnant of his Toice and gasped out — 


"Please Mrs. Enderby, call them back — I am very weak ; I can't walk, 
I can't, indeed." 

"Why, dear Mr. Brown ! You do look pale; I am ashamed of myself 
that I didn't notice it .sooner. Come back — all of you ! Mr. Brown is not 
well. Is there anything I can do for you, Mr. Brown? — I'm real sorry. 
Are you in pain ? " 

"No, madam, only weak; I am not sick, but only just weak — lately; 
not long, but just lately." 

The others came back, and poured out their sympathies and commisera- 
