ply their books, which otherwise (as in 
times past) would give themselves to 
hawking, hunting, tables, cards, dice, 
tipling at the ale house, shooting, and 
other like vanities." The clergy held 
a social rank with tradespeople ; their 
sons learned trades, and their daughters 
might go out to service. Jewell says 
many of them were the " basest sort 
of people " — unlearned, fiddlers, pipers, 
and what not. " Not a few," says Har- 
rison, " find fault with our thread-bare 
gowns, as if not our patrons but our 
wives were the causes of our woe." He 
thinks the ministers will be better when 
the patrons are better, and he defends 
the right of the clergy to marry and to 
leave their goods, if they have any, to 
their widows and children instead of to 
the church, or to some school or alms- 
house. What if their wives are fond, 
after the decease of their husbands, to 
bestow themselves not so advisedly as 
their calling requireth ; do not duch- 
esses, countesses, and knights' wives 
offend in the like fully so often as they ? 
And Eve, remarks the old philosopher 
of Radwinter — " Eve will be Eve, 
though Adam would say nay." 

The apparel of the clergy, at any rate, 
was more comely and decent than it 
ever was in the popish church, when 
the priests " went either in divers colors 
like players, or in garments of light hue, 
as yellow, red, green, etc. ; with their 
shoes piked, their hair crisped, their 
girdles armed with silver ; their shoes, 
spurs, bridles, etc., buckled with like 
metal ; their apparel (for the most part) 
of silk, and richly furred; their caps 
laced and buttoned with gold; so that 
to meet a priest, in those days, was to 
behold a peacock that spreadeth his tail 
when he danceth before the hen." 

Hospitality among the clergy was 
never better used, and it was increased 
by their marriage; for the meat and 
drink were prepared more orderly and 
frugally, the household was better looked 
to, and the poor oftener fed. There 
was perhaps less feasting of the rich 
in bishops' houses, and " it is thought 
much peradventure, that some bishops 
in our time do come short of the ancient 




 

gluttony and prodigality of their prede- 
cessors"; but this is owing to the cur- 
tailing of their livings, and the excessive 
prices whereunto things are grown. 

Harrison spoke his mind about digni- 
taries. He makes a passing reference 
to Thomas a Becket as " the old Cocke 
of Canturburie," who did crow in be- 
half of the see of Rome, and the " young 
cockerels of other sees did imitate his 
demeanour." He is glad that images, 
shrines, and tabernacles are removed 
out of churches. The stories in glass 
windows remain only because of the cost 
of replacing them with white panes. He 
would lft£ to stop the wakes, guilds, 
paternities, church-ales, and brides-ales, 
with all their rioting, and he thinks 
they could get on very well without the 
feasts of apostles, evangelists, martyrs, 
the holy-days after Christmas, Easter, 
and Whitsuntide, and those of the Vir- 





 

gin Mary, with the rest. " It is a world 
to see," he wrote of 1552, "how ready 
the Catholicks are to cast the commun- 
ion tables out of their churches, which 
in derision they call Oysterboards, and 
to set up altars whereon to say mass." 
And he tells with sinful gravity this tale 
of a sacrilegious sow : " Upon the 23d 
of August, the high altar of Christ 
Church in Oxford was trimly decked up 
after the popish manner; and about the 
middest of evensong, a sow cometh into 
the quire, and pulled all to the ground ; 
for which heinous fact, it is said she 
was afterwards beheaded ; but to that I 
am not privy." Think of the condition 
of Oxford when pigs went to mass ! 
Four years after this there was a sick- 
ness in England, of which a third part 
of the people did taste, and many clergy- 
men, who had prayed not to live after 
the death of Queen Mary, had their de- 




 

sire, the Lord hearing their prayer, says 
Harrison, " and intending thereby to 
give his church a breathing time." 

There were four classes in England 
— gentlemen, citizens, yeomen, and ar- 
tificers or laborers. Besides the nobles, 
any one can call himself a gentleman 
who can live without work and buy a 
coat of arms — though some of them 
" bear a bigger sail than his boat is 
able to sustain." The complaint of 
sending abroad youth to be educated is 
an old one ; Harrison says the sons of 
gentlemen went into Italy, and brought 
nothing home but mere atheism, infidel- 
ity, vicious conversation, and ambitious, 
proud behavior, and retained neither 
religion nor patriotism. Among citizens 
were the merchants, of whom Harrison 
thought there were too many ; for, like 
the lawyers, they were no furtherance to 
the commonwealth, but, raised the price 





 

of all commodities. In former, free- 
trade times, sugar was sixpence a pound, 
now it is two shillings sixpence ; rai- 
sins were one penny, and now sixpence. 
Not content with the old European 
trade, they have sought out the East 
and West Indies, and likewise Cathay 
and Tartary, whence they pretend, from 
their now and then suspicious voyages, 
they bring home great commodities. 
But Harrison cannot see that prices are 
one whit abated by this enormity, and 
certainly they carry out of England the 
best of its wares. 

The yeomen are the stable, free men, 
who for the most part stay in one place, 
working the farms of gentlemen, are 
diligent, sometimes buy the land of un- 
thrifty gentlemen, educate their sons to 
the schools and the law courts, and leave 
them money to live without labor. These 
are the men that made France afraid. 





 

