a half. The pointed roof had windows in the end, 
but none in the front. There were two nice big 
chambers upstairs, and a garret. Mr. Odell began 
to talk about building a new house ; and Mrs. Odell 
said the things by which she meant the carpets 
and furniture - - were good enough for the old 
place, but they 'd have all new by the time the 
girls grew up, to fit the new house. 
 
Mr. Odell had a peach-orchard and a quince- 
orchard, and two long rows of cherry-trees. Then 
he kept quite a herd of cows, and sold milk. He 
had a splendid new barn, with two finished rooms 
in that, where the hands slept in summer. The 
old barn was devoted to the hay and the horses. 
There were chickens and ducks and geese, and a 
pen of pigs. This summer, they were raising three 
pretty calves and one little colt, who was desperately 
shy. But the calves would come up to be patted, 
and eat out of your hand. 
Both of the girls were what their mother called 
regular tomboys. Polly was a few months older 
than the little girl, and Janey two years her senior. 
They were smart too. They could wash dishes 
and make beds and sweep, weed in the garden, 
look after the poultry; and Janey could iron almost 
as well as her mother. But they did love to run 
and whoop, and tumble in the hay, and they laughed 
over almost everything. They were not great stu- 
dents, though they went to school regularly. 
A second or third cousin lived with the Odells, 
and did a great deal of the housework. She was 
not " real bright," and had some queer ways. Her 
immediate relatives were dead ; and the Odells had 
taken her from a feeling of pity, and a fear lest at 
last she would be sent to the poor-house. She 
had an odd way of talking incoherently to herself, 
and nodding her head at almost everything ; yet 
she was good-tempered and always ready to do as 
she was told. But the worst was her lack of 
memory; you had to tell her the same things 
everyday, "get her started in the traces," Mr. 
Odell said. 
Mrs. Odell put a cot in the girls' room for 
Hanny, since there was plenty of space. And 
Polly seemed to find so many funny stories to tell 
over that Hanny fell asleep in the midst of them, 
and woke up in the morning without a bit of home- 
sick feeling. Then Mr. Odell was going to the 
mill, and he took Polly and Hanny along, and they 
had a rather amusing time. 
Hanny was very much interested in the process, 
and amazed when she found how they made the 
different things out of the same wheat. They 
used "middlings' 1 for pancakes at home, w r hen 
her mother was tired of buckwheat. Not to have 
had griddle-cakes for breakfast would have been 
one of the hardest trials of life for men and boys 
through the winter. It warmed them up of a cold 
morning, and they seemed to thrive on it. 
Mr. Odell was very willing to explain the pro- 
cesses to Hanny. Polly wanted to know if she 
thought of going into the milling business, and 
suggested that she never would be big enough. 
Then they ran round to look at the water-wheel and 
the little pond where the stream was dammed so 
there would be no lack of water in a dry time. 
They had a drawing pattern in school just like 
it, except that it lacked the broken rustic bridge a 
little higher up. She would take a new interest in 
drawing it now r . 
It was noon when they reached home, and 
Hanny felt real hungry, though Mrs. Odell de- 
" 
clared she didn't eat more than a bird. She was 
glad her girls were not such delicate little things. 
They went out on the shady back stoop after- 
ward. Janey was sewing the over-seam in a sheet 
that her mother wanted turned. When she had 
finished, and picked out the old sewing, she was 
free. Then she said they would go down to the 
Bristows' and have a good game of hide and seek. 
They always had such fun at the Bristows.' 
Polly brought out her basket of carpet-rags, a 
peach basket nearly full. 
" I just hate to sew carpet-rags ! ' she declared. 
" Couldn't I help you ? ' asked Hanny. 
" Why, to be sure you could, if you would, and 
knew how to sew." 
" Of course I know how to sew," said Hanny, 
rather affronted. 
" Oh, I was only in fun ! I 'll find you a thim- 
ble. It 's in my work-box that was given me on 
Christmas. It 's real silver, too. Mother 's going 
to change it when she goes to New York, only she 
never remembers. My fingers are so fat. Oh, 
Hanny, what a little mite of a hand ! It 'll never 
be good for anything." 
" I have made a whole shirt myself, and I have 
hemstitched, and done embroidery, and I wipe 
dishes when I haven't too many lessons," inter- 
posed the little girl. 
" You can't make your own frocks," in a tone of 
triumph. 
" No. Miss Cynthia Blackfan comes and does 
it. Can you? ' 
"No, she can't," said Janey, while Polly threw 
her head back and laughed, showing her strong 
white teeth. " And she could no more make 
a shirt than she could fly. You 're real smart, 
Hanny. I 'm two years older, and I 've never made 
a whole one. I 'm going to try though, and 
father 's promised me a dollar when I do it all by 
myself." 
Polly had found the thimble. It wasn't any 
prettier than Hanny's, though Polly begged her " to 
be real careful and not lose it." 
" Now you can just sew hit or miss ; and then 
you can put in a long strip of black, 'cause there 's 
more black than anything else. Oh, dear, I do 
hate to sew rags ! ' 
"What kind of sewing do you like?' asked 
Janey, in a tone that would have been sarcastic in 
an older person. 
" I just don't like any kind. Hanny, do you 
know that some one has invented a sewing-ma- 
chine?' and Polly looked up with the triumph of 
superior wisdom. 
" Oh, yes, I saw it at the Institute Fair. And 
there 's a place on Broadway where a woman sits 
in the window and sews. It 's very queer ; but we 
think it doesn't sew real nice." 
Polly was for the moment nonplussed. Hanny 
did seem to know almost everything. Then curi- 
osity overcame her. 
"Does it do really and truly sewing?" 
" Why, yes. When you come down, I 'll ask Joe 
to take us over to see it." 
 
" Carpet-rags? ' 
"Well- -I don't know. Long straight seams, 
and hems and stitching." 
" Well, I 'm going to have one when I 'm mar- 
ried. I wonder if they cost very much ! ' 
" There 'll be lots of things for you to do be- 
fore you are married. And some girls don't have 
any chance. You 'll want to know how to keep 
house ' 
" I like housekeeping. You just go from one 
thing to another. I 'll have some one to cook and 
peel potatoes and all that. And we 'll keep a horse 
and waggon, and I shall go to ride every day." 
Janey laughed. " Just now, you had better sew 
carpet-rags." 
" And I 'll never have any rag carpets. I will 
give away all the old clothes." 
" I 'm afraid you 'll never have much of any- 
thing, nor a husband either, Polly Odell," said 
her mother. " You talk, and leave the rags for 
Hanny to sew." 
Polly turned scarlet, and sewed very indus- 
triously. 
" I 'd like to see a sewing-machine," began Janey, 
presently. "How does it go?' 
" There is a strap around a wheel that is fast to 
a frame. You put your feet on, so, and just make 
them go up and down after you have started the 
wheel with your hand. The needle goes through, 
and something catches the thread, then it goes 
through again, and that makes the stitch. It is 
very curious." 
" You know a good many things, don't you, 
Hanny? ' said Janey, admiringly. 
Hanny coloured. 
" I can beat her all out running, I know; and 
I 'll bet a penny she can't jump over the creek." 
" And don't you dare her to, Polly. Remember 
how you fell in. Oh, Hanny, she was a sight to 
behold!" 
" Well - - it had been raining, and the ground was 
