stirring his heart.
The old Royall house in Summer Street went its way three-quarters of a
century ago. No one dreams now of the beautiful garden that surrounded
it, and the blossoming shrubbery and beds of flowers from which nosegays
were sent to friends, and the fruit distributed later on. It was an old
house then, a great square, two-story building with a cupola railed
around a flat place at the point of the roof, or what would have been
the point if carried up. There were some rooms built out at the back,
and an arbor--a covered sort of allée where the ladies sat and sewed
at times and the children played. Thirty years before there had been
many a meeting of friends to discuss the state of affairs. There had
been disagreements, ruptures, quarrels made and healed. George Royall
had gone back to England. Dwight Royall had fought on the side of the
"Rebels." One daughter had married an English officer who had
surrendered with Cornwallis and then returned to his native land. A
younger son had married and died, and left two daughters to his mother's
care, their own mother being dead. A widowed daughter had come home to
live with her four children, the two youngest being girls. Dorcas Payne
was a cousin to them on their father's side.
There were often guests staying with them, and the old house was still
the scene of good times, as they were then: friends dropping in and
finding ready hospitality. For though Madam Royall had passed the three
score and ten, she was still intelligent and had been in her earlier
years accomplished. She could play on her old-fashioned spinet for the
children to dance, and sometimes she sang the songs of her youth, though
her voice had grown a trifle unsteady in singing.
The sun was setting the west in a glow of magnificence as they walked up
to the Royall house. Madam Royall and her daughter Mrs. Chapman were
waiting to welcome them.
In this hall was the tall stove that was beginning to do duty for the
cheerful hearthfire, and it diffused a delightful atmosphere of warmth.
But you could see the blaze in the parlor and the dining room, where
some friends were already assembled and having a game of cards. The
sideboard, as was the custom then, was set out with a decanter of
Madeira and one of sherry and the glasses, besides a great silver basin
filled with nuts and dried fruit and another dish of crullers.
On the opposite side of the hall there was a hubbub of children's
voices. Madam Royall ushered Mr. Adams into the dining room, left Cary
to the attention of the two girls and their aunt, and took possession
of Doris herself, removing her wraps and handing them to the maid. Then
taking her hand she drew her into the room, kept mostly for dancing and
party purposes.
CHAPTER XII
A CHILDREN'S PARTY
"This is Doris Adams, a little girl who came from England not long ago.
You must make her welcome and show her what delightful children there
are in Boston. These two girls are Helen and Eudora Chapman, my
grandchildren, and the others are grandnieces and friends. Helen, you
must do the honors."
Dorcas Payne came forward. "She goes to the same school that I do." She
had been entertaining the girls with nearly all she knew about Doris.
That Mr. Winthrop Adams was her uncle and guardian raised her a good
deal in the estimation of Dorcas, for even then a man was thought
unusually well off to be able to live without doing any real business.
"Would you like to play graces?" asked Eudora.
"I don't know," admitted Doris.
"We were playing. Grace and Molly, you go down that end of the room.
Now, this is the way. When Betty tosses it you catch it on the sticks,
so."
It seemed very easy when Eudora caught it and tossed it back, and Betty
threw it again.
"Now you try," and she put the sticks in Doris' hands. "Oh, what tiny
little hands you have, and as white as snow!"
Doris blushed. She threw the hoop and it "wabbled," but Betty, a bright,
black-eyed girl, made a lunge or two, and caught it on the tip of one
stick, and back it came. Doris was looking at her and never moved her
hand.
"Pick it up and try again," said Eudora. "That isn't the right way, but
we will excuse you this time."
Alas! this time Doris ran and brandished her stick in the air to no
purpose.
"I would rather see you play," she said. "You are all doing it so
beautifully."
"Then you stand here and watch."
It was very fascinating. There were three sets playing. Doris found that
when a girl missed she gave up to some other companion. Her eyes could
hardly move quickly enough to watch all the hoops. Now and then a girl
was crowned,--that meant the hoops encircled her head,--and they all
shouted.
Then Helen said they had played that long enough, and now they would try
"Hunt the slipper." The slipper was a pretty one, made of pink plush
with a dainty heel and a shining buckle set in a small pink bow. Doris
said "it looked like a Cinderella slipper."
"Oh, do you know about Cinderella? Do you know many stories?"
"Not a great many. Little Red Riding Hood and Beauty and the Beast, and
a few in verses."
"I wish you knew something quite new. Oh!"
Eudora had forgotten to keep the slipper going. The girls were sitting
in a ring, so she jumped up cheerfully and began to hunt. There were a
great many little giggles and exclamations, and then someone said: "Oh,
let's stop playing and tell riddles!"
That was a never-failing amusement. There were some very bright ones,
some very puzzling ones. One girl asked how many baskets of dirt there
were in Copp's Hill.
"Why, there can't anybody tell," said Helen. "You couldn't measure it
that way."
Everybody looked at everybody else, and the glances finally grew
indignant.
"There isn't any answer."
"Give it up?"
"Yes," cried the voices in unison.
"Why, one--if the basket is big enough."
"There couldn't be a basket made as large as that. You might as well ask
how many drops of water there are in the sea, and then say only one
because they all run together."
The girls applauded that, and, before anyone had thought of another,
Miranda,--tall, black, imposing, with a gay turban wound round her
head,--announced:
"De little misses were all disquested to walk out to de Christmas
supper."
Grandmamma did not know how to leave her guests, and she was in the
middle of a game of loo, but she had promised to sit at the head of the
table, so Mrs. Chapman took her place. No one felt troubled because
there were no boys at the party: the only boy of the house had gone out
skating with some other boys.
It was quite a royal feast. There were thin bread and butter, dainty
biscuits not much larger than the penny of that day, cold turkey and
cold ham, and cake of every kind, it would seem, ranged around the iced
Christmas cake that was surmounted by a wreath of some odd golden
flowers that people dried and kept all winter for ornamental purposes.
They puzzled grandmamma with the two riddles, but she thought that about
the sea the better one. And she said no one would ever have an
opportunity to measure Copp's Hill, but for all that they did, if they
had cared to.
The grown-up people had some tea and chocolate in the dining room, and
seemed to be having as merry a time as the children. There was something
infectious in the air or the house. Doris thought it very delightful.
Her cheeks began to bloom in a wild-rose tint, and her eyes had a
luminous look, as if happiness was shining through them.
Afterward grandmamma played on the spinet and they danced several pretty
simple figures, ending with the minuet. When the clock struck seven
someone came in a sleigh for four of the girls who lived quite near
together. Pompey, the Royalls' servant, was to escort the others, and
Betty March lived just across in Winter Street. When children went out
the hours were kept pretty strictly. Seven o'clock meant seven truly,
and not eight or nine.
Each child had a pretty paper box of candy, tied with a bright ribbon.
Bonbons we should call them now. And they all expressed their thanks and
made a courtesy as they reached the hall door.
"Have you had a good time?" asked Madam Royall, taking Doris by the
hand.
"It's been just delightful, every moment," the child answered.
"And she's only looked on, grandmamma," exclaimed Eudora. "Now, let's us
get real acquainted. We will go in the parlor and have a good talk."
"Very well," returned grandmamma. "I'll go and see what the old people
are about."
"I am glad you don't have to go home so soon," began Helen. "Why don't
you live with your Uncle Adams instead of in Sudbury Street? Are there
any girls there?"
"One real big one who is sixteen. She has gone to Hartford now. That's
Betty Leverett. And I went there first, because--well, Uncle Leverett
came for me when the vessel reached Boston."
"Oh, he is your uncle, too! Did you come from another Boston, truly
now?"
"Yes, it was Boston."
"And like this?"
"Oh, no."
"Did you know ever so many girls?"
"No. We lived quite out of the town."
"And, oh, were you not afraid to cross the ocean? Suppose there had been
a pirate or something?"
"I didn't know anything about pirates," said Doris. "But I was afraid at
first, when you could not see any land for days and days. There were two
little girls and they had a doll. We played together and grew used to
the water. But it was worse when it stormed."
"I should have been frightened out of my life. Grandmamma has been to
England. We have some cousins there, but they are grown-up people and
married. Which place do you like best?"
"I had no real relatives there after papa died. Oh, I like this Boston
best."
Then they branched off into school matters. Eudora and her sister went
to a Miss Parker, and to a writing school an hour in the afternoon.
Eudora wished she was grown-up like Isabel and Alice, and could go out
to real parties and have a silk frock. Grandmamma was going to give her
one when she was fifteen.
A feeling of delicacy kept Doris from confessing that she owned the
coveted article. Some of the girls had worn very pretty frocks. Eudora's
was a beautiful soft blue, and had bands of black velvet and short
sleeves with lace around them. But Doris had forgotten about her own
attire, though she recalled the fact that there was only one little
