




were hung; and at this she suddenly felt 
that she couldn't keep it up. The counter- 
clerk had just taken a telegram from a 
slavey, and, to give herself something to 
cover her, she snatched it out of his hand. 
The gesture was so violent that he gave her 
an odd look, and she also perceived that 
Mr. Buckton noticed it. The latter person 
age, with a quick stare at her, appeared for 
an instant to wonder whether his snatching 
it in his turn mightn't be the thing she 
would least like, and she anticipated his 
practical criticism by the frankest glare she 
had ever given him. It sufficed: this time 
it paralyzed him ; and she sought with her 
trophy the refuge of the sounder. 



XXI 

It was repeated the next day; it went on 
for three days ; and at the end of that time 
she knew what to think. When, at the 
beginning-, she had emerged from her 
temporary shelter Captain Everard had 
quitted the shop ; and he had not come again 
that evening, as it had struck her he possibly 
might might all the more easily that there 
were numberless persons who came, morn 
ing and afternoon, numberless times, so that 
he wouldn't necessarily have attracted atten 
tion. The second day it was different, and 
yet on the whole worse. His access to her 
had become possible she felt herself even 
reaping the fruit of her yesterday 's glare at 
Mr. Buckton; but transacting his business 
with him didn' t simplify it could, in spite 
of the rigour of circumstance, feed so her 
new conviction. The rigour was tremen 
dous, and his telegrams not, now, mere 






pretexts for getting at her were apparently 
genuine ; yet the conviction had taken but a 
night to develop. It could be simply 
enough expressed; she had had the glim 
mer of it the day before in her idea that he 
needed no more help than she had already 
given ; that it was help he himself was pre 
pared to render. He had come up to town 
but for three or four days; he had been 
absolutely obliged to be absent after the 
other time ; yet he would, now that he was 
face to face with her, stay on as much 
longer as she liked. Little by little it was 
thus clarified, though from the first flash of 
his reappearance she had read into it the 
real essence. 

That was what the night before, at eight 
o clock, her hour to go, had made her hang 
back and dawdle. She did last things or 
pretended to do them ; to be in the cage had 
suddenly become her safety, and she was 
literally afraid of the alternate self who 
might be waiting outside. He might be 
waiting; it was he who was her alternate 





self, and of him she was afraid. The most 
extraordinary change had taken place in 
her from the moment of her catching the 
impression he seemed to have returned on 
purpose to give her. Just before she had 
done so, on that bewitched afternoon, she 
had seen herself approach, without a scruple, 
the porter at Park Chambers; then, as the 
effect of the rush of a consciousness quite 
altered, she had, on at last quitting Cocker's, 
gone straight home for the first time since 
her return from Bournemouth. She had 
passed his door every night for weeks, but 
nothing would have induced her to pass it 
now. This change was the tribute of her 
fear the result of a change in himself as to 
which she needed no more explanation than 
his mere face vividly gave her; strange 
though it was to find an element of deter 
rence in the object that she regarded as the 
most beautiful in the world. He had taken 
it from her in the Park that night that she 
wanted him not to propose to her to sup; 
but he had put away the lesson by this time 





he practically proposed supper every time 
he looked at her. This was what, for that 
matter, mainly rilled the three days. He 
came in twice on each of these, and it was as 
if he came in to give her a chance to relent. 
That was, after all, she said to herself in the 
intervals, the most that he did. There 
were ways, she fully recognised, in which 
he spared her, and other particular ways as 
to which she meant that her silence should 
be full, to him, of exquisite pleading. The 
most particular of all was his not being out 
side, at the corner, when she quitted the 
place for the night. This he might so easily 
have been so easily if he hadn't been so 
nice. She continued to recognise in his 
forbearance the fruit of her dumb supplica 
tion, and the only compensation he found 
for it was the harmless freedom of being 
able to appear to say: Yes, I'm in town only 
for three or four days, but, you know, I 
would stay on. He struck her as calling 
attention each day, each hour, to the rapid 
ebb of time ; he exaggerated to the point of 





putting it that there were only two days 
more, that there was at last, dreadfully, 
only one. 

There were other things still that he 
struck her as doing with a special intention ; 
as to the most marked of which unless 
indeed it were the most obscure she might 
well have marvelled that it didn' t seem to 
her more horrid. It was either the frenzy 
of her imagination or the disorder of his 
baffled passion that gave her once or twice 
the vision of his putting down redundant 
money sovereigns not concerned with the 
little payments he was perpetually making 
so that she might give him some sign of 
helping him to slip them over to her. 
What was most extraordinary in this 
impression was the amount of excuse that, 
with some incoherence, she found for him. 
He wanted to pay her because there was 
nothing to pay her for. He wanted to offer 
her things that he knew she wouldn't take. 
He wanted to show her how much he 
respected her by giving her the supreme 




chance to show him she was respectable. 
Over the driest transactions, at any rate, 
their eyes had out these questions. On the 
third day he put iu a telegram that had evi 
dently something of the same point as the 
stray sovereigns a message that was, in 
the first place, concocted and that, on a 
second thought, he took back from her 
before she had stamped it. He had given 
her time to read it and had only then 
bethought himself that he had better not 
