follow; and doubling, twisting, following 
paths but recently beaten by Anastacio in 
pursuit of deer, Roldan and Adan were 
soon far beyond the reach or ken of the 
men of war. It was an hour, however, be 
fore they thought it wise to arrest their 
flight and pause to recuperate in a red 
wood tree hollowed by fire. Two weeks 
of exposure and unwonted exertions had 
hardened Adan's superfluous flesh, and he 
was scarcely more spent than his clean 
limbed friend, although every step had 
been taken with protest. 
" Caramba ! " he said, in a hoarse 
whisper at length. " When I am back on the 
rancho I won't walk for a year." 
"You will have the habit by that time, 
my friend, and will walk in your sleep. 
When I am governor you will be general 
issimo of all the forces and will keep 
your army as lively as an ant-hill." 
" That is too long ahead, and we have 
not enough wind to argue about it. What 
are we going to do now ? How shall we 
get horses to leave this forest? Where 
shall we sleep to-night? What shall we 
have for dinner? I could eat a whole side 
of venison." 
" Well, you won't, my friend. Let me 
think." 
After a time he said: "We must stay 
here until night. Then we will go back 
to the pueblo if we can find the way. As 
for food, we can have none to-day. There 
are no berries at this time of year, and we 
have nothing to shoot game with. Other 
people have gone the day without food, 
and we can. When we get back to the 
pueblo, even if we cannot reach the larder, 
we can find the corral without being seen. 
I don't believe that the soldiers have found 
it, and the Indians in charge of the 
mustangs will let us have two when they know 
what has happened. Now, do not let us 
talk. It will make us more hungry." 
Adan groaned, but accepted the decree 
of silence. The day wore on to noon, and 
in the unbroken stillness the boys ventured 
out of the grimy tree and lay at full length 
on the turf. The great redwoods towered 
in endless corridors, their straight columns 
unbroken by branch or twig for a hundred 
and fifty feet. Through the green close 
arbours above came an occasional rift of 
sunshine, but the aisles were full of cold 
green light. The boys shivered in their 
coyote skin coats and drew close together; 
they dared not run about to keep warm ; 
they must husband their strength, and 
hunger was biting. There was no wind in 
the tree-tops, no murmur of creek, only 
the low hum of the forest, that in their 
strained ear-sense grew to a roar. Finally 
they fell asleep, and it was dark when 
Roldan awoke. He shook Adan. 
" Come," he said ; and his partner, 
grumbling but acquiescent, got to his feet 
and tramped heavily over the soft ground. 
They had fled beyond paths, and Roldan 
 
could only trust to his locality sense, which 
he knew to be good. But more than once 
they were brought to halt before a wall of 
brush, which no man could have penetrated 
without an axe. Then they would feel 
their way along its irregular bristling side 
for a mile or more before it thinned 
sufficiently for egress. Frequently they heard 
the deadly rattle, and more than once the 
near cry of a panther, but there was 
nothing to do but push on. Precautions would 
have availed them nothing, and there was 
no refuge nearer than the pueblo. Some 
times they walked down aisles unchoked 
by brush but full of moving shadows, above 
which sounded the lonely continuous hoot 
ing of the owl. Now and again bats 
whirred past, and once a startled wildcat 
scurried across the path and darted up a 
tree, crying with terror. 
" If we only don't meet a bear," thought 
Roldan, who dared not speak lest his voice 
should shake courage and terrors apart. 
It was midnight when Adan announced 
with what emphasis was left in him, 
" We are lost." 
Roldan answered through his teeth : 
" Yes, but I think I hear the creek. When 
we find that, all we have to do is to follow 
it south." 
" My heart is in the South," muttered 
Adan. " We might follow that." 
" I am ashamed of you," said Roldan, 
with a lofty scorn which was good for five 
words and no more. 
It was a half hour later that they stood 
upon the high bank of the creek and looked 
gratefully up at the broad strip of night 
light. After the dense shadows of the 
forest the cold light of stars seemed more 
radiant than noon-day. 
" We cannot follow along the bank for 
more than a little way at a time, on 
account of the ferns and brush," said Roldan. 
" We should walk three times the distance, 
and perhaps get lost again. I am going 
to wade. Will you ? " 
" Madre de dios ! And get rheumatism ? 
My teeth clack together at the thought." 
" You will not be able to keep still long 
enough to get rheumatism, my friend. By 
the grace of Mary we shall be on horse- 
back all day to-morrow. The water is not 
a foot deep, and the chill only lasts a 
moment. Take off your boots." 
" What is left of them," muttered Adan. 
But they were better than no boots, and 
he took them off, and slung them round 
his neck. Roldan scrambled down the 
bank and plunged into the creek. Adan, 
after a moment's hesitation, followed with 
audible reluctance. He thrust the tip of 
one foot into the icy water, withdrew it 
with a shout, tried the other; then seeing 
that Roldan was splashing far ahead, 
jumped in with both feet and ran along 
the slippery rocks, wondering when the 
change of temperature would occur. His 
teeth clattered loudly. He pulled in and 
executed a war-dance on the stones, then 
sat down on a fallen boulder and rubbed 
his feet violently. Roldan kept steadily 
on, mindful of his dignity as leader; but 
only as Adan joined him had his teeth 
ceased from clattering and the warmth 
crawled back to his feet. 
Cold, hungry, inexpressibly weary, the 
boys plodded on, sometimes in the clear 
light of stars, sometimes under the chill 
blackness of meeting trees. Fish and 
other slimy things darted across their feet ; 
they stepped to their waists into more 
than one treacherous pool. The dark 
blue of the sky had turned to grey when 
Roldan raised his arm and pointed to a 
squat dark object on the summit of the 
cliff. 
"A hut," he said. " We are at the 
pueblo." 
The boys crawled softly up the almost 
perpendicular bank and peered over the 
edge. To all appearances the pueblo was 
deserted. If the soldiers were there 
and their horses were not they slept 
within the huts. The animal instinct, so 
bravely repressed, overcame the 
adventurers. They ran across the open to the hut 
where the food was kept, and ate for fifteen 
minutes without speaking or taking the 
trouble to hide themselves. 
XII 
WHEN they had satisfied their ap 
petites they made two large pack 
ages of dried meat and fruit, tying them 
securely with straw to their right arms: 
saddle-bags there were none. 
" Not a horse," whispered Adan. " Do 
you think the soldiers have gone ? " 
" I think they are lost, and as they did 
not stop to tie their horses when they 
