lap, and listened as if there might be some reason in the nonsense I was
talking.  “You might say that he was a society man, and was in great
request, and then intimate that there was a prior attachment, or that he
was the kind of man who would never marry, but was really cold-hearted
with all his sweetness, and merely had a passion for studying character.”

“Do you think that would do, Basil?” she asked.

“Well, I thought perhaps you might think so.”

“I’m afraid it wouldn’t,” she sighed.

“All that we can do now is to watch them, and act promptly, if we see
that they are really in love, either of them.”

“I don’t believe,” I said, “that I should know that they were in love
even if I saw it.  I have forgotten the outward signs, if I ever knew
them.  Should he give her flowers?  He’s done it from the start; he’s
brought her boxes of Huyler candy, and lent her books; but I dare say
he’s been merely complying with our wishes in doing it.  I doubt if
lovers sigh nowadays.  I didn’t sigh myself, even in my time; and I don’t
believe any passion could make Kendricks neglect his dress.  He keeps his
eyes on her all the time, but that may be merely an effort to divine her
character.  I don’t believe I should know, indeed I don’t.”

“I shall,” said Mrs. March.




XIV


WE were to go the next day to the races, and I woke with more anxiety
about the weather than about the lovers, or potential lovers.  But after
realising that the day was beautiful, on that large scale of loveliness
which seems characteristic of the summer days at Saratoga, where they
have them almost the size of the summer days I knew when I was a boy, I
was sensible of a secondary worry in my mind, which presently related
itself to Kendricks and Miss Gage.  It was a haze of trouble merely,
however, such as burns off, like a morning fog, when the sun gets higher,
and it was chiefly on my wife’s account.

I suppose that the great difference between her conscience and one
originating outside of New England (if any conscience can originate
outside of New England) is that it cannot leave the moral government of
the universe in the hands of divine Providence.  I was willing to leave
so many things which I could not control to the Deity, who probably could
that she accused me of fatalism, and I was held to be little better than
one of the wicked because I would not forecast the effects of what I did
in the lives of others.  I insisted that others were also probably in the
hands of the somma sapienza e il primo amore, and that I was so little
aware of the influence of other lives upon my own, even where there had
been a direct and strenuous effort to affect me, that I could not readily
believe others had swerved from the line of their destiny because of me.
Especially I protested that I could not hold myself guilty of misfortunes
I had not intended, even though my faulty conduct had caused them.  As to
this business of Kendricks and Miss Gage, I denied in the dispute I now
began tacitly to hold with Mrs. March’s conscience that my conduct had
been faulty.  I said that there was no earthly harm in my having been
interested by the girl’s forlornness when I first saw her; that I did not
do wrong to interest Mrs. March in her; that she did not sin in going
shopping with Miss Gage and Mrs. Deering; that we had not sinned, either
of us, in rejoicing that Kendricks had come to Saratoga, or in letting
Mrs. Deering go home to her sick husband and leave Miss Gage on our
hands; that we were not wicked in permitting the young fellow to help us
make her have a good time.  In this colloquy I did all the reasoning, and
Mrs. March’s conscience was completely silenced; but it rose triumphant
in my miserable soul when I met Miss Gage at breakfast, looking radiantly
happy, and disposed to fellowship me in an unusual confidence because, as
I clearly perceived, of our last night’s adventure.  I said to myself
bitterly that happiness did not become her style, and I hoped that she
would get away with her confounded rapture before Mrs. March came down.
I resolved not to tell Mrs. March if it fell out so, but at the same
time, as a sort of atonement, I decided to begin keeping the sharpest
kind of watch upon Miss Gage for the outward signs and tokens of love.

She said, “When you began to talk that way last night, Mr. March, it
almost took my breath, and if you hadn’t gone so far, and mentioned about
the sunset through the sleety trees, I never should have suspected you.”

“Ah, that’s the trouble with men, Miss Gage.”  And when I said “men” I
fancied she flushed a little.  “We never know when to stop; we always
overdo it; if it were not for that we should be as perfect as women.
Perhaps you’ll give me another chance, though.”

“No; we shall be on our guard after this.”  She corrected herself and
said, “I shall always be looking out for you now,” and she certainly
showed herself conscious in the bridling glance that met my keen gaze.

“Good heavens!” I thought.  “Has it really gone so far?” and more than
ever I resolved not to tell Mrs. March.

I went out to engage a carriage to take us to the races, and to agree
with the driver that he should wait for us at a certain corner some
blocks distant from our hotel, where we were to walk and find him.  We
always did this, because there were a number of clergymen in our house,
and Mrs. March could not make it seem right to start for the races direct
from the door, though she held that it was perfectly right for us to go.
For the same reason she made the driver stop short of our destination on
our return, and walked home the rest of the way.  Almost the first time
we practised this deception I was met at the door by the sweetest and
dearest of these old divines, who said, “Have you ever seen the races
here?  I’m told the spectacle is something very fine,” and I was obliged
to own that I had once had a glimpse of them.  But it was in vain that I
pleaded this fact with Mrs. March; she insisted that the appearance of
not going to the races was something that we owed the cloth, and no
connivance on their part could dispense us from it.

As I now went looking up and down the street for the driver who was
usually on the watch for me about eleven o’clock on a fair day of the
races, I turned over in my mind the several accidents which are employed
in novels to bring young people to a realising sense of their feelings
toward each other, and wondered which of them I might most safely invoke.
I was not anxious to have Kendricks and Miss Gage lovers; it would be
altogether simpler for us if they were not; but if they were, the sooner
they knew it and we knew it the better.  I thought of a carriage
accident, in which he should seize her and leap with her from the flying
vehicle, while the horses plunged madly on, but I did not know what in
this case would become of Mrs. March and me.  Besides, I could think of
nothing that would frighten our driver’s horses, and I dismissed the
fleeting notion of getting any others because Mrs. March liked their
being so safe, and she had, besides, interested herself particularly in
the driver, who had a family and counted upon our custom.  The poor
fellow came in sight presently, and smilingly made the usual arrangement
with me, and an hour later he delivered us all sound in wind and limb at
the racecourse.

I watched in vain for signs of uncommon tenderness in the two young
people.  If anything they were rather stiff and distant with each other,
and I asked myself whether this might not be from an access of
consciousness.  Kendricks was particularly devoted to Mrs. March, who, in
the airy detachment with which she responded to his attentions, gave me
the impression that she had absolutely dismissed her suspicions of the
night before, or else had heartlessly abandoned the affair to me
altogether.  If she had really done this, then I saw no way out of it for
me but by an accident which should reveal them to each other.  Perhaps
some one might insult Miss Gage—some ruffian—and Kendricks might strike
the fellow; but this seemed too squalid.  There might be a terrible jam,
and he interpose his person between her and the danger of her being
crushed to death; or the floor of the grand stand might give way, and
everybody be precipitated into the space beneath, and he fight his way,
with her senseless form on his arm, over the bodies of the mangled and
dying.  Any of these things would have availed in a novel, and something
of the kind would have happened, too.  But, to tell the truth, nothing
whatever happened, and if it had not been for that anxiety on my mind I
should have thought it much pleasanter so.

Even as it was I felt a measure of the hilarity which commonly fills me
at a running race, and I began to lose in the charm of the gay scene the
sense of my responsibility, and little by little to abate the vigilance
apparently left all to me.  The day was beautiful; the long heat had
burned itself out, and there was a clear sparkle in the sunshine, which
seemed blown across the wide space within the loop of the track by the
delicate breeze.  A vague, remote smell of horses haunted the air, with
now and then a breath of the pines from the grove shutting the
race-ground from the highway.  We got excellent places, as one always
may, the grand stand is so vast, and the young people disposed themselves
on the bench in front of us, but so near that we were not tempted to talk
them over.  The newsboys came round with papers, and the boys who sold
programmes of the races; from the bar below there appeared from time to
time shining negroes in white linen jackets, with trays bearing tall
glasses of lemonade, and straws tilted in the glasses.  Bookmakers from
the pool-rooms took the bets of the ladies, who formed by far the greater
part of the spectators on the grand stand, and contributed, with their
summer hats and gowns, to the gaiety of the ensemble.  They were of all
types, city and country both, and of the Southern dark as well as the
Northern fair complexion, with so thick a sprinkling of South Americans
that the Spanish gutturals made themselves almost as much heard as the
Yankee nasals.  Among them moved two nuns of some mendicant order,
receiving charity from the fair gamblers, who gave for luck without
distinction of race or religion.

I leaned forward and called Kendricks’s attention to the nuns, and to the
admirable literary quality of the whole situation.  He was talking to
Miss Gage, and he said as impatiently as he ever suffered himself to
speak, “Yes, yes; tremendously picturesque.”

“You ought to get something out of it, my dear fellow.  Don’t you feel
copy in it?”
