golden mean than you think," she replied, with a whis- 
pered tremulousness. "And you can understand " 

She was glad she had written to her mother. Of 
course some of the elders ought to have been told, and 
Ruth was more her chosen friend than Gertrude, but this 
inexplicable touch of the sweetest of all knowledge made 
them friends as they had never been before, and for all 
time. 





"And it's queer," declared Gertrude, laughing through 
her tears, "that you haven't given your heart to a gay 
young fellow to go dancing down the next half dozen 
years. But after all, youth is such a gay, glad time, and 
there is but one youth. 

"I thought it would be a case of propinquity," Ger- 
trude continued, after a pause. " Do you know that 
Ruth Ensign is a very charming home girl ? She can 
always see the most delightful thing to be done, she loves 
to minister to people ; she has so many sweet, dainty 
ways. She makes goodness lovable, and a great many 
people think it ought to stand on its own foundation 
quite alone as mere goodness. But you had written your 
name on his heart before that. Melchias has a great 
deal to answer for. When we all get old we ought to go 
up there and have an experience meeting." 

Uncle Con was delighted when he came home and 
found the two women the best of friends. He looked a 
trifle grave over Princess' engagement — he had counted 
on some years of girl life for her. As for himself, he ad- 
mired the professor extremely, and he would certainly 
attain eminence in his calling. 

He had been really angry the evening before with 
Sherburne's persistence and wrong way of looking at 
matters. If in his secret heart he thought Gertrude had 
sometimes been unduly attractive, he was also confident 
the prospect had never for a moment tempted her with 
its youth and glamour. 

" There is nothing but to wait and let him come to 
his senses," he said. 



CHAPTER XIX. 

FROM YOUTH TO MANHOOD. 

PRINCESS was curiously, unreasonably happy she said 
 to herself. Sherburne angrily accused her of going 
over to the enemy hand and foot, and in a tragic tone 
declared she would some day realize the cheat and de- 
ception, and the utter selfishness of the whole world. 

But there were two very busy days when she and Ger- 
trude went over the new house and discussed furniture 
and haunted stores, while Uncle Con laughed at the un- 
certainty of women's minds, and yet spent every spare mo- 
ment that he could with them. The professor haunted them 
also. He was a rather shy and delicate lover, but the 
exquisite friendliness was more to Princess' liking until 
the matter was really settled. 

And then came mamma's letter. Of course she could 
not plead surprise, and there was a tender sympathy in 
every line. So long as Princess was quite sure — but it 
would be well not to decide too hastily. Papa had nearly 
set his heart upon Mr. Sevier. 

There was a little halt in the letter, which was inter- 
rupted by a call and luncheon, and the children going 
out to a birthday feast. Papa had come home quite ill 
and they had sent for Doctor Underwood. 

A few lines were added in the morning. The case 
was pneumonia and a serious one. Would she return 
home at once ? The boys would be telegraphed to later 
on. 

 





Doctor Carew was much moved, and was fain to send 
Sherburne with her. 

" You see they do not want either of us," he said, in 
a coldly indifferent tone persuading himself that he felt 
really hurt at the word. 

But the next day not only were the boys summoned 
but Doctor Carew entreated to accompany them. 

"It must be critical," declared Lyndell. "But Doc- 
tor Underwood is so full of resources and keeps up to 
the high mark in his profession. Still, Tessy will feel 
better satisfied if you are there." 

He knew how critical the case was from another mes- 
sage that he had not mentioned. And all these hours 
must elapse before he could be of any assistance, if indeed 
assistance were needed then. 

Bertram was shocked at first and could not keep the 
tears from his eyes. He glanced over the paper but 
everything blurred, he looked out on the dreary March 
landscape as it whirled by and it seemed to express deso- 
lation rather than the coming of spring. After awhile 
he turned to his books, he had counted on passing away 
the tedium with study, but he could only think of Sher- 
burne House and the anxious, sorrowing household, his 
dear mother ! Of course, papa could not die. He had 
never known him in any state but robust health. Yet 
there would be days when no one would know except 
each in his secret heart. 

Doctor Carew found a friend on the train and they fell 
into a discussion. Sherburne sat gloomily, his thoughts 
a curious chaos. Not any more than Bertram would he 
believe death possible, but an awful fear tugged at his 
heart. He went out to the smoking car, but the cigar 
had no flavor, and the men were laughing at some rough 





stories. The air was stifling. So he returned and picked 
up the paper. If one could only get along without 
thinking ! But it was better even to see the stricken 
household with that far sight, than it was to live over the 
last two months and his woes. 

The journey seemed endless, but few things really are 
in this world. Doctor Carew had tried to lighten the 
burthen for both boys, but only Bertram had responded. 
More than once he had stolen a glance at Sherburne's 
handsome, gloomy face, and thought of his own disap- 
pointment in the lad. Could he have made the path 
more attractive for youthful feet ? He had a feeling that 
he had not done his cordial best, because he had not 
quite approved. 

Yet he did feel thankful Sherburne had not plunged 
into dissipation. He would be saved the mortifying con- 
sciousness of not having been able to cope with that 
viciousness. And perhaps a shock like this would rouse 
the latent manhood in him. 

They reached Sherburne House just at the edge of the 
evening. Tessy came to meet them in the spacious hall. 
She put out her hand to Doctor Carew, then went to the 
strong arms of her firstborn son, and in an instant seemed 
to live over the first absorbing year of her happy married 
life, crowned indeed by his coming. 

How small and sweet, and exhausted she was ! What 
if all the rest of her life he was to be her protector and 
try to fill a vacant place that after all never could be 
filled. A solemn impression of responsibility seemed to 
overwhelm him. No one had spoken. Doctor Carew, 
so used to the house, had hurried up to the sick chamber. 
What if 

"O mamma, mamma!" cried Bertram, crowding in 





and kissing the wet face in a passion of sorrow, " God 
