
"Certainly. My name is Frank Sylvester, I hope you are not a newspaper
reporter."

"Oh, no, sir," said Rupert, smiling again.

"I should not like to have this little adventure of mine get into the
papers. Do you see that house yonder?"

"Yes."

"It is the one where I live. If you have a little more time to spare
won't you come in and stay a short time?"

"Yes, sir, if you desire it."

They reached the house and Sylvester rang the bell.

The door was opened by a maid servant about forty years of age. She
looked at Sylvester's companion curiously.

"A young friend of mine, Rachel," said the young man. "Get ready a
little supper for us, will you? Some tea, cold meat and toast."

"All right, Mr. Frank."

They went into a pleasant sitting-room, where Rupert was invited to sit
down.

"That was an old family servant," exclaimed Sylvester. "If you hadn't
been with me she would have taken me to task, for she saw I had been
drinking."




CHAPTER III.

IN A TIGHT PLACE.


Presently Rachel announced tea. Sylvester had bathed his face, and thus
removed some of the indications of his conviviality.

The house was handsomely furnished. The room in which the tea table was
spread was particularly cozy and comfortable, and when he took his seat
at the table, Rupert could not help wishing that his mother could be
with him.

"What are you thinking about, Rupert?" asked Frank Sylvester, who
noticed his expression.

Rupert hesitated.

"Come, tell me. I am your friend."

"I couldn't help thinking of the very different supper my mother will
have."

"To be sure. You are a good boy for thinking of her. Where do you live?"

"At 117 Elizabeth Street."

Frank Sylvester took out a note book and jotted down the address.

Rachel Clark waited upon the table. Sylvester saw that her curiosity was
excited about Rupert, and he decided to gratify it.

"I suppose you are wondering where I met my new friend, Rachel?" he
said.

"Yes, sir."

"He met me. I had been drinking too much, and I am afraid I should have
got into trouble if he had not taken charge of me."

Rachel beamed upon Rupert.

"He was very kind," she said, "but oh, Mr. Frank----"

"I know just what you are going to say, Rachel," said Sylvester,
good-humoredly. "I am going to have Rupert come and see me often, and he
will help keep me straight. And by the way, Rachel, his mother is poor,
and I want you to put up some cold meat and other nice things in a
basket. I will send them to her."

"I shall be very glad to do so, Mr. Frank."

"You will stand high in Rachel's good graces, Rupert," said Sylvester,
as she left the room. "She thinks everything of me, and evidently
believes I am safe in your company. Suppose I make you my guardian?"

"I am afraid you wouldn't look up to me with the proper respect, Mr.
Sylvester."

"Then for respect we will substitute attachment. Now tell me a little
about yourself. How does it happen that you are out of a place?"

"It's the dull times, Mr. Sylvester. I was in the employ of Tenney &
Rhodes."

"I know the firm."

"And they would have retained me if business had been good, but I was
laid off on Saturday."

"What wages did they pay you?"

"Five dollars a week."

"And you lived on that?"

"We tried to."

"While I have had and wasted large sums of money. If I were in business
I would give you a place. As it is, I will see if any of my friends want
a clerk."

When supper was over, Rupert said he must go.

"Won't you stay the evening?" asked his new friend. "At least wait a
few minutes. Rachel is putting up a basket for you."

The servant presently appeared with a basket neatly covered with a
napkin.

"Perhaps I had better send it by an expressman, Rupert."

"Oh, no, sir. I shall be glad to carry it myself. It will be very
acceptable at home."

As Rupert lifted it, Sylvester took from his pocket the purse from which
Rupert had paid the car fare and handed it to him.

"Accept it," he said, "in return for your friendly services."

"You are paying me too liberally, Mr. Sylvester."

"Let me judge of that."

In the street Rupert did not wait to examine the purse. It was growing
late, and he was in haste to get home. He feared that his mother might
feel anxious about him, and he made his way as quickly as possible to
the nearest Elevated station.

The train was only partly full, and Rupert found a seat near the door.
He placed the basket on the floor in front of him.

Next to him sat a young woman rather showily dressed. Rupert casually
took out the purse which had just been given him with the intention of
examining the contents, but it occurred to him that he might find a more
suitable place than an Elevated car, and he put it back again. His
actions had, however, been noticed by the girl at his side.

At Fiftieth Street she rose to leave the car, but had not quite reached
the door when she put her hand into her pocket and uttered a cry.

"I have been robbed," she exclaimed.

"Of what have you been robbed?" asked the guard.

"Of a purse."

"Where were you sitting?"

"Just here."

"Do you suspect anyone of taking your purse?"

"Yes, this boy took it. I am almost sure of it."

As she spoke she pointed to Rupert, who flushed with indignation.

"It is false," he said.

"If you don't believe me," said the girl, "search him. I am sure he has
the purse in his pocket."

"What kind of a purse was it?" asked a quiet-looking man, sitting on the
opposite side.
