When Mr. Brookenliam appeared his wife was prompt. 
" She's coming back for Lord Petherton." 

'  Oh" he simply said. 

'• There's something between them.'' 

 '  Oh !" he merely repeated. But it would have taken 
many such sounds on his part to represent a spirit of re- 
sponse discernible to any one but his wife. 

"There have been things before," she went on, "but 
I haven't felt sure. Don't you know how one has some- 
times a flash ?" 

It could not be said of Edward Brookenham, who 
seemed to bend, for sitting down, more hinges than most 
men, that he looked as if he knew either this or any- 
thing else. He had a pale, cold face, marked and made 
regular, made even in a manner handsome, by a hardness 
of line in which, oddly, there was no significance, no ac- 
cent. Clean shaven, slightly bald, with unlighted gray 
eyes and a mouth that gave the impression of not work- 
ing easily, he suggested a stippled drawing by an in- 
ferior master. Lean moreover and stiff, and with the 
air of having here and there in his person a bone or two 
more than his share, he had once or twice, at fancy-balls, 
been thought striking in a dress copied from one of 
Holbein's English portraits. But when once some such 
meaning as that had been put into him it took a long 
time to put another, a longer time than even his ex- 
treme exposure, or anybody's study of the problem, had 
yet made possible. If anything particular had finally 
been expected from him it might have been a summarj , 
or an explanation, of the things he had always not said, 
but there was something in him that had long since paci- 
fied impatience and drugged curiosity. He had never in 
his life answered such a question as his wife had just put 





  

him and which she would not have put had she feared a 
reply. So dry and decent and even distinguished did he 
look, as if he had positively been created to meet a pro- 
priety and match some other piece, his wife, with her 
notorious perceptions, would no more have appealed to 
him seriously on a general proposition than she would, 
for such a response, have rung the drawing-room bell. 
He was none the less held to have a great general ade- 
quacy.  ' What is it that's between them ?" he demanded. 

 '' What's between any woman and the man she's mak- 
ing up to ?" 

 ' Why, there may often be nothing. I didn't know 
she even particularly knew him," Brookenham added. 

 ' It's exactly what she would like to prevent any one's 
knowing, and her coming here to be with him when she 
knows I know she knows — don't you see ? — that he's to 
be here, is just one of those calculations that are subtle 
enough to put off the scent a woman who has but half a 
nose." Mrs. Brookenham, as she spoke, appeared to tes- 
tify, by the pretty star-gazing way she thrust it into the 
air, to her own possession of the totality of such a feat- 
ure. ''I don't know yet quite what I think, but one 
wakes up to such things soon enough." 

"Do you suppose it's her idea that he'll marry her ?" 
Brookenham asked in his colorless way. 

" My dear Edward !" his wife murmured for all an- 
swer. 

" But if she can see him in other places, why should 
she want to see him here ?" Edward persisted in a voice 
destitute of intonation. 

I. Mrs. Brookenham now had plenty of that. " Do you 
mean if she can see him in his own house ?" 

"No cream, please," her husband said. "Hasn't she 
a house too ?" 

"Yes, but so pervaded all over by Aggie and Miss 
Merriman." 





 

 ' Oh !" Brookenliam observed. 
 ' " There has always been some man — Fve always known 
there has. And now it's Petherton," said his companion. 

'' But whereas the attraction ?" 

" In iim ? Why, lots of women could tell you. Pether- 
ton has had a career." 

" But I mean in old Jane." 

 ''Well, I dare say lots of men could tell you. She's 
no older than any one else. She has also such great ele- 
ments." 

 ' Oh, I dare say she's all right.' Brookenham returned 
as if his interest in the case had dropped. You might 
have felt you got a little nearer to him on guessing 
that, in so peopled a circle, satiety was never far from 
him. 

'  I mean for instance she has such a grand idea of 
duty. She thinks we're nowhere ?" 

 '' Nowhere?" 

 '' With our children — with our home life. She's aw- 
fully down on Tishy." 

'' Tishy ?" — Brookenham appeared for a moment at a 
loss. 

   Tishy Grendon — and her craze for Nanda." 

" Has she a craze for Nan da ?" 

'  Surely I told you Nanda's to be with her for Easter." 

'  I believe you did," Brookenham bethought himself, 
" but you didn't say anything about a craze. And where's 
Harold ?" he went on. 

 '' He's at Brander. That is he will be by dinner. He 
has just gone." 

" And how does he get there ?" 

"Why, by the Southwestern. They'll send to meet 
him." 

Brookenham appeared to view this statement, for a 
moment, in the dry light of experience. " They'll only 
send if there are others too." 





  

''Of course then there'll be others — lots. The more 
the better for Harold.' 

This young man's father was silent a little. '' Perhaps 
— if they don't play high." 

"Ah' said his mother, "however Harold plays, he 
has a way of winning." 

" He has a way, too, of being a hopeless ass. What I 
meant was how he comes there at all," Brookenham ex- 
plained. 

"Why, as any one comes — by being invited. She 
wrote to him — weeks ago." 

Brookenham was discoverably affected by this fact, but 
it would not have been possible to say if his satisfaction 
exceeded his surprise. " To Harold ? Very good-nat- 
ured." He had another short reflection, after which he 
continued : " If they don't send, he'll be in for five miles 
in a fly — and the man will see that he gets his money." 

