" No, I can 't say she does. She wants to go home." 
" That 's not a bad scheme. I should like to go 
home myself if I had one. What would you have 
done with Clementina if you had got her, Jenny ? " 
" What would any one have done with her ? Mar 
ried her brilliantly, of course." 
" But you say she isn 't sure she wishes to be mar 
ried at all ? " 
Miss Milray stated the case of Clementina 's divided 
mind, and her belief that she would take Hinkle in 
the end, together with the fear that she might take 
Gregory. " She 's very odd," Miss Milray concluded. 
"She puzzles me. Why did you ever send her to 
me?" 
Milray laughed. " I don 't know. I thought she 
would amuse you, and I thought it would be a pleas 
ure to her." 
They began to talk of some affairs of their own, 
from which Miss Milray returned to Clementina with 
the ache of an imperfectly satisfied intention. If she 
had meant to urge her brother to seek justice for the 
girl from Mrs. Lander, she was not so well pleased to 
have found justice done already. But the will had 
been duly signed and witnessed before the American 
 
vice-consul, and she must get what good she could 
out of an accomplished fact. It was at least a conso 
lation to know that it put an end to her sister-in-law 's 
patronage of the girl, and it would be interesting to 
see Mrs. Milray adapt her behavior to Clementina 's 
fortunes. She did not really dislike her sister-in-law 
enough to do her a wrong ; she was only willing that 
she should do herself a wrong. 
But one of the most disappointing things in all 
hostile operations is that you never can know what 
the enemy would be at ; and Mrs. Milray 's manoeuvres 
were sometimes dictated by such impulses that her 
strategy was peculiarly baffling. The thought of her 
past unkindness to Clementina may still have rankled 
in her, or she may simply have felt the need of out 
doing Miss Milray by an unapproachable benefaction. 
It is certain that when Baron Belsky came to Venice 
a few weeks after her own arrival, they began to pose 
at each other with reference to Clementina; she with 
a measure of consciousness, he with the singleness of 
a nature that was all pose. In his forbearance to win 
Clementina from Gregory he had enjoyed the dis 
tinction of an unique suffering ; and in allowing the 
fact to impart itself to Mrs. Milray, he bathed in the 
warmth of her flattering sympathy. Before she with 
drew this, as she must when she got tired of him, she 
learned from him where Gregory was ; for it seemed 
that Gregory had so far forgiven the past that they 
had again written to each other. 
During the fortnight of Belsky 's stay in Venice 
Mrs. Lander was much worse, and Clementina met him 
 
only once, very briefly. She felt that he had behaved 
like a very silly person, but that was all over now, and 
she had no wish to punish him for it. At the end of 
his fortnight he went northward into the Austrian 
Tyrol, and a few days later Gregory came down from 
the Dolomites to Venice. 
It was in his favor with Clementina that he yielded 
to the impulse he had to come directly to her ; and 
that he let her know with the first words that he had 
acted upon hopes given him through Belsky from 
Mrs. Milray. He owned that he doubted the author 
ity of either to give him these hopes, but he said he 
could not abandon them without a last effort to see 
her, and learn from her whether they were true or 
false. 
If she recognized the design of a magnificent repar 
ation in what Mrs. Milray had done, she did not give 
it much thought. Her mind was upon distant things 
as she followed Gregory 's explanation of his presence, 
and in the muse in which she listened she seemed 
hardly to know when he ceased speaking. 
" I know it must seem to take something for granted 
which I 've  no right to take for granted. I don 't be 
lieve you could think that I cared for anything but 
you, or at all for what Mrs. Lander has done for you." 
" Do you mean her leaving me her money ? " asked 
Clementina, with that boldness her sex enjoys con 
cerning matters of finance and affection. 
" Yes," said Gregory, blushing for her. " As far 
as I should ever have a right to care, I could wish 
there were no money. It could bring no blessing to 
our life. We could do no good with it ; nothing but 
 
the sacrifice of ourselves in poverty could be blessed 
to us." 
" That is what I thought, too," Clementina replied. 
" Oh, then you did think " 
" But afterwards," she added, " I changed my mind. 
If she wants to give me her money I shall take it." 
Gregory was blankly silent again. 
" I shouldn 't know how to refuse, and I don 't know 
as I should have any right to." Gregory shrank a 
little from her reyankeefied English, as well as from 
the apparent cynicism of her speech ; but he shrank 
in silence still. She startled him by asking with a 
kindness that was almost tenderness, " Mr. Gregory, 
how do you think anything has changed ? " 
" Changed ? " 
" You know how it was when you went away from 
Florence. Do you think differently now ? I don t. 
I don 't think I ought to do something for you, and 
pretend that I was doing it for religion. I don 't be 
lieve the way you do ; and I know I neva shall. Do 
you want me to go with you, afta that ? Do you want 
me, in spite of my saying that I can neva help you in 
your wo k because I believe in it ? " 
" But if you believe in me " 
She shook her head compassionately. "You know 
we ahgued that out before. We are just whe e we 
were. I am sorry. Nobody had any right to tell 
you to come he e. But I am glad you came." She 
saw the hope that lighted up his face, but she went on 
unrelentingly. " I think we had betta be free." 
"Free?" 
 
" Yes, from eacli other. I don 't know how you 
have felt, but I have not felt free. It has seemed to 
me that I promised you something. If I did, I want 
to take my promise back and be free." 
Her frankness appealed to his own. "You are 
free. I never held you bound to me in my fondest 
hopes. You have always done right." 
" I have tried to. And I am not going to let you 
go away thinking that the reason I said is the only 
reason. It isn t. I wish to be free because there is 
some one else, now." It was hard to tell him this, but 
she knew that she must not do less ; and the train 
that carried him from Venice that night bore a letter 
from her to Hinkle. 
XXXIII. 
CLEMENTINA told Miss Milray what had happened, 
but with Mrs. Milray the girl left the sudden depart 
ure of Gregory to account for itself. 
They all went a week later, and Mrs. Milray having 
now done her whole duty to Clementina had the 
easiest mind concerning her. Miss Milray felt that 
she was leaving her to greater trials than ever with 
Mrs. Lander; but since there was nothing else, she 
submitted, as people always do with the trials of 
others, and when she was once away she began to 
forget her. 
By this time, however, it was really better for her. 
With no one to suspect of tampering with her allegiance, Mrs. Lander returned to her former fondness 
for the girl, and they were more peaceful if not hap 
pier together again. They had long talks, such as 
they used to have, and in the first of these Clemen 
tina told her how and why she had written to Mr. 
Hinkle. Mrs. Lander said that it suited her exactly. 
" There haVt but just two men in Europe behaved 
like gentlemen to me, and one is Mr. Hinkle, and the 
other is that lo'd ; and between the two I rather you'd 
 
have Mr. Ilinkle ; I don 't know as I believe much in 
American guls marryin lo ds, the best of em." 
Clementina laughed. "Why, Mrs. Landa, Lo'd 
Lioncou t never thought of me in the wo ld ! " 
" You can 't eva know. Mrs. Milray was tellin 
that he 's what they call a pooa lo d, and that he was 
carryin on with the American girls like everything 
down there in Egypt last winta. I guess if it comes 
to money you'd have enough to buy him and sell him 
again." 
The mention of money cast a chill upon their talk ; 
and Mrs. Lander said gloomily, " I don 't know as I 
ca e so much for that will Mr. Milray made for me, 
after all. I did want to say ten thousand apiece for 
Mr. Landa 's relations; but I hated to befo e him; I'd 
told the whole kit of em so much about you, and I 
knew what they would think." 
She looked at Clementina with recurring grudge, 
and the girl could not bear it. 
" Then why don 't you tear it up, and make another? 
I don 't want anything, unless you want me to have it ; 
