institution."

Jed laughed.

"It didn't prove very interesting at the last," he said. "When my good
friends the Averys were turned out, Mr. and Mrs. Fogson succeeded them,
and I concluded to leave."

"I am not surprised to hear it. I have seen Mrs. Fogson," remarked the
detective dryly.

"Did she give me a good character?"

"Quite the contrary. She prepared me to find you a desperate young
ruffian."

Jed laughed.

"Do I come up to your expectations?" he asked.

"Not altogether. I may conclude that you have no information in regard
to your family or parentage?"

"No, sir. Can you"--something in the detective's face prompted the
question--"can you give me any information on the subject?"

Jed fixed his eyes with painful intensity upon the visitor.

"I think I can," he answered.

"Who, then, am I?"

"To the best of my knowledge you are the nephew of Sir Guy Fenwick, of
Fenwick Hall, Gloucestershire, England."

Both Mr. Roper and Jed looked exceedingly surprised.

"Sir Guy Fenwick?" repeated Roper.

"He is so called, but I have reason to believe he is a usurper, and that
the title and estates belong to your young friend, who, if I am correct,
isn't Jed Gilman, but Sir Robert Fenwick."

Jed looked dazed. Schuyler Roper went up to him and grasped his hand.

"My dear Jed, or rather Robert," he said, "let me be the first to
congratulate you. But, Mr. Peake, are you prepared to substantiate Jed's
claim to his title and inheritance?"

"I think so. I will tell you how the case stands."

When he had concluded, Mr. Roper asked, "And where is this nurse whose
testimony is so important?"

"At Rodick's. I brought her with me to Bar Harbor."

"And what is your program?"

"I should like to carry our young friend with me to New York to confront
the pseudo baronet."

"We will be ready whenever you say. I say we, for I propose to
accompany Jed--I beg pardon, Sir Robert--and stand by him at this
eventful period."

"Call me Jed, Mr. Roper, till I have proved myself entitled to the other
name," returned the "poorhouse boy."




CHAPTER XL.

GUY FENWICK'S DEFEAT.


Sir Guy Fenwick sat in his handsome apartment at the Brevoort House. He
was of slender build and dark complexion, bearing a very slight
resemblance to Jed, but his expression was much less agreeable.

"Jane Gilman was to have called this morning. She ought to be here now,"
he muttered, consulting his watch. "She is certain to come," he added
with a sneer, "for she wants money. I shall never be safe from annoyance
while she lives. However, she can do me little harm."

There was a knock at the door, and a bell boy appeared with a card.

Sir Guy took it from his hand, and regarded it with surprise.

"Mr. James Peake!" he repeated. "What does he want?"

"I don't know, Sir Guy."

"Let him come up, but the interview must be brief, for I am expecting
another party."

Directly afterward Detective Peake entered the presence of the baronet.

"You wish to see me, Mr.--ahem!--Mr. Peake?"

"Yes. Mr. Fenwick?"

"Mr. Fenwick!" repeated the Englishman, frowning. "I am Sir Guy
Fenwick."

"I am aware that you call yourself so," said the detective quietly.

"What do you mean by this insolence?" demanded Guy Fenwick, his face
flaming.

"You will understand me when I say I call in behalf of Sir Robert
Fenwick, the real baronet."

Guy Fenwick half rose from his seat. He looked angry and alarmed.

"I don't know what you mean," he said.

"I think you do. Sir Robert is your nephew, and the title and estate are
his by right."

Guy Fenwick laughed--a harsh, mirthless laugh.

"Really," he said, "this is most amusing. Robert Fenwick is dead. If
any one calls himself by that name he is an impostor."

"That remains to be seen. I have to inform you that Sir Robert Fenwick
is in this city, in the company of his mother, who has received and
acknowledged him."

"This is a conspiracy!" exclaimed Guy Fenwick, whose appearance showed
that he was deeply disturbed. "It is a very foolish conspiracy, I will
add. Of course I understand the object of my amiable sister-in-law in
giving her countenance to what she must know to be an imposture. Do me
the favor to inform me where you discovered the boy who impudently
claims the title and estate which I inherited from my brother."

"Only by procuring the disappearance of that brother's lawful heir."

"Who says this--who dares say it?"

"You are partially acquainted with a woman named Jane Gilman?"

Guy Fenwick's countenance changed.

"Yes," he said after a pause, "I do know a woman of that name. She has
been writing me blackmailing letters, and threatening to injure me if I
did not send her a hundred pounds. So this is the mare's nest you have
stirred up? I congratulate you."

"Call it a mare's nest if you like, Mr. Fenwick," said the detective
undisturbed. "You may find it a very serious matter. Shall I tell you
what we are able to prove?"

"If you please. I should like to know the details of this base
conspiracy."

"Fourteen years ago Jane Gilman appeared towards nightfall at the door
of a poorhouse not far away and left a child of two years old with the
people in charge. Before morning she disappeared. The child grew up a
healthy, sturdy boy; frank and handsome."

"So he prepared himself to claim the Fenwick title in an almshouse?"

"It wasn't his fault that he was brought up there, only his misfortune."

"What name was given him?"

"Jed Gilman."

"He had better retain it."

"Not while he has a better claim to the name of Robert Fenwick. Hanging
from his neck at the time he was placed in the poorhouse was a locket
containing miniatures of your brother, the late Sir Charles Fenwick, and
Lady Mary Fenwick, still living."

"Have you the locket with you?"

"It is in safe custody. You will admit that this is pretty strong
evidence of our claim. But we have in addition the confession of Jane
