And the two women, locked in each other's 
arms, found that consolation in sympathy which 
steals away half the grief of the world. Ah! 
who knows a woman's heart ? 

For Philip there was in these days no such 
consolation. It was a man's way not to seek 
any, to roll himself up in his trouble like a hi- 
bernating bear. And yet there were times when 
he had an intolerable longing for a confidant, for 
some one to whom he could relieve himself of 




 

part of his burden by talking. To Celia he could 
say nothing. Instinct told him that he should 
not go to her. Of the sympathy of Alice he was 
sure, but why inflict his selfish grief on her ten- 
der heart ? But he was writing to her often, he 
was talking to her freely about his perplexities, 
about leaving the office and trusting himself to 
the pursuit of literature in some way. And, in 
answer to direct questions, he told her that he 
had seen Evelyn only a few times, and, the fact 
was, that Mrs. Mavick had cut him dead. He 
could not give to his correspondent a very hu- 
morous turn to this situation, for Alice knew — 
had she not seen them often together, and did 
she not know the depths of Philip's passion ? 
And she read between the lines the real state of 
the case. Alice was indignant, but she did not 
think it wise to make too much of the incident. 
Of Evelyn she wrote afi^ectionately — she knew 
she was a noble and high-minded girl. As to 
her mother, she dismissed her with a country es- 
timate. " You know, Phil, that I never thought 
she was a lady." 

But the lover was not to be wholly without 
comfort. He met by chance one day on the 
Avenue Miss McDonald, and her greeting was so 
cordial that he knew that he had at least one 
friend in the house of Mavick. 

It was a warm spring day, a stray day sent in 




 

advance, as it were, to warn the nomads of the 
city that it was time to move on. The tramps 
in Washington Square felt the genial impulse, 
and, seeking the shaded benches, began to dream 
of the open country, the hospitable farm-houses, 
the nooning by way-side springs, and the charm 
of wandering at will among a tolerant and not 
too watchful people. Having the same abun- 
dant leisure, the dwellers up-town — also nomads 
— were casting in their minds how best to em- 
ploy it, and the fortunate ones were already 
gathering together their flocks and herds and 
preparing to move on to their camps at New- 
port or among the feeding -hills of the New- 
England coast. 

The foliage of Central Park, already heavy, 
still preserved the freshness of its new birth, and 
invited the stroller on the Avenue to its protect- 
ing shade. At Miss McDonald's suggestion they 
turned in and found a secluded seat. 

" I often come here," she said to Philip; " it is 
almost as peaceful as the wilderness itself." 

To Philip also it seemed peaceful, but the 
soothing influence he found in it was that he 
was sitting with the woman who saw Evelyn 
hourly, who had been with her only an hour ago. 

" Yes," she said, in reply to a question, " every- 
body is well. We are going to leave town earlier 
than usual this summer, as soon as Mr. Mavick 
s 



THAT FORTTNE 

returns. Mrs. Mavick is going to open her New- 
port house ; she says she has had enough of the 
country. It is still very amusing to me to see 
how you Americans move about with the sea- 
sons, just like the barbarians of Turkestan, half 
the year in summer camps and half the year in 
winter camps." 

" Perhaps," said Philip, " it is because the so- 
cial pasturage gets poor." 

" Maybe," replied the governess, continuing the 
conceit, " only the horde keeps pretty well to- 
gether, wherever it is. I know we are to have 
a very gay season. Lots of distinguished foreign- 
ers and all that." 

" But," said Philip, " don't England and the 
Continent long for the presence of Americans 
in the season in the same way ?" 

"Not exactly. It is the shop-keepers and 
hotels that sigh for the Americans. I don't 
think that American shop-keepers expect much 
of foreigners." 

" And you are going soon ? I suppose Miss 
Mavick is eager to go also," said Phihp, trying 
to speak indifferently. 

Miss McDonald turned towards him with a 
look of perfect understanding, and then replied, 
"No, not eager; she hasn't been in her usual spir- 
its lately — no, not ill — and probably the change 
will be good for her. It is her first season, you 




 

know, and that is alwaj^s exciting to a girl. Per- 
haps it is only the spring weather." 

It was some moments before either of them 
spoke again, and then Miss McDonald look- 
ed up : 

" Oh, Mr. Burnett, I have wanted to see you 
and have a talk with you about your novel. I 
could say so little in my note. We read it first 
together and then I read it alone, rather to sit 
in judgment on it, you know. I liked it better 
the second time, but I could see the faults of 
construction, and I could see, too, why it will be 
more popular with a few people than with the 
general public. You don't mind my saying — " 

" Go on, the words of a friend." 

" Yes, I know, are sometimes hardest to bear. 
Well, it is lovely, ideal, but it seems to me you 
are still a little too afraid of human nature. You 
are afraid to say things that are common. And 
the deep things of life are pretty much all com- 
mon. No, don't interrupt me. I love the story 
just as it is. I am glad you wrote it as you did. 
It was natural, in your state of experience, that 
you should do it. But in your next, having got 
rid of what was on top of your mind, so to speak, 
you will take a firmer, more confident hold of 
life. You are not offended ?" 

" No, indeed," cried Philip. " I am very grate- 
ful. No doubt you are right. It seems to me, 




 

now that I am detached from it, as if it were 
only a sort of prelude to something else." 

" "Well, you must not let my single opinion in- 
fluence you too much, for I must in honesty tell 
you another thing. Evelyn will not have a word 
