" Now ! " exclaimed Sally Carter, who was sobbing 
hysterically, " I hope they will impeach the President if he delays any longer with the Maine report and 
if he doesn't send a warlike message on top of it. 
After that speech I don't see why Congress should 
wait for him at all." 
It was the seventeenth of March, and she and Betty 
were driving home from the Capitol after listening to 
the Senator from Vermont on the situation in Cuba, 
to that cold, bare, sober statement of the result of personal investigation, which produced a far deeper and 
more historical impression than all the impassioned 
rhetoric which had rent the air since the agitation 
began. He appeared to have no feeling on the matter, no personal bias ; he told what he had seen, and 
he had seen misery, starvation, and wholesale death. 
He blamed the Spaniards no more than the insurgents, 
but two hundred thousand people were the victims of 
both ; and the bold yet careful etching he made of the 
Cuban drama burnt itself into the brains of the forty-six 
Senators present and of the eight hundred people in 
the galleries. 
" I cannot bring myself to think that death is the 
worst of all evils," said Betty, " and I do not think that 
we have any right to go to war with Spain, no matter 
what she chooses to do with her own. Besides, she is 
thoroughly frightened now, and I believe would rectify 
her mistakes in an even greater measure than she has 
already tried to do, if the President were given time to 
handle her with tact and diplomacy. If the country 
would give him a chance to save her pride, war could 
be averted." 
" You are heartless ! Don't argue with me. I hate 
argument when my emotions feel as if they had dyna- 
mite in them. I could sit down on the floor of the 
Senate and scream until war was declared. I hate 
Senator North. He never moved a muscle of his face 
during all that terrible recital. He hardly looked 
interested. He is a heartless brute." 
" He is not heartless. He fears everlasting complications if we go to war with Spain, the expenditure of 
hundreds of millions, as one result of those complications, and danger to the Constitution. The statesman 
thinks of his own country first " 
" I won't listen ! I won't ! I won't ! Oh, I never 
thought I could get so excited about anything. I believe I 'm going to have nervous prostration, and I 
sha'n't see you again till war is declared. So there ! " 
The carriage stopped at her house, and she jumped 
out and ran up the steps. She kept her word, and it 
was weeks before Betty saw her to speak to again. 
" If intelligent people get into that condition," 
thought Betty, " what can be expected of the fools ? 
And the fools are more dangerous in the United States 
than elsewhere, because they are just bright enough to 
think that they know more than the Almighty ever 
knew in His best days." 
A few days later she was crossing Statuary Hall on 
her way back from the House Gallery, whither she had 
gone during an Executive Session of the Senate, when 
she met Senator North. His face illuminated as he 
saw her, and they both turned spontaneously and went 
to a bench behind the immortal ones of the Republic, 
who in dust and marble were happier than their 
inheritors to-day. 
" I am thinking of coming down here to live, renting a Committee Room," said Betty. " It is the only 
place where I do not have my opinion asked and 
where I do not quarrel with my friends. Molly is 
sure I shall be taken for a lobbyist, and if people 
were not too absorbed to notice me, I think I should 
engage a companion ; but as it is, I believe I am safe 
 
enough. I have had this simple brown serge made, 
on purpose." 
" There is not the least danger of your motives 
being misconstrued, and the Capitol is swarming with 
women, all the time. They seem to regard it as a sort 
of National Theatre, where the most exciting denouement may take place any minute. I fancy they have 
come from all over the country for the satisfaction of 
being able to say, for the rest of their lives, that they 
were in at the death. The poor Capitol has become a 
sort of asylum for wandering lunatics." 
Betty laughed. " I feel calmer here than any- 
where else, especially now that Molly has gone over to 
the Cubans since the publication of that speech. I 
suspect it has made a good many other converts. I 
didn't think the tide of excitement in the country 
could rise any higher, but it appears to have needed 
that last straw. Have you any hop>e left ? " 
"None whatever. The politicians in both parties 
are rushing the President off his feet and inflaming the 
country at the same time. Sincere sympathizers with 
Cuba, like Burleigh, are holding their peace until the 
President shall have declared himself, but there is very 
little patriotism amongst politicians desirous of re- 
election. If Spain were a quick- thinking nation and 
were not stultified by a mulish obstinacy for which 
the word ' pride ' is a euphemism, or if the President 
could hypnotize the country for six months, all would 
be well, but I do not look for a miracle. I have done 
all I can. I have persuaded my own State to keep 
quiet, and that has lessened the pressure a little ; and 
I have persuaded no less than eight of our bellicose 
members to say nothing on the floor of the Senate 
 
until the President has sent in his message, that delay 
is necessary if we are to meet war with any sort of 
preparation. That is all I can do, for I don't care to 
speak on the subject again, to bring it up in the Senate 
until it no longer can be held down. But I have said 
a good deal in the lobby." 
" I suspect you have ! Do you mind all the talk about 
your being unpatriotic, and that sort of thing ? I cried 
for an hour the other 'day over an article in a New 
York paper, headed ' A Traitor,' and saying the most 
hideous things about you." 
" I didn't.read it. And don't spoil your eyes over 
anything sensational American newspapers may say of 
anybody; let them alone and read the few decent 
ones. For a public man to worry over such assaults 
would be a stupid waste of his mental energy ; for if he 
is in the right he consoles himself with the reflection that 
the traitor of to-day is the patriot of to-morrow. But 
let politics go to the winds for a little. Tell me something about yourself. I have started no less than four 
times to go to see you at half-past six in the afternoon and turned back." 
" I go there and sit almost every afternoon. This 
excitement has been a godsend. If the world had 
been pursuing its even way during the last two months, 
I don't know what would have happened to me. 
What am I to do when it is over?" she broke out, 
for they were almost secluded. " The more I think 
of the future the more hopeless it seems. If there is 
war, I'll go as a nurse " 
" You will do nothing of the sort. Promise me that 
instantly. There will be trained nurses without end, and 
you would run the risk of fever for nothing. Promise me." 
" But I must do something. I have hours that you 
cannot imagine. Ordinarily I keep up very well, for I 
have character enough to make the best of life, whatever happens; but one can control one's heart with 
one's will just so long and no longer. When the world 
is quiet and I am alone at night, if I don't go to sleep 
at once it is terrible ! Do you think I should be 
afraid of death ? If I have got to go through life with 
this terrible ache in my heart, in my whole body for 
when I cry my very fingers cramp I 'd a thousand 
times rather go to Cuba and have done with it." 
For a moment he only stared at her. Then he 
parted his lips as if to speak, but closed them again so 
firmly that Betty wondered what he was holding back. 
But his eyes, although they had flashed for a moment 
and burned still, told her nothing. He did not speak 
for fully a minute. Then he said, 
"Death can be met with fortitude by any strong 
brain, but not a lifetime of miserable invalidism. If 
you contracted fever down there, you might get rid of 
it in several years and you might not. Meanwhile," 
he added, smiling, "you would become yellow and 
wrinkled. So promise me at once that you will not 
go." 
" I swear it ! " she said with an attempt at gayety. 
" Not even for you will I get yellow and wrinkled 
and I adore you ! Tell me," she went on rapidly and 
with little further attempt at self-control ; " what shall 
I do next? Shall I go abroad? There is no dis- 
traction in castles and cathedrals and crooked streets ; 
they must be enjoyed when one is idle and tranquil. 
I 'm tired of pictures. I suppose I 've seen about 
twenty miles of them in my life. As for the old masters they give me nightmares. There is nothing left 
but society, and I don't like foreigners and should find 
little novelty in England and many reminders ! The 
future appalls me. I cannot face it. Am I inconsiderate to talk like this when you are so worried ? Sometimes I feel that I have no right to be even sensible of 
my individuality when a whole nation is convulsed ; it 
seems almost absurd that there are hundreds of thou- 
sands of tragedies within the great one but there are ! 
there are ! And the war will bring oblivion to only 
those to whom it brings death." 
She stopped, panting, after the torrent of words. 
His hand had closed about her arm, and he was bend- 
ing close above her. His face had flushed deeply, and 
once more he opened his lips as if to speak, but did 
not. Betty shook suddenly. Was the word he would 
not utter "Wait"? There could be no doubt that a 
word struggled for utterance, and that he held it back. 
If he did not, Betty felt that her love would turn cold. 
For a great love may be killed by a sudden blow, and 
there is always some one thing that will kill the greatest. But she wished that his brain would flash its 
