
“Five years passed, and old Mr. Wentworth died at the age of
seventy-six. As was expected, the whole of his large estate-three
hundred and twenty thousand dollars-was left to his nephew.

“I waited anxiously for Bradley to redeem his promise. Three or four
weeks passed, and I heard nothing. I sat down, therefore, and wrote to
him, demanding that he should carry out his agreement.

“Here is the letter I received in reply.”

The sick man drew from his pocket a much worn document and handed it to
Gerald, who read it with indignation.

  “MR. WARREN LANE.

  “DEAR SIR:

 “I have received from you a letter, asking me to send you twenty
 thousand dollars, alleging that some years since I promised to give
 you that sum upon the death of my uncle. What I may have promised
 while in a state of great excitement I do not remember. I certainly
 don’t consider myself responsible for any rash and inconsiderate
 words, and I am surprised that an honorable man should seek to hold
 me to them. I am quite sure that my deceased uncle would not approve
 any such gift to a stranger. I consider myself a steward of the large
 fortune I have inherited, and should not feel justified in sending you
 such a considerable portion of it. I think upon reflection you will
 see the justice of my position.

 “I believe you claim to have some papers that you think may injure me.
 I don’t think you will find among them any written promise to give
 you twenty thousand dollars. If, however, you will send or bring the
 papers you have, I will, out of kindness to an old acquaintance, give
 you a thousand dollars for them. That is all that I will consent to
 do, and I strongly advise you to accept this generous offer. After all
 you did not suffer from losing your place in my uncle’s office. I need
 only refer you to the annual sum which I sent you regularly, pinching
 myself to do it.

 “Trusting you will see the matter in a reasonable light and accept the
 very liberal offer which I have made you, though in nowise bound to do
 so, I am,

  “Yours sincerely,

  “BRADLEY WENTWORTH.”




CHAPTER II.

A DEBT OF HONOR.


“WHAT do you think of that letter, Gerald?” asked his father, when the
boy had perused the epistle which had been handed to him.

Gerald’s look of disgust answered for him.

“I think it is thoroughly contemptible,” he said. “It is the worst case
of ingratitude I have heard of. Is Bradley Wentworth yet living?”

“Yes; he is rich and prosperous.”

“What did you do when you received his letter?”

“I wrote him in scathing terms, declining his proposal to surrender the
paper for the paltry sum he offered. I reminded him of the good service
I had rendered him. I had undoubtedly saved him the estate. I had also
sacrificed more than I originally supposed, for I had learned two years
after my departure that Mr. Wentworth had intended to give me a small
interest in his business, which by this time would have made me a rich
man. Of course when he came to look upon me as a forger my chance was
lost.”

“Did Bradley Wentworth know this also?”

“Certainly he did. He knew better than any one the extent of the
sacrifice I had made for him, but when his uncle was dead and the
estate was securely his, he took advantage of this fact and treated me
as I have told you.”

“Did you receive any answer to your second letter?”

“Yes, but it only renewed the proposal contained in the first. He
requested me bluntly not to be a fool and declared that the papers were
not really worth even the small sum he offered for them.”

“And what followed?”

“I was at a loss what further steps to take. Then came the death of
your mother after a brief illness, and this quite broke me down. I
became sick, my business suffered, and finally I came to regard myself
as born to misfortune. Three years since I moved out here, and here we
have lived, if it can be called living, cut off from the advantages
of civilization. I begin to understand now that I acted a selfish and
unmanly part, and cut you off from the advantages of an education.”

“I have studied by myself, father.”

“Yes, but it would have been better to attend a school or academy.”

“Your health has been better here.”

“Yes; the pure air has been favorable to my pulmonary difficulties.
Probably I should have died a year since if I had not come out here.”

“Then you were justified in coming.”

“So far as my own interests are concerned; but I ought not have buried
you in this lonely and obscure place.”

“Don’t think of me, father. Whatever I have lost I can make up in the
years to come, and it is a great deal to have you spared to me a little
longer.”

“Dear Gerald!” said his father, regarding his son with affection. “You
are indeed a true and loyal son. I feel all the more under obligations
to secure your future. An unexpected hemorrhage may terminate my life
at any moment. Let me then attend at once to an imperative duty.”

He drew from his pocket an envelope and extended it to Gerald.

“This envelope,” he said, “contains two important documents—the
written confession of Bradley Wentworth, that it was he, not I, who
forged the check upon his uncle, and the last letter in which he
repudiates my claim upon him for the sum he agreed to pay me.”

“You wish me to keep these, father?” said Gerald, as he took the
envelope containing the letter.

“Yes. I wish you to guard them carefully. They give you a hold on
Bradley Wentworth. I leave you nothing but this debt of honor, but it
should bring you twenty thousand dollars. He can well afford to pay it,
for it brought him a fortune.”

“What steps am I to take, father?”

“I cannot tell. It may be well for you to consult some good lawyer. You
are young, but you have unusual judgment for your years. I must warn
you that an effort will probably be made by Bradley Wentworth, perhaps
through an agent, to get possession of these papers, which he knows are
in existence. Ten days since I wrote to him, and in such terms that I
should not be surprised if he would seek me out even here. If he comes,
it will be in the hope of securing the papers which I have placed in
your hands. Should you meet him here, don’t let him know that they are
in your possession.”

Half an hour later Gerald set out slowly in the direction of a small
mountain lake a mile distant, with fishing tackle in hand.

It was not so much that he wished to fish as to get a chance to think
over the important communication which had been made to him within the
last hour. He had often wondered why his father had buried himself
among the mountains, and had always concluded that it was wholly on
account of his health. Now he understood what it was that had darkened
his life and made him a melancholy recluse. The selfish greed of
one man had wrought this evil. To him, Gerald, was left the task of
obtaining redress for a great wrong. It was not so much the money
that influenced him, for youth is apt to be indifferent to worldly
considerations, but his heart was filled with resentment against this
man who had profited by his father’s sacrifice, and then deliberately
refused to fulfil the contract he had made.

“It is only through his pocket he can suffer,” thought Gerald. “If it
is possible he shall be made to pay the last dollar that is rightfully
due my poor father.”

He reached the shore of the lake, and, unfastening a boat which he
kept there for his own use, he pushed it out from the shore, and then
suffered it to float lazily over the smooth surface of the lake while
he prepared his fishing tackle. In the course of a couple of hours he
caught four beautiful lake trout, and with them as a trophy of his
skill he started for home, first securely fastening his boat.

“Perhaps father will relish these,” he soliloquized. “I will cook them
as soon as I get home, and try to tempt his appetite.”

