it seemed just then that there could be no one in the world more
wretched than herself. She was only wishing that he would begin
again, for that utterance of her grief had seemed like a victory,
and now in the silence she was sinking back into her despair. The
more she waited, the more impatient she grew, until suddenly she
rose from her seat.

“He might play again if I asked him,” she said to herself. “He would
if he knew I was unhappy; I wonder where he can be?”

Helen’s window was in the front of the house, opening upon a broad
lawn whose walks were marked in the moonlight by the high shrubbery
that lined them. Some distance beyond, down one of the paths, were
two summer-houses, and it seemed to her that the music had come from
one of them, probably the far one, for it had sounded very soft. No
sooner had the thought come to her than she turned and went quietly
to the door. She ran quickly down the steps, and seeing her aunt and
Mr. Roberts upon the piazza, she turned and passed out by one of the
side doors.

Helen had yielded to a sudden impulse in doing thus, drawn by her
yearning for the music. When she thought about it as she walked on
it seemed to her a foolish idea, for the man could not possibly know
of her trouble, and moreover was probably with his friend the
lieutenant. But she did not stop even then, for her heart’s hunger
still drove her on, and she thought, “I’ll see, and perhaps he will
play again without my asking; I can sit in the near summer-house and
wait.”

She went swiftly on with that purpose in mind, not going upon the
path, because she would have been in the full moonlight, and in
sight of the two upon the piazza. She passed silently along by the
high hedge, concealed in its shadows, and her footsteps deadened by
the grass. She was as quiet as possible, wishing to be in the
summer-house without anyone’s knowing it.

And she had come very close to it indeed, within a few yards, when
suddenly she stopped short with an inward exclamation; the silence
of the twilight had been broken by a voice--one that seemed almost
beside her, and that startled her with a realization of the mistake
she had made. The two men were themselves in the house to which she
had been going.

It was Mr. Howard’s voice which she heard; he was speaking very low,
almost in a whisper, yet Helen was near enough to hear every word
that he uttered.

“Most people would think it simply a happy and beautiful piece of
music,” he said. “Most people think that of the springtime; but when
a man has lived as I, he may find that the springtime too is a great
labor and a great suffering,--he does not forget that for the
thousands of creatures that win the great fight and come forth
rejoicing, there are thousands and tens of thousands that go down,
and have their mite of life crushed out, and find the law very stern
indeed. Even those that win do it by a fearful effort, and cannot
keep their beauty long; so that the springtime passion takes on a
kind of desperate intensity when one thinks of it.”

The voice ceased again for a moment, and Helen stood gazing about
her; the words were not without a dimly-felt meaning to her just
then, and the tone of the man’s voice seemed like the music she had
heard him play. She would have liked to stay and listen, tho she
knew that she had no right to. She was certain that she had not been
seen, because the little house was thickly wrapped about with
eglantine; and she stood, uncertain as to whether she ought to steal
back or go out and join the two men. In the meantime the voice began
again:

“It gives a man a new feeling of the preciousness of life to know
keenly what it means to fail, to be like a tiny spark, struggling to
maintain itself in the darkness, and finding that all it can do is
not sufficient, and that it is sinking back into nothingness
forever. I think that is the meaning of the wild and startled look
that the creatures of the forest wear; and it is a very tragic thing
indeed to realize, and makes one full of mercy. If he knows his own
heart he can read the same thing in the faces of men, and he no
longer even laughs at their pride and their greediness, but sees
them quite infinitely wretched and pitiable. I do not speak merely
of the poor and hopeless people, the hunted creatures of society;
for this terror is not merely physical. It is the same imperative of
life that makes conscience, and so every man knows it who has made
himself a slave to his body, and sees the soul within him helpless
and sinking; and every man who has sinned and sees his evil stamped
upon the face of things outside him, in shapes of terror that must
be forever. Strange as it may seem, I think the man who lives most
rightly, the man of genius, knows the feeling most of all, because
his conscience is the quickest. It is his task to live from his own
heart, to take the power that is within him and wrestle with it, and
build new universes from it,--to be a pioneer of the soul, so to
speak, and to go where no man has ever been before; and yet all his
victory is nothing to him, because he knows so well what he might
have done. Every time that he shrinks, as he must shrink, from what
is so hard and so high in his own vision, he knows that yet another
glory is lost forever, and so it comes that he stands very near
indeed to the’tears of things.’”

Mr. Howard stopped again, and Helen found herself leaning forward
and wondering.

“I know more about those tears than most people,” the man went on
slowly, after a long pause, “for I have had to build my own life in
that way; I know best of all the failure, for that has been my lot.
When you and I knew each other, I was very strong in my own heart,
and I could always find what joy and power I needed for the living
of my life; but there have come to me since, in the years that I
have dwelt all alone with my great trial, times when I think that I
have stood face to face with this thing that we speak of, this naked
tragedy and terror of existence. There have been times when all the
yearning and all the prayer that I had could not save me, when I
have known that I had not an ounce of resource left, and have sat
and watched the impulse of my soul die within me, and all my
strength go from me, and seen myself with fearful plainness as a
spark of yearning, a living thing in all its pitifulness and hunger,
helpless and walled up in darkness. To feel that is to be very near
indeed to the losing creatures and their sorrow, and the memory of
one such time is enough to keep a man merciful forever. For it is
really the deepest fact about life that a man can know;--how it is
so hazardous and so precious, how it keeps its head above the great
ocean of the infinite only by all the force it can exert; it happens
sometimes that a man does not discover that truth until it is too
late, and then he finds life very cruel and savage indeed, I can
tell you.”

Mr. Howard stopped, and Helen drew a deep breath; she had been
trembling slightly as she stood listening; then as he spoke again,
her heart gave a violent throb. “Some day,” he said, “this girl that
we were talking about will have to come to that part of her life’s
journey; it is a very sad thing to know.”

“She will understand her sonata better,” said the officer.

“No,” was the reply; “I wish I could think even that; I know how
sorrow affects a person whose heart is true, how it draws him close
to the great heart of life, and teaches him its sacredness, and
sends him forth merciful and humble. But selfish misery and selfish
fear are no less ugly than selfish happiness; a person who suffers
ignobly becomes only disgusted and disagreeable, and more selfish
than ever. * * * But let us not talk any more about Miss Davis, for
it is not a pleasant subject; to a man who seeks as I do to keep his
heart full of worship the very air of this place is stifling, with
its idleness and pride. It gives the lie to all my faith about life,
and I have only to go back into my solitude and forget it as soon as
I can.”

“That ought not to be a difficult thing to do,” said the officer.

“It is for me,” the other answered; “it haunts my thoughts all the
time.” He paused for a while, and then he added, “I happened to
think of something I came across this morning, in a collection of
French verse I was reading; William, did you ever read anything of
Auguste Brizeux?”

The other answered in the negative.

“He has some qualities that are very rare in French poetry,” went on
Mr. Howard. “He makes one think of Wordsworth. I happened to read a
homely little ballad of his,--a story of some of that tragedy of
things that we spoke of; one could name hundreds of such poems quite
as good, I suppose, but this happened to be the one I came across,
and I could not help thinking of Miss Davis and wondering if she
were really so cold and so hard that she could have heard this story
without shuddering. For it really shook me very much.”

“What is it?” the other asked.

“I can tell you the story in a few words,” said Mr. Howard. “To me
it was one of those flashes of beauty that frighten one and haunt
him long afterwards; and I do not quite like to think about it
again.”

The speaker’s voice dropped, and the girl involuntarily crept a
little nearer to hear him; there was a tree in front of her, and she
leaned against it, breathing very hard, tho making no sound.

“The ballad is called ‘Jacques the Mason,’” said Mr. Howard, “There
are three little pictures in it; in the first of them you see two
men setting off to their work together, one of them bidding his wife
and children good-by, and promising to return with his friend for an
evening’s feast, because the great building is to be finished. Then
you see them at work, swarming upon the structure and rejoicing in
