farewell forever, lad, and save our learning for Roderick Random and a
bowl of cider and the bitter nights of December?"
His meaning was dawning upon me slowly, for what with the pain of my
hand and the dizziness, I was perhaps more stupid than usual.
"No," said Sir William, with a thump of his fist on his knee, "the
college which my Lord Dartmouth has endowed is a haven for those who
seek it, not a prison for men to be driven to."
He paused.
"I should have sought it," he said, dropping his head. "No wilderness,
no wintry terrors, neither French scalping parties nor the savages of
all the Canadas could have kept me from instruction had I, in my
youth, been favoured by the opportunity I offer you."
I gazed at him in silence while the blood, overrunning my leather
pocket, ran down to my knee-buckles.
"I was poor, without means, without counsel, save for the letters Sir
Peter Warren wrote me. I traded for my daily bread; I read Ovid by
lighted pine splinters; I worked--God knows I worked my flesh to the
bone."
He sat, fingering the bunch of scarlet feather-flies in his breast.
"Our Lord gives us according to our needs--when we take it," he
said, without irreverence. "I could have gone to England, to Oxford; I
had saved enough. I did neither; I did not take the instruction I
wished for, and God did not teach me Greek in my dreams," he added,
bitterly.
The blood was now stealing down my stocking towards my shoe. I turned
the leg so he could not observe it.
"Come, lad," he said, brightening up; "learning lies not always
between thumbed leaves. I only wish that you bear yourself modestly
and nobly through the world; that you keep faith with men, that your
word once given shall never be withdrawn.
"This is the foundation. It includes courage. Further than that, I
desire you, once a purpose formed and a course set, to steer
fearlessly to the goal.
"I know you to be brave and honest; I know you to be a very Mohawk in
the forest; I believe you to be merciful and tender underneath that
boy's thoughtless and cruel hide.
"As for learning, I can do no more for you than I have done and have
offered to do. If it pleases you, you may go to England, and learn the
arts, bearing, and deportment you can never acquire here with us. No?
Well, then, stay with us. I want you, Micky. We Irish are fond of each
other--and I am an old man now--I am nigh sixty years, Michael--sixty
years of battle. I would be glad of rest--with those I love."
My heart was very soft now. I looked at Sir William with an affection
I had never before understood.
"There is one last thing I wish to add," he said, gravely, almost
sadly. "Perhaps I may again refer to it--but I pray that it may not be
necessary."
I sat up and rubbed my eyes to clear them from the sickly faintness
which stole upward from my throbbing hand.
"It is this," he continued, in a low voice. "If it ever comes to you
to choose between his Majesty our King and--and your native
land--which God forbid!--go to your closet and kneel down, and stay
there on your knees, hours, days!--until you have learned your own
heart. Then--then--God go with you, Michael Cardigan."
He rose, and his face was years older. Slowly the colour came back
into his cheeks; he fumbled with the brass-work on his fish-rod, then
smiled.
"That is all," he said; "let Pluto chase Proserpine to hell, lad; and
a devilish good place they say it is for those who like it! Where is
that ferret? What! Running about unmuzzled! Hey! Vix! Vix! Come here,
little reptile!"
"I'll catch her, sir," said I, stumbling forward.
But as I laid my hand on Vix the floor rose and struck me, and there I
lay sprawling and senseless, with the blood running over the floor;
and Sir William, believing me bitten by the ferret, pouched the poor
beast and lifted me to a bench.
He must have seen my hand, however, for, when a cup of cold water set
me spluttering and blinking, I found my hand tied up in Sir William's
handkerchief and Sir William himself eying me strangely.
"How came that wound?" he said, bluntly.
I could not reply--or would not.
He asked me again whether the ferret bit me, and I was tempted to say
yes. Treachery was abhorrent to me; I hated Silver Heels, but could
not betray her, and it was easy to clap the blame on Vix.
"Sir?" I stammered.
"I asked what bit you," he said, icily.
I tried to say Vix, but the lie, too, stuck in my throat.
"I cannot tell you," I muttered.
"Then," said Sir William, with a strange smile of relief, "I shall not
force you, Michael. May I honourably ask you how you come by this
jack-knife?"
I shook my head. My face was on fire.
"Very well," he said. "Only remember that you are a man, now--a man of
sixteen, and that I have to-day treated you as a man, and shall
continue. And remember that a man's first duty is to protect the
weaker sex, and his second duty is to endure from them all taunts,
caprice, and torments without revenge. It is a hard lesson to learn,
Micky, and only the true and gallant gentleman can ever learn it."
He smiled, then said:
"Pray find our little Silver Heels and return to her the jack-knife,
which was her wampum-belt of faith in the honour of a gentleman."
And so he walked away, smoothing the fur of the red-eyed ferret
against his breast.
CHAPTER II
When Sir William left me in the school-room, he left a lad of sixteen
puffed up in a glow of pride. To be treated no longer as a fractious
child--to be received at last as a man among men!
And what would Esk say? And Silver Heels, poor little mouse harnessed
in the stocks below?
I had entered the school-room that morning a lazy, sullen, defiant
lad, heavy-hearted, with chronic resentment against the discipline of
those who had sent me into a hateful trap from the windows of which I
could see the young, thirsty year quaffing spring sunshine. Now I was
free to leave the accursed trap forever, a man of discretion,
responsible before men, exacting from other men the same courtesies,
attentions, and considerations which I might render them.
What a change had come to me, all in one brief May morning! As I stood
there, resting my bandaged hand in the palm of the other, looking
about me to realize the fortune which set my veins tingling, a great
tide of benevolent condescension for the others swept over me, a
ripple of pity and good-will for the hapless children whose benches
lay in a row before me.
I no longer detested Silver Heels. I walked on tiptoe to her bench.
There lay her slate and slate-pen; upon it I read a portion of the
longer catechism. There, too, lay her quill and inky horn and a
foolscap book sewed neatly and marked:
     FELICITY WARREN
           1774
        HER BOOKE.
Poor child, doomed for years still to steep her little fingers in
ink-powder while, with the powder I should require hereafter, I
expected to write fiercer tales on living hides with plummets cast in
bullet-moulds!
Cramped with importance, I cast a contemptuous eye upon my poem which
embellished the great slate, and scoured it partly out with the
buckskin.
"My books," said I, to myself, "I will bestow upon Silver Heels and
Esk;" and I carried out my philanthropic impulse, piling speller,
reader, and arithmetic on Esk's bench; my Cæsar, my pair of globes, my
compass, and my algebra I laid with Silver Heels's copy-book, first
writing in the books, with some malice:
      SILVER HEELS HER GIFT BOOKE FROM
              MICHAEL CARDIGAN
       BE DILIGENT AND OF GOOD THRIFT
             KNOWLEDGE IS POWER.
For fat Peter, because I allowed Vix to bite his tight breeches, I
left a pile of jacks beside his horn-book, namely, a slate-pen, three
mended quills, a birchen box of ink-powder, a screw to trade with, two
tops and an alley, pumice, a rule, and some wax.
Peter, though duck-limbed and half Mohawk, wrote very well in the
Boston style, and could even copy in the Lettre Frisée--a poor art in
some repute, but smelling to my nose of French flummery and deceit.
Having bestowed these gifts with a light heart, I walked slowly around
the room, and I fear my walk was somewhat a strut.
I knew my small head was all swelled with vain imaginings; I saw
myself in a flapped coat and lace, fingering the hilt of a sword at my
hip, saluted by the sentries and the militia; I saw myself riding with
Sir William as his deputy; I heard him say, "Mr. Cardigan, the enemy
are upon us! We must fly!"--and I: "Sir William, fear nothing. The day
is our own!" And I saw a lad of sixteen, with sword pointing upward
and one hand twisted into Pontiac's scalp-lock, smile benignly upon
Sir William, who had cast himself upon my breast, protesting that I
had saved the army, and that the King should hear of it.
Then, unbidden, the apparition of Mr. Butler rose into my vain
dreaming, and, though I am no prophet, nor can I claim the gift of
seeing behind the veil, yet I swear that Walter Butler appeared to me
all aflame and bloody with scalps bunched at his girdle--and the
scalps were not of the red men!
Now my imagination smoking into fire, I saw myself dogging Mr. Butler
with firelock a-trail and knife loosened, on! on! through fathomless
depths of forest and by the still deeps of shadowy lakes, fording the
roaring tumble of rivers, swimming silent pools as otters swim, but
tracking him, ever tracking Captain Butler by the scent of his reeking
scalps.
There was a dew on my eyebrows as I waked into sense. Yet again I fell
straightway to imagining the glories of my young future. Truly I
painted life in cloying colours; and always, when I accomplished
gallant deeds, there stood Silver Heels to observe me, and to marvel,
and to stamp her little moccasins in vexation that I, the pride and
envy of all men, applauded, courted, nay, worshipped--I, the playmate
she had in her silly ignorance flouted, now stood so far beyond her
that she dared not twitch the skirt of my coat nor whisper, "Sir
Michael, pray condescend to notice one who passes her entire life in
admiring your careless exploits."
Perhaps I would smile at her--yes, I certainly should speak to
her--not with familiarity. But I would be magnanimous; she should
receive gifts, spoils from wars, and I would select a suitable husband
for her from the officers of my household who adored me! No, I would
not be hasty concerning a husband. That would be foolish, for Silver
Heels must remain heart-whole and fancy-free to concentrate her
