
"We are Unitarians, too," said Mrs. March. "But we are coming to hear
you."

"I am glad you are coming to church," said Glendenning, putting away
the personal tribute implied with a gentle dignity that became him.


VII.

We waited a discreet time before returning the call of the Bentley
ladies, but not so long as to seem conscious. In fact, we had been
softened towards Mrs. Bentley by what Glendenning told us of her
suffering, and we were disposed to forgive a great deal of patronage and
superiority to her asthma; they were not part of the disease, but still
they were somehow to be considered with reference to it in her case.

We were admitted by the maid, who came running down the hall stairway,
with a preoccupied air, to the open door where we stood waiting. There
were two great syringa-bushes on each hand close to the portal, which
were in full flower, and which flung their sweetness through the doorway
and the windows; but when we found ourselves in the dim old-fashioned
parlor, we were aware of this odor meeting and mixing with another which
descended from the floor above--the smell of some medicated pastille.
There was a sound of anxious steps overhead, and a hurried closing of
doors, with the mechanical sound of labored breathing.

"We have come at a bad time," I suggested.

"Yes, why did they let us in?" cried my wife in an anguish of
compassion and vexation. She repeated her question to Miss Bentley, who
came down almost immediately, looking pale, indeed, but steady, and
making a brave show of welcome.

"My mother would have wished it," she said, "and she sent me as soon as
she knew who it was. You mustn't be distressed," she entreated, with a
pathetic smile. "It's really a kind of relief to her; anything is that
takes her mind off herself for a moment. She will be so sorry to miss
you, and you must come again as soon as you can."

"Oh, we will, we will!" cried my wife, in nothing less than a passion of
meekness; and Miss Bentley went on to comfort her.

"It's dreadful, of course, but it isn't as bad as it sounds, and it
isn't nearly so bad as it looks. She is used to it, and there is a great
deal in that. Oh, don't go!" she begged, at a movement Mrs. March made
to rise. "The doctor is with her just now, and I'm not needed. It will
be kind if you'll stay; it's a relief to be out of the room with a good
excuse!" She even laughed a little as she said this; she went on to lead
the talk away from what was so intensely in our minds, and presently I
heard her and my wife speaking of other things. The power to do this is
from some heroic quality in women's minds that we do not credit them
with; we think it their volatility, and I dare say I thought myself much
better, or at least more serious in my make, because I could not follow
them, and did not lose one of those hoarse gasps of the sufferer
overhead. Occasionally there came a stifling cry that made me jump,
inwardly if not outwardly, but those women had their drama to play, and
they played it to the end.

Miss Bentley came hospitably to the door with us, and waited there till
she thought we could not see her turn and run swiftly up-stairs.

"Why did you stay, my dear?" I groaned. "I felt as if I were
personally smothering Mrs. Bentley every moment we were there."

"I had to do it. She wished it, and, as she said, it was a relief to
have us there, though she was wishing us at the ends of the earth all
the time. But what a ghastly life!"

"Yes; and can you wonder that the poor woman doesn't want to give her
up, to lose the help and comfort she gets from her? It's a wicked thing
for that girl to think of marrying."

"What are you talking about, Basil? It's a wicked thing for her not to
think of it! She is wearing her life out, tearing it out, and she
isn't doing her mother a bit of good. Her mother would be just as well,
and better, with a good strong nurse, who could lift her this way and
that, and change her about, without feeling her heart-strings wrung at
every gasp, as that poor child must. Oh, I wish Glendenning was man
enough to make her run off with him, and get married, in spite of
everything. But, of course, that's impossible--for a clergyman! And her
sacrifice began so long ago that it's become part of her life, and
she'll simply have to keep on."


VIII.

When her attack passed off, Mrs. Bentley sent and begged my wife to come
again and see her. She went without me, while I was in town, but she was
so circumstantial in her report of her visit, when I came home, that I
never felt quite sure I had not been present. What most interested us
both was the extreme independence which the mother and daughter showed
beyond a certain point, and the daughter's great frankness in expressing
her difference of feeling. We had already had some hint of this, the
first day we met her, and we were not surprised at it now, my wife at
first hand, or I at second hand. Mrs. Bentley opened the way for her
daughter by saying that the worst of sickness was that it made one such
an affliction to others. She lived in an atmosphere of devotion, she
said, but her suffering left her so little of life that she could not
help clinging selfishly to everything that remained.

My wife perceived that this was meant for Miss Bentley, though it was
spoken to herself; and Miss Bentley seemed to take the same view of the
fact. She said: "We needn't use any circumlocution with Mrs. March,
mother. She knows just how the affair stands. You can say whatever you
wish, though I don't know why you should wish to say anything. You have
made your own terms with us, and we are keeping them to the letter. What
more can you ask? Do you want me to break with Mr. Glendenning? I will
do that too, if you ask it. You have got everything but that, and you
can have that at any time. But Arthur and I are perfectly satisfied as
it is, and we can wait as long as you wish us to wait."

Her mother said: "I'm not allowed to forget that for a single hour," and
Miss Bentley said, "I never remind you of it unless you make me, mother.
You may be thinking of it all the time, but it isn't because of anything
I say."

"Or that you do?" asked Mrs. Bentley; and her daughter answered, "I
can't help existing, of course."

My wife broke off from the account she was giving me of her visit: "You
can imagine how pleasant all this was for me, Basil, and how anxious I
was to prolong my call!"

"Well," I returned, "there were compensations. It was extremely
interesting; it was life. You can't deny that, my dear."

"It was more like death. Several times I was on the point of going, but
you know when there's been a painful scene you feel so sorry for the
people who've made it that you can't bear to leave them to themselves. I
did get up to go, once, in mere self-defence, but they both urged me to
stay, and I couldn't help staying till they could talk of other things.
But now tell me what you think of it all. Which should your feeling be
with the most? That is what I want to get at before I tell you mine."

"Which side was I on when we talked about them last?"

"Oh, when did we talk about them last? We are always talking about
them! I am getting no good of the summer at all. I shall go home in the
fall more jaded and worn out than when I came. To think that we should
have this beautiful place, where we could be so happy and comfortable,
if it were not for having this abnormal situation under our nose and
eyes all the time!"

"Abnormal? I don't call it abnormal," I began, and I was sensible of my
wife's thoughts leaving her own injuries for my point of view so swiftly
that I could almost hear them whir.

"Not abnormal!" she gasped.

"No; only too natural. Isn't it perfectly natural for an invalid like
that to want to keep her daughter with her; and isn't it perfectly
natural for a daughter, with a New England sense of duty, to yield to
her wish? You might say that she could get married and live at home, and
then she and Glendenning could both devote themselves--"

"No, no," my wife broke in, "that wouldn't do. Marriage is marriage; and
it puts the husband and wife with each other first; when it doesn't,
it's a miserable mockery."

"Even when there's a sick mother in the case?"

"A thousand sick mothers wouldn't alter the case. And that's what they
all three instinctively know, and they're doing the only thing they can
do."

"Then I don't see what we're complaining of."

"Complaining of? We're complaining of its being all wrong and--romantic.
Her mother has asked more than she had any right to ask, and Miss
Bentley has tried to do more than she can perform, and that has made
them hate each other."

"Should you say hate, quite?"

"It must come to that, if Mrs. Bentley lives."

"Then let us hope she--"

"My dear!" cried Mrs. March, warningly.
