burst of temper having already subsided.

Cecilia left her early that evening and went to her own room to be
alone. It was not that she was tired, nor painfully affected by a
strange sensation she had felt during the afternoon; but she realised
that she had reached the end of the first stage in life, and that
another was going to begin, and it was part of her nature to seek for a
complete understanding of everything in her existence. It seemed to her
unworthy of a thinking being to act or to feel, without clearly defining
the cause of every feeling and action. Youth dreams of an impossible
completeness in carrying out its self-set rules of perfection, and is
swayed and stunned, and often paralysed, when they are broken to pieces
by rebellious human nature.

The room was very large and dim, for Cecilia had put out the electric
light, and had lit two big wax candles, of the sort that are burned in
churches. The blinds and shutters of the windows were open, and the
moonlight fell in two broad floods upon the pale carpet, half across the
floor. The white bed with its high canopy of lace looked ghostly against
the furthest wall, like a marble sepulchre under a mist. The light blue
damask on the walls was dark in the gloom, and there was not much
furniture to break the long surfaces. The dusky air was cool and pure,
for Cecilia detested perfumes of all sorts.

She sat motionless in a high carved seat, just in the moonlight, one
hand upon an arm of the chair, the other on her breast. She had gathered
her hair into a knot, low at the back of her head, and the folds of a
soft white robe just followed the outlines of her figure. The table on
which the candles stood was a little behind her, and away from the
window, and the still yellow light only touched her hair in one or two
places, sending back dull golden reflections.

The strange young face was very quiet, and even the lids rarely moved as
she steadily stared into the shadow. There was no look of thought, nor
any visible effort of concentration in her features; there was rather an
air of patient waiting, of perfect readiness to receive whatever should
come to her out of the depths. So, a beautiful marble face on a tomb
gazes into the shadows of a dim church, and gazes on, and waits, neither
growing nor changing, neither satisfied nor disappointed, but calm and
enduring, as if expecting the resurrection of the dead and the life of
the world to come. But for the rare drooping of the lids, that rested
her sight, the girl would have seemed to be in a trance; she was in a
state of almost perfect contemplation that approached to perfect
happiness, since she was hardly conscious that her strongest wishes were
still unsatisfied.

She had been in the same state before now--last week, last month, last
year, and again and again, as it seemed to her, very long ago; so long,
that the time seemed like ages, and the intervals like centuries, until
it all disappeared altogether in the immeasurable, and the past, the
present, and the future were around her at once, unbroken, always
ending, yet always beginning again. In the midst floated the soul, the
self, the undying individuality, a light that shot out long rays, like a
star, towards the ever present moments in an ever recurring life of
which she had been, and was, and was to be, most keenly conscious.

So far, the truth, perhaps; the truth, guessed by the mystics of all
ages, sometimes hidden in secret writings, sometimes proclaimed to the
light in symbols too plain to be understood, now veiled in the reasoned
propositions of philosophers, now sung in sublime verse by inspired
seers; present, as truth always is, to the few, misunderstood, as all
truths are, by the many.

But beside the truth, and outshining it, came the illusion, clear and
bright, and appealing to the heart with the music of all the changes
that are illusion's life. Sitting very still in the moonlight, Cecilia
saw pictures in the shadow, and herself walking in the mazes of many
dreams; and she watched them, till even her eyelids no longer drooped
from time to time, and her breathing ceased to stir the folds of white
upon her bosom.

Even then, she knew that she herself was not dreaming, but was calling
up dreams which she saw, which could be nothing but visions after all,
and would end in a darkness beyond which she could see nothing, and in
which she would feel real physical pain, that would be almost
unbearable, though she knew that she would gladly bear it again and
again, for the sake of again seeing the phantasms of herself drawn in
mystic light upon the shadow.

They came and followed one upon another, like days of life. There was
the beautiful marble court with its deep portico, its pillars, and its
overhanging upper story, all gleaming in the low morning sun; she could
hear the water softly laughing its way through the square marble-edged
basins, level with the ground, she could smell the spring violets that
grew in the neatly trimmed borders, she knew the faces of the statues
that stood between the columns, and smiled at her. She knew herself,
young, golden-haired, all in white, a little pale from the night's vigil
before the eternal fire, just entering the court as she came back from
the temple, and then standing quite still for a moment, facing the
morning sun and drinking in long draughts of the sweet spring air. From
far above, the matin song of birds came down out of the gardens of
Cæsar's palace, and high over the court the sounds of the Forum began to
ring and echo, as they did all day and half the night.

It was herself, her very self, that was there, resting one hand upon a
fluted column and looking upwards, her eyes, her face, her figure, real
and unchanged after ages, as they were hers now; and in her look there
was the infinite longing, the readiness to receive, which she felt still
and must feel always, to the end of time.

Now, the dream would move on, slowly and full of details. The lithe
dream figure would rest in the small white room at the upper end of the
court, and resting, would dream dreams within that dream; and, looking
on, she herself would know what they were. They would be full of a deep
desire to be free for ever from earth and body and life, joined for all
eternity with something pure and high that could not be seen, but of
which her soul was a part, mingled with the changing things for a time,
but to be withdrawn from them again, maiden and spotless as it had come
amongst them, a true and perfect Vestal.

The precious treasures in the secret places of the little temple would
pass away, the rudely carved wooden image of Pallas would crumble to
dust, the shields that had come down from heaven would fall to pieces in
green corrosion, the sacred vessels would be broken or come to a base
use, the fire would go out and Vesta's hearth would be cold for ever.

At the mere thought, the sleeping face in the vision would tremble and
grow pale for a moment, but soon would smile again, for the fire had
been faithfully tended all the night long.

But it would all pass away, even the place, even Rome herself, and in
the sphere of divine joy the sleeper would forget even to dream, and
would be quite at rest, until the mid-hour of day, when a companion
would come softly to the door and wake her with gentle words and kindly
touch, to join the other Vestals at the thrice-purified table in the
cool hall.

So the warm hours would pass, and later, if she chose, the holy maiden
might go out into the city, whithersoever she would, borne in a high,
open litter by many slaves, with a stern lictor walking before her, and
the people would fall back on either side. If she chanced to meet one of
the Prætors, or even the Consul himself, their guards would salute her
as no sovereign would be saluted in Rome; and should she see some
wretched thieving slave being led to death on the cross upon the
Esquiline, her slightest word could reverse all his condemnation, and
blot out all his crimes. For she was sacred to the Goddess, and above
Consuls and Prætors and judges. But none of those things would touch her
heart nor please her vanity, for all her pure young soul was bent on
freedom from this earth, divine and eternal, as the end of a sinless
life.

The eyes in the dream, the eyes of the girl who stood by the column,
drinking the morning air, had never met the eyes of a man with the wish
that a glance might linger to a look. But she who watched the dream knew
that the time was at hand, and that the dark cloud of fear was already
gathering which was to darken her sun and break by and by in an unknown
fear. She knew it, she, the waking Cecilia Palladio; but the other
Cecilia, the Vestal of long ago, guessed nothing of the future, and
stood there breathing softly, already refreshed after the night's
watching. It would all happen, as it always happened, little by little,
detail after detail, till the dreaded moment.

But it did not. The dream changed. Instead of crossing the marble court,
and lingering a moment by the water, the Vestal stood by the column,
against the background of shade cast by the portico. She was listening
now, she was expecting some one, she was glancing anxiously about as if
to see whether any one were there; but she was alone.

Then it came, in the shadow behind her, the face of a man, moving
nearer--a rugged Roman head, with deep-set, bold blue eye, big brows, a
great jaw, reddish hair. It came nearer, and the girl knew it was
coming. In an instant more, she would spring forward across the court,
crying out for protection.

No, she did not move till the man was close to her, looking over her
shoulder, whispering in her ear. Cecilia saw it all, and it was so real
that she tried to call out, to shriek, to make any sound that could save
her image from destruction, for the kiss that was coming would be death
to both, and death with unutterable shame and pain. But her voice was
gone, and her lips were frozen. She sat paralysed with a horror she had
never known before, while the face of the phantom girl blushed softly,
and turned to the strong man, and the two gazed into each other's eyes a
moment, knowing that they loved.

She felt that it was her other self, and that she had the will to
resist, even then, and that the will must still be supreme over the
illusion. Never, it seemed to her, had she made such a supreme effort,
never had she felt such power concentrated in her strong determination,
never in all her life had she been so sure of the result when she had
willed anything with all her might. Every fibre of her being, every
