fearsome, swaying thing in crimson trappings, flapping huge ears. It
shuffled past, swinging a dusty trunk; the sparkling horsemen cantered
by, tin armor blazing in the fading glory; the chariots dragged after,
and the closed dens of beasts rolled behind in single file, followed
by the band-wagon, where Heaven-inspired musicians played frantically
and a white-faced clown balanced his hat on a stick and shrieked.
So the circus passed into Paradise; and I turned and followed in the
wake of dust, stale odors, and clamorous discord, sick at heart of
wandering over a world I had not found too kind.
And at my heels stole Jacqueline.
XI
IN CAMP
We went into camp under the landward glacis of the cliffs, in a field
of clover which was to be ploughed under in a few days. We all were
there except Kelly Eyre, who had gone to telegraph the governor of
Lorient for permission to enter the port with the circus. Another
messenger also left camp on private business for me.
It was part of my duty to ration the hay for the elephant and the
thrice-accursed camel. The latter had just bitten Mr. Grigg, our
clown--not severely--and Speed and Horan the "Strong Man" were
hobbling the brute as I finished feeding my lions and came up to
assist the others.
"Watch that darn elephant, too, Mr. Grigg," said Byram, looking up
from a plate of fried ham that Miss Crystal, our "Trapeze Lady," had
just cooked for him over our gypsy fires of driftwood.
"Look at that elephant! Look at him!" continued Byram, with a trace
of animation lighting up his careworn face--"look at him now chuckin'
hay over his back. Scrape it up, Mr. Scarlett; hay's thirty a ton in
this war-starved country."
As I started to clean up the precious hay, the elephant gave a curious
grunt and swung his trunk toward me.
"There's somethin' paltry about that elephant," said Byram, in a
complaining voice, rising, with plate of ham in one hand, fork in the
other. "He's gittin' as mean as that crafty camuel. Make him move,
Mr. Speed, or he'll put his foot on the trombone."
"Hô Djebe! Mâil!" said Speed, sharply.
The elephant obediently shuffled forward; Byram sat down again, and
wearily cut himself a bit of fried ham; and presently we were all
sitting around the long camp-table in the glare of two smoky petroleum
torches, eating our bread and ham and potatoes and drinking Breton
cider, a jug of which Mr. Horan had purchased for a few coppers.
Some among us were too tired to eat, many too tired for conversation,
yet, from habit we fell into small talk concerning the circus, the
animals, the prospects of better days.
The ladies of the company, whatever quarrels they indulged in among
themselves, stood loyally by Byram in his anxiety and need. Miss
Crystal and Miss Delany displayed edifying optimism; Mrs. Horan
refrained from nagging; Mrs. Grigg, a pretty little creature, who was
one of the best equestriennes I ever saw, declared that we were living
too well and that a little dieting wouldn't hurt anybody.
McCadger, our band-master, came over from the other fire to say that
the men had finished grooming the horses, and would I inspect the
picket-line, as Kelly Eyre was still absent.
When I returned, the ladies had retired to their blankets under their
shelter-tent; poor little Grigg lay asleep at the table, his tired,
ugly head resting among the unwashed tin plates; Speed sprawled in his
chair, smoking a short pipe; Byram sat all hunched up, his head sunk,
eyes vacantly following the movements of two men who were washing
dishes in the flickering torch-light.
He looked up at me, saying: "I guess Mr. Speed is right. Them lions
o' yourn is fed too much horse-meat. Overeatin' is overheatin'; we've
got to give 'em beef or they'll be clawin' you. Yes, sir, they're all
het up. Hear 'em growl!"
"That's a fable, governor," I said, smiling and dropping into a
chair. "I've heard that theory before, but it isn't true."
"The trouble with your lions is that you play with them too much and
they're losing respect for you," said Speed, drowsily.
"The trouble with my lions," said I, "is that they were born in
captivity. Give me a wild lion, caught on his native heath, and I'll
know what to expect from him when I tame him. But no man on earth can
tell what a lion born in captivity will do."
The hard cider had cheered Byram a little; he drew a cherished cigar
from his vest-pocket, offered it to me, and when I considerately
refused, he carefully set it alight with a splinter from the fire. Its
odor was indescribable.
"Luck's a curious phenomena, ain't it, Mr. Scarlett?" he said.
I agreed with him.
"Luck," continued Byram, waving his cigar toward the four quarters of
the globe, "is the rich man's slave an' the poor man's tyrant. It's
also a see-saw. When the devil plays in luck the cherubim git
spanked--or words to that effec'--not meanin' no profanity."
"It's about like that, governor," admitted Speed, lazily.
Byram leaned back and sucked meditatively at his cigar. The new moon
was just rising over the elephant's hindquarters, and the poetry of
the incident appeared to move the manager profoundly. He turned and
surveyed the dim bivouac, the two silent tents, the monstrous,
shadowy bulk of the elephant, rocking monotonously against the sky.
"Kind of Silurian an' solemn, ain't it," he murmured, "the moon
shinin' onto the rump of that primeval pachyderm. It's like the dark
ages of the behemoth an' the cony. I tell you, gentlemen, when them
fearsome an' gigantic mamuels was aboundin' in the dawn of creation,
the public missed the greatest show on earth--by a few million
years!"
We nodded sleepily but gravely.
Byram appeared to have recovered something of his buoyancy and native
optimism.
"Gentlemen," he said, "let's kinder saunter over to the inn and have
a night-cap with Kelly Eyre."
This unusual and expensive suggestion startled us wide awake, but we
were only too glad to acquiesce in anything which tended to raise his
spirits or ours. Dog tired but smiling we rose; Byram, in his
shirt-sleeves and suspenders, wearing his silk hat on the back of his
head, led the way, fanning his perspiring face with a red-and-yellow
bandanna.
"Luck," said Byram, waving his cigar toward the new moon, "is bound
to turn one way or t'other--like my camuel. Sometimes, resemblin' the
camuel, luck will turn on you. Look out it don't bite you. I once made
up a piece about luck:
                        "'Don't buck
                        Bad luck
                        Or you'll get stuck--'
I disremember the rest, but it went on to say a few other words to
that effec'."
The lighted door of the inn hung ajar as we crossed the star-lit
square; Byram entered and stood a moment in the doorway, stroking his
chin. "Bong joor the company!" he said, lifting his battered hat.
The few Bretons in the wine-room returned his civility; he glanced
about and his eye fell on Kelly Eyre, Speed's assistant balloonist,
seated by the window with Horan.
"Well, gents," said Byram, hopefully, "an' what aire the prospects
of smilin' fortune when rosy-fingered dawn has came again to kiss us
back to life?"
"Rotten," said Eyre, pushing a telegram across the oak table.
Byram's face fell; he picked up the telegram and fumbled in his coat
for his spectacles with unsteady hand.
"Let me read it, governor," said Speed, and took the blue paper from
Byram's unresisting, stubby fingers.
"O-ho!" he muttered, scanning the message; "well--well, it's not so
bad as all that--" He turned abruptly on Kelly Eyre--"What the devil
are you scaring the governor for?"
"Well, he's got to be told--I didn't mean to worry him," said Eyre,
stammering, ashamed of his thoughtlessness.
"Now see here, governor," said Speed, "let's all have a drink first.
Hé ma belle!"--to the big Breton girl knitting in the corner--"four
little swallows of eau-de-vie, if you please! Ah, thank you, I knew
you were from Bannalec, where all the girls are as clever as they are
pretty! Come, governor, touch glasses! There is no circus but the
circus, and Byram is it's prophet! Drink, gentlemen!"
But his forced gayety was ominous; we scarcely tasted the liqueur.
Byram wiped his brow and squared his bent shoulders. Speed, elbows on
the table, sat musing and twirling his half-empty glass.
"Well, sir?" said Byram, in a low voice.
"Well, governor? Oh--er--the telegram?" asked Speed, like a man
fighting for time.
"Yes, the telegram," said Byram, patiently.
"Well, you see they have just heard of the terrible smash-up in the
north, governor. Metz has surrendered with Bazaine's entire army. And
they're naturally frightened at Lorient.... And I rather fear that the
Germans are on their way toward the coast.... And ... well ... they
won't let us pass the Lorient fortifications."
"Won't let us in?" cried Byram, hoarsely.
"I'm afraid not, governor."
Byram stared at us. We had counted on Lorient to pull us through as
far as the frontier.
"Now don't take it so hard, governor," said Kelly Eyre; "I was
frightened myself, at first, but I'm ashamed of it now. We'll pull
through, anyhow."
"Certainly," said Speed, cheerily, "we'll just lay up here for a few
days and economize. Why can't we try one performance here, Scarlett?"
"We can," said I. "We'll drum up the whole district from Pontivy to
Auray and from Penmarch Point to Plouharnel! Why should the Breton
peasantry not come? Don't they walk miles to the Pardons?"
A gray pallor settled on Byram's sunken face; with it came a certain
dignity which sorrow sometimes brings even to men like him.
"Young gentlemen," he said, "I'm obliged to you. These here reverses
come to everybody, I guess. The Lord knows best; but if He'll just
lemme run my show a leetle longer, I'll pay my debts an' say, 'Thy
will be done, amen!'"
"We all must learn to say that, anyway," said Speed.
"Mebbe," muttered Byram, "but I must pay my debts."
After a painful silence he rose, steadying himself with his hand on
Eyre's broad shoulder, and shambled out across the square, muttering
something about his elephant and his camuel.
Speed paid the insignificant bill, emptied his glass, and nodded at
me.
"It's all up," he said, soberly.
"Let's come back to camp and talk it over," I said.
Together we traversed the square under the stars, and entered the
field of clover. In the dim, smoky camp all lights were out except one
oil-drenched torch stuck in the ground between the two tents. Byram
