thought this because he wanted some coffee so badly. He was awfully
hungry, for he had not had anything since breakfast, except a piece of
bread-and-butter that he got Pony Baker to bring him in his pocket when
he came down from school at noontime.

Hen Billard said, "Well, I suppose I won't see you any more, Jim;
good-bye," and went away laughing; and after a while one of the men saw
Jim Leonard hanging about, and asked him what he wanted there, at that
time of night; and Jim could not say he wanted coffee, and so there was
nothing for him to do but go. There was nowhere for him to go but home,
and he sneaked off in the dark.

When he came in sight of the cabin he could not tell whether he would
rather have his mother waiting for him with a whipping and some supper, or
get to bed somehow with neither. He climbed softly over the back fence and
crept up to the back door, but it was fast; then he crept round to the
front door, and that was fast, too. There was no light in the house, and
it was perfectly still.

All of a sudden it struck him that he could sleep in the stable-loft, and
he thought what a fool he was not to have thought of it before. The notion
brightened him up so that he got the gourd that hung beside the well-curb
and took it out to the stable with him; for now he remembered that the cow
would be there, unless she was in somebody's garden-patch or corn-field.

He noticed as he walked down towards the stable that the freshet had come
up over the flat, and just before the door he had to wade. But he was in
his bare feet and he did not care; if he thought anything, he thought that
his mother would not come out to milk till the water went down, and he
would be safe till then from the whipping he must take, sooner or later,
for playing hooky.

Sure enough, the old cow was in the stable, and she gave Jim Leonard a
snort of welcome and then lowed anxiously. He fumbled through the dark to
her side, and began to milk her. She had been milked only a few hours
before, and so he got only a gourdful from her. But it was all strippings,
and rich as cream, and it was smoking warm. It seemed to Jim Leonard that
it went down to his very toes when he poured it into his throat, and it
made him feel so good that he did not know what to do.

There really was not anything for him to do but to climb up into the loft
by the ladder in the corner of the stable, and lie down on the old last
year's fodder. The rich, warm milk made Jim Leonard awfully sleepy, and he
dropped off almost as soon as his head touched the corn-stalks. The last
thing he remembered was the hoarse roar of the freshet outside, and that
was a lulling music in his ears.

The next thing he knew, and he hardly knew that, was a soft, jolting,
sinking motion, first to one side and then to another; then he seemed
to be going down, down, straight down, and then to be drifting off into
space. He rubbed his eyes, and found it was full daylight, although it
was the daylight of early morning; and while he lay looking out of the
stable-loft window and trying to make out what it all meant, he felt a
wash of cold water along his back, and his bed of fodder melted away under
him and around him, and some loose planks of the loft floor swam weltering
out of the window. Then he knew what had happened. The flood had stolen up
while he slept, and sapped the walls of the stable; the logs had given
way, one after another, and had let him down, with the roof, into the
water.

He got to his feet as well as he could, and floundered over the rising
and falling boards to the window in the floating gable. One look outside
showed him his mother's log-cabin safe on its rise of ground, and at the
corner the old cow, that must have escaped through the stable door he had
left open, and passed the night among the cabbages. She seemed to catch
sight of Jim Leonard when he put his head out, and she lowed to him.

Jim Leonard did not stop to make any answer. He clambered out of the
window and up onto the ridge of the roof, and there, in the company of a
large gray rat, he set out on the strangest voyage a boy ever made. In a
few moments the current swept him out into the middle of the river, and he
was sailing down between his native shore on one side and Delorac's Island
on the other.

All round him seethed and swirled the yellow flood in eddies and ripples,
where drift of all sorts danced and raced. His vessel, such as it was,
seemed seaworthy enough. It held securely together, fitting like a low,
wide cup over the water, and perhaps finding some buoyancy from the air
imprisoned in it above the window. But Jim Leonard was not satisfied, and
so far from being proud of his adventure, he was frightened worse even
than the rat which shared it. As soon as he could get his voice, he began
to shout for help to the houses on the empty shores, which seemed to fly
backward on both sides while he lay still on the gulf that swashed around
him, and tried to drown his voice before it swallowed him up. At the same
time the bridge, which had looked so far off when he first saw it, was
rushing swiftly towards him, and getting nearer and nearer.

He wondered what had become of all the people and all the boys. He thought
that if he were safe there on shore he should not be sleeping in bed while
somebody was out in the river on a roof, with nothing but a rat to care
whether he got drowned or not.

Where was Hen Billard, that always made fun so; or Archy Hawkins, that
pretended to be so good-natured; or Pony Baker, that seemed to like a
fellow so much? He began to call for them by name: "Hen Billard--O Hen!
Help, help! Archy Hawkins, O Archy! I'm drowning! Pony, Pony, O Pony!
Don't you see me, Pony?"

He could see the top of Pony Baker's house, and he thought what a good,
kind man Pony's father was. Surely he would try to save him; and
Jim Leonard began to yell: "O Mr. Baker! Look here, Mr. Baker! It's Jim
Leonard, and I'm floating down the river on a roof! Save me, Mr. Baker,
save me! Help, help, somebody! Fire! Fire! Fire! Murder! Fire!"

By this time he was about crazy, and did not half know what he was saying.
Just in front of where Hen Billard's grandmother lived, on the street that
ran along the top of the bank, the roof got caught in the branches of a
tree which had drifted down and stuck in the bottom of the river so that
the branches waved up and down as the current swashed through them. Jim
Leonard was glad of anything that would stop the roof, and at first he
thought he would get off on the tree. That was what the rat did. Perhaps
the rat thought Jim Leonard really was crazy and he had better let him
have the roof to himself; but the rat saw that he had made a mistake, and
he jumped back again after he had swung up and down on a limb two or three
times. Jim Leonard felt awfully when the rat first got into the tree, for
he remembered how it said in the Pirate Book that rats always leave a
sinking ship, and now he believed that he certainly was gone. But that
only made him hollo the louder, and he holloed so loud that at last he
made somebody hear.

It was Hen Billard's grandmother, and she put her head out of the window
with her night-cap on, to see what the matter was. Jim Leonard caught
sight of her and he screamed, "Fire, fire, fire! I'm drownding, Mrs.
Billard! Oh, do somebody come!"

Hen Billard's grandmother just gave one yell of "Fire! The world's
a-burnin' up, Hen Billard, and you layin' there sleepin' and not helpin'
a bit! Somebody's out there in the river!" and she rushed into the room
where Hen was, and shook him.

He bounced out of bed and pulled on his pantaloons, and was down-stairs in
a minute. He ran bareheaded over to the bank, and when Jim Leonard saw him
coming he holloed ten times as loud: "It's me, Hen! It's Jim Leonard! Oh,
do get somebody to come out and save me! Fire!"

As soon as Hen heard that, and felt sure it was not a dream, which he did
in about half a second, he began to yell, too, and to say: "How did you
get there? Fire, fire, fire! What are you on? Fire! Are you in a tree, or
what? Fire, fire! Are you in a flat-boat? Fire, fire, fire! If I had a
skiff--fire!"

He kept racing up and down the bank, and back and forth between the bank
and the houses. The river was almost up to the top of the bank, and it
looked a mile wide. Down at the bridge you could hardly see any light
between the water and the bridge.

Pretty soon people began to look out of their doors and windows, and Hen
Billard's grandmother kept screaming, "The world's a-burnin' up! The
river's on fire!" Then boys came out of their houses; and then men with
no hats on; and then women and girls, with their hair half down. The
fire-bells began to ring, and in less than five minutes both the fire
companies were on the shore, with the men at the brakes and the foremen
of the companies holloing through their trumpets.

Then Jim Leonard saw what a good thing it was that he had thought of
holloing fire. He felt sure now that they would save him somehow, and he
made up his mind to save the rat, too, and pet it, and maybe go around
and exhibit it. He would name it Bolivar; it was just the color of the
elephant Bolivar that came to the Boy's Town every year. These things
whirled through his brain while he watched two men setting out in a skiff
towards him.

They started from the shore a little above him, and they meant to row
slanting across to his tree, but the current, when they got fairly into
it, swept them far below, and they were glad to row back to land again
without ever getting anywhere near him. At the same time, the tree-top
where his roof was caught was pulled southward by a sudden rush of the
torrent; it opened, and the roof slipped out, with Jim Leonard and the rat
on it. They both joined in one squeal of despair as the river leaped
forward with them, and a dreadful "Oh!" went up from the people on the
bank.

Some of the firemen had run down to the bridge when they saw that the
skiff was not going to be of any use, and one of them had got out of the
window of the bridge onto the middle pier, with a long pole in his hand.
It had an iron hook at the end, and it was the kind of pole that the men
used to catch drift-wood with and drag it ashore. When the people saw Blue
Bob with that pole in his hand, they understood what he was up to. He was
going to wait till the water brought the roof with Jim Leonard on it down
to the bridge, and then catch the hook into the shingles and pull it up to
