stale. She was vulgar with freshness, almost with beauty, since there
was beauty, to a degree, in the play of so big and bold a temperament.
She was in fine quite the largest possible quantity to deal with; and
he was in the cage of the lioness without his whip--the whip, in a
word, of a supply of proper retorts. He had no retort but that he loved
the girl--which in such a house as that was painfully cheap. Kate had
mentioned to him more than once that her aunt was Passionate, speaking
of it as a kind of offset and uttering it as with a capital P, marking
it as something that he might, that he in fact ought to, turn about in
some way to their advantage. He wondered at this hour to what advantage
he could turn it; but the case grew less simple the longer he waited.
Decidedly there was something he hadn't enough of. He stood as one fast.

His slow march to and fro seemed to give him the very measure; as he
paced and paced the distance it became the desert of his poverty; at
the sight of which expanse moreover he could pretend to himself as
little as before that the desert looked redeemable. Lancaster Gate
looked rich--that was all the effect; which it was unthinkable that any
state of his own should ever remotely resemble. He read more vividly,
more critically, as has been hinted, the appearances about him; and
they did nothing so much as make him wonder at his aesthetic reaction.
He hadn't known--and in spite of Kate's repeated reference to her own
rebellions of taste--that he should "mind" so much how an independent
lady might decorate her house. It was the language of the house itself
that spoke to him, writing out for him, with surpassing breadth and
freedom, the associations and conceptions, the ideals and possibilities
of the mistress. Never, he flattered himself, had he seen anything so
gregariously ugly--operatively, ominously so cruel. He was glad to have
found this last name for the whole character; "cruel" somehow played
into the subject for an article--that his impression put straight into
his mind. He would write about the heavy horrors that could still
flourish, that lifted their undiminished heads, in an age so proud of
its short way with false gods; and it would be funny if what he should
have got from Mrs. Lowder were to prove, after all, but a small amount
of copy. Yet the great thing, really the dark thing, was that, even
while he thought of the quick column he might add up, he felt it less
easy to laugh at the heavy horrors than to quail before them. He
couldn't describe and dismiss them collectively, call them either
Mid-Victorian or Early; not being at all sure they were rangeable under
one rubric. It was only manifest they were splendid and were
furthermore conclusively British. They constituted an order and they
abounded in rare material--precious woods, metals, stuffs, stones. He
had never dreamed of anything so fringed and scalloped, so buttoned and
corded, drawn everywhere so tight, and curled everywhere so thick. He
had never dreamed of so much gilt and glass, so much satin and plush,
so much rosewood and marble and malachite. But it was, above all, the
solid forms, the wasted finish, the misguided cost, the general
attestation of morality and money, a good conscience and a big balance.
These things finally represented for him a portentous negation of his
own world of thought--of which, for that matter, in the presence of
them, he became as for the first time hopelessly aware. They revealed
it to him by their merciless difference. His interview with Aunt Maud,
none the less, took by no means the turn he had expected. Passionate
though her nature, no doubt Mrs. Lowder, on this occasion, neither
threatened nor appealed. Her arms of aggression, her weapons of
defence, were presumably close at hand, but she left them untouched and
unmentioned, and was in fact so bland that he properly perceived only
afterwards how adroit she had been. He properly perceived something
else as well, which complicated his case; he shouldn't have known what
to call it if he hadn't called it her really imprudent good-nature. Her
blandness, in other words, was not mere policy--he wasn't dangerous
enough for policy; it was the result, he could see, of her fairly
liking him a little. From the moment she did that she herself became
more interesting; and who knew what might happen should he take to
liking her? Well, it was a risk he naturally must face. She fought
him, at any rate, but with one hand, with a few loose grains of stray
powder. He recognised at the end of ten minutes, and even without her
explaining it, that if she had made him wait it had not been to wound
him; they had by that time almost directly met on the fact of her
intention. She had wanted him to think for himself of what she proposed
to say to him--not having otherwise announced it; wanted to let it come
home to him on the spot, as she had shrewdly believed it would. Her
first question, on appearing, had practically been as to whether he
hadn't taken her hint, and this inquiry assumed so many things that it
made discussion, immediately, frank and large. He knew, with the
question put, that the hint was just what he had taken; knew that she
had made him quickly forgive her the display of her power; knew that if
he didn't take care he should understand her, and the strength of her
purpose, to say nothing of that of her imagination, nothing of the
length of her purse, only too well. Yet he pulled himself up with the
thought, too, that he was not going to be afraid of understanding her;
he was just going to understand and understand without detriment to the
feeblest, even, of his passions. The play of one's mind let one in, at
the best, dreadfully, in action, in the need of action, where
simplicity was all; but when one couldn't prevent it the thing was to
make it complete. There would never be mistakes but for the original
fun of mistakes. What he must use his fatal intelligence for was to
resist. Mrs. Lowder, meanwhile, might use it for whatever she liked.

It was after she had begun her statement of her own idea about Kate
that he began, on his side, to reflect that--with her manner of
offering it as really sufficient if he would take the trouble to
embrace--it she couldn't half hate him. That was all, positively, she
seemed to show herself for the time as attempting; clearly, if she did
her intention justice, she would have nothing more disagreeable to do.
"If I hadn't been ready to go very much further, you understand, I
wouldn't have gone so far. I don't care what you repeat to her--the
more you repeat to her, perhaps the better; and, at any rate, there's
nothing she doesn't already know. I don't say it for her; I say it for
you--when I want to reach my niece I know how to do it straight." So
Aunt Maud delivered herself--as with homely benevolence, in the
simplest, but the clearest terms; virtually conveying that, though a
word to the wise was, doubtless, in spite of the advantage, not
always enough, a word to the good could never fail to be. The sense our
young man read into her words was that she liked him because he was
good--was really, by her measure, good enough: good enough, that is, to
give up her niece for her and go his way in peace. But was he good
enough--by his own measure? He fairly wondered, while she more fully
expressed herself, if it might be his doom to prove so. "She's the
finest possible creature--of course you flatter yourself that you know
it. But I know it, quite as well as you possibly can--by which I mean a
good deal better yet; and the tune to which I'm ready to prove my faith
compares favourably enough, I think, with anything you can do. I
don't say it because she's my niece--that's nothing to me: I might have
had fifty nieces, and I wouldn't have brought one of them to this place
if I hadn't found her to my taste. I don't say I wouldn't have done
something else, but I wouldn't have put up with her presence. Kate's
presence, by good fortune, I marked early; Kate's presence--unluckily
for you--is everything I could possibly wish; Kate's presence is, in
short, as fine as you know, and I've been keeping it for the comfort of
my declining years. I've watched it long; I've been saving it up and
letting it, as you say of investments, appreciate, and you may judge
whether, now it has begun to pay so, I'm likely to consent to treat for
it with any but a high bidder. I can do the best with her, and I've my
idea of the best."

"Oh, I quite conceive," said Densher, "that your idea of the best isn't
me."

It was an oddity of Mrs. Lowder's that her face in speech was like a
lighted window at night, but that silence immediately drew the curtain.
The occasion for reply allowed by her silence was never easy to take;
yet she was still less easy to interrupt. The great glaze of her
surface, at all events, gave her visitor no present help. "I didn't ask
you to come to hear what it isn't--I asked you to come to hear what it
is."

"Of course," Densher laughed, "it's very great indeed."

His hostess went on as if his contribution to the subject were barely
relevant. "I want to see her high, high up--high up and in the light."

"Ah, you naturally want to marry her to a duke, and are eager to smooth
away any hitch."

She gave him so, on this, the mere effect of the drawn blind that it
quite forced him, at first, into the sense, possibly just, of having
affected her as flip pant, perhaps even as low. He had been looked at
so, in blighted moments of presumptuous youth, by big cold public men,
but never, so far as he could recall, by any private lady. More than
anything yet it gave him the measure of his companion's subtlety, and
thereby of Kate's possible career. "Don't be too impossible!"--he
feared from his friend, for a moment, some such answer as that; and
then felt, as she spoke otherwise, as if she were letting him off
easily. "I want her to marry a great man." That was all; but, more and
more, it was enough; and if it hadn't been her next words would have
made it so. "And I think of her what I think. There you are."

They sat for a little face to face upon it, and he was conscious of
something deeper still, of something she wished him to understand if he
only would. To that extent she did appeal--appealed to the intelligence
she desired to show she believed him to possess. He was meanwhile, at
all events, not the man wholly to fail of comprehension. "Of course I'm
aware how little I can answer to any fond, proud dream. You've a
view--a magnificent one; into which I perfectly enter. I thoroughly
understand what I'm not, and I'm much obliged to you for not reminding
me of it in any rougher way." She said nothing--she kept that up; it
might even have been to let him go further, if he was capable of it, in
the way of poorness of spirit. It was one of those cases in which a man
couldn't show, if he showed at all, save for poor; unless indeed he
preferred to show for asinine. It was the plain truth: he was--on
Mrs. Lowder's basis, the only one in question--a very small quantity,
and he did know, damnably, what made quantities large. He desired to be
perfectly simple; yet in the midst of that effort a deeper apprehension
throbbed. Aunt Maud clearly conveyed it, though he couldn't later on
have said how. "You don't really matter, I believe, so much as you
think, and I'm not going to make you a martyr by banishing you. Your
performances with Kate in the Park are ridiculous so far as they're
meant as consideration for me; and I had much rather see you
myself--since you're, in your way, my dear young man, delightful--and
