few quiet tears over her book. Her 
mother knew best, of course. She 

 


thought her so strict, so almost queer at 

times, and yet it was wisest, no doubt. 

Her judgment had not brought about 

very good results, she had to confess. If 

she only could have found her mother’s 

beautiful lace ; but it never came to light. 

" Have you read the book I gave you ! ’ ’ 
Dick asked one evening when they were 
in the kitchen making candy. "But of 
course you have, and it’s just splendid, 
isn’t it?” 

Bessie’s eyes dropped and her brow 
flushed, for her cheeks were red as roses 
before. 

I— no, I haven’t,” she answered, 
with much confusion. 

"Why?” and Dick’s bright face was 
full of disappointment. ‘‘Didn’t you 
like to have it, or had you read it 
before?” 




Neither — and I was glad — only I 
did not deserve it, and I am wait- 
ing— ’ ' 

There Bessie broke down into a good 
cry. 

‘ ‘ Yon foolish little girl ! It is all about 
that broken bottle. I was cross at first 
with yon, but I felt sorry, and yon were 
so good—’’ 

‘'No, I wasn’t,” Bessie interrupted, 
wish you would let me tell you all, 
Dick; and maybe you had better take 
the book until some time when I am bet- 
ter. ’ ’ 

Dick looked up in astonishment. Was 
Bessie the author of the mischief, and 
had she told a falsehood? 

‘'Well?” Dick answered. 

So Bessie related her first morning’s 
temptation, and how she had taken out 

 


the bureau drawers to get the hidden 
story. 

‘ ‘ Mother told me to lock up any books 
I might have lying around. I would not 
have thought it of you, Bess, but, oh! 
don’t cry, it wasn’t so very bad, and you 
did not tell any story. ’ ’ 

'‘Yes, I told one to Freddy to account 
for having the drawer out, and acted one 
when you found your clothes so differ- 
ent, for somehow, when you begin—” 
Ah, Bessie, it is well to learn about the 
' Wangled web” early in life, if so be that 
it brings wisdom. 

' ‘ Oh, Bess, how lucky the bottle did not 
break— the one in the drawer, I mean. 
It had nitric acid in it. I was taking out 
a wart with it, and it would have eaten 
everything to pieces wherever it dropped. 
It wasn’t a nice thing to do, to be sure, 

 


but I know you are sorry, and I don’t be- 
lieve you ever would do it again. You 
see, you are so fond of reading, and 
mother doesn’t think it right to waste so 
much time; that is why I lock up my 
books.” 

‘'But you need never again, Dick. And 
I was punishing myself, because I did 
want to read the book so much. ’ ’ 

‘'You are a brave little girl after all. 
Now we will make up, splendid, good 
friends, and shake hands. You are 
never to touch anything in my room that 
you think mother or I would not like you 
to have, and I will not need to put things 
out of sight. There, I’ll trust you until 
you tell me that you have broken your 
word, which I hope will never be. And 
now I want you to begin Little Women 
just as soon as you have leisure.” 

With that they kissed each other and 
went on with the candy making, Bessie 
feeling qnite light of heart. The candy 
was a success, too, and Bessie ran out of 
doors a few minutes to cool her burning 
eyes before she went into the next room, 
where her mother sat sewing while her 
father read his paper. They ate all the 
candy they wanted, and left some for the 
children who were in bed. 




CHAPTER IV 


BESSIE HIGHEK HOUSEKEEPING

The next day Cousin Jane sent word 
that she was coming over for a 
visit, and when Bessie came home 
from school there she found her in her 
favorite window, her pincushion, her box 
of spools and odds and ends, and her 
scissors lying on the window sill; her 
patchwork hag hung on one corner of the 
chair and her knitting bag on the other 
Right in front of her lay a pile of calico, 
and on the lap-board she was sorting and 
doing up. 

< i There, Bessie, ’ ’ she began, as soon as 
she had answered the child's greeting, 
‘HVe been cutting up the bundles of 

pieces, and here are half enough blocks 
for a new quilt. I am so sorry I did not 
come over in vacation, for you might 
have sewed it instead of cantering all 
over as girls do now-a-days. Wh.jy when 
I was twelve years old I had four bed 
quilts of my own pieced, and had knit my 
own stockings for I can’t tell how long. 
I never went to school a day after that. ’ ’ 
Mrs. Collins glanced up to catch Bes- 
sie’s eye, and quietly entreat her not to 
answer her hack sharply, hut Bessie only 
said with a little laugh : 

Girls are not so smart now-a-days. 
Cousin Jane.” 

That’s true enough, true enough. But 
you might improve your time. There’s 
so many to keep at you that I ’m sure you 
have no excuse. And your mother was 
brought up in the old-fashioned way. 



