The tone was buoyant, inspiriting. To Helen the prospect was enchanting.
Already she had learned what a factor money was, what a blessing to have
enough of it that one need not feel anxious about the future. She would
settle her plans at once. Stay three years here at Aldred House, then go
to college. During the four years there would be plenty of time to
arrange the rest. In her case it would be teaching.

"How comforting you are!" and there was both depth and sincerity in the
tone.

"Doesn't Mrs. Aldred advise you to go on?" Helen asked.

"Oh, yes. And Miss Grace has been very encouraging. But when I look at
the rest of you girls and hear your bright talk, I feel so out of
place."

"I have a belief that school is the help to enable us to find our right
places in the world if we take it up earnestly. I meant it shall help me
to find mine," confidently. "And I do think, yes, I am sure it will
help you."

"I was so discouraged. I wrote to Mrs. Howard and she said stay by all
means. Indeed, I have no place to go to. Mrs. Davis is in Florida now.
Oh, I should like to travel!" and her face was roused almost to
enthusiasm.

"But you wouldn't want to be an ignorant traveler, either." And she
thought how Mrs. Van Dorn enjoyed and understood. She would have felt
still more encouraged for her compeer, had she known what Mrs. Van Dorn
was at nineteen.

They talked until it was dusk, when the bell rang and arm in arm they
went to the dining room. Miss Grace was placing girls together in a more
sociable fashion.

"Suppose you and Miss Beck come over here," she said with a little wave
of the hand to Miss Craven, and giving a nod to Miss Beck. "And Miss
Grant, I think you are put down for the hostess next month. Suppose you
begin now?"

Helen smiled and went to the head of the table. Miss Craven took her
seat next. "Oh," she murmured, deprecatingly, "I hope it will never come
my turn."

"Why, it is not much to do, only to see that everything comes right."

The girls talked of to-morrow. Miss Beck was an Episcopalian, and
described how prettily the little church was trimmed, how beautiful the
morning service had been, and that most of it would be repeated. In the
evening some anthems were to be sung and Phillips Brooks' beautiful
hymn, "Oh, Little Town of Bethlehem." And on Monday at four a Christmas
tree for the children. Perhaps they would like to go?

Miss Craven's eyes kindled a little and she looked at Helen, as if she
might answer for her.

"We shall be very glad to," was Helen's ready reply.

The eyes thanked her timidly.

Afterward they assembled in the drawing room and sang Christmas hymns to
the accompaniment of the grand piano. Two of the young ladies recited.

"I don't believe I've ever had such a nice time in my life," Juliet
Craven said with her good-night. "You don't know how sincerely I thank
you."

To be thanked for a little courtesy like that! Helen stood before the
glass, thinking.

"I wonder," she said to the reflection, "if you could have had that much
courage with the rest of the girls about? It was very easy to-day, and
it is what ought to be done oftener. I wonder why they all took me up
so cordially, and why they should have surmised so many wrong things
about her. I dare say her father and mother were ordinarily nice people,
and I am glad there is nothing disgraceful about them. There are quite a
good many queer old people in the world--I'm sure Roxy tells things
about her old great-aunt and laughs over them, that do not sound kindly,
if they are amusing. I wish old people always were agreeable," and she
sighed. "But young people are not either," and she smiled with a
revulsion of mood. "I am glad, too, that she isn't any older. Nineteen.
There are not more than a half dozen girls in the school as old as that.
What a pity one can't be turned back!"

Helen thought she had never enjoyed a Sunday more. Most of the girls
went with Mrs. Aldred in the morning, and Mr. Danforth was certainly in
a Christmas frame of mind. They had luncheon around the large table
across the end of the dining room, and afterward a talk of the Jews and
Romans at the time of the coming of Christ. Helen had never thought much
of sacred and serious subjects, but her heart seemed to expand and glow
with a fervor she had hitherto known nothing about. If education
widened one's view, should not religion do something for it also?

The evening service moved her still more deeply. And she went to sleep
with the music of four lives floating through her brain:

  "Yet in thy dark street shineth
    The everlasting Light,
  The hopes and fears of all the years,
    Are met in thee to-night."

The children's Christmas tree was another pleasure. And when Helen
returned there was a box that had been sent across the water with some
pretty laces and a fine neck-chain and charm. It seemed to bring Paris
much nearer. Her letter, too, was very enjoyable. Mrs. Van Dorn was glad
to have her feel at home and study with energy. But she wanted her to go
at French just as soon as she possibly could, and pay close attention to
it. She, Mrs. Van Dorn, was going to start for Southern France the
beginning of the year and would have a restful time after the jaunting
about. Helen must write freely of herself and the friends she was
making, as well as her progress in every study.

[Illustration: When Helen returned there was a box that had been sent
across the water with some pretty laces, and a fine neck-chain and
charm.--Page 272.]

The week was a pleasant one to those who stayed at school. Miss Reid and
Miss Bigelow both painted on snow scenes taken at different points.
Miss Reid's had a gray sky with one streak of light down in the
southwest that gave the somber picture a really beautiful effect; Miss
Bigelow's was the sun shining through an opening in some trees and
glistening on the frosted snow. Miss Craven kept on with her lessons,
though she took several walks with Helen. Westchester put on quite a
holiday attire. The Literary Society gave a reading from Dickens'
"Christmas Stories," and there was a church tea and sociable, but no
persuasion could induce Miss Craven to attend it, though Helen and a
number of the girls accompanied Miss Aldred.

Mrs. Aldred was much engrossed looking over reports, and re-arranging
classes, designating the girls who were to go at the French table, and
making a few changes. For it sometimes seemed as if all the real work
began after Christmas.

"There will be a vacancy at your table," she said to Helen, who had been
consulting her on some studies. "I wonder if you have any choice as to
who fills it?"

"Who is going away?" the girls asked.

"Miss Mays. She should have gone in September, but she begged off," and
Mrs. Aldred gave a little smile.

"If the others would have no objection to Miss Craven----" hesitatingly.

"They would have no right to object," gravely.

"But would I have a right to make a selection for the others?" and a
flush crept up to her forehead.

"Not a right," in a pleasant tone. "I offer it as a privilege."

"Then I do think Miss Craven would like it. We have been making
friends," smiling and yet perplexed a little, desiring not to seem
officious.

"I hoped you would choose her, for her own good. Yes, I have been
noticing the sort of intimacy, the first preference she has evinced for
anyone, though I think you must have kindly made the overtures."

Helen flushed brightly, but did not emphasize her claim.

"I have been much puzzled over the case. My daughter Grace and I have
discussed it frequently, and in some ways I have felt very much
discouraged. A friend besought me to take her, explaining that she was a
simple-hearted country girl, who had had no advantages of education and
was extremely anxious to be fitted for her position; that she was afraid
she had fallen into the wrong hands, her guardian's wife being a rather
pretentious woman of fashion. Miss Craven is a somewhat curious compound
of qualities, and on several lines remarkably intelligent, but clearly
she does not make the best use of that quality."

Mrs. Aldred had been watching the changes in Helen's face as she talked,
wondering if this girl, not yet fifteen, could comprehend. And now she
paused as if expecting some comment.

"She is so afraid of nearly everything, everybody," began Helen. "And
yet I think it took real courage to try school life----" and she paused,
glancing up with some hesitation.

"That was the point that commended her to me. Mrs. Davis was opposed to
