The dying man clutched the blanket and stared dully, yet he seemed to
listen.
“Oh, yes, yes!” he cried suddenly. “At St. Anne’s down the river. Yes,
we both confessed——”
Whether he understood any of the service was doubtful, but the good
priest did his duty according to his conscience and the times. But
before he had ended the last prayer both knew he was dead, and had
passed without a struggle.
“I will stay the rest of the night with you,” said the priest. “And
since you have the child, I suppose you will be the proper person to
take charge. It is supposed the old man had not a little wealth—if the
marauders did not take it all away.”
The woman came in to prepare the body. Round the old man’s neck was a
strong bit of wire like cord, and a key. Gaspard took this. It fitted
the box.
After daylight they took a survey of the place. There were some firearms
stored away, blankets, furs that were motheaten and of little value,
some Indian habiliments; but it was evident the place had been pretty
thoroughly ransacked.
So they buried Antoine Freneau, and for some days it was the sensation
of the little town. Gaspard Denys now took the formal guardianship of
Renée de Longueville. He had the record of her mother’s marriage, her
birth and christening. Some of the goods were worth saving, the others
were distributed among the poorest of the Indians about.
In an old chest of curious workmanship Gaspard found a false bottom. In
this compartment were some laces and embroideries, a wedding veil that
Renée’s grandmother had doubtless worn, the certificate of her marriage
to Antoine Freneau and considerable valuable jewelry, with some unset
stones. And when they examined the strong box it proved an unexpected
fortune for Renée de Longueville.
Then the old house was suffered to go to ruin. Some Indians went
there for shelter, but soon left. They had been roused at midnight
by unearthly noises and seen the figure of old Freneau in its
grave-clothes; so the story gained credence that the place was haunted.
Even after it had fallen into an unsightly heap the mysterious noises
were heard and no one would pass it after nightfall.
Renée was very much shocked at first. She had not loved her grandfather,
but there had always been a curious pity in her tender soul for him in
what she considered his loneliness. She went in the church and prayed
for his soul, for she knew God was merciful. Had He not watched over
Uncle Gaspard and sent him safely home?
And now Renée de Longueville was quite an heiress and had some really
beautiful heirloom jewels, besides the laces and the exquisite veil. Her
grandmother’s people must have been of some account. But no one would
have imagined Antoine Freneau a handsome or attractive young man, and a
favorite among the pretty girls of Old New Orleans. The miser-like
propensities had grown with the years, and he had found, he thought, an
easy way of making money by being in league with the river pirates on
the one hand and roving bands of Indians on the other. He had skilfully
evaded detection if not always suspicion, and now that he had suffered
almost martyrdom in the end, the generous, cordial people were not the
kind to fling up these vague accusations.
So the sorrow was over and it was winter again, full of merriment and
gayety, and lovers wooing young girls. Elise Renaud had been married and
Sophie was quite a belle. Rosalie Pichou was the mother of two babies
and had a comfortable home, though her husband traded with New Orleans
and was often gone months at a time. They had to guard against the river
pirates, who frequently sallied out from some peaceful-looking covert,
hidden by woods or a bend in the stream. Occasionally there were Indians
lying in wait, but the men always went well armed, and generally in
quite a fleet, with the goods, the wheat and corn in barges or
flat-bottomed boats, with several canoes for swiftness if they saw a
chance of chastising their enemies. It was comparatively easy to go down
the river, and as each boat had a mast and sails, they sped along
beautifully in a favorable wind. But coming back was generally the
trial, as the tide was against them. Sometimes two boatmen would walk
along the river bank and pull a rope like the later towing line, while
those on the boat steered and with long poles kept the prow from running
into the bank and avoided the snags.
But before Christmas all the boats that were expected had come in; the
others would remain at New Orleans until more favorable weather. And
this year there was to be a grand ball at the Government House before
the king’s ball took place, for in the last trip up the river several
young men had arrived. One was to be secretary to the Commandant. Two
were on their way to Canada and would start when the spring opened.
Sophie Renaud had run in, full of the news.
“And you have so many pretty things to wear!” she cried half enviously.
“Your uncle always seems to know, while you might as well ask a stick as
to ask my father to bring you home anything worth while. And the pretty
frock Aunt Barbe sent me last summer is all in shreds. Ma mère declares
I ought to have fawnskin, like an Indian girl. And did you see Madame
Marchand’s lovely feather cape on Sunday? It has a row of bluebird
feathers around it that are dazzling.”
Yes, Renée had seen the cape often while it was being made. Three years
it had taken Wawataysee to collect the feathers. She had so many
beautiful ideas.
“It would set me crazy to do such a thing!”
Renée laughed. Sophie always flew from one point to another, and
delighted in attire.
“Wawataysee is coming to see what will be most suitable,” returned
Renée.
“And shall I have to wear the old white silk Cousin Guion gave me? It
has been washed, but mother has pressed it like new. And one of the
young men is very handsome. I saw him as I passed the court-house.
Laflamme I believe he is called, and I predict he will set all the
girls’ hearts in a flame if he dances anything as he looks. I hope we
all get a chance. And oh, what fun the king’s ball will be! I just hope
I shall be a queen!”
Renée tossed her pretty head. For the girls in those days gossiped
pretty much as they do now, and were just as eager for pleasure.
André Valbonais dropped in as he often did. He was a great favorite, and
now that he was doing so well under the very eyes of M. Chouteau, he
could afford to have a steady sweetheart. Early marriages were much in
vogue, and though a dot was very good, many a nice girl was married with
only some household articles and bedding.
Truth to tell, André had been very much captivated with Madame Marchand.
Her bravery through those wearisome days and nights of the return, her
sweetness and patience with the little one, had made her an angel to be
adored. M. Marchand’s gratitude knew no bounds; indeed, he had been
treated with brotherly affection by them both. Suddenly his eyes had
been opened. It was an insult to any sweet, honorable woman to covet
her, especially when she loved her husband as Wawataysee did. And André
struggled to cast the sin out of his heart. She never even dreamed of
such a thing, and for worlds he would not have incurred her displeasure.
But this it was that had made him care less for the young girls about.
He could not offer any of them a heart that was half another’s.
So in a certain fashion he had been devoted to Renée because she was
such a child, and there was no danger he believed.
“There will be a great time, I suppose, at the ball,” he said, sitting
by the splendid log fire at Gaspard Denys’. “One of my cousins is to
dance with the new Secretary, Monsieur Rivé. He came to the mill with
the Governor.”
M. Cruzat was often styled that, but the real Governor of all Louisiana
had his capital at New Orleans. This was the Lieutenant.
“And is he very handsome?”
“Oh, good-looking enough,” indifferently. “M. Laflamme will take the
winning card. Renée, do not get a heartbreak over him. Take warning.”
“I shall not get a heartbreak over anybody,” with a saucy smile.
“Ah, your time has not yet come!” blowing out wreaths of delicate smoke.
“André, I want you to dance the first dance with me.”
“I am at your service, ma’m’selle. But three new young men and a pretty
girl—you do me great honor,” and he made a bow, with an odd, amused
smile.
“Do you suppose I am going to stand around and cast wistful eyes at
these strangers?” she cried with pretty, mock indignation. “And I shall
be in the very first dance, too.”
“I am made supremely happy, ma’m’selle.”
“And if there is any—if you see me looking—well, disconsolate, you will
ask me again.”
There was a charming imperiousness in her tone.
“I will obey, ma’m’selle, with great delight.”
“And—André, who will be the prettiest girl there?”
“Merci! Little one, how can I make a choice?”
“I will tell you: Lucie Aubry, and she will dance with the Secretary the
first thing.”
“Lucie Aubry has not all the beauty of St. Louis.”
“Oh, if she had, what would be left for us?” and Renée made a mirthfully
despairing face.
“You need not feel alarmed.”
“Oh, I don’t,” with enchanting gayety. “In the first place, I am not
tall enough, not grand enough. Then my hair should be raven black, and
it is such a funny no-color.”
“It is very handsome,” he replied decidedly. “Sometimes in the sun it
looks as if it had gold dust sprinkled over it. And then I’ve seen it
look as if the top of every wave was touched with silver.”
“That is very beautiful, André. I will try to recall the compliment when
it looks to me like a gray-brown. And my nose, see——”
“Ma’m’selle, you wrinkle it up and it makes you look piquant, saucy. You
couldn’t make it bad if you tried.”
“Oh, yes! Look!” She put her finger to the tip of it and gave it a tiny
hitch and then laughed.
“That shows your curved lips and your lovely teeth. Even that wouldn’t
make you a fright.”
“Oh, André, how good and comforting you are! But Wawataysee, with her
little Indian blood, is a hundred times handsomer. Only—I am very glad I
suit you and Uncle Gaspard. He thinks I grow like my mother.”
She had been half-dancing round the room in the blaze of the logs.
Families often kept no other light. Now she came and sat down opposite
him, demure as a nun. She had so many fascinating, changeful ways. He
had always considered her a child, but now she was a charming young
girl. This was one of the places where Valbonais felt entirely at home,
because there was no danger of being misinterpreted by any watchful
mamma. He was not quite ready to marry.
Denys came in and pushed his seat near Renée, who leaned her head on his
shoulder. Now the golden lights shone in her hair—not yellow-gold, but
the richer, deeper color—and a soft rose tint played over her cheek,
while her mouth dimpled at the corners as if she was amused at
something. There would not be many prettier girls at the ball, Valbonais
thought.
Wawataysee looked over the “treasures” that one way and another had come
