
Texas had a vague idea that some one might come that way any moment; and
he wondered what that person would think to look at them. Texas just
then wished himself anywhere on earth but there.

In response to his embarrassed pleading, the girl finally looked through
her tears. And her eyes, red with weeping, gave her beautiful face a
look of anguish that touched the Texan's big heart.

"Lord bless me!" said he. "Miss Adams, is there anything I can do?"

She looked at him for a moment and then she answered "Yes," and turned
slowly down the street.

"Come," she said. "Mr. Powers, I want to talk to you."

If he had wanted to, Texas could not have disobeyed; the fact of the
matter was that Texas was too bewildered to have any wants. The true
state of affairs had not dawned upon his unromantic mind.

The two hurried down the road toward Highland Falls, the cadet following
meekly. They came almost to "cadet limits," to an old lonely road that
turned off to the right. Up that the girl turned, and when she was well
out of sight of the main road, turned and faced her companion.

"Now," she said, "I will tell you. Oh, why is it you do not see?"

The look upon her face made Texas fear she was going to burst into tears
again, and he shifted about uncomfortably.

And just then came the crash.

"Tell me, Mr. Powers," demanded the girl, with a suddenness that almost
took the other's breath away, "Tell me, Mr. Powers, do you think
he--he--likes me?"

Texas started; he stared at the girl's anxious face; a sudden light
breaking in upon him. And the girl gazed into his deep gray eyes and
saw--she knew not what.

"Why--why----" stammered Texas.

"I have thought so much of him," cried Mary Adams, pouring out her
feelings, in a passionate flood of words. "I have followed him about, I
have watched him all day! Ever since he befriended me so that night when
he saved my brother, I have thought of no one but him. He is so splendid
and brave and handsome! He--never even looks at me!"

The girl's last words were said in a tone of anguish and despair, and
she buried her head in her hands once more.

"It is all that other girl!" she continued, after a moment's pause. "He
thinks of no one but her! Oh, how I hate her! He is with her all the
time; he asked her to join that society----"

"How--how on earth did you know?" gasped Texas.

"Do you think I am blind?" cried the girl, fiercely. "Do you suppose I
cannot see what Mark Mallory is doing? It is all that Grace Fuller--all!
And, oh, what shall I do?"

In a perfect convulsion of sobbing the girl flung herself down upon the
bank at the side of the road. And Texas stood and gazed at her in
consternation and embarrassment, and vowing if the gods ever got him out
of that most incomprehensible fix, he'd never look at a girl again. A
dozen Comanches could not have inspired Texas with half the awe that
this one passionate and beautiful creature did.

"Miss Adams," he said, at last, "I--I really don't think Mark knows how
you regard him."

"I know it," sobbed the girl; "he doesn't! But I cannot tell him!"

A sudden and brilliant idea flashed across Texas' mind.

"I can!" he exclaimed. "I can, an' I will."

The girl sprang to her feet and stared at him.

"No! no!" she cried, in horror. "What would----"

But Texas had already turned and was striding off in excitement.

"Gosh!" he muttered. "That's jes' the thing! I'll tell Mark fo' her, ef
she kaint. An' anyhow, I couldn't keep a secret from Mark. Dog gone it,
I'd have to ask his advice. This yere's a 'portant matter."

Texas heard Mary Adams crying out to him to come back, imploring him to
listen to her. But Texas, once well out of that embarrassing fix and
beyond the spell of the beautiful girl had no idea of returning to his
uncomfortable position. And to his rough old heart there was no reason
on earth why he should not tell Mark. Who else ought to know it but
Mark?

"An'," muttered Texas, "ef she ain't got sense 'nough to tell him, I
will."

So, deaf to the girl's entreaties, he left her to bemoan her fate alone
and set out in hot haste for camp.




CHAPTER XXVII.

A PLOT TO BEAT "THE GENERAL."


Now the adventures of Texas were wild and exciting, to him, anyway. But
up at camp in the meantime another plebe was having adventures that
fairly put Texas into the shade. The plebe was "Indian," and you may
listen and judge for yourself of the adventures.

Indian had been rather less credulous of late, but the yearlings were
still anxiously watching for another chance to have some fun with him.
The chance came that day.

Nelson A. Miles is a hero of a hundred fights, and as major general he
commands the United States army. The more they considered the importance
of that mighty visitor, the more the yearlings began to think of that
plan. There were a dozen of them got together that morning and swore
they'd fool Indian or die in the effort.

Indian of course had seen the review and had been mightily impressed in
his innocent soul. From the distance he had admired the military figure
and imposing features of the great man. And then, filled with resolves
to fight loyally under him and perhaps some day to be like him, he had
turned away and strolled solemnly back to camp.

He entered his tent, still in that serious, that really heroic mood.
There was no one in the tent, and so Indian had it all alone for his
meditations philosophical.

"Oh, what a fine thing it must be to be a great hero like that!" he
mused. "To gaze upon the world from a large, ethereal standpoint"--an
ethereal standpoint would have made unsteady standing even for a hero;
but Indian did not think of that. "I can have no higher ambition in life
than to imitate that man. As the poet has said:

   'Lives of great men all remind us,
      We can make our lives sublime,
    And departing, leave behind us
      Footprints----'

"Bless my soul!"

Indian had stopped his meditations with startling suddenness; and this
was the reason thereof.

He had heard mysterious sounds in the Company B tent next door. It was a
yearling tent. Two cadets had crept into it silently; and Indian heard
one of them mutter a subdued "S-sh!"

Have you seen a pointer dog prick up his ears suddenly? That was the way
Indian did.

"A plot?" said one of the yearlings. "A plot did you say? What is it?
Tell me? I'll come in!"

"S-sh!" said the other. "Do you swear eternal secrecy, swear it by the
bones of the saints?"

"I swear!" growled the other in a low, sepulchral voice. "Out with it!"

"All the fellows know," continued the other. "They'll all help. But not
the plebes! Do you hear? Not a word to the plebes! If any plebe should
hear he'd surely tell on us, and that would ruin us. He might do it, you
know, for he'd get no end of reward. They might even promote him, make
him a yearling."

Indian's little fat heart was bounding with delight. A plot! And he knew
it! Ye gods! Bless my soul! He crept close to the wall of his tent,
straining eyes and ears to listen, not to lose the faintest sound of
this most important news.

"It must be something desperate," gasped the other.

"Yes, it is. S-sh! You'll nearly drop I know when I tell you. We're----"

Indian's eyes were like walnuts, half out of his head.
