That is, no ! " had been Chad's reply, but he had immedi- 
ately added that their English was the most charming 
in the world, so that if Strether were wanting an excuse 
for not getting on with them he wouldn't in the least find 
one. Never, in fact, had Strether — in the mood into 
which the place had quickly launched him — felt for him- 
self less the need of an excuse. Those he might have 
found would have been at the worst all for the others, the 
people before him, in whose liberty to be as they were he 
was aware that he positively rejoiced. His fellow-guests 
were multiplying, and these things, their liberty, their 
intensity, their variety, their conditions at large, were 
in fusion in the admirable medium of the scene. 

The place itself was a great impression — a small 
pavilion, clear-faced and sequestered, an effect of polished 
parquet, of fine white panel and spare, sallow gilt, of 
decoration delicate and rare, in the heart of the Faubourg 
St.-Germain and on the edge of a cluster of gardens 
attached to old, noble houses. Far back from streets and 
unsuspected by crowds, reached by a long passage and 
a quiet court, it was as striking to the unprepared mind, 
he immediately saw, as a treasure dug up ; giving him, 




too, more than anything yet, the note of the range of the 
immeasurable town, and sweeping away, as by a last brave 
brush, his usual landmarks and terms. It was in the 
garden, a spacious, cherished remnant, out to which a 
dozen persons had already passed, that Chad's host 
presently met them ; while the tall, bird-haunted trees, 
all of a twitter with the spring and the weather, and the 
high party-walls, on the other side of which grave hotels 
stood off for privacy, spoke of survival, transmission, 
association, a strong, indifferent, persistent order. The 
day was so soft that the little party had practically ad- 
journed to the open air ; but the open air, in such con- 
ditions, was all a chamber of state. Strether had presently 
the sense of a great convent, a convent of missions, famous 
for he scarce knew what, a nursery of young priests, of 
scattered shade, of straight alleys and chapel bells, that 
spread its mass in one quarter ; he had the sense of names 
in the air, of ghosts at the windows, of signs and tokens, 
a whole range of expression all about him, too thick for 
prompt discrimination. 

This assault of images became for a moment, in the 
address of the distinguished sculptor, almost formidable. 
Gloriani showed him, in such perfect confidence, on Chad's 
introduction of him, a fine, worn, handsome face, a face 
that was like an open letter in a foreign tongue. With 
 his genius in his eyes, his manners on his lips, his long 
 career behind him and his honours and rewards all round, 
 the great artist, in the course of a single sustained look 
 and a few words of delight at receiving him, affected our 
friend as a dazzling prodigy of type. Strether had seen 
in museums — in the Luxembourg, as well as, more rev- 
erently, in other days, in the New York of the billionaires 
— the work of his hand ; knowing also that, after an 
earlier time in his native Rome, he had migrated, in mid- 
career, to Paris, where, with a personal lustre almost 
violent, he shone in a constellation ; all of which was 
more than enough to crown him, for his guest, with the 
light, with the romance of glory. Strether, in contact with 
that element as he had never yet so intimately been, had 
the consciousness of opening to it, for the happy instant, 
all the windows of his mind, of letting this rather gray 





interior drink in for once the sun of a clime not marked in 
his old geography. He was to see again repeatedly, in 
remembrance, the medal-like Italian face, in which every 
line was an artist's own, in which time told only as tone 
and consecration ; and he was to recall in especial, as the 
penetrating radiance, as the communication of the illus- 
trious spirit itself, the manner in which, while they stood 
briefly, in welcome and response, face to face, he was held 
by the sculptor's eyes. He was not soon to forget them, 
was to think of them, all unconscious, unintending, pre- 
occupied though they were, as the source of the deepest 
intellectual sounding to which he had ever been exposed. 
He was in fact quite to cherish his vision of it, to play 
with it in idle hours ; only speaking of it to no one and 
quite aware he couldn't have spoken without appearing 
to talk nonsense. Was what it had told him or what it 
had asked him the greater of the mysteries ? Was it the 
most special flare, unequalled, supreme, of the aesthetic 
torch, lighting that wondrous world for ever, or was it, 
above all, the long, straight shaft sunk by a personal 
acuteness that life had seasoned to steel ? Nothing on 
earth could have been stranger and no one, doubtless, 
more surprised than the artist himself, but it was, for all 
the world, to Strether in these instants as if in respect to 
his accepted duty he had positively been on trial. The 
deep human expertness in Gloriani's charming smile — oh, 
the terrible life behind it ! — was flashed upon him as a 
test of his stuff. 

Chad, meanwhile, after having easily named his com- 
panion, had still more easily turned away, and was already 
greeting other persons present. He was an easy, clever 
Chad with the great artist as with his obscure compatriot, 
and as easy with everyone else as with either. This fell 
into its place for Strether and made almost a new light, 
giving him, as a concatenation, something more he could 
enjoy. He liked Gloriani, but should never see him again; 
of that he was sufficiently sure. Chad, accordingly, who 
was wonderful with both of them, was a kind of link for 
hopeless fancy, an implication of possibilities — oh, if every- 
thing had been different! Strether noted, at all events,! 
that he was thus on terms with illustrious spirits  and also' 





that — yes, distinctly — he had not in the least swaggered 
about it. Our friend hadn't come there only for this 
figure of Abel Nevvsome's son, but it threatened to affect 
the observant mind as positively central, Gloriani, indeed, 
remembering something and, excusing himself, pursued 
Chad to speak to him, and Strether was left musing on 
many things. One of them was the question of whether, 
since he had been tested, he had passed. Did the artist 
drop him from having made out that he wouldn't do ? 
He really felt, just to-day, that he might do better than 
usual. Hadn't he done well enough, for that matter, in 
being just so dazzled, and in not having, too, as he almost 
believed, wholly hidden from his host that he knew of 
the latter's inquiry? Suddenly, across the garden, he saw 
little Bilham approach, and it was a part of the fit that 
was on him that as their eyes met he guessed also his 
knowledge. If he had said to him on the instant what 
was uppermost he would have said: ''Have I passed? — 
for, of course, I know one has to pass here." Little 
Bilham would have reassured him, have told him that 
I he exaggerated, and have adduced happily enough the 
argument of little Bilham's own very presence, which, in 
truth, he could see, was as easy a one as Gloriani's own, or 
as Chad's. He himself would perhaps then after a while 
cease to be frightened, would get the point of view for 
 some of the faces — types tremendously alien, alien to 
 Woollett — that he had already begun to take in. Who 
 were they all, the dispersed groups and couples, the ladies, 
even more unlike those of Woollett than the gentlemen? — 
this was the inquiry that, when his young friend had 
greeted him, he did find himself making. 

" Oh, they're everyone — all sorts and sizes ; of course I 
mean within limits, though limits down perhaps rather 
more than limits up. There are always artists — he's 
beautiful, inimitable to the cher confrere ; and then gros 
bonnets of many kinds — ambassadors, cabinet ministers, 
bankers, generals; what do I know? even Jews. Above 
all, always, some awfully nice women — and not too many ; 
sometimes an actress, an artist, a great performer — but 
 when they're not monsters; and, in particular, the 
 feinmcs du monde. You can fanc)' his history on 





that side — I believe it's fabulous ; they never give him up. 
Yet he keeps them down : no one knows how he manages ; 
it's too beautiful and bland. Never too many — and a 
mighty good thing too ; just a perfect choice. But there 
are not in any way many bores ; it has always been so ; 
he has some secret. It's extraordinary. And you don't 
find it out. He's the same to everyone. He doesn't ask 
questions." 

" Ah, doesn't he ? " Strether laughed. 

Bilham met it with all his candour. " How then should 
