" In answer to your letter of the 5th instant, 
we beg to inform you that your manuscript is 
now in the hands of our readers, and that you 
may expect a report upon it in a week." 

I am reading Euripides. 

August 8th. 

Oh how will I find words for my delight when 

I have got a little money and can escape from 

dirt and horror. To-night two vile men have 

been quarreling in the room underneath, and I 


have been drinking in all their brutal ugliness. 
Bah!— 

To live in a place where there are not hor- 
rible women in wrappers, reeling, foul-smelling 
men, snuffling children with beer-cans! 

This is more of my " economy "! 

To-night I sat upon the edge of the bed and 
whispered, " To be free! I shall be free! " — until 
I was trembling in every nerve. 

My beautiful poem! My beautiful poem will 
set me free! 

Sometimes I love it just as if it were a child. 

Augfust loth. 
Twelve dollars more! 

August nth. 
" We have read with the utmost interest the 
manuscript of The Captive which you have been 
so good as to show us. We are very sorry to say 
that it does not seem to us that the publication 
of this poem would be a venture in which we 
could engage with profit. At the same time, 
however, we have been very much struck with 
it, and consider it an altogether remarkable piece 






of work. We should like very much to have the 
privilege of an interview with you, should you 
find it convenient." 

Now what in the world do they mean by that? 
If they are not going to publish the book, W'hat 
do they want to see me for? And I've wasted 
two weeks more of my life ! 

I had not reckoned on petty things such as 
these. I fear I have not much knowledge of men. 
How can a man read The Captive and not know 
that others would read it? What are they in 
business for, anyway? 

August 12th. 

I begged off from work for an hour. I have 
had an interview with the great publishers! I 
have learned a great deal too. 

I saw the manager of the firm. He meant to 
be very kind, that is the first thing to say; the 
second is that he is very well-dressed, and com- 
fortable-looking. 

" Now, Ir. Stirling," said he, " you know a 

publishing house is always on the lookout for 

the new man. That is why I wanted to have the 

pleasure of meeting you. It is evident to me 



that you have literary talent of no common 
kind." 

(I bow.) 

" I wish that I could tell you that we could 
consider The Captive an available piece of 
writing; I have read it myself with the greatest 
care. But you must know, Mr. Stirling, that it is 
an exceedingly difficult piece of work; I mean 
difificult from a publisher's point of view. There 
is very little demand for poetry nowadays — a 
publisher generally brings out at a loss even the 
poems that make a reputation for their authors. 
"Whether you are aware of that I don't know, but 
it is true; and I think of all kinds of poetry a 
blank verse tragedy is the most to be shunned." 

(Here a pause. I have never any tongue 
when I am with men.) 

" What I want to talk to you about, Ir. Stir- 
ling, is the work which you contemplate in the 
future. As I said, I was interested at once in this 
work; I should like very much indeed to advise 
you and to be of any assistance to you that I can. 
I should like very much to know what your plans 
are. I should like very much to see anything 
that you might write. Are you contemplating 
anything just at present? " 


" No, not just at present." 

" Not? Don't you think that you might find 
it possible to produce something just a little more 
in accordance with the public taste? Don't you 
think, for instance, that you might possibly write 
a novel? " 

(Some hesitation.) " I have thought of a 
novel." 

" Ah ! And might I ask — would it be a 
character study? — or perhaps historical? — or — " 

" It would be historical." 

" Ah! And of what period? " 

" The Civil War." 

(A great look of satisfaction.) " Dear me ! 
Why, that is very interesting indeed, Mr. Stirling! 
I should like to see such a work from your pen. 
And are you thinking of completing it soon? " 

(General discomfort on my part.) " I had 
never thought of the time exactly. I had feared 
it would take a great many years." 

(Perplexity.) " Oh, pshaw! — still, of course, 
that is the way all great work is done. Yes, one 
has to obey one's own inspiration. I understand 
perfectly how he can not adjust himself to the 
market. I have seen too often how disastrous 
such attempts are." 


(More courteous platitudes, I assenting. 
Then at last, weary — ) 

" You don't think, then, that you will be able 
to undertake The Captive? " 

" No, Mr. Stirling, I really do not think we 
can. You understand, of course, if I take this 
work to the firm I have to tell them I think it will 
sell; and that I can not honestly do. You know 
that a publishing house is just as much limited 
as any other business firm — it can not afiford to 
publish books that the trade does not want. And 
this is an especially unusual sort of thing, it is by 
no means easy to appreciate — you must be aware 
of that yourself, Mr. Stirling. You see when I 
read a manuscript I have to keep constantly be- 
fore my mind the thought of how it is going to 
affect the public — a very different thing from my 
own judgment, of course. From the former 
standpoint I believe there are things in The Cap- 
