
But presently she moved in his arms, and looked up 
again, and smiled, though she did not try to speak 
again. He himself, almost worn out by what he had 
done, was glad to sit still for a while. His blood was 
not racing through him now, his head was not on fire. 
It seemed quite natural that he should be sitting there, 
holding her close to him and warming her back to life 
with his own warmth. 

It was a strange sensation, he thought afterwards, 
when many other things had happened which were not 
long in following upon the events of that night. He 
could not quite believe that he was almost stupid with 
extreme fatigue, and yet he remembered that it had 
been more like a calm dream than anything else, a 
dream of peace and rest. At the time, it all seemed 
natural, as the strangest things do when one has been 
face to face with death for a few hours, and when one 
is so tired that one can hardly think at all. 



CHAPTER XV 

Theee was less consternation in tlie Volterra house- 
hold than might have been expected when Sabina did 
not return before bedtime. The servants knew that she 
had gone out with an old gentleman, a certain Signor 
Sassi, at about five o'clock, but until Volterra came 
in, the Baroness could not find out who Sassi was, and 
she insisted on searching every corner of the house, as 
if she were in quest of his biography, for the servants 
assured her that Sabina was still out, and they certainly 
knew. She carefully examined Sabina's room too, look- 
ing for a note, a line of writing, anything to explain the 
girl's unexpected absence. 

She could find nothing except the short letter from 
Sabina's mother to which reference has been made, and 
she read it over several times. Sabina received no let- 
ters, and had been living in something like total isolation. 
The Baroness had reached a certain degree of intimacy 
with her beloved aristocracy ; but though she occasion- 
ally dropped in upon it, and was fairly well received, it 
rarely, if ever, dropped in upon her. It showed itself 
quite willing, however, to accept a formal invitation to 
a good dinner at her house. 

She telephoned to the Senate and to a club, but Vol- 
terra could not be found. Then she went to dress, giv- 







ing orders that Sabina was to be sent to her the moment 
she came in. She was very angry, and her sallow face 
was drawn into severe angles ; she scolded her maid for 
everything, and rustled whenever she moved. 

At last the Baron came home, and she learned who 
Sassi was. Volterra was very much surprised, but said 
that Sassi must have come for Sabina in connection with 
some urgent family matter. Perhaps some one of her 
family had died suddenly, or was dying. It was very 
thoughtless of Sabina not to leave a word of explana- 
tion, but Sassi was an eminently respectable person, and 
she was quite safe with him. 

The Baron ate his dinner, and repeated the substance 
of this to his wife before- the servants, whose good opin- 
ion they valued. Probably Donna Clementina, the nun, 
was very ill, and Sabina was at the convent. No, Sabina 
did not love her sister, of course ; but one always went 
to see one's relations when they were dying, in order to 
forgive them their disagreeable conduct; all Romans 
did that, said the Baroness, and it was very proper. 
By and by a note could be sent to the convent, or the 
carriage could go there to bring Sabina back. But the 
Baron did not order the carriage, and became very 
thoughtful over his coffee and his Havana. Sabina 
had been gone more than four hours, and that was cer- 
tainly a longer time than could be necessary for visit- 
ing a dying relative. He said so. 

" Perhaps," suggested his wife, " it is the Prince who 
is ill, and Signor Sassi has taken Sabina to the country 
to see her brother." 



 

*' No," answered tlie Baron after a moment's thouglit. 
" That family is eccentric, but the girl would not have 
gone to the country without a bag." 

" There is something in that," answered the Baroness, 
and they relapsed into silence. 

Yet she was not satisfied, for, as her husband said, 
the Conti were all eccentric. Nevertheless, Sabina 
would at least have telegraphed, or sent a line from the 
station, or Sassi would have done it for her, for he was 
a man of business. 

After a long time, the Baroness suggested that if her 
husband knew Sassi's address, some one should be sent 
to his house to find out if he had gone out of town. 

" I have not the least idea where he lives," the Baron 
said. "As long as I had any business with him, I 
addressed him at the palace." 

" The porter may know," observed the Baroness. 

'-The porter is an idiot," retorted the Baron, puffing 
at his cigar. 

His wife knew what that meant, and did not enquire 
why an idiot was left in charge of the palace. Volterra 
did not intend to take that way of making enquiries 
about Sabina, if he made any at all, and the Baroness 
knew that when he did not mean to do a thing, the 
obstinacy of a Calabrian mule was docility compared 
with his dogged opposition. Moreover, she would 
not have dared to do it unknown to him. There was 
some good reason why he did not intend to look for 
Sassi. 

" Besides," he condescended to say after a long time. 





"she is quite safe with that old man, wherever they 
are." 

" Society might not think so, my dear," answered the 
Baroness in mild protest. 

" Society had better mind its business, and let us take 
care of ours." 

" Yes, my dear, yes, of course ! " 

She did not agree with him at all. Her ideal of a 
happy life was quite different, for she was very much 
pleased when society took a lively interest in her doings, 
and nothing interested her more than the doings of 
society. She presently ventured to argue the case. 

" Yes, of course," she repeated, by way of preliminary 
conciliation. " I was only wondering what people will 
think, if anything happens to the girl while she is under 
our charge." 

" What can happen to her? " 

"There might be some talk about her going ouu in 
this way. The servants know it, you see, and she is 
evidently not coming home this evening. They know 
that she went out without leaving any message, and 
they must think it strange." 

"I agree with you." 

"Well, then, there will be some story about her. 
Do you see what I mean ? " 

" Perfectly. But that will not affect us in the least. 
Every one knows what strange people the Conti are, 
and everybody knows that we are perfectly respectable. 
If there is a word said about the girl's character, you 
will put her into the carriage, my dear, and deposit her 

