"'In we go!' said I, aloud. A second later the prophecy was
fulfilled.

"I swam far out to sea, and as I swam the waters all around me turned
to gold. The sun had risen.

"There is a fragrance in the sea at dawn that none can name.
Whitethorn a-bloom in May, sedges a-sway, and scented rushes rustling
in an inland wind recall the sea to me--I can't say why.

"Far out at sea I raised myself, swung around, dived, and set out
again for shore, striking strong strokes until the necked foam flew.
And when at last I shot through the breakers, I laughed aloud and
sprang upon the beach, breathless and happy. Then from the ocean came
another cry, clear, joyous, and a white arm rose in the air.

"She came drifting in with the waves like a white sea-sprite, laughing
at me, and I plunged into the breakers again to join her.

"Side by side we swam along the coast, just outside the breakers,
until in the next cove we saw the flutter of her maid's cap-strings.

"'I will beat you to breakfast!' she cried, as I rested, watching her
glide up along the beach.

"'Done!' said I--'for a sea-shell!'

"'Done!' she called, across the water.

"I made good speed along the shore, and I was not long in dressing,
but when I entered the dining-room she was there, demure, smiling,
exquisite in her cool, white frock.

"'The sea-shell is yours,' said I. 'I hope I can find one with a pearl
in it.'

"The professor hurried in before she could reply. He greeted me very
cordially, but there was an abstracted air about him, and he called me
Dick until I recognized that remonstrance was useless. He was not
long over his coffee and rolls.

"'McPeek and Frisby will return with the last load, including your
trunk, by early afternoon,' he said, rising and picking up his bundle
of drawings. 'I haven't time to explain to you what we are doing,
Dick, but Daisy will take you about and instruct you. She will give
you the rifle standing in my room--it's a good Winchester. I have sent
for an 'Express' for you, big enough to knock over any elephant in
India. Daisy, take him through the sheds and tell him everything.
Luncheon is at noon. Do you usually take luncheon, Dick?'

"'When I am permitted,' I smiled.

"'Well,' said the professor, doubtfully, 'you mustn't come back here
for it. Freda can take you what you want. Is your hand unsteady after
eating?'

"'Why, papa!' said Daisy. 'Do you intend to starve him?'

"We all laughed.

"The professor tucked his drawings into a capacious pocket, pulled his
sea-boots up to his hips, seized a spade, and left, nodding to us as
though he were thinking of something else.

"We went to the door and watched him across the salt meadows until the
distant sand-dune hid him.

"'Come,' said Daisy Holroyd, 'I am going to take you to the shop.'

"She put on a broad-brimmed straw hat, a distractingly pretty
combination of filmy cool stuffs, and led the way to the long, low
structure that I had noticed the evening before.

"The interior was lighted by the numberless little port-holes, and I
could see everything plainly. I acknowledge I was nonplussed by what I
did see.

"In the centre of the shed, which must have been at least a hundred
feet long, stood what I thought at first was the skeleton of an
enormous whale. After a moment's silent contemplation of the thing I
saw that it could not be a whale, for the frames of two gigantic,
batlike wings rose from each shoulder. Also I noticed that the animal
possessed legs--four of them--with most unpleasant-looking webbed
claws fully eight feet long. The bony framework of the head, too,
resembled something between a crocodile and a monstrous
snapping-turtle. The walls of the shanty were hung with drawings and
blue prints. A man dressed in white linen was tinkering with the
vertebrae of the lizard-like tail.

"'Where on earth did such a reptile come from?' I asked at length.

"'Oh, it's not real!' said Daisy, scornfully; 'it's papier-maché.'

"'I see,' said I; 'a stage prop.'

"'A what?' asked Daisy, in hurt astonishment.

"'Why, a--a sort of Siegfried dragon--a what's-his-name--er, Pfafner,
or Peffer, or--'

"'If my father heard you say such things he would dislike you,' said
Daisy. She looked grieved, and moved towards the door. I
apologized--for what, I knew not--and we became reconciled. She ran
into her father's room and brought me the rifle, a very good
Winchester. She also gave me a cartridge-belt, full.

"'Now,' she smiled, 'I shall take you to your observatory, and when we
arrive you are to begin your duty at once.'

"'And that duty?' I ventured, shouldering the rifle.

"'That duty is to watch the ocean. I shall then explain the whole
affair--but you mustn't look at me while I speak; you must watch the
sea.'

"'This,' said I, 'is hardship. I had rather go without the luncheon.'

"I do not think she was offended at my speech; still she frowned for
almost three seconds.

"We passed through acres of sweet bay and spear grass, sometimes
skirting thickets of twisted cedars, sometimes walking in the full
glare of the morning sun, sinking into shifting sand where
sun-scorched shells crackled under our feet, and sun-browned sea-weed
glistened, bronzed and iridescent. Then, as we climbed a little hill,
the sea-wind freshened in our faces, and lo! the ocean lay below us,
far-stretching as the eye could reach, glittering, magnificent.

"Daisy sat down flat on the sand. It takes a clever girl to do that
and retain the respectful deference due her from men. It takes a
graceful girl to accomplish it triumphantly when a man is looking.

"'You must sit beside me,' she said--as though it would prove irksome
to me.

"'Now,' she continued, 'you must watch the water while I am talking.'

"I nodded.

"'Why don't you do it, then?' she asked.

"I succeeded in wrenching my head towards the ocean, although I felt
sure it would swing gradually round again in spite of me.

"'To begin with,' said Daisy Holroyd, 'there's a thing in that ocean
that would astonish you if you saw it. Turn your head!'

"'I am,' I said, meekly.

"'Did you hear what I said?'

"'Yes--er--a thing in the ocean that's going to astonish me.' Visions
of mermaids rose before me.

"'The thing,' said Daisy, 'is a thermosaurus!'

"I nodded vaguely, as though anticipating a delightful introduction to
a nautical friend.

"'You don't seem astonished,' she said, reproachfully.

"'Why should I be?' I asked.

"'Please turn your eyes towards the water. Suppose a thermosaurus
should look out of the waves!'

"'Well,' said I, 'in that case the pleasure would be mutual.'

"She frowned and bit her upper lip.

"'Do you know what a thermosaurus is?' she asked.

"'If I am to guess,' said I, 'I guess it's a jelly-fish.'

"'It's that big, ugly, horrible creature that I showed you in the
shed!' cried Daisy, impatiently.

"'Eh!' I stammered.

"'Not papier-maché, either,' she continued, excitedly; 'it's a real
