he met any one he wished it were altogether so. Yet he wondered why a
man as rich as Logotheti should have built his house there.

At last his patience was rewarded. A brougham drove up past him at a
smart pace, stopped before the door and waited. He turned back and
wheeled round, crossing and re-crossing the street, so as to keep
behind the carriage. As it was impossible to continue this singular
exercise without attracting the attention of a policeman who came in
sight just then, he rode on towards the Batignolles station. Just then,
when his back was turned, he heard the door of the brougham sharply
shut, and as he quickly turned again he saw the carriage driving off in
the opposite direction. It was driving fast, but he overtook it in a
couple of minutes and passed close to the window, which was half up,
against the rain. He almost looked in as he went by, and suddenly he
met Logotheti's almond eyes, looking straight at him, with an air of
recognition. He bent his head, swerved away from the brougham and took
the first turning out of the wide street. But he had seen that the
Greek was alone in his carriage. Margaret had not lunched at the house
in the Boulevard Péreire.

During the next few days Lushington did not lead a life of idle repose;
in fact, he did not remember that he had ever taken so much exercise
since his Oxford days. On an average he must have bicycled twenty or
thirty miles between breakfast and dinner, which is not bad work for a
literary man accustomed to spend most of his time at his writing-table
and the rest in society. Unknown to himself, he was fast becoming one
of the sights on the Versailles road, and the men at the octroi station
grinned when he went by, and called him the crazy professor.

More than once he met the motor, bringing Margaret to town or taking
her back, and though he did not again chance upon it when Logotheti was
without his glasses and shield, he felt tolerably sure that he was the
chauffeur, and Margaret was always alone in the body of the car. Twice
he was quite certain that the two were talking when he saw them in the
distance coming towards him, but when they passed him Margaret was
leaning back quietly in her place, and the chauffeur merely glanced at
him and then kept his eyes on the road. Margaret looked at him and
smiled faintly, as if in spite of herself, most probably at his
appearance.

He ascertained also that after one more rehearsal at the Opéra,
Margaret did not go there again. The newspapers informed him very soon
that Schreiermeyer had got his own company together and had borrowed
the stage of an obscure theatre in the outskirts of Paris for the
purpose of rehearsing. It had been an advantage for the young prima
donna to sing two or three times with the great orchestra of the Opéra,
but the arrangement could of course not continue. Margaret's début
was to take place in July in a Belgian town.

Lushington was certain that Margaret had been at least once again to
Logotheti's house with Madame De Rosa, but he did not believe that she
had stayed to luncheon, for she had not remained in the house much over
half-an-hour.

During all this time he made no attempt to communicate with her, and
was uncomfortably aware that Logotheti was having it all his own way.
He yielded to a morbid impulse in watching the two, since no good could
come of it for himself or Margaret. Almost every time he went out on
the Versailles road he knew that he should see them together before he
came back, and he knew equally well that he could do nothing to
separate them. He wondered what it was that attracted such a woman as
Margaret Donne to such a man, and with a humility which his friends and
enemies would have been far from suspecting in him he honestly tried to
compare himself with Logotheti, and to define the points in which the
latter had the advantage of him.

Very naturally, he failed to discover them. In spite of what
philosophers tell us, most of us know ourselves pretty well. The
conclusive and irrefutable proof of this is that we always know when we
are not telling, or showing, the truth about ourselves, as, for
instance, when we are boasting or attributing to ourselves some gift,
some knowledge, or some power which we really do not possess. We also
know perfectly well when our impulses are good and when they are bad,
and can guess approximately how much courage we have in reserve for
doing the one, and how far our natural cowardice will incline us to do
the other. But we know very little indeed about other people, and
almost always judge them by ourselves, because we have no other
convenient standard. A great many men are influenced in the same
general way by the big things in life, but one scarcely ever finds two
men who are similarly affected by the little things from which all
great results proceed. Mark Antony lost the world for a woman, but it
was for a woman that Tallien overthrew Robespierre and saved France.

So Lushington's comparison came to nothing at all, and he was no nearer
to a solution of his problem than before.

Then came the unexpected, and it furnished him with a surprisingly
simple means of comparing himself with his rival in the eyes of
Margaret herself.

There are several roads from Paris to Versailles, as every one knows,
leaving the city on opposite sides of the Seine. Hitherto Logotheti had
always taken the one that leads to the right bank, along the Avenue de
Versailles to the Porte St. Cloud. Another follows the left bank by Bas
Meudon, but the most pleasant road goes through the woods Fausses
Reposes.

One morning, when he knew that there was to be a rehearsal, Lushington
bicycled out by the usual way without meeting the motor car. It
naturally occurred to him that Logotheti must have returned by another
road. Whether he would bring Margaret out again by the same way or not,
was of course uncertain, but Lushington resolved to try the Fausses
Reposes on the chance of meeting the car, after waiting in Versailles
as long as he thought the rehearsal might last.

He set out again about half-past one. The road is in parts much more
lonely than the others, especially in the woods, and is much less
straight; there are sharp turns to the right and left in several
places. Lushington did not know the road very well and hesitated more
than once, going slowly and fast by turns, and at the end of
half-an-hour he felt almost sure that he had either lost his way or
that Logotheti was coming back by another route.




CHAPTER XV


Margaret knew by this time that Logotheti was really very much in love;
she was equally sure that she was not, and that when she encouraged him
she was yielding to a rather complicated temptation that presented
elements of amusement and of mild danger. In plain English, she was
playing with the man, though she guessed that he was not the kind of
man who would allow himself to be played with very long.

There are not many young women who could resist such a temptation under
the circumstances, and small blame to them. Margaret had done nothing
to attract the Greek and was too unsophisticated to understand the
nature of her involuntary influence over him. He was still young, he
was unlike other men and he was enormously rich; a little familiarity
with him had taught her that there was nothing vulgar about him below
the surface, and he treated her with all the respect she could exact
when she chose to put herself in his power. The consequence was that as
she felt nothing herself she sometimes could not resist making little
experiments, just to see how far he would run on the chain by which she
held him. Besides, she was flattered by his devotion.

It was not a noble game that she was playing with him, but in real life
very few young men and women of two-and-twenty are 'noble' all the
time. A good many never are at all; and Margaret had at least the
excuse that the victim of her charms was no simple sensitive soul with
morbid instincts of suicide, like the poor youth who cut his throat for
Lady Clara Vere de Vere, but a healthy millionaire of five-and-thirty
who enjoyed the reputation of having seen everything and done most
things in a not particularly well-spent life.

Besides, she ran a risk, and knew it. The victim might turn at any
moment, and perhaps rend her. Sometimes there was a quick glance in the
almond-shaped eyes which sent a little thrill of not altogether
unpleasant fear through her. She had seen a woman put her head into a
wild beast's mouth, and she knew that the woman was never quite sure of
getting it out again. That was part of the game, and the woman probably
enjoyed the sensation and the doubt, since playing for one's life is
much more exciting than playing for one's money. Margaret began to
understand the lion-tamer's sensations, and not being timid she almost
wished that her lion would show his teeth. She gave herself the luxury
of wondering what form his wrath would take when he was tired of being
played with.

He was already approaching that point, on the day when Lushington was
looking out for him on the road through the Fausses Reposes woods. When
they were well away from the city, he slackened his speed as usual and
began to talk.

'I wish,' he said, 'that you would sometimes be in earnest. Won't you
try?'

'You might not like it,' Margaret answered, carelessly. 'For my part, I
sometimes wish that you were not quite so much in earnest yourself!'

'Do I bore you?'

'No. You never bore me, but you make me feel wicked, and that is very
disagreeable. It is inconsiderate of you to give me the impression that
I am a sort of Lorelei, coolly luring you to your destruction! Besides,
you would not be so easily destroyed, after all. You are able to take
care of yourself, I fancy.'

'Yes. I think my heart will be the last of me to break.' He laughed and
