future."

"Maybe you don't need the money."

"That is one reason. But there is another, Nat. I fell desperately in
love. The fever is at an end now. You drove it out of me, when you
stopped me from jumping into the rapids."

Paul Hampton paused long enough to light a cigar. Then he leaned back,
and blew a cloud of smoke into the air.

"I was a big fool. I can realize it now," he went on. "I should have
passed Grace by long ago."

"Was that the name of the girl?"

"Yes. Her father is well-to-do, and gives her everything her heart
desires. Consequently, she has been leading me around like a puppy dog
tied to a string."

"I see. That is not very pleasant."

"I thought I loved her, but I fancy now that I was too good for her,"
continued the fashionably dressed young man. "But let me tell you the
whole story.

"I called on Grace for over a month, and finally told her that I loved
her. She said she thought her father would never consent to our
marriage. Then I asked her if she was willing to elope with me.

"I believe that angered her, but she didn't show it. She said she would
think it over, and the next day sent a note saying she would be ready
any time I fixed. Oh, what a fool I was to believe her!"

"And she wouldn't elope?" asked Nat.

"It was arranged that she should be in readiness the next morning at
four o'clock, and that I should procure a carriage and call for her. We
would drive to a minister in the next town, and be married, and then ask
her father's forgiveness."

"And she backed out?"

"The morning dawned dark and misty. I had obtained from a livery stable
the night before a carriage with a span of horses. At half-past three I
drove within a few yards of the house, when, according to agreement, I
saw a white handkerchief waving from a window.

"Very soon Grace made her appearance at the door. She was heavily
cloaked and veiled, and refused to speak while I hurried her into the
carriage. Off we went at a trot towards the next town. We drew up at the
door of the leading minister of the place, and I tried to assist my
companion to alight from the carriage, when she fell and hurt her ankle
on the curb."

"Well, that was too bad," said Nat, sympathetically.

"I asked her if she was hurt, when to my amazement she broke out into a
rich Irish brogue: 'It's almost kilt I am!' said she."

"Was she Irish?"

"Irish? No! It was not Grace at all, but her cook. She had put up a
cruel joke on me. And that wasn't the worst of it. Grace had told Biddy
that I was in love with her, and the ignorant cook believed it."

"And what did you do then?"

"What could I do? I told Biddy it was a trick, and I had to give her ten
dollars to keep from making a complaint to the police. Wasn't it
dreadful?"

"Yes, it was, but if I were you, Mr. Hampton, I'd consider myself lucky
to get rid of such a girl. Supposing she had married you? You would most
likely be miserable all your life with her."

At these words, Paul Hampton stared at Nat.

"You are right," he answered, presently. "I was a big fool. After this
I shall drop her entirely and stick to my law business."

"Perhaps some day she'll be sorry she treated you so unfairly--when she
sees how you are rising in your profession."

"Hope she does. But I don't want any more to do with her," went on Paul
Hampton, decidedly. "Let us talk about something else," he added, after
a pause. "Did you tell me you were worth only twenty-two cents?"

"I did."

"Do your folks live around here?"

"My parents are dead."

"Oh! Well, I want to reward you for what you did for me."

"I don't ask any reward."

"Nevertheless, you must accept something," answered the fashionably
dressed young man.




CHAPTER VIII

A FRESH START IN LIFE


Nat and his newly-found friend sat in the Niagara Falls Park until
nearly one o'clock, talking their affairs over. Then Paul Hampton asked
the boy to go with him for dinner.

"I want to prove to you that I am not as crazy as I seemed," said the
young man. "That was a sudden fit, that's all."

"Well, take my advice and don't get any more such fits," answered our
hero.

Paul Hampton led the way to one of the leading hotels of the town, and
showed Nat where he could wash and brush up before dining. Then the two
entered the dining hall, and the youth was treated to the finest spread
he had ever tasted.

"I didn't expect this, Mr. Hampton," said he, when the repast was over.

"Oh, that is not much. Do you smoke?"

"No, sir."

"I am glad to hear it. I think I smoke too much. Now, to get to
business. Where are you going to from here?"

"I am going to try my luck in New York, if I can manage to get there."

"I see. Well, I'll buy you a railroad ticket. How does that strike you?"

"You are very kind."

"When do you want to start?"

"I am not particular."

"Then supposing you make it to-morrow morning? You can spend the balance
of the day and the night with me. I want to do something more for you."

Nat demurred, but the young man would not listen, and in the end our
hero agreed to remain in Niagara Falls until the next morning. A
railroad ticket was purchased, and handed to the boy, and with it Paul
Hampton passed over a five-dollar bill.

"That is for running expenses," he said. "No, don't try to refuse it, or
I shall be angry with you."

As Nat's shoes were worn, the young man insisted upon purchasing another
pair, and then purchased the boy some collars and a necktie, and also a
new hat.

"There, now you are fixed to go to New York," said he, "and I wish you
the best of luck when you get there."

"Thank you very much."

"If you have time, write to me and let me know how you are making out."

"I will."

The night was spent in a hotel close to the railroad station, and early
in the morning Paul Hampton saw Nat on the train. All of the boy's
possessions had been put in a neat dress-suit case, also a present from
the young man.

"Here is a letter I want you to read after you are well on your way,"
said Paul Hampton, on parting, and he handed the missive over. "Be
careful of it, for I think it contains some advice that will do you
good."

"Thank you; I'll take care of it, and give it a good reading," answered
Nat, and in a moment more the train started, and the long journey to New
York City was begun.
