again."
"You didn't ask me this time," said Laverne, with spirit. "It was your
mother. And it wasn't altogether your party."
"Well, it was my cousin."
"She is Isabel's cousin also."
"Well, she did not like it, either."
Laverne wanted to say she was sorry. No one had ever quarrelled with
her before. But was she really at fault? There came a sudden flash of
spirit.
"It was mean in your cousin to ask me to dance so many times when he
knew it wasn't quite proper. He was used to parties, I wasn't. I shall
never want to go to parties again; I just hate them."
With that Laverne turned away, holding her head very high. She missed
in one lesson that afternoon, and asked Miss Bain if she might not
stay in and go over it; she knew it then, but she was confused by
something else. Her uncle was always so proud of her marks that she
did not want to disappoint him.
"Why, yes," returned Miss Bain smilingly. "I wish all little girls
were as careful."
She was rather grave at home that afternoon. She told Bruno about it
and he gave her a world of sympathy out of large, loving eyes.
Then there were several smaller girls that she found very
companionable. One of them discovered a way to walk together for some
distance by making the circuit just a little longer. Her mother was
French and had been born in New Orleans. There were five children;
she, Lucie, was the oldest. Her father was one of the old California
residents, and had fought in the war. Last summer they had gone down
to Santa Cruz and had a lovely time. She had only one little sister,
the baby. So they made quite a friendship.
After the cold snap it seemed as if spring had come in earnest.
Everything took to growing. Miss Holmes and Laverne had delightful
rides about on Saturdays. And one morning the child watched a lad
coming up the somewhat crooked road. He waved his hand--yes, he
smiled, too. Why, it couldn't be Victor Savedra!
But it was, though. Laverne hardly knew whether to be glad or sorry.
But she was glad down in the bottom of her heart, and ran a few steps
to meet him, then paused in pure bashfulness.
"Are you glad to see me? Don't you remember that I told you I would
come? I was at uncle's a fortnight ago and meant to beg Olive to come
up with me, but behold!" and he laughed.
It was such a gay, infectious sort of laugh, and he slid down from his
pony and threw the rein over his neck, then took both of her hands,
while she colored scarlet, and her eyes had merry lights in them.
"I dragged it all out of Olive. Did you have much of a fuss with her?
Girls are so queer! It was because I danced two or three times with
you. Why, I thought you were such a dainty little thing. I liked you.
Some of the girls are so--well, so sentimental--silly. Olive has a
temper, though. And now--are you glad. Father knows your uncle a
little. And he said I might come over; father, I mean. I always tell
him where I go on Saturdays."
"Yes, I am glad," Laverne replied. "Oh, we were going out to ride."
"We? Who?" and the bright young face fell a little.
"Why, Miss Holmes--who takes care of us."
"Oh, yes, that's all right. Girls always do have some one, you know.
And I remember her. She is Aunt Grace's friend."
"Yes, Pablo is bringing the horses." She led the way with a springing
step and smiled without knowing just what made her happy.
"And the gull! Father thinks it really odd, that you should tame him
and he should want to stay."
"And he can fly quite well. Just a bit of the wing droops down. Oh,
here he is! We had such a time to find a name for him. And once Uncle
Jason was up the coast of Norway and learned about the gods, and I
liked the story of Balder so much, Balder the beautiful, and then I
called him that. But Uncle Jason calls him Jim."
"Did your uncle come for the Golden Fleece?"
"I think they find it here, if anywhere," she returned, smiling.
"Here, Balder," and she held out her hand.
He was not exactly graceful in his walk. But he came and put his head
in his little mistress's hand.
She stroked his neck, "Pretty Balder," she said. "Did Pablo get you
some fish?"
Balder glanced rather suspiciously at the newcomer. And just then Miss
Holmes came down. After the first glance she remembered the young
fellow, who explained a certain amount of curiosity had drawn him
hither, and since they were ready for a ride he begged to accompany
them.
"Oh," she said, "why didn't you bring the girls and we should have had
quite a party."
"I am afraid if I had gone there first I should have missed you, they
would have had so many plans. And this excursion has been in my mind
some time. I wanted to see these remarkable pets."
"Snippy seems quite busy in these days providing for his family; I
think, too, he is rather jealous of Jim."
"There are some such cunning little squirrels, but Snippy keeps them
closely at home, down in the hollow of the tree."
"If you would like to walk about a little--the rains have given us
quite a picturesque aspect, and the weather has brought us into
spring."
"Will Miss Laverne be my guide?"
"That sounds just like school. When you get in the highest class,
where your cousin Isabel is, you are called Miss--whatever your last
name happens to be. I don't like it so well."
"But you will when you get to be a young lady."
"I like girls the best," she said simply.
He thought they would be quite charming if they all resembled her.
They took the winding path up to the spring, if it were that; Pablo,
under Uncle Jason's direction, had made quite a basin of it. Then it
trickled down to the next level, and this was Balder's pool. It was
arranged so that it irrigated quite a little garden. There were some
orange trees, but they had been nipped by the frosts.
"They are rather bitter and sour and full of seeds," said Laverne,
"only they are beautiful with their glossy leaves, and the blossoms
are sweet. Everything is wonderful here."
"It truly is." He was glancing about. "Father ought to see this. But
you know we think Oaklands the garden spot of all as you go on down
the Bay. It's much wilder going up, and here it doesn't seem a bit
promising, but you have made it so. I wonder what about it charmed
your uncle?"
She remembered the old home in Maine was rather rocky and wild. She
rarely thought of it now.
"Here is where Snippy lives. Though there are plenty of squirrels
about and rabbits and everything, it seems to me. Snippy," she called,
"Snippy."
A sharp nose and two bright eyes appeared above the hollow and dropped
down at once. "Snippy! Oh! you needn't be afraid." She threw some bits
of hardtack down. Then there was a sudden gray flash, and he was out
on the ground, caught on her frock and ran up to her shoulder. He
looked saucily over to Victor Savedra as if he questioned what
business he had there.
The boy laughed. "We have some fine birds, and beautiful tame deer. I
suppose I could tame a squirrel. But the funny thing is that he should
have decided to move up here."
"We brought him first, you know. I didn't think about his having any
folks then. And there is getting to be quite a colony of them. Uncle
Jason will not have them shot. Though Pablo shot a wildcat not long
ago. And the birds do not seem afraid any more. I know where there are
several quails' nests."
"I expect you understand bird language."
They turned to go down. Pablo had given Victor's pony a drink. Miss
Holmes stood patting her horse's neck.
"I've done up a little lunch," she announced. "Are you quite sure you
have time to devote to our picnic?"
"Oh, yes! I have a whole day to spend. And I am delighted that you
permit me to accompany you. I hope you will come to Oaklands and allow
me to be the host."
They went down on the westerly path. Part of the way it was a rather
rough road, and they had the ocean at their side. Here was a kind of
depression in the rocky barricade, and down by the shore a herd of
deer were sniffing the ocean breezes. How pretty and graceful they
looked, startled, too, as the wind wafted the sound of voices to them.
Then they suddenly vanished as if the ocean had swallowed them up, and
the three looked at each other with surprised and laughing eyes.
Miss Holmes found young Savedra a very entertaining companion. He
expected presently to go to England for his education. There was a
rather delicate girl next in age to him, who had not been strong
enough to come over to the Christmas party. Then a rollicking hoyden,
and last of all a second son. It was evident he cared a great deal for
his mother. His sister had one of the nervous musical temperaments,
and was fond of solitude. The Personette girls were very different,
more like their father.
He was really entertaining for so young a person. He knew many of the
older stories of the country, the Missions, the Indians, and the
lower-class Mexicans. They turned into quite a new road for them, that
seemed hidden away by an edge of woods, and presently came to a
charming spot where he tethered the horses, and they ate their lunch.
Little did they dream that one day even this solitude would be invaded
by the resistless hand of improvement. Shy, wild things were running
about, birds sang in every sort of key. Gulls swooped down for fish, a
great cormorant went sailing slowly along, and seals frolicked almost
like children.
"I suppose we could go across here and come up to the eastward," Miss
Holmes said. "This has been delightful. We keep to the beaten paths
when we are alone, but on Sunday, with Mr. Chadsey, we make farther
ventures. We must bring him here, Laverne, if we can remember the
way."
"I'll make a diagram for you," he laughed. "I might have 'blazed a
trail,'--isn't that what you Yankees call it? But there are so many
beautiful roads. And farther down everything is lovelier still. I
suppose the eastern world is quite different, with its long, cold
winters."
"But to the southward we have pleasant lands, where there is not much
winter, and where vegetation is almost as wonderful as here, where
roses bloom and tropical fruit ripens. Oh, the Atlantic has many fine
points and great cities."
"I should like to see them. I hope some day to travel round the whole
world. Miss Laverne, don't you want to go to India?"
"I don't know," and she made a little gesture of aversion. "Uncle
Jason has been to many of the seaport towns. And he did not like the
natives over well. He thinks them indolent and cruel and all that. And
there are tigers and poisonous snakes--no, I do not think I want to
