" I must tell you the object of my mission to 
California, my kind friends! '' he cried, " although I beg you will not betray me to the other 
powers until I think it wise to speak myself. But 
I must have your sympathy and advice. It has 
long been my desire to establish relations between 
Kussia and Spain that should be of mutual 
benefit to the colonies of both in this part of 
the western hemisphere. I have told you of 



 

the horrible condition and needs of my men. 
They must have a share in the superfluities 
of this most prodigal land. But I make no 
appeal to your mercy. Trade is not founded 
on charity. You well know we have much you 
are in daily need of. There should be a bi- 
yearly interchange. " He paused and looked from 
one staring face to the other. He had been wise 
in his appeal. They were deeply gratified at 
being taken into his confidence and virtually 
asked to outwit the military authorities they detested. 

Rezanov continued. 

" I have brought the Juno heavy laden, my 
fathers, and for the deliberate purpose of barter. 
She is full of Russian and Boston goods. I shall 
do my utmost to persuade your Governor to give 
me of his corn and other farinaceous foods in exchange. It may be against your laws, and I am 
well aware that for the treaty I must wait, but I 
beg you in the name of humanity to point out to 
his excellency a way in which he can at the same 
time relieve our necessities and placate his conscience. ' ' 

"We will! We will!'' cried Father Abella. 
" Would that you had come in the disguise of a 



 

common sea-captain, for we have hoodwinked the 
comandantes more than once. But aside from 
the suspicion and distrust in which Spain holds 
Eussia, with so distinguished a visitor as your excellency, it would be impossible to traffic unde- 
tected. But there must be a way out. There 
shall be! And will your excellency kindly let us 
see the cargo? I am sure there is much we sadly 
need: cloth, linen, cotton, boots, shoes, casks, bottles, glasses, plates, shears, axes, implements of 
husbandry, saws, sheep-shears, iron wares — have 
you any of these things, Excellency! '' 

" All and more. Will you come to-morrow? '' 
" "We will! and one way or another they shall 
be ours and you shall have breadstuffs for your 
pitiable subjects. We have as much need of 
Europe as you can have of California, for Mexico 
is dilatory and often disregards our orders altogether. One way or another — we have your 
promise, Excellency? " 

" I shall not leave California without accomplishing what I came for," said Rezanov. 



VIII 

Concha boxed Eosa's ears twice while being 
dressed for the ball that evening. It was true 
that excitement had reigned throughout the 
Presidio all day, for never had a ball been so 
hastily planned. Don Luis had demurred when 
Concha proposed it at breakfast; officially to entertain strangers not yet officially received exceeded his authority. Concha, waxing stubborn 
with opposition, vowed that she would give the 
ball herself if he did not. Business, immediately 
afterward, took the Comandante ad. in. down to 
the Battery at Yerba Buena. Before he left he 
gave orders that the large hall in the barracks, 
where balls usually were held, should be locked 
and the key given up to no one but himself. He 
returned in the afternoon to find that Concha 
had outwitted him. The sala of the Coman- 
dante 's house was very large. The furniture had 
been removed and the walls hung with flags, those 
of Spain on three sides, the Eussian, borrowed by 
Santiago from the ship, at the head of the room. 
Concha laughed gayly as Luis stormed about the 
sala rasping his spurs on the bare floor. 



 

" Whitewashed walls for guests from St. 
Petersburg! " she jeered, as Luis menaced the 
flags. " We have little enough to offer. Besides 
— what more wise than to flaunt our flag in the 
face of the Eussian bear? Their flag, of course, 
is a mere idle compliment. Let me tell you two 
things, Luis mio : this morning I invited the Eussians to dance to-night, and told Padre Abella to 
ask all our neighbors of the Mission besides ; and 
Eafaella Sal helped me to drape every one of 
those flags. When I told her you might tear them 
down, she vowed that if you did she would dance 
all night with the Bostonian." 

Luis lifted his shoulders and moustache to express an attitude of contemptuous resignation, 
but his face darkened, and a moment later he left 
the room and strolled up the square to the grating of Eafaella Sal. 

Concha well knew that the frank gray eyes of 
the Bostonian — all citizens of the United States 
were Bostonians in that part of the world, 
for only Boston skippers had the enterprise 
to venture so far — were for no one but herself. But his face was bony and freckled, and his 
figure less in height and vigor than her own. 
He was rich and well-born, but shy and very 



 

modest. Concha Argiiello, La Favorita of California, was for some such dashing caballero 
as Don Antonio Castro of Monterey or 
Ignacio Sal, the most adventurous rider of the 
north. Meanwhile he could look at her and adore 
her in secret, and Dona Eafaella Sal was very 
kind and danced as well as himself. He never 
dreamed that he was being used as a stalking 
horse to keep alive in the best match in the Californias the jealous desire for exclusive possession 
that had animated him in 1800 when he had applied through the Viceroy of Mexico for royal 
consent to his marriage with the Favorita of 
her year. That was six years ago and never a 
word had come from Madrid. Luis was faithful, but men were men, and girls grew older every 
day. So the wise Eafaella was alternately indifferent and alluring, the object of more admiration than a maid could always repel, yet with 
wells of sentiment that only one man could discover. And the American was patient, and even 
had he known, would not in the least have minded 
the use she made of him. He still could look at 
Concha Argiiello. 

William Sturgis had sailed in one of his 
father's ships, now six years ago, from Boston 



 

in search of health. The ship in a dense fog had 
gone on the rocks in the straits between the 
Farallones and the Bay of San Francisco. He 
alone, and after long hours of struggle with the 
wicked currents, not even knowing in what direction land might be, was flung, senseless, on the 
shore below the Fort. For the next month he was 
an invalid in the house of the Comandante. 
Fortunately, his papers and money were sewn in 
an oilskin belt and his father's name was well 
known in California. Moreover, there never was a 
more likable youth. His illness interested all the 
matrons and maids of the Presidio in his fate; 
when he recovered, his good dancing and unselfishness gave him permanent place in the regard 
of the women, while his entire absence of beauty, 
and his ability to hold his own in the mess room, 
established his position with the men. 

In due course word of his plight reached Boston, and a ship was immediately despatched, not 
only to bring the castaway home, but with the 
fine wardrobe necessary to a young gentleman 
of his station. But the same ship brought word 
of his father's death — his mother had gone long 
since — and as there were brothers enamored- of 
the business he hated, he decided to remain in 



 

the country that had won his heart and given 
him health. For some time there was demur on 
