And for a while he wore either a truculent, aggrieved 
air in Plank's presence, or the meeker demeanour of a 
martyr, sentimentally misunderstood, but patient under 
the affliction. 









Then there came a time when he needed money. 
During the few days he spent circling tentatively and 
apprehensively around his wife he learned enough to 
know that there was nothing to be had from her at pres- 
ent. No doubt the money she raised to placate Plank — 
if she had placated him in that fashion — was a strain 
on her resources, whatever those resources were. 

One thing was certain: Plank had not remained 
very long in ignorance of the cheque drawn against his 
balance, if indeed, as Mortimer feared, the bank itself 
had not communicated with Plank as soon as the cheque 
was presented for payment. Theretorc Plank must have 
been placated by Leila ; how, Mortimer was satisfied not 
to know. 

" Some of these days," he said to himself, " I'll catch 
her tripping, and then there'll be a decent division of 
property, or — there'll be a divorce." But, as usual, 
Mortimer found such practices more attractive in theory 
than in execution, and he was really quite contented to 
go on as things were going, if somebody would see that 
he had some money occasionally. 

One of these occasions w hen he needed it was ap- 
proaching. He had made a " killing " at Desmond's, 
and had used the money to stop up the more threaten- 
ing gaps in the tottering financial fabric known as his 
" personal accounts." The fabric would hold for a 
while, but meantime he needed money to go on with. 
And Leila evidently had none. He tried everybody ex- 
cept Plank. He had scarcely the impudence to go to 
Plank just yet; but when, completing the vicious circle, 
he found his borrowing capacity exhausted, and him- 
self once more face to face with the only hope. Plank, 
he sat down to consider seriously the possibihty of the 
matter. 





 

Of course Plank owed him more than he could 
ever pay — the ungrateful parvenu ! — but what Plank 
had thought of that cheque transaction he had never 
been able to discover. 

Somehow or other he must put Plank under fresh 
obligations ; and that might have been possible had not 
Leila invaded the ground, leaving nothing, now that 
Plank was secure in club life. 

Of course the first thing that presented itself to 
Mortimer's consideration was the engineering of Plank's 
matrimonial ambitions. Clearly the man had not 
changed. He was always at Sylvia's heels; he was seen 
with her in public; he went to the Belwether house a 
great deal. No possible doubt but that he was as in- 
fatuated as ever. And Quarrier was going to marry 
her next November — that is, if he, Mortimer, chose to 
keep silent about a certain midnight episode at Shot- 
over. 

It was his inclination, except in theory, to keep si- 
lent, partly because of his native inertia and unwilling- 
ness to go to the physical and intellectual exertion of 
being a rascal, partly because he didn't really want to 
be a rascal of that sort. 

Like a man with premonitions of toothache, who 
walks down to the dentist's just to see what the number 
of the house looks like, and then walks around the block 
to think it over, so Mortimer, suffering from lack of 
money, walked round and round the central idea, un- 
able to bring himself to the point. 

Several times he called up Quarrier on the 'phone 
and made appointments to lunch with him; but these 
meetings never resulted in anything except luncheons 
which Mortimer paid for, and matters were becoming des- 
perate. 









So one day, after having lunched too freely, he sat 
down and wrote Plank the following note : 

My dear Beverly : You will remember that I once 
promised you my aid in securing what, to you, is the dearest 
object of your existence. I have thought, I have pondered, 
I have given the matter deep and, I may add without irrev- 
erence, prayerful consideration, knowing that the life's happi- 
ness of my closest friend depended on my judgment and 
wisdom and intelligence to secure for him the opportunity to 
crown his life's work by the acquisition of the brightest jewel 
in the diadem of old Manhattan. 

" By George ! that's wickedly good, though ! " 
chuckled Mortimer, refreshing himself with his old stand- 
by, an apple, quartered, and soaked in very old port. 
So he sopped his apple and swallowed it, and picked up 
his pen again, chary of overdoing it. 

All I say to you is, be ready ! The time is close at hand 
when you may boldly make your avowal. But be ready ! 
All depends upon the psychological moment. An instant 
too soon, an instant too late, and you are lost. And she is 
lost forever. Remember.' Be faithful; trust in me, and 
wait. And the hi.stant I say, ''Speak ! " pour out your soul, 
my dear friend, and be certain you are not pouring it out in 
vain. L. M. 

Writing about " pouring out " made him thirsty, so 
he fortified himself several times, and then, sealing the 
letter, went out to a letter-box and stood looking at it. 

" If I mail it I'm in for it," he muttered. After a 
while he put the letter in his pocket and walked on. 

" It really doesn't commit me to anything," he re- 
flected at last, halting before another letter-box. And 
as he stood there, hesitating, he glanced up and saw 
Quarrier entering the Lenox Club. The next moment 
he flung up the metal box lid, dropped in his letter, and 
followed Quarrier into the club. 





 

Then events tumbled forward almost without a push 
from him. Quarrier was alone in a window corner, 
drinking vichy and milk and glancing over the after- 
noon papers. He saw Mortimer, and invited him to 
join him; and Mortimer, being thirsty, took champagne. 

" I've been trying a new coach," said Quarrier, in 
his colourless and rather agreeable voice; and he went 
on leisurely explaining the points of the new mail-coach 
which had been built in Paris after plans of his own, 
while Mortimer gulped glass after glass of chilled wine, 
which seemed only to make him thirstier. Meantime he 
listened, really interested, except that his fleshy head 
was too full of alcohol and his own project to con- 
tain additional statistics concerning coaching. Besides, 
Quarrier, who had never been over-cordial to him, was 
more so now — enough for Mortimer to venture on a few 
tentative suggestions of a financial nature ; and though, 
as usual, Quarrier was not responsive, he did not, as 
usual, get up and go away. 

A vague hope stirred Mortimer that it might not 
be beyond his persuasive tongue to make this chilly, ret- 
icent young man into a friend some daj — a helpful 
friend. For Mortimer all his life had trusted to his 
tongue; and though poorly enough repaid, the few lin- 
gual victories remained in his memory, along with an 
