amounted to a violation of the truce between them.

Draymore hesitated, then with the brutality characteristic of the
overfed: "I don't give a damn, Captain Selwyn, what Neergard thinks; but
I do want to know what a gentleman like yourself, accidentally
associated with that man, thinks of this questionable proceeding."

"Do you mean by 'questionable proceeding' your coming here?--or do you
refer to the firm's position in this matter?" asked Selwyn sharply.
"Because, Draymore, I am not very widely experienced in the customs and
usages of commercial life, and I do not know whether it is usual for an
associate member of a firm to express, unauthorised, his views on
matters concerning the firm to any Tom, Dick, and Harry who questions
him."

"But you know what is the policy of your own firm," suggested Harmon,
wincing, and displaying his teeth under his bright red lips; "and all we
wish to know is, what Neergard expects us to pay for this rascally
lesson in the a-b-c of Long Island realty."

"I don't know," replied Selwyn, bitterly annoyed, "what Mr. Neergard
proposes to do. And if I did I should refer you to him."

"May I ask," began Orchil, "whether the land will be ultimately for
sale?"

"Oh, everything's always for sale," broke in Mottly impatiently; "what's
the use of asking that? What you meant to inquire was the price we're
expected to pay for this masterly squeeze in realty."

"And to that," replied Selwyn more sharply still, "I must answer again
that I don't know. I know nothing about it; I did not know that Mr.
Neergard had acquired control of the property; I don't know what he
means to do with it. And, gentlemen, may I ask why you feel at liberty
to come to me instead of to Mr. Neergard?"

"A desire to deal with one of our own kind, I suppose," returned
Draymore bluntly. "And, for that matter," he said, turning to the
others, "we might have known that Captain Selwyn could have had no hand
in and no knowledge of such an underbred and dirty--"

Harmon plucked him by the sleeve, but Draymore shook him off, his little
piggish eyes sparkling.

"What do I care!" he sneered, losing his temper; "we're in the clutches
of a vulgar, skinflint Dutchman, and he'll wring us dry whether or
not we curse him out. Didn't I tell you that Philip Selwyn had nothing
to do with it? If he had, and I was wrong, our journey here might as
well have been made to Neergard's office. For any man who will do such a
filthy thing--"

"One moment, Draymore," cut in Selwyn; and his voice rang unpleasantly;
"if you are simply complaining because you have been outwitted, go
ahead; but if you think there has been any really dirty business in this
matter, go to Mr. Neergard. Otherwise, being his associate, I shall not
only decline to listen but also ask you to leave my apartments."

"Captain Selwyn is perfectly right," observed Orchil coolly. "Do you
think, Draymore, that it is very good taste in you to come into a man's
place and begin slanging and cursing a member of his firm for crooked
work?"

"Besides," added Mottly, "it's not crooked; it's only contemptible.
Anyway, we know with whom we have to deal, now; but some of you fellows
must do the dealing--I'd rather pay and keep away than ask Neergard to
go easy--and have him do it."

"I don't know," said Fane, grinning his saurian grin, "why you all
assume that Neergard is such a social outcast. I played cards with him
last week and he lost like a gentleman."

"I didn't say he was a social outcast," retorted Mottly--"because he's
never been inside of anything to be cast out, you know."

"He seems to be inside this deal," ventured Orchil with his suave smile.
And to Selwyn, who had been restlessly facing first one, then another:
"We came--it was the idea of several among us--to put the matter up to
you. Which was rather foolish, because you couldn't have engineered the
thing and remained what we know you to be. So--"

"Wait!" said Selwyn brusquely; "I do not admit for one moment that there
is anything dishonourable in this deal!--nor do I accept your right to
question it from that standpoint. As far as I can see, it is one of
those operations which is considered clever among business folk, and
which is admired and laughed over in reputable business circles. And I
have no doubt that hundreds of well-meaning business men do that sort of
thing daily--yes, thousands!" He shrugged his broad shoulders.
"Because I personally have not chosen to engage in matters of
this--ah--description, is no reason for condemning the deal or its
method--"

"Every reason!" said Orchil, laughing cordially--"every reason,
Captain Selwyn. Thank you; we know now exactly where we stand. It was
very good of you to let us come, and I'm sorry some of us had the bad
taste to show any temper--"

"He means me," added Draymore, offering his hand; "good-bye, Captain
Selwyn; I dare say we are up against it hard."

"Because we've got to buy in that property or close up the Siowitha,"
added Mottly, coming over to make his adieux. "By the way, Selwyn, you
ought to be one of us in the Siowitha--"

"Thank you, but isn't this rather an awkward time to suggest it?" said
Selwyn good-humouredly.

Fane burst into a sonorous laugh and wagged his neck, saying: "Not at
all! Not at all! Your reward for having the decency to stay out of the
deal is an invitation from us to come in and be squeezed into a jelly by
Mr. Neergard. Haw! Haw!"

And so, one by one, with formal or informal but evidently friendly
leave-taking, they went away. And Selwyn followed them presently,
walking until he took the Subway at Forty-second Street for his office.

As he entered the elaborate suite of rooms he noticed some bright new
placards dangling from the walls of the general office, and halted to
read them:

     "WHY PAY RENT!

What would you say if we built a house for you in Beautiful Siowitha
Park and gave you ten years to pay for it!

     If anybody says

     YOU ARE A FOOL!

to expect this, refer him to us and we will answer him according to his
folly.

     TO PAY RENT

when you might own a home in Beautiful Siowitha Park, is not wise. We
expect to furnish plans, or build after your own plans.

     All City Improvements
     Are Contemplated!
     Map and Plans of
     Beautiful Siowitha Park
     Will probably be ready
     In the Near Future.

     Julius Neergard & Co.
     Long Island Real Estate."

Selwyn reddened with anger and beckoned to a clerk:

"Is Mr. Neergard in his office?"

"Yes, sir, with Mr. Erroll."

"Please say that I wish to see him."

He went into his own office, pocketed his mail, and still wearing hat
and gloves came out again just as Gerald was leaving Neergard's office.

"Hello, Gerald!" he said pleasantly; "have you anything on for
to-night?"

"Y-es," said the hoy, embarrassed--"but if there is anything I can do
for you--"

"Not unless you are free for the evening," returned the other; "are
you?"

"I'm awfully sorry--"

"Oh, all right. Let me know when you expect to be free--telephone me at
my rooms--"

"I'll let you know when I see you here to-morrow," said the boy; but
Selwyn shook his head: "I'm not coming here to-morrow, Gerald"; and he
walked leisurely into Neergard's office and seated himself.

"So you have committed the firm to the Siowitha deal?" he inquired
coolly.

Neergard looked up--and then past him: "No, not the firm. You did not
seem to be interested in the scheme, so I went on without you. I'm
