
'Venice,' answered the Captain without the least hesitation, and so
quickly that Mr. Van Torp was immediately suspicious.

'If that's so, you're pretty smart,' he observed.

'You can telephone to Cook's office, sir, and ask them,' said the
Captain quietly.

The instrument was on the table at Mr. Van Torp's elbow. He looked
sharply at the Captain, as he unhooked the receiver and set it to his
ear. In a few seconds communication was given.

'Cook's office? Yes. Yes. This is Mr. Van Torp, Rufus Van Torp of New
York. Yes. I want to know what's the nearest sea-port to Bayreuth,
Bavaria. Yes. Yes. That's just what I want to know. Yes. I'll hold the
wire while you look it up.'

He was not kept waiting long.

'Venice, you say? You're sure you're right, I suppose? Yes. Yes. I was
only asking. No thank you. If I want a ticket I'll look in myself.
Much obliged. Good-bye.'

He hung the receiver in its place again, and turned to his Captain
with a different expression, in which admiration and satisfaction were
quite apparent.

'Well,' he said, 'you're right. It's Venice. I must say that, for an
Englishman, you're quite smart.'

The Captain smiled quietly, but did not think it worth while to
explain that the last owner with whom he had sailed had been
Wagner-mad and had gone to Bayreuth regularly. Moreover, he had judged
his man already.

'Am I to proceed to Venice at once, sir?' he asked.

'As quick as you can, Captain.'

The Englishman looked at his watch deliberately, and made a short
mental calculation before he said anything. It was eleven in the
morning.

'I can get to sea by five o'clock this afternoon, sir. Will that do?'

Mr. Van Torp was careful not to betray the least surprise.

'Yes,' he said, as if he were not more than fairly satisfied, 'that'll
do nicely.'

'Very well, sir, then I'll be off. It's about three thousand miles,
and she's supposed to do that at eighteen knots with her own coal. Say
eight days. But as this is her maiden trip we must make allowance for
having to stop the engines once or twice. Good-morning, sir.'

'Good-day, Captain. Get in some coal and provisions as soon as you
arrive in Venice. I may want to go to Timbuctoo, or to Andaman Islands
or something. I'm that sort of a man. I'm not sure where I'll go.
Good-bye.'

The Captain stopped at the first telegraph office on his way to the
Waterloo Station and telegraphed both to his chief engineer, Mr.
M'Cosh, and his chief mate, Mr. Johnson, for he thought it barely
possible that one or the other might be ashore.

'Must have steam by 4 P.M. to-day to sail at once long voyage. Coming
next train. Owner in hurry. Send ashore for my wash. Brown, Captain.'

When the clocks struck five on shore that afternoon, and the man at
the wheel struck two bells from the wheel-house, and the look-out
forward repeated them on the ship's bell, all according to the most
approved modern fashion on large steamers, the beautiful Lancashire
Lass was steaming out upon Southampton Water.

Out of the merest curiosity Mr. Van Torp telegraphed to Cowes to be
informed of the exact moment at which his yacht was under way, and
before six o'clock he had a message.

'Yacht sailed at four thirty-nine.'

The new owner was so much pleased that he actually smiled, for Captain
Brown had been twenty-one minutes better than his word.

'I guess he'll do,' thought Mr. Van Torp. 'I only hope I may need
him.'

He was not at all sure that he should need the Lancashire Lass and
Captain Brown; but it has often been noticed that in the lives of born
financiers even their caprices often turn out to their advantage, and
that their least logical impulses in business matters are worth more
than the sober judgment of ordinary men.

As for Captain Brown, he was a quiet little person with a rather pink
face and sparkling blue eyes, and he knew his business. In fact he had
passed as Extra Master. He knew that he was in the service of one of
the richest men in the world, and that he commanded a vessel likely to
turn out one of the finest yachts afloat, and he did not mean to lose
such a berth either by piling up his ship, or by being slow to do
whatever his owner wished done, within the boundaries of the possible;
but it had not occurred to him that his owner might order him to
exceed the limits of anything but mere possibility, such, for
instance, as those of the law, civil, criminal, national, or
international.

Mr. Van Torp had solid nerves, but when he had sent his yacht to the
only place where he thought he might possibly make use of it, he
realised that he was wasting valuable time while Logotheti was making
all the running, and his uncommon natural energy, finding nothing to
work upon as yet, made him furiously impatient. It seemed to hum and
sing in his head, like the steam in an express engine when it is
waiting to start.

He had come over to England on an impulse, as soon as he had heard of
Cordova's engagement. Until then he had not believed that she would
ever accept the Greek, and when he learned from Lady Maud's letter
that the fact was announced, he 'saw red,' and his resolution to
prevent the marriage was made then and there. He had no idea how he
should carry it out, but he knew that he must either succeed or come
to grief in the attempt, for as long as he had any money left, or any
strength, he would spend both lavishly for that one purpose.

Yet he did not know how to begin, and his lack of imagination
exasperated him beyond measure. He was sleepless and lost his
appetite, which had never happened to him before; he stayed on in
London instead of going down to his place in Derbyshire, because he
was always sure that he meant to start for the Continent in a few
hours, with an infallible plan for success; but he did not go.

The most absurd schemes suggested themselves. He was disgusted with
what he took for his own stupidity, and he tried to laugh at the
sentimental vein that ran through all his thoughts as the thread
through a string of beads. He grew hot and cold as he recalled the
time when he had asked Margaret to marry him, and he had frightened
her and she had fled and locked herself into her own room; his heart
beat faster when he thought of certain kindly words she had said to
him since then, and on which he built up a great hope now, though they
had meant nothing more to her than a general forgiveness, where she
really had very little to forgive. A genuine offer of marriage from a
millionaire is not usually considered an insult, but since she had
chosen to look at it in that light, he was humble enough to be
grateful for her pardon. If he had not been so miserably in love he
would have been even more amazed and alarmed at his own humility, for
he had not shown signs of such weakness before. In a life which had
been full of experience, though it was not yet long, he had convinced
himself that the 'softening' which comes with years, and of which kind
people often speak with so much feeling, generally begins in the
brain; and the thought that he himself was growing less hard than he
had been, already filled him with apprehension. He asked himself why
he had withdrawn from the Nickel Trust, unless it was because his
faculties were failing prematurely. At the mere thought, he craved the
long-familiar excitement of making money, and risking it, and he
wished he had a railway or a line of steamers to play with; since he
could not hit upon the scheme for which he was racking his brains. For
once in his life, too, he felt lonely, and to make it worse he had not
received a line from his friend Lady Maud since she had abruptly left
him in her own drawing-room. He wondered whether she had yet made up
her mind to help him.

He was living in a hotel in London, though he did not like it.
Americans, as a rule, would a little rather live in hotels than in
houses of their own, perhaps because it is less trouble and no dearer,
at least not in American cities. Housekeeping in New York can be done
with less risk by a company than by an individual, for companies do
not succumb to nervous prostration, whatever may happen to their
employees.

But Mr. Van Torp was an exception to the rule, for he liked privacy,
and even solitude, and though few men were better able to face a
newspaper reporter in fair fight, he very much preferred not to be
perpetually on the look-out lest he should be obliged to escape by
back stairs and side doors, like a hunted thief. He felt safer from
such visits in London than in New York or Paris, but only relatively
so.

He was meditating on the future one morning, over an almost untouched
breakfast, between nine and ten o'clock, when his man Stemp brought a
visiting card.

'Reporter?' he inquired, without looking up, as he leaned far back in
