ineffable, these turned for it every object into beauty, every sound
into joy. Without needs, from beatitude to beatitude blissfully it
floated. But, subjected to the double attraction of matter and of sin,
the initiate saw the memories and attributes of its spirituality fade.
He saw it flutter, and fluttering sink. He saw that in sinking it
enveloped itself in garments that grew heavier at each descent.
Through the denser clothing he saw the desires of the flesh pulsate.
He saw them force it lower, still lower, until, fallen into its
earthly tenement, it swooned in the senses of man. From the chains of
that prison he learned that the soul's one escape was in a recovery of
the memory of what it had been when it was other than what it had
become.

That memory the mysteries provided. Those of Eleusis differed from the
Egyptian only in detail. At Eleusis, in lieu of visions, there were
tableaux. Persephone, beckoned by desire, straying then from Olympos,
afterward fainting in the arms of Pluto, but subsequently, while
preparing her own reascension, saving and embellishing all that
approach, was the symbol, in an Hellenic setting, of the fall and
redemption of man.

The human tragedy thus portrayed was the luminous counterpart of the
dark dramas that Athens beheld. There, in the theatre--which itself
was a church with the stage for pulpit--man, blinded by passions, the
Fates pursued and Destiny felled.

The sombre spectacle was inexplicable. At Eleusis was enlightenment.
"Eskato Bebeloï"--Out from here, the profane--the heralds shouted as
the mysteries began. "Konx ompax"--Go in peace--they called when the
epiphanies were completed.

In peace the initiate went, serenely, it is said, ever after. From
them the load of ignorance was lifted. But what their impressions were
is unrecorded. They were bound to secrecy. No one could learn what
occurred without being initiated, or without dying. For death too is
initiation.

The mysteries were schools of immortality. They plentifully taught
many a lesson that Christianity afterward instilled. But their drapery
was perhaps over ornate. Truth does not need any. Truth always should
be charming. Yet always it should be naked as well. About it the
mysteries hung a raiment that was beautiful, but of which the rich
embroideries obscured. The mysteries could not have been more
fascinating, that is not possible, but, the myths removed, in simple
nudity they would have been more clear. Doubtless it was for that very
reason, in order that they might not be transparent, that the myths
were employed. It is for that very reason, perhaps, that Christianity
also adopted a few. Yet at least from cant they were free. Among the
multiple divinities of Greece, hypocrisy was the unknown god.
Consideration of the others is, to-day, usually effected through the
pages of Ovid. One might as well study Christianity in the works of
Voltaire. Christianity's brightest days were in the dark ages. The
splendid glamour of them that persists is due to many causes, among
which, in minor degree, may be the compelling glare of Greek genius.
That glare, veiled in the mysteries, philosophy reflects.

Philosophy is but the love of wisdom. It began with Socrates. He had
no belief in the gods. The man who has none may be very religious. But
though Socrates did not believe in the gods he did not deny them. He
did what perhaps was worse. He ignored their perfectly poetic
existence. He was put to death for it, though only at the conclusion
of a long promenade during which he delivered Athenian youths of their
intelligence. Facility in the operation may have been inherited.
Socrates was the son of a midwife. His own progeny consisted in a
complete transfiguration of Athenian thought. He told of an
Intelligence, supreme, ethical, just, seeing all, hearing all,
governing all; a creator made not after the image of man but of the
soul, and visible only in the conscience. It was for that he died.
There was no such god on Olympos.

There was an additional indictment. Socrates was accused of perverting
the jeunesse dorée. At a period when, everywhere, save only in
Israel, the abnormal was usual, Socrates was almost insultingly
chaste. The perversion of which he was accused was not of that order.
It was that of inciting lads to disobey their parents when the latter
opposed what he taught.

"I am come to set a man against his father," it is written in
Matthew. The mission of Socrates was the same. Because of it he
died. He was the first martyr. But his death was overwhelming in its
simplicity. Even in fairyland there has been nothing more calm. By way
of preparation he said to his judges: "Were you to offer to acquit me
on condition that I no longer profess what I believe, I would answer;
'Athenians, I honour and I love you, but a god has commanded me and
that god I will obey, rather than you.'"

In the speech was irony, with which Athens was familiar. But it also
displayed a conception, wholly new, that of maintaining at any cost
the truth. The novelty must have charmed. When Peter and the apostles
were arraigned before the Sanhedrin, their defence consisted in the
very words that Socrates had used: "We should obey God rather than
man."[38]

[Footnote 38: Acts v. 29.]

Socrates wrote nothing. The Buddha did not either. Neither did the
Christ. These had their evangelists. Socrates had also disciples who,
as vehicle for his ideas, employed the nightingale tongue of beauty
into which the Law and the Prophets were translated by the Septuagint
and into which the Gospels were put.

It would be irreverent to suggest that the latter are in any way
indebted to Socratic inspiration. It would be irrelevant as well. For,
while the Intelligence that Socrates preached differed as much from
the volage and voluptuous Zeus as the God of Christendom differs from
the Jahveh of Job, yet, in a divergence so wide, an idealist, very
poor except in ideas; a teacher killed by those who knew not what they
did; a philosopher that drained the cup without even asking that it
pass from him; a mere reformer, though dangerous perhaps as every
reformer worth the name must be; but, otherwise, a mere man like any
other, only a little better, could obviously have had no share. For
reasons not minor but major, Plato could have had none either.

It is related that a Roman invader sank back, stricken with
deisidaimonia--the awe that the gods inspired--at the sight of the
Pheidian Zeus. It is with a wonder not cognate certainly, yet in a
measure relative, that one considers what Socrates must have been if
millennia have gone without producing one mind approaching that of his
spiritual heir. It was uranian; but not disassociated from human
things.

Plato, like his master, was but a man in whom the ideal was intuitive,
perhaps the infernal also. In the gardens of the Academe and along the
banks of the Ilissus, he announced a Last Judgment. The announcement,
contained in the Phædo, had for supplement a picture that may have
been Persian, of the righteous ascending to heaven and the wicked
descending to hell. In the Laws, the picture was annotated with a
statement to the effect that whatever a man may do, there is an eye
that sees him, a memory that registers and retains. In the Republic
he declared that afflictions are blessings in disguise. But his
"Republic," a utopian commonwealth, was not, he said, of this world,
adding in the Phædo, that few are chosen though many are called.

The mystery of the catholicism of the Incas, reported back to the Holy
Office, was there defined as an artifice of the devil. With finer
circumspection, Christian Fathers attributed the denser mystery of
Greek philosophy to the inspiration of God.

Certainly it is ample. As exemplified by Plato it has, though, its
limitations. There is no charity in it. Plato preached humility, but
there is none in his sermons. His thought is a winged thing, as the
thought of a poet ever should be. But in the expression of it he seems
smiling, disdainful, indifferent as a statue to the poverties of the
heart. That too, perhaps, is as it should be. The high muse wears a
radiant peplum. Anxiety is banished from the minds that she haunts.
Then, also, if, in the nectar of Plato's speech, compassion is not an
ingredient, it may be because, in his violet-crowned city, it was
strewn open-handed through the beautiful streets. There, public
malediction was visited on anyone that omitted to guide a stranger on
his way.

Israel was too strictly monotheistic to raise an altar to Pity, the
rest of antiquity too cruel. In Athens there was one. In addition
there were missions for the needy, asylums for the infirm. If
anywhere, at that period, human sympathy existed, it was in Greece.
The aristocratic silence of Plato may have been due to that fact. He
would not talk of the obvious, though he did of the vile. In one of
his books the then common and abnormal conception of sexuality was, if
not authorized, at least condoned. It is conjectural, however, whether
the conception was more monstrous than that which subsequent mysticity
evolved.

Said Ruysbroeck: "The mystic carries her soul in her hand and gives it
to whomsoever she wishes." Said St. Francis of Sales: "The soul draws
to itself motives of love and delectates in them." What the gift and
what the delectation were, other saints have described.

Marie de la Croix asserted that in the arms of the celestial Spouse
she swam in an ocean of delight. Concerning that Spouse, Marie
Alacoque added: "Like the most passionate of lovers he made me
understand that I should taste what is sweetest in the suavity of
caresses, and indeed, so poignant were they, that I swooned." The
ravishments which St. Theresa experienced she expressed in terms of
abandoned precision. Mme. Guyon wrote so carnally of the divine that
Bossuet exclaimed; "Seigneur, if I dared, I would pray that a seraph
with a flaming sword might come and purify my lips sullied by this
recital."[39]

[Footnote 39: Relation sur le Quiétisme.]

