of the lower ranches who had carried up the missives, all Gwynne knew
was that Mr. Clink was alive, and that the ranch was free of winter
débris.

They found the gentleman sitting on a stump. He had a hand on either
knee, and his small watery unblinking eyes were fixed on space. A beard,
narrow and grizzled and stained, rested on his lean front, or stirred
gently in the breeze. He neither rose, nor otherwise noticed the
approach of his visitors.

Gwynne called, shouted, approached the verge of profanity, but he might
as well have addressed the silent forest.

Isabel elevated her nose. "To use the vernacular, he is on a long, slow,
melancholy jag. I will go in and see how he keeps the house. It needs an
airing at least. Every window is closed and probably has been all
winter."

She remained in-doors half an hour, putting things to rights with many
mysterious touches known only to her sex. When she returned to Gwynne
she found him sunning himself on the porch with his back to Mr. Clink,
who stolidly regarded an old stump of geranium.

"It is clean enough," she said. "But when you come, bring new
blankets--or send them, and your provisions--the day before you bring
your guests. I will come up with them and see that everything is in
order. I might also turn the hose on Clink, if he has chosen that
occasion to drench himself inside. At all events bring a cook--you can
have Chuma; these people never can cook anything but fried meat and
potatoes."

Drifted leaves lay on the porch a foot deep. Isabel found a broom and
swept vigorously, snubbing Gwynne's offer to do it himself. He watched
her, crossly reflecting that she was never so unattractive as in that
dust-colored divided habit, and wishing that he had waited for the
evening hour; even if infrequently seductive, she was always lovely in a
becoming gown.

Finally, her labors over, she dusted an aged rocking-chair and sat down,
fanning herself with her hat. Her cheeks were flushed and her eyes
sparkling, but she turned to look at the beautiful creek that had torn
its way through the forest, and Gwynne suddenly felt that he hated her
profile. During the last few weeks he had lost that sense of a constant
and secret contest of wills, perhaps because his own had proved the
stronger in the final engagement; perhaps, who knew? because she
possessed all the infernal subtlety of the Spaniard. But her profile
suggested relentless power, and he still had a secret hankering for the
old-fashioned submissive female, liberal and indulgent to the sex as he
was. He had reflected that he had met so many handsome finely developed
girls, with a sufficiency of animated brightness, but well within the
type, during the past few weeks, that it was rather odd he had not been
captured; particularly as several of the most ripping would add
materially to his fortunes. But he had come to the conclusion sometime
since, when he hardly knew, that he would prefer to remain unmarried,
and enjoy the intimate companionship of a congenial and interesting
creature like Isabel, whom he never quite understood. He cursed the
stale old conventions that interfered with his desires.

Isabel turned suddenly and smiled. "How fierce you look!" she said.
"What is the matter?"

"Everything. Some one, Mrs. Haight, I suppose, saw me riding home on
your horse at three o'clock yesterday morning, and the whole town is by
the ears. Judge Leslie undertook to break the news to me, and I told him
I had gone out to propose, and then ridden about the country to calm my
raging fires. I feel that I owe it to you to propose in good earnest,
and such as I am you are welcome to me."

"I never heard such a graceful proposal. I wouldn't marry you if
Rosewater stood on its head."

"I was rather brutal about it, and I must honestly confess that I'm not
particularly keen on marrying you, but I think we'll have to marry, or
be deuced uncomfortable--"

"Oh, nothing to what we should be if married. And Rosewater to me is a
mere market for chickens and eggs. The only punishment they could
inflict on me would be to burn down the hatcheries. I hate to bother
with incubators."

Gwynne stood up and knocked the ashes out of his pipe. "We must be
serious," he said. "They are really malignant about it. I have felt it
in the air for some time. Every time I pass that she-devil, Mrs. Haight,
on Main Street, her eyes contract with a sort of malicious warning.
'Just you wait!' is the way she would phrase it. And I always feel her
at her window when I ride home late. No woman of your age and beauty can
defy public opinion alone. The world--and scandal spreads like a plague;
San Francisco is only forty miles from Rosewater--the world can hurt you
in a thousand ways, ruin your life. I really am only too willing to
protect you, and I hope that you will marry me. I am sure we should get
along--after a bit."

"That was better. But I will not be driven into matrimony by gossip, or
even scandal. That is no part of my scheme of life. And I know Rosewater
better than you do. Mrs. Leslie, Anabel, Mrs. Colton, many of the most
powerful, would never believe a word against me."

"Not at first. But malicious tongues will wear the gloss from the
best-befriended reputation in time. The kindest natures are
conventional; and susceptible to all that take, or seem to take, a place
in the ranks of established facts."

"I won't do it," said Isabel, stubbornly; and as she turned her profile
to him he almost swore aloud. "I shall conquer, or prove the whole
modern game of woman a sham, a fool's paradise. I told you that I had
set myself to drag strength out of the unknown forces. Well, I propose
to use it now. And in your behalf as much as mine."

"I can take care of myself.... I even think I could face the prospect of
becoming your husband with a reasonable amount of equanimity." She was
looking straight at him again, her face deeply flushed, her eyes
shining. "It never occurred to me before, but I believe that if you
would permit yourself to develop, you might become the most fascinating
woman in the world. And if you did, I swear that you should be happy."

"I am happy, and in my own way. I get something out of every moment. Do
you think I am going to run the risk of losing all that for anything so
dubious as this old game of sex?"

"Very good game if it is played properly. I have a mind to teach you."

"Well, you will not!"

"I think I shall. It is either marry you or leave California."

"That is a threat unworthy of you."

"No threat at all. If you will not permit me to protect you in one way I
must in another. I leave and throw everything over with great éclat. You
have discarded me and I cannot stand the proximity."

"They might merely think that you were running away from me."

"I shall take good care they think what I choose. Women are more
romantic and sentimental than malignant, the bulk. All they want is a
starter."

"But you need not leave California. You can move to San Francisco."

"Now you are talking like a child. I shall return to England. As to my
American career, my only chance lies here. I hate the rest of the
country, and the best material is in California, anyhow. Yesterday I
received a letter from my solicitor, enclosing one from Jimmy, who
informed me that I was on every tongue, that the public curiosity was
piqued, that the newspapers were demanding that I should return and
accept my responsibilities, and that without doubt a place would be made
for me in the new Liberal Cabinet. It is a propitious moment for
return. If there is a time when a Liberal peer can make any running it
is when his party is in power."

There was a pause for several moments. Gwynne filled and lit another
pipe. Isabel stared at a ring she twisted about her finger, Mr. Clink at
the geranium stump. The low dull roar in the forest tops was unceasing,
but for other sound of life they might have swung off into space.

Finally Isabel spoke. "I won't marry you," she said. "But all ends will
be served if we announce an engagement. We can state that we think it
best not to marry until your law studies are concluded. It can be
postponed once or twice on other pretexts, then fall through. By that
time gossip will be forgotten, people will have lost interest in us. In
San Francisco they are not likely to hear of this at all, or if they do
it will not matter, and if you fall in love with any of the cotillon
beauties I will release you in due form and give you my blessing."

"I have not the least intention of undertaking life with a cotillon
beauty. Your compromise will do for the present, but you will understand
that my proposal is a bona fide one, should you arrive at a more
rational frame of mind."

"I sha'n't fall a victim to any irrational state of mind. I won't marry.
Why, even people that like me too much interfere with my sense of
liberty."

Gwynne laughed. "We had better be starting," he said.




XXXI

