The street was almost deserted, and cracked 
with frost, for it was late November, and the morn- 
ing bleakly cold. Far in the crisp distance, driven 
rapidly through the village, a solitary carriage 
whirled; it was drawn by a cream-white horse, 
and without coachman or footman ; its single oc- 
cupant a gentleman who looked neither to right 
nor left, but rode abstractedly. The collie had not 
arrived in season to observe whether the man, 
who had driven from the direction of the city, 
had glanced at the Sterling place as he went by. 
Charged by some powerful sense of canine duty, 
the dog began to examine the hoof marks and 
wheel marks of this team; nosing them thoroughly, 
and scenting the air through which they 
had passed. After a few moments' hesitation he 
began to follow them, slowly at first; then he 
broke into a long, loping gait, which increased as 
he reached the village square. One or two trades- 
men who met the dog spoke to him : — 

" Clyde ? Why, Clyde ! You 're going the wrong 
way." 

A grocer called out : " Better go home, Clyde. 
Your folks will be thinking you 're lost." 

Disdainfully disregarding these impertinences, 
the collie ran on. The distance between himself 
and the open phaeton with the solitary occupant 
had lessened perceptibly ; he found it a mortification 
to admit that he could not overtake the car- 
riage, and cantered after it with an angry anxiety. 
Beyond the chocolate eclair house of Solomon 
Hops, a road turned abruptly from the highway, 
skirting along the cranberry swamps of Balsam 
Groves, and slightly ascending as it made for the 
great woods, known by the name of the county — 
the densest, the largest, in the eastern part of the 
state. Towards this forest the phaeton, slowing a 
little as the road climbed, began to move steadily. 
The dog, but not rapidly, gained upon it. The 
road had now narrowed to a cart path, and branches 
of oaks and chestnuts, pines and maple, closed 
about the head of the rider. A wild-apple bough 

 



swept so low as almost to hit him in the face, 
and he pushed it aside with all his strength. He 
did not appear to have very much, and grappled 
with the stout branches weakly. In doing so he 
turned his head, and looked back down the rough 
way on which he had begun to climb the hill 
known by the country folk as Balsam Mountain. 
But the apple bough rebounded behind him and 
screened from his sight the view of a pursuing 
dog — a breathing, moving spot of black and tan, 
whose pantings, though they could neither be 
seen nor heard, were somehow to be inferred and 
felt. 

The dog, however, in that critical instant, and 
at that baffled distance, had seen the man. It has 
been said that dogs, in all probability, regard the 
master of the household as the chief of the tribe. 
Clyde, who had never taken the oath of allegiance 
to Dr. Dane, had recognized the countenance of 
his chief, — the white and rigid features of Mr. 
Sterling. He gave a yelp of joy, and cantered up 
the climbing road. But the collie was not a young 
dog, and had run far and fast. It was a personal 
humiliation to admit that he could not take Bal- 
sam Mountain on the gallop, but this fact was 
forced upon him ; he lost ground, fell back, and 
indeed found himself obliged to stop for his breath, 
drop flat on his side, and rest. By this delay he 

 



lost time, and the chief of the tribe disappeared 
from his strained and anxious sight. 

Rollinstall Sterling drove on slowly. Now and 
then he spoke to his horse — very kindly ; he was 
a man who loved horses — and encouraged it up 
the rough road. After a time he reached, as he 
had known that he should, the spot where wheels 
could climb no farther ; he got out of the phaeton 
with the slow motions of an elderly man to whom 
life and limb have become objects of caution, and 
fastened the horse by a rope halter to a tree. After 
some reflection he thought better of this, and re- 
moved the tie rein, turning the team so that it 
faced towards the bottom of the hill, and standing 
it carefully on such level as he could find. The 
woods were sprinkled with small stones, mouthf uls 
bitten from the granite of the Cape, and he stooped 
and placed some of these under the wheels, so that 
the weight should not come too heavily upon the 
animal in its constrained position. 

The spot where the team had halted was a clear- 
ing, and gave an open outlook upon the meadows. 
In fact, an important object in the clearing could 
be seen from certain points below, and Solomon 
Hops, conducting a surveyor over his most hope- 
ful cranberry lot, made a telescope of his hands, 
peered through it, and said : — 
:  

" Looks like Death 'n' the pale horse up yonder." 

When Mr. Sterling had removed the tie rein, 
he replaced it by a bit of light cord or stout string. 
The pale horse was a cribber, and if occasion called, 
could gnaw the string, and would. The master 
patted the horse, and turned away up the 
" Mountain." When he had climbed a short distance, he 
returned and blanketed the animal tenderly. 

The man climbed on: quickly at first, then he 
began to lag ; his breath shortened, and he sat 
down. He was in the heart of the forest and on 
the height of the hill. The woods closed in around 
him solemnly. Their dampness struck to his aging 
blood, and he felt very cold. He shivered, and 
buttoned his overcoat to his thin throat. Suddenly 
it occurred to him that before very long he should 
be colder. 

His hand crept to his breast pocket, and with- 
drew a small object, which he laid upon the moss 
at his side. It was red-cup moss, and he noticed 
the tiny tapers of color that burned and broke 
where they were crushed. An acorn fell from some- 
where with a soft thud, and a squirrel scampered 
after it. The squirrel stopped, and regarded the 
man, who saw that the little creature's heart beat 
wildly. 

"A bird shot would stop it," he thought. "How 
little it takes ! " 

 

After a while he said aloud : — 

"What's the use of waiting?" His shaking 
hand stole to the thing upon the red-cupped moss, 
picked it up, and laid it down. 

" I don't know that there 's any hurry about it, 
after all," he thought. He took out his pencil and 
pocket memorandum, and began to cast up some 
accounts. This absorbed him for a time — probably
a very short one, but he could not have told. 
He put the book and pencil down presently, and 
sat staring at the underbrush. The forest was heavy 
at that point, and pressed upon him, as if it had 
pursued and surrounded him. He could not see 
the sky, and on reflection was glad that he could 
not. The muscles of his frozen face stiffened ; he 
looked straight before him ; a little snake crawled 
from somewhere and slid away, watching him with 
cold and narrow eyes; he did not observe the 
snake. His head fell upon his breast, and then into 
his hands. 

No one could hear — oh, no one could hear him, 
and the man began to sob. As he sobbed, he 
groaned. All the signs of suffering that civilization 
teaches us to repress fought their way to the 
surface of him, in the savage solitude of uncompanioned 
Nature. Terrible sounds, such as the 
deepest human tenderness never witnesses from 
