
them praised ! Her father considered two or 
three verses of no account; just a whiff of a 
passing breeze. 

“ Did he set you at reading ponderous Mil- 
ton ?” asked another of the seniors. “It 
would be harnessing a butterfly to a cart.” 

“ But I liked L’ Allegro,” she interposed. 
“ Father hasn’t much opinion of a girl’s in- 
tellect, and thinks he doesn't care for women's 
books, but he reads George Eliot. He took up 
Greek with me, but was disgusted. I revel in 
the translations, but I think I shall not go 
on with the language, French is so much 
easier.” 

“ But about the verses. I’m interested in 
the beginning of things, in the first exquisite 
thrill — ” 

“ Oh, stop your nonsense and don’t tease 
the child! Your poem was dainty and lovely, 
new and fresh, and we were glad to have it. 
You might venture upon another if you can 
do as well.” 

“ If you were older and wiser we might 
accuse you of knowing about Strephon under 
another name. Did some one tell you a 



charming love-story, or did you just imagine 
it?” asked another. 

Shirley turned a bewitching rose color. 
Helen’s heart came up in her throat lest Shir- 
ley should overstep discretion, but the regard 
for her ideal was too sacred to be brought out 
to promiscuous eyes. 

Miss Minturn made some tea that diffused 
a fragrance through the room, and brought 
out a few dainties. Her china was the envy 
of more than one, and she didn't always dis- 
play her rarest cups that had been sent her 
from many quarters of the globe. To-night 
she was generous. They drank to Miss Char- 
davoyne’s future success; they passed best 
wishes around, and if there was a famine in 
the absolute wisdom that might be supposed to 
emanate from seniors who were on their way 
to degrees, it was made up by the outflow of 
fun and jests that were cast around with the 
harmlessness of confetti. 

The good night was most cordial. Leslie 
and Helen escorted their guest to her hall. 

“ It was just charming, like the evenings 
mamma sometimes tells about. After the first. 


I didn’t feel at all afraid, though they must 
all be wise young women if they can pass those 
awful examinations. I was looking over the 
official circular and I’m glad I didn’t start to 
go through. I should get buried in oceans of 
knowledge that would never be the slightest 
good to me. You have both been lovely, and 
I thank you.” 

“ She is a rather curious compound, and 
certainly is well-bred and charmingly modest. 
Why, she didn't seem at all elated by the com- 
pliments and the interest that would have 
given some girls an attack of mental vertigo ! 
I wish Lorraine had been here.” 

Helen echoed that. A few days later they 
heard from her. The pneumonia had not been 
severe, but she was to go to Florida for several 
weeks. It was too bad to lose all that time 
and to be out a year. 

Helen missed her very much. There were 
other friends, to be sure, but she was learning 
that the interchange of thought and feeling, 
or even the commonplaces of an intimate ac- 
quaintance, took a good deal of time. She 
was willing to be helpful, but there were girls 



who drained one, who took all, and gave noth- 
ing back. 

Easter came with its glorious rejoicing, its 
grand music, its other side of college, tests and 
games, and now the strain began for the ex- 
aminations. The commencement exercises 
were discussed, the grand field-day, the finals. 
The girls wondered who would win the fresh- 
man prize; half a dozen girls were in hot 
competition. Then the juniors had one to be 
awarded for the best essay on Shakespeare. 
Helen had wondered whether she should try. 
She had made some notes. 

But one afternoon she was summoned to 
the students’ parlor and surprised at the sight 
of Willard Bell. His grave face shocked her, 
and the black gloves he held in his hand struck 
a chill to her heart. 

“Daisy!” she cried. 

“ Our dear Daisy has been brought home 
for the last time. They reached the city this 
morning, and will leave for the burial to-mor- 
row. I did not see her alive, but she was so 
changed that I could hardly make our pretty 
darling out of her. And she was so resolved 



to get better she would not hear a word of 
dying. So young, and with everything to live 
for ! She really did seem better a fortnight 
before she went, then suddenly she dropped 
down. I was on my way to New York, and 
there father met me with the sad news. Then, 
as I said, mother and Mr. Duer returned with 
the body. And now they want you. You 
seem to take Daisy's place in father’s heart, 
and you must not refuse him. Mother wishes 
it, too. There is a train by which we can 
reach the city at ten if you can get ready in 
an hour.” 

Helen made an effort to speak, but her 
throat filled up and her eyes were heavy with 
pain, rather than tears. It seemed heartless 
not to have been thinking through all these 
weeks of Daisy, the radiant, eager, wilful little 
queen. Had her marriage been very happy, 
Helen wondered. Had Mr. Duer been with 
her all the winter ? 

“ We cannot take no, Helen." Willard rose 
as he said this. He seemed taller, more manly, 
with a much more vivid personality and 
strength than she had credited him with be- 



fore. Yes, he had improved, in some inde- 
scribable manner he had gone beyond her ; she 
felt that. 

“Oh!” she cried, “I cannot tell you! I 
cannot express my sorrow ! I have somehow 
been afraid of the end, but it did not seem so 
near. And we were such friends in our girl- 
hood — at school — ” 

She had uttered this in broken sentences, 
and as the old memories rushed over her, the 
tears flowed. 

“Yes; mother was very anxious you 
should come. There were some messages and 
— and gifts. Oh, they both want to see you 
so ! Father is fairly heart-broken.” Then he 
took out his watch. “ There is only an hour,” 
wistfully. “ Will you get ready? ” 

There was a certain sound of gentle author- 
