" I'm sure I didn't mean — I beg your pardon — " 
" It's all right. If I were an actor I shouldn't be 
ashamed of it. But I was merely curious to know 
whether you shared the prevalent superstition. I'm 
afraid I can't help you from a knowledge of the stage, 
but if I can be of use, from a sort of amateur interest 
in psychology, with an affair like this I shall be only 
too glad." 
" Thank you," she said, somewhat faintly, with an 
effect of dismay disproportionate to the occasion. 
She sank into a chair before which she had been 
standing, and she looked as if she were going to swoon. 
He started towards her with an alarmed " Miss Shir- 
ley!" 
 
She put out a hand weakly to stay him. " Don't !" 
she entreated. " I'm a little — I shall be all right in 
a moment." 
" Can't I get you something — call some one ?" 
" Not for the world !" she commanded, and she 
pulled herself together and stood up. " But I think I'll 
stop for to-night. I'm glad my idea strikes you favor- 
ably. It's merely — Oh, you found it, Mrs. Stager!" 
She broke off to address the woman who had now come 
back and was holding up the trailing breadths of the 
electric-blue gauze. " Isn't it lovely ?" She gave herself 
time to adore the drapery, with its changes of meteoric 
lucence, before she rose and took it. She went with 
it to the background in the library, where, against the 
glass door of the cases, she involved herself in it and 
stood shimmering. A thrill pierced to Verrian's heart ; 
she was indeed wraithlike, so that he hated to have her 
call, " How will that do ?" 
Mrs. Stager modestly referred the question to him by 
her silence. " I will answer for its doing, if it does 
for the others as it's done for me." 
She laughed. " And you doubly knew what it was. 
Yes, I think it will go." She took another pose, and 
then another. " What do you think of it, Mrs. Stager ?" 
she called to the woman standing respectfully abeyant 
at one side. 
" It's awful. I don't know but I'll be afraid to go 
to my room." 
" Sit down, and I'll go to your room with you when 
I'm through. I won't be long, now." 
She tried different gauzes, which she had lying on 
one of the chairs, and crowned herself with triumph 
in the applauses of her two spectators, rejoicing with 
a glee that Verrian found childlike and winning. " If 
they're all like you, it will be the greatest success !" 
" They'll all be like me, and more," he said. " I'm 
really very severe." 
" Are you a severe person ?" she asked, coming for- 
ward to him. " Ought people to be afraid of you ?" 
" Yes, people with bad consciences. I'm rather afraid 
of myself for that reason." 
" Have you got a bad conscience ?" she asked, letting 
her eyes rest on his. 
" Yes. I can't make my conduct square with my 
ideal of conduct." 
" I know what that is !" she sighed. " Do you expect 
to be punished for it?" 
" I expect to be got even with." 
" Yes, one is. I've noticed that myself. But I 
didn't suppose that actors — Oh, I forgot ! I beg your 
pardon again, Mr. Verrian. Oh — Good-night !" She 
faced him evanescently in going out, with the woman 
after her, but, whether she did so more in fear or more in 
defiance, she left him standing motionless in his doubt, 
and she did nothing to solve his doubt when she came 
quickly back alone, before he was aware of having 
moved, to say, " Mr. Verrian, I want to — I have to — 
tell you that — I didn't think you were the actor." Then 
she was finally gone, and Verrian had nothing for it 
but to go up to his room with the book he found he had 
in his hand and must have had there all the time. 
If he had read it, the book would not have eased him 
off to sleep, but he did not even try to read it. He had 
no wish to sleep. The waking dream in which he lost 
himself was more interesting than any vision of slumber 
could have been, and he had no desire to end it. In 
that he could still be talking with the girl whose mystery 
appealed to him so pleasingly. It was none the less 
pleasing because, at what might be called her first 
blushes, she did not strike him as altogether ingenuous, 
 
but only able to discipline herself into a final sincerity 
from a consciousness which had been taught wisdom by 
experience. 
She was still a scarcely recovered invalid, and it was 
pathetic that she should be commencing the struggle 
of life with strength so little proportioned to the de- 
mand upon it ; and the calling she had taken up was of 
a fantasticality in some aspects which was equally 
pathetic. But all the undertakings of women, he mused, 
were piteous, not only because women were unequal to 
the struggle at the best, but because they were ham- 
pered always with themselves, with their sex, their 
femininity, and the necessity of getting it out of the 
way before they could really begin to fight. Whatever 
they attempted it must be in relation to the man's world 
in which livings were made ; but the immemorial con- 
ditions were almost wholly unchanged. A woman ap- 
proached this world as a woman, with the inborn in- 
stinct of tempting it as a woman, to win it to love her 
and make her a wife and mother; and although she 
might stoically overcome the temptation at last, it might 
recur at any moment and overcome her. This was 
perpetually weakening and imperilling her, and she 
must feel it at the encounter with each man she met. 
She must feel the tacit and even unconscious irony 
of his attitude towards her in her enterprise, and the 
finer her make the crueller and the more humiliating 
and disheartening this must be. 
Of course, this Miss Shirley felt Verrian's irony, 
which he had guarded from any expression with gen- 
uine compassion for her. She must feel that to his 
knowledge of life she and her experiment had an ab- 
surdity which would not pass, whatever their success 
might be. If she meant business, and business only, 
they ought to have met as two men would have met, but 
 
he knew that they had not done so, and she must have 
known it. All that was plain sailing enough, but be- 
yond this lay a sea of conjecture in which he found him- 
self without helm or compass. Why should she have 
acted a fib about his being an actor, and why, after the 
end, should she have added an end, in which she re- 
turned to own that she had been fibbing ? For that was 
what it came to ; and though Verrian tasted a delicious 
pleasure in the womanish feat by which she overcame 
her womanishness, he could not puzzle out her motive. 
He was not sure that he wished to puzzle it out. To re- 
main with illimitable guesses at his choice was more 
agreeable, for the present at least, and he was not 
aware of having lapsed from them when he woke so 
late as to be one of the breakf asters whose plates were 
kept for them after the others were gone. 
XVI 
It was the first time that Verrian had come down 
late, and it was his novel experience to find himself in 
charge of Mrs. Stager at breakfast, instead of the but- 
ler and the butler's man, who had hitherto served him 
at the earlier hour. There were others, somewhat re- 
mote from him, at table, who were ending when he 
was beginning, and when they had joked themselves out 
of the room and away from Mrs. Stager's ministrations 
he was left alone to her. He had instantly appreciated 
a quality of motherliness in her attitude towards him, 
and now he was sensible of a kindly intimacy to which 
he rather helplessly addressed himself. 
" Well, Mrs. Stager, did you see a ghost on your way 
to bed?" 
" I don't know as I really expected to," she said. 
" Won't you have a few more of the buckwheats ?" 
" Do you think I'd better ? I believe I won't. 
They're very tempting. Miss Shirley makes a very 
good ghost," he suggested. 
Mrs. Stager would not at first commit herself further 
than to say in bringing him the butter, " She's just 
up from a long fit of sickness." She impulsively 
added, " She ain't hardly strong enough to be doing 
what she is, I tell her." 
" I understood she had been ill," Verrian said. " We 
drove over from the station together, the other day." 
" Yes," Mrs. Stager admitted. " Kind of a nervous 
breakdown, I believe. But she's got an awful spirit. 
 
Mrs. Westangle don't want her to do all she is do- 
ing." 
Verrian looked at her in surprise. He had not ex- 
pected that of the india-nihher nature he had attributed 
to Mrs. Westangle. In view of Mrs. Stager's privity to 
the unimagined kindliness of his hostess, he relaxed 
himself in a further interest in Miss Shirley, as if it 
would now he safe. " She's done splendidly, so far," 
he said, meaning the girl. " I'm glad Mrs. Westangle 
appreciates her work." 
" I guess," Mrs. Stager said, " that if it hadn't 
been for you at the snow-fight — She got hack from 
