
“But what’s his idea?” asked the other. “What good will it do him to
write the specifications?”

“There are five officers,” said Oliver, “and he’s been laying siege
to every one of them. So now they are all his intimate friends, and
every one of them has come to him for help! So there will go into
Washington five sets of specifications, all different, but each
containing one essential point. You see, Gamble’s company has a
peculiar kind of oil; it contains some ingredient or other--he told
me the name, but I don’t remember it now. It doesn’t make it any
better oil, and it doesn’t make it any worse; but it’s different
from any other oil in the world. And now, don’t you see--whatever
other requirements are specified, this one quality will surely
appear; and there will be only one company in the world that can
bid. Of course they will name their own figure, and get a five-year
contract.”

“I see,” said Montague, drily. “It’s a beautiful scheme. And how
much do you get out of it?”

“He paid me ten thousand at the start,” said Oliver; “and I am to
get five per cent of the first year’s contract, whatever that may
be. Gamble says his bid won’t be less than half a million, so you
see it was worth while!”

And Oliver chuckled to himself. “He’s going home to-morrow,” he
added. “So my job is done. I’ll probably never see him again--until
his four prize daughters get ready for the market!”




CHAPTER XIV


Montague returned to New York and plunged into his work. The
election at which he was scheduled to become president of the
Northern Mississippi was not to come off for a month. Meantime there
was no lack of work for him to do. It would, of course, be necessary
for him to return to Mississippi to live, and he had to close up his
affairs in New York. Also he wished to fit himself for the work of
superintending a railroad. Through the courtesy of General Prentice,
he was introduced to the president of one of the great transcontinental
lines, and made a study of that official’s office system. He went South
again to inspect the work of the surveyors, and to consult with the
engineers who had been selected for the work.

Price went ahead with his arrangements to take over the control of
the road, without paying any attention to the old management. He
sent for Montague one day, and introduced him to a Mr. Haskins, who
was to be elected vice-president of the road. Haskins, he said, had
formerly been general manager of the Tennessee Southern, and was a
practical railroad man. Montague was to rely upon him for all the
details of his work.

Haskins was a wiry, nervous little man, with a bad temper and a
sarcastic tongue; he worshipped the gospel of efficiency, and in the
consultations with him Montague got many curious lights upon the
management of railroads. He learned, for instance, that a
conspicuous item in the construction account was the money to be
used in paying local government boards for right of way through
towns and villages. Apparently no one even considered the
possibility of securing the privilege by any other methods. Montague
did not like the prospect, but he said nothing. Then again, the road
was to purchase its rails and other necessaries from the Mississippi
Steel Company, and apparently it was expected to pay a fancy price
for these; it was not to ask for any of the discounts which were
customary. Also Montague was troubled to learn that the secretary
and treasurer of the road were to receive liberal salaries, and that
no questions were to be asked, because they were relatives of Price.

All that he put up with; but matters came to a head about ten days
before the election, when one day Haskins came to his office with
the engineers’ estimates, and with his own figures of the probable
cost of the extension. Most of the figures were much higher than
those which Montague had worked out for himself.

“We ought to do better on those contracts,” he said, pointing to
some of the items.

“I dare say we might,” said Haskins; “but those contracts are to go
to the Hill Manufacturing Company.”

“I don’t understand you,” said Montague; “I thought that we were to
advertise for bids.”

“Yes,” replied Haskins, “but that company is to get the contracts,
all the same.”

“You mean,” asked Montague, “that we are not to give them to the
lowest bidder?”

“I’m afraid not,” said the other.

“Has Price said anything to you to that effect?”

“He has.”

“But I don’t understand,” said Montague; “what is this Hill
Manufacturing Company?”

And Haskins smiled. “It’s a concern that Price has organised
himself,” he said.

Montague stared in amazement. “Price himself!” he gasped.

“His nephew is president of the company,” added the other.

“Is it a new company?” Montague asked.

“Organised especially for the purpose,” smiled the other.

“And what does it manufacture?”

“It doesn’t manufacture anything; it simply sells.”

“In other words,” said Montague, “it’s a device whereby Mr. Price
proposes to rob the stockholders of the Northern Mississippi
Railroad?”

“You can phrase it that way if you choose,” said Haskins, quietly;
“but I wouldn’t advise you to let Price hear you.”

“I thank you,” responded Montague, and brought the interview to an
end.

He took a day to think the matter over. It was not his habit to act
upon impulse. He saw that the time had come for him to speak, but he
wished to be sure of his course of action before he began. He had
dinner at the Club that evening, and, seeing his friend Major
Venable ensconced in a big leather chair in the reading-room, he
went and sat down beside him.

“How do you do, Major?” he said. “I’ve got another case that I want
to ask you some questions about.”

“Always at your service,” said the Major.

“It has to do with a railroad,” said Montague. “Did you ever hear of
such a thing as a railroad president organising a company to sell
supplies to his own road?”

The Major smiled grimly. “Yes, I have heard of it,” he said.

“Is it common?” asked Montague.

“Not so common as you might suppose,” answered the other. “A
railroad president is commonly not an important enough man to be
permitted to do it. If it happens to be a big road, and the
president is a power in it, why, then he may do it.”

“I see,” said Montague.

“That was Higgins’s trick,” said the Major. “Higgins used to go
around making speeches to Sunday schools; he was the kind of man
that the newspapers like to refer to as a model citizen and a leader
of enterprise. His brothers, and his brothers-in-law, and his
cousins, and all his family went into business in order to sell
things to his railroads. I heard of one story--it has never come
out, but it’s very amusing. Every year the road would advertise its
contract for stationery. It used about a million dollars’ worth, and
there’d be long and most elaborate specifications published--columns
and columns. But sandwiched away somewhere in the middle of a
paragraph was the provision that the paper must all bear a certain
watermark; and that watermark was patented by one of Higgins’s
companies! It didn’t even own so much as a mill--it sublet all the
contracts. When Higgins died, he left eighty million dollars; but
they juggled the records, and you read in all the newspapers that he
left ‘a few millions.’ That was in Philadelphia, where you can do
such things.”

Montague sat thinking for a few moments. “But I can’t see why they
should do it in this case,” he said. “The men who are doing it own
nearly all of the stock of the road.”

“What difference does that make?” asked the Major.

“Why, they are simply plundering their own property,” said Montague.

