to the island only to see for herself how much he had exaggerated, but
was quite vanquished and speechless. Not to have met her son's most
valued friend would have blurred and flawed the wonderful experience.
Warner bowed gravely once or twice, but did not raise his eyes, to
Anne's continued relief: she dreaded what she must meet in them. If
the rest of his face was a ruin, what sinks of iniquity, what wells of
horror, must be those recording features? There were lines about them
and not from laughter! He looked as if he had never smiled. She pitied
him so deeply that she could have wept, for she had never seen an
unhappier mortal; but she had no desire to approach him further.
Miss Bargarny poured the tea, and when she passed his cup, roguishly
quoted a couplet from one of his poems; lines that had no reference to
tea--God knows, he had never written about tea--but which tripped from
her tongue so gracefully that they had the effect of sounding apropos.
He blushed slightly and bowed again; and shortly after, when all the
cups had been handed about and he had drained his own, seemed to
recover his poise, for he addressed a few remarks to Lady Hunsdon, at
whose right he sat. Anne, who was seated some distance from the table
could not even hear his voice, but Lady Hunsdon received such as he
ventured upon with so much empressement, that he manifestly rose in
courage; in a few moments he was extending his attention to Lady Mary
Denbigh, who leaned forward with an exalted expression shaded by
ringlets, raising her imperceptible bosom with an eloquent sigh. By
this time Lord Hunsdon was talking into Anne's ear and she could hear
nothing of the conversation opposite, although now and again she
caught a syllable from a low toneless voice. But his first agony was
passed as well as her own, and she endeavoured to forget him in her
swain's comments upon the political news arrived with the packet that
afternoon. When tea was over and Miss Bargarny, who cultivated
liveliness of manner, had engaged the poet in a discussion upon the
relative merits of Shelley and Nathaniel P. Willis--astonishingly
original on her part, mild to the outposts of indifference on
his--Anne followed Hunsdon to the other side of the room to look over
an album of his mother's, just unpacked. It contained calotypes of the
most distinguished men and women of the day, and Anne, who had barely
seen a daguerreotype before, and never a presentment of the famous
people of her time, became so absorbed that she forgot the poet to
whose spirit hers had been wedded these five years, and whose visible
part had sickened the very depths of her being. Lord Hunsdon had the
pleasure of watching her kindling eyes as he told her personal details
of each of his friends, and when Anne cried out that she was living in
a bit of contemporary history, he too flushed, and felt that his suit
prospered. But Anne was thinking as little of him as of Warner, and so
intent was she upon the ugly striking physiognomy of the author of
"Venetia," with his Byronic curls and flowing collar, that she was
hardly aware that Lord Hunsdon's attentions had been claimed by his
mother; who skilfully transferred him to the side of Lady Mary.
A moment later she turned abruptly and met the eyes of Warner. He
was sitting apart, and he was staring at her. It was not meeting his
eyes so suddenly that turned her hands to ice and made them shake as
she returned to the album, but the eyes themselves that looked out
from the ruin of his face. She had expected them to be sneering,
lascivious, bold, anything but what they were: the most spiritual and
at the same time the most tormented eyes that had ever been set in
the face of a mortal. She caught her breath. What could it mean? No
man could live the life he had lived--Lady Mary, who had a fine turn
for gossip, had told her all that Lord Hunsdon had left unsaid--and
keep his soul unspotted. It was marvellous, incredible. She recalled
confusedly something Hunsdon had said about his having a beautiful
character--well, that was originally, not after years of degradation.
Besides, Hunsdon was a fanatical enthusiast.
At this point she became aware that Warner was standing beside her,
but as she glanced up in a surprise that restored her self-possession,
he had averted his eyes, and embarrassment had claimed him again. She
was too much of a woman not to rush to the rescue.
[Illustration: "At this point she became aware that Warner was
standing beside her"]
"I have never seen anything so interesting!" she exclaimed with great
animation, "I am sure you will agree with me, although of course
you have met all these great people. Is not this process a vast
improvement upon the daguerreotype? And I am told they expect to do
better still. Have you read 'Venetia'? Do you remember that Disraeli
makes Lord Cadurcis--Byron--assert that Shakespeare did not write
his own plays? Fancy!"
"I never for a moment supposed that he did," replied Warner, evidently
grasping at a subject upon which he felt at home. "Nor did Byron. Nor,
I fancy, will a good many others, when they begin to think for
themselves--or study the Elizabethan era. I have never read any of
Disraeli's novels. Do you think them worth reading?"
He was looking at her now, still with that expression of a saint at
the stake, but obviously inattentive to her literary opinions. Before
she could answer he said abruptly:
"What a fine walker you are! I have never seen a woman walk as you do.
It is not the custom here, and even in England the ladies seemed far
too elegant to do more than stroll through a park."
"I am not at all elegant," replied Anne, smiling; "as my aunt will
tell you. I had to make myself some short skirts, and I get up at
unearthly hours to have my tramp and return in time to dress for
breakfast. But I have never met you."
"I have passed you several times, but of course you did not notice me.
I have a hut up in one of the jungles and I am always prowling about
at that hour in the morning." He hesitated, drew in his breath
audibly, and as he looked down again, the colour rose under his pallid
loose skin. "I came here to-day to meet you," he added.
For a moment Anne felt that she was going to faint. Good God! Had this
dreary outcast found his way to her castles in Spain? Could he know?
She was unable to articulate, and he went on.
"You must pardon me if that was too bold a thing to say--you are the
last person to whom I would give offence! But you have seemed to me
the very spirit of the fresh robust North. I have fancied I could see
the salt wind blowing about you. All the English creoles of this
island are like porcelain. The fine ladies that come to Bath House
take too much care of their complexions, doubtless of their pretty
feet--they all want to be beauties rather than women. That is the
reason you seem something of a goddess by contrast, and vastly
refreshing to a West Indian."
Anne drew a long breath as he blundered through his explanation.
She was relieved, but at the same time femininely conscious of
disappointment. Nor was there sentiment in his low monotonous voice.
He paid but the homage of weary man to vital youth.
"I am unfashionably healthy," she said, hoping that her eyes danced
with laughter at the idea of being likened to a goddess. She continued
with great vivacity, "How relieved I am that you have never noticed
the hang of my morning skirts. Ah, that is because you are a poet. But
I wish I could give you one-tenth of the pleasure, by my suggestion of
the North, that I derive from your wonderful tropics. Don't fancy that
I get up at five merely for the pleasure of exercise. My chief object
is to enjoy your island for a bit while all the rest of the world is
asleep. These last sixteen days have been the happiest of my life."
She brought out the last words somewhat defiantly, but she met his
gaze, still smiling.
"I am not surprised to learn that you are a poet. What else could be
expected--once I learned to pay compliments gracefully, but if I have
forgotten the art, I have not lost my power to admire and appreciate
beauty in any form. It has given me the greatest pleasure I have
known for years to watch you, and I thank you for coming to Nevis."
Anne by this time was accustomed to the high-flown compliments of
polite society, but she could not doubt the sincerity of this man, who
had no place in a world where idle flattery was the small coin of
talk. She blushed slightly and changed the subject, and as he talked,
less and less haltingly, of the traditions of Nevis, she watched his
eyes, fascinated. They were not the eyes of mere youth, any more than
of a man who had seen far too much of life. Neither, upon closer
inspection, were they the eyes of a saint or a martyr, although she
could better understand Hunsdon's estimate by picturing him born three
centuries earlier. But they were the eyes of the undying idealist, of
the inner vision, of a mental and spiritual life apart from the
frailties of the body. They seemed to look at her, intent as was his
gaze, as from a vast distance, from heights which neither she nor all
that respectable world that despised his poor shell could ever attain.
With it all there was no hint of superciliousness: the eyes were too
sad, too terribly wise in their own way for that; and his whole manner
went far beyond modesty; it had all the pitiable self-consciousness
of one that has fallen from the higher social plane. No common man, no
matter what his fame and offences, could lose his self-respect as this
poor gentleman had done. Anne, filled with a pity she had never known
was in her, exerted herself to divert his mind from the gulf which had
so long separated him from his class. She talked as she fancied other
women must have talked to him when he visited London in the first
flush of his youth and fame. She even began with "The Blue Sepulchre,"
which now no longer ranked with the best of his work, so far had he
progressed beyond the unlicensed imagination of youth. She told him
that she looked down from her balcony every morning expecting to see
the domes and towers of ancient cities rise from the sea. And, alas!
in the enthusiasm of her cause, before she could call a halt, she had
told him all that his poetry had meant to her in her lonely life by
the North Sea; in a few moments he was aware that she possessed every
volume he had written, knew every line by heart; and although she
caught herself up in time jealously to conceal the more portentous
meanings it had held for her, he heard enough to make his eyes kindle
at this delicious echo of his youth, coming from an innocent lovely
creature who had evidently heard little of his evil life.
"I knew that you came from the sea!" he exclaimed. "And the purple
rolling moors! How well I remember them, and longed to write of them.
But only these latitudes drive my pen. Indeed, I once tried to write
about the heather--the purple twilight--no figment of the poetical
fancy, that. The atmosphere at that hour literally is purple."
"When it is purple! But you should see the moors in all their moods
as I have done. I rarely missed a day in winter, no matter how wild--I
have tramped half a day many a time. And I can assure you that the sea
itself cannot look more wild, more terrifying--with the wrack driving
overhead, and the rain falling in torrents, and the wind whistling
and roaring, and rushing past you as if called by the sea to some
frightful tryst, some horrible orgy of the elements, and striving to
tear you up and carry you with it. Still--still--perhaps it is as
beautiful--then--in its way, as in its season of colour and peace."
"Ah! I knew you would say that." He added in a moment, "You are the
only person that has quoted my lines to me that has not embarrassed me
painfully. For the moment I felt that you had written them, not I!"
"I often used to feel that I had; all, that is----" The magnet of
