Cardross, senior, Gray, Shiela, Hamil, and the head guide, Eudo Stent,
rode out of the patio into the dewy beauty of a February morning.

The lagoon was pink; so was the white town on its western shore; in the
east, ocean and sky were one vast rosy-rayed glory. Few birds sang.

Through the intense stillness of early morning the little cavalcade made
a startling clatter on the shell highway; but the rattle of hoofs was
soon deadened in the sand of a broad country road curving south through
dune and hammock along the lake shore.

Dew still dropped in great splashes from pine and palm; dew powdered the
sparkle-berry bushes and lay like a tiny lake of quicksilver in the
hollow of every broad palmetto frond; and all around them earth and
grass and shrub exhaled the scented freshness of a dew-washed world.

On the still surface of the lake, tinted with palest rose and primrose,
the wild ducks floated, darkly silhouetted against the water or, hoping
for crumbs, paddled shoreward, inquiringly peering up at the riders with
little eyes of brightest gold.

"Blue-bills," said Cardross to Hamil; "nobody shoots them on the lake;
they're as tame as barnyard waterfowl. Yet, the instant these same ducks
leave this lagoon where they know they're protected they become as wild
and wary and as difficult to get a shot at as any other wild-fowl."

Shiela, riding ahead with Gray, tossed bits of bread into the water; and
the little blue-bill ducks came swimming in scores, keeping up with the
horses so fearlessly and persistently that the girl turned in her saddle
and looked back at her father in delight.

"I'm certainly as gifted as the Pied Piper, dad! If they follow me to
Ruffle Lake I won't permit a shot to be fired."

While she spoke she kept her eyes on her father. Except for a brief good
morning at breakfast she had neither looked at nor spoken to Hamil,
making no noticeable effort to avoid him, but succeeded in doing it
nevertheless.

Like her father and brother and Hamil she was mounted on an unornamental
but wiry Tallahassee horse; and she rode cross-saddle, wearing knee-coat
and kilts of kahkee and brown leather puttees strapped from under the
kneecap to the ankle. Like the others, too, she carried a small shotgun
in a saddle boot, and in the web loops across her breast glimmered the
metal rims of a dozen cartridges. A brilliant handkerchief knotted
loosely around her bare white throat, and a broad Panama turned up in
front and resolutely pulled down behind to defy sunstroke, completed a
most bewilderingly charming picture, which moved even her father to
admiring comment.

"Only," he added, "look before you step over a log when you're afoot.
The fangs of a big diamond-back are three-quarters of an inch long, my
dear, and they'll go through leather as a needle goes through cambric."

"Thanks, dad--and here endeth the usual lesson."

Cardross said to Hamil: "One scarcely knows what to think about the
snakes here. The records of the entire Union show few deaths in a year,
and yet there's no scarcity of rattlers, copperheads, and moccasins in
this Republic of ours. I know a man, an ornithologist, who for twelve
years has wandered about the Florida woods and never saw a rattler. And
yet, the other night a Northern man, a cottager, lighted his cigar after
dinner and stepped off his veranda on to a rattler."

"Was he bitten?"

"Yes. He died in two hours." Cardross shrugged and gathered up his
bridle. "Personally I have no fear; leggings won't help much; besides, a
good-sized snake can strike one's hand as it swings; but our cracker
guides go everywhere in thin cotton trousers and the Seminoles are
barelegged. One hears often enough of escapes, yet very rarely of
anybody being bitten. One of my grove guards was struck by a moccasin
last winter. He was an awfully sick nigger for a while, but he got over
it."

"That's cheerful," said Hamil, laughing.

"Oh, you might as well know. There are plenty of wiseacres who'll tell
you that nobody's in danger at these East Coast resorts, and the hotel
people will swear solemnly there isn't a serpent in the State; but there
are, Hamil, and plenty of them. I've seen rattlers strike without
rattling; and moccasins are ugly brutes that won't get out of the way
for you and that give no warning when they strike; and all quail hunters
in the flat-woods know how their pointers and setters are killed, and
every farmer knows that the best watchmen he can have is a flock of
guinea-fowl or turkeys or a few hogs loose. The fact is that deadly
snakes are not rare in many localities; the wonder is that scarcely a
death is reported in a year. How many niggers die, I don't know; but I
know enough, when I'm in the woods or fields, to look every time before
I put my foot upon the ground."

"How can you see in the jungle?"

"You've got to see. Besides, rattlers are on the edge of thickets, not
inside. They've got to have an open space to strike the small furry
creatures which they live on. Moccasins affect mud--look there!"

Both horses shyed; in front Shiela's mount was behaving badly, but even
while she was mastering him she tried at the same time to extract her
shotgun from the leather boot. Stent rode up and drew it out for her;
Hamil saw her break and load, swing in the saddle, and gaze straight
into an evil-looking bog all set with ancient cypress knees and the
undulating snaky roots of palmettos.

"A perfectly enormous one, dad!" she called back.

"Wait!" said Cardross; "I want Hamil to see." And to Hamil: "Ride
forward; you ought to know what the ugly brutes look like!"

As he drew bridle at Shiela's left the girl, still intent, pointed in
silence; but he looked in vain for the snake, mistaking every palmetto
root for a serpent, until she leaned forward and told him to sight along
her extended arm. Then he saw a dull gray fold without any glitter to
it, draped motionless over a palmetto root, and so like the root that he
could scarcely believe it anything else.

"That?"

"Yes. It's as thick as a man's arm."

"Is it a moccasin?"

"It is; a cotton-mouth."

The guide drawled: "Ah reckon he's asleep, Miss Cahdhoss. Ah'll make him
rare up 'f yew say so."

"Make him rear up," suggested Gray. "And stand clear, Hamil, because
Shiela must shoot quick if he slides for the water."

The men backed their nervously snorting horses, giving her room; Stent
dismounted, picked up a pig-nut, and threw it accurately. Instantly the
fat mud-coloured fold slipped over the root and a head appeared rising
straight out of the coils up into the air--a flat and rather small head
on a horribly swollen body, stump-tailed, disgusting. The head was
looking at them, stretched high, fully a third of the creature in the
air. Then, soundlessly, the wide-slitted mouth opened; and Hamil saw its
silky white lining.

"Moccasins stand their ground," said the girl, raising her gun. The shot
crashed out; the snake collapsed. For fully a minute they watched; not a
fold even quivered.

"Struck by lightning," said Gray; "the buzzards will get him." And he
drew a folding butterfly net from his saddle boot, affixed ring and
gauze bag, and cantered forward briskly in the wake of a great velvety
black butterfly which was sailing under the live-oaks above his head.

His father, wishing to talk to Eudo Stent, rode ahead with the guide,
leaving Shiela and Hamil to follow.

The latter reined in and waited while the girl leisurely returned the
fowling-piece to its holster. Then, together, they walked their horses
forward, wading the "branch" which flowed clear as a trout stream out
of the swamp on their right.

"It looks drinkable," he said.

"It is, for Crackers; but there's fever in it for you, Mr. Hamil....
Look at Gray! He's missed his butterfly. But it's a rather common
one--the black form of the tiger swallow-tail. Just see those
zebra-striped butterflies darting like lightning over the palmetto
scrub! Gray and I could never catch them until one day we found a ragged
one that couldn't fly and we placed it on a leaf; and every time one of
those butterflies came our way it paused in its flight for a second and
hovered over the ragged one. And that's how Gray and I caught the swift
Ajax butterflies for his collection!... I've helped him considerably, if
you please; I brought him the mysterious Echo moth from Ormond, and a
wonderful little hornet moth from Jupiter Inlet."

She was rattling on almost feverishly, never looking at him, restless in
her saddle, shifting bridle, adjusting stirrups, gun-case, knotting and
reknotting her neckerchief, all with that desperate attempt at composure
which betrays the courage that summons it.

"Shiela, dear!"

"What!" she said, startled into flushed surprise.

"Look at me."
