there though we could not see her. And there 
is the guardian, and the school, and Mrs. 
Aldred, and for a long while the baby will not 
have any one but Aunt Juliet and grandma. 
But I think she can never love her any better 
than we do. Isn’t it curious that you can love 





so many people and not have the love used 
up ? ” 

The little girl glanced with wondering eyes 
to the bright ones above her. 

“ Because there is so much love in your own 
generous heart,” replied Helen. “ It is one 
of the things that doesn’t make you any poorer 
for giving it away, and if you hoarded it up 
you wouldn’t be any richer.” 

“ That’s queer, too,” with a puzzled 
look. 

Helen smiled with a tender gravity. She 
thought of the old schooldays, and Daisy Bell, 
who longed to center every affection upon her- 
self. Poor sweet Daisy! To be laid in the 
cold dark earth when the world was so beauti- 
ful. Had she ever enjoyed it quite so much? 
It was a gladsome and lovely thing just to live 
in it. 

The days were full of pleasure. There was 
a charm about the house that lured people 
thither. The little girls had a lawn party, but 
mothers and elder sisters begged to come and 
look on. 

“O dear! Why do you go away?” and 


 

Wilma hung about Helen. “ Will you surely 
be back on Saturday ? ” 

“ Surely, surely. And you must take good 
care of baby.” 

Willard Bell met the travelers at the station. 
He seemed to have come up to a completer 
stature of manhood since his marriage and de- 
light shone in his eyes. 

“ I came for you because we dropped on 
something so delightful on Saturday and con- 
cluded to give you a surprise. A pretty fur- 
nished apartment, where the tenant wanted to 
remain away until the middle of October; one 
of the stenographers for the firm. That will 
give us plenty of time to look around and get 
furnished. We went in yesterday and are 
really housekeeping. It is simply great. 
Mother comes down this afternoon and will 
stay a while. So you are not going to any 
hotel.” 

“Are you sure guests will not be a bother?” 
interposed Juliet smilingly. 

“ Oh, Shirley was wild over the plan. 
She’s grown prettier than ever. You knew, 
I suppose, that her parents went abroad, 




so she hasn’t any one to depend on but 
me.” 

The dependence was certainly bringing out 
a very attractive manliness. 

“ We’re up near the Park and we have 
green fields at our very elbows. It’s con- 
venient, too. I begged off these two days 
though I’ve had grand vacations, and now 
must let the others take their chance. Here,” 
stopping the trolley, “ it’s just a bit of a walk.” 

They saw a handsome row of houses joined 
together, in appearance like a hotel. Willard 
guided them up one flight, but before they 
reached the top Shirley flew out with a joyous 
exclamation. 

She appeared oddly changed as well, not 
any older or more sedate, but with an air of 
experience that sat charmingly upon her. 

“ Why, it seems an age to me since com- 
mencement. I’ve been just brimming over 
with happiness, and O dear, there’s a book 
full of experiences and delights, but I’ve 
wanted you all the same! Willard said I al- 
most made him jealous, I loved you so.” 

Helen smiled and kissed the sweet face. 


AMONG THE BEGINNINGS II 

Yes, the little labor had brought a great re- 
ward. 

The rooms were certainly very pretty and 
not too ornately furnished. With their hats 
laid aside Shirley drew Helen down on the 
sofa. 

“ W e were up to see mother on Sunday and 
she said you had taken a position in some 
pretty town not far from New York. I am 
so glad! We shall be able to see you quite 
often. Have you kept in touch with many of 
the girls? I suppose there will be a new 
crowd when college opens. Oh, it was real 
splendid, wasn’t it? I’m sure I ought to be 
glad, for it gave me the happiness of my life. 
Oh, Helen, are you quite sure you will never 
regret ” 

“You foolish child! What should I re- 
gret?” 

“ Giving up Willard.” 

“ Hush, Shirley. Don’t ever think of 
that,” and Helen kissed her tenderly. “ Can’t 
you see now that you are the very one for 
him, that you suit him, that you make him 
happy with the sort of love I never could have 




given him? We can be splendid friends. I 
don’t know that I should feel so well satisfied 
if it had been any other girl. And you must 
never have a misgiving about all the joy that 
can be put into both lives.” 

“You are such a grand sort of a girl, Helen. 
Oh, I want some one just magnificent to fall in 
love with you some day.” 

Helen laughed. Willard had been showing 



Juliet about with the pride of a householder. 
Then he said to Helen, “ You see it is so long 
since I have had a real home. That was 
given up when father died. Dear father! I 
often think now how much his heart was in it 
and how happy he made us children. I shall 
take him for my ideal, my pattern. He seems 
so near to me, and to mother as well. We 
always have a good talk about him when we 
meet. And I think he would have loved 
Shirley, though his heart was set upon you,” 
and Willard flushed a little. “ You should 
have been born in our household, though then 
you couldn't have been Helen Grant,” with a 
rather amused intonation. 

“ No, I might have been very different.” 
