“Only two weeks.  That was plenty for me.  Laws, I was so lonesome!  You
see, I was full of the knowledge and experience of seventy-two years; the
deepest subject those young folks could strike was only  a-b-c  to me.
And to hear them argue—oh, my! it would have been funny, if it hadn’t
been so pitiful.  Well, I was so hungry for the ways and the sober talk I
was used to, that I tried to ring in with the old people, but they
wouldn’t have it.  They considered me a conceited young upstart, and gave
me the cold shoulder.  Two weeks was a-plenty for me.  I was glad to get
back my bald head again, and my pipe, and my old drowsy reflections in
the shade of a rock or a tree.”
“Well,” says I, “do you mean to say you’re going to stand still at
seventy-two, forever?”
“I don’t know, and I ain’t particular.  But I ain’t going to drop back to
twenty-five any more—I know that, mighty well.  I know a sight more than
I did twenty-seven years ago, and I enjoy learning, all the time, but I
don’t seem to get any older.  That is, bodily—my mind gets older, and
stronger, and better seasoned, and more satisfactory.”
Says I, “If a man comes here at ninety, don’t he ever set himself back?”
“Of course he does.  He sets himself back to fourteen; tries it a couple
of hours, and feels like a fool; sets himself forward to twenty; it ain’t
much improvement; tries thirty, fifty, eighty, and finally ninety—finds
he is more at home and comfortable at the same old figure he is used to
than any other way.  Or, if his mind begun to fail him on earth at
eighty, that’s where he finally sticks up here.  He sticks at the place
where his mind was last at its best, for there’s where his enjoyment is
best, and his ways most set and established.”
“Does a chap of twenty-five stay always twenty-five, and look it?”
“If he is a fool, yes.  But if he is bright, and ambitious and
industrious, the knowledge he gains and the experiences he has, change
his ways and thoughts and likings, and make him find his best pleasure in
the company of people above that age; so he allows his body to take on
that look of as many added years as he needs to make him comfortable and
proper in that sort of society; he lets his body go on taking the look of
age, according as he progresses, and by and by he will be bald and
wrinkled outside, and wise and deep within.”
“Babies the same?”
“Babies the same.  Laws, what asses we used to be, on earth, about these
things!  We said we’d be always young in heaven.  We didn’t say  how 
young—we didn’t think of that, perhaps—that is, we didn’t all think
alike, anyway.  When I was a boy of seven, I suppose I thought we’d all
be twelve, in heaven; when I was twelve, I suppose I thought we’d all be
eighteen or twenty in heaven; when I was forty, I begun to go back; I
remember I hoped we’d all be about  thirty  years old in heaven.  Neither
a man nor a boy ever thinks the age he  has  is exactly the best one—he
puts the right age a few years older or a few years younger than he is.
Then he makes that ideal age the general age of the heavenly people.  And
he expects everybody  to stick  at that age—stand stock-still—and expects
them to enjoy it!—Now just think of the idea of standing still in heaven!
Think of a heaven made up entirely of hoop-rolling, marble-playing cubs
of seven years!—or of awkward, diffident, sentimental immaturities of
nineteen!—or of vigorous people of thirty, healthy-minded, brimming with
ambition, but chained hand and foot to that one age and its limitations
like so many helpless galley-slaves!  Think of the dull sameness of a
society made up of people all of one age and one set of looks, habits,
tastes and feelings.  Think how superior to it earth would be, with its
variety of types and faces and ages, and the enlivening attrition of the
myriad interests that come into pleasant collision in such a variegated
society.”
“Look here,” says I, “do you know what you’re doing?”
“Well, what am I doing?”
“You are making heaven pretty comfortable in one way, but you are playing
the mischief with it in another.”
“How d’you mean?”
“Well,” I says, “take a young mother that’s lost her child, and—”
“Sh!” he says.  “Look!”
It was a woman.  Middle-aged, and had grizzled hair.  She was walking
slow, and her head was bent down, and her wings hanging limp and droopy;
and she looked ever so tired, and was crying, poor thing!  She passed
along by, with her head down, that way, and the tears running down her
face, and didn’t see us.  Then Sandy said, low and gentle, and full of
pity:
“ She’s  hunting for her child!  No,  found  it, I reckon.  Lord, how
she’s changed!  But I recognized her in a minute, though it’s
twenty-seven years since I saw her.  A young mother she was, about twenty
two or four, or along there; and blooming and lovely and sweet? oh, just
a flower!  And all her heart and all her soul was wrapped up in her
child, her little girl, two years old.  And it died, and she went wild
with grief, just wild!  Well, the only comfort she had was that she’d see
her child again, in heaven—‘never more to part,’ she said, and kept on
saying it over and over, ‘never more to part.’  And the words made her
happy; yes, they did; they made her joyful, and when I was dying,
twenty-seven years ago, she told me to find her child the first thing,
and say she was coming—‘soon, soon,  very  soon, she hoped and
believed!’”
“Why, it’s pitiful, Sandy.”
He didn’t say anything for a while, but sat looking at the ground,
thinking.  Then he says, kind of mournful:
“And now she’s come!”
“Well?  Go on.”
“Stormfield, maybe she hasn’t found the child, but  I  think she has.
Looks so to me.  I’ve seen cases before.  You see, she’s kept that child
in her head just the same as it was when she jounced it in her arms a
little chubby thing.  But here it didn’t elect to  stay  a child.  No, it
elected to grow up, which it did.  And in these twenty-seven years it has
learned all the deep scientific learning there is to learn, and is
studying and studying and learning and learning more and more, all the
time, and don’t give a damn for anything  but  learning; just learning,
and discussing gigantic problems with people like herself.”
“Well?”
“Stormfield, don’t you see?  Her mother knows  cranberries, and how to
tend them, and pick them, and put them up, and market them; and not
another blamed thing!  Her and her daughter can’t be any more company for
each other  now  than mud turtle and bird o’ paradise.  Poor thing, she
was looking for a baby to jounce;  I  think she’s struck a
disapp’intment.”
“Sandy, what will they do—stay unhappy forever in heaven?”
“No, they’ll come together and get adjusted by and by.  But not this
year, and not next.  By and by.”
CHAPTER II
I had been having considerable trouble with my wings.  The day after I
helped the choir I made a dash or two with them, but was not lucky.
First off, I flew thirty yards, and then fouled an Irishman and brought
him down—brought us both down, in fact.  Next, I had a collision with a
Bishop—and bowled him down, of course.  We had some sharp words, and I
felt pretty cheap, to come banging into a grave old person like that,
with a million strangers looking on and smiling to themselves.
I saw I hadn’t got the hang of the steering, and so couldn’t rightly tell
where I was going to bring up when I started.  I went afoot the rest of
the day, and let my wings hang.  Early next morning I went to a private
place to have some practice.  I got up on a pretty high rock, and got a
good start, and went swooping down, aiming for a bush a little over three
hundred yards off; but I couldn’t seem to calculate for the wind, which
was about two points abaft my beam.  I could see I was going considerable
to looard of the bush, so I worked my starboard wing slow and went ahead
strong on the port one, but it wouldn’t answer; I could see I was going
to broach to, so I slowed down on both, and lit.  I went back to the rock
and took another chance at it.  I aimed two or three points to starboard
of the bush—yes, more than that—enough so as to make it nearly a
head-wind.  I done well enough, but made pretty poor time.  I could see,
plain enough, that on a head-wind, wings was a mistake.  I could see that
a body could sail pretty close to the wind, but he couldn’t go in the
wind’s eye.  I could see that if I wanted to go a-visiting any distance
from home, and the wind was ahead, I might have to wait days, maybe, for
a change; and I could see, too, that these things could not be any use at
all in a gale; if you tried to run before the wind, you would make a mess
of it, for there isn’t anyway to shorten sail—like reefing, you know—you
have to take it  all  in—shut your feathers down flat to your sides.
That would  land  you, of course.  You could lay to, with your head to
the wind—that is the best you could do, and right hard work you’d find
it, too.  If you tried any other game, you would founder, sure.
I judge it was about a couple of weeks or so after this that I dropped
old Sandy McWilliams a note one day—it was a Tuesday—and asked him to
come over and take his manna and quails with me next day; and the first
thing he did when he stepped in was to twinkle his eye in a sly way, and
say,—
“Well, Cap, what you done with your wings?”
I saw in a minute that there was some sarcasm done up in that rag
somewheres, but I never let on.  I only says,—
“Gone to the wash.”
“Yes,” he says, in a dry sort of way, “they mostly go to the wash—about
this time—I’ve often noticed it.  Fresh angels are powerful neat.  When
do you look for ’em back?”
“Day after to-morrow,” says I.
He winked at me, and smiled.
Says I,—
“Sandy, out with it.  Come—no secrets among friends.  I notice you don’t
ever wear wings—and plenty others don’t.  I’ve been making an ass of
myself—is that it?”
“That is about the size of it.  But it is no harm.  We all do it at
first.  It’s perfectly natural.  You see, on earth we jump to such
foolish conclusions as to things up here.  In the pictures we always saw
the angels with wings on—and that was all right; but we jumped to the
conclusion that that was their way of getting around—and that was all
wrong.  The wings ain’t anything but a uniform, that’s all.  When they
are in the field—so to speak,—they always wear them; you never see an
angel going with a message anywhere without his wings, any more than you
would see a military officer presiding at a court-martial without his
uniform, or a postman delivering letters, or a policeman walking his
beat, in plain clothes.  But they ain’t to  fly  with!  The wings are for
show, not for use.  Old experienced angels are like officers of the
regular army—they dress plain, when they are off duty.  New angels are
like the militia—never shed the uniform—always fluttering and floundering
around in their wings, butting people down, flapping here, and there, and
everywhere, always imagining they are attracting the admiring eye—well,
they just think they are the very most important people in heaven.  And
when you see one of them come sailing around with one wing tipped up and
t’other down, you make up your mind he is saying to himself: ‘I wish Mary
Ann in Arkansaw could see me now.  I reckon she’d wish she hadn’t shook
me.’  No, they’re just for show, that’s all—only just for show.”
“I judge you’ve got it about right, Sandy,” says I.
