the tourists have flocked off to lunch and the echoes of the charming
chambers have gone to sleep among the sunbeams. There is no brighter
place in Venice--by which I mean that on the whole there is none half so
bright. The reflected sunshine plays up through the great windows from
the glittering lagoon and shimmers and twinkles over gilded walls and
ceilings. All the history of Venice, all its splendid stately past,
glows around you in a strong sealight. Everyone here is magnificent, but
the great Veronese is the most magnificent of all. He swims before you
in a silver cloud; he thrones in an eternal morning. The deep blue sky
burns behind him, streaked across with milky bars; the white colonnades
sustain the richest canopies, under which the first gentlemen and ladies
in the world both render homage and receive it. Their glorious garments
rustle in the air of the sea and their sun-lighted faces are the very
complexion of Venice. The mixture of pride and piety, of politics and
religion, of art and patriotism, gives a splendid dignity to every
scene. Never was a painter more nobly joyous, never did an artist take a
greater delight in life, seeing it all as a kind of breezy festival and
feeling it through the medium of perpetual success. He revels in the
gold-framed ovals of the ceilings, multiplies himself there with the
fluttering movement of an embroidered banner that tosses itself into the
blue. He was the happiest of painters and produced the happiest picture
in the world. “The Rape of Europa” surely deserves this title; it is
impossible to look at it without aching with envy. Nowhere else in art
is such a temperament revealed; never did inclination and opportunity
combine to express such enjoyment. The mixture of flowers and gems and
brocade, of blooming flesh and shining sea and waving groves, of youth,
health, movement, desire--all this is the brightest vision that ever
descended upon the soul of a painter. Happy the artist who could
entertain such a vision; happy the artist who could paint it as the
masterpiece I here recall is painted.

The Tintoret’s visions were not so bright as that; but he had several
that were radiant enough. In the room that contains the work just cited
are several smaller canvases by the greatly more complex genius of the
Scuola di San Rocco, which are almost simple in their loveliness, almost
happy in their simplicity. They have kept their brightness through the
centuries, and they shine with their neighbours in those golden rooms.
There is a piece of painting in one of them which is one of the sweetest
things in Venice and which reminds one afresh of those wild flowers of
execution that bloom so profusely and so unheeded in the dark corners
of all of the Tintoret’s work. “Pallas chasing away Mars” is, I believe,
the name that is given to the picture; and it represents in fact a young
woman of noble appearance administering a gentle push to a fine young
man in armour, as if to tell him to keep his distance. It is of the
gentleness of this push that I speak, the charming way in which she puts
out her arm, with a single bracelet on it, and rests her young hand, its
rosy fingers parted, on his dark breastplate. She bends her enchanting
head with the effort--a head which has all the strange fairness that the
Tintoret always sees in women--and the soft, living, flesh-like glow
of all these members, over which the brush has scarcely paused in its
course, is as pretty an example of genius as all Venice can show.
But why speak of the Tintoret when I can say nothing of the great
“Paradise,” which unfolds its somewhat smoky splendour and the wonder of
its multitudinous circles in one of the other chambers? If it were not
one of the first pictures in the world it would be about the biggest,
and we must confess that the spectator gets from it at first chiefly
an impression of quantity. Then he sees that this quantity is really
wealth; that the dim confusion of faces is a magnificent composition,
and that some of the details of this composition are extremely
beautiful. It is impossible however in a retrospect of Venice to specify
one’s happiest hours, though as one looks backward certain ineffaceable
moments start here and there into vividness. How is it possible to
forget one’s visits to the sacristy of the Frari, however frequent
they may have been, and the great work of John Bellini which forms the
treasure of that apartment?


VII

Nothing in Venice is more perfect than this, and we know of no work of
art more complete. The picture is in three compartments; the Virgin sits
in the central division with her child; two venerable saints, standing
close together, occupy each of the others. It is impossible to imagine
anything more finished or more ripe. It is one of those things that sum
up the genius of a painter, the experience of a life, the teaching of
a school. It seems painted with molten gems, which have only been
clarified by time, and is as solemn as it is gorgeous and as simple as
it is deep. Giovanni Bellini is more or less everywhere in Venice, and,
wherever he is, almost certain to be first--first, I mean, in his own
line: paints little else than the Madonna and the saints; he has not
Carpaccio’s care for human life at large, nor the Tintoret’s nor the
of the Veronese. Some of his greater pictures, however, where several
figures are clustered together, have a richness of sanctity that is
almost profane. There is one of them on the dark side of the room at the
Academy that contains Titian’s “Assumption,” which if we could only see
it--its position is an inconceivable scandal--would evidently be one of
the mightiest of so-called sacred pictures. So too is the Madonna of San
Zaccaria, hung in a cold, dim, dreary place, ever so much too high, but
so mild and serene, and so grandly disposed and accompanied, that the
proper attitude for even the most critical amateur, as he looks at it,
strikes one as the bended knee. There is another noble John Bellini,
one of the very few in which there is no Virgin, at San Giovanni
Crisostomo--a St. Jerome, in a red dress, sitting aloft upon the rocks
and with a landscape of extraordinary purity behind him. The absence of
the peculiarly erect Madonna makes it an interesting surprise among the
works of the painter and gives it a somewhat less strenuous air. But it
has brilliant beauty and the St. Jerome is a delightful old personage.

The same church contains another great picture for which the haunter
of these places must find a shrine apart in his memory; one of the most
interesting things he will have seen, if not the most brilliant. Nothing
appeals more to him than three figures of Venetian ladies which occupy
the foreground of a smallish canvas of Sebastian del Piombo, placed
above the high altar of San Giovanni Crisostomo. Sebastian was a
Venetian by birth, but few of his productions are to be seen in his
native place; few indeed are to be seen anywhere. The picture represents
the patron-saint of the church, accompanied by other saints and by the
worldly votaries I have mentioned. These ladies stand together on the
left, holding in their hands little white caskets; two of them are in
profile, but the foremost turns her face to the spectator. This face and
figure are almost unique among the beautiful things of Venice, and they
leave the susceptible observer with the impression of having made,
or rather having missed, a strange, a dangerous, but a most valuable,
acquaintance. The lady, who is superbly handsome, is the typical
Venetian of the sixteenth century, and she remains for the mind the
perfect flower of that society. Never was there a greater air of
breeding, a deeper expression of tranquil superiority. She walks a
goddess--as if she trod without sinking the waves of the Adriatic. It
is impossible to conceive a more perfect expression of the aristocratic
spirit either in its pride or in its benignity. This magnificent
creature is so strong and secure that she is gentle, and so quiet that
in comparison all minor assumptions of calmness suggest only a vulgar
alarm. But for all this there are depths of possible disorder in her
light-coloured eye.

I had meant however to say nothing about her, for it’s not right to
speak of Sebastian when one hasn’t found room for Carpaccio. These
visions come to one, and one can neither hold them nor brush them aside.
Memories of Carpaccio, the magnificent, the delightful--it’s not for
want of such visitations, but only for want of space, that I haven’t
said of him what I would. There is little enough need of it for
Carpaccio’s sake, his fame being brighter to-day--thanks to the generous
lamp Mr. Ruskin has held up to it--than it has ever been. Yet there is
something ridiculous in talking of Venice without making him almost the
refrain. He and the Tintoret are the two great realists, and it is hard
to say which is the more human, the more various. The Tintoret had
the mightier temperament, but Carpaccio, who had the advantage of more
newness and more responsibility, sailed nearer to perfection. Here and
there he quite touches it, as in the enchanting picture, at the Academy,
of St. Ursula asleep in her little white bed, in her high clean room,
where the angel visits her at dawn; or in the noble St. Jerome in his
study at S. Giorgio Schiavoni. This latter work is a pearl of sentiment,
and I may add without being fantastic a ruby of colour. It unites the
most masterly finish with a kind of universal largeness of feeling, and
he who has it well in his memory will never hear the name of Carpaccio
without a throb of almost personal affection. Such indeed is the feeling
that descends upon you in that wonderful little chapel of St. George
of the Slaves, where this most personal and sociable of artists has
expressed all the sweetness of his imagination. The place is small
and incommodious, the pictures are out of sight and ill-lighted, the
custodian is rapacious, the visitors are mutually intolerable, but
the shabby little chapel is a palace of art. Mr. Ruskin has written a
pamphlet about it which is a real aid to enjoyment, though I can’t but
think the generous artist, with his keen senses and his just feeling,
would have suffered to hear his eulogist declare that one of his
other productions--in the Museo Civico of Palazzo Correr, a delightful
portrait of two Venetian ladies with pet animals--is the “finest picture
in the world.” It has no need of that to be thought admirable; and what
more can a painter desire?


VIII

May in Venice is better than April, but June is best of all. Then the
days are hot, but not too hot, and the nights are more beautiful than
the days. Then Venice is rosier than ever in the morning and more golden
than ever as the day descends. She seems to expand and evaporate, to
multiply all her reflections and iridescences. Then the life of her
people and the strangeness of her constitution become a perpetual
comedy, or at least a perpetual drama. Then the gondola is your sole
habitation, and you spend days between sea and sky. You go to the Lido,
though the Lido has been spoiled. When I first saw it, in 1869, it was
a very natural place, and there was but a rough lane across the little
island from the landing-place to the beach. There was a bathing-place in
those days, and a restaurant, which was very bad, but where in the warm
evenings your dinner didn’t much matter as you sat letting it cool on
the wooden terrace that stretched out into the sea. To-day the Lido is
a part of united Italy and has been made the victim of villainous
improvements. A little cockney village has sprung up on its rural bosom
and a third-rate boulevard leads from Santa Elisabetta to the Adriatic.
