broken, and Welden and Malakoff had 
gone out together, though, after the French 
fashion, without appreciable damage. 

But why had they gone out? Why had 
the engagement been broken, and why the 
divorce ? 

Here were pleasurable mysteries super 
posing themselves on the denser darkness of 
the crime, and suggesting to the detectives 
of the breakfast table that it was assassins of 
the duke who had done it ; if not, then emissaries of the girl. 

For by the time the foregoing and very in 
correct details, together with bogus present 
ments of all concerned, had been journalistically set forth, by that time, the lame ostler 
had been released. 

Amid great hilarity and to the satisfaction of everybody save of one policeman 
only he had demonstrated that if at the 
hour, two A. M., at which time it had been 
shown the crime was committed, he were illegally occupied, the illegality had been ef 
fected at Santa Barbara with the privity, 
connivance and in the society of that police 
man's wife. The woman, immediately sum 
moned, had at first hotly denied, but 
prodded with questions at once circumstantial and deplorably intimate, finally yielded, 
and admitted the fact. 

Thereupon, no one else being under suspicion, and no further evidence having been 
adduced, verdict was rendered that the deceased had come to her death at the hands of 
some person or persons unknown. 

Then, for the bono publicanism of it 
which, being interpreted, meant little more 
than the coin of affluent Easterners, 
who, already scarce, might become scarcer 
it was felt that town and county 
ought to make the apprehension of the 
person or persons definitely worth while. 
But before the matter could be put into an 
inviting shape, provided, that is, there was 



 

any real intention of so putting it, Welden 
offered a reward of $25,000 for such information as would lead to their arrest and conviction; $5,000 additional for the recovery 
of the rings. 

The gross amount, a small fortune to 
some, a large one to many, fevered a number 
of people and, among them, Wicks particularly. 

In those days, Wicks was an unhappy 
man. Only a fortnight had intervened between the renting of White Peacocks and 
the morning on which Welden had intimated 
his intention of buying the property. Then 
this thing had occurred, and from his hand, 
from his lips even, the cup had been torn. 
The cup, or more exactly its contents, the 
compensation, would have sufficed until January, when the Eastern influx of affluence 
was usually due. But this was April. Jan- 
was many moons away, and things 
very bleak in the mortgaged bungalow, on the porch of which, endlessly he 
went over them all. It was, though, a dis 
tressed and weary Wicks who did it, and 
weary and distressed was the woman whom 
he forced to hear and rehear the tale. 

Then, into the bleakness of things, there 
tumbled the announcement of the rewards. 
They inflamed Wicks, who, though he lacked 
the gift of divination, was at least alert and 
indefatigable, or at least, so claimed to be, 
and these were attributes which, chance facilitating, might aid him to secure the por 
tentous sum. In his favour moreover was 
his superior quality of agent of the estate. 
Strangers might hover about there, detectives, whether amateur or professional, 
might prowl there as well, and against these 
the guilty would be on their guard, whereas 
his presence would be taken as a matter of 
course. In the mere exercise of his functions he was free to roam at will. 

These considerations, natural in themselves, had for basis an assumption, which 
Wicks by no means reached alone, that the 
murder was the work of someone directly 
associated with the estate. Possibly it might 
have been done by a passing bandit. Possibly, also, the criminal might be a pirate 
come in from the sea. But in that case it 
were necessary to assume on the part of an 
outsider, an entire familiarity with the locale, and a knowledge not only of the 
jewels, but of the intimate fact that the 
dead woman slept alone. Acquaintance 
with these matters was of course possible, 
for the reason that anything and everything 
is. But, at least, it was not probable. 

Eliminating, therefore, the outsider, the 
murder was necessarily the work of some 
of those within. From the latter the adulterous ostler was already excluded. The 
others, the half-breed, the negro, the Japanese, together with the laundress, a scullion 
and a housemaid, recruited from Los Angeles, were all quartered in a separate build 
ing. The fact had been brought out at the 
inquest, where it had been also shown that 
during the Weldens tenancy, none of them, 
except the housemaid, the scullion and the 
cook, had ever entered the house; and into 
the main part of it, as distinct from the 
kitchen and its offices, the cook and the scullion had not once, except on the morning 
when the murder was discovered, been known 
or permitted to come. 

The housemaid had necessarily the run of 
it, but by day only, and while information 
concerning the rings might have been conveyed by her to other parties, she would not 
have been aware that they were unprotected 
at night, unless she had been so informed 
by Perkins, or by Harris, who as Perkins 
husband, probably knew as much as she did. 

On the other hand, information of this 
character would hardly be supplied by upper 
servants, who lived apart from the others, 



 

particularly as one might say, on an 
acquaintance so brief. You never can tell, 
however, yet accepting the facts as they 
appeared, the matter narrowed down to 
those who slept in the house, that is to say, 
to Harris and Perkins. 

For clearly Welden was out of it, if for 
no other reason than because, had he wished 
to be rid of the lady, a brief sojourn in 
neighbourly Nevada would suffice to set him 
legally free. Or, if divorce seemed circui 
tous, a slight shove from the bluff, a tarantula put nesting in her bed, and, without in 
convenience, the thing was done. But any 
thing of the kind was beyond peradventure, 
in addition to being absurd. Men of the 
world do not kill an obnoxious wife. They 
find it simpler to detest her. Moreover, 
such men as do murder their wives, do not 
first steal the lady's jewels and then offer a 
reward for their own apprehension, another 
for the recovery of the gems. They do not, 





that is, unless they are lunatics, and anyone 
saner than Welden it were difficult to 
meet. 

These deductions Wicks did not reach 
unaided or even as they are here set forth. 
On the contrary, they were prompted in part 
by the press, partly by the wife of his bosom. 
As a consequence, they were superficial and, 
therefore, unsound. But they satisfied, so 
fully even that he kept an alert eye on Harris, an indefatigable one on Perkins. 

In spite of which he saw nothing sus 
picious. At the time being he was not, how 
ever, as close to them as he could have wished, 
and that defect he artfully remedied. After 
the funeral, Welden, leaving for address 
the Plaza, New York, boarded a train and 
was taken away. But these two remained 
in situations luringly procured at wages- 
California wages! such as they had never 
known, never heard of or even dreamed. 
