
Celia met her sister face to face and stopped amazed at the 
glow of her, the eyes that streamed a flood of pleasure, the 
crimson cheeks, even the flying tendrils of her hair, crisping 
every instant. Bess threw back her head and laughed, for no 
reason except, it seemed, to open her mouth wide and drink 
into it more of the salt wash of air. Her fervor, the bacchante 
joy and abandon of her, passed into Celia's veins, and she, too, 
laughed for nothing. The silence and the waves and the wind 
had mad hold of them, and all the things they had learned 
about the desirableness of speaking and walking as others do, 
passed away from them and left them savage. 

" Come," Celia bade her, " walk along the beach." 

They took hands and hurried, their faces toward the crin- 
kling water. To Celia, who had crossed it and to whom it was 



 



a necessary adjunct to life on a steamer's deck, it suddenly 
became the colossal marvel her sister found it. She wanted 
to break the bonds of her silence, — the silence she had lived 
in ever since her childhood in her hospitable home, — and 
call out to it, inarticulate, even uncouth complainings like its 
own. It would not understand. Nothing understood, but she 
could at least have a voice and not an inharmonious one, in 
the natural dissonance of life. Bess was hurrying more and 
more. 

"Stop !'' she said, and with the word halted and plumped 
herself down on the beach in the fashion of children who play 
in the sand. She untied the ribbons of her correct shoes, pulled 
ofFher stockings, rolled them into a neat wad, and stuck them 
in the shoes. These shoes and stockings she threw with ac- 
curacy inland, where they landed in a hollow underneath a 
tussock. Then she stood up, kilted her short skirt higher, 
and was free. 

Celia looked on for an instant and thought of Catherine. 
But the little gray house was well behind them, and she, too, 
fell upon the sand, took off her shoes and stockings and 
hurled them into the tussock. Upon that, she rose and laid 
hand upon her sister's wrist, and they ran, their white feet 
flashing, sometimes on wet sand, with little wild excursions into 
the water, and sometimes on the drier stretch. The Point runs 
out into a miracle of water, the harbor still on one side, and 
farther, toward the setting sun, brown roofs and the spires of 
town. When the two had come to the narrowing tongue of 
land, their spirits bade them continue and jump off into the 
abyss of water, do anything but return. There they stood 
and looked at each other, hot, with the blood in their cheeks, 
and then took hands and danced. 

Celia danced beautifully. She had been one of a club of 
unprofessional girls of worshipful high degree who gave 



 





entertainments for the benefit of the poor and the freeing 
of their own fetters, and she could foot it deftly ; but Bess 
delivered herself over to an untrained abandon the nymphs 
would have understood and copied. All outdoors entered 
into her and made her drunk. Her hair fell about her and 
she helped it with a hairpin snatched out here and there. 
Round and round they flew, and there the three fishermen 
who had sent the boat on to an inner landing, by old Giles, 
and were walking to stretch their legs, saw them and stood 
amazed. 

Tim, no fisherman, a picture of lank uselessness, shaded 
by his gray felt hat, understood first, and with a glorious 
yell was upon them, extending hands that begged to be 
taken into the ring. Bess looked round and saw him, mod- 
erated her transports by a shade, and yet accepted him. It 
seemed to her and to Celia, under the magic of the moment, 
the expected thing for natural man to do. With the low sun 
in their eyes and the west burning, the sea crawling away 
from them and then advancing, a spell came upon them, and 
on Lovell next. When he thought of it that night with a 
burning face, he wondered how it could have been that he 
seized Hunter by the arm and pulled him forward, that Tim, 
with one of his uncanny laughs, had broken the ring to let 
them in, and that they had all danced round three times on 
the wet sands, and then had stopped and dizzily regarded 
one another. 

Tim, in his high voice, gave an impish hoot, and Dwight 
Hunter stood straight, like a young savage, refraining from 
sight of Bess, who, he knew, was twisting up her hair. 
Lovell stood silently, his breath coming fast, and looked 
with a serious adoration at the nymphs who had enslaved 
him by dragging him back with their puissant soft hands 
to Greece, to Olympus where the unseen are footing it to 



 



soundless measures he only remembered usually in the 
pages of a book. 

But they were walking on together, and Celia, recalled to 
the customs of life, was talking gayly. Tim answered her, in 
a swift interchange, and Lovell, on the other side of Celia, 
looked at the curving line of her ear with the cloudy hair 
behind it, and felt within him the madness of nature-wor- 
ship. Once she turned to him, her curved lips parted for a 
word, and before he knew what he was saying he had stam- 
mered out his foolish subterfuge to women, — "Excuse me. 
I 'm a little deaf," and she had smiled divinely and turned 
away again. 

Bess and Hunter walked behind them with sedate steps, 
a swinging stride where they accorded, and did not speak. 
Bess had no perception of him except as one who, like her, 
had seen the ocean, and was absorbed in its large presence. 
The world and the sense of it came upon them all when 
they neared the spot where two pairs of beautiful pumps lay 
beneath a tussock. Celia cringed a little in her walk. Her 
back, as Hunter's eyes dwelt upon it, got demure motions 
as of a maiden escaping notice. Presently she stopped, and 
Bess, coming to her side, stood with her. 

" Will you go ? " Celia asked the men, with much dignity. 
"We left our shoes here. Please don't wait for us." 

The three went on without a word, though Tim croaked 
and sang and tossed his hat into the air, never by any chance 
catching it, but once setting his foot on it in acrobatic frenzy. 
Bess and Celia, by the tussock, put on their shoes and stock- 
ings gravely and seemed, in the doing, to assume another 
guise. They sat a moment after their feet were clad, giving 
little touches to their hair, settling a collar and brushing the 
sand from skirts. Celia spoke first: — 

" She 'd be ashamed of us." 



 





In their brief references to Catherine, when they were 
alone, she was never known by her name or the scrupulously 
affectionate title Celia gave her in direct address. It was an 
unspoken point of honor with them not to discuss her, not 
to exchange opinions about what she did or required of 
them to do; but she was always known as "she." 

" Why ? " Bess inquired, not gainsayingly but as if the 
question had been bred out of Celia's statement. 

" She M think it was because we are adopted." 

They got up then and walked along, not hand in hand 
but quickly, making a business of going, and when they 
were nearing the house, Bess said impulsively, as if in de- 
fence of Catherine, — 

" She never did say it." 

" No. She never said it, but she thinks it." 

Again they kept on in silence, but when they had come 
