yet another soul's tragedy. Sophie, too, was 
drinking in the music, and hf e had crept into her 
face, and her breath came quick and fast, and 
now and then she furtively brushed away a tear. 

Afterwards, as they walked home, she said to 
Samuel, " I don't know if it's good for me to 
listen to music hke that." 

" Why not? " he asked — " if it makes you 
happy." 

"But it makes me unhappy afterwards. It 
makes me want things. And I get restless — and 
when I go back to the factory it's so much 
harder." 

" What do you do in the factory? " asked 
Samuel. 

" I'm what they call a bobbin-girl — I tie the 
threads on the bobbins when they are empty." 

" Is it very hard work? " 

" No, you mightn't think so. But you have 
to stand up all day; and it's doing the same thing 





all the lime — the same thing the whole day long. 
You get dull — you never think about anything. 
And then the air is full of dust and the machinery 
roars. You get used to it, but I'm sure its bad 
for you." 

They walked for a while in silence. " Do you 
like to imagine things? " asked Sophie suddenly. 

" Yes," said he. 

" I used to," said she — " when I was younger." 

It was so strange to Samuel to notice that this 
slip of a child always spoke of herself as old. 
" Why don't you do it now? " he asked. 

" I'm too tired, I think. But I've a lot of 
pictures up in my room — that I cut out of maga- 
zines that people gave me. Pictures of beautiful 
things — birds and jBlowers, and old castles, and 
fine ladies and gentlemen. And I used to make 
up stories about them, and imagine that I was 
there, and that all sorts of nice things were hap- 
pening to me. Would you like to see my pic- 
tures? " 

" Very much," said Samuel. 

" I think of things like that when I listen to 
Friedrich. I've a picture of Sir Galahad — he's 
very beautiful, and he stands at his horse's head 
with a sword in his hand. I used to dream that 
somebody like that might come and carry me off 
to a place where there aren't any mills. But I 
guess it's no use any more." 





" Why not? " asked the other. 

" It's too late. There is something the matter 
with me. I never say anything, because it would 
make mother unhappy; but I'm always tired now, 
and every day I have a headache. And I'm so 
very sleepy, and yet when I lie down I can't sleep 
— I keep hearing the mill." 

"Oh!" cried Samuel involuntarily. 

" I don't mind it so much," said the child. 
" There's no help, so what's the use. It's only 
when I hear Friedrich play — then I get all 
stirred up." 

They walked on for a while again. 

" He's very unhappy," she said finally. 

" I suppose so," replied Samuel. " Tell me," 
he asked suddenly. " Isn't there some other work 
that you could do? " 

" What? I'm not strong enough for hard 
work. And where could I make three dollars a 
week? " 

" Is that what they pay you? " 

" Yes — that is — when we are on full time." 

" Does it make all the girls sick? " he inquired. 
" There's that girl who came in this afternoon — 
she seems well and strong." 

" Bessie, you mean? But it's just play for her, 
you see. She lives with her parents and stops 
whenever she feels like it. She just wants to buy 
dresses and go to the theater." 





" But that girl we passed on the street to-day! " 

"Helen Davis. Ah, yes — but she's different 
again. She's bad." 

" Bad? " echoed Samuel perplexed. 

There was a brief pause. It was not easy for 
him to adjust himself to a world in which the good 
were of necessity frail and ill, and the bad were 
rosy-cheeked and merry. " How do you mean? " 
he asked at last. 

And Sophie answered quite simply, " She lives 
with a fellow." 

The blood leaped into Samuel's face. Such a 
blunder for him to have made. 

But then the flush passed, giving place to a feel- 
ing of horrified wonder. For Sophie was not in 
the least embarrassed — she spoke in the most mat- 
ter-of-fact tone. And this from a child of thir- 
teen, who did not look to be ten. 

" I see," said he in a faint voice. 

" A good many of the girls do it," she added. 
" You see, they move about so much — the mills 
close, and so a girl has no hope of marrying. But 
mother says it's wrong, just the same." 

And Samuel walked home the rest of the way 
in silence, and thinking no more about the joys 
of music. 



CHAPTER VII 

ON Monday morning Samuel fomid that 
Professor Stewart had returned, and he sat 
in the great man's study and waited vmtil he had 
finished his breakfast. 

It was a big room, completely walled with 
crowded bookshelves; in the center was a big 
work-table covered with books and papers. Sam- 
uel had never dreamed that there were so many 
books in the world, and he gazed about him with 
awe, feeling that he had come to the sources of 
knowledge. 

That was Samuel's way. Both by nature and 
training, he had a profound respect for all au- 
thority. He believed in the majesty of the law — 
that was why it had shocked him so to be arrested. 
He thought of the chiu-ch as a divine institution, 
whose ministers were appointed as shepherds of 
the people. And up here on the heights was this 
great College, a temple of learning; and this pro- 
fessor was one who had been selected by those in 
