“Do I understand you to suggest,” Lord Theign asked of the startling
young man, “that my precious picture isn’t genuine?”

Well, Hugh knew exactly what he suggested. “As a picture, Lord Theign,
as a great portrait, one of the most genuine things in Europe. But it
strikes me as probable that from far back--for reasons!--there has
been a wrong attribution; that the work has been, in other words,
traditionally, obstinately miscalled. It has passed for a Moretto, and
at first I quite took it for one; but I suddenly, as I looked and looked
and saw and saw, began to doubt, and now I know why I doubted.”

Lord Theign had during this speech kept his eyes on the ground; but he
raised them to Mr. Crimble’s almost palpitating presence for the remark:
“I’m bound to say that I hope you’ve some very good grounds!”

“I’ve three or four, Lord Theign; they seem to me of the best--as yet.
They made me wonder and wonder--and then light splendidly broke.”

His lordship didn’t stint his attention. “Reflected, you mean, from
other Mantovanos--that I don’t know?”

“I mean from those I know myself,” said Hugh; “and I mean from fine
analogies with one in particular.”

“Analogies that in all these years, these centuries, have so remarkably
not been noticed?”

“Well,” Hugh competently explained, “they’re a sort of thing the very
sense of, the value and meaning of, are a highly modern--in fact a quite
recent growth.”

Lord John at this professed with cordiality that he at least quite
understood. “Oh, we know a lot more about our pictures and things than
ever our ancestors did!”

“Well, I guess it’s enough for me,” Mr. Bender contributed, “that your
ancestors knew enough to get ‘em!”

“Ah, that doesn’t go so far,” cried Hugh, “unless we ourselves know
enough to keep ‘em!”

The words appeared to quicken in a manner Lord Theign’s view of the
speaker. “Were your ancestors, Mr. Crimble, great collectors?”

Arrested, it might be, in his general assurance, Hugh wondered and
smiled. “Mine--collectors? Oh, I’m afraid I haven’t any--to speak of.
Only it has seemed to me for a long time,” he added, “that on that head
we should all feel together.”

Lord Theign looked for a moment as if these were rather large
presumptions; then he put them in their place a little curtly. “It’s one
thing to keep our possessions for ourselves--it’s another to keep them
for other people.”

“Well,” Hugh good-humouredly returned, “I’m perhaps not so absolutely
sure of myself, if you press me, as that I sha’n’t be glad of a higher
and wiser opinion--I mean than my own. It would be awfully interesting,
if you’ll allow me to say so, to have the judgment of one or two of the
great men.”

“You’re not yourself, Mr. Crimble, one of the great men?” his host asked
with tempered irony.

“Well, I guess he’s going to be, anyhow,” Mr. Bender cordially struck
in; “and this remarkable exhibition of intelligence may just let him
loose on the world, mayn’t it?”

“Thank you, Mr. Bender!”--and Hugh obviously tried to look neither
elated nor snubbed. “I’ve too much still to learn, but I’m learning
every day, and I shall have learnt immensely this afternoon.”

“Pretty well at my expense, however,” Lord Theign laughed, “if you
demolish a name we’ve held for generations so dear.”

“You may have held the name dear, my lord,” his young critic answered;
“but my whole point is that, if I’m right, you’ve held the picture
itself cheap.”

“Because a Mantovano,” said Lord John, “is so much greater a value?”

Hugh met his eyes a moment “Are you talking of values pecuniary?”

“What values are not pecuniary?”

Hugh might, during his hesitation, have been imagined to stand off a
little from the question. “Well, some things have in a higher degree
that one, and some have the associational or the factitious, and some
the clear artistic.”

“And some,” Mr. Bender opined, “have them all--in the highest degree.
But what you mean,” he went on, “is that a Mantovano would come higher
under the hammer than a Moretto?”

“Why, sir,” the young man returned, “there aren’t any, as I’ve just
stated, to ‘come.’ I account--or I easily can--for every one of the
very small number.”

“Then do you consider that you account for this one?”

“I believe I shall if you’ll give me time.”

“Oh, time!” Mr. Bender impatiently sighed. “But we’ll give you all we’ve
got--only I guess it isn’t much.” And he appeared freely to invite their
companions to join in this estimate. They listened to him, however, they
watched him, for the moment, but in silence, and with the next he had
gone on: “How much higher--if your idea is correct about it--would Lord
Theign’s picture come?”

Hugh turned to that nobleman. “Does Mr. Bender mean come to him, my
lord?”

Lord Theign looked again hard at Hugh, and then harder than he had done
yet at his other invader. “I don’t know what Mr. Bender means!” With
which he turned off.

“Well, I guess I mean that it would come higher to me than to any one!
But how much higher?” the American continued to Hugh.

“How much higher to you?”

“Oh, I can size that. How much higher as a Mantovano?”

Unmistakably--for us at least--our young man was gaining time; he had
the instinct of circumspection and delay. “To any one?”

“To any one.”

“Than as a Moretto?” Hugh continued.

It even acted on Lord John’s nerves. “That’s what we’re talking
about--really!”

But Hugh still took his ease; as if, with his eyes first on Bender
and then on Lord Theign, whose back was practically presented, he were
covertly studying signs. “Well,” he presently said, “in view of the very
great interest combined with the very great rarity, more than--ah more
than can be estimated off-hand.”

It made Lord Theign turn round. “But a fine Moretto has a very great
rarity and a very great interest.”

“Yes--but not on the whole the same amount of either.”

“No, not on the whole the same amount of either!”--Mr. Bender
judiciously echoed it. “But how,” he freely pursued, “are you going to
find out?”

“Have I your permission, Lord Theign,” Hugh brightly asked, “to attempt
to find out?”

The question produced on his lordship’s part a visible, a natural
anxiety. “What would it be your idea then to do with my property?”

“Nothing at all here--it could all be done, I think, at Verona. What
besets, what quite haunts me,” Hugh explained, “is the vivid image of a
Mantovano--one of the glories of the short list--in a private collection
in that place. The conviction grows in me that the two portraits must
be of the same original. In fact I’ll bet my head,” the young man quite
ardently wound up, “that the wonderful subject of the Verona picture, a
very great person clearly, is none other than the very great person of
yours.”

Lord Theign had listened with interest. “Mayn’t he be that and yet from
another hand?”

“It isn’t another hand”--oh Hugh was quite positive. “It’s the hand of
the very same painter.”

“How can you prove it’s the same?”

“Only by the most intimate internal evidence, I admit--and evidence that
of course has to be estimated.”

“Then who,” Lord Theign asked, “is to estimate it?”

“Well,”--Hugh was all ready--“will you let Pap-pendick, one of the first
authorities in Europe, a good friend of mine, in fact more or less my
master, and who is generally to be found at Brussels? I happen to know
he knows your picture--he once spoke to me of it; and he’ll go and look
again at the Verona one, he’ll go and judge our issue, if I apply to
