

 

it was like blank verse. One might toil all day for a 
single phrase into which to pack one's meaning. 

He wished to show Hathawi from the beginning ; the 
solitary child, the seer of life's mystery, who went away 
into a lonely place to brood. He dwelt in the high 
mountains, where the lightning played and the storm- 
winds shook him; he disciplined his will by fasting and 
prayer, so that the self in him died, and he could per- 
ceive eternal things, and aspects of being that are 
hidden. He went into the forests and dwelt with the 
wild things, and learned to understand their language 
not only their beauty and their power, which are plain ; 
not only their fears and their hatreds, which are pain- 
ful to discover ; but also their love, which is deepest of 
all. He learned to know the life which is in lifeless 
things in water and air and fire; the joys and sorrows 
of the flowers, and the venerable wisdom of great trees, 
and the worship which is in the floods of sunlight. And 
having learned these tilings, Hathawi came back into 
the world. 

He found that he was able to read the souls of men , 
but at first he could not believe what he read it was 
so terrible, and so far from nature. He preferred to 
stay among the poor, because they were closer to the 
heart of things, and their falsehoods were simple. But 
he discovered that the evil and misery of men's life 
came from above, and so he went into the "great 
world" to dwell. 

And everywhere he went, men's innermost thoughts 
were revealed to him, and to themselves through him. 
He acted upon men and women like wine an impulse 
seized them to speak the truth, the truth that they had 
hidden even from their own hearts. Afterwards, when 
they realized what they had done, they hated Hathawi 




and feared him ; but they said nothing, because each 
thought that the secret was his own. 

But then, as his power grew, Hathawi began to reveal 
men in more public ways, and a scandal arose. There 
was whispered a story of a great statesman who had 
declared at a banquet what was his real work in the 
world ; and one day a bishop arose in his cathedral and 
said that he taught the dogmas of his church, because 
they were necessary to keep the people in subjection. 
Then came the famous episode of a policeman who bade 
the prisoner go free and arrested the judge instead. 
Other policemen were called upon to hinder their com- 
rade, but they declared that he was right ; and then news- 
paper reporters, when ordered to write about it, avowed 
that they would write only what they believed. After 
which came a convention of one of the great political 
parties ; and the presidential candidate made a speech, 
outlining his actual beliefs, and so destroyed his party. 
This, of course, was a national calamity, for all states- 
men declared that the people could not be deceived by 
one party ; and then, too, it was reported that Hathawi 
meant to attend the convention of the other party ! 

Because of this they shut him up in jail, charging 
him with being a vagrant, which he undoubtedly was. 
But he won over all the jailers and the prisoners to his 
doctrine, and so the jail was emptied. Moreover, it 
was found that some of those who loved him most truly 
had come to share his power of hearing truth. The 
madness was spreading everywhere ; agitators were busy 
among the people, and public safety was threatened. 
So a certain very rich man, who in Hathawi's presence 
had vowed himself a wolf, engaged an assassin to strike 
him down in broad daylight upon the street. 

Then in order to suppress the disturbance, they 



 

spirited the body away and burned it, and scattered the 
ashes. But this was a bad thing for them to do, for 
the ashes became seeds of the new contagion, and all 
through the great city, in the strangest and most un- 
accountable way, men would suddenly begin to speak 
the truth. And, of course this made business impossible 
the merchants and traders had to move away ; and 
how was it possible to preserve authority, when sooner 
or later all the lawyers and the judges and the poli- 
ticians would speak truth? So the people arose and 
declared that they were weary of lies, and they erected 
a statue of Hathawi at one of the places where his ashes 
had fallen, and declared that every candidate for office 
must make his speeches there. After that it was a long 
time before there were any officials elected because no 
man could be found to whom prominence and power were 
not more precious than public welfare. But meanwhile 
the people thrived exceedingly. 

Finally, however the climax of the story the news 
of all this had spread to other nations, and the rulers 
of these nations perceived that it was anarchy, and 
could by no means be permitted their own people were 
threatening to rise. It must be clearly shown that a 
state without a government would be plundered by 
enemies ; and so they prepared to plunder it. And so 
arose a great agitation in Hathawi's home-state, and 
men called for a dictator, and for preparations of de- 
fence. But the followers of Hathawi cried out, saying, 
"Let us submit ! Let us open our city to these men, and 
let them do their will for the power of the truth is 
greater than even they." And so it was decided. 

When the hostile rulers heard of this a great fear 
took possession of them. They remembered the fate of 
certain famous diplomatists they had already sent over ; 





and they dared not trust themselves near the statue of 
the Hearer of Truth. So their plans of invasion came 
to naught ; and among their own people there was 
laughter and bitter mockery ; and behold, one morning, 
a statue of Hathawi which some one had set up in a 
public-square ! Here the lovers of truth gathered by 
thousands, and the soldiers who were sent to shoot them 
laid down their arms and joined them; and so, all over 
the world, was the end of the dominion of the lie. 

11. SUCH was the outline of Thyrsis' story. He 
judged that it might be a very great story, or a com- 
paratively commonplace one it all depended upon the 
power with which it was visioned. He must get into 
himself and wrestle the thing out. This was to be his 
act of creation his baby ! 

It was the first time since his marriage that Thyrsis 
had tried really to do what he called work. All things 
else had been mere echoes of the work he had done the 
previous summer ; but now he had to do something new, 
something that was an echo of nothing else. Every day 
that he faced the task, his agony and despair of soul 
grew greater ; for he found that he could not do the 
work. He could not even begin to do it he could not 
even try to do it ! He was helpless, bound hand and 
foot! 

It was not his fault, it was not Corydon's fault ; it 
was a tragedy inherent in the very nature of things 
in the two natures that were in himself. There was 
the man, who loved a woman, and hungered to see her 
happy; and there was the artist, to whom solitude was 
the very breath of life. To write this book to write 
it really he would have to spend weeks of brooding 
over it, thinking about nothing else day and night; 





he would have to shape his whole existence to that end, 
to be free from every distracting circumstance, from 
everything that called him out of himself. And how 
could he hope for such a thing, while he was living in 
a tent with another person? 

Thyrsis had his artist's standard of perfection. Of 
course, he could never actually be satisfied with what 
he did; but at least he could feel that it was the best 
he was equal to he could get a real and honest sense 
of exhaustion for himself. But now, the moment that 
