be all right in the morning.... She's a lovely creature, isn't she? Sam
said so. Sam has an eye for beauty. But, by jinks! I was scarcely
prepared for such physical perfection--h'm!--or such fine and nice
discrimination--or for such pluck.... God knows what people's families
want these days. If the world mated properly our best families would be
extinct in another generation.... You're one of 'em; you'd better get
diligent before the world wakes up with a rush of common sense to its
doddering old head." He gave him both hands, warmly, cordially:
"Good-bye, Louis."

Neville said: "I want you to know that I'd marry her to-morrow if she'd
have me, Billy."

The doctor lifted his eyebrows.

"Won't she?"

"No."

"Then probably you're not up to sample. A girl like that is no fool.
She'll require a lot in a man. However, you're young; and you may make
good yet."

"You don't understand, Billy--"

"Yes, I do. She wears a dinky miniature of you against her naked heart.
Yes, I guess I understand.... And I guess she's that kind of a girl all
unselfishness and innocence, and generous perversity and--quixotic
love.... It's too bad, Louis. I guess you're up against it for fair."

He surveyed the younger man, shook his head:

"They can't stand for her, can they?"

"No."

"And she won't stand for snaking you out of the fold. That's it, I
fancy?"

"Yes."

"Too bad--too bad. She's a fine woman--a very fine little woman. That's
the kind a man ought to marry and bother the Almighty with gratitude all
the rest of his life. Well--well! Your family is your own after all; and
I live in Dartford, thank God!--not on lower Fifth Avenue or Tenth
Street."

He started away, halted, came back:

"Couldn't you run away with her?" he asked anxiously.

"She won't," replied Neville, unsmiling.

"I mean, violently. But she's too heavy to carry, I fancy--and I'll bet
she's got the vigour of little old Diana herself. No--you couldn't do
the Sabine act with her--only a club and the cave-man's gentle
persuasion would help either of you.... Well--well, if they see her at
breakfast it may help some. You know a woman makes or breaks herself at
breakfast. That's why the majority of woman take it abed. I'm serious,
Louis; no man can stand 'em--the majority."

Once more he started away, hesitated, came back.

"Who's this Countess that Sam is so crazy about?"

"A sweet little woman, well-bred, and very genuine and sincere."

"Never heard of her in Dartford," muttered the doctor.

Neville laughed grimly:

"Billy, Tenth Street and lower Fifth Avenue and Greenwich Village and
Chelsea and Stuyvesant Square--and Syringa Avenue, Dartford, are all
about alike. Bird Centre is just as stupid as Manhattan; and there never
was and never will be a republic and a democracy in any country on the
face of this snob-cursed globe."

The doctor, very red, stared at him.

"By jinks!" he said, "I guess I'm one after all. Now, who in hell would
suspect that!--after all the advice I've given you!"

"It was another fellow's family, that's all," said Neville wearily.
"Theories work or they don't; only few care to try them on themselves or
their own families--particularly when they devoutly believe in them."

"Gad! That's a stinger! You've got me going all right," said the doctor,
wincing, "and you're perfectly correct. Here I've been practically
counselling you to marry where your inclination led you, and let the
rest go to blazes; and when it's a question of Sam doing something
similar, I retire hastily across the river and establish a residence in
Missouri. What a rotten, custom-ridden bunch of snippy-snappy-snobbery
we are after all!... All the same--who is the Countess?"

Neville didn't know much about her.

"Sam's such an ass," said his brother, "and it isn't all snobbery on my
part."

"The safest thing to do," said Neville bitterly, "is to let a man in
love alone."

"Right. Foolish--damned foolish--but right! There is no greater ass than
a wise one. Those who don't know anything at all are the better
asses--and the happier."

And he went away down the stairs, muttering and gesticulating.

Mrs. Neville came to the door as he opened it to go out. They talked in
low voices for a few moments, then the doctor went out and Mrs. Neville
called to Stephanie.

The girl came from the lighted drawing-room, and, together, the two
women ascended the stairs.

Stephanie smiled and nodded to Neville, then continued on along the
hall; but his mother stopped to speak to him.

"Go and sit with your father a little while," she said. "And don't be
impatient with him, dear. He is an old man--a product of a different age
and a simpler civilisation--perhaps a narrower one. Be patient and
gentle with him. He really is fond of you and proud of you."

"Very well, mother.... Is anybody going to sit up with Valerie?"

"Stephanie insists on sleeping on the couch at the foot of her bed. I
offered to sit up but she wouldn't let me.... You'll see that I'm called
if anything happens, won't you?"

"Yes. Good-night, mother."

He kissed her, stood a moment looking at the closed door behind which
lay Valerie--tried to realise that she did lie there under the same
roof-tree that sheltered father, mother, and sister--then, with a
strange thrill in his heart, he went downstairs.

Cameron passed him, on his upward way to slumberland.

"How's Miss West?" he asked cheerfully.

"Asleep, I think. Billy Ogilvy expects her to be all right in the
morning."

"Good work! Glad of it. Tell your governor; he's been inquiring."

"Has he?" said Neville, with another thrill, and went into the living
room where his father sat alone before the whitening ashes of the fire.

"Well, father!" he said, smiling.

The older man turned his head, then turned it away as his son drew up a
chair and laid a stick across the andirons.

"It's turned a little chilly," he said.

"I have known of many a frost in May," said his father.

There was a silence; then his father slowly turned and gazed at him.

"How is--Miss West?" he asked stiffly.

"Billy Ogilvy says she will be all right to-morrow, father."

"Was she injured by her unfortunate experience?"

"A little briar-torn, I'm afraid. Those big beech woods are rather a
puzzle to anybody who is not familiar with the country. No wonder she
became frightened when it grew dark."

"It was--very distressing," nodded his father.

They remained silent again until Mr. Neville rose, took off his
spectacles, laid aside The Evening Post, and held out his hand.

"Good-night, my son."

"Good-night, father."

"Yes--yes--good-night--good-night--to many, many things, my son;
old-fashioned things of no value any more--of no use to me, or you, or
