"Do you consider Jack Rivett desirable? He could take you nowhere.  With
all his wealth, where could you take him?  And anyway, it’s not playing
the game, Silvie.  It’s kidnaping."  She laughed.  "Take a man of your
size—and of the world, little sister; and if he isn’t of the world, and
is poor, defy him to take you!—give him battle—put up a good fight
with foot, horse, and artillery.  The best one of you will always win,
and the other get what’s coming."

Silvette went to the desk, supplied herself with pen and paper, and
prepared to resume her interrupted correspondence.  Presently she looked
around, pen poised.



"Did the best man win between you and Jim Edgerton?" she asked.

Diana bent lower over her sewing.

"I’m afraid so, Silvie."

"Then you won."

"I think so....  I have fought it over every day since—alone."

"You poor little thing," said Silvette softly.

Diana looked up with a slight smile.  "Perhaps you misunderstood me,
dear.  I told you I was winning....  Which means, I think, that Jim
Edgerton isn’t going to remain very long at Adriutha."

"Where is he going?"

"I don’t know that he is going at all; he doesn’t know it, either....
But, somehow, I dare believe that he is going."

"Where?"

"Into a man’s world to engage in a man’s business."

"It isn’t in him, Diana....  You are taking a great responsibility on
your shoulders. Do you realize that you are?"

"Yes."

"And that a man with no more force of character and real ability than he
has may starve?  That the world will probably break his heart, anyway."

"Let it, then....  Only a real man’s heart breaks.  I’ll know he’s one
if it does; and so will he.  And that’s worth all the rest."

"That’s a stern creed, little sister, considering the pleasure-loving
lips that utter it."

"Out of the mouth of fools, wisdom.  It doesn’t matter what I am.  The
thing that is important is what he shall become."

"If he become what you desire, he may have little further interest in
you."

"He will have none, if he becomes what he could become," said the girl
steadily.  "Did you suppose my—ambition for him was selfish?"

"Little breaker of images, are you going to shatter your own under his
very eyes?"

"He will be the iconoclast some day.... Probably I’ll be married before
that—as soon, anyway, as it’s best for him....  I’ve plenty of time."
... She smiled without a trace of mirth in her eyes.  "Mr. Snaith has
already indicated his noiseless entry into the lists.  He and Colonel
Curmew are at lance points. Materially speaking, a girl ought to
consider both of them."

"But, child, we have many another business engagement before us yet, I
trust.... You wouldn’t think of taking the first—the first——"

"Million offered?" asked Diana, laughing. "No, of course not, silly.
I’m merely observing the manners and customs of the creature man."

Silvette laughed, too.  "How are you getting on with Billy Inwood?" she
asked demurely—"speaking of more agreeable matters."

"Perfectly; after the initial shock at encountering me here, he behaved
most reasonably.  I have an idea that he came here on Christine’s
account, and he seemed to be rather nervous as to his obligations to me,
but I set that right at the first opportunity. I said: ’Billy, if I
don’t tell you, somebody else will, that Silvette and I are here
practicing our profession, which is—to be amiable to the guests and help
entertain them.  So I’m going to be just as amiable to you as I know
how, but it need not frighten you because I have no designs on you.’"

They both laughed.  Diana, mending her stocking, continued:

"I think he was very much relieved, though he pretended not to be.  I
wonder if he did come here to see Christine?  The girl is cool enough
with him, and he is inclined to follow her about in an aimless sort of
way, as though he had something on his mind."

"He seems to be equally attentive to Christine and Mrs. Wemyss,"
observed Silvette. "It appears that he and that ample beauty are old
friends."

"Who is Mrs. Wemyss, anyway?"

Silvette smiled.  "I asked Mrs. Rivett, saying that there was something
familiar about Mrs. Wemyss, and that I had an idea I had seen her
somewhere; but Mrs. Rivett didn’t know who she was.  She had met her
last winter at the Plaza, which is the kind of thing one might have
expected—even of Mrs. Rivett, who is as dear a little woman as ever wore
sapphires at breakfast....  What a horrid, cynical thing I’m turning
into! ... And now I’m going to turn into an imitation of a young girl
dressing for luncheon. Heigho!  I wish other people were what they ought
to be and I were what I’d like to be. The world would wag very well,
then."


Luncheon was the usual animated, gossipy, and amusing function that
Silvette and Diana and Jack Rivett always made it, and at which Colonel
Curmew assiduously assisted according to his notions of jollity.

Edgerton for the last week or so had remained rather silent among the
others, amiable and nice always and perfectly receptive when spoken to,
but not volunteering very much, and not, according to Colonel Curmew’s
idea, earning his salary.  However, as the colonel didn’t like him, that
fact may have colored his judgment when he spoke to Mr. Rivett about it
after luncheon in the privacy of that silent man’s study.

"He’s turned into what I knew he was—a damned snob!" said the colonel,
sitting with widened legs, a rich cigar tucked in under his military
mustache, and furtively loosening the rear buckle of his white
waistcoat.

"He doesn’t pay for his keep," he went on. "What use to you is a man who
sits around looking unapproachable?"

"I have no difficulty in approaching him," observed Mr. Rivett.

"You pay him.  To look at him, one would think he paid you."

"He pays me his services."

"Ah, but he doesn’t!  He’s off with that little Diana girl half the
time."

"That’s their affair."

"By gad!  Is it?  They’re both here on a salary if it comes to that,
Jake....  Say, did it ever strike you as funny—this cousin business he
puts up?"

Mr. Rivett’s burned-brown eyes fixed themselves on the jaunty colonel.

"How?"

"Oh, nothing....  They’re rather distant relatives, that’s all....  Not
but what she seems to be straight—as far as I know."

"What does anybody else know about her?"

"Oh, nothing—nothing," said the colonel, waving his cigar and heavy seal
ring.  "But it’s curious....  You can’t really say a word against an
Edgerton, rich or poor; but, as far as I can see the girl is only a
little adventuress looking for trouble....  She’ll probably get it some
day," he added with a tenor laugh peculiarly ungrateful to the auditory
mechanism of Mr. Rivett.

The colonel puffed his cigar in smiling silence for a while; then,
expelling another laugh and a large volume of blue smoke, slapped his
knee, straightened his tie and waistcoat and shot his cuffs.



"She’ll be all right to take about town, eh, Jake?" he said.

Mr. Rivett said nothing.

"Now, there’s old Parke Ellingford," continued the colonel; "he’s never
had as good looking a girl, and, b’gad!  I’ve seen ’em all—known most of
’em," he added with a leer. "And take any of the men you and I
know—Wallowby, Dankland, and that hatchet-faced Van Wyne!  They’ve never
had any better-looking girl than that little Diana."
