really meant syphilis. We boys used 
to poke all kinds of fun at him because 
one windy day his hat and his wig were 



 

blown off together, and we discovered 
that he was as bald as an egg. We used 
to make jokes about his automobile, as 
we called it. It had a httle handle in 
front, instead of a steering-wheel, and a 
man behind to push, instead of an engine," 

''How horrible!" remarked George with 
genuine feeling. 

''I remember the poor devil had a 
stroke of paralysis soon after," continued 
the friend, quite carelessly. ''He could 
not steer any more, and also he lost his 
voice. When you met him he would 
look at you as if he thought he was talk- 
ing, but all he could say was 'Ga-ga-ga." 

George went away from this conversa- 
tion in a cold sweat. He told himself 
over and over again that he was a fool, 
but still he could not get the hellish idea 
out of his mind. He found himself brood- 
ing over it all day and lying awake at night, 
haunted by images of himself in a wheel- 
chair, and without any hair on his head. 
He realized that the sensible thing would 
be for him to go to a doctor and make 
certain about his condition; but he could 



 

not bring himself to face the ordeal — 'he 
was ashamed to admit to a doctor that he 
had laid himself open to such a taint. 

He began to lose the radiant ex- 
pression from his romid and rosy face. 
He had less appetite, and his moods of 
depression became so frequent that he 
could not hide them even from Henriette. 
She asked him once or twice if there were 
not something the matter wath him, and 
he laughed — a forced and hurried laugh — 
and told her that he had sat up too late 
the night before, worrying over the mat- 
ter of his examinations. Oh, what a 
cruel thing it was that a man who stood 
in the very gateway of such a garden of 
dehght should be tormented and made 
miserable by this loathsome idea! 

The disturbing symptom still continued, 
and so at last George purchased a medical 
book, dealing with the subject of the 
disease. Then, indeed, he opened up a 
chamber of horrors; he made his mind an 
abiding place of ghastly images. In the 
book there were pictures of things so 
awful that he turned white, and trembled 



 

like a leaf, and had to close the volume 
and hide it in the bottom of his trunk. 
But he could not banish the pictures from 
his mind. Worst of all, he could not forget 
the description of the first symptom of 
the disease, which seemed to correspond 
exactly with his own. So at last he made 
up his mind he must ascertain definitely 
the truth about his condition. 

He began to think over plans for seeing 
a doctor. He had heard somewhere a 
story about a young fellow who had fallen 
into the hands of a quack, and been ruined 
forever. So he decided that he would 
consult only the best authority. 

He got the names of the best-known 
works on the subject from a bookstore, 
and found that the author of one of these 
books was practicing in Paris as a specialist. 
Two or three days elapsed before he 
was able to get up the courage to call on 
this doctor. And oh, the shame and 
horror of sitting in his waiting-room with 
the other people, none of whom dared to 
look each other in the eyes! They must 
all be afflicted, George thought, and he 



 

glanced at them furtively, looking for the 
various symptoms of which he had read. 
Or were there, perhaps, some like himself — 
merely victims of a foolish error, coming 
to have the hag of dread pulled from off 
their backs? 

And then suddenly, while he was specu- 
lating, there stood the doctor, signaling 
to him. His turn had come! 



CHAPTER II 

THE doctor was a man about forty 
years of age, robust, with every 
appearance of a strong character. 
In the buttonhole of the frock coat he wore 
was a red rosette, the decoration of some 
order. Confused and nervous as George 
was, he got a vague impression of the 
physician's richly furnished office, with its 
bronzes, marbles and tapestries. 

The doctor signaled to the young man 
to be seated in the chair before his desk. 
George complied, and then, as he wiped 
away the perspiration from his forehead, 
stammered out a few words, explaining his 
errand. Of course, he said, it could not 
be true, but it was a man's duty not to 
take any chances in such a matter. "I 
have not been a man of loose life," he 
added; ''I have not taken so many chances 
as other men." 





 

The doctor cut him short with the brief 
remark that one chance was all that was 
necessary. Instead of discussing such ques- 
tions, he would make an examination. 
''We do not say positively in these cases 
until we have made a blood test. That is 
the one way to avoid the possibility of 
mistake." 

A drop of blood was squeezed out of 
George's finger on to a little glass plate. 
The doctor retired to an adjoining room, 
and the victim sat alone in the office, deriv- 
ing no enjoyment from the works of art 
which surrounded him, but feeling like a 
prisoner who sits in the dock with his life 
at stake while the jury deliberates. 

The doctor returned, calm and impas- 
sive, and seated himself in his office-chair. 

"Well, doctor?'' asked George. He was 
trembling with terror. 

''Well," was the reply, "there is no 
doubt whatever." 

George wiped his forehead. He could 
not credit the words. "No doubt what- 
