cast a shoe. We’re just in time, for it begins to 
rain. Good-night.” 
They soon reached home, but now it was raining 
in earnest. 
You’re lucky,” began Marigold. “ But what 
did possess you to take off Mamie Scott without 
saying a word to her mother? ” 
‘‘How do you know?” Rhoda was a little 
startled. 
“ Tip went back after a book. One of the boys 
had come up to see what was the matter. She was 
worried.” 
Rhoda recovered her composure. “ Her mother 
didn’t scold a bit. She was glad we took her. 
Mamie had a splendid time.” 
“ But you should have asked her mother,” said 
Rilla. 
“Well, how could I?” indignantly. “I didn’t 
know myself until lunch. And Dan stopped for 
us, and — and her mother wasn’t mad at all. She 
said she knew we were safe with Dan.” 
But if there had been an accident? ” 
“ There wasn’t any accident. How you do talk, 
Rilla Firth! And I want some dinner.” 
“ Don’t go away a whole afternoon without 
asking permission. I think mother would shut 
you up for a week.” 
Rhoda tossed her head saucily and marched to 
the dining-room. 
‘‘ If we don’t look out,” said Prim, ‘‘ Rhoda 
will boss us all. I thought twins were alike, but 
ours are not a bit. Rhoda may be very smart, but 
Laurel is ten times sweeter.” 
Tip was full of his chicken family. There were 
eight now, and three more eggs. 
“ Suppose they couldn’t get the shell broken ? 
Why couldn’t their mother help? It’s very queer 
that they should know just the time. And what 
makes the down — and the horny feet, and the real 
eyes, when there are only two things in an egg ? ” 
A great many people have puzzled over it,” 
said Linn. “ There was once a learned scientist 
who, after a great deal of study, thought he had 
put all the ingredients together. Then he put his 
egg in an incubator, but when the egg hatched he 
remembered he had not put in anything to make 
feathers. So, then, the poor thing had to have a 
flannel jacket, and he was so ashamed he jumped 
into the river and drowned himself.” 
Tip considered. I don’t believe a word of it,” 
announced Rhoda. 
Well, the hen knows her business best,” 
laughed Prim. 
They went at their gardens the next morning 
and pulled up weeds. Oh, how lovely everything 
was growing! Roses were budding, and what 
thousands there would be. 
I mean to take a great boxful to the hospital,” 
said Chan. And think of the places in the city 
where they haven’t any yard, and can’t grow even 
a daisy. I’m glad I’m not a city child. Why, I’d 
rather live in the little old red house all my life.” 
Oh, let’s go over and see Mrs. Bachman this 
afternoon,” proposed Primrose. 
Rilla and Chan stayed for music lessons. Rhoda 
thought she would go and see Amy Boyse. She 
was rather jealous that Laurel should have a friend 
all to herself. 
Well, the little old house had been almost made 
over, with the fresh paint outside and the queer 
changes inside. It had been kept red, a pleasant 
dark red, that Prim said looked sociable. Two 
climbing roses had been set out in front, and every- 
thing was so neat that Goldie was delighted. There 
were chickens, little and big, and there was a pen 
with a small pig that ran about and squealed just 
for pure pleasure, it seemed. Greta was making a 
quilt of the odds and ends of trimming, and it was 
put together with much taste. Linn and Fritz 
compared schools, and the Gennan boy listened, 
big-eyed, to the older boy’s descriptions. Ridge- 
wood was a real city. 
“ But this makes us so happy,” said Mrs. Bach- 
man. And there is more in the school than 
Fritzie can ever learn. He will not have a large 
life like you, but he can be good and useful. And 
we are so glad of our home.” 
She had been making spruce beer, and they must 
have some with some spiced bread that was very 
good. And she gave them so many messages for 
their mother that Prim wondered if they could de- 
liver them properly. They must drive down to the 
store. How queer and untidy everything looked ! 
I just wish you’d come back, Linn,” said Mr. 
Beers in a worried tone. I never saw your beat 
for fixing up. I do believe I'm gettin’ old. Here 
your mother has three likely boys, and Fve not a 
single son. Some people do have luck.” 
“ And your mother’s gone to Boston ! ” Mrs. 
Beers began in a rather grudging fashion. ‘‘ Nex’ 
thing it’ll be ’Urop’ and the Queen. An’ I sup- 
pose colleges an’ goodness only knows what all. 
Well, you’re born, but you ain’t buried, and there’s 
no tellin’ what may happen,” and the good woman 
gave a sigh. 
It’s all been nice so far,” returned Linn joy- 
ously, as they drove off. 
I wish everybody could be rich,” said Ama- 
ryllis, in the goodness of her heart; “ then there’d 
be no envying.” 
Dan laughed at the na'ive philosophy. 
They were glad enough to see their mother, 
though Cap said it hadn’t been so lonesome as the 
first time they went away. There were so many 
more comforting things in the summer. There 
had been three or four post-cards every day, and 
they brought home some lovely photographs. 
There were only two more weeks of school. 
Linn was pretty sure he would go into the gradu- 
ating class, though it would be in the second divi- 
sion. Amaryllis had studied her very best, but the 
others had only been in their classes about ten 
weeks. She began to like school very much, and 
made some nice friends. Marigold was doing 
well, but Primrose had an adoring crowd of fol- 
lowers. Tip would still go on at Miss Raynor’s, 
and their mother said Laurel must go to school 
in the fall, though in her own way she was learn- 
ing a great many things, but Rhoda would al- 
ways be in advance of her. 
Tip was quite a favorite with the girls, and 
often was the victim of spite from the largest boy 
in school, some six months older than Tip, one of 
the rather clumsy, loose- jointed children whose 
great pleasure was stumbling over the others. 
After a little. Tip had grown wary, and slipped 
aside so adroitly that Davie Mears went down 
himself in one attempt. 
He picked himself up and shook his fist at Tip. 
You see if I don’t catch you for that,” he said 
angrily. 
“ I wasn’t going to have you push me over. I 
wasn’t in your way,” flung out Tip in a disdainful 
manner. 
Some of the children laughed. 
Coming out of school one afternoon when Tip 
had his books under his arm, Davie ran up and 
sung out : 
'' Tip top — Slip slop, and now you’re goin’ to 
get a flop.” 
Both arms were around Tip. Davie meant to 
lift him partly from the ground and throw him, 
but Tip was like a little eel. One slim leg was 
around Davie, and both went down together. Tip 
uppermost. The little boy was angry, and saw his 
chance. Before his adversary could recover, he 
began a fast and furious pommeling. Davie could 
only get in one blow, and that was on the side of 
Tip’s nose, that drew blood. 
Teacher, teacher, two boys are fighting!” 
Miss Raynor came out. 
Boys, get up this instant ! Harrison, how 
dared you I ” 
It looked worse than it was. Tip’s nose had be- 
spattered his enemy as well. Miss Raynor took 
hold of his arm with what might be termed a jerk. 
‘‘ Davie began it,” said a girl. “ He was going 
to throw Tip down.” 
And he called him names,” began another. 
“ I didn’t,” protested Davie. 
‘‘ You did, too! ” cried Tip. “ You said, ‘ Slip 
slop,’ and was goin’ to flop me, but you couldn’t, 
even if you are bigger. He won’t let me alone, 
teacher, and I just gave it to him.” 
‘‘ I’m ashamed of you both. Come into the 
schoolroom. Davie, did you call names ? ” 
Davie began to cry. Well — well — he ” 
“ I just didn’t do anything, Davie Mears. But 
I want you to let me alone. If you don’t, I 
won’t come to school any more.” 
