School another year. Then they carried her 
off to their play room. This was the hall bed- 
room on the next floor. There was a small 
book case, a sort of closet with glass doors 
where playthings were kept and one shelf 
devoted to dolls. Marilla stood entranced 
before it. 
"Have you many dolls?” asked May. 
never had a doll since my mama died,” 
and there were tears in the child's voice. 
"But at Christmas — didn't you ever get a 
doll?” 
was in a home for orphan girls, Mrs. 
Johnson didn’t think it was right for girls 
to waste their time on dolls. One Cliristmas 
some store sent such a beautiful lot and she 
returned them all. Some of us cried and we 
had to learn a lot of bible verses about im- 
proving your time. Occasionally a girl would 
get a clothes pin and tie the middle of her 
handkerchief around the head and play it 
was a baby, and lend it out, then they would 
all get punished. I used to feel so sorry, 
Dolls are so sweet if they are only make be- 
lieve. Where I lived the babies had rubber 
dolls that they could bang on the floor, but 
they were ugly. This one is splendid.” 
''That is mine,” said Edith. "One of our 
cousins brought it from Paris. It can walk a 
little and say 'Mama.’ I’m too big to play 
with dolls, and I 've given the others to May 
and Jessie.’ 
"And we play tea with them. It is so 
lovely out on the back porch in the summer and 
mother lets us take the things down there. 
And I can make clothes,” said May. "But 
now you can have a doll, because you are 
going to have some money of your very own.” 
"Yes,” she returned slowly. 
There were many pretty things that Marilla 
wondered at. Edith took out her doll and 
put it in the visitor’s arms. It had such a 
lovely face that Marilla hugged it up tight and 
wanted to kiss it. Why it was fifty times 
sweeter than the twins. 
Then they led her to their room. There 
were two pretty brass beds. 
"Edith has the smaller one because she 
sleeps alone,” explained May, "and we little 
ones love to sleep together.” 
There were two chiffoniers, and a big closet 
between the rooms, two pretty willow rockers 
and some lovely pictures beside various small 
gifts one could hang up or stand around. 
How charming it was! 
Edith said she must go and study her les- 
sons. May brought out her pretty dishes and 
her card albums. One was partly full of such 
pretty kittens Marilla wanted to hug them. 
Another was Christmas, Easter and birthday 
cards. 
Marilla gave a soft little sigh. How many 
precious things she had missed out of her life! 
And though she could not have put it into 
words it was the tender companionship of 
childhood, of kindred tastes and eager loves. 
In the desert of Bethany Home all these 
emotions had been rigorously repressed. It 
was best for girls not to expect too much in the 
homes of other people, the little Cinderella 
whose place was in the chimney corner. 
"Marilla,” called the voice of Mrs. Warren, 
in a sort of joyous tone, "Dr. Richards has 
come.” 
She almost flew down stairs and he clasped 
her in his arms. 
"I am so happy,” she cried in a voice trem- 
ulous with emotion. "It seems such a long, 
long while since morning so much has hap- 
pened, and Mrs. Warren is to be my Aunt 
Grace, she said so, and I have three cousins!” 
Her face was alight with happiness. 
wonder if you would get homesick if we 
did not go back to Newton until some time 
next week?” 
“Oh, no. I shouldn’t get homesick at all! 
But I couldn’t stay away from fairy godmother 
a long while. If I didn’t have her, Aunt 
Grace would take me, and the girls are just 
splendid!” 
“I’ve been to a hospital this afternoon and 
I want to learn some new things to take home 
with me, so I will write. You must write, too. 
I’ve brought you some envelopes addressed and 
stamped. Why do you smile?” 
“I was thinking of the letter I wrote to you 
in the summer, and I had to beg everything to 
write with, and Edith has such a nice portable 
writing desk, and the girls have portfolios, 
and they all go to school. Oh, it must be 
splendid to go to school with a crowd of nice 
girls and have a lovely teacher.” 
She had been leading him through the par- 
lor. Mrs. Warren met them and he went 
on in the sitting room, apologizing for his 
early appearance. 
“Oh, I want you to come in and see your 
ward whenever you can, and I shall beg for 
quite a visit from her.” 
“That will suit me. I feel that I have 
grown a little rusty and want to look into some 
new methods. What a wonderful city it is! 
It quite shames a country doctor.” 
suppose so,” smiling. '‘You should come 
in often. Mr. Warren will be home presently 
and glad to meet you. Will you excuse me a 
few moments? This is my eldest daughter, 
Edith.” 
"And can’t the others come?” asked Ma- 
rilla. 
'Why, yes, if you like.” 
Dr. Richards was used to children. He 
thought he liked girls the best, and this was 
an attractive circle. How Marilla was en- 
joying it. Her eyes quivered with flashes of 
pleasure. Yes, children needed other chil- 
dren to start the real flow of delight through 
their veins, and his little Cinderella did not 
suffer by comparison. 
Mr. Warren came in and welcomed his 
guest cordially, looking over the little girl 
about whom they had speculated. She was 
very attractive just now, with her face of 
sunshine and her eyes with their starry look 
under the long curling lashes. 
The men had to discuss the queer unex- 
pected fortune. The Warrens had been no- 
tified nearly a year before. 
"But I hadn't much faith in it” laughed 
Mr. Warren. "My wife had really forgotten 
her family lineage, and we should hardly have 
claimed the Schermerhorns. There's so much 
red tape in these matters and by the time the 
expenses are paid, there’s little left for the 
heirs, but this turns out better than I supposed, 
considering the many descendants the old 
man had. I can’t complain of the lawyers.” 
"And we were very glad to find Marion’s 
child, though I wish I had known it when her 
mother died. Do you want to keep her at 
Newton?” 
think Miss Armitage has some claims,” 
he returned. 
“And I feel as if we ought to make up for 
our negligence.” 
The children were in a little huddle on the 
corner of the sofa. What was Newton like? 
A real city? 
“Why there are some beautiful long streets 
and stores and churches and a park and rows 
of houses built together like this, and schools 
and trolleys — ” 
"Why it must be a city then?'' said Edith. 
"Has it a mayor and a city hall and a post- 
office?’’ 
‘'It has a mayor and a postoffice and a court 
house. Mr. Borden used to talk of going 
there.” 
"It is a very old town,” explained the guar- 
dian, ' 'dating farther back than the Revolu- 
tion, yet it was not much of a business center 
until the last thirty years; but it is very pretty 
and rather aristocratic.” 
"Children,” said their mother, "go and make 
yourselves ready for dinner.” 
"What lovely curly hair,” exclaimed May, 
half in envy. wish mine curled.” 
"But you have two such beautiful braids.” 
"Jessie’s curled a little but it was so thin 
mother kept cutting it. Dear me! You 
