there asleep--oh, I knew not what so moved me to leave you my message
and a wild-rose lying there.... It was my destiny--my destiny! I seemed
to fathom it.... For when you spoke to me on the parade at the Middle
Fort, such a thrill of happiness possessed me----"

"You rebuked and rebuked me, sweeting!"

"Because all my solicitude was for you, and how it might disgrace you."

"I could have knelt there at your ragged feet, in sight of all the
fort!"

"Could you truly, Euan?"

"As willingly as I kneel at prayer!"

"How dear and gallant and sweet you are to me----" She broke off in
dismay. "Ai-me! Heaven pity us both, for we are saying what should wait
to be said, and have talked of love only while vowing not to do so!...
Let loose my hand, Euan--that somehow has stolen into yours. Ai-me!
This is a very maze I seem to travel in, with every pitfall hiding all
I would avoid, and everywhere ambush laid for me.... Listen, dear lad,
I am more pitifully at your mercy than I dreamed of. Be faithful to my
faithless self that falters. Point out the path from your own strength
and compassion.... I--I must find my way to Catharines-town before I
can give myself to thoughts of you--to dreams of all that you inspire
in me."

"Listen, Lois. This fort is as far as you may go."

"What!"

"Truly, dear maid. It is not alone the perils of an unknown country
that must check you here. There is a danger that you know not of--that
you never even heard of."

"A danger?"

"Worse. A threat of terrors hellish, inconceivable, terrible beyond
words."

"What do you mean? The hatchet? The stake? Dear lad, may I not then
venture what you soldiers brave so lightly?"

"It is not what we brave that threatens you!"

"What then?" she asked, startled.

"Dear did you ever learn that you are a 'Hidden Child'?"

"What is that, Euan?"

"Then you do not know?"

She shook her head.

And so I told her; told her also all that we had guessed concerning
her; how that her captive mother, terrified by Amochol and his red
acolytes, had concealed her, consecrated her, and, somehow, had found a
runner to carry her beyond the doors of the Long House to safety.

This runner must have written the Iroquois message which I had read
amid the corn-husks of her garret. It was all utterly plain and
horrible now, to her and to myself.

As for the moccasins, the same faithful runner must have carried them
to her, year after year, and taken back with him to the desolate mother
the assurance that her child was living and still undiscovered and
unharmed by Amochol.

All this I made plain to her; and I also told her that I, too, was of
the Hidden Ones; and made it most clear to her who I really was. And I
told her of the Cat-People, and of the Erie, and how the Sorcerer had
defied us and boasted that the Hidden Child should yet die strangled
upon the altar of Red Amochol.

She was quiet and very pale while I was speaking, and at moments her
grey eyes widened with the unearthly horror of the thing; but never a
tremour touched her, nor did lid or lips quiver or her gaze falter.

And when I had done she remained silent, looking out over the river at
our feet, which was now all crinkling with the sun's bright network
through the tracery of leaves.

"There is a danger to you," I said, "which will not cease until this
army has left the Red Priest dead amid the sacrilegious ashes of his
own vile altar. My Indians have made a vow to leave no Erie, no
blasphemous and perverted priest alive. Amochol, the Wyoming Witch, the
Toad-Woman--all that accursed spawn of Frontenac must die.

"Major Parr is of the same opinion; Clinton sees the importance of
this, having had the sense to learn of Amherst how to stop the Seneca
demons with a stout hempen rope. Two Sachems he hung, and the whole
nation cowed down in terror of him while his authority remained.

"But Amherst left us; and the yelps of the Toad-Woman aroused the
Sorcerers from their torpor. But I swear to you by St. Catharine, who
is the saint of the Iroquois also, that the sway of Amochol shall end,
and that he shall lie on his own bloody altar, nor die there before he
sees the flames of Catharines-town touch the very heaven of an
affronted God!"

"Can you do this?"

"With God's help and General Sullivan's," I said cheerfully. "For I
daily pray to the One, and I have the promise of the other that before
our marching army alarms Catharines-town, I and my Indians and Boyd and
his riflemen shall strike the Red Priest there at the Onon-hou-aroria."

"What is that, Euan?"

"Their devil-rites--an honest feast which they have perverted. It was
the Dream Feast, Lois, but Amochol has made of it an orgy unspeakable,
where human sacrifices are offered to the Moon Witch, Atensi, and to
Leshi and the Stone-Throwers, and the Little People--many of which were
not goblins and ghouls until Amochol so decreed them."

"When is this feast to be held in Catharines-town?"

"On the last day of this month. Until then you must not leave this
camp; and after the army marches you must not go outside this fort.
Amochol's arm is long. His acolytes are watching. And now I think you
understand at last."

She nodded. Presently she rested her pale cheek on her arms and looked
at the reddening edges of the woods. Northwest lay Catharines-town, so
Mayaro said. And into the northwest her grey eyes now gazed, calmly and
steadily, while the sun went out behind the forest and the high heavens
were plumed with fire.

Under us the river ran, all pink and primrose, save where deep, glassy
shadows bounded it under either bank. The tips of the trees glowed with
rosy flame, faded to ashes, then, burnt out, stood once more dark and
serrated against the evening sky.

Suddenly an unearthly cry rang out from somewhere close to the river
bank up stream. Instantly a sentry on the parapet near us fired his
piece.

"Oh, God! What is it!" faltered Lois, grasping my arm. But I sprang for
the ladder and ran down it; and the scattered soldiers and officers
below on the parade were already running some grasping their muskets,
others drawing pistols and hangers.

We could hear musketry firing ahead, and drums beating to arms in our
camp behind us.

"The cattle-guard!" panted an officer at my elbow as we ran up stream
along the river-bank. "The Senecas have made their kill again, God
curse them!"

It was so. Out of the woods came running our frightened cattle, with
the guard plodding heavily on their flanks; and in the rear two of our
soldiers urged them on with kicks and blow; two more retreated
backward, facing the dusky forest with levelled muskets, and a third
staggered beside them, half carrying, half trailing a man whose head
hung down crimsoning the leaves as it dragged over them.

He had been smoking a cob pipe when the silent assassin's hatchet
struck him, and the pipe now remained clenched between his set teeth.
At first, for the dead leaves stuck to him, we could not see that he
had been scalped, but when we turned him over the loose and horrible
features, all wrinkled where the severed brow-muscles had released the
skin, left us in no doubt.

"This man never uttered that abominable cry," I said, shuddering. "Is
there yet another missing from the guard?"

"Oh, no, sir," said the soldier who had dragged him. "That there was a
heifer bawling when them devils cut her throat."

He stood scratching his head and gazing blankly down at his dead
comrade.

"Jesus," he drawled. "What be I a-goin' for to tell his woman now?"



CHAPTER XVI

