and be lost there, offered little more than a choice between tears. It
presented a form of suicide which was superior only to actual death.
She hoped she might be spared it. She hoped an appeal to Verplank would
suffice, though in what manner it could best reach him, or, for that
matter, reach him at all, she found it difficult to decide. To make it
personally was impossible. To attempt it through Violet Silverstairs
would involve an explanation and that was impossible also. The idea
of employing one of her women occurred to her. There were manifest
objections to such a course, though the particular woman whom she had
in view she trusted entirely.

Slowly she returned to the house and went to her room. There, when at
last the servants had gone and she was alone, she knelt on a prie-dieu
and, to the Watchers of the Seven Spheres, prayed for the earthly peace
of her soul and of his. She knew that no prayer could affect them, she
knew that they are not to be propitiated or coerced, but it soothed
her as prayer, in raising the vibrations, does soothe the distressed.
The prayer concluded she began another. She prayed that sometime she
might be somewhere, on some plane, where all things broken are made
complete and found again things vanished.

Then, the solace of it still upon her, suddenly she saw by what the
prayer had been induced. The consciousness confused and presently,
in the melancholy sotto-voce of thought, she told herself that to
extinguish that desire, she would have to be in Dharmakaya--the mystic
state where there is oblivion of all things here.

“Here!” she caught herself repeating. For, at once, a passage from the
Upanishads prompting, she remembered that here means Myalba, which is
hell, the greatest of all hells and, for those of this evolution, the
only hell there is.




VII


It was on the morning succeeding these incidents that Leilah felt
unequal for the appointments she had made. But however she felt, she
always did what she had planned. In this instance nature punished her.
On the way to the first appointment, a malaise overtook her, enveloped
her, beat at her and although, gradually, it fell by, she was still
conscious of it when, in the rue Cambon, the motor stopped at the
modiste’s door.

“The fitting of madame la comtesse Barouffska!” a fair young girl in
black immediately and authoritatively announced.

Before landscapes of silk, in the delight of new modes, customers were
sunning themselves. At the announcement they turned, while Leilah,
conducted by another girl who had advanced to meet her, crossed the
laboratory of enchantments and entered an adjoining room.

But, for the moment, the fitting was delayed. The première was
elsewhere occupied. When presently she appeared she excitedly
exclaimed:

“I hope I have not detained madame. I am desolated if I have. But!
But! If madame knew! One is literally torn to pieces! All day long it
is nothing but Ernestine that dress! Ernestine, that robe! Ernestine,
that costume! Ernestine this! Ernestine that! Truly madame, there are
moments when I say I die! I go crazy!”

Abruptly dropping her voice, she added: “But pardon, I monologue.”

At once, indicating a gown which an assistant had brought, she
exclaimed again:

“It will ravishingly become madame.”

The gown, a work of the best Parisian art, suggested something of the
immateriality of a moonbeam, and as the assistant, a girl with a tired
face and circled eyes, held it for inspection, it gleamed.

Leilah looked at it, wondering the while where she would wear it,
whether indeed she would wear it at all. Then, before a sheet that had
been placed on the floor and on which the assistant arranged the gown
in a circle she proceeded to undress.

To the amateur in feminine beauty, there are few spectacles more
attractive than that of an attractive woman clothed in lingerie and a
hat. This spectacle Leilah presented.

The première exclaimed at it. “Madame la comtesse has a figure truly
divine. But! But! Who could have laced her?”

“I was not very well this morning,” Leilah replied. “I told my women
not to make me too tight. But you can take me in I think about an inch.”

“Marguerite,” said the première, “draw the stays a little closer.”

The girl with the tired face undid the corset and pulled at the
strings. But she pulled awkwardly, perhaps too suddenly.

Leilah gasped, turned, sat down and fell forward. The première hurried
to her. She had fainted.

“The smelling salts!” the première cried. “The smelling salts! Cognac!
Get some cognac!”

With one hand she was supporting Leilah, with the other she gesticulated
at Marguerite who, hurriedly from the mantel, fetched a vinaigrette
which Ernestine then took and sniffed at.

“She’s coming to,” said the assistant.

Ernestine waved the vinaigrette. “The gods be praised!”

For Leilah now had opened her eyes. Wearily she looked about,
straightened herself and sighed.

“I must have fainted.”

“It is nothing madame,” Ernestine anxiously protested. “Truly nothing
and yet so modish. Yesterday the Princesse de Solférino fainted. The
day before it was the turn of the young Duchesse de Malakoff. Such a
good augury for these ladies! Like them madame is perhaps----”

But Leilah now was making an effort to rise.

Abandoning the vinaigrette Ernestine aided her.

“Madame will perhaps wish the fitting postponed. Yes, is it not? It
might further fatigue madame. To-morrow--no, to-morrow I regret but
in the afternoon I have three appointments and in the morning there
is the trousseau of Miss Smith of New York who is to marry an English
lord. Marguerite!” she interrupted herself to exclaim. “The costume of
madame!”

Then, as the assistant also assisted Leilah, reflectively the première
resumed:

“I hear that every New York young lady loves a lord. But----”

She hesitated. Visibly the vision evoked, confused. Yet, after a
second’s pause, rallying, she continued.

“Perhaps it is not every New York young lady who has a lord to love.
Perhaps many of them love the same lord.”

Discreetly she smiled. “And that must be so nice for him!”

Considering Leilah, she concluded:

“But another day----”

Of it all, Leilah heard but that. “Yes,” she answered, “another day.”

Then, presently, after more attentions, the première accompanied her to
the door.

“Rue François Premier,” Leilah told the groom.

The machine shot ahead. Arrested shortly by a congestion of traffic, it
halted before a window behind which Verplank and Silverstairs sat.

Leilah, unconscious of their presence, gazed at the murky cinematograph
of the street, filled at this hour with faces sordid, petulant,
indifferent, or frankly gay; with the passing forms of workmen, idlers,
shopgirls, vagabonds; the swarming Parisian crowd which did not, she
believed, contain one soul as miserable as her own.

The congestion relieved, the motor shot on. Leilah leaned back. It was
not so long ago that she was on her way from New York to Coronado. She
was happy then, happy with a happiness so perfect that it lifted her
into the ultimate ecstasies which love and life comport. It was not so
long ago, only six short months, only that brief eternity of sorrow
which, unended yet, had been the damning penalty of that joy.

“In this life ye shall have tribulation,” the Christ had said, and
truly said, and as she rememorated the significant menace, she wondered
whether for such as she, tribulation ended here. But her creed assured
her. From the Vidyâ she had acquired faith in fate, the belief rather
that we make our own destiny, that it is by our own hands that our
lives are cast in places pleasant or the reverse, that our conduct
in one life creates the conditions of our existence in another, that
anything experienced now is the effect of a cause set going in the
past, that happiness is the recompense of beneficence, deformity the
result of cruelty, melancholy the penalty of evil thoughts. But whether
