talk plainly to you.  If what I say is distasteful, don't hesitate to
interrupt me.  You interest me, partly because you act like a boy,
partly because you are a man."

"I haven't any manners."

"They need shaking up and readjusting.  I have just been musing over a
remarkable thing, that no two objects are alike.  Even the most
accurate machinery can not produce two nails without variation.  So it
is with humans.  You look so like the man I know back home that it is
impossible not to ponder over you."  She smiled into his face.  "Why
should nature produce two persons who are mistaken for each other, and
yet give them two souls, two intellects, totally different?"

"I have often wondered."

"Is nature experimenting, or is she slyly playing a trick on humanity?"

"Let us call it a trick; by all means, let us call it that."

"Your tone . . ."

"Yes, yes," impatiently; "you are going to say that it sounds bitter.
But why should another man have a face like mine, when we have nothing
in common?  What right has he to look like me?"

"It is a puzzle," Elsa admitted.

"This man who looks like me--I have no doubt it affects you
oddly--probably lives in ease; never knew what a buffet meant, never
knew what a care was, has everything he wants; in fact, a gentleman of
your own class, whose likes and dislikes are cut from the same pattern
as your own.  Well, that is as it should be.  A woman such as you are
ought to marry an equal, a man whose mind and manners are fitted to the
high place he holds in your affection and in your world.  How many
worlds there are, man-made and heaven-made, and each as deadly as the
other, as cold and implacable!  To you, who have been kind to me, I
have acted like a fool.  The truth is, I've been skulking.  My vanity
was hurt.  I had the idea that it was myself and not my resemblance
that appealed to your interest.  What makes you trust me?" bluntly; and
he stopped as he asked the question.

"Why, I don't know," blankly.  Instantly she recovered herself.  "But I
do trust you."  She walked on, and perforce he fell into her stride.

"It is because you trust the other man."

"Thanks.  That is it precisely; and for nearly two weeks I've been
trying to solve that very thing."

After a pause he asked: "Have you ever read Reade's Singleheart and
Doubleface?"

"Yes.  But what bearing has it upon our discussion?"

"None that you would understand," evasively.  His tongue had nearly
tripped him.

"Are you sure?"

"Of this, that I shall never understand women."

"Do not try to," she advised.  "All those men who knew most about women
were the unhappiest."

They made a round in silence.  Passengers were beginning to get into
their deck-chairs; and Elsa noted the backs of the many novels that
ranged from the pure chill altitudes of classic and demi-classics down
to the latest popular yarn.  Many an eye peered over the tops of the
books; and envy and admiration and curiosity brought their shafts to
bear upon her.  It was something to create these variant expressions of
interest.  She was oblivious.

"We stop at Penang?" she asked.

"Five or six hours, long enough to see the town."

"We went directly from Singapore to Colombo, so we missed the town
coming out.  I should like to see that cocoanut plantation of yours."

"It is too far inland.  Besides, I am a persona non grata there."
As, indeed, he was.  His heart burned with shame and rage at the
recollection of the last day there.  Three or four times, during the
decade, the misfortune of being found out had fallen to his lot, and
always when he was employed at something worth while.

Elsa discreetly veered into another channel.  "You will go back to
Italy, I suppose.  How cheaply and delightfully one may live there,
when one knows something of the people!  I had the Villa Julia one
spring.  You know it; Sorrento.  Is there anything more stunning than
oranges in the rain?" irrelevantly.

"Yes, I shall go to Italy once more.  But first I am going home."  He
was not aware of the grimness that entered his voice as he made this
statement.

"I am glad," she said.  "After all, that is the one place."

"If you are happy enough to find a welcome."

"And you will see your mother again?"

He winced.  "Yes.  Do you know, it does not seem possible that I met
you but two short weeks ago?  I have never given much thought to this
so-called reincarnation; but somewhere in the past ages I knew you;
only . . ."

"Only what?"

"Only, you weren't going home to marry the other fellow."

She stopped at the rail.  "Who knows?" she replied ruminatingly.
"Perhaps I am not going to marry him."

"Don't you love him? . . .  I beg your pardon, Miss Chetwood!"

"You're excused."

"I still need some training.  I have been alone so much that I haven't
got over the trick of speaking my thoughts aloud."

"No harm has been done.  The fault lay with me."

"I used to learn whole pages from stories and recite them to the trees
or to the parrot.  It kept me from going mad, I believe.  In camp I
handled coolies; none of whom could speak a word of English.  I didn't
have James with me at that time.  During the day I was busy enough
seeing that they did their work well.  When things ran smoothly I'd
take out a book and study.  At night I'd stand before my tent and
declaim.  I could not read at night.  If I lighted a lantern the tent
would become alive with abominable insects.  So I'd declaim, merely to
hear the sound of my voice.  Afterward I learned that the coolies
looked upon me as a holy man.  They believed I was nightly offering
prayers to one of my gods.  Perhaps I was; the god of reason.  In the
mornings I used to have to shake my boots.  Frogs and snakes would get
in during the night, the latter in search of the former.  Lively times!
All that seems like a bad dream now."

"And how is Rajah?"

"Ugly as ever."

"Are you going to take him with you?"

"Wherever I go.  Looks silly, doesn't it, for a man of my size to tote
around a parrot-cage?  But I don't care what people think.  Life is too
short.  It's what you think of yourself that really counts."

"That is one of the rules I have laid down for myself.  If only we all
might go through life with that idea!  There wouldn't be any gossip or
scandal, then."

"Some day I am going to tell you why I have lived over here all these
years."

"I shouldn't, not if it hurts you."

"On the contrary, there's a kind of happiness in unburdening one's
conscience.  I called that day in Rangoon for the express purpose of
telling you everything, but I couldn't in the presence of a third
person."

"I do not demand it."

"But it's a duty I owe to myself," he insisted gravely.  "Besides, it
is not impossible that you may hear the tale from other lips; and I
rather prefer to tell it myself."

"But always remember that I haven't asked you."

"Are you afraid to hear it?"

"No.  What I am trying to convince you with is the fact that I trust
you, and that I give you my friendship without reservations."

He laid his hand on hers, strongly.  "God bless you for that!"

She liked him because there was lacking in his words and tones that
element of flattery so distasteful to her.  Men generally entertain the
fallacy that a woman demands homage, first to her physical appearance,
