men who do things unheard of, undreamed of, in England. Therefore, it is
very clear to me that you Americans are quite capable of doing what you
write about, and what your readers so ardently admire."
"I see," said Smith calmly. His ear-tips still burned.
"No doubt," said the girl, "many of the astonishing things you Americans
write about are really done. Many astounding episodes in fiction are of
not uncommon occurrence in real life."
"What kind of episodes?" asked Smith gravely.
"Why, any of them you write about. They all are astonishing enough. For
example, your young men do not seem to know what fear is."
"No," said Smith, "they don't."
"And when they love," said the girl, "nothing can stop them."
"Nothing."
"Nothing!" she repeated, the soft glow coming into her cheeks again.
"--Nothing! Neither rank nor wealth nor political considerations nor
family prejudices, nor even the military!"
Smith bit his lip in silence. He had heard of irony; never had he
dreamed it could be so crushing: he had heard of sarcasm; but the quiet
sarcasm of this unknown young girl was annihilating him. Critics had
carved him in his time; but the fine mincemeat which this pretty
stranger was making of him promised to leave nothing more either to
carve or to roast.
"Do you mind my talking to you?" she asked, noting the strained
expression of his features.
"No," he said, "go ahead."
"Because if I am tiring you----"
He said he was not tired.
"--or if it bores you to discuss your art with a foreigner who so truly
admires it----"
He shot a glance at her, then forced a laugh.
"I am not offended," he said. "What paper do you represent?"
"I?" she said, bewildered.
"Yes. You are a newspaper woman, are you not?"
"Do you mean a reporter?"
"Naturally."
"No," she said very seriously, "I am not a reporter. What an odd idea!"
"Do you think it odd?"
"Why, yes. Do not many admirers of your works express their pleasure in
them to you?"
He studied her lovely face coolly and in detail--the dainty arch of the
questioning eyebrows, the sensitive curve of the mouth, the clear, sweet
eyes. Could it be possible that such candour masked irony? Could all
this be the very essence of the art of acting, concealing the most
murderous sarcasm ever dreamed of by a terrified author?
And suddenly his face went red all over, and he understood that the
essence of this young girl was a candour so utterly free of
self-consciousness--a frankness so absolutely truthful, that the
simplicity of her had been a miracle too exquisite for him to
comprehend.
"You do like what I write!" he exclaimed.
Her blue eyes widened: "Of course I do," she said, amazed. "Didn't you
understand me?"
"No," he said, cooling his burning face in the rising sea-wind. "I
thought you were laughing at me."
"I'm sorry if I was stupid," she said.
"I was stupid."
"You!" She laughed a little.
The sinking sun peered through the palm forest behind them and flung a
beam of blinding light at her.
"Am I interrupting your work, Mr. Smith? I mean, I know I am, but----"
"Please don't go away."
"Thank you.... I have noticed what agreeable manners you Americans have
in novels. Naturally you are even more kindly and polite in real life."
"Have you met many Americans?"
"No, only you. In the beginning I did not feel interested in Americans."
"Why?"
"The young men all seemed to resemble one another," she said frankly,
"like Chinese. But now that I really know an American I am intensely
interested."
"You notice no Mongolian monotony in me?" he inquired gravely.
"Oh, no----" She coloured; then discovering that he was laughing, she
laughed, too, rather faintly.
"That was a joke, wasn't it?" she said.
"Yes, that was a joke."
"Because," she said, "there is no Mongolian uniformity about you. On
the contrary, you remind me in every way of one of your own heroes."
"Oh, really now!" he protested; but she insisted with serious
enthusiasm.
"You are the counterpart of the hero in this book," she repeated,
resting one hand lightly on the volume under her elbow. "You wear white
flannels, you are tall, well built, straight, with very regular
features and a fasci---- a smile," she corrected herself calmly, "which
one naturally associates with your features."
"Also," she continued, "your voice is cultivated and modulated with just
enough of the American accent to make it piquantly agreeable. And what
you say is fasci---- is well expressed and interesting. Therefore, as I
have said, to me you resemble one of your own heroes."
There was enough hot colour in his face to make it boyishly bashful.
"And you appear to be as modest as one of your own heroes," she added,
studying him. "That is truly delightful."
"But really, I am nothing like any of my heroes," he explained, terribly
embarrassed.
"Why do you say that, Mr. Smith?"
"Because it's true. I don't even resemble 'em superficially."
She made a quick, graceful gesture: "Why do you say that, when here you
are before me, the exact and exciting counterpart of the reckless and
fasci---- the reckless and interesting men you write about?"
He said nothing. She closed the parasol and considered him in silence
for a moment or two. Then:
"And I have no doubt that you are capable of doing the very things that
your heroes do so adroitly and so charmingly."
"What, for example?" he asked, reddening to his temples.
"Reconstructing armies, for instance."
"Filibustering?"
"Is that what it is called?"
"It's called that in the countries south of the United States."
"Well, would you not be capable of overturning a government and of
reconstructing the army, Mr. Smith?"
"Capable?"
"Yes."
"Well," he said cautiously, "if it was the thing I wanted to do, perhaps
I might have a try at it."
"I knew it," she exclaimed triumphantly.
"But," he explained, "I never desired to overturn any government."
"You probably have never seen any that you thought worth while
overturning."
Her confident rejoinder perplexed him and he remained silent.
"Also," she continued, still more confidently, "I am certain that if you
were in love, no obstacles would prove too great for you to surmount.
Would they?"
"Really," he said, "I don't know. I'm not very enterprising."
"That is the answer of a delightfully modest man. Your own hero would
return me such an answer, Mr. Smith. But I--and your heroine
also--understand you--I mean your hero."
"Do you?" he asked gravely.
"Certainly. I, as well as your heroine, understand that no obstacles
could check you if you loved her--neither political considerations,
diplomatic exigencies, family prejudices, nor her own rank, no matter
what it might be. Is not that true?"
Eager, enthusiastic, impersonally but warmly interested, she leaned a
little toward him, intent on his reply.
He looked into the lovely, flushed face in silence for a while. Then:
"Yes," he said, "it is true. If I loved, nothing could check me
except----" he shrugged.
"Death?" She nodded, fascinated.
He nodded. He had meant to say the police.
She said exultantly: "I knew it, Mr. Smith! I was certain that you are
the living embodiment of your own heroes! The moment I set eyes on you
playing in the sand with your lead soldiers, I was sure of it!"
Thrilled, she considered him, her soft eyes brilliant with undisguised
admiration.
"I wish I could actually see it!" she said under her breath.
"See what?"
"See you, in real life, as one of your own heroes--doing some of the
things they do so cleverly, so winningly--careless of convention,
reckless of consequences, oblivious to all considerations except only
the affair in hand. That," she said excitedly, "would be glorious, and
well worth a trip to the States!"
"How far," he asked, "have you read in that book of mine?"
"In this book?" She opened it, impulsively, ran over the pages,
hesitated, stopped.
"He was--was kissing the Balkan Princess," she said. "I left them--in
statu quo."
"I see.... Did he do that well?"
"I--suppose so."
"Have you no opinion?"
"I think he did it--very--thoroughly, Mr. Smith."
"It ought to be done thoroughly if done at all," he said reflectively.
"Otherwise," she nodded, "it would be offensive."
"To the reader?"
"To her, too. Wouldn't it?"
"You know better than I."
"No, I don't know. A nice girl can not imagine herself being
kissed--except under very extraordinary circumstances, and by a very
extraordinary man.... Such a man as you have drawn in this book."
"Had you been that Balkan Princess, what would you have done?" he asked,
rather pale.
"I?" she said, startled.
"Yes, you."
She sat considering, blue eyes lost in candid reverie. Then the faintest
smile curved her lips; she looked up at Smith with winning simplicity.
"In your story, Mr. Smith, does the Balkan Princess return his kiss?"
"Not in that chapter."
"I think I would have returned it--in that--chapter." Then, for the
first time, she blushed.
The naïve avowal set the heart and intellect of Mr. Smith afire. But he
only dropped his well-shaped head and didn't look at her. Which was
rather nice of him.
"Romance," he said after a moment or two, "is all well enough. But real
life is stranger than fiction."
