Nevins is a reputable banker, a very good judge of loans and is rated
quite highly in London. Then he buys curios and pictures, so he must
have some taste. Think what that silly girl will have, enough to make
any three girls of us fancy ourselves heroines of the Arabian Nights;
but the mother can't have any sense."
"I think the modistes are largely to blame. No doubt the mother ordered
a handsome evening dress, and the woman made it handsome and expensive
and quite useless. You don't see Zay Crawford with any such things!"
"Zay is beauty unadorned."
"And Miss Nevins is ugliness intensified. I am really sorry for her,
though she has improved a very little. But when you think of the place
she might take in society--"
"And the journeys!"
"Still, I wouldn't want such a mother."
Phillipa went to her room to finish her Latin verses.
"Though why you should be compelled to write Latin verses when you can't
make decent English rhymes I don't see," she grumbled.
She was almost through when the door flew open and shut again with a
bang and Louie Howe threw herself on the floor clasping Phillipa's
knees, her eyes distraught with terror.
"Oh, isn't it horrible!" she almost shrieked. "Those boys had malignant
scarlet fever! That one was dying the girl held up, he was choking
awfully, and at nine o'clock the other one died. It's all in the
morning's paper. I think they hid it away. Miss Vincent picked it up in
the library. Oh, what can we do?"
"You can stop screaming and get up." Phillipa fairly dragged her up and
shook her violently. "Hush! hush!" she commanded. "You'll have the whole
faculty in here, and we'll be bundled out bag and baggage. Have a little
regard for Zay and me if you have none for yourself."
Phillipa drew up the willow rocker and pushed Louie in it. "Don't have
hysterics if that is what you're aiming at or I'll douse you with cold
water until you're half drowned."
Louie was sobbing now. "I can't help it, and think of the dreadful risk
we ran! That woman ought to be sent to prison."
"That woman was going on with her business, earning her living. We were
the fools! How did they know it was scarlet fever?"
"Well, she thought it was measles and was doctoring them, but one of
them grew so much worse she sent for Dr. Lewis and he was so busy he
didn't get there until five, just as the boy died, and the other one
hadn't seemed so bad, but he died at nine, and the youngest girl has the
fever. Dr. Lewis sent for the undertaker right away and they put
something on the bodies and sealed up the coffin and they were to be
buried this morning and the clothes to be burned and the house
fumigated. Oh, isn't it horrible! The woman ought to go to prison."
"After losing her two children?"
"Well, to give us all scarlet fever, malignant scarlet fever?" with
emphasis.
Phillipa was quivering in every nerve. But she must control Louie.
"Well, we shouldn't have gone there. I think she ought not have let us
in but just said she couldn't admit customers. Now, what are you going
to do?"
"I--I--what can I do? I s'pose I'll have scarlet fever--"
"You can give the thing away and be sent home in disgrace. You'll lose
your watch and perhaps not get in another school. You can spoil Zay
Crawford's life for the present, just when it has reached the loveliest
point of all--"
"And you?"
Louie stopped sobbing and studied her companion in wonder.
"I'm not going to have scarlet fever. Those children haven't been sick a
week. Scarlet fever is taken from the little flakes that peel off when
the skin begins to dry up. We surely didn't get any of those. We went
right out in the fresh air and I breathed in a big supply, the room had
been so close. Two of mother's children had scarlet fever and she took
care of them. None of the others had it. It's half fright; just pull
yourself together and don't be an idiot and you'll come through all
right."
"Oh, Phil! I wish I had your courage."
"You have courage enough only you won't use it. Just feel certain
nothing is going to happen and you'll come out all right. We're going
home so soon that for our sakes you might summon a little courage. If
you go on this way Louie you'll be--what is it they call hysterical
people? Neurasthenics, I believe. I mean to have a jolly good time with
plenty of lovers and dances and fun and get married. I'm not going to
be a sighing, whimsical old maid, borrowing trouble."
"Oh, dear!" and she fell to sobbing again.
"Now, Louie, let me give you some ammonia and you lie here on my bed
while I finish this exercise. Get asleep if you can."
"Oh, how good you are in real trouble, Phil."
"Humph! You don't know what real trouble is. To be smashed up in a
railroad accident or run over by a trolley or bitten by a mad dog, such
things might make your hair turn white. There now, don't let me hear
another word out of you."
She settled Louie on her bed and covered her over with a shawl,
listening every few moments. The sighing breath became more regular,
there were two or three gentle snores. Phillipa rose presently, went
cautiously to the door and placed the key on the outside, then locked it
softly. Louie might sleep half an hour.
Just as she turned Zay ran into her arms. "Oh Phil--we've just had word.
The steamer will be in this evening. Aunt Kate has sent over and I am to
be dismissed. We go to New York tomorrow morning. Oh, it seems too
blessed to be true, but mother hasn't lost any ground. What a lovely
Christmas we shall have!"
"And I'm glad enough for your sake, Zay. I've teased you about looking
like that Boyd girl, and I dragged you off into danger, but if anything
should happen to you I never could forgive myself."
"I don't believe we were in any great danger. I hunted up father's big
medico-something and read about scarlet fever. You don't take it very
easily, but oh, wasn't it dreadful for the poor woman! Only I think she
oughtn't have let us in. The town authorities are going to send them
away as soon as they can. Oh, good-by--but I'll see you when we come
back."
"I'll keep tab on Louie. We must just hold together. It won't do for the
thing to leak out. I was a ninny to propose such a thing." They kissed
each other and walked down stairs together. Most of the girls were in
the school room discussing the newspaper account. The town was clean and
in excellent shape, there were no fears of an epidemic and even now Dr.
Lewis was not quite sure but it's origin was measles, since the little
girl had a decided case. The strictest watch would be kept. The clothes
and some rubbish had been burned. The clairvoyant's knowledge of the
future was held up to withering ridicule.
Louie Howe had a long, refreshing nap and woke up in much better heart.
The short day ended by a little gymnasium practice but all the girls
were rather nervous over the affair.
"Why, I had the scarlet fever once," announced Miss Nevins, "and mamma
would have three doctors!"
"And you lived through all that?" laughed some one. "Then scarlet fever
can't be dangerous."
"I don't remember being very sick, and then father sent us to Bermuda.
It was when the lilies were in bloom. It's such a lovely place!"
"Young ladies," began Mrs. Barrington as they rose from the table, "as
our work is about done I have decided to dismiss school. Some of your
parents may see this sensational account, and everything does get so
exaggerated. There is not the slightest fear of an epidemic, but you
will all be glad of a little longer holiday. I hope you will all return
in good health and the resolve to do your best towards finishing your
year in the best possible manner."
"You believe there isn't real danger?" asked Miss Kingsland.
"There have been no cases about the town to indicate an epidemic. The
little girl's case seems to be not very serious as her fever is abating.
Oh, I think we at least need not feel the slightest alarm. We have no
slums to foster contagion."
Still, the two sudden deaths had created a frightened sort of
impression. The girls kept discussing them until Phillipa protested.
"Who is going home tomorrow?" she asked. "After all it is only a day
sooner, and who has their Christmas gifts done up? Must we save our
jolliness until we get home? We are all coming back in a fortnight, and
spring comes so soon after the holidays, and there's pegging away at
everything and finally graduation."
Some began to hunt up trains, others went to packing. Phillipa kept
Louie near her and made funny unsentimental speeches until the old
feeling seemed quite restored. Some gifts were exchanged, some guesses
as to what home presents would be and they said good-night in the best
of spirits.
"Now, Louie," began Phil, escorting her to her door, "if you get a
granny fit in the night and see horrible things, you just come to my
room and hop into bed with me, and think what a gay time you'll be
having tomorrow night this time, much gayer than Miss Nevins with all
her money and her three party frocks with no place to display them."
Louie laughed. "Oh, Phil, you're such a comfort," she said with an
extravagant hug, "but aren't you going home tomorrow?"
"No, not until Friday. I want to see Zay before I go, and I'm not afraid
of unlucky Friday either," laughing.
Louie slept soundly and was in very good spirits. The girls were all
eager for the morning paper. The scare was pretty well over. The boys
had been buried, the little girl was no worse and if fever did not
develop it would simply be a case of measles.
Then most of the girls said good-by, wishing each other a merry
Christmas. The others huddled together and bewailed their hard lot,
missing Miss Boyd very much. Her mother was quite poorly, which was
given as her excuse. Mrs. Dane insisted upon a rigorous exclusion until
all danger of contagion was over.
Quite late in the afternoon Phillipa walked over to Crawford House and
sent up her card to Zaidee with a penciled message. The girl came flying
through the hall, more beautiful than ever Phil thought, in her soft
red cashmere with white lace garnishings.
"Oh, Phil dear, I'm so glad to see you! I was afraid you would go home
before I had a glimpse of you. We've been so busy and so full of joy!
Oh, you can't think what it is to see mother walking around with no
crutches and the wheel chair set aside, and she's in such splendid
spirits. Vincent will be allowed to come home as a special favor to
papa, getting here early Monday morning and returning that night. We're
just going to have a family dinner with a very few dear friends, but New
Year's night I am to have a party. Oh, can't you come back a little
sooner. I'd like so to have you."
"I don't believe I can, and you know there are the lovers and the
diamond ring"--laughing.
"Oh, dear! Can you believe any of it? And the surprise that I'm not
going to be pleased with. It isn't that Willard has fallen in love, he
is going to have his three years' cruise first. Oh, were you much
frightened, Phil? It was dreadful, and no one can tell where the boys
