and I was back in the world's nightmare. An 
extraordinary book! I decided that it would be 
good for my husband, so I read him a few para- 
graphs; but I found that it only irritated him. 
He wants me to rest, he says — he can't see why 
I've come away to the Florida keys to read about 
the slums of London. 

"My hope of gradually influencing his mind 
has led to a rather appalling discovery — that he 
has the same intention as regards me! He too 
has brought a selection of books, and reads to 
me a few pages every day, and explains what they 
mean. He calls this resting! I am no match for 
him, of com-se — I never realized more keenly the 
worthlessness of my education. But I see in a 
general way where his arguments tend — that life 
is something that has grown, and is not in the 
power of men to change; but even if he could 



 

convince me of this, I should not find it a source 
of joy. I have a feeling always that if you were 
here, you would know something to answer. 

"The truth is that I am so pained by the con- 
flict between us that I cannot argue at all. I find 
myseK wondering what our marriage would have 
been like if we had discovered that we had the 
same ideas and interests. There are days and 
nights at a time when I tell mjrself that I ought 
to believe what my husband believes, that I 
ought never have allowed myself to think of any- 
thing else. But that really won't do as a life- 
program; I tried it years ago with my dear mother 
and father. Did I ever tell you that my mother 
is firmly convinced in her heart that I am to suffer 
eternally in a real hell of fire because I do not 
beheve certain things about the Bible? She still 
has visions of it — though not so bad since she 
turned me over to a husband! 

"Now it is my husband who is worried about 
my ideas. He is reading a book by Bvu:ke, a 
well-known old writer. The book deals with 
English history, which I don't know much about, 
but I see that it resents modem changes, and the 
whole spirit of change. And Mary, why can't 
I feel that way? I really ought to love those old 
and stately things; I ought to be reverent to the 
past; I was brought up that way. Sometimes 
I tremble when I realize how very flippant and 
cynical I am. I seem to see the wrong side of 
everything, so that I couldn't believe in it if I 
wanted to!" 



 



 

Hbe letters were full of the wonders of Nature 
about her. There was a snow-white egret who 
made hife home upon her island; she watched his 
fishing operations, and meant to find his nest, 
so as to watch his young. The men made a trip 
into the Everglades, and brought back wonder- 
tales of flocks of flamingoes making scarlet clouds 
in the sky, huge colonies of birds' nests crowded 
like a city. They had brought home a young 
one, which screamed all day to be stuffed with 
fiish. 

A cousin of Sylvia's, Harley Chilton, had come 
to visit her. He had taken van Tuiver on himting- 
trips during the latter's courtship days, and now 
was a good fishing-companion. He was not 
allowed to discover the state of affairs between 
Sylvia and her husband, but he saw his cousin 
reading serious books, and his contribution to the 
problem was to tell her that she would get wrinkles 
in her face, and that even her feet would grow 
big, like those of the ladies in New England. 

Also, there was the young physician who kept 
watch over Sylvia's health; a dapper little man 
with pink and white complexion, and a brown 
moustache from which he could not keep his 
fingers. He had a bungalow to himself, but 
sometimes he went along on the laimch-trips, 
and Sylvia thought she observed wrinkles of 



 

amusement round his eyes whenever she differed 
from her husband on the subject of Biurke. She 
suspected this yoimg man of not telliag all his 
ideas to his multi-millionaire patients, and she 
was entertained by the prospect of probing him. 

Then came Mrs. Varina Tuis; who since the 
tragic cutting of her own domestic knot, had 
given her life to the service of the happier mem- 
bers of the Castleman Hne. She was now to be 
companion and counselor to Sylvia; and on the 
very day of her arrival she discovered the chasm 
that was yawning in her niece's life. 

"It's wonderful," wrote Sylvia, "the intuition 
of the Castleman women. We were ra the launch, 
passing one of the viaducts of the new railroad, 
and Aunt Varina exclaimed, 'What a wonderful 
piece of work!' 'Yes,' put in my husband, 'but 
don't let Sylvia hear you say it.' 'Why not?' 
she asked; and he replied, 'She'll tell you how 
many hours a day the poor Dagoes have to work.' 
That was all; but I saw Aunt Varina give a quick 
glance at me, and I saw that she was not fooled 
by my efforts to make conversation. It was 
rather horrid of Douglas, for he knows that I 
love these old people, and do not want them to 
know about my trouble. But it is characteristic 
of him — when he is annoyed he seldom tries to 
spare others. 

"As soon as we were alone, Aunt Varina began, 
'Sylvia, my dear, what does it mean? What 
have you done to worry your husband?' 

"You would be entertained if I could remember 



 

the conversation. I tried to dodge the trouble by- 
answering off-hand, 'Douglas has eaten too many 
turiile-eggs for luncheon' — this bemg a man-like 
thing, that any dear old lady would imderstand. 
But she was too shrewd. I had to explain to her 
that I was learning to think; and this sent her 
into a perfect panic. 

" 'You actually mean, my child, that you are 
thinking about subjects to which your husband 
objects, and you refuse to stop when he asks you 
to? Surely you must know that he has some 
good reason for objecting. ' 

" 'I suppose so,' I said, 'but he has not made 
that reason clear to me; and certainly I have a 
right ' 

"She would not hear any more than that. 
'Right, Sylvia? Right Are you claiming the 
right to drive your husband from you? ' 

" 'But surely, I can't regulate all my thinking 
by the fear of driving my husband from me!' 

" 'Sylvia, you take my breath away. Where 
did you get such ideas?' 

" 'But answer me, Aunt Varina — can I?' 

" 'What thinking is as important to a woman 
as thinking how to please a good, kind husband? 
What would become of her family if she no longer 
tried to do this?' 

"So you see, we opened up a large subject. I 
know you consider me a backward person, and 
