sometimes styles himself as a rajah.  He has a body of fierce fighting
men; and he lives unmolested for two reasons: looting would not be
worth while and his position is isolated and almost impregnable.  Now,
if I am right, we shall find shelter there, for he was an old friend of
my father's and I might call him a friend of mine, since I sell sheep
for him occasionally."
"Bala Khan?" mused Bruce, reminiscently.  "Isn't he the chap who has a
sacred white elephant?"
"It is the same," answered Ramabai.  "We can reach there before
sundown.  It would be wise to hasten, however, as this desert and those
hills are infested with lawless nomadic bands of masterless
men--brigands, you call them.  They would cut the throat of a man for
the sake of his clothes."
"Let us go on," said the colonel.  "I don't care where.  I am dead for
want of food and sleep."
"And I, too," confessed Kathlyn; "My arm pains me badly."
"My poor Kit!" murmured her father gloomily.  "And all this because I
told you half a truth, because in play I tried to make a mystery out of
a few plain facts.  I should have told you everything, warned you
against following in case I failed to turn up."
"I should have followed you just the same."
"Shall I rebind the arm?" asked Bruce, turning.
"No, thanks." She smiled down at him.  "This bandage will serve till we
reach Bala Khan's."
"By the way, Colonel, is there a pair of binoculars in the howdah?"
"Yes.  Do you want them?"
"No.  Just to be sure they were there.  We may have occasion to use
them later, in case this place Ramabai is taking us to should turn out
hostile.  I like to know what is going on ahead of me."
"Poor Kit!" reiterated the colonel.
"Never mind, dad; you meant it all for the best; and you must not let
our present misfortunes convince you that that yogi or guru cast a
spell of evil over you.  That is all nonsense."
"My child, this is the Orient, Asia.  Things happen here that are
outside the pale of logic.  Bruce, am I not right?"
"I have seen many unbelievable things here in India," replied Bruce
reluctantly.  "Think of yesterday and to-day, Miss Kathlyn."
"Yes; but the curse of a priest who believes in different gods, who
kotows before a painted idol!  I just simply can't believe anything so
foolish.  Dad, put the thought out of your mind for my sake.  So long
as we have the will to try we'll see California again before many
weeks."
"Do you feel like that?" curiously.
"In my soul, dad, in my soul."  She stared dreamily toward the
empurpling hills.  "I can't explain, but that's the way I feel.  Some
day we shall be free again, reenter the life we have known and all this
will resolve itself into an idle dream.  Ahmed has said it."
"No, he is alive somewhere back there."
Bruce turned to look at her again, but Kathlyn was still gazing at the
hills without seeing them.
"A white elephant," mused the colonel.  "Do you know it for a fact that
this Bala Khan has a white elephant?" he called across to Ramabai.
"I have never seen it Sahib.  It is what they say."
"A pair of mottled ears is the nearest I ever came to seeing a white
elephant, and I've hunted them for thirty years, here, in Ceylon, in
Burma, in Africa.  There was once a tiger near Madras that hadn't any
stripes.  The natives would not permit him to be killed because they
held that, being unique, he was sacred.  A sacred white elephant!  Poor
simple-minded fools!"  The colonel felt in his pockets, then dropped
his hands dispiritedly.  How long since he had tasted tobacco?  "Bruce,
have you got a cheroot in your pocket?  I think a smoke would brace me
up."
Bruce laughed and passed up a broken cigar, which the colonel lighted
carefully.  The weariness seemed to go out of his face magically.
"This Bala Khan should be Mohammedan," said Bruce.  "The Pathan
despises the Hindu."
"There are Hindus in yonder city; quite as many," said Ramabai, "as
there are Mohammedans.  Even the Pathan expects that which he can not
understand."
"Isn't that the wall behind that sand-hill?  Let me have the glasses a
moment.  Colonel. . . .  H'm!  The walled city, all right.  Some people
moving about outside.  Dancers, I should say."
"Professional," explained Ramabai.
"Nothing religious, then?  By George!"
"What is it?" asked the colonel.
"Take a look.  There's an elephant being led into the city gates."
The colonel peered eagerly through the glasses.
"The sun is shining on him. . . .  No! he is . . . white!  A white
elephant!  I'd give ten thousand this minute to own it.  There, it's
entered the gate.  Well, well, well!  And I've lived to see it!  Poor
old Barnum, to have carried around a tinted pachyderm!  He's white as
any elephant flesh could be.  Those dancing chaps are going in, too.
What caste would those dancers be, Ramabai?"
"Pariahs, quite possibly; probably brigands."
The rim of the sun was sinking rapidly as Bruce drew his elephant to a
halt before the gate of the white walled city.  The guard ran out,
barring the way.
"I am Ramabai, a friend of Bala Khan.  I am come to pay him a visit.
Direct me to his house or his palace."
The authority in Ramabai's voice was sufficient for the guard, who gave
the necessary directions.  The party continued on into town.  It was an
odd place for a walled city.  There wasn't a tree about, not a sign of
boscage, except some miles away where the hills began to slope upward.
Bruce wondered what the inhabitants fed upon.  It was more like an
Egyptian village than anything he had ever seen in India.  Bruce asked
for his rifle, which he laid carelessly in the crook of his arm.  One
never could tell.
Presently they came upon a group in the center of which were the
dancers at their vocations.  They ceased their mad whirlings at the
sight of the two elephants.  There were nine of these men, fierce of
eye and built muscularly.  No effeminate Hindus here, mused Bruce, who
did not like the looks of them at all.  The surrounding natives stared
with variant emotions.  Many of them had never seen a white man before.
Their gaze centered upon the colonel.  Kathlyn was almost as dark as
Pundita, and as for Bruce, only his European dress distinguished him
from Ramabai, for there was scarcely a shade difference in color.  But
the colonel, having been weeks in prison, was as pale as alabaster and
his hair shone like threads of silver.
On through the narrow streets, sometimes the sides of the elephants
scraping against the mud and plaster of the buildings, and one could
easily look into the second stories.  No one seemed hostile; only a
natural curiosity was evinced by those standing in doorways or leaning
out of windows.
The house of Bala Khan was not exactly a palace, but it was of
respectable size.  A high wall surrounded the compound.  There was a
gateway, open at this moment.  A servant ran out and loudly demanded
what was wanted.
"Say to your master, Bala Khan, that Ramabai, son of Maaho Singh, his
old friend, awaits with friendly greetings."
"Kit," whispered Kathlyn's father, "this chap Ramabai wouldn't make a
bad king.  And look!" excitedly.  "There's the sacred elephant, and if
he isn't white, I'll eat my hat!"
Kathlyn sighed gratefully.  That her father could be interested in
anything was a good sign for the future.  A few days' rest and
wholesome food would put him half-way on his legs.  Her own vitality
was an inheritance from her father.  The male line of the family was
well known for its recuperative powers.
The servant ran back into the compound and spoke to a dignified man,
who proved to be a high caste Brahmin, having in his charge the care of
the white elephant.  He disappeared and returned soon with the Khan.
The pleasant face, though proudly molded, together with the simplicity
of his appearance, conveyed to Kathlyn the fact that here was a man to
be trusted, at least for the present.  He greeted Ramabai cordially,
struck his hands and ordered out the servants to take charge of what
luggage there was and to lead away the elephants to be fed and watered.
Courteously he asked Kathlyn how she had become injured and Ramabai
acted as interpreter.  He then ushered them into his house, spread rugs
and cushions for them to sit upon and mildly inquired what had brought
the son of his old friend so far.
Colonel Hare spoke several dialects fluently and briefly told (between
sips of tea and bites of cakes which had been set out for the guests)
his experiences in Allaha.
"The rulers of Allaha," observed Bala Khan, "have always been half mad."
Ramabai nodded in agreement.
"You should never have gone back," went on Bala Khan, lighting a
cigarette and eying Kathlyn with wonder and interest.  "Ah, that Durga
Ram whom they call Umballa!  I have heard of him, but fortunately for
him our paths have not crossed in any way."  He blew a cloud of smoke
above his head.  "Well, he has shown wisdom in avoiding me.  In front
of me, a desert; behind me, verdant hills and many sheep and cattle,
well guarded.  I am too far away for them to bother.  Sometimes the
desert thieves cause a flurry, but that is nothing.  It keeps the
tulwar from growing rusty," patting the great knife at his side.
Bala Khan was muscular; his lean hands denoted work; his clear eyes,
the sun and the wind.  He was in height and building something after
the pattern of the colonel.
"And to force a crown on me!" said the colonel.
"You could have given it to this Umballa."
"That I would not do."
"In each case you showed forethought.  The Durga Ram, when he had you
where he wanted you----"  Bala Khan drew a finger suggestively across
his throat.  "Ramabai, son of my friend, I will have many sheep for you
this autumn.  What is it to me whether you Hindus eat beef or not?"  He
laughed.
"I am not a Hindu in that sense," returned Ramabai.  "I have but one
God."
"And Mahomet is His prophet," said the host piously.
"Perhaps.  I am a Christian."
Bruce stirred uneasily, but his alarm was without foundation.
"A Christian," mused Bala Khan.  "Ah, well; have no fear of me.  There
is no Mahdi in these hills.  There is but one road to Paradise and
argument does not help us on the way."
Lowly and quickly Pundita translated for Kathlyn so that she might miss
none of the conversation.
"The Colonel Sahib looks worn."
"I am."
"Now, in my travels I have been to Bombay, and there I dressed like you
white people.  I have the complete.  Perhaps the Colonel Sahib would be
pleased to see if he can wear it?  And also the use of my barber?"
"Bala Khan," cried the colonel, "you are a prince indeed!  It will
