negligée. Presently the first golden-pink ray of the rising sun fell
across her snowy body, and she flung out her lovely arms to it as
though to draw it into her empty heart.
Hafiz, blinking his jewelled eyes, watched her lazily from his
pillow.
CHAPTER XVI
As she came, pensively, from her morning bath into the sunny front
room Athalie noticed the corner of an envelope projecting from beneath
her door.
For one heavenly moment the old delight surprised her at sight of
Clive's handwriting,--for one moment only, before an overwhelming
reaction scoured her heart of tenderness and joy; and the terrible
resurgence of pain and grief wrung a low cry from her: "Why couldn't
he let me alone!" And she crumpled the letter fiercely in her clenched
hand.
Minute after minute she stood there, her white hand tightening as
though to strangle the speech written there on those crushed
sheets--perhaps to throttle and silence the faint, persistent cry of
her own heart pleading a hearing for the man who had written to her at
last.
And after a while her nerveless hand relaxed; she looked down at the
crushed thing in her palm for a long time before she smoothed it out
and finally opened it.
He wrote:
   "It is too long a story to go into in detail. I couldn't,
   anyway. My mother had desired it for a long time. I have
   nothing to say about it except this: I would not for all the
   world have had you receive the first information from the
   columns of a newspaper. Of that part of it I have a right to
   speak, because the announcement was made without my knowledge
   or consent. And I'll say more: it was made even before I
   myself was aware that an engagement existed.
   "Don't mistake what I write you, Athalie. I am not trying to
   escape any responsibility excepting that of premature
   publicity. Whatever else has happened I am fully responsible
   for.
   "And so--what can I have to say to you, Athalie? Silence were
   decenter perhaps--God knows!--and He knows, too, that in me
   he fashioned but an irresolute character, void of the initial
   courage of conviction, without deep and sturdy belief,
   unsteady to a true course set, and lacking in rugged purpose.
   "It is not stupidity: in the bottom of my own heart I know!
   Custom, habit, acquired and inculcated acquiescence in
   unanalysed beliefs--these require more than irresolution and
   a negative disposition to fight them and overcome them.
   "Athalie, the news you must have read in the newspapers
   should first have come from me. Among many, many debts I must
   ever owe you, that one at least was due you. And I defaulted;
   but not through any fault of mine.
   "I could not rest until you knew this. Whatever you may think
   about me now--however lightly you weigh me--remember this--if
   you ever remember me at all in the years to come: I was aware
   of my paramount debt: I should have paid it had the
   opportunity not been taken out of my own hands. And that debt
   paramount was to inform you first of anybody concerning what
   you read in a public newspaper.
   "Now there remains nothing more for me to say that you would
   care to hear. You would no longer care to know,--would
   probably not believe me if I should tell you what you have
   been to me--and still are--and still are, Athalie!
   Athalie!--"
The letter ended there with her name. She kept it all day; but that
night she destroyed it. And it was a week before she wrote him:
   "--Thank you for your letter, Clive. I hope all is well with
   you and yours. I wish you happiness; I desire for you all
   things good. And also--for her. Surely I may say this much
   without offence--when I am saying good-bye forever.
                                                      "ATHALIE."
In due time, to this came his answer, tragic in its brevity, terrible
in its attempt to say nothing--so that its stiff cerement of formality
seemed to crack with every written word and its platitudes split open
under the fierce straining of the living and unwritten words beneath
them.
And to this she made no answer. And destroyed it after the sun had
set.
       
Her money was now about gone. Indian summer brought no prospect of
employment. Never had she believed that so many stenographers existed
in the world; never had she supposed that vacant positions could be
so pitifully few.
During October her means had not afforded her proper nourishment.
The vigour of young womanhood demands more than milk and crackers and
a rare slab from some delicatessen shop.
As for Hafiz, to his astonishment he had been introduced to
chuck-steak; and the pleasure was anything but unmitigated. But
chuck-steak was more than his mistress had.
Mrs. Bellmore was inclined to eat largely of late suppers prepared on
an oil stove by her own fair and very fat hands.
Athalie accepted one or two invitations, and then accepted no more,
being unable to return anybody's hospitality.
Captain Dane called persistently without being received, until she
wrote him not to come again until she sent for him.
Nobody else knew where she was except her sisters. Doris wrote from
Los Angeles complaining of slack business. Later Catharine wrote
asking for money. And Athalie was obliged to answer that she had none.
Now "none" means not any at all. And the time had now arrived when
that was the truth. The chuck-steak cut up on Hafiz's plate in the
bathroom had been purchased with postage stamps--the last of a sheet
bought by Athalie in days of affluence for foreign correspondence.
There was no more foreign correspondence. Hence the chuck-steak, and
a bottle of milk in the sink and a packet of biscuits on the shelf.
And a rather pale, young girl lying flat on the lounge in the front
room, her blue eyes wide, staring up at the fading sun-beams on the
ceiling.
If she was desperate she was quiet about it--perhaps even at moments a
little incredulous that there actually could be nothing left for her
to live on. It was one of those grotesque episodes that did not seem
to belong in her life--something which ought not--that could not
happen to her. At moments, however, she realised that it had
happened--realised that part of the nightmare had been happening for
some time--that for a good while now, she had always been more or less
hungry, even after a rather reckless orgy on crackers and milk.
Except that she felt a little fatigued there was in her no tendency to
accept the chose arrivée, no acquiescence in the fait accompli,
nothing resembling any bowing of the head, any meek desire to kiss the
rod; only a still resentment, a quiet but steady anger, the new and
cool opportunism that hatches recklessness.
What channel should she choose? That was all that chance had left for
her to decide,--merely what form her recklessness should take.
Whatever of morality had been instinct in the girl now seemed to be in
absolute abeyance. In the extremity of dire necessity, cornered at
last, face to face with a world that threatened her, and watching it
now out of cool, intelligent eyes, she had, without realising it,
slipped back into her ragged childhood.
There was nothing else to slip back to, no training, no discipline, no
foundation other than her companionship with a mother whom she had
loved but who had scarcely done more for her than to respond vaguely
to the frankness of inquiring childhood.
Her childhood had been always a battle--a happy series of conflicts as
she remembered--always a fight among strenuous children to maintain
her feet in her little tattered shoes against rough aggression and
ruthless competition.
And now, under savage pressure, she slipped back again in spirit to
the school-yard, and became a watchful, agile, unmoral thing again--a
creature bent on its own salvation, dedicated to its own survival,
atrociously ready for any emergency, undismayed by anything that might
offer itself, and ready to consider, weigh, and determine any chance
for existence.
Almost every classic alternative in turn presented itself to her as
she lay there considering. She could go out and sell herself. But,
oddly enough, the "easiest way" was not easy for her. And, as a child,
also, a fastidious purity had been instinctive in her, both in body
and mind.
There were other and easier alternatives; she could go on the stage,
or into domestic service, or she could call up Captain Dane and tell
him she was hungry. Or she could let any one of several young men
understand that she was now permanently receptive to dinner
invitations. And she could, if she chose, live on her personal
popularity,--be to one man or to several une maitresse
vierge--manage, contrive, accept, give nothing of consequence.
For she was a girl to flatter the vanity of men; and she knew that if
ever she coolly addressed her mind to it she could rule them, entangle
them, hold them sufficiently long, and flourish without the ultimate
concession, because there were so many, many men in the world, and it
took each man a long, long time to relinquish hope; and always there
was another ready to try his fortune, happy in his vanity to attempt
where all so far had failed.
Something she had to do; that was certain. And it happened, while
she was pondering the problem, that the only thing she had not
considered,--had not even thought of--was now abruptly presented to
her.
For, as she lay there thinking, there came the sound of footsteps
outside her door, and presently somebody knocked. And Athalie rose in
the dusk of the room, switched on a single light, went to the door and
opened it. And opportunity walked in wearing the shape of an elderly
gentleman of substance, clothed as befitted a respectable dweller in
any American city except New York.
"Good evening," he said, looking at her pleasantly but inquiringly.
"Is Mrs. Del Garmo in?"
"Mrs. Del Garmo?" repeated Athalie, surprised. "Why, Mrs. Del Garmo is
dead!"
"God bless us!" he exclaimed in a shocked voice. "Is that so? Well,
I'm sorry. I'm very sorry. Well--well--well! Mrs. Del Garmo! I
certainly am sorry."
He looked curiously about him, shaking his head, and an absent
expression came into his white-bearded face--which changed to lively
interest when his eyes fell on the table where the crystal stood
mounted between the prongs of the bronze tripod.
"No doubt," he said, looking at Athalie, "you are Mrs. Del Garmo's
successor in the occult profession. I notice a crystal on the table."
