horses, the crunch of wheels, sabres rattling, the subdued clank and
clatter of a field battery on the march. But he could see no lights,
distinguish no loud voices, no bugle-calls. Now and then a clear whistle
note sounded; now and then a horse snorted, excited by the open air.

The car in which they were was now detached and sidetracked; the long
train backed slowly past and away into the darkness.

And after a while another locomotive came steaming out of the obscurity
ahead; he heard them coupling it to the car in which he sat. The jar did
not awaken Karen.

Presently they were in motion again; the tiled roof of an unlighted
railway station glided past the window; stars appeared, trees, a high
dark hill to the right.

A military guard came through the corridor, lantern in hand, and told
Guild that the car was now entirely empty and at his disposal.

So he rose and went forward where he could look out ahead and see the
dull glow of the smokestack and the ruddy light of the furnace.

For a long while he stood there watching the moving silhouettes of
engineer and fireman. The sombre red light trembled on the rails and
swept the wayside trees or painted with fiery streaks the sides of a cut
or glittered along the rocky wet walls of tunnels.

When at last he went back to the compartment, Karen was sitting up,
twisting her hair into shape.

"Do you feel rested?" he asked cheerfully, seating himself beside her.

"Yes, thank you. Where are we, Kervyn?"

"I don't know."

She was still busy with her hair, but her eyes remained on him.

"Can I do anything for you? Do you need anything?" he asked.

"I seem to need almost everything!" she protested, "including a bath and
a clergyman. Oh, Kervyn, what a wedding journey! Is there anything
about me that resembles a bride? And I'm not even that, yet--just a
crumpled, soiled, disreputable child!"

"You are absolutely adorable just as you are!"

"No! I am unspeakable. And I want to be attractive to you. I really can
be very nice-looking, only you never saw me so----"

"Dearest!"

"I haven't had any clothes since I first met you!" she said excitedly.
"You know I can scarcely bear it to have you think of me this way. Will
I have time to buy a gown in Antwerp? How long will it take us to marry
each other? Because, of course, I shall not let you ride away with your
regiment until you are my husband."

She flushed again, and the tears sprang to her eyes. It was plain that
her nerves had given way under the long strain.

"Kervyn! Only yesterday war meant almost nothing to me. And look at me
now!--look at the girl you saw in England only a few days ago!--a woman
today!--a wife tomorrow, please God--and the fear of this war already
overwhelming me."

She brushed the starting tears from her eyes; they filled again. She
said miserably: "We women all inherit sorrow, it seems, the moment our
girlhood leaves us. A few days ago I didn't know what it was to be
afraid. Then you came. And with you came friendship. And with friendship
came fear--fear for you!... And then, very swiftly, love came; and my
girlhood was gone--gone--like yesterday--leaving me alone in the world
with you and love and war!"

He drew her face against his shoulder:

"This world war is making us all feel a little lonely," he said. "The
old familiar world is already changing under our bewildered eyes. It is
a totally new era which is dawning; a new people is replacing the
inhabitants of earth, born to new thoughts, new ideals, new ambitions.

"I think the old tyranny is already beginning to pass from men's souls
and minds; the old folk-ways, the old and out-worn terrors, the
tinselled dogmas, the old false standards, the universal dread of that
absolute intellectual freedom which alone can make a truly new heaven
and a new earth.

"All this is already beginning to pass away in the awful intellectual
revelation which this world war is making hour by hour.

"What wonder that we feel the approaching change, the apprehension of
that mortal loneliness which must leave us stripped of all that was
familiar while the old order passes--vanishes like mist at dawn."

He bent and touched her hand with his lips:

"But there will be a dawn, Karen. Never doubt it, sweet!"

"Shall our children see it--if God is kind to us?" she whispered.

"Yes. If God is very kind, I think that we shall see it, too."

The girl nodded, pressing her cheek against his, her eyes clear and
sweetly grave.

He said: "No man ever born, since Christ, has dared to be himself. No
woman, either.... I think our children will begin to dare."

She mused, wide-eyed, wondering.

"And he who takes up a sword," he said in a low voice, "shall find
himself alone like a mad dog in a city street, with every living soul
bent upon his extermination.

"Thus will perish emperors and kings. Our children's children shall have
heard of them, marvelling that we had lived to see them pass away into
the mist of fable."

After a while she lifted her face and looked at him out of wistful eyes:

"Meanwhile you fight for them," she said.

"I am of today--a part of the mock mystery and the tarnished tinsel.
That grey old man of Austria quarrels with his neighbour of Servia, and
calls out four million men to do his murders for him. And an Emperor in
white and steel buckles on his winged helmet summons six million more in
the name of God.

"That is a tragedy called 'Today.' But it is the last act, Karen.
Already while we hold the stage the scene shifters are preparing the
drama called 'Tomorrow.'

"Already the last cues are being given; already the company that held
the stage is moving slowly toward the eternal wings. The stage is to be
swept clean; everything must go, toy swords and cannon, crowns and
ermine, the old and battered property god who required a sea of blood
and tears to propitiate him; the old and false idol once worshiped as
Honour, and set upon a pedestal of dead bones. All these must go,
Karen--are already going.... But--I am in the cast of 'Today'; I may
only watch them pass, and play my part until the curtain falls."

They remained silent for a long time. The train had been running very
slowly. Presently it stopped.

Guild rose and went to the door of the compartment, where a lantern
glimmered, held high. Soldiers opened the door; an officer of Guard
Cuirassiers saluted.

"We control the line no farther," he said. "Telegraphic orders direct me
to send you forward with a flag."

"May I ask where we are?" said Guild.

"Not far from Antwerp. Will you aid Madam to descend? Time presses. We
have a motor car at your disposal."

He turned, aided Karen to the wooden platform, which was thronged with
heavy cavalrymen, then lifted out their luggage, which a soldier in
fatigue cap took.

"There was also a box," said Guild to the officer of Cuirassiers.

"It is already in the tonneau." He drew a telegram from his pocket and
handed it to Guild, and the young man read it under the flickering
lantern light:

    CAPTAIN THE COMTE D'YVOIR:

    I am told that I shall recover. It has been, so far, between us,
    only the sword; but I trust, one day, it shall be the hand. Luck
    was against me. Not your fault.

    I send to you and to my daughter my respect and my good will.
    Until a more auspicious day, then, and without rancour.

                                  Your friend the enemy,
                                         VON REITER, Maj.-Gen'l.

Karen, reading over his shoulder, pressed his arm convulsively. Tears
filled her eyes, but she was smiling.
