
"You're very clever," retorted Neeland, quite out of countenance.

"Yes, we are," said Fifi, with her quick smile. "And who but M'sieu
Nilan should admit it?"

"Very clever," repeated Neeland, still amazed and profoundly uneasy.
"But this Yellow Devil you say I brought into Europe must have been
resting in America, then. And, if so, why is there no war there?"

"There would have been--with Mexico. You brought the Yellow Demon
here, but just in time!"

"All right. Grant that, then. But--perhaps he was a long time resting
in America. What about that, pretty gipsy?"

The girl shrugged again:

"Is your memory so poor, M'sieu Nilan? What has your country done but
fight since Erlik rested among your people? You fought in Samoa; in
Hawaii; your warships went to Chile, to Brazil, to San Domingo; the
blood of your soldiers and sailors was shed in Hayti, in Cuba, in the
Philippines, in China----"

"Good Lord!" exclaimed Neeland. "That girl is dead right!"

Sengoun threw back his handsome head and laughed without restraint;
and the gipsies laughed, too, their beautiful eyes and teeth flashing
under their black cascades of unbound hair.

"Show me your palms," said Nini, and drew Sengoun's and Neeland's
hands across the table, holding them in both of hers.

"See," she added, nudging Fifi with her shoulder, "both of them born
under the Dark Star! It is war they shall live to see--war!"

"Under the Dark Star, Erlik," repeated the other girl, looking closely
into the two palms, "and there is war there!"

"And death?" inquired Sengoun gaily. "I don't care, if I can lead a
sotnia up Achi-Baba and twist the gullet of the Padisha before I say
Fifi--Nini!"

The gipsies searched his palm with intent and brilliant gaze.

"Zut!" said Fifi. "Je ne vois rien que d'l'amour et la guerre aux
dames!"

"T'en fais pas!" laughed Sengoun. "I ask no further favour of
Fortune; I'll manage my regiment myself. And, listen to me, Fifi," he
added with a frightful frown, "if the war you predict doesn't arrive,
I'll come back and beat you as though you were married to a Turk!"

While they still explored his palm, whispering together at intervals,
Sengoun caught the chorus of the air which the orchestra was playing,
and sang it lustily and with intense pleasure to himself.

Neeland, unquiet to discover how much these casual strangers knew
about his own and intimate affairs, had become silent and almost
glum.

But the slight gloom which invaded him came from resentment toward
those people who had followed him from Brookhollow to Paris, and who,
in the very moment of victory, had snatched that satisfaction from
him.

He thought of Kestner and of Breslau--of Scheherazade, and the
terrible episode in her stateroom.

Except that he had seized the box in the Brookhollow house, there was
nothing in his subsequent conduct on which he could plume himself. He
could not congratulate himself on his wisdom; sheer luck had carried
him through as far as the rue Soleil d'Or--mere chance, and that
capricious fortune which sometimes convoys the stupid, fatuous, and
astigmatic.

Then he thought of Rue Carew. And, in his bosom, an intense desire to
distinguish himself began to burn.

If there were any way on earth to trace that accursed box----

He turned abruptly and looked at the two gipsies, who had relinquished
Sangoun's hand and who were still conversing together in low tones
while Sangoun beat time on the jingling table top and sang joyously
at the top of his baritone voice:

                            "Eh, zoum--zoum--zoum!
                            Boum--boum--boum!
                    Here's to the Artillery
                      Gaily riding by!
                    Fetch me a distillery,
                      Let me drink it dry--
                    Fill me full of sillery!
                    Here's to the artillery!
                            Zoum--zoum--zoum!
                            Boum--boum--boum!"

"Fifi!"

"M'sieu?"

"You're so clever! Where is that Yellow Devil now?"

"Pouf!" giggled Fifi. "On its way to Berlin, pardie!"

"That's easy to say. Tell me something else more expensive."

Nini said, surprised:

"What we know is free to Prince Erlik's friend. Did you think we sell
to Russians?"

"I don't know anything about you or where you get your information,"
said Neeland. "I suppose you're in the Secret Service of the Russian
Government."

"Mon ami, Nilan," said Fifi, smiling, "we should feel lonely
outside the Secret Service. Few in Europe are outside--few in the
world, fewer in the half-world. As for us Tziganes, who belong to
neither, the business of everybody becomes our secret to sell for a
silver piece--but not to Russians in the moment of peril!... Nor to
their comrades.... What do you desire to know, comrade?"

"Anything," he said simply, "that might help me to regain what I have
lost."

"And what do you suppose!" exclaimed Fifi, opening her magnificent
black eyes very wide. "Did you imagine that nobody was paying any
attention to what happened in the rue Soleil d'Or this noon?"

Nini laughed.

"The word flew as fast as the robber's taxicab. How many thousand
secret friends to the Triple Entente do you suppose knew of it half an
hour after it happened? From the Trocadero to Montparnasse, from the
Point du Jour to Charenton, from the Bois to the Bièvre, the word
flew. Every taxicab, omnibus, sapin, every bateau-mouche, every
train that left any terminal was watched.

"Five embassies and legations were instantly under redoubled
surveillance; hundreds of cafés, bars, restaurants, hôtels; all the
theatres, gardens, cabarets, brasseries.

"Your pigs of Apaches are not neglected, va! But, to my idea, they
got out of Paris before we watchers knew of the affair at all--in an
automobile, perhaps--perhaps by rail. God knows," said the girl,
looking absently at the dancing which had begun again. "But if we ever
lay our eyes on Minna Minti, we wear toys in our garters which will
certainly persuade her to take a little stroll with us."

After a silence, Neeland said:

"Is Minna Minti then so well known?"

"Not at the Opéra Comique," replied Fifi with a shrug, "but since
then."

"An artiste, that woman!" added Nini. "Why deny it? It appears that
she has twisted more than one red button out of a broadcloth coat."

"She'll get the Seraglio medal for this day's work," said Fifi.

"Or the croix-de-fer," added Nini. "Ah, zut! She annoys me."

"Did you ever hear of a place called the Café des Bulgars?" asked
Neeland, carelessly.

"Yes."

"What sort of place is it?"

"Like any other."

"Quite respectable?"

"Perfectly," said Nini, smiling. "One drinks good beer there."

"Munich beer," added Fifi.

"Then it is watched?" asked Neeland.
