his friends to the house it was natural that she should 
marry into the same profession ; and as she continued 
to meet many doctors and was a young woman of 
much mental curiosity and a keen intelligence it was 
also natural that she should grow more and more 
deeply interested in the science of medicine and take 
part in the learned discussions at her table. 

One day her husband, after a warm argument with 



 

her on the new treatment of an old disease, asked her 
why she did not study medicine. She had ample leisure, no children, and, he added gallantly, a mind to do 
it justice. 

The suggestion horrified her, as it would have horrified her large family connection and circle of friends 
in that provincial town where standards are as slowly 
undermined as the cliffs of France by the action of the 
sea. 

Shortly afterward they moved to Paris, where her 
husband, being a man of first-rate ability and many 
friends, soon built up a lucrative practice. 

Being childless, full of life, and fond of variety, 
they spent far more money than was common to their 
class, saving practically nothing. They had a handsome apartment with the usual number of servants; 
Madame Pertat's life was made up of a round of 
dressmakers, bridge, calls during the daytime, and 
companioning her husband at night to any one of the 
more brilliant restaurants where there was dancing. 
Sometimes they dined early and went to the opera or 
the play. 

Suddenly the really serious mind of this woman 
revolted. She told me that she said to her husband: 
"This is abominable. I cannot stand this life. I shall 
study medicine, which, after all, is the only thing that 
really interests me." 

She immediately entered upon the ten years' course, 
which included four years as an interne. France has 
now so far progressed that she talks of including the 



 

degree of baccalaureate in the regular school course of 
women, lest they should wish to study for a profession 
later; but at that time Madame Pertat's course in 
medicine was long drawn out, owing to the necessity 
of reading for this degree. 

She was also obliged to interrupt her triumphal 
progress in order to bring her first and only child 
into the world ; but finally graduated with the highest 
honors, being one of the few women of France who 
have received the diploma to practice. 

To practice, however, was the least of her inten- 
tions, now that she had a child to occupy her mind 
and time. Then, abruptly, peace ended and war came. 
Men disappeared from their usual haunts like mist. 
It was as if the towns turned over and emptied their 
men on to the ancient battlefields, where, generation 
after generation, war rages on the same historic spots 
but re-naming its battles for the benefit of chronicler 
and student. 

M. le Docteur Pertat was mobilized with the rest. 
Madame's bank account was very slim. Then once 
more she proved that she was a woman of energy 
and decision. Without any formalities she stepped 
into her husband's practice as a matter of course. On 
the second day of the war she ordered out his run- 
about and called on every patient on his immediate 
list, except those that would expect attention in his 
office during the usual hours of consultation. 

Her success was immediate. She lost none of her 
husband's patients and gained many more, for every 



 

doctor of military age had been called out. Of course 
her record in the hospitals was well known, not only 
to the profession but to many of Dr. Pertat's patients. 
Her income, in spite of the war, is larger than it 
ever was before. 

She told me that when the war was over she should 
resign in her husband's favor as far as her general 
practice was concerned, but should have a private 
practice of her own, specializing in skin diseases and 
facial blemishes. She could never be idle again, and 
if it had not been for the brooding shadow of war and 
her constant anxiety for her husband, she should look 
back upon those two years of hard medical practice and 
usefulness as the most satisfactory of her life. 

She is still a young woman, with vivid yellow hair 
elaborately dressed, and it was evident that she had 
none of the classic professional woman's scorn of 
raiment. Her apartment is full of old carved furniture and objets d'art, for she had always been a collector. Her most conspicuous treasure is a rare and 
valuable Russian censer of chased silver. This was on 
the Germans' list of valuables when they were sure 
of entering Paris in September, 1914. Through their 
spies they knew the location of every work of art in 
the most artistic city in the world. 

Madame Pertat is one of the twenty-five women 
doctors in Paris. All are flourishing. When the doc- 
tors return for leave of absence etiquette forbids 
them to visit their old patients while their brothers are 
still at the Front ; and the same rule applies to doctors 


 

who are stationed in Paris but are in Government 
service. The women are having a magnificent inning, 
and whether they will be as magnanimous as Madame 
Pertat and take a back seat when the men return 
remains to be seen. The point is, however, that they 
are but another example of the advantage of technical 
training combined with courage and energy. 



On the other hand, I heard of many women who, 
thrown suddenly out of work, or upon their own 
resources, developed their little accomplishments and 
earned a bare living. One daughter of an avocat, who 
had just managed to keep and educate his large family and was promptly mobilized, left the Beaux Arts 
where she had studied for several years, and after 
some floundering turned her knowledge of designing 
to the practical art of dress. She goes from house 
to house designing and cutting out gowns for women 
no longer able to afford dressmakers but still anxious 
to please. She hopes in time to be employed in 'one 
of the great dressmakers' establishments, having renounced all thought of being an artist in a more 
grandiose sense. Meanwhile she keeps the family 
from starving while her mother and sisters do the 
housework. Her brothers are in the military colleges 
and will be called out in due course if the war continues long enough to absorb all the youth of France. 

Mile. E., the woman who told me her story, was 



 

suffering from the effects of the war herself. I 
climbed five flights to talk to her, and found her in a 
pleasant little apartment looking out over the roofs 
and trees of Passy. Formerly she had taken a certain 
number of American girls to board and finish off in 
the politest tongue in Europe. The few American 
girls in Paris to-day (barring the anachronisms that 
paint and plume for the Ritz Hotel) are working with 
the American Ambulance, the American Fund for 
French Wounded, or Le Bien-£tre du Blesse, and she 
sits in her high flat alone. 

But she too has adapted herself, and kept her little 
home. She illuminates for a Bible house, and paints 
exquisite Christmas and Easter cards. Of course she 
had saved something, for she was the. frugal type and 
restaurants and the cabaret could have no call for 
her. 

But alas! said she, there were the taxes, and ever 
more taxes. And who could say how long the war 
would last? I cheerfully suggested that we might 
