
  

arrival. Awfully important, and not a little 
difficult, here, not to let any tangle or any em 
broilment lay its insidious trap. Doesn't Ralph 
know by his own experience, if he takes up the 
action from the moment, and the moment only, 
of "arriving," arriving for the first time, all that 
has happened for his predecessor and exactly 
what hasn't ? There, however, I gasp with relief, 
is a question that would be embarrassing to me 
only if, on intenser reflection, I didn't see that I 
exactly haven't pretended that he doesn't repeat, 
repeat up to a certain point, the experience of 
the young man of the portrait ? Just now, a 
page or two back, I lost my presence of mind, I 
let myself be scared, by a momentarily-confused 
appearance or assumption that he doesn't repeat 
it. I see, on recovery of my wits, not to say of 
my wit, that he very exactly does; without which 
where is definitely that Past, that made and 
achieved, that once living and enacted Past which 
is the field of his business ? He deflects in the 
midst of it, yes, by the uncontrollability of his 
modernism that is, at least, by what was in 
calculable beforehand, the exhibition of the way 
in which "they" were going to take it. The 
whole effect of my story is exactly his discon 
certed and practically defeated face-to-faceness 
with the way in which they do take it a matter, 
a fact, an appearance, that gives me all I want 
for accounting for his deflection. Thus is our 





  

having, his having, everything en double regulated 
and exhibited: he is doing over what the other 
fellow has done (though it acts for the other 
persons in it as if it were the first time this quite 
all right, though not looking so at first) and 
that accordingly hangs together and stands firm. 
Therefore accordingly my start, a little above, 
at being what I there for a moment called dis 
concerted and defeated was groundless: I was 
going on perfectly straight and right and am 
now doing so again. To repeat, accordingly, I 
get my full right to deal as by a free hand with 
that little historic truth of the girl's concealed 
sentiment for the other fellow, accompanied with 
her equal consciousness that he doesn't and 
can't and won't care for her a bit: at least in 
the same way. This revolution that has taken 
place for her and well before the scene of 
Ralph's differing so from the 1820 man in short, 
in short. Note what occurs to me as to the ques 
tion or no of whether the portrait, the portrait 
in the house in 1910, is done from Ralph in 1820 
or not, done from Ralph himself, or accounted for, 
as coming into existence afterwards. The thing, 
at this ragged edge, is to keep hold of the clue, 
as tight as possible, that I have grabbed for my 
solution in the line of her making the sacrifice; 
making it all with a sublime intelligence for him, 
on account of what he has told her of his own 
epoch which she stares at in her deprivation. 





  

To clear up a little the page preceding this, 
instead of doing it over, I was making a state 
ment, a bit arrested, as to the revolution that 
has taken place in the girl, previous, well previous, 
to the scene of the great crisis, as to the attitude 
toward her of her sister's fiance, from the mo 
ment she feels, exquisitely and almost incred 
ulously feels, that difference in him (toward her) 
which has been more completely defined since 
her sister's dismissal of him, and which gives 
her, as well as it gives him, a liberty never yet 
enjoyed by her. I shall presently come back 
to the rest of this, the enormous value to be got 
out of it; but I want not simply to brush by the 
small hare started yesterday by that sudden re 
membrance of the question of the portrait, the 
portrait figuring, or having figured, so extraor 
dinarily to Ralph upwards of a century after its 
being painted; and which it would seem I must 
do something about. I see a chance to play with 
it, with the 1820 production of it, for illustration 
and intensification of my most-sought effect. 
It's an excrescence perhaps upon the surface I 
have already in this rough fashion plotted out; 
which remark, however, is nonsense, as nothing 
is an excrescence that I may interestingly, that 
I may contributively, work in. It gives me more 
over, the idea I begin to clutch the tip of the tail 
of, it gives me another person whom I suddenly 
see as a great enhancement for my action; the 





  

painter-man who gets, doesn't one fancy ? into 
a much straighter and closer "psychologic" and 
perceptive and mystified and mixed relation with 
his remarkable subject than any of the others 
in their way do. I get the painter-man as affected 
in his way too with the famous malaise, and the 
more affected with his proportionately greater 
opportunities, as it were, if not of observation 
at least of a kind of wondering and penetrating 
consideration. It "kind of" glimmers upon me 
that there would be something good, something 
much to the purpose, in having the painter-man 
begin to prepare the turn the situation takes, 
having him start the question of what the matter 
is (crudely speaking) with the genial young man, 
after all, and below and outside of his geniality; 
so that his wonderment, his felt queerness and 
queernesses, are inevitably communicated by him 
and sow the seed of the rest of what I want. They 
sow above all, don't they, or mayn't they be 
made to ? the seed of Ralph's suspicion of his being 
suspected, putting him on his guard against this 
latter, rendering him uneasy, and whatever else, 
under the painter's study of him. Wouldn't it 
be then to the little H.W. man that the artist 
speaks of his strange impression, in complete 
confidence and secrecy at first, but sowing what 
I have called the seed so in the most favourable 
ground ? I recognise that one doesn't quite see 
how we know he does this, as we don't of course 





  

see or hear him do it; yet that needn't find itself 
so ill provided for by Ralph's himself making it 
out and concluding upon it which is after all 
the only way we really know anything. I don't 
want to repeat what I have done at least a couple 
of times, I seem to remember, and notably in 
The Liar the "discovery," or the tell-tale rep 
resentation of an element in the sitter written 
clear by the artist's projection of it on canvas. 
At the same time I am not afraid; I see its office 
well enough and needn't trouble if once the idea 
appeals, as I think it really does. In this case 
it's worked in early; the notion of my young 
man having his portrait as a matter of course 
done in London coming in with perfect natural 
ness. He has it done for his prospective bride; 
she takes an interest in it of the very greatest 
at first; and it is the little H.W. man who recom 
mends, who selects, the artist. I see all sorts of 
curious things in this it perfectly bristles with 
them, and with one's chance, above all, of making 
the personage in question (and I do want another 
figure, to people the canvas a little more) a real 
vision to Ralph, a character of the time, intensely 
typical for Ralph; through whose sense of all 
which, however, I tread the delicate ground of 
imputations to him, of perceptions, discrimina 
tions, estimates more or less at variance with his 
1820 identity. That delicate ground, I have 
