"There he is over there," remarked Grismer, indicating a regulation
Mephistopheles, wearing a blood-red jerkin laced with a wealth of
superfluous points. "Wait; I’ll borrow a lace of him."

The devil was polite and had no objection to being despoiled; and
Grismer came back with a chamois thong and mended her sandal for her
while she sat in their box and watched the tumult surging below.

He chatted gaily with her for a while, leaning there on the box’s edge
beside her, but Stephanie had become smilingly inattentive and
preoccupied, and he watched her in silence, now, curiously, a little
perplexed by her preoccupation.  For it was most unusual for her to
betray inattention when with him.  It was not like her. He could not
remember her ever being visibly uninterested in him—ever displaying
preoccupation or indifference when in his company.

However, the excitement of seeing her brother again so unexpectedly
accounted for it no doubt.

The excitement and pleasure of seeing her—brother! ... A slight
consciousness of the fact that there was no actual kinship between this
girl and Cleland passed through his mind without disturbing his
tranquillity.  He merely happened to think of it.... He happened to
recollect it; that was all.

"Stephanie?"

"Yes."

"Shall we sit out this dance?  Your sandal string will hold."

"I don’t know," she said.  "Who is that dancing with Helen?  Over there
to the left——"

"I see her.  I don’t know—oh, yes—it’s Phil Grayson."

"Is it?  I wonder where Jim went with that woman! ... I’m horribly
thirsty, Oswald."

"Shall we have some supper?"

"Where is it?  Oh, down there!  What a stuffy place!  It’s too awful.
Couldn’t you get something here?"

He managed to bribe one perspiring and distracted waiter, and after a
long while he brought a tray towering with salads, ices and bottles.

Helen and Philip Grayson came back and the former immediately revealed a
healthy appetite.

"Don’t you want anything to eat, Steve?" she inquired.  "This shrimp
salad isn’t bad."

"I’m not hungry."

"You seem to be thirsty," remarked Helen, looking at the girl’s flushed
face and her half-filled wine glass. "Where is Jim?"

"Dancing."

"With whom?"

"Some girl of sorts whom he picked up," said Stephanie; and the pink
flush in her face deepened angrily.

"Was she worth it?" inquired Helen, frankly amused.

Stephanie’s cheeks cooled; she replied carelessly:

"She had button eyes and a snub nose and her attire was transparent—if
that interests you."  She rested her elbow on the edge of the box,
supporting her chin on her cupped palm.

They were dancing again.  Grayson came and took out Helen; a number of
men arrived clamouring for Stephanie.  She finally went out with Verne,
but not liking the way he held her left him planted and returned to the
box where a number of hilarious young men had gathered.

Harry Belter said:

"What’s the trouble, Steve?  I never saw you glum before in all my
life!"

"I’m not glum," she said with a forced little laugh, "I’m thirsty,
Senior Bacchus!  Isn’t that enough to sadden any girl?"

Later Helen, returning from the floor, paused beside Stephanie to bend
over her and whisper:

"Harry Belter is behaving like a fool.  Don’t take anything more,
Steve."

The girl lifted her flushed face and laughed:

"I feel like flinging discretion into the ’fire of spring,’" she said.
"That’s where most of these people’s clothing has disappeared, I fancy."
Excitement burned in her pink cheeks and wide grey eyes, and she stood
up in the box looking about her, poised lightly as some slim winged
thine on the verge of taking flight.

Grismer rose too and whispered to her, but she made a slight, impatient
movement with her shoulders.

"Won’t you dance this with me?" he repeated, touching her arm.

"No," she said under her breath.  "You annoy me, Oswald."

"What!"

"Please don’t be quite so devoted....  I’m restless."

She turned and started to leave the box.  The others were leaving too,
for dancing had begun again.  But at the steps she parted with the jolly
little company, they descending to the floor, she turning to mount the
steps alone.

"Where on earth are you going, Steve?" called back Helen, halting on the
steps below.

"I want to see the floor from the top gallery!" replied Stephanie,
without turning her head; and she ran lightly upward, her bells and
bangles jingling.

Half way up she turned her head.  She had not been followed, but she saw
Grismer below looking up, watching her flight.  And she made no sign of
recognition, no gay gesture of amity and adieu; she turned her back and
sped upward through the clamour and hazy brilliancy, turned into the
first corridor, and vanished like a firefly in a misty thicket.




                             *CHAPTER XIX*


At three in the morning the Ball of the Gods was in full and terrific
blast and still gathering momentum.  A vast musical uproar filled the
Garden; the myriad lights glittered like jewels through a fog; the
dancing floor was a bewildering, turbulent whirlpool of colour.

Few if any of the dancers had reached the point of satiation; a number,
however, had attained the state of saturation.

As far as Cleland could see the only difference between this and a more
miscellaneous assemblage seemed to be that the majority of people here
knew how to ignore unpleasant lapses in others and how to efface
themselves if surprised into accidental indiscretion.

With Lady Button-eyes on his arm he had threaded his way into the
supper-room, where the gods, demi-gods and heroes were banqueting most
riotously.

It was becoming very rapidly a dubiously mixed affair; Bacchus, with his
noisy crew, invaded the supper-room and pronounced Cleland’s snub-nosed,
button-eyed goddess "tray chick," and there arose immediately a terrific
tumult around her—gods and satyrs doing battle for her; but she
persisted in her capricious fancy for Cleland.  He, however, remained in
two minds; one was to abandon Button-eyes, retire and find Stephanie
again, in spite of the ever-smoldering resentment he felt for Grismer;
the other was to teach himself without loss of time to keep away from
her; school himself to do without her; preoccupy himself casually and
recklessly with anything that might aid in obliterating his desire for
her companionship—with this snub-nosed one, for example.

The desire to see Stephanie remained, nevertheless, sometimes fiercely
importunate, sometimes sullenly persistent—seemingly out of all
proportion to any sentiment he had ever admittedly entertained for
her—out of proportion, also, to his sulky resentment at the folly she
had committed with Oswald Grismer.

For, after all, if she ultimately married Grismer in the orthodox way
her eccentric pre-nuptial behaviour was nothing more serious than
eccentric.  And if she didn’t, then it meant annulment or divorce; and
he realised that nobody outside of the provinces paid any attention to
such episodes nowadays.  And nobody cared what clod-hoppers thought
about anything.

His button-eyed goddess had a pretty good soprano voice and she was
using it now, persuaded into a duet by Belter.  Cleland looked at her
sideways without enthusiasm, undecided, irritated and gloomy.  She was
