stand there dazed and at a loss. Should she go home, 
her errand so miserably accomplished? Mary, too, 
got up. 

" You said you'd just come from the train? " she asked. 

" Yes," said Grissie. 

" And I suppose you're going to make your mother a 
little visit? " 

" Yes," said Grissie. " Maybe I shall stay round here 
quite a while." And yet she knew she should not. The 
flawless texture of the new green suit could never be ex- 
posed to a knock-about intercourse with young Gleasons
But Grissie was picking up a little, in spite of her awe 
over Mary Neale's sweet motherliness. She may have 
been, in those words, warning Mary that her accusation 
had not been slain by a simple No from Ben. She took 
a few steps toward the door and came back. She had it 
in mind to say to Mary, " It was all true." But she 
could not. Mary's radiant content enveloped her, and 
Grissie got out of the house as fast as she could. And 



 

as she went along the road, as gay a picture of spring as 
you could wish, she saw Ben waiting for her. And then, 
whether from art or hurt feeling, she began to cry, and 
Ben, who had never seen tears on her blooming cheek, was 
appalled. 

" DonH ! " he besought her. " For God's sake, Griissie, 
what d'you go to mother for? Why didn't you come to 
me?'' 

"I did write to you and you wouldn't answer," said 
Grissie. She was carefully sopping her tears lest they 
splash the green loveliness below. 

Ben was entirely subjugated by the tears. He was 
irritated With her beyond words for bringing their game 
into the radius of these solemn things where one had to 
be engaged or not engaged. All his past with her had 
been a romp, he thought, where she had beckoned and he 
had followed — but only because she beckoned. He did 
not want what the beckoning promised. Only, this was 
youth, and strange penalty had overtaken him. It gave 
him a sickness of mind and body. 

" Go back, Grissie," he urged her. " Don't go home. 
Go right back to town and I'll write to you." 

" Will you harness up and take me to Beckenham?" 
asked Grissie. 

" God ! no, I can't. You know I can't." 

" Then I sha'n't go back," said she. " But you know, 
Ben, you'll have to marry me." 

She walked on and left him standing there and he took 
a step after her and then turned about and went home, 
pale with his own thought, and on into the barn where 
Trueman had come for a rake and asked him if he wanted 
another " wrastle." Ben looked at him as if he did not 
hear, and went to the ladder and climbed the mow. 



 

" Father worse?'' Tnieman called after him. 

"No," said Ben, and Trueman went out of the bam 
muttering that there were no nests up there anyway. 
Ben could not have told why he wanted to take refuge in 
that dusty comer where he and Hugh had played. He 
threw himself down there and thought desperately he'd 
like to smoke and set the bam afire and die in the ruins — 
at least run away while it was burning and let them 
think he'd died. He felt unspeakably disgusted and tired 
and at odds with life as it catches you by the heels and 
throws you when all you have done is to act as it smilingly 
bade you. He lay there a long time, hating everything: 
not Grissie; he hardly thought of her at all, except as 
somebody who had done an incredibly maddening and 
foolish thing. His mother called him, first from the house 
and then nearer and nearer as she crossed the yard. He 
heard her below him, and hardly breathed or stirred, lest 
she catch the rustling of the hay. She went through the 
rear bam door and called again. And then she returned 
and, seeming to give it up, walked back across the yard. 
He put his hands before his face and cried a tear or two, 
in his anger and dismay. And the thought of Ellen came 
to him, of her clear voice when she said, " I will, Ben, 
I will," and of the feel of her firm, small hand, warm from 
its dishwashing, as she slipped it into his. All the sweet- 
ness and safety of the world seemed to be in the compass 
of that hand, and he lay and devised how he should not 
lose her. 

Mary, returned to the house, went at once to Ellen, 
and strangely Ellen could not bear to meet her eyes. 
What had she done, her faint heart asked her? promised 
herself to Ben who was only her playmate? But Mary 
took her hand and held it hard. She spoke, and her voice 



 

was so full of passion that it gripped Ellen's imagination 
and made her breathless to think this splendor of a woman 
could let her heart be seen. 

•* You'll save him, Ellen," said Mary. " A woman can 
save a man. I've always believed that. He never seems 
to care about anything — but if he cares about you! 
And think what a girl like that could do with him! but 
she's not done it yet, and you will save him." 

Ellen answered her look with one that was a desperate 
promise. She was under that purest, most complete 
domination, the love of a girl for an older woman, twisted 
of strands of an almost invincible strength, because they 
are the filaments of life itself. There was filial worship 
and obedience, the stronger because her own picture of 
motherhood was irreparably defaced ; there was the yearn- 
ing and prescience of what she herself wanted to become. 
This then, she knew, was what she was to do for Mary 
Neale. She was to save her son for her. But she hardly 
spoke to Ben for days, or looked at him, and he was too 
alert and clever to seem to look at her. There was a 
deference in his air, a waiting on her pleasure ; she felt it, 
and was half troubled, half appeased. 



Now Ben entered upon a period of dismay. For Gris- 
sie did go back, and there were letters from her. They 
came to the office, and he always knew what they were go- 
ing to say, and sometimes would not read them for days, 
sometimes not at all. But they did worry him and pur- 
sued him perhaps more harassingly than if he had dealt 
with them at once and put them out of sight. He grew 
hollow-eyed and was irritable, and one Sunday he asked 
Ellen to walk with him to Hemlock Ridge. At first she 
said no, for she was still unfamiliar to herself, after her 
promise to him ; but his mother looked strangely at her — 
as if there were questions she must ask of two so at odds 
— and she took back her answer. When they crossed the 
orchard to the lane, she tried not to look at the little 
house. It seemed to her, if she didn't see how still and 
lonesome it was, she could fancy all the Brocks were there 
as they had been in her dream. They went down the lane 
without talking and into the shade of the woods. Then 
Ben broke his miserable reticence and stopped and turned 
to her. 

" Ellen," said he, " if you don't marry me straight off, 
I shall blow my brains out. I've stood all I can." 

It was vaguely distasteful to her, the manner of it, the 
words, but she agreed in herself that he did look as if 
he'd borne all he could. 

" I've got to tell you," said Ben. " She .writes to me. 

She says things that would kill my mother. Sometime 

she'll say 'em out loud." 

 

" Do you write to her? '' asked Ellen coldly. 

"Once or twice I did. I've told her — never mind. 
