Tiyang had leaped to his feet in the dusk, a Ginseng root, half-alive,
hanging from one hand and beginning to squirm.

Suddenly the first moonbeam fell across the wall. And in its lustre
Tressa rose to her knees and flung up her right hand.

Then it was as though her palm caught and reflected the moon's ray, and
hurled it in one blinding shaft straight into the dark visage of
Tiyang-Khan.

The Yezidee fell as though he had been pierced by a shaft of steel, and
lay sprawling there on the grass in the ghastly glare.

And where his features had been there gaped only a hole into the head.

Then a dreadful thing occurred; for everywhere the grass swarmed with
the little naked creatures he had made, running, scrambling, scuttling,
darting into the black hole which had been the face of Tiyang-Khan.

They poured into the awful orifice, crowding, jostling one another so
violently that the head jerked from side to side on the grass, a
wabbling, inert, soggy mass in the moonlight.

And presently the body of Tiyang-Khan, Warden of the Rampart of Gog and
Magog, and Lord of the Seventh Tower, began to burn with white fire--a
low, glimmering combustion that seemed to clothe the limbs like an
incandescent mist.

On the wall knelt Tressa, the glare from her lifted hand streaming over
the burning form below.

Cleves stood tall and shadowy beside his wife, the useless pistol
hanging in his grasp.

Then, in the silence of the woods, and very near, they heard Sansa
laughing. And Selden's anxious voice:

"Arrak is dead. The Sou-Sou hangs across a rock, head down, like a shot
squirrel. Is all well with you?"

"Tiyang is on his way to his star," said Tressa calmly. "Somewhere in
the world his body has bid its mind farewell.... And so his body may
live for a little, blind, in mental darkness, fed by others, and locked
in all day, all night, until the end."

Sansa, at the base of the wall, turned to Selden.

"Shall I bring my body with me, one day, my lord?" she asked demurely.

"Oh, Sansa----" he whispered, but she placed a fragrant hand across his
lips and laughed at him in the moonlight.




CHAPTER XV

IN THE FIRELIGHT


In 1920 the whole spiritual world was trembling under the thundering
shock of the Red Surf pounding the frontiers of civilisation from pole
to pole.

Up out of the hell-pit of Asia had boiled the molten flood, submerging
Russia, dashing in giant waves over Germany and Austria, drenching
Italy, France, England with its bloody spindrift.

And now the Red Rain was sprinkling the United States from coast to
coast, and the mindless administration, scared out of its stupidity at
last, began a frantic attempt to drain the country of the filthy flood
and throw up barriers against the threatened deluge.

In every state and city Federal agents made wholesale arrests--too late!

A million minds had already been perverted and dominated by the terrible
Sect of the Assassins. A million more were sickening under the awful
psychic power of the Yezidee.

Thousands of the disciples of the Yezidee devil-worshipers had already
been arrested and held for deportation,--poor, wretched creatures whose
minds were no longer their own, but had been stealthily surprised,
seized and mastered by Mongol adepts and filled with ferocious hatred
against their fellow men.

Yet, of the Eight Yezidee Assassins only two now remained alive in
America,--Togrul, and Sanang, the Slayer of Souls.

Yarghouz was dead; Djamouk the Fox, Kahn of the Fifth Tower was dead;
Yaddin-ed-Din, Arrak the Sou-Sou, Gutchlug, Tiyang Khan, all were dead.
Six Towers had become dark and silent. From them the last evil thought,
the last evil shape had sped; the last wicked prayer had been said to
Erlik, Khagan of all Darkness.

But his emissary on earth, Prince Sanang, still lived. And at Sanang's
heels stole Togrul, Tougtchi to Sanang Noïane, the Slayer of Souls.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the United States there had been a cessation of the active campaign
of violence toward those in authority. Such unhappy dupes of the
Yezidees as the I. W. W. and other radicals were, for the time,
physically quiescent. Crude terrorism with its more brutal outrages
against life and law ceased. But two million sullen eyes, in which all
independent human thought had been extinguished, watched unblinking the
wholesale arrests by the government--watched panic-stricken officials
rushing hither and thither to execute the mandate of a miserable
administration--watched and waited in dreadful silence.

In that period of ominous quiet which possessed the land, the little
group of Secret Service men that surrounded the young girl who alone
stood between a trembling civilisation and the threat of hell's own
chaos, became convinced that Sanang was preparing a final and terrible
effort to utterly overwhelm the last vestige of civilisation in the
United States.

What shape that plan would develop they could not guess.

John Recklow sent Benton to Chicago to watch that centre of infection
for the appearance there of the Yezidee Togrul.

Selden went to Boston where a half-witted group of parlour-socialists at
Cambridge were talking too loudly and loosely to please even the most
tolerant at Harvard.

But neither Togrul nor Sanang had, so far, materialised in either city;
and John Recklow prowled the purlieus of New York, haunting strange
byways and obscure quarters where the dull embers of revolution always
smouldered, watching for the Yezidee who was the deep-bedded, vital root
of this psychic evil which menaced the minds of all mankind,--Sanang,
the Slayer of Souls.

Recklow's lodgings were tucked away in Westover Court--three bedrooms, a
parlour and a kitchenette. Tressa Cleves occupied one bedroom; her
husband another; Recklow the third.

And in this tiny apartment, hidden away among a group of old buildings,
the very existence of which was unknown to the millions who swarmed the
streets of the greatest city in the world,--here in Westover Court, a
dozen paces from the roar of Broadway, was now living a young girl upon
whose psychic power the only hope of the world now rested.

       *       *       *       *       *

The afternoon had turned grey and bitter; ragged flakes still fell; a
pallid twilight possessed the snowy city, through which lighted trains
and taxis moved in the foggy gloom.

By three o'clock in the afternoon all shops were illuminated; the south
windows of the Hotel Astor across the street spread a sickly light over
the old buildings of Westover Court as John Recklow entered the tiled
hallway, took the stairs to the left, and went directly to his
apartment.

He unlocked the door and let himself in and stood a moment in the entry
shaking the snow from his hat and overcoat.

The sitting-room lamp was unlighted but he could see a fire in the
grate, and Tressa Cleves seated near, her eyes fixed on the glowing
coals.

He bade her good evening in a low voice; she turned her charming head
and nodded, and he drew a chair to the fender and stretched out his wet
shoes to the warmth.

"Is Victor still out?" he inquired.

She said that her husband had not yet returned. Her eyes were on the
fire, Recklow's rested on her shadowy face.

"Benton got his man in Chicago," he said. "It was not Togrul Kahn."

"Who was it?"

"Only a Swami fakir who'd been preaching sedition to a little group of
greasy Bengalese from Seattle.... I've heard from Selden, too."

She nodded listlessly and lifted her eyes.

"Neither Sanang nor Togrul have appeared in Boston," he said. "I think
