Philadelphia. Half a dozen buildings--private dwellings and one small
hotel--had been more or less damaged by bombs. A New York man named
Wilding, fairly well known as an impresario, had been killed outright;
and a Russian pianist, Vanya Tchernov, who had just arrived in
Philadelphia to complete arrangements for a concert to be given by him
under Mr. Wilding's management, had been fatally injured by the
collapse of the hotel office which, at that moment, he was leaving in
company with Mr. Wilding.
A numbness settled over Palla's brain. She did not seem to be able
to comprehend that this affair concerned Vanya--that this newspaper
was telling her that Vanya had been fatally hurt somewhere in
Philadelphia.
Hours later, while she was lying on the lounge with her face buried in
the cushions, and still wearing her hat and furs, somebody came into
the room. And when she turned over she saw it was Ilse.
Palla sat up stupidly, the marks of tears still glistening under her
eyes. Ilse picked up the newspaper from the couch, laid it aside, and
seated herself.
"So you know about Vanya?" she said calmly.
Palla nodded.
"You don't know all. Marya called me on the telephone a few minutes
ago to tell me."
"Vanya is dead," whispered Palla.
"Yes. They found an unmailed letter directed to Marya in his pockets.
That's why they notified her."
After an interval: "So Vanya is dead," repeated Palla under her
breath.
Ilse sat plaiting the black edges of her handkerchief.
"It's such a--a senseless interruption--death----" she murmured. "It
seems so wanton, so meaningless in the scheme of things ... to make
two people wait so long--so long!--to resume where they had been
interrupted----"
Palla asked coldly whether Marya had seemed greatly shocked.
"I don't know, Palla. She called me up and told me. I asked her if
there was anything I could do; and she answered rather strangely that
what remained for her to do she would do alone. I don't know what she
meant."
                  *       *       *       *       *
Whether Marya herself knew exactly what she meant seemed not to be
entirely clear to her. For, when Mr. Puma, dressed in a travelling
suit and carrying a satchel, arrived at her apartment in the Hotel
Rajah, and entered the reception room with his soundless, springy
step, she came out of her bedroom partly dressed, and still hooking
her waist.
"What are you doing here?" she demanded contemptuously, looking him
over from, head to foot. "Did you really suppose I meant to go to
Mexico with you?"
His heavy features crimsoned: "What pleasantry is this, my Marya?----"
he began; but the green blaze in her slanting eyes silenced him.
"The difference," she said, "between us is this. You run from those
who threaten you. I kill them."
"Of--of what nonsense are you speaking!" he stammered. "All is
arranged that we shall go at eleven----"
"No," she said wearily, "one sometimes plays with stray animals for a
few moments--and that is all. And that is all I ever saw in you,
Angelo--a stray beast to amuse and entertain me between two yawns and
a cup of tea." She shrugged, still twisted lithely in her struggle to
hook her waist. "You may go," she added, not even looking at him, "or,
if you are not too cowardly, you may come with me to the Red Flag
Club."
"In God's name what do you mean----"
"Mean? I mean to take my pistol to the Red Flag Club and kill some
Bolsheviki. That is what I mean, my Angelo--my ruddy Eurasian pig!"
She slipped in the last hook, turned and enveloped him again with an
insolent, slanting glance: "Allons! Do you come to the Red Flag?"
"Marya----"
"Yes or no! Allez!"
"My God, are--are you then demented?" he faltered.
"My God, I'm not," she mimicked him, "but I can't answer for what I
might do to you if you hang around this apartment any longer."
She came slowly toward him, her hands bracketed on her hips, her
strange eyes narrowing.
"Listen to me," she said. "I have loved many times. But never you!
One doesn't love your kind. One experiments, possibly, if idle.
"A man died to-day whom I loved; but was too stupid to love enough.
Perhaps he knows now how stupid I am.... Unless they blew his soul to
pieces, also. Allez! Good-night. I tell you I have business to
attend to, and you stand there rolling your woman's eyes at me!----"
"Damn you!" he said between his teeth. "What is the matter with
you----"
He had caught her arm; she wrenched it free, tearing the sleeve to her
naked shoulder.
Then she went to her desk and took a pistol from an upper drawer.
"If you don't go," she said, "I shall have to shoot you and leave you
here kicking on the carpet."
"In God's name, Marya!" he cried hoarsely, "who is it you shall kill
at the hall?"
"I shall kill Sondheim and Bromberg and Kastner, I hope. What of it?"
"But--if I go to-night--the others will say I did it! I can't run
away if you do such thing! I can not go into Mexico but they shall
arrest me before I am at the border----"
"Eurasian pig, I shall admit the killing!" she said with a green gleam
in her eyes that perhaps was laughter.
"Yes, my Marya," he explained in agony, the sweat pouring from his
temples, "but if they think me your accomplice they shall arrest me.
Me--I can not wait--I shall be ruined if I am arrest! You do not
comprehend. I have not said it to you how it is that I am compel to
travel with some money which--which is not--my own."
Marya looked at him for a long while. Suddenly she flung the pistol
into a corner, threw back her head while peal on peal of laughter rang
out in the room.
"A thief," she said, fairly holding her slender sides between gemmed
fingers: "--Just a Levantine thief, after all! Not a thing to shoot.
Not a man. No! But a giant cockroach from the tropics. Ugh! Too large
to place one's foot upon!----"
She came leisurely forward, halted, inspected him with laughing
insolence:
"And the others--Kastner, Sondheim--and the other vermin? You were
quite right. Why should I kill them--merely because to-day a real man
died? What if they are the same species of vermin that slew Vanya
Tchernov? They are not men to pay for it. My pistol could not make a
dead man out of a live louse! No, you are quite correct. You know your
own kind. It would be no compliment to Vanya if I should give these
vermin the death that real men die!"
Puma stood close to the door, furtively passing a thick tongue over
his dry, blanched lips.
"Then you will not interfere?" he asked softly.
She shrugged her shoulders: one was bare with the torn sleeve
dangling. "No," she said wearily. "Run home, painted pig. After all,
the world is mostly swine.... I, too, it seems----" She half raised
her arms, but the gesture failed, and she stood thinking again and
staring at the curtained window. She did not hear him leave.
CHAPTER XXIII
In the strange, springlike weather which prevailed during the last
days of January, Vanya was buried under skies as fleecy blue as
April's, and Marya Lanois went back to the studio apartment where she
and Vanya had lived together. And here, alone, in the first month of
the new year, she picked up again the ravelled threads of life,
undecided whether to untangle them or to cut them short and move on
once more to further misadventure; or to Vanya; or somewhere--or
perhaps nowhere. So, pending some decision, she left her pistol
loaded.
Afternoon sunshine poured into the studio between antique silken
curtains, now drawn wide to the outer day for the first time since
these two young people had established for themselves a habitation.
And what, heretofore, even the lighted mosque-lamps had scarcely half
revealed, now lay exposed to outer air and daylight, gilded by the
sun--cabinets and chests of ancient lacquer; deep-toned carpets in
which slumbered jewelled fires of Asia; carved gods from the East,
crusted with soft gold; and tapestries of silk shot with amethyst and
saffron, centred by dragons and guarded by the burning pearl.
Over all these, and the great mosque lantern drooping from above, the
false-spring sunshine fell; and through every open window flowed soft,
deceptive winds, fluttering the leaves of music on the piano,
stirring the clustered sheafs of growing jonquils and narcissus, so
that they swayed in their Chinese bowls.
Marya, in black, arranged her tiger-ruddy hair before an ancient
grotesquerie set with a reflecting glass in which, on some days, one
could see the form of the Lord Buddha, though none could ever tell
from whence the image came.
Where Vanya had left his music opened on the piano rack, the sacred
pages now stirred slightly as the soft wind blew; and scented bells of
Frisia swayed and bowed around a bowl where gold-fish glowed.
Marya, at the piano, reading at sight from his inked manuscript, came
presently to the end of what was scored there--merely the first sketch
for a little spring song.
Some day she would finish it as part of a new debt--new obligations
she had now assumed in the slowly increasing light of new beliefs.
As she laid Vanya's last manuscript aside, under it she discovered one
of her own--a cynical, ribald, pencilled parody which she remembered
she had scribbled there in an access of malicious perversity.
As though curious to sound the obscurer depths of what she had been
when this jeering cynicism expressed her mood, she began to read from
her score and words, playing and intoning:
                            "CROQUE-MITAINE.
              "Parfaît qu'on attend La Marée Rouge,
               La chose est positive.
               On n'sait pas quand el' bouge,
               Mais on sait qu'el' arrive.
                  La Marée Rouge arrivera
                  Et tout le monde en crèvera!
              "Croque'morts, sacristains et abbés,
               Dans leurs sacré's boutiques
               Se cachent auprès des machabé's
               En répètant des cantiques.
               Pape, cardinal, et sacré soeur
               Miaulent avec tout leurs cliques,
               Lorsque les Bolsheviks reprenn 'nt en choeur;
                  Mort aux saligaudes chic!
              "La Marée Rouge montera
