had a row with a farmer in Wheatland County; there had been a barn
burned nearby, and Guffey would furnish an automobile and a couple
of detectives to travel with Peter, and they would visit the scene
of that fire and the nearby village, and familiarize themselves with
the locality, and Peter would testify how he had been with Guinness
when he and a half dozen of the defendants had set fire to that
barn.

Peter hadn’t intended anything quite so serious as that, but Guffey
was so business-like, and took it all so much as a matter of course,
that Peter was afraid to show the white feather. After all, this was
war-time; hundreds of men were giving up their lives every day in
the Argonne, and why shouldn’t Peter take a little risk in order to
put out of business his country’s most dangerous enemies?

So Peter and his two detectives blew themselves to a joy ride in the
country. And then Peter was brought back and made comfortable in a
room on the twelfth floor of the Hotel de Soto, where he diligently
studied the typewritten documents which McGivney brought him, and
thoroughly learned the story he was to tell. There was always one of
Guffey’s men walking up and down in the hallway outside with a gun
on his hip, and they brought Peter three meals a day, not forgetting
a bottle of beer and a package of cigarettes. Twice a day Peter read
in the newspapers about the heroic deeds of our boys over there, and
also about the latest bomb plots which had been discovered all over
the country, and about various trials under the espionage act.

Also, Peter had the thrill of reading about himself in a real
newspaper. Hitherto he had been featured in labor papers, and
Socialist papers like the “Clarion,” which did not count; but now
the American City “Times” came out with a long story of how the
district attorney’s office had “planted” a secret agent with the I.
W. W., and how this man, whose name was Peter Gudge, had been
working as one of them for the past two years, and was going to
reveal the whole story of I. W. W. infamy on the witness stand.

Two days before the trial Peter was escorted by McGivney and another
detective to the district attorney’s office, and spent the best part
of the day in conference with Mr. Burchard and his deputy, Mr.
Stannard, who were to try the case. McGivney had told Peter that the
district attorney was not in the secret, he really believed that
Peter’s story was all true; but Peter suspected that this was
camouflage, to save Mr. Burchard’s face, and to protect him in case
Peter ever tried to “throw him down.” Peter noticed that whenever he
left any gap in his story, the district attorney and the deputy told
him to fill it, and he managed to guess what to fill it with.

Henry Clay Burchard came from the far South, and followed a style of
oratory long since gone out of date. He wore his heavy black hair a
little long, and when he mounted the platform he would pull out the
tremulo stop, stretching out his hands and saying in tones of
quivering emotion: “The ladies, God bless them!” Also he would say:
“I am a friend of the common man. My heart beats with sympathy for
those who constitute the real backbone of America, the toilers of
the shop and farm.” And then all the banqueters of the Chamber of
Commerce and the Merchants’ and Manufacturers’ Association would
applaud, and would send their checks to the campaign fund of this
friend of the common man. Mr. Burchard’s deputy, Mr. Stannard, was a
legal fox who told his chief what to do and how to do it; a dried-up
little man who looked like a bookworm, and sat boring you thru with
his keen eyes, watching for your weak points and preparing to pierce
you thru with one of his legal rapiers. He would be quite friendly
about it--he would joke with you in the noon hour, assuming that you
would of course understand it was all in the line of business, and
no harm meant.




Section 75


The two men heard Peter’s story and changed it a little, and then
heard him over again and pronounced him all right, and Peter went
back to his hotel room and waited in trepidation for his hour in the
limelight. When they took him to court his knees were shaking, but
also he had a thrill of real importance, for they had provided him
with a body-guard of four big huskies; also he saw two “bulls” whom
he recognized in the hallway outside the court-room, and many others
scattered thru the audience. The place was packed with Red
sympathizers, but they had all been searched before they were
allowed to enter, and were being watched every moment during the
trial.

When Peter stepped into the witness box he felt as Tom Duggan and
Donald Gordon must have felt that night when the white glare from
thirty or forty automobiles was beating upon them. Peter felt the
concentrated Red hate of two or three hundred spectators, and now
and then their pent-up fury would break restraint; there would be a
murmur of protest, or perhaps a wave of sneering laughter, and the
bailiff would bang on the table with his wooden mallet, and the
judge would half rise from his seat, and declare that if that
happened again he would order the court-room cleared.

Not far in front of Peter at a long table sat the seventeen
defendants, looking like trapped rats, and every one of their
thirty-four rat eyes were fixed upon Peter’s face, and never moved
from it. Peter only glanced that way once; they bared their rats’
teeth at him, and he quickly looked in another direction. But there
also he saw a face that brought him no comfort; there sat Mrs. Godd,
in her immaculate white chiffons, her wide-open blue eyes fixed upon
his face, her expression full of grief and reproach. “Oh, Mr.
Gudge!” she seemed to be saying. “How can you? Mr. Gudge, is this
Peace. . . justice. . . Truth. . . Law?” And Peter realized with a
pang that he had cut himself off forever from Mount Olympus, and
from the porch chair with the soft silken pillows! He turned away
toward the box where sat the twelve jurymen and women. One old lady
gave him a benevolent smile, and a young farmer gave him a sly wink,
so Peter knew that he had friends in that quarter--and after all,
they were the ones who really counted in this trial. Mrs. Godd was
as helpless as any “wobbly,” in the presence of this august court.

Peter told his story, and then came his cross-questioning, and who
should rise and start the job but David Andrews, suave and humorous
and deadly. Peter had always been afraid of Andrews, and now he
winced. Nobody had told him he was to face an ordeal like this!
Nobody had told him that Andrews would be allowed to question him
about every detail of these crimes which he said he had witnessed,
and about all the conversations that had taken place, and who else
was present, and what else had been said, and how he had come to be
there, and what he had done afterwards, and what he had had to eat
for breakfast that morning. Only two things saved Peter, first the
constant rapid-fire of objections which Stannard kept making, to
give Peter time to think; and second, the cyclone-cellar which
Stannard had provided for him in advance. “You can always fail to
remember,” the deputy had said; “nobody can punish you for
forgetting something.” So Peter would repeat the minute details of a
conversation in which Alf Guinness had told of burning down the
barn, but he didn’t remember who else had heard the conversation,
and he didn’t remember what else had been said, nor what was the
date of the conversation.

Then came the blessed hour of noon, with a chance for Peter to get
fixed up again before the court resumed at two. He was questioned
again by Stannard, who patched up all the gaps in his testimony, and
then again he failed to remember things, and so avoided the traps
which Andrews set for his feet. He was told that he had “done fine,”
 and was escorted back to the Hotel de Soto in triumph, and there for
a week he stayed while the defense made a feeble effort to answer
his testimony. Peter read in the papers the long speeches in which
the district attorney and the deputy acclaimed him as a patriot,
protecting his country from its “enemies within;” also he read a
brief reference to the “tirade” of David Andrews, who had called him
a “rat” and a “slinking Judas.” Peter didn’t mind that, of
course--it was all part of the game, and the calling of names is a
pretty sure sign of impotence.

Less easy to accept placidly, however, was something which came to
Peter that same day--a letter from Mrs. Godd! It wasn’t written to
him, but he saw Hammett and another of the “bulls” chuckling
together, and he asked what was the joke, and they told him that
Mrs. Godd had somehow found out about Guffey, and had written him a
letter full of insults, and Guffey was furious. Peter asked what was
in it, and they told him, and later on when he insisted, they
brought it and showed it to him, and Peter was furious too. On very
expensive stationery with a stately crest at the top, the mother of
Mount Olympus had written in a large, bland, girlish hand her
opinion of “under cover” men and those who hired them:

“You sit like a big spider and weave a net to catch men and destroy
them. You destroy alike your victims and your tools. The poor boy,
Peter Gudge, whom you sent to my home--my heart bleeds when I think
of him, and what you have put him up to! A wretched, feeble-minded
victim of greed, who ought to be sent to a hospital for deformed
souls, you have taken him and taught him a piece of villainy to
recite, so that he may send a group of sincere idealists to prison.”

That was enough! Peter put down the letter--he would not dignify
such stuff by reading it. He realized that he would have to put his
mind on the problem of Mrs. Godd once more. One woman like that, in
her position of power, was more dangerous than all the seventeen
“wobblies” who had been haled before the court. Peter inquired, and
learned that Guffey had already been to see Nelse Ackerman about it,
and Mr. Ackerman had been to see Mr. Godd, and Mr. Godd had been to
see Mrs. Godd. Also the “Times” had an editorial referring to the
“nest of Bolshevism” upon Mount Olympus, and all Mrs. Godd’s friends
were staying away from her luncheon-parties--so she was being made
to suffer for her insolence to Peter Gudge!

“A hospital for deformed souls,” indeed! Peter was so upset that his
