"Somebody had to go. Armenia or Siberia, it was all the same to me if I
could help." She held out her hand. "Good-night, captain. Thank you for
all your kindness to me. Ten o'clock, if it is sunshiny. You're to show me
the shops. Oh, if I were only rich!"
"And what would you do if you had riches?"
"I'd buy all the silk at Kai Fook's--isn't that the name?--and roll myself
up in it like a cocoon."
The man laughed. He understood. A touch of luxury, after all these
indescribable months of dirt and disease, rain and snow and ice, among a
people who lived like animals, who had the intelligence of animals. When
he spoke the officer's voice was singularly grave:
"These few days have been very happy ones for me. At ten--if the sun
shines. Good-night."
The 'rickshas in a wavering line began to roll along the Bund, which was
practically deserted. The lights shone through slanting lattices of rain.
Twice automobiles shot past, and Jane resented them. China, the flowery
kingdom! She was touched with a little thrill of exultation. But oh, to
get home, home! Never again would she long for palaces and servants and
all that. The little wooden-frame house and the garden would be paradise
enough. The crimson ramblers, the hollyhocks, the bachelor's-buttons, and
the peonies, the twisted apple tree that never bore more than enough for
one pie! Her throat tightened.
She hadn't heard from the mother in two months, but there would be mail at
Hong-Kong. Letters and papers from home! Soon she would be in the sitting
room recounting her experiences; and the little mother would listen
politely, even doubtfully, but very glad to have her back. How odd it was!
In the mother the spirit of adventure never reached beyond the garden
gate, while in the daughter it had always been keen for the far places.
And in her first adventure beyond the gate, how outrageously she had been
cheated! She had stepped out of drab and dreary routine only to enter a
drabber and drearier one.
What a dear boy this American officer was! He seemed to have been
everywhere, up and down the world. He had hunted the white orchid of
Borneo; he had gone pearl hunting in the South Seas; and he knew Monte
Carlo, London, Paris, Naples, Cairo. But he never spoke of home. She had
cleverly led up to it many times in the past month, but always he had
unembarrassedly switched the conversation into another channel.
This puzzled her deeply. From the other Americans she never heard of
anything but home, and they were all mad to get there. Yet Captain
Dennison maintained absolute silence on that topic. Clean shaven, bronzed,
tall, and solidly built, clear-eyed, not exactly handsome but
engaging--what lay back of the man's peculiar reticence? Being a daughter
of Eve, the mystery intrigued her profoundly.
Had he been a professional sailor prior to the war? It seemed to her if
that had been the case he would have enlisted in the Navy. He talked like
a man who had spent many years on the water; but in labour or in pleasure,
he made it most difficult for her to tell. Of his people, of his past, not
Bluebeard's closet was more firmly shut. Still with a little smile she
recalled that eventually a woman had opened that closet door, and hadn't
had her head cut off, either.
He was poor like herself. That much was established. For he had said
frankly that when he received his discharge from the Army he would have to
dig up a job to get a meal ticket.
Dear, dear! Would she ever see a continuous stretch of sunshine again? How
this rain tore into things! Shanghai! Wouldn't it be fun to have a
thousand dollars to fling away on the shops? She wanted jade beads,
silks--not the quality the Chinese made for export, but that heavy, shiver
stuff that was as strong and shielding as wool--ivory carvings, little
bronze Buddhas with prayer scrolls inside of them, embroidered jackets.
But why go on? She had less than a hundred, and she would have to carry
home gimcracks instead of curios.
They were bobbing over a bridge now, and a little way beyond she saw the
lighted windows of the great caravansary, the Astor House. It smacked of
old New York, where in a few weeks she would be stepping back into the
dull routine of hospital work.
She paid the ricksha boy and ran into the lobby, stamping her feet and
shaking the umbrella. The slicker was an overhead affair, and she had to
take off her hat to get free. This act tumbled her hair about
considerably, and Jane Norman's hair was her glory. It was the tint of the
copper beech, thick, finespun, with intermittent twists that gave it a
wavy effect.
Jane was not beautiful; that is, her face was not--it was comely. It was
her hair that turned male heads. It was then men took note of her body.
She was magnificently healthy, and true health is a magnet as powerful as
that of the true pole. It drew toward her men and women and children. Her
eyes were gray and serious; her teeth were white and sound. She was
twenty-four.
There was, besides her hair, another thing that was beautiful--her voice.
It answered like the G string of an old Strad to every emotion. One could
tell instantly when she was merry or sad or serious or angry. She could
not hide her emotions any more than she could hide her hair. As a war
nurse she had been adored by the wounded men and fought over by the
hospital commandants. But few men had dared make love to her. She had that
peculiar gift of drawing and repelling without consciousness.
As the Chinese boy got her things together Jane espied the bookstall.
American newspapers and American magazines! She packed four or five of
each under her arm, nodded to the boy, and followed the manager to the
lift! She hoped the lights would hang so that she could lie in bed and
read. Her brain was thirsty for a bit of romance.
Humming, she unpacked. She had brought one evening gown, hoping she might
have a chance to wear it before it fell apart from disuse. She shook out
the wrinkles and hung the gown in the closet. Lavender! She raised a fold
of the gown and breathed in rapturously that homy perfume. She sighed.
Perhaps she would have to lay away all her dreams in lavender.
A little later she sat before the dressing mirror, combing her hair. How
it happened she never could tell, but she heard a crash upon the wood
floor, and discovered her hand mirror shattered into a thousand
splinters.
Seven years' bad luck! She laughed. Fate had blundered. The mirror had
fallen seven years too late.
CHAPTER III
Outside the bar where the Whangpoo empties into the Yang-tse lay the
thousand-ton yacht Wanderer II, out of New York. She was a sea whippet,
and prior to the war her bowsprit had nosed into all the famed harbours of
the seven seas. For nearly three years she had been in the auxiliary fleet
of the United States Navy. She was still in war paint, owner's choice, but
all naval markings had been obliterated. Her deck was flush. The house,
pierced by the main companionway, was divided into three sections--a small
lounging room, a wireless room, and the captain's cabin, over which stood
the bridge and chart house. The single funnel rose between the captain's
cabin and the wireless room, and had the rakish tilt of the racer.
Wanderer II could upon occasion hit it up round twenty-one knots, for
all her fifteen years. There was plenty of deck room fore and aft.
The crew's quarters were up in the forepeak. A passage-way divided the
cook's galley and the dry stores, then came the dining salon. The main
salon, with a fine library, came next. The port side of this salon was
cut off into the owner's cabin. The main companionway dropped into the
salon, a passage each side giving into the guest cabins. But rarely these
days were there any guests on Wanderer II.
The rain slashed her deck, drummed on the boat canvas, and blurred the
ports. The deck house shed webby sheets of water, now to port, now to
starboard. The ladder was down, and a reflector over the platform
advertised the fact that either the owner had gone into Shanghai or was
expecting a visitor.
All about were rocking lights, yellow and green and red, from warships,
tramps, passenger ships, freighters, barges, junks. The water was streaked
with shaking lances of colour.
In the salon, under a reading lamp, sat a man whose iron-gray hair was
patched with cowlicks. Combs and brushes produced no results, so the owner
had had it clipped to a short pompadour. It was the skull of a fighting
man, for all that frontally it was marked by a high intellectuality. This
sort of head generally gives the possessor yachts like Wanderer II,
tremendous bank accounts; the type that will always possess these things,
despite the howl of the proletariat.
The face was sunburned. There was some loose flesh under the jaws. The
nose was thick and pudgy, wide in the nostrils, like a lion's. The
predatory are not invariably hawk-nosed. The eyes were blue--in repose, a
warm blue--and there were feathery wrinkles at the corners which suggested
that the toll-taker could laugh occasionally. The lips were straight and
thin, the chin square--stubborn rather than relentless. A lonely man who
was rarely lonesome.
His body was big. One has to be keen physically as well as mentally to
make a real success of anything. His score might have tallied sixty. He
was at the peak of life, but hanging there, you might say. To-morrow
Anthony Cleigh might begin the quick downward journey.
He had made his money in mines, rails, ships; and now he was spending it
prodigally. Prodigally, yes, but with caution and foresight. There was
always a ready market for what he bought. If he paid a hundred thousand
for a Rembrandt, rest assured he knew where he could dispose of it for the
same amount. Cleigh was a collector by instinct. With him it was no fad;
it was a passion, sometimes absurd. This artistic love of rare and
beautiful creations was innate, not acquired. Dealers had long since
learned their lesson, and no more sought to impose upon him.
He was not always scrupulous. In the dollar war he had been sternly
honest, harshly just. In pursuit of objects of art he argued with his
conscience that he was not injuring the future of widows and orphans when
he bought some purloined masterpiece. Without being in the least aware of
it, he was now the victim, not the master, of the passion. He would have
purchased Raphael's Adoration of the Magi had some rogue been able to
steal it from the Vatican.
Hanging from the ceiling and almost touching the floor, forward between
the entrance to the dining salon and the owner's cabin, was a rug eight
and a half by six. It was the first object that struck your eye as you
came down the companionway. It was an animal rug, a museum piece; rubies
and sapphires and emeralds and topaz melted into wool. It was under glass
to fend off the sea damp. Fit to hang beside the Ardebil Carpet.
You never saw the rug except in this salon. Cleigh dared not hang it in
his gallery at home in New York for the particular reason that the British
Government, urged by the Viceroy of India, had been hunting high and low
for the rug since 1911, when it had been the rightful property of a
certain influential maharaja whose Ai, ai! had reverberated from Hind to
Albion over the loss. Thus it will not be difficult to understand why
Cleigh was lonely rather than lonesome.
Queer lot. To be a true collector is to be as the opium eater: you keep
getting in deeper and deeper, careless that the way back closes. After a
while you cannot feel any kick in the stuff you find in the open marts, so
you step outside the pale, where they sell the unadulterated. That's the
true, dyed-in-the-wool collector. He no longer acquires a Vandyke merely
to show to his friends; that he possesses it for his own delectation is
enough. He becomes brother to Gaspard, miser; and like Gaspard he cannot
