his opinion of him for the benefit of all Fillmore Street. 
But he surprised her by saying reluctantly : 
 
"He's dead straight, all right. He's not a grafter. 
I've nothing against him personally, but he's part of a 
damnable system and I'd clean him out with the rest." 
Well, there you have three of us to your hand. "Who 
knows but that you might convert us ? Why not give us 
the chance? If you will give me your address I will 
write to you as soon as my friends come back to town." 
"I don't know whether I want to do it or not. You 
may be makin' game of me for all I know." 
"I am quite sincere. You interest me immensely. 
And we might teach you something too — what it means 
to have a sense of humor. I know enough of socialism 
to know that no socialist can have it. May I ask what 
your occupation is?" 
"I'm just a plain working-man — housebuilding line." 
' ' Then you could only come in the evening ? ' ' 
"Not at all; I get off at five. You don't have your 
dinner until eight in your set, I believe." This with a 
sneer that curled his upper lip almost to the septum of 
his nose. 
"Seven. My husband works until nearly six. He 
rarely has time for lunch and comes home very hungry." 
Once more he looked puzzled and disconcerted, but his 
small steady eyes did not waver. 
' ' My name 's James Kirkpatrick. ' ' He found the stub 
of a pencil in his pocket and wrote an address on the 
flap of an envelope. "I'll think it over. Maybe I'll do 
it. I dunno, though." 
"I do hope you will. I'm sure we can learn a good 
deal from each other. Now, would you mind putting me 
on the next car? Or don't the socialist tenets admit of 
gallantry to my sex?" 
' ' Socialism admits the equality of the sexes, which is a 
long sight better, but I guess there's nothing to prevent 
me seeing you onto your car." 
He even lifted his hat as she turned to him from the 
high platform, and as he smiled a little she inferred that 
he was congratulating himself on having had the last 
word. 
 
CHAPTER VII 
GORA, to -whom slie had telephoned before leaving 
 home, was standing on the steps of her house, looking anxiously up the street, as her young sister-in-law 
left the car at the comer. 
Gora walked up to meet her guest. "Where on earth 
have you been?" she demanded. "I supposed of course 
that you'd take a taxi. You should not go out alone at 
night. Mortimer would be v/ild. He has the strictest 
ideas; and you " 
"Haven't. Not any more. I'm tired of being kept 
in a glass case — being a parasite." She laughed gayly 
at Gora's look of amazement. "I've had an adventure.. 
Almost the first I ever had. ' ' 
She related it as they walked slowly down the street 
and up the steps and stairs to the attic. 
Gora looked very thoughtful as she listened. "Shall 
you tell Mortimer?" 
' ' Oh, I don 't know. Possibly not. Why agitate him ? 
The thing is done. ' ' 
"But if you study with this man?" 
"There is no necessity to explain where I met him. 
I look upon myself as ilorty's partner, not as his 'subject. We have never disputed over anything yet, but 
of course as time goes on I shall wish to do many things 
whether he happens to like it or not. Possibly without 
consulting him." 
"You've had time to think these past three months 
for the first time in your life," said Gora shrewdly. 
"Here we are. I hope you don't hate stairs. I do when 
I come home dog-tired, but somehow I can't give up the 
old place. . . . And I've lit the candles in your honor." 
 
'' Oh, but it is pretty ! Charming ! ' ' 
Thought Gora: "I do hope she's not going to be 
gracious. I've never liked her so well before." 
But Alexina was too excited to have a firm grip on 
the Ballinger-Groome tradition. She had had an adventure, an uncommon one, in a far from respectable night 
district; she had done something that would cause the 
impeccable Mortimer the acutest anguish if he knew of 
it; and she had caught sight immediately of Gathbroke's 
picture framed and enthroned on the mantelpiece. 
She walked about the room admiring the hangings 
and prints, the old Chinese lanterns that held the 
candles. 
' ' I am going to refurnish our lower rooms, ' ' she said. 
' ' If you have time do help me. Heavens ! I wish I could 
work off some of that old furniture on you. I like the 
Italian pieces well enough, but there are too many of 
them. That rather low Florentine cabinet in the back 
parlor would just fit in this corner. ..." 
She gave a little girlish exclamation and ran forward. 
"Isn't that young Gathbroke, who was out here at the 
time of the earthquake and fire ... or an older brother, 
perhaps ? ' ' 
She had taken the photograph from the mantel and 
was examining it under one of the lanterns. Her alert 
ear detected the deeper and less steady note in Gora's 
always hoarse voice. 
"It is the same. Did you meet him? . . . Oh, I re- 
member he told me he met you at the Hofer ball. He 
rather raved over you, in fact." 
' ' Did he ? How sweet of him. I njet him again, I remember. Mr. Gwynne brought him down to Kineona 
one day." 
"Oh?" 
And Alexina knew that he had never mentioned that 
visit. 
"But he looks much much older." 
"He did before he left. That horrible experience of 
his seemed to prey on him more and more. 
 
"Oh." 
He had not looked a day over twenty-three on that 
afternoon at Rincona, two weeks after the fire. 
Alexina replaced the picture, then turned to her sister- 
in-law with a coaxing smile. "Are you engaged? It 
would be too romantic. Do tell me." 
"No," said Gora, shortly. "We are not engaged. 
Good friends, that is all, and write occasionally." 
"Well, he must be very much interested — and you 
must be a very interesting correspondent, Gora dear! 
Is he? Interesting, I mean. What does he do, anyhow? 
I have a vague remembrance that he said something about 
the army." 
' ' He was in the army, the Grenadier Guards. But he 
has resigned and gone into business with a cousin of his 
in Lancashire. He wrote me — oh, it must be nearly two 
years ago — that if there should be a war he would enlist 
as a matter of course, but as there was no prospect of 
any, and he was sick of idleness — his good middle-class 
energetic blood asserting itself, he said, — he was going 
to amuse himself with work, incidentally try to make a 
fortune. His mother left a good deal of money, but 
there are several children and I guess the present earl 
needs most of it to keep up his estates, to say nothing 
of his position. Rotten law, that — entail, I mean." 
Alexina came and sat down on the divan beside Gora, 
piling the cushions behind her. "Are you a socialist?" 
"I am not. I believe in sticking to your own class, 
whether you have a grudge against it or not, or even if 
you think it far from perfection." 
She shot a quick challenging glance at her admittedly 
aristocratic sister-in-law, but Alexina had lifted the 
lower white of her eyes just above their soft black fringe 
and looked more innocent than any new bom lamb. As 
she did not answer Gora continued: 
"I remember that night I sat out with Gathbroke on 
Calvary he said something about socialism . . . that it 
was a confession of failure. I may feel so furious with 
destiny sometimes that I could go out and wave a red 
flag, or even the darker red of anarchy, but what always 
sobers me is the thought that if I had the good luck to 
 
inherit or make even a reasonable fortune I'd have no 
more use for socialism than for a rattlesnake in my bed. 
Why are you interested?" 
"Only as in any subject that interests a few million 
people. I haven't the least intention of being converted, 
but I don't want to be an ignoramus. Aileen and Sibyl 
and I did start Marx's Das Kapital — in German! We 
nearly died of it. But I felt sure that this man, Kirk-patrick, had studied his subject, if only because his 
language changed so completely when he talked about 
it. It was as if he were quoting, but intelligently. Of 
course the poor man had little or no education to begin 
with. Somehow he struck me as a pathetic figure. Per-haps when every one is educated — and there must be 
many thousands of naturally intelligent men in the 
working class whose brains if trained would be mighty 
useful in Washington — well, all having had equal opportunities they would surely arrive at some way to improve conditions without struggling for anything so 
hopeless as socialism. I know enough to be sure that it is 
hopeless, because it antagonizes human nature." 
"Eather. The trend under all the talk is more and 
more toward individualism, not self-effacing communism. 
As for myself I like the idea of the fight — for public 
recognition, I mean ; and I don 't think I 'd be happy at 
all if things were made too smooth for me; if, for instance, in a socialized state it were decided that I could 
devote all my time to writing, and that the state would 
take care of me, publish my work, and distribute it 
exactly where it was sure to be appreciated. I haven't 
any of the old California gambling blood in me, but I 
