from the strictly scientific point of view; let us consider what facts
we have, and the indications they seem to give. First, we know that to
all appearances the consciousness and the subconsciousness are bound up
with the body. They grow with the body, they decline with the body, they
seem to die with the body. We can irretrievably damage the consciousness
by drawing a whiff of cyanogen gas into the lungs, or by sticking a pin
into the brain, or by clogging one of its tiny blood vessels with waste
matter. It is terrible to us to think that the mind of a great poet or
prophet or statesman may be snuffed out of existence in such a way; but
then, it is no argument against a fact to say that it is terrible.
Insanity is terrible, war is terrible, pestilence is terrible, so also
are tigers and poisonous snakes; but all these things exist, and all
these things have power over the wisest and greatest mind, to put an end
to its work on this earth at least.

And now we come with the new instrument of psychic research, to probe
the question: What becomes of this consciousness when it disappears? Can
we prove that it is still in existence, and is able by any method to
communicate with us? Those who answer "Yes" argue that the mind of the
dead person, unable to use its own bodily machinery any longer, manages
in the hypnotic trance to use the bodily machinery of another person,
called a "medium," and by it to make some kind of record to identify
itself.

This, of course, is a strange idea, and requires a good deal of proof.
The law of probability requires us not to accept an unlikely
explanation, if there is any more simple one which can account for the
facts. When we examine the product of automatic writing, table-tipping,
and other psychic phenomena, we have first to ask ourselves, Is there
anything in all this which cannot be explained by what we already know?
Then, second, we have to ask, Is there any other supposition which will
explain the facts, and which is easier to believe than the spirit
theory?

These "spirits" apparently desire to convince us of their reality, and
they tell us many things which are expected to convince us; they tell us
things which we ourselves do not know, and which spirits might know. But
here again we run up against the problem of the subconsciousness, with
its infinite mass of "forgotten" knowledge. It is not so easy for the
"spirits" to tell us things which we can be sure our subconscious mind
could not possibly contain. Also, there comes the additional element of
telepathy. It appears to be a fact that under trance conditions, or
under any especially exciting conditions of the consciousness, one mind
can reach out and take something out of another mind, or one mind can
cause something to be passed over to another mind; and so information
can be communicated to the mind of a medium, and can appear in automatic
writing, or in clairvoyance, or in crystal gazing.

One of the most conscientious and earnest of all the investigators of
this subject was the late Professor Hyslop, who many years ago sought to
teach me "practical morality" (from the bourgeois point of view) in
Columbia University. Professor Hyslop worked for fifteen years with a
medium by the name of Mrs. Piper, who was apparently sincere and was
never exposed in any kind of fraud. In Professor Hyslop's books you will
find innumerable instances of amazing facts brought out in Mrs. Piper's
trances. You will find Professor Hyslop arguing that the only way
telepathy can account for these facts is by the supposition that there
is a universal subconscious mind, or that the subconscious mind of the
medium possesses the power to reach into the subconscious mind of every
other living person and take out anything from it. But for my part, I
cannot see that the case is quite so difficult. Professor Hyslop
recites, for example, how Mrs. Piper would tell him facts about some
long dead relative--facts which he did not know, but was later able to
verify. But that proves simply nothing at all, because there could be no
possible way for Professor Hyslop to be sure that he had never known
these facts about his relatives. The facts might have been in his
subconscious mind without having ever been in his conscious mind at all;
he might have heard people talking about these matters while he was
reading a book, or playing as a boy, paying no attention to what was
said.

And then came Sir Oliver Lodge with his investigations. I will say this
for his work--he was the first person who was able to make real to my
mind the startling idea that perhaps after all the dead might be alive
and able to communicate with us. You will find what he has to say in his
book, "The Survival of Man," and it seems fair that a great scientist
and a great man should have a chance to convince you of what seem to him
the most important facts in the world.

Sir Oliver's son Raymond was killed in the war, and it is claimed that
he began at once to communicate with his family. Among other things, he
told them of the existence of a picture, which none of them had ever
seen or heard of, a group photograph which he described in detail. But,
of course, other people in this group knew of the existence of the
photograph, and so we have again the possibility that some member of Sir
Oliver's family may have taken into his subconscious mind without
knowing it an impression or description of that picture. If you care to
experiment, you will find that you can frequently play a part in the
dreams of a child by talking to it in its sleep; and that is only one of
a thousand different ways by which some member of a family might
acquire, without knowing it, information of the existence of a
photograph.

There is another possibility to be considered--that a portion of the
consciousness may survive, and not necessarily forever. We are
accustomed when death takes place to see the body before us, and we know
that we can preserve the body for thousands of years if we wish. Why is
it not possible that when conscious life is brought to a sudden end,
there may remain some portion of the consciousness, or of the
subconsciousness, cut off from the body, and slowly fading back into the
universal mind energy, whatever we please to call it? There is a hard
part of the body, the skeleton, which survives for some time; why might
there not be a central core of the mind which is similarly tough and
enduring? Of course, if consciousness is a function of the brain, it
must decay as the brain decays; but how would it be if the brain were a
function of the consciousness--which is, so far as I can see, quite as
likely a guess.

I find many facts which seem to indicate the plausibility of this idea.
I notice that in trance phenomena it is the spirits of those recently
dead which seem to manifest the most vitality. Of course, you can go to
any seance in the "white light" district of your city and receive
communications from the souls of Cæsar and Napoleon and Alexander the
Great and Pocahontas, and if the medium does not happen to be literary,
you can communicate with Hamlet and Don Quixote and Siegfried and
Achilles; but you will not find much reality about any of these people,
they will not tell you very much about the everyday details of their
lives. This fact that so much of what the "spirits" tell us is of our
own time tends to cast doubt on the idea that the dead survive forever.
How simple it would be to convince us, if the spirit of Sophocles would
come back to earth and tell us where to dig in order to find copies of
his lost tragedies! You would think that the soul of Sophocles, seeing
our great need of beauty and wisdom, would be interested to give us his
works! From genius, operating under the guidance of the conscious mind,
we get sublimity, majesty and power; but what the trance mediums give us
suggests, both in its moral and intellectual quality, the operation of
the subconscious. It is exactly like what we get, for example, from
dissociated personalities.

There are, to be sure, the books of Patience Worth, produced by the
automatic writing of a lady in St. Louis, who tells us in evident good
faith that her conscious personality is entirely innocent of Patience,
and all her thought and doings. Patience writes long novels and dramas
in a quaint kind of old English, and the lady in St. Louis knows nothing
about this language. But does she positively know that when she was a
child, she never happened to be in the room with someone who was reading
old English aloud? Nothing seems more likely than that her subconscious
mind heard some quaint, strange language, and took possession of it, and
built up a personality around it, and even made a new language and a new
literature from that starting point.

That is precisely the kind of thing in which the subconscious revels. It
creates new characters, with an imagination infinite and inexhaustible.
Who has not waked up and been astounded at the variety and reality of a
dream? Who has not told his dreams and laughed over them? The
subconscious will play at games, it will act and rehearse elaborate
rôles; it will put on costumes, and delight in being Cæsar and Napoleon
and Alexander the Great and Pocahontas and Hamlet and Don Quixote and
Siegfried and Achilles. Yes, it will even play at being "spirits"! It
will be mischievous and impish; it will be swallowed up with a sense of
its own importance, taking an insolent delight in convincing the world's
most learned scientists of the fact that its play-acting is reality. It
will call itself "Raymond" to move and thrill a grief-stricken family;
it will call itself "Phinuit" and "Dr. Hodgson," and cause an earnest
professor of "practical morality" to give up a respectable position in
Columbia University and write books to convince the world that the dead
are sending him messages.

Consider, for example, the multiple personality of Miss Beauchamp.
Remember that here we are not dealing with any guess work about
"spirits"; here we have half a dozen different "controls," none of them
the least bit dead, but all of them a part of the consciousness of one
entirely alive young lady. A specialist has spent some six years
investigating the case, day after day, week after week, writing down the
minute details of what happens. And now consider the miscreant known as
"Sally." Sally is just as real as any child whom you ever held in your
arms. Sally has love and hate, fear and hope, pain and delight--and
Sally is a little demon, created entirely out of the subconsciousness of
a highly refined and conscientious young college graduate of Boston.
Sally spends Miss Beauchamp's money on candy, and eats it; Sally pawns
Miss Beauchamp's watch and deliberately loses the ticket; Sally uses
Miss Beauchamp's lips and tongue to tell lies about Miss Beauchamp;
Sally strikes Miss Beauchamp dumb, or makes her hear exactly the
opposite of what is spoken to her. Yes, and Sally pleads and fights
frantically for her life; Sally enters into intrigues with other parts
of Miss Beauchamp, and for years deliberately fools Doctor Prince, who
is her Recording Angel and Heavenly Judge!

And can anybody doubt that Sally could have fooled a grieving mother,
and made that mother think she was talking to the ghost of a long lost
