four in the morning with her son-in-law (if she 
were not mistaken he and Alexander Groome 
were two of a feather), breakfasted at all hours, 
and then went directly to the duty. What possible use could such a man be to Society? He 
had barely looked at Sally, much less the uxoriously married Maria, and might have been 
merely an inconsiderate boarder who had given 
nothing but unimpaired Virginian manners in 
return for so much upsetting of a household. 
No doubt the servants would have rebelled had 
he not tipped them immoderately. " Moreover," she concluded, " he is quite unlike our 
men, if he is a Southerner. And not handsome 
at all. His hair is black but he wears it too 



 

short, and he had no mustache, nor even side- 
boards. His face has deep lines and his eyes 
are like steel. He rarely smiles and I don't 
believe he ever laughed in his life.'' 

Society, however, had made up its mind, and 
as the women had no particular desire to make 
that terrible journey to Alexina Ballinger's any 
oftener than was necessary, it was determined 
(in conclave) that Mrs. Hunt McLane should 
have the honor of capturing and introducing 
this difficult and desirable person. 

Mr. McLane, who had met him at the Club, 
called on him formally and invited him to din-ner. Hunt McLane was the greatest lawyer 
and one of the greatest gentlemen in San Francisco. Masters was too much a man of the 
world not to appreciate the compliment  moreover, he had now been in San Francisco for two 
months and his social instincts were stirring. 
He accepted the invitation and many others. 

People dined early in those simple days and 
the hours he spent in the most natural and 
agreeable society he had ever entered did not 
interfere with his work. Sometimes he talked, 
at others merely listened with a pleasant sense 
of relaxation to the chatter of pretty women
with whom he was quite willfng to flirt as long 



 

as there was no hint of the heavy vail. He 
thought it quite possible he should fall in love 
with and marry one of these vivacious pretty 
girls ) when his future was assured in the duty of 
his enthusiastic adoption. 

He met Madeleine at all these gatherings, 
but it so happened that he never sat beside her 
and he had no taste for kettledrums or balls. 
He thought her very lovely to look at and wondered why so young and handsome a woman 
with a notoriously faithful husband should 
have so sad an expression. Possibly because it 
rather became her style of beauty. 

He saw a good deal of Dr. Talbot at the 
Club however and asked them both to one of 
the little dinners in his rooms with which he 
paid his social debts. These dinners were very 
popular^ for he was a connoisseur in wines, the 
dinner was sent from a French restaurant, and 
he was never more entertaining than at his own 
table. His guests were as carefully assorted as 
his wines, and if he did not know intuitively 
whose minds and tastes were most in harmony, 
or what lady did not happen to be speaking to 
another at the moment, he had always the delicate hints of Mrs. McLane to guide him. She 
was his social sponsor and vastly proud of him. 



IX 



MADELEINE went impassively to the 
dinner. His brilliancy had impressed 
her but she was indifferent to everything these 
days and her intellect was torpid although 
when in society and under the influence of the 
lights and wine she could be almost as animated 
as ever. But the novelty of that society had 
worn thin long since j she continued to go out 
partly as a matter of routine, more perhaps 
because she had no other resource. She saw 
less of her husband than ever, for his practice 
as well as his masculine acquaintance grew with 
the city — and that was swarming over the hills 
of the north and out toward the sand dunes of 
the west. But she was resigned, and inappetent. She had even ceased to wish for children. 
The future stretched before her interminable 
and dull. A railroad had been built across the 
continent and she had asked permission recently of her husband to visit her parents: her 
mother was now an invalid and Mr. Chilton 
would not leave her. 

SI 



 

But the doctor was more nearly angry than 
she had ever seen hinii He couldn't live without her. He must always know she was 
"there.'' Moreover, she was run down, she 
was thin and pale} he must keep her under his 
eye. But if he was worried about her health 
he was still more worried at her apparent desire to leave him for months. Did she no 
longer love him ? Her response was not emphatic and he went out and bought her a diamond bracelet. At least she was thankful that 
it had been bought for her and not sent to his 
wife by mistake, an experience that had happened the other day to Maria Groome. The 
town had rocked with laughter and Groome had 
made a hurried trip East on business. But 
Madeleine no longer found consolation in the 
reflection that things might be worse. The sensation of jealousy would have been a welcome 
relief from this spiritual and mental inertia. 

She wore a dress of bright golden-green 
grosgrain silk trimmed with crepe leaves a 
shade deeper. The pointed bodice displayed 
her shoulders in a fashion still beloved of royal 
ladies, and her soft golden-brown hair was 
dressed in a high chignon with a long curl descending over the left side of her bust. A few 
still clung to the low chignon, others had 
adopted a fashion set by the Empress Eugenie 
and wore their hair in a mass of curls on the 
nape of the neck 5 but Madeleine received the 
latest advices from a sister-in-law who lived in 
New York; and as femininity dies hard she 
still felt a mild pleasure in introducing the 
latest cry in fashion. As she was the last to arrive she would have been less than woman if 
she had not felt a glow at the sensation she 
made. The color came back to her cheeks as 
the women surrounded  her with ecstatic compliments and peered at the coiffure from all 
sides. The diamond bracelet was barely 
noticed. 

" I adopt it tomorrow," said Mrs. McLane 
emphatically. "With my white hair I shall 
look more like an old marquise than ever." 

One of the other women ran into Masters' 
bedroom where they had left their wraps and 
emerged in a few moments with a lifted chignon and a straggling curl. Amid exclamations 
and laughter two more followed suit, while the 
host and the other men waited patiently for 
their dinner. It was a lively party that finally 



 

sat down, and it was the gayest if the most 
momentous of Masters' little functions. 

His eyes strayed toward Madeleine more 
than once, for her success had excited her and 
she had never looked lovelier. She was at the 
other end of the table and Mrs. McLane and 
Mrs. Ballinger sat beside him. She interested 
him for the first time and he adroitly drew her 
history from his mentor (not that he deluded 
that astute lady for an instant, but she dearly 
loved to gossip). 

"She is going through one of those 
crises that all young wives must expect,'' she 
concluded. "If it isn't one thing it's another. 
She is still very young, and inclined to be romantic. She expected too much — of a husband, 
mon dieu! Of course she is lonely or thinks 
she is. Too bad youth never can realize that it 
is enough to be young. And with beauty, and 
