
And now, made uneasy by chance consultation with his wrist-watch, and
being rather a conscientious young man, he had risen and had informed
Eve that she ought to go to sleep.

And she had denounced the idea, almost fretfully.

"Even if you go I shan't sleep till daddy comes," she said. "Of course,"
she added, smiling at him out of gentian-blue eyes, "if you are sleepy
I shouldn't dream of asking you to stay."

"I'm not intending to sleep."

"What are you going to do?"

"Take a chair on the landing outside your door."

"What!"

"Certainly. What did you expect me to do, Eve?"

"Go to bed, of course. The beds in the guest rooms are all made up."

"Your father didn't expect me to do that," he said, smiling.

"I'm not afraid, as long as you're in the house," she said.

She looked up at him again, wistfully. Perhaps he was restless, bored,
sitting there beside her half the day, and, already, half the night. Men
of that kind--active, nervous young men accustomed to the open, can't
stand caging.

"I want you to go out and get some fresh air," she said. "It's a
wonderful night. Go and walk a while. And--if you feel like--coming back
to me----"

"Will you sleep?"

"No, I'll wait for you."

Her words were natural and direct, but in their simplicity there seemed
a delicate sweetness that stirred him.

"I'll come back to you," he said.

Then, in his response, the girl in her turn became aware of something
beside the simple words--a vague charm about them that faintly haunted
her after he had gone away down the stairs.

That was the man she had once tried to kill! At the sudden and
terrible recollection she shivered from curly head to bandaged feet.
Then she trembled a little with the memory of his lips against her
bruised hands--bruised by handcuffs which he had fastened upon her.

She sat very, very still now, huddled on the bed's edge, scarcely
breathing.

For the girl was beginning to dare formulate the deepest of any thoughts
that ever had stirred her virgin mind and body.

If it was love, then it had come suddenly, and strangely. It had come on
that day--at the very moment when he flung her against the tree and
handcuffed her--that terrible instant--if it were love.

Or--what was it that so delicately overwhelmed her with pleasure in his
presence, in his voice, in the light, firm sound of his spurred tread on
the veranda below?

Friendship? A lonely passion for young and decent companionship? The
clean youth of him in contrast to the mangy, surly louts who haunted
Clinch's Dump,--was that the appeal?

Listening there where she sat clasping the book, she heard his steady
tread patrolling the veranda; caught the faint fragrance of his brier
pipe in the still night air.

"I think--I think it's--love," she said under her breath.... "But he
couldn't ever think of me----" always listening to his spurred tread
below.

After a while she placed both bandaged feet on the rug. It hurt her, but
she stood up, walked to the open window. She wanted to look at him--just
a moment----

By chance he looked up at that instant, and saw her pale face, like a
flower in the starlight.

"Why, Eve," he said, "you ought not to be on your feet."

"Once," she said, "you weren't so particular about my bruises."

Her breathless little voice coming down through the starlight thrilled
him.

"Do you remember what I did?" he asked.

"Yes. You bruised my hands and made my mouth bleed."

"I did penance--for your hands."

"Yes, you kissed them!"

What possessed her--what irresponsible exhilaration was inciting her to
a daring utterly foreign to her nature? She heard herself laugh, knew
that she was young, pretty, capable of provocation. And in a sudden,
breathless sort of way an overwhelming desire seized her to please, to
charm, to be noticed by such a man--whatever, on afterthought, he might
think of the step-child of Mike Clinch.

Stormont had come directly under her window and stood looking up.

"I dared not offer further penance," he said.

The emotion in his voice stirred her--but she was still laughing down at
him.

She said: "You did offer further penance--you offered your
handkerchief. So--as that was all you offered as reparation for--my
lips----"

"Eve! I could have taken you into my arms----"

"You did! And threw me down among the spruces. You really did
everything that a contrite heart could suggest----"

"Good heavens!" said that rather matter-of-fact young man, "I don't
believe you have forgiven me after all."

"I have--everything except the handkerchief----"

"Then I'm coming up to complete my penance----"

"I'll lock my door!"

"Would you?"

"I ought to.... But if you are in great spiritual distress, and if you
really and truly repent, and if you humbly desire to expiate your sin by
doing--penance----" And hesitated: "Do you so desire?"

"Yes, I do."

"Humbly? Contritely?"

"Yes."

"Very well. Say 'Mea culpa, mea maxima culpa.'"

"Mea maxima culpa," he said so earnestly, looking up into her face that
she bent lower over the sill to see him.

"Let me come up, Eve," he said.

She strove to laugh, gazing down into his shadowy face--but suddenly the
desire had left her,--and all her gaiety left her, too, suddenly,
leaving only a still excitement in her breast.

"You--you knew I was just laughing," she said unsteadily. "You
understood, didn't you?"

"I don't know."

After a silence: "I didn't mean you to take me seriously," she said. She
tried to laugh. It was no use. And, as she leaned there on the sill, her
heart frightened her with its loud beating.

"Will you let me come up, Eve?"

No answer.

"Would you lock your door?"

"What do you think I'd do?" she asked tremulously.

"You know; I don't."

"Are you so sure I know what I'd do? I don't think either of us know our
own minds.... I seem to have lost some of my wits.... Somehow...."

"If you are not going to sleep, let me come up."
