


"All you know about this young fellow Spurlock '  
"What has he done?" 



"He has just naturally peeved his Uncle Sam' 
Now, you know where he is bound." 

"Did Ah Cum advise you?" 

"He did pretty well for a Chinaman. But that's 
his American education. Now, it won't do a bit of 
good to warn Spurlock. He carries with him 
something that will mark him anywhere —  the girl. 
Say, that girl fooled me at first glance. You see
we guys bump up against so much of the seamy side 
that we look upon everybody as guilty until proved 
innocent, which is hindrside-to. The second look 
told me I was wrong." 

"I'm going to put one question," interrupted 
the doctor. "Was there any other woman back 
there in the States?" 

"Nary a female. Oh, they are married fast. 
What are you going to tell me?" 

"Nothing." But the doctor softened the refusal 
by smiling. , 

"For the sake of the girl. Well, I don't blame 
you on that ground. If the boy was legging it 
alone.   . ." 

"I'm a doctor. I took him out of the hands of 
death. Unless he has killed someone. I sha'n't utter 
a word." 

"Killed someone?" O'Higgins laughed. "He 
wouldn't hurt a rabbit." 



 

'' You won't tell me what he has done?" 
'' If you'll tell me where he's heading." 
'' You can give me a little of his history, can't you? 
Something about his people?" 

''Oh, his folks were all right. His father and 
mother are gone now. Rich folks, once. The boy 
liad all kinds of opportunity; but it's the old story 
of father making it too easy. It's always hard 
work for a rich man's son to stand alone. Then 
you won't tell me where he's going?" 
"I will tell you six months from now." 
'' Prolonging the misery. Unless he deserts the 
girl, he won't be so hard to find as formerly. You 
see, it's like this. The boss says to me:  Higg, here's 
a guy we want back. He's down in Patagonia some- 
where.' So I go to Patagonia. I know South 
America and Canada like the lines in my hand. 
This is my first venture over here. The point is, 
I know ell the tricks in finding a man. Sure, I lose 
one occasionally — if he stays in New York. But 
if he starts a long jog, his name is Dennis. You may 
not know it, but it's easier to find a guy that's gone 
far than it is when he lays dogo in little old New 
York." . 
VYou had Spurlock once." 

O'Higgins grinned. "Women are always balling 
up and muddling clean cases. If this girl hadn't 
busted into the game, Spurlock would still be at 
the hotel." 





The doctor was forced to admit the truth of this. 
Ruth out of the picture, he wouldn't have concerned 
himself so eagerly in regard to Spurlock's departure. 

"I'm sorry, Mr. O'Higgins, but I decline to give 
you the least information." 

The detective ruefully inspected the scarlet band 
on his perfecto. "And I'll bet a doughnut that boy 
in his soul is crazy to have it over with. Well-born, 
well-educated; those are the lads that pay in full." 

"You're a philosopher, too. I'll tell you some- 
thing. One of the reasons why I decline to talk 
is this: that boy's punishment will be enough." 

" That's not my game. They order me to get my 
man, and I get him. There ends my duty. What 
they do with him afterward is oflF my ticket, no con- 
cern of James Boyle; they can lock him up or let him 
go. Say, how about this Ah Cum: is he honest?" 

"As the day is long." 

"Didn't know but what I'd been out-bid. I 
offered him a hundred to watch Spurlock. Fifty 
in advance. This morning I met him at the dock, 
and he wouldn't take the other fifty. A queer nut. 
Imagine any one on this' side refusing fifty bucks! 
Well, I'll be toddling along. Don't feel fussed upon 
my account. I get your side all right. H'm!" 

Over the desk, on the wall, was a map of the South 
Pacific archipelagoes, embossed by a number of little 
circles drawn in red ink. O'Higgins eyed it thought- 
fully. 






 

That's your hunting ground," said the doctor. 

It's a whale of a place. Ten thousand islands, 

and each one good for a night's rest. Why, that 

boy could hide for thirty years —  without the girl. 

She's my meal-ticket. What are those little red 

circles?" O'Higgins asked, rising and inspecting 

the map. A film of dust lay upon it; the ink marks 

were ancient. For a moment O'Higgins had hoped 

that the ink applications would be recent.   Been 

to those places?" 

''No. Years ago I marked out an intinerary for 

myself; but the trip never materialized. Too busy." 

"That's the way it goes. Well, I'll take myself 

off. But if I were you, I shouldn't warn Spurlock. 

Let him have his honeymoon. So long." 

For a long time after O'Higgins had gone the 
doctor rocked in his swivel chair, his glance directed 
at the map. In all his life he had never realized a 
dream; but the thought had never before hurt him. 
The Dawn Pearl. It did not seem quite fair. He 
had plugged along, if not happy, at least with sound 
philosophy. And then this girl had to sweep into 
and out of his life! He recalled McClintock's com- 
ment about Spurlock being the kind that fell soft. 
Even this man-hunting machine was willing to 
grant the boy his honeymoon. 

Meantime, O'Higgins wended his way to the 
Victoria, mulling over this and that phase, all matters 
little and big that bore upon the chase. Mac's. In 





one of the little red circles the doctor had traced that 
abbreviation. That could signify nothing exc t 
