probably gone after more liquor, and, unpleasant as 
this thought was to his mother, it was a relief to 
her to find that he did not go off to the steamer. 
She returned to the house, and washed her dishes ; 
but she could not get rid of the fear that Ben, 
whose envy and jealousy had been intensified by 
the fiery liquors he had drank, intended to cut loose 
the casks that buoyed up the Woodville, and let 
her go to the bottom again. His threat implied 
something as bad as this. 
If Lawry rose in the morning and found his 
steamer sunk, it would break his heart, after he 
had worked so hard to accomplish the result al- 
ready obtained. Mrs. Wilford was determined that 
no harm should come to the Yvoodville while Lawry 
slept. She left the house, and walked down to the 
ferry landing to assure herself that both of the boats 
were in their places. The wherry and the bateau 
were just as the boys had left them. As the anx- 
ious mother was returning to the house, she heard 
the tramp of many feet in the road above the cot' 
tage. It was a time of war ; and the sound sug- 
gested an armed host. But Mrs. Wilford was not 
alarmed ; and she soon discovered, in the darkness, 
a squad of about twenty men, who had halted just 
above the house. 
" Good evening, Mrs. Wilford," said Mr. Sher- 
wood, who seemed to be in command of the de- 
iachment. 
" Are you going to the war, sir ? " asked Mrs. 
Wilford, when she had returned the salutation of 
her wealthy neighbor. 
" Not exactly. Has Lawry gone to bed ? " 
" Yes, an hour ago." 
" Is he asleep ? " 
" I suppose he is ; he was tired enough to go to 
sleep as soon as he struck the bed." 
" All right, then." 
" What in the world are j'ou going to do with 
such a crowd of men, Mr. Sherwood ? " 
" I'm going to help the boys finish their job. 
I'm afraid they are working too hard for their own 
 
good. Ethan told me they had stopped the leak, 
and it only remained to pump out the steamer. I 
am going to do this job ; and I have men enough 
to finish it in a couple of hours." 
" I should think you had," added Mrs. Wilford, 
as she glanced at the squad of laborers. 
" I have gathered together all the men I could find. 
Don't say a word to the boys, if you please. I 
intend to surprise them. They will find the steamer 
free of water in the morning." 
" You are very kind, Mr. Sherwood, to take so 
much trouble." 
" The boys have worked so well that they deserve 
encouragement. May I take the ferry-boat to con- 
vey my men up to the steamer ? " 
" Certainly, sir.'* 
" Please not say a word to the boys." 
" I will not, sir. They will sleep like logs till 
morning, and not know a word about it." 
Mr. Sherwood marched his company down to the 
ferry-boat. They were armed with buckets ; and they 
had so many that the neighborhood must have been 
laid under contribution to supply them. The men 
 
 
embarked, and the sail was hoisted under the di- 
rection of Mr. Sherwood. Though the wind had 
subsided, there was still breeze enough to carry the 
bateau rapidly to her destination. Several lanterns 
brought by the battalion of balers were lighted, and 
the work was promptly commenced. The leader of 
the humane enterprise was of course perfectly familiar 
with the steamer. He stationed two men at the 
pumps, and formed three lines of balers, the first at 
the fore hatch, the second at the fire-room, and the 
third at the companion-way leading into the cabin. 
Mr. Sherwood encouraged the men to work well 
by the promise of extra pay ; and the laborers 
seemed to regard the occasion as a grand frolic. 
They exerted themselves to the utmost, and the 
buckets flew along the lines, while the pumps rolled 
out the water in a continuous flow. As the steamer, 
relieved of the weight that pressed her down, rose 
on the surface of the lake, it was only necessary to 
lift the water from below and pour it upon the 
deck, from which it would run off" itself. 
The job did not last long before such a strong 
force ; and in two hours the work of the balers 
 
was done, the water inside having fallen below the 
cabin floor. Then the men changed hands at the 
pumps every ten minutes, working them so rapidly 
that the water was soon exhausted from the well. 
Ethan had fully described the method by which the 
hole in the hull of the Woodville had been stopped ; 
but Mr. Sherwood had some doubts in regard to the 
strength of the material, and he went below to 
