presence of the other by thinking or willing it, was as much mine as
hers, and she tried sometimes to get me to say that I would use it with
her if she died before I did; and if she were where the conditions were
opposed to her coming to me, my will would help her to overcome the
hinderance; our united wills would form a current of volition that she
could travel back on against all obstacles. I don’t know whether I make
myself clear?” he appealed.
“Yes, perfectly,” I said. “It is very curious.” He said in a kind of
muse, “I don’t know just where I was.” Then he began again, “Oh, yes! It
was at the ceremony--down there in the library. Some of the country
people came in; I suppose they thought they ought, and I suppose they
wanted to; it didn’t matter to me. I had sent for Doctor Norrey, as soon
as the relapse came, and he was there with me. Of course there was the
minister, conducting the services. He made a prayer full of helpless
repetitions, which I helplessly noticed, and some scrambling remarks,
mostly misdirected at me, affirming and reaffirming that the sister they
had lost was only gone before, and that she was now in a happier world.
“The singing and the praying and the preaching came to an end, and then
there was that soul-sickening hush, that exanimate silence, of which the
noise of rustling clothes and scraping feet formed a part, as the people
rose in the hall, where chairs had been put for them, leaving me and
Norrey alone with Marion. Every fibre of my frame recognized the moment
of parting, and protested. A tremendous wave of will swept through me and
from me, a resistless demand for her presence, and it had power upon her.
I heard her speak, and say, as distinctly as I repeat the words, ‘I will
come for you!’ and the youth and the beauty that had been growing more
and more wonderful in her face, ever since she died, shone like a kind of
light from it. I answered her, ‘I am ready now!’ and then Norrey scuffled
to his feet, with a conventional face of sympathy, and said, ‘No hurry,
my dear Alderling,’ and I knew he had not heard or seen anything, as well
as I did afterwards when I questioned him. He thought I was giving them
notice that they could take her away. What do you think?”
“How what do I think?” I asked.
“Do you think that it happened?”
There was something in Alderling’s tone and manner that made me, instead
of answering directly that I did not, temporize and ask, “Why?”
“Because--because,” and Alderling caught his breath, like a child that is
trying to keep itself from crying, “because I don’t.” He broke into a
sobbing that seemed to wrench and tear his poor little body, and if I had
thought of anything to say, I could not have said it to his headlong
grief with any hope of assuaging it. “I am satisfied now,” he said, at
last, wiping his wet face, and striving for some composure of its
trembling features, “that it was all a delusion, the effect of my
exaltation, of my momentary aberration, perhaps. Don’t be afraid of
saying what you really think,” he added scornfully, “with the notion of
sparing me. You couldn’t doubt it, or deny it, more completely than I
do.”
I confess this unexpected turn struck me dumb. I did not try to say
anything, and Alderling went on.
“I don’t deny that she is living, but I can’t believe that I shall ever
live to see her again, or if you prefer, die to see her. There is the
play of the poor animal instinct, or the mechanical persistence of
expectation in me, so that I can’t shut the doors without the sense of
shutting her out, can’t put out the lights without feeling that I am
leaving her in the dark. But I know it is all foolishness, as well as you
do, all craziness. If she is alive it is because she believed she should
live, and I shall perish because I didn’t believe. I should like to
believe, now, if only to see her again, but it is too late. If you disuse
any member of your body, or any faculty of your mind, it withers away and
if you deny your soul your soul ceases to be.”
I found myself saying, “That is very interesting,” from a certain force
of habit, which you have noted in me, when confronted with a novel
instance of any kind. “But,” I suggested, “why not act upon the reverse
of that principle, and create the fact by affirmation which you think
your denial destroys?”
“Because,” he repeated wearily, “it is too late. You might as well ask
the fakir who has held his arm upright for twenty years, till it has
stiffened there, to restore the dry stock by exercise. It is too late,
I tell you.”
“But, look here, Alderling,” I pursued, beginning to taste the joy of
argument. “You say that your will had such power upon her after you knew
her to be dead that you made her speak to you?”
“No, I don’t say that now,” he returned. “I know now that it was a
delusion.”
“But if you once had that power of summoning her to you, by strongly
wishing for her presence, when you were both living here, why doesn’t it
stand to reason that you could do it still, if she is living there and
you are living here?”
“I never had any such power,” he replied, with the calm of absolute
tragedy. “That was a delusion too. I leave the doors open for her, night
and day, because I must, but if she came I should know it was not she.”
IX.
Of course you know your own business, my dear Acton, but if you think of
using the story of the Alderlings--and there is no reason why you should
not, for they are both dead, without kith or kin surviving, so far as I
know, unless he has some relatives in Germany, who would never penetrate
the disguise you could give the case--it seems to me that here is your
true climax. But I necessarily leave the matter to you, for I shall not
touch it at any point where we could come into competition. In fact, I
doubt if I ever touch it at all, for though all psychology is in a manner
dealing with the occult, still I think I have done my duty by that side
of it, as the occult is usually understood; and I am shy of its grosser
instances, as things that are apt to bring one’s scientific poise into
question. However, you shall be the judge of what is best for you to do,
when you have the whole story, and I will give it you without more ado,
merely premising that I have a sort of shame for the aptness of the
catastrophe. I shall respect you more if I hear that you agree with me as
to the true climax of the tragedy, and have the heroism to reject the
final event.
I stayed with Alderling nearly a week, and I will own that I bored
