
On the day that Mrs. Fielding and her daugliter 
called upon Mrs. Hartley, Lillian did not seem very 
well. She drooped about, and was quite fretful, 
a thing with her very unusual. At night she fell 
off to sleep an hour earlier than usual. When Mr. 
Hartley came home, and inquired for his little pet, 
he was told that she was in bed. He loved the 
child with great tenderness, and missed her bright 
face and merry voice. Taking up a light, he went 
over to the chamber where she slept, and stood 
over her little bed for some time, looking down 
upon her sweet face. While doing so, Mrs. Hart- 
ley joined him. 




 

"Dear little thing," she said, "she has not ap- 
peared well all day." 

The father placed his hand upon her forehead. 

" Why, Anna," he said, " she has a high fever ! 
And listen ! how hard she breathes." 

Mrs. Hartley laid her hand against the child's 
cheek, with a feeling of uneasiness. Her children 
had often been sick with fevers ; but never, in the 
incipient stage of the disease, had she felt the pe- 
culiar sensation of uneasiness and oppression that 
followed the discovery that Lillian was really sick. 

In a little while the tea bell rung, and the family 
gathered around the table to partake of their even- 
ing meal. The father and mother felt no appetite  
and merely sipped their tea. Marien was silent 
from some cause. Henry and Fanny were the 
only ones who had any thing to say. On rising 
from the table, Mr. and Mrs. Hartley repaired to 
the chamber to look at Lillian again. The child's 
fever seemed higher, and she had become restless. 
She coughed occasionally, and there was much 
oppression on her chest. 

''' I think we had better call in the Doctor," said 
Mr. Hartley. 

" It may only be a temporary indisposition, 
that will subside before morning," remarked the 
mother. 


" Still, it is better to be frightened than hurt," 
returned Mr. Hartley. 

"True. But suppose we wait for an hour." 

At the expiration of an hour the child was no 
better. A physician was called in, who gave some 
simple medicine, and said he would call in the 
morning. The morning found the child very ill. 
What form the disease would ultimately assume, 
the doctor could not tell ; — it might be only a vio- 
lent catarrh, it might be some more malignant dis- 
ease. A sudden gloom fell over the whole house- 
hold, such as had never been felt before. The 
mother could not compose herself to do any thing 
— Marien sat by the child's bedside nearly all the 
time, and Mr. Hartley came home two or three 
times during the day. What alarmed them most 
of all was the constant com.plaints of Lillian that 
her throat pained her, and the admission of the 
doctor that it was highly inflamed. Even hours 
before the physician declared the disease to be 
scarlet fever, they were more than half assured that 
it was nothing else. 

On the third day, all their fears were con- 
firmed. The disease began to assume its worst 
type. The skin was red and tumefied, the throat 
badly ulcerated, and the face much swollen. — 
Breathing was exceedingly difficult, and there was 



 

an eruption of dark scarlet spots on the face, neck 
and chest. On the fifth day, the little sufferer be- 
came delirious— on the seventh day she was freed 
from her pain. Her pure spirit returned to llie 
God who gave it. 

Suddenly as this terrible affliction had fallen 
upon them, in the brief space that ensued between 
the ilhiess of tha child and her removal, the minds 
of the parents had become, in some degree, pre- 
pared for the result that followed. Still the blow 
stunned them, and it was not until called upon to 
take the last look at their little one, and to touch 
with their lips for the last time her snowy fore- 
head, that they realized the full consciousness of 
what they had lost. Ah ! who but they who love 
tenderly a sweet, innocent, affectionate child, can 
understand how deep was the anguish of their spirits 
at the moment when they turned away after taking 
their last, lingering look at the marble features of 
their departed Lillian. 

How desolate seemed every part of the house 
for days afterwards. Hard as tlie mother tried to 
bear up and to look up in this aflliction, she had 
not the power to dry her tears. For hours, some- 
times, she would sit in dreamy absent-mindedness, 
all interest in things surrounding her having totally 
subsided. 



 

" Dear Anna." her husband ventured to say to 
her one day, when he came home and found her 
in this state — '''' Time, the Restorer, cannot do his 
work for us, unless we do our part. You remem- 
ber Doctor T , in whose family we spent two 

pleasant weeks last summer. He had a son, just 
about the age of Clarence — perhaps two years 
older — who had just passed through his collegiate 
course with distinguished honors. The Doctor 
loved that boy with more than ordinary tenderness. 
' He was always a good boy,' he said to me, in 
alluding to his son. ' His love of truth was strong, 
and his sense of honor most acute. I not only 
loved him, but I was proud of him.' This son 
had not been home long, when he became ill, and 
died. ''I never had any thing in my whole life 
that gave me such anguish of spirit as the death 
of that boy,' he said, and his voice even then trem- 
bled. ' But, through the whole painful scene of 
sickness, death and burial, I never missed a pa- 
tient. I knew that there was only one thing that 
would sustain me in my affliction ; and that was, 
the steady and faithful performance of my regular 
duties in life. But for this, I sometimes think I 
could not have borne the weight that was then 

laid upon me.' Dear Anna ! Doctor T was a 

true philosoplier; for his was a high Christian 



 

philosophy, that sought relief from affliction in the 
performance of duty to others." 

Poor Mrs. Hartley wept bitterly while her hus- 
band was speaking. But his words sunk into her 
heart, and she felt that she was suffering severer 
pain than would have been her portion if she had 

acted hke Doctor T . From that time she 

strove, with a great effort, to arouse herself from 
the dreamy state into which she had fallen. It 
was difficult to perform all the duties — nay, she 
could not perform them all— that heretofore claim- 
ed her attention. For five years her daily thought 
and care had been for her youngest born, the 
nursling of the flock; and now she was taken 
away. For a time she struggled to act upon her 
husband's suggestion, but again sunk down; and 
efforts to elevate her from this state of gloomy de- 
pression were again made. She lay weeping, with 
her head upon her husband's bosom, one night, 
when he said — 

"'Anna, dear, would you like to have Lillian 
back again ." 

She did not reply, but sobbed more violently for 
nearl}'- a minute, and then grew calm. Her hus- 
band repeated his inquiry. 

" I have never asked myself that question," she 
answered. 


" Think now, and determine in your own mind, 
whether, if you had tlie power to recall her, you 
would do so." 

" I do not think I would," was murmured half 
reluctantly. 

" Why not ?" 

" It is better for her to remain where she is." 

"Do you really think so ?" 

" How can you ask such a question ? Is she 
not now safe in her heavenly home? Is she not 
loved and cared for by angels .'' She can have no 
pain, nor grief, where she is gone. She has es- 
caped a life of trial and sorrow. Ah, my dear 
husband, even in my affliction I can say, I am 
thankful that, with her, life's toilsome journey is 
over — that her probation has been short." 

" Spoken like my own dear wife," Mr. Hartley 
said with emotion. -  I, too, grieve over the loss, 
with a grief that words cannot express, but I would 
not take back the treasure, now safely laid up in 
heaven. She cannot return to us, but we will go 
to her. Our real home is not here. A short time 
before us has our child gone ; we will soon follow 
after, but not until all the duties we owe to others 
are paid. We have still four left, and, do our best, 
we cannot do too much for them." 

" Too much ! Oh, no ; my constant regret is 



 

that I do too little. And now that Lillian has been 
taken away, I seem to have lost the power to do 
even that little." 

'  Strive to think more of those that are left, than 
of the one that is gone. No effort of yours can 
do her any good, but every effort you make for 
those that still remain, will add to their happiness. 
Yesterday, when I came home, I found Fanny sit- 
ting alone in the parlor. She looked very sad. 
' What is the matter, dear ?' I asked.  Mother 
cries so, and don't talk to me like she did,' she 
said, the tears coming into her dear little eyes." 

"Oh, James, did she say that ." 

" Yes, dear. And if you could have seen her 
face, and heard the tone of her voice, you would 
have grieved to think how sad the child's heart 
must be. She, as well as the rest of us, have lost 
much in the death of Lillian. You know how 
much she loved the child." 

" And I," sobbed the mother, " have left her to 
bear her grief alone. Alas ! How selfish I have 
been in my sorrow. But it shall no longer be. 
I will meet my children as a mother should meet 
them. I will help them to bear their loss." 

Mrs. Hartley met her family on the next morn- 
ing with a calmer brow. She had a word for each ; 
and that word was spoken with an unusual tender- 





ness of expression. Fanny looked earnestly into 
her mother's face, when she observed the change, 
and drew close up to her side. 

"You love me, dear mother, don't you ?" whis- 
pered the child, close to her ear. 

" Love you, my child ! O, yes ! A thousand 
times more than I can tell." And she kissed her 
fervently. 

" And the angels in heaven love Lillian, don't 
they ?" 

" Yes, love," Mrs. Hartley replied in a husky 
whisper, struggling to keep the tears from gushing 
from her eyes. 

" I know the good angels will love her, and 
take care of her just as well as you did, mother." 

" O yes ; and a great deal better." 

" Then we won't cry any more because she is 
gone." 

"Not if we can help it, love. But we miss her 
very much." 

" Yes. I want to see her all the time. But I 
