aunt's. She would have done i-. hurriedly and turned away ; 
but Alice held her and looked sadly for a minute into the 
wo-begone little face, then clasped her close and kissed her 
again and again. 
"Oh Alice," sobbed Ellen on her neck, — "aren't you mistaken ? maybe you are mistaken ?" 
" I am not mistaken, my dear Ellie, my own Ellie," said 
Alice's clear sweet voice ; — " not sorry, except for others. I 
will talk with you more about this. You will be sorry for 
me at first, and then, I hope, you will be glad. It is only 
that I am going home a little before you. Remember what 
I was saying to you a while ago. Will you tell Mr. Van 
Brunt I should like to see him for a few minutes some time 
when he has leisure ? — And come to me early to-morrow, 
love." 
Ellen could hardly get home. Her blinded eyes could 
not see where she was stepping ; and again and again her 
fullness of heart got the better of everything else, and unmindful of the growing twilight she sat down on a stone by 
the wayside or flung herself on the ground to let sorrows 
have full sway. In one of these fits of bitter struggling with 
pain, there came on her mind, like a sunbeam across a cloud, 
the thought of Jesus weeping at the grave of Lazarus. It 
came with singular power. Did he love them so well? 
thought Ellen — and is he looking down upon us with the same 
tenderness even now ? — She felt that the sun was shining still, 
though the cloud might be between ; her broken heart crept 
to His feet and laid its burden there, and after a few minutes she rose up and went on her wa}^, keeping that thought 
still close to her heart. The unspeakable tears that were 
shed during those few minutes were that softened out-pouring of the heart that leaves it eased. Very, very sorrowful 
as she was, she went on calmly now and stopped no 
more. 
It was getting dark, and a little way from the gate, on 
the road, she met Mr. Van Brunt. 
" Why I was beginning to get scared about you," said he. 
" I was coming to see where vou was. How come you so 
late ?" 
Ellen made no answer, and as she now came nearer and he 
could see more distinctly, his tone chano-ed. 
"What's the matter ?" said he, — "you ha'n't been well! 
what has happened ? what ails you, Ellen ?" 
In astonishment, and then in alarm, he saw that she was 
unable to speak, and anxiously and kindly begged her to let 
him know what was the matter, and if he could do anything. 
Ellen shook her head. 
" x\int Miss Alice well ?" said he ; — " you ha'n't heerd no 
bad news up there on the hill, have you ?'' 
Ellen was not willing to answer this question with yea or 
nay. She recovered herself enough to give him Alice's message. 
" I'll be sure and go," said he, — " but you ha'n't told me 
j'et what's the matter ! Has anything happened ?" 
" No," said Ellen; — " don't ask me — she'll tell you — don't 
ask me." 
" I guess I'll go up the first thing in the morning then," 
said he, — " before breakfast." 
" No," said Ellen, — " better not — perhaps she wouldn't be 
up so early." 
" After breakfast then, — I'll go up right after breakfast. 
I was agoing with the boys up into that 'ere wheat lot, but 
anyhow I'll do that first. They won't have a chance to do 
much bad or good before I get back to them, I reckon." 
xVs soon as possible she made her escape from Miss 
Fortune's eye and questions of curiosity which she could not 
bear to answer, and got to her own room. There the first 
thing she did was to find the eleventh chapter of John. She 
read it as she never had read it before, — she found in it what 
she had never found before; one of those cordials that none 
but the sorrowing drink. On the love of Christ, as there 
shown, little Ellen's heart fastened ; and with that one 
sweetening thought amid all its deep sadness, her sleep that 
night might have been envied by many a luxurious roller in 
pleasure. 
At Alice's wish she immediately took up her quarters at 
the parsonage, to leave her no more. But she could not see 
much difference in her from what she had been for several 
weeks past ; and with the natural hopefulness of childhood, 
her mind presently almost refused to believe the extremity 
of the evil which had been threatened. Alice herself was 
constantly cheerful, and sought by all means to further 
Ellen's cheerfulness ; though careful at the same time, to 
forbid, as far she could, the rising of the hope she saw Ellen 
was inclined to cherish. 
One evening they were sitting together at the window, 
looking out upon the same old lawn and distant landscape, 
now in all the fresh greenness of the young spring. The 
woods were not yet in full leaf; and the light of the setting 
sun upon the trees bordering the other side of the lawn 
showed them in the most exquisite and varied shades of color. 
Some had the tender green of the new leaf, some were in the 
red or yellow browns of the half-opened bud ; others in 
various stao^es of forwardness mixinfj all the tints between, 
and the evergreens standing dark as ever, setting off the delicate hues of the surrounding foliage. This was all softened 
off in the distance ; the very light of the spring was mild 
and tender compared with that of other seasons ; and the 
air that stole round the corner of the house and came in at 
the open window was laden with aromatic fragrance. Alice 
and Ellen had been for some time silently breathing it and 
gazing thoughtfully on the loveliness that was abroad. 
" I used to think," said Alice, — " that it must be a very 
hard thing to leave such a beautiful world. Did you ever 
think so, Ellie ?" 
" I don't know," said Ellen faintly, — " I don't remember." 
" I used to think so," said Alice. " But I do not now, 
Ellie ; my feeling has changed. — Do you feel so now, Ellie?" 
" Oh why do you talk about it, dear Alice ?" 
" For many reasons^ dear Ellie. Come here and sit in my 
lap again." 
" I am afraid you cannot bear it." 
" Yes I can. Sit here, and let your head rest where it 
used to ;" — and Alice laid her cheek upon Ellen's forehead ; 
— " you are a great comfort to me, dear Ellie." 
" Oh Alice, don't say so — you'll kill me !" exclaimed 
Ellen in great distress. 
" Why should I not say so, love ?" said Alice soothingly. 
" I like to say it, and you will be glad to know it by-and-by. 
You are a great comfort to me." 
" And what have you been to me !" said Ellen, weeping 
bitterly. 
" What I cannot be much longer; and I want to accustom 
you to think of it, and to think of it rightly. I want you to 
know that if I am sorry at all in the thought, it is for the 
sake of others, not myself. Ellie, you yourself will be glad 
for me in a little while ; — you will not wish me back." 
Ellen shook her head. 
" I know you will not — after a while ; — and I shall leave 
you in good hands — I have arranged for that, my dear little 
sister !" 
The sorrowing child neither knew nor cared what she 
meant, but a mute caress answered the spirit of Alice's 
words. 
Look up Ellie, — look out again. Lovely — lovely ! all 
that is, — but I know heaven is a great deal more lovely. 
Feasted as our eyes are with beauty, I believe that eye has 
not seen, nor heart imagined the things that God has pre- 
pared for them that love him. You believe that, Ellie ; you 
must not be so very sorry that I have gone to see it a little 
before you." 
Ellen could say nothing. 
" After all, Ellie, it is not beautiful things nor a beautiful 
world that make people happy — it is loving and being loved ; 
and that is the reason why I am happy in the thought of 
heaven. I shall, if he receives me, I shall be with my 
Saviour ; I shall see him and know him, without any of the 
clouds that come between here. I am often forgetting and 
displeasing him now, — never serving him well nor loving him 
right. I shall be glad to find myself where all that will be 
done with for ever. I shall be like him ! — Why do you cry 
so, Ellie?" said Alice tenderly. 
" I can't help it, Alice." 
" It is only my love for you — and for two more — that 
could make me wish to stay here, — nothing else ; — and I give 
all that up, because I do not know what is best for you or 
myself. And I look to meet you all again before long. Try 
to think of it as I do, Ellie." 
" But what shall I do without you ?" said poor Ellen. 
" I will tell you Ellie. You must come here and take m} 
place, and take care of those I leave behind ; will you? — and 
they will take care of you." 
" But," — said Ellen looking up eagerly, — " aunt Fortune" — 
" I have managed all that. Will you do it, Ellen ? I shall 
feel easy and happy about you, and far easier and happier 
about my father, if I leave you established here, to be to him 
as far as you can, what I have been. Will you promise me, 
Ellie?" 
In words it was not possible ; but what silent kisses, and 
the close pressure of the arms round Alice's neck could say, 
was said. 
" I am satisfied, then,' said Alice presently. " My father 
will be your father — think him so, dear Ellie, — and I know 
John will take care of you. And my place will not be empty. 
I am very, very glad." 
Ellen felt her place surely would be empty, but she could 
not say so. 
" It was for this I was so glad of your aunt's marriage, 
Ellie," Alice soon went on. " I foresaw she might raise some 
difficulties in my way, — hard to remove perhaps ; — but now I 
have seen Mr. Van Brunt, and he has promised me that nothing 
shall hinder your taking up your abode and making your 
home entirely here. Though I believe, Ellie, he would truly 
have loved to have you in his own house " 
I am sure he would," said Ellen, — " but oh how much 
rather "
" He behaved very well about it the other morning, — in a 
very manly, frank, kind way, — showed a good deal of feeling 
I think, too. He gave me to understand that for his own 
sake he should be extremely sorry to let you go ; but he assured me that nothing over which he had any control should 
stand in the way of your good." 
" He is verij kind — he is very good — he is always so," said 
Ellen. " I love Mr. Van Brunt very much. He always was 
as kind to me as he could be." 
They were silent for a few minutes, and Alice was looking 
out of the window again. The sun had set, and the coloring 
of all without was graver. Yet it was but the change from 
one beauty to another. The sweet air seemed still sweeter 
than before the sun went down. 
" You must be happy, dear Ellie, in knowing that I am. I 
am happy now. I enjoy all this, and I love you all, — but I can 
leave it and can leave you, — yes, both, — for I would see 
Jesus! He who has taught me to love him will not forsake 
me now. Goodness and mercy have followed me all the days 
of my life, and I shall dwell in the house of the Lord for ever. 
I thank him ! I thank him !" 
Alice's face did not belie her words, though her eyes shone 
through tears. 
Ellie, dear, — you must love him with all your heart, and 
live constantly in his presence, I know if you do he will 
make you happy, in any event. He can always give more 
than he takes away. how good he is ! — and what wretched returns we make him ! — I was miserable when John first 
went away to Doncaster ; I did not know how to bear it. 
But now, Ellie, I think I can see it has done me good, and I 
can even be thankful for it. All things are ours — all things ; 
— the world, and life, and death too." 
" Alice," said Ellen, as well as she could, — you know 
what you were saying to me the other day ?" 
" About what, love ?" 
" That about — you know, — that chapter" — 
" About the death of Lazarus ?" 
" Yes. It has comforted me very much." 
" So it has me, Ellie. It has been exceeding sweet to 
me at different times. Come sing to me, — * How firm a foundation.' " 
From time to time Alice led to this kind of conversation, 
both for Ellen's sake and her own pleasure. Meanwhile she 
made her go on with all her usual studies and duties ; and 
but for these talks Ellen would have scarce known how to 
believe that it could be true which she feared. 
The wedding of Miss Fortune and Mr. Van Brunt was a 
very quiet one. It happened at far too busy a time of year, 
and they were too cool calculators, and looked upon their 
union in much too business-like a point of view, to dream of 
such a wild thing as a wedding-tour, or even resolve upon so 
troublesome a thing as a wedding-party. Miss Fortune 
would not have left her cheese and butter-making to see all 
the New Yorks and Bostons that ever were built ; and she 
would have scorned a trip to Randolph. And Mr. Van 
Brunt would as certainly have wished himself all the while 
back among his furrows and crops. So one day they were 
quietly married at home, the Rev. Mr. Clark having been 
fetched from Thirl wall for the purpose. Mr. Van Brunt 
would have preferred that Mr. Humphreys should perform 
the ceremony ; but Miss Fortune was quite decided in favor 
of the Thirlwall gentleman, and of course he it was. 
The talk ran high all over the country on the subject of 
this marriage, and opinions were greatly divided ; some congratulating Mr. Van Brunt on having made himself one of the 
richest land-holders in town" by the junction of ano- 
ther fat farm to his own ; some pitying him for having got 
more than his match wiihin doors, and " guessing he'd missed his reckoning for once." 
If he has, then," said Sam Larkens, who heard some of 
these condoling remarks, — " it's the first time in his life, I can 
tell you. If she aint a little mistaken, I wish I mayn't get a 
month's wages in a year to come. I tell you, you don't know 
Van Brunt ; he's as easy as anybody as long as he don't care 
about what you're doing ; but if he once takes a notion you 
can't make him gee nor haw no more than you can our near 
ox Timothy when he's out o' yoke ; and he's as ugly a beast 
to manage as ever I see when he aint yoked up. Why bless 
you ! there ha'n't been a thing done on the farm this five year 
but just what he liked — she don't know it. I've heerd her," 
said Sam chuckling, — " I've heerd her atelling him how she 
wanted this thing done, and t'other, and he'd just not say a 
word and go and do it right t'other way. It'll be a wonder 
if somebody aint considerably startled in her calculations afore 
Bummer's out." 
CHAPTER XLII. 
It was impossible at first to make Mr. Humphreys believe 
that Alice was right in her notion about her health. The 
greatness of the evil was such that his mind refused to receive 
it, much as Ellen's had done. His unbelief however lasted 
longer than hers. Constantly with Alice as she was, and talking to her on the subject, Ellen slowly gave up the hope she 
had clung to ; though still, bending all her energies to the 
present pleasure and comfort of her adopted sister, her mind 
shrank from looking at the end. Daily and hourly, in every 
way, she strove to be what Alice said she was, a comfort to 
her, and she succeeded. Daily and hourly Alice's look and 
smile and manner said the same thing over and over. It was 
Ellen's precious reward, and in seeking to earn it she half the 
time earned another in forgetting herself. It was different 
with Mr. Humphreys. He saw much less of his daughter ; 
and when he was with her, it was impossible for Alice, with 
all her efforts, to speak to him as freely and plainly as she was 
in the habit of speaking to Ellen. The consequences were such 
as grieved her, but could not be helped. 
As soon as it was known that her health was failing, Sophia 
Marshman came and took up her abode at the parsonage. 
Ellen was almost sorry ; it broke up in a measure the sweet 
and peaceful way of life she and Alice had held together ever 
since her own coming. Miss Sophia could not make a third 
in their conversations. But as Alice's strength grew less and 
she needed more attendance and help, it was plain her friend's 
being there was a happy thing for both Alice and Ellen. Miss 
Sophia was active, cheerful, untiring in her affectionate care, 
always pleasant in manner and temper ; a very useful person 
in a house where one was ailing. Mrs. Yawse was often there 
too, and to her Ellen clung, whenever she came, as to a pillar 
of strength. Miss Sophia could do nothing to help her ; Mrs. 
Vawse could, a great deal. 
Alice had refused to write or allow others to write to her 
brother. She said he was just finishing his course of study 
at Doncaster ; she would not have him disturbed or broken 
off by bad news from home. In August he would be quite 
throuo;h ; the first of August he would be home. 
Before the middle of June, however, her health began to 
fail much more rapidly than she had counted upon. It became 
