pay me a dollar."
"Seventy five cents! It is an imposition. I know plenty of poor women
who would have been glad of these shirts at half the price--yes, or at
a third of the price either. Seventy-five cents, indeed! Oh, no--I will
never pay a price like that. I can go to any professed shirt-maker in
the city, and get them made for seventy-five cents or a dollar."
"I know you can, ma'am," said Mrs. Walton, stung into self-possession
by this unexpected language. "But why should I receive less if my work
is as well done?"
"A pretty question, indeed!" retorted Mrs. Lander, thrown off her
guard. "A pretty question for you to ask of me! Oh, yes! You can get
such prices if you can, but I never pay them to people like you. When I
pay seventy-five cents or a dollar apiece for shirts, I go to regular
shirt-makers. But this is what we generally get for trying to encourage
the poor. Mrs. Brandon said that you were in needy circumstances, and
that it would be a charity to give you work. But this is the way it
generally turns out."
"What are you willing to pay?" asked the poor woman, choking down her
feelings.
"I have had shirts as well made as these for forty cents many and many
a time. There is a poor woman down in Southwark, who sews beautifully,
who would have caught at the job. She works for the shops, and does not
get over twenty-five cents for fine shirts. But as Mrs. Brandon said
you were suffering for work, I thought I would throw something in your
way. Forty cents is an abundance; but I had made up my mind, under the
circumstances, to make it fifty, and that is all I will give. So here
is your money--three dollars."
And Mrs. Lander took out her purse, and counted out six half dollars
upon the table. Only for a few moments did the poor woman hesitate.
Bread she must have for her children; and if her clothes were not taken
out of pawn on that day, they would be lost. Slowly did she take up the
money while words of stinging rebuke were on her tongue. But she forced
herself to keep silence; and even departed, bearing the wrong that had
been laid upon her without uttering a word.
"Did you get my shoes as you promised, mother?" eagerly inquired her
little boy, as she came in, on returning from the house of Mrs. Lander.
"No, dear," replied the heart-full mother, in a subdued voice. "I
didn't get as much money as I expected."
"When will you buy them, mother?" asked the child as tears filled his
eyes. "I can't go to school in this way." And he looked down at his
bare feet.
"I know you can't, Harry; and I will try and get them for you in a few
days."
The child said no more, but shrunk away with his little heart so full
of disappointment, that he could not keep the tears from gushing over
his face. The mother's heart was quite as full. Little Harry sat down
in a corner to weep in silence, and Mrs. Walton took her sewing into
her hands; but the tears so blinded her eyes, that she could not see
where to direct the needle. Before she had recovered herself, there was
a knock at the door, which was opened immediately afterwards by a lady,
who came into the room where the poor widow sat with her little family
around her.
More than an hour had passed since the unpleasant interview with the
poor widow, and Mrs. Lander had not yet recovered her equanimity of
mind nor lost the feelings of indignation which the attempt to impose
upon her by an exorbitant charge had occasioned, when she was favoured
with a visit from Mrs. Brandon, who said familiarly, and with a smile,
as she entered--
"Ah, how do you do, Mrs. Lander? I have just corrected a mistake you
made a little while ago."
"Indeed! what is that?" asked Mrs. Lander, looking a little surprised.
"You only gave poor Mrs. Walton fifty cents apiece for the half dozen
of shirts she made for you, when the lowest price is seventy-five
cents. I always pay a dollar for Mr. Brandon's. The difference is a
very important one to her--no less than a dollar and a half. I found
her in much trouble about it, and her little boy crying with
disappointment at not getting a pair of shoes his mother had promised
him as soon as she got the money for the shirts. He has been from
school for want of shoes for more than a week. So I took out my purse
and gave Mrs. Walton the dollar and a half to make up the sum she had
earned, and told her I would see you about it. I acted right, did I
not? Of course, it was a mistake on your part?"
Mrs. Lander was never more completely out-generalled in her life. The
lady who had corrected her error was one in whose good opinion she had
every reason for desiring to stand high. She could grind the face of
the poor without pity or shame, but for the world she would not be
thought mean by Mrs. Brandon.
"I am very much obliged to you, indeed," she said with a bland smile.
"It was altogether a mistake on my part, and I blame the woman
exceedingly for not having mentioned it at the time. Heaven knows I am
the last person in the world to grind the faces of the poor! Yes, the
very last person. Here is the money you paid for me, and I must repeat
my thanks for your prompt correction of the error. But I cannot help
feeling vexed at the woman."
"We must make many allowances for the poor, Mrs. Lander. They often
bear a great deal of wrong without a word of complaint. Some people
take advantage of their need, and, because they are poor, make them
work for the merest pittance in the world. I know some persons, and
they well off in the world, who always employ the poorest class of
people, and this under the pretence of favouring them, but, in reality,
that they may get their work done at a cheaper rate than it can be made
by people who expect to derive from their labour a comfortable support."
Mrs. Lander was stung to the quick by these words; but she dared not
show the least sign of feeling.
"Surely no one professing to be a Christian can do so," said she.
"Yes, people professing to be Christians do these things," was replied;
"but of course their profession needs a better practice to prove it of
any worth."
When her visitor retired, after having expressed her opinion on the
subject under consideration still more unequivocally, Mrs. Lander did
not feel very comfortable, nor was her good opinion of herself quite so
firm as it had been earlier in the day. But she took good care, in the
future, not to give any more work to Mrs. Walton, and was exceedingly
particular afterwards, in employing poor people, to know whether they
sewed for Mrs. Brandon. There are a good many people in the world who
encourage the poor on Mrs. Lander's principle.
JESSIE HAMPTON.
"WHAT are you doing here, miss?"
The young girl thus addressed was sitting by a centre-table, upon which
stood a lamp, in a handsomely furnished drawing-room. She laid aside
the book she was reading, and, without making any reply, rose up
quickly and retired. Two or three persons, members of the family, were
present. All observed the effect of Mrs. Freeman's words, yet no one
had heard what was said; nor would they have been aware that more than
a request for some service had been made, but for the lady's remark as
the girl left the room.
"I might as well begin at once, and let Jessie know her place."
"What did you say to her, ma?" asked a young lady who sat swinging
herself in a large rocking-chair.
"I simply asked her what she was doing here."
"What did she answer?"
"Nothing. The way in which I put the question fully explained my
meaning. I am sorry that there should have arisen a necessity for
hurting her feelings; but if the girl doesn't know her place, she must
be told where it is."
"I don't see that she was doing any great harm," remarked an old
gentleman who sat in front of the grate.
"She was not in her place, brother," said Mrs. Freeman, with an air of
dignity. "We employ her as a teacher in the family, not as a companion.
Her own good sense should have taught her this."
"You wouldn't have us make an equal of Jessie Hampton, would you, uncle
Edward?" inquired the young lady who sat in the rocking-chair.
"You cannot make her your equal, Fanny, in point of worldly blessings,
for, in this matter, Providence has dealt more hardly with her than
with you. As to companionship, I do not see that she is less worthy now
than she was a year ago."
"You talk strangely, Edward," said Mrs. Freeman, in a tone of dissent.
"In what way, sister?"
"There has been a very great change in a year. Jessie's family no
longer moves in our circle."
"True; but is Jessie any the less worthy to sit in your parlour than
she was then?"
"I think so, and that must decide the matter," returned Mrs. Freeman,
evincing some temper.
The old gentleman said no more; but Fanny remarked--"I was not in
favour of taking Jessie, for I knew how it would be; but Mrs. Carlton
recommended her so highly, and said so much in her favour, that no room
was left for a refusal. As for Jessie herself, I have no particular
objection to her; but the fact of her having once moved in the circle
we are in is against her; for it leaves room for her to step beyond her
place, as she has already done, and puts upon us the unpleasant
necessity of reminding her of her error."
"It don't seem to me," remarked Mr. Freeman, who had till now said
nothing, "that Miss Hampton was doing any thing worthy of reproof. She
has been well raised, we know; is an educated, refined, and intelligent
girl, and, therefore, has nothing about her to create repugnance or to
make her presence disagreeable. It would be better, perhaps, if we
looked more to what persons are, than to things merely external."
"It is all very well to talk in that way," said Mrs. Freeman. "But Miss
Hampton is governess in our family, and it is only right that she
should hold to us that relation and keep her place. What she has been,
or that she is, beyond the fact of her present position here, is
nothing to us."
Mr. Freeman knew from experience, that no particular good would grow
out of a prolonged argument on this subject, and so said nothing
further, although he could not force from his mind the image of the
young girl as she rose up hastily and left the room, nor help thinking
how sad a change it would be for one of his own children, if reduced
suddenly to her condition.
A good deal more was said by Mrs. Freeman, who did not feel very
comfortable, although she fully justified herself for what she had done.
The young girl, who had been reminded so harshly of the error into
which she had fallen, went quickly up into her cold chamber, and there,
with a burning cheek, sat down to think as calmly as her disturbed
feelings would permit. The weakness of tears she did not indulge;
self-respect, rather than pride, sustained her. Had she acted from the
first impulse, she would have left the house immediately, never again
to re-enter it; but reason soon told her that, however strong her
impulses might be, duties and considerations far beyond mere feeling
must come in to restrain them.
"Whatever I have been," she said to herself, as she sat and reflected,
"I am now simply a governess, and must steadily bear that in mind. In
this house I am to receive no more consideration than a mere stranger.
Have I a right to complain of this? Have I cause to be offended at Mrs.
Freeman for reminding me of the fact? Her reproof was unkindly given;
but false pride has in it no gentleness, no regard for another's
feelings. Ah me! this is one more lesson of the many I have to learn;
but let me bear up with a brave heart. There is one who knows my path,
and who will see that nothing therein need cause my feet to stumble.
From this moment I will think of all here as strangers. I will
faithfully do what I have engaged to do, and expect therefor only the
compensation agreed upon when I came. Have I a right to expect more?"
The bright colour faded gradually from the flushed cheeks of Jessie
Hampton, and with a calm, yet pensive face, she arose and went down
into the room which had been set apart for her use when giving
instruction to the children. It was warmed and lighted, and had in it a
small library. Here she sat alone, reading and thinking, for a couple
of hours, and then retired to her chamber for the night.
As was intimated in the conversation that arose upon her leaving the
drawing-room, Jessie Hampton's circumstances had suffered, in a very
short period, a great change. A year before she was the equal and
companion of Fanny Freeman, and more beloved and respected by those who
knew her than Fanny was or ever could be; but unexpected reverses came.
The relative who had been to her as a father for many years was
suddenly deprived of all his worldly goods, and reduced so low as to be
in want of the comforts of life. So soon as Jessie saw this, she saw
plainly her duty.
"I cannot burden my uncle," said she resolutely to herself. "He has
enough, and more than enough, to bear up under, without the addition of
my weight." Thoughtfully she looked around her; but still in doubt what
to do, she called upon a lady named Mrs. Carlton, who was among the few
whose manner towards her had not changed with altered fortune, and
frankly opened to her what was in her mind.
"What does your uncle say?" inquired Mrs. Carlton. "Does he approve the
step?"
"He knows nothing of my purpose," returned Jessie.
"Then had you not better consult him?"
"He will not hear of it, I am certain; but, for all that, I am resolved
to do as I propose. He has lost his property, and is now in great
trouble. He is, in fact, struggling hard to keep his head above water:
my weight might sink him. But, even if there were no danger of this, so
long as I am able to sustain myself, I will not cling to him while he
is tossed on the waves of adversity."
"I cannot but highly approve your decision," said Mrs. Carlton, her
heart warm with admiration for the right-minded girl. "The fact that
your uncle has been compelled to give up his elegant house, and retire
with you to a boarding-house, shows the extremity to which he has been
reduced. I understand that his fine business is entirely broken up, and
that, burdened with debts, he has commenced the world again, a few
hundred dollars all his capital in trade, resolved, if health and a
sound mind be continued to him, to rise above all his present
difficulties."
"And shall I," replied Jessie, "sit an idle witness of the honourable
struggle, content to burden him with my support? No! Were I of such a
spirit, I would be unworthy the relation I bear him. Much rather would
I aid him, were it in my power, by any sacrifice."
"If I understand you aright," said Mrs. Carlton, after thinking for a.
few moments, "you would prefer a situation as governess in a private
family."
"Yes; that would suit me best."
"How would you like to take charge of Mrs. Freeman's younger children?
She mentioned to me, only yesterday, her wish to obtain a suitable
instructor for them, and said she was willing to pay a liberal salary
to a person who gave entire satisfaction."
Jessie's face became thoughtful.
"Mrs. Freeman is not the most agreeable person to be found, I know,
Jessie," said her friend; "but the step you propose involves sacrifices
from the beginning."
"It does, I know; and I must not forget this. Had I a choice, I
certainly should not select the family of Mrs. Freeman as the one in
which to begin the new life I am about entering upon. She and Fanny are
among the few who have ceased to notice me, except with great coldness,
since my uncle's misfortunes. But I will not think of this. If they
will take me, I will go even into their house, and assume the humble
duties of a governess."
Mrs. Carlton immediately called upon Mrs. Freeman, and mentioned
Jessie. Some objection was made on the score of her being, an old
acquaintance, who would expect more notice than one in her position was
entitled to receive. This, however, was overruled by Mrs. Carlton, and,
after an interview with Jessie, an engagement was entered into for a
year, at a salary of four hundred dollars.
When Jessie mentioned the subject to her uncle, Mr. Hartman, he became
a good deal excited, and said that she should do no such thing. But
Jessie remained firm, and her uncle was at last compelled, though with
great reluctance, to consent to what she proposed, regarding it only as
a temporary measure.
The first day's experience of Jessie under the roof of Mrs. Freeman is
known to the reader. It was a painful experience, but she bore it in
the right spirit. After that, she was careful to confine herself to the
part of the house assigned her as a servant and inferior, and never
ventured upon the least familiarity with any one. Her duty to the
children who were committed to her charge was faithfully performed, and
she received, regularly, her wages, according to contract, and there
the relation between her and this family ceased. Day after day, week
after week, and month after month, did Jessie Hampton, uncheered by an
approving smile or friendly word, discharge her duties. But she had
within, to sustain her, a consciousness that she was doing right, and a
firm trust in an all-wise and merciful Providence.
Mrs. Carlton remained her steady friend, and Jessie spent an evening at
her house almost every week, and frequently met there many of her old
acquaintances. Of her treatment in the house of Mrs. Freeman she never
spoke, and when questioned on the subject avoided giving a direct
answer.
Mr. Hartman's struggle proved to be a hard one. Harassed by claims that
he could not pay off at once, his credit almost entirely gone, and the
capital upon which he was doing business limited to a few hundred
dollars, he found it almost impossible to make any headway. In a year
from the time Jessie had relieved him from the burden of her support,
so far from being encouraged by the result of his efforts, he felt like
abandoning all as hopeless. There are always those who are ready to
give small credits to a man whom they believe to be honest, even though
once unfortunate in business; but for such favours Mr. Hartman could
not have kept up thus far. Now the difficulty was to pay the few notes
given as they matured.
A note of five hundred dollars was to fall due on the next day, and Mr.
Hartman found himself with but a hundred dollars to meet it. The firm
from which he had bought the goods for which the note was given had
trusted him when others refused credit to the amount of a single
dollar, and had it in their power to forward his interests very greatly
if he was punctual in his payments. It was the first bill of goods they
