showing, by the white line, that the balls were turned up unnaturally;
with her crimsoned cheeks, and with the nervous motions of her lips and
slight twitchings of her hands, at first noticed with anxiety and alarm.

Mrs. Wilkinson was but little familiar with sickness in children; and
knew not the signs of real danger--or, rather, what unusual signs such
as those now apparent in Ella really indicated. But she was
sufficiently alarmed, and stood over the child, with her eyes fixed
eagerly upon her.

Again she tried to arouse her from so strange and unnatural a state,
but with as little effect as at first.

"Oh, my husband!" she at length exclaimed, clasping her hands together,
and glancing upward, with tearful eyes, "why are you away from me now?
Oh, why did you break your promise to return hours and hours ago?"

Then covering her face with her hands, she sobbed and wept, until,
startled by a sharp, unnatural cry from the lips of Ella, her attention
was once more fixed upon her suffering child.




CHAPTER III.


"Now, what will you take?" said Henry Ellis, as he entered, with the
weak and yielding Wilkinson, the bar-room of Parker's tavern.

"Any thing you choose to call for," replied Wilkinson, whose mind was
turning homeward, and who wished to be there. "In fact, I don't really
want any thing. Call for two glasses of cold water. These will leave
our heads clear."

"Water! Ha! ha! That is a good one, Bill"--and Ellis spoke to the
bar-tender--"Mix us a couple of stiff brandy toddies."

The bar-tender nodded and smiled his acceptance of the order, and the
two men retired to a table that stood in a remote part of the room, at
which they were soon served with the liquor.

"Bill mixes the best brandy toddy I ever tasted. He knows his
business," said Ellis, as he put the glass to his lips. "Isn't it fine?"

"It is very good," replied Wilkinson, as he sipped the tempting mixture.

But his thoughts were turning homeward, and he scarcely perceived the
taste of what he drank. Suddenly, he pushed the glass from him, and,
making a motion to rise from the table, said--

"Indeed, Ellis, I must go home. My child is sick, and Mary will be
distressed at my absence. Come around to my store, to-morrow, and we
will talk this matter over. Neither you nor I are now in a fit state to
discuss so grave a matter.

"Sit down, will you!"

This was the reply of Ellis, as he caught quickly the arm of his
friend, and almost forced him, by main strength, to resume his seat.

"There, now," he added, as Wilkinson resumed his seat. "Never put off
until to-morrow what can as well be done to-day. That is my motto. I
want to talk with you about Cara, and no time is so good as the
present."

"Well, well," returned Wilkinson, impatiently. "What do you want to
say? Speak quickly, and to the point."

"Just what I'm going to do. But, first, I must see the bottom of my
tumbler. There, now; come, you must do the same. Drink to good old
times, and eternal friendship--drink, my fast and faithful friend!"

The warmth of the room and the quick effects of a strong glass of
brandy toddy were making rapid advances on Ellis's partial state of
inebriety.

Wilkinson emptied his glass, and then said--

"Speak, now, I'm all attention."

"Well, you see, Jack," and Ellis leaned over towards Wilkinson
familiarly, and rested his arm upon his knee. "You see, Jack, that
huzzy of mine--if I must call the dear girl by such a name--is leading
me the deuce of a life. Confound her pretty face! I love her, and would
do almost any thing to please her; but she won't be pleased at any
thing. She combs my head for me as regularly as the day comes."

"Hush--hush! Don't talk so of Cara. Her temper may be a little
uncertain, but that is her weakness. She is your wife, and you must
bear with these things. It isn't manly in you to be vexed at every
trifle."

"Trifle! Humph! I'd like you to have a week of my experience. You
wouldn't talk any more about trifles."

"You should humour her a great deal, Harry. I am not so sure that you
are not quite as much to blame for these differences and fallings out
as she is."

"I wasn't to blame to-night, I am sure. Didn't I bring home Prescott,
thinking that she would be delighted to have me sit the evening with
her and read so charming an author? But, at the very proposition, she
flared up, and said she didn't want to hear my musty old histories.
Humph! A nice way to make a man love his home. Better for her and me,
too, I'm thinking, that she had listened to the history, and kept her
husband by her side."

"And for me, too," thought Wilkinson. "I should now, at least, be at
home with my loving-hearted wife. Ah, me!"

"Now, what am I to do, Jack--say? Give me your advice."

"The first thing for you to do is to go home, and to go at once. Come!"

And Wilkinson made another effort to rise; but the hand of Ellis bore
him down.

"Stay, stay!" he muttered, impatiently. "Now don't be in such a
confounded hurry. Can't you talk with an old friend for a minute or so?
Look here, I've been thinking--let me see--what was I going to say?"

The mind of Ellis was growing more and more confused; nor was the head
of Wilkinson so clear as when he entered the bar-room. The strong glass
of brandy toddy was doing its work on both of them.

"Let me see," went on Ellis, in a wandering way. "I was speaking of
Cara--oh, yes, of Cara. Bless her heart, but confound her crooked
temper! Now, what would you advise me to do, my old friend?"

"Go home, I have said," replied Wilkinson.

"And get my head combed with a three-legged stool? No, blast me if I
do! I've stayed out this long just to make her sensible of her
unkindness to one of the best of husbands--and I'm not going home until
I am dead drunk. I guess that'll bring her to her bearings. Ha! Don't
you think so, Jack?"

"Good heavens!" was just at this instant exclaimed by one of the
inmates of the bar-room, in a low, startled tone of voice.

"Your wife, as I live!" fell from the lips of Ellis, whose face was
turned towards the entrance of the bar-room.

Wilkinson sprang to his feet. Just within the door stood a female form,
her head uncovered, her under person clad in a white wrapper, and her
face colourless as the dress she wore. There was a wild, frightened
look in her staring eyes.

"Is Mr. Wilkinson here?" she asked, just as her husband's eyes rested
upon her, and her thrilling voice reached his ears.

With a bound, Wilkinson was at her side.

"Oh, John! John!" she cried, in a voice of anguish. "Come home! Come
quick! Our dear little Ella is dying!"

An instant more, and, to the inmates of the bar-room, the curtain fell
upon that startling scene; for Wilkinson and his wife vanished almost
as suddenly as if they had sunk together through the floor.




CHAPTER IV.


DURING the day on which our story opened, Henry Ellis had obtained from
a friend the first volume of Prescott's History of Mexico, then just
from the press. An hour's perusal of its fascinating pages awakened in
his mind a deep interest.

"Just the book to read to Cara," said he to himself, closing the
volume, and laying it aside. "She's too much taken up with mere
fiction. But here is that truth which is stranger than fiction; and I
am sure she will soon get absorbed in the narrative."

With his new book, and this pleasant thought in his mind, Ellis took
his way homeward, after the business of the day was over. As he walked
along, a friend overtook him, and said, familiarly, as he touched him
on the shoulder,

"I'm glad to overhaul you so opportunely. Half a dozen times, to-day, I
have been on the eve of running round to see you, but as often was
prevented. All in good time yet, I hope. I want you to come over to my
room, this evening. There are to be three or four of our friends there,
and some good eating and drinking into the bargain."

"A temptation certainly," replied Ellis. "No man likes good company
better than I do; but, I rather think I must forego the pleasure this
time."

"Why do you say that?"

"I've promised myself another pleasure."

"Another engagement?"

"Not exactly that. Barker has loaned me the first volume of Prescott's
Mexico; and I'm going to spend the evening in reading it to my wife."

"Any other evening will do as well for that," returned the friend. "So
promise me to come around. I can't do without you."

"Sorry to disappoint you," said Ellis, firmly. "But, when I once get my
mind fixed on a thing, I am hard to change."

"Perhaps your wife may have some engagement on hand, for the evening,
or be disinclined for reading. What then?"

"You will see me at your room," was the prompt answer of Ellis; and the
words were uttered with more feeling than he had intended to exhibit.
The very question brought unpleasant images before his mind.

"I shall look for you," said the friend, whose name was Jerome. "Good
evening!"

"Good evening! Say to your friends, if I should not be there, that I am
in better company."

The two men parted, and Ellis kept on his way homeward. Not until the
suggestion of Jerome that his wife might be disinclined to hear him
read, did a remembrance of Cara's uncertain temper throw a shade across
his feelings. He sighed as he moved onward.

"I wish she were kinder and more considerate," he said to himself. "I
know that I don't always do right; yet, I am not by any means so bad as
she sometimes makes me out. To any thing reasonable, I am always ready
to yield. But when she frowns if I light a cigar; and calls me a
tippler whenever she detects the smell of brandy and water, I grow
angry and stubborn. Ah, me!"

Ellis sighed heavily. A little way he walked on, and then began
communing with himself.

"I don't know"--he went on--"but, may be, I do take a little too much
sometimes. I rather think I must have been drinking too freely when I
came home last week: by the way Cara talked, and by the way she acted
for two or three days afterwards. There may be danger. Perhaps there
is. My head isn't very strong; and it doesn't take much to affect me. I
wish Cara wouldn't speak to me as she does sometimes. I can't bear it.
Twice within the last month, she has fairly driven me off to spend my
evening in a tavern, when I would much rather have been at home. Ah,
me! It's a great mistake. And Cara may find it out, some day, to her
sorrow. I like a glass of brandy, now and then; but I'm not quite so
far gone that I must have it whether or no. I'm foolish, I will own, to
mind her little, pettish, fretful humours. I ought to be more of a man
than I am. But, I didn't make myself, and can't help feeling annoyed,
and sometimes angry, when she is unkind and unreasonable. Going off to
a tavern don't mend the matter, I'll admit; but, when I leave the
house, alone, after nightfall, and in a bad humour, it is the most
natural thing in the world for me to seek the pleasant company of some
of my old friends--and I generally know where to find them."

Such was the state of mind in which Ellis returned home.

A word or two will give the reader a better idea of the relation which
Henry Ellis and his wife bore to each other and society. They had been
married about six years, and had three children, the oldest a boy, and
the other two girls. Ellis kept a retail dry-goods store, in a small
way. His capital was limited, and his annual profits, therefore, but
light. The consequence was, that, in all his domestic arrangements, the
utmost frugality had to be observed. He was a man of strict probity,
with some ambition to get ahead in the world. These made him careful
and economical in his expenditures, both at home and in the management
of his business. As a man, he was social in his feelings, but inclined
to be domestic. While unmarried, he had lived rather a gay life, and
formed a pretty large acquaintance among young men. His associations
led him into the pretty free use of intoxicating drinks; but the
thought of becoming a slave of a vicious appetite never once crossed
his mind with its warning shadow.

The first trial of Henry Ellis's married life was the imperative
necessity that required him to lay a restraining hand upon his wife's
disposition to spend money more freely than was justified by their
circumstances. He had indulged her for the period of a whole year, and
the result was so heavy a balance against his expense account, that he
became anxious and troubled. There must be a change, or his business
would be crippled, and ultimate ruin follow. As gently as he could,
Ellis brought the attention of his wife to this matter. But, she could
not comprehend, to its full extent, the point he urged. It then became
necessary for Ellis to hold the purse-strings more tightly than he had
formerly done. This fretted the mind of his wife, and often led her, in
the warmth of the moment of disappointment, to utter unkind
expressions. These hurt Ellis; and, sometimes, made him angry. The
cloud upon Cara's brow, consequent upon these occasional
misunderstandings, was generally so unpleasant to Ellis, whose heart
was ever wooing the sunshine, let the rays come through almost any
medium, that he would spend his evenings abroad. Temptation, as a
natural consequence, was in his way. His convivial character made him
seek the company of those who do not always walk the safest paths. How
anxious should be the wife of such a husband to keep him at home; how
light the task would have been for Cara. Alas! that she was so selfish,
so self-willed--so blind! The scene that occurred on the evening of
Ellis's return home with the book he wished to read for his wife, will
give a fair view of Mrs. Ellis's manner of reacting upon her husband;
and his mode of treating her on such occasions.

It has been seen in what state of feeling the husband returned home.
Remembrances of the past brought some natural misgivings to his mind.
