nothing, Haley ; I've learned to hold an eel when I catch 
him. You've got to fork over fifty dollars, flat down, or this 
child don't start a peg. I know yer." 

" Why, when you have a job in hand that may bring a 
clean profit of somewhere about a thousand or sixteen 
hundred? Why, Tom, you're onreasonable," said Haley. 

" Yes, and hasn't we business booked for five weeks to 





come all we can do ? And suppose we leaves all, and goes 
to bushwhacking round arter yer young un, and finally 
doesn't catch the gal and gals allers is the devil to catch 




it's for our trouble that's, an't it, Marks ? " 

" Certainly, certainly," said Marks, with a conciliatory 
tone. " It's only a retaining fee, you see he ! he ! he ! we 
lawyers, you know. Wai, we must all keep good-natured, 
keep easy, yer know. Tom '11 have the boy for yer anywhere 
ye'll name ; won't ye, Tom ? " 

" If I find the young un, I'll bring him on to Cincinnati, 
and leave him at Granny Belcher's, on the landing," said 
Loker. 

Marks had got from his pocket a greasy pocket-book, and, 
taking a long paper from thence, he sat down, and fixing his 
keen black eyes on it, began mumbling over its contents : 
" ' Barnes Shelby County boy Jim, three hundred dollars 
for him, dead or auve. Edwards Dick and Lucy man and 
wife, six hundred dollars ; wench Polly and two children 
six hundred for her or her head ' I'm jest a running over 
our business, to. see if we can take up this yer handily. 
"Loker," he said, after a pause, "we must set Adams and 
Springer on the track of these yer; they've been booked 
some time." 

"They'll charge too much," said Tom. 

"I'll manage that ar; they's young in the business, and 
must 'spect to work cheap," said Marks, as he continued to 
read. " Ther's three on 'em easy cases, 'cause all you've got 
to do is to shoot 'em, or swear they is shot; they couldn't, of 
course, charge much for that. Them other cases," he said,, 
folding the paper, " will bear puttin' off a spell. So now let's 
come to the particulars. Now, Mr. Haley, you saw this yer 
gal when she landed ? " 

" To be sure plain as I see you." 

" And a man helpin' on her up the bank ?" said Loker. 

"To be sure, I did." 

"Most likely," said Mark, "she's took in somewhere; 
but where' s, a question. Tom, what do you say ? " 

" We must cross the river to-night, no mistake," said Tom. 





"But ther's no boat about," said Marks. "The ice is 
running awfully, Tom ; an't it dangerous ? " 

" Don'no nothing 'bout that, only it's got to be done," 
said Tom, decidedly. 

"Dear me," said Marks, fidgeting, "it'll be I say," he 
said, walking to the window, "it's dark as a wolf's mouth, 
and Tom" 

" The long and short is, you're scared, Marks ; but I can't 
help that, you've got to go. Suppose you want to lie by a 
day or two, till the gal's been carried on the underground 
line up to Sandusky or so, before you start." 

" Oh no ; I an't a grain afraid," said Marks, " only " 

" Only what ? " said Tom. 

""Wen, about the boat. Ter see there an't any boat." 

" I heard the woman say there was one coming along this 
evening, and that a man was going to cross over in it. Neck 
or nothing, we must go with him," said Tom. 

"I s'pose you've got good dogs," said Haley. 

" First-rate," said Marks. " But what's the use ? you 
han't got nothin' o' hers to smell on." 

" Yes, I have," said Haley, triumphantly. " Here's her 
shawl she left on the bed in her hurry ; she left her bonnet, 
too." 

" That ar's lucky," said Loker, " fork over." 

" Though the dogs might damage the gal, if they come on 
her unawares," said Haley. 

" That ar's a consideration," said Marks. "Our dogs tore 
a feller half to pieces, once, down in Mobile, 'fore we could 
get 'em off." 

" Well, ye see, for this sort that's to be sold for their 
looks, that ar won't answer, ye see," said Haley. 

"I do see," said Marks. "Besides, if she's got took in, 
'tan't no go, neither. Dogs is no 'count in these yer up 
states where these critters gets carried ; of course, ye can't 
get on their track. They only does down in plantations, 
where niggers, when they runs, has to do their own running, 
and don't get no help." 

" Well," said Loker, who had just stepped out to the bar 
to make some inquiries, "they say the man's come with the 
boat ; so, Marks! " 

That worthy cast a rueful look at the comfortable quarters 





he was leaving, but slowly rose to obey. After exchanging 
a few words of further arrangement, Haley, with visible 
reluctance, handed over the fifty dollars to Tom, and the 
worthy trio separated for the night. 

'If any of our refined and Christian readers object to the 
society into which this scene introduces them, let us beg 
them to fcegin and conquer their prejudices in time. The 
catching business, we beg to remind them, is rising to the 
dignity of a lawful and patriotic profession. If all the broad 
land between the Mississippi and the Pacific becomes one 
great market for bodies and souls, and human property 
retains the locomotive tendencies of this nineteenth century, 
the trader and catcher may yet be among our aristocracy. 



While this scene was going on at the tavern, Sam and 
Andy, in a state of high felicitation, pursued their way 
home. 

Sam was in the highest possible feather, and expressed his 
exultation by all sorts of supernatural howls and ejaculations, 
by divers odd motions and contortions of his whole system. 
Sometimes he would sit backward, with his face to the 
horse's tail and sides, and then, with a whoop and a 
somerset, come right side up in his place again, and drawing 
on a grave face, begin to lecture Andy in high-sounding 
tones for laughing and playing the fool. Anon, slapping his 
sides with his arms, he would burst forth in peals of laughter, 
that made the old woods ring as they passed. With all 
these evolutions, he contrived to keep the horses up to 
the top of their speed, until, between ten and eleven, their 
heels resounded on the gravel at the end of the balcony. 
Mrs. Shelby flew to the railings. 

" Is that you, Sam ? Where are they ? " 

" Mas'r Haley's a-restin' at the tavern ; he's drefful 
fatigued, missis." 

" And Eliza, Sam ? " 

" Wai, she's clar 'cross Jordan. As a body may say, in 
the land o' Canaan." 

" Why, Sam, what do you mean ? " said Mrs. Shelby, 
breathless and almost faint, as the possible meaning of these 
words came over her. 





" Wai, missis, de Lord He presarves His own. Lizzy's 
done gone over the river into 'Hio, as 'markably as if the 
Lord took her over in a charrit of fire and two hosses." 

Sam's vein of piety was always nncommonly fervent in his 
mistress' presence, and he made great capital of scriptural 
figures and images. 

" Come up here, Sam," said Mr. Shelby, who had followed 
on to the verandah, " and tell your mistress what she wants. 
Come, come, Emily," said he, passing his arm round her, 
" you are cold, and all in a shiver ; you allow yourself to 
feel too much." 

" Eeel too much ! Am not I a woman a mother ? Are 
we not both responsible to Grod for this poor girl? My 
Grod, lay not this sin to our charge ! " 

" What sin, Emily ? You see yourself that we have only 
done what we were obliged to." 

" There's an awful feeling of guilt about it, though," said 
Mrs. Shelby. " I can't reason it away." 

" Here, Andy, you nigger, be alive ! " called Sam, under 
the verandah ; " take these yer hosses to der barn ; don't ye 
hear mas'r a callin' ? " and Sam soon appeared, palm-leaf in 
hand, at the parlour door. 

" Now, Sam, tell us distinctly how the matter was," said 
Mr. Shelby. " Where is Eliza, if you know ? " 

" Wai, mas'r, I saw her with my own eyes a crossin' on 
the noatin' ice. She crossed most 'markably ; it wasn't no 
less nor a miracle ; and I saw a man help her up the 'Hio 
side, and then she was lost in the dusk." 

" Sam, I think this rather apocryphal this miracle. 
Crossing on floating ice isn't so easily done," said Mr. 
Shelby. 

"Easy! couldn't nobody a done it, without de Lord. 
Why, now," said Sam, "'twas jist dis yer way. Mas'r 
Haley, and me, and Andy, we comes up to de little tavern 
by the river, and I rides a leetle ahead (I's so zealous to be 
a cotchin' Lizzy, that I couldn't hold in, no-way) and when 
I comes by the tavern winder, sure enough there she was, 
right in plain sight, and dey diggin' on behind. Wai, I 
loses off my hat, and sings out nuff to raise the dead. 
Course Lizzy she hars, and she dodges back, when Mas'r 
Haley he goes past the door ; and then, I tell ye, she clared 





out de side door ; she went down de river bank ; Mas'r 
Haley he seed her, and yelled out, and him, and me, and 
Andy, we took arter. Down she come to the river, and thar 
was the current running ten feet wide by the shore, and 
over t'other side ice a sawin' and a jiggling up and down, 
kinder as 'twere a great island. We come right behind her, 
and I thought my soul he'd got her sure enough when she 
gin sich a screech as I never hearn, and thar she was, clar 
over t'other side the current, on the ice, and then on she 
went, a screeching and a jumpin' the ice went crack ! 
c' wallop ! cracking ! chunk ! and she a boundin' like a buck ! 
Lord, the spring that ar gal's got in her an't common, 
I'm o' 'pinion." 

Mrs. Shelby sat perfectly silent, pale with excitement, 
while Sam told his story. 

" Grod be praised, she isn't dead ! " she said ; " but where 
is the poor child now ? " 

" De Lord will pervide," said Sam, rolling up his eyes 
piously. " As I've been a sayin', dis yer's a providence and 
no mistake, as missis has allers been a instructin' on us. 
Thar's allers instruments ris up to do de Lord's will. Now, 
if 't hadn't been for me to-day, she'd a been took a dozen times. 
Warn't it I started off de hosses dis yer mornin', and kept 
'em chasin' till nigh dinner time ? And didn't I car Mas'r 
Haley nigh five miles out of de road, dis evening, or else 
he'd a come up with Lizzy as easy as a dog arter a 'coon. 
These yer's all providences." 

" They are a kind of providences that you'll have to be 
pretty sparing of, Master Sam. I allow no such prac- 
tices with gentlemen on my place," said Mr. Shelby, 
with as much sternness as he could command, under the 
circumstances. 

Now, there is no more use in making believe be angry 
with a negro than with a child ; both instinctively see the 
true state of the case, through all attempts to affect the 
contrary ; and Sam was in no wise disheartened by this 
rebuke, though he assumed an air of doleful gravity, and 
stood with the corners of his mouth lowered in most 
penitential style. 

" Mas'r's quite right quite ; it was ugly on me there's 
no disputin' that ar ; and of course mas'r and missis wouldn't 





encourage no such works. I'm sensible of dat ar; but a 
poor nigger like me's 'mazin' tempted to act ugly sometimes, when fellers will cut up such shines as dat ar Mas'r 
Haley ; he an't no genTman noway : anybody's been raised 
as I've been can't help a seein' dat ar." 
