face. Moreover, the beauty of goodness was in your countenance, and
a sphere of innocence around you; and I had not strayed so far from
virtue's paths as to be insensible to these. Since we parted, Jenny,
you have seemed ever present with me, as an angel of peace and
protection. In the moment when passion was about overmastering me,
you stood by my side, and I seemed to hear your voice speaking to
the rising storm, and hushing all into calmness. When my feet have
been ready to step aside, you instantly approached and pointed to
the better way. Last night I had a dream, and it is because of that
dream that I now write to you. I have often felt like writing
before; now I write because I cannot help it. I am moved to do so by
something that I cannot resist.
"Yesterday I had a difficulty with an officer who has shewn a
disposition to domineer over me ever since the cruise commenced. He
complained to the commander, who has, in more than one instance
shown me kindness. The commander said that I must make certain
concessions to the officer, which I felt as humiliating; that good
discipline required this, and that unless I did so, he would be
reluctantly compelled to order me to the gangway. Thus far I had
avoided punishment by a strict obedience to duty. No lash had ever
touched me. That degradation I felt would be my ruin; and in fear of
the result I bore much, rather than give any petty officer the power
to have me punished. 'Let me sleep over it, Captain,' said I, so
earnestly, that my request was granted.
"Troubled dreams haunted me as I lay in my hammock that night. At
last I seemed to be afloat on the wide ocean, on a single plank,
tossing about with the hot sun shining fiercely upon me, and
monsters of the great deep gathering around, eager for their prey. I
was weak, faint, and despairing. In vain did my eyes sweep the
horizon, there was neither vessel nor land in sight. At length the
sun went down, and the darkness drew nearer and nearer. Then I could
see nothing but the stars shining above me. In this moment, when
hope seemed about leaving my heart forever, a light came suddenly
around me. On looking up I saw a boat approaching. In the bow stood
my mother, and you sat guiding the helm! She took my hand, and I
stepped into the boat with a thrill of joy at my deliverance. As I
did so, she kissed me, looked tenderly towards you, and faded from
my sight. Then I awoke.
"The effect of all this was to subdue my haughty spirit. As soon as
an opportunity offered, I made every desired concession for my
fault, and was forgiven. And now I am writing to you, I feel as if
there was something in that dream, Jenny. Ah! Shall I ever see your
face again? Heaven only knows!
"I send this letter to you in care of my grandfather. I know that he
will not retain it or seek to know its contents. Unless he should
ask after me, do not speak to him or any one of what I have written
to you. Farewell! Do not forget me in your prayers.
"MARK CLIFFORD."
The effect of this letter upon Jenny, was to interest her intensely.
The swell of emotion went deeper, and the activity of her mind took
a still higher character. It was plain to her, when she next came
into Mr. Lofton's presence, that his thoughts had been busy about
the letter she had received. But he asked her no questions, and,
faithful to the expressed wish of Mark, she made no reference to the
subject whatever.
One part of Jenny's service to the failing old man, had been to read
to him daily from the newspapers. This made her familiar with what
was passing in the world, gave her food for thought, and helped her
to develop and strengthen her mind. Often had she pored over the
papers for some news of Mark, but never having heard the name of the
vessel in which he had gone to sea, she had possessed no clue to
find what she sought for. But now, whenever a paper was opened, her
first search was for naval intelligence.
With what a throb of interest did she one day, about a week after
Mark's letter came to hand, read an announcement that the ship ----
had been ordered home, and might be expected to arrive daily at
Norfolk.
A woman thinks quickly to a conclusion; or, rather, arrives there by
a process quicker than thought; especially where her conclusions are
to affect a beloved object. In an hour after Jenny had read the fact
just stated, she said to Mr. Lofton, who had now come to be much
attached to her--
"Will you grant me a favor?"
"Ask what you will, my child," replied Mr. Lofton, with more than
usual affection in his tones.
"Let me have fifty dollars."
"Certainly. I know you will use it for a good purpose."
Two days after this Jenny was in Washington. She made the journey
alone, but without timidity or fear. Her purpose made her
self-possessed and courageous. On arriving at the seat of
government, Jenny inquired for the Secretary of the Navy. When she
arrived at the Department over which he presided, and obtained an
interview, she said to him, as soon as she could compose herself--
"The ship ---- has been ordered home from the Pacific?"
"She arrived at Norfolk last night, and is now hourly expected at
the Navy Yard," replied the Secretary.
At this intelligence, Jenny was so much affected that it was some
time before she could trust herself to speak.
"You have a brother on board?" said the Secretary.
"There is a young man on board," replied Jenny, in a tremulous
voice, "for whose discharge I have come to ask."
The Secretary looked grave.
"At whose instance do you come?" he inquired.
"Solely at my own."
"Who is the young man?"
"Do you know Marshal Lofton?"
"I do, by reputation, well. He belongs to a distinguished family in
New York, to which the country owes much for service rendered in
trying times."
"The discharge I ask, is for his grandson."
"Young Clifford, do you mean?" The Secretary looked surprised as he
spoke. "He is not in the service."
"He is on board the ship ---- as a common sailor."
"Impossible!"
"It is too true. In a moment of angry disappointment he took the
rash step. And, since then, no communication has passed between him
and his friends."
The Secretary turned to the table near which he was sitting, and,
after writing a few lines on a piece of paper, rung a small
hand-bell for the messenger, who came in immediately.
"Take this to Mr J----, and bring me an answer immediately."
The messenger left the room, and the Secretary said to Jenny--
"Wait a moment or two, if you please."
In a little while the messenger came back and handed the Secretary a
memorandum from the clerk to whom he had sent for information.
"There is no such person as Clifford on board the ship ----, nor, in
fact, in the service as a common sailor," said the Secretary,
addressing Jenny, after glancing at the memorandum he had received.
"Oh, yes, there is; there must be," exclaimed the now agitated girl.
"I received a letter from him at Valparaiso, dated on board of this
ship. And, besides, he wrote home to his father, at the time he
sailed, declaring what he had done."
"Strange. His name doesn't appear in the Department as attached to
the service. Hark! There's a gun. It announces, in all probability,
the arrival of the ship ---- at the Navy Yard."
Jenny instantly became pale.
"Perhaps," suggested the Secretary, "your best way will be to take a
carriage and drive down, at once, to the Navy Yard. Shall I direct
the messenger to call a carriage for you?"
"I will thank you to do so," replied Jenny, faintly.
The carriage was soon at the door. Jenny was much agitated when she
arrived at the Navy Yard. To her question as to whether the ship
---- had arrived, she was pointed to a large vessel which lay moored
at the dock. How she mounted its side she hardly knew; but, in what
seemed scarcely an instant of time, she was standing on the deck. To
an officer who met her, as she stepped on board, she asked for Mark
Clifford.
"What is he? A sailor or marine?"
"A sailor."
"There is no such person on board, I believe," said the officer.
Poor Jenny staggered back a few paces, while a deadly paleness
overspread her face. As she leaned against the side of the vessel
for support, a young man, dressed as a sailor, ascended from the
lower deck. Their eyes met, and both sprung towards each other.
"Jenny! Jenny! is it you!" fell passionately from his lips, as he
caught her in his arms, and kissed her fervently. "Bless you! Bless
you, Jenny! This is more than I had hoped for," he added, as he
gazed fondly into her beautiful young face.
"They said you were not here," murmured Jenny, "and my heart was in
despair."
"You asked for Mark Clifford?"
"Yes."
"I am not known in the service by that name. I entered it as Edward
James."
This meeting, occurring as it did, with many spectators around, and
they of the ruder class, was so earnest and tender, yet with all, so
mutually respectful and decorous, that even the rough sailors were
touched by the manner and sentiment of the interview; and mole than
one eye grew dim.
Not long did Jenny linger on the deck of the ----. Now that she had
found Mark, her next thought was to secure his discharge.
CHAPTER III.
IT was little more than half an hour after the Secretary of the Navy
parted with Jenny, ere she entered his office again; but now with
her beautiful face flushed and eager.
"I have found him!" she exclaimed; "I knew he was on board this
ship!"
The Secretary's interest had been awakened by the former brief
interview with Jenny, and when she came in with the announcement, he
was not only affected with pleasure, but his feelings were touched
by her manner. "How is it, then," he inquired, "that his name is not
to be found in the list of her crew?"
"He entered the service under the name of Edward James."
"Ah! that explains it."
"And now, sir," said Jenny, in a voice so earnest and appealing,
that her auditor felt like granting her desire without a moment's
reflection: "I have come to entreat you to give me his release."
"On what ground do you make this request?" inquired the Secretary,
gazing into the sweet young face of Jenny, with a feeling of respect
blended with admiration.
"On the ground of humanity," was the simple yet earnestly spoken
reply.
"How can you put it on that ground?"
"A young man of his education and abilities can serve society better
in another position."
"But he has chosen the place he is in."
"Not deliberately. In a moment of disappointment and blind passion
he took a false step. Severely has he suffered for this act. Let it
not be prolonged, lest it destroy him. One of his spirit can
scarcely pass through so severe an ordeal without fainting."
"Does Mr. Lofton, his grandfather, desire what you ask?"
"Mr. Lofton is a proud man. He entertained high hopes for Mark, who
has, in this act, so bitterly disappointed them, that he has not
been known to utter his name since the news of his enlistment was
received."
"And his father?"
Jenny shook her head, sighing--
"I don't know anything about him. He was angry, and, I believe, cast
him off."
"And you, then, are his only advocate?"
Jenny's eyes dropped to the floor, and a deeper tinge overspread her
countenance.
"What is your relation to him, and to his friends?" asked the
Secretary, his manner becoming more serious.
It was some moments before Jenny replied. Then she said, in a more
subdued voice:
"I am living with Mr. Lofton. But--"
She hesitated, and then became silent and embarrassed.
"Does Mr. Lofton know of your journey to Washington?"
Jenny shook her head.
"Where did you tell him you were going?"
"I said nothing to him, but came away the moment I heard the ship
was expected to arrive at Norfolk."
"Suppose I release him from the service?"
"I will persuade him to go back with me to Fairview, and then I know
that all will be forgiven between him and his grandfather. You don't
know how Mr. Lofton has failed since Mark went away," added Jenny in
a tone meant to reach the feelings of her auditor.
"He looks many years older. Ah, sir, if you would only grant my
request!"
"Will the young man return to his family! Have you spoken to him
about it?"
"No; I wished not to create hopes that might fail. But give me his
release, and I will have a claim on him."
"And you will require him to go home in acknowledgment of that
claim."
"I will not leave him till he goes back," said Jenny.
"Is he not satisfied in the service?"
"How could he be satisfied with it?" Jenny spoke with a quick
impulse, and with something like rebuke in her voice. "No! It is
crushing out his very life. Think of your own son in such a
position!"
There was something in this appeal, and in the way it was uttered,
that decided the Secretary's mind. A man of acute observation, and
humane feelings, he not only understood pretty clearly the relation
that Jenny bore to Mark and his family, but sympathised with the
young man and resolved to grant the maiden's request. Leaving her
for a few minutes, he went into an adjoining room. When he returned,
he had a sealed letter in his hand directed to the commander of the
ship ----.
"This will procure his dismissal from the service," said he, as he
reached it towards Jenny.
"May heaven reward you!" fell from the lips of the young girl, as
she received the letter. Then, with the tears glistening in her
eyes, she hurriedly left the apartment.
While old Mr. Lofton was yet wondering what Jenny could want with
fifty dollars, a servant came and told him that she had just heard
from a neighbor who came up a little while before from the landing,
that he had seen Jenny go on board of a steamboat that was on its
way to New York.
"It can't be so," quickly answered Mr. Lofton.
"Mr. Jones said, positively, that it was her."
"Tell Henry to go to Mr. Jones and ask him, as a favor, to step over
and see me."
In due time Mr. Jones came.
"Are you certain that you saw Jenny Lawson go on board the steamboat
for New York to-day?" asked Mr. Lofton, when the neighbor appeared.
"Oh, yes, sir; it was her," replied the man.
"Did you speak to her?"
"I was going to, but she hurried past me without looking in my
face."
"Had she anything with her?"
"There was a small bundle in her hand."
"Strange--strange--very strange," murmured the old man to himself.
"What does it mean? Where can she have gone?"
"Did she say nothing about going away?"
"Nothing--nothing!"
Mr. Lofton's eyes fell to the floor, and he sat thinking for some
moments.
"Mr. Jones," said he, at length, "can you go to New York for me?"
"I suppose so," replied Mr. Jones.
"When will the morning boat from Albany pass here?"
"In about two hours."
"Then get yourself ready, if you please, and come over to me. I do
not like this of Jenny, and must find out where she has gone."
Mr. Jones promised to do as was desired, and went to make all
necessary preparations. Before he returned, a domestic brought Mr.
Lofton a sealed note bearing his address, which she had found in
Jenny's chamber. It was as follows:
"Do not be alarmed at my telling you that, when you receive this, I
will be on a journey of two or three hundred miles in extent, and
may not return for weeks. Believe me, that my purpose is a good one.
I hope to be back much sooner than I have said. When I do get home,
I know you will approve of what I have done. My errand is one of
Mercy.
"Humbly and faithfully yours, JENNY."
It was some time before Mr. Lofton's mind grew calm and clear, after
reading this note. That Jenny's absence was, in some way, connected
with Mark, was a thought that soon presented itself. But, in what
way, he could not make out; for he had never heard the name of the
ship in which his grandson sailed, and knew nothing of her expected
arrival home.
By the time Mr. Jones appeared, ready to start on the proposed
mission to New York, Mr. Lofton had made up his mind not to attempt
to follow Jenny, but to wait for some word from her. Not until this
sudden separation took place did Mr. Lofton understand how necessary
to his happiness the affectionate girl had become. So troubled was
he at her absence, and so anxious for her safety, that when night
came he found himself unable to sleep. In thinking about the dangers
that would gather around one so ignorant of the world, his
