truth to lean upon, even though it seems to bend under our weight.
Oh! without this truth, it seems as if I would now fall to the
ground helpless. But, let us try and view this painful subject in its
brightest aspect. It is our duty to the child to keep her, if we can,
until she passes her twelfth year."
"Clearly," replied the husband.
"And you think we can do so?"
"We have two advantages--possession and a written contract
guaranteeing the possession."
"True."
"These on our side, I think we have little to fear from Jasper. The
great trial will come afterward."
To this conclusion, that is, to retain Fanny until her twelfth year,
if possible--they came, after once more carefully reviewing the whole
subject; and, resting here, they patiently awaited the result.
With what a new interest was the child regarded from this time! How
the hearts of Claire and his wife melted toward her on all occasions!
She seemed to grow, daily, more and more into their affections;
and, what to them appeared strange--it might only have been
imagination--manifested a more clinging tenderness, as if conscious of
the real truth.
Weeks elapsed and nothing further was heard from Jasper. Claire and
his wife began to hope that he would make no attempt to separate Fanny
from them; at least not until her twelfth year. Let us turn to him,
and see what he is doing, or proposing to do, in the case.
Two or three days subsequent to the time when Claire received the
notification from Jasper, just referred to, two men sat, in close
conference, in the office of an attorney noted for his legal
intelligence, but more noted for his entire want of principle. For
a good fee, he would undertake any case, and gain for his client, if
possible, no matter how great the wrong that was done. His name was
Grind. The two men here introduced, were this lawyer and Jasper.
"Do you really think," said the latter, "that, in the face of my
guardianship, he can retain possession of the child?"
"He has, you say, a copy of this contract?" Grind held a sheet of
paper in his hand.
"Yes. To think that I was such a fool as to bind myself in this way!
But I did not dream, for a moment, that things were going to turn up
as they have."
"It is a contract that binds you both," said the lawyer, "and I do not
see that you can go round it."
"I must go round it!" replied Jasper, warmly. "You know all the quirks
and windings of the law, and I look to you for help in this matter.
The possession of that child, is, to me, a thing of the first
importance."
"After two years she will come into your hands without trouble, Mr.
Jasper. Why not wait?"
"Wait! I will not hear the word. No! no! I must have her now."
"The law will not give her to you, Mr. Jasper," returned Grind, with
the utmost self-possession. "The contract is clearly expressed; and it
is binding."
"Is there no way to accomplish my end?" said Jasper, impatiently.
"There must be. I cannot be foiled in this matter. Even pride would
forbid this. But, there are stronger motives than pride at work now."
"Can you allege ill-treatment against the young man or his wife? Or
neglect of your ward's comfort? Have they failed to do their duty by
her in any respect?"
"I should not wonder; but, unfortunately, I can prove nothing."
"You might call for an investigation."
"And if every thing was proved right on their part?"
"The court would, most probably, return the child to their care. I
am ready to take all necessary steps for you; but, Mr. Jasper, I very
strongly incline to the opinion that the least noise you make in this
matter, the better. Couldn't you--for a consideration in money, for
instance--overcome the reluctance of Claire and his wife to part with
the child? Honey, you know, catches more flies than vinegar."
"Buy him off, you mean?"
"Yes."
"No--no! I hate him too cordially for that. He's a villain in
disguise; that's my opinion of him. A low, canting hypocrite. Buy him
off for money. Oh no!"
"Could he be bought?" asked the lawyer.
"Could he?" A flush of surprise lit up, for a moment, the face of
Jasper. "What a question for you to ask. Hasn't every man his price?
Bought! Yes, I could buy him fifty times over."
"Then do so, and in the quietest manner. That is my advice."
"I'll steal the child!" exclaimed Jasper, rising up in his excitement,
and moving uneasily about the room.
Grind shook his head, as he replied--
"All folly. No man ever did a wise thing while he was in a passion.
You must permit yourself to cool down a great many degrees before you
can act judiciously in this matter."
"But to be thwarted by him!" An expression of the deepest disgust was
in the face of Jasper.
"All very annoying, of course," was the response of Grind. "Still,
where we can't make things bend exactly to our wishes, it is generally
the wisest policy to bend a little ourselves. We often, in this way,
gain a purchase that enables us to bring all over to our side."
It must not be supposed that Grind, in giving his client advice
that was to prevent an appeal to law, did so from any unselfish
friendliness. Nothing of the kind. He saw a great deal to gain,
beyond; and, in his advice, regarded his own interests quite as much
as he did those of Jasper. He was not, however, at this interview,
able to induce the merchant to attempt to settle the matter with
Claire by compromise. The most he could do was to get him to promise,
that, for the present, he would make no effort to get the person of
the child into his possession.
Jasper, when he left his lawyer, was less satisfied with him than
he had ever been. In previous cases, he had found Grind ready to
prosecute or defend, and to promise him the fullest success--though
success did not always come.
Several more consultations were held during the succeeding two or
three weeks, and, finally, Jasper was brought over fully to his
lawyer's way of thinking.
CHAPTER XII.
The minds of Claire and his wife were yet in a state of suspense,
when, some weeks after the first interview, the former received a
politely worded note from Jasper, requesting him to call at his store.
He went, accordingly, and Jasper received him with marked suavity
and kindness of manner, and, after making a few inquiries about his
family, said--
"Edward: I believe I must confess to having been a little over-excited
at our last interview. The fact is, I had forgotten all about that
contract; and when you brought it to my mind so abruptly, I was thrown
somewhat off of my guard, and said things for which I have since felt
regret. So let what is past go. I now wish to have another talk with
you about Fanny Elder. How is the child?"
"She is very well."
"And she has grown, I presume, finely?"
"Yes. She's now quite a stout girl."
"What kind of a child is she? Docile and obedient?"
"None could be more so. A sweeter disposition I have never seen."
"How are you getting on now, Edward?" Mr. Jasper's voice was kind and
insinuating.
"Comfortably," was answered.
"What is your salary?"
There was a momentary hesitation on the part of Claire, and then he
replied--
"Five hundred dollars."
"Is that all? I was under the impression that you received a thousand.
I am very certain that some one told me so. Too little, Edward--too
little. You are worth more than that to any one. Are you acquainted at
Edgar & Co.'s?"
"No."
"I wish you were. One of their young men is going to leave, and
they will have to fill his place immediately. The salary is twelve
hundred."
Claire's heart gave a quick bound.
"Shall I speak to Edgar for you?" added the merchant.
"If you will do so, Mr. Jasper," said Edward, with a sudden
earnestness of manner, "I shall be greatly indebted to you. I find it
a little difficult to get along on five hundred dollars a year."
"How much family have you now?"
"Three children."
"Indeed. Oh yes, you should have a higher salary. I know you would
just suit Edgar & Co., and I think the place may be secured for you."
A few moments of silence followed, and then Jasper resumed--
"But, as just said, I wish to talk with you about this ward of mine.
Your salary is so light that you, no doubt, find the income received
through her quite a help to you?"
"No--no," replied Claire; "it costs for her boarding, clothes,
schooling, etc., quite as much as we receive."
"It does?" Jasper manifested some surprise.
"Oh yes. We have no wish to make any profit out of her."
"That being the case, Edward," said the merchant, "why are you so
reluctant to give her up?"
"Because," was the reply, "both myself and wife have become strongly
attached to her. In fact, she seems like one of our own children."
"When she is twelve, you know," Edward, returned Jasper, "you will
have to resign her. Our agreement only extends to that time." He spoke
in a mild, insinuating, friendly tone of voice. So much so, in fact,
that Claire, well as he knew him, was partially deceived and thrown
off of his guard.
"True; unless you have seen reason by that time, which we hope will
be the case, to let her remain in her present home. Believe me, Mr.
Jasper,"--Claire spoke earnestly--"that Fanny will take the parting
very hard, if ever it comes."
"As come it must, Edward, sooner or later," was the mild, yet firm
response.
"Are you so earnest about this, Mr. Jasper? I have flattered myself
that you did not really care a great deal about having Fanny."
"I am entirely in earnest, Edward," was the reply. "I may have seemed
to you indifferent about this child, but such has not been the case.
I have feelings and purposes in regard to her which I cannot explain,
but which are near my heart. I see your position and that of your
wife, and I feel for you. If compatible with what I conceive to be
my duty, I would let her remain under your care. But such is not the
case. Surely, it will be far better for both you and Fanny for the
change that must come to be made now."
The calm, kind, insinuating manner of Jasper disarmed Claire, and made
him wish that he could meet the desire of his old employer, without
the painful breach in his home circle which must be the consequence.
With his eyes cast upon the floor, he sat silently communing with his
own thoughts for some time. The announcement of a vacancy in the house
of Edgar & Co., and the offer to try and get the situation for
him, had flattered his mind considerably. If he did not make some
compromise in the present case, he could count nothing on the
influence of Jasper. But, how could he compromise? There was but one
way--to give up Fanny--and that he was not prepared to do.
Seeing that the young man remained silent, Jasper said--
"Edward, I will make you this very liberal offer. Understand, now,
that I am deeply in earnest--that the possession of Fanny is a thing
of great moment to me; and that to gain this desired object, I
am prepared to go very far. If you will meet me in a spirit of
compromise, I will become as I was some years ago, your friend; and I
have the ability to aid any one materially. As just said, I will make
you this liberal offer:--Let me have the child now, and for the next
two years I will pay you the same that you have been receiving for her
maintenance."
Claire lifted his head quickly. There was already a flush on his
cheeks and a sharp light in his eyes.
"Stay--one moment," interrupted Jasper, who saw by the motion of his
lips that he was about replying. "I will pay you the whole sum, six
hundred dollars, in advance, and, in addition thereto, pledge myself
to procure for you, within three mouths, a situation worth a thousand
dollars per annum, at least."
This was too broad an attempt to buy over the young man, and it
failed. Starting to his feet, with a feeling of indignation in his
heart so strong that he could not repress it, he answered, with knit
brows and eyes fixed sternly and steadily on the merchant--"Leonard
Jasper! I thought you knew me better! I am not to be bought with your
money."
As sudden was the change that passed over the merchant. He, too,
sprang to his feet, and conscious that his offer of bribery, which he
had humiliated himself to make, had failed, with clenched hand and set
teeth, he fairly hissed out--
"You'll rue this day and hour, Edward Claire--rue it even to the
moment of death! I will never forget nor forgive the wrong and insult.
Don't think to escape me--don't think to foil me. The child is mine by
right, and I will have her, come what will."
Feeling how useless it would be to multiply words, Claire turned away
and left the store. He did not go home immediately, as he had thought
of doing, in order to relieve the suspense of his wife, who was, he
knew, very anxious to learn for what purpose Jasper had sent for him;
but went to his place of business and laid the whole substance of his
interview before his fast friend, Mr. Melleville, whose first response
was one of indignation at the offer made by Jasper to buy him over to
his wishes with money. He then said--
"There is something wrong here, depend upon it. Was there much
property left by the child's parents?"
"Two houses in the city."
"Was that all?"
"All, I believe, of any value. There was a tract of land somewhere in
the State, taken for debt; but it was considered of little account."
"Regard for the child has nothing to do with this movement," remarked
Mr. Melleville. "The character of Jasper precludes the supposition."
"Entirely. What can it mean? The thing comes on me so suddenly that I
am bewildered."
Claire was distressed.
"You are still firm in your purpose to keep Fanny until she is twelve
years old?"
"As firm as ever, Mr. Melleville. I love the child too well to give
her up. If a higher good to her were to be secured, then I might
yield--then it would be my duty to yield. But, now, every just and
humane consideration calls on me to abide by my purpose--and there I
will abide."
"In my mind you are fully justified," was the reply of Mr. Melleville.
"Keep me fully advised of every thing that occurs, and I will aid you
as far as lies in my power. To-day I will call upon Edgar & Co., and
do what I can toward securing for you the place said by Jasper to be
vacant. I presume that I have quite as much influence in this quarter
as he has."
CHAPTER XIII.
Scarcely had Edward Claire left the store of Jasper, ere the latter
went out hurriedly, and took his way to the office of Grind, the
lawyer, to whom he said, as he entered--
"It's just as I feared. The miserable wretch proved as intractable as
iron." Jasper was not only strongly excited, but showed, in his voice
and manner, that he had suffered no ordinary disappointment.
"Couldn't you buy him over?" There was a mixture of surprise and
incredulity in the lawyer's tones.
"No," was the emphatic response.
"That's strange! He's poor?"
"He gets five hundred a year, and has a wife and three children to
support."
"Why didn't you tempt him with the offer to get him a place worth a
thousand?"
"I did."
"With what effect?"
"He wouldn't give up the child."
"Humph!"
"Isn't it too bad, that a mean-souled fellow like him should stand in
our way at such a point of time? I could spurn him with my foot! Hah!"
And Jasper clenched his teeth and scowled malignantly.
"I am disappointed, I confess", said Grind. "But angry excitement
never helped a cause, good or bad. We must have possession of this
child somehow. Martin came down from Reading this morning. I saw him
but an hour ago."
"Indeed! What does he say?"
"The indications of coal are abundant. He made very careful
examinations at a great number of points. In several places he found
it cropping out freely; and the quality, as far as he was able to
judge, is remarkably good."
"Will he keep our secret?" said Jasper.
"It is his interest to do so."
"We must make it his interest, in any event. No time is now to be
lost."
"I agree with you there. A single week's delay may ruin every thing.
The coal is our discovery, and we are, in all equity, entitled to the
benefit."
"Of course we are. It's a matter of speculation, at best; the lucky
win. If we can get an order for the sale, we shall win handsomely.
But, without producing the child, it will be next to impossible to get
the order. So we must have her, by fair means or by foul."
"We must," said the lawyer, compressing his lips firmly.
"And have her now."
"Now," responded Grind.
Jasper rose to his feet.
"It's easy enough to say what we must have," remarked Grind, "but the
means of gaining our ends are not always at hand. What do you propose
