  written by one who derived the materials from a thorough
  acquaintance with the subject. The character of the slave-dealer,
  the bankrupt owner in Kentucky, and the New Orleans merchant, are
  simple every-day occurrences in these parts. Editors may speak of
  the dramatic effect as they please; the tale is not told them, and
  the occurrences of common reality would form a picture more glaring.
  I could write a work, with date and incontrovertible facts, of
  abuses which stand recorded in the knowledge of the community in
  which they were transacted, that would need no dramatic effect, and
  would stand out ten-fold more horrible than anything Mrs. Stowe has
  described.

  I have read two columns in the Southern Press of Mrs. Eastman’s
  “Aunt Phillis’ Cabin, or Southern Life as It Is,” with the remarks
  of the editor. I have no comments to make upon it, that being done
  by itself. The editor might have saved himself being writ down an
  ass by the public, if he had withheld his nonsense. If the two
  columns are a specimen of Mrs. Eastman’s book, I pity her attempt
  and her name as an author.




                                PART II.




                               CHAPTER I.


The New York Courier and Enquirer of November 5th contained an article
which has been quite valuable to the author, as summing up, in a clear,
concise and intelligible form, the principal objections which may be
urged to Uncle Tom’s Cabin. It is here quoted in full, as the
foundation of the remarks in the following pages.

The author of “Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” that writer states, has committed
false-witness against thousands and millions of her fellow-men.

  She has done it [he says] by attaching to them as slaveholders, in
  the eyes of the world, the guilt of the abuses of an institution of
  which they are absolutely guiltless. Her story is so devised as to
  present slavery in three dark aspects: first, the cruel treatment
  of the slaves; second, the separation of families; and, third,
  their want of religious instruction.

  To show the first, she causes a reward to be offered for the
  recovery of a runaway slave, “dead or alive,” when no reward with
  such an alternative was ever heard of, or dreamed of, south of Mason
  and Dixon’s line, and it has been decided over and over again in
  Southern courts that “a slave who is merely flying away cannot be
  killed.” She puts such language as this into the mouth of one of her
  speakers:—“The master who goes furthest and does the worst only uses
  within limits the power that the law gives him;” when, in fact, the
  civil code of the very state where it is represented the language
  was uttered—Louisiana—declares that

  “The slave is entirely subject to the will of his master, who may
  correct and chastise him, though not with unusual rigor, nor so as
  to maim or mutilate him, or to expose him to the danger of loss of
  life, or to cause his death.”

  And provides for a compulsory sale

  “When the master shall be convicted of cruel treatment of his
  slaves, and the judge shall deem proper to pronounce, besides the
  penalty established for such cases, that the slave be sold at public
  auction, in order to place him out of the reach of the power which
  the master has abused.”

  “If any person whatsoever shall wilfully kill his slave, or the
  slave of another person, the said person, being convicted thereof,
  shall be tried and condemned agreeably to the laws.”

  In the General Court of Virginia, last year, in the case of Souther
  v. the Commonwealth, it was held that the killing of a slave by
  his master and owner, by wilful and excessive whipping, is murder in
  the first degree, though it may not have been the purpose of the
  master and owner to kill the slave! And it is not six months since
  Governor Johnston, of Virginia, pardoned a slave who killed his
  master, who was beating him with brutal severity.

  And yet, in the face of such laws and decisions as these, Mrs. Stowe
  winds up a long series of cruelties upon her other black personages,
  by causing her faultless hero, Tom, to be literally whipped to death
  in Louisiana, by his master, Legree; and these acts, which the laws
  make criminal, and punish as such, she sets forth in the most
  repulsive colors, to illustrate the institution of slavery!

  So, too, in reference to the separation of children from their
  parents. A considerable part of the plot is made to hinge upon the
  selling, in Louisiana, of the child Eliza, “eight or nine years
  old,” away from her mother; when, had its inventor looked in the
  statute-book of Louisiana, she would have found the following
  language:

  “Every person is expressly prohibited from selling separately from
  their mothers the children who shall not have attained the full age
  of ten years.”

  “Be it further enacted, That if any person or persons shall sell
  the mother of any slave child or children under the age of ten
  years, separate from said child or children, or shall, the mother
  living, sell any slave child or children of ten years of age, or
  under, separate from said mother, said person or persons shall be
  fined not less than one thousand nor more than two thousand dollars,
  and be imprisoned in the public jail for a period of not less than
  six months nor more than one year.”

  The privation of religious instruction, as represented by Mrs.
  Stowe, is utterly unfounded in fact. The largest churches in the
  Union consist entirely of slaves. The first African church in
  Louisville, which numbers fifteen hundred persons, and the first
  African church in Augusta, which numbers thirteen hundred, are
  specimens. On multitudes of the large plantations in the different
  parts of the South the ordinances of the gospel are as regularly
  maintained, by competent ministers, as in any other communities,
  north or south. A larger proportion of the slave population are in
  communion with some Christian church, than of the white population
  in any part of the country. A very considerable portion of every
  southern congregation, either in city or country, is sure to consist
  of blacks; whereas, of our northern churches, not a colored person
  is to be seen in one out of fifty.

  The peculiar falsity of this whole book consists in making
  exceptional or impossible cases the representatives of the system.
  By the same process which she has used, it would not be difficult to
  frame a fatal argument against the relation of husband and wife, or
  parent and child, or of guardian and ward; for thousands of wives
  and children and wards have been maltreated, and even murdered. It
  is wrong, unpardonably wrong, to impute to any relation of life
  those enormities which spring only out of the worst depravity of
  human nature. A ridiculously extravagant spirit of generalization
  pervades this fiction from beginning to end. The Uncle Tom of the
  authoress is a perfect angel, and her blacks generally are half
  angels; her Simon Legree is a perfect demon, and her whites
  generally are half demons. She has quite a peculiar spite against
  the clergy; and, of the many she introduces at different times into
  the scenes, all, save an insignificant exception, are Pharisees or
  hypocrites. One who could know nothing of the United States and its
  people, except by what he might gather from this book, would judge
  that it was some region just on the confines of the infernal world.
  We do not say that Mrs. Stowe was actuated by wrong motives in the
  preparation of this work, but we do say that she has done a wrong
  which no ignorance can excuse and no penance can expiate.

A much-valued correspondent of the author, writing from Richmond,
Virginia, also uses the following language:

  I will venture this morning to make a few suggestions which have
  occurred to me in regard to future editions of your work, “Uncle
  Tom’s Cabin,” which I desire should have all the influence of which
  your genius renders it capable, not only abroad, but in the local
  sphere of slavery, where it has been hitherto repudiated. Possessing
  already the great requisites of artistic beauty and of sympathetic
  affection, it may yet be improved in regard to accuracy of statement
  without being at all enfeebled. For example, you do less than
  justice to the formalized laws of the Southern States, while you
  give more credit than is due to the virtue of public or private
  sentiment in restricting the evil which the laws permit.

  I enclose the following extracts from a southern paper:

    “‘I’ll manage that ar; they’s young in the business, and must
    spect to work cheap,’ said Marks, as he continued to read.
    ‘Thar’s three on ‘em easy cases, ‘cause all you’ve got to do is
    to shoot ‘em, or swear they is shot; they couldn’t, of course,
    charge much for that.’”

  “The reader will observe that two charges against the South are
  involved in this precious discourse;—one that it is the habit of
  Southern masters to offer a reward, with the alternative of ‘dead or
  alive,’ for their fugitive slaves; and the other, that it is usual
  for pursuers to shoot them. Indeed, we are led to infer that, as the
  shooting is the easier mode of obtaining the reward, it is the more
  frequently employed in such cases. Now, when a Southern master
  offers a reward for his runaway slave, it is because he has lost a
  certain amount of property, represented by the negro which he wishes
  to recover. What man of Vermont, having an ox or an ass that had
  gone astray, would forthwith offer half the full value of the
  animal, not for the carcass, which might be turned to some useful
  purpose, but for the unavailing satisfaction of its head? Yet are
  the two cases exactly parallel? With regard to the assumption that
  men are permitted to go about, at the South, with double-barrelled
  guns, shooting down runaway negroes, in preference to apprehending
  them, we can only say that it is as wicked and wilful as it is
  ridiculous. Such Thugs there may have been as Marks and Loker, who
  have killed negroes in this unprovoked manner; but, if they have
  escaped the gallows, they are probably to be found within the walls
  of our state penitentiaries, where they are comfortably provided for
  at public expense. The laws of the Southern States, which are
  designed, as in all good governments, for the protection of persons
  and property, have not been so loosely framed as to fail of their
  object where person and property are one.

  “The law with regard to the killing of runaways is laid down with so
  much clearness and precision by a South Carolina judge, that we
  cannot forbear quoting his dictum, as directly in point. In the case
  of Witsell v. Earnest and Parker, Colcock J. delivered the opinion
  of the court:

[Sidenote: Jan. term, 1818 1 Nott & McCord’s S. C. Rep. 182.]

  “‘By the statute of 1740, any white man may apprehend, and
  moderately correct, any slave who may be found out of the plantation
  at which he is employed; and if the slave assaults the white person,
  he may be killed; but a slave who is merely flying away cannot be
  killed. Nor can the defendants be justified by the common law, if we
  consider the negro as a person; for they were not clothed with the
  authority of the law to apprehend him as a felon, and without such
  authority he could not be killed.’

    “‘It’s commonly supposed that the property interest is a
    sufficient guard in these cases. If people choose to ruin their
    possessions, I don’t know what’s to be done. It seems the poor
    creature was a thief and a drunkard; and so there won’t be much
    hope to get up sympathy for her.’

    “‘It is perfectly outrageous,—it is horrid, Augustine! It will
    certainly bring down vengeance upon you.’

    “‘My dear cousin, I didn’t do it, and I can’t help it; I would,
    if I could. If low-minded, brutal people will act like
    themselves, what am I to do? They have absolute control; they
    are irresponsible despots. There would be no use in
    interfering; there is no law, that amounts to anything
    practically, for such a case. The best we can do is to shut our
    eyes and ears, and let it alone. It’s the only resource left
    us.’

  “In a subsequent part of the same conversation, St. Clare says:

    “‘For pity’s sake, for shame’s sake, because we are men born of
    women, and not savage beasts, many of us do not, and dare
    not,—we would scorn to use the full power which our savage
    laws put into our hands. And he who goes furthest and does the
    worst only uses within limits the power that the law gives
    him.’

  “Mrs. Stowe tells us, through St. Clare, that ‘there is no law that
  amounts to anything’ in such cases, and that he who goes furthest in
  severity towards his slave,—that is, to the deprivation of an eye or
  a limb, or even the destruction of life,—‘only uses within limits
  the power that the law gives him.’ This is an awful and tremendous
  charge, which, lightly and unwarrantably made, must subject the
  maker to a fearful accountability. Let us see how the matter stands
  upon the statute-book of Louisiana. By referring to the civil code
  of that state, chapter 3d, article 173, the reader will find this
  general declaration:

  “‘The slave is entirely subject to the will of his master, who may
  correct and chastise him, though not with unusual rigor, nor so as
  to maim or mutilate him, or to expose him to the danger of loss of
  life, or to cause his death.’

  “On a subsequent page of the same volume and chapter, article 192,
  we find provision made for the slave’s protection against his
  master’s cruelty, in the statement that one of two cases, in which a
  master can be compelled to sell his slave, is

  “‘When the master shall be convicted of cruel treatment of his
  slave, and the judge shall deem proper to pronounce, besides the
  penalty established for such cases, that the slave shall be sold at
  public auction, in order to place him out of the reach of the power
  which the master has abused.’

  “A code thus watchful of the negro’s safety in life and limb
  confines not its guardianship to inhibitory clauses, but proscribes
  extreme penalties in case of their infraction. In the Code Noir
  (Black Code) of Louisiana, under head of Crimes and Offences, No.
  55, § xvi., it is laid down, that

  “‘If any person whatsoever shall wilfully kill his slave, or the
  slave of another person, the said person, being convicted thereof,
  shall be tried and condemned agreeably to the laws.’

  “And because negro testimony is inadmissible in the courts of the
  state, and therefore the evidence of such crimes might be with
  difficulty supplied, it is further provided that,

[Sidenote: Code Noir. Crimes and Offences, 56, xvii.]

  “‘If any slave be mutilated, beaten or ill-treated, contrary to the
  true intent and meaning of this act, when no one shall be present,
  in such case the owner, or other person having the management of
  said slave thus mutilated, shall be deemed responsible and guilty of
  the said offence, and shall be prosecuted without further evidence,
  unless the said owner, or other person so as aforesaid, can prove
  the contrary by means of good and sufficient evidence, or can clear
  himself by his own oath, which said oath every court, under the
  cognizance of which such offence shall have been examined and tried,
  is by this act authorized to administer.’

  “Enough has been quoted to establish the utter falsity of the
  statement, made by our authoress through St. Clare, that brutal
  masters are ‘irresponsible despots,’—at least in Louisiana. It would
  extend our review to a most unreasonable length, should we undertake
  to give the law, with regard to the murder of slaves, as it stands
  in each of the Southern States. The crime is a rare one, and
