tempestuous night on board the schooner. But now, 
when he was almost in the presence of those he loved 
and respected, they had more force, arid they nearly 
overwhelmed him. 
" I am innocent," he repeated to himself, ' ; and 
why need I fear ? My good Father in heaven will 
not let me be wronged." 
Yet he could not overcome his anxiety ; and when 
he reached the store of Mr. Bayard, he passed by, 
dreading to i'ace the friend who had been so kind to 
him. He could not bear even to be suspected of a 
crime by him. 
" Now or never," said he, as he turned round. " I 
will know my fate at once, and then make the best 
of it." 
Mustering all his courage, he entered the store. 
Mr. Timmins was not there ; so he was spared the 
infliction of any ill-natured remark from him. 
" Hallo, Bobby ! " exclaimed the gentlemanly 
salesman, whose acquaintance he had made on his 
first visit. 
" Good morning, Mr. Bigelow," replied Bobby 
with as much boldness as he could command. 
" I didn't know as I should ever see you again. 
You have been o-one a lonir while." 
"Longer than usual," ansv.ered Bobby, with a 
blush ; for he considered the remark of the salt - 
man as an allusion to his imprisonment. '' Is Mr. 
Bayard in ? '' 
" lie is in his office." 
Bobby's feet would hardly obey the mandate of his 
will, and with a faltering step he entered the private 
room of the bookseller. Mr. Bayard was absorb d 
in the perusal of the morning paper, and did not ob- 
serve his entrance. With his heart up in his throat, 
and almost choking him, he stood for several minutes 
upon the threshold. He almost feared to speak, 
dreading the severe frown with which lie expected 
to be received. Suspense, however, was more pain- 
ful than condemnation, and he brought his resolulion 
up to the point. 
" Mr. Bayard," said he, in faltering tones. 
" Bobby ! " exclaimed the bookseller, dropping his 
paper upon the floor, and jumping upon his feet as 
though an electric current had passed through his 
frame. 
 
Grasping our hero's hand, he shook it with so 
much energy that, under any other circumstances, 
Bobby would have thought it hurt him. He did not 
think so now. 
" My poor Bobby ! I am delighted to see you ! ' 
continued Mr. Bayard. 
Bobby burst into tears, and sobbed like a child, as 
he was. The unexpected kindness of this reception 
completely overwhelmed him. 
'' Don't cry, Bobby ; I know all about it ; " and the 
tender-hearted bookseller wiped away his tears.  ' It 
was a stroke of misfortune ; but it is all right now." 
But Bobby could not help crying, and the more 
Mr. Bayard attempted to console him, the more he 
wept. 
" I am innocent, Mr. Bayard," he sobbed. 
" I know you are, Bobby ; and all the world knows 
you are." 
" I am ruined now; I shall never dare to hold my 
head up again." 
" Nonsense, Bobby ; you will hold your head the 
higher. You have behaved like a hero." 
" I ran away from the State Reform School, sir. 
 
I was innocent, and I would rather have died than 
staid there." 
" I know all about it, my young friend. Now dry 
your tears, and we will talk it all over." 
Bobby blowed and sputtered a little more ; but 
finally he composed himself, and took a chair by Mr. 
Bayard's side. The bookseller then drew from his 
pocket a ponderous document, with a big official seal 
upon it, and exhibited it to our hero. 
" Do you see this, Bobby ? It is your free and 
unconditional pardon." 
" Sir ! Why " 
" It will all end well, you may depend." 
Bobby was amazed. His pardon? But it would 
not restore his former good name. He felt that he 
was branded as a felon. It was not mercy, but justice, 
that he wanted. 
" Truth is mighty, and will prevail," continued Mr. 
Bayard ; and this document restores your reputation." 
" I can hardly believe that." 
" Can't you ? Hear my story then. When I read 
in one of the Maine papers the account of your misfortune, I felt that you had been grossly wronged. 
You were coupled with that Tom Spicer, who is the 
most consummate little villain I ever saw, and I understood your situation. - Ah, Bobby, your only mistake was in having any thing to do with that fellow." 
" I left him at Brunswick because he began to be- 
have badly; but he joined me again at Augusta. He 
had spent nearly all his money, and did not know what to do. I pitied him, and meant to do something to help him out of the scrape." 
" Generous as ever ! I have heard all about this 
before." 
" Indeed ; who told you ? ' 
" Tom Spicer himself." 
" Tom : " asked Bobby, completely mystified. 
" Yes, Tom ; you see, when I heard about your 
trouble, Squire Lee and myself ' 
" Squire Lee ? Does he know about it ? ' 
" He does ; and you may depend upon it, he thinks 
more highly of you than ever before. He and I im- 
mediately went down to Augusta to inquire into the 
matter. V\ T e called upon the governor of the state, 
who said that he had seen you, and bought a book 
of you." 
" Of me ! " exclaimed Bobby, startled to think he 
had sold a book to a governor. 
" Yes ; you called at his house ; probably you did 
not know that he was the chief magistrate of the 
state. At any rate, he was very much pleased with 
you, and sorry to hear of your misfortune. Well, we 
followed your route to Brunswick, where we ascer- 
tained how Tom had conducted. In a week he es- 
tablished a very bad reputation there ; but nothing 
could be found to implicate you. The squire testified 
to your uniform good behavior, and especially to your 
devotion to your mother. In short, we procured 
your pardon, and hastened with it to the State Re- 
form School. 
" On our arrival, we learned, to our surprise and 
regret, that you had escaped from the institution on 
the preceding evening. Every effort was made to 
retake you, but without success. Ah, Bobby, you 
managed that well." 
" They didn't look in the right place," replied 
Bobby, with a smile, for he began to feel happy 
again. 
By the permission of the superintendent, Squire 
Lee and myself examined Tom Spicer. He is a great 
rascal. Perhaps he thought we would get him out ; 
so he made a clean breast of it, and confessed that 
you had no hand in the robbery, and that you knew 
nothing about it. He gave you the two bills on pur- 
pose to implicate you in the crime. We wrote down 
his statement, and had it sworn to before a justice of 
the peace. You shall read it by and by." 
" May Heaven reward you for your kindness to a 
poor boy ! " exclaimed Bobby, the tears flowing down 
his cheeks again. " I did not deserve so much from 
you, Mr. Bayard." 
" Yes, you did, and a thousand times more. I 
was very sorry you had left the institution, and I 
waited in the vicinity till they said there was no 
probability that you would be captured. The most 
extraordinary efforts were used to find you ; but there 
was not a person to be found who had seen or heard 
of you. I was very much alarmed about you, and 
offered a hundred dollars for any information concerning you. 
" I am sorry you had so much trouble. I wish I 
had known you were there." 
" How did you get off? ' 
Bobby briefly related the story of his escape, and 
Mr. Bayard pronounced his skill worthy of his 
genius. 
" Sam Ray is a good fellow ; we will remem- 
ber him," added the bookseller, when he had fin- 
ished. 
" I shall remember him ; and only that I shall be 
afraid to go into the State of Maine after what has 
happened, I should pay him a visit cue of these 
days." 
" There you are wrong. Those who know your 
story would sooner think of giving you a public re- 
ception, than of saying or doing any thing to injure 
your feelings. Those who have suffered unjustly are 
always lionized." 
" But no one will know my story, only that I was 
sent to prison for stealing." 
" There you are mistaken again. We put articles 
in all the principal papers, stating the facts in the 
case, and establishing your innocence beyond a per- 
adventure. Go to Augusta now, Bobby, and you 
will be a lion." 
 
" I am sure I had no idea of getting out of the 
scrape so easily as this." 
" Innocence shall triumph, my young friend."' 
" What does mother say ? " asked Bobby, his coun- 
tenance growing sad. 
" I do not know. We returned from Maine only 
yesterday ; but Squire Lee will satisfy her. All that 
can worry her, as it has worried me, will be her fears 
 
for your safety when she hears of your escape." 
" I will soon set her mind at ease upon that point. 
I will take the noon train home." 
"A word about business before you go. I dis- 
charged Timmins about a week ago, and I have kept 
his place for you." 
" By gracious ! ' exclaimed Bobby, thrown com- 
pletely out of his propriety by this announcement. 
" I think you will do better, in the long run, than 
you would to travel about tije country. I was talk- 
ing with Ellen about it, and she says it shall be so. 
Timmins' s salary was five hundred dollars a year, and 
you shall have the same." 
" Five hundred dollars a year ! " ejaculated Bobby 
amazed at the vastness of the sum. 
 
" Very well for a boy of thirteen, Bobby." 
" I was fourteen last Sunday, sir ." 
" I would not give any other boy so much ; but you 
are worth it, and you shall have it." 
Probably Mr. Bayard's gratitude had something to 
do with this munificent offer ; but he knew that our 
hero possessed abilities and energy far beyond his 
years. He further informed Bobby that he should 
have a room at his house, and that Ellen was de- 
lighted with the arrangement he proposed. 
The gloomy, threatening clouds were all rolled 
back, and floods of sunshine streamed in upon the 
soul of the little merchant ; but in the midst of his 
rejoicing he remembered that his own integrity had 
carried him safely through the night of sorrow and 
doubt. He had been true to himself, and now, in the 
hour of his great triumph, he realized that, if he had 
been faithless to the light within him, his laurel would 
have been a crown of thorns. 
He was happy very happy. What made him 
so ? Not his dawning prosperity ; not the favor of 
Mr. Bayard; not the handsome salary he was to re- 
ceive ; for all these things would have been but dross. 
if he had sacrificed his integrity, his love of truth and 
uprightness. He had been true to himself, and 
unseen angels had held him up. He had been faith- 
ful, and the consciousness of his fidelity to principle 
made a heaven within his heart. 
It was arranged that he should enter upon the du- 
ties of his new situation on the following week. Af- 
ter settling with Mr. Bayard, he found he had nearly 
seventy dollars in his possession ; so that in a pecu- 
niary point of view, if in no other, his eastern excur- 
sion was perfectly satisfactory. 
By the noon train he departed for Riverdale, and 
in two hours more he was folded to his mother's 
heart. Mrs. Bright wept for joy now, as she had 
before wept in misery when she heard of her son's 
misfortune. It took him all the afternoon to tell 
his exciting story to her, and she was almost be- 
side herself when Bobby told her about his new sit- 
uation. 
After tea he hastened over to Squire Lee's ; and 
my young readers can imagine what a warm recep- 
tion he had from father and daughter. For the third 
time that day he narrated his adventures in the east ; 
 
and Annie declared they were better than any novel 
she had ever read. Perhaps it was because Bobby was 
the hero. It was nearly ten o'clock before he finished 
his story ; and when he left, the squire made him 
promise to come over the next day. 
CHAPTER XXI. 
IN WHICH BOBB~Y STEPS OFF THE STAGE, AND THE 
AUTHOR MUST FINISH " NOW OR NEVER." 
THE few days which Bobby remained at home be- 
fore entering upon the duties of his new situation 
were agreeably filled up in calling upon his many 
friends, and in visiting those pleasant spots in the 
woods and by the river, which years of association 
had rendered dear to him. His plans for the future, 
too, occupied some of his time, though, inasmuch as 
his path of duty was already marked out, these plans 
were but little more than a series of fond imaginings ; 
in short, little more than day dreams. I have before 
hinted that Bobby was addicted to castle building, 
and I should pity the man or boy who was not who 
had no bright dream of future achievements, of future 
usefulness. "As a man thinketh, so is he," the 
Psalmist tells us, and it was the pen of inspiration 
which wrote it. What a man pictures as his ideal 
of that which is desirable in. this world and the world 
to come, he will endeavor to attain. Even if it be no 
higher aim than the possession of wealth or fame, it 
is good and worthy as far as it goes. It fires his 
brain, it nerves his arm. It stimulates him to action, 
and action is the soul of progress. We must all 
work ; and this world were cold and dull if it had 
no bright dreams to be realized. What Xapoleon 
dreamed, he labored to accomplish, and the monarchs 
of Europe trembled before him. What Howard 
wished to be, he labored to be ; his ideal was beau- 
tiful and true, and he raised a throne which will en- 
dure through eternity. 
Bobby dreamed great things. That bright picture 
of the little black house transformed into a white cot- 
tage, with green blinds, and surrounded by a pretty 
fence, was the nearest object ; and before Mrs. Bright 
was aware that he was in earnest, the carpenters and 
the painters were upon the spot. 
" Now or never," replied B.>i>i)y to his mother's re- 
monstrance. " This is your homo, and it shall be the 
pleasantest spot upon earth, if I can make it so." 
 
