



to consider the desperate circumstances of his pos: 
tiun. It looked just as though he should he sen' 
to the house of correction, But he was innocent. 
Ue felt his innocence; as he expressed it to the 
deeper afterwards, he " felt it in his hones." It did 
not, on further consideration, seem prohable that he 
would be punished for doing what he had not done, 
either as principal or accessory. A vague idea of 
an all-pervading justice consoled him; and he soon 
reasoned himself into a firm assurance that he should 
escape unharmed. 

He was in the mood for reasoning ju'.t then — 
perhaps because he had nothing better to do, or per- 
haps because the added experience of the last twenty- 
four hours enabled him to reason better than before. 
His fine scheme of getting to Boston, and there 
making a rich and great man of himself, had signaliy 
failed. He did not give it up, however. 

" I have failed once, but I will try again," said he 
to himself, as the conclusion of the whole matter; 
»n I he picked up an old school book which lay on 
the tahle. 

The book contained a story, which he had often 



 

tead, aloat a man who had met with a long list of 
misfortunes, as he deemed them when they occurred 
but which proved to be blessings in disguise. 

" Oft from apparent ills our blessings rise. 
Act well your part ; there all the honor lies." 

This couplet from the school books came to his aid, 
also ; and he proceeded to make an application of 
this wisdom to his own mishaps. 

" Suppose I had gone on with Ben. He is a mis- 
erable fellow," thought Harry ; " he would bave led 
me into all manner of wickedness. I ought not to 
have gone with him, or had any thing to do with 
him. He might have made a thief and a robber of 
me. I know I ain't any better than I should be ; 
but I don't believe I'm as bad as he is. At any 
rate, I wouldn't set a barn afire. It is all for the 
best, just as the parson says when any body dies 
By this scrape I have got clear of Ben, and learned 
a lesson that I won't forget in a hurry." 

Uarry was satisfied with this logic, and really 
believed that something which an older and more 
devout person would have regarded as a special 





providence had interposed to save him from a life 
of infamy and wickedness. It was a blessed experi- 
ence, and his thoughts were very serious and earnest. 

In the afternoon, Squire Walker came down to 
the pcorhouse to subject Harry to a preliminary ex- 
amination. Ben Smart had not been taken, and the 
pursuers had abandoned the chase. 

" Boy," said the squire, when Harry was brought 
before him ; " look at me." 

Harry looked at the overseer with all his might. 
He had got far enough to despise the haughty little 
great man. A taste of freedom had enlarged his 
ideas and developed his native independence, so tbat 
he did not quail, as the squire intended he should ; 
on the contrary, his eyes snapped with the earnest- 
ness of his gaze. With an honest and just man, hia 
unflinching eye would have been good evidence in 
his favor ; but the pompous overseer wished to aiva 
him, rather than get at the simple truth. 

" You set my barn on fire," continued the squire. 

" T did not," replied Harry, firmly. 

" Yes, you did. How dare you deny it ? " 

« I did not." 




He had often read, and heard read, that passage 
of Scriptuie which says, " Let your communications 
he Yea, yea, Nay, nay ; for whatsoever is more than 
these cometh of evil."' Just then he felt the truth 
of the inspired axiom. It seemed just as though any 
amount of violent protestations would not help him ; 
and though the squire repeated the charge half a 
dozen times, he only replied with his firm and simple 
denial. 

Then Squire "Walker called his hired man, upon 
whose evidence he depended for the conviction of 
the little incendiary. 

" Is that the hoy, John ? " asked the squire, point- 
ing to Harry. 

" No, sir ; it was a bigger boy than that," replied 
John, without hesitation. 

" Are you sure ? " 

" O, very sure." 

" It must be that this is the boy," persisted the 
vquire, evidently much disappointed by the testimony 
of the man. 

" I am certain it was a bigger boy than this." 

" I feel pretty clear about it, Mr. Nason," added 

the squire. " You see, tiiis boy was mad, yesterday, 
because i wanted to send him to Jacob Wire's. My 
barn is burned, and it stands to reason he burned it," 

" But I saw the boy round the barn night afore 
last," interposed John, who was certainly better 
qualified to be a justice of the peace han his em- 
ployer. 

"I know that; but the barn wasn't burned till 
last night." 

" But Harry couldn't have had any grudge against 
you night before last," said Mr. Xason. 

" I don't know about that," mused the squire, who 
was apparently trying to reconcile the facts to hia 
theorj , rather than the theory to the facts. 

John, the hired man, lived about three miles from 
the squire's house. His father was very sick ; and 
he had been home every evening for a week, return- 
ing between ten and eleven. On the night preceding 
the fire, he had seen a boy prowling round the barn, 
who ran away at his approach. The next day, he 
found a pile of withered grass, dry sticks, and other 
rombustibles heaped against a loose board in the side 
of the barn. He had informed the squire of the




facts , but the worthy justice did not consider them 
of much moment. 

Probably Ben had intended to burn the barn tlmn, 
tut had been prevented from executing his purpose 
by the approach of the hired man. 

"This must be the boy," added the squire. 

" he had on a sack coat, and was bigger than this 
boy," replied John. 

" Harry has no sack coat," put in Mr. Xason, 
eagerly catching at this evidence. 

" It is easy to be mistaken in the night. Search 
him, and see if there are any matches about him." 

Undoubtedly this was a very brilliant suggestion 
of the squire's muddy intellect — as though every 
man who carried matches was necessarily an incen- 
diary. Rut no matches were found upon Harry ; 
and, according to the intelligent justice's perception 
of the nature of evidence, the suspected party should 
nave been acquitted. 

No matches were found on Harry; but in his 
acket pocket, carefully enclosed in a piece of brown 
paper, «*cre found the four quarters of a doilar ?iveu 
to him by Mr. Nason. 





"Where did you get those?" asked the squire, 
iternly. 

"They Were given to me," replied Harry. 

Mr. Nason averted his eyes, and was very uneasy. 
The fact of having given this money to Harry went 
to show that he had been privy to his escape ; and 
his kind act seemed to threaten him with ruin. 

" Who gave them to you ? " 

Harry made no reply. 

" Answer me," thundered the squire. 

" I shall not tell," replied Harry. 

" You shall not ? " 

" No, sir." 

The squire was nonplussed. The boy was as firm 
as a hero ; and no threats could induce him to betray 
his kind friend, whose position he fully compre- 
hended. 

" We will see," roared the squire. 

Several persons who had been present during the 
examination, and who were satisfied that Harry was 
innocent of the crime charged upon him, interfered 
to save him from the consequences of thf squ-re's 
wrath. 




Mr. Xason, finding that his young friend was 
likely to suffer for his magnanimity, explained the 
matter — thus turning the squire's anger 'rom the 
toy to himself. 

"So you helped the boy run away — did you ? *' 
said the overseer. 

" He did not ; he told me that money would keep 
me from starving." 

" Did he ? " 

Those present understood the allusion, and the 
squire did not press the matter any further. In the 
course of the examination, Ben Smart had often been 
alluded to, and the crime was fastened upon him. 
Harry told his story, which, confirmed by the evi- 
dence of the hired man, was fully credited by all 
except the squire, who had conceived a violent an- 
tipathy to the boy. 

The examination was informal ; the squire did nol 
hold it as a justice of the peace, but only as a citi- 
zen, or, at most, as an overseer of the poor. How- 
ever, it proved thut, as the burning of the barn had 
Deen planned before any difficulty had occurred be- 

twccn the squire and Hair)', he had no mothe for  

doing the deed. 

The squire was not satisfied : hut the worst he 

could do was to commit Harry to the care of Jacob 
Wire, which was immediately done. 

" I am sorry for you, Harry," whispered Mr. 
Nason. 

"Never mind; I shall fry again" he repl'.d, ae 
he jumped into the wagon with his persecutor. 




CHAPTER VII. 


" Jacob, here is the boy," said Squire Walker, as 
he stopped his horse in front of an old, decayed 
house. 

Jacob Wire was at work in his garden, by the side 
o e the house ; and when the squire spoke, he straight- 
ened his back, regarding Harry with a look of min- 
gled curiosity and distrust. He evidently did not 
like his appearance. He looked as though he would 
eat too much ; and to a man as mean as Jacob, this 
was the sum total of all enormities. Besides, the little 
pauper had earned a bad reputation within the pre- 
ceding twenty- four hours, and his new master glanced 
uneasily at his barn, and then at the boy, as though 
