see--"

"It's Sathurday, mim," interrupted Biddy, in a voice that showed the
argument in her mind to be unanswerable. "We always wash the
pavement on Sathurday."

"But it doesn't do to wash the pavement," I returned, now trying to
put a little reason into her head, "when it is so cold that water
will freeze as soon as it touches the ground. The bricks become as
slippery as glass, and people can't walk on them without falling."

"Och! And what hev we till do wid the paple. Lot 'em look 'till
their steps."

"But, Biddy, that won't do. People don't expect to find pavements
like glass; and they slip, often, while unaware of danger. Just at
this moment a poor lad fell, and broke his jug all to pieces."

"Did he! And less the pity for him. Why did'nt he walk along like an
orderly, dacent body? Why didn't he look 'till his steps?"

"Biddy," said I, seeing that it was useless to hold an argument with
her,--"Do you go this minute and throw ashes all over the pavement."

"Ashes on the clane pavement! Mrs. Smith!"

"Yes, Biddy; and do it at once. There! Somebody else has fallen."

I sprung to the window in time to see a woman on the pavement, and
the contents of her basket of marketing scattered all around her.

"Go this minute and throw ashes over the pavement!" I called to
Biddy in a voice of command.

The girl left the room with evident reluctance. The idea of
scattering ashes over her clean pavement, was, to her, no very
pleasant one.

It seemed to me, as I sat looking down from my windows upon the
slippery flags, and noted the difficulty which pedestrians had to
cross them safely, that Biddy would never appear with her pan of
ashes.

"Why don't the girl do as I directed?" had just passed, in an
impatient tone, from my lips, when two well dressed men came in
view, one at each extremity of the sheet of ice. They were
approaching, and stepped with evident unconsciousness of danger,
upon the treacherous surface. I had a kind of presentiment that one
or both would fall, and my instinct was not at fault. Suddenly the
heels of one flew up, and he struck the pavement with a concussion
that sprung his hat from his head, and sent it some feet in the air.
In his efforts to recover himself, his legs became entangled in
those of the other, and over he went, backwards, his head striking
the ground with a terrible shock.

I started from the window, feeling, for an instant, faint and sick.
In a few moments I returned, and looked out again. Both the fallen
ones had regained their feet, and passed out of sight, and Biddy,
who had witnessed the last scene in this half comic, half tragic
performance, was giving the pavement a plentiful coating of ashes
and cinders.

I may be permitted to remark, that I trust other housekeepers, whose
pavements are washed on cold mornings--and their name, I had almost
said, is legion--are as innocent as I was in the above case, and
that the wrong to pedestrians lies at the door of thoughtless
servants. But is it not our duty to see the wrong has no further
repetition?

It has been remarked that the residence of a truly humane man may be
known by the ashes before his door on a slippery morning. If this be
so, what are we to think of those who coolly supply a sheet of ice
to the side walk?




CHAPTER XII.

REGARD FOR THE POOR.


WE sometimes get, by chance, as it were, glimpses of life altogether
new, yet full of instruction. I once had such a glimpse, and, at the
time, put it upon record as a lesson for myself as well as others.
Its introduction into this series of "Confessions" will be quite in
place.

"How many children have you?" I asked of a poor woman, one day, who,
with her tray of fish on her head, stopped at my door with the hope
of finding a customer.

"Four," she replied.

"All young?"

"Yes ma'am. The oldest is but seven years of age."

"Have you a husband?" I enquired.

The woman replied in a changed voice:

"Yes, ma'am. But he isn't much help to me. Like a great many other
men, he drinks too much. If it wasn't for that, you wouldn't find me
crying fish about the streets in the spring, and berries through the
summer, to get bread for my children. He could support us all
comfortably, if he was only sober; for he has a good trade, and is a
good workman. He used to earn ten and sometimes twelve dollars a
week."

"How much do you make towards supporting your family?" I asked.

"Nearly all they get to live on, and that isn't much," she said
bitterly. "My husband sometimes pays the rent, and sometimes he
doesn't even do that. I have made as high as four dollars in a week,
but oftener two or three is the most I get."

"How in the world can you support yourself, husband, and four
children on three dollars a week?"

"I have to do it," was her simple reply. "There are women who would
be glad to get three dollars a week, and think themselves well off."

"But how do you live on so small a sum?"

"We have to deny ourselves almost every little comfort, and confine
ourselves down to the mere necessaries of life. After those who can
afford to pay good prices for their marketing have been supplied, we
come in for a part of what remains. I often get meat enough for a
few cents to last me for several days. And its the same way with
vegetables. After the markets are over, the butchers and country
people, whom we know, let us have lots of things for almost nothing,
sooner than take them home. In this way we make our slender means go
a great deal farther than they would if we had to pay the highest
market price for every thing. But, it often happens that what we
gain here is lost in the eagerness we feel to sell whatever we have,
especially when, from having walked and cried for a long time, we
become much fatigued. Almost every one complains that we ask too
much for our things, if we happen to be one or two cents above what
somebody has paid in market, where there are almost as many
different prices as there are persons who sell. And in consequence,
almost every one tries to beat us down.

"It often happens that, after I have walked for hours and sold but
very little, I have parted with my whole stock at cost to some two
or three ladies, who would not have bought from me at all if they
hadn't known that they were making good bargains out of me; and this
because I could not bear up any longer. I think it very hard,
sometimes, when ladies, who have every thing in plenty, take off
nearly all my profits, after I have toiled through the hot sun for
hours, or shivered in the cold of winter. It is no doubt right
enough for every one to be prudent, and buy things as low as
possible; but it has never seemed to me as quite just for a rich
lady to beat down a poor fish-woman, or strawberry-woman, a cent or
two on a bunch or basket, when that very cent made, perhaps,
one-third, or one-half of her profits.

"It was only yesterday that I stopped at a house to sell a bunch of
fish. The lady took a fancy to a nice bunch of small rock, for which
I asked her twenty cents. They had cost me just sixteen cents.
'Won't you take three fips?' she asked. 'That leaves me too small a
profit, madam,' I replied. 'You want too much profit,' she returned;
'I saw just such a bunch of fish in market yesterday for three
fips.' 'Yes, but remember,' I replied, 'that here are the fish at
your door. You neither have to send for them nor to bring them home
yourself.' 'Oh, as to that,' she answered, 'I have a waiter whose
business it is to carry the marketing. It is all the same to me. So,
if you expect to sell me your things, you must do it at the market
prices. I will give you three fips for that bunch of fish, and no
more.' I had walked a great deal, and sold but little. I was tired,
and half sick with a dreadful headache. It was time for me to think
about getting home. So I said, 'Well, ma'am, I suppose you must take
them, but it leaves me only a mere trifle for my profit.' A servant
standing by took the fish, and the lady handed me a quarter, and
held out her hand for the change. I first put into it a five cent
piece. She continued holding it out, until I searched about in ny
pocket for a penny. This I next placed in her hand. 'So you've
cheated me out of a cent at last,' she said, half laughing and half
in earnest; 'you are a sad rogue.' A little boy was standing by.
'Here, Charley,' she said to him, 'is a penny I have just saved. You
can buy a candy with it.'

"As I turned away from the door of the large, beautiful house in
which that lady lived, I felt something rising in my throat and
choking me; I had bitter thoughts of all my kind.

"Happily, where I next stopped, I met with one more considerate. She
bought two bunches of my fish at my own price--spoke very kindly, to
me, and even went so far, seeing that I looked jaded out, to tell me
to go down into her kitchen and rest myself for a little while.

"Leaving my tub of fish in her yard, I accepted the kind offer. It
so happened that the cook was making tea for some one in the house
who was sick. The lady asked me if I would not like to have a cup. I
said yes; for my head was aching badly, and I felt faint; and
besides, I had not tasted a cup of tea for several days. She poured
it out with her own hands, and with her own hands brought it to me.
I think I never tasted such a cup of tea in my life. It was like
cordial. God bless her!--When I again went out upon the street my
headache was gone, and I felt as fresh as ever I did in my life.
Before I stopped at this kind lady's house, I was so worn down and
out of heart, that I determined to go home, even though not more
than half my fish were sold. But now I went on cheerful and with
confidence. In an hour my tray was empty, and my fish sold at fair
prices.

"You do not know, madam," continued the woman, "how much good a few
kindly spoken words, that cost nothing, or a little generous regard
for us, does our often discouraged hearts. But these we too rarely
meet. Much oftener we are talked to harshly about our exorbitant
prices--called a cheating set--or some such name that does not sound
very pleasant to our ears. That there are many among us who have no
honesty, nor, indeed, any care about what is right, is too true. But
all are not so. To judge us all, then, by the worst of our class, is
not right. It would not be well for the world if all were thus
judged."




CHAPTER XIII.

SOMETHING MORE ABOUT COOKS.


FOR sometime I had a treasure of a cook; a fine Bucks county girl,
whose strongest recommendation in my eyes, when I engaged her, was
that she had never been out of sight of land. But she left my house
for a "better place," as she said. I might have bribed her to
remain, by an offer of higher wages; but, experience had
demonstrated to my satisfaction, that this kind of bribery never
turns out well. Your servant, in most instances, soon becomes your
mistress--or, at least, makes bold efforts to assume that position.

So, I let my Bucks county girl go to her "better place." As to how
or why it was to be a better place, I did not make enquiry. That was
her business. She was a free agent, and I did not attempt to
influence her. In fact, being of rather an independent turn of mind
myself, I sympathize with others in their independence, and rarely
seek to interfere with a declared course of action.

My new cook, unfortunately, had been out of sight of land, and that
for weeks together. She was fresh from the Emerald Island. When she
presented herself I saw in her but small promise. Having learned on
enquiry that her name was Alice Mahoney, I said:

"How long have you been in this country, Alice?"

There was a moment or two of hesitation. Then she answered:

"Sax months, mum."

I learned afterwards that she had arrived only three days before.

"Can you cook?" I enquired.

"Och, yis! Ony thing, from a rib of bafe down till a parate."

"You're sure of that, Alice?"

"Och! sure, mum."

"Can you give me a reference?"

"I've got a character from Mrs. Jordan, where I lived in New York.
I've only been here a few days. Biddy Jones knows me."

And she produced a written testification of ability, signed "Mary
Jones, No.--William street, New York." There was a suspicious look
about this "character;" but of course I had no means of deciding
whether it were a true or false document.

After some debate with myself, I finally decided to give Alice a
trial.

It so happened that on the very day she came, an old lady friend of
my mother's, accompanied by her two daughters, both married and
housekeepers, called to spend the afternoon and take tea. As they
lived at some distance, I had tea quite early, not waiting for Mr.
Smith, whose business kept him away pretty late.

During the afternoon, my "butter man" came. Occasionally he brings
some very nice country sausages, and I always make it a point to
secure a few pounds when he does so. He had some on this occasion.

"Alice," said I, as I entered the kitchen about four o'clock, "I
want you to hurry and get tea ready as quickly as you can."

"Yes, mum," was the ready reply.

"And Alice," I added, "we'll have some of these sausages with the
tea. They are very fine ones--better than we usually get. Be sure to
cook them very nice."

"Yes, mum," promptly answered the girl, looking quite intelligent.

A few more directions as to what we were to have were given, and
then I went up to sit with my company.

It was not my intention to leave all to the doubtful skill of my new
