but not for mine,--would you know how to trust it in my hands?"
She bowed her head and said, "Yes!"
"Suppose I consented to do it only upon condition that for the rest of
your life my will and pleasure should be your only rule of
action,--would the great work still be yours or mine?"
"Why, yours," she said, still looking at him.
"Cannot you see Christ--standing between God and man, offering his own
blood where justice demands ours, and with his perfect righteousness
covering our imperfect obedience? So 'that God may be just, and yet the
justifier of him that believeth in Jesus.' Can you apply any words? Can
you see that Christ only is 'mighty to save'?--Are you willing to trust
yourself in his hands?"
Faith dropped her eyes for a minute or two, but the lines of her face
were changing.
"I know what you mean now," she said slowly. "I couldn't see it
before." Then with a little smile she went on--"Yes, Mr. Linden, I am
willing. But what must I do?"
"'Only believe--'" he answered. "Do what you say you are willing to do."
"But," said Faith, looking at him with a face which certainly spoke her
near the 'little child' character which Christians do bear,--"there
must be something else. I must not be like what I have been. I want to
know what I ought to do."
"Christ's own words tell you better than I can,--'My sheep hear my
voice, and I know them, and they follow me'--that is the description of
a Christian on earth. And then it follows--'I give unto them eternal
life, and they shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out
of my hand.'"
There was silence; and then Faith said,
"But how am I to follow him?"
"How did the people do to whom he said those words when he was on
earth?"
"I don't know!"
"'They arose, and left all, and followed him.'"
"Well, Mr. Linden?"--
"It is just such a following that we are called to now--only that it
must be in heart and life instead of actual footsteps. Just so must we
rise up from doing our own will and pleasure, fix our eyes upon Christ,
and follow him!"
"But how are we to know--how am I to know," said Faith, "what I
ought to do?"
"Study Christ's summing up of the ten commandments,--does not that
cover the whole ground? And then--do every little duty as it comes to
hand. If we are truly ready to do God's will, he will send us work,--or
if not--
   'They also serve, who only stand and wait.'"
Faith looked an earnest, wistful, sorrowful look at him.
"But then," she said,--"I don't do anything well--how can I know that I
am right? You know what you said--of the two roads only one led to the
shore. I keep thinking of that--ever since."
"A traveller in the right road," said Mr. Linden, "may walk with very
weak and unsteady pace,--yet he knows which way his face is set. Which
way is yours?"
Faith's face was in her hands. But Mrs. Derrick's step just then
sounding at the front door, she sprang away before it could reach the
parlour.
CHAPTER VIII.
The decision of Mr. Linden on the school question was duly communicated
to Judge Harrison; and the time fixed was Thursday, the fifth of
October. The place chosen, after much care, was the Judge's own house
and grounds adjoining, which were spacious enough, and afforded good
opportunity for setting tables and also for spreading them. So all that
was fixed; and all Pattaquasset was a tip-toe; and Mr. Linden submitted
to what he could not help, with as good a grace as he might. And
September was sliding off into October with the gentlest, sunniest,
softliest grace.
With much the same sort of grace Faith Derrick walked up and down in
her mother's household; from the dairy where she made her butter, to
Mr. Linden's room which it was her care to keep in order; and where she
might if she chose amuse herself with Mr. Linden's books. If she did,
it was unknown to their owner; he surely found every volume lying where
he left it. There was chance enough for Faith, in his long absences
from the house; and the books offered temptations. There were a good
many of them, stowed in old-fashioned corner and window cupboards; good
editions, in good bindings, and an excellent very choice selection of
subjects and authors. There were books in various languages of which
Faith could make nothing--but sighs; in her own mother tongue there
were varieties of learning and literature enough to distract her. All
however that the owner could know of other hands about his books, was
that there was no dust upon them.
Perhaps he had a mind to know more--or that there should be more to be
known; for about this time two remarkable things happened. One was,
that Faith found a little French book ensconced among the stockings in
her basket,--and the very next morning as Mr. Linden was setting off
for school, he stopped at the threshold and inquired--
"Miss Faith--whereabouts are you in Prescott?"
That same colour flushed in Faith's face; it did not rise to her
temples this time, but glowed richly in her cheeks. She looked down and
up, and down; words seemed confounded in their utterance.
"You do not mean that you have finished it already?" he said with an
excellent look of astonishment.
"I have almost,"--said Faith. "Mr. Linden, how could you tell?--I don't
know what makes me do so!" she said putting both hands to her
cheeks,--"there's no shame in it."
"I didn't suppose there was," he said smiling, and closed the door.
Very oddly, in spite of morning duties, Faith's next move was to go to
her basket, pull out that little French book and examine it all over
inside and out. Not one word of it could she read, not one sign of it
did she know; what was the meaning of its place in her basket? Faith
pondered that question probably while her cheeks were coming back to
their usual tint; then the book was slipped back again and she hurried
away to help her mother with the dishes.
"You needn't come, child," said Mrs. Derrick,--"what do you think I'll
make of such a handful of things as that? To be sure Cindy's cleaning
up to-day, but I'm pretty smart, yet. Go off and study arithmetic if
you want to. Have you got through that yet?"
"Almost through, mother," Faith answered smiling.
"Well why don't you go and finish?" said her mother.
"Mayn't I finish these first?" said Faith, through whose fingers and
the towel the cups and saucers slipped with a dexterity that was, to
say the least of it, pretty. "Why mother, you were not so keen after
arithmetic the other day."
"Keen after it!" said Mrs. Derrick,--"la, child, I don't pretend to be
keen. But I never could bear to see a thing half done,--I'd rather do
it twice over."
There was something else running in Faith's mind; for after
abstractedly setting down one after another several saucers, polished
from the hot water and huckaback, she dropped her towel and flung both
arms round her mother's neck.
"Mother!--there is one thing I want you to do--I want you to be a
Christian!"
There was persuasion in the soft head that nestled against her, if
Faith's words lacked it.
To the words her mother gave no answer, but she returned the caress
with interest; wrapping Faith in her arms, and drawing her down to the
next chair, as if--literally--she could not stand that.
"Pretty child!" she said--and more than one tear fell upon Faith's
bright hair,--"you're the best child that ever was!--and always were!"
"No, mother," said Faith kissing her.--"But will you?"
"I don't know!" said Mrs. Derrick,--"that's what your father used to
say, Faith,--and I used to think I'd like to, to please him,--but
somehow I never did."
"Never wished it for your own sake, dear mother?"
"Yes--sometimes--when I saw him die--" said Mrs. Derrick. "Hush
child--don't say another word to me now, for I can't bear it." And
giving Faith an embrace which took off all thought of roughness from
her words, Mrs. Derrick rose up and went about her dishes again.
And Faith tried to do as much; but the dropping tears were too fast for
her towel; her hand sought in vain to forbid their coming; she laid
down her work and went away.
Truth however is always at one with itself, and so is right feeling,
and so is duty. Faith as well as her mother had plenty of business on
hand that morning; and it was not long before she was as hard at work
in the kitchen as if there were no other interests in the world. There
was bread to make. That was done. There was an elaborate chicken pie to
concoct for dinner, which Faith would not leave to her mother to-day.
There was a certain kind of muffins which Mrs. Derrick suggested Mr.
Linden would be apt to like, and which they had never had since he was
in Pattaquasset. To hear was to obey, and Faith compounded the muffins.
Then fresh yeast must be made, and Faith always did that. Let it not be
thought that Mrs. Derrick was idle while thus indicating floury fields
of exertion to her daughter. Very far from it. There was all the house
and all the rest of the dinner to see to; besides Cindy, who was one
woman's work. The butcher was to be met, and farm questions settled
with the farmer; and Mrs. Derrick was still deep in vegetables when
Faith quitted the kitchen. How much time she had left for study before
dinner it doesn't appear.
After dinner, this day, there was small study chance--or at least small
chance to get books; for it was Wednesday,--and Wednesday was in every
Pattaquasset school a half holiday. Indeed that arrangement of things
extended beyond the schools; and on this particular Wednesday, Mrs.
Derrick devoted the holiday time to a far-off neighbour--declaring that
she "felt like a good long walk." And after her departure the
dreaminess of a warm fall afternoon settled down upon the house and its
inhabitants. Faith sat sewing by the parlour window, or
reading--stealthily; for Mr. Linden with his book sat in the porch not
three feet from her; but it is not too much to say that neither made
great progress. Who could read or work--or think--vigilantly, in that
hazy sunshine?--the very bees took a siesta on the wing, and rocked to
and fro in the soft air.
About the middle of the afternoon a small white-headed boy was seen
revolving down the main street of Pattaquasset. I say revolving--for
the slight suggestion of a small stone in the road--or a spot of
particular dustiness--was enough to make the boy break the monotony of
his walk with a somerset; by which style of progress he at last arrived
at Mrs. Derrick's door, entered the gate and came up the steps. There
he paused and gazed at Mr. Linden.
"What is your name?" inquired that gentleman, with the benevolent idea
of setting the boy's thoughts in motion in a straight line.
"Charles twelf'" replied the boy promptly.
"Charles twelfth!" said Mr. Linden. "Are there eleven more of you?"
The boy put his finger in his mouth but brought forth no answer.
"Miss Faith," said Mr. Linden, "are you the planet which has attracted
this small star out of its usual orbit?"
Faith came to the door.
"Who are you, little fellow?" said she, eying the dusty white head.
"Who be you?" said the boy.
"The centre of your solar system at present," said Mr. Linden. "Is that
the way satellites generally ask questions?"
"What a queer man!" said the boy looking at Mr. Linden.
"What a queer boy--" said that gentleman gravely.
"What do you want?" said Faith, biting her lips and laughing at both of
them.
The boy gazed at her, but he also gazed at the scraper!--and the
attraction of that was irresistible. Down went his white head, and over
went his dusty feet, and then Charles twelfth was himself again.
"My ma' kep' your 'ma to supper," he said. "And she says you may come
too, if you want ter--and bring him. We've got lots o' pies." And
stimulated by this recollection, the boy turned without delay and began
his revolutions homeward. Faith ran down the two or three porch steps
and laid hold of the little invader.
"Here! You Charles twelfth!--who are you, and where does your ma' live?"
"She lives down to our house."
"Where's that?"
"Down the woody road--" said the boy,--"next after you come to Capting
Samp's blackberry field. There's sunflowers in front."
"Then you are Mrs. Seacomb's boy? Very well," said Faith, letting him
go. "Mr. Linden, there is an invitation for you."
"Is there a carriage road into Sweden? or do we walk?" he replied.
"Sweden?"--said Faith,--"it is in the woods, two or three miles from
here. A woman lives there--the widow of a man that used to sail with my
father. My father was captain of a ship, Mr. Linden. Mr. Seacomb was
one of his mates, and very fond of him; and we go to see Mrs. Seacomb
once in a while. I don't think, perhaps, you would like it. It's a
pretty ride."
"That is a kind of ride I do like."
"But I don't know whether you would like it all. If you say so, I will
have up the wagon."
"Thank you--that I should not like. I prefer to have it up myself,
Miss Faith--if you will have up your bonnet."
Faith's face gave way at that, and the bonnet and the wagon were up
accordingly.
The way led first down the high road, bordered with gardens and farms
and the houses of the village--if village it were called, where the
neighbours looked at each other's distant windows across wide tracts of
meadow, orchards and grain fields. The road was reasonably dusty, in
the warm droughts of September; nevertheless the hedgerows that grew
thick in many places shewed gay tufts of autumn flowering; and the
mellow light lay on every wayside object and sober distance like the
reflection from a butterfly's wing. Except the light, all changed when
they got into the woody road.
It was woody indeed!--except where it was grassy; and woods and grass
played hide and seek with each other. The grass-grown road, its thicker
grass borders--where bright fall flowers raised their proud little
heads; the old fence, broken down in places, where bushes burst through
and half filled the gap; bright hips on the wild rosebushes, tufts of
yellow fern leaves, brilliant handfuls of red and yellow which here a
maple and there a pepperidge held out over the road; the bushy,
bosquey, look which the uncut undergrowth gave the wood on either hand;
the gleams of soft green light, the bands of shadow, the deeper
thickets where the eye looked twice and came back unsatisfied,--over
all the blue sky, with forest leaves for a border. Such was the woody
road that afternoon. Flocks of little birds of passage flitted and
twittered about their night's lodging, or came down to feast on
wintergreen or cedar berries; and Mrs. Derrick's old horse walked
softly on, as if he knew no one was in a hurry.
"'With what a glory comes and goes the year'!" Mr. Linden said.
"And stays all the while, don't it?" said Faith rather timidly and
after an instant's hesitation.
"Yes, in a sort--though to my fancy the other seasons have rather
beauty and splendour, while autumn keeps the glory for itself."
"I think it is glorious all the year round," said Faith;--"though to be
sure," she added with a sudden check, "perhaps I don't use the word
right."
"Yes, it is glorious,--but I think 'glorious' and 'glory' have drifted
a little apart upon the tide of human speech. Glory, always seems to my
mind a warm, glowing, effulgent thing,--but ice-peaks may be glorious.
The old painters encircled the heads of their saints with a 'glory' and
you could not imagine that a cold light."
Faith listened, with the eyes of one first seeing into the world of
wonder and beauty hidden from common vision. She did not answer, till
her thoughts came back to the road they were travelling, and catching
her breath a little she said,
"This isn't a cold light."
"No, truly. And just so far as the saints on earth walk in a cold
light, so far, I think, their light is less glorious."
"I don't see how they can,"--said Faith timidly.
"They do--sometimes,--standing aloof like those ice-peaks. You can see
the white garments, but no glory transfigures them. Such a face as
Stephen's, Miss Faith, is worth a journey to see."
Faith thought so; wondered how many such faces he had seen. Her
meditations plunged her too deep for words.
"What are you musing about?--if I may ask," Mr. Linden said presently.
She coloured but answered, "I was thinking what one must be, to have a
face like Stephen's."
"That is the promise, you know--from 'glory to glory.' 'From grace to
glory' must come first. 'What one must be'--yes, that is it. But it
is good to measure the promises now and then."
Faith laid that last remark up in her heart, enshrining it in gold, as
it were. But she said nothing.
"How is it with you?" he said turning his eyes full upon her,--"you
have not told me lately. Are the clouds all gone?"
Her look met his, wistful, and simple as her answer.
"I see the light through."--
"'Unto the perfect-day'!" Mr. Linden said, his smile--slight as it
was--bringing a sort of illumination with it. After a few minutes he
turned to her again.
"Miss Faith, one whom Christ has called into his army should wear his
uniform."
"What, sir?"--she said, the colour starting readily.
"With the private vows of allegiance, there should be also a public
profession."
"Yes,"--she said, "I suppose so.--I am willing--I am ready."
Timid, modest, even shrinking as she was, more in view of the subject
than of her adviser, her face was as frank as the day. His hand quitted
the reins a moment, taking hers and giving it a sort of
'right-hand-of-fellowship' clasp, glad and warm and earnest, as was his
look.
"I am not going to ask you anymore questions," he said,--"you will tell
me if there are any you wish answered."
Her "Thank you" was a little breathless.
