Woodville, and go to bed, as to attempt to carry this thing through, if
you are going to bellow and yell like a mad bull."

"I didn't think I spoke very loud," replied Sandy.

"Didn't think so!" sneered Richard. "Any one might have heard you clear
across the river."

"O, no, Dick; not so bad as that."

"You spoke too loud, at any rate, and you might as well go up and tell
'Old Batterbones' what we are about as talk half so loud as you did."

"Come, Dick, you have said enough," replied Sandy, who did not relish
all the reflections that were cast upon his conduct.

"You are as stupid as an owl; I thought you had some common sense."

"That'll do, Dick; I don't want any more of that kind of blarney; and
if you don't shut up, you or I will get a black eye."

Richard did not seem to have much doubt which of them would obtain this
ornamental tinting of the physiognomy, for he immediately changed his
tone, and did not venture to apply any more unpleasant epithets to his
companion. Sandy had obtained some reputation as a fighting character,
and was virtually the champion of the ring among the boys in the
vicinity of Whitestone.

"Now be more careful, this time, Sandy," said Richard, as he put the
boat about upon the other tack.

"Don't give me any more lip, Dick, and I will do any thing you want,"
replied Sandy, mollified by the altered tones of his friend.

"Don't get mad; we have no time to quarrel, if we mean to put this
thing through to-night."

"I am ready to put it through, but I have no notion of being treated
like a slave or a fool," said Sandy, as he lay down upon the half-deck,
and began to gaze into the gloom ahead of the boat. "Luff a little," he
added, as he discovered the dim outline of the shore.

"Luff, it is."

This time, both boys spoke in a low tone, and the want of harmony which
a few moments before had threatened to break up the enterprise, and end
in a game of rough and tumble, was removed. The Greyhound, under the
skilful management of Richard,--for there was not a better sailor of
his years on the Hudson,--was thrown into the inlet without touching
the rocks which lay at the entrance.

Sandy, with the painter in his hand, jumped ashore, and made fast to a
small tree on the bank. Neither of the boys spoke a loud word, and
Richard carefully brailed up the sails, so that their flapping should
not attract the attention of any person who might be in the vicinity.

"Now, Dick, if you will follow me, I will lead you up to Old
Batterbones' garden," whispered Sandy, when the sail boat had been
properly secured.

"I will follow you. Have you got the bag?"

"Yes--all right."

Richard followed his companion up the steep bank of the river, across a
field, till they came to a fence, where they paused to reconnoitre.

"Now be careful, Sandy," whispered Richard, nervously, "for I wouldn't
be caught in this scrape for the best hundred dollars that ever was."

"I don't want to be caught any more than you do," replied Sandy.

"Well, it won't make so much difference with you as it will with me."

"Won't it! Don't you think my neck is worth as much to me as yours is
to you?"

"I don't mean that, of course. Your father is a carpenter, and people
won't think half so much of it if you are caught, as they would in my
case."

"My father never was in the Tombs if he is a carpenter," growled Sandy.

"That's mean," said Richard. "You know he was put there for nothing at
all."

"It isn't half so mean as what you said. If you think you are so much
better than I am, what did you ask me to come with you for?"

"I don't think I am any better than you are."

"Yes, you do; and you may go ahead with the game; I won't go any
farther."

"Don't back out, Sandy. Have you got scared?"

"I'm not scared; you are too big for your boots."

"No, no, Sandy, I didn't mean any thing of the sort."

"Didn't you say it wouldn't make as much difference with me as with
you, if we got caught?"

"I only meant that people would talk more about me than they would
about you."

"Perhaps they would, and perhaps they wouldn't. In my opinion, I'm as
good as you are, any day."

"Of course you are; I never doubted it. Come, Sandy, we've run together
too long to fall out now."

"I don't want to fall out, or back out; but I don't want to be snubbed,
every ten minutes, about my father's being a carpenter."

"I won't say another word, Sandy. I didn't mean any thing."

"All right, my boy. I don't live in a big house, and my father isn't
rich; but I'm just as good as any other fellow, for all that. If you
didn't mean any thing, I'm satisfied."

"If I thought you were not as good as I am, of course I shouldn't go
with you."

This conversation was carried on in a very low tone, while the boys
were seated by the fence. When Sandy's injured honor was healed, and
the son of the rich broker of Woodville had acknowledged that the other
was his equal, they were again ready to proceed with the business of
the enterprise. Richard was not content with the homage which his
companions could render without any sacrifice of self-respect, but he
exacted the right not only to command them, but also to be indulged in
the use of opprobrious epithets.

Sandy, as the "bully" of his circle, could not quietly submit to the
domineering style of the rich man's son. He was willing, for the sake
of sharing in the "loaves and fishes," which Richard had to distribute,
to compromise far enough to be ordered in a gentlemanly way; but he
would not tolerate any invidious comparisons. Richard had a fine boat,
and Sandy was very fond of sailing, which made him sacrifice some
portion of his dignity as the champion of the ring. Richard was usually
well supplied with money, which was a scarce article with the son of
the journeyman carpenter, and boys bow down to the Mammon of this
world, as well as men.

Richard patronized Sandy because his hard fist and abundant muscle
rendered him a powerful and influential person. It was easier to buy
the champion than it was to whip him, and the broker's son had
conquered the bully by paying for the oysters at Bob Bleeker's saloon
in Whitestone, and by permitting him to use the Greyhound when he
wished. Richard had a great respect for muscle. If Sandy Brimblecom's
father had chosen to pursue his peaceful avocation in any other
locality than Whitestone, Richard Grant might have been the champion of
the "P.R." The advent of Sandy had produced a fight, in which Richard,
though he behaved to the satisfaction of all his friends and
supporters, was severely punished. His friends called it a drawn
battle; but Richard did not think it advisable to have the question
definitely settled, and Sandy was acknowledged as the champion.

Richard respected the boy he could not whip, and they had become
friends, or, at least, associates. It is scarcely necessary to inform
the intelligent young readers of this book, that the moral standard of
both boys was very low; for those who can fight simply to find out
which is "the better man," have a very inadequate conception of what
constitutes true dignity and nobility of character. "Muscle" and
"backbone"--fighting ability and courage--in a good cause, are to be
respected, and men and boys will always pay them due homage; but
fighting for its own sake is mean, low-lived business--the most vicious
of vices.

Sandy was satisfied with the explanation of his patron, and rising from
his seat under the fence, he looked over into the garden, and listened
for any sounds which might indicate an obstacle in the way of the
enterprise; but not a sound could be heard except the chirping of the
crickets and the piping of the frogs. With a great deal of care, he
climbed to the top of the fence, and then listened again.

"Does he keep a dog?" whispered Richard.

"I don't know; I don't care, either," replied Sandy, as he dropped from
the fence into the garden.

Richard climbed over with the same caution which his companion had
used, and after following him for some distance, reached a patch of
watermelons, which appeared to be the destination of this night
expedition.

"Get down on the ground!" whispered Sandy, who had already prostrated
himself. "You will blow the whole thing if you stand up there."

"Open the bag, and let's fill it up quick!" replied Richard, as he
picked a large melon from the vines, and handed it to the other.

"What's the use of picking such a melon in that?" snarled Sandy. "It
isn't ripe. Can't you tell the ripe ones by the feeling?"

"No; I can't."

"Stick your thumb nail into them. Here, you take the bag, and I will
pick them. We don't want to lug off melons that are good for nothing."

Richard took the bag, and placed the fruit in it as fast as Sandy
gathered it. In a few moments the bag was full, and the young marauders
commenced their retreat with all the haste which a proper caution would
permit. The bag was large and heavy, and it required their united
strength to carry it.

The garden proved to be something like an eel trap--it was easy enough
to get into it, but very difficult to get out. Near the melon patch
there was a piece of corn, by the side of which lay their path out of
the enclosure. They had gone but a short distance when they heard a
rustling in the corn behind them, and before they could make out the
cause of the noise, a strong hand grasped the collar of each of them.

"We've caught you, my lads!" exclaimed one of the men, who had seized
Richard.

It was an awful scrape: so thought the broker's son; and Sandy,
notwithstanding the difference in their social standing, was of the
same opinion.




CHAPTER II.

RICHARD JUMPS OUT OF THE FRYING-PAN INTO THE FIRE.


Richard Grant was the son of a rich man, but he was neither any better
nor any worse for this circumstance. He had been in a great many sad
scrapes before the one in which the reader now finds him. It was not
the first time he had taken that which did not belong to him.

In his father's garden there was an abundance of watermelons, and he
had always been plentifully supplied with all the fruits in their
season. He had, therefore, no excuse for stealing melons. There could
be no excuse, under any circumstances, for stealing. He did not need
them; he did not even want them.

But Richard was fond of exciting adventures, and it was simply the love
of fun which had prompted him to visit the garden of Mr. Batterman. I
hope none of my young friends will think this even palliated his
offence. If he did not have the motive which actuates the common thief,
he was certainly more to blame than if he had needed or wanted the
product of his theft. Stealing for fun cannot be any better than
stealing from the love of gain, or to provide for one's necessities.

Richard Grant is the hero of this volume; but I shall not wink at any
of his vices or inconsistencies on this account. That he may not be
utterly despised, however, I may say of him that he had a great many
redeeming qualities. He was generous to a fault, and his impulses were
generally worthy and noble. He was ready to give to the needy, and to
fight for the oppressed. He was kind-hearted, and nothing but the love
of sport could induce him to violate the rights, or injure the
feelings, of others. He lived upon excitement, and was not always very
choice of the means which he used to procure it.

Richard's father had not been able to bestow that care upon his moral
education which his temperament required. He needed discipline, and the
want of it was seen in his daily life. Mr. Grant was conscious of the
boy's needs, and he frequently talked to him about his vicious course;
but words did not supply the want; he required a more active treatment.

Sandy Brimblecom was as little disturbed by his conscience as his more
wealthy companion. As long as he could stand upon an equality with an
heir of Woodville, he was satisfied to let all moral questions take
care of themselves. The two boys who sailed in the Greyhound on the
eventful night of their introduction to the reader, were well mated in
every respect. Either was ready to follow the lead of the other,
without asking whether he was doing right or wrong. If there was any
fun to be had out of the enterprise, both were ready to engage in it.

They had got into a bad scrape this time, for Mr. Batterman had the
reputation of being a very hard man. He had suffered a great deal from
the depredations of fruit thieves. He carried on a large business in
raising fruit and vegetables for the New York market. It was not
pastime to him, but bread and butter--the means by which he supported
his family and accumulated his property. Those who stole fruit from his
gardens robbed him of so much of his income; and he was not in the
humor to submit to these exactions.

In several instances he had taken these petty marauders before the
courts, and caused them to be fined; but as this course did not remove
the evil, he had taken the law in his own hands, and severely punished
some of the juvenile offenders. For this reason, among the boys he was
called "Old Batterbones," which was only a slight corruption of his
real name.

Of course Richard and Sandy had no idea of being caught when they
embarked in this plundering expedition. They had taken extraordinary
precautions to prevent such a catastrophe; but the farmer was
constantly on the watch, and they had fallen into the trap which he had
set not specially for them, but for any who might invade his grounds
with malicious intent.



The person who held Richard by the collar, and whose finger nails had
already left their marks upon his neck, was no less a person than "Old
Batterbones" himself; and from the manner in which he shook his
