"No, mamma; I think not."
"Be patient a little while, Daisy," said her father kissing her; "and
you will be able to have books and company too. Now for a little while
you must keep quiet."
"Juanita will keep me quiet, papa."
"I will come and see you again by and by."
"Papa, I want to tell you one thing. I want to speak to you and mamma
before you go."
Mr. Randolph saw that the child's face flushed as if she were making
some effort. He bent down over her again.
"Is it something of interest, Daisy?"
"Yes, papa. To me."
"Don't talk of it now then. Lie still and do not talk at all. By and by
you will tell me what it is."
CHAPTER XVII.
Mr. and Mrs. Randolph departed.
"Daisy will be ruined forever!" So said the lady as soon as she was in
the carriage.
"I hope not."
"You take it coolly, Mr. Randolph. That woman is exactly the sort to
infect Daisy; and you have arranged it so that she will have full
chance."
"What is the precise danger you apprehend?" said Mr. Randolph. "I have
not heard it put into words."
"Daisy will be unmanageable. She is nearly that now."
"I never saw a more docile child in my life."
"That is because you take her part, Mr. Randolph. You will find it out
in time, when it is too late; and it will be your own doing."
"What?"
"Daisy will be a confirmed piece of superstition. You will see. And you
will not find her docile then. If she once takes hold of anything, she
does it with great obstinacy."
"But what is she taking hold of now? After all, you do not tell me,"
said Mr. Randolph carelessly.
"Of every sort of religious fanatical notion, you will find, Mr.
Randolph! She will set herself against everything I want her to do,
after the fashion of those people, who think nothing is right but their
own way. It will be a work of extreme difficulty, I foresee, to do
anything with her after these weeks in this black woman's house. I
would have run any risk in removing her, rather than let it be so."
"Well, we shall see," said Mr. Randolph. "I cannot quite take your view
of the matter. I would rather keep the child--even for my own private
comfort--than lose her to prevent her from becoming religious."
Mrs. Randolph indignantly let this statement of opinion alone.
Little Daisy had a quiet day, meanwhile. The weather grew excessively
hot; her broken ankle pained her; it was a day of suffering. Obliged to
lie quite still; unable to change her position even a little, when the
couch became very hot under her; no air coming in at the open window but
what seemed laden with the heats of a furnace, Daisy lay still and
breathed as well as she could. All day Juanita was busy about her;
moistening her lips with orange juice, bathing her hands, fanning her,
and speaking and singing sweet words to her, as she could attend to
them. The child's eyes began to go to the fine black face that hovered
near her, with an expression of love and trust that was beautiful to
behold. It was a day that tried poor little Daisy's patience; for along
with all this heat, and weary lying still in one position, there were
shoots and twitches of pain that seemed to come from the broken ankle
and reach every part of her body; and she could not move about or turn
over to ease them by some change.
At last the weary hours began to grow less oppressive. The sun got low
in the sky; the air came with a little touch of freshness. How good it
was to see the sun lost behind the woods on the other side the road.
Juanita kindled her fire again and put on the kettle; for Daisy was to
have another cup of tea, and wanted it very much. Then, before the
kettle had boiled, came the doctor.
It was a pleasant variety. Dr. Sandford's face was a good one to see
come in anywhere, and in Daisy's case very refreshing. It was so noble a
face; the features fine, manly, expressive; with a sedate gravity that
spoke of a character above trifling. His calm, forceful eye was very
imposing; the thick auburn locks of his hair, pushed back as they were
from, his face, were beautiful to Daisy's imagination. Altogether he
fastened her attention whenever he came within reach of it; she could
not read those grave lines of his face; she puzzled over them. Dr.
Sandford's appearance was in some way bewitching to her. Truly many
ladies found it so.
He examined now the state of her foot; gave rapid comprehensive glances
at everything; told his orders to Mrs. Benoit. Finally, paused before
going, and looked into the very wise little eyes that scanned him so
carefully.
"Is there anything you want, Daisy?" he said with a physician's
familiarity.
"No, sir,--I thank you."
"Mrs. Benoit takes good care of you?"
"Very good."
The manner of Daisy's speech was like her looks; childlike enough, and
yet with a deliberate utterance unlike a child.
"What do you think about, as you lie there all day?" he said.
The question had been put with a somewhat careless curiosity; but at
that he saw a pink flush rise and spread itself all over Daisy's pale
face; the grey eyes looked at him steadily, with no doubt of some
thoughts behind them. Dr. Sandford listened for her answer. What was
the child thinking about? She spoke at last with that same sweet
deliberateness.
"I have been thinking, Dr. Sandford, about what Jesus did for me."
"What was that?" said the doctor in considerable surprise.
"Because it was so hard for me to keep still to-day, I thought--you
know--how it must have been--"
The flush deepened on the cheeks, and Daisy's eyes were swimming full of
tears. Dr. Sandford looked, in much surprise; perhaps he was at some
pains to comprehend what all this meant.
"How it must have been when?" said he, bending over Daisy's couch.
"You know, Dr. Sandford," she said tenderly. "When he was on the
cross--and couldn't move----"
Daisy gave way. She put her hands over her face. The doctor stood erect,
looking at her; glanced his grave eyes at Mrs. Benoit and at her again;
then made a step towards Juanita.
"No excitement is permitted," he said. "You must keep her from it. Do
you understand?"
"Yes, sir," Juanita said. But her face was all alight.
"Have you been reading some of those stories to her?"
"I have not been reading to her at all to-day, if his honour pleases."
"Daisy," said Dr. Sandford, coming back to the couch, "what put such
thoughts into your head?"
"I felt so badly to-day." She spoke with her usual collectedness again.
"Well, try and not mind it. You will feel better in a day or two. Do you
know when that happened that you were talking about?"
"Yes, sir."
"When was it?"
"More than eighteen hundred years ago."
"Do you think it is worth your while to be troubled for what happened
eighteen hundred years ago?"
"I think it is just the same as if it happened now," said Daisy, without
moving her eyes.
"Do you? By what power of reasoning?"
"I don't think I know how to reason," said Daisy. "It is feeling."
"How does feeling manage it?"
Daisy discerned the tone of the question, looked at her questioner, and
answered with tender seriousness:
"I know the Lord Jesus did that for me; and I know he is in heaven now."
The doctor kept silence a minute. "Daisy," said he, "you are under my
orders at present. You must mind me. You are to take a cup of tea, and a
piece of toast, if you like; then you are to go to sleep and keep quiet,
and not think of anything that happened more than an hour ago. Will
you?"
"I will try to be quiet," said Daisy.
She and the doctor looked at each other in a dissatisfied manner, she
wistfully, he disapprovingly, and then the doctor went out. Daisy's eyes
followed, straining after him as long as they could; and when she could
see him no longer they filled with tears again. She was looking as
intent and wistful as if she might have been thirty years old instead of
nine or ten, when Juanita came to her side with the tea she had been
making.
The tea and toast did Daisy good; and she was ready to enjoy a visit
from, her father, who spent the evening with her. But he would not let
her talk. The next day was hot again; however Daisy felt better. The
heat was more bearable. It was a very quiet day.
Both she and Juanita obeyed orders and did not talk much; nevertheless
Juanita sang hymns a great deal, and that was delightful to Daisy. She
found Juanita knew one hymn in particular that she loved exceedingly; it
was the one that had been sung in the little church the day she had
heard Mr. Dinwiddie preach; it fell in with the course of Daisy's
thoughts; and several times in the day she had Juanita sing it over.
Daisy's eyes always filled when she heard it; nevertheless Juanita could
not resist her pleading wish.
  "O the Lamb! the loving Lamb!--
   The Lamb on Calvary.
   The Lamb that was slain, but lives again,
   To intercede for me."
"I am so happy, Juanita," Daisy said after one of these times. "I am so
happy!"
"What makes it so, my love?"
"O because that is true--because he lives up there to take care of me."
"Bless the Lord!" said the black woman.
Towards evening of that day, Juanita had left the room to make her fire
and attend to some other things, when Daisy heard her own name hailed
softly from the window. She turned her head, and there was Preston's
bright face.
"My poor, poor little Daisy!"
"How do you do, Preston?" said Daisy, looking as clear as a moonbeam.
"There you are a prisoner!"
"It is a very nice prison."
"Don't, my dear Daisy! I'll believe you in anything else, you know; but
in this I am unable. Tied by your foot for six weeks, perhaps! I should
like to shoot Capt. Drummond."
"It was not Capt. Drummond's fault."
"Is it bad, Daisy?"
"My foot? It has been pretty bad."
"Poor Daisy! And that was all because you would not sing."
"Because I would not sing, Preston!"
"Yes, that is the cause of all the trouble that has been in the house.
Now, Daisy, you'll give it up?"
"Give what up?"
"Give up your nonsense, and sing."
"That?" said Daisy, and a slight flush came into the pale cheeks.
"Aunt Felicia wants you to sing it, and she will make you do it, when
you get well."
Daisy made no answer.
"Don't you see, my dear Daisy, it is foolish not to do as other people
do?"
"I don't see what my broken ankle has to do with what you are saying,
Preston."
"Daisy, what will become of you all these six weeks? We cannot go a
fishing, nor have any fun."
"You can."
"What will you do?"
"I guess I can have books and read, by and by. I will ask Dr. Sandford."
"Suppose I bring some books, and read to you?"
"O Preston! how nice."
"Well, I'll do it then. What shall I bring?"
"I wish you could bring something that would tell about these things."
"These things? What is that?"
"It is a trilobite. Capt. Drummond got it the other day. It was a fish
once, and now it is a stone; and I would like very much to know about
it."
"Daisy, are you serious?"
"Why, yes, Preston."
"My dear little Daisy, do not you go and be a philosopher!"
"Why, I can't; but why shouldn't I?"
"Philosophers are not 'nice,' Daisy, when they are ladies," said
Preston, shaking his head.
"Why not?"
"Because ladies are not meant to be philosophers."
"But I want to know about trilobites," said Daisy.
"I don't think you do. You would not find the study of fossils
interesting."
"I think I should--if you would help me, Preston."
"Well, we will see, Daisy. I will do anything for you, if you will do
one thing for me. O Daisy, do! Aunt Felicia has not given it up at
all."
"Good bye, Preston," said Daisy. "Now you must go, and not talk to me
any more this time."
Preston ran off. He was not allowed to come again for a day or two; and
Daisy was not allowed to talk. She was kept very quiet, until it was
found that the broken bone was actually healing and in a fair way to get
well. The pains in it were no longer so trying; the very hot days had
given place to a time of milder weather; and Daisy, under the care of
the old black woman, enjoyed her solitary imprisonment well enough.
Twice a day always her father visited her; once a day, Mrs. Randolph.
Her stay was never very long; Juanita's house was not a comfortable
place for her; but Mr. Randolph gave a large piece of his time and
attention to his suffering little daughter, and was indeed the first one
to execute Preston's plan of reading aloud for her amusement. A new and
great delight to Daisy. She never remembered her father taking such
pains with her before. Then, when her father and mother were gone, and
the cottage was still, Juanita and Daisy had what the latter called
their "good time." Juanita read the Bible and sang hymns and prayed.
There was no time nor pleasure in all the day that Daisy liked so well.
She had gained strength and was in a good way to be well again. The
first morning this was told her, Daisy said:
"Papa, may I speak to you now?"
"About something important, Daisy?"
"Yes, papa, I think so."
"Go on. What is it?"
Juanita was standing near by. The child glanced at her, then at her
father.
"Papa," she said, speaking slowly and with some hesitation,--"I want you
to know--I want to tell you--about me, so that you may understand."
"Are you so difficult to understand, Daisy?"
"No, papa; but I want you to know something. I want you to know that I
am a Christian."
"Well, so are we all," said Mr. Randolph coolly.
"No, papa, but I don't mean that."
"What do you mean?"
"I mean, papa,--that I belong to the Lord Jesus, and must do what he
tells me."
"What am I to understand by that, Daisy?"
"Nothing, papa; only I thought you ought to know."
"Do you understand what you are saying yourself, my child?"
"Yes, papa."
"What does it mean, Daisy?"
"Only, papa, I want you to know that I belong to the Lord Jesus."
"Does that imply that you will not belong to me any more?"
"O no, papa!"
"Why do you tell it me, then?"
"Papa, Jesus says he will be ashamed of those who are ashamed of him; I
will not be ashamed of him; so I want you to know what I am."
"But, Daisy, you and I must come to an understanding about this," said
Mr. Randolph, taking a chair. "Does this declaration mean that you are
intending to be something different from what I like to see you?"
"I do not know, papa."
"You do not! Does it mean that you are proposing to set up a standard of
action for yourself, independent of me?"
"No, papa."
"What then, Daisy?"
"Papa, I do not quite know what you mean by a standard."
"I will change the word. Do you mean that your purpose is to make,
henceforward, your own rules of life?"
"No, papa; I do not mean that."
"What do you mean?"
"Papa," said Daisy, very deliberately, "if I belong to my Saviour,--you
know,--I must follow his rules."
"Daisy, I shall not cease to require obedience to mine."
"No, papa,--but----" said Daisy, colouring.
"But what?"
"I don't know very well how to say what I want, papa; it is difficult."
"Try."
"Papa, you will not be displeased?"
"That depends upon what you have to say. Daisy."
"Papa, I do not mean to displease you," said the child, her eyes
filling with tears. "But--suppose----"
"Well,--suppose anything."
"Suppose those rules should be different from your rules?"
"I am to be the judge, Daisy. If you set up disobedience to me, on any
pretext, you know the consequences."
Daisy's lip trembled; she put up her hands to her face and burst into
tears. She could not bear that reminder. Her father took one of her
hands down and kissed the little wet cheek.
"Where are you going to find these rules, Daisy," he said kindly, "which
you are going to set up against mine?"
"Papa, I do not set them up."
