“Please tell us, Thorn.”

The gentler request was answered presently, very steadily, very
quietly.

“I was always a soft-hearted fellow, though you wouldn’t think it
now, and when that little girl asked me to keep her safe, I just did
it. I took her to a good woman whom I knew, for I hadn’t any women
belonging to me, nor any place but that to put her in. She stayed
there till spring working for her keep, growing brighter, prettier,
every day, and fonder of me I thought. If I believed in witchcraft,
I shouldn’t think myself such a cursed fool as I do now, but I don’t
believe in it, and to this day I can’t understand how I came to do
it. To be sure I was a lonely man, without kith or kin, had never
had a sweetheart in my life, or been much with women since my mother
died. Maybe that’s why I was so bewitched with Mary, for she had
little ways with her that took your fancy and made you love her
whether you would or no. I found her father was an honest fellow
enough, a fiddler in the some theatre, that he’d taken good care of
Mary till he died, leaving precious little but advice for her to
live on. She’d tried to get work, failed, spent all she had, got
sick, and was going to the devil, as the poor souls can hardly help
doing with so many ready to give them a shove. It’s no use trying to
make a bad job better; so the long and short of it was, I thought
she loved me; God knows I loved her, and I married her before the
year was out.”

“Show us her picture; I know you’ve got one; all the fellows have,
though half of ‘em won’t own up.”

“I’ve only got part of one. I once saved my little girl, and her
picture once saved me.”

From an inner pocket Thorn produced a woman’s housewife, carefully
untied it, though all its implements were missing but a little
thimble and from one of its compartments took a flattened bullet and
the remnants of a picture.

“I gave her that the first Christmas after I found her. She wasn’t
as tidy about her clothes as I liked to see, and I thought if I gave
her a handy thing like this, she’d be willing to sew. But she only
made one shirt for me, and then got tired, so I keep it like an old
fool, as I am. Yes, that’s the bit of lead that would have done for
me, if Mary’s likeness hadn’t been just where it was.”

“You’ll like to show her this when you go home, won’t you?” said
Dick, as he took up the bullet, while Phil examined the marred
picture, and Thorn poised the little thimble on his big finger, with
a sigh.

“How can I, when I don’t know where she is, and camp is all the home
I’ve got?”

The words broke from him like a sudden cry, when some old wound is
rudely touched. Both of the young men started, both laid back the
relics they had taken up, and turned their eyes from Thorn’s face,
across which swept a look of shame and sorrow, too significant to be
misunderstood. Their silence assured him of their sympathy, and, as
if that touch of friendlessness unlocked his heavy heart, he eased
it by a full confession. When he spoke again, it was with the
calmness of repressed emotion; and calmness more touching to his
mates than the most passionate outbreak, the most pathetic
lamentation; for the coarse camp-phrases seemed to drop from his
vocabulary; more than once his softened voice grew tremulous, and to
the words “my little girl,” there went a tenderness that proved how
dear a place she still retained in that deep heart of his.

“Boys, I’ve gone so far; I may as well finish; and you’ll see I’m
not without some cause for my stern looks and ways; you’ll pity me,
and from you I’ll take the comfort of it. It’s only the old
story,--I married her, worked for her, lived for her, and kept my
little girl like a lady. I should have known that I was too old, too
sober, for a young thing like that; the life she led before the
pinch came just suited her. She liked to be admired, to dress and
dance and make herself pretty for all the world to see; not to keep
house for a quiet man like me. Idleness wasn’t good for her, it bred
discontent; then some of her old friends, who’d left her in her
trouble, found her out when better times came round, and tried to
get her back again. I was away all day, I didn’t know how things
were going, and she wasn’t open with me, afraid, she said; I was so
grave, and hated theatres so. She got courage, finally, to tell me
that she wasn’t happy; that she wanted to dance again, and asked me
if she mightn’t. I’d rather have had her ask me to put her in a
fire, for I did hate theatres, and was bred to; others think
they’re no harm. I do; and knew it was a bad life for a girl like
mine. It pampers vanity, and vanity is the Devil’s help with such;
so I said No, kindly at first, sharp and stern when she kept on
teasing. That roused her spirit. ‘I will go!’ she said, one day.
‘Not while you’re my wife,’ I answered back; and neither said any
more, but she gave me a look I didn’t think she could, and I
resolved to take her away from temptation before worse came of it.

“I didn’t tell her my plan; but I resigned my place, spent a week or
more finding and fixing a little home for her out in the wholesome
country, where she’d be safe from theatres and disreputable friends,
and maybe learn to love me better when she saw how much she was to
me. It was coming summer, and I made things look as home-like and as
pretty as I could. She liked flowers, and I fixed a garden for her;
she was fond of pets, and I got her a bird, a kitten, and a dog to
play with her; she fancied gay colors and tasty little matters, so I
filled her rooms with all the handsome things I could afford, and
when it was done, I was as pleased as any boy, thinking what happy
times we’d have together and how pleased she’d be. Boys, when I went
to tell her and to take her to her little home, she was gone.”

“Who with?”

“With those cursed friends of hers; a party of them left the city
just then; she was wild to go; she had money now, and all her good
looks back again. They teased and tempted her; I wasn’t there to
keep her, and she went, leaving a line behind to tell me that she
loved the old life more than the new; that my house was a prison,
and she hoped I’d let her go in peace. That almost killed me; but I
managed to bear it, for I knew most of the fault was mine; but it
was awful bitter to think I hadn’t saved her, after all.”

“Oh, Thorn! what did you do?”

“Went straight after her; found her dancing in Philadelphia, with
paint on her cheeks, trinkets on her neck and arms, looking prettier
than ever; but the innocent eyes were gone, and I couldn’t see my
little girl in the bold, handsome woman twirling there before the
footlights. She saw me, looked scared at first, then smiled, and
danced on with her eyes upon me, as if she said,--

“‘See! I’m happy now; go away and let me be.’

“I couldn’t stand that, and got out somehow. People thought me mad,
or drunk; I didn’t care, I only wanted to see her once in quiet and
try to get her home. I couldn’t do it then nor afterwards by fair
means, and I wouldn’t try force. I wrote to her, promised to forgive
her, begged her to come back, or let me keep her honestly somewhere
away from me. But she never answered, never came, and I have never
tried again.”

“She wasn’t worthy of you, Thorn; you jest forgit her.”

“I wish I could! I wish I could!” in his voice quivered an almost
passionate regret, and a great sob heaved his chest, as he turned
his face away to hide the love and longing, still so tender and so
strong.

“Don’t say that, Dick; such fidelity should make us charitable for
its own sake. There is always time for penitence, always a certainty
of pardon. Take heart, Thorn, you may not wait in vain, and she may
yet return to you.”

“I know she will! I’ve dreamed of it, I’ve prayed for it; every
battle I come out of safe makes me surer that I was kept for that,
and when I’ve borne enough to atone for my part of the fault, I’ll
be repaid for all my patience, all my pain, by finding her again.
She knows how well I love her still, and if there comes a time when
she is sick and poor and all alone again, then she’ll remember her
old John, then she’ll come home and let me take her in.”

Hope shone in Thorn’s melancholy eyes, and long-suffering
all-forgiving love beautified the rough, brown face, as he folded
his arms and bent his gray head on his breast, as if the wanderer
were already come.

The emotion which Dick scorned to show on his own account was freely
manifested for another, as he sniffed audibly, and, boy-like, drew
his sleeve across his eyes. But Phil, with the delicate perception
of a finer nature, felt that the truest kindness he could show his
friend was to distract his thoughts from himself, to spare him any
comments, and lessen the embarrassment which would surely follow
such unwonted confidence.

“Now I’ll relieve Flint, and he will give you a laugh. Come on Hiram
and tell us about your Beulah.”

The gentleman addressed had performed his duty, by sitting on a
fence and “righting up” his pockets, to beguile the tedium of his
exile. Before his multitudinous possessions could be restored to
their native sphere, Thorn was himself again, and on his feet.

“Stay where you are Phil; I like to tramp, it seems like old times,
and I know you’re tired. Just forget all this I’ve been saying, and
go on as before. Thank you, boys! thank you!” and with a grasp of
the two hands extended to him, he strode away along the path already
worn by his own restless feet.

“It’s done him good, and I’m glad of that; but I’d like to see the
little baggage that bewitched the poor old boy, wouldn’t you, Phil?”

“Hush! here’s Flint.”

“What’s up naow? want me tew address the meetin’, hey? I’m willin’,
only the laugh’s ruther ag’inst me, ef I tell that story; expect
yeu’ll like it all the better fer that.” Flint coiled up his long
limbs, put his hands in his pockets, chewed meditatively for a
moment, and then began with his slowest drawl--

“Waal, sir, it’s pretty nigh ten year ago, I was damster daown tew
Oldtaown, clos’t tew Banggore. My folks lived tew Bethel; there was
only the old man, and Aunt Siloam, keepin’ house fer him, seein’ as
I was the only chick he hed. I hedn’t heared from ‘em fer a long
spell, when there come a letter sayin’ the old man was breakin’ up.
He’d said it every spring fer a number er years, and I didn’t mind
it no more’n the breakin’ up er the river; not so much jest then;
fer the gret spring drive was comin’ on, and my hands was tew full
to quit work all tew oncet. I sent word I’d be ‘long fore a gret
while, and bymeby I went. I ought tew hev gone at fust; but they’d
sung aout ‘Wolf!’ so often I wasn’t scared; an’ sure ‘nuff the wolf
did come at last. Father hed been dead an’ berried a week when I got
there, and aunt was so mad she wouldn’t write, nor scurcely speak
tew me fer a consider’ble spell. I didn’t blame her a mite, and felt
jest the wust kind; so I give in every way, and fetched her raound.
Yeou see I hed a cousin who’d kind er took my place tew hum while I
was off, an’ the old man hed left him a good slice er his money, an’
me the farm, hopin’ to keep me there. He’d never liked the lumberin’
bizness, an’ hankered arfter me a sight, I faound. Waal, seein’ haow
‘twas, I tried tew please him, late as it was; but ef there was
ennything I did spleen ag’inst, it was farmin, ‘specially arfter the
smart times I’d ben hevin, up Oldtaown way. Yeou don’t know nothin’
abaout it; but ef yeou want tew see high dewin’s, jest hitch onto a
timber-drive an’ go it daown along them lakes and rivers, say from
Kaumchenungamooth tew Punnobscot Bay. Guess yeou’d see a thing or
tew, an’ find livin’ on a log come as handy as ef yeou was born a
turtle.

“Waal, I stood it one summer; but it was the longest kind of a job.
Come fall I turned contrary, darned the farm, and vaowed I’d go back
tew loggin’. Aunt hed got fond er me by that time, and felt dreadful
bad abaout my leavin’ on her. Cousin Siah, as we called Josiah,
didn’t cotton tew the old woman, though he did tew her cash; but we
hitched along fust-rate. She was ‘tached tew the place, hated tew
hev it let or sold, thought I’d go to everlastin’ rewin ef I took
tew lumberin’ ag’in, an’ hevin’ a tidy little sum er money all her
own, she took a notion tew buy me off. ‘Hiram,’ sez she, ‘ef yeou’ll
stay tew hum, merry some smart gal, an’ kerry on the farm, I’ll
leave yeou the hull er my fortin. Ef yeou don’t, I’ll leave every
cent on’t tew Siah, though he ain’t done as waal by me as yeou hev.
Come,’ sez she, ‘I’m breakin’ up like brother; I shan’t wurry any
one a gret while, and ‘fore spring I dessay you’ll hev cause tew
rejice that yeou done as Aunt Si counselled yeou.’

“Now, that idee kinder took me, seein’ I hedn’t no overpaourin’ love
fer cousin; but I brewdid over it a spell ‘fore I ‘greed. Fin’lly, I
said I’d dew it, as it warn’t a hard nor a bad trade; and begun to
look raound fer Mis Flint, Jr. Aunt was dreadf’l pleased; but ‘mazin
pertickler as tew who was goan tew stan’ in her shoes, when she was
fetched up ag’inst the etarnal boom. There was a sight er lovely
women-folks raound taown; but aunt she set her foot daown that Mis
Flint must be smart, pious, an’ good-natered; harnsome she didn’t
say nothin’ abaout, bein’ the humliest woman in the State er Maine.
I hed my own calk’lations on that pint, an’ went sparkin’ two or
three er the pootiest gals, all that winter. I warn’t in no hurry,
fer merryin’ is an awful resky bizness; an’ I warn’t goan to be took
in by nobuddy. Some haouw I couldn’t make up my mind which I’d hev,
and kept dodgin’, all ready to slew raound, an’ hitch on tew ary one
that seemed likeliest. ‘Long in March, aunt, she ketched cold, took
tew her bed, got wuss, an’ told me tew hurry up, fer nary red should
I hev, ef I warn’t safely merried ‘fore she stepped out. I thought
that was ruther craoudin’ a feller; but I see she was goan sure, an’
I’d got intew a way er considerin’ the cash mine, so that it come
hard to hear abaout givin’ on’t up. Off I went that evenin’ an’
asked Almiry Nash ef she’d hev me. No, she wouldn’t; I’d
shilly-shallyed so long, she’d got tired er waitin’ and took tew
keepin’ company with a doctor daown tew Bang-gore, where she’d ben
visitin’ a spell. I didn’t find that as hard a rub to swaller, as
I’d a thought I would, though Almiry was the richest, pootiest, and
good-naterest of the lot. Aunt larfed waal, an’ told me tew try
agin; so a couple er nights arfter, I spruced up, an’ went over to
Car’line Miles’s; she was as smart as old cheese, an’ waal off intew
the barg’in. I was just as sure she’d hev me, as I be that I’m
gittin’ the rewmatiz a settin’ in this ma’sh. But that minx, Almiry,
hed ben and let on abaout her own sarsy way er servin’ on me, an’
Car’line jest up an’ said she warn’t goan to hev annybuddy’s
leavin’s; so daown I come ag’in.

“Things was gettin’ desper’t by that time; for aunt was failin’
rapid, an’ the story hed leaked aout some way, so the hull taown was
gigglin’ over it. I thought I’d better quit them parts; but aunt she
showed me her will all done complete, ‘sceptin’ the fust name er the
legatee. ‘There,’ sez she, ‘it all depends on yeou, whether that
place is took by Hiram or Josiah. It’s easy done, an’ so it’s goan
tew stan’ till the last minnit.’ That riled me consid’able, an’ I
streaked off tew May Jane Simlin’s. She want very waal off, nor
extra harnsome, but she was pious the wust kind, an’ dreadf’l clever
to them she fancied. But I was daown on my luck agin; fer at the
fust word I spoke of merryin’, she showed me the door, an’ give me
to understan’ that she couldn’t think er hevin’ a man that warn’t a
church-member, that hadn’t experienced religion, or even ben struck
with conviction, an’ all the rest on’t. Ef anny one hed a wanted tew
hev seen a walkin’ hornet’s nest, they could hev done it cheap that
night, as I went hum. I jest stramed intew the kitchen, chucked my
hat intew one corner, my coat intew ‘nother, kicked the cat, cussed
the fire, drawed up a chair, and set scaoulin’ like sixty, bein’ tew
mad for talkin’. The young woman that was nussin’ aunt,--Bewlah
Blish, by name,--was a cookin’ grewel on the coals, and ‘peared tew
understan’ the mess I was in; but she didn’t say nothin’, only
blowed up the fire, fetched me a mug er cider, an’ went raound so
kinder quiet, and sympathizin’, that I faound the wrinkles in my
temper gettin’ smoothed aout ‘mazin’ quick; an’ ‘fore long I made a
clean breast er the hull thing. Bewlah larfed, but I didn’t mind her
doin’ on’t, for she sez, sez she, real sort o’ cunnin’,--

“‘Poor Hiram! they didn’t use yeou waal. Yeou ought to hev tried
some er the poor an’ humly girls; they’d a’ been glad an’ grateful
