of her husband. 
Lydia Guy \vas alone in the world, so far as near rel 
atives were considered. Two years before her marriage, 
the death of her mother had left her without a home, 
or any means of support beyond the product of her own 
hands. From school, she passed to the work-room of 
a dress-maker, and in six months learned the art of con 
structing garments so skillfully, that she was able to 
support herself in independence. Not alone did her 
fair countenance, grace of form, sweetness of manner, 
and more than ordinary intelligence, attract the eyes 
and win the heart of Adam Guy. These would have 
allured him in vain, had there not appeared the more 
solid basis of thrift and industry. He saw that she 
would make a good wife, in another sense than is 
always considered ; that she would work and save, and 
help him to grow rich. He did not find in her the non 
sense, frivolity and want of thought that displayed itself 
in so many of the young ladies who came under his ob 
servation ; and he was especially pleased to note the 
fact that she had acquired a better estimate of money 
than is ordinarily held by her sex. The necessity of 
earning before spending, had produced this result. 
 
Before marriage, they had talked freely about their 
housekeeping arrangements. Lydia noted, that in his 
calculation of expenses, nothing was said about the 
hire, or cost of keeping a servant in the beginning. 
As she felt well and strong, and really desired to join 
hands with her future husband, as a " helpmeet for 
him," she saw no objection to this ; she was willing, in 
the outset, to perform all the work of their little house 
hold. It could be a labor of love, and nothing else. 
She was used to being busy over some kind of work all 
the day long ; and the thought of having a home of 
her own to work in, and one loved above all others, 
to work for and make happy, was imagining to herself 
a paradise. 
And so they had begun their housekeeping, as we have 
seen, Lydia doing all her own work; and, up to the day 
on which she is introduced to the reader, doing it cheer 
fully. But, from that day, " a change came o'er the 
spirit of her dreams." 
CHAPTER IV. 
EARLY all the afternoon, on that first 
day of Lydia Guy's introduction to the 
reader, did she sit with idle hands, 
dreamy eyes, and lips just touched with 
a shade of sadness. The stream of her 
life, which had, since her marriage, been 
dancing along musically in the sunshine, 
all at once left the open fields and gentle 
declivities, losing itself in sluggish pools 
that widened and diverged, and hid their dark depths 
under thick, shadowing trees, and tangled brake. She 
could look forward in sweet hope no longer. There was 
cloud, and obscuring night, on all the future, that a little 
while ago had been so full of promise. The life, Jnto 
which her consciousness was opening, had a strange, re- 
pellant aspect; and a shudder crept into her heart as 
she tried to see light and beauty ahead, but could make 
out nothing, distinctly, among the gloomy shadows that 
obstructed her vision. 
Must all beauty, all gentle charity, all the soul's 
loving worship of things that dwell in regions above 
mere sordidness, or hard, accumulative actuality, be 
crushed out ? No wonder that a shudder crept through 
her heart ! No wonder she sat with idle hands through 
 
that afternoon, trying to comprehend all that was meant 
by this new relation in which she found herself standing 
to life. Was money property material wealth 
the greatest good ? Did it comprehend all worth living 
for? Must everything else be cast down for its enthrone 
ment beauty friendship charity love all the 
heart's riches ? Was she not to have a flower, even, 
because it was no money- producing, or money- saving 
instrument ? or because it absorbed a few pennies or 
dimes? or, worse still, in the eyes of her husband, fos 
tered taste, and a love of the mere beautiful, which were 
expensive attributes. 
The heart of Lydia Guy rebelled against all this. If 
such were her husband's requirements, she did not see 
how it was possible for them to draw any nearer in spirit 
to crow into that sweet oneness of life which her 
maiden fancies had loved to dwell upon as including the 
highest of human felicities. Her talk with Lena in the 
morning in no way tended to reconcile her to this change 
in the programme of life. How sharply in contrast stood 
the character of her husband with that of Doctor Hof- 
land ? What a light seemed to hover over the home of 
her friend, while clouds were gathering in the sky that 
arched above her. 
A few warm words had passed between Lydia and her 
husband at dinner-time, and he had gone away with a 
stern, admonitory sentence on his lips. He had spoken 
with authority, and left a spirit of rebellion in the heart 
of his wife. The law of force had come in, setting 
aside the law of love and sweet compliance was at an 
end. Foolish man ! Blind, weak, besotted man ! For 
what dross was he bartering the rich red gold of life ! 
Not with that light step, which gave to every motion 
a grace, as on the afternoon of the day before, when 
Lydia made preparation for her husband's coming at 
twilight, did she move, now, as the shadows began to 
lengthen, in the work of providing their evening repast. 
A heavy heart makes the feet heavy. 
Adam Guy was not a man from whose feelings any 
ripple passes quickly. All disturbances went down 
deeply, and surged to and fro for a long time after the 
cause had ceased. It must be remarked, however, that he 
was susceptible of -disturbance only in the direction of his 
avaricious cupidities. Lay your hand on these, and he 
felt the jar long and profoundly. Assault these in 
never so small a degree, and sympathy, pity, tenderness 
toward the assailant, even humanity, died out instantly. 
He was armed and guarded at every point. 
And so, Adam Guy's feelings did not soften toward 
his young wife during the few hours that elapsed from 
the time of his parting with her at mid-day, until he met 
her again in the first fall of twilight shadows. He saw 
in her a weakness that must be crushed out. His hand 
was upon it, and come what would, he meant to extin 
guish its life. Germs of extravagance were beginning 
to show themselves, which must be robbed of vitality. 
Not a single word of the sentence " Adam, you are 
stepping a little beyond your prerogative ! If I care to 
have a flower, it is not for you to object ! " failed from 
his memory. He conned them over and over, and over 
again, each time rejecting them with a stern purpose. 
 
" Stepping beyond my prerogative ! '' so he talked 
with himself, ever and anon " We shall see ! That 
was unwisely said, Lydia. Not for me to object to 
waste and extravagance ! Indeed ! I wonder who is 
to object, if not I ? Please heaven, I will object to the 
last ; and not only object, but extinguish waste and ex 
travagance. If this comes from the introduction of a 
single worthless flower, I shall take good care that my 
house is not transformed into a conservatory. Fore 
warned fore-armed." 
Weaned with beating about in a vague uncertainty ; 
weak and bewildered ; the heart of Lydia began to lift 
itself toward her husband, as the day declined, with a 
yearning for the sunshine of love which clouds had hid 
den. She repented of her hastily spoken words, and 
even went so far as to remove the geranium, which had 
been the exciting cause of this trouble, from theii 
sitting-room. In what spirit would he come home ? 
That was the question of greatest concern now. Would 
he bring the hard, threatening, almost angry face that 
frowned upon her in parting ; or the old, pleasant face, 
in which she read so many tender meanings ? Oh, she 
could not live without love ! could not go on through 
life in a spirit of antagonism. No ! no ! She was 
not strong enough for this. Death were to be prefer 
red. 
And so, looking away from the causes which had 
wrought this unhappy alienation, she tried to let re 
awakening love for her husband cover the hard, bare, 
unsightly aspects of character which had suddenly re 
vealed themselves ; and in this spirit she was awaiting 
 
his return, when she heard his well-known footsteps 
crossing their little parlor floor. She was in the kitch 
en, busied with preparations for supper, but came forth 
quickly, meeting him as he entered the sitting-room, 
where the table was spread. The light in her eyes, and 
the smile on her lips, died instantly ; for the face of her 
husband was cold as a sea of ice. The usual kiss was 
intermitted. Adam did not offer it, and the heart of 
Lydia rebelled against solicitation. A few distant words 
were exchanged, and then Lydia went back to the kitch 
en, with a heart of lead in her bosom. 
Almost silently passed the evening meal. Adam sat 
through it with a cold, implacable face Lydia with a 
heart ready, at each moment, to gush through her 
eyes. 
After the meal was finished Adam took a newspaper 
from his pocket and commenced reading, w r hile his wife 
removed the tea things. As she went and came, passing 
from their sitting room to the kitchen, he glanced, fur 
tively, over the edge of his newspaper- at her face, and 
was a little surprised as well as annoyed, at seeing tears 
falling silently down her cheeks. It was the first time 
Adam had seen his wife in tears, and it made him feel 
rather strangely. This was something not taken into 
the account in marriage. He had bargained for smiles, 
not tears ; for a mind that should be in complete har 
mony with his own never in opposition ; for a sec 
ond self. What was the cause- of these tears ? That 
question came naturally, and Adam Guy answered it 
from his own stand-point, and selfish perceptions. 
" And so it has come to this ! " he said, speaking to 
 
himself. " Because I will not consent to waste and ex 
travagance I must be punished with tears. But it wont 
do. Adam Guy isn't the man to be turned aside from, 
what is right by a woman's tears. If Lydia wont hear 
to reason wont act like a prudent, sensible wife the 
trouble be on her own head. As to wasting my hard 
earned money on such nonsense as flowers, it never shall 
be ; and the matter may as well be settled first as last. 
As for Dr. Hofland's wife, I don't think her the right 
stamp of a woman for Lydia, and I'll break off the in 
timacy, if possible. Hofland is an extravagant, thrift 
less fellow, and his wife is just like him. He is out of 
my books, anyhow. I don't like the way in which he 
is beginning life living beyond his means, and making 
debt certain. In less than a year he'll be on the bor 
rowing line. There'll be a break between us then, just 
as surely as the sun shines, should terms of intimacy 
exist. The prudent man forseeth evil, and lam a pru 
dent man. He is going his way and I am going mine, 
and the roads have a wide divergence." 
Thus he talked with himself, fortifying his mind 
against his wife and strengthening his purpose to have 
his own will in all that concerned them. 
"What's the matter? " he asked, in an abrupt, half 
imperative, half surprised tone, as Lydia came in from 
the kitchen, after having completed her duties there, af 
fecting just to have made the discovery that she had 
been weeping. 
The heart of Lydia was too full ; she could not an 
swer either calmly or indifferently, and so made no re 
ply. On this silence Adam placed his own construe- 
 
tion, and placed it wrongly of course. It was from 
moody self-will, that she did not answer so he read 
the reason. 
" A woman doesn't cry for nothing. What's the 
matter ? What's gone wrong ? Are you sick ? " 
Lydia had drawn a chair up to the little work-stand, 
on which a lamp burned, and near which her husband 
sat with his newspaper in his hand. She had already 
taken some needle-work into her lap. The tone in 
which he asked these questions, only made a reply on 
her part the more impossible ; and so she bent her head 
down over the sewing she had taken up, and gave no 
response. This, to Adam, was like placing an obstruc 
tion in a flowing stream. The waters of his mind be 
came agitated, and bore onward in turbulence. 
" Can't you speak ? Haven't you a tongue ? " 
Lydia started, looked up at her husband in a bewil 
dered way, and then burst into tears, sobbing violently. 
Adam Guy was at fault. He was dealing with an 
unknown element. A woman's mind is a mystery to 
most men most of all to men like Adam Guy ; yet 
have such men, in their blind antagonisms the fatal 
power of wounding to the heart's core. He sat, coldly 
observing the agitation of his wife, until her sobs gave 
way to an occasional short spasm in breathing, and 
these at length to low, fluttering sighs. 
" I think, Lydia," said Adam, in a firm voice, when 
the storm of feeling had completely died away, " that 
you have permitted a very small matter to come in, and 
make itself a disturber of our peace. I objected, as I 
claim that I have the right to do, to waste of money in 
 
any form. I objected to the purchase of useless flow 
ers ; and I still object. You charged me with stepping 
beyond my prerogative. That was unwisely remarked, 
permit me to say, and does not set well upon my mind. 
You threatened to do as you pleased, and I warned you 
against such folly, and again warn you. I am not a 
man to turn aside when I know myself to be in the 
right ; and I am very certain of my position in this 
matter. I am a poor young man, with my way to 
make in the world. I earn my money by hard and pa 
tient industry, and cannot see it thrown away in trifles. 
You know my opinion of flowers. I gave it to-dav ; 
and it is, and will remain, unchanged. Money spent 
in them I hold to be worse than wasted. A bouquet 
fades in a day, and the money it costs might as well 
have been cast into the sea. Pot flowers are a constant 
care, and involve waste of time, in addition to waste 
of money and time is money. So, you see that I 
have common sense and prudence on my side, opposed 
to weak fancy and extravagance. I'm sorry you have 
taken so small a matter into suctt serious account 
that you have made yourself unhappy about a poor ge 
ranium. Now, let me beg of you to rise above all girl 
ish weaknesses of this kind, and be a sensible woman 
all in earnest as to life's true objects. There are 
more enduring things than flowers to be gained, Lydia. 
Let us see eye to eye let us keep step in our onward 
march to a high place in the world let us deny all 
mere self-indulgences, that are unsatisfying at best, and 
always enervating, and press forward to the attainment 
of real and abiding things. Let us spare now, to spend 
in the coming time, when we can afford to spend." 
 
Adam Guy paused. His young wife was bending 
closer over her work, than when he commenced speak 
ing, and her hand moved steadily and quickly. She 
did not look up, nor answer. 
" Am I not right ? Does not your own better judg 
ment approve what I say ? " 
But she made no response. 
" Lydia ! " 
