
 



be the most judicious way. In regard to hours, text' 
books, and studies generally, you will do as you think 
best." 

   '' I thank you, Mr. Bowman,'' replied Mrs. Codman, 
" for your dependence on my judgment, anS hope to 
deserve it. I hope my young pupil  who, I am con- 
vinced is not wanting in intelligence, will do justice to 
her natural capacity." 

The next day Mrs Codman commenced her under- 
taking, for such it may appropriately be called. 

"Bertha," said she, pointing to the clock, "it is 
nine o'clock. Suppose we commence our studies." 

"Just let me have another race with Topsy," said 
Bert, who was flying round the room in pursuit of the 
black kitten, who was evidently regarded by her young 
mistress as a congenial companion. 

" I am afraid I must say no, my dear child," said 
Mrs. , Codman gsntly ; " there is nothing like punctuality. So if you will just ring the bell, I will ask Jane 
to take away Topsy for the present." 

" Can't Topsy come to school with me?" asked Bert, 
disappointed. 

" I am afraid if she did my other pupil w ould not 
make very much progi'ess." 

Bert unwillingly acquiesced in the dismission of her 
favorite companion. 

" You won't keep me as long as they do in school, 
will you, LIrs. Codman?" asked Bert. " If I had to 
study four or six hours, I should certainly go into a 
a fit." 

" I dare say you would," replied her teacher, smiling. 
'  Therefore I sha'n't keep you so long. In fact, as you 

 



are the only scholar, we sha'n't bind ourselves to so 
many hours, but rather to so much learned, so that it 
will depend a good deal on how well you study.'' 

" That's good," said Bert. " Only, Mrs. Codman, 
you mustn't be too hard upon me. I don't believe I 
can get very lon lessons." 

  I mean to be quite easy at first. I shall not ask 
much, but that little I shall be strict in requiring." 

Bert wasn't quite sure how she liked the latter part 
of this remark. 

'' Before setting you any lessons, I must find out how 
much you know." 

'' I guess it won't take me long to tell you all I ever 
learned." 

'' Here is a reading-book. Let me hear you read." 

Bert took took the book, and stumbled through a 
paragraph, invariably mispronouncing all words of over 
one syllable. 

" There," said she, taking a long breath ; " I'm glad 
that is over." 

''Now," said Mrs. Codman, taking the book, "let 
me read it aloud." 

She was an excellent reader, and Bert, though she 
could not read herself, recognized the fact. 

"I wish I could read as well as that," said Bert. 
" H6w awfully you must have studied when you were a 
girl." 

" Not so hard as you think for, perhaps," said her 
teacher, smiling. " Success depends more upon a 
series of small efforts, than any great one." 

" Do you think I shidi ever read well? " asked Bert, 
doubtfully. 



 



 

"I am sure you will, if you will give a moderate 
amount of attention. Do you know anything of aritb'- 
metic." 

" Do you mean the Multiplication Table?" 

" Yes, that is a part of it." 

" Yes," said Bert, " I know son  lines about it, 
Charlie Morrill taught me them one day." 

"What are they?" 

Bert repeated these lines, which no doubt are familiar 

to many of my readers : 


Division is as bad. 
The role of Three doth trouble me, 

And Practicejnakes me mad. 

Mrs. Codman smiled. " Perhaps you will like them 
better as you grow better acquainted. Can you tell me 
how much are four times four ? " 

Bert went through a variety of motions in counting 
her fingers, and finally announced as the result of her 
computation, that four times four made twenty-nine 

" That is hardly right." 

" Fm awfbl ignorant, ain't I?" asked Bert. 

" Considerably so, I confess. But we shall be able to 
remedy that." 

" You won't make me study my eyes out? ''  

" That would be a pity. You see mine are not yet 
gone, and I don't mean to ask you to study any harder 
than I did." 

Bert looked at the eyes of her teacher which were 
quite as bright as her own, and lost her apprehensions 
on that score. 


''ril tell you why I asked," said she, after a pause. 
'' There's a girl that goes to school — she's only twelve 
years old — and she has to wear spectacles, and I heard 
somebody say it was because she studied so hard. I 
shouldn't want to be obliged to wear spectacles." 

Mrs. Codman could not forbear laughing at the idea 
of her frolicsome little scholar, with a pair of glasses 
perched upon her nose, and promised her that if she 
found there was any prospect of her being obliged to 
wear them, she would advise her at once giving up 
study. 

''Then I hope," thought Bert, "I shall heed them 
soon." 

" Now," proceeded Mrs. Codman, " I am going to 
give you short and easy lessons in reading, spelling, 
snd arithmetic. It won't take you long to get them, if 
you only try. When you have recited them, we are to 
go out and ride in the carriage." 

" O, that will be nice," exclaimed the child. " Tell 
me what the lesson is, quick." 

The lessons were got and said sooner than could have 
been expected, and so Bert had taken the first step in 
ascending the hill of learning. 



 



Bebt had plenty of capacity. She could get her lea- 
sons in an incredibly short time when there was any 
inducement. At other times she would sit for two, or 
three hours with the book 43efore her, but with her atten- 
tion straying to other things, and, as a natural conse- 
quence, would know njo more at the end of that time 
than at the beginning. Fortunately Mrs. Codman had 
the gift of patience, and though she was gentle, was, at 
the same time, firm. 

Of one thing Bert became convinced, — that study 
was not so terrible as she had imagined. At the end of 
three months she had made so great an improvement, 
that her father was equally surprised arid delighted, and 
was disposed to do full justice to Mrs. Codman's merits 
as a governess. "Who knows but you will become 
quite a learned lady in time, Bert? " he said, playfjiUy. 

" No doubt of it, papa," replied Bert. " By the time 
I am eighteen, I expect to wear green glasses and write 
books." 

" That will, indeed, be a miraculous transformation' 
And what is to become of Topsy, then? " 

" Oh, she'll be an old cat then, and won't feel any 



more like racing round than I do. She'll jast carl up in 
a chair beside me, and I will use her fur to wipe my 
pens on. She is just the right color for that, you know." 

   Quite a sensible plan, I confess. Indeed, it will be 
well for you to have something of that kind to be em- 
ployed about, as you will probably have no beaux." 

"No beaux, papa? And why am I to have no beaux» 
' I should like to know ? " 

" Because it takes two to make a bargain." 

'' Well, perhaps I sha'n't," replied Bert, tossing her 
head. " Perhaps you don't know that I have picked out 
my future husband." 

"Wliewl That is getting along faster than I had 
anticipated. May I be permitted to know who is to be 
my son-in-law ? I think I can guess, however." 

"Who?" 

" Mr. Bradley." 

Mr. Bradley was. an old bachelor, of about fifty, par- 
tially bald and more than partially homely, who had 
now and then dined with Mr. Bowman, and had taken 
more notice of the young lady than she at all desired. 

" Mr. Bradley ! " repeated Bert, in a contemptuous 
manner. " I'd a gCNQid deal rather marry Topsy." 

" Perhaps," suggested her father, "the superior length 
of the kitten's whiskers causes you to give her the pref- 
erence. Am I to understand that she is your choice ? " 

" No ; it is a very handsome boy, and his name is 
Charlie Codman." 

A look of regret stole over Mrs. Codman's face, — the 
expression of a sorrow caused by her uncertainty with 
rard to Charlie's fete. 



 



 

" A son of yours? " asked Mr. Bowman, in some sur- 
prise. 

Mrs. Codman replied in the affirmative. 

"You ought to see his miniature, papa. He is very 
handsome." 

" And you have lost your heart to him. Perhaps he 
may not return the compliment." 

" I hope he will," said the young lady. 

" Perhaps Mrs. Codman will allow me to look at the 
miniature of my future son-in-law," said Mr. Bowi m, 
not guessing the mother's sorrow and its cause. 

While Mrs. Codman was absent from the room, Bert 
gave her father a brief account of Charlie's disappear-ance. 

" You must pardon mCj Mrs. Codman," said Mr, Bow- 
man, in a tone of feeling, when she had returned, "for 
speaking in the lively tone I did. I little guessed the 
anxiety you must feel about your son. Is tiiis the miniature ? " 

" A very attractive face ! " he said. " I don't wonder 
at Bert's taking a fancy to it." 

. " I cannot wonder at your sorrow in losing, even for 
a time, such a boy as this face seems to indicate,'' he 
