
"Waal, couldn't tell exactly; somewhars between here an' the village, I
reckon. Seems to me she did have a veil or suthin'."

"And she was real pale?" cried Gypsy, "and the boy was dreadfully
muddy?"

"Couldn't say as to that"—the small boy began to hesitate and look
very wise—"don't seem to remember the mud, and on the whole, I ain't
partiklar sure 'bout the veil. Oh, come to think on't, it wasn't a gal;
it was a deaf old woman, an' there warn't no boy noways."

Well was it for the small boy that, as the carriage rattled on, he took
good care to be out of the reach of Tom's whip-lash.

It grew darker and colder, and the red moon rode on silently in the sky.
They had come now to the opening of the cross-road, but there were no
signs of the children—only the still road and the shadows under the
trees.

"Hark! what's that?" said Mr. Breynton, suddenly. He stopped the
carriage, and they all listened. A faint, sobbing sound broke the
silence. Gypsy leaned over the side of the carriage, peering in among
the trees where the shadow was blackest.

"Father, may I get out a minute?"

She sprang over the wheel, ran into the cross-road, into a clump of
bushes, pushed them aside, screamed for joy.

"Here they are, here they are—quick, quick! Oh, Winnie Breynton, do
just wake up and let me look at you! Oh, Joy, I am so glad!"

And there on the ground, true enough, sat Joy, exhausted and frightened
and sobbing, with Winnie sound asleep in her lap.

"I didn't know the way, and Winnie kept telling me wrong, and, oh, I was
so tired, and I sat down to rest, and it is so dark, and—and oh, I
thought nobody'd ever come!"

And poor Joy sprang into her uncle's arms, and cried as hard as she
could cry.

Joy was thoroughly tired and chilled; it seemed that she had had to
carry Winnie in her arms a large part of the way, and the child was by
no means a light weight. Evidently, Master Winnie had taken matters
pretty comfortably throughout, having had, Joy said, the utmost
confidence in his own piloting, declaring "it was just the next house,
right around the corner, Joy; how stupid in her not to know! he knew all
the whole of it just as well as anything," and was none the worse for
the adventure. Gypsy tried to wake him up, but he doubled up both fists
in his dream, and greeted her with the characteristic reply, "Naughty!"
and that was all that was to be had from him. So he was rolled up warmly
on the carriage floor; they drove home as fast as Billy would go, and
the two children, after a hot supper and a great many kisses, were put
snugly to bed.

After Joy was asleep, Mrs. Breynton said she would like to see Gypsy a
few moments downstairs.

"Yes'm," said Gypsy, and came slowly down. They sat down in the
dining-room alone. Mrs. Breynton drew up her rocking-chair by the fire,
and Gypsy took the cricket.

There was a silence. Gypsy had an uncomfortable feeling that her mother
was waiting for her to speak first. She kicked off her slipper, and put
it on; she rattled the tongs, and pounded the hearth with the poker; she
smoothed her hair out of her eyes, and folded up her handkerchief six
times; she looked up sideways at her mother; then she began to cough. At
last she broke out—

"I suppose you want me to say I'm sorry. Well, I am. But I don't see why
I'm to blame, I'm sure."

"I haven't said you were to blame," said her mother, quietly. "You know
I have had no time yet to hear what happened this afternoon, and I
thought you would like to tell me."

"Well," said Gypsy, "I'd just as lief;" and Gypsy looked a little, a
very little, as if she hadn't just as lief at all. "You see, 'in the
first place and commencing,' as Winnie says, Joy wanted to take him.
Now, she doesn't know anything about that child, not a thing, and if
she'd taken him to places as much as I have, and had to lug him home
screaming all the way, I guess she would have stopped wanting to, pretty
quick, and I always take Winnie when I can, you know now, mother; and
then Joy wouldn't talk going over, either."

"Whom did she walk with?" interrupted Mrs. Breynton.

"Why, with Winnie, I believe. Of course she might have come on with
Sarah and Delia and me if she'd wanted to, but—I don't know——"

"Very well," said Mrs. Breynton, "go on."

"Then, you see, Joy didn't like chestnuts, and couldn't climb, and—oh,
Winnie kept losing his shoes, and got stuck in the fence, and you never
saw anything so funny! And then Joy couldn't climb, and she just hung
there swinging; and now, mother, I couldn't help laughing to save me, it
was so exactly like a great pendulum with hoops on. Well, Joy was mad
'cause we laughed and all, and so she said she'd go home. Then—let me
see—oh, it was after that, Winnie tumbled into the ditch, splash in!
with his feet up in the air, and I thought I should go off to see
him."

"But what about Joy?"

"Oh, well, Joy took Winnie—he was so funny and muddy, you don't
know—'cause she brought him, you know, and so they came home, and I
thought she knew the way as much as could be, and I guess that's all."

"Well," said her mother, after a pause, "what do you think about it?"

"About what?"

"Do you think you have done just right, Gypsy?"

"I don't see why not," said Gypsy, uneasily. "It was perfectly fair Joy
should take Winnie, and of course I wasn't bound to give up my nutting
party and come home, just for her."

"I'm not speaking of what is fair, Gypsy. Strictly speaking, Joy had
her rights, and you had yours, and the arrangement might have been
called fair enough. But what do you think honestly, Gypsy—were you a
little selfish?"

Gypsy opened her eyes wide. Honestly she might have said she didn't
know. She was by nature a generous child, and the charge of selfishness
was seldom brought against her. Plenty of faults she had, but they were
faults of quick temper and carelessness. Of deliberate selfishness it
had scarcely ever occurred to her that anybody could think her capable.
So she echoed—

"Selfish!" in simple surprise.

"Just look at it," said her mother, gently; "Joy was your visitor, a
stranger, feeling awkward and unhappy, most probably, with the girls
whom you knew so well, and not knowing anything about the matters which
you talked over. You might, might you not, have by a little effort made
her soon feel at home and happy? Instead of that, you went off with the
girls, and let her fall behind, with nobody but Winnie to talk to."

Gypsy's face turned to a sudden crimson.

"Then, a nutting party was a new thing to Joy, and with the care of
Winnie and all, it is no wonder she did not find it very pleasant, and
she had never climbed a tree in her life. This was her first Saturday
afternoon in Yorkbury, and she was, no doubt, feeling lonely and
homesick, and it made her none the happier to be laughed at for not
doing something she had not the slightest idea how to do. Was it quite
generous to let her start off alone, over a strange road, with the care
of a crying——"

"And muddy," put in Gypsy, with twinkling eyes, "from head to foot,
black as a shoe."

"And muddy child?" finished Mrs. Breynton, smiling in spite of herself.

"But Joy wanted to take him, and I told her so. It was her own bargain."



"I know that. But we are not speaking of bargains, Gypsy; we are
speaking of what is kind and generous. Now, how does it strike you?"

"It strikes me," said Gypsy, in her honest way, after a moment's
pause—"it strikes me that I'm a horrid selfish old thing, and I've
lived twelve years and just found it out; there now!"

Just as Gypsy was going to bed she turned around with the lamp in her
hand, her great eyes dreaming away in the brownest of brown studies.

"Mother, is it selfish to have upper drawers, and front sides, and
things?"

"What are you talking about, Gypsy?"

"Why, don't my upper drawers, and the front side of the bed, and all
that, belong to me, and must I give them up to Joy?"

"It is not necessary," said her mother, laughing. But Gypsy fancied
there was a slight emphasis on the last word.

Joy was sound asleep, and dreaming that Winnie was a rattlesnake and
Gypsy a prairie-dog, when somebody gave her a little pinch and woke her
up.

"Oh—why—what's the matter?" said Joy.

"Look here, you might just as well have the upper bureau drawers, you
know, and I don't care anything about the front side of the bed.
Besides, I wish I hadn't let you come home alone this afternoon."

"Well, you are the funniest!" said Joy.




CHAPTER VI

WHO PUT IT IN?


On Monday Joy went to school. Gypsy had been somewhat astonished, a
little hurt, and a little angry, at hearing her say, one day, that she
"didn't think it was a fit place for her to go—a high school where all
the poor people went."

But, fit or not, it was the only school to be had, and Joy must go.
Perhaps, on some accounts, Mrs. Breynton would have preferred sending
the children to a private school; but the only one in town, and the one
which Gypsy had attended until this term, was broken up by the marriage
of the teacher, so she had no choice in the matter. The boys at the high
school were, some of them, rude, but the girls for the most part were
quiet, well-behaved, and lady-like, and the instruction was undoubtedly
vastly superior to that of a smaller school. As Gypsy said, "you had to
put into it and study like everything, or else she gave you a horrid old
black mark, and then you felt nice when it was read aloud at
examination, didn't you?"

"I wouldn't care," said Joy.

"Why, Joyce Miranda Breynton!" said Gypsy. But Joy declared she
wouldn't, and it was very soon evident that she didn't. She had not the
slightest fancy for her studies; neither had Gypsy, for that matter; but
Gypsy had been brought up to believe it was a disgrace to get bad marks.
Joy had not. She hurried through her lessons in the quickest possible
fashion, anyhow, so as to get through, and out to play; and limped
through her recitations as well as she could. Once Gypsy saw—and she
was thoroughly shocked to see—Joy peep into the leaves of her grammar
when Miss Cardrew's eyes were turned the other way.

Altogether, matters did not go on very comfortably. Joy's faults were
for the most part those from which Gypsy was entirely free, and to which
she had a special and inborn aversion. On the other hand, many of
Gypsy's failings were not natural to Joy. Gypsy was always forgetting
things she ought to remember. Joy seldom did. Gypsy was thoughtless,
impulsive, always into mischief, out of it, sorry for it, and in again.
Joy did wrong deliberately, as she did everything else, and did not
become penitent in a hurry. Gypsy's temper was like a flash of
lightning, hot and fierce and melting right away in the softest of
summer rains. When Joy was angry she sulked. Joy was precise and neat
about everything. Gypsy was not. Then Joy kept still, and Gypsy talked;
Joy told parts of stories, Gypsy told the whole; Joy had some foolish
notions about money and dresses and jewelry, on which Gypsy looked with
the most supreme contempt—not on the dresses, but the notions.
Therefore there was plenty of material for rubs and jars, and of all sad
things to creep into a happy house, these rubs and jars are the saddest.

One day both the girls woke full of mischief. It was a bracing November
day, cool as an ice-cream and clear as a whistle. The air sparkled like
a fountain of golden sands, and was as full of oxygen as it could hold;
and oxygen, you must know, is at the bottom of a great deal of the
happiness and misery, goodness and badness, of this world.



"I tell you if I don't feel like cutting up!" said Gypsy, on the way
to school. Gypsy didn't look unlike "cutting up" either, walking along
there with her satchel swung over her left shoulder, her turban set all
askew on her bright, black hair, her cheeks flushed from the jumping of
fences and running of races that had been going on since she left the
house, and that saucy twinkle in her eyes. Joy was always somewhat more
demure, but she looked, too, that morning, as if she were quite as ready
to have a good time as any other girl.

"Do you know," said Gypsy, confidentially, as they went up the
schoolhouse steps, "I feel precisely as if I should make Miss Cardrew a
great deal of trouble to-day; don't you?"

"What does she do to you if you do?"

"Oh, sometimes she keeps you after school, and then again she tells Mr.
Guernsey, and then there are the bad marks. Miss Melville—she's my old
teacher that married Mr. Hallam, she was just silly enough!—well, she
used to just look at you, and never open her lips, and I guess you
wished you hadn't pretty quick."

It was very early yet, but quite a crowd was gathered in the
schoolhouse, as was the fashion on cool mornings. The boys were stamping
noisily over the desks, and grouped about the stove in No. 1. No. 1. was
the large room where the whole school gathered for prayer. A few of the
girls were there—girls who laughed rudely and talked loudly, none of
them Gypsy's friends. Tom never liked to have Gypsy linger about in No.
1, before or after school hours; he said it was not the place for her,
and Tom was there that morning, knotting his handsome brows up into a
very decided frown, when he saw her in the doorway, with Joy peeping
over her shoulder. So Gypsy—somewhat reluctantly, it must be
confessed, for the boys seemed to be having a good time, and with boys'
good times she had a most unconquerable sympathy—went up with Joy into
Miss Cardrew's recitation room. Nobody was there. A great, empty
schoolroom, with its rows of silent seats and closed desks, with power
to roam whithersoever you will, and do whatsoever you choose, is a great
temptation. The girls ran over the desks, and looked into the desks,
jumped over the settees, and knocked down the settees, put out the fire
and built it up again, from the pure luxury of doing what they wanted
to, in a place where they usually had to do what they didn't want to.
They sat in Miss Cardrew's chair, and peeped into her desk; they ate
apples and snapped peanut shells on the very platform where sat the
spectacled and ogre-eyed committee on examination days; they drew all
manner of pictures of funny old women without any head, and old men
