
" That is not the way things are done. The lady's friends 
settle the matter for her ; the father, if he is living, or the 
brother, if she have no father. Her consent may possibly be 
asked, but it is not at all needful. In like manner, it is not 
always the bridegroom who chooses the bride ; his parents 
or some friend whom he appoints may manage even that 
matter for him ; and at any rate conduct the arrangements 
Sifter the bride has been fixed upon. So Hagar, you remember, took a wife for her son out of Egjpt ; and here Abra- 
ham sends Eliezer. However, after the lady is found and 
her friends have consented, the next thing is the espousal ; 
that is a formal engagement, made with presents to the 
bride and her friends. Presents are a necessary part of the 
ceremony ; so much so, that the word which means ' to 
betroth,' means literally, 'to make a present.' Eliezer 
understood all that, you see; as soon as Bethuel and his 
forward son Laban had given their consent, he brought out 
his gifts ; rich and costly dresses and ornaments of gold and 
silver for the bride, and for her mother and brother other 
precious things ; what, we do not know. The word may 
mean a great variety' of things, rare fruits and plants, or 
delicacies, or dresses and jewels, somewhat less valuable than 
those given to the bride hersell" 

"Is that the purchase-money of the lady ? " my grand- 
mother asked. 

"Not in those old times. The women were not bought 



 

and sold then. Now they are, in Syria, by Turks, Jews, and 
Christians ; bought and paid for according to the rank of 
the lady's father. But the Bedooins would think it a disgrace if a man were to take a price for his daughter. In 
one tribe it is customary for the father to receive the gifts 
made to the bride — the 'five articles,' as they are called ; but 
they go to her and are her property. The ' five articles' mean, 
a large nose-ring of silver, a silver chain for the neck, silver 
bracelets, a carpet, and a camel-bag of Bagdad carpetwork." 

" Kebecca had a great deal more than that," said Priscilla. 

" Everybody was satisfied. So then Eliezer was feasted, 
and Eebecca and her mother, we may suppose, in the 
women's apartments, were very busy over her dower — that 
is, these wedding gifts — and her proposed journey and her 
prospects. It was usual to let a little time go by between 
the day of the espousals and the day of the wedding. But 
when the morning was come, Abraham's servant demanded 
to be let go, that he might return to his master ; he and 
Eebecca. Laban and her mother pleaded for ten days at 
least; perhaps the crafty fellow meditated some trick or 
cheatery to get more advantage to himself; but Eliezer 
was firm to his demand. ' Hinder me not, seeing the Lord 
hath prospered my way.' Then they called Kebecca. Would 
she start off at one day's notice, and leave her old home 
for a new one ? But Kebecca was never wanting in pluck ; 
and she had made up her mind upon those gold bracelets 
and things, and that gold jewel hanging over her upper lip. 
So she said, ' I will go.' The thing was done. They sent 
her away with her nurse, on the camels provided for her. 
Now, children, the Bible tells us nothing about the journey ; 
how they went and where they stopped, and what they did 
by the way. We can only imagine how the little caravan 
went back by the road it had come, across the desert to 
Aleppo ; and then down southwards through the kingdom 
of Hamath towards the snowy heights of Lebanon rising up 
before them ; then crossing the low hills which separate be- 
tween the valley of the Orontes and the other beautiful 
valley of the Litany, they would have those snowy tops of 



Lebanon high along on their right hand, and the opposite 
range of Anti-Lebanon — Jebet-eihShurhy, the east mountain 
— high on their left. ' Lebanon towards the sunrising,' the 
Bible calls it; and this lovely rich valley it calls the ' valley 
of Lebanon.' It is only from four to six miles broad ; and 
the two mountain ranges rise up on each side of it steeply 
to the height of five or six thousand feet. Getting to the 
end of this valley, they passed the great white head of Hermon at their left hand ; it is the southern point of the Anti 
Lebanon range — and began to come down through the 
length of Palestine. A wonderful journey it must have been 
to the Mesopotamian girl, who had never been far from the 
plains of Haran before. And we know without being told, 
what good care Eliezer took of his charge, and how he 
provided all things for her comfort by day and by night ; and 
what nice stopping-places he arranged." 

"It must have been a terrible long journey for her," said 
Priscilla. 

" Down through the whole length of Palestine ; over the 
mountains of Judah, with their rough precipices and rocky 
ways; past Hebron with its grapes and corn-fields; then 
down, going lower and lower, from one wady to another, 
leaving trees gradually behind them, and running brooks, 
and fruit ; till they reached the open wavy plains of Beersheba. And past Beersheba too, farther south; for Isaac 
dwelt at the well Lahai-roi, the same where Hagar had rested 
on her flight into Egypt and had been turned back. Isaac's 
home was there now. And this we know ; it was getting 
towards evening when the camels were at last coming near 
home. The sunlight was slanting in long beams over the 
grass and the flowers of those rolling downs ; lighting up 
herds of camels and flocks of sheep coming to be watered. 
The tents of the encampment would be seen from a distance, 
spotting a large space with their black curtains. Kebecca 
could look from afar and see what sort of a home she was 
coming to; and she was enough of a business woman to 
count the flocks and measure the herds with her eye, and 
guess what a rich man her husband was. Then, before they 




got quite Home, she spied a solitary man, not busy with ihe 
cattle or anything else, but seemingly worn out for his 
pleasure, and then walking towards the camels. ' What man 
is this that walketh in the field to meet us she asked 
Eliezer. And he answered, 'It is my master.' Would you 
have done then what she did. Prissy? She lighted down 
from off her camel" 

"What for?" 

" To show respect to Isaac." 

"I think she was very particular," said Prissy. 

" No doubt, and Isaac liked her for it. She covered herself with a veil too." 

"What was that for?" Dan asked. 

" A veil was part of the Eastern wedding attire, and has 
been for ages. Perhaps it was so then, and I suppose it was. 
She had been unveiled before ; now, you see, she covered 
herself. The great veil, covering not only the face but the 
whole figure, was said to be a token of the wife's subjection 
to her husband. Nobody else had a right to even look at 
her, unless he pleased." 

" I think that would be a very poor custom," said Priscilla. 

" I should not like our ladies to go veiled," said uncle 
Sam ; "but a little of the principle ? think would not be out 
of place. ' That women adorn themselves in modest apparel, 
with shamefacedness and sobriety.' But neither were the 
ladies in those times veiled all the while, as they are in the 
streets of Syria now ; the veil was a wedding veil ' And 
the servant told Isaac all things that he had done;' and 
Eebecca stood by, I suppose, in her veil, while the story was 
told. Then Isaac led her to his mother's tent; the tent 
which had stood empty for three years ; he gave her the chief 
place, and she became his wife ; the lady of the encampment. 
After that, it says, Isaac was comforted for the loss of his 
mother. And there you see what a deep, gentle, affectionate 
nature belonged to him ; and also. Prissy, that there must 
have been some good in Sarah. Three years, and Isaac had 
mourned for her yet, and was not comforted. Until now at 
last he gave his love to his pretty young wife." 




"Uncle Sam, you spoke of herds of camels. Would there 
be more than one herd of camels ? " 

" I suppose there would, Liph ; if Isaac was rich enough." 

" But why would they not be all together, in one herd ? " 

"They might : but I have seen as many as three herds of 
camels, of difiTerent colours, around one well ; and I did not 
know but Isaac might have a fancy for keeping the colours 
separate." 

" What colours, uncle Sam ?" 

" One herd was black — another was white — the third was 
gray or brown. All marked, however ; every camel among 
the Arabs is branded with the particular mark of the tribe 
and family to which it belongs ; branded with a hot iron on 
the neck or the left shoulder." 

"I wonder what KebeCca thought of the wildemess of 
Beersheba and her new home," said Priscilla. 

" I wonder what she thought of Isaac," said liph. 

"She thought both were easy to get along with," said 
uncle Sam. 





Sept. 21.— ABRAHAM'S CHILDREN. 

"Uncle Sam" said Daniel, ''I think it is veiy odd that 
Abraham should have married another wife." 

" So it seems," said my uncla 

" I don't like it of him," said Prisdlla. 

" I thought you were not fond of Sarah," said uncle Sam. 
"But you must remember Abraham was tdone now, and it is 
not good for a man to be that Isaac lived at Lahai-roi ; 
Abraham was certainly to be excused for trying to make his 
own household more comfortable. At any rate, Prissy, he 
'added and took a wife,' as the Hebrew says; and her name 
was Keturah ; and by her he had six more sons. We must 
look at them a little bit. Some of the names do not appear 
again ; their children were mingled with the more powerful 
tribes and lost in them ; but Jokshan and Midian we haye 
reason to remember." 

"I remember Midian," said Daniel 

" None of these sons of Keturah were suffered to disturb 
the inheritance of Isaac. Abraham had learnt his lesson in 
the case of IshmaeL Isaac, the covenant child, had given 
him all that belonged to his father ; all the property as well 
as all the promises. To these sons of a later marriage and 
inferior wife Abraham gave gifts— something to set them up 
in the world — but while he was yet living he sent them all 
away from him, into the ' east country,' out of Isaac's way. 
Now where was the east country ? We must look on the 
map." 

" It might be all Asia," said Liph. 

" Yes, but it was not When the Hebrews spoke of the 
points of the compass, they supposed themselves standing 
with their face to the sunrising; and so standing, Kedem, 



which means 'before' or 'in front,' was their word for that 
quarter. 'Before/ 'behind,' the 'right,' and the 'left,' were 
the terms for east, west, south, and north. Sometimes they 
spoke of the east as the 'sunrising;' at other times it was 
Kedem — ' before.' So Bem-Kedem were the ' children of the 
east' Now take your place at Beersheba and look toward 
the sunrising ; all those countries spread out in the region 
before you would be what they meant by the ' east,' extend- 
ing perhaps as far as Babylonia and Mesopotamia ; and the 
peoples that inhabited them spread out farther south, down 
to the region between the Arabian and the Persian gulfs, 
lying east of lower Egypt. That is the east country. Now 
Jokshan had two sons, Dedan and Sheba. These, or their 
descendants, are supposed to have been pastoral tribes on 
the borders of Edom, and likely enough to have mixed them- 
selves with the Cushite Sheba and Dedan on the shores of 
the Persian gulf, so as to be mentioned under one name with 
them. For Sheba and Dedan are spoken of afterwards in 
the Bible as carrying on the caravan trade between Persia 
and Palestine ; bringing the rich wares of that region and 
perhaps also of southern Arabia to the markets of Tyre and 
Sidon. It is certain that the children of Keturah stretched 
across the country between the head of the Arabian gulf and 
that of the Persian gulf ; and they intermarried of course 
with other tribes, — Ishmaelite certainly, and maybe in this 
case Cushite." 

"Then the Dedan and Sheba that lived in the desert could 
help the others that lived by the sea," said Daniel ; " they 
coidd furnish them with camels and guides, as the Arabs do 
now for the caravans to Mecca," 

"Ay, but it is not certain," said uncle Sam. "Only 
this is certain ; that tribes bearing the names of Sheba and 
Dedan, and Eaamah the father of the Cushite Dedan, did 
carry on that caravan trade between India and Palestine. 
Ezekiel speaks of them in mentioning the traffic of Tyro, 
'Dedan was thy merchant in precious clothes for chariots' 
— that might have been Babylonian or Persian work; in 
those regions the people were early famous for rich stuffs 



and dothing. ' The merchants of Sheba and Kaamah, they 
were thy merchants ; they occupied in thy fairs with chid
of all spices, and with all precious stones, and gold.' And 
at the same time Jeremiah speaks of Dedan as an Arab tribe 
living on the borders of Edom. ' Flee ye, turn back, dwell 
deep, O inhabitants of Dedan ; for I will bring the calamity 
of Esau upon him, the time that I Tisit Jbim.' That is the 
way, you know, an Arab tribe can do when hard pressed by 
an enemy, or in danger—' flee, turn back, and dwell deep'— 
they can go back into the depths of their wildernesses and 
waste places, where nobody can follow them but one that 
knows how, and that can live as they live." 

"The queen of Sheba brought gold, too," I said. 

" Ah, that was another Sheba, my little Tiny. That was 
the great kingdom established in the south and west of 
