you are not giving her away believing that she i? 
not worth anything," said Lawry. 
" I don't think she is worth much." 
" I think she stove a great hole in her bow, and 
that is all that ails her. If we can get her on the 
ways, she can be made as good as ever she was in 
a week." 
" Whatever her condition, Lawry, she is yours. 
I will give you a bill of sale of her at once." 
Mr. Sherwood went to the desk, executed the 
paper in due form, affixed the stamp, and gave 
the document to the young pilot. The rich man 
regarded the gift as a very inadequate reward for 
the service Lawry had rendered in saving the party 
from drowning, and he intended to do much more 
than this for his deliverer. 
" I can hardly help weeping when I think of the 
beautiful little steamer," said Mrs. Sherwood. "She 
was a pefect little fairy. How elated we were as 
we moved up the lake in her ! What fine times 
we were promising ourselves on board of her ! Now 
the . dear little craft lies on the bottom of the lake, 
broken and spoiled ! " 
" I shouldn't dare to put ray foot in her again," 
added Miss Fanny. " I shudder when I think of 
her." 
" I shudder when I think of you, Fanny. You 
were sinking when Lawry dived down after you," 
said Mr. Sherwood. 
" We ought all to be grateful to God for his 
mercy in saving us," added Fanny Jane. 
 
" I trust we are grateful to him ; and I am sure 
we shall never forget What Lawry has done to-day," 
responded the gentleman. 
" Never ! " exclaimed Fanny, warmly. 
" It was all my fault," continued Mr. Sherwood. 
" I am ashamed of myself, and disgusted with the 
boat." 
" The boat is not to blame, sir," said Ethan 
French. " She behaved like a lady." 
" I know she is not to blame. It was my silly 
impatience, I was in such a hurry to try the 
steamer that I could not wait for a pilot. Bertha, 
do you know what your father used to say to me 
when I was a clerk, and used to be in a hurry ? " 
"I don't know; but I have heard him say that 
you were too impatient for your own good." 
" ' Haste and Waste' was his maxim, when I was 
not disposed to wait the natural development of 
events. By neglecting this precept, I have nearly 
s.icrificed the lives of my best friends. Lawry, if 
you are going to be a steamboat man, let me give 
you this maxim for your government — ' Haste and 
Waste.' " 
CHAPTER VI. 
THE sheriff's VISIT. 
Lawry put the bill of sale of the Woodville in 
his pocket, and felt like a steamboat proprietor ; for 
the fact that his steamer lay at the bottom of the 
lake did not seem to lessen her value. She was in 
a safe place, and there was no danger of her " blow- 
ing up " or drifting away from him. The haste of 
Mr. Sherwood had been " a windfall " to him, though 
Lawry would not willingly have purchased the steam- 
er at the peril of so many precious lives. He was 
ready to accept the moral and prudential deductions 
from the catastrophe, and really believed that the 
rich man s maxim was a safe and valuable one. 
In his own limited experience, Lawry could recall 
many instances where haste had made waste ; but the 
foolish conduct of Mr, Sherwood in attempting to 
navigate the Woodville in waters with which he was 
 
totally unacquainted, was the most impressive ex- 
ample of the worth of the proverb, and he felt that 
the steamer, in his own possession, would always 
mean " haste and waste " to him. 
" I have often heard my father speak of the folly 
of unconsidered action and blind haste," said Bertha. 
" He lost a valued friend in the steamship Arctic, 
which was sunk, and hundreds of lives sacrificed, by 
running at full speed in a dense fog. In her case, 
haste was not only a terrible waste of property, but 
of life." 
" That will be worth remembering, Lawry, when 
you are in command of a steamer," added Mr. Sher- 
wood. 
" I don't think I ever shall be in such a position," 
replied Lawry, modestly. 
"I am afraid you never will be on board of the 
Woodville." 
" I'm pretty sure she can be raised, though I 
may not have the means to do it myself," continued 
Lawry. 
" You shall have all the means you want, my boy," 
replied Mr, Sherwood, as the young pilot rose and 
moved towards the door. " We owe you a debt of 
gratitude which we shall never be able to pay, and 
if you want anything, don't fail to call upon me." 
" If you need any help, Lawry, I'm with you," 
said Ethan French. 
" Thank you ; I dare say I shall want all the help 
I can get," answered Lawry, as he took his leave of 
the family. 
" I'm the owner of a steamboat ! " exclaimed he, 
when he had passed through the front gate, and was 
out of the hearing of the inmates of the mansion. 
" I'm a lucky fellow, and I shall make my fortune in 
the Woodville. I can take out parties, or I can run 
her on a day route from Burlington up the lake ; and 
there is towing enough to keep me busy all summer." 
The young steamboat proprietor rubbed his hands 
with delight, as he thought of himself standing in 
the wheel-house of the Woodville, steering the little 
fairy craft up and dcfwn the bright waters of the lake. 
What a joy it would be to walk her deck as owner 
and commander ! He quickened his pace almost to 
a run in the excitement of the moment, hardly dis- 
turbed by the thought that the waves of the lake 
 
were rolling over his valuable property in steamboats. 
He had never seen a sunken vessel raised, but he had 
often heard of its being done, and he had no doubt 
of the practicability of lifting the Woodville from 
her resting-place on the rocks. He did not know 
how it was to be done, but he had full faith that 
the work could be accomplished. 
Excited by the brightest visions of the future, he 
came in sight of his father's cottage. It looked 
poorer and meaner than it had ever looked before ; 
and perhaps he thought it was hardly a fit abode 
for a steamboat proprietor. When he saw the tall 
mast of the ferry-boat, with the sail flapping idly 
in the wind, he was reminded of the events which 
had occurred on board of her that afternoon. It 
was mortifying to think that his father had even 
been tempted to steal ; but he was rejoiced to know 
that he had been induced to return the six thousand 
dollars to the owner. 
Lawry had not seen his father since he left the 
landing-place to board the Woodville. He was not 
at the house when the party landed, after the catas- 
trophe, and Lawry was glad he was not there, for 
 
his absence assured the anxious son that he had 
gone in search of Mr. Randall. Amid the exciting 
events which had follovs ed the painful discovery that 
his father intended to steal the six thousand dollars, 
the young pilot had not thought of the matter, for 
his mind was entirely relieved by Mr. Wilford's 
promise to give up the money. 
Lawry went into the house ; his father had not 
yet returned, and his mother asked him a hundred 
questions about the steamboat disaster, as she set 
the table for supper. When the meal was ready, 
Mrs. Wilford went to the door and blew a tin horn, 
which was intended to summon the ferryman to 
his tea. 
" I think father has not got back yet," said Lawry, 
as his mother returned to the kitchen. 
" Where has he gone ? " 
" Up to the village, I believe," replied Lawry, 
who had determined not to tell his mother of the 
great temptation to which his father had almost 
yielded. 
" What has he gone up there for ? " inquired 
Mrs. Wilford, who perhaps saw in the anxious looks 
 
of her son that somethmg had been concealed from 
her. 
" He had a little business up there," answered 
the young pilot. " I think we had better not wait 
for him, for he may not be back for some time. I 
haven't shown you this paper, mother," he continued, 
wishing to draw off her attention from his father, 
as he handed her the bill of sale of the Woodville, 
and seated himself at the table. 
*' What is it, Lawry ? " 
" It is a bill of sale of the little steamer." 
" A what ? " demanded Mrs. Wilford, as she paused 
with the teapot suspended over a cup. 
" A bill of sale of the new steamer ? " 
" What, the one that was sunk ? " 
" Yes ; Mr. Sherwood has given her to me, just 
as she lies." 
" Humph ! He might as well have given you a 
five-acre lot at the bottom of the lake. What in 
the world can you do with a steamboat smashed to 
pieces and sunk ? " 
" I can raise her." 
" You may as well think of raising the Goblins 
on which she sank." 
" She can be raised, mother." 
" Perhaps she can, but you can't raise her." 
" I shall try, at any rate," replied Lawry, con- 
fidently. 
The conversation was interrupted by the arrival 
of the ferryman. The son cast an anxious glance at 
his father, as the latter took his accustomed place 
at the table. A forced smile played about the lip 
of Mr. Wilford ; but Lawry interpreted it as an 
effort to overcome the sense of humiliation his father 
must feel at having his dishonest intentions discov- 
ered by his son. 
" Well, Lawry, I found him," said Mr. Wilford, 
as he took the cup of tea handed to him by his wife. 
" Did you ? I'm very glad you did," replied the 
son. 
" Who ? " asked Mrs. Wilford, unwilling that any 
unintelligible conversation should be carried on in 
her presence. 
"The bank man — the one that lost the money," 
replied the ferryman. 
" What did you want of him ? " 
" We found his money after he had gone." 
 
" Did you ? I'm so glad ! And neither of you 
said a word to me about it." 
" I gave it back to him, and it's all right now." 
Unhappily, it was not all right ; and the ferryman 
had scarcely uttered the words before a knock was 
heard at the door. Without awaiting the movements 
of Mrs. Wilford, who rose from the table to open 
the door, the visitors entered. Mr. Wilford turned 
deadly pale, for the first person that passed the 
threshold was the sheriff, whose face was familiar 
to the ferryman. He was followed by Mr. Randall 
and a constable. 
Lawry's heart sank within him when he saw who 
the visitors were. He feared that his father, in 
spite of his statement to the contrary, had been led 
to appropriate the six thousand dollars. It was a 
moment of agony to him, and he would have given 
his right, title, and interest in the sunken steamer for 
the assurance that his parent was an honest man. 
" I come on rather unpleasant business, Mr. Wil- 
ford," the sheriff began ; " but I suppose I may as 
well speak out first as last." 
" Goodness ! what can you want here ! " exclaimed 
Mrs. Wilford, to whom the pale face and quivering 
lip of her husband were the most appalling signs in 
connection with the official character of the foremost 
of the intruders. 
" Don't be alarmed, Mrs. Wilford," said the sheriff. 
" It may be all right, for what I know. Mr. Randall, 
here, has lost a large sum of money, and he thinks 
he has been robbed. I'm sure I hope it's all right." 
" Why, husband ! " ejaculated Mrs. Wilford ; 
" didn't you just say " 
" I didn't say anything," interposed the ferryman, 
sharply, and at the same time he made signs for his 
wife to be silent. 
Lawry was quite as pale as his father. He would 
rather have been accused of the crime himself than 
had it charged upon his father ; he would rather 
have gone to prison himself than had him dragged 
away on such an infamous accusation. The sheriff's 
encouraging words that it might be all right, had no 
force or comfort for him. Lawry knew that his 
father was guilty, and he was in despair. 
Mrs. Wilford had only heard that the money was 
lost, at first ; and then, from her husband, that it 
 
had been found and restored to the owner. It was 
plain that he had told her a falsehood ; that if he 
had found the money, it was still in his possession. 
The case was too plain to need much reflection. Mr, 
Randall and the sherifi" knew less than the ferryman, 
less than his wife and his son ; hut in the good wo- 
man's estimation, it was far worse to be guilty than 
it was to be detected. 
It would be difficult to fathom the motives which 
induced John Wilford to tell his wife and son that 
the money had been restored to the owner. Perhaps 
he had some plan by wKich he hoped to escape de- 
tection and punishment for his crime ; or it may be 
that he told the falsehood to satisfy Lawry for the 
present moment. His calculations, whatever they 
may have been, were exceedingly stupid and ill- 
digested. There was an utter want of skill and 
judgment in his operations. He was not a strong- 
minded man, and his guilt seemed to have paralyzed 
his weak faculties. His failure to be rich in the 
path of dishonesty was even more signal than his 
honest but weak efl"orts in a legitimate business. 
What did he just say ? " asked the sheriff, whose 
attention was attracted by Mrs. Wilford's words, but 
more by the sharp manner of her husband as he in- 
terrupted her, and prevented her from uttering the 
remark she was about to make. 
" What is your business with me ? " demanded 
the ferryman of the sheriff, earnestly, fearful that his 
wife would finish what she had begun to say. 
" What did he say ? " repeated the sheriff. 
" If my husband has been doing anything wrong, 
I'm sorry for it," replied Mrs. Wilford, unwilling to 
expose the culprit, guilty as she felt that he was. 
" Mr. Randall thinks he has taken his money," 
added the sheriff. " If you can tell me what your 
