found Daisy feverish, and unable to rise. At first she could 
not remember how she came by the fierce pain surging 
wildly around her heart ; but presently she laid her head 
back on the pillow, and prayed fervently for endurance. 
There was much of life yet before her. She had a vague 
hope that some day the shadow would be lifted a little. 
Tessy summoned Richard with frantic haste. He looked 
gravely into the sunken eyes, and noted the marks of in- 
tense suffering in every feature. If he had not seen her 
the morning after the baby's death, this change would have 
alarmed him. 
"My poor, dear child," he began, tenderly, " our conver- 
sation of last night was too much for you. I don't know 
how I could have been so selfish and thoughtless. Your 
system is Completely prostrated." 
" No, it was not that," she returned, with trembling eager- 
ness, pained to hear him blamed so unjustly. " I was out 
yesterday, and must have taken cold." 
" Not in the storm, surely ! Where did you go ? " 
" Before the storm. It was very chilly. Do not feel 
alarmed ; I shall soon be well again ; " and she partly turned 
her face to avoid his eyes. 
Her pulse was extremely feeble. Indeed, he felt rather at 
loss, unless he ascribed the symptoms to some strong mental 
agitation. 'He saw that being questioned gave her pain ; so 
he wisely forbore. 
" We must have Lily home," he said. " She ought to be 
a grand nurse by this time." 
" O, no, please don't send for her. I should be so sorry 
to spoil her visit ! " and the languid eyes glanced up beseech- 
ingly- 
He thought a moment, and then gave up his point. " You 
will have to take Tessy and me," he resumed. 
She put her hand softly in his, as if henceforth he was to 
be her great rock in a weary land. Without him life would 
be a blank. 
He came up after breakfast, and remained an hour. Per- 
haps, as she said, rest and quiet were all she needed. He 
held the baby hand long enough to count every pulse to the 
very finger tips. Bending over her, he pressed a kiss to the 
pale lips a kiss that thrilled his manhood's blood, and left 
her trembling like an aspen. Familiar as their social rela- 
tions had been, anything beyond the usual good night was 
rare between them. The little, light frost of shyness sur- 
rounding her was too dainty and sacred a thing to break 
rudely. 
Tessy was delighted to stay at home and play nurse. It 
was a long, yet not tiresome day. By degrees the throb- 
bing pain in Daisy's temples subsided, and the heartache 
became more endurable. She made an attempt to rise 
before dinner, but found herself too weak. So Tessy brought 
 
up some toast, and Richard devoted all his spare time 
to her. 
When the lights were out, and she was trying to go to 
sleep, she thought, again and again, how they all loved her ! 
With a child-like trust she committed her ways unto the 
Lord ; and though she might never wholly resign her bur- 
den, these dear ones should not see her faint under it. 
Several days elapsed before she was able to come down 
stairs ; but after that she gained rapidly. A letter from Lily 
brought about an event that quite restored her. Mrs. 
Suydam expected to bring her brother to the city some time 
during the following week, and had petitioned to take Lily 
also. The child's heart was in both places. 
" I don't exactly approve of it. I shall have to look after 
my family a little more closely," Richard said. 
" Mabel speaks very highly of Mrs. Suydam," was Daisy's 
quiet rejoinder. 
" The brother may make us the trouble ; " and a smile 
lurked in the corners of his eyes. " See what it is to have 
a beauty who continually runs into mischief ! " 
" Daisy and I mean to be the comfort of your old age," 
Tessy said, with an assurance that sat oddly enough upon 
her. 
" Wait until a handsome young man rescues you from 
drowning, or breaks his limbs in order to subdue your cruel 
heart. Upon the whole, I think we must see this hero. 
What do you say to a trip to Rothelan ? " 
" You are not in earnest, Dick ? " 
" Sober earnest, Miss Tessy. Just now I have no serious 
cases on hand, and the weather promises to be beautiful. 
Besides, I think Daisy needs some country air to bring the 
roses to her cheeks." 
" I never saw Daisy have any roses," the child replied, 
thoughtfully. 
" We must find a way to make them blossom. What does 
Daisy say to the" journey ? " 
" It would be delightful ! You are so kind ; " and she 
gave his hand a little mute caress. 
" He's a magnificent fellow dear old Dick ! He always 
thinks of the nicest things in the world ; " and Tessy hugged 
him rapturously. 
" Just one more mouthful of breath before my head comes 
off; " and be struggled, laughingly, to release himself. 
" We will go on Monday, and take everybody by surprise, 
and bring Lily home with us the last of the week. Will 
that do ? " 
" I think Lily will like it as well as any of us," Daisy 
said, confidently. 
Tessy went waltzing round on the tips of her toes, and 
finally bestowed herself in Richard's arms. 
Daisy had not read much of her letter to Richard, for she 
was a little doubtful about the rapid proficiency Lily was 
making in her art. " You would smile to see me manage Mr. 
Auchester," she wrote. " I found out, a few days ago, that 
his imperial lordship had more than one weak point. At 
first I was very devoted. He could not even reach for a drink 
on account of his shoulder ; and as his nurse was fond of 
going to the kitchen for a good gossip with Mrs. Brown, I 
was always at hand, and I almost believe he preferred me to 
the nurse. You remember the last storm ? There was enough 
snow and sleet here to make a little sleighing, and Mr. 
Joslyn came over for me. He is such a steady-going young 
man, and belongs to a good family, who are great favorites 
with Bel ; so she trusts me with him very willingly. The 
ride was tempting, and I had been rather distant of late ; so 
I thought I would console him a trifle with the light of my 
presence. But you should have seen Mr. Auchester's face 
when I announced the fact ! He said, " O, please do not 
go ! " in such a pretty, pleading tone, that my heart almost 
misgave me. I could not very well break my promise, and I 
thought maybe a little solitude would be good for Mr. Auches- 
ter. He coaxed a while, and then was rather eulky, I fancied, 
 
and had a hundred wants. I was all amiability, and went 
off at last with a smiling face. Mr. Joslyn was disappointed 
that I would not go to tea, and spend the evening with his 
mother ; but I had a frantic curiosity to know how Mr. 
Auchester endured my absence. We reached home just at 
dusk. I had taken off my wrappings, and was running into 
Bel's room to tell her of my nice ride, when nurse met me, 
and said,  Please, Miss Bertrand, won't you go sit with Mr. 
Auchester while I make his toast and tea ? He has asked 
for you fifty times in the last half hour.' 
" I went to his room radiant, and found him decidedly 
waspish. He sneered a little at the ride a sort of elegant 
bitterness, that he makes an admirable weapon of; and then 
at Mr. Joslyn, who does sometimes treat Lindley Murray 
rather disrespectfully. So I began to defend Mr. Joslyn, 
and as nurse lingered, we had a spicy tete-a-tete. It was 
such fun to see his eyes flash, and rouse him out of his cus- 
tomary easy nonchalance ! 
'' After supper he sent for me to read to him. Philip had 
gone out. The two men admire each other extremely, and 
Philip spends much of his time in Mr. Auchester's room. I 
read a little while ; but he was cross as a bear, found fault 
with my emphasis, my rhythm, and finally told me to put up 
the book. I was a little vexed at first ; but when I found 
how everything annoyed him, I determined to have my own 
amusement. He wanted his pillows changed ; he wanted 
the lamp placed so it wouldn't shine in his eyes ; he wanted 
a drink, and twenty other things, that kept me on the stir 
continually ; and then he had the audacity to request me to 
move quietly, as his nerves were not in quite so robust a 
state as Mr. Joslyn's ! He said ' good night ' in a sort of 
martyr fashion when I went away, and the next morning 
asked me would you believe it ? if I was not sorry for 
neglecting' him so yesterday ! Since then we have had 
rather spicy times, and when he is very naughty I play off 
Mr. Joslyn against him. 
" He has improved rapidly of late, and Mrs. Suydam ex- 
pects to take him home next week. I think her a most 
charming woman. But, Daisy, she wishes me to accompany 
them, and I never was so puzzled in my life. I want to go, 
and yet I don't want to. Mabel has written to Richard, but 
I expect to feel disappointed whichever way he decides. 
Was ihere ever such an odd girl ? " 
They were all ready for their journey on Mdnday morn- 
ing. Archie bade them good by with a rueful face, and de- 
clared he did not know how he could exist in their absence. 
The day was lovely, and Tessy merry as a bird. She epen 
infected Richard with her joyous spirits. Daisy was quiet 
and pale, but much interested in the ride. The Hudson 
looked beautiful in the bright spring sunshine ; its banks 
dotted here and there with patches of pale green, suggest- 
ing verdure ; and then rising in high, frowning cliffs, broken 
at intervals by mysterious nooks. The girls looked steadily 
out of the window, and talked Irving until the conductor 
sang out Rothelan. 
As they supposed, they took the whole family greatly by 
surprise, but were none the less welcome. Daisy found 
herself quite an object of interest with her pale face. Lily 
hovered about her with fond caresses, while Tessy was soon 
won over to Mr. Chaloner's side. Neither Bel nor Lily had 
overdrawn the delights of the place. 
Mr. Auchester did not make his appearance until dinner. 
He was unusually handsome, though still pale, and he carried 
his arm in a sling. There was nothing in him for Richard 
to distrust. His face was manly and honorable in the high- 
est degree, a little imperious, perhaps, but it sat well upon 
him. A man so self-poised, and used to perfect control, 
would not be easily mastered by any feeling or passion un- 
less strictly genuine. 
He was rather quiet at first. Lily bantered him a little 
on being disappointed. Mr. Suydam's gardener had prom- 
ised to send him some birds, but had brought chickens. 
 
" Well," said Tessy, " you'll have to comfort yourself as 
the old lady I once read of did, when she boiled the hedge 
stake on which the croAv had been sitting, by saying, ' It 
tastes of game, though.' " 
" Extremely philosophical," laughed Mr. Auchester, " and 
worth remembering, when I am reduced to greater straits 
than this. Do you think, with your sister, that I look disap- 
pointed ? "" 
" Not so dreadfully," returned Tessy, slowly. 
Mr. Auchester began to relate to her how he had been 
treated during his illness. They had put three grains of tea 
in two quarts of water, for fear of rendering him nervous 
and unmanageable, and when the nurse made his first soup, 
she hung a chicken's wing in the sunshine and boiled the 
shadow. And he had never been able to coax Lily to bring 
him up any nice little dish without nurse's knowledge. Tessy 
commiserated him greatly. There was much drollery in her 
nature. When they adjourned to the parlor, she and Mr. 
Auchester were fast friends. 
As the afternoon was lovely, he sent over for Mr. Suy- 
dam's family carriage, and they all went out to ride. Daisy 
and he were placed on the back seat, well wrapped up, "to 
keep the winds of heaven from visiting them too roughly,' 
Lily said. She, Tessy, and Richard faced them, Philip driv- 
ing, and Mabel beside him. 
Mr. Auchester made himself very agreeable, talking mostly 
to Daisy. In the evening he persuaded her to share the 
sofa with him, while the others were engrossed with music. 
She remembered afterwards that their conversation was prin- 
cipally about Lily. The next day was still more charming, 
as there was less restraint. Daisy's eyes and cheeks bright- 
ened with pleasurable excitement. A heart less true and 
honorable than Mabel's might have experienced a jealous 
pang at finding herself superseded in the old household 
place ; but she loved Daisy too dearly for such a feeling. 
" I wonder if I am selfish about you" she said to Richard. 
 
" So many evenings I have thought of you coming home 
weary in body and mind, and being comforted by Daisy's 
low, sweet voice, and cheered by the dear face so full of 
ready sympathy. I should not have dared to keep Lily so 
long, only I knew you had better care than she would bestow. 
I am so glad Robert gave her to us." 
Richard remembered one night, that stood out like a 
star among other pleasant ones, and said, in a fervent 
tone, 
" She will be a treasure to us all ; I am more than thank- 
ful to have her." 
Mr. Auchester seemed weary, and retired quite early in 
the evening ; Mabel was called away by a visitor, and the 
gentlemen went to the study for a comfortable smoke. Lily 
carried Daisy off to her room, and bestowing her on a corner 
of the lounge, said, 
" Now for a nice long talk. I have hardly seen you yet." 
" Well," Daisy exclaimed, after a silence, " do you want 
me to begin the conversation by asking what you said to Mr. 
Auchester immediately after supper. It changed his mood, 
visibly." 
" Did you think so ? It was about not going home with 
his sister. I am so glad you all came up, and that Richard 
wants to take me back with him. I would like very much to 
go to Mrs. Suydam's ; but I am sure it was his proposal. He 
rules her completely. I want him to see that he is not mas- 
ter of every one. How do you like him ? " 
" O, very, very much. Are you doing just right, Lily ? 
for I think he admires you greatly, and if you can pain him 
so easily " 
" After he tells me what he means, I shall know ; " and 
Lily laughed. 
" Yet you like him ? " 
" Yes ; that is just the word to use after a five weeks' ac- 
quaintance. But this may be with him ' pastime 'ere ha 
goes to town ; ' and you see I can match him." 
 
" I do not believe it," Daisy said, with a little crimson 
flush of indignation. " Or do you prefer Mr. Joslyn ? " 
" He isn't to be mentioned in the same week, although a 
good deal richer. I had to have some amusement, you know. 
When I first came up, he was the most eligible, and lately it 
has been such fun to play them off against each other ! " 
" But, Lily, do you think it right ? Is there no danger to 
any one ? " 
" O, you grave little kitten ! If I can take care of my- 
self, he surely ought to be endowed with as much wisdom ; " 
and Lily shook back her curls with a brilliant, scornful smile. 
" After all, it is only child's play. I dare say Mr. Auchester 
will forget me in a fortnight." 
Daisy started at the change in the bright face. "Was Lily 
as indifferent as she pretended ? Twining her arm around 
the beautiful girl, she drew from her many trifling incidents 
that she would never have dreamed of telling Mabel. And 
as Daisy recalled Mr. Auchester's frank, honorable face, she 
felt it could not be all trifling on his part. 
"And now I want to hear about yourself," Lily said. 
" Have you had a pleasant winter ; and what made you ill ? 
Didn't you want me just a little ? " 
An irrepressible shiver ran over Daisy ; but quickly re- 
covering herself, she answered, 
"Dr. Bertrand wanted to send for you ; but he and Tessy 
were delightful nurses, and I thought Mabel needed you." 
" Mr. Auchester, you mean. I did half propose going 
home one day, when he was rather lordly. You should have 
