I helped him to a situation which paid him ten times the salary he had
ever before received, when he was as grateful to me as I had been to
him.

Morley's Hotel is in Trafalgar Square, at one end of the Strand. I had
looked up Old Jewry in the Post-office Directory. The hall porter of the
hotel had given me general directions, and I walked out into the Strand,
and took an omnibus with the word "Bank" painted on it. On the top of
the London omnibus there is a double seat along the middle, on which the
passengers sit facing the buildings on each side of the street. I
occupied one of these places. The Bank of England was my objective
point, for Old Jewry was near it. I passed St. Paul's, whose towering
height and blackened walls I recognized, and entered Cheapside--a name
which sounded quite familiar to me. I descended from my perch when the
omnibus stopped, and after several inquiries found the place I sought.

Old Jewry was nothing but a narrow lane, and I had no difficulty in
finding the number of Mr. Bunyard's office. I followed his name,
repeated on the walls, up three flights of stairs; and by the time I had
reached the third floor, I came to the conclusion that my uncle's agent
was a person of no great consequence. He was fortunately in his room, a
little apartment ten feet square, with no furniture but a desk and two
chairs. Mr. Bunyard was a man of fifty or more. He stopped writing when
I entered, and looked at me.

"Mr. Bunyard?" I asked, as politely as I could, while my heart leaped
with emotion.

"The same," replied he.

I handed him the letter, which he opened at once. He took from it a bill
of exchange, which seemed to light up his face with satisfaction.

"I am very happy to hear from my friend Mr. Thornton. I hope he is quite
well. He does not mention the bearer of this letter," continued the
agent, bestowing an inquiring look upon me.

"He was not aware, when he wrote the letter, that I should be the bearer
of it," I replied, evasively. "My name is Thornton."

"I am happy to meet you, Mr. Thornton," he added.

"How is Mrs. Thornton now?" I inquired, boldly, though my heart almost
sank within me, when I put the question.

He looked at me--appeared to hesitate; but a glance at the letter and
the bill of exchange I had brought apparently reassured him. Doubtless
he concluded, as I supposed he would, that it was all right, since I
came directly from his employer, and was the bearer of a payment to him.

"Mrs. Thornton is quite as well as usual," he replied.

"I wish to see her," I continued, squarely.

"Did your father desire you to see her?" he asked, doubtfully.

"Of course he did," I answered, which was quite true, though my
conscience charged me with deceiving him. "I wish to make an
arrangement with her."

"Indeed?"

"Yes, sir."

"It would be proper that any arrangement with her should be made through
me," he added, cautiously.

"Of course, the actual business will be done through you," I replied,
magnanimously.

"Certainly it should be, for I have served Mr. Thornton very faithfully
for many years in this matter, and at a very reasonable compensation."

"I know that he appreciates your devotion, and is willing to do the
right thing by you," I continued at a venture; and I thought there was
no harm in committing my uncle to a liberal policy.

"I have been paid only one hundred pound a year for my services, and
that only for a brief period. Really I must insist, before you see the
poor lady, that you should explain your business with her."

"My time is short," I replied, rather brusquely. "I wish to know for
what sum, cash down, you will terminate your relations with the lady."

"That will require some consideration," replied he, apparently pleased
with the idea.

"Of course your client in this matter is entirely in your power. He
cannot shake you off, and whatever arrangement is made with the lady
shall be done through you. Now, if you will give me her address, I will
go and see her, and in the mean time you can make up your estimate of
the sum that ought to be paid to you," I said, with the most
business-like air I could assume.

"I will do it," replied he, after some hesitation; and he wrote the
address on a piece of paper.

How eagerly I took it! I felt then that the battle had been fought and
won. On the paper was written: "Mrs. Thornton, Stony Stratford, Bucks.
Inquire for Mrs. Challis." My business with Mr. Bunyard was done, and I
hastened away, though he insisted upon my remaining longer. I think he
was sorry he had given me the address before I left the room.

Being near the banker's, I drew fifty pounds, which was paid without
question.

I went back to Morley's, and ascertained that Stony Stratford was on
the road to Rugby, and that I must leave the train at Wolverton station.
I called a Hansom cab, and reached Euston Square depot just in time for
the train. I will not attempt to describe the emotions which agitated me
as I sped over the country. I was on the point of meeting my mother, and
though the rich panorama of an English landscape was passing before me,
I could think of nothing else. In two hours I reached the Wolverton
station, and there learned that it was four and a half miles to Stony
Stratford. I engaged a team to take me over. My driver inquired till he
found the house of Mrs. Challis. It was a small and mean dwelling, and I
began to feel indignant that my mother was compelled to live in such a
place. My knock, under the influence of this feeling, was a very decided
one.

"Is Mrs. Thornton at home?" I inquired--my utterance almost choked by
agitation--of the woman who came to the door.

"She is, but she don't see any one," replied the woman, sourly, as she
abruptly closed the door in my face.

I rapped again, and my knuckles not proving sufficient, I used my boot.

"You can't see Mrs. Thornton!" snarled the woman, angrily, as she opened
the door a little crack.

"I can and will!" I replied. "Mr. Bunyard sent me."

"O, did he?" she added, opening the door.

"Here's the paper he gave me."

She looked at it, and invited me to enter. My limbs trembled under me as
I walked into the room.

"Mrs. Thornton is out in the garden, but I will call her," said Mrs.
Challis--or I supposed it was she.

"Never mind calling her. I will see her in the garden," I added, going
out of the back door, which was open, without waiting for the woman's
permission.

Walking in the back part of the garden I discovered a lady, thin and
pale, dressed in coarse but neat garments. It was my mother. I could
hardly control myself. My eyes filled with tears as I looked at her.

"Mrs. Thornton?" I asked, tremblingly.

"I am Mrs. Thornton," replied she, gazing curiously at me.

"I suppose you know Amos Thornton?" I continued, not daring to tell her
who I was.

"To my sorrow I do," she replied, shaking her head.

"I have heard that you had a son."

"He is gone--why do you ask?"

"Gone?"

"He is dead," said she, sadly.

"Are you sure?"

"For a long time I would not believe it."

"I think it is a mistake."

Her chest heaved with emotion, and the tears flowed down her pale cheek.
She gazed at me a moment, and then threw her arms around my neck.

"You are my son--I know you are!" sobbed she.

"My mother!" was all I could say; and we wept for many minutes in
silence, closely folded in each other's arms.

When I raised my head, Mrs. Challis was standing by us. She had a
troubled look, as though she feared something had gone wrong.

"What does all this mean?" she asked; but neither of us took any notice
of her.

"I have hoped all the time that you were not dead," said my mother,
smiling through her tears.

"I must return to London immediately, and you must go with me, mother,"
I continued.

"To London!" exclaimed Mrs. Challis. "Indeed she must not go to London!"

"Indeed she must!" I added, as decidedly as though I meant to break
through a stone wall, if need be. "Get ready as quick as you can,
mother, for there is not more than time enough for us to reach the
station."

"I say she cannot go!" interposed Mrs. Challis.

"And I say she can and shall! Get your clothes, mother."

"There is three pound five due for her board," added the landlady.

"Give me the bill, and I will pay it."

My mother seemed to be bewildered, but I led her to the house, and urged
her to prepare for her journey. Mrs. Challis, after I had paid her bill,
continued to object to the departure of her boarder. I told her if she
wished to keep out of trouble, the less she said, the better it would be
for her. My poor mother had been so long a prisoner, that she was
confused by the sudden change in her prospects. I went into her room,
and assisted her in packing her meagre wardrobe. She had put on a
well-worn black silk dress, and an antiquated bonnet lay on the table. I
told her to take only such clothing as she would need immediately, for I
saw that most of her wearing apparel was not worth the transportation.
Having thrust these articles into a carpet-bag, I hurried her out of the
house to the carriage which was waiting for me at the door.

We reached the station in time for the London train. My mother was
excited, and I did not permit her to speak of the past. I kept up a
lively conversation, and did not allow her to think of her wrongs and
her sorrows. On our arrival, we went to Morley's, where I obtained a
room for her. Mr. Solomons had just arrived. He had received the
telegraphic despatch in Liverpool. I hastily told him my story, and what
I had done since my arrival in London.

"My dear boy!" exclaimed he, "you have done wonders. I was sure you were
lost overboard. No one had seen you, or heard anything of you; only the
officers and sailors had warned you not to sit on the rail."

"Where is Dunkswell?" I asked.

"He came to London in the same train I did."

At my request Mr. Solomons accompanied me to the office of Bunyard. When
we entered, Dunkswell was there. Both of them had found out that
"somebody" was smart.

"Young man, you have deceived me!" said Bunyard, savagely.

"The wicked deceiveth himself," I replied, in words better than my own.
"I have called to say that you need give yourself no further trouble in
regard to Mrs. Thornton. I wish to tell you now that she is in London,
and that she is my mother."

"I must be paid--"

"Paid!" I interposed. "I'll pay you! We are not far from Newgate, and if
my mother is willing, I will help you to lodgings there. As for you, E.
Dunkswell, you can go back to Tom Thornton, and tell him you have burnt
your fingers. You helped me overboard."

"I!" exclaimed he, with quivering lip.

"Did he?" asked Mr. Solomons.

"I believe he did; perhaps I can prove it."

E. Dunkswell sank into a chair, pale as a ghost. Bunyard looked cheap,
and said no more about being paid, and I retired from the presence of my
defeated foes. Mr. Solomons insisted that they should be punished,
especially Dunkswell, but I told him I could not prove that he had
pushed me overboard; and I could not stay in London long enough to
follow up the criminal. I engaged passage in the Saturday steamer for my
mother and myself before returning to the hotel.

We remained four days in London, during which time I kept my mother's
mind fully occupied in replenishing her wardrobe.




CHAPTER XXVI.

IN WHICH ERNEST RETURNS TO PARKVILLE WITH HIS MOTHER, AND THE STORY ENDS
ON THE SHORES OF LAKE ADIENO.


IF E. Dunkswell had not helped me overboard, as I think he did, he might
have reached London before I did, and thus defeated me, at least for a
time. Twice had he confused and confounded his own schemes. Bunyard,
deceived by the letter I had brought from my uncle, gave me the address
of my mother. If not before, he learned his blunder when Dunkswell
arrived. I could fancy the confusion with which they confronted each
other when the facts came out. But it was "all up" with them. They had
been "whipped out," and I was satisfied. I did not wish to prosecute
them, because it would delay me, and because it would expose our family
affairs, and subject my mother to more excitement than she could bear.

She was weak and nervous, and I did not encourage her to talk much of
the past. I went with her to Westminster Abbey, the Tower of London, and
other places with which she was familiar. On Friday afternoon we bade
adieu to Mr. Solomons, and went to Liverpool. My mother was now entirely
changed in appearance. She had laid aside her worn-out black silk and
her unfashionable bonnet. She looked like a lady, and she was one. I was
proud of her. The future was now full of hope and joy to me, and I was
