there is just time for your tale.”

As the word “Edith” passed her lips, again Treherne started and eyed
them both, and again they smiled, as Mrs. Snowdon caressed the
smooth cheek leaning on her knee, and looking full at him began the
last recital.

“You have been recounting the pranks of imaginary ghosts; let me show
you the workings of some real spirits, evil and good, that haunt every
heart and home, making its misery or joy. At Christmastime, in a country
house, a party of friends met to keep the holidays, and very happily
they might have done so had not one person marred the peace of several.
Love, jealousy, deceit, and nobleness were the spirits that played their
freaks with these people. The person of whom I speak was more haunted
than the rest, and much tormented, being willful, proud, and jealous.
Heaven help her, she had had no one to exorcise these ghosts for her,
and they goaded her to do much harm. Among these friends there were more
than one pair of lovers, and much tangling of plots and plans, for
hearts are wayward and mysterious things, and cannot love as duty bids
or prudence counsels. This woman held the key to all the secrets of the
house, and, having a purpose to gain, she used her power selfishly, for
a time. To satisfy a doubt, she feigned a fancy for a gentleman who once
did her the honor of admiring her, and, to the great scandal of certain
sage persons, permitted him to show his regard for her, knowing that it
was but a transient amusement on his part as well as upon hers. In the
hands of this woman lay a secret which could make or mar the happiness
of the best and dearest of the party. The evil spirits which haunted her
urged her to mar their peace and gratify a sinful hope. On the other
side, honor, justice, and generosity prompted her to make them happy,
and while she wavered there came to her a sweet enchantress who, with a
word, banished the tormenting ghosts forever, and gave the haunted woman
a talisman to keep her free henceforth.”

There the earnest voice faltered, and with a sudden impulse Mrs. Snowdon
bent her head and kissed the fair forehead which had bent lower and
lower as she went on. Each listener understood the truth, lightly veiled
in that hasty fable, and each found in it a different meaning. Sir
Jasper frowned and bit his lips, Annon glanced anxiously from face to
face, Octavia hid hers, and Treherne’s flashed with sudden intelligence,
while Rose laughed low to herself, enjoying the scene. Blanche, who was
getting sleepy, said, with a stifled gape, “That is a very nice, moral
little story, but I wish there had been some real ghosts in it.”

“There was. Will you come and see them?”

As she put the question, Mrs. Snowdon rose abruptly, wishing to end the
séance, and beckoning them to follow glided up the great stairway. All
obeyed, wondering what whim possessed her, and quite ready for any jest
in store for them.




Chapter VIII


JASPER

She led them to the north gallery and, pausing at the door, said
merrily, “The ghost--or ghosts rather, for there were two--which
frightened Patty were Sir Jasper and myself, meeting to discuss certain
important matters which concerned Mr. Treherne. If you want to see
spirits we will play phantom for you, and convince you of our power.”

“Good, let us go and have a ghostly dance, as a proper finale of our
revel,” answered Rose as they flocked into the long hall.

At that moment the great clock struck twelve, and all paused to bid the
old year adieu. Sir Jasper was the first to speak, for, angry with Mrs.
Snowdon, yet thankful to her for making a jest to others of what had
been earnest to him, he desired to hide his chagrin under a gay manner;
and taking Rose around the waist was about to waltz away as she
proposed, saying cheerily, “‘Come one and all, and dance the new year
in,’” when a cry from Octavia arrested him, and turning he saw her
stand, pale and trembling, pointing to the far end of the hall.

Eight narrow Gothic windows pierced either wall of the north
gallery. A full moon sent her silvery light strongly in upon the
eastern side, making broad bars of brightness across the floor. No
fires burned there now, and wherever the moonlight did not fall deep
shadows lay. As Octavia cried out, all looked, and all distinctly
saw a tall, dark figure moving noiselessly across the second bar of
light far down the hall.

“Is it some jest of yours?” asked Sir Jasper of Mrs. Snowdon, as the
form vanished in the shadow.

“No, upon my honor, I know nothing of it! I only meant to relieve
Octavia’s superstitious fears by showing her our pranks” was the
whispered reply as Mrs. Snowdon’s cheek paled, and she drew nearer
to Jasper.

“Who is there?” called Treherne in a commanding tone.

No answer, but a faint, cold breath of air seemed to sigh along the
arched roof and die away as the dark figure crossed the third streak
of moonlight. A strange awe fell upon them all, and no one spoke, but
stood watching for the appearance of the shape. Nearer and nearer it
came, with soundless steps, and as it reached the sixth window its
outlines were distinctly visible. A tall, wasted figure, all in black,
with a rosary hanging from the girdle, and a dark beard half
concealing the face.

“The Abbot’s ghost, and very well got up,” said Annon, trying to laugh
but failing decidedly, for again the cold breath swept over them,
causing a general shudder.

“Hush!” whispered Treherne, drawing Octavia to his side with a
protecting gesture.

Once more the phantom appeared and disappeared, and as they waited for
it to cross the last bar of light that lay between it and them, Mrs.
Snowdon stepped forward to the edge of the shadow in which they stood,
as if to confront the apparition alone. Out of the darkness it came, and
in the full radiance of the light it paused. Mrs. Snowdon, being
nearest, saw the face first, and uttering a faint cry dropped down upon
the stone floor, covering up her eyes. Nothing human ever wore a look
like that of the ghastly, hollow-eyed, pale-lipped countenance below the
hood. All saw it and held their breath as it slowly raised a shadowy arm
and pointed a shriveled finger at Sir Jasper.

“Speak, whatever you are, or I’ll quickly prove whether you are man or
spirit!” cried Jasper fiercely, stepping forward as if to grasp the
extended arm that seemed to menace him alone.

An icy gust swept through the hall, and the phantom slowly receded into
the shadow. Jasper sprang after it, but nothing crossed the second
stream of light, and nothing remained in the shade. Like one possessed
by a sudden fancy he rushed down the gallery to find all fast and empty,
and to return looking very strangely. Blanche had fainted away and Annon
was bearing her out of the hall. Rose was clinging to Mrs. Snowdon, and
Octavia leaned against her cousin, saying in a fervent whisper, “Thank
God it did not point at you!”

“Am I then dearer than your brother?” he whispered back.

There was no audible reply, but one little hand involuntarily pressed
his, though the other was outstretched toward Jasper, who came up white
and startled but firm and quiet. Affecting to make light of it, he said,
forcing a smile as he raised Mrs. Snowdon, “It is some stupid joke of
the servants. Let us think no more of it. Come, Edith, this is not like
your usual self.”

“It was nothing human, Jasper; you know it as well as I. Oh, why did I
bring you here to meet the warning phantom that haunts your house!”

“Nay, if my time is near the spirit would have found me out wherever
I might be. I have no faith in that absurd superstition--I laugh at
and defy it. Come down and drink my health in wine from the Abbot’s
own cellar.”

But no one had heart for further gaiety, and, finding Lady Treherne
already alarmed by Annon, they were forced to tell her all, and find
their own bewilderment deepened by her unalterable belief in the
evil omen.

At her command the house was searched, the servants cross-questioned,
and every effort made to discover the identity of the apparition. All in
vain; the house was as usual, and not a man or maid but turned pale at
the idea of entering the gallery at midnight. At my lady’s request, all
promised to say no more upon the mystery, and separated at last to such
sleep as they could enjoy.

Very grave were the faces gathered about the breakfast table next
morning, and very anxious the glances cast on Sir Jasper as he came in,
late as usual, looking uncommonly blithe and well. Nothing serious ever
made a deep impression on his mercurial nature. Treherne had more the
air of a doomed man, being very pale and worn, in spite of an occasional
gleam of happiness as he looked at Octavia. He haunted Jasper like a
shadow all the morning, much to that young gentleman’s annoyance, for
both his mother and sister hung about him with faces of ill-dissembled
anxiety. By afternoon his patience gave out, and he openly rebelled
against the tender guard kept over him. Ringing for his horse he said
decidedly, “I’m bored to death with the solemnity which pervades the
house today, so I’m off for a brisk gallop, before I lose my temper and
spirits altogether.”

“Come with me in the pony carriage, Jasper. I’ve not had a drive with
you for a long while, and should enjoy it so much,” said my lady,
detaining him.

“Mrs. Snowdon looks as if she needed air to revive her roses, and the
pony carriage is just the thing for her, so I will cheerfully resign my
seat to her,” he answered laughing, as he forced himself from his
mother’s hand.

“Take the girls in the clarence. We all want a breath of air, and you
are the best whip we know. Be gallant and say yes, dear.”

“No, thank you, Tavie, that won’t do. Rose and Blanche are both asleep,
and you are dying to go and do likewise, after your vigils last night.
As a man and a brother I beg you’ll do so, and let me ride as I like.”

“Suppose you ask Annon to join you--” began Treherne with well-assumed
indifference; but Sir Jasper frowned and turned sharply on him, saying,
half-petulantly, half-jocosely:

“Upon my life I should think I was a boy or a baby, by the manner in
which you mount guard over me today. If you think I’m going to live in
daily fear of some mishap, you are all much mistaken. Ghost or no ghost,
I shall make merry while I can; a short life and a jolly one has always
been my motto, you know, so fare you well till dinnertime.”

They watched him gallop down the avenue, and then went their different
ways, still burdened with a nameless foreboding. Octavia strolled into
the conservatory, thinking to refresh herself with the balmy silence
which pervaded the place, but Annon soon joined her, full of a lover’s
hopes and fears.

“Miss Treherne, I have ventured to come for my answer. Is my New Year to
be a blissful or a sad one?” he asked eagerly.

“Forgive me if I give you an unwelcome reply, but I must be true, and so
regretfully refuse the honor you do me,” she said sorrowfully.

“May I ask why?”

“Because I do not love you.”

“And you do love your cousin,” he cried angrily, pausing to watch her
half-averted face.

She turned it fully toward him and answered, with her native sincerity,
“Yes, I do, with all my heart, and now my mother will not thwart me, for
Maurice has saved my life, and I am free to devote it all to him.”

“Happy man, I wish I had been a cripple!” sighed Annon. Then with a
manful effort to be just and generous, he added heartily, “Say no more,
he deserves you; I want no sacrifice to duty; I yield, and go away,
praying heaven to bless you now and always.”

He kissed her hand and left her to seek my lady and make his adieus, for
no persuasion could keep him. Leaving a note for Sir Jasper, he hurried
away, to the great relief of Treherne and the deep regret of Blanche,
who, however, lived in hopes of another trial later in the season.

“Here comes Jasper, Mamma, safe and well,” cried Octavia an hour or two
later, as she joined her mother on the terrace, where my lady had been
pacing restlessly to and fro nearly ever since her son rode away.

With a smile of intense relief she waved her handkerchief as he came
clattering up the drive, and seeing her he answered with hat and hand.
He usually dismounted at the great hall door, but a sudden whim made him
ride along the wall that lay below the terrace, for he was a fine
horseman, and Mrs. Snowdon was looking from her window. As he
approached, the peacocks fled screaming, and one flew up just before the
horse’s eyes as his master was in the act of dismounting. The spirited
creature was startled, sprang partway up the low, broad steps of the
terrace, and, being sharply checked, slipped, fell, and man and horse
rolled down together.

Never did those who heard it forget the cry that left Lady Treherne’s
lips as she saw the fall. It brought out both guests and servants, to
find Octavia recklessly struggling with the frightened horse, and my
lady down upon the stones with her son’s bleeding head in her arms.

They bore in the senseless, shattered body, and for hours tried
everything that skill and sciences could devise to save the young man’s
life. But every effort was in vain, and as the sun set Sir Jasper lay
dying. Conscious at last, and able to speak, he looked about him with a
troubled glance, and seemed struggling with some desire that
overmastered pain and held death at bay.

“I want Maurice,” he feebly said, at length.

“Dear lad, I’m here,” answered his cousin’s voice from a seat in the
shadow of the half-drawn curtains.

“Always near when I need you. Many a scrape have you helped me out of,
but this is beyond your power,” and a faint smile passed over Jasper’s
lips as the past flitted before his mind. But the smile died, and a
groan of pain escaped him as he cried suddenly, “Quick! Let me tell it
before it is too late! Maurice never will, but bear the shame all his
life that my dead name may be untarnished. Bring Edith; she must hear
the truth.”

She was soon there, and, lying in his mother’s arms, one hand in his
cousin’s, and one on his sister’s bent head, Jasper rapidly told the
secret which had burdened him for a year.

“I did it; I forged my uncle’s name when I had lost so heavily at play
that I dared not tell my mother, or squander more of my own fortune. I
deceived Maurice, and let him think the check a genuine one; I made him
present it and get the money, and when all went well I fancied I was
safe. But my uncle discovered it secretly, said nothing, and, believing
Maurice the forger, disinherited him. I never knew this till the old man
died, and then it was too late. I confessed to Maurice, and he forgave
me. He said, ‘I am helpless now, shut out from the world, with nothing
to lose or gain, and soon to be forgotten by those who once knew me, so
let the suspicion of shame, if any such there be, still cling to me, and
do you go your way, rich, happy, honorable, and untouched by any shadow
on your fame.’ Mother, I let him do it, unconscious as he was that many
knew the secret sin and fancied him the doer of it.”

“Hush, Jasper, let it pass. I can bear it; I promised your dear father
to be your staunch friend through life, and I have only kept my word.”

“God knows you have, but now my life ends, and I cannot die till you are
cleared. Edith, I told you half the truth, and you would have used it
against him had not some angel sent this girl to touch your heart. You
