I added, "I am a Christian, Mr. Thorold."
"A Christian!" he cried, with flashes of light and shadow
crossing his brow. "Is that it?"
"That is it," I assented.
"But, my dear Miss Randolph  you know we are friends?"
"Yes," I said, smiling, and glad that he had not forgotten it.
"Then we may talk about what we like. Christians go to hops."
I looked at him without answering.
"Don't you know they do?"
"I suppose they may,"  I answered slowly.
"But they do. There was our former colonel's wife  Mrs. Holt;
she was a regular church-goer, and a member of the church; she
was always at the hop, and her sister; they are both church
members. Mrs. Lambkin, General Lambkin's wife, she is another.
Major Banks's sisters  those pretty girls,  they are always
there; and it is the same with visitors. Everybody comes;
their being Christians does not make any difference."
"Captain Thorold," said I,  "I mean Mr. Thorold, don't you
obey your orders?"
"Yes  generally," he said. And he laughed.
"So must I."
"You are not a soldier."
"Yes  I am."
"Have you got orders not to come to our hop?"
"I think I have. You will not understand me, but this is what
I mean, Mr. Thorold. I am a soldier, of another sort from you;
and I have orders not to go anywhere that my Captain does not
send me or where I cannot be serving Him."
"I wish you would show those orders to me."
I gave him the open page which I had been studying, that same
chapter of Colossians, and pointed out the words. He looked at
them, and turned over the page, and turned it back.
"I don't see the orders," he said.
I was silent. I had not expected he would.
"And I was going to say, I never saw any Christians that were
soldiers; but I have, one. And so you are another?" And he
bent upon me a look so curiously considering, tender, and
wondering, at once, that I could not help smiling.
"A soldier!" said he, again,  "You? Have you ever been under
fire?"
I smiled again, and then, I don't know what it was. I cannot
tell what, in the question and in the look, touched some weak
spot. The question called up such sharp answers; the look
spoke so much sympathy. It was very odd for me to do; but I
was taken unawares; my eyes fell and filled, and before I
could help it were more than full. I do not know, to this day,
how  I came to cry before Thorold. It was very soon over, my
weakness, whatever it was. It seemed to touch him amazingly.
He got hold of my hand, put it to his lips, and kissed it over
and over, outside and inside.
"I can see it all in your face!" he said, tenderly; "the
strength and the truth to do anything, and bear  whatever is
necessary. But I am not so good as you. I cannot bear anything
unless it is necessary; and this isn't."
"Oh, no, nor I!" I said; "but this is necessary, Mr. Thorold."
"Prove it  come."
"You do not see the orders," I said; "but there they are. 'Do
all in the name of the Lord Jesus.' I cannot go to that place
'in His name.' "
"I do not think I understand what you mean," he said, gently.
"A soldier, the best that ever lived, is his own man when he
is off duty. We go to the hop to play  not to work."
"Ah, but a soldier of Christ is never 'off duty,' " I said.
"See, Mr. Thorold  'whatsoever ye do'  'whether ye eat or
drink or whatsoever ye do'  That covers all; don't you see?"
"That would make it a very heavy thing to be a Christian," he
said; "there would be no liberty at all."
"Oh, but it is all liberty!" I said.  "When you love Jesus."
He looked at me so enquiringly, so inquisitively, that I went
on.
"You do not think it hard to do things for anybody you love?"
"No," said he. "I would like to do things for you."
I remember I smiled at that, for it seemed to me very pleasant
to hear him say it; but I went on.
"Then you understand it, Mr. Thorold."
"No," said he, "I do not understand it; for there is this
difficulty. I do not see what in the world such an innocent
amusement as that we are talking of, can have to do with
Christian duty, one way or another. Every Christian woman that
I know comes to it,  that is young enough; and some that
aren't."
It was very hard to explain.
"Suppose they disobey orders," I said slowly;  "that would be
another reason why I should obey them."
"Of course. But do they?"
"I should," I said. "I am not serving Christ when I am there.
I am not doing the work He has given me to do. I cannot go."
"I came down here on purpose to persuade you," he said.
It was not necessary to answer that, otherwise than by a look.
"And you are unpersuadable," he said; "unmanageable, of
course, by me; strong as a giant, and gentle as a snowflake.
But the snowflake melts; and you  you will go up to the hotel
as good a crystal as when you came down."
This made me laugh, and we had a good laugh together, holding
each other's hand.
"Do you know," said he, "I must go? There is a roll of a
summons that reaches my ear, and I must be at the top of the
bank in one minute and a quarter. I had no leave to be here."
"Hadn't you?" I said. "Oh, then, go, go directly, Mr.
Thorold!"
But I could not immediately release, my hand, and holding it
and looking at me Thorold laughed again; his hazel eyes
sparkling and dancing and varying with what feelings I could
not tell. They looked very steadily, too, till I remember mine
went down, and then, lifting his cap, he turned suddenly and
sprang away. I sat down to get breath and think.
I had come to my place rather sober and sorrowful; and what a
pleasant morning I had had! I did not mind at all, now, my not
going to the dances. I had explained myself to Mr. Thorold,
and we were not any further apart for it, and I had had a
chance to speak to him about other things too. And though he
did not understand me, perhaps he would some day. The warning
gong sounded before I had well got to my Bible reading. My
Bible reading was very pleasant this morning, and I could not
be balked of it; so I spent over it near the whole half hour
that remained, and rushed up to the hotel in the last five
minutes. Of course I was rather late and quite out of breath;
and having no voice and being a little excited, I suppose was
the reason that I curtseyed to Dr. Sandford, whom I met at the
head of the piazza steps. He looked at me like a man taken
aback.
"Daisy!" he exclaimed.
"Yes, sir," I answered.
"Where have you come from?"
"From my study," I said. "I have a nice place down by the
river which is my study."
"Rather a public situation for a private withdrawing place,"
said the doctor.
"Oh, no!" said I. "At this hour " But there I stopped and
began again. "It is really very private. And it is the
pleasantest study place I think I ever had."
"To study what?"
I held up my book.
"It agrees with you," said the doctor.
"What?" said I, laughing.
"Daisy!" said Dr. Sandford  "I left a quiet bud of a flower a
few days ago  a little demure bit of a schoolgirl, learning
geology; and I have got a young princess here, a full rose,
prickles and all, I don't doubt. What has Mrs. Sandford done
with you?"
"I do not know," said I, thinking I had better be demure
again. "She took me to the hop."
"The hop?  How did you like that?"
"I liked it very much."
"You did? You liked it? I did not know that you would go, with
your peculiar notions."
"I went," I said; "I did not know what it was. How could I
help liking it? But I am not going again."
"Why not, if you liked it?"
"I am not going again," I repeated. "Shall we have a walk to
the hills to-day, Dr. Sandford?"
"Grant!" said his sister-in-law's voice, "don't you mean the
child shall have any breakfast? What made you so late, Daisy?
Come in, and talk afterwards. Grant is uneasy if he can't see
at least your shadow all the while."
We went in to breakfast, and I took a delightful walk with Dr.
Sandford afterward, back in the ravines of the hills; but I
had got an odd little impression of two things. First, that
he, like Preston, was glad to have me give up going to the
hops. I was sure of it from his air and tone of voice, and it
puzzled me; for he could not possibly have Preston's dislike
of Northerners, nor be unwilling that I should know them. The
other thing was, that he would not like my seeing Mr. Thorold.
I don't know how I knew it, but I knew it. I thought  it was
very odd  but I thought he was jealous; or rather, I felt he
would be if he had any knowledge of our friendship for each
other. So I resolved he should have no such knowledge.
Our life went on now as it had done at our first coming. Every
day Dr. Sandford and I went to the woods and hills, on a
regular naturalist's expedition; and nothing is so pleasant as
such expeditions. At home, we were busy with microscopic
examinations, preparations, and studies; delightful studies,
and beautiful lessons, in which the doctor was the finest of
instructors, as I have said, and I was at least the happiest
of scholars. Mrs. Sandford fumed a little, and Mr. Sandford
laughed; but that did no harm. Everybody went to the hops,
except the doctor and me; and every morning and evening, at
guard-mounting and at parade, I was on the ground behind the
guard tents to watch the things done and listen to the music
and enjoy all the various beauty. Sometimes I had a glimpse of
Thorold; for many both of cadets and officers used to come and
speak to me and rally me on my seclusion, and endeavour to
tempt me out of it. Thorold did not that; he only looked at
me, as if I were something to be a little wondered at but
wholly approved of. It was not a disagreeable look to meet.
"I must have it out with you," he said one evening, when he
had just a minute to speak to me. "There is a whole world, of
things I don't understand, and want to talk about. Let us go
Saturday afternoon and take a good, long walk up to 'Number
Four'  do you like hills?"
"Yes."
"Then let us go up there Saturday  will you?"
And when Saturday came, we went. Preston luckily was not on
hand; and Dr. Sandford, also luckily, was gone to dine at the
General's with his brother. There were no more shadows on
earth than there were clouds in the sky, as we took our way
across the plain and along the bank in front of the officers'
quarters looking north, and went out at the gate. Then we left
civilisation and the world behind us, and plunged into a wild
mountain region; going up by a track which few feet ever used,
the rough slope to "Number Four." Yet that a few feet used it
was plain.
"Do people come here to walk, much?" I asked, as we slowly
made our way up.
"Nobody comes here  for anything."
"Somebody goes here," I said. "This is a beaten path."
"Oh, there is a poor woodcutter's family at the top; they do
travel up and down occasionally."
"It is pretty," I said.
"It is pretty at the top; but we are a long way from that. Is
it too rough for you?"
"Not at all," I said. "I like it."
"You are a good walker, for a Southern girl."
"Oh, but I have lived at the North," I said; "I am only
Southern born."
Soon, however, he made me stop to rest. There was a good grey
rock under the shadow of the trees; Thorold placed me on that
and threw himself on the moss at my feet. We were up so high
in the world that the hills on the other side of the river
rose beautifully before us through the trees, and a sunny bit
of the lower ground of the plain looked like a bit of another
world that we were leaving. It was a sunny afternoon and a
little hazy; every line softened, every colour made richer
under the mellowing atmosphere.
"Now you can explain it all to me," said Thorold, as he threw
himself down. "You have walked too fast. You are warm."
"And you do not look as if it was warm at all."
"I! This is nothing to me," he said. "But perhaps it will
warm me and cool you, if we get into a talk. I want
explanations."
"About what, Mr. Thorold?"
"Well  if you will excuse me  about you," he said, with a
very pleasant look, frank and soft at once.
"I am quite ready to explain myself," I said. "But I am
afraid, when I have done it, that you will not understand me,
Mr. Thorold."
"Think I cannot?" said he.
"I am afraid not,  without knowing what I know."
"Let us see," said Thorold. "I want to know why you judge so
differently from other people about the right and the wrong of
hops and such things. Somebody is mistaken  that is clear."
"But the difficulty is, I cannot give you my point of view."
"Please try " said Thorold contentedly, resting his elbow in
a soft cushion of moss.
"Mr. Thorold, I told you, I am a soldier."
"Yes," he said, looking up at me, and little sparkles of light
seeming to come out of his hazel eyes.
"I showed you my orders."
"But I did not understand them to be what you said."
"Suppose you were in an enemy's country," I said;  "a rebel
country; and your orders were, to do nothing which could be
construed into encouraging the rebels, or which could help
them to think that your king would hold friendship with them,
or that there was not a perfect gulf of division between you
and them."
"But this is not such a case?" said Thorold.
"That is only part," I said. "Suppose your orders were, to
keep constant watch and hold yourself at every minute ready
for duty, and to go nowhere and do nothing that would unfit
you for instant service, or put you off your watch."
"But, Miss Randolph!" said Thorold, a little impatiently  "do
these little dances unfit you for duty?"
"Yes," I said. "And put me off my watch."
"Your watch against what? Oh, pardon me! and please enlighten
me. I do not mean to be impertinent."
"I mean my watch for orders  my watch against evil."
"Won't you explain?" said Thorold, gently and impatiently at
once. "What sort of evil can you possibly fear, in connection
with such an innocent little recreation? What sort of 'orders'
are you expecting?"
I hesitated. Should I tell him? would he believe? was it best
to unveil the working of my own heart to that degree? And how
could I evade or shirk the question?
"I should not like to tell you," I said at length, "the
thoughts and feelings I found stirring in myself, after the
last time I went to the hop. I dare say they are something
that belongs especially to a woman, and that a man would not
know them."
Thorold turned on me again a wonderfully gentle look, for a
gay fiery young Vermonter, as I knew him to be.
"It wanted only that!" he said.  "And the orders, Miss
Randolph  what 'orders' are you expecting? You said, orders."
"Orders may be given by a sign," I said. "They need not be in
words."
He smiled. "I see, you have studied the subject."
"I mean, only, that whenever a duty is plainly put before me 
something given me to do  I know I have 'orders' to do it.
And then, Mr. Thorold, as the orders are not spoken, nor
brought to me by a messenger, only made known to me by a sign
of some sort,  if I did not keep a good watch, I should be
sure to miss the sign sometimes, don't you see?"
"This is soldiership!" said Thorold. And getting up, he stood
before me in attitude like a soldier as he was, erect, still,
with arms folded, only not up to his chin like Captain
Percival, but folded manfully. He had been watching me very
intently; now he stood as intently looking off over the
further landscape. Methought I had a sort of pride in his fine
appearance; and yet he did in no wise belong to me.
Nevertheless it was pleasant to see, the firm, still attitude,
the fine proportions, the military nicety of all his dress,
