latter part of September, though he attended to all the business of his
department.
During the summer Rosecrans had been operating in Tennessee and
Northern Georgia, and had obtained possession of Chattanooga--the most
important position between Richmond and the Mississippi. Bragg was
manoeuvring to cut him off from Nashville, his base of supplies.
Grant started large reënforcements, including Sherman's command,
to the threatened point. On the 20th of September, Rosecrans was
defeated, before any of Grant's army reached him, in the heavy battle
of Chickamauga, and compelled to retire to Chattanooga. His army was
saved only by the address and bravery of General Thomas, who held his
position in the face of an immensely superior force. A delay of ten
days in the delivery of Halleck's order to Grant prevented the latter
from sending troops in season to be of service.
Early in October Grant was directed, as soon as he was in condition to
take the field,--for he was then able to move only on crutches,--to
repair to Cairo, and report by telegraph. The order reached him at
Columbus, and the next day, feeble as he was, he started for the point
indicated, with his staff and headquarters. On his arrival he was
instructed to meet an officer of the War Department in Louisville,
Kentucky, to receive further orders. He started immediately by
railroad, but at Indianapolis he met the secretary of war himself--Mr.
Stanton.
A new command, called forth by the emergency, had been created for
General Grant--"The military division of the Mississippi," including
all the territory south of the Ohio between the Alleghanies and
the Mississippi, with the exception of that occupied by Banks. It
comprised, besides his own department of the Tennessee, those of the
Cumberland, under Rosecrans, and the Ohio, under Burnside, all of which
were now placed under his command. Grant had suggested this step a year
before, in order to insure harmonious operations.
The secretary of war also carried two other orders with him, one
continuing Rosecrans in his command of the army of the Cumberland,
and the other removing him, and putting General Thomas in his place.
Grant was permitted to make his choice between the two, and without
hesitation he preferred the latter. Mr. Stanton accompanied the
commander of the new division to Louisville, where it was rumored that
Rosecrans was actually preparing to abandon Chattanooga, so closely
was he pressed by the rebels, and harassed by the cutting off of his
supplies. Grant, by order of the secretary, immediately assumed his
command, telegraphing his order to Rosecrans, and assigning Thomas to
the army of the Cumberland. He immediately took measures to prevent
the apprehended calamity, desiring Thomas to hold Chattanooga at all
hazards. The hero who had saved the entire army at Chickamauga replied
at once in those memorable words which have been so often quoted, "I
will hold the town till we starve."
East Tennessee, that home of the tried and trusty patriots, who had
been so long neglected, and who had suffered untold misery, had been
occupied by the national troops, and was now held by Burnside. Its
safety depended upon the operations in progress at Chattanooga, which
was the key-point of the system of railroads radiating to the east and
south. It was absolutely necessary for the success of the national
arms to hold this place, not only on account of its immense strategic
importance, but because nearly all the people of the mountain region in
which it is situated were loyal.
When Vicksburg fell, Bragg had been strengthened by the arrival of
the troops which had been operating under Johnston in Grant's rear.
But Rosecrans had out-generaled Bragg by getting to the southward of
him, and threatening his supplies, thus compelling him to abandon
Chattanooga. Having been largely reënforced, the rebel general had
beaten Rosecrans at Chickamauga, and driven him into Chattanooga,
where he had fortified himself, with the intention of holding the
position.
Three miles from the Tennessee was Missionary Ridge, a range of hills
four hundred feet high, which Bragg made haste to occupy. West of the
town was Lookout Mountain, twenty-two hundred feet high, and three
miles distant. Under this mountain extended the Nashville Railroad,
by which the national army received its supplies. Rosecrans deemed it
necessary to abandon this commanding height, which Bragg instantly
seized. Planting his batteries upon it, he effectually held the country
around it, and entirely cut off all supplies for Chattanooga, except
such as could be sent by the mountain passes over sixty miles of rugged
roads. Bragg drew his lines around the place from the river above to
the river below.
Rosecrans's situation became desperate, for it was practically
impossible to supply his troops by the mountain roads. The army was
put on half rations, and three thousand sick and wounded were dying
for the want of proper nourishment and medicines. Fodder for the
horses and mules could not be obtained, and ten thousand of them
died. All the artillery horses were sent round through the mountains
to Bridgeport, but one third of them perished on the way. In case of
retreat, it would be necessary to abandon the artillery, for the want
of animals to draw it. To add to the perils of the situation, the
ammunition was nearly exhausted. Short of clothing, short of tents,
short of food, the condition of the army was deplorable in the extreme.
Heavy rains deluged the earth, and the sufferings of the men were
intense. It is not to be wondered at that Rosecrans was prepared to
resort to so mild an expedient as abandoning the place. Bragg was
waiting for starvation, cold, and intense suffering to fight his battle
for him. He was unwilling to sacrifice a soldier in an assault, when
Chattanooga was sure to fall under the weight of its own miseries. Only
in Andersonville and on Belle Island were the sufferings of the troops
surpassed.
Such was the terrible condition of the army of the Cumberland when
Grant started for the field of action.
CHAPTER XXIII.
    Wherein Captain Galligasken details the Means by which the
    illustrious Soldier relieved the Army of the Cumberland, and traces
    his Career to the glorious Victory of Chattanooga.
The stoutest heart would have been appalled at the situation in
and around Chattanooga. Rosecrans had failed, and the army of the
Cumberland was "bottled up" in the town. Grant, still feeble, and
unable to move without his crutches, was ordered to extricate the force
from its desperate dilemma; and not only to do this, but to save the
place itself. One less resolute than he, or equally resolute, but less
patriotic and devoted to the loyal cause, might well have exclaimed, "I
pray thee have me excused!" Disabled as he was, he might have pointed
to his crutches, and let them speak for him. They were not only a good
excuse, but a good reason for not going upon such a perilous errand.
Could he have been borne at the head of the victorious veterans of
Vicksburg, and gone into the beleaguered and starved town to the
musical tramp of a large army, it would have looked more hopeful.
But this could not be. Sherman had been started from Memphis with a
heavy force--the army of the Tennessee--to assist Rosecrans, and
he was still struggling through the country, beset with trials and
difficulties. Not with this faithful friend and this tried army could
the crippled general march into Chattanooga.
On the 20th of October, Grant started with only his staff for the
imperilled point, and arrived at Nashville the same night. Even
on his route, invalid as he was, he worked at the solution of
the problem which had been given him to solve. He telegraphed to
Burnside, foreshadowing his plans, and directing the operations of
his subordinate. He requested Admiral Porter to send gunboats up the
Tennessee to insure Sherman's safety, and to facilitate the passage of
his supplies. To Thomas, in Chattanooga, he suggested the opening of
the road to Bridgeport. Without having visited the scene of operations,
he knew all about it, and was ready to grapple with the mighty
difficulty.
At Bridgeport, on the Tennessee, the general and his party took horses
for Chattanooga. The roads were rifted and torn up by the deluge of
rains which had poured down the mountain sides. Here and there the
highway was but a narrow shelf on the steep mountain side, and the
region was strewed with the wrecks of wagons, and the bodies of animals
which had died on the route, or had been killed by being precipitated
over the steep bluffs. At many points the roads were not in condition
to admit of the passage of the party on horseback, and the animals were
led over them; Grant, still a cripple, was borne in the arms of his
companions.
Thus journeyed the great commander to the front, issuing his mandates
for the government of these armies, ordering up supplies, and
indicating the means of forwarding them. I say, enthusiastically, that
the spectacle of a man in his crippled condition, undertaking such an
herculean task, controlling the minutest details, and moving forward
confidently to retrieve the most desperate situation which the whole
war presented, is sublime. I cannot fully express my admiration with
any other term.
It was dark, and the rain poured in torrents, when Grant reached
Chattanooga. If he had not quailed at the prospect before, well might
he then. The rebels, in greatly superior force, hemmed in the town,
save on the north, where the ragged mountain steeps beyond the river
were almost as forbidding as the closed-up lines of the enemy. The
officers and men were sad, weary, and almost hopeless. Their supplies
were nearly exhausted, and there was little hope either in a battle
or a retreat. To this scene of his future labors, the disabled and
worn-out commander was introduced on his arrival. He did not despair;
he was the messenger of hope and ultimate triumph.
On the night of his arrival he requested that Sherman should be placed
in command of the army of the Tennessee, and his wish was granted.
Hooker's command from the army of the Potomac had been sent down to
act with the army of the Cumberland, and was now at Bridgeport. The
question of supplies was the first which engaged Grant's attention.
Except the town of Chattanooga, the rebels held all the country south
of the Tennessee, and frequently invaded the northern shore in cavalry
raids, cutting off the Union supplies. A pontoon bridge was stretched
across the river at Brown's Ferry, the boats, each carrying thirty men,
being silently floated down the river unobserved by the rebel pickets.
The operation was conducted in the night, and, being a complete
success, a footing was gained on the south bank of the river below the
town.
The Nashville and Chattanooga Railroad crossed the Tennessee at
Bridgeport, where Hooker, with the Eleventh and Twelfth Corps, was
located, and came up to Chattanooga through Lookout Valley, on the
south side of the stream, which, being in the hands of the enemy,
had cut off the supplies. Hooker was ordered to cross the river, and
follow the railroad up to the valley. At Wauhatchie he encountered the
rebels, but drove them before him, and reached a point within a mile
of the new pontoon bridge on the night of the 28th of October. He was
fiercely attacked by Longstreet, but successfully repelled the assault,
and Lookout Valley was virtually captured. By this movement a direct
road to Bridgeport, to which the railroad from Nashville was in working
order, was opened in five days after the arrival of Grant.
Only a week before, Jeff. Davis himself had stood upon the summit
of Lookout Mountain, and gazed down upon the Union army shut up in
Chattanooga, absolutely sure that in a brief period, without striking
a blow, it must surrender to Bragg. The tables were suddenly turned
by the matchless skill of Grant. The ammunition and stores poured in
upon the desponding army, now reënforced by two corps, and hope and
joy supplanted fear and despair. The hungry men were once more fed on
full rations, horses were promptly brought up, and the army of the
Cumberland was ready to become the assailants again. The rebels were
confounded by the sudden change in the situation before them.
Grant arranged the details of conveying supplies to Burnside, five
hundred miles up the Cumberland, and thence by wagons, one hundred
farther, to Knoxville. He repeatedly urged upon this gallant soldier
the imperative necessity of holding East Tennessee, though the
government had some doubts in regard to his ability to do so. Grant was
only waiting for the arrival of Sherman, with the army of Tennessee,
to attack the enemy; but until then he could do nothing. Bragg, to
better his own prospects, sent Longstreet, with twenty thousand men and
eighty guns, into East Tennessee, and great anxiety was manifested for
the safety of Burnside's command. The rebels held the railroad from
Chattanooga nearly up to Knoxville, and Grant's force was insufficient
to enable him to render any direct aid. Burnside was sorely pressed
by the foe, but maintained himself nobly. Grant frequently sent him
hopeful messages, and assured himself that East Tennessee would be held.
On the night of the 14th of November, Sherman reported in Chattanooga
to his commander. The plan of the great battle which was to relieve
Burnside, and compel the enemy "to take to the mountain passes by every
available road," had already been formed. The operations were delayed
by savage storms, which raised the river, and damaged the pontoon
bridges, employed to their utmost capacity in crossing Sherman's
troops; but on the 23d the line was formed for the assault.
On the 20th, Grant had received a letter from Bragg, suggesting that if
there were any non-combatants in Chattanooga, prudence would suggest
their early withdrawal; but this was only a trick, which did not
deceive Grant; and two days later he obtained information that Bragg
was preparing to evacuate his position on Missionary Ridge.
Thomas's line, composed of the army of the Cumberland, was drawn up
in front of the town. Just before it were the rebel pickets in close
proximity to those of the national army; indeed, both drew water from a
creek which was the dividing line between them. Grant occasionally rode
out to this stream to observe the position of the enemy. One day he saw
a party of soldiers drawing water. As they wore blue coats, he supposed
they belonged to his own force, and he asked them to whose command they
belonged.
"To Longstreet's corps," replied one of them.
"What are you doing in those coats then?" demanded Grant, unmoved, when
almost any other general officer would have decamped in a hurry, for
fear an accident might happen.
"O, all our corps wear blue!" added the rebel spokesman.
Grant had forgotten this fact, and the rebels scrambled up their own
side of the stream, little suspicious that they had been conversing
with the commander of the united national armies.
The guns in battery along the line opened fire, and the enemy's works
on the long range of hills, replied to the vigorous salute. The line of
Thomas's army moved forward, and the grand spectacle commenced. It was
a magnificent sight, and we who beheld it can never forget the gleam of
those twenty thousand bayonets, as the column pressed steadily on. The
enemy believed it was only a holiday pageant, and their pickets leaned
on their muskets, and watched the brilliant movement. A few shots from
the skirmishers scattered these spectators, and the battle commenced.
The army of the Cumberland was intent upon wiping out the stain of
Chickamauga, and charged impetuously upon the line of rifle-pits
before them, capturing them, and carrying Orchard Knoll, a hill of
considerable importance for future operations. The enemy had been
driven back a mile, and the nationals halted, and fortified the ground
they had captured.
On the right was Hooker, occupying Lookout Valley, above which frowned
the heights of Lookout Mountain, bristling with rebel cannon. On the
creek, in the middle of the valley, extended the line of Confederate
pickets; but there was no approach to the mountain on this side. Hooker
sent a column round its base to a road which conducted, by a zigzag
route, to the summit. The enemy's pickets were captured, and Lookout
Creek bridged.
Hooker's troops fought with the utmost bravery, and demonstrated that
Eastern soldiers, when well led, were fully the equals of those of the
West. They swept everything before them in the fierce struggle that
followed. The Union batteries opened, and the rebels replied from the
steeps of the mountain, drawing down, as it seemed, the thunder and
the lightning from the clouds above, till the hills trembled in the
commotion. The column under General Geary, passing through a piece of
woods, reached the road which led to the heights above. It was a steep
path, and every accessible place was occupied by troops and guns for
its defence. But the column dashed up the precipitous slopes, beating
down all opposition, capturing guns and men on their way. Onward and
upward, in the literal sense of the words, they swept, penetrating the
clouds, which soon hid them from the view of those below. Hooker's
battle in the clouds was a complete success, and Lookout Mountain was
captured. Two thousand prisoners were taken, and the victors in this
remarkable contest rested from their labors on the summit. They had
"gone up," in the highest sense of the phrase, and the rebels also, in
another sense.
Hooker on the right, and Thomas in the centre, had carried out their
portion in the grand programme of the battle; so also had Sherman on
the left. The enemy had been deceived into the belief that his whole
force was to operate in the vicinity of Lookout Mountain, while it was
cautiously moved to a concealed position up the river, and in the rear
of the town. One hundred and sixteen pontoons were conveyed over the
land, and launched in the North Chickamauga Creek, five miles above the
mouth of a stream with the same name on the south side of the river. On
the night before the grand battle, these boats were loaded with men,
and floated down the creek and the Tennessee, until they reached a
point immediately below South Chickamauga Creek, where the bridge was
to be built over the river for the passage of Sherman's army. All the
citizens in the vicinity had been put under guard, so that the enemy
might not learn what was in progress.
The boats landed on the south side of the river, the troops
disembarked, the enemy's outpost was captured, and a position secured
for the beginning of the pontoon bridge. Troops were crossed in boats
continually. At noon the bridge was completed; the army crossed, and
Sherman commenced the march upon the enemy's positions on the left. The
troops were pushed up the hill, and soon gained a commanding eminence,
which was immediately fortified, and guns were dragged up for its
defence. The rebels opened with artillery upon the unexpected foe, but
Sherman was already in possession. A sharp engagement ensued with the
infantry, but the enemy soon withdrew, and the northern portion of
Missionary Ridge was carried.
The morning of the next day dawned clear and cold, revealing the two
armies prepared for the final struggle, in which one was eager to
engage, and which the other could not avoid. The rebels were still
