will not defer it until too late. When you are older you 
will understand it better, but I shall not be here then. 
Try to judge us both leniently." 

She moved uneasily upon the pillow, and I felt her 
clasp tighten. 

" You asked me once about your mother. Your grand- 
father married, abroad, a Spanish woman of wonderful 
beauty. He brought her home soon after your mother's 
birth ; and he came back only to die, for his health had 
been delicate many years. He had wasted the larger part 



 

of his fortune, and his wife and child were left to our 
care. Between Mrs. Ad nance and Hester there was a 
strong antagonism. She remained with us simply because 
she had no other home ; but it was only for a few years. 
She died suddenly, and her child was ours. My sister 
exulted in this. She watched the little one with a more 
than mother's fondness and jealous care. We were com- 
paratively young then, and had not so completely given 
tip society. Your mother was beautiful and attractive, 
and was barely seventeen when she announced her en- 
gagement with a young man of whom we knew nothing. 
Aunt Hester was very angry. She dismissed him herself, 
and bade your mother forget him. Being high-spirited, 
this led to a bitter quarrel, which was ended at length by 
your mother leaving her home and becoming a wife. I 
tried to intercede for her, but it was useless. She wrote 
two or three very sweet letters, but Hester remained im- 
placable, and declared her disowned forever. 

u Some fifteen months afterwards she wrote again, beg- 
ging that her small fortune might be advanced, as they 
were in pressing want, and her husband's health had failed. 
Hester paid no attention to this ; but in a few weeks 
another letter was received, imploring us to hasten to her 
immediately. I was not well, so Hester went alone, and 
shortly afterwards returned with your mother and your- 
self, then but two months of age. How changed from the 
bright girl who had once been our delight ! Your father 
had gone to his relatives, and died after a short illness, 
though she confessed that he had overtasked himself by 
some exertion that had brought on one attack of hemor- 
rhage before he left her. His relatives had discarded her 
altogether, and she was indeed broken-hearted. She 
wasted away rapidly, and soon added another to the list 
of early deaths. One day, shortly after the burial, a 



 

stranger visited us and held a long conversation with 
Hester. Whatever the subject was she kept to herself, 
only when she came in the room afterwards I noted that 
her face had a strange, set look, and her lips were nearly 
colorless. 

"'This child is all ours,' she said, fiercely. 'The world 
shall be shut out from her as rigidly as if she were in a 
convent. She shall have no chance for friendship or love 
beyond us.' 

"I should have told you that your mother appointed 
Mr. Anthon your guardian, and arranged that you should 
go to school for two years when you had reached the age 
of twelve, and after that choose whether you would remain 
with us, or henceforward battle with life yourself. Aunt 
Hester resolved to bring you up in such seclusion that you 
would be unhappy among strangers, and wish to return, 
knowing well that Mr. Anthon would not insist upon your 
staying if it rendered you really miserable. I made some 
weak attempts to interfere, but she was always the stronger 
and overruled me ; and, though I loved you, I was help- 
less. Besides, you appeared cheerful and contented, and I 
was afraid of rendering you dissatisfied, without being able 
to place any better aliment in your way. Forgive us 
both my weakness and her jealous coldness. Old blood 
does not warm easily. I want you to have a happier life 
than we ever knew. This place is to be sold. Mr. An- 
thon will tell you the rest. Kiss me, child, and remember 
me kindly when I am gone. Mine has been a poor, wasted 
life." 

I kissed her with a strange awe, and hardly understood 
the full import of what she had said. 

" Call the nurse." 

The woman would have sent me away, but I felt that 
aunt Mildred wanted me, for the wistful eyes watched me 



 

unceasingly. I promised to be very quiet, and kept my 
seat, still holding her hand. She was very much exhausted, 
and scarcely seemed to breathe. 

That was a weird, ghostly night, and haunts me yet. 
The red blaze of the logs upon the hearth, the fitful glare 
of the candle, the winds moaning outside, dashing fierce 
gusts of rain against the windows, and the awesome silence 
within. I tried to think of my mother, but all in my brain 
was chaos. The nurse seated herself by the fire, and pres- 
ently fell into a doze. I was not a coward, yet a peculiar 
fear seemed to pervade every nerve, and I watched breath- 
lessly for something that I could not define or shape into 
thought. The candle burned dimly, the blaze on the 
hearth began to smoulder, and the room was peopled with 
phantoms. 

There was a stir, and a feeble voice murmured, " Syd- 
nie I " 

I bent over aunt Mildred until my cheek touched hers. 
It was unlike anything I had ever felt. 

" One thing more. Forgive her poor, worn heart, dis- 
tracted with its own jealous longings. I know she was 
sorry afterwards; but she destroyed it in a moment of 
fierce passion. The picture " 

I was too much frightened to comprehend, or utter any 
cry. 

"Is it morning?" 

" No," I said ; " it must be near midnight." 

"God help us all, for we are weak, and the way is 
thorny. Child, Sydnie, let us go, for the day breaks." 

She clutched my hand, and partially raised herself, then 
fell back. I understood the struggle, yet could not stir, 
fascinated by the very terror. How many moments 
I know not, but the candle gave an expiring flash, and 
went out. The nurse roused herself, and lighted another. 



 

Coming to the bed, she glanced at the set and stony 
eyes. 

"Why, miss, she's dead !" was her terrified exclamation. 

It was blindness, darkness, nothingness to me. I knew 
they took me out of the room, but for days after that I 
was ill for the first time in my life. 

Mr. Anthon staid until I was sufficiently recovered to 
go back to school. I was thankful to leave the dreary 
place, and glad to hear that it was to be sold. My moth- 
er's portrait had been destroyed by a ruthless hand, so 
there was nothing I cared to retain. 

" There'll be a brighter life before you," my guardian 
said, kindly. " Those two old women moped themselves 
to death, and were full of whims and cranks. It was 
enough to kill any child. And I don't think Miss Hester 
did the right thing by you or your mother. However, 
that's all over now." 

It was not all over with me for a long while ; but I did 
outgrow those impressions with the years. Three were 
spent with Mrs. Derwcnt, then a change was deemed ad- 
visable. In my quiet, self-contained way I had learned 
to love Mr. Anthon dearly. Every vacation was made 
delightful by some pleasure trip, wearing away more and 
more the isolation produced by my childhood. 

Two years ago he died, as I have said. I missed him 
sorely, and am afraid I shall not take kindly to my new 
guardians, Mr. St. John and his widowed sister, Mrs. Law- 
rence. She called, shortly after her relative's death ; but 
all I seem to remember was a glitter of silk and lace, and 
a shimmer of blonde curls. I am to enter society under 
her auspices. 

I wonder howl shall like the great world ! Most of 
the girls are eager to try it ; but I dread leaving my clois- 



 

ter. We have gossiped over it in a thoughtless fashion, 
as if love and marriage were all. 

It is curious to stand on the threshold of a new life, not 
knowing whither one is to go. 

The silent night falls over me as I write. The rain has 
ceased, and through the rifted clouds the stars are shining. 



 



CHAPTER II. 



I AM at Laurel wood. 

Let me go back to the day on which I commenced my 
journal. The next morning I received a note, stating 
that Mr. St. John would call for me at four, as the- boat 
left at five. 

I believe Dr. Johnson somewhere says we can never do 
a thing consciously for the last time without a feeling of 
sadness. I experienced the truth of this re-mark. Though 
the long dining-hall was nearly deserted, there was a 
homelike charm about the place. Even the vase of col- 
ored grasses, grown tiresome on other days, held a certain 
sense of beauty. The walks I had paced, the room in 
which I had studied and dreamed, wore the look of a fa- 
miliar friend. "Farewell," I said, with a pang, for it was 
hard to dissever my thoughts from them. 

At the appointed time I was summoned to the recep- 
tion room, and introduced to Mr. St. John. He was not 
at all what I had expected, and the difference made me 
positively shy and awkward. A man about thirty, tall, 
compact, and full without being stout, with a chest and 
limbs one gives to the old athletes. He impressed me as 
having a peculiar strength, and his face completed the 
suggestion. I did not think him handsome at first. I 
watched him as he talked to Miss Deforrest, and found 
an odd, piquant charrn in his face. A broad, full fore- 
head, and a really magnificent head, hair of a nondescript 



 

color, brown in one of its variations, I suppose, fine and 
silky, the ends curling in dainty rings. I set that down as 
too girlish ; beard of a little deeper color, almost black un- 
derneath ; a fair, fresh complexion, with a smooth, soft skin, 
like a child's; eyes of a blue or gray, with a curious, steely 
gleam; straight, delicate brows above them; a straight 
nose, Grecian in type ; a small mouth, with curved, scarlet 
lips. But the sense of power and will grew upon you. In 
some moods this face could be very tender; in others, bit- 
ter, perplexing, imperious and indifferent. 

JVIiss Deforrest was called away. Mr. St. John glanced 
down to my end of the sofa with the good-natured smile 
one gives a child. 

" The rain interfered with my plans yesterday," he said, 
and the voice was like the man not what one usually 
meets with. "I expected to come for you. I dare say 
you had the blues shockingly." 

" I am not much troubled with that malady," I answered, 
curtly. 

"How odd ! I thought all school-girls were subject to 
it. But of course rainy days make you cross." 

The assurance in the tone vexed me. 

"I have no particular dislike to rainy days; on the con- 
trary, I think some are positively enjoyable," I said, coldly. 

"I shall watch the next stormy day with great interest ;" 
and there was a little gleam in his eye that provoked me/ 
I would not make any answer. 

"I believe I shall have to send you to make your 
adieus," he said, presently, glancing at his watch. " It is 
quite a ride to the landing." 

I merely bowed, and left him. There were a few fare- 
wells and kindly wishes, and then I put on my bonnet and 
mantle, and took one last glimpse of myself in the little 
mirror. Was the face I saw crude and school-girlish ? 



 

Onr drive was a very quiet one. I had an uncomfortable 
consciousness that Mr. St. John's eyes were studying me, 
yet if I turned mine to his vicinity, his expression was 
grave and absent. Some of the girls had been fond of 
discussing faces and predicting character, a subject that 
