authority.

"Mr. Hart!" exclaimed Mr. Checkynshaw, staring into the bright eyes of
Leo to detect any appearance of deception.

The banker prided himself upon his shrewdness. He believed that, if
there was any person in the world who was peculiarly qualified to
expose the roguery of a suspected individual, he was that person. In
conducting the present examination he only wanted Derastus Clapp for
the terror of his name, rather than his professional skill as a
detective.

Mr. Checkynshaw believed that he had intrapped his victim. Mr. Hart
could not have told Leo that the head of the house would not return to
the office that day, for the very simple reason that Mr. Hart was dead
and gone. The old style of the firm was retained, but the Hart was gone
out of it. The boy was telling a wrong story, and the banker laid his
toils for unveiling the details of a gigantic conspiracy. Fitz lived
somewhere in the vicinity of High Street,--Mr. Checkynshaw did not know
where, for it would not be dignified for a great man like him to know
where his clerk resided,--and it was more than possible that Leo and he
were acquainted. Very likely the innocent-looking youth before him was
an accomplice of Fitz, who, since the disappearance of the papers, had
really become a terrible character.

"Yes, sir; Mr. Hart told me," repeated Leo, who could not see anything
so very strange in the circumstance.

"Mr. Hart told you!" said the banker, again, endeavoring to overwhelm
the boy by the intensity of his gaze.

"Yes, sir, Mr. Hart."

"Was Mr. Hart in this office?"

"Yes, sir."

"What was Mr. Hart doing?"

"He wasn't doing anything. I was standing here waiting for you when he
came in."

"Which way did he come in?" interrupted the banker.

"The same way we did just now," added Leo, pointing to the door which
opened into the long entry.

"Very well; go on."

"He told me to go into the big room," continued Leo, pointing to the
banking-room. "I went in there, and asked the man that just came in
here for you."

"You asked Burnet for me?"

"I didn't know what his name was; but it was the man you just called in
here."

"Burnet; go on."

"He told me to come in here and wait for you."

"Burnet told you so?"

"Yes, sir; and when I came back, Mr. Hart was taking some papers and
things from that safe, and putting them in the pocket of his overcoat.
Then he locked the safe, and put the key in his pocket."

"Go on," said Mr. Checkynshaw, excited by these details.

"Then Mr. Hart told me Mr. Checkynshaw would not be in again to-day,
and I must come again to-morrow."

"What then?"

"I went out through the big room, and he came right after me."

Leo, without knowing why he was required to do so, described in full
all that had taken place after he left the banking-room till "Mr. Hart"
had changed his clothes, and left the house of André.

"How did you know this person was Mr. Hart?" asked the banker.

"He told me so, sir. I asked him before we got to my house if he was
Mr. Hart, and he said he was. When he told me Mr. Checkynshaw was not
in, and I saw him take the things out of the safe, and put the key in
his pocket, I knew he belonged here, and being in this office, I
guessed it was Mr. Hart. He promised to get me a good place when I
leave school, and to explain the matter to you, and make it all right,
when he came back from New York."

"Perhaps he will do so," added Mr. Checkynshaw, with a sneer.

But the banker was completely "nonplussed." He found it difficult to
believe that this boy had anything to do with the robbery of his safe.
At this point in the investigation, Mr. Clapp arrived. It was now quite
dark. Most of the clerks in the banking-room had left; but Burnet was
called, and instructed to remain with Leo, while the banker and the
detective held a conference in the next room. Leo could not tell what
it was all about. Not a word had been said about a boy to fill Fitz's
place. He asked Burnet what Mr. Checkynshaw wanted of him; but the
cashier was dumb.

After the banker had told the officer all about the affair, they went
into the private office, and Leo was subjected to a long and severe
questioning. Then he learned that "Mr. Hart" was not Mr. Hart, and that
the safe had been plundered. He was filled with astonishment, not to
say horror; but every answer he gave was straightforward, and at the
end of it the skilled detective declared that he had had nothing to do
with the robbery.

"Do you know Fitz Wittleworth?" demanded Mr. Checkynshaw, sharply.

"Yes, sir."

"Did he ever say anything to you about me?"

"I have heard him call you Old Checkynshaw; but he never said anything
that I can remember, except that you couldn't get along in your
business without him."

"Did he ever say anything about any papers of mine?" asked the banker,
scowling fiercely.

"No, sir."

The banker plied Leo with questions in this direction; but he failed to
elicit anything which confirmed his fears. A carriage was called, and
Mr. Checkynshaw and the constable, taking Leo with them, were driven to
the house of the barber.




CHAPTER VI.

LEO'S WORKSHOP.


When the banker and the detective reached the barber's house, the
supper table was waiting for André and Leo. Perhaps Mr. Checkynshaw
wondered how even a poor man could live in such a small house, with
such "little bits of rooms." It had been built to fill a corner, and it
fitted very snugly in its place. André thought it was the nicest house
in Boston, and for many years it had been a palace to him.

It contained only four rooms, two on each floor. The two rooms up
stairs were appropriated to the use of Maggie and Leo. The front room
down stairs was required to do double duty, as a parlor, and a
sleeping-room for André; but the bedstead was folded up into a
secretary during the day. In the rear of this was the "living room." In
the winter the parlor was not used, for the slender income of the
barber would not permit him to keep two fires. In this apartment, which
served as a kitchen, dining and sitting room, was spread the table
which waited for André and Leo.

The barber almost always came home before six o'clock; for, in the
vicinity of State Street, all is quiet at this hour, and the shop was
closed. Maggie sat before the stove, wondering why André did not come;
but she was not alarmed at his non-appearance, for occasionally he was
called away to dress a lady's hair, or to render other "professional"
service at the houses of the customers. Certainly she had no suspicion
of the fearful truth.

She was rather startled when the unexpected visitors were ushered into
the room by Leo; but the detective was gentle as a lamb, and even the
banker, in the presence of one so fair and winning as Maggie, was not
disposed to be rude or rough. Mr. Clapp asked some questions about the
man who had come to the house that afternoon, and gone up to Leo's
room. She had seen him, and her description of his appearance and his
movements did not differ from that of her brother. No new light was
obtained; but Mr. Clapp desired to visit the apartment which "Mr. Hart"
had used.

Leo conducted the visitors to this room. It was possible, if the robber
had changed his clothes there, that he had left something which might
afford some clew to his identity. The detective searched the chamber,
but not very carefully. As he did so, he told Leo that he desired to
clear him from any connection with the crime.

"I hadn't anything to do with it, and I don't know anything about the
man," replied Leo, blushing deeply.

"I don't think you had, my boy," added the officer, candidly. "But this
man may have hidden something in the house, without your knowledge."

"I hope you will find it if he did. You may search the house from
cellar to garret, if you like; but he didn't go into any room but this
one."

"How long was he in this room?"

"Not more than twenty minutes, I guess; I don't know."

"Where were you while he was here?"

"I was down cellar."

"Down cellar!" exclaimed Mr. Checkynshaw. "All the time he was in the
room?"

"Yes, sir."

"What were you doing there?"

"I was at work there. When I heard Mr. Hart, or the man, whatever his
name is, coming down stairs, I went up and met him in the entry. You
can go down cellar, if you like."

"I think we will," said Mr. Checkynshaw.

The detective looked into the bed, under it, in the closets, drawers,
and into the seaman's chest which contained Leo's wardrobe. He did not
expect to find anything, and his search was not very thorough. He
examined the till, and felt in the clothing; but he did not put his
hand down deep enough to find the papers the robber had deposited
there. If the rogue had left anything, he had no object in concealing
it; and Mr. Clapp reasoned that he would be more likely to leave it in
sight than to hide it.

When the search had been finished in the room, and the result was as
the detective anticipated, Leo led the way to the cellar. Here was
presented to the visitors a complete revelation of the boy's character
and tastes--a revelation which assured the skilful detective, deeply
versed as he was in a knowledge of human nature, that Leo was not a boy
to be in league with bad men, or knowingly to assist a robber in
disposing of his ill-gotten booty.

The cellar or basement was only partly under ground, and there was room
enough for two pretty large windows at each end, the front and rear of
the house, and in the daytime the apartment was as light and cheerful
as the rooms up stairs. Across the end, under the front windows, was a
workbench, with a variety of carpenter's tools, few in number, and of
the most useful kind. On the bench was an unfinished piece of work,
whose intended use would have puzzled a philosopher, if several similar
specimens of mechanism, completed and practically applied, had not
appeared in the cellar to explain the problem.

On the wall of the basement, and on a post in the centre of it,
supported by brackets, were half a dozen queer little structures,
something like miniature houses, all of them occupied by, and some of
them swarming with, white mice. In the construction of these houses,
or, as André facetiously called them, "Les Palais des Mice," Leo
displayed a great deal of skill and ingenuity. He was a natural-born
carpenter, with inventive powers of a high order. He not only made them
neatly and nicely, but he designed them, making regular working plans
for their construction.

The largest of them was about three feet long. At each end of a board
of this length, and fifteen inches in width, was a box or house, seven
inches deep, to contain the retiring rooms and nests of the occupants
of the establishment. Each of these houses was three stories high, and
each story contained four apartments, or twenty-four in the whole
palace. The space between the two houses was open in front, leaving an
area of twenty-two by fifteen inches for a playground, or grand parade,
for the mice. The three sides of this middle space were filled with
shelves or galleries, from which opened the doors leading into the
private apartments. The galleries were reached by inclined planes, cut
like steps.

Monsieur Souris Blanc passed from the gallery into one room, and from
this apartment to another, which had no exterior door, thus securing
greater privacy, though on the outside was a slide by which the curious
proprietor of the palace could investigate the affairs of the family.
Madame Souris Blanche, who considerately added from four to a dozen
little ones to the population of the colony every three or four weeks,
apparently approved this arrangement of rooms, though it was observed
that three or four mothers, notwithstanding the multiplicity of
strictly private apartments, would bring up their families in the same
nest, cuddled up in the same mass of cotton wool.

Over the "grand parade" was a roof, which prevented the mice from
getting out over the tops of the nest-houses. Though this space was
open in front, and the play-ground protected only by a fence an inch
high, the little creatures seldom fell out, for it was five feet to the
floor of the cellar, and this was a giddy height for them to look down.

This establishment contained fifty or sixty white mice--from the
venerable grandfather and grandmother down to the little juveniles two
weeks old, to say nothing of sundry little ones which had not appeared
on the "grand parade," and which looked like bits of beef, or more like
pieces of a large fish worm. Other establishments on the wall contained
smaller numbers; and, though it was impossible to count them, there
were not less than a hundred and fifty white mice in the basement.

When Leo conducted the visitors to the cellar, all the tribes of mice
were in the highest enjoyment of colonial and domestic bliss. Though
most of them scampered to their lairs when the gentlemen appeared, they
returned in a moment, looked at the strangers, snuffed and stared, and
then went to work upon the buckwheat and canary seed, which Leo gave
them as a special treat. Squatting on their hind legs, they picked up
grains or seeds, and holding them in their fore paws, like squirrels,
picked out the kernels.



In other houses, they were chasing each other along the galleries,
performing various gymnastics on the apparatus provided for the
purpose, or revolving in the whirligigs that some of the cages
contained. It was after dark; and, having reposed during the day, they
