send representatives to foreign countries, and it can make laws and
regulations only to cover the purposes of the league.

"In 1863 there were thirty-four states represented in the
confederation. The empire of Austria cast four votes in the general
convention; the kingdoms of Prussia, Bavaria, Saxony, Hanover, and
Würtemburg, also four each; other states, grand duchies, duchies,
electorates, principalities, landgraviates, and free cities, from one
to three, according to their size and importance. These representatives
meet at Frankfort, which is the capital of Germany. The population of
Northern Germany is about twenty-eight millions; of Southern Germany,
twelve and a half millions; making about forty and a half millions, or
about equal to that of France.

"Of the early history of Germany there is no authentic record. The
ancient Romans had no knowledge of the people north of the Danube and
east of the Rhine, except as the barbarous tribes who made incursions
into their territory. When Gaul came into the possession of the Romans,
they learned more of the barbarians of the north, who were called
Germani--a word which is probably derived from ger, a spear,
indicating their warlike character. Among these tribes were the
Teutons, the Saxons, the Franks, the Goths, the Vandals, the Gauls,
whose names are common in history. Clovis, the ancient sovereign of the
Frankish empire, and his successors, conquered these tribes, and
incorporated their territory in the Empire of the West, which reached
the height of its glory under the reign of Charlemagne. His son Louis
was too weak to rule so vast a realm, and in 843 the empire was divided
into three parts, and given to his three sons. France became the
portion of Charles the Bald; Italy, of Lothaire; and Germany, of Louis.
At this time the German kingdom extended from the Rhine to the Elbe,
and from the German Ocean to the Danube.

"During the succeeding century, Germany was partitioned into three
smaller divisions, became a part of France again, and the throne was
subverted by the nobles, who elected the kings. Portions of Italy, and
other territory beyond the Elbe, were conquered. I will not weary you
even by mentioning the line of kings who followed. Their dominions were
torn by dissensions, while they struggled to increase their power. In
1273, Count Rudolph of Hapsburg was elected emperor, and, after a
fierce struggle with the unruly barons, succeeded in establishing his
authority, and in obtaining possession of the dukedom of Austria, and
several other provinces. The house of Hapsburg has to the present time
retained the throne of Austria.

"Jealous of the growing power of the Hapsburgs, the nobles elected
Adolph, Count of Nassau, Emperor of Germany; but Albert, Rudolph's son
and successor, wrested the crown from him. The Hapsburgs had
possessions in Switzerland, when the house obtained its power in
Austria, and they held them as dependencies upon the dukedom. The Swiss
revolted in the reign of Albert, and their long and severe struggle for
independence was commenced at this time.

"During the reign of Sigismund, one of the successors of Albert, John
Huss, the reformer, was burned at the stake at Constance, whither he
had gone with the safe-conduct of the emperor. His martyrdom caused the
Hussite war, in which several severe battles were fought, including one
at Prague. In 1593, Maximilian I. succeeded to the throne; and in his
reign the Reformation by Luther began. Charles V., the grandson of
Maximilian,--of whom I spoke to you in giving the history of Holland
and Belgium,--united the crowns of Spain, Germany, the Netherlands, and
Naples, and the empire became the leading power of Europe. The
Reformation produced fierce dissensions and savage contests. Charles
was obliged, sorely against his will, to grant privileges to his
Lutheran subjects. But he was disgusted with power, and resigned his
crown. He was succeeded by his brother, Ferdinand I., as Emperor of
Germany, and by his son, Philip II., as King of Spain; to whom, also,
he gave his possessions in the Netherlands. The dissensions in the
empire enabled France on the west and Turkey on the east to wrest
valuable possessions from it. The successors of Charles V. were unable
to breast the storm of progress successfully, and the imperial
authority was completely shattered. The power of the petty rulers of
small states increased and overshadowed that of the central authority.

"The emperors Ferdinand and Matthias treated the Protestants with so
much severity, committing the most flagrant outrages upon them, that it
brought on the Thirty Years' War. When Matthias died, the insurgents
declared the throne vacant, and chose the Elector Frederick emperor.
The Protestant princes fought for him, while the Catholic powers
sustained Ferdinand II., Archduke of Austria. Peace was established, by
the treaty of Westphalia, in 1648, by which Germany lost a portion of
her territory. After these events, the power of the emperors waned
still more, until their title was little more than a surname of the
rulers of Austria. When Prussia became a great Protestant power, under
Frederick the Great, she was a check upon Austria, and prevented the
latter from reëstablishing the ancient power of the German empire.

"The French revolution practically destroyed the empire. Francis II. of
Austria, overwhelmed by Napoleon, ceded to him the country on the left
bank of the Rhine. When the Rhenish Confederation of Napoleon was
formed, in 1806, Francis resigned the crown of the German empire, which
was thus formally dissolved. Many changes in territorial limits were
made, and the free cities lost their independence. The country was
either actually or virtually subject to Napoleon, who dictated its
policy, and levied heavy contributions upon it.

"As it was not possible for all these small states to maintain their
separate independence unaided, when the Allied Powers had driven
Napoleon from Europe, and restored the nations to their original
condition, it became necessary to regulate the affairs of Germany.
Prussia objected to an independent empire, whose power might endanger
her safety and progress; and a confederation of the states was formed
in 1815, which exists at the present time."[3]

      [3] Dissolved in 1866.

The professor continued to describe the country, and to define the
powers and duties of the Federal Diet; but as many changes have been
made in the government and in the states, it is not necessary to
transcribe his remarks to these pages. He promised, as occasion might
offer on their travels, to give the students further explanations of
the nature of the territory, governments, and local peculiarities of
the several states they might visit. The boys were satisfied with this
arrangement, and the session was closed. The boatswain immediately
piped all hands to muster on deck.

"Whom do you purpose to join in Paris, if you go to Germany?" asked Mr.
Lowington, when Perth appeared among the officers.

"My uncle," replied the second master, promptly.

"Your uncle from Glasgow, I suppose you mean."

"Yes, sir. He wrote me that he should be in Paris early this month."

"How happened you to be writing the sentence on your paper?"

"I was writing a letter which I intended to copy with ink, as soon as I
had time."

"Have you the rest of the letter?"

"No, sir; I tore it up just now."

"Will you be kind enough to produce your uncle's letter?" said the
principal, quietly.

"I don't keep my letters, sir; and I destroyed it as soon as I had read
it."

"I suppose you did," replied Mr. Lowington, significantly. "But if you
don't go to Germany, what then? I think you wrote the words, 'I will
start with you.'"

"Yes, sir."

"Start from where?"

"From here."

"I don't understand it."

"I was going to write to uncle Donald, that, if I went to Germany, I
would see him in Paris as we pass through that city. If I did not go, I
wanted him to come here, and take me to Paris with him."

"And you think this explains what you wrote upon your note paper?"
inquired the principal.

"As I understand it, sir, it does."

"Was Herman expected to join your party?"

"No, sir."

"I observed that he seemed to be much interested in what you were
writing, and that you took some pains to let him see your paper. Your
explanation is not satisfactory, and I should not dare to take you to
Germany, lest you should miss your uncle on the way. Perhaps he had
better come to Brest himself. When do you expect him?"

"I don't know when he is coming, sir," replied Perth, rather abashed to
find his explanation had obtained so little consideration.

"Have you any money, Perth?" asked Mr. Lowington, suddenly.

"No, sir."

"Not a few francs, even?"

"Perhaps I have a few English pence."

"Haven't you a few English pounds?"

"No, sir."

"Just think a little, before you answer."

"If I had even a pound, I should be likely to remember it, sir."

"I should say you would; and twenty times as likely to remember it, if
you had twenty pounds," added the principal.

"O, I haven't anything like that, sir."

"You have an astonishingly bad memory, Perth. You received a letter
from your uncle in Glasgow, while you were at Havre. Do you remember
that?"

"Certainly I do, sir," replied Perth, wondering what the principal
could mean by such pointed questions.

Was it possible that Mr. Lowington had read what he wrote on the first
sheet of note paper? He thrust his hand into his pocket, and the sheet
was there as he had taken it from the atlas.

"You do remember the letter?"

"To be sure I do, sir."

"And don't you remember that there were four five-pound notes in it,
numbering from thirty-three thousand eight hundred forty-five to eight,
inclusive? It is very singular, indeed, that you have forgotten this
little circumstance."

Perth was confounded by this revelation. He saw that he was caught, and
that it was useless for him to say anything more; so he wisely held his
peace.

"If your uncle has not changed his mind within three days, he has no
more intention of coming to France than I have of going to Glasgow. I
received a letter from him to-day, since the ship came to anchor,
forwarded from Havre after we left. The writer was confined to the
house with a severe attack of rheumatism. In the quiet of his chamber,
he had an opportunity to consider whether he had done right to send you
twenty pounds, even with the advice of your father, without informing
me of the fact. He thought the sum was a large one for a young man to
have, and he desires me to see that you make a proper use of it. I will
trouble you to hand me the money, which shall be placed to your credit,
and receipted for by the pursers."

"I haven't the money now, sir," replied Perth, who was fully resolved
to run away at the first convenient opportunity, and wanted the money
to pay his expenses.

"Where is it?"

"I sent it to a banker--"

"Silence! Don't blacken your soul with any more falsehoods, Perth,"
interrupted the principal, sternly.

"You may search me, sir," replied the second master, throwing out his
arms, as though he were ready to submit to the operation.

"I may, but I do not choose to do so at present. Keep your eye on him,
Peaks," added the principal, as he walked forward to his usual stand on
the hatch.

"You are foolish, Master Perth," said the old boatswain, shaking his
head; for he had been the only person who had listened to the
interview, and appeared to be present for a purpose.

Perth put his hands in his pockets. He felt the paper on which he had
written during the lecture. It would be a dangerous document in case he
should be searched; for its contents would expose him, and implicate
others. As slyly and as quickly as he could, he took it out, tore it
into small bits, and threw it out the open port into the water.

"What's that?" demanded Peaks, seizing him by the collar.

"You are too late," answered Perth.

"What was it you tore up?"

"The five-pound notes."

"Tell that to the marines!" exclaimed the old sailor.

"They are gone to Davy Jones's locker now," replied Perth, shaking his
head.

Peaks instantly reported the matter to the principal, who, however, did
not deem it necessary to take any immediate action. Probably he did not
believe the young wretch had destroyed the bills; or, if he had, it was
his own loss. Perth stood silent and sullen, while Mr. Lowington spoke
to the students, announcing the arrangements for the excursion to the
Rhine. The delinquent was certain, by this time, that he was not to be
one of the party; but he hoped, if he saved his money, that he should
find an opportunity to escape from the squadron soon after his
shipmates started on their journey.




CHAPTER XII.

A MYSTERIOUS MOVEMENT.


"Young gentlemen," said Mr. Lowington, as he stepped upon the hatch,
after disposing of Perth's case, "we shall commence our tour to the
Rhine to-morrow morning."

A hearty demonstration of applause greeted this announcement, and
doubtless those who had been faithful from the beginning realized a
certain sense of triumph, because they were justified in their hopes.

"We shall leave in the first train for Paris, where we will spend the
night, and proceed to Strasburg the next day. From this point we shall
enter Germany, and after visiting several places of interest, such as
