"I don't think I shall," he said.

He would like to have replied decidedly in the negative; but he felt
that he was by no means certain about the length of his stay.

"How do you like Huxter?" asked his new acquaintance, with rather a
comical look.

"I've seen men I liked better," said John, smiling.

"Shouldn't wonder," said the other. "He gets awful tight sometimes."

"It is a pity," said John, "for Mrs. Huxter seems to be a good sort of
a woman, and it must be hard on her."

"It would be hard for any woman to have such a husband. I don't know
Mrs. Huxter much, but I never heard anything against her. I've a great
mind to tell you," said the boy, looking at John to judge whether he
appeared as if he might be trusted with a secret, "a trick that one or
two of the fellows played on Mr. Huxter once when he was drunk. But
you'll be sure not to tell?"

John, whose curiosity was somewhat excited, gave the required promise.

"You see," continued his informant, "I was walking along with George
Sprague one afternoon, when we came across old Huxter lying side of the
road as drunk as he could be. George is rather a wild boy, and always
up to some mischief or other. That afternoon he happened to have a
little red paint, which he had got at the painter's shop for his father
to use. As soon as we saw old Huxter snoring away, George winked to me,
and said, 'Huxter's nose is red, but I've a great mind to make it a
little redder. I should like to see how the old fellow will look.' With
that he took out his brush, and touched Huxter's nose with it lightly,
making it as red as a brick. I was afraid he would wake up and chase
us, for he's pretty violent when he's drunk; but he was too far gone,
and never stirred. George took the paint home, and then we came out to
see if Huxter had gone home. We found he had, and we afterwards heard
how the trick came out."

[Illustration]

"When he got home and went into the kitchen, Mrs. Huxter screamed as
soon as she saw him.

"'What's the matter with you?' he growled.

"'O Mr. Huxter!' she said, clasping her hands, 'I knew that drinking
would be the ruin of you.'

"'Then you're a fool,' he said. 'Drinking a little now and then don't
do me any harm; but you're a woman, and have no more sense than a
kitten.'

"'You don't believe me, look at your nose,' said his wife.

"'What's the matter with my nose?' asked old Huxter, a little surprised.

"'Look at it, and you won't be surprised at my words.'

"With that Huxter did look, and when he saw his nose glaring red, he
was pretty well frightened, I can tell you. He had no more suspicion
than his wife that any one had been playing a trick upon him, and he
was afraid that his nose would always be so. He got frightened and went
to bed, and then asked his wife to go for the doctor."

"Did the doctor tell him how it was?"

"No; he thought it would do him no harm to be frightened a little; so
he lectured him about his habits, but told him that he thought he could
cure him this time by using a warm lotion. It was nothing but warm
water, with something put in to stain the water and make him think it
was something else; but Huxter did not know that, and was very grateful
to the doctor for relieving him.

"The fright had such an effect upon him that he didn't drink anything
for a whole week. Then he began again, and got bolder by degrees, till
now he's as bad as ever."

"How did you find out how the doctor treated the case?"

"Because George Sprague is the doctor's son. The doctor told all about
it at home as a good joke. George heard it all, but never breathed a
word to his father about his being the one that painted Huxter's nose.
The doctor didn't say anything to George, but he looked at him rather
queerly, as if he had some suspicion. It was a good joke,--wasn't it?"

"It would have turned out pretty well if it had stopped Mr. Huxter's
drinking."

"Nothing will do that. He's a pretty hard case But you mustn't say a
word about what I've been telling you. It would get George and me into
trouble."

"No, I won't say anything about it."

"Where do you live?"

"In Hampton."

"Whereabouts is that? Is it far from here?"

"About eighty miles, I should think. It lies to the north."

"Is it a pleasant place?"

"I think so; but then I was born there, you know, and perhaps that is
the reason I think so."

"Well, I was born in Jackson, but I don't think much of it. I guess
we'll move away next spring. Father talks of selling his farm. What is
your name?"

"My name is John Oakley."

"And mine is David Wallace."

The boys now felt thoroughly acquainted, and chatted together on a
variety of subjects, such as interest boys. While they were in the
midst of their conversation, they came to a grist-mill.

"I must stop here about ten minutes, to leave my grain," said David.
"The village is a mile further on. If you'll wait I'll carry you there
afterwards."

"I don't want you to go just on my account," said John.

"I am going there any way," said David. "There are better stores at
Milbank than at home, and mother asked me to buy her two or three
things. So you can come as well as not, and ride back too, if you don't
want to stay long."

"Thank you, David," said John. "I shall be glad to accept your offer.
It's rather hot walking, and I shan't want to stop but a few minutes.
Shall you go anywhere near the post-office?"

"Close by."

"I'll just run in there a minute."

"Have you got anything else to do?"

"No."

"You didn't set out to walk just to go to the Milbank post-office, did
you?" asked David, in some surprise.

"I had a letter to mail."

"Couldn't you mail it at our post-office?"

"Yes, I could; but it wouldn't go."

"Why not?"

"I've a great mind to tell you. You told me one secret, and I'll tell
you another, but on the same condition,--you won't tell anybody?"

"I wish I may have my head chopped off if I do," said David, earnestly.

John felt sure that he could trust his new acquaintance, though they
had so recently been brought to the knowledge of each other, and he
wanted somebody to confide in. So he gave David Wallace a general idea
of his story, not mentioning, however, the will, as he could see no
advantage in so doing.

"So Huxter thinks you don't know anything of his having stopped your
letter?"

"I am sure he does not."

"It's a good joke on him. He will never think of your coming so far to
mail a letter."

Part of this conversation took place after they had left the mill, and
were driving towards Milbank. They were soon in the village. It was a
much larger and pleasanter place than Jackson, and much more important
also, being the county seat, and therefore having a court-house and a
jail. John looked around him with interest, and did not dream how lucky
he was in taking this journey on this particular afternoon.




CHAPTER XVIII.

AN UNEXPECTED MEETING.


"That is the court-house," said David Wallace, pointing out a brick
building, surmounted by a wooden cupola.

John glanced at the building to which his attention was thus called.
He had hardly done so than he started and uttered an exclamation of
surprise.

"What's the matter?" demanded David.

"Won't you stop the horse?" asked John, hastily. "I want to get out."

"What for?"

"There's a man I know. I want to speak to him."

David stopped the horse, and John sprang to the ground. He hurried to
the gateway of the court-house, by which a gentleman was just entering.

"Squire Selwyn!" John called out.

Mr. Selwyn, for it was indeed he, turned in surprise, and could hardly
believe his eyes.

"John Oakley!" he exclaimed; "is it really you?"

"Yes, sir."

"How came you here?"

"It is a long story, sir. Can you spare me fifteen minutes? I had
written you a letter, and was just about to post it," said John.

"Yes, I will spare you that time. Come into the court-house with me,
and we will find a chance to sit down."

"One minute, sir, and I will be with you."

John returned to the wagon, and said to the surprised David:--

"It is the gentleman to whom I was going to post a letter. I am going
in to have a talk with him. I won't trouble you to stop for me, but I
can walk home. I am very much obliged to you for bringing me so far."

"How long will you be?" asked David.

"Half an hour perhaps."

"I shall be here as long as that. I will go on and do my errands, and
stop here on my way back. Then, if you are through, I will take you
along. You would find it warm walking."

"You're very kind, David."

"I'd rather have company than not. It makes the time go quicker. So go
ahead. It's all right."

David started the horse, and John rejoined the lawyer, who had been
waiting for him.

"You say you were just going to post me a letter?" said Squire Selwyn.

"Yes, sir."

"Of course you have it with you?"

"Here it is."

"I will read it. That will be the shortest way of getting at what
you wish to consult me about. After I have read it, I will ask any
questions that seem needful. But first we will come in."

They entered the court-house, and went into a room to the left, where
they found seats. Squire Selwyn put on his spectacles, and read the
letter slowly and deliberately.

"You are in a difficult position, John," he said, when he had finished
reading. "You are very unpleasantly situated, I should judge."

"Very, sir."

"And this Mr. Huxter doesn't seem a very agreeable man to have dealings
with?"

"I should be very unhappy if I expected to be obliged to stay with him."

"You say he is intemperate?"

"He drank several times on his way back in the stage, and the boy with
whom I rode over says he has been intemperate for years."

"Certainly he is not a fit person to have charge of you. Does he know
that you have come over here to-day?"

"No, sir."

"It is evidently Mrs. Oakley's intention that you you should not
be allowed to communicate with me, or any of your other friends in
Hampton. So, no doubt, she has instructed her brother. There must be
some motive for this."

Squire Selwyn looked thoughtfully at John as he said this, perhaps with
a view of drawing out John's opinion.

"I think," said John, hesitatingly, "that she is going to look for the
will."

"I won't say whether I agree with you or not," said Squire Selwyn,
cautiously. "It is not best to charge any one with wrong thoughts or
intentions too hastily, but it is well to be prepared for what may be
done to our disadvantage. Of course it is for your interest that the
will should be found, provided the discovery is made public."

