his promises, whose word cannot fail.' " 
" Now," said Mr. Richmond when he had 
read this, which he read very slowly and deliberately, as if he wished that every one 
should weigh every word, " I am going to ask 
you to rise and so declare your agreement 
with this covenant all of you who have 
heard and understood it, and who are ready 
to pledge yourselves to its responsibilities. 
Every one whose own mind and wish this 
covenant expresses will please rise." 
The little stir which this request occasioned 
through the room, left few of the assembly in 
their seats. Maria, as soon as she was upon 
her feet, looked to see how it was with her 
companions. To her great satisfaction, 
Clarissa was standing beside her; but Anne 
and Letitia were sitting in their places, and 
so was Matilda in hers beyond them. Maria 
frowned and nodded at her; but Mr. Richmond had desired the people to sit down 
again before these signs could take any effect, 
" It is as I hoped," Mr. Richmond said in a 
satisfied voice. " I have no alteration to 
make in my lists, beyond the addition of one 
or two new names ; and that sort of alteration 
J shall be glad to make whenever people will 
let me. I will receive new names at any time, 
of those who wish to join our Band our 
Working Band. I do not know what we 
shall call ourselves ; but one thing is certain, 
we mean to be a working people. Now suppose we see what kinds of work we are 
prepared to undertake each one of us in particular. Of course, we are all to do all we 
can and of all kinds ; but there are some kinds 
of work that each one can do better than he 
can do others ; and to those particular lines of 
effort each one will pledge himself to give 
special attention. 
" The first thing on my list, is, 
"'Bringing new scholars to the school! 
Who will take this as his special work ? Observe, it is not meant that you should ask 
any children to come to our school who are 
already members of some other school. We 
do not wish that. But who will undertake to 
look out and bring in some of the children 
that go nowhere ? All who want to do this 
raise your hands." 
There was a show of hands. 
" We must have a secretary," said Mr. 
Richmond. " Mr. Van Dyke, here is paper 
and ink, will you kindly come and write 
for us ? We want to put down all the names 
that enlist in this department of work. This 
is Number One. Put down, opposite to Number One, Mattie Van Dyke, Willie Edwards, 
Mary Edwards, Maria Englefield," 
Mr. Richmond went on giving the names 
until some eight or ten were registered. The 
children looked delighted. It was great 
doings. 
The next thing on Mr. Richmond's list was 
the "School singing" He explained that he 
wished the special attention of those who 
could give it, to this matter; that they should 
always stand ready to help the singing in the 
Sunday school, and make it just as good as 
it could be, and keep it good ; that they should 
not wait for others, if there was no one to 
lead, but start the hymn themselves and carry 
it through with spirit. 
There were not so many that pledged them- 
selves to this work, but as before, Maria was 
one. 
The third thing, was " Welcoming strangers 
and new scholars" in the church and in the 
school. Here a breeze sprung up. Mr. Richmond had remarked upon the great importance of this duty and the common neglect of 
it ; nevertheless there seemed to be some prospect that the neglect would continue. Mrs. 
Trembleton asked, " How were such strangers 
to be welcomed ? " 
" What would you like yourself, Mrs. Trem- 
bleton ? Suppose you were to go to a strange 
church, where you knew nobody. Would it 
be pleasant to have some one come up and 
take your hand and say you were wel- 
come? and give you a greeting when you 
met in the street ? perhaps come to see 
you ? " 
"I think," said Mrs. Trembleton after a 
pause, " it would depend a good deal on who 
it was did it!" 
Whether it would be pleasant ? " said Mr. 
Richmond smiling. " But you do not doubt 
that it would be pleasant to any stranger to 
have you come up and speak and shake hands, 
and do such offices of kindness ? " 
" It might be pleasant to them," said Mrs. 
Trembleton. " I don't think I should like to 
do it, to everybody.". 
" What do you say, Miss Benyon ? " Mr. 
Richmond asked. 
" O, I couldn't, Mr. Richmond! " the young 
lady answered shrinking. 
" I'll do it," spoke out one of the boys. 
" George Lockwood will welcome stran- 
gers, Mr. Van Dyke," said the minister. " And 
Willie Edwards holds up his hand, and Ben 
Barth. But shall we have none but the boys 
to do the welcoming ? The new scholars will 
not be all boys. Ah, there is Miss Peach; 
Ellen Peach, Mr. Van Dyke; and Maria 
Englefield, and Sarah Bent." 
" Won't it make confusion in the school ? " 
Mr. Van Dyke suggested. 
" Will not what make confusion ? " 
" Why, if half a dozen scholars are jumping 
up and leaving their classes, to receive somebody who is coming in ? " 
" I did not say that they should choose lesson time or school time at all for their kind 
civilities. After school is over or when 
meeting in the street or going into church. 
Opportunities will present themselves. It is 
rather the will that seems to be wanting, than 
the way." 
" It seems to me," spoke out another lady, 
" this welcoming of strangers is everybody's 
business." 
" Proverbially, nobody's business, Misa 
Fitch," Mr. Richmond answered with a 
smile. " You will leave it for me to do ; and 
I shall conclude that Mrs. Trembleton will 
 
attend to it; Mrs. Trembleton does not like 
the charge ; and there we are. Esther, what 
do you say ? " 
" O, I should not like to do it, Mr. Richmond ! " 
Nobody seemed to like to do it. Some 
were shy; some were humble, or thought 
they were; some fancied themselves of too 
little consequence ; some of too much ! Mr. 
Richmond went on to the next thing, which 
was " Temperance, Work." Here there was 
no want of volunteers. Boys and girls, and 
young ladies, and even men, were ready to 
pledge themselves to this cause. The names 
were many. It took some time to get them 
all down. 
Then came what Mr. Richmond's list 
called "Aid and Comfort;" and which he 
explained to mean, the giving of all sorts of 
material and social aid that the cases of sick 
and poor and distressed might call for. Anybody who would visit such cases, and provide 
or procure what they needed, or anybody unable to visit who would furnish the necessary 
supplies if called upon, might be enrolled on 
this committee. Plenty of people were ready 
for this. 
" Visiting absent scholars " found quite a 
number willing to engage in it. The cause 
of " Missionary Collections " and " Sunday 
school prayer meetings" found but few; 
evidently those were not popular objects. 
" Promoting attendance upon church " did 
not meet with much favour. The tenth department of work was " Carrying the Message" This Mr. Richmond explained to 
mean, the telling the good news of Christ to 
all who have not heard or who do not accept 
it ; to everybody we can reach, at home and 
abroad, wherever we may. There were not 
a few who were ready to pledge themselves 
to this ; as also to " Bible Reading" in houses 
where sickness or poverty or ignorance made 
such work desirable. But " Tract Distributing," which one would have thought a very 
kindred effort with the two last, was much 
 
more cautiously undertaken. Some boys 
were ready for it ; a few girls ; very few grown 
up people of either sex. 
The young people of Mrs. Englefield's family walked home more silently than they had 
come. To be sure, there was a little throng 
of persons going their way ; they could not 
speak in private. So under the still, bright 
stars, they went home without telling any of 
their thoughts to each other. But perhaps 
the air was chilly after coming out of the 
heated lecture room ; for they all poured into 
the parlour to get warm, before going upstairs to take off their things. 
" Well, you are late," Mrs. Englefield said. 
" Yes ; but we had, O such a nice meeting ! " Maria answered. 
What was it all about ? Now, I hope, 
we shall get at some light on the subject." 
But the light was not in a hurry to come. 
Anne and Letitia loosened their bonnet 
strings, and sat down ; Maria and Matilda 
threw off their cloaks and hoods and sought 
 
the fire ; nobody volunteered to be spokesman 
for the party. 
"What was done, Clarissa?" her mother 
asked. 
" I can hardly tell, mamma. A sort of association formed, for doing parish work." 
" I do not think much of associations," Mrs. 
Candy said. " People can work just as well 
in private, if they would only be content 
Did you, join this association ? " 
" What is parish work, Clarissa ? " Matilda 
asked. 
" Why, work in the parish, of course," Mrs. 
Englefield answered. 
" I don't know what the parish is, mam- 
ma?" 
" Don't you ? Well, all the people that 
Mr. Richmond has the care of, I suppose; 
isn't it, sister ? " 
"But who has he the care of?" Matilda persisted, looking up at her mother earnestly. 
"Well, child," said Mrs. Englefield half 
laughing, "in a sort, he has the care of all 
the people he preaches to." 
"Does he?" said Matilda. But at that 
the laugh became general. 
Why not, Tilly ? said Mrs. Candy. 
" Who gave him the care of us ? " said Matilda thoughtfully. 
" A minister always has the care of a 
church, when he has a church," said Mrs. 
Candy. " Is this Tilly's way of going into 
things in general, Marianne ? " 
" But? said Matilda, " can anybody take 
a church and take care of people, if he has 
a mind ? " 
" No ; only a man who has been properly 
educated and appointed." 
" Then how comes he to have the care of 
us?" 
" Come here, Tilly," said Clarissa. And 
she began a whispered explanation to which 
the little girl listened intently. 
" I do not hear yet what was the business 
done to-night ? " Mrs. Englefield went on. 
 
" Why, there were committees formed," 
said Letitia, " for doing every sort of business under heaven." 
" Committees ! " said the two ladies who 
had staid at home. 
" Maria can tell you," said Anne. " Maria, 
on how many committees are you ? " 
Maria hugged the fire and did not answer. 
" On how many, Maria ? " 
" I don't know. I didn't count." 
" I lost count, too," her sister said. " Let 
me see. Mamma, Maria has undertaken to 
find and bring in new scholars for the 
school." 
" I hope she will be punctual in going 
herself, then," said Mrs. Englefield. " She 
hasn't been, this six months past, to my 
knowledge." 
" O, but I am now, mamma," said Maria. 
" She has undertaken to practise for the 
school singing." 
" I didn't," said Maria. " I only said I 
would help in it." 
" Your help will not be worth much without practising. She has promised to undertake temperance work, too. How she will 
manage it, I do not know; unless she is going 
to begin upon us here at home. We are 
all such hard drinkers." 
" Almost all the Sunday school are en- 
gaged to help in temperance work," said 
Maria, standing on her defence. 
" How are you going to do anything ? " 
her mother asked. " You have neither brothers, nor father, nor cousins, in danger, that 
you can go to work upon them. What are 
you going to do, Maria ? " 
" That is but the beginning, mamma," 
Anne went on. " Maria is also engaged to 
visit the sick and afflicted and make soup and 
give medicine for them." 
" Why I did not, Anne ! " Maria ex- 
claimed again. 
" What did you mean, then, by joining the 
4 Aid and Comfort ' committee ? " 
" I did not say I would make soup, or 
 
give medicine. Everybody does not make 
soup." 
" No ; and so I thought that is just what 
the ' Aid and Comfort ' committee agreed to 
do." 
" And the doctors give the medicine," said 
Matilda. " Clarissa is on that committee 
too." 
" We can go together ; " said Maria ; " and 
we can find something to do." 
" Something for somebody else to do," said 
Anne. " You can find who would like some 
soup, can't you ? " 
" There are next to no poor people in 
Shadywalk," said Mrs. Englefield. I don't 
believe there is anybody in the village 
who would like some soup better than I 
should." 
" There are several doctors," said Anne ; 
"so I am afraid there are sick people occasionally. Else the doctors will soon be in 
want of soup. But, marnma, that is not the 
whole of Maria's engagements. She has 
 
pledged herself to ' carry the message,' read 
the Bible, and distribute tracts." 
