

Leaving the Park, Miss Manning crossed the street, went up the front
steps of a handsome house, and rang the bell.

"What a nice house!" said Rose, admiringly; "are we going to live
here?"

"No, I don't think we can afford it; but I will ask to see the rooms."

Soon the door was opened, and a servant-girl looked at them inquiringly.

"Can I see the rooms you have to let?" asked the seamstress.

"Step in a moment, and I'll call Mrs. Clayton."

They stepped into a hall, and remained waiting till a woman of middle
age, with a pleasant countenance, came up from below, where she had been
superintending the servants.

"I saw your advertisement of rooms to let," commenced Miss Manning, a
little timidly, for she knew that the house was a finer one than with
her limited means she could expect to enter, and felt a little like a
humbug.

"Yes, I have two small rooms vacant."

"Are they--expensive?" asked the seamstress, with hesitation.

"I ought to say that only one is at my disposal," said the landlady;
"and that is a hall bedroom on the third floor back. The other is a
square room, nicely furnished, on the upper floor, large enough for two.
But last evening, after I had sent in the advertisement, Mrs. Colman,
who occupies my second floor front, told me she intended to get a young
lady to look after her two little girls during the day, and teach them,
and would wish her to occupy the larger room. I thought when I first saw
you that you were going to apply for the situation."

A sudden thought came to Miss Manning. Why could she not undertake this
office? It would pay her much better than sewing, and the children would
be companions for Rose.

"How old are the little girls?" she said.

"One is five, the other seven, years old. Mrs. Colman is an invalid, and
does not feel able to have the children with her all the time."

"Is Mrs. Colman at home?"

"Yes. Would you like to see her?"

"I should. I am fond of children, and I might be willing to undertake
the charge of hers, if she thought fit to intrust them to me."

"I think it quite likely you can come to an agreement. She was wondering
this morning where she could hear of a suitable person. Wait here a
moment, and I will go and speak to her."

Mrs. Clayton went upstairs, and returned shortly.

"Mrs. Colman would like to see you," she said. "I will lead the way."

Miss Manning followed the landlady upstairs, and was ushered into a
large, handsomely furnished room on the second floor. There was a
cheerful fire in the grate, and beside it, in an easy-chair, sat a lady,
looking nervous and in delicate health. Two little girls, who seemed
full of the health and vitality which their mother lacked, were romping
noisily on the floor.

"Mrs. Colman," said the landlady, "this is the young lady I spoke of."

"Take a seat, please," said Mrs. Colman, politely. "I am an invalid as
you see, Mrs. ----?" here she looked up inquiringly.

"Miss Manning," said the seamstress.

"Then the little girl is not yours?"

"Not mine; but I have the care of her, as her mother is dead."

"How old is she?"

"Eight."

"A little older than my Jennie. Are you fond of children, Miss Manning?"

"Very much so."

"I am looking for some one who will look after my little girls during
the day, and teach them. At present they know absolutely nothing, and I
have not been willing to send them out of the house to school. What I
have been thinking is, of securing some one who would live in the house,
and take the care of the children off my hands. I am an invalid, as you
see, and sometimes their noise absolutely distracts me."

Miss Manning was struck with pity, as she noticed the pale, nervous face
of the invalid.

"Then the children need to go out and take a walk every day; but I have
no one to send with them. You wouldn't object to that, would you?"

"No, I should like it."

"Could you come soon?"

"I could come to-morrow, if you desire it," said Miss Manning, promptly.

"I wish you would. I have a nervous headache which will last me some
days, I suppose, and the children can't keep still. I suppose it is
their nature to be noisy."

"I can take them out for an hour now, if you like it, Mrs. Colman. It
would give me a chance to get acquainted."

"Would you? It would be quite a relief to me, and to them too. Oh, there
is one thing we must speak of. What compensation will satisfy you?"

"I don't know how much I ought to ask. I am willing to leave that matter
to you."

"You would want your little girl to live with you, I suppose."

"Yes, she needs me to look after her."

"Very well. Then I will pay Mrs. Clayton for the board of both of you,
and if two dollars a week would satisfy you--"

Would satisfy her? Miss Manning's breath was quite taken away at the
magnificent prospect that opened before her. She could hardly conceive
it possible that her services were worth a home in so nice a house and
two dollars a week besides. Why, toiling early and late at her needle,
she had barely earned hitherto, thirty-seven cents a day, and out of
that all her expenses had to be paid. Now she would still be able to sew
while the children were learning their lessons. She would no longer be
the occupant of a miserable tenement house, but would live in a nice
quarter of the city. She felt devoutly thankful for the change: but, on
the whole, considered that perhaps it was not best to let Mrs. Colman
see just how glad she was. So she simply expressed herself as entirely
satisfied with the terms that were offered. Mrs. Colman seemed glad that
this matter had been so easily arranged.

"Mrs. Clayton will show you the room you are to occupy," she said. "I
have not been into it, but I understand that it is very comfortable. If
there is any addition in the way of furniture which you may require, I
will make it at my own expense."

"Thank you. You are very kind."

Here Mrs. Clayton reappeared, and, at the request of Mrs. Colman,
offered to show them the room which they were to occupy.

"It is on the upper floor," she said, apologetically; "but it is of good
size and pleasant, when you get to it."

She led the way into the room. It was, as she had said, a pleasant one,
well lighted, and of good size. A thick woollen carpet covered the
floor; there were a bureau, a clothes-press, a table, and other articles
needful to make it comfortable. After the poor room they had occupied,
it looked very attractive.

"I think I shall like it," said Miss Manning, with satisfaction.

"Are we to live here?" asked Rose, who had not quite understood the
nature of the arrangement.

"Yes, Rosy; do you think you shall like it?"

"Oh, yes, ever so much. When are we coming?"

"To-morrow morning. You will have two little girls to play with."

"The little girls I saw in that lady's room downstairs?"

"Yes. Do you think you shall like it?"

"I think it will be very nice," said Rose, with satisfaction.

"Well, how do you like the room, Miss Manning?" said Mrs. Colman, when
they had returned from upstairs.

"It looks very pleasant. I have no doubt I shall like it."

"I think you will need a rocking-chair and a sofa. I will ask Mr. Colman
to step into some upholsterer's as he goes down town to-morrow, and send
them up. If it wouldn't be too much trouble, Miss Manning, I will ask
you to help Carrie and Jennie on with their hats and cloaks. They quite
enjoy the thought of a run out of doors with you and your little girl.
By the way, what is her name?"

"Rose."

"A very pretty name. I have no doubt the three children will soon
become excellent friends. She seems a nice little girl."

"Rose is a nice little girl," said the seamstress, affectionately.

In a short time they were on their way downstairs. In the hall below
they met the landlady once more.

"What is the price of your hall bedroom, Mrs. Clayton?" asked Miss
Manning.

"Five dollars and a half a week," was the answer.

It needs to be mentioned that this was in the day of low prices, and
that such an apartment now, with board, would cost at least twelve
dollars a week.

"What made you ask, Miss Manning?" said Rose.

"I was thinking that perhaps Rufus might like to take it."

"Oh, I wish he would," said Rose; "then we would all be together."

"We are speaking of her brother," said Miss Manning, turning to Mrs.
Clayton.

"How old is he?"

"Fifteen."

"Is he at school, or in a place?"

"He is in a broker's office in Wall Street."

"Then, as he is the little girl's brother, I will say only five dollars
a week for the room."

"Thank you, Mrs. Clayton. I will let you know what he decides upon
to-morrow."

They went out to walk, going as far as Union Square, where Miss Manning
sat down on a bench, and let the children sport at will. It is needless
to say that they very soon got well acquainted, and after an hour and a
half, which their bright eyes testified to their having enjoyed, Miss
Manning carried the little Colmans back to Waverley Place, and, with
Rose, took the horse-cars back to their old home.

"Won't Rufie be surprised when he hears about it?" said Rose.

"Yes, Rosy, I think he will," said Miss Manning.




CHAPTER III.

JAMES MARTIN'S VICISSITUDES.


While Miss Manning is seeking a new boarding-place for herself and Rose,
events are taking place in Brooklyn which claim our attention. It is
here that James Martin, the shiftless and drunken step-father of Rufus
and Rose, has made a temporary residence. He had engaged board at the
house of a widow, Mrs. Waters, and for two or three weeks paid his board
regularly, being employed at his trade of a carpenter on some houses
going up near by. But it was not in James Martin's nature to work
steadily at anything. His love of drink had spoiled a once good and
industrious workman, and there seemed to be little chance of any
permanent improvement in his character or habits. For a time Rufus used
to pay him over daily the most of his earnings as a newsboy, and with
this he managed to live miserably enough without doing much himself. But
after a while Rufus became tired of this arrangement, and withdrew
himself and his sister to another part of the town, thus throwing Martin
on his own resources. Out of spite Martin contrived to kidnap Rose, but,
as we have seen, her brother had now succeeded in recovering her.

After losing Rose, Martin took the way back to his boarding-house,
feeling rather doubtful of his reception from Mrs. Waters, to whom he
was owing a week's board, which he was quite unable to pay. He had told
her that he would pay the bill as soon as he could exchange a
fifty-dollar note, which it is needless to say was only an attempt at
deception, since he did not even possess fifty cents.

On entering the house, he went at once to his room, and lay down on the
bed till the supper-bell rang. Then he came down, and took his place at
the table with the rest of the boarders.

"Where's your little girl, Mr. Martin?" inquired Mrs. Waters, missing
Rose.

"She's gone on a visit to some of her relations in New York," answered
Martin, with some degree of truth.

"How long is she to stay?"

"'Till she can have some new clothes made up; maybe two or three weeks."

"That's rather sudden, isn't it? You didn't think of her going this
morning?"

"No," answered Martin, with his mouth full of toast; "but she teased so
hard to go, I let her. She's a troublesome child. I shall be glad to
have the care of her off my mind for a time."

This might be true; but Mrs. Waters was beginning to lose confidence in
Mr. Martin's statements. She felt that it was the part of prudence to
make sure of the money he was already owing her, and then on some
pretext get rid of him.

