"Why so?"

But the violent jolting of the wagon prevented me from talking, and him
from hearing; so I deferred my explanation till a more convenient
season. In a few minutes, I stopped the horses a short distance from
the landing, when Mr. Gracewood hailed me from a clump of bushes. I
felt relieved when I saw that Ella and he were safe. I helped the
trembling mother out of the wagon, and conducted her to the spot.

"My child! O, Ella!" cried Mrs. Gracewood, as she bent over the form of
her daughter.

"I am safe, mother," she replied, faintly.

They sobbed and wept in each other's arms till Mr. Gracewood
interposed, and then we placed the sufferer on the bed in the wagon.

"Now, lieutenant, if you will let one of your men drive the horses up
to the Castle, I will tell how the land lies here," said I, when the
party was ready to start.

Mr. Jackson ordered one of the soldiers to go with the wagon, and
return with it; but Mr. Gracewood preferred to drive himself while Ella
was a passenger. As the team started, I walked with the officer and two
soldiers down to the landing. I imparted all the information I had
obtained, including the movements of the Indians who had captured Ella.

"You are a plucky little fellow to stand up and shoot down an Indian:
but I think you would have done better if you had called me, instead of
following the Indians yourself," said Lieutenant Jackson.

"I don't think so. We might have gone a dozen miles before we found
them, if I had lost sight of them. The three Indians went down the
river just as we came in sight. I heard your men fire at them. Now you
must not let them go up the Fish, for they will carry information to
the large party up that river, and spoil the plan of Lieutenant Pope."

"You are right, my boy," replied the officer, as he posted his two men
where they could see the dugout as it approached.

"You will have a big fight to-morrow," I added.

"I should think so from what you say; but I haven't read my orders
yet."

"Hark!"

I heard the splashing of paddles in the river below us, and I concluded
that the three Indians who had failed in front of the Castle were
returning to Fish River.




CHAPTER XVII.

IN WHICH PHIL CONDUCTS THE SOLDIERS TO THE LINE OF DEFENCE.


I had a theory of my own in regard to the movements of the four Indians
who had come down the Crooked River in the two dugouts. The savages
were incensed against us because they had failed to obtain our horses,
and because we had shot two or three of their men in the skirmishes
which followed. This party had gone home and stirred up the Indians,
who were now upon the war-path. Mr. Gracewood had identified himself
with the defence of the Castle, and they had visited his island to
wreak their vengeance upon him, and obtain his property.

If he was at home, they would kill him; if not, they would appropriate
or destroy his property. Having disposed of him, if he were there, the
four Indians were to go down the river to the front of the Castle, and
when the main body appeared in the forest, make an attack on the river
side, or steal upon us in the night, and murder us in our sleep. At any
rate, these Indians knew that a large force of their own people were
coming down the Fish, and they were in some manner to assist them.

Lieutenant Jackson and myself went to the bank of the river, and soon
saw the dugout, two of the Indians in it paddling with all their might.
They had discovered their blunder, in part at least, when the soldiers
opened upon them. The fact that any one was awake at the Castle was
enough to turn them from their purpose, for they had not the courage to
stand up before the rifle of Kit Cruncher, whom they doubtless supposed
to be there.

"Give them a shot, Morgan," said the lieutenant to one of his men.

The soldier fired, but without effect, except to alarm the Indians.

"Why didn't you hit them?" added the officer, as the savages turned the
dugout from the shore, and paddled with renewed zeal towards the
opposite side of the great river.

"So I would if they would hold still long enough for me to cover them,"
replied the soldier.

The other man fired, but with no better success, so far as we could
discover. Before they could reload their pieces, the dugout was too far
off to warrant the wasting of any more powder and lead.

"You will not see them again to-night," said I, as the Indians
disappeared in the gloom.

"Can they get to the rear of our position by any other way than up this
river?" asked Lieutenant Jackson.

"Yes, sir, they can. They may go up Bear River to the lake, and cross
the country to the Fish," I replied. "But there are rapids between the
lake and the Missouri, and they would have to carry their boat half a
mile."

"Then I must put a guard at the mouth of the Bear."

"It will be the safest way," I added, as the soldier returned with my
team.

We drove back to the Castle, and I put up the horses. The lieutenant
sent a corporal and two men to the mouth of Bear River, two miles below
the Castle; and I was satisfied that the three Indians could not
possibly join the band which was moving down the Fish. We went into the
house together, where a cheerful fire of pitch wood was blazing on the
hearth. Poor Ella had dropped asleep, and her father and mother sat by
her bedside watching her heaving chest. They were very anxious about
her, though Mr. Gracewood declared that she suffered only from
exhaustion, and that rest would restore her.

The lieutenant read the order I had brought to him, and we left the
Castle, so as not to disturb Ella. By this time I was willing to
believe I was tired myself. I thought it must be nearly daylight, and
was surprised when the officer told me it was only twelve o'clock. It
seemed to me that I had lived a whole year since sundown. I was invited
to sleep in the lieutenant's tent, and I did sleep there in good
earnest till long after sunrise the next morning, when a soldier called
me.

"We are about ready to start, Phil," said Mr. Jackson. "My orders say
you are to be my guide."

"I must take care of my horses and pigs, and eat my breakfast."

"My men have fed your horses, and cleaned them. I thought you would be
very tired, and I had your work done for you," said the lieutenant.

"I was tired--that's a fact; but I am as good as new now."

"Mr. Gracewood says your breakfast is all ready."

"How is Ella?" I asked.

"She is better, but still very weak."

"Is she sick?"

"No, they say not; only worn out."

I went to the Castle, and was at once greeted with an outpouring of
thanks from father, mother, and daughter for what I had done the night
before. Ella, as the officer had said, was suffering only from stiff
limbs and over-fatigue. Mr. Gracewood had cooked our breakfast, and we
all sat down to the table. It was a happy family which gathered around
the board, and the father said a prayer of thanksgiving for the mercy
of God in sparing our lives during the perils of the preceding day and
night; and it was a prayer in which we all joined, in mind and heart.

The scene was a novel one to me. It was the first time in my life that
I had ever sat at table with women--the first family I had ever seen
together. I had read of such things, and my kind teacher had told me
all about the customs of civilized life. I thought that every family,
as father, mother, and children gathered together at table, or in the
evening, ought to be very happy. Still I knew it was not so, for even
the reunited husband and wife before me had quarrelled and separated.
People do not understand and appreciate their greatest blessings,
because they are so common; but I, who had never known a mother's
care,--at least not since my infancy,--could realize what a joy it was
to have a father and mother, and to be with them every day. It seemed
to me that I could never disregard the slightest wish of father or
mother, if I had them.

I ate a hearty breakfast, for even the pretty sentiment which was
flitting through my mind could not impair my appetite. When I went out
I found that the lieutenant had drawn up his force in the field, struck
his tents, and loaded his baggage upon my wagon. Firefly and Cracker
were harnessed, and I had only to take my seat on the load. The
soldiers had repaired the bridge over the brook, and everything was
ready for a start.

"Of course you leave a guard here, lieutenant," I said, as I took my
place on the wagon.

"I have detailed a corporal and three men to take care of the Castle,"
replied Mr. Jackson. "Do you think that is force enough?"

"Plenty, sir, if they keep their eyes wide open," I replied. "They have
only to guard the approach on the water side."

"All right. Attention--company! Shoulder arms! Right shoulder--shift!
Forward--march!"

The soldiers marched ahead, and I followed with the wagon. It was about
two miles to the point between the lake and the Little Fish, where the
detachment was to be posted, and in less than an hour we arrived at our
destination. We halted, and a sergeant and three men were sent forward
to scout the woods, and give the troops early intimation of the
approach of the enemy. The rest of the force was immediately set at
work in the erection of two breastworks--one near the river, and the
other between Kit's Brook and the lake. The first commanded the road on
the Little Fish, and the other the brook path.

"Don't your soldiers have any cannons?" I asked, after the lieutenant
had set the men at work.

"We have some mountain howitzers at the fort; but field-pieces are not
available for this bushwhacking service," replied Mr. Jackson. "I wish
we had a couple of howitzers here."

"Mr. Gracewood has what he calls a twelve-pounder."

"Indeed! Is it mounted?"

"It's on wheels, if that is what you mean."

"Do you know whether he has any ammunition for it?" asked the officer,
evidently much interested in the information I had given him.

"He has plenty of powder, and some tin cans----"

"Canister shot: just the thing for us," interposed the officer. "Is it
possible to have this gun brought down here?"

"I don't see why it isn't."

"It would be as good as twenty men to us in these breastworks. Couldn't
you take a couple of my men, and go after it?"

"Of course I could, and I will."

"You will do us a great service, for I may have to fight four times my
own force."

Two men were selected to go with me to the island, and taking them upon
the wagon, I drove back to the Castle. Mr. Gracewood readily gave me
permission to bring off the gun, but he wanted to know how I expected
to bring it over.

"In the boat," I replied.

"Do you mean my barge?"

"Yes, sir."

"How much do you think it weighs?" he asked, with a smile.

"I don't know--perhaps a hundred weight," I answered, comparing it with
a barrel of flour, which was my standard.

"Not less than six hundred," said he. "The barge will not carry it with
three of you besides; and if it would, you could not load it."

"I can get it over, I know," I replied, confidently, and rather pleased
to have a difficult problem to solve.

"Very well. The ammunition is in the blue box; and that will be a good
load for the barge."

"I will agree to get them both over here," I replied; and, jumping upon
the wagon, I drove down to the landing.

While I was securing the horses, the two soldiers put the barge into
the water. I was thinking all the time of the problem of transporting
the gun and ammunition. I was quite sure that I could do the job, and I
had my plan ready. I took a couple of axes from the shanty at the
landing, and we embarked. One of the soldiers rowed the boat.

"What are you going to do with the axes, Phil?" asked the soldier who
was seated in the bow.

"I thought we might want them, and so I brought them along," I replied,
not caring to discuss my plan with him.

"How big is the gun we are to bring?"

"Mr. Gracewood says it weighs about six hundred."

"Do you expect to bring a gun weighing six hundred in this little
boat?"

"We'll see," I replied.

"We are on a fool's errand."

"You wait and see."

"I think you are smart, Phil, after what you did last night; but you
might as well try to drink up the Missouri as to bring that gun in this
boat," persisted the soldier.

"Let Phil alone," said Morgan, the oarsman, who seemed to have more
confidence in my ability than his companion.

We landed at the south end of Paradise Island, because there were no
bluffs to interfere with our operations. Securing the boat, we walked
