" Mother," he said, finding her alone in the dining- 
room arranging the table, " I think it was partly my 
fault that Freddy fell in ; I wasn't watching him." 
" Fred must learn to obey and do just as he is told. 
He is growing too thoughtless." 
So Freddy had a dinner of bread and water up in 
his room, and no one was allowed to share his con- 
finement. Eob felt really sorry about it ; but in the 
afternoon he went over to see Harry Cox, and the 
boys had a long, pleasant talk. Harry possessed a 
genial, forgiving nature, and he had always been 
great friends with Eob. 
There had not been very much fun in the week, he 
concluded. Was it because he had thought of him- 
self first, and all the time ? It did look rather mean 
and selfish to care simply for one's own gratification 
and let others be pleased as best they might. 
"I will try," he said softly to himself, after his 
evening prayer. 
CHAPTEE III. 
WHAT STRAYED INTO THE POUND. 
" I DON'T see what has become of all my gimlets," 
said Bob, after his first day's school. " I had three, 
and they have all disappeared. I used the last one 
the day I was making Fred's rabbit-house. You did 
n't carry it away ? " to Freddy, who was entertaining 
himself with a procession of animals from Noah's Ark. 
" No, I 'm sure I did n't. And I can't find Noah 
or the elephant. Kathie, have you had them ? " 
They all laughed at this. Fred was rather non- 
plussed. A quizzical look came in Uncle Eobert's 
eyes. 
" Well, what have you lost, Kathie ? " he asked. 
" Fred ! you know Uncle Eobert was going to 
have a pound. I can't think whether anything of 
mine has strayed into it or not," she said, with an 
arch and amused expression. 
" Three gimlets," declared Eob, with a mirthful 
twist of his lip. " How much is the fine ? ' : 
 
" I have been quietly confiscating articles for about 
a month, so you see that I did not begin immedi- 
ately." 
" Uncle Robert, let us have an auction or a 
redemption," begged Katliie. 
" Well, I think I will, only I do not know what 
fine to attach. I have such a store on hand that I 
should be glad to dispose of them." 
Eob looked grave. Perhaps there were more than 
three gimlets in duress. 
" Five cents for each article," exclaimed Ivathie. 
" Wouldn't that come rather hard on Fred ? " asked 
Aunt Ruth. 
" Well, then, a penny for Fred, and five cents for 
Eob and me." 
" How about that, Rob ? " 
Rob looked rather dubious, it must be confessed. 
On the first of every week his uncle gave him some 
pocket-money, and he hated to lay out a great deal 
of it in the beginning for such a purpose, as now, 
when he came to think of it, he had missed a good 
many things during the past month. 
" I am afraid it will break me," he said, laughingly. 
"We will say a cent apiece. Do you hear that, 
Freddy ? Every one who has an article in my 
pound must pay a cent to redeem it." 
" Aunt Euthie 's keeping my money." 
" We 'll bring on the elephant then " ; and Uncle 
Eobert left the room, returning with a covered 
basket. Inside were several packages wrapped in 
paper. 
"I put them together once a week," said their 
uncle. " We will take the first week in August. A 
child's history found in the summer-house." 
" Eob's ! " 
Eob reached out his hand. " We had better do the 
paying in a lump," he said. 
"A gimlet picked up on the kitchen table, an 
odd glove found on the library table, three fish-hooks 
and a lead on the veranda, a partially made gutta- 
percha ring from the sideboard, two boat sails " 
" There, I never could imagine where they went," 
interrupted Eob. " I was sure I hunted high and 
low for them ' " 
Hannah gave them to me. They were left in the 
kitchen, or rather on the kitchen window-sill, and 
a whiff of wind blew them into the bread she was 
mixing." 
 
There was a general laugh at this. 
" We will say six articles, then, for the first week. 
Now, a partly finished sketch of the boat-house and 
lake." 
" Mine," declared Kathie, with a smile. " Where 
did I leave it, I wonder ? ' 
" In -the library. And a handkerchief picked up 
from the lawn." 
" Well, my list isn't so very large/' said Kathie, 
with comforting gayety. 
But Freddy's list outswelled Eob's. He was quits 
delighted to regain his lost treasures, some of whicl? 
had been found in most unheard-of places. 
The second week Eob showed a decided improve- 
ment. Three articles only had gone astray, while 
Kathie numbered as many, but the third week he in- 
creased to seven, and Kathie had none. For the 
month his amount w r as twenty, Kathie's five, and one 
would think that Freddy had lost the whole contents 
of his play-house. 
" So you see, even at the low fine of a penny, I 
have fifty-two cents. Fred is the greatest sufferer. 
I am afraid it will make him bankrupt." 
" I think we ought to help him out," said Kathie. 
" I 'll pay ten cents." 
Rob looked grave. It would be rather mean 
not to offer ten also, but he had only a stipulated 
sum per month, while Kathie was not restricted. 
Uncle Robert took Freddy up on his knee. " My 
little man," he said, "let the playthings alone a 
moment, for I want to talk to you. Through your 
carelessness you have left all these around in the 
wrong places, and you see they litter up the rooms 
considerably. If some had remained out of doors, 
they would have been ruined. Now I want to teach 
you carefulness. You will have to pay a penny for 
every one, which will make twenty-seven pennies. 
As you have but fifty in all, you see it makes quite 
a hole in your fortune." 
Freddy sniffed a little, and began to pick some tears 
out of the corner of his eyes. 
" Oh, that 's no way. You must learn to remember ; 
a boy of eight is large enough, I am sure." 
" But I cant" he replied, despairingly. 
" Well, you can try. You do not forget to come 
to your meals, or if you are promised any indulgence 
that never slips out of your mind. I do not like the 
habit of children laying their books or playthings 
about anywhere, and even if you make a little im- 
 
provement every month, it is so much gained. Now 
Kathie has very kindly offered to pay ten cents of 
your fine, but I shall not allow her to do it next 
month." 
"And I suppose I ought to pay ten," said Bob, 
slowly. 
While his uncle had been talking he had studied 
Eob's face as well, and saw the struggle. 
" Bob," he said, pleasantly, " you are not compelled 
to pay anything, and you ought to have the courage 
to give just the sum you think you can afford. If 
it was a starving child the case would be different. 
Now think again and tell us just how you feel 
about it." 
Bob's face flushed, and his first impulse was to say, 
magnanimously, " Ten cents " ; but when he saw the 
kind and appreciative look in his uncle's eyes he 
reconsidered. " I'll tell you the truth, Uncle Bobert. 
I 'd rather give the ten cents than to have you think 
me mean ; but it seems to me that I can only afford 
five ; that will take my spending-money for this 
week." 
'* And that is about right, I fancy. Kathie has 
the most money, and so she is really not any guide 
for you ; besides, I want you to learn to decide such 
matters according to your own judgment, and not 
take any other person for your standard. It depends 
altogether upon the motive whether one is mean or 
not. JSTow, Freddy, I think they have been very 
kind to you. You will only have to pay twelve 
cents. Get your money." 
So they all handed over the fifty-two cents, in- 
wardly resolving that the sum should not be as much 
the next month. Freddy took nearly a basketful of 
redeemed property up to his play-house, and they 
saw nothing of him until supper was ready. 
" How did school go to-day ? ' asked Uncle 
Robert. 
" O, I suppose I shall like it. Mr. Barlow was so 
easy, only once in a while when the boys made him 
real mad, and for the most part you could do about 
as you liked ; but Mr. Crittenden and Mr. Deane are 
pretty sharp, I 'm going to begin with Latin. Char- 
lie Darrell is put in the same classes." 
It made the Academy much better for Eob after 
Mr. Darrell concluded to send Charlie. 
" And Charlie is almost a year younger than you," 
said Kathie. 
 
" O, he lias the knack of learning ; it comes natural 
to him." 
" Then the boys to whom it does not come natural 
must make the greater effort," replied his uncle. 
Eob got on very well, though. In a week's time 
he had made troops of friends, and by dint of hard 
studying and some help kept his place ; but he did 
love to play, and the confinement after so royal a 
vacation was doubly irksome. 
In the mean while Kathie and her mamma 
were making preparations for Aunt Ruth's journey. 
Kathie was to be housekeeper during their absence. 
She was to look after Fred and keep him in order, 
see that Rob did not transgress the bounds of pro- 
priety, write every other day to New York, and in 
any difficulty ask advice. 
"After all, it will be real hard to have you go," 
said Kathie, caressing Aunt Ruth. 
" You will be lonesome, but Uncle Robert may be 
able to return in a few days." 
" Not that altogether ; I was thinking of you 
and what you will have to suffer. I wonder if it 
will be very painful." 
" I am to take ether for the worst, you know 
The getting well will be quite tedious, I sup- 
pose." 
" You don't feel afraid, Aunt Kuth, that - - any- 
thing will happen ? ' : 
Kathie's bright face was shaded very sorrowfully, 
and her clear voice trembled a little. 
" My darling, do you mean dying ? Dr. Markham 
thinks there is comparatively no danger. And then 
one has to trust God always. You know our lives 
are in his hand." 
" Aunt Euth, are you sorry that I wished it ? I 
never thought of the pain and suffering that night 
when we were all so happy, only that if you could be 
well again and walk about." 
" My dear child, I shall always be glad that one of 
your first desires in prosperity was for my welfare. 
And it will give me better courage to bear the pain, 
as I think of the comfort that we shall take together 
afterward " ; and Aunt Eutli kissed the tender face. 
" When will Dr. Markham let you come back io 
Cedarwood ? ' 
" He thought in about three months." 
" By Christmas ! How delightful that will be ! 
We will have a Christmas feast. And if you should 
 
be well But, Aunt Ruth, sometimes doctors 
fail, do they not ? ' 
Aunt Eutli smiled. " Kathie," she said, " I 'm not 
going to have you conjuring up giants. So far as 
human eyes can see, the affair promises well. When 
I am gone you must not worry about the thousand 
things that may happen. I 'll leave you a text to 
meditate upon at such times : ' Commit thy ways 
unto the Lord, and he will bring it to pass.' 
" Yes, that is the best," returned Kathie, cheerily. 
Mrs. Alston felt quite anxious about leaving the 
children, but Hannah was so trustworthy, and Uncle 
Robert expected to be going backwards and forwards, 
so she thought that nothing very alarming could 
happen without their hearing of it soon. Still she 
gave Kathie many charges, and begged Eob to be 
as careful as he could, and not increase Kathie's 
cares. * 
Then the packing commenced. There was an 
abundance of easy wrappers, and a good warm double- 
gown, a pair of slippers that Kathie had embroidered, 
and rolls of old linen for bandages. Freddy was very 
anxious that she should take something of his, and 
even generously proposed his locomotive and his 
small music-box that regaled one with Hail Columbia 
and Yankee Doodle. 
" I am very much obliged," Aunt Euth replied, 
"but you know that I shall have to keep very quiet, 
so you had better enjoy these things yourself. And 
if you will be a good boy while I am away ! ' 
" I 'll be just as good as I can hold," said Freddy, 
swelling up and turning red in the face with his re- 
solve. 
The trunk was strapped and taken out on the 
porch. Mrs. Alston was dressed in a pretty brown 
travelling suit, and Uncle Eobert was up in Aunt 
Euth's room, ready to assist her down stairs. 
Kathie couldn't help thinking how lonesome it 
would be in this pleasant place after they were gone, 
and most of all in the evening, the time of quiet, 
comforting talks. She tried hard to wink away the 
tearg that would come, and keep her voice steady. 
" I shall be back on Saturday," Uncle Eobert, an- 
nounced, in his cheery fashion, "and I shall expect you 
to have a grand supper for me. Now, Aunt Euth, 
think how frisky you will be this time next year. 
Why, we shall have you dancing out on the lawn ! ' 
Kathie smiled at that, though, after all, no one 
 
beside the ponies seemed in very gay spirits. Mrs. 
Alston kissed the children silently, but Aunt Euth 
realized the most truly what the parting was to 
Kathie. Ever since she could remember, Aunt Euth 
had been such a dear friend. 
Uncle Eobert deposited her in the carriage : then 
mamma was put in. 
" Hurrah ! " shouted Eob. " Three wishes for suc- 
cess ! Here, we ought to have a slipper to throw 
for good luck ! " 
" Take mine " ; and Hannah pulled off hers. 
Eob threw it ahead of the carriage. " Better 
than we expect," he declared, running after it. 
Aunt Euth leaned out and smiled. That made 
