her; but the distinguished gentleman declined to excuse her, and
thought the kitchen was very comfortable and very pleasant.
"And so you got out, Phil," she added, turning to me.
"Out? How did you know anything about it?" I inquired, very much
surprised to find that the intelligence of my adventure had preceded me.
"Why, a policeman has been here with your note."
"My note! What note?"
"Didn't you write a billet to me?" she continued, bustling about to
find the important document.
"I am not aware that I did," I replied.
"Why, yes, you did, Phil. Where is it? I must have left it up stairs. I
will go up after it."
"But I haven't written any billet," I protested.
"I will show it to you," said she, hastening up stairs to find the note.
"Your friends appear to have doubled on you, after all," laughed Mr.
Rockwood.
"I don't understand it, though I remember that in order to save the
rascals the trouble of attempting to get any money out of me, I told
them I had left my balance at home."
Mrs. Greenough returned with the note, and handed it to me. I read it
with astonishment and indignation. My name was signed at the end of it;
but, of course, no part of the contents was written by me. In the note
I was represented as informing the good lady that I had been arrested,
and conveyed to the station-house; but I could be bailed out till
Monday by depositing sixty-five dollars with the sergeant of police.
"Who brought this?" I asked.
"A man who said he was a policeman."
"Did you know him?"
"No; but after consulting a long time with your father, we sent the
money."
"You did!" I exclaimed.
I concluded that I was sixty-five dollars out.
  CHAPTER XXII.
  IN WHICH PHIL RETURNS TO THE DEN OF THE ENEMY.
I felt that I could afford to lose sixty-five dollars better than
ever before; but I did not like the idea of being swindled. It was
especially repugnant to be overreached by such scoundrels as Lynch and
Blair, though the latter appeared to be only the tool of the former.
"I did not like to give the man the money, but your father thought
that, as he was a policeman, it was all right," Mrs. Greenough
explained. "Your father was very much worried when he heard you were
arrested."
"I have not been arrested," I replied.
"Your father wishes to see you," added the landlady.
"I will go up with you, if you please," said Mr. Rockwood.
We went up to my father's room, where I introduced my new friend to
him. It required some time, of course, to explain who and what the
planter was, and how I had made his acquaintance.
"Then you have not been arrested," said my father.
"No; but I was kept a prisoner by these scoundrels."
"We must attend to them," added Mr. Rockwood, consulting his watch.
"Dear me! there is the door-bell again!" exclaimed Mrs. Greenough. "Who
can it be at this time of night!"
"It is only half past nine," added the planter, as I took a light to
answer the bell. "I think Mrs. Greenough had better go to the door,
for I don't believe these scoundrels will be satisfied with sixty-five
dollars."
At this suggestion Mrs. Greenough answered the summons, and soon
returned with another note--from me! I opened it, and read that I had
been arrested in connection with the claim of Morgan Blair, and that
when the police sergeant heard there was a note, which represented the
property claimed, in my possession, he thought it was better to have
it deposited with the chief of police for safe keeping.
"These fellows evidently think you have not yet returned to your home,
Phil," said Mr. Rockwood.
"I don't blame them much for thinking so, for I expected to stay on
those roofs all night; and I think I should if you had not been so wise
as to put a hotel in the block," I replied.
"The man asked if Phil was at home before he gave me the note," said
the landlady, "and I evaded the question."
"What shall we do?" asked my father, raising himself in the bed.
"Phil and I will pay a visit to these rascals," answered the planter.
"Have you an envelope?"
"Yes," I replied, producing one, with some paper.
He folded up a sheet of paper, put it in the envelope, and requested
the landlady to direct it to the chief of police.
"Where is this messenger?" asked Mr. Rockwood.
"He is waiting in the kitchen."
"Very well, Mrs. Greenough. If you will close the door, so that we can
get into the street without his knowledge, we will follow him up and
attend to this business."
The landlady went down stairs, and when she had closed the kitchen
door, the planter and myself crept softly down stairs, and went into
the street. We placed ourselves where we could identify the messenger
when he came out of the house. He was evidently satisfied that the
envelope contained the document for which he had been sent, for he
immediately followed us out of the house. He was a well-dressed man, as
we saw by the light of the corner street lamp. He wore a light-colored
overcoat, so that we could easily follow him as he passed through the
streets. Mr. Rockwood went behind him, while I walked on the other side
of the street, and kept up with him. He went, as I supposed he would,
to the house to which I had been enticed earlier in the evening. He
went in by the aid of a night-key, and doubtless believed that he had
fully accomplished the mission upon which he had been sent.
"You are younger and more active than I am, Phil," said Mr. Rockwood,
when the man had entered the house and closed the door behind him.
"If you will stay here, and follow any of the rascals if they come out
again, I will get an officer."
"Very well, sir."
The planter hastened to his hotel, and I stationed myself where I could
see who left the house. My friend was not absent more than a quarter
of an hour, and returned with two officers, whom the landlord of the
hotel had procured for him. One of them was in uniform, and the other
a detective in plain clothes. I concluded that Mr. Rockwood meant
business, and instead of my spending Sunday as a prisoner, this would
be the fate of those who were trying to swindle me.
"That's a gambling-house," said the policeman in uniform, when I
pointed out the door where the man entered.
"Undoubtedly it is a gambling-house," replied the detective, gazing
inquiringly at me, as though he was not quite satisfied with the story
related to him by Mr. Rockwood; "but even a gambling-house has certain
rights, which may not be disturbed without proper cause."
"Proper cause!" exclaimed Mr. Rockwood. "Don't I tell you that this
young man has been robbed and abused by the villains in this house?"
"You will excuse me, sir, but it is possible to be mistaken. If I
understand you, Mr. Rockwood, you met this boy for the first time about
two hours ago."
"But I have entire confidence in him. He is the son of Edward
Farringford."
"Perhaps he is, though I do not believe it; but that is nothing to
recommend him. His story is absurd on the face of it."
"My story is true, sir, every word of it," I interposed, indignantly.
Mr. Bogart, the detective, asked me a few questions in regard to my
escape from the building, and I repeated all the particulars. He shook
his head, and declared that he was unwilling to enter the house upon
the strength of such a story. It would damage his reputation as an
officer, and his superiors would not justify the measure.
"I'll tell you what I will do," he continued.
"Well, what will you do?" demanded Mr. Rockwood, impatiently.
"I will go with this young man to the top of the house, where he left
the chamber of the gambler. I will follow him into the house by the
window through which he came out."
"I don't think you can get in at the window."
"I suppose not," said Mr. Bogart, with a palpable sneer.
"But I will go with you, and show you the window," I added.
"I wish you would," replied the officer, who evidently believed that I
should give him the slip before I verified my position.
Mr. Rockwood and the policeman were to remain in the street and keep
watch of the house during our absence. If the gambler's messenger who
had gone to the house of Mrs. Greenough appeared, he was to be arrested.
Mr. Bogart and myself went to the hotel, where, after my companion had
spoken to the landlord, we ascended to the roof.
"Now, young man, if you will go ahead, I will follow you," said the
detective.
"I hope you are used to climbing," I replied.
"Don't borrow any trouble on my account; I will follow anywhere that
you will lead."
"All right, sir; I hope I shall soon be able to prove all that I have
stated."
"I hope so," replied he, in a tone which assured me that he did not
expect anything of the kind.
I led the way across the flat roof, and at the next block we mounted
the ridge-pole of the pitch roof. Mr. Bogart cautioned me to move with
care, so as not to disturb the inmates of the houses beneath us. I was
soon in position to see the bright light streaming up from the tenement
to which I had been decoyed by the villains.
"That's the house," said I, pointing to the light.
"Did you come up through that scuttle?" he asked.
"No, I came up over the top of the luthern window."
"Impossible!" exclaimed he, glancing at the window.
"It is true; and I suppose I shall have to go in that way," I
continued; and I explained minutely how I had made my exit from the
chamber.
"Lead on. We will examine the house," said Mr. Bogart.
On a nearer approach to the roof of the gambling-house, I discovered
that the glass scuttle was open, and I concluded that Lynch and Blair
had been upon the roof in search of me. When I reached the opening I
found a ladder conveniently placed for my descent, if I chose to avail
myself of its aid. I looked down into the entry, where the gas-light
still blazed cheerfully. The door of Lynch's room was open, and I could
distinctly hear the voices of my late captors.
"They took me into that front room," I whispered to my doubting
companion.
"This looks a little as though your story was true," said Mr. Bogart.
"Will you follow me down this ladder?"
"No, not yet. I wish to get a little better idea of what these fellows
mean. Are you afraid of them?"
"No; not a bit," I answered, raising the poker which I had picked up
where I left it on the roof.
"Will you go down alone?" he asked.
"Yes, if you desire it."
"I will keep the run of you, and see what is done. If you get into
trouble with them, just whistle as loud as you can, and I will join
you."
"But suppose they take away the ladder?"
"Then I will go down as I came up, and enter the house by the front
door. Don't be afraid of anything."
"I'm not afraid."
"I will be near you. I want to know what these fellows mean to do. If
they close the door, I will go down the ladder into the entry."
Suddenly my companion appeared to have become very enthusiastic in the
business upon which we were engaged. Though he did not say so, I was
satisfied that he was convinced of the truth of my statement.
"What shall I do?" I asked, rather puzzled by the tactics of the
detective.
"Do whatever they wish you to do; but don't let them know that you have
been off the roof since you escaped.
"Why not?"
"I cannot stop to explain now; only I don't think these rascals have
taken all this trouble with you for fifty or a hundred dollars; and
they mean to use you as a cat's paw for something else."
"I know they do," I replied, in a whisper. "They want the fifteen
hundred dollars in gold, for which I hold a note signed by Mr.
Gracewood."
"No matter now," said he, impatiently. "Go down, and give them all the
rope they want."
"Shall I give them the note, which I have in my pocket?"
"I haven't heard about the note. If you had told me the whole story
before now, I should have known better what to do."
We retreated a few paces from the skylight, and I told him all about
the note and the object of Lynch. I assured him that Mr. Rockwood was
the legal heir of the property.
"The note is of no consequence then," said Mr. Bogart. "Give it to
them, but don't indorse it, and I will see that it is returned to you.
We have them now. They can't escape us. Now, go down, and let them have
their own way, but with some show of opposition."
I descended the ladder, and stood before the open door of the chamber,
when I saw Lynch, with his feet on the table, smoking. Morgan Blair sat
opposite him. They discovered me as soon as I landed in the hall, and
made haste to place themselves between me and the stairs, in order to
cut off my escape. As I did not wish to escape, I gave them no trouble
in this direction, but entered the chamber.
  CHAPTER XXIII.
  IN WHICH PHIL MEETS A PALE GENTLEMAN WITH ONE ARM IN A SLING.
"I thought you would come back, my dear Phil," said Mr. Leonidas
Lynchpinne, as he placed himself in the doorway before me. "I knew you
had so much respect and regard for us that you would not break our
hearts by being long absent. By the way, Phil, how is the weather on
the roof?"
"It is rather cool," I replied, seating myself in the vacant chair,
"but not quite so cool as you are, Mr. Leonidas Lynchpinne."
"Phil, be virtuous, and you will always be happy; that is the secret of
my uninterrupted cheerfulness; that enables me always and everywhere to
be perfectly calm and collected. Be honest, just, and upright, Phil;
and then the man don't live that can make you tremble, or, in other
words, shake in your boots. But besides being all these, Phil, you
should be charitable and humane, especially the latter. I am humane,
Phil, and that adds to the sum total of my bliss on earth."
"You must be an exceedingly happy man, Mr. Leonidas Lynchpinne," I
added; and I saw that he had been drinking some exhilarating beverage
since I left him.
"O, I am--happy as the day is long, and the night too. You were so
very imprudent, Phil, as to make your exit--in other words, your
departure--from this room by the way of that front window. You might
have fallen upon the hard pavement in the street below; and then how I
should have wept over your brief but wasted life!"
"You are very affectionate."
"Affection is the staple fodder of my existence, Phil. By a process
of reasoning which I need not attempt to develop to your unpractised
understanding, I arrived at the conclusion that you would be compelled
to remain all night on the roof of this and the adjacent houses, unless
something was done for you. Dreading lest, benumbed with cold, you
should attempt the fearful feat of returning to this humble apartment
by the same means you used in leaving it, I placed that ladder at the
skylight for your use. After all the wrongs, injuries, and insults you
have heaped upon me, I took this means to prevent you from sacrificing
yourself on the hard pavement below. That is what I call humanity, and
I offer it to you as an exemplification of that noble attribute."
"Thank you; and I will endeavor to profit by your example, at least so
far as it illustrates the attribute of humanity. If you have nothing
more to say to me, I will take my leave of you."
"Stay, Phil; I have more to say to you," he interposed. "Be honest, and
you will be eccentric--I mean, you will be happy."
"I am glad to hear such lessons of practical wisdom from you, Mr.
Leonidas Lynchpinne," I replied, hoping he would soon come to the
point, if he had any point, as Mr. Bogart had suggested.
"You appreciate true wisdom, Phil. Good! Then you will give that note
to this honest young man."
"Certainly I will give it to him when he proves his claim."
I concluded that he was not satisfied with the blank paper sent in the
envelope.
"I knew you would be just, Phil, after the good advice I have given
you; for you are not a bad boy at heart, though you have been led away
by evil influences. If you stay with me a while, you will be reformed,
and then you will lead a good and true life, and then you will be
eccentric--happy, I mean. Won't you smoke a cigar, Phil?"
"No, I thank you; I never smoke."
"That's right, Phil. It's a filthy practice, besides leading to other
vices more to be condemned," said he, lighting a fresh cigar. "Now,
Phil, about that note, which justly and rightly belongs to my good
friend Morgan Blair. Do you happen to have it about you?"
"Yes; I have it in my pocket," I replied, acting upon the advice of Mr.
Bogart.
"Capital! Things always work right for those who are faithful and
humane. I'm faithful and humane. Now, we are going to bring you two
good and true witnesses, who will convince you that Morgan Blair is the
son of Matt Rockwood's sister. We have taken a great deal of pains to
send to Vandalia for them, and they will be here to-night--this very
night, Phil. That's all we want to see you for."
"Very well; I should like to hear what they have to say."
"You shall hear them. I will go down and bring them up," he added,
rising from the chair.
He had hardly got up before the door was darkened by what to me seemed
to be an apparition. It was a gentleman with an overcoat thrown loosely
over his shoulders. He wore no other coat, and no vest. I saw that
his left arm was suspended in a sling. His face was very pale, and
he looked very much like my excellent friend Mr. Gracewood, though
a second glance assured me it was not he. When he discovered me, he
started back, and was disposed to retreat.
"You have company, Mr. Lynch," said the pale gentleman. "I will come
