this little matter. As for the Potter’s Field, a place in my servants’
burying-ground is quite as respectable, and more convenient in this
weather.”

The jurors were grouped about the fire in the baronial hall, buttoning
up overcoats and splatterdashes, and drawing on their riding-gloves, all
having come on horseback. In the midst of the general bepraisement of
their host’s gentlemanly and liberal conduct, Mrs. Aylett swam down
the staircase, resplendent in silver-gray satin, pearl necklace and
bracelets, orange flowers and camelias in her hair--semi-bridal attire,
that became her as nothing else ever had done.

“My dear madam,” said the foreman of the inquest--a courtly disciple
of the old school of manner, and phraseology--as the august body of
freeholders parted to either side to leave her a passage-way to the
fireplace--“your husband is a happy man, and his wife should be a happy
woman in having won the affection of such a model of chivalry”--stating
succinctly the late proof the “model” had offered to an admiring world
of his chivalric principles.

The delicate hand stole to its resting-place upon her lord’s arm, as the
lady answered, her ingenuous eyes suffused with the emotion that gave
but the more sweetness to her smile.

“I AM a happy woman, Mr. Nelson! I think there is not a prouder or more
blessed wife in all the land than I am this evening.”

Laugh, jest, and dance ruled the fleeting hours in the halls of the
old country-house that night, and the presiding genius of the revel
was still the beautiful hostess--never more beautiful, never so winning
before. No one noticed that, by her orders, or her husband’s, the window
through which she had beheld the goblin visage was closely curtained.
Or, this may have been an accidental disposition of the drapery, since
no trace of her momentary alarm remained in her countenance or demeanor.

In the kitchen a double allowance of toddy was served out, by their
master’s orders, to the men who had taken part in the interment on the
hill-top. And, in their noisy talk over their potations the vagrant was
scarcely mentioned.

Only the pines, hoarser in their sough, by reason of the falling snow
that clogged their boughs, chanted a requiem above the rough hillock at
their feet.

“Man cometh in with vanity, and departeth in darkness, and his name is
covered with darkness!”




CHAPTER X. -- ROSA.


“THAT is a new appearance.”

“Who can she be?”

“Unique--is she not?” were queries bandied from one to another of the
various parties of guests scattered through the extensive parlors of the
most fashionable of Washington hotels, at the entrance of a company
of five or six late arrivals. All the persons composing it were well
dressed, and had the carriage of people of means and breeding. Beyond
this there was nothing noteworthy about any of them, excepting the
youngest of the three ladies of what seemed to be a family group. When
they stopped for consultation upon their plans for this, their first
evening in the capital, directly beneath the central chandelier of the
largest drawing-room, she stood, unintentionally, perhaps, upon the
outside of the little circle, and not exerting herself to feign interest
in the parley, sought amusement in a keen, but polite survey of the
assembly, apparently in no wise disconcerted at the volley of glances
she encountered in return.

If she were always in the same looks she wore just now, she must have
been pretty well inured to batteries of admiration by this date in
her sunny life. She was below the medium of woman’s stature, round and
pliant in form and limbs; in complexion dark as a gypsy but with a
clear skin that let the rise and fall of the blood beneath be marked
as distinctly as in that of the fairest blonde. Her eyes were brown
or black, it was hard to say which, so changeful were their lights
and shades; and her other features, however unclassic in mould, if
criticised separately, taken as a whole, formed a picture of surpassing
fascination. If her eyes and cleft chin meant mischief, her mouth
engaged to make amends by smiles and seductive words, more sweet
than honey, because their flavor would never clog upon him who tasted
thereof. Her attire was striking--it would have been bizarre upon any
other lady in the room, but it enhanced the small stranger’s beauty.
A black robe--India silk or silk grenadine, or some other light and
lustrous material--was bespangled with butterflies, gilded, green, and
crimson, the many folds of the skirt flowing to the carpet in a
train designed to add to apparent height, and, in front, allowing an
enchanting glimpse of a tiny slipper, high in the instep, and tapering
prettily toward the toe. In her hair were glints of a curiously-wrought
chain, wound under and among the bandeaux; on her wrists, plump and
dimpled as a baby’s, more chain-work of the like precious metal, ending
in tinkling fringe that swung, glittering, to and fro, with the restless
motion of the elfin hands, she never ceased to clasp and chafe and fret
one with the other, while she thus stood and awaited the decision of her
companions. But instead of detracting from the charm of her appearance,
the seemingly unconscious gesture only heightened it. It was the
overflow of the exuberant vitality that throbbed redly in her cheeks,
flashed in her eye, and made buoyant her step.

“What an artless sprite it is!” said one old gentleman, who had stared
at her from the instant of her entrance, in mute enjoyment, to the great
amusement of his more knowing nephews.

“All but the artless!” rejoined one of the sophisticated youngsters.
“She is gotten up too well for that. Ten to one she is an experienced
stager, who calculates to a nicety the capabilities of every twist of
her silky hair and twinkle of an eyelash. Hallo! that IS gushing--nicely
done, if it isn’t almost equal to the genuine thing, in fact.”

The ambiguous compliment was provoked by a change of scene and a new
actor, that opened other optics than his lazy ones to their extremest
extent. A gentleman had come in alone and quietly--a tall, manly
personage, whose serious countenance had just time to soften into a
smile of recognition before the black-robed fairy flew up to him--both
hands extended--her face one glad sunbeam of surprise and welcome.

“YOU here!” she exclaimed, in a low, thrilling tone, shedding into his
the unclouded rays of her glorious eyes, while one of her hands lingered
in his friendly hold. “This is almost too good to be true! When did you
come? How long are you going to stay? and what did you come for? Yours
is the only familiar physiognomy I have beheld since our arrival, and
my eyes were becoming ravenous for a sight of remembered things. Which
reminds me”--coloring bewitchingly, with an odd mixture of mirth and
chagrin in smile and voice--“that I have been getting up quite a little
show on my own account, forgetful of les regles, and I suppose
the horrified lookers-on think of les moeurs. May I atone for my
inadvertence by presenting you, in good and regular form, to my somewhat
shocked, but very respectable, relatives? Did you know that I was
in Congress this year--that is, Mr. Mason, my aunt’s husband, is an
Honorable, and I am here with them?”

The gentleman gave her his arm, and they strolled leisurely in the
direction of the party she had deserted so unceremoniously.

“I did not know it, but I am glad to learn that you are to make a
long visit to the city. I have business that may detain me here for a
week--perhaps a fort-night,” was his answer to the first question she
suffered him thus to honor.

Then the introduction to Mr. and Mrs. Mason, their married daughter,
Mrs. Cunningham, and her husband, was performed. The Member’s wife was
a portly, good-natured Virginia matron, whose ruling desire to make all
about her comfortable as herself, sometimes led to contretemps that were
trying to the subjects of her kindness, and would have been distressing
to her, had she ever, by any chance, guessed what she had done.

She opened the social game now, by saying, agreeably: “Your name is not
a strange one to us, Mr. Chilton. We have often heard you spoken of in
the most affectionate terms by our friends, but not near neighbors, the
Ayletts, of Ridgeley,----county. Is it long since you met or heard from
them?”

“Some months, madam. I hope they were in their usual health when you
last saw them?”

Receiving her affirmative reply with a courteous bow, and the assurance
that he was “happy to hear it,” Mr. Chilton turned to Rosa, and engaged
her in conversation upon divers popular topics of the day, all of which
she was careful should conduct them in the opposite direction from
Ridgeley, and his affectionate intimates, the Ayletts. He appreciated
and was grateful for her tact and delicacy. Her unaffected pleasure at
meeting him had been as pleasant as it was unlooked-for, aware as he
was, from Mabel’s letter immediately preceding the rapture of their
engagement, that Rosa must have been staying with her when it occurred.
The slander that had blackened him in the esteem of his betrothed had,
he naturally supposed, injured his reputation beyond hope of retrieval
with her acquaintances. Rosa, her bosom companion, could not but have
heard the whole history, yet met him with undiminished cordiality, as a
valued friend. Either the Ayletts had been unnaturally discreet, or the
faith of the interesting girl in his integrity was firmer and better
worth preserving than he had imagined in the past. Perhaps, too, since
he was but mortal man, although one whose heritage in the school of
experience had been of the sternest, he was not entirely insensible
to the privilege of promenading the long suite of apartments with the
prettiest girl of the season hanging upon his arm, and granting her
undivided attention to all that he said, indifferent to, or unmindful
of, the flattering notice she attracted.

Over and above all these recommendations to his peculiar regard was her
association with the happy days of his early love. Not an intonation,
not a look of hers, but reminded him of Ridgeley and of Mabel. It was a
perilous indulgence--this recurrence to a dream he had vowed to forget,
but the temptation had befallen him suddenly, and he surrendered himself
to the intoxication.

Yes! she was going to the President’s levee that evening, Rosa said.
A sort of raree-show--was it not? with the Chief Magistrate for head
mountebank. He was worse off in one respect than the poorest cottager
in the nation he was commonly reported to govern, inasmuch as he had
not the right to invite whom he pleased to his house, and when the mob
overran his premises he must treat all with equal affability. She pitied
his wife! She would rather, if the choice were offered her, be one of
the revolving wax dummies used in shop-windows for showing the latest
style of evening costume and hair-dressing--for the dolls had no wits of
their own to begin with, and were not expected to say clever things, as
the President’s consort was, after she had lost hers in the crush of the
aforesaid mob, who eyed her freely as an appendage to their chattel, the
man they had bought by their votes, and put in the highest seat in the
Republic. No! she was not provided with an escort to the White House.
She did not know three people in Washington beside her relatives, and,
looking forward to creeping into the palatial East Room at her uncle’s
back, or in the shadow of her cousin’s husband, the vision of enjoyment
had not been exactly enrapturing--BUT, her companion’s proposal to join
their party and help elbow the crowd away from her, lent a different
coloring to the horizon.

BUT--again--flushing prettily--was he certain that the expedition would
not bore him? Doubtless he had had some other engagement in prospect
for the evening, before he stumbled over her. He ought to know her well
enough not to disguise his real wishes by gallant phrases.

“I have never been otherwise than sincere with you,” Frederic said,
honestly; “I had thought of going to the levee alone, as a possible
method of whiling away an idle evening. If you will allow me to
accompany you thither, I shall be gratified--shall derive actual
pleasure from the motley scene. It will not be the only time you and I
have studied varieties of physiognomy and character in a mixed assembly.
Do you recollect the hops at the Rockbridge Alum Springs?”

“I do,” replied Rosa, laconically and very soberly.

He thought she suppressed a sigh in saying it. She was a warm-hearted
little creature with all her vagaries, and he was less inclined to
reject her unobtrusive sympathy than if a more sedate or prudent person
had proffered it.

It was certain he could not have selected a more entertaining associate
for that evening. She amused him in spite of the painful recollections
revived by their intercourse. She did not pass unobserved in the dense
crowd that packed the lower floor of the White House. Her face, all glee
and sparkle, the varied music of her soft Southern tongue, her becoming
attire--were, in turn, the subject of eulogistic comment among the
most distinguished connoisseurs present. It was not probable that these
should all be unheard by her cavalier, or that he should listen to them
with profound indifference.

He was astonished, therefore, when she protested that she had had
“enough of it,” and proposed that they should extricate themselves from
the press and go home. It was contrary to the commonly received tenets
of his sex respecting the insatiable nature of feminine vanity, that she
should weary so soon of adulation which would have rendered a light head
dizzy. Mrs. Mason was not ready to leave the halls of mirth. She had
met scores of old friends, and was having a “nice, sociable time” in a
corner, while Mrs. Cunningham had “not begun to enjoy herself, looking
at the queer people and the superb dresses.”

Of course, they had no objection to their wilful relative doing as she
liked, but did not conceal their amazement at her bad taste.

“Take the carriage, dear! You’ll find it around out there somewhere,”
 drawled the easy-tempered aunt. “And let Thomas come back for us. He
will be in time an hour from this.”

“Would it be an unpardonable infraction of etiquette if we were to walk
home?” questioned Rosa of Mr. Chilton, when they were out of Mr. Mason’s
hearing. “The night is very mild.”

“But your feet. Are they not too lightly shod for the pavement?”

“I left a pair of thick gaiters in the dressing-room, which I wore in
the carriage.”

“Then I will be answerable for the breach of etiquette, should it ever
be found out,” was the reply, and Rosa disappeared into the tiring-room
to equip herself for the walk.

It was a lovely night for December--moonlighted and bland as October,
and neither manifested a disposition to accelerate the saunter into
which they had fallen at their first step beyond the portico. Rosa
dropped her rattling tone, and began to talk seriously and sensibly of
the scene they had left, the flatness of fashionable society after the
freshness of novelty had passed from it, and her preference for home
life and tried friends.

“Yet I always rate these the more truly after a peep at a different
sphere,” she said. “Our Old Virginia country-house is never so dear and
fair at any other time as when I return to it after playing at fine lady
abroad for a month or six weeks. I used to fret at the monotony of my
daily existence; think my simple pleasures tame. I am thankful that I
go back to them, as I grow older, as one does to pure, cold water, after
drinking strong wine.”

“You are blessed in having this fountain to which you may resort in your
heart-drought,” answered Frederic, sadly. “The gods do not often deny
the gift of home and domestic affections to woman. It is an exception
to a universal rule when a man who has reached thirty without building
a nest for himself, has a pleasant shelter spared, or offered to him
elsewhere.”

“Yet you would weary, in a week, of the indolent, aimless life led by
most of our youthful heirs expectant and apparent,” returned Rosa. “I
remember once telling you how I envied you for having work and a career.
I was youthful then myself--and foolish as immature.”

“I recollect!” and there was no more talk for several squares.

Rosa was getting alarmed at the thought of her temerity in reverting to
