please advance me the money and take it out of my 
allowance afterward ? It w T as the only way I saw 
out of the difficulty, and I thought I would summon 
courage enough to tell you the whole truth. I did 
mean to be so good and trustworthy too ; but it seems 
as if I was always getting into some trouble. Dear 
Uncle Robert, have you any faith left in me ? ' 
" You see he discovered the best way out, and that 
is something. I like his frankness." 
" But how could he have gone so in debt ? ): 
" I merely allowed him enough for comforts, not 
luxuries, and he has been indulging in them. We 
will make this all straight, however, and let him take 
a fair start." 
" His lessons have to be learned over many times." 
" Is it not so with the most of us until we follow 
the true light that never leads men astray ? It will 
dawn for him some time." 
Mrs. Alston sighed, and breathed a prayer for her 
first-born. 
 
CHAPTER XIV. 
BRINGING IN THEIR SHEAVES. 
MRS. WILDER'S rooms were filled with visitors 
again. It was quite as much to go to her exami- 
nation as to the Academy. A number of last year's 
pupils were there as well, though the graduating class 
was not as large this summer. 
Kathie had been studying very diligently for the 
last three months, anxious to have school-life close 
tor her. Not that she expected to drop everything 
then and sink into idleness. Each year she under- 
stood better the value of knowledge, and the many 
duties life held for her. But change is always sweet 
to youth. 
They were warmly congratulated on their success. 
Emma, and Sue, and a bevy of girls, hovered about 
Kathie. 
" I am so glad it is over. I feel free as a bird " ; 
and the sweet face was full of smiles and dimples. 
" And you will get dreadfully bored before another 
 
year has ended," exclaimed Sue. " I am so tired of 
myself sometimes that I have half a mind to set up 
school-teaching in sheer self-defence." 
Tired of one's self and freedom ! Why, it was the 
loveliest thing in the world ! 
" And now you are going to West Point. You are 
a lucky girl. One cannot help envying you." 
Yet how many changes and pleasures Sue Coleman 
had ! Kathie could not understand the spirit of un- 
rest and dissatisfaction. 
" Yes. We shall be in time for the very last. I 
am sorry we could not go sooner." 
" And you will bring Cadet Mackenzie home with 
you. Is he going in the army ? ' 
" I suppose so, of course." 
" Well, do give us a chance to see him. He is a 
cousin, so you need not be afraid." 
" Afraid of what ? " 
Two or three of the girls laughed, and Kathie's 
cheeks were scarlet. 
Mrs. Wilder stopped her to have a few last words. 
"We have taken a great deal of pleasure together," 
she said, " and I am honestly sorry to lose you. Your 
courage and truth and sweetness have comforted me 
 
many a time when I felt half discouraged, and I can 
see more plainly than any one else what good service 
it has done in the school. I wish there were more 
girls like you. And now, though I lose my pupil, I 
hope always to keep a sunny -hearted girl-friend. 
You will be able to find an occasional hour for me." 
" Indeed I shall," Kathie returned, warmly, her face 
full of radiant blushes at the unlooked-for commen- 
dation. What had she done that should bear fruit so 
manifold ? 
There were kisses and partings, promises to call 
and to visit, and the confusion of a general disper- 
sion. When Kathie reached home she was absolutely 
tired out. She and Aunt Euth had some lunch to' 
gether. 
"Now you must lie down and rest," Aunt Euth 
said ; " for we must be up early to-morrow, and it 
will be a tiresome day." 
" But I feel as if I couldn't keep still," Kathie 
returned. " I am all in a flutter." 
" Nervous excitement, which a little rest will allay. 
I will sit and read to you, which will divide youi 
thoughts and tranquillize you." 
" Let it be ' Songs of Seven ' then." 
 
Kathie listened dreamily to the sweet voice mak- 
ing melody with the poet's meanings. She, too, had 
said her lesson " over and over." 
General Mackenzie was awaiting them in New 
York. He was deeply interested in his son's exami- 
nation, and had been up nearly every day. So they 
started the next morning, and, as they had to wait 
but an hour for the train, took a little lunch without 
calling upon anybody. And by night they were 
making themselves comfortable at the hotel. 
It was glorious weather. Nature was out in her 
holiday array. The parlor, the long promenades, and 
the Academy grounds were brilliant with flitting fig- 
ures of parents, friends, and stray visitors for pleas- 
ure's sake merely. Young cadets went smiling about, 
and there was no lack of older military men. Kathie 
thought it an endless procession of strange faces. 
And how gay they were ! 
Then there were the beautiful parades and drills 
and evolutions, the invitations to dinners, suppers, 
hops, and all manner of festivities. 
"Aunt Euth and I have concluded that to pity 
poor cadets for their hard time is a sheer waste of 
sympathy," Kathie said, laughingly, to Bruce. 
 
" O, it is not all like this, you need not imagine. 
This is a sort of summer glorifying, when sisters and 
cousins and sweethearts smile upon us like June 
roses. There is many a week when it is dull 
enough." 
" It seems like a daily festival, with all the music 
and parades and beautiful dressing. I wonder that 
you do not forget your important points for exami- 
nation." 
"I am nearly through mine, and glad enough I 
shall be. I feel as if I had been on the rack for the 
past fortnight, and my brain has been so stretched 
and twisted and tortured that presently there will 
be a fearful collapse. Pity me when you hear the 
report." 
" Shall you lose your senses ? " 
" And become an idiot ? I hope not. I want to 
enjoy all that may happen after this trying time " ; 
and he gave her an odd smile. " But I am so glad 
you came. I counted every day." 
She smiled too, and colored a little. 
" I can sympathize with you, as I have just been 
passing the dreaded ordeal,' she said, in mock condo- 
lence. 
 
" And very successfully too, I heard. I must be 
careful not to shame you. But O, won't there be 
one immense thanksgiving when the matter has been 
brought to a triumphant conclusion ! Then there are 
all the years of service." 
" But you are not to enter immediately." 
"No. It is my debt of honor, though. And I 
shall be proud to follow my father's footsteps." 
There could be little doubt of that, Kathie thought, 
as she glanced at the manly figure, lithe yet rounded, 
supple, and graceful. How imperceptibly the boy 
had changed into the man ! And how strange to be 
as familiar with him as with Eob or Charlie ! 
At last came the final tug, but Bruce, like a good 
soldier, had his forces all in light marching order. 
No tripping up, or stammering, or having an idea slip 
out of one's mind just when it was most needed. As 
Kathie said afterward to Eob, it was really magnifi- 
cent. 
General Mackenzie was congratulated upon his 
promising son, and well might he be proud of him. 
Essentially truthful, honest, and noble, perfect in 
health, and possessing not a few attributes of manly 
beauty. What more could one ask ? 
 
They remained for a grand supper and ball, though 
Aunt Ruth declared that Kathie must go as the sim- 
plest of wild flowers, since they had not counted upon 
so much gayety. But she looked as pretty in her 
kheer white muslin as the others in tarletan and silk, 
and enjoyed the dancing quite as well. Indeed, sev- 
eral of the cadets rather envied Bruce his cousin. 
They came down to New York on the boat. It 
was a very lovely sail, and Bruce kept her interested 
by descriptions and legends of sundry places that 
they passed. To Kathie it appeared almost like an 
enchanted country. After a while they lapsed into 
silence. It was so unutterably beautiful, with the 
cloudless sky overhead, and the broad, rippling river, 
with its banks of green foliage or gray rock tangled 
about with moss and vines. Here and there a nook 
where fairies might dwell in safety, or a vista among 
the opening trees that appeared to lead to another 
world. 
" I sometimes wonder if Italy can be any lovelier," 
Kathie said, slowly. 
Bruce glanced up with a peculiar expression. 
" Would you like to see it ? ' he asked. 
" O, what a question ! As if any one could refuse. 
But I don't suppose I ever shall. So many delight- 
ful things happen to me continually that I must not 
be selfish enough to want everything." 
He laughed softly. " But if it should really be 
possible 
She gave him a quick, questioning look. 
You know I told you last year that I had a se- 
cret, a very sweet one, that I could hardly keep to 
myself. But I have permission to tell you now, I 
begged so to be the first. We are all going abroad." 
" All ? " she said, bewildered. 
" Yes. Father, mother, you and I, and perhaps 
Mr. and Mrs. Edward Meredith. 
" Oh ! " in a soft tone of incredulity, for she could 
not believe a word of it. 
" Yes. Father had an offer to go to Europe on some 
governmental business, but he decided to wait until I 
could accompany him. We are to go to Eussia first, 
but we shall visit everything worth seeing before we 
return." 
"But I " 
* It was my idea, out at the fort " ; and a rosy 
*iue suffused his face. " Father took it up instantly, 
but nothing was to be said then. Mother settled it 
 
all with Mrs. Alston when she first came back from 
the West." 
" It is too good ! " Kathie said, falteringly, and turned 
away her face. " And so strange." 
" But you will like it ? ' He was in an agony of 
boyish apprehension lest some other feeling might 
interfere. 
"Like it? As if 
Her voice seemed to melt away in the murmur of 
the waters. It was quite impossible to realize it 
at first, and so thoroughly enchanting that she could 
not even think two straight, consecutive thoughts 
about it 
" Is it true ? " she asked of Aunt Euth, when she 
could get safely under the shelter of her kindly wing. 
" Am I really going to Europe with you ? ' 
" Yes, my darling." 
" But Uncle Eobert and mamma " 
" Could neither of them leave home at present. 
There are Eob and Freddy, you know, and my little 
girl cannot have all the mother-love. We have talked 
it over ever so many times, and mamma is perfectly 
willing to trust you to my care. I suppose it will be 
hard doing without Uncle Eobert." 
 
" And I never guessed a word ! How could you 
keep it such a secret ? " 
" O, easily. It was best that you should not know 
while you had so many other things on your mind. 
And Bruce counted so upon giving you the first hint." 
" I am afraid I wasn't joyful enough. But when 
anything goes down deep in your heart, you cannot 
talk much about it at first. And will the Merediths 
go?" 
" I think they will. The firm have been taking in 
a new partner, and now it is necessary for one mem- 
ber to go to Europe, as they mean to enlarge their 
business. It seems best that this should be Mr. Ed- 
ward Meredith." 
" And dear Jessie. Aunt Euth, it is too sweet 
and good to be true ! " 
Aunt Ruth, smiled. 
They were to spend a week in New York, as there 
was some shopping to be done. 
" Though we need not burden ourselves with 
clothes," Aunt Ruth said. " We can get whatever 
we want abroad with less trouble than to carry it 
thither." 
Jessie was full of interest and excitement. 
 
" The instant it was proposed I wanted to go," she 
said, "for the party will be just perfect. We are all 
of one mind, and we all enjoy the same things, so we 
need not be afraid of each other. I am so glad to 
have you counted in, though it is a mystery to me 
that Uncle Eobert consented." 
Then they must talk a little of Ada. 
" She is really nobler than I gave her credit for," 
Jessie said. " It is a hard struggle to lead that pecu- 
liar life, and her mother has been trying her best to 
make Ada marry a man unsuitable in every respect, 
except that he is wealthy. Of course Ada had no 
regard for him, but how many girls think only of an 
elegant establishment ! ' : 
" She has strength and truth then." 
" Yes. She will be a long time in finding the right 
way, and in having courage to walk in it ; but when I 
heard that, it gave me hope. And Edward was so 
pleased. I think " 
Jessie made a pause and colored. Kathie ques- 
tioned her with her eyes. 
" It is a little gossip, but I know you will be inter- 
ested. You met Dr. Gamier last fall ? " 
"Yes," Kathie replied. 
 
" He is a pet and protege of Dr. Markham. A 
splendid fellow, too, with some fortune of his own, 
and through uncle's influence getting nicely estab- 
lished. The old gentleman would scout the idea of 
match-making, but he throws them together pur- 
posely, I do believe. And what makes me have 
more faith in it is Ada's humility about it. She 
thinks him so noble that she would never dare try 
for him, but I am quite sure that he will try for her. 
