brought forward anything of different interest. 
" That's a new kettle," was the first 
remark, made while Matilda was clearing 
away the remains of the supper. 
" How do you like it ? " said Norton. 
The old woman looked at him, she had 
done that a great deal already, and answered, 
Who be you ? " 
" I'm the fellow that brought the kettle 
from the shop," said Norton. 
Whose kettle is it ? " 
"It ought to be your's it's on your 
stove." 
"It is your's, Mrs. Eldridge," said Matilda. 
" Well, I hain't had a tea-kettle," said the 
old woman meditatively, " not since I 
declare, I don't know when 'twas. I hain't 
had a tea-kettle, not since my old un fell 
down the well. I never could get it out. 
That one hadn't no kiver." 
" Don't let this one get down in the well," 
said Norton. 
" I shan't go to the well no more," said 
Mrs. Eldridge. " When I had a place, and a 
well, and a bucket, it was good times ! 
That ain't my kettle." 
" Yes, Mrs. Eldridge, it is," said Matilda. 
" It is your's ; and it just fits the stove hole." 
" A kettle's a good thing," said the old 
woman. " It looks good." 
" Now would you like to have a little read 
ing again?" Matilda inquired, bringing out 
her Bible. 
" Have you got anything more about the 
what was it? I don' know what 'twas." 
" About the shepherd ? the Good Shep 
herd ? " 
" You may read a bit about that," said the 
old woman. " There ain't no shepherds now, 
is there ? " 
" Plenty of 'em," said Norton. 
" It don't seem as if there was no place for 
'em to keep the sheep. I don't see none. 
But he used for to be a shepherd ; and he 
took good care of 'em, he did." 
" The Lord Jesus is the Good Shepherd ; 
and he takes good care of his sheep," said 
Matilda. " He cares for them always. He 
cares for you, Mrs. Eldridge." 
The old woman made no answer to this ; 
but instead, sat with so meditative a look 
upon her face that Matilda, though she had 
her book open to read, forbore, and waited. 
" Did he send you ? " said Mrs. Eldridge. 
Norton glanced a quick look of amuse 
ment at Matilda, but Matilda simply answered. 
" Yes." 
" I didn't know as there was any one as 
cared," she said slowly. 
Matilda began to read, upon that; giving 
her the twenty-third psalm again ; then the 
tenth chapter of John ; finishing with one or 
two passages in the Revelation. Norton 
stood in the doorway while she read, looking 
out and looking in, very quiet; and Mrs. 
Eldridge sat and listened and gave tremulous 
shakes of her old head, and was very quiet too. 
" I must go now," said Matilda, when she 
had done and had paused a few minutes. 
" It has a good sound " said the old 
woman. 
" It's true " said Matilda. 
And she and Norton took their leave. 
Then began a joyous walk home. 
 
" Pink," said Norton, when they were got a 
little way from the house, " you made your 
tea in a tea-cup." 
" Yes ; there is only a wretched little tin 
tea-pot there, not fit to be used ; it is in such 
a state." 
" No spoons either? " 
" No, and no spoons. There is hardly any 
thing there at all, Norton." 
" I don't see how people come to be so 
poor," said Norton. 
"No, I don't," said Matilda. But she is 
old, you see, and cannot help herself, and has 
no one left that does care about her. Nobody 
in the world, I mean." 
" That house is in a tremendous condition," 
said Norton. " For dirt I mean." 
" Yes, I know it." 
" I don't see why somebody hasn't cleaned 
it before now." 
"Why Norton, who should do it? None 
of the neighbours care anything about her." 
Is she bad ? " 
" No, Norton ! not bad at all ; but they are 
poor too, and sick, some of them ; and they 
have their own work to do, and their own 
things to get, and they haven't anything to 
spare for her." 
" She was glad of that tea-kettle." 
"Wasn't she ! I could see that." 
" But I say, Pink ! I don't see how people 
come to be so poor. There's money enough." 
" For some people " said Matilda. 
" Money enough for everybody." 
" Perhaps, if it was divided " said Matilda. " But Norton, it isn't. The rich people have got it almost all." 
" Have they ? " said Norton. Then they 
ought to look out for such poor chaps as 
this." 
" So I think, Norton," said Matilda eagerly. 
" But Pink, you can't do it. You are only 
one, and you can't take care of all Lilac lane, 
to begin with. That's what I am thinking 
about." 
" No, not all the lane. But I can do something. I can read to Mrs. Eldridge, and 
Mrs. Rogers." 
" You can't buy tea-kettles, though, for 
Mrs. Eldridge and Mrs. Rogers, with the tea 
and the sugar and the bread and butter and 
the fish and the mutton chops they will all 
want. Your nineteen dollars will soon be 
gone at that rate." 
" Mutton chops ! " echoed Matilda. " Norton, they do not see anything so good as 
mutton chops." 
"They ought to," said Norton. "They 
have as much right as other folks." 
" But they can't, Norton." 
" Yes, they can, Pink. We'll take 'em some 
for once. They shall know how mutton 
tastes." 
" Oh Norton ! " said Matilda in a low 
voice of delight, " how good that would be ! " 
" But what I say" continued the boy with 
emphasis, " you cannot go on doing this. 
Tour money will not last." 
" I can do what I can," said Matilda softly. 
 
" But what's the use, Pink ? All you can 
do will just touch one old woman, perhaps, a 
few times; and then Lilac lane will not be 
any better off than it was. And anyhow, 
you only touch one. What's the use?" 
" Why the use of that one." 
" Yes, but it don't really make any difference to speak of, when you think of all the 
people that you cannot help. The world 
won't be any better don't you see? " 
"If I was the one to be helped, I should 
think it made a great deal of difference, Nor 
ton." 
Norton could not dispute that view of the 
case, though he whistled over it. 
" Pink, will you come and play croquet to 
morrow ? " 
" To-morrow ? I will see if I can," said 
Matilda, with a brightening face. 
" What's to hinder you ? " 
" I don't know that anything. If aunt 
Candy will let me." 
" Does she hinder you?" 
" Sometimes" Matilda said hesitating. 
What for ? " 
" I do not know. That puzzles me, Norton." 
" How does she hinder you ? " said the boy 
stopping short with a scowl upon his brow. 
" She won't let me go out, sometimes; I 
don't know why. Then besides, I have to 
spend a good deal of time reading to her, 
and darning stockings ; -and I have a great 
many other things to do, Norton." 
" Well, come to-morrow, Pink ; or I shall 
come after you. Hulloa! see that squirrel" 
And Norton set off on such a race and 
chase after the squirrel, that Matilda stopped 
to look on in sheer admiration. The race 
was not fruitful of anything however but 
admiration; and the rest of the way they 
hurried home. 
It was a trembling question with Matilda, 
could she go to play croquet the next day ? 
She could not go in her work dress ; and she 
feared to change her dress and so draw attention, lest her aunt should put a stop to her 
going out at all. She debated the matter a 
good deal, and finally concluded to make an 
open affair of it and ask leave. 
" To go to Mrs. Laval's," said Mrs. 
Candy, meditating. 
" Who is going to play croquet, besides 
you?" inquired Clarissa. 
" I do not think anybody is to be there 
besides me," said Matilda. 
" Well " said Mrs. Candy, " I suppose 
you had better go ; with my compliments 
and thanks to Mrs. Laval. Put on your 
white dress, Matilda, and I will tie a ribband 
round your waist." 
The white dress and the black ribband 
were duly put on, and Matilda set out ; very 
happy indeed ; only sorry that Maria was left 
behind. She got a glad welcome from Norton, who was at the iron gate watching foi 
her. And when she came to the door of 
the house, Matilda was fain to stand still and 
look, everything was so beautiful. It was 
very different from last winter, when the 
snow covered all the world. Now the grass 
was soft and green, cut short and rolled 
smooth, and the sunlight made it seem almost 
golden. The rose bushes were heavy and 
sweet with great cabbage roses and delicate 
white roses, and gay yellow roses made an 
elegant variety. Overhead the golden clusters 
of a laburnum tree dropped as if to meet 
them. Then there were pinks and violets 
and daisies ; and locust trees a little way off, 
standing between the house and the sun, 
made the air sweet with their blossoms. 
Every breath was charged with some delicious 
perfume or other. The house stood hospitably and gayly open in summer dress; the 
farm country lay rich in the sun towards 
the west ; and the mountains beyond, having 
lost all their white coating of snow long ago, 
were clothed in a kind of drapery of purple 
mist. 
" What's the matter ? " said Norton. 
" It's so beautiful ! " said Matilda. 
 
" O is that all ! Come in. Mamma wants 
to see you." 
In the house, over floors marble and 
matted, through rooms green with the light 
that came through the blinds, cool in shadow, 
but from which the world without looked like 
a glittering fairyland, so they went, passing 
from one to another, till they found the mistress of the house. She was not in the 
house, but in a deep wicker chair on the 
shady side of the verandah. 
" Here she is ! " the lady exclaimed as she 
saw them, throwing aside the book which 
had been in her hands, and drawing Matilda 
into her arms instead. " My dear child so 
you've come. Norton and I are very glad. 
How do you do ? You are thin." 
Am I ? " said Matilda. 
" I am afraid you are. What are you 
going to do ? play croquet ? it's too warm 
yet. Sit down here and have some strawberries first. Norton, you get her some strawberries." 
She put Matilda affectionately into a chair 
and took off her hat. 
"And how do you like croquet?" 
" O very much ! But I do not know how 
to play yet," said Matilda. 
" Norton will teach you." 
" Yes, ma'am," Matilda said with a happy 
look. 
" I think Norton is making a little sister 
of you," Mrs. Laval said tenderly, drawing 
her hand down Matilda's cheek. " Do you 
know, Norton once had a little sister as old 
as you ? " 
The lady's tone had changed. Matilda 
only looked, she dared not speak in answer 
to this. 
" I think he wants to make a sister of you," 
Mrs. Laval repeated wistfully, her hand dropping to Matilda's hand and taking hold of 
that. " How would you like to be Norton's 
sister?" 
" O I should like it very much ! " Matilda 
answered, half eagerly, but her answer 
 
touched with a soberness that belonged to 
the little sister and daughter that Norton and 
Mrs. Laval had lost. There was a delicate, 
sensitive manner about both her face and 
her voice as she spoke, perfectly intelligible 
to the eyes that were watching her; and the 
response to it was startling. For Mrs. Laval 
suddenly took the child in her arms, upon 
her lap, though Matilda never knew how 
she got there, and clasping her close, half 
smothered her with kisses ; some of which 
Matilda felt were wetted with tears. It was 
a passion of remembered tenderness and 
unsatisfied longing. Matilda was astonished 
and passive under caresses she could not 
return, so close was the clasp of the arms 
that held her, so earnest the pressure of the 
lips that seemed to devour every part of her 
face by turns. In the midst of this Norton 
came with the strawberries; and he too stood 
still and offered no interruption. But when 
a pause in Mrs. Laval's ecstasy gave him a 
chance, he said low, 
 
" Mrs. Beechey, mamma, and Miss Beecheys, 
are there." 
Mrs. Laval was quiet a moment, hiding 
her face in Matilda's neck ; then she put her 
