hesitation. 

" Yes, sir ".  said Perley, unfastening her 
corded fur. 

"Your father—" 

" Wait a minute ! " said Perley, speaking fast. 
She unfastened the fur, and folded the cape up 
into a white heap with much pains and precision. 

She was struck with a childish dread of 
hearing a horrible thing. She felt singularly 
confused. Snatches of Giovanni danced through 
her brain. She thought that she saw the girl 
in plaid sitting on her front stairs, with a world- 
ful of rain upon her head. Her own thought 
came curiously back to her, in words : " How 
disagreeable it must be to sit out in the rain ! " 
Her youth and happiness shrank with a sudden 
faint sickness at being disturbed. It was with as 
much fright as grief that she took the paper from 
her father's old friend and read : — 

" Crushed at six d clock this afternoon, in the 
freight depot at Five Falls. Instant death'.' 



CHAPTER II. 



THE SLIPPERY PATH. 



NOTHING is more conducive to one's sense 
of personal comfort than to live in a 
factory town and not be obliged to answer factory 
bells. This is especially to be said of those misty 
morning bells, which lay a cloudy finger upon 
one's last lingering dream, and dip it and dimple 
it into shreds; of those six-o'clock winter bells, 
whose very tongues seem to have stiffened with 
the cold, and to move thickly and numbly against 
their frosted cheeks. One listens and dozes, and 
would dream again but for listening again, and 
draws one's silk and eider shoulder-robe closer to 
one's warm throat with a shiver of rare enjoyment.
Iron voices follow, and pierce the 
shoulder-robe. They are distinct in spite of the eider, 
though a little hoarse. One turns and wraps 
one's self again. They are dulled, but inexorable. 
One listens and dozes, and would dream again 





but for listening. The inexorable is the delightful. 
One has to take only the pleasure of listen- 
ing. A dim consciousness of many steps of cold 
people cutting the biting, sunless air, gives a 
crispness to the blankets. The bells shiver in 
[sympathy with the steps, and the steps shiver in 
I response to the bells. The bells hurry, hurry, 
hurry on the steps. The steps hurry, hurry, 
hurry to the bells. The bells grow cross and 
snappish, — it is so cold. The steps grow pert 
and saucy, — it is so cold. Bells and steps, in a 
convulsion of ill-temper, go out from hearing
together, and only a sense of pillows and two hours 
before breakfast fills the world. 

Miss Kelso, waking to the six-o'clock bells of a 
winter morning, appreciates this with uncommon 
keenness ; with the more uncommon keenness 
that she has never waked to the six-o'clock bells 
of a winter morning before. She has experienced 
the new sensation of spending, for the first time, 
a February night in her July house, and is so 
thoroughly convinced that she ought to be cold, 
and so perfectly assured that she isn't, that the 
dangerous consideration of the possible two hours 
before mentioned, and the undeniable fact that 





she has invited Maverick to breakfast at seven, 
incite between her delicate young flesh and her 
delicate young conscience one of those painful 
and prolonged struggles which it is impossible for 
any one who is obliged to get up in the morning 
to appreciate. Conscience conquering, after 
a protracted contest, the vanquished party slips 
reluctantly and slowly out of silk and eider 
into crSpins and Persiana, just as Mr. Maverick 
Hayle's self-possessed ring plays leisurely 
through the house. 

The ghastly death of the managing partner 
has had its effect upon his business and his 
daughter, without doubt. Upon his business — 
as might be assumed from the fact that Maverick 
Hayle should breakfast at seven o'clock — a confusing 
effect, requiring care and time to adjust 
with wisdom. Upon his daughter, — what, for 
instance. If he slipped from her life, as he slips 
from her story, so heart slips away from heart, 
and love from love, with the slide of every hour. 
To cross the gap from life with a father to life 
without, very much as the February night 
descended upon the July house, were not unnatural. 
One must be warm, at all events. 





Her grief was wrapped in swaddling-clothes. 
It was such a young grief, and she so young a 
griever ; and the sun shone, and the winter air 
was crisp. 

Parley had been fond of her father, — of course ; 
and mourned him, — of course: but fondness is 
not friendship, and mourning is not desolation. 
Add to this a certain obstinate vein in this 
young woman, which suggested it to her fancy 
as a point of loyalty to her father's memory 
not to strain her sorrow beyond its honest 
altitude, and what follows.' To be at first very 
sadly shocked, to be next very truly lonely; to 
wish that she had never been cross to him 
(which she had), and to be sure that he had never 
been cross to her (which he had) ; to see, and 
love to see, the best of the departed life and 
the sweetest of the departed days ; and then to 
wander musing away, by sheer force of con- 
trast, upon her own unfinished life, and into 
the sweetness of her own coming days, and repent 
of it next moment ; to forget one afternoon to 
notice the five-o'clock solitude because 
Maverick comes in ; to take very much to her 
Prayer-Book the first fortnight, and entirely to 





Five Falls the second ; and to be pouring out 
her lover's coffee this morning, very lovely, a 
little quiet, and less unhappy. 

" But pale ? " suggested Maverick, leaning 
back in his chair, with the raised eyebrow of a 
connoisseur, to pronounce upon the effect of her. 
The effect was good, very good. Her black 
dress, and the little silver tete-d-tete service over 
which she leaned, set one another off quaintly ; 
and a trifle more color in her face would have 
left the impression of a sketch finished by two 
artists who had failed of each other's idea. 

Perley did not know that she was pale ; did 
not feel pale ; felt perhaps — and paused. 

How did she feel." 

Apparently she did not feel like explaining 
to Maverick . Hayle. Something in the delicate 
motion with which he raised the delicate napkin 
in his well-shaped hand to his delicately 
trimmed mustache acted perhaps as a counter- 
irritant to some delicate shading of her thought. 
It would not have been the first time that such 
a thing had happened. He was as necessary to 
Perley Kelso as her Axminster carpets ; he 
suited her in the same way ; in the same way 





he — sometimes — wearied her. But how did 
she feel ? 

" As nearly as I can make out," said Perley, 
" I feel like a large damask curtain taken down 
for the first time off its cornice," with a glance 
at the heavy walnut mouldings of her windows. 
" All in a heap, you know, and surprised. Or 
like a — what do you call it .' that part of a 
plane that runs in a groove, when you stop the 
groove up. And I 'm not used, you know, Maver- 
ick, to feeling at all ; it 's never been asked of 
me before." 

She smiled and playfully shook her head ; but 
her young eyes were perplexed and gently sad. 

" It was coming to this cold house, under the 
circumstances," suggested Maverick. 

No ; Perley shook her head again ; the house 
was not cold ; never mind. Was his cup out ? 
The milk was cold, at any rate ; he must wait 
a minute ; and so sat thoughtfully silent while 
she touched the bell, with the little silver service
shining against her shoulder and the curve 
of her arm. 

" What did you come down here for .' " asked 
Maverick, over his second cup. 





Perley didn't know. 

" When shall you go back ? " 

Perley didn't know that. 

" What are you going to do ? " 

Perley didn't know that, either. " Perhaps I 
shall not go back. I am tired of town. Per- 
haps I shall stay here and look after — things." 

" Things .'' For instance .' " 

" The mills, for instance. My property, for 
instance." 

Maverick lazily laughed ; pushing back his 
chair, and raising the connoisseur's eyebrow 
again at the liLcle shining service, and the black 
curve of the womanly, warm arm. 

Perhaps she would take his place this morn- 
ing ; he was late, now ; she could rake over a 
shoddy-heap, he was sure, or scold an overseer. 
He would agree to sit by the fire and order dinner, 
if she would just run over to father's for him 
and bring him his slippers. 

" I 'll run over to the counting-room with you, 
and bring you to repentance," said Perley ; " the 
air must be like wine this morning, and the sun 
like heaven." 

The air was so much like wine and the sun like 



heaven, that Perley, upon leaving the junior 
partner at the mill-gates, strolled on by a path on the 
river's brink through and beyond the town, find- 
ing herself loath to go back and sit by the fire 
and order dinner ; the more so, possibly, because 
she was a bit annoyed that Maverick should have 
hit with such exactness her typical morning ; it 
had, somehow, a useless, silly sound. 

A useless, silly sound in this town of Five 
Falls was artistically out of place. She almost 
felt herself to be a superfluity in the cold, crisp 
air filled to the full with business noises ; and 
took a pleasure in following the river almost out 
of hearing of the mill machinery, and quite into 
the frozen silence of the upper streaih. 

Though the stream was large, the town was 
not ; neither had the mills, from that distance, an 
imposing air. Perley, with a sudden remem- 
brance of the size of her income, wondered at 
this for the first time. " The business " had been 
a standing mystery in the young lady's careless 
fancy, the existence of which she had dimly understood
from her father, as she had dimly under- 
stood the existence of " The Blue Plum " ; perhaps
both had been about equally withheld from 





her comprehension. That there was some cotton 
in it she felt sure ; that it was a responsible 
business and a profitable business she understood ; 
that there were girls in little shawls, ragged men, 
and bad tobacco, an occasional strike, and a mission 
Sunday school connected with it, she remem- 
bered. 

