were. Judith sat down, but David stood waiting.
"The thing is, friends and relatives," Norton began, "how and by what
measures we can jointly and severally succeed in distinguishing
ourselves, in the matter of our Christmas offerings to Mrs. Lloyd. I
want your opinion about it. It is always nearly as much bother as
Christmas is worth. The old lady don't want anything, that I ever
discovered, and if she did, no one of us is rich enough to relieve her.
Now a bright plan has occurred to me. Suppose we club."
"Club what?" said David.
"Forces. That is, put our stock together and give her something
clever--from the whole of us, you know."
David looked at the new member of the quartette, as if to see whether
she would do to work with; Judy whistled softly.
"What shall we give her?" said that young lady. "She has got everything
under the sun already."
"Easier to find one thing than four things, then," said Norton.
"I think it will do," said David. "It is a good idea. And I saw the
article at Candello's yesterday."
"What was it?"
"A liqueur stand. Grandmamma was admiring it. It is very elegant; the
shapes of the flasks and cups are so uncommon, and so pretty."
"David is a judge of that," said Norton by way of comment to Matilda.
"I go in for colour, and he for shapes."
"There is no colour here," said David; "it is all clear glass."
"The cordial will give the colour," said Norton. "Yes, I think that
will do. Hurra! Grandmamma is always on my mind about this time, and it
keeps down my spirits."
"Who'll go and get it?" said Judy.
"We'll all go together," said Norton. "We are all going to get it;
didn't you understand? I want to see for myself, for my part, before
the thing's done. I say! let us each give a glass, and have our names
engraved on them."
"I don't want anybody to drink out of 'Judy,'" said the young lady
tossing her head.
"Grandmamma will think she is kissing you," said Norton. "She'll wear
out that glass, that's the worst of it."
"Then somebody else will have to drink out of 'David,'" said Judy's
brother. "I don't know about that."
"Well, she'd like it," said Norton.
"But I wouldn't," said Judy. "I have no objection to her kissing me;
but fancy other people!"
"It won't hurt," said Norton. "You'll never feel it through the glass.
But anyhow, we'll all go to Candello's to-morrow and see the thing, and
see what we'll do. Maybe she'll give us cordial in our own cups. That
would be jolly!--if it was noyau."
"You are getting jolly already," said Judith. "Does Matilda ever get
jolly?"
"You'll find out," said Norton; "in course of time, if you keep your
eyes open. But I don't believe you know a brick when you see it, Judy."
"A brick!" said that young lady.
"Yes. There are a great many sorts, David can tell you. Bricks are a
very old institution. I was studying about Chaldaean bricks lately.
They were a foot square and two or three inches thick; and if they were
not well baked they would not stand much, you know."
"What nonsense you are talking!" said Judith scornfully.
"Some of those bricks were not nonsense, for they have lasted four
thousand years. That's what I call--a brick!"
"You wouldn't know it if you saw it though," David remarked.
"You shut up!" said Norton. "Some of your ancestors made them for
Nebuchadnezzar."
"Some of my ancestors were over the whole province of Babylon," said
David. "But that was not four thousand years ago."
"When I get back as far as Nebuchadnezzar," said Norton shutting his
eyes, as if in the effort at abstraction, "I have got as far as I can
go. The stars of history beyond that seem to me all at one distance."
"They do not seem so to me," said David. "It was long before
Nebuchadnezzar that Solomon reigned; and the Jews were an old people
then."
"I know!" said Norton. "Nothing can match you but the Celestials. After
all, Noah's three sons all came out of the ark together."
"But the nations of Ham are all gone," said David; "and the nations of
Japhet are all changing."
"This fellow's dreadful on history?" said Norton to Matilda. "I used to
think," he went on as the coloured waiter just then came in with
coffee, "I used to think there were some of Ham's children left yet."
"But not a nation," said David.
The one of Ham's children in question came round to them at this
minute, and the talk was interrupted by the business of cream and
sugar. The four children were all round the coffee tray, when Mrs.
Laval's voice was heard calling Matilda. Matilda went across the room
to her.
"Are they giving you coffee, my darling?" said Mrs. Laval, putting her
arm round her.
"I was just going to have some."
"I don't want you to take it. Will it seem very hard to deny yourself?"
"Why no," said Matilda; then with an effort,--"No, mamma; not if you
wish me to let it alone."
"I do. I don't want this delicate colour on your cheek," and she
touched it as she spoke, "to grow thick and muddy; I want the skin to
be as fair and clear as it is now."
"Norton takes coffee," said Mrs. Bartholomew.
"I know. Norton is a boy. It don't matter."
"Judy!" Mrs. Bartholomew called across the room, "Judy! don't you
touch coffee."
"It's so hot mamma, I don't touch it. I swallow it without touching. It
goes right down."
"I don't like you to drink it."
"It would be a great deal pleasanter to drink it, than to swallow it in
that way," said Judy, coming across the room with a hop, skip and jump
indescribable. "But coffee is coffee anyhow. Mayn't I take it a little
cooler and a little slower next time?"
"It will make your complexion thick."
"It will make my eyes bright, though," said Judy unblushingly.
"I never heard that," said Mrs. Bartholomew laughing.
"O but I have, though," said Judy. "I have seen your eyes ever so
bright, mamma, when you have been drinking coffee."
"Yours are bright enough without it," said her mother.
"Yes'm," said Judy contentedly, standing her ground.
Matilda wondered a good deal at both mother and daughter, and she was
amused too; Judy was so funnily impudent, and Mrs. Bartholomew so
lazily authoritative. She nestled within Mrs. Laval's arm which
encircled her, and felt safe, in the midst of very strange social
elements. Mrs. Lloyd eyed her.
"How old is that child, Zara?"
"About Judith's age."
"No, she isn't, aunt Zara," said Judy. "She is about seven years and
three months."
"And what are you?" said her aunt.
"Judith is over twelve," said Mrs. Bartholomew. "Surely that child is
not so old?"
"Matilda is the shortest," said Mrs. Laval, looking from one to the
other.
"And much the youngest looking," said Mrs. Lloyd. "How do you like New
York, my dear?"
"She likes it," said Judy,--"if she only could have got a black satin
cloak."
Matilda stared at her in mingled amazement and shame. Mrs. Laval
laughed and hugged Matilda up a little closer.
"A black satin cloak?" she repeated. "Did you wish for a black satin
cloak, my dear?"
"Trimmed with a deep fall of lace," added Judy.
"O Judy," exclaimed Matilda, "you said nothing about lace!"
"You wanted it, though," said Judith.
"I never thought of such a thing, mamma, as lace," said Matilda
appealingly.
"But you did wish for the satin?"
"Judy seemed to think it would be pretty. She wanted me to ask you to
get it."
The shout of laughter which was raised upon this, Matilda did not at
all understand. They all laughed, Judy not the least of them. Matilda
was very much ashamed.
"Oh Judy, Judy!" her aunt said. "Matilda, black satin is what old
ladies wear. She has been fooling you, as she fools everybody. You
mustn't believe Judy Bartholomew in anything she tells you. You would
be a little old woman, in a black satin cloak with deep lace."
"She said nothing about lace," Matilda repeated. "But I shall learn
what is proper, in her company."
And Matilda's little head, despite her confusion, took the airy set
upon her shoulders which was with her the unconscious expression of
disdain or disapprobation. There was another burst of laughter.
"Your shoulders are older than your face, my dear," observed Mrs.
Lloyd. "Judith must take care what she does. I see there is something
in you."
Happily this speech was Greek to Matilda; she had not the least
knowledge of what called it forth. However, she took it as a sign that
Mrs. Lloyd was beginning to like her a little. All the more she was
sorry, as her feet went up the stairs that night, that the way was not
clear about the Christmas gift for the stately old lady.
She had meant to speak of it to the other children, but had no chance.
After Mrs. Laval called her to tell her about the coffee, the quartette
party was broken up; the two boys had left the room and not come back
again. So what would have been better disposed of at once, was of
necessity laid over to the next day. Matilda had scruples about taking
part in a gift that had anything to do with the promotion of drinking.
She knew well enough what liqueur was; she had tasted it on the
occasion of that first memorable visit she and Maria had made to Mrs.
Laval's house; she knew it was very strong, stronger than wine, she
thought; for people only drank it out of little glasses that would not
hold much more than a good thimbleful. She had seen it once or twice
already at Mrs. Lloyd's served after dinner. She had seen David and
Norton and Judy all take it. Now she herself was pledged to do all she
could in the cause of temperance. Her all would not be much here,
something said to her; nobody would mind what she thought or said;
true. Nevertheless, ought she not to do what she could? according to
her old motto. And following her new motto, to "do all in the name of
the Lord Jesus," could she rightly join, even silently, in a plan to
make a present of drinking flasks and glasses? But if she refused, what
a fuss it would make!
Matilda went slowly up the stairs thinking of it; and arrived in her
room, she turned on the gas and opened her Bible and sat down to study
the question. She found she could not read, any more than those few
strong words; they seemed to cover the whole ground; "Whatsoever ye do,
in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus." Could she, as
his little servant, help the other children in giving such a gift? And
she was pledged, as a member of the Commission no less than as a
servant of Christ, to do all she could for the cause of temperance.
Would it not be something for the cause of temperance, if she
declared off from having anything to do with the liqueur stand? She had
felt she must try somehow to speak to David and Norton about their own
drinking wine; this was a good chance, and if she let this chance go--I
can never do it another time, she thought to herself. But oh, the
difficulty and the pain of it! They thought her a baby, and a little
country girl, who knew nothing; they would laugh at her so, and perhaps
be angry too. How could she do it! And once or twice Matilda put her
head down on her book in the struggle, wishing with all her heart it
were not so hard to be a Christian.
But all her thoughts and her prayers only made her more and more sure
which way lay the course of duty; and along with that grew a heavy
looking forward to the next day and the trial it would bring. How to
manage the matter best was a question. To speak privately to Norton
alone would be far the easiest; but then, that might not secure the
effect of her protest against wine and cordials and all such things, as
she wished to make it; Norton would perhaps cover it up, for the sake
of shielding her and himself from the reproaches of the others; and so
the work would not be done. She could not decide. She was obliged to go
to bed and leave it to circumstances to open the way for her. She half
made up her mind that the "opportunities" of her new position were as
likely to be opportunities for self denial as for anything else. This
was not what she had expected.
Saturday morning rose still and fair. The wind had gone down; the
severe cold had abated; the weather was beautifully prosperous for the
children's expedition. Now if Matilda could get a chance to speak
before they set out--It would be awkward to have to speak in the store,
maybe before a shopman, and when they were all on the very point of
finishing what they came to do. Matilda was ready to wish the day had
been stormy; and yet she wanted to go to Tiffany's, where Norton had
said he would take her; and to Candello's too, for the matter of that
There was another question Matilda had to settle with herself, only she
could not attend to so many things at once. Her twenty dollars for
Christmas purchases; how was all that to be spent "in the name of the
Lord Jesus"? She could not think of it just now, except by snatches;
she kept remembering it, and trying to reckon how many people she had
to buy things for. New York certainly was a very puzzling place to live
in.
The other children seemed to be as full of business as she, and much
less quiet about it. So Matilda did not find a chance to speak to
Norton in private, which in her trouble she would have done if she
could. It was all bustle and discussion till they went to get ready for
their walk. Matilda laced on her new boots, Judy won't have any
occasion to look scornfully at those, she said to herself. They are as
nice as they can be.
A little to her surprise, when she got downstairs she found Miss Judy
dressed in a black silk pelisse. What was the difference between silk
and satin, Matilda wondered? Judy caught her glance perhaps, for with a
twinkle of her own sharp black eyes she burst out into a peal of
laughter.
"What is the matter now?" her brother asked.
"Things become people so differently," said Judith saucily. "Something
you couldn't understand, Davy; men don't, nor boys neither. Matilda and
I understand."
"Matilda don't understand much that you do," said Norton.
"An' that's thrue for ye!" said Judy with a strong Irish accent.
"Faith, the craythur, she's just innicent!"
"Hush, Judy," said her brother laughing; and "You're a case, Judy,"
said Norton; and so they went out at the front door. Matilda's
opportunity was gone; she had thought to speak out to them all while
they were in the hall; and now she was a little too vexed to speak, for
a while. However, it was a gay walk down the avenue and then down
Broadway. The day was very fine and all the world seemed to be out and
astir. Norton was talking very busily too, and the excitement of
business soon chased away the momentary excitement of displeasure. In
the midst of all this, every few blocks they came to street sweepers. A
little girl or a little boy, grey and ragged, keeping a clean crossing
and holding out eager little hands for the pennies they did not get.
David and Norton and Judith did not so much as look at the children,
passing the outstretched hands as if unseen; and Matilda had no
pennies; nothing but her twenty dollar bill. Every few blocks there was
one of these poor, grey dusty figures and one of those little empty
hands. Matilda might have forgotten one or two, if that had been all;
it was impossible to forget this company. How came their life to be so
different from her life? What a hard way to spend one's days! always at
a street corner. And where did they hide themselves at night? And did
any of those poor little ones ever know what Christmas meant? And most
of all, what could or ought she to do for them, she who had so much?
What could be squeezed out of those twenty dollars to refresh the
corners of the streets? anything?
Thinking about this, and replying to Norton, and finding her way among
the crowds of people, they had come to Candello's before Matilda had
found a time to speak anything of what was chiefly on her mind.
It was a long bright store, elegant with its profusion of beautiful
things in glass and porcelain and bronze. Every foot of the counters
and of the floor, along the sides of the room, seemed to Matilda to be
filled with things to be looked at. Such beautiful basins and ewers,
just for washing! Such charming vases and flower glasses! Such handsome
clocks and statuettes and lamps! Then there were painted cups, and
flowered goblets and tumblers, and flasks wonderfully cut, and bowls,
large and beautiful, but clearly not for toilet use, that excited
Matilda's wonderment. She was lost in delight as well as wonder.
"Here," said David, and the word struck like a blow upon her nerves of
hearing,--"here is the article. Isn't that unexceptionable now?"
With the others, Matilda turned to see what he was pointing at. A glass
liqueur stand, with a crystal flask and tiny cups to match; as pretty
and elegant as it could be; even rare in its delicate richness among so
many delicate and rich things. The others were eager in their praise.
Matilda was silent.
"Don't you like it, Pink?" said Norton.
"It is as pretty as it can possibly be," Matilda answered. "But
Norton"--
"Then we might as well get it," said Norton. "We're all agreed. There's
no use in looking further when you are suited."
"So I think," said David. "I never do."
"That is as good as Mrs. Lloyd could do for herself," said Judith.
"But Norton"--said Matilda.
"Shall we have our names put on the cups?" said Norton.
"But Norton," said Matilda desperately, "we are not all agreed. I am
very sorry!--I like it very much--it's beautiful"--
"You are afraid you haven't money enough?" said Norton. "Never fear!
Davy and I will pay the largest half; you and Judy shall give less, but
it don't make any difference. I'll tell you! David and I will get the
stand and the flask; and you two shall give the cups."
