saw him with his arm yet stretched across to the leaves of music he had
been turning, and his face lowered to meet her gaze.

“Ah, Basil, I wish it was we, there!”

“And if they knew that we, on our wedding journey, stood outside, would
not they wish it was they, here?”

“I suppose so, dearest, and yet, once-upon-a-time was sweet. Pass on;
and let us see what charm we shall find next in this enchanted city.”

“Yes, it is an enchanted city to us,” mused Basil, aloud, as they
wandered on, “and all strange cities are enchanted. What is Rochester
to the Rochesterese? A place of a hundred thousand people, as we read
in our guide, an immense flour interest, a great railroad entrepot, an
unrivaled nursery trade, a university, two commercial colleges, three
collegiate institutes, eight or ten newspapers, and a free library. I
dare say any respectable resident would laugh at us sentimentalizing
over his city. But Rochester is for us, who don’t know it at all, a
city of any time or country, moonlit, filled with lovers hovering over
piano-fortes, of a palatial hotel with pastoral waiters and porter,--a
city of handsome streets wrapt in beautiful quiet and dreaming of the
golden age. The only definite association with it in our minds is the
tragically romantic thought that here Sam Patch met his fate.”

“And who in the world was Sam Patch?

“Isabel, your ignorance of all that an American woman should be proud
of distresses me. Have you really, then, never heard of the man who
invented the saying, ‘Some things can be done as well as others,’
and proved it by jumping over Niagara Falls twice? Spurred on by this
belief, he attempted the leap of the Genesee Falls. The leap was easy
enough, but the coming up again was another matter. He failed in that.
It was the one thing that could not be done as well as others.”

“Dreadful!” said Isabel, with the cheerfullest satisfaction. “But what
has all that to do with Rochester?”

“Now, my dear, you don’t mean to say you didn’t know that the Genesee
Falls were at Rochester? Upon my word, I’m ashamed. Why, we’re within
ten minutes’ walk of them now.”

“Then walk to them at once!” cried Isabel, wholly unabashed, and in fact
unable to see what he had to be ashamed of. “Actually, I believe you
would have allowed me to leave Rochester without telling me the falls
were here, if you hadn’t happened to think of Sam Patch.”

Saying this, she persuaded herself that a chief object of their journey
had been to visit the scene of Sam Patch’s fatal exploit, and she drew
Basil with a nervous swiftness in the direction of the railroad station,
beyond which he said were the falls. Presently, after threading their
way among a multitude of locomotives, with and without trains attached,
that backed and advanced, or stood still, hissing impatiently on every
side, they passed through the station to a broad planking above
the river on the other side, and thence, after encounter of more
locomotives, they found, by dint of much asking, a street winding up
the hill-side to the left, and leading to the German Bierhaus that gives
access to the best view of the cataract.

The Americans have characteristically bordered the river with
manufactures, making every drop work its passage to the brink; while the
Germans have as characteristically made use of the beauty left over, and
have built a Bierhaus where they may regale both soul and sense in the
presence of the cataract. Our travellers might, in another mood and
place, have thought it droll to arrive at that sublime spectacle through
a Bierhaus, but in this enchanted city it seemed to have a peculiar
fitness.

A narrow corridor gave into a wide festival space occupied by many
tables, each of which was surrounded by a group of clamorous Germans of
either sex and every age, with tall beakers of beaded lager before
them, and slim flasks of Rhenish; overhead flamed the gas in globes of
varicolored glass; the walls were painted like those of such haunts in
the fatherland; and the wedding-journeyers were fair to linger on
their way, to dwell upon that scene of honest enjoyment, to inhale the
mingling odors of beer and of pipes, and of the pungent cheeses in which
the children of the fatherland delight. Amidst the inspiriting clash of
plates and glasses, the rattle of knives and forks, and the hoarse rush
of gutturals, they could catch the words Franzosen, Kaiser, Konig, and
Schlacht, and they knew that festive company to be exulting in the first
German triumphs of the war, which were then the day’s news; they saw
fists shaken at noses in fierce exchange of joy, arms tossed abroad in
wild congratulation, and health-pouring goblets of beer lifted in air.
Then they stepped into the moonlight again, and heard only the solemn
organ stops of the cataract. Through garden-ground they were led by the
little maid, their guide, to a small pavilion that stood on the edge
of the precipitous shore, and commanded a perfect view of the falls. As
they entered this pavilion, a youth and maiden, clearly lovers, passed
out, and they were left alone with that sublime presence. Something of
definiteness was to be desired in the spectacle, but there was ample
compensation in the mystery with which the broad effulgence and the
dense unluminous shadows of the moonshine invested it. The light touched
all the tops of the rapids, that seemed to writhe sway from the brink of
the cataract, and then desperately breaking and perishing to fall, the
white disembodied ghosts of rapids, down to the bottom of the vast and
deep ravine through which the river rushed away. Now the waters seemed
to mass themselves a hundred feet high in a wall of snowy compactness,
now to disperse into their multitudinous particles and hang like some
vaporous cloud from the cliff. Every moment renewed the vision of beauty
in some rare and fantastic shape; and its loveliness isolated it, in
spite of the great town on the other shore, the station with its bridge
and its trains, the mills that supplied their feeble little needs from
the cataract’s strength.

At last Basil pointed out the table-rock in the middle of the fall, from
which Sam Patch had made his fatal leap; but Isabel refused to admit
that tragical figure to the honors of her emotions. “I don’t care
for him!” she said fiercely. “Patch! What a name to be linked in our
thoughts with this superb cataract.”

“Well, Isabel, I think you are very unjust. It’s as good a name as
Leander, to my thinking, and it was immortalized in support of a great
idea, the feasibility of all things; while Leander’s has come down to us
as that of the weak victim of a passion. We shall never have a poetry of
our own till we get over this absurd reluctance from facts, till we
make the ideal embrace and include the real, till we consent to face the
music in our simple common names, and put Smith into a lyric and Jones
into a tragedy. The Germans are braver than we, and in them you find
facts and dreams continually blended and confronted. Here is a fortunate
illustration. The people we met coming out of this pavilion were lovers,
and they had been here sentimentalizing on this superb cataract, as you
call it, with which my heroic Patch is not worthy to be named. No doubt
they had been quoting Uhland or some other of their romantic poets,
perhaps singing some of their tender German love-songs,--the tenderest,
unearthliest love-songs in the world. At the same time they did not
disdain the matter-of-fact corporeity in which their sentiment was
enshrined; they fed it heartily and abundantly with the banquet whose
relics we see here.”

On a table before them stood a pair of beer-glasses, in the bottoms
of which lurked scarce the foam of the generous liquor lately brimming
them; some shreds of sausage, some rinds of Swiss cheese, bits of cold
ham, crusts of bread, and the ashes of a pipe.

Isabel shuddered at the spectacle, but made no comment, and Basil went
on: “Do you suppose they scorned the idea of Sam Patch as they gazed
upon the falls? On the contrary, I’ve no doubt that he recalled to her
the ballad which a poet of their language made about him. It used to go
the rounds of the German newspapers, and I translated it, a long while
ago, when I thought that I too was in ‘Arkadien geboren’.

       ‘In the Bierhauagarten I linger
        By the Falls of the Geneses:
        From the Table-Rock in the middle
        Leaps a figure bold and free.

        Aloof in the air it rises
        O’er the rush, the plunge, the death;
        On the thronging banks of the river
        There is neither pulse nor breath.

        Forever it hovers and poises
        Aloof in the moonlit air;
        As light as mist from the rapids,
        As heavy as nightmare.

        In anguish I cry to the people,
        The long-since vanished hosts;
        I see them stretch forth in answer,
        The helpless hands of ghosts.’”

“I once met the poet who wrote this. He drank too much beer.”

“I don’t see that he got in the name of Sam Patch, after all,” said
Isabel.

“O yes; he did; but I had to yield to our taste, and where he said, I
‘Springt der Sam Patsch kuhn and frei’,’ I made it ‘Leaps a figure bold
and free.’”

As they passed through the house on their way out, they saw the youth
and maiden they had met at the pavilion door. They were seated at a
table; two glasses of beer towered before them; on their plates were
odorous crumbs of Limburger cheese. They both wore a pensive air.

The next morning the illusion that had wrapt the whole earth was gone
with the moonlight. By nine o’clock, when the wedding-journeyers resumed
their way toward Niagara, the heat had already set in with the effect of
ordinary midsummer’s heat at high noon. The car into which they got
had come the past night from Albany, and had an air of almost conscious
shabbiness, griminess, and over-use. The seats were covered with
cinders, which also crackled under foot. Dust was on everything,
especially the persons of the crumpled and weary passengers of
overnight. Those who came aboard at Rochester failed to lighten
the spiritual gloom, and presently they sank into the common bodily
wretchedness. The train was somewhat belated, and as it drew nearer
Buffalo they knew the conductor to have abandoned himself to that
blackest of the arts, making time. The long irregular jolt of the
ordinary progress was reduced to an incessant shudder and a quick
lateral motion. The air within the cars was deadly; if a window was
raised, a storm of dust and cinders blew in and quick gusts caught away
the breath. So they sat with closed windows, sweltering and stifling,
and all the faces on which a lively horror was not painted were dull and
damp with apathetic misery.

The incidents were in harmony with the abject physical tone of the
company. There was a quarrel between a thin, shrill-voiced, highly
dressed, much-bedizened Jewess, on the one side, and a fat, greedy old
woman, half asleep, and a boy with large pink transparent ears that
stood out from his head like the handles of a jar, on the other side,
about a seat which the Hebrew wanted, and which the others had kept
filled with packages on the pretense that it was engaged. It was a loud
and fierce quarrel enough, but it won no sort of favor; and when the
Jewess had given a final opinion that the greedy old woman was no
lady, and the boy, who disputed in an ironical temper, replied, “Highly
complimentary, I must say,” there was no sign of relief or other
acknowledgment in any of the spectators, that there had been a quarrel.

There was a little more interest taken in the misfortune of an old
purblind German and his son, who were found by the conductor to be a few
hundred miles out of the direct course to their destination, and were
with some trouble and the aid of an Americanized fellow-countryman made
aware of the fact. The old man then fell back in the prevailing apathy,
and the child naturally cared nothing. By and by came the unsparing
train-boy on his rounds, bestrewing the passengers successively with
papers, magazines, fine-cut tobacco, and packages of candy. He gave the
old man a package of candy, and passed on. The German took it as the
bounty of the American people, oddly manifested in a situation where he
could otherwise have had little proof of their care. He opened it
and was sharing it with his son when the train-boy came back, and
metallically, like a part of the machinery, demanded, “Ten cents!” The
German stared helplessly, and the boy repeated, “Ten cents! ten cents!”
 with tiresome patience, while the other passengers smiled. When it had
passed through the alien’s head that he was to pay for this national
gift and he took with his tremulous fingers from the recesses of his
pocket-book a ten-cent note and handed it to his tormentor, some of
the people laughed. Among the rest, Basil and Isabel laughed, and then
looked at each other with eyes of mutual reproach.

“Well, upon my word, my dear,” he said, “I think we’ve fallen pretty
low. I’ve never felt such a poor, shabby ruffian before. Good heavens!
To think of our immortal souls being moved to mirth by such a thing
as this,--so stupid, so barren of all reason of laughter. And then the
cruelty of it! What ferocious imbeciles we are! Whom have I married? A
woman with neither heart nor brain!”

“O Basil, dear, pay him back the money--do.”

“I can’t. That’s the worst of it. He’s money enough, and might justly
take offense. What breaks my heart is that we could have the depravity
to smile at the mistake of a friendless stranger, who supposed he had at
last met with an act of pure kindness. It’s a thing to weep over. Look
at these grinning wretches! What a fiendish effect their smiles have,
through their cinders and sweat! O, it’s the terrible weather; the
despotism of the dust and heat; the wickedness of the infernal air. What
a squalid and loathsome company!”

At Buffalo, where they arrived late, they found themselves with several
hours’ time on their hands before the train started for Niagara, and in
the first moments of tedium, Isabel forgot herself into saying, “Don’t
you think we’d have done better to go directly from Rochester to the
Falls, instead of coming this way?”

“Why certainly. I didn’t propose coming this way.”

“I know it, dear. I was only asking,” said Isabel, meekly. “But I should
think you’d have generosity enough to take a little of the blame, when I
wanted to come out of a romantic feeling for you.”

This romantic feeling referred to the fact that, many years before, when
Basil made his first visit to Niagara, he had approached from the west
by way of Buffalo; and Isabel, who tenderly begrudged his having existed
before she knew him, and longed to ally herself retrospectively with his
past, was resolved to draw near the great cataract by no other route.

She fetched a little sigh which might mean the weather or his
hard-heartedness. The sigh touched him, and he suggested a carriage-ride
through the city; she assented with eagerness, for it was what she had
been thinking of. She had never seen a lakeside city before, and she
was taken by surprise. “If ever we leave Boston,” she said, “we will not
live at Rochester, as I thought last night; we’ll come to Buffalo.” She
found that the place had all the picturesqueness of a sea-port, without
the ugliness that attends the rising and falling tides. A delicious
freshness breathed from the lake, which lying so smooth, faded into
the sky at last, with no line between sharper than that which divides
drowsing from dreaming. But the color was the most charming thing,
that delicate blue of the lake, without the depth of the sea-blue, but
infinitely softer and lovelier. The nearer expanses rippled with dainty
waves, silver and lucent; the further levels made, with the sun-dimmed
summer sky, a vague horizon of turquoise and amethyst, lit by the white
sails of ships, and stained by the smoke of steamers.

“Take me away now,” said Isabel, when her eyes had feasted upon all
this, “and don’t let me see another thing till I get to Niagara. Nothing
less sublime is worthy the eyes that have beheld such beauty.”

However, on the way to Niagara she consented to glimpses of the river
which carries the waters of the lake for their mighty plunge, and
which shows itself very nobly from time to time as you draw toward the
cataract, with wooded or cultivated islands, and rich farms along its
low shores, and at last flashes upon the eye the shining white of the
rapids,--a hint, no more, of the splendor and awfulness to be revealed.




VI. NIAGARA.

As the train stopped, Isabel’s heart beat with a child-like exultation,
as I believe every one’s heart must who is worthy to arrive at Niagara.
