carefulness followed the careless footsteps of the untrained handmaids,
and rearranged every plait and fold; so that by nightfall the next day
she was thoroughly tired.

She beguiled the last moments, while waiting for the coming of the
cars, in arranging her hair, and putting on one of those wonderful
Parisian dresses, which adapt themselves so precisely to the air of the
wearer that they seem to be in themselves works of art. Then she stood
with a fluttering color to see the carriage drive up to the door, and
the two get out of it.

It is almost too bad to spy out such meetings, and certainly one has
no business to describe them; but Walter Sydenham carried all before
him, by an old habit which he had of taking all and every thing for
granted, as, from the first moment, he did with Grace. He had no idea
of hesitations or holdings off, and would have none; and met Gracie as
if they had parted only yesterday, and as if her word to him always had
been yes, instead of no.

In fact, they had not been together five minutes before the whole life
of youth returned to them both,—that indestructible youth which belongs
to warm hearts and buoyant spirits.

Such a merry evening as they had of it! When John, as the wood fire
burned low on the hearth, with some excuse of letters to write in his
library, left them alone together, Walter put on her finger a diamond
ring, saying,—

“There, Gracie! now, when shall it be? You see you’ve kept me waiting
so long that I can’t spare you much time. I have an engagement to be in
Montreal the first of February, and I couldn’t think of going alone.
They have merry times there in mid-winter; and I’m sure it will be ever
so much nicer for you than keeping house alone here.”

Grace said, of course, that it was impossible; but Walter declared
that doing the impossible was precisely in his line, and pushed on his
various advantages with such spirit and energy that, when they parted
for the night, Grace said she would think of it: which promise, at the
breakfast-table next morning, was interpreted by the unblushing Walter,
and reported to John, as a full consent. Before noon that day, Walter
had walked up with John and Grace to take a survey of the cottage,
and had given John indefinite power to engage workmen and artificers
to rearrange and enlarge and beautify it for their return after the
wedding journey. For the rest of the visit, all the three were busy
with pencil and paper, projecting balconies, bow-windows, pantries,
library, and dining-room, till the old cottage so blossomed out in
imagination as to leave only a germ of its former self.

Walter’s visit brought back to John a deal of the warmth and freedom
which he had not known since he married. We often live under an
insensible pressure of which we are made aware only by its removal.
John had been so much in the habit lately of watching to please Lillie,
of measuring and checking his words or actions, that he now bubbled
over with a wild, free delight in finding himself alone with Grace and
Walter. He laughed, sang, whistled, skipped upstairs two at a time, and
scarcely dared to say even to himself why he was so happy. He did not
face himself with that question, and went dutifully to the library at
stated times to write to Lillie, and made much of her little letters.




CHAPTER XIX.

THE CASTLE OF INDOLENCE.


IF John managed to be happy without Lillie in Springdale, Lillie
managed to be blissful without him in New York.

“The bird let loose in Eastern skies” never hastened more fondly home
than she to its glitter and gayety, its life and motion, dash and
sensation. She rustled in all her bravery of curls and frills, pinkings
and quillings,—a marvellous specimen of Parisian frostwork, without one
breath of reason or philosophy or conscience to melt it.

The Follingsbees’ house might stand for the original of the Castle of
Indolence.

              “Halls where who can tell
    What elegance and grandeur wide expand,—
    The pride of Turkey and of Persia’s land?
    Soft quilts on quilts; on carpets, carpets spread;
    And couches stretched around in seemly band;
    And endless pillows rise to prop the head:
    So that each spacious room was one full swelling bed.”

It was not without some considerable profit that Mrs. Follingsbee had
read Balzac and Dumas, and had Charlie Ferrola for master of arts in
her establishment. The effect of the whole was perfect; it transported
one, bodily, back to the times of Montespan and Pompadour, when life
was all one glittering upper-crust, and pretty women were never
troubled with even the shadow of a duty.

It was with a rebound of joyousness that Lillie found herself once
more with a crowded list of invitations, calls, operas, dancing, and
shopping, that kept her pretty little head in a perfect whirl of
excitement, and gave her not one moment for thought.

Mrs. Follingsbee, to say the truth, would have been a little careful
about inviting a rival queen of beauty into the circle, were it not
that Charlie Ferrola, after an attentive consideration of the subject,
had assured her that a golden-haired blonde would form a most complete
and effective tableau, in contrast with her own dark rich style of
beauty. Neither would lose by it, so he said; and the impression, as
they rode together in an elegant open barouche, with ermine carriage
robes, would be “stunning.” So they called each other ma sœur, and
drove out in the park in a ravishing little pony-phaeton all foamed
over with ermine, drawn by a lovely pair of cream-colored horses, whose
harness glittered with gold and silver, after the fashion of the Count
of Monte Cristo. In truth, if Dick Follingsbee did not remind one of
Solomon in all particulars, he was like him in one, that he “made
silver and gold as the stones of the street” in New York.

Lillie’s presence, however, was all desirable; because it would draw
the calls of two or three old New York families who had hitherto stood
upon their dignity, and refused to acknowledge the shoddy aristocracy.
The beautiful Mrs. John Seymour, therefore, was no less useful than
ornamental, and advanced Mrs. Follingsbee’s purposes in her “Excelsior”
movements.

“Now, I suppose,” said Mrs. Follingsbee to Lillie one day, when they
had been out making fashionable calls together, “we really must call on
Charlie’s wife, just to keep her quiet.”

“I thought you didn’t like her,” said Lillie.

“I don’t; I think she is dreadfully common,” said Mrs. Follingsbee:
“she is one of those women who can’t talk any thing but baby, and bores
Charlie half to death. But then, you know, when there is a liaison
like mine with Charlie, one can’t be too careful to cultivate the
wives. Les convenances, you know, are the all-important things. I
send her presents constantly, and send my carriage around to take
her to church or opera, or any thing that is going on, and have her
children at my fancy parties: yet, for all that, the creature has not a
particle of gratitude; those narrow-minded women never have. You know
I am very susceptible to people’s atmospheres; and I always feel that
that creature is just as full of spite and jealousy as she can stick in
her skin.”

It will be remarked that this was one of those idiomatic phrases which
got lodged in Mrs. Follingsbee’s head in a less cultivated period of
her life, as a rusty needle sometimes hides in a cushion, coming out
unexpectedly, when excitement gives it an honest squeeze.

“Now, I should think,” pursued Mrs. Follingsbee, “that a woman who
really loved her husband would be thankful to have him have such a
rest from the disturbing family cares which smother a man’s genius,
as a house like ours offers him. How can the artistic nature exercise
itself in the very grind of the thing, when this child has a cold, and
the other the croup; and there is fussing with mustard-paste and ipecac
and paregoric,—all those realities, you know? Why, Charlie tells me he
feels a great deal more affection for his children when he is all calm
and tranquil in the little boudoir at our house; and he writes such
lovely little poems about them, I must show you some of them. But this
creature doesn’t appreciate them a bit: she has no poetry in her.”

“Well, I must say, I don’t think I should have,” said Lillie, honestly.
“I should be just as mad as I could be, if John acted so.”

“Oh, my dear! the cases are different: Charlie has such peculiarities
of genius. The artistic nature, you know, requires soothing.” Here they
stopped, and rang at the door of a neat little house, and were ushered
into a pair of those characteristic parlors which show that they have
been arranged by a home-worshipper, and a mother. There were plants and
birds and flowers, and little genre pictures of children, animals,
and household interiors, arranged with a loving eye and hand.

“Did you ever see any thing so perfectly characteristic?” said Mrs.
Follingsbee, looking around her as if she were going to faint.

“This woman drives Charlie perfectly wild, because she has no
appreciation of high art. Now, I sent her photographs of Michel
Angelo’s ‘Moses,’ and ‘Night and Morning;’ and I really wish you would
see where she hung them,—away in yonder dark corner!”

“I think myself they are enough to scare the owls,” said Lillie, after
a moment’s contemplation.

“But, my dear, you know they are the thing,” said Mrs. Follingsbee:
“people never like such things at first, and one must get used to high
art before one forms a taste for it. The thing with her is, she has no
docility. She does not try to enter into Charlie’s tastes.”

The woman with “no docility” entered at this moment,—a little snow-drop
of a creature, with a pale, pure, Madonna face, and that sad air of
hopeless firmness which is seen unhappily in the faces of so many women.

“I had to bring baby down,” she said. “I have no nurse to-day, and he
has been threatened with croup.”

“The dear little fellow!” said Mrs. Follingsbee, with officious
graciousness. “So glad you brought him down; come to his aunty?” she
inquired lovingly, as the little fellow shrank away, and regarded
her with round, astonished eyes. “Why will you not come to my next
reception, Mrs. Ferrola?” she added. “You make yourself quite a
stranger to us. You ought to give yourself some variety.”

“The fact is, Mrs. Follingsbee,” said Mrs. Ferrola, “receptions in New
York generally begin about my bed-time; and, if I should spend the
night out, I should have no strength to give to my children the next
day.”



“But, my dear, you ought to have some amusement.”

“My children amuse me, if you will believe it,” said Mrs. Ferrola, with
a remarkably quiet smile.

Mrs. Follingsbee was not quite sure whether this was meant to be
sarcastic or not. She answered, however, “Well! your husband will
come, at all events.”

“You may be quite sure of that,” said Mrs. Ferrola, with the same
quietness.

“Well!” said Mrs. Follingsbee, rising, with patronizing cheerfulness,
“delighted to see you doing so well; and, if it is pleasant, I will
send the carriage round to take you a drive in the park this afternoon.
Good-morning.”

And, like a rustling cloud of silks and satins and perfumes, she bent
down and kissed the baby, and swept from the apartment.

Mrs. Ferrola, with a movement that seemed involuntary, wiped the baby’s
cheek with her handkerchief, and, folding it closer to her bosom,
looked up as if asking patience where patience is to be found for the
asking.

“There! didn’t I tell you?” said Mrs. Follingsbee when she came out;
“just one of those provoking, meek, obstinate, impracticable creatures,
with no adaptation in her.”

“Oh, gracious me!” said Lillie: “I can’t imagine more dire despair than
to sit all day tending baby.”

“Well, so you would think; and Charlie has offered to hire competent
nurses, and wants her to dress herself up and go into society; and she
just won’t do it, and sticks right down by the cradle there, with her
children running over her like so many squirrels.”

“Oh! I hope and trust I never shall have children,” said Lillie,
fervently, “because, you see, there’s an end of every thing. No more
fun, no more frolics, no more admiration or good times; nothing but
this frightful baby, that you can’t get rid of.”

Yet, as Lillie spoke, she knew, in her own slippery little heart, that
the shadow of this awful cloud of maternity was resting over her;
though she laced and danced, and bid defiance to every law of nature,
with a blind and ignorant wilfulness, not caring what consequences she
might draw down on herself, if only she might escape this.

And was there, then, no soft spot in this woman’s heart anywhere?
Generally it is thought that the throb of the child’s heart awakens
a heart in the mother, and that the mother is born again with her
child. It is so with unperverted nature, as God meant it to be; and
you shall hear from the lips of an Irish washer-woman a genuine poetry
of maternal feeling, for the little one who comes to make her toil
more toilsome, that is wholly withered away out of luxurious circles,
where there is every thing to make life easy. Just as the Chinese have
contrived fashionable monsters, where human beings are constrained to
grow in the shape of flower-pots, so fashionable life contrives at last
to grow a woman who hates babies, and will risk her life to be rid of
the crowning glory of womanhood.

There was a time in Lillie’s life, when she was sixteen years of age,
which was a turning-point with her, and decided that she should be
the heartless woman she was. If at that age, and at that time, she
had decided to marry the man she really loved, marriage might indeed
have proved to her a sacrament. It might have opened to her a door
through which she could have passed out from a career of selfish
worldliness into that gradual discipline of unselfishness which a true
love-marriage brings.

But she did not. The man was poor, and she was beautiful; her beauty
would buy wealth and worldly position, and so she cast him off. Yet
partly to gratify her own lingering feeling, and partly because she
could not wholly renounce what had once been hers, she kept up for
years with him just that illusive simulacrum which such women call
friendship; which, while constantly denying, constantly takes pains to
attract, and drains the heart of all possibility of loving another.

Harry Endicott was a young man of fine capabilities, sensitive,
interesting, handsome, full of generous impulses, whom a good woman
might easily have led to a full completeness. He was not really
Lillie’s cousin, but the cousin of her mother; yet, under the name of
cousin, he had constant access and family intimacy.

This winter Harry Endicott suddenly returned to the fashionable circles
of New York,—returned from a successful career in India, with an ample
fortune. He was handsomer than ever, took stylish bachelor lodgings,
set up a most distracting turnout, and became a sort of Marquis of
Farintosh in fashionable circles. Was ever any thing so lucky, or so
unlucky, for our Lillie?—lucky, if life really does run on the basis of
French novels, and if all that is needed is the sparkle and stimulus of
new emotions; unlucky, nay, even gravely terrible, if life really is
established on a basis of moral responsibility, and dogged by the fatal
necessity that “whatsoever man or woman soweth, that shall he or she
also reap.”
