"You know best," said Norton, shaking his curly head.

"He thinks he has so much else to distinguish him," said Judy, "he can
do without that."

"Not your case," said Norton, politely nodding at her.

"Don't depend upon your word," said Judy scornfully.

"Not at all," rejoined Norton; "it is open to the most hasty observer."

"Is Matilda queer?" Esther asked laughing.

"She'd never let the world go to sleep," said Norton contentedly; "at
least, not till all could sleep comfortably."

They laughed at that, and Matilda as much as anybody.

"But what did you mean, Norton," she said, "about the bulbs and the
country?"

"Just what I said. It's the most mysterious thing, the way the roots
down in the earth know when it is time for them to send up their green
shoots. They will do it, too, and when things aren't ready for them by
any means above ground. Spring may be ever so late, and the earth hard
packed with frost, and snow and clouds making you believe it is winter
yet; and there will come the little green shoots pushing up their heads
and telling you they know what time of year it is, better than you
do. How they get up through the frozen earth is more than I know. I
tell you, they are queer."

"Then you mean something good by being queer, Norton," Matilda said.

"Don't know about that; they are ahead of the year, you see, and that
don't always do. They have a hard time of it, sometimes."

"But are you going up to see them?"

"Yes; pretty soon. The coverings must be taken off the beds, you see;
and I must look after it."

"I am so glad spring is come again!" said Esther.

"What for, you?" said Norton. "You don't make garden."

"No; but I can eat strawberries."

"Strawberries! O ho, that's it. That's what you want spring for."

"I am sure strawberries are good, Norton," said Matilda. "Do you
remember how you and I eat strawberries on the bank last summer?--and
made lists?"

Norton gave her a very intelligent glance of acknowledgment.

"Lists of what?" Judy asked.

"Things we were going to have for tea," Norton answered coolly.

"O no, Norton--they were not," said Matilda.

"Well, it was something in the housekeeping department."

"Housekeeping!" cried Esther.

"What is strange in that?" inquired Norton coolly.

"Why you are rather young, you and Matilda, to set up housekeeping."

"Rather," said Norton; "so it was somebody else, you see."

"O it was for somebody else?" said Esther.

"When are you going, Norton?" Matilda asked eagerly.

"Pretty soon; in a week or two more; just as soon as we have a few more
spring days."

"O how nice the spring days are!" said Matilda. "I am so glad they are
come again."

"For the strawberries?" Esther asked archly.

"O no, not the strawberries; but it is so pleasant to see the green
grass again, and the dandelions."

"Dandelions!" exclaimed Judy.

"Yes indeed; and the locust blossoms; and the cows going to pasture;
and yellow butterflies skimming about; and the nice warm days; and
pinks and roses."

"And croquet--" said Norton.

"O croquet is delicious!" said Esther.

"I am glad, because I like the driving," said Norton. "It is better
than all the Central Parks in the world. And the fishing is jolly, too;
when you have good sport. It's jolly altogether, at Shadywalk."

"But Norton, the house is shut up," said Matilda.

"What about it?"

"What will you do? you can't manage all alone."

"Go to Kepple's. That's easy."

"How long will you stay?"

"Two or three days. I guess I'll take the Easter holidays--that's just
the thing."

What was said next for a few minutes, Matilda did not hear; she was
musing so intently; then she broke out,--

"O Norton! I wonder if I might go with you?"

"You? That would be jolly," said Norton.

"I could go to Mr. Richmond's, you know; and then we could see all
about our tulip and hyacinth beds; and it would be so pleasant!"

"Well; suppose you do. I'm agreed."

"Do you think mamma would like it?"

"We'll coax her into thinking it's a splendid plan," said Norton; "and
that's what it is."

Matilda's eye went furtively over to David; he met it, but she could
not tell what he thought. Hope and pleasure made her cheeks flush high.
Judy tossed her head.

"Why don't you ask me?" she said.

"I haven't asked anybody yet," said Norton.

"I should like to go too. Will you take me?"

"Would you like to say what you would do if you got there?"

"I don't know!" laughed Judy.

"I do. All the mischief you could manage. No, thank you. I should have
to sit next you at the hotel table."

"What harm would that do?" said Esther, laughing.

"I should find mustard in my coffee and pepper in my pudding sauce,"
said Norton. "No harm, only rather spoils the coffee and rather hurts
the pudding sauce."

Matilda looked suddenly at Norton, and so did Judy, but they saw he was
only speaking at random and did not know how close he was coming to the
truth. Then the two pairs of eyes met involuntarily. Judy laughed
carelessly.

"I'll go, if you go," she said to Norton. "At least, if Matilda goes,
I'll go."

This time Matilda's and David's eyes met. He smiled, and she took
comfort.

As soon as a good opportunity could be found, the plan was broached to
Mrs. Laval, and urged by both her children. She demurred a little; but
finally consented, on the strength of Norton's plea that it would do
Matilda good. From this time the days were full of delightful hope and
preparation. Only David lay on Matilda's thoughts with a weight of care
and longing. Once she caught an opportunity, when they were alone, to
seize his hand and whisper, "Oh David, can't you come too, and see Mr.
Richmond?" And he had answered very gravely that he did not know; he
would see.

Easter fell this year rather late in April; late, that is, for Easter.
Schools were dismissed on Thursday; and Thursday afternoon Matilda and
Norton were to take the cars for Shadywalk. She could not say another
word to David, or about him; she made her happy preparations with a
secret unsatisfied longing running through them all. Judy had made an
earnest endeavour to be one of the party; and Matilda did not know how,
but the endeavour had failed. And now the early dinner was eaten, her
little travelling bag was packed, the carriage was at the door, good
byes were said, and Matilda got into the carriage. At that exact minute
David came out of the house with his travelling bag in hand, and in a
minute more the house door was shut, so was the carriage door, and they
were all three rolling off towards the Station.

"O David, I'm so glad!" burst from Matilda. "How did you manage it?"

"Like himself," said Norton; "kept his own counsel and had his own way.
It's a good thing to be Davy Bartholomew."

"I don't know about that," said David.

"Don't you? Never heard a doubt on that subject expressed before. But
anyhow, it's jolly to have you along, Davy. Why you've never seen
Shadywalk, nor Briery Bank."

Matilda smiled a very bright and expressive smile at David which said,
"nor Mr. Richmond either." The smile was so genial and glad and winsome
that it cheated David out of some part of his gloom; or perhaps he
thought it unworthy to shew it before his kind little companion. He
brightened up, and talked about the things that were interesting her
and Norton; and at the station behaved like the manly boy he was;
getting tickets and taking care of Matilda and finding a good place in
the cars where they could all sit together. The moment was so full of
joy to Matilda that it made her sober. Going to see her old haunts and
old friends was a great deal of itself; going on an expedition with
Norton was delightsome; but that David should really be going too, to
see Mr. Richmond, almost took away her breath with gladness. The slow
movement of the cars, beginning to roll away from the station, was
accompanied by a perfect leap and bound of her little heart making an
aerial flight on the instant to the end of the journey.

The end of the journey, however, had to be reached by the usual
patient, or impatient, stages. Patient in this case, to Matilda. She
was so happy that she enjoyed every foot of the way. The spring
sunlight on the river it was quite delightful to see again; the
different stations on the road were passed with curious recollections
of the last time, and comparisons of herself now and herself then. The
evening fell by the time they reached Poughkeepsie; and shadowy visions
of Maria seemed to occupy all the place while the train stopped there.
Poor Maria! Matilda was glad to have the cars move on, since she could
get no nearer than visions. Then it grew dark; and she sat musing and
dreaming pleasant dreams, till the station of Shadywalk was whistled
for.

The old omnibus was in waiting, as usual, and it happened that no other
passenger occupied it to-night except their three selves and one cosy
old lady, who "didn't count," Norton said. It was dark; they could not
see the landscape.

"Briery Bank ought to be worth a good deal," said David, "when it takes
so long to reach it."

"So it is," said Norton.

"O it's lovely, David!" cried Matilda. "Not so much now, though, when
the leaves are not out."

"Are you going to the minister's to-night?"

"To be sure I am. Mr. Richmond would be very much surprised if I went
anywhere else."

"Well, when I get the beds uncovered, Pink, I'll come for you; and we
can see what we will do."

"You'll come with me to-night, Norton?"

"I'll let Davy see you there, while I make arrangements."

"What arrangements? O come now, Norton. Mr. Richmond will like to see
you."

"He can wait till to-morrow, I dare say," replied Norton. "Anyhow, I
can. You will be enough for to-night."

"What sort of a man is the one you are talking of?" David asked Norton.

"He's a brick," said Norton, and began to whistle; then interrupted
himself. "But he is Pink's friend, you understand, much more than mine."

"Some old tutor of yours?" said David smiling.

"Old! not exactly. Nor a tutor neither, that ever I heard; though he
does teach folks, or tries to. No, you're out, Davy. I tell you, he's a
brick."

"O we're going over the bridge now, Norton!" Matilda exclaimed. "We're
almost there. Look! I can see lights, can't I?"

There was no question about it in a few minutes more. Norton got out at
the Shadywalk hotel; and the omnibus lumbered on through Butternut
Street to the parsonage gate and drew up at last before the old brown
door. But it was too dark to see colours. Indeed David had some
difficulty in finding the knocker; and meanwhile the omnibus lumbered
off, while they were not attending. David knocked and knocked again.
Matilda was trembling with delight.

"There's nobody at home," said David. "It is all dark."

But at that instant a step was heard in the hall, and the door was
opened. A little light that came from within a door somewhere beyond
revealed nothing except the outline of a figure.

"Who is it?" said a voice. "My lamp's gone out; I guess it wants a new
wick. Who's here?"

"Don't you know me, Miss Redwood?" said Matilda's voice, quivering with
pleasure.

"Don't know anybody without I see 'em. I ain't called to guess who you
be, as I know. Come in, if you want to, and tell your errand. Is it me
or the minister you're after?"

"Miss Redwood, it's Matilda Laval. And I'm so glad to see you!" said
Matilda, waiving further recognition and throwing her arms round the
housekeeper's neck. "O I'm so glad to see you! Is Mr. Richmond at home?"

