


CHAPTER LXY. 

BY and by, after a rugged climb, we halted on the summit 
of a hill which commanded a far-reaching view. The 
moon rose and flooded mountain and valley and ocean with 
a mellow radiance, and out of the shadows of the foliage the 
distant lights of Honolulu glinted like an encampment of fire- 
flies. The air was heavy with the fragrance of flowers. The 
halt was brief. — G-ayly laughing and talking, the party galloped 
on, and I clung to the pommel and cantered after. Presently we 
came to a place where no grass grew — a wide expanse of deep 
sand. They said it was an old battle ground. All around 
everywhere, not three feet apart, the bleached bones of men 
gleamed white in the moonlight. We picked up a lot of them 
for mementoes. I got quite a number of arm bones and leg 
bones — of great chiefs, may be, who had fought savagely in that 
fearful battle in the old days, when blood flowed like wine 
where we now stood. — and wore the choicest of them out on 
Oahu afterward, trying to make him go. All sorts of bones 
could be found except skulls ; but a citizen said, irreverently, 
that there had been an unusual number of " skull-hunters " 
there lately — a species of spoi'tsmen I had never heard of 
before. 

Nothing whatever is known about this place — its story is a 
secret that will never be revealed. The oldest natives make 
no pretense of being possessed of its history. They say thesfbones 
were here when they were children. They were here 
when their grandfathers were children — but how they came 
here, they can only conjecture. Many people believe this spot 
to be an ancient battle-ground, and it is usual to call it so ; and 
they believe that these skeletons have lain for ages just where 
their proprietors fell in the great fight. Other people believe 
that Kamehanieha I. fought his first battle here. On 
this point, I have heard a story, which may have been taken 
from one of the numerous books which have been written con- 
cerning these islands — I do not know where the narrator got 
it. He said that when Kamehameha (who was at first merely 
a subordinate chief on the island of Hawaii), landed here, he 
brought a large army with him, and encamped at Waikiki. 
The Oahuans marched against him, and so confident were they 
of success that they readily acceded to a demand of their priests 
that they should draw a line where these bones now lie, and 
take an oath that, if forced to retreat at all, they would never 
retreat beyond this boundary. The priests told them that 
death and everlasting punishment would overtake any who 
violated the oath, and the march was resumed, Kamehameha 
drove them back step by step ; the priests fought in the front 
rank and exhorted them both by voice and inspiriting example 
to remember their oath — to die, if need be, but never cross the 
fatal line. The struggle was manfully maintained, but at last 
the chief priest fell, pierced to the heart with a spear, and the 
unlucky omen fell like a blight upon the brave souls at his 
back ; with a triumphant shout the invaders pressed forward — 
the line was crossed — the ottended gods deserted the desjairing 
army, and, accepting the doom their perjury had brought upon 
them, they broke and fled over the plain where Honolulu stands 
now — up the beautiful Nuuanu Yalley — paused a moment, 
hemmed in by precipitous mountains on either hand and the 
frightful pi-ecipiee of the Pari in front, and then were driven 
over — -a sheer plunge of six hundred feet ! 

The story is pretty enough, but Mr. Jarves' excellent history 
says the Oahuans were intrenched in Nuuanu Yalley ; that 
Kamehameha ousted tliem, routed them, pursued tliem up the 
valley and drove them over the precipice. lie makes no men- 
tion of our bone-yard at all in his book. 

Impressed by the profound silence and repose that rested 
over the beautiful landscape, and being, as usual, in the rear, I 
gave voice to my thoughts. I said : 

" What a picture is here slumljering in the solemn glory of 
the moon ! How strong the rugged outlines of the dead vol- 
cano stand out against the clear sky ! What a snowy fringe 
marks the bursting of the surf over the long, curved reef! 
How calmly the dim city sleeps yonder in the plain ! How 
soft the shadows lie upon the stately mountains that border the 
dream-haunted Mauoa Yalley ! What a grand pyramid of bil- 
lowy clouds towers above the storied Pari ! How the grim 
warriors of the past seem flocking in ghostly squadrons to their 
ancient battlefield again — how the wails of the dying well up 
from the " 

At this point the horse called Oahu sat down in the sand. 
Sat down to listen, I suppose. Never mind 
what he heard, I stopped apostrophi sing 
and convinced him 
that I was not a man 
to allow contempt of 
Court on the part of 
a horse. I broke the back -bone of a Chief 
over his rump and 
set out to join the 
cavalcade again. 



Very considerably fagged out we arrived in town at 
9 o'clock at night, myself in the lead — for when my horse 
finally came to understand that he was homeward bound and 
hadn't far to go, he turned his attention strictly to business. 

This is a good time to drop in a paragraph of information. 

There is no regular livery stable in Honolulu, or, indeed, in any 
part of the kingdom of Hawaii ; therefore unless you are acquaint- 
ed with wealthy residents (who all have good horses), you must 
hire animals of the wretchedest description from the Kanakas, 
(i. e. natives.) Any horse you hire, even though it be from a white 
man, is not often of much account, because it will be brought 
in for you from some ranch, and has necessarily been leading 
a hard life. If the Kanakas who have been caring for him 
(inveterate riders they are) have not ridden him half to death 
every day themselves, you can depend upon it they have been 
doing the same thing by proxy, by clandestinely hiring him 
out. At least, so I am informed. The result is, that no horse 
has a chance to eat, drink, rest, recuperate, or look well or feel 
well, and so strangers go about the Islands mounted as I was 
to-day. 

In hiring a horse from a Kanaka, you must have all your 
eyes about you, because you can rest satisfied that you are dealing 
with a shrewd unprincipled rascal. You may leave your door 
open and your trunk unlocked as long as you please, and he 
will not meddle with your property ; he has no important vices 
and no inclination to commit robbery on a large scale ; but if 
he can get ahead of you in the horse business, he will take a 
genuine delight in doing it. This trait is characteristic of horse 
jockeys, the world over, is it not ? He will overcharge you if 
he can ; he will hire you a fine-looking horse at night (an}- 
body's — may be the King's, if the royal steed be in conve- 
nient view), and bring you the mate to my Oahu in the morn- 
ing, and contend that it is the same animal. If you make trou- 
ble, he will get out by saying it was not himself who made 
the bargain with you, but his brother, "who went out in the 
country this morning." They have always got a " brother " to 
shift the responsibility upon. A victim said to one of these fel- 
lows one day : 

" But I know I hired the horse of you, because I noticed 
that scar on your cheek.'' 



The reply was not bad : " Oh, yes — yes — my brother all 
same — we twins !" 

A friend of mine, J. Smith, hired a horse yesterday, the 

Kanada warranting him to be in excellent condition. Smith 
had a saddle and blanket of his own, and he ordered the Kan- 
aka to put these on the horse. The Kanaka protested that he 
was perfectly willing to trust the gentleman with the saddle 
that was already on the animal, but Smith refused to use it. 
The change was made ; then Smith noticed that the Kanaka 
had only changed the saddles, and had left the original blanket 
on the horse ; he said he forgot to change the blankets, and so, 
to cut the bother short, Smith monnted and rode away. The 
horse went lame a mile from town, and afterward got to cutting 
up some extraordinary capers. Smith got down and took off 
the saddle, but the blanket stuck fast to the horse — glued to a 

procession of raw places. 
The Kanaka's mysterious 
conduct stood explained. 

Another friend of mine 
bouglit a pretty good horse 
from a native, a day or two 
ago, after a tolerably thorough examination of the 
animal. He discovered today that the horse was as 
blind as a bat, in one eye. 
He meant to have examined 
that eye, and came honje with a general notion that he 
had done it ; but he remembers now that every time he made the attempt his attention 
was called to something else by his victimizer. 

One more instance, and then I will pass to something else. 
I am informed that when a certain Mr. L., a visiting stranger, was 
here, he bought a pair of very respectable-looking match horses 
from a native. They were in a little stable with a partition 
through the middle of it — one horse in each apartment. Mr. 
L. examined one of them critically through a window (the 
Kanaka's " brother" having gone to the country with the key), 
and then went around the house and examined the other through 
a window on the other side. He said it was the neatest match 
he had ever seen, and paid for the horses on the spot. "Where- 
upon tlic Kanaka departed to join his brother in the country. 
The fellow had shamefully swindled L. There was only one 
" match " horse, and he had examined his starboard side through 
one window and his port side through another ! I decline to 
believe this story, but I give it because it is worth something 
as a fanciful illustration of a fixed fact — namely, that the Kanaka 
horse-jockey is fertile in invention and elastic in conscience. 
You can buy a pretty good horse for forty or fifty dollars, 
and a good enough horse for all practical purposes for two dollars 
and a half. I estimate " Oahu" to be worth somewhere in 
the neighborhood of thirty-five cents. A good deal better animal 
than he is was sold here day before yesterday for a dollar and sev- 
enty-five cents, and sold again to-day for two dollars and twenty- 
five cents ; Williams bought a handsome and lively little pony yesterday
for ten dollars ; and about the best common horse on the 
island (and he is a really good one) sold yesterday, with Mexican 
saddle and bridle, for seventy dollars — a horse which is well and 
widely known, and greatly respected for his speed, good disposition
and everlasting bottom. You give your horse a little grain 
once a day ; it comes from San Francisco, and is worth about 
two cents a pound ; and you give him as much hay as he wants ; it 
is cut and brought to the market by natives, and is not very good 
it is baled into long, round bundles, about the size of a large 
man; one of them is stuck by the middle on each end of a six 
foot pole, and the Kanaka slioulders the pole and walks about 
the streets between the upright bales in search of customers. 
These hay bales, thus carried, have a general resemblance to a 
colossal capital H. 

The hay-bundles cost twenty-five cents apiece, and one will 
last a horse about a day. You can get a horse for a song, a 
week's hay for another song, and you can turn your animal loose 
among the luxuriant grass in your neighbor's broad front yard 
without a song at all — you do it at midnight, and stable the 
beast again before morning. You have been at no expense thus 
far, but when you come to buy a saddle and bridle they will cost 
you from twenty to thirty-five dollars. You can hire a horse, 
saddle and bridle at from seven to ten dollars a week, and the 
owner will take care of them at his own expense. 

It is time to close this day's record — bed time. As I prepare 
for sleep, a rich voice rises out of the still night, and, far as this 
ocean rock is toward the ends of the earth, I recognize a famil- 
iar home air. But the words seem somewhat out of joint : 

*' Waikiki lantoni oe Kaa hooly hooly wawhoo." 

Translated, that means " "When we were marching through 
Greorgia." 




CHAPTER LXVI. 

PASSING through the market place we saw that feature of 
Honohihi under its most favorable auspices — that is, in 
the full glory of Saturday afternoon, which is a festive day 
with the natives. The native girls by twos and threes and 
parties of a dozen, and sometimes in whole platoons and com- 
panics, went cantering up and down the neighboring streets 
astride of fleet but homely horses, and with their guady riding 
liabits streaming like banners behind them. Such a ti-oop of 
free and easy riders, in their natural home, the saddle, makes- 
a gay and graceful spectacle. The riding habit I speak of is 
simply a long, broad scarf, like a tavern table cloth brilliantly 
colored, wrapped around the loins once, then apparently passed 
between the limbs and each end thrown biickward over the 
same, and floating and flapping behind on both sides beyond 
the horse's tail like a couple of fancy flags ; then, slipping the 
stirrup-irons between her toes, the girl throws her :'hest for 
ward, sits up like a Major General and goes sweeping by like 
the wind. 

The girls put on all the finery they can on Saturday afternoon 
— fine black silk robes ; flowing red ones that nearly put your 
eyes out ; others as white as snow ; still others that discount 
the rainbow ; and they wear their hair in nets, and trim their 
jaunty hats with fresh flowers, and encircle their dusky throats 
with home-made necklaces of the brilliant vermillion-tinted 
blossom of the ohia ; and they fill the markets and the adjacent 
streets with their bright presences, and smell like a rag factory 
on fire with their offensive cocoanut oil. 

Occasionally you see a heathen from the sunny isles away 
down in the South Seas, with his face and neck tatooed till he 
looks like the customary mendicant from AVashoe who has been 
blown up in a mine. Some are tattooed a dead blue color down 
to the upper lip — masked, as it were — leaving the natural light 
yellow skin of Micronesia unstained from thence down ; some 
with broad marks drawn down from hair to neck, on both sides 
of the face, and a strip of the original yellow skin, two inches 
wide, down the center — a gridiron with a spoke broken out ; 
and some with the entire face discolored "with the popular 
mortilication tint, relieved only by one or two thin, wavy 
threads of natural yellow running across the face from ear to 
ear, and eyes twinkling out of this darkness, from under shad- 
owing hat-brims, like stars in the dark of the moon. 

Moving among the stirring crowds, you come to the poi 
merchants, squatting in the shade on their hams, in true native 
fashion, and surrounded by purchasers. (The Sandwich Islanders 
always squat on their hams, and who knows but they may 
be the old original " ham sandwiches V The thought is preg- 
nant with interest.) The poi looks like common Hour jmste, 
and is kept in large bowls funned of a species of gourd, and 
-capable of holding from one to 
three or four gallons. Poi is 
the chief article of food among 
