house, and no persuasion could draw her out. If 



  

urged too strongly, the answer of her wet eyes and 
trembling lips always closed the argument. Several 
times her father brought a carriage to the door, 
hoping she might consent to ride out with him, but 
she could not be induced to go. If he lost patience 
with her, as he did now and then, particularly after 
he had been drinking a little more than usual, she 
would break into a fit of sobbing and crying, and so 
end the contest. He bought her handsome dresses, 
but she did not wear them ; he gave her a watch ; he 
gave her earrings and breastpins and one pretty trifle 
after another, but they were all laid away in her 
drawers. Her heart was not in them. 

Lloyd was baffled, worried and unhappy. He 
could not understand the case. He did not know a 
woman 's heart. I wonder if any man does ? 

" I shall have to make a change at home," he said 
after we had been in business six months and were 
beginning to get ahead. " Maggy won t go out, and 
she 'll die or get beside herself if there isn 't some 
break in her life. You 'd hardly know her, Hiram, 
she 's so altered. No more color in her face than 
there is in a snowbank. It used to do my heart 
good to hear her laughing and singing about the 
house, and to meet her smiling face when I came 
home. She would put her arm about my neck 
sometimes and kiss me when I came in, saying, 
Poor, dear father, you look so tired. " 

Lloyd stopped and turned his head away. I knew 
what it meant, for I heard a choke in his voice on 



 

the last word. In a little while he went on, drop 
ping his voice to a lower key : 

" But there 's nothing of that now. She hardly 
looks up when I come in, doesn 't seem to hear my 
step, never smiles when I speak to her, and looks at 
me sometimes in such a strange way that it sends a 
kind of creep to my heart." 

" What kind of a change do you think of making ?" 
I asked. 

" I must move out of that little house into a larger 
and better one, and buy new furniture : I can afford 
it now." 

" I have been wondering that you did not do this 
before," I replied. 

" I have thought of it, but when I did move, I 
wanted to make a sort of dash, and I'm not just able 
to do that yet." 

" Never mind about the dash. Get a nice new 
house somewhere in a pleasant neighborhood, and 
set Maggy and her mother at work to furnish it. Let 
them have their own say and gratify their own taste. 
I don 't  know anything more likely to bring Maggy 
round." 

" Glad you think so, Hiram," he answered, bright 
ening. " I don 't  see what else I can do." 

" It will work like a charm ; you may count on 
that," said I, confidently. 

But it didn t. They could not even get Maggy 
out to look at the new house. But after it was taken 
she assisted her mother in moving and arranging 


their new home to the utmost of her strength. After 
that she fell back into her old sluggish state. 

" How are you getting on at home ?" I asked of 
Lloyd after he had been two or three months in his 
new house. 

The question sent a cloud over his face. 

" Isn 't Maggy coming round all right?" 

He shook his head gloomily. 

" I had hoped for a better report by this time." 

" So had I, but I seem to have lost my reckoning 
in this world, and don 't  know that I shall ever find 
it again. Things don 't  come out as they used to. 
If I got a little wrong or out of sorts or troubled in 
my mind, home generally brought me right again. 
I could count on the pleasant faces there, on the rest 
and peace and comfort of my little nook, poor as it 
was. But now I feel a shadow settling down on my 
feelings as I get nearer and nearer my home, and an 
icy chill sometimes when I enter it. Nobody smiles 
there, nobody talks cheerfully and lovingly, nobody 
is happy. Even little Harry and Willy have lost 
their old wild playfulness." 

" How is Thomas getting along ?" I asked. 

The gloomy lines on his forehead deepened. 

" Badly," he answered. 

" Hasn 't left his place, I hope ?" 

" Yes." 

" How came that ?" 

" Don 't know all the ins and outs of it, but he 's at 
home. That much is clear." 



 

"Wouldn 't it be better to try and get him into 
some bindery again ? He 's worked at the trade, and 
it will be safer for him than a place like the one he 
left." 

" Easier said than done. If Ashley wasn 't such 
a spiteful dog, he 'd let him come back again. But 
there 's no use trying him ; besides, Tom 's been away 
from regular and close employment for six months, 
and got idle habits, I'm afraid. Don 't believe he 
could be made to stick to work." 

" So much the worse," I replied. 

" I know, and it 's worrying me dreadfully. The 
boy 'll go to ruin if he 's left on the street, as he now 
is. His mother can t do anything with him, and I 've 
got my hands full here." 

I had no clear advice to give, and so said nothing 
more. But in my heart I was thankful that I had 
neither wife nor children. 

I knew but little of what went on in Lloyd 's fam 
ily after that, but I could see from his countenance 
and state of mind when he came each morning that 
he was still " out of his reckoning," as he had said 
that he had lost his home and was not able to find it. 
The better house and the new furniture had not done 
all that he had expected. They did not ease the 
heartache, nor allay anxiety, nor take away the sense 
of shame and disgrace. They were accepted and 
used, not enjoyed. 

But for one thing, I believe Lloyd would have 
absented himself almost entirely from his home. He 




 

was making some rather dangerous friends sporting 
men, most of them and was beginning to find in their 
society a refuge from the disquiet he so often felt. 
He would frequently ride out with some of them, 
and be away from the saloon in their company for 
hours at a time. But there was one thing that ever 
drew him back to his home, and that was his love 
for his daughter a love that seemed to grow stronger 
every day. I wondered at this sometimes, seeing 
how she had turned herself from him, and how ut 
terly irresponsive to his affection she had become. 
After a year, Maggy 's coldness toward her father 
began to give way. Her heart responded, feebly at 
first, to the tender care and unfailing interest he had 
never ceased to show. She would welcome his com 
ing home with a little faint smile, and when he kissed 
her show that she was pleased. Then he began to 
lavish things upon her, buying now a bit of jewelry, 
now a handsome scarf, now a fan or some pretty 
article for the toilette. 

" It isn 't worth while, father," she would say, when 
he brought such presents. "I 've got more now 
than I know what to do with." 

Even that response was grateful to the father 's 
heart, hungering as it was for the lost love of his 
child. She gave him what she could, and tried to 
give more from a growing sense of filial duty. Little 
as it was in outward sign, Lloyd took it as a 
sweet morsel. 



 

One day he said to me, with a new pleasure in his 
face, 

" I shall not be back this afternoon not before 
night. Going to drive in the park with Maggy and 
her mother." 

I did not express surprise, but looked the pleasure 
I felt. 

" Glad to hear it," I returned. " Hope you 'll have 
a nice time." 

" Guess I will. Mean to have an elegant turnout. 
Ordered a phaeton and pair of the handsomest horses 
in R 's stables." 

He was in high spirits all the morning, and went 
home early to dinner. It was near eight o clock be 
fore he came bapk. The moment he entered the 
door I saw that something had gone wrong. He 
did not look at me as he came to the bar, but reached 
for a decanter of brandy and filled a glass nearly half 
full; adding some water to this, he drank off the 
liquor at a single draught. 

I did not deem it best to say anything to him 
then, for I saw that from some cause he was suffer 
ing deeply, and understood his peculiarities well 
enough to know that I had better let him alone. 
After remaining half an hour he went out, and did 
not return again that night. 

He looked careworn and troubled when he ap 
peared next morning. 

" I hope no one is sick," I remarked. 

He did not answer me, so I let him alone. 




Something very serious had occurred, that was plain. 
I watched his face when he did not observe me, and 
saw that pain, not anger, was below. He drank more 
freely than usual, and was irritable. 

" I shall not be back to-night," he said as he was 
going away, a little after six o clock. 

" All right," I returned, pleasantly. " We can get 
along." 



CHAPTER XV. 

IT all came out on the next day. When Lloyd 
made his appearance in the morning, some of the 
shadows had fallen away from his face, though it still 
wore an anxious look. 

" You haven t told me about your drive in the 
park," I said when a good opportunity offered. 

It was as if I had touched him with a probe. I 
saw the quick flushes of pain break into his face. 

" What has happened, Tom ? There was no ac 
cident, I hope ?" 

" No oh no," he answered. 

" But something went wrong. What was it, Tom ? 
I hope Maggy didn 't get frightened, or take cold, 
or" 

" No, nothing of that," he replied. 

" What then ? I feel anxious to know." Then he 
told me. 

" I had a splendid turnout," he began " as 
handsome a team as you could find on the road. 
Maggy looked sweet. There was just a little color 
in her face, and her eyes were so large and bright ! 
She was dressed like any lady in the land. I did 
feel so proud of her, Hiram. It would have done 
