old stone house ; they had left the turnpike 
 
where they usually rode, and, instead of going 
at headlong speed, the horses were walking slowly 
over the grassy path as if the summer evening 
had influenced their riders with its peaceful 
quiet. 
" I have never been here before," said Bessie ; 
" where does that path lead ? " 
" To Rocky brook where we used to go a 
fishing." 
" Let us go that way, please. I have not been 
to Rocky brook for years and years." So the 
horses were turned, and, after a pleasant ride 
through the woods, they reached the edge of the 
ravine ; the path, an Indian trail, came to an end, 
and clown below they could hear the rushing 
sound of the water. 
" Oh I must get down, Hugh ! " said Bessie 
eagerly ; " I want to go down to the brook." 
" It will be hard climbing in that long skirt, 
Bessie. I will bring you out some other time." 
" No, Hugh ; I want to go now, this very 
minute." 
 
" I suppose 3 7 ou must have your way, then," 
said her cousin, as he lifted her to the ground ; 
"wait until I fasten the horses so that I can 
help you." 
But Bessie had already disappeared, swinging 
herself from rock to rock by aid of the bushes, 
as actively as a squirrel ; she had reached the 
bottom of the ravine as Hugh appeared at the 
top. " Don't go too near the bridge," he 
shouted ; " wait till I come down." 
Bessie looked down the ravine, and seeing the 
plank which served for a bridge high in the air 
over the foaming water, she was seized with a 
sudden desire to cross it ; Hugh's warning, as 
usual, only stimulated this desire. If there was 
any danger, she wanted to be in it immediately. 
So she clambered over the rocks towards the for- 
bidden locality with a pleasant excitement, not 
really believing in the danger, but lured on by 
the spirit of adventure strong within her from 
childhood. 
" Don't go near the bridge ! " shouted Hugh 
again, by this time half way down the bank. 
 
" Hugh is too despotic," thought his cousin, as 
she climbed up on the wet stones. " I shall 
certainly do as I please. If he wants implicit 
obedience, he must go to Edith Chase." In 
another instant she was on the plank, and balanc- 
ing herself, walked forward over the torrent, 
holding her long skirt over her arm ; her head 
was steady, she did not know what fear was; 
many a time she had crossed deeper chasms in 
safety, and she laughed to herself as she heard 
Hugh crashing through the bushes down the 
bank behind her. " He will like me all the bet- 
ter for my courage," she thought, somewhat 
surprised at his silence, for she had expected to 
hear further remonstrance. Suddenly, when 
she had reached the middle of the bridge, the 
plank cracked, gave way entirely, and in an in- 
stant she was in the foaming torrent below. She 
sank, and for one moment, one dreadful moment, 
she was under water, suffocating and terror- 
stricken, while all the events of her life seemed 
to rush before her like an instantaneous pano- 
 
rama. Then she felt the air again, and opening 
her eyes, found herself in Hugh's arms, as he 
strode out of the water and laid her down on 
the bank. "Oh, Hugh!" she gasped, " it was 
dreadful ! " 
" Are you hurt, dear ? Did your head strike 
the rocks ? " asked her cousin anxiously. 
" No, I think not ; but I feel rather dizzy," 
said Bessie, closing her eyes. 
" Can you stay here for a moment alone, while 
I run back to the farm-house ? Fortunately the 
weather is so warm there is not much danger of 
your taking cold." 
" Oh, yes," said Bessie, smiling, as her cousin 
chafed her hands with anxiety that belied his 
words. He sprang up the bank, and after some 
delay reappeared carrying shawls and wrappings. 
" Do you feel better ? Are you faint ? " he 
asked, as he enveloped her in the shawls. 
" I feel quite well now," said Bessie, trying to 
rise. . 
" Stop ; I am going to carry you," said Hugh. 
 
" You shall do nothing of the kind, Hugh.  
am able to walk, and the bank is steep. " 
"I shall take you round by the path, so don't 
make any objection, for it will be useless. The 
farmer will have his carriage waiting for us, and 
we shall drive home as rapidly as possible." 
" Oh, Hugh, I am so heavy ! You will never 
be able to do it," said Bessie, as Hugh lifted her 
slight form muffled in shawls. 
" Very heavy ! Really, quite elephantine ! A 
matter of ninety pounds, I should say ! " 
" Nonsense, sir ! I weigh one hundred and 
ten." 
" And what is that to a man of muscle ? 
Don't you know that I pride myself upon my 
strength ! The old proverb says that cleanliness 
is next to godliness ; if that is so, I give the 
third place to strength. What a pity we cannot 
say 4 muscleness,' to keep up the rhythm ! Do 
you know, Bessie, if ministers had more muscle, 
I should like them better." 
" Mr. Leslie has muscle, Hugh." 
 
" Yes ; he lias got a good strong fist of his 
own. I like him, too, in every way. He is so 
manly in his goodness, and so frank in his religion ! 
He is one of those fine, large-hearted men who 
give their very best to the cause. He did not 
take to the ministry because he was not fitted 
for anything else ; he has the capabilities and 
qualifications for a first-rate business man, civil 
engineer, or soldier. But it is evident that the 
whole world was as nothing to him compared to 
the great work of salvation. I honor him. He 
is a man to be envied, for he is living up to his 
ideal." 
" Why, Hugh ! I had no idea you admired 
him so much ! Are you thinking of following 
his example ? " 
"Don't joke, Bessie. The subject is too 
serious." 
" I am not joking," said Bessie, in a low voice. 
" I am no hero," said Hugh, with a half sigh, 
as they reached the lane; " I could never do as 
Mr. Leslie has done. I can only hope to make 
others happy in my small way by — " 
 
" By helping ill-behaved cousins out of their 
troubles," interrupted Bessie, " paying their 
debts, saving their lives, and so forth and so 
forth." 
The ride home was pleasant, in spite of wet 
clothes. Hugh drove the farmer's horse in an 
old carryall, and the farmer himself rode Hugh's 
horse, leading the other alongside. When, they 
reached the back-pasture it was quite dark. 
Hugh lifted Bessie oat, threw the shawls back 
into the carryall, and farmer Brown, after fasten- 
ing the saddle-horses behind, drove away towards 
the town, where he was to leave them at the 
livery-stable according to agreement. 
" Now, Bessie, take up that skirt, and let us 
have a run across the garden," said Hugh. " I 
am so afraid you will take cold." 
But Bessie's long, wet skirt proved such an 
obstacle, that in spite of her objection, Hugh 
lifted her up again, and carried her across the 
pasture, through the garden, and up the terrace 
into the house. 
 
" Shall you go to the musicale ? " lie whispered, 
as he put her down in the dark hall. 
" No," said Bessie ; "I wish you would make it 
all right with Aunt Faith. I have a headache ; 
the fright, I suppose." 
Hugh went off to his room, and in an incredi- 
bly short time he was down-stairs again, in 
evening dress. Aunt Faith came in a few mo- 
ments afterwards, dressed in gray silk with 
delicate white lace around her throat and wrists ; 
"is it not time to go ? " she said. " Where is 
Sibyl?" 
" Here, Aunt," said Sibyl from the parlor ; " I 
have been ready some time." 
" Come in, child, and let us see you." 
Sibyl crossed the hall and stood in the door- 
way. Her dress of soft blue harmonized with 
her fair beauty, and brought out the tints of her 
hair and complexion ; she wore no ornaments, 
and the flowing drapery floated around her 
devoid of any kind of trimming. " Her dress 
was nothing ; just a plain, blue tarleton," said 
one of her companions the next day to a mutual 
friend. " But Sibyl herself looked lovely." 
This was Sibyl's art ; her dress was always sub- 
ordinate to herself. 
"You look like the evening star, sister," said 
Hugh. 
"Thank you, brother. A compliment from 
you is precious, because rare," said Sibyl, smiling ; 
" and as for you, you look like the Apollo in 
Guido's Aurora." 
" Bravo ! That's a compliment worth hav- 
ing," said Hugh, tossing back his golden locks. 
" And now that we are both gorged with compli- 
ments, let us start for the halls of Euterpe." 
" Where is Bessie ? " said Aunt Faith, as Hugh 
rose. 
" She is not going. She has a headache," 
answered Hugh. 
" Poor child ! I will run up and see her before 
I go." 
" That is not necessary, Aunt. I think she 
would rather not be disturbed," said Hugh. 
" Let us start ; it is late." 
 
The musicale was held at the residence of Mrs. 
Arlington, on the opposite side of the avenue, 
but a short distance from the old stone house, 
and Bessie, after taking off her wet clothes, 
dressed herself in a wrapper, and took her seat 
at the open hall-window in the second story, 
where she could see the lights through the trees, 
and even hear an occasional strain of the music 
on the night breeze. She felt depressed ; her 
head ached, and her conscience likewise. "lam 
always doing something wrong," she thought 
ruefully ; " I let Hugh pay that debt ; then I 
teased him out of his idea of telling Aunt Faith, 
and made him take me riding again, and when 
he was kind enough to give in to my wish, I de- 
liberately went out on that plank when he told 
me not to go, and the result was I came near 
being drowned, and poor Hugh must have had a 
struggle to get me out in that current. I suppose 
he is over there now talking with Edith Chase ! 
she is an affected, silly girl, but I suppose Hugh 
doe's not understand her as well as I do. How- 
 
ever, perhaps she is better than I am ! I am 
dreadful, I know ; and so homely, too ! I look 
just like an, Indian. Edith is considered pretty. 
To be sure I think she looks just like a white 
cat ; but then, some people think white cats are 
pretty. Well, her looks are nothing to me. I 
don't care anything about it ! " And in truth of 
this assertion, Bessie crouched down among the 
cushions of the lounge, and had what girls call 
" a good cry." 
About an hour afterwards she heard a step on 
the gravel walk in front of the house, and the 
sound of a latch-key in the front-door ; in another 
minute Hugh came up the stairs on the way to 
his room. "Hugh! Hugh!" called out a voice 
in the darkness. 
" Is that you, Bessie ? What are you doing 
here?" said her cousin, lighting a burner in the 
chandelier. " Why, you have been crying ! Does 
your head ache ? Do you feel faint ? " 
" My head is better, Hugh ; but I am wicked," 
murmured Bessie from the heap of cushions. 
 
" Wicked ! What do you mean, Brownie ? " 
" Just what I say. I am always in trouble 
myself and drawing you in too. You would be 
a great deal better without me, Hugh. I shall 
be glad when you go to New York." 
" Glad, Bessie ! " 
" I mean it will be better for you," murmured 
Bessie. 
" And how about yourself? " 
" Oh, I shall never be good at all ; I shall stay 
at home and be wicked, I suppose," said Bessie, 
with the sound of tears in her voice. Hugh did 
not reply, but he put out his hand and stroked 
the dark curls gently. After a moment or two 
Bessie suddenly recovered her spirits. " How 
was Miss Chase," she asked gayly. 
"Lovely as a lily," said Hugh, laughing; "I 
told her so, too." 
" Was Graham Marr there ? " 
" Yes ; I left him with Sibyl." 
" Did he quote poetry ? " 
" I presume so, in the intervals of the musio. 
Gid was there, too." 
 
"At the door of the supper-room, T suppose ? " 
"Yes, he was looking at the salad when I came 
away." 
" That reminds me ; why did you leave so 
early, Hugh ? " 
" I believe, after all, I am a little tired ; I 
strained my wrist slightly in the brook." 
" Let me get some arnica for you ; do, Hugh." 
" Oh, no ! the strain is very slight. It will be 
all over in a day or two." 
" Was there really any clanger, Hugh ? " 
" Yes ; I think it right that you should know 
it, because you may be tempted to do the same 
thing again. The water was deep there, and the 
brook swollen by the last rains ; the current was 
very strong, and there is a fall just below. But 
your greatest danger was from the sharp jagged 
rocks ; when I plunged after you I cannot ex- 
press how alarmed I was ! " 
