their growing height he seen. The captain bade his sight-seers look at
the vast Roman profile that showed itself upon the rock, and then he
pointed out the wonderful Gothic arch, the reputed doorway of an
unexplored cavern, under which an upright shaft of stone had stood for
ages statue-like, till not many winters ago the frost heaved it from its
base, and it plunged headlong down through the ice into the unfathomed
depths below. The unvarying gloom of the pines was lit now by the
pensive glimmer of birch-trees, and this gray tone gave an indescribable
sentiment of pathos and of age to the scenery. Suddenly the boat rounded
the corner of the three steps, each five hundred feet high, in which
Cape Eternity climbs from the river, and crept in under the naked side
of the awful cliff. It is sheer rock, springing from the black water,
and stretching upward with a weary, effort-like aspect, in long impulses
of stone marked by deep seams from space to space, till, fifteen hundred
feet in air, its vast brow beetles forward, and frowns with a scattering
fringe of pines. There are stains of weather and of oozing springs upon
the front of the cliff, but it is height alone that seems to seize the
eye, and one remembers afterwards these details, which are indeed so few
as not properly to enter into the effect. The rock fully justifies its
attributive height to the eye, which follows the upward rush of the
mighty acclivity, steep after steep, till it wins the cloud-capt summit,
when the measureless mass seems to swing and sway overhead, and the
nerves tremble with the same terror that besets him who looks downward
from the verge of a lofty precipice. It is wholly grim and stern; no
touch of beauty relieves the austere majesty of that presence. At the
foot of Cape Eternity the water is of unknown depth, and it spreads, a
black expanse, in the rounding hollow of shores of unimaginable wildness
and desolation, and issues again in its river's course around the base
of Cape Trinity. This is yet loftier than the sister cliff, but it
slopes gently backward from the stream, and from foot to crest it is
heavily clothed with a forest of pines. The woods that hitherto have
shagged the hills with a stunted and meagre growth, showing long
stretches scarred by fire, now assume a stately size, and assemble
themselves compactly upon the side of the mountain, setting their
serried stems one rank above another, till the summit is crowned with
the mass of their dark green plumes, dense and soft and beautiful; so
that the spirit perturbed by the spectacle of the other cliff is calmed
and assuaged by the serene grandeur of this.

There have been, to be sure, some human agencies at work even under the
shadow of Cape Eternity to restore the spirit to self-possession, and
perhaps none turns from it wholly dismayed. Kitty, at any rate, took
heart from some works of art which the cliff wall displayed near the
water's edge. One of these was a lively fresco portrait of
Lieutenant-General Sherman, with the insignia of his rank, and the other
was an even more striking effigy of General O'Neil, of the Armies of the
Irish Republic, wearing a threatening aspect, and designed in a bold
conceit of his presence there as conqueror of Canada in the year 1875.
Mr. Arbuton was inclined to resent these intrusions upon the sublimity
of nature, and he could not conceive, without disadvantage to them, how
Miss Ellison and the colonel should accept them so cheerfully as part of
the pleasure of the whole. As he listened blankly to their exchange of
jests he found himself awfully beset by a temptation which one of the
boat's crew placed before the passengers. This was a bucket full of
pebbles of inviting size; and the man said, "Now, see which can hit the
cliff. It's farther than any of you can throw, though it looks so near."

The passengers cast themselves upon the store of missiles, Colonel
Ellison most actively among them. None struck the cliff, and suddenly
Mr. Arbuton felt a blind, stupid, irresistible longing to try his
chance. The spirit of his college days, of his boating and ball-playing
youth, came upon him. He picked up a pebble, while Kitty opened her eyes
in a stare of dumb surprise. Then he wheeled and threw it, and as it
struck against the cliff with a shock that seemed to have broken all the
windows on the Back Bay, he exulted in a sense of freedom the havoc
caused him. It was as if for an instant he had rent away the ties of
custom, thrown off the bonds of social allegiance, broken down and
trampled upon the conventions which his whole life long he had held so
dear and respectable. In that moment of frenzy he feared himself capable
of shaking hands with the shabby Englishman in the Glengarry cap, or of
asking the whole admiring company of passengers down to the bar. A cry
of applause had broken from them at his achievement, and he had for the
first time tasted the sweets of popular favor. Of course a revulsion
must come, and it must be of a corresponding violence; and the next
moment Mr. Arbuton hated them all, and most of all Colonel Ellison, who
had been loudest in his praise. Him he thought for that moment
everything that was aggressively and intrusively vulgar. But he could
not utter these friendly impressions, nor is it so easy to withdraw from
any concession, and he found it impossible to repair his broken
defences. Destiny had been against him from the beginning, and now why
should he not strike hands with it for the brief half-day that he was to
continue in these people's society? In the morning he would part from
them forever, and in the mean time why should he not try to please and
be pleased? There might, to be sure, have been many reasons why he
should not do this; but however the balance stood he now yielded himself
passively to his fate. He was polite to Mrs. Ellison, he was attentive
to Kitty, and as far as he could he entered into the fantastic spirit of
her talk with the colonel. He was not a dull man; he had quite an apt
wit of his own, and a neat way of saying things; but humor always seemed
to him something not perfectly well bred; of course he helped to praise
it in some old-established diner-out, or some woman of good fashion,
whose mots it was customary to repeat, and he even tolerated it in
books; but he was at a loss with these people, who looked at life in so
bizarre a temper, yet without airiness or pretension, nay, with a
whimsical readiness to acknowledge kindred in every droll or laughable
thing.

The boat stopped at Tadoussac on her return, and among the spectators
who came down to the landing was a certain very pretty,
conscious-looking, silly, bridal-faced young woman,--imaginably the
belle of the season at that forlorn watering-place,--who before coming
on board stood awhile attended by a following of those elderly imperial
and colonial British who heavily flutter round the fair at such resorts.
She had an air of utterly satisfied vanity, in which there was no harm
in the world, and when she saw that she had fixed the eyes of the
shoreward-gazing passengers, it appeared as if she fell into a happy
trepidation too blissful to be passively borne; she moistened her pretty
red lips with her tongue, she twitched her mantle, she settled the bow
at her lovely throat, she bridled and tossed her graceful head.

"What should you do next, Kitty?" asked the colonel, who had been
sympathetically intent upon all this.

"O, I think I should pat my foot," answered Kitty; and in fact the
charming simpleton on shore, having perfected her attitude, was tapping
the ground nervously with the toe of her adorable slipper.

After the boat started, a Canadian lady of ripe age, yet of a vivacity
not to be reconciled with the notion of the married state, capered
briskly about among her somewhat stolid and indifferent friends, saying,
"They're going to fire it as soon as we round the point"; and presently
a dull boom, as of a small piece of ordnance discharged in the
neighborhood of the hotel, struck through the gathering fog, and this
elderly sylph clapped her hands and exulted: "They've fired it, they've
fired it! and now the captain will blow the whistle in answer." But the
captain did nothing of the kind, and the lady, after some more girlish
effervescence, upbraided him for an old owl and an old muff, and so sank
into such a flat and spiritless calm that she was sorrowful to see.

"Too bad, Mr. Arbuton, isn't it?" said the colonel; and Mr. Arbuton
listened in vague doubt while Kitty built up with her cousin a touching
romance for the poor lady, supposed to have spent the one brilliant and
successful summer of her life at Tadoussac, where her admirers had
agreed to bemoan her loss in this explosion of gunpowder. They asked him
if he did not wish the captain had whistled; and "Oh!" shuddered
Kitty, "doesn't it all make you feel just as if you had been doing it
yourself?"--a question which he hardly knew how to answer, never having,
to his knowledge, done a ridiculous thing in his life, much less been
guilty of such behavior as that of the disappointed lady.

At Cacouna, where the boat stopped to take on the horses and carriages
of some home-returning sojourners, the pier was a labyrinth of equipages
of many sorts and sizes, and a herd of bright-hooded, gayly blanketed
horses gave variety to the human crowd that soaked and steamed in the
fine, slowly falling rain. A draught-horse was every three minutes
driven into their midst with tedious iteration as he slowly drew baskets
of coal up from the sloop unloading at the wharf, and each time they
closed solidly upon his retreat as if they never expected to see that
horse again while the world stood. They were idle ladies and gentlemen
under umbrellas, Indians and habitans taking the rain stolidly erect or
with shrugged shoulders, and two or three clergymen of the curate type,
who might have stepped as they were out of any dull English novel. These
were talking in low voices and putting their hands to their ears to
catch the replies of the lady-passengers who hung upon the rail, and
twaddled back as dryly as if there was no moisture in life. All the
while the safety-valves hissed with the escaping steam, and the boat's
crew silently toiled with the grooms of the different horses to get the
equipages on board. With the carriages it was an affair of mere muscle,
but the horses required to be managed with brain. No sooner had one of
them placed his fore feet on the gangway plank than he protested by
backing up over a mass of patient Canadians, carrying with him half a
dozen grooms and deck-hands. Then his hood was drawn over his eyes, and
he was blindly walked up and down the pier, and back to the gangway,
which he knew as soon as he touched it. He pulled, he pranced, he shied,
he did all that a bad and stubborn horse can do, till at last a groom
mounted his back, a clump of deck-hands tugged at his bridle, and other
grooms, tenderly embracing him at different points, pushed, and he was
thus conveyed on board with mingled affection and ignominy. None of the
Canadians seemed amused by this; they regarded it with serious composure
as a fitting decorum, and Mr. Arbuton had no comment to make upon it.
But at the first embrace bestowed upon the horse by the grooms the
colonel said absently, "Ah! long-lost brother," and Kitty laughed; and
as the scruples of each brute were successively overcome, she helped to
give some grotesque interpretation to the various scenes of the
melodrama, while Mr. Arbuton stood beside her, and sheltered her with
his umbrella; and a spice of malice in her heart told her that he viewed
this drolling, and especially her part in it, with grave misgiving. That
gave the zest of transgression to her excess, mixed with dismay; for the
tricksy spirit in her was not a domineering spirit, but was easily
abashed by the moods of others. She ought not to have laughed at Dick's
speeches, she soon told herself, much less helped him on. She dreadfully
feared that she had done something indecorous, and she was pensive and
silent over it as she moved listlessly about after supper; and she sat
at last thinking in a dreary sort of perplexity on what had passed
during the day, which seemed a long one.

The shabby Englishman with his wife and sister were walking up and down
the cabin. By and by they stopped, and sat down at the table facing
Kitty; the elder woman, with a civil freedom, addressed her some
commonplace, and the four were presently in lively talk; for Kitty had
beamed upon the woman in return, having already longed to know something
of them. The world was so fresh to her, that she could find delight in
those poor singing or acting folk, though she had soon to own to herself
that their talk was not very witty nor very wise, and that the best
thing about them was their good-nature. The colonel sat at the end of
the table with a newspaper; Mrs. Ellison had gone to bed; and Kitty was
beginning to tire of her new acquaintance, and to wonder how she could
get away from them, when she saw rescue in the eye of Mr. Arbuton as he
came down to the cabin. She knew he was looking for her; she saw him
check himself with a start of recognition; then he walked rapidly by the
group, without glancing at them.

"Brrrr!" said the blond girl, drawing her blue knit shawl about her
shoulders, "isn't it cold?" and she and her friends laughed.

"O dear!" thought Kitty, "I didn't suppose they were so rude. I'm afraid
I must say good night," she added aloud, after a little, and stole away
the most conscience-stricken creature on that boat. She heard those
people laugh again after she left them.




IV.

MR. ARBUTON'S INSPIRATION.


The next morning, when Mr. Arbuton awoke, he found a clear light upon
the world that he had left wrapped in fog at midnight. A heavy gale was
blowing, and the wide river was running in seas that made the boat
stagger in her course, and now and then struck her bows with a force
that sent the spray from their seething tops into the faces of the
people on the promenade. The sun, out of rifts of the breaking clouds,
launched broad splendors across the villages and farms of the level
landscape and the crests and hollows of the waves; and a certain joy of
the air penetrated to the guarded consciousness of Mr. Arbuton.
Involuntarily he looked about for the people he meant to have nothing
more to do with, that he might appeal to the sympathies of one of them,
at least, in his sense of such an admirable morning. But a great many
passengers had come on board, during the night, at Murray Bay, where the
brief season was ending, and their number hid the Ellisons from him.
When he went to breakfast, he found some one had taken his seat near
them, and they did not notice him as he passed by in search of another
chair. Kitty and the colonel were at table alone, and they both wore
preoccupied faces. After breakfast he sought them out and asked for Mrs.
Ellison, who had shared in most of the excitements of the day before,
helping herself about with a pretty limp, and who certainly had not, as
her husband phrased it, kept any of the meals waiting.

"Why," said the colonel, "I'm afraid her ankle's worse this morning, and
that we'll have to lie by at Quebec for a few days, at any rate."

Mr. Arbuton heard this sad news with a cheerful aspect unaccountable in
one who was concerned at Mrs. Ellison's misfortune. He smiled, when he
ought to have looked pensive, and he laughed at the colonel's joke when
the latter added, "Of course, this is a great hardship for my cousin,
who hates Quebec, and wants to get home to Eriecreek as soon as
possible."

Kitty promised to bear her trials with firmness, and Mr. Arbuton said,
not very consequently, as she thought, "I had been planning to spend a
few days in Quebec, myself, and I shall have the opportunity of
inquiring about Mrs. Ellison's convalescence. In fact," he added,
turning to the colonel, "I hope you'll let me be of service to you in
getting to a hotel."

And when the boat landed, Mr. Arbuton actually busied himself in finding
a carriage and putting the various Ellison wraps and bags into it. Then
he helped to support Mrs. Ellison ashore, and to lift her to the best
place. He raised his hat, and had good-morning on his tongue, when the
astonished colonel called out, "Why, the deuce! You're going to ride up
with us!"

Mr. Arbuton thought he had better get another carriage; he should
incommode Mrs. Ellison; but Mrs. Ellison protested that he would not at
all; and, to cut the matter short, he mounted to the colonel's side. It
was another stroke of fate.

At the hotel they found a line of people reaching half-way down the
outer steps from the inside of the office.

"Hallo! what's this?" asked the colonel of the last man in the queue.

"O, it's a little procession to the hotel register! We've been three
quarters of an hour in passing a given point," said the man, who was
plainly a fellow-citizen.

"And haven't got by yet," said the colonel, taking to the speaker. "Then
the house is full?"

"Well, no; they haven't begun to throw them out of the window."

"His humor is degenerating, Dick," said Kitty; and "Hadn't you better go
inside and inquire?" asked Mrs. Ellison. It was part of the Ellison
travelling joke for her thus to prompt the colonel in his duty.

"I'm glad you mentioned it, Fanny. I was just going to drive off in
despair." The colonel vanished within doors, and after long delay came
out flushed, but not with triumph. "On the express condition that I have
ladies with me, one an invalid, I am promised a room on the fifth floor
some time during the day. They tell me the other hotel is crammed and
it's no use to go there."

Mrs. Ellison was ready to weep, and for the first time since her
accident she harbored some bitterness against Mr. Arbuton. They all sat
silent, and the colonel on the sidewalk silently wiped his brow.

Mr. Arbuton, in the poverty of his invention, wondered if there was not
some lodging-house where they could find shelter.
