that people who have an orange-grove must be contented with that, and
not try to raise flowers; but, nevertheless, we do try, because we
can't help it. But every fertilizer that we put upon our roses and
flower-beds is immediately rushed after by these hungry yellow
orange-roots. At the root of our great live-oak we wanted a little pet
colony of flowers, and had muck and manure placed there to prepare for
them. In digging there lately, we found every particle of muck and
manure netted round with the fine, embracing fibres from the orange-tree
ten feet off. The consequence is, that our roses grow slowly, and our
flower-garden is not a success.

Oleanders, cape-jessamines, pomegranates, and crape-myrtles manage,
however, to stand their ground. Any strong, woody-fibred plant does
better than more delicate flowers; as people who will insist upon their
rights, and fight for them, do best in the great scramble of life.

But what a bouquet of sweets is an orange-tree! Merely as a
flowering-tree it is worth having, if for nothing else. We call the
time of their budding the week of pearls. How beautiful, how almost
miraculous, the leaping-forth of these pearls to gem the green leaves!
The fragrance has a stimulating effect on our nerves,--a sort of dreamy
intoxication. The air, now, is full of it. Under the trees the white
shell-petals drift, bearing perfume.

But, not to lose our way in poetic raptures, we return to statistics
drawn from a recent conversation with our practical neighbor. He has
three trees in his grounds, which this year have each borne five
thousand oranges. He says that he has never failed of a steady crop from
any cause, except in the first of the two years named; and, in that
case, it is to be remembered the fruit was perfected, and only lost by
not being gathered.

He stated that he had had reports from two men whom he named, who had
each gathered ten thousand from a single tree. He appeared to think it
a credible story, though a very remarkable yield.

The orange can be got from seed. Our neighbor's trees, the largest and
finest in Mandarin, are seedlings. Like ours, they were frozen down in
1835, and subsequently almost destroyed by the orange-insect; but now
they are stately, majestic trees of wonderful beauty. The orange follows
the quality of the seed, and needs no budding; and in our region this
mode of getting the trees is universally preferred. Fruit may be
expected from the seed in six years, when high cultivation is practised.
A cultivator in our neighborhood saw a dozen trees, with an average of
three hundred oranges on each, at seven years from the seed. Young
seedling plants of three years' growth can be bought in the nurseries on
the St. John's River.

Our young folks have been thrown into a state of great excitement this
afternoon by the introduction among them of two live alligators. Our
friend Mr. P---- went for them to the lair of the old alligator, which
he describes as a hole in the bank, where the eggs are laid. Hundreds of
little alligators were crawling in and out, the parents letting them
shift for themselves. They feed upon small fish. Our young protégé
snapped in a very suggestive manner at a stick offered to him, and gave
an energetic squeak. We pointed out to the children, that, if it were
their finger or toe that was in the stick's place, the consequences
might be serious. After all, we have small sympathy with capturing these
poor monsters. We shall have some nice tales to tell of them anon.
Meanwhile our paper must end here.




  [Illustration]

LETTER-WRITING.


      April 14.

Our Palmetto correspondence increases daily. Our mail comes only twice a
week; and, as the result of the two last mails, we find fifteen letters,
propounding various inquiries about Florida. Now, it would be a most
delightful thing to be on sociable terms with all the world; and we
would be glad to reply to each one of these letters. Many of them are
sprightly and amusing: all are written in good faith, containing most
natural and rational inquiries. But, let any one attempt the task of
writing fifteen letters on one subject, and he will soon find that it is
rather more than can be done by one who expects to do any thing else.

Some of the inquiries, however, we may as well dispose of in the
beginning of this letter.

And first as to the little boy who has lost his cat, and wishes to know
if we cannot spare Peter to take her place. Alas! we have a tale of
sadness to unfold. When we began our "Palmetto-Leaves," we were the
embarrassed possessor of four thrifty cats: now every one of them has
passed to the land of shades, and we are absolutely catless. Peter, we
regret to say, was killed in consequence of being mistaken for a rabbit,
one moonlight night, by an enterprising young sportsman; Annie was
unfortunately drowned; and 'Cindy fell victim to some similar
hallucination of the young son-of-a-gun who destroyed Peter. In short,
only our old family mother-cat remained; but, as she had a fine litter
of kittens, there was hope that the line would be continued. We
established her sumptuously in a box in the back-shed with her
nurslings; but, as cruel Fate would have it, a marauding dog came
smelling about, and a fight ensued, in which Puss's fore-leg was broken,
or, to speak quite literally, chewed up.

Wounded and bleeding, but plucky to the last, she drove off the dog with
a "predestined scratched face," and, taking up her kittens one by one in
her mouth, traversed a long veranda, jumped through a window into the
bed-room of one of her mistresses, and deposited her nurslings under the
bed.

All agreed that a cat of such spirit and gallantry had shown that she
ought to vote by her ability to fight, and that she was at least worthy
of distinguished attention. So the next day the whole family sat in
council on the case. Chloroform was administered: and, while Puss was
insensible, a promising young naturalist set and bandaged the limb; but,
alas! without avail. The weather was hot; and the sufferings of the poor
creature soon became such, that we were thankful that we had the power,
by a swift and painless death, to put an end to them. So a pistol-ball
sent Puss to the land where the good cats go; and the motherless kitties
found peace under the blue waters of the St. John's. The water-nymphs,
undoubtedly, "held up their pearled wrists and took them in," and
doubtless made blessed pets of them. So that is the end of all our cats.

Phoebus rejoices now; for there is none to molest or make him afraid.
His songs increase daily in variety. He pipes and whistles; occasionally
breaks forth into a litany that sounds like "Pray do, pray do, pray
do!" then, suddenly changing the stop, he shouts, "De deevil! de deevil!
de deevil!" but, as he is otherwise a bird of the most correct habits,
it cannot be supposed that any profanity is intended. This morning being
Sunday, he called "Beecher, Beecher, Beecher!" very volubly. He
evidently is a progressive bird, and, for aught we know, may yet express
himself on some of the questions of the day.

The next letter on our file wants to know the prices of board at
Green-Cove Springs, Magnolia, and Hibernia. The prices at these places
vary all the way from twelve to thirty-five dollars per week, according
to accommodations. The higher prices are in larger hotels, and the
smaller in private boarding-houses. "The Florida Guide" says board can
be obtained in Jacksonville, in private families, at from eight to ten
dollars per week.

There are three more letters, asking questions about the culture of the
orange; to which the writers will find answers, so far as we can give
them, when we come to speak of the orange-orchards up the river.

A lady writes to ask if we know any way of preserving figs.

Practically, we know nothing about the fig-harvest, having never been
here when they were ripe. Our friends tell us that they are not
successful in preserving them in cans. They make a delicious though
rather luscious preserve done in the ordinary way, like peaches. But we
will give our inquiring friend the benefit of a piece of information
communicated to us by an old native Floridian, who professed to have
raised and prepared figs as fine as those in Turkey. His receipt was as
follows: "Prepare a lye from the ashes of the grape-vine; have a kettle
of this kept boiling hot over the fire; throw in the figs, and let them
remain two minutes; skim them out and drain them on a sieve, and
afterwards dry in the sun." Such was his receipt, which we have never
tried. Probably any other strong lye would answer as well as that from
the grape-vine.

As to those who have asked for flowers from Florida, we wish it were in
our power to grant their requests; but these frail beauties are not
transferable. We in our colony have taxed the resources of our postal
arrangements to carry to our friends small specimens, but with no very
encouraging results.

We have just been making the grand round, or tour up the St. John's to
Enterprise, across to St. Augustine, and back; which is necessary to
constitute one an accomplished Floridian sight-seer: and it had been our
intention to devote this letter to that trip; but there is so much to
say, there are so many wonders and marvels to be described, that we
must give it a letter by itself. No dreamland on earth can be more
unearthly in its beauty and glory than the St. John's in April.
Tourists, for the most part, see it only in winter, when half its
gorgeous forests stand bare of leaves, and go home, never dreaming what
it would be like in its resurrection-robes. So do we, in our darkness,
judge the shores of the river of this mortal life up which we sail,
ofttimes disappointed and complaining. We are seeing all things in
winter, and not as they will be when God shall wipe away all tears, and
bring about the new heavens and new earth, of which every spring is a
symbol and a prophecy. The flowers and leaves of last year vanish for a
season; but they come back fresher and fairer than ever.

This bright morning we looked from the roof of our veranda, and our
neighbor's oleander-trees were glowing like a great crimson cloud; and
we said, "There! the oleanders have come back!" No Northern ideas can
give the glory of these trees as they raise their heads in this their
native land, and seem to be covered with great crimson roses. The poor
stunted bushes of Northern greenhouses are as much like it as our
stunted virtues and poor frost-nipped enjoyments shall be like the bloom
and radiance of God's paradise hereafter. In April they begin to bloom;
and they bloom on till November. Language cannot do justice to the
radiance, the brightness, the celestial calm and glory, of these spring
days. There is an assurance of perpetuity in them. You do not say, as at
the North, that a fine day is a "weather-breeder," and expect a week of
storms to pay for it. Day after day passes in brightness. Morning after
morning, you wake to see the same sunshine gilding the tops of the
orange-trees, and hear the same concert of birds. All the forest-trees
stand in perfected glory; and the leaves have sprung forth with such
rapidity and elastic vigor as gives the foliage a wondrous brightness.
The black-jack oaks--trees which, for some reason or other, are apt to
be spoken of as of small account--have now put forth their large,
sharply-cut, oak-shaped leaves. We say this because it is the only one
of the oak species here that at all resembles the oaks we have been
accustomed to see. The pawpaw-bushes are all burst out in white fringes
of blossom; and the silver bells of the sparkle-berry are now in their
perfection. Under foot, a whole tribe of new flowers have come in place
of the departed violets. The partridge-berry or squaw-berry of the North
grows in the woods in dense mats, and is now white with its little
starry blossoms. Certain nameless little golden balls of flowers twinkle
in the grass and leaves like small constellations. We call them, for
lack of botanic language, "sun-kisses." Our party, the other night,
made an expedition to the "second branch," and brought home long vines
of purple wisteria, red trumpet-creeper, and some sprays of white
blossoms unknown to us: so that our house still is a flower-show. Spring
is as much a pomp and a glory here as in Northern States; for although
the winter is far more endurable, and preserves far more beauty, yet the
outburst of vividness and vigor when the sun begins to wax powerful is
even greater and more marked than at the North. The roses are now in
perfection. Ours have not thriven as they might have done were it not
for the all-devouring orange-trees; but still they give us every
morning, with our breakfast, a comforting assortment. La Marque, Giant
of Battles, Hermosa, a little cluster rose, and a dozen more, have
brightened our repast. This is the land to raise roses, however; and we
mean yet to have a rose-garden at a safe distance from any
orange-trees, and see what will come of it. Here are no slugs or
rose-bugs or caterpillars to make rose-culture a burden and a vexation.
Finally, as we have had so many letters asking information of us, we
wish somebody who is wise enough would write one, and give us some on a
certain point. One of our orange-trees has become an invalid. The case
may be stated as follows: Early in the season, Mr. F., in looking over
the grove, found this tree, then loaded with fruit, dropping its leaves;
the leaves curling, or, as they say here, "rolling," as is the fashion
of orange-trees when suffering from drought. Immediately he took all the
fruit from the tree, pruned it, dug about the roots, and examined them
to find something to account for this. For a while, by careful tending,
the tree seemed to be coming to itself; but, when the blossoming-time
came round, half its leaves fell, and it burst into blossoms on every
spray and twig in the most preternatural manner. It reminded us of some
poor dear women, who, when they lose their health, seem resolved to kill
themselves in abundant good works. It was really blossoming to death.
Now, we ask any wise fruit-growers, What is this disease? and how is it
to be treated? We have treated it by cutting off all the blossoms,
cutting back the branches, watering with water in which guano and lime
have been dissolved; and the patient looks a little better. A negro
workman testified that a tree in a similar state had been brought back
by these means. Can any fruit-grower give any light on this subject?




  [Illustration]

MAGNOLIA WEEK.


      April 20.

It is vain to propose and announce subjects from week to week. One must
write what one is thinking of. When the mind is full of one thing, why
go about to write on another?

The past week we have been engrossed by magnolias. On Monday, our friend
D----, armed and equipped with scaling-ladders, ascended the glistening
battlements of the great forest palaces fronting his cottage, and bore
thence the white princesses, just bursting into bud, and brought them
down to us. Forthwith all else was given up: for who would take the
portrait of the white lady must hurry; for, like many queens of earth,
there is but a step between perfected beauty and decay,--a moment
between beauty and ashes.

We bore them to our chamber, and before morning the whole room was
filled with the intoxicating, dreamy fragrance; and lo! while we slept,
the pearly hinges had revolved noiselessly, and the bud that we left the
evening before had become a great and glorious flower. To descend to
particulars, imagine a thick, waxen-cupped peony of the largest size,
just revealing in its centre an orange-colored cone of the size of a
walnut. Around it, like a circlet of emeralds, were the new green
leaves, contrasting in their vivid freshness with the solid, dark-green
brilliancy of the old foliage. The leaves of the magnolia are in
themselves beauty enough without the flower. We used to gather them in a
sort of rapture before we ever saw the blossom; but all we can say of
the flower is, that it is worthy of them.

We sat down before this queen of flowers, and worked assiduously at her
portrait. We had, besides the full blossom, one bud of the size and
shape of a large egg, which we despaired of seeing opened, but proposed
to paint as it was. The second morning, our green egg began to turn
forth a silver lining; and, as we worked, we could see it slowly opening
before us. Silvery and pearly were the pure tips; while the outside was
of a creamy yellow melting into green. Two days we kept faithful watch
and ward at the shrine; but, lo! on the morning of the third our
beautiful fairy had changed in the night to an ugly brownie. The petals,
so waxen fair the night before, had become of a mahogany color; and a
breeze passing by swept them dishonored in showers on the floor. The
history of that magnolia was finished. We had seen it unfold and die.
Our pearly bud, however, went on waxing and opening till its day came
for full perfection.

The third day, our friend again brought in a glorious bouquet. No
ordinary flower-vase would hold it. It required a heavy stone jar, and a
gallon of water; but we filled the recess of our old-fashioned Franklin
stove with the beauties, and the whole house was scented with their
