knew a wealthy man who offered just that sum for a nursery-governess
during the protracted illness of his wife. She must be intelligent and
ladylike, he stated, qualified to undertake the education of the three
younger children. There were six in all, but there was a tutor for the
boys. The governess’ bed-room adjoined that of the little girls, the
door of which must stand open all night. The baby’s crib was to be by
her bed, and a child, three years old, was also to share her chamber.
She would be treated respectfully and kindly, and every enjoyment of
the luxurious establishment, compatible with the proper discharge of
the duties appointed, would be hers.
He could get no one to take the place.
This is simple fact, and it is pregnant with meaning.
Nevertheless, what if we put down the wages of your nursery-governess
at the same sum you are willing to give your housekeeper—$700? Oblige
me by adding up the short row of figures under your hand.
    $700
     450
     700
  ——————
  $1,850
This you will please consider as the amount of your wife’s salary, due
from you for services rendered, exclusive of board and lodgings, which
are always the portion of resident employees in your house. There is
no charge for “extras,” you observe. We have said nothing about the
bill for nursing you through that four weeks’ spell of inflammatory
rheumatism last winter, or the longer siege of fever, three years ago,
when this servant-of-all-work sat up with you fourteen weary nights,
and would entrust the care of you to no one else. By her skillful
ministrations, the miracle of her patience, love and prayers, you were
rescued, say the doctors, from the close clutch of death. You cannot
see the figures very distinctly while you think of it, but we agreed,
at the outset, to keep feeling in the background.
You “have tried to be a kind, affectionate husband,” you say, in a very
unbusiness-like way.
I believe you, and so does the blessed little woman whom I have shut
out from this conference, lest her foolish fondness should spoil the
effect of our matter-of-fact talk. I would have you and all husbands
be just, no less than loving. Let us return to our figures. The
estimate is for a man of moderate means and modest home, one of
the middle class which is everywhere the bone and muscle of the
community—the class that makes national character, the world over. If
you are wealthy, and put the care of a large and elegant establishment
upon your manager, the remuneration should be in proportion. For a
fancy article you have to pay a fancy price. You misunderstand your
wife and me, if you imagine that we would inaugurate in your household
a debit and credit system and quarter-day settlements. She would be the
first to shrink from such an interpretation of your mutual relations. I
should, of all your friends and well-wishers, be the last to recommend
it.
But I have studied this matter long and seriously, and I offer you as
the result of my observation in various walks of life, and careful
calculation of labor and expense, the bold assertion that every
wife who performs her part, even tolerably well, in whatever rank
of society, more than earns her living, and that this should be an
acknowledged fact with both parties to the marriage contract. The
idea of her dependence upon her husband is essentially false and
mischievous, and should be done away with, at once and forever. It
has crushed self-respect out of thousands of women; it has scourged
thousands from the marriage-altar to the tomb, with a whip of
scorpions; it has driven many to desperation and crime.
“Every dollar is a lash!” I once overheard a wife say, in bitter
soliloquy, as her husband left her presence after placing in her hand
the money for which she had timidly asked him, to pay the weekly
household bills.
Then, still supposing herself unseen, she threw the roll of bank-notes
upon the floor and trampled it under foot, in a transport of impotent,
and, to my way of thinking, righteous wrath.
“An exceptional case?” I beg your pardon! I wish it were. Her husband
meant to be kind and affectionate as honestly as do you. When money was
“easy,” he would give it to her freely and cheerfully, provided his
mood was propitious at the time of her application. He had expended
large sums in the purchase of jewelry and handsome clothing for her,
and exulted in seeing her arrayed in them. He loved her truly, and
was proud of her. His mistake was in ignoring the fact that he owed
her anything in actual dollars and cents; that she worked for her
livelihood as faithfully as did he, and that his debt to her was, in
the highest degree, a “confidential” one. If put into the confessional,
he would have admitted that he thought of himself as the only
bread-winner of the family, and was, sometimes, tartly intolerant of
the domestic demands upon his earnings. He made a yet grosser mistake
in feeling and behaving as if the money deposited in her hands for the
current expenses of the establishment, were a gift to her personally.
This is a masculine blunder that poisons the happiness of more women
than I like to think of, or you would be willing to believe. Be
kindly-affectioned as you will, your wife cannot respect you thoroughly
if she sees that you are habitually unreasonable and unjust. And it
is neither just nor rational to speak and act as if all the butter,
flour, sugar, meat and sundries which she saves you the trouble of
buying, and of which, nine times out of ten, she is the more judicious
purchaser, were to be consumed by her, and her alone.
“You never thought of such a thing!” you protest betwixt laughter and
vexation.
Then, do not act as if it were your settled conviction.
Set aside from your income what you adjudge to be a reasonable and
liberal sum for the maintenance of your family in the style suitable
for people of your means and position. Determine what purchases you
will yourself make, and what shall be intrusted to your wife, and put
the money needed for her proportion into her care as frankly as you
take charge of your share. Try the experiment of talking to her as if
she were a business partner. Let her understand what you can afford to
do, and what you cannot. If in this explanation you can say, “we,” and
“ours,” you will gain a decided moral advantage, although it may be at
the cost of masculine prejudice and pride of power. Impress upon her
mind that a certain sum, made over to her apart from the rest, is hers
absolutely. Not a present from you, but her honest earnings, and that
you would not be honest were you to withhold it. And do not ask her
“if that will do?” any more than you would address the question to any
other workwoman. (With what cordial detestation wives regard that brief
query, which drops, like a sentence of the creed, from husbandly lips,
I leave your spouse to tell you. Also, if she ever heard of a woman who
answered anything but “yes.”)
Advise her, for her own satisfaction, and because it is “business
like,” to keep an account of her receipts and expenditures, but apprise
her distinctly that you do not expect her to exhibit this to you,
unless she should need your assistance or advice in balancing her
books, or in some perplexed question of “profit and loss.” She will
be ready to appreciate that the one sum deposited with her is a trust
fund to be used to the best advantage for the general good, and the
proud consciousness that she is the actual proprietor of the other, and
irresponsible, save to her conscience, for the manner in which it is
spent, will make her the more careful not to use it amiss. As to the
housekeeping money—the weekly or monthly “allowance”—you may be very
sure that you and the children will get the benefit of every cent.
However economically she may handle her private store, the bulk of it
will not be increased by surreptitious pinchings from the family supply
of daily bread.
I have known women whose sole perquisites were what they could save
from their not large allowances, who, in the absence of their husbands
from home, would keep themselves and families of hungry, growing
children,—with the consent and co-operation of the latter—upon the most
meagre fare consistent with the bare satisfaction of the cravings of
nature, that the few dollars thus spared might go toward the purchase
of some coveted article of dress for one of the girls; a set of tools
or books for a boy, or a piece of furniture desired by all. Which
bit of economy (!) being reported to the paterfamilias when the
dearly-bought thing was exhibited, was pronounced by him, his hand
complacently finding its way to the plethoric wallet in his pocket, to
be worthy of his august approval. How many husbands have heard their
wives remark how cheaply the family lived when “papa was away?” and how
many have asked themselves seriously why and how this was done?
Other women, and more to be pitied, I am acquainted with, who make
false entries in the account-books, which are showed weekly to their
lords as explanatory of “the way the money goes.” It is easier and less
likely “to make a fuss,” to record that seven pounds of butter have
been bought and used, his lordship having helped in the consumption
thereof, when by sharp management, five have sufficed; to write down
“new shoes for Bobby, $4,00,” when, in reality, the cost of mending his
old ones that they might last a month longer, was only $1,50,—than to
confess to the practical critic who does not overlook a single item,
that the money “made” by these expedients was spent, partly in paying
up a yearly subscription to the Charitable Society; partly for an
innocent luncheon during a day’s shopping in the city.
“Unjustifiable deception?” Have I pretended to excuse it? But I look
back of the timid woman—the pauper, bedecked in silks, laces and
gems,—for most men like to see their wives dressed as well as their
neighbors—the moral coward, who has lied from the natural desire to
handle a little money for herself without being cross-examined about
it—and ask—“by what stress of humiliating tyranny was she brought to
this?”
All women do not manage monetary affairs well, you remind me, gently.
Some are unprincipled in their extravagance, reckless of everything
save their own whims and unconscionable desires. Must a man beggar
himself and those dependent upon him, lest such an one should accuse
him of parsimony? By yielding to demands he knows to be exorbitant, he
proves himself to be weaker even than she.
I have said nowhere that a woman is the best judge of what her husband
ought to appropriate from his gains or fortune for the support of his
family. But he stands convicted of a grave error of judgment, if he has
chosen from the whole world as the keeper of his honor and happiness, a
woman whom he cannot trust to touch his purse-strings.
Let us be patient as well as reasonable. So long as a babe is kept in
long clothes, and carried in arms, it will not learn to walk alone.
The majority of women have been swathed in conventionalities and
borne above the practicalities of business by mistaken tenderness or
misapprehension of their powers, for so long, that, however quick may
be their intuitions, time and practice are necessary to make them
adepts in financiering. The best way to render them trustworthy is
not by taking it for granted, and letting them see that you do, that
they have sinister designs upon your pockets. They are not pirates by
nature, nor are they, even with such schooling as many get from their
legal proprietors, always on the alert to wheedle or extort a few
dollars for their own sty and selfish ends. After all, is there not a
spice of truth in the would-be satire of the old distich?
  “What are wives made of—made of?
   Everything good, if they’re but understood!”
If you chance to be painfully conscious of the mental inferiority and
warped conscience of your partner in the solemn dance of life; if there
is more “worse” than “better” in the everyday wear of the matrimonial
bond; if sloth and waste mark her administration of household affairs,
instead of the industrious thrift you would recommend, and which you
see others practise; if the rent in the bottom of the pouch carries off
the money faster than you can drop it in, you are to be pitied almost
as much as your bachelor neighbor, who sews on his own buttons, and
depends upon boarding-houses for his daily food. Still, my friend, is
there any reason why you should accept the consequences of this one
mistake on your part, with less philosophy; bring to the bearing of it
a smaller modicum of Christian resignation than you summon to support
you under any other? Women have been as grievously misled by fancy or
affection, before now, and have borne the burden of disappointment to
the grave without murmur or reproach.
Then, there is always the chance that your wife is not “understood,”
or that, well-meant as your attempts to “manage” her have been, you
have not selected the most judicious methods of doing this. In this
enlightened and liberal age, nobody, unless he be bigot or fool,
habitually thinks and speaks of women as a lower order of intelligent
beings. But even in your breast, my ill-mated friend, there may lurk a
touch of the ancient leaven of uncharitableness, and in your treatment
of her “whom the Lord hath given to be with you,” there may be a spice
of arrogance, the exponent of which, were you Turk or Kaffir, would be
brute force.
“I do not object to your proposal, my love. You always have your own
way in household affairs,” said a very “kind and affectionate” man to
his wife, with the air of a potentate amiably relinquishing his sceptre
for love’s sake.
“Will you tell me, my dear husband, why, if I conduct ‘household
affairs’ wisely and pleasantly (and you have often acknowledged that I
do!) I should not have my own way?” was the unexpected reply, uttered
in perfect temper—no less sweetly for being an argument. “For twenty
years I have made domestic economy a constant and practical study. Is
it reasonable to suppose that, after all this expenditure of time and
thought, I am not a better judge of ways and means in my profession
than are you, whose life has been spent in other pursuits? For all your
indulgent affection to me, as displayed in a thousand ways since our
marriage-day, I love and thank you. But excuse me for saying that I am
not grateful that you have, as you are rather fond of saying, ‘made it
a point to give me my head’ in all pertaining to housekeeping. That you
do this shows that you are just and honorable. It is no more a favor
done to me than is my non-interference with your clerks and purchases,
your shipments and warehouses, a matter for which you should thank me.”
The husband stroked his beard thoughtfully. He was a sensible man, and
magnanimous enough to recognize the truth that his wife was a sensible
woman.
“Upon my word,” he said, presently, with a frank laugh, “that is a view
of the case I never took before. I believe you are right.”
One more hint, which may be of service to those who are not so ready to
acknowledge the superiority—in any case—of feminine reasoning, or to
such as are not blessed with sensible consorts—the best friends of
these ladies being judges.
“Drive him with an easy rein!” said my John in trusting me for the
first time to manage his favorite horse. “His mouth is tender as a
woman’s. You cannot deal with a thoroughbred as with a cold-blooded
roadster.”
“What will happen if I hold him in hard?” inquired I, eyeing the
pointed ears and arched neck with as much apprehension as admiration.
I commend the laconic answer to your consideration, as altogether
pertinent to the subject we have been discussing.
“A rear-up, and a run backward, instead of forward!”
RIPE FRUIT.
THE sight of the fruit-dish or basket upon the breakfast table has
become so common of late years that its absence, rather than its
presence, in the season of ripe fruits would be remarked, and felt
even painfully by some. It is fashionable, and therefore considered
a wise sanitary measure, to eat oranges as a prelude to the regular
business of the morning meal. Grapes are eaten so long as they can be
conveniently obtained. It may be because my own taste and digestion
revolt at the practice of forcing crude acids upon an empty, and often
faint stomach, that I am disposed to doubt the healthfulness of the
innovation upon the long-established rule that sets fruit always in the
place of dessert. I have an actual antipathy to the pungent odor of raw
orange-peel, and have been driven from the breakfast-table at a hotel
more than once by the overpowering effect of the piles of yellow rind
at my left, right, and opposite to me. A cluster of grapes taken before
breakfast would put me, and others whom I know, hors de combat for
the day with severe headache. In the consciousness of this, I can be
courageous in declining the “first course” of an à la mode breakfast,
and at my own table, withholding the fruit until the stomach has
regained its normal tone under the judicious application of substantial
viands. Then, it is pleasant to linger over the vinous globes of
crimson, purple, and pale-green; to dip ripe strawberries in powdered
sugar with lazy gusto; to pare rosy rareripes and golden Bartletts
while discussing the day’s news and plans, in the serene belief that
the healthful, delicious juices are assimilating whatever incongruous
elements have preceded them in the alimentary canal.
I write this, not to guide the practice of other households, but to
enforce a remark I see an opportunity for bringing in here. Be a
slavish follower of no custom whatsoever. It is sensible and expedient
to act in uniformity with your neighbors when you can do so without
moral or physical injury. Conformity to a foolish or hurtful fashion is
always weak, if not positively wicked.
Serve your fruit, then, as the first or last course at your family
breakfast as may seem right to yourself, but, by all means, have it
whenever you can procure it comfortably and without much expense.
In warm weather, you had better banish meat from the morning bill
of fare, three days in the week, than have the children go without
berries and other fresh fruits. Make a pretty glass dish, or silver or
wicker basket of peaches, pears or plums, an institution of the summer
breakfast. In autumn, you can have grapes until after frost; then,
oranges and bananas if you desire. These, being expensive luxuries,
are not absolutely enjoined by nature or common sense. Let the “basket
of summer fruit,” however, be a comely and agreeable reality while
solstitial suns beget bile, and miasma walks, a living, almost visible
presence, through the land.
Fruits, each in its season, are the cheapest, most elegant and
wholesome dessert you can offer your family or friends, at luncheon
or tea. Pastry and plum-pudding should be prohibited by law, from the
beginning of June until the end of September. And in winter, a dish of
apples and oranges flanked by one of boiled chestnuts, and another of
picked walnut or hickory-nut kernels, will often please John and the
bairns better than the rich dessert that cost you a hot hour over the
kitchen-range, when Bridget was called away to a cousin’s funeral, or
