probably thought it would interfere with your chances 
of matrimony." 
She could have killed him for that sneer. And then 
the thought rushed over her mind — would Mr, Tre- 
maine have married her? Uncle Gilbert must have 
had some fear, or he would have told the simple 
truth, which was in no wise disgraceful. Still, she 
would not have cared then ; now she had learned 
to love, to long for a husband's tenderness. 
They had been walking slowly onward in the pause, 
now she turned suddenly. 
"Jasper," she began, half wondering how the old 
name would sound," there is something behind all this. 
You cannot have so completely forgotten me for years, 
and then in a moment wakened to affectionate remem- 
brance. It is not love. I doubt if you deceive your- 
self, me you cannot deceive. I have grown wiser than 
in those childish days. If you have been unfortunate 
in any respect — if you are in need of money, I can and 
will assist you. I have some thousands at my own 
disposal. If you will take this and go — " 
Her voice trembled in spite of the efforts she made 
to steady it, and there was a strained, painful appre- 
hension in every line of her face. 
" Thank you, Mrs.Tremaine, but I am in no pressing 
need of money, that I should become } r our pensioner in 
such a fashion. Besides, I should have some scruples 
of conscience. Either you are Mr. Treinaine's wife, or 
mine — if the law awards you to him, you surely need 
not buy me off; and if you are mine, something of 
more account than gold must extinguish the claim." 
He rested the tips of his fingers in his pockets with 
a jaunty air that was half swagger, and yet, through all 
his indifference, she saw the determination. A hard, 
implacable enemy ! She blushed that he should have 
suspected her of wishing to buy his absence, much as 
she desired it. 
On they walked in silence. Over head, drifted won- 
derful islands through a sea of peerless blue, birds sung 
in the branches beside them, and bland airs laden with 
fragrance wandered up and down in viewless hosts. 
And she so unutterably wretched, so cut off from hope, 
turn whither she would. For with every breath she 
felt the web closing round her. 
 
"Dora," he said, presently, "will you listen to 
reason?" 
" I will listen," she answered, moodily. 
, u We are husband and wife — any good authority, 
be he lawyer or judge, will tell you so. I have done 
nothing to break my compact, and in the estimation of 
the world I am the injured party. But I know it waa 
a mistake on your part, and I am willing to forgive 
fully and freely. Since you cannot have liberty, let us 
both consent to forget the past. Let us renew our 
vows, and endeavor henceforward to make each other 
happy. It shall be my earnest study— for, Dora, dis- 
believe and scorn as you will, I love you truly, earn- 
estly. My soul cannot brook the thought of your being 
another's." 
This appeal touched her much more deeply than his 
former one, and yet it angered her as well. Did he 
think she could change allegiance at a moment's notice? 
Was that all the sacredness a woman's regard possessed ? 
' ' No," she replied. ' ' Jasper Cameron, 'do not cheat 
yourself with any false hopes. I suppose if we had 
gone on in those old times, your fascination would have 
been sufficiently strong to hold me captive, perhaps to 
make me love, eventually ; but it did die out. Remem-. 
ber that I do not call it love, and will not have fidelity 
measured by it. You took no pains to assure me that 
you were alive. I might have been friendless and in 
want, died of starvation — what would it have mattered 
to you? Another has taught me by slow degrees, the 
sweetest lesson that a woman can learn — faith and 
hope blended in truest affection. I have come to the 
one passion of my life. You can make me suffer 
through it, but I shall never, never give it up. . If I 
never saw Ralph Tremaine again, I should hold myself 
his wife until death parted us, in spite of any jurisdiction 
the law might have. No, you know nothing about 
women's hearts ;" and her face lighted up with a grand, 
proud smile. 
"And I, too, love. Pity me, as well as yourself." 
He was a good actor in some moods. His eyes soft- 
ened now, and the tenderest expression she had yet 
seen, lingered about his face. She did not so much 
wonder that he had won her girlish fancy, but the 
woman's love was immeasurably above it all, and could 
not be dethroned. 
" I have given you my answer. Of what avail is 
pity? " 
" Then the law must take its course. You will not 
let me be merciful." 
" The truest mercy would be to go away. If you 
have enough nobleness and generosity for this — ?" 
" And leave you to himf No, I have not. As I 
said, even if I cannot win you back, you shall never be 
his, honorably. And now it only remains to decide 
upon what course we must pursue. The case shall be 
placed in my friend's hands at once." 
 
She shuddered with shame and terror. 
" Oh," she cried, " wait a little. Give me but a day 
in which to think, for I seem so utterly wrecked that 
not one haven opens its friendly arms. ,, f 
" Yes, one." 
She made a gesture of impatient scorn. She felt 
that if he had loved her truly, he would measure her 
sufferings by his own and be merciful. And she was 
unspeakably thankful that he did not. Fighting 
against him would be less filled with anguish. 
" Give me a little time," she gasped. 
u All that you desire, upon one condition." 
" What is that?" and she glanced at him with quick 
suspicion. 
" That I am present at your first interview with Mr. 
Tremaine." 
" No ! no ! " she exclaimed franticly. 
" Very well. Then I feel at liberty to go to him im- 
mediately. I am not sure, but that it would have been 
the wisest course to go to him at once, but I thought it 
fair to seek you first. Whitlier shall I attend you ? " 
He had been debating whether it was possible to 
carry out the remainder of his plan and gain entire per- 
sonal control over her — for at present he much pre- 
ferred that she should not see Mr. Tremaine. None 
knew better than he, how moments of grace were 
wasted by delay, and that the auspicious season once 
past, another was difficult to find. 
 
She felt faint and sick, and in casting about for a 
place of refuge, bethought herself of one at hand. 
" I have a trusty friend near by — a woman who was 
niy uncle's housekeeper. I will go there for an hour's 
rest, and try to decide upon what it is best to do. Of 
course, Mr. Tremaine must be informed. 
She uttered the last with dreary pathos. Her face, 
that had been so brilliant with different phases of feel- 
ing and indignation, was growing wan and listless. 
She turned, and he followed. 
" Shall I not call a hack when we reach the gate?" 
he asked. 
"No." Somehow it seemed as if she dared not 
trust herself with him again. " It is but a step," she 
added presently. 
Amid this throng of people, she felt quite secure. All 
along their way they met with one and another, and he 
relinquished his scheme with his usual air of gay in- 
difference. Little did she guess the . villiany in his 
heart, though indeed she could think of nothing save 
her weary steps, and wonder if her strength would last 
even this short distance. 
dbyGoogk 
CHAPTER Vnl. 
A FATE BETWEEN. 
SHALL stop here," Dora Tremaine said, paus- 
ing before a cottage, that, with a group of in- 
different houses, stood not far from the river. 
This one was small and unpretending, but it had a 
vegetable garden in the most perfect order, quite a con- 
trast to the straggling weeds and irregular shrubbery 
around. There was a tiny court-yard in front and a 
bed of old fashioned flowers. 
He turned and faced her. " Dora," he said in a 
deep tone, which was scareely less than a threat, " for 
the present I shall depend upon your truth and honor, 
and leave you quite at liberty as regards your place of 
abode, so long as it is not Ralph Tremaine's house. 
The instant you attempt to seek that, I shall invoke the 
law to protect my rights. I will give you the time you 
desire for consideration. When shalj I call for an an- 
swer ? To-morrow morning ? " 
"Yes," she said, her wandering brain scarcely com- 
prehending the answer she made. 
He came a step nearer and almost hissed these words 
in her ear — 
"There will be no evading me. You cannot step 
outside of this door but that you will be watched. Act 
fairly, and no harm shall befall you." 
• She made no repty, but touching the lion's head 
knocker gave a feeble, irregular summons. It seemed 
to her that she stood there an age ; the houses on 
either side revolving grotesquely, the air growing darker 
with gray and purple films, and those deep, vengeful 
eyes staring at her like balls of fire. She uttered a 
wild, terror-stricken cry, and that was all she re- 
membered. 
When Dora Tremaine opened her eyes again, after 
her long, deathlike swoon, she found herself on the 
familiar chintz-covered sofa — the face bending over 
her, though wrinkled and browned, was tender, and 
the eyes, in spite of their questioning alarm, were full 
of solicitude. 
"Oh, Catherine !" she groaned, and nearly lapsed 
into insensibility again. 
"My poor child! Oh, Miss Dora, what has hap- 
pened ?" 
In Catherine's excitement, Mrs. Tremaine was a girl . 
again. 
"I cannot tell you now. Let me rest a little, 
Catherine. I am so tired. I feel as if I should die ! 
Oh, would any one care, would any one be sorry?" 
The eyes wandered about with a wild stare, and } T et 
seemed to cower and shrink from something, and the 
cold fingers clasped Catherine's arm with frantic force. 
" Hush, dear. Lie* still. Nothing shall harm you." 
the woman said, soothingly. 
"Do not let him come in ! Oh, Catherine ! he is out 
there watching — he said he .would. Keep me ! hide 
me ! " she shrieked, burying her face in the other's dress. 
"Yes — no one shall come. Lie still, poor child. 
See I shall bolt the door." 
She rose and did this, and came back to Mrs. Tre- 
maine, who now began to shiver with a hard chill. 
The words she tried to utter, died in incoherent frag- 
ments upon the ashen lips. 
Catherine Dawson was sorely puzzled. The last 
time she had seen her dear young mistress — for Dora 
would always be that to her — was on a bright, breezj-, 
March day, when she had driven up with her husband. 
She had looked so proud, and bright, and happy ! It 
had been a rather conscientious question with Catherine, 
whether Dora's marriage was for the best. The young 
girl had not loved as the girls of her day, and she had 
some old-fashioned notions on the subject. But the 
last doubt had vanished then. 
"Miss Dora's a happy wife," she had said to her 
old husband, as they sat by the fireside that evening. 
" I have always had a little fear about her, but I am 
quite at rest now. There is a content and satisfaction 
shining in her face, that it does one good to see. " 
"I am sure Mr. Tremaine is a man in a thousand," 
Mark Dawson replied, sturdily. "If she could not be 
happy with him, she docs not deserve any one ! " 
"It is not that exactly. There is a kind of fitness 
about people, and sometimes it does not come, even in 
a long married life. Miss Dora had some queer streaks, 
and she was not a girl to love easily." 
" Love ! " Mark Dawson brought it out rather con- 
temptuously. 
"Yes, love I" She leaned over in the light of the 
blazing logs — this was one of his old-fashioned notions. 
"Mark" she said, "when you first wooed me, I was 
young and bonny, with shining eyes and hair, and red 
and white in my face. I do not look like it now that 
I am old and faded — but has not there been something 
in our lives that outlasted youth and beauty, and 
makes us as dear to each other as we were then?" 
He gave the fire a poke that sent the blaze into hun- 
dreds of stars, and with a little tremble in his voice, 
said, — 
"Yes, you are right Katy." 
And Catherine Dawson, contrasting the two pictures, 
shivered with a strange misgiving. Dora was proud 
and high spirited — what if she had quarreled with her 
husband ? She had no mother or sisters in whom she 
could confide ; and Catherine knew that of old, she had 
not been given to intimate friendships. • She looked so 
helpless, as she lay there trembling and moaning, that, 
whatever might be the cause, the woman pitied her 
profound^. But what could she do except to stand 
over her and watch her? She was all alone in the 
house. 
The chill was a very severe one ; but after awhile, 
faint streaks of color began to steal up her temples, 
and a feverish flush to overspread her cheeks. The 
dull eyes grew restless and glassy. She still muttered 
at intervals, but the frantic fear had subsided. 
"Mrs. Tremaine ? w Catherine exclaimed, kneeling 
beside her. 
She gave a stupid sort of stare, making no other 
answer. 
"Dear Miss Dora, what shall I do? What can I do 
for you? Send for Mr. Tremaine?" 
"Oh!" Dora rose in a confused way. "I do not 
know whether, he would think it right to come if I told 
him all," she said, in a slow, wandering manner — and 
a sickening shudder passed over her. I am so sleepy', 
Catherine ; and then— he is watching outside. Oh, 
do not leave me for a moment !" 
"My dear child, no ; but I must do something. You 
are very ill. Mr. Tremaine should be sent for." 
"He said, oh, Catherine, I cannot tell you ! It is 
such a horrible thing ! Mr. Tremaine cannot forgive it, 
and if he could  — she burst into a wild, bitter laugh, 
and threw up her hands. "Why, Catherine, I am not 
his wife at all !" 
"You are losing your senses, Miss Dora!" And a 
shocked expression filled Catherine's face. 
"Am I ?" I had a note somewhere — I do not remem- 
ber — but if I could show it to you. No, Catherine, I 
can never, never be anything to him again. Jasper 
said so. He was so cruel, so cruel ! I am tired, tired ! 
Oh, if I could only die!" 
Dora sank back on the pillow exhausted. Catherine 
bathed her face and chafed the trembling hands. She 
tried to soothe the strained and excited nerves — and 
indeed succeeded so well, that presently Mrs. Tremaine 
sank into an uneasy but heavy slumber. 
