
I suppose I did look at her dubiously. Nelly glanced 
up merrily, and smiled. 

" Of course, it is all settled, or I should not be here. 
Much as I liked him, I shouldn't have^gone against 
mamma's wishes.-" 

" It seems so strange ! " 

" You dear, little perplexed matron ! Are not love- 
affairs always new and strange ? I think that is why they 
never lose their charm. It is like a new spring. The 
weather is about the same ; trees grow, and flowers 
bloom ; there is rain and sun, cloudy and clear morn 
ings, evenings of dew, and evenings of drought : and yet 
one never complains of the sameness. There is a little 
difference everj'where. You are surprised by some 
change that is rare and delightful ; and you enjoy it just 
as if there had never been a spring before, or as if it had 
been changed expressly for you." 

" How eloquent you are, Nelly ! quite a philosopher." 

 

She flushed, and laughed gayly. 

"I have an idea, Rose, that my eloquence is second 
hand, from some of papa's sennons ; and yet it suits. 
Your marriage and Fan's were quite regular and ortho 
dox ; while mine will be a little out of the order of events. 
Dr. Kinnard is so much older, so different from most 
young girl's fancies ! " 

" O Nelly ! " I cried, as her eyes drooped in a thoughtful 
pause, " it is not that so much as the children. another 
woman's children ! I used to think babies such lovely, 
helpless things, 'that one must perforce be good to all 
children ; but these are not babies, and will, no doubt, 
have a prejudice against a stepmother. And there are 
others to suit. It seems as if it would take the first 
bloom and sacredness right out of }*our marriage." 

" Yes : mamma said something like this at first. Then 
Dr. Kinnard and I talked it over in a very friendly man 
ner, not at all like lovers. Rose, I think I am like an 
agate, with plain brown practical veins, and next a light, 
airy, changeful one, romantic, if you please ; and I go 
from one mood to another in a prismatic fashion, affected 
by the rays of light and the turning of circumstances. 
But the foundation always remains ; and there is some 
thing under the practical, the fanciful, and the jagged, 
streaked veins, full of crooks and turns. My plain brown 
side came uppermost then. I said to him, ' I do not think 
it at all natural that any stranger can go into a household 
of children and grown people, and love every one to order 
at once. I will do my best in a kind and conscientious 
manner ; but you must be patient with me, and wait for 
love to come, to be drawn by the little tendrils of association and every-da}* tenderness. I could not promise to 
love any one immediately.' And he said that was just 
his view of the case ; that he alwaj'S mistrusted the extravagant admiration that was so often bestowed upon a 
widower's children. And, Rose, I think it absurd." 





I stared at her, a tall, slender girl, with quite a different loveliness from that of Fan, who had been consid 
ered the family beauty in my time, four years ago. How 
odd it seemed to think of her marrying ! and how very 
elder-sisterly I felt with my j-ears of wedded experience ! 
Yet what had they been ? A housekeeper who was per 
fection, a most indulgent husband, prosperity, and one 
bright, enchanting baby-boy, two years old. Still I had 
that inexplicable feeling of wifehood and motherhood, that, 
after all, sets married women apart. Yet Nelly's experi 
ence must needs be widely different from Fan's or mine. 
How could I advise or warn ? I felt suddenly the smallness of my pretensions. 

"I daresay you think me heterodox," Nelly went on ; 
 ' but there is a great deal of sentiment in this world that 
will not stand the wear and tear of life. Mamma under 
stands just what I mean, and is willing to trust me. I 
have said to nryself many times, ' Here are two children, 
a son and a daughter, old enough to know that I am not 
their mother, and perhaps grudge me a little of their 
father's love. I must always remember that they had it 
first, and that, in any case, I must try not to defraud 
them." 

" And that is what I should think so hard," I rejoined 
eagerly. " And the fact of his having loved" 

"Rose," and Nelly's eyes softened strangely with 
a luminous beauty, so like papa's when he was deepty 
moved, "I do not believe it was the highest and finest 
love that Dr. Kinnard is capable of experiencing. He 
became engaged to this girl when he was in college, partly 
to please his mother, and, I fancy, without much regard 
for the sacredness of affection. Then he spent three 
years in Germany, where he absolutely buried himself 
alive in books and lectures, and was married as soon as 
he came home. It seems to me ihey could hardly have 
had a taste in common. He loved country-life, and she 



 

hated it. She had been a belle, and cared most for 
dressing and dancing, and always spent her winters in 
the city, until she became a querulous, exacting invalid ; 
and then her sister came to take care of her. I cannot 
imagine why she wanted to marry him, when there were 
other men in the world, I suppose." 

" She couldn't help being sick," I said, bristling up a 
little ; for somehow the thought of such a life stirred me 
to profound pity. 

" No, dear, perhaps not. And one of the first things 
I heard of Dr. Kinnard was, that he had been unexcep- 
tionably kind and tender. It is not his nature to be 
impatient, or easily annoyed. I like that quaint old- 
fashionedness, reminding me so much of papa ; and, do 
you know, he seems almost as old to me. But what I 
mean to do, if God gives me grace, is to bring back the 
lost youth, the youth he missed somehow. Surely I 
have enough for both." 

She looked so radiant and hopeful, that I could not 
doubt it. We had all marvelled a little at Nelly's choice. 
Dr. Kinnard appeared an older man than his thirtj'-five 
years gave him a right to be. Studious and philosophi 
cal, rather dreanrv, and absent as to moods, and much 
engrossed with his profession, I could hardly understand 
how he had caught Nelly's heart. He and papa had 
made friends in some delightful manner ; and he had been 
a regular visitor at the house long before any one sus 
pected him of a warmer liking. He resided on the out 
skirts of a flourishing town some twenty miles distant ; 
and papa was quite satisfied with the friendly neighbor 
hood commendations. Mrs. Kinnard had been dead five 
years. Her sister, who had come at the birth of her second 
child, still remained ; and for three j'ears his mother had 
been an inmate of the family. There was a daughter 
eleven years of age, and a son between eight and nine. 

And our Nelly had elected to reign over this incon- 





gruous household. She had spent one winter in the city 
with me, and been very much admired : indeed, there had 
been no little youthful adoration laid at her feet. She 
had a vein of Fan's fun and auclacity, and*not a little of 
mother's good sense and sweetness. 

All the household were reconciled to it sooner than I, 
perhaps because they knew Dr. Kinnard better. Nelly 
was twenty now ; and, though the engagement had been 
of but six months' duration, the wedding-day was already 
appointed. She was not a romantic girl ; and this made 
her choice appear the more peculiar to me. 

" Well, I hope you will be very happy," I said pres 
ently, "and that the children will not prove too much 
for you. If j-ou could have them alone" 

"That has troubled me, I must confess;" and a per 
plexed line crossed Nelly's fair brow. " If I could have 
just them and their father ! though, Rose, I must admit 
that they are not entrancing specimens of childhood. 
Maud is tall for her age, slender and sallow, with straight 
light brown hair, and light hazel eyes, and the oddest, 
pursed-up mouth, what we would call a regular little 
prink. Bertie has beautiful dark brown eyes, like his 
father, and dark hair that curls a little ; but there is a 
kind of obstinacy in his face that I dread somewhat, 
though he is more inclined to be jolly, I think. But you 
see their aunt has always had charge of them, and pro 
poses now to become their governess, as she has some 
peculiar views about education. She is their only relative 
on their mother's side." 

" And, of course, she must live with you?" 

"I must live with her;" and Nelly made a humorous 
grimace. "She was older than her sister, and must be 
nearly forty. Then the doctor's mother is past sixty. 
Rose, do you remember how we used to wish that we had 
a grandmother?" 

Oh, that grandmother ! How we had talked about her 




in our childish days ! the very dearest old woman in the 
world, rather small, but straight and brisk and bright; 
with a lovely, soft, wrinkled complexion, white as milk ; 
blue eyes that*were tender and merry, and with the pecu 
liar content you sometimes see in eyes that have used their 
time and privileges well, as if they had seen much, and 
remembered -a great deal, and could relate chapters of 
those wonderful bits and fragments of things that hap 
pened " when I was young." Her hair was to be silvery, 
and she was to wear caps with full lace borders around her 
sweet face. Her dresses were to be soft gra}"s and browns, 
raw silk, I think the Quaker material is called. Mamma 
had a little square shawl in the identical stuff', laid away 
in a drawer, which had once been her grandmother's. 
How many pictures we drew of this dear, charming old 
lady, sitting in her rocking-chair, knitting, and telling us 
stories ! Only we could never quite decide whether she 
was papa's mother, or mamma's mother. I smiled now 
to think of it. 

" And how we envied other girls' grandmothers ! But 
we made ours to order ; and I shall have to take Grandma 
Kinnard just as she is." 

"Do you think you shall like her?" I asked rather 
timidly, glancing up. 

"She sets all my ideas at defiance," returned Nelly 
with an odd smile. " Her eyes are very black, and her 
face is long and thin. She wears no caps, or aprons, or 
little neckerchiefs crossed over her bosom, but ruffles and 
overskirts and chignons, and is very, very modern. O 
Rose ! when we grow old, let us accept the fact gracefully. 
You can't think how disappointed I was when I saw her."' 

" Nelly, I wonder at your courage. It is not a lova 
ble household. You cannot even deceive yourself on the 
subject." 

" Nor do I desire to, Eose. Mamma says the part of 
true wisdom is to look at facts as they are, and then do 





the best. Fann} r had no trouble ; yet she went into a 
household of clderlj* people." 

" But they all liked her so beforehand, and wanted her 
to come. And the Churchills were lovety people." 

" It seems to me that more attention ought to be paid 
to the relatives on both sides than is commonly done. 
Why should we make up our minds that we are going to 
dislike each other, and, instead of commencing with the 
graceful and tender courtesies of life, bristle all over with 
thorns, and command every one to keep at a distance ? 
There is not even Christian charity in it." 

" We cannot alwaj's love people to order, as you said 
yourself." 

" True enough. I do not expect any wonderful wel 
come. Indeed, I fancy that both ladies would rather go 
on in their own way ; but, after having fulfilled all past 
trusts, Dr. Kinnard surety has some right to happiness. 
Neither of these women is dependent on him. And 
we love each other ! I know you think it absurd of me, 
Rose," she cries in a sort of defiant way, as if it would 
hardly be safe for me to say so. 

"I suppose }x>u have the right of choice;" and I 
smile. 

"Thank you ! " With that she makes a stately 
courtesy. 

" How they will miss you at home ! " I say presently. 

" But there are four left ; and Daisy is almost eighteen. 
Think of it ! O Rose, what a dear old home it has been 
for all ! A crowded country rectory, a clergj'man ' pass 
ing rich ' on his thousand a year, and seven girls ! But 
with it all, the best and sweetest mother in the whole 
world. It does seem ungrateful to go away ; but it is the 
fashion of this world." 

The tears glistened in her eyes a moment ; but she 
laughed them away. 

" To think of being sentimental over your parents, 



 

V 

