
'What do you mean by Society?' asked Primrose.

'Why!You know.'

'I do not, indeed.'

'It means,' said Dane, 'in this country, all people in general who 
have incomes above a certain limit; them, and those whom their 
powerful hands lift from a subjacent platform to the freedom of 
their own.'

'All people who are rich enough to invite you as you invite them,' 
said Dr. Arthur.'Prim, where is your comprehension? How can 
you put your feet under a man's mahogany, if he happens to have 
none?'

'Is it different in other countries?' asked Mrs. Coles.

'Yes. Birth counts there, and breeding, and what a man happens to 
have inside his head.'

'And does not birth count for something here?' cried Mrs. Coles.

'I have no doubt it does.'

'But not with you?'

'I speak of things as I find them,' said Dane smiling slightly. 'And 
in generalities.'

'Well, think what you like of society; are you not going to regard it 
at all?'

Dane turned to the Bible which still lay upon the table, and opened 
it. 'What do you say to this, Prudentia?'

' "When thou makest a dinner or a supper, call not thy friends, nor 
thy brethren, neither thy kinsmen, nor thy rich neighbours; lest 
they also bid thee again, and a recompense be made thee." '

'Then you will live alone, I suppose, and make Hazel live so.'

'Not at all,' said Rollo coolly; 'that does not follow. The words I 
was reading go on"But when thou makest a feast, call the poor, 
the maimed, the lame, the blind: and thou shalt be blessed; for they 
cannot recompense thee: for thou shalt be recompensed at the 
resurrection of the just." '

'But my dear Dane!' said Mrs. Coles breathlessly; 'you don't mean 
to say that you take all that literally?'

'I do not see how it is to be taken figuratively,' said Dane looking 
at it.

'Why it means, of course, that we are to be kind to the poor.'

'But kinder to the rich? That looks like turning the figure topsy 
turvy; and in that case you get a view which can hardly be called 
correct.'

Hazel had left the tea-table now, and come softly up, taking a low 
seat half behind Prim's chair, leaning her head against it. In the 
shadow there she was looking and listening.

'It is a choice of invitations, that is all,' said Dr. Arthur. 'The Lord 
returns all the civilities shewn to poor peopleand rich men return 
their own. That is the only difference.'

'That is the comfort I have when anybody shews me kindness,' said 
Dr. Maryland, with a wonderful, simple, bright smile, rising as he 
spoke. 'I am one of the Lord's poor people; so I am never troubled 
about the returns. Come, my childrenwe have four miles in the 
snow before us.'


CHAPTER XXIV.

ONE AND ONE ARE TWO.


'They will never agree, those two!' said Prudentia Coles, the next 
morning at breakfast.

'They will agree perfectly!' said Primrose.

Good Dr. Maryland lifted his eyebrows in astonishment at both 
utterances.

'Their ways were too different,' said Mrs. Coles.

'Their ways will be alike,' said Prim.

'Of course, their ways will be one,' said the doctor. But he was 
very old-fashioned.

And people do not change their natures because they happen to 
love one another, nor even because they happen to be married. Still 
less!

There happened to be a run of very bad weather for several days 
after the two persons concerned arrived in New York. That did not 
indeed hinder business in Wall street and elsewhere, but it put an 
effective barrier to pleasure seeking out of doors. The best and 
most exclusive appointments of the best hotel, did not quite 
replace Chickaree, during the long days which Hazel perforce had 
to spend by herself. At last there came a morning when the sun 
shone.

'What have you got to do to-day?' Rollo asked her.

'One trunk to fill for other people, and two for myself.'

'Sounds large! Can you do it in a day?'

'I am an adept at filling trunks.'

'Let me see your purse.'

'O that needs no looking after,' said Hazel, flushing up.

'I only want to see it,' said Dane smiling. 'Not to rifle it. I want to 
see what sort of a thing you carry.'

The "things" were two, and very like Hazel; a pocket-book and 
purse of the daintiest possible description. Various coins shewed 
through the gold meshes of the one; the Russia leather of the other 
told no tales. Rollo turned them over, half smiling to himself. 

'Is there enough here for to-day's work?'

'I have Mr. Falkirk's cheque for my last quarter's allowance. I 
generally make that do,' said Hazel.

'Doesn't your stock need supplementing?'

'No, thank you,' she said softly and shyly.

'I will arrange all that presently, Hazel. Meanwhile I am very sorry 
I cannot go along to help you fill those trunks; but I have several 
people to see and less pleasant work to do. We'll get some of this 
business over, and then we'll play. Take a carriage, and Byrom 
shall wait upon you.'

'I do not want Byrom. He is not used to me. And perhaps I may 
walk.'

'Byrom is used to me,' said Dane significantly.

'Proof positive of my two propositions,' said Hazel with a laugh. 
'Waiting on me, is bewildering work to a new hand.'

'If I give it him in charge, he will do it well. Byrom has a head.'

'But I do not want to be given in charge. Have not I a head too?'

Rollo laughed at her, and remarked that it was 'one he was bound 
to take care of.'

'So am I, I should hope,' said Hazel. 'What do you suppose I shall 
do with itor with myself generallythat you call out a special 
detail of police?'

'Did Mr. Falkirk let you go about by yourself?'

'Always! At least, so far as he was concerned,' said Hazel 
correcting herself.

'I warned you what you were to expect,' said Rollo lightly. But 
then they came to the breakfast table, and something else was 
talked of. When the meal was over, and he was about going, 
bending down by her chair, he asked,

'What time will you have the carriage?'

'No time,' said Hazel. 'I have decided to walk.'

'I want you to take a carriage and let Byrom attend youthe 
sidewalks are in a state of glare ice this morning.'

'I am sure-footed.'

'I am glad of it,' said Rollo half laughing. 'What hour shall I say?'

'Why none!' said Hazel emphatically, with a passing thought of 
wonder at his obtuseness, though at the moment she was deep in 
her notebook. 'None, thank you.'

Rollo's eyes sparkled, as he stood behind her, and his lips twitched.

'Is that the way you used to handle Mr. Falkirk, when he expressed 
his wishes about some point of your action?'

'Mr. Falkirk was indulged with a variety of ways.'

'Have you got a variety in store for me?'

'For any deserving objectI am extremely impartial,' said Hazel 
turning a leaf.

'Won't you give me another variety then, this morning?' said he 
softly. 'Because I am not going to let you go out on foot to-day, 
Hazel.'

'Not let me?' Hazel repeated, looking round from her notebook 
now to ask the question. There was no explanation in the face that 
confronted her, nor any consciousness of having said anything that 
needed it. Hazel looked at him for a second, open-eyed.

'What can you possibly mean?' she said.

'If it means interference with your pleasure, I am sorry.'

Probably something in face and figure made this reply more 
definite than the words, for Wych Hazel's face waked up.

'But it does!' she said. 'I told you so at first.'

'It would interfere with mine very much, to have you go as you 
proposed.'

'But that is simply!' Hazel suddenly checked her rapid words, 
and brought her face back over the notebook again; bending down 
to hide the crimson which yet could not be hid.

'What is "simply"?' said Dane, touching his own face to the 
crimson. But Hazel did not speak.

'I must go, Hazel,' said he now looking at his watch. 'I have not 
another minute. I will send Byrom to you for orders.' And with a 
very gentle kiss to the bowed cheek as he spoke, he went off. And 
Hazel sat still where he left her, and thought,with her face in her 
hands now. Thoughts, and feelings too, were in a whirl. In the first 
place,no, there was no possible telling what came first. But was 
he going to direct every little thing of her life? Well, she had given 
him leave last winter, in her mind. That is, if he would do it. But 
would he really? Somehow she had fancied he would not. She had 
fancied thatsomehowhe would find out that she had a little 
sense, and trust to it. She felt so disappointed, and caged, and 
disturbed.And then she had withstood him!a thing he never 
pretended to bear. Maybe he had gone off disappointed, too. And 
one of her old saucy speeches had been on the tip of her tongue!
and next time, as like as not, it would slip out, and what should she 
do then? What should she do now?go out as she was bid, like a 
good child? Hazel almost laughed at herself for the bound her 
mind gave, straight back from this idea,which after all was the 
only one to act out. For the old sweetness of temper had taken to 
itself no edge, and the old dignity which had so often found its 
safety in submission did not fail her now. Nevertheless, Wych 
Hazel rose up and stood before the fire, knotting her fingers into 
various complications. Yes, it was her duty to go. But when 
Byrom knocked at the door, Hazel sprang away to the next room 
and sent her orders by Phoebe. Then, after the old comical fashion, 
she worked out her waywardness in every possible proper way that 
she could. She put on one of her wonderful toilettes, and then went 
slowly down the broad stairs (thinking fast!)and flashed out 
upon Byrom like a young empress in her robes. And a sinecure he 
had of it for the next few hours. To stand at the carriage door and 
receive the most laconic of orders; to see her pass from carriage to 
store and from store to carriage, erect and tall and stately, and with 
no more apparent notice of the icy sidewalks than if they had been 
strewn with cotton wool. If he followed close to pick her up, Wych 
Hazel took no notice and gave him no chance. In like manner she 
did her work with an executive force and gravity which made the 
clerks into quicksilver and drove one or two old admirers whom 
she met nearly frantic. They hailed her by her old name; and Hazel 
got rid of them she hardly knew how, except that it was in a blaze 
of discomfort for herself. And after that she kept furtive watch; 
quitting counters and stores, and rushing upor downin 
elevators, after the most erratic and extraordinary fashion; a vivid 
spot on either cheek, and eyes in a shadow, and a mouth that grew 
graver every hour. O if she could but order the coachman to 
driveanywheretill she said stop!but no such orders could go 
through Byrom; she must work off her mood at home. And so at 
last, in the darkest dress she had, Wych Hazel once more sat down 
before the fire, and put her face in her hands. All through the day, 
under and over everything else, the old shyness had green growing 
up, mixing itself with the new,the old dread of having a man 
speak to her in the way of comment, with a thought of blame. 
Would anybody do it now? So she sat until steps came to the door 
and the door opened; then she rose quickly up.

But the matter which had occasioned her so many thoughts, had 
scarcely given Rollo one; and it was plain he had fully forgotten it 
now in his gladness at seeing her again after the long day. His face 
had nothing but gladness; and as he took her in his arms she felt 
that the gladness was very tender.

'Work all done!' he asked.

'O no.'Hazel was glad too. The day had been long. 

'But I am going to play to-morrow!'

'Well, what about it?'

'Work must wait. We have got a great deal to do. Don't you agree 
with me, that every full cup ought to flow over into some empty 
ones?'

