was rather taken aback by this announcement; but he
promptly denied that the students named were concerned
in the affair.

“Lingall is with you, I know. I see how you have
managed the affair. He is your companion in the brig,
which was built over the midship scuttle,” continued
Raimundo. “But why do you desire to burn the vessel?”

“Because I want to get out of her,” replied Bill sullenly.
“But I can’t stop here to talk.”

“Do you really mean to burn the Tritonia?”

“That’s what I did mean; but, since you have found
me out, I shall not be likely to do it now.”

“Whatever you do, don’t do that. You are in the
waters of Spain now, and I don’t know but you would
have to be tried and punished for it in this country.”

Bill Stout had no idea of being tried and punished
for the crime in any country; and he had not even considered
it a crime when he thought of the matter. He
did not expect to be found out when he planned the
job: villains never expect to be. But he was alarmed
now; and the deed he had attempted seemed to be a
hundred times more wicked and dangerous than at any
time before.

“I can’t stop here: Salter will miss me if I do,”
added Bill, moving up the ladder.

“Wait a minute,” interposed Raimundo, who was
willing to save himself from exposure if he could.

“I’ll come down again, after a while,” answered Bill,
as he opened the scuttle, and got into the brig.

“Why did you stay down so long?” demanded Bark
Lingall nervously.

“It’s all up now, and we can’t do any thing,” replied
Bill sullenly, as he seated himself on his stool,
and picked up one of his books.

“What’s the matter?”

“We are found out.”

“Found out!” exclaimed Bark; and his heart rose
into his throat at the announcement. “How can that
be?”

“I was seen doing it.”

“Who saw you?”

“You couldn’t guess in a month,” added Bill, who
fixed his gaze on his book while he was talking.

“Didn’t I hear you speaking to some one in the
hold, Bill?” asked Bark, as he picked up a book, in
order to follow the studious example of his companion.

“I was speaking to some one,” replied Bill.

“Who was it?”

“Raimundo; and he knew that you were concerned
in the job without my mentioning your name;” and
Bill explained what had passed between himself and
the second master.

“Raimundo!” exclaimed Bark, in a musing manner.
“Then he mysteriously disappeared into the hold.”

“He did; and he has us where the hair is short,”
added Bill.

“And perhaps we have him where the hair is long
enough to get hold of. All we have to do is to tell
Salter, when he comes to look at us, that Raimundo is
in the hold.”

“We won’t do it; and then Raimundo won’t say we
set the vessel on fire,” protested Bill.

“Wait a bit, Bill. He is a spooney, a chaplain’s
lamb. He may keep still till he gets out of his own
scrape, whatever it may be, and then blow on us when
he is safe himself.”

“I don’t know: I shall see him again after Salter
has paid us another visit.”

The chief steward came into the steerage a few
minutes later; and seeing both of the prisoners engaged
in study, as he supposed, he probably believed the hour
of reformation had come. As soon as he had gone,
Bill opened the scuttle again, and went down into the
hold; but he was unwilling to leave the brig for more
than a few moments at a time, lest some accident should
betray his absence to the chief steward. He arranged
a plan by which he could talk with Raimundo without
danger from above. Returning to the brig, he lay down
on the floor, with a book in his hand, so that his head
was close to the scuttle. Bark was seated on the floor,
also with a book in his hand, in such a position as to
conceal the trap–door, which was raised a few inches,
from the gaze of Mr. Salter, if he should happen
suddenly to enter the steerage. Raimundo was to stand
on the steps of the ladder, with his head on a level
with the cabin floor, where he could hear Bill, and be
heard by him.

“I think we can’t afford to quarrel,” said Bill magnanimously.
“We are all in the same boat now. I
suppose you are wanted on shore for some dido you cut
up before you left your home.”

“I did nothing wrong before I left my home,” replied
Raimundo; and it galled him terribly to be
obliged to make terms with the rascals in the brig.
“My trouble is simply a family affair; and, if captured,
I shall be subjected to no penalty whatever.”

“Is that all?” asked Bill, sorry it was no worse.

“That’s all; but for reasons I don’t care to explain,
I do not wish to be taken back to my uncle in Barcelona.
But I will give myself up before I will let you
burn the Tritonia,” replied Raimundo, with no little
indignation in his tones.

“Of course, as things stand now, we shall not burn
the vessel,” added Bill: “we will make a fair trade
with you.”

“I shall make no trades of any kind; but I leave
you free to do what you think best, and I shall remain
so myself,” said Raimundo, who was too high–toned to
bargain with fellows wicked enough to burn the beautiful
Tritonia. “It is enough that I wish to get away
from this city.”

“If you clear out, you won’t blow on us,” added
Bill, willing to put the best construction on the statement
of the second master.

“I promise nothing; but this I say: if you burn the
Tritonia, whether I am on board or a thousand miles
away, I will inform the principal who set the fire.”

“Of course we should not do any thing of that sort
now,” added Bark, whose head was near enough to the
scuttle to enable him to hear all that was said.

“I shall be obliged to keep out of the way of all on
board, for the present at least,” said Raimundo.

“We are satisfied with that,” replied Bill, who
seemed to be in haste to reach some other branch of
the subject.

“Very well: then there is nothing more to be said,”
answered Raimundo, who was quite willing to close
the interview at this point.

The conspirators were not so willing; for the chance
of escape held out to them by the burning of the
vessel was gone, and they were very much dissatisfied
with the situation. It would be madness to repeat the
attempt to destroy the vessel; and the future looked
very unpromising. All hands were going off on a very
desirable cruise in the steamer. Ben Pardee and Lon
Gibbs had apparently deserted them when tempted by
the voyage to Lisbon. They had a dismal prospect of
staying in the brig, under the care of Marline and
Rimmer, for the next three weeks.

The second master had plenty of time to think over
his arrangements for the next week or two; and he was
not much better satisfied with the immediate prospect
for the future, than were the occupants of the brig.
His accommodations were far less comfortable than
theirs; and the experience of a single night had caused
him to fear that he might take cold and be sick.
Besides, he had not calculated that the Tritonia was to
lie at this port for two or three weeks, thus increasing
the danger and discomfort of his situation. If he had
to abandon his hiding–place, he preferred to take his
chances at any other port rather than Barcelona. It
was more than probable that Marline and Rimmer would
overhaul the hold, and re–stow the boxes and barrels
while the vessel was at anchor; and possibly the principal
had ordered some repairs at this favorable time.

His chance of getting on board of the Prince before
she sailed was too small to afford him any hope. The
change the principal had made in the programme interfered
sadly with his calculations. Mr. Lowington had
made this alteration in order to enable the students to
visit the northern and central parts of the peninsula
before the weather became too cold to permit them to
do so with any degree of comfort. The fugitive was
willing, therefore, to change his plans if it was possible.

“Hold on a minute,” interposed Bill Stout, when
Raimundo was about to descend the ladder. “What
are you going to do with yourself while the vessel lies
here for the next three weeks?”

“I shall have to keep out of sight in the hold,”
replied the second master.

“But you can’t do that. You will starve to death.”

“I have looked out for that.”

Though Bill Stout asked some questions on this
point, Raimundo declined to say in what manner he
had provided for his rations.

“Do you know who are in charge on board now?”
asked Bill.

“Only Mr. Salter and one of the stewards,” replied
the fugitive.

“Why don’t you use your chance while Marline and
Rimmer are ashore, and leave the vessel? You can
get away without being seen.”

“I can’t get out of the vessel without going through
the cabin where Mr. Salter is,” answered Raimundo;
but the suggestion gave him a lively hope.

“Yes, you can: you can get out by the fore–scuttle, go
over the bow, and roost on the bobstay till a shore
boat comes along,” added Bill. “Only you musn’t let
the steward see you. Salter is in the cabin, and he
won’t know any thing about it.”

Raimundo was grateful for the suggestion, though
he was not willing to acknowledge it, considering the
source from which it came. Hugo would help him,
instead of being a hinderance. The steward would call
a boat, and have it all ready for him when he got out
of the vessel. He could even keep Mr. Salter in the
cabin, while he made his escape, by engaging his attention
in some matter of business.

“I will see what I can do,” said the fugitive as he
left the ladder.

He went aft to the cabin ladder, and raised the
scuttle an inch. Hugo was setting the table for Mr.
Salter’s lunch. He saw the trap–door raised, and he
immediately went below for a jar of pickles. In five
minutes Raimundo had recited his plan to him. In
five minutes more Hugo had a boat at the bow of
the Tritonia, waiting for its passenger. At half–past
twelve, Hugo called Mr. Salter to his lunch; and,
when this gentleman took his seat at the table, Hugo
raised the trap, and slammed it down as though it had
not been in place before. Raimundo understood the
signal.

The fugitive went forward, and ascended to the
deck by the fore–scuttle. He was making his way over
the bow when he found that he was followed by Bill
Stout and Bark Lingall.

“What are you doing here?” demanded Raimundo,
astonished and annoyed at the action of the incendiaries.

“We are going with you,” replied Bill Stout. “Over
with you! if you say a word, we will call Salter.”

Raimundo dropped into the boat that was waiting
for him, and the villains from the brig followed him.




CHAPTER X.

THE ESCURIAL AND PHILIP II.


Before the train stopped, the students obtained
a fair view of the Escurial, which is a vast pile
of buildings, located in the most desolate place to be
found even in Spain. The village is hardly less solemn
and gloomy than the tremendous structure that towers
above. The students breakfasted at the two fondas in
the place; and then Mr. Mapps, as usual, had something
to say to them:—

