fair a brow as if she had been the moon goddess whose 
name she bore ; and her voice was very sweet. ' Not 
painful, Evan ; why should it be ? I am glad to see you 
again.' 
' I didn't know you were here ' he went on hurriedly, 
in evident great perturbation. 
' And we did not know you were here. I had no notion of it till I heard your voice in the next room. I 
knew it instantly.' 
 
' I would have spared you this, if I could have foreseen 
it.' 
' Spared me what ? ' 
' All this, this pain, I know it must be pain to you. 
I did not anticipate it.' 
' Why should it be pain to me ? ' inquired Diana steadily. 
' I know your feeling I would not have brought Clara 
into your presence ' 
' I am very glad to have seen her,' said Diana in the 
same quiet way, looking at Evan fixedly. ' I should have 
been glad to see more of her, and learn to know her. I 
could scarcely speak to her for the crowd around.' 
' Yes, she is a great favourite, and everybody is eager 
to see her before she goes.' 
' You are going away soon ? ' 
' yes ! to my post.' 
' I hope she will make you happy, Evan,' Diana said 
gently and cordially. 
' You are very good, I am sure. I don't want you to 
think, Diana, that I that I, in fact, have forgotten anything ' 
' You cannot forget too soon,' she answered smiling, 
 everything that Clara would not wish you to remember.' 
' A fellow is so awfully lonely out there on the frontiers ' he said mumbling his words through his moustache 
in a peculiar way. 
' You will not be lonely now, I hope.' 
' You see, Di,' you were lost to me. If I could only 
think of you as happy ' 
' You may.' 
'Happy?' he repeated, looking at her. He had 
avoided her eyes until now. 
' Yes.' 
 
' Then you have forgotten ? ' 
' One does not forget,' said Diana, with again a grave 
smile. ' But I have ceased to look back sorrowfully.' 
' But you are married ' 
Then light flushed into Diana's face. She understood 
Evan's allusion. 
' Yes,' she said, ' to somebody who has my whole 
heart.' 
' But you are married to Mr. Masters ? ' he went on 
incredulously. 
' Certainly. And I love my husband with all the strength 
there is in me to love. I hope your wife will love you as 
well,' she added with another smile, a different one, which 
was exceedingly aggravating to the young man. No 
other lips could wreathe so with such a mingling of softness 
and strength, love, and yes, happiness. Captain Knowlton had seen smiles like that upon those lips once, long 
ago, never a brighter or more confident one. He felt 
unaccountably injured. 
' You did not speak so when I saw you last,' he remarked. 
' No. I was a fool,' said Diana with somewhat unreasonable perverseness. ' Or, if I was not a fool, I was weak.' 
' I see you are strong now,' said the young officer bitterly. ' I was never strong; and lam weak still. I have 
not forgotten, Diana.' 
' You ought to forget, Evan,' she said gently. 
' It's impossible ! ' said he, hastily turning over photo- 
graphs on the table. 
Diana would have answered, but the opportunity was 
gone. Other people came near ; the two fell apart from 
each other, and no more words were interchanged between 
them. 
 
It grieved but did not astonish Basil to perceive when 
he joined Diana in their own room that night, that she had 
been weeping; and it only grieved him to know that the 
weeping was renewed in the night. He gave no sign that 
he knew it, and Diana thought he was asleep through it all. 
Tears were by no means a favourite indulgence with her 
this night the spring of them seemed to be suddenly 
unsealed, and they flowed fast and free and were not to 
be checked. Neither did Diana quite clearly know what 
moved them. She was very sorry for Evan ; yes, but these 
tears she was shedding were not painful tears. It came 
home to her, all the sorrowful waiting months and years 
that Basil had endured on her account ; but sympathy was 
not a spring large enough to supply such a flow. She was 
glad those months were ended ; yet they were not ended, 
for Basil did not know the facts she had stated with so 
much clearness tohiswhilome rival ; she had not told himself, and he did not guess them. ' He might,' said Diana 
to herself, ' he ought ' at the same time she knew now 
there was something for her to do. How she should do 
it, she did not know. 
CHAPTER XXXVII. 
THEY returned to Pleasant Valley that day, and Basil 
was immediately plunged in arrears of business. For the 
present Diana had to attend to her mother, whose con- 
versation was anything but agreeable after she learned that 
her son-in-law had accepted the call to Mainbridge. 
' Ministers are made of stuff very like common people, 
she declared. ' Every one goes where he can get the most.' 
' You know Mr. Masters has plenty already, mother ; 
plenty of his own.' 
' Those that have most already are always the ones that 
want more. I've seen that a thousand times. If a man's 
property lies in an onion, he'll likely give you half of it 
if you want it ; if he's got all Pleasant Valley, the odds are 
he won't give you an onion.' 
Diana would have turned the conversation, but Mrs. 
Starling came back to the subject. 
' What do you suppose you are going to do with me ? ' 
' Mother, that is for you to choose. You know, where- 
ever we are, there's a home for you if you will have it.' 
' It's a pleasure to your husband to have me too, ain't 
it?' 
' It is always a pleasure to him to do what is right.' 
' Complimentary ! You have grown very fond of him, 
haven't you ? all of a sudden.' 
But this subject Diana would not touch. Not to her 
mother Not to any one, till the person most concerned 
knew the truth ; and most certainly after that not to any 
one else. Evan had been told ; there had been a reason ; 
she was glad she had told him. 
' What do you suppose I'd do in Mainbridge ? ' Mrs. 
Starling went on. 
' There is plenty to do, mother. It is because there is 
so much to do, that we are going.' 
' Dressing and giving parties. I always knew your husband held himself above our folks. He'll be suited there.' 
This tried Diana, it was so very far from the truth. She 
fled the field. It was often the safest way. But she was 
very sorry for her mother. She went to Basil's study, 
where now no one was, and sat down by the window that 
looked into the garden. There Rosy presently caught 
sight of her ; came to her, and climbed up into her lap ; 
and for a good while the two entertained one another ; the 
child going on in wandering sweet prattle, while the 
mother's thoughts, though she answered her, kept a deeper 
current of their own all the while. She was pondering as 
she sat there and smelled the roses in the garden and talked 
to the small Rose in her lap, she was pondering what she 
should do to let her husband know what she now knew 
about herself. One would say, the simplest way would be, 
to tell him ! but Diana, with all her simplicity and sweetness, had a New England nature ; and though she could 
speak frankly enough when spoken to, on this or any other 
subject, she shrank from volunteering revelations that were 
not expected of her ; revelations that were so intimate and 
belonged to her very inner self ; and that concerned be- 
sides so vitally her relations with another person, even 
though that person were her husband. At the mere thought 
of doing it, the colour stirred uneasily in Diana's face 
 
Why could not Basil divine ? Looking out into the garden, 
both mother and child, and talking very busily one of them, 
thinking very busily the other, neither of them heard Basil 
come in. 
' Where's papa ? ' Rosy was at the moment asking, in 
a tone sufficiently indicating that in her view of things he 
had been gone long enough. 
' Not very far off ' was the answer, close behind them. 
Rosy started and threw herself round towards her father, 
and Diana also started and looked up ; and in her face not 
less than in the little one there was a flash and a flush of 
sudden pleasure. Basil stooped to put his lips to Rosy's, 
and then, reading more than he knew in Diana's eyes, he 
carried the kiss to her lips also. It was many a day since 
he had done the like, and Diana's face flushed more and 
more. But Basil had taken up Rosy into his arms and was 
interchanging a whole harvest of caresses with her. Diana 
turned her looks towards the garden and felt ready to burst 
into tears. Could it be that he was proud, and intended 
to revenge upon her the long avoidance to which in days 
past she had treated him ? Not like what she knew of 
Mr. Masters, and Diana was aware she was unreasonable ; 
but it was sore and impatient at her heart and she wanted 
to be in Rosy's place. And Basil the while was thinking, 
whether by his unwonted caress he had grieved or dis- 
tressed his wife ! He touched her shoulder gently and said, 
' Forgive me ! ' 
' Forgive you what ? ' said Diana looking round. 
' My taking an indulgence, that perhaps I should not 
have taken.' 
' You are very much mistaken, Basil,' said Diana rising ; 
and her voice trembled and her lips quivered. She thought 
he was rather cruel now. 
 
' But I have troubled you ? ' he said looking earnestly at 
her. 
Diana hesitated and the quiver of her lips grew more 
uncontrollable. ' Not in the way you think,' she an- 
swered. 
' How then ? ' he asked gently. ' But I have troubled 
you. How, Di ? ' 
The last two words were spoken with a very tender, 
gentle accentuation, and they broke Diana down. She laid 
one hand on her husband's arm and the other, with her 
face in it, on his shoulder, and burst into tears. 
I do not know what there is in the telegraphy of touch 
and look and tone ; but something in the grip of Diana's 
hand and in her action altogether, wrought a sudden change 
in BasiFand brought a great revelation. He put his little 
girl down out of his arms and took his wife in them. And 
for minutes there was no word spoken ; and Rosy was too 
much astonished at the strange motionless hush they maintained to resent at first her own dispossession and the great 
slight which had been done her. 
There had come a honey bee into the room, by mistake, 
and not finding there what he expected to find, he was flying about and about, trying in vain to make his way to 
something more in his line than books ; and the soft buzz 
of the creature was the only sound to be heard ; till Rosy 
began to complain. She did not know what to make of 
the utter stillness of the two figures beside her, who stood 
like statues ; was furthermore not a little jealous of see- 
ing what she considered her own prerogative usurped by 
another ; and finally began an importunate petitioning to 
be taken up again. But Rosy's voice, never neglected before, was not heard to-day. Neither of them heard it. 
The consciousness that was nearest was overpowering, and 
barred out every other. 
 
' Diana ' said Basil at last in a whisper, and she looked 
up, all flushed and trembling, and did not meet his eyes. 
Neither did she take her hand from his shoulder ; they had 
not changed their position. 
' Diana, what are you going to say to me ? ' 
' Haven't I said it ? ' she answered with a moment's 
glance and smile ; and then between smiles and tears her 
head sank again. 
' Why did you never tell me before ? ' he said with a 
breath that was almost a sob, and at the same time had a 
somewhat imperative accent of demand in it. 
' I did not know myself.' 
' And now ? ' 
' Now ? ' repeated Diana half laughing. 
' Yes, now ; what have you got to tell me ? ' 
' Do you want me to tell you what you know already? ' 
' You have told me nothing, and I do not feel that I 
know anything till you have told me,' he said in a lighter 
tone. ' Hallo, Rosy ! what's the matter ? ' 
For Rosy, seeing herself entirely to all appearance 
supplanted, had now broken out into open lamentations, too 
heartfelt to be longer disregarded. Diana gently released 
herself and stooped down and took the child up, perhaps 
glad of a diversion ; but Rosy instantly stretched out her 
arms imploringly to go to her father. 
' I was jealous of her, a little while ago,' Diana remarked as the exchange was made. 
But at that word, Basil set the child, scarcely in his 
arms, out of them again on the floor ; and folding Diana 
in them anew, paid her some of the long arrear of caresses 
so many a day withheld. Ay, it was the first time he had 
known he might without distressing her ; and no doubt lips 
can do no more silently to reveal a passion of affection, 
 
than these did then. If Basil had had a revelation made 
to him, perhaps so did Diana ; but I hardly think Diana 
was surprised. She knew something of the depths 
and the contained strength in her husband's character ; 
but it is safe to say, she would never be jealous of Rosy 
again ! Not anything like these demonstrations had ever 
fallen to Rosy's share. 
Anything meanwhile prettier than Diana's face it would 
be difficult to see. Flushing like a girl, her lips wreathing 
with smiles, tear drops hanging on the eyelashes still, but 
with flashes and sparkles coming and going in the usually 
quiet grey eyes. Dispossessed Rosy on the floor meanwhile looked on in astonishment so great that she even 
forgot to protest. Basil looked down at her at last and 
laughed. 
' Rosy has had a lesson,' he said picking her up. ' She 
will know her place henceforth. Come, Di, sit down and 
talk to me. How came this about ? ' 
' I don't know, Basil,' said Diana meekly. 
' Where did it begin ? ' 
' I don't know that either. O begin ? I think the beginning was very long ago, when I learned to honour you 
so thoroughly.' 
' Honour is very cold work ; don't talk to me about 
honour,' said Basil. ' I have fed and supped on honour, 
and felt very empty ! ' 
' Well you have had it ' said Diana contentedly. 
' Go on. When did it change into something else ? ' 
' It has not changed ' said Diana mischievously. 
' When did you begin to give me something better ? ' 
' Do you know, Basil, I cannot tell ? I was not conscious 
myself of what was going on in me. : 
' When ? ' 
 
' Perhaps since soon after I came home from Clifton. 
It had not begun then ; how soon it began after, I cannot 
tell. It was so gradual.' 
' When did you discover a change ? ' 
' I felt it I hardly discovered it a good while ago, I 
think. But I did not in the least know what it was. I 
wished, Basil, it is very odd ! ' and the colour rose in 
Diana's cheeks, ' I wished, that I could love you.' 
The minister smiled, and there was a suspicious drop in 
his eyes, which I think to hide, he stooped and kissed Rosy. 
' Go on. When did you come to a better understandin: 
' I don't think I recognized it, until I told mother not 
a great while ago, that I cared for nobody in the world but 
you ; but that was different ; I meant something different ; 
I do not think I recognized it fully, until you will think 
me very strange, until I saw Evan Knowlton.' 
'And then ? ' said Basil with a quick look at his wife. 
Diana's eyes were dreamily going out of the window, and 
her lips wore the rare smile which had vexed Evan, and 
which he himself had never seen on them before that day. 
