word, I'm tempted to propose something very 
ridiculous." 
Constance, uneasily : " Yes ? What is that ? " 
Bartlett: "That you 'll let me try to guess you 
out. I Ve failed so miserably in my own case, that 
I feel quite encouraged." 
 
Constance, morbidly : " I 'm not worth the trouble 
of guessing out." 
Bartlett :  ' That means no. You always mean 
no by yes, because you can't bear to say no. That 
is the mark of a very deep and darkling nature. 
I feel that I could go on and read your mind per- 
fectly, but I 'm afraid to do it. Let 's get back to 
myself. I can't allow that you've failed to read 
my mind aright ; I think you were careless about it. 
Will you give your intuitions one more chance ? " 
Constance, with an anxious smile : " Oh, yes." 
Bartlett : " All those traits and tastes which we 
both find so unexpected in me are minor matters at 
the most. The great test question remains. If 
you answer it rightly, you prove yourself a mind- 
reader of wonderful power ; if you miss it The 
question is simply this : Do I like smoking ? " 
Constance, instantly, with a quick, involuntary 
pressure of her handkerchief to her delicate nos- 
trils : " Oh, yes, indeed ! " 
Bartlett, daunted and reddening : " Miss Wyatt, 
you have been deluding me. You are really a 
mind-reader of great subtlety." 
 
Constance: "I don't know I can't say that it 
was mind-reading exactly." She lifts her eyes to 
his, and in his embarrassment he passes his hand 
over his forehead and then feels first in one pocket 
and then in the other for his handkerchief; sud- 
denly he twitches it forth, and with it a pipe, half 
a dozen cigars, and a pouch of smoking tobacco, 
which fly in different directions over the floor. As 
he stoops in dismay and sweeps together these 
treasures, she cries: "Oh, it didn't need all that to 
prove it ! " and breaks into a wild, helpless laugh, 
and striving to recover herself with many little 
moans and sighs behind her handkerchief, laughs 
on and on: "Oh, don't! I oughtn't ! Oh dear, oh 
dear ! " When at last she lies spent with her re* 
luctant mirth, and uncovers her face, Bartlett is 
gone, and it is her mother who stands over her, 
looking down at her with affectionate misgiving. 
 III. 
MRS. WYATT and CONSTANCE. 
Mrs. Wyatt : " Laughing, Constance ? " 
Constance, with a burst of indignant tears : " Yes, 
yes! Isn't it shocking? It's horrible! He made 
me." 
Mrs. Wyatt: "He?" 
Constance, beginning to laugh again: "Mr. 
Bartlett; he's been here. Oh, I wish I wouldn't 
be so silly ! " 
Mrs. Wyatt: " Made you ? How could he make 
you laugh, poor child ? " 
Constance : " Oh, it's a long story. It was all 
through my bewilderment at his resemblance. It,, 
confused me. I kept thinking it wag he, as if it 
were some dream, and whenever this one men- 
tioned some trait of his that totally differed from 
his, don't you know, I got more and more confused,* 
 
and mamma ! " with sudden desolation "I 
know he knows all about it ! " 
Mrs. Wyatt : " I am sure he doesn't. Mr. Cum- 
min gs only told him that his resemblance was a 
painful association. He assured your father of 
this, and wouldn't hear a word more. I 'm cer- 
tain you 're wrong. But what made you think he 
knows ? " 
Constance, solemnly : " He behaved just as if he 
didn't." 
Mrs. Wyatt : " Ah, you can't judge from that, my 
dear." Impressively : " Men are very different." 
Constance, doubtfully : " Do you think so, mam- 
ma?" 
Mrs. Wyatt: " I 'm certain of it." 
Constance, after a pause : " Mamma, will you 
help take this shawl off my feet ? I am so warm. 
I think I should like to walk about a little. Can 
you see the island from the gallery ? " 
Mrs. Wyatt : " Do you think you M better try to 
leave your chair, Constance?" 
Constance : " Yes, I 'm stronger this morning. 
And I shall never gain, lounging about this way.'  
 
She begins to loose the wraps from her feet, and 
Mrs. Wyatt coming doubtfully to her aid she is 
presently freed. She walks briskly toward the 
sofa, and sits down quite erectly in the corner of it. 
"There! that 's pleasanter. I get so tired of be- 
ing a burden." She is silent, and then she begins 
softly and wearily to laugh again. 
Mrs. Wyatt, smiling curiously: "What is it, Con- 
stance ? I don't at all understand what made you 
laugh." 
Constance: "Why, don't you know? Several 
times after I had been surprised that he didn't like 
this thing, and had ri't that habit and the other, he 
noticed it, and pretended that it was an attempt at 
mind-reading, and then all at once he turned and 
said I must try once more, and he asked, < Do I 
like smoking?' and I said instantly,  Oh, yes!' 
Why, it was like having a whole tobacconist's 
shop in the same room with you from the moment 
he came in ; and of course he understood what I 
meant, and blushed, and then felt for his handker- 
chief, and pulled it out, and discharged a perfect 
volley of pipes and tobacco, that seemed to be 
 
tangled up in it, all over the floor, and then I be- 
gan to laugh so silly, so disgusting, so perfectly 
flat! and I thought I should die, it was so ridic- 
ulous ! and Oh, dear, I 'm beginning again ! " 
She hides her face in her handkerchief and leans 
her head on the back of the sofa: "Say some- 
thing, do something to stop me, mother!" She 
stretches an imploring left hand toward the elder 
lady, who still remains apparently but half con- 
vinced of any reason for mirth, when General 
Wyatt, hastily entering, pauses in abrupt irresolu- 
tion at the spectacle of Constance's passion. 
IV. 
GENERAL WYATT, CONSTANCE, and MRS. WYATT. 
Constance: "Oh, ha, ha, ha! Oh, ha, ha, ha, 
ha!" , 
General Wyatt: "Margaret! Constance!" At 
the -sound of his voice, Constance starts up with a 
little cry, and stiffens into an attitude of ungracious 
silence, without looking at her father, who turns 
with an expression of pain toward her mother. 
. Mrs. Wyatt: "Yes, James. We were laughing 
at something Constance had been telling me about 
Mr. Bartlett. Tell your father, Constance." 
Constance coldly, while she draws through her 
hand the handkerchief which she has been pressing 
to her eyes: "I don't think it would amuse papa." 
She passes her hand across her lap, and does not 
lift her heavy eyelashes. 
Mrs. Wyatt, caressingly: "Oh, yes, it would; 
I 'm sure it would." 
 
Constance: "You can tell it then, mamma." 
Mrs. Wyatt : " No ; you, my dear. You tell it so 
funnily; and" in a lower tone "it's so long 
since your father heard you laugh." 
Constance: "There was nothing funny in it. It 
was disgusting. I was laughing from nervousness." 
Mrs. Wyatt: "Why, Constance" 
General Wyatt: Never mind, Margaret. An- 
other time will do." He chooses to ignore the cold- 
ness of his daughter's bearing toward himself. "I 
came to see if Constance were not strong enough 
to go out on the lake this morning. The boats are 
very good, and the air is so fine that I think she 'll 
be the better for it. Mr. Bartlett is going out to 
the island to sketch, and " 
Constance : " I don't care to go." 
Mrs. Wyatt: " Do go, my daughter! I know it 
will do you good." 
Constance : " I am not strong enough." 
Mrs. Wyatt : " But you said you were better, 
just now ; and you should yield to your father's 
judgment." 
Constance : " I will do whatever papa bids me." 
 
General Wyatt: "I don't bid you. Margaret, I 
think I will go out with Mr. Bartlett. We will be 
back at dinner." He turns and leaves the room 
without looking again at Constance. 
V. 
CONSTANCE and MRS. WYATT ; then BARTLETT. 
Mrs. Wyatt : " Oh, Constance ! How can you 
treat your father so coldly ? You will suffer some 
day for the pain you give him ! " 
Constance : " Suffer ? No, I 'm past that. I Ve 
exhausted my power of suffering."  
Mrs. Wyatt: "You haven't exhausted your 
power of making others suffer." 
Constance, crouching listlessly down upon the 
sofa: "I told you that I lived only to give pain. 
But it 's my fate, not my will. Nothing but that 
can excuse me." 
Mrs. Wyatt, wringing her hands : " Oh, oh ! Well, 
then, give me pain if you must torment somebody. 
But spare your father, spare the heart that loves 
you so tenderly, you unhappy girl." 
Constance, with hardness : " Whenever I see 
 
papa, my first thought is, If he had not been so 
harsh and severe, it might never have happened ! 
What can I care for his loving me when he hated 
him ? Oh, I will do my duty, mother ; I will 
obey ; I have obeyed, and I know how. Papa 
can't demand anything of me now that isn't easy. 
I have forgiven everything, and if you give me 
time I can forget. I have forgotten. I have been 
laughing at something so foolish, it ought to make 
me cry for shame." 
Mrs. Wyatt : " Constance, you try me beyond all 
endurance ! You talk of forgiving, you talk of 
forgetting, you talk of that wretch ! Forgive him, 
forget him, if you can. If he had been half a man, 
if he had ever cared a tithe as much for you as for 
himself, all the hate of all the fathers in the world 
could not have driven him from you. You talk of 
obeying " 
Mary, the serving woman, flying into the room : 
" Oh, please, Mrs. Wyatt ! There are four men 
carrying somebody up the hill. And General Wy- 
att just went down, and I can't see him anywhere, 
and " 
 
Mrs. Wyatt : " You 're crazy, Mary ! He hasn't 
been gone a moment ; there isn't time ; it can't be 
he ! " Mrs. "Wyatt rushes to the gallery that over- 
looks the road to verify her hope or fear, and then 
out of one of the doors into the corridor, while 
Constance springs frantically to her feet and runs 
toward the other door. 
Constance : " Oh, yes, yes ! It 's papa ! It 's 
my dear, good, kind papa ! He 's dead ; he 's 
drowned ; I drove him away ; I murdered him ! 
Ah-h-h-h!" She shrinks back with a shriek at 
sight of Bartlett, whose excited face appears at the 
door : " Go ! It was you, you who made me hate 
my father! You made me kill him and now I 
abhor you! I" 
Bartlett: "Wait! Hold on! Wfcat is it all?" 
Constance : " Oh, forgive me ! I didn't mean 
I didn't know it was you, sir ! But where is he? 
Oh, take me to him! Is he dead?" She seizes his 
arm, and clings to it trembling. 
Bartlett: "Dead? No, he isn't dead. He was 
knocked over by a team coming behind him down 
the hill, and was slightly bi*uised. There 's no 
 
cause for alarm. He sent me to tell you ; they 've 
carried him to your rooms." 
Constance: "Oh, thank Heaven!" She bows 
her head with a sob, upon his shoulder, and then 
lifts her tearful eyes to his : " Help me to get to 
him ! I am weak." She totters and Bartlett me- 
chanically passes a supporting arm about her. 
"Help me, and don't don't leave me!" She 
moves with him a few paces toward the door, her 
head drooping; but all at once she raises her face 
again, stares at him, stiffly releases .herself, and with 
a long look of reproach walks proudly away to 
the other door, by which she vanishes without a 
word. 
Bartlett) remaining planted, with a bewildered 
glance at his empty arm : " Well, I wonder who 
and what and where I am ! " 
III. 
NOT AT ALL LIKE. 
BARTLETT and CUMMINGS. 
Bartlett : " Six weeks since you were here ? I 
shouldn't have thought that." Bartlett's easel 
stands before the window, in the hotel parlor ; he 
has laid a tint upon the canvas, and has retired a 
few paces for the effect, his palette and mahl-stick 
in hand, and his head carried at a critical angle. 
Cummings, who has been doing the duty of art- 
culture by the picture, regards it with renewed in- 
terest. Bartlett resumes his work : " Pretty good, 
Cummings ? " 
Cummings : " Capital ! The blue of that dis- 
tance " 
Bartlett with a burlesque sigh : " Ah, I looked 
into my heart and painted for that! Well, you 
find me still here, Cummings, and apparently more 
at home than ever. The landlord has devoted this 
 
parlor to the cause of art, makes the transients 
use the lower parlor, now, and we have this all 
to ourselves: Miss Wyatt sketches, you know. 
Her mother brings her sewing, and the General his 
bruises ; he hasn't quite scrambled up, yet, from 
that little knock-down of his ; a man doesn't, at 
his time of life, I believe ; and we make this our 
family-room ; and a very queer family we are ! 
Fine old fellow, the General ; he 's behaved himself 
since his accident like a disabled angel, and hasn't 
sworn, well, anything worth speaking of. Yes, 
here I am. I suppose it 's all right, but for all I 
know it may be all wrong." Bartlett sighs in un- 
guarded sincerity, "I don't know what I 'm here 
for. Nature began shutting up shop a fortnight 
ago at a pretty lively rate, and edging loafers to 
the door, with every sign of impatience ; and yet, 
here I am, hanging round still. I suppose this 
glimpse of Indian Summer is some excuse just 
now ; it 's a perfect blessing to the landlord, and 
