for payment. We had a neighbor who never paid his 
coal-bill until the next summer, when he ordered his new 
coal. The butcher and grocer and clothier said, “He’s 
good; but he’s awful hard to get money out of : ” and 
so they seldom asked him. I used to wonder if prompt 
paToent was the reason every bill came in so promptly 
to father. He was always saying, “Next week such a 
thing comes due, next month there is such a bill to pro- 
vide for ; ” and the planning for it was a continual anxiety. 
He did not belong to the class of people who can take 
things easy when there is a debt at the end. 
After his first fever, he had insured his life. It was 
considerable to pay ; but it was best that mother should 
have a little ready money if any thing happened. 
CHAPTER X. 
Thrift, thrift, Horatio ! ” — Hamlet. 
“ Chiefly that I may set it in my prayers. ” — Teivipest. 
One night early in the new year, I was awakened by 
mother’s voice, — 
“Children, — Chris and Theo, — will you get up right 
away ? ’ ’ 
How preternaturally clear the voice sounded ! 
I was out of bed in an instant. “ O mother ! what is 
it? ” I cried in wild affright. 
“Your father, dear. I think he is beginning with the 
fever again. Come down stairs at once.” 
I hurried on a wrapper, and ran down. There was 
papa, all dressed, looking for his hat.” 
“ Bessie,” he was saying with great apparent calmness, 
“ I must go in and get it. Why, you have no idea ! It 
will save me now, and make a rich man of me. That 
stupid express-driver took it into Mr. Mercer’s cellar. He 
will understand as soon as I tell him. There is a million 
of dollars in the box ; but no one knows it. It came 
through the Union lines marked, ‘Glass.’ Ha, ha! It 
was managed so nicely ! I shall not tell Mr. Mercer what 
is in the box ; for we are all bound by our oaths to keep 
the secret. A million apiece, think of it ! No more 
worries about business, hey, Chrissy ! And here is mother 
trying to persuade me not to go in.” 
He looked as I imagined a somnambulist might ; and 
yet he groped his way about in a curious, listening fash- 
ion. 
“Wait till morning,” pleaded mamma. “You could 
not lift a heavy box alone.” 
“ Mercer will help me. It isn’t necessary to tell him 
what is in the box.” 
‘ ‘ lie will think strange of your coming in the middle of 
the night.” 
“ Night ! Bessie, have you lost your senses ! Why, it 
is broad dajdight. But I don’t wonder, poor little woman, 
you’ve had so many worries. A million will cure them 
all, and make you see straight.” 
“Chris,” she whispered, “go ring at the Mercers’ 
door, and tell him. Bring him in here.” 
How cold and crisp and starry it was ! I travelled 
round half the constellations, it seemed to me, while I 
was waiting. 
Mr. Mercer put his head out of the window, inquired, 
came down, and accompanied me back. He looked like 
one dazed, as father explained the matter to him. 
“ Are you sure it’s fever? ” in an aside to mother. “ I 
should say he had gone insane. But let him come in. 
There’s nothing there, of course ; but he will be satisfied.” 
They went together. Mamma, Theo, and I huddled 
in each other’s arms, and drew long, frightened breaths. 
“ If it only is fever ! ” whispered Theo. 
“ And if Archie were here ! Or if little Joe had lived ! 
But other mothers have given babies to God, and sons to 
their country. O girls ! I ought to be brave.” 
“ We will be sons to you, little mother;” and Theo’s 
voice rang out clear and inspiriting. “ I think God, who 
is so tender of little Joe up in heaven, will care for us 
here.” 
Father came back with Mr. Mercer, looking exceedingly 
puzzled about not finding the box. The only solution he 
could offer was, that it had been buried. 
 
“ Now, you take things easj" here on the sofa,’ Mr. 
Mercer said, with a little side wink to mother, “ and I’ll 
go down town. I know where I can find two stout labor- 
ers ; and we will have that cement up in a jiflTy . Of course 
the box is buried there.” 
“You see, Bessie, he knows all about it,” continued 
father solemnly. Indeed, I felt as if I must laugh. 
“ I’ll run for Dr. Sheldon,” in a whisper. 
Father went on talking. His face was only slightly 
flushed, and he did not seem excited. This treasure had 
been found in the South by some negi’oes, and they had 
informed ten men at the North, of whom father was one. 
After much trouble and planning, it had been taken up, 
divided, and sent around ; but why the expressman should 
have buried it in Mr. Mercer’s cellar, he could not 
understand. 
It was about an hour before Dr. Sheldon came. The 
clock in the sitting-room struck five. 
He hstened to mother’s story. 
‘ ‘ Has he been feverish ? Have you noticed any thing 
not quite right about him ? ’ ’ 
“He has been a good deal worried, and spent several 
evenings at the store until very late. His appetite has 
not been very good ; but I did so hope ’ ’ — 
“ So did I, after winter had set in. It’s the business : 
he must give it up, and have a rest. But we will make 
another big fight now. Had you not better have a 
nurse ? ’ ’ 
“No, doctor: thinking how the nurse would get paid 
would woiTy me more than to do it myself. But oh ! are 
you sure it’s the fever? ” she asked tremulously 
“ It is a fever. There, be moderate now.” 
Then he went over to father, persuaded him to go up 
stairs and to bed. There were fever-drops and an ano- 
dyne. 
Dayhght was dawning, — a clear, bright winter morn- 
ing : every thing seemed joj’oiis too. I couldn’t get it 
out of my mind, — the strange, prophetic belief, — that 
father was to come through it all, and recover. 
“ Chris,” said Theo that night, “I mean to give up 
school. I am not specially ambitious about graduating ; 
for I couldn’t teach, I know. I am beginning to have 
those dreadful headaches again ; and mother will want 
some one right along. Then there will be spring sewing, 
and all.” 
‘ ‘ But you will not give up your music ? ’ ’ 
“ It is best not to have the noise of practising now : so 
I will put off the lessons for a while. There, now, go 
off, hke a good girl, and do not worry.” 
There were three very anxious weeks. Somehow we 
had come to look upon a fever pure and simple as quite 
a boon compared with any phase of brain-disease. It 
hardly seemed like the wildness of fever-delirium, it was 
so coherent, and the ideas were so like actual occurrences. 
Neighbors and friends were very kind ; but kindest of 
all was Horace Sargent : he dropped in every evening, 
and sat up at night. Mother said he was as good as a 
doctor. 
I did not do any nursing. Theo decided, in her busi- 
ness-like way, that I must save myself for school. 
The second week, father’s book-keeper and foreman 
came up one evening. After the ordinary matters were 
talked over, he said to mother, — 
“ I told Mr. Durant the last of December that I should 
probably go away. My brother-in-law is in Washington, 
and has been looking out for me all the fall. Last week 
he sent word : he has secured the position. It will be 
worth from two to three thousand a year to me ; and I 
have been engaged three years, waiting for a prospect 
good enough to marry on. I don’t feel that I could give 
up this, though I am sorry enough to go away while Mr. 
Dui'ant is so poorly. I must send a decisive answer 
 
to-morrow, and be in Washington by the first of Febru- 
ary.” 
“ Can you think of any one to take your place, Mr. 
Armstrong ? ’ ’ 
“ I don’t know. Let me see,” thoughtfully. ‘‘ There 
is a young man we used to have in the store, Luther 
Grover. He enlisted, but had rheumatism so severely that 
he was discharged some weeks ago. I might see him.” 
“If you would. Some one must be there.” 
Still he lingered, talking the matter over, as if he had 
not said all. 
“ Can you think of any thing else,” ventured mother. 
“ I did want to say ; but you can’t tell me, Mrs. Durant 
— and I don’t know what to do. We will just have to let 
them take their course.” 
“ Them? Who? ” cried mother in alarm. 
“ The bank. Here are two notes that must be taken 
up to-morrow, or go to protest.” 
Mother reached out her hand for them mechanically ; 
but Mr. Armstrong hesitated. 
“I tried all day yesterday and to-day. The business is 
on such a precarious footing now. Something may come 
to-morrow. I had better keep them.” 
“Oh, yes ! What is the latest moment? ” 
“ Three. The bank closes then.” 
“ Yes,” with a faint smile. “ If I can do any thing, I 
will be at the store by two. It hurts a man’s credit very 
much to have a note protested, doesn’t it? ” 
“ Oh ! one can five through it, Mrs. Durant.” 
The next morning mother went down to see uncle 
Frank. If he could accommodate her with the loan of 
six hundred and fifty dollars she would see him made 
secure. 
Uncle Frank cleared his throat two or three times, and 
began several incoherent explanations. The only money 
they had was in the bank, in aunt Hetty’s name, and 
whether sTied he willing ; for of course Bessie knew they 
lost all their first savings lending it to her uncle, and since 
then she’d been queer and particular about it. If Ste- 
phen was willing — 
Stephen Miller came in, brusque and business-like, and 
listened in his unsympathetic manner. 
No, they couldn’t. He had uses for his money daily. 
He was sorry Mr. Durant was sick again. 
“ I’ll try Hetty, and send you word,” whispered uncle 
Frank kindly. “ Bessie, I’d do it in a minute, if it was in 
my hands. Joe and I have always seemed so near ! ” 
“ If you can, be at the store by two,” said mother. 
But at heart she had no hope. 
She went down herself at that hour. Mr. Armstrong 
had hunted up Luther Grover, who walked with a cane, 
but was well enough in brain and hands. He would be 
glad to come. 
Moment after moment ; half-past two, and no uncle 
Frank. 
“Ah, Mrs. Durant ! Why, how is Mr. Durant ? " 
It was Mr. Sargent. 
“ There has been no change since last evening,” said 
mother, trying to steady her voice. 
He sat down beside her. There was some new trouble, 
he knew. Could it be want of money? 
He walked over to Mr. Armstrong, and made a few in- 
quiries, as a man can do of a man. Then he took the 
notes, and went down to the bank. 
That evening he and mother talked it over. He offered 
to look through the business, and see what he thought of 
it. 
“ Oh, how good he is ! ” said mother. “ He is one of 
the people who rest you. You feel as if you had laid down 
a burthen, or been on the top of some high mountain, 
where the air was sweet and bracing.” 
It was true enough. How, I cannot tell; but I knew 
 
the man cared for me. He was not half as free with me 
as with Theo. Men, as a general thing, liked me ; but they 
went straight to love with Theo, child as she was. I had 
thought at first that he would : now I saw their natures 
ran in parallel lines, and were not likely to touch each oth- 
er with any quick thrill of subtle knowledge. Yet he was 
friendly, not lover-like. He came at no stated times, he 
always asked us out together. I had no fear on the score 
of position. He was not the man to think work of any 
kind lowered a woman. “Not what the man did, what 
he became,” he quoted one night, in one of the talks that 
interested me so much. And I had a kind of pride in 
not hurrying matters. I liked to walk slowly along, to 
gather here and there a flower, to watch the stars come 
out one by one, knowing how the heavens would look by 
and by. 
The fever was broken. There were several days of 
almost mortal weakness, then the convalescence began. 
But years and anxiety were beginning to tell upon papa. 
“You must go away, and have an entire change,” de- 
clared Dr. Sheldon. “Six months at least, or you will 
never be good for any thing again. — How is the busi- 
ness?” to mother. 
“ It is just as bad as it can be,” said father despond- 
ingly. “And I must get up, and put on the harness, 
and try to battle through.” 
“Durant, it is just this, — rest, or a few years of 
alternate sickness, and a state too miserable to be called 
health, with death at the end. A man can’t struggle 
through every thing ; and we doctors can’t do to any ad- 
vantage, if our patient keeps undoing. A six-months’ rest 
at any sacrifice.” 
Mamma talked the business over with Mr. Sargent ; 
and then Dr. Sheldon was called into council. 
“ I should give up the business, and start a clear man. 
You may sacrifice the house now, to tide matters over, 
and another year may be as bad. That the war is draw- 
ing to a close is beyond a doubt ; but as a nation we shall 
be fearfully in debt. Every thing will have to be taxed 
to the uttermost. The nearer a man is out of debt, the 
luckier he will be. And staging here, keeping at it, is 
only slow suicide. I tell you so in all honesty.” 
It troubled father very much, kept him weak and de- 
spondent. There was no use of appealing to Frank or 
Robert. 
“ But to see the work of your lifetime go,” he said 
with a sigh. 
“ Better that than life and health,” returned mamma. 
‘‘ Though I would be willing to sell the house, if it would 
save you.” 
When papa could get about, a meeting of the creditors 
was called, and a statement laid before them. There was 
a good deal of stock on hand, but no demand for it. Two 
of the largest creditors pressed for their money. One 
was going to Europe, to remain for years. 
It was decided at last to make an assignment, and sell 
out the stock. Part of it was taken to a neighboring 
town. There was enough to meet all claims. Mr. Sar- 
gent’s kindly note was settled, and the doctor’s bill 
paid, and then we looked our future square in the face. 
There was the house, with its mortgage of two thousand 
dollars, and just five hundred beside. There was my sal- 
ary of three hundred and fifty. Father was still ver}- 
feeble. The least exertion seemed to exhaust all his 
strength. 
He wrote to uncle James, and received a very cordial 
letter, inAuting him to come. 
“You must go, and stay at least three months. And 
then you must travel around three months more. You 
have never had a good long holiday in your life. It has 
been nothing but work.” 
“What will you do, Bessie?” with a faint, yearning 
smile. 
 
‘ ‘ I’ll manage, never you fear. I ought to be a professor 
of economy by this time.” 
