" Well, one good poet has been highfaluten then 
before me. Don't you remember, Maggie, something your uncle was repeating one day ? I have 
never forgotten it 

" 'My soul into the boughs does glide.' 

It is an odd feeling but it makes me very rich for 
the present. This is the loveliest place ! And now 
you shall have the Hermannsburg church. So Pas 
tor Harms writes: 

" 'It is a great thing indeed, and a beautiful 
thing, to know somewhat of the origin and of 
the history of the church in which one worships 
and serves God. When I step into our church, 
whether it be for holding divine service or that I
may pray there alone, every time, I feel my whole 
inmost soul stiued. The very walk to the church 
through the church-yard is edifying to me. The 
church at the beginning was situated upon a little 
eminence, so that it was needful to mount several 
steps to get to the church doors. Now one must 



 

go down several steps from the church-yard to reach 
the entrance of the church. How comes that! 
Since the year 972 the church-yard has been the 
place of burial. The dust of those laid within it 
has raised the ground level, till now the church 
lies lower than the church-yard. A hill has grown 
out of the dust of the dead, and over this hill I 
go into the church. Does not this walk of itself 
preach in the most impressive way: "Put thine 
house in order, man, for thou must die ! " Then 
when I step inside the church, what a new sermon 
I get ! Since 972 years after Christ, therefore since 
880 years ago, men have worshipped there the 
Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost; have sung 
in his honour the church's songs of praise; have 
thither brought their children to be baptized ; have 
heard the preaching of the divine word there, have 
eaten and drunk the emblems of the body and blood 
of the Lord there, have bowed their knees there, 
where now I bow mine ! It always seems to me 
then, as if the veil were parted which divides the 
church up yonder from the church down below. 
Where I am, here have those who are fallen asleep 
once been and worshipped; and where they are 
now, thither shall I go also. So in blessed faith I 
can cry out, " A holy Christian church ! " Not a 
place in the world is so dear to me as the church, 
my beloved church. I have no paternal mansion ; 
for I am the son of a pastor, and pastors leave no 
inheritance for their children; and yet I have a 
Father's house, the best there is in the world, my 



 

beloved church ; truly that is God's house, and God 
is my Father, and so it is justly and truly my home. 
" ' And how wonderfully God has guarded this 
house of his. What wars have raged since this 
house has been standing, and it has remained un 
injured. Since the thirty years' war, Hermannsburg 
has been four times burned down ; this house has 
remained standing. Twice lightning has struck 
the tower, and so shattered the foundations that 
only a little turret stands now upon the riven walls 
instead of the slender one-hundred-and-eighty-feet- 
high spire which was there before ; but the church 
remained untouched. The interior has been altered; the many-coloured paintings on the arched 
vault of the ceiling are gone; the many-coloured 
galleries have disappeared; in the body of the 
church itself gallery over gallery mounts up to the 
vaulted ceiling, to give accommodation for the 
hearers; but the church itself has remained unchanged. And when I think of the blessings that 
have gone forth from this house, what churches, 
chapels, and cloisters have sprung from here, in 
Bergen, in Wiezendorf, in Munster, in Muden, and 
the chronicle mentions many more; yes, when I 
remember how from the castles founded by Hermann on the Oerze and Wieze, the castellans of 
Oerze and Wiezendorf marched out, so early as with 
Duke Bernhard, to help bring the heathen people 
of Lauenburg and Mechlenburg to Christianity; 
must not then the zeal of my forefathers kindle 
my own zeal to bring the Lord's blessing, his word 



 

and his sacraments, to the heathen, to the very 
ends of the earth? And now that seems no longer 
strange to me, "which seems strange to so many, 
that we from this place should have undertaken to 
send out a peasant mission. It has not been our 
own doing; it has come from our church and our 
history. Did the peasant's son Hermann become 
duke of Saxony; was the blessing of Christianity 
carried from here into all the region round about, 
even into the countries on the other side of the 
Elbe ? why should not Hermann's peasant church 
preach among the heathen the Saviour who has 
been their own so long? May such a primeval 
blessing only make us right thankful, right humble, right kind and loving, only zealous and fer 
vent in spirit. We see well enough that the Lord 
can use little things ; therefore let nobody despise 
us because we are small, and let us have the joy 
of serving the Lord with our insignificant gifts 
and strength, as well as we can. It is written 
in the Scripture, "Destroy it not, for a blessing is 
in it!"' 

Meredith ceased reading, and there was a silent 
pause of a few minutes. Crochet needles worked 
busily; Maggie sat pondering; Meredith lay back 
on his elbow on the moss and looked down at the 
river. Here and there the soft-pointed top of a 
young cedar rose up between, not hindering, only 
as it were embellishing the view. In the silence, 
when the strokes of the wood-cutters halted, little 
sweet sounds broke in, every one of them coming 



 

like a caress or a murmur of rest; two crows slowly flying over and calling to each other, some crickets chirruping nearer by, a little gentle rustle and 
lapping of the water, then a bugle call from the 
post opposite. Clouds hardly moved ; winds were 
asleep; the air, fragrant with the breath of the 
evergreens, scarcely stirred, luxuriously warm and 
still. The colouring, too, in which all nature 
had dressed herself, gave another touch of delight 
through every object which the eye rested on. 

"What a sky!" said Meredith. "And what air! 
It's wonderful." 

"Ditto," began Maggie, "have they a mission in 
Hermannsburg ? " 

" Yes. They have a mission in Africa." 

"Why is it a 'peasant mission,' and what does 
that mean ? " 

"Why, you see, Maggie, the whole people of 
Hermannsburg are just a parcel of peasants, part 
in the village, and part I believe, farming it here 
and there on the Luneburg heath.. They are poor 
people; small farmers and the like. They have 
not much money to give; but when Pastor Harms 
had been with them a while and proposed to them 
to set about mission work, a dozen men offered 
themselves to go. They were already so filled with 
his own spirit." 

"And did they go?" 

" They had to be put to school first. They were 
too ignorant to instruct the heathen or anybody. 
So they were set to study, under Pastor Harms' 



 

brother, for three years. While they were studying, Pastor Harms undertook building a ship which 
should carry them to Africa. The ship and the men 
were ready together about the same time." 

" They could not have been a very poor people, 
I should think," said Flora. 

"They were, though; but you see, they began 
by giving themselves to the Lord; and when people do that I guess they generally find that there 
is a good deal else to give. they were poor 
enough ; but it would cost a great deal, you know, 
to pay their passage in a ship belonging to other 
people, and the freight on all the goods they must 
carry ; for they were going out not merely to preach, 
but to establish a colony and live among the hea 
then. And then, whenever new recruits for the 
mission were sent out, the expense would have to 
be incurred over again ; so they thought the cheapest way in the end would be to build their own 
ship." 

"And they did build it ? " said Maggie. 

"Certainly. The good ship 'Candace.' And everybody helped in some way. The shoemakers 
made shoes, and the tailors made clothes, to go out 
with the mission; the women knitted and sewed. 
Do you want to hear what Pastor Harms says 
about it?" 

"Oyes, Ditto, please!" 

"Yes, read on anything," said Flora. 

"Two men of the first twelve had died, and 
two others had proved false. Eight left; to whom 



 

another eight joined themselves, who would go out 
as colonists. Now I will read : 

" ' So by God's grace, everything was ready. 
And now one should have seen the busy industry, 
the lively expectation, the gleesome bustle, as the 
last hand, I may say, was put to everything. In 
the Mission house, what learning and counselling 
and arranging; in the workshops belonging to it, 
what smith-work and cabinet-work and tailoring; 
how our women and girls sewed! Our village 
shoemaker worked with his might at the foot-gear 
to be taken along; our village cooper did the same 
at the great water casks for the ship ; my brother 
went out with the mission pupils in leisure hours 
and picked berries which were to be taken along. 
Here people brought dried apples, pears and plums; 
there buckwheat and buckwheat groats ; here rye, 
flour, peas, wheat; there sides of bacon, hams, and 
sausages. Then again house-furnishing articles, 
tools, heather brooms, trumpets and horns, even 
live hogs and poultry, and even potatoes were 
hauled along and all was to go. Even a fir-tree 
with its roots was planted in a large pot filled with . 
earth, in order that on the ocean the travellers 
might light up a Christmas tree. Then again 
came packages of linen made up, and of stuff. * 
And there was a great deal that never came to 
Hermannsburg. Whatever was prepared on the 
other side of the Elbe, in Hamburg, Lubeck, Haide, 
etc., was kept in Hamburg, and we never saw it at 
all. In Hamburg alone there were handed over 



 

from female friends of the Mission, one hundred 
and twenty-eight cotton shirts, all finished and 
ready; from Haide forty striped shirts for the natives ; from Lubeck and Mechlenburg, besides beautiful under-linen, all sorts of pictures and little 
things for the heathen; from some children here 
came writing boxes, pens, and writing books for 
the heathen children. Also from here, from Osnabruck, Schaumburg, Luneburg, Bremen and neighbourhood, whole rolls of linen cloth. There was a 
stir and spring of love that moved people's hearts. 
Every one of the emigrants was to take a guri with 
him, for in East Africa there are a great many wild 
beasts, lions, elephants, serpents, etc. Scarcely had 
this become known, when guns, rifles, double-barrelled rifles, pistols and daggers came in, till we 
had enough to leave some for a future party that 
might be sent out. Then would come our harbour-master, or our captain, from Harburg, to arrange this or that; then our pupils journeyed to 
Harburg to bring money for the ship. One hardly 
knew where his head was.' " 

"Well, did they go to Africa, Ditto ? " 
"The colonists and missionaries; yes, sixteen of 
them." 

" Whereabouts in Africa ? " 

" The east coast, about Natal." 

" I haven't the least idea where Natal is." 

"You would do well to look it out on the map." 

" And are they there yet, Ditto ? " 

" They went in the year 1853. It is not likely 



 

they are all there now. But others followed them, 
Maggie, year after year, till now there are, I believe, 
between twenty and thirty stations where they are 
settled." 

"All from Hermannsburg ! Ditto, it is very 
curious! So many years ago, Hermann's castles 
sent out soldiers to bring heathen Mechlenburg to 
the Christian religion ; and now Mechlenburg gives 
shirts and pictures for Hermannsburg to send to 
other heathen in Africa." 

"What sort of heathen people are those they went 
to ? " Esther asked. 

