




It seems to be agreed that civilization is kept up 
only by a constant effort. Nature claims its own 
speedily when the effort is relaxed. If you clear a 
patch of fertile ground in the forest, uproot the stumps 
and plant it, year after year, in potatoes and maize, 
you say you have subdued it. But if you leave it 
for a season or two, a kind of barbarism seems to steal 
out upon it from the circling woods ; coarse grass and 
brambles cover it ; bushes spring up in a wild tangle ; 
the raspberry and the blackberry flower and fruit, 
and the humorous bear feeds upon them. The last 
state of the ground is worse than the first. 

Perhaps the cleared spot is called Ephesus. 
There is a splendid city on the plain ; there are tem- 
ples and theatres on the hills ; the commerce of the 
world seeks its port ; the luxury of the Orient flows 
through its marble streets. You are there one day 
when the sea has receded: the plain is a pestilent 
marsh ; the temples, the theatres, the lofty gates, have 
sunken and crumbled, and the wild-brier runs over 
them ; and, as you grow pensive in the most desolate 
place in the world, a bandit lounges out of a tomb, 
and offers to relieve you of all that which creates arti- 
ficial distinctions in society. The higher the civil- 
ization has risen, the more abject is the desolation 
of barbarism that ensues. The most melancholy spot 





in the Adirondacks is not a tamarack-swamp, where 
the traveller wades in moss and mire, and the at- 
mosphere is composed of equal active parts of black- 
flies, mosquitos, and midges. It is the village of the 
Adirondack Iron- Works, where the streets of gaunt 
houses are falling to pieces, tenantless; the factory- 
wheels have stopped ; the furnaces are in ruins ; the 
iron and wooden machinery is strewn about in help- 
less detachment ; and heaps of charcoal, ore, and slag 
proclaim an arrested industry. Beside this deserted 
village, even Calamity Pond, shallow, sedgy, with its 
ragged shores of stunted firs, and its melancholy shaft 
that marks the spot where the proprietor of the iron- 
works accidentally shot himself, is cheerful. 

The instinct of barbarism that leads people periodi- 
cally to throw away the habits of civilization, and 
seek the freedom and discomfort of the woods, is ex- 
plicable enough ; but it is not so easy to understand 
why this passion should be strongest in those who 
are most refined, and most trained in intellectual 
and social fastidiousness. Philistinism and shoddy 
do not like the woods, unless it becomes fashionable 
to do so ; and then, as speedily as possible they in- 
troduce their artificial luxuries, and reduce the life in 
the wilderness to the vulgarity of a well-fed picnic. 
It is they who have strewn the Adirondacks with 
paper collars and tin cans. The real enjoyment of 
camping and tramping in the woods lies in a return 
to primitive conditions of lodging, dress, and food, in 
as total an escape as may be from the requirements of 
civilization. And it remains to be explained why this 
is enjoyed most by those who are most highly civilized. 
It is wonderful to see how easily the restraints of so- 
ciety fall off. Of course it is not true that courtesy 





depends upon clothes with the best people ; but, with 
others, behavior hangs almost entirely upon dress. 
Many good habits are easily got rid of in the woods. 
Doubt sometimes seems to be felt whether Sunday is a 
legal holiday there. It becomes a question of casuistry 
with a clergyman whether he may shoot at a mark on 
Sunday, if none of his congregation are present. He 
intends no harm : he only gratifies a curiosity to see if 
he can hit the mark. Where shall he draw the line ? 
Doubtless he might throw a stone at a chipmunk or 
shout at a loon. Might lie fire at a mark with an 
air-gun that makes no noise ? He will not fish or 
hunt on Sunday (although he is no more likely to 
catch anything that day than on any other) ; but 
may he eat trout that the guide has caught on Sun- 
day, if the guide swears he caught them Saturday 
night ? Is there such a thing as a vacation in reli- 
gion ? How much of our virtue do we owe to inher- 
ited habits ? 

I am not at all sure whether this desire to camp 
outside of civilization is creditable to human nature, 
or otherwise. We hear sometimes that the Turk has 
been merely camping for four centuries in Europe. 
I suspect that many of us are, after all, really camp- 
ing temporarily in civilized conditions ; and that 
going into the wilderness is an escape, longed forp 
into our natural and preferred state. Consider what 
this " camping out " is, that is confessedly so agreeable 
to people most delicately reared. I have no desire 
to exaggerate its delights. 

The Adirondack wilderness is essentially unbroken. 
A few bad roads that penetrate it, a few jolting 
wagons that traverse them, a few barn-like boarding- 
houses on the edge of the forest, where the boarders 





are soothed by patent coffee, and stimulated to unnat- 
ural gayety by Japan tea, and experimented on by 
unique cookery, do little to destroy the savage f ascina* 
tion of the region. In half an hour, at any point, one 
can put himself into solitude and every desirable dis- 
comfort. The party that covets the experience of the 
camp comes down to primitive conditions of dress and 
equipment. There are guides and porters to carry 
the blankets for beds, the raw provisions, and the 
camp equipage ; and the motley party of the tempo- 
rarily decivilized files into the woods, and begins, per- 
haps by a road, perhaps on a trail, its exhilarating and 
weary march. The exhilaration arises partly from 
the casting aside of restraint, partly from the adven- 
ture of exploration ; and the weariness, from the in- 
terminable toil of bad walking, a heavy pack, and the 
grim monotony of trees and bushes, that shut out all 
prospect, except an occasional glimpse of the sky. 
Mountains are painfully climbed, streams forded, 
lonesome lakes paddled over, long and muddy '' car- 
ries " traversed. Fancy this party the victim of polit- 
ical exile, banished by the law, and a more sorrowful 
march could not be imagined ; but the voluntary 
hardship becomes pleasure, and it is undeniable that 
the spirits of the party rise as the difficulties increase. 
For this straggling and stumbling band the world is 
young again ; it has come to the beginning of things ; 
it has cut loose from tradition, and is free to make a 
home anywhere : the movement has all the promise of 
a revolution. All this virginal freshness invites the 
primitive instincts of play and disorder. The free 
range of the forests suggests endless possibilities of 
exploration and possession. Perhaps we are treading 
where man since the creation never trod before ; per- 





haps the waters of this bubbling spring, which we 
deepen by scraping out the decayed leaves and the 
black earth, have never been tasted before, except by 
the wild denizens of these woods. We cross the trails 
of lurking animals, — paths that heighten our sense 
of seclusion from the world. The hammering of the 
infrequent woodpecker, the call of the lonely bird, the 
drumming of the solitary partridge, — all these sounds 
do but emphasize the lonesomeness of nature. The 
roar of the mountain brook, dashing over its bed of 
pebbles, rising out of the ravine, and spreading, as it 
were, a mist of sound through all the forest (contin- 
uous beating waves that have the rhythm of eternity 
in them), and the fitful movement of the air-tides 
through the balsams and firs and the giant pines, — 
how these grand symphonies shut out the little exas- 
perations of our vexed life ! It seems easy to begin 
life over again on the simplest terms. Probably it is 
not so much the desire of the congregation to escape 
from the preacher, or of the preacher to escape from 
himself, that drives sophisticated people into the wil- 
derness, as it is the unconquered craving for primitive 
simplicity, the revolt against the everlasting dress* 
parade of our civilization. From this monstrous pom- 
posity even the artificial rusticity of a Petit Trianon ^ 
is a relief. It was only human nature that the jaded 
Frenchman of the regency should run away to the 
New World, and live in a forest-hut with an Indian 
squaw ; although he found little satisfaction in his act 
of heroism, unless it was talked about at Versailles. 

When our trampers come, late in the afternoon, to 
the bank of a lovely lake where they purpose to enter 
the primitive life, everything is waiting for them in 

^ A little palace near the royal one at Versailles. 





virgin expectation. There is a little promontory jut- 
ting into the lake, and sloping down to a sandy beach, 
on which the waters idly lapse, and shoals of red-fins 
and shiners come to greet the stranger ; the forest is 
untouched by the axe; the tender green sweeps the 
water's edge ; ranks of slender firs are marshalled by 
the shore ; clumps of white-birch stems shine in satin 
purity among the evergreens; the boles of giant 
spruces, maples, and oaks, lifting high their crowns of 
foliage, stretch away in endless galleries and arcades ; 
through the shifting leaves the sunshine falls upon 
the brown earth ; overhead are fragments of blue sky ; 
under the boughs and in chance openings appear the 
bluer lake and the outline of the gracious mountains. 
The discoverers of this paradise, which they have en- 
tered to destroy, note the babbling of the brook that 
flows close at hand ; they hear the splash of the leap- 
ing fish ; they listen to the sweet, metallic song of the 
evening thrush, and the chatter of the red squirrel, 
who angrily challenges their right to be there. But 
the moment of sentiment passes. This party has come 
here to eat and to sleep, and not to encourage Nature 
in her poetic attitudinizing. 

The spot for a shanty is selected. This side shall 
be its opening, towards the lake ; and in front of it 
the fire, so that the smoke shall drift into the hut, and 
discourage the mosquitoes ; yonder shall be the cook's 
fire and the path to the spring. The whole colony 
bestir themselves in the foundation of a new home, — 
an enterprise that has all the fascination, and none of 
the danger, of a veritable new settlement in the wil- 
derness. The axes of the guides resound in the echo- 
ing spaces ; great trunks fall with a crash ; vistas are 
opened towards the lake and the mountains. The 





spot for the shanty is cleared of underbrush; forked 
stakes are driven into the ground, cross-pieces are 
laid on them, and poles sloping back to the ground. 
In an incredible space of time there is the skeleton of 
a house, which is entirely open in front. The roof 
and sides must be covered. For this purpose the 
trunks of great spruces are skinned. The woodman 
rims the bark near the foot of the tree, and again six 
feet above, and slashes it perpendicularly ; then, with 
a blunt stick, he crowds off this thick hide exactly as 
an ox is skinned. It needs but a few of these skins 
to cover the roof ; and they make a perfectly water- 
tight roof, except when it rains. Meantime, busy 
hands have gathered boughs of the spruce and the 
feathery balsam, and shingled the ground underneath 
the shanty for a bed. It is an aromatic bed : in the- 
ory it is elastic and consoling. Upon it are spread 
the blankets. The sleepers, of all sexes and ages, are 
to lie there In a row, their feet to the fire, and their 
heads under the edge of the sloping roof. Nothing 
could be better contrived. The fire is in front : it is 
not a fire, but a conflagration — a vast heap of green 
logs set on fire — of pitch, and split dead-wood, and 
crackling balsams, raging and roaring. By the time 
twilight falls, the cook has prepared supper. Every- 
thing has been cooked in a tin pail and a skillet, — 
potatoes, tea, pork, mutton, slapjacks. You wonder 
how everything could have been prepared in so few 
utensils. When you eat, the wonder ceases : every- 
thing might have been cooked in one pail. It is a 
noble meal ; and nobly is it disposed of by these ama- 
teur savages, sitting about upon logs and roots of 
trees. Never were there such potatoes, never beans 
that seemed to have more of the bean in them, 





never such curly pork, never trout with more In- 
dian-meal on them, never mutton more distinctly 
sheepy ; and the tea, drunk out of a tin cup, with a 
lump of maple-sugar dissolved in it, — it is the sort 
of tea that takes hold, lifts the haii^ and disposes the 
drinker to anecdote and hilariousness. There is no 
deception about it : it tastes of tannin and spruce and 
creosote. Everything, in short, has the flavor of the 
wilderness and a free life. It is idyllic. And yet, 
with all our sentimentality, there is nothing feeble 
about the cooking. The slapjacks are a solid job of 
work, made to last, and not go to pieces in a per- 
son's stomach like a trivial bun : we might record on 
them, in cuneiform characters, our incipient civiliza- 
tion; and future generations would doubtless turn 
them up as Acadian bricks. Good, robust victuals 
are what the primitive man wants. 

Darkness falls suddenly. Outside the ring of light 
from our conflagration the woods are black. There 
is a tremendous impression of isolation and lonesome- 
ness in our situation. We are the prisoners of the 
night. The woods never seemed so vast and mysteri- 
