ever ; Gertrude, very serious , trying to smile. 

"I don't believe you know my name," he said. 
" I am called Felix Young. Your father is my 
uncle. My mother was his half sister, and older 
than he." 

" Yes," said Gertrude, " and she turned Roman 
Catholic and married in Europe." 

" I see you know," said the young man. " She 
married and she died. Your father's family did n't 
like her husband. They called him a foreigner ; 
but he was not. My poor father was born in 
Sicily, but his parents were American." 



   

" In Sicily ? " Gertrude murmured. 

" It is true," said Felix Young, " that they had 
spent their lives in Europe. But they were very 
patriotic. And so are we." 

" And you are Sicilian," said Gertrude. 

" Sicilian, no ! Let 's see. I was born at a 
little place a dear little place in France. 
My sister was born at Vienna." 

" So you are French," said Gertrude. 

" Heaven forbid ! " cried the young man. Ger- 
trude's eyes were fixed upon him almost insist- 
ently. He began to laugh again. " I can easily 
be French, if that will please you." 

" You are a foreigner of some sort," said Ger- 
trude. 

" Of some sort yes ; I suppose so. But who 
can say of what sort? I don't think we have 
ever had occasion to settle the question. You 
know there are people like that. About their 
country, their religion, their profession, they can't 
tell." 

Gertrude stood there gazing ; she had not asked 
him to sit down. She had never heard of people 
like that ; she wanted to hear. " Where do you 
live?" she asked. 

" They can't tell that, either ! " said Felix. I 
am afraid you will think they are little better 
than vagabonds. I have lived anywhere every- 



 

where. I really think I have lived in every city 
in Europe." Gertrude gave a little long soft exhalation. It made the young man smile at her 
again ; and his smile made her blush a little. To 
take refuge from blushing she asked him if, after 
his long walk, he was not hungry or thirsty. Her 
hand was in her pocket ; she was fumbling with 
the little key that her sister had given her. " Ah, 
my dear young lady," he said, clasping his hands 
a little, " if you could give me, in charity, a glass 
of wine ! " 

Gertrude gave a smile and a little nod, and 
went quickly out of the room. Presently she 
came back with a very large decanter in one hand 
and a plate in the other, on which was placed a 
big, round cake with a frosted top. Gertrude, 
in taking the cake from the closet, had had a 
moment of acute consciousness that it composed 
the refection of which her sister had thought that 
Mr. Brand would like to partake. Her kinsman 
from across the seas was looking at the pale, high- 
hung engravings. When she came in he turned 
and smiled at her, as if they had been old friends 
meeting after a separation. "You wait upon me 
yourself ? " he asked. " I am served like the 
gods ! " She had waited upon a great many peo- 
ple, but none of them had ever told her that. The 
observation added a certain lightness to the step 



   

with which she went to a little table where there 
were some curious red glasses glasses covered 
with little gold sprigs, which Charlotte used to 
dust every morning with her own hands. Ger- 
trude thought the glasses very handsome, and it 
was a pleasure to her to know that the wine was 
good ; it was her father's famous madeira. Felix 
Young thought it excellent ; he wondered why 
he had been told that there was no wine in Amer- 
ica. She cut him an immense triangle out of the 
cake, and again she thought of Mr. Brand. Felix 
sat there, with his glass in one hand and his huge 
morsel of cake in the other eating, drinking, 
smiling, talking. " I am very hungry," he said. 
" I am not at all tired ; I am never tired. But I 
am very hungry." 

" You must stay to dinner," said Gertrude. 
" At two o'clock. They will all have come back 
from church ; you will see the others." 

" Who are the others ? " asked the young man. 
" Describe them all." 

" You will see for yourself. It is you that must 
tell me ; now, about your sister." 

" My sister is the Baroness Miinster," said 
Felix. 

On hearing that his sister was a Baroness, Ger- 
trude got up and walked about slowly, in front 
of him. She was silent a moment. She was think- 



 

ing of it. " Why did n't she come, too ? " she 
asked. 

" She did come ; slie is in Boston, at the hotel." 

" We will go and see her," said Gertrude, look- 
ing at him. 

" She begs you will not ! " the young man re- 
plied. " She sends you her love ; she sent me to 
announce her. She will come and pay her respects 
to your father." 

Gertrude felt herself trembling again. A Bar- 
oness Minister, who sent a brilliant young man to 
" announce " her ; who was coming, as the Queen 
of Sheba came to Solomon, to pay her " respects " 
to quiet Mr. Wentworth such a personage presented herself to Gertrude's vision with a most 
effective unexpectedness. For a moment she 
hardly knew what to say. "When will she 
come ? " she asked at last. 

"As soon as you will allow her to-morrow. 
She is very impatient," answered Felix, who 
wished to be agreeable. 

" To-morrow, yes," said Gertrude. She wished 
to ask more about her ; but she hardly knew what 
could be predicated of a Baroness Minister. " Is 
she is she married ? " 

Felix had finished his cake and wine ; he got 
up, fixing upon the young girl his bright, express- 
ive eyes. " She is married to a German prince 




Prince Adolf, of Silberstadt-Schreckenstein. 
He is not the reigning prince ; he is a younger 
brother." 

Gertrude gazed at her informant ; her lips were 
slightly parted. " Is she a a Princess ? " she 
asked at last. 

" Oh, no," said the young man ; " her position 
is rather a singular one. It 's a morganatic mar- 
riage." 

" Morganatic ? " These were new names and 
new words to poor Gertrude. 

" That 's what they call a marriage, you know, 
contracted between a scion of a ruling house and 

and a common mortal. They made Eugenia a 
Baroness, poor woman ; but that was all they 
could do. Now they want to dissolve the marriage. Prince Adolf, between ourselves, is a 
ninny; but his brother, who is a clever man, has 
plans for him. Eugenia, naturally enough, makes 
difficulties ; not, however, that I think she cares 
much she 's a very clever woman ; I 'm sure 
you 'll like her but she wants to bother them. 
Just now everything is en Vair." 

The cheerful, off-hand tone in which her visitor 
related this darkly romantic tale seemed to Ger- 
trude very strange; but it seemed also to convey 
a certain flattery to herself, a recognition of her 
wisdom and dignity. She felt a dozen impressions 



 

stirring within her, and presently the one that 
was uppermost found words. " They want to 
dissolve her marriage ? " she asked. 

" So it appears." 

" And against her will ? " 

" Against her right." 

" She must be very unhappy ! " said Gertrude. 

Her visitor looked at her, smiling ; he raised 
his hand to the back of his head and held it there 
a moment. " So she says," he answered. " That 's 
her story. She told me to tell it you." 

" Tell me more," said Gertrude. 

" No, I will leave that to her ; she does it bet- 
ter." 

Gertrude gave her little excited sigh again. 
" Well, if she is unhappy," she said, " I am glad 
she has come to us." 

She had been so interested that she failed to 
notice the sound of a footstep in the portico ; and 
yet it was a footstep that she always recognized. 
She heard it in the hall, and then she looked out 
of the window. They were all coming back from 
church her father, her sister and brother, and 
their cousins, who always came to dinner on Sun- 
day. Mr. Brand had come in first ; he was in 
advance of the others, because, apparently, he was 
still disposed to say what she had not wished him 
to say an hour before. He came into the parlor, 



   

looking for Gertrude. He had two little books in 
his hand. On seeing Gertrude's companion he 
slowly stopped, looking at him. 

" Is this a cousin ? " asked Felix. 

Then Gertrude saw that she must introduce him ; 
but her ears, and, by sympathy, her lips, were 
full of all that he had been telling her. " This is 
the Prince," she said, " the Prince of Silberstadt- 
Schreckenstein ! " 

Felix burst out laughing, and Mr. Brand stood 
staring, while the others, who had passed into the 
house, appeared behind him in the open door-way. 




THAT evening at dinner Felix Young gave his 
sister, the Baroness Miinster, an account of his 
impressions. She saw that he had come back in 
the highest possible spirits ; but this fact, to her 
own mind, was not a reason for rejoicing. She 
had but a limited confidence in her brother's judg- 
ment ; his capacity for taking rose-colored views 
was such as to vulgarize one of the prettiest of 
tints. Still, she supposed he could be trusted to 
give her the mere facts ; and she invited him with 
some eagerness to communicate them. " I sup- 
pose, at least, they did n't turn you out from the 
door ; " she said. " You have been away some ten 
hours." 

" Turn me from the door ! " Felix exclaimed. 
" They took me to their hearts ; they killed the 
fatted calf." 

" I know what you want to say : they are a 
collection of angels." 

" Exactly," said Felix. " They are a collection of angels simply." 

" C'est bien vague," remarked the Baroness. 
" What are they like ? " 



" Like nothing you ever saw." 
