at me. 
" Your plans ? In what respect ? " 
"Well, my prospects, then?" 
" I should think they were very good prospects 
Mrs. Bowdoin thinks so." 
"Are you pleased?" 
"I, Olive? I do not see any special reason why 
I should be pleased." 
"It is something, to be brought into such a 
connection." 
"Is it?" said I, and I smiled. "I suppose I am 
thinking more of what I am losing than of what 
I am gaining. Didn't it occur to you that there 
were two sides to it?" 
" Were you very much surprised ? " 
 
"Yes, very," I said slowly. 
"I was not," said Olive, and she said it with a 
certain curious accent of assertion. "I knew it 
would come to that. And now," she went on rapidly, "the wedding is to be very soon; and I am 
very glad to have you at home, Desire. I would 
not send for you till I could not help it." 
She set up her broom, and I saw that the confidence between us went no further. Indeed, what 
more could there be to tell ? The common chatter 
of girls about love affairs, their own or other people's, actual or possible, had never been Olive's 
way or mine. I wanted to hear no details, and she 
had no thought of giving them. I went slowly up 
to my room and laid off my wrappers, and looked 
at the big chestnut trees in the meadow. Grand 
old things, how magnificent they were now even 
with all the summer glory gone ; each great bough 
bearing its drapery of snow, capped and outlined 
in white. There had been a slight snowfall already. 
How many years they had stood there, in heat and 
cold; and how the fragile generations of men had 
passed away before them. In like manner would 
our generation; and Olive, and Mr. Iredell, and I, 
would all be gone, and our aches and pains over. 
A cold philosophy this, to comfort anybody. There 
came a gentler thought from the chestnut trees ; a 
thought of the way in which they had grown into 
strength and ripened into beauty; and I remembered how often in the Bible Christians are likened 
to trees, so growing and flourishing. And there I 
 
broke down. A veil of tears hid the chestnut trees 
from my sight. I dropped on the floor, I believe, 
and had a sort of thunder-shower of weeping, which 
cleared the air. I put away my things after that ; 
changed my dress, and went down to see what 
there was first to do. I found grandmother seated 
in state in a wonderful easy chair; a new arrival. 
I kissed her, and began to set the table for supper. 
"So you've come home, Desire!" she said. " lius 
anybody asked you to be married ? " 
"No," I answered hastily. "At least, I mean, 
I have not promised anybody, and am not going 
to." 
" Somebody asked you, hey? Great deal better 
not, Desire. What do you think of Olive's venture?" 
Safe" said I. 
"She thinks so. My! ain't she set up. Did you 
see Mr. Iredell at the railroad?" 
"Yes." 
" He went early o purpose, that the wagon might 
bring you back. Olive told him he'd have to wait 
long spell, but he said he could wait better than 
you. He's a thoughtful man. Ha you looked at 
my cheer?" 
"Yes, grandma." 
" You did it flying then, for you hain't stopped. 
Look here, Desire; see; the back goes back and 
die bottom's on springs, and it's the roomiest thing 
that ever you see." 
"Just like him," I said. 
 
"But la! I'd rather have Olive to home, and 
let him keep his cheers. What'll you do with the 
house, all alone by yourself ? Is this the kind o 
cheer lie sits in at home ? " 
" Why no, grandmother ; this is a regular old 
lady's chair." 
"You said it was like him. What did you 
mean ? " 
"I meant that it was openhanded; kind, and 
generous." 
"Humph!" said grandma; " he's got Olive, and 
I don't think an easy cheer's much pay for her. 
Tain't to me. Anyhow, I'd rather be in something 
that would rock." 
" That sort of chair is never on rockers." 
"Well, I wish twas." 
I could see however that grandmother had a very 
great opinion of Mr. Iredell and thought very much 
of all he said and did. Too much for my comfort ; 
for his name came up every hour in the day. Not 
brought up by Olive ; to do her justice she is very 
quiet about him and all that concerns her new 
prospects ; but grandma refers to him and to them 
constantly. I bury myself in work all I can. 
Jan. 30, 18. 
IT is over, and Olive is gone. 
They arranged to have the wedding celebrated 
in Philadelphia. That is, Caroline and Olive arranged it ; I believe Mr. Iredell would have beer 
as well pleased to be married quietly here in dies 
terfield. Another thing however lie arranged; that 
grandmother should go to the wedding; and he 
prevented objections by sending along with his 
letter, (in which he rather took it for granted than 
made the request,) a piece of very handsome black 
silk. The letter was so gracefully pleasant that 
Olive's pride could not find any occasion of offence; 
and grandmother was delighted. I never saw her 
so pleased. Olive took it differently. 
" I wonder what ever has put such a notion into hia 
head!" she said, with the open letter in her hand. 
" He thought it would please grandma " I suggested. 
" Rather one-sided kindness," said Olive. " He 
did not ask whether it would please Caroline, or
whether it would please me." 
" Why should it not please Caroline ? " 
" She will want all the room her house has. He 
never thought of that. Men never do think of 
household possibilities, I suppose. She will need 
every bit of her spare room. She means to ask 
Mrs. Bowdoin." 
" Grandmother has the first right to be con 
sidered." 
"No; I have the first right," said Olive; "and 
Mr. Iredell might have consulted me before doing 
this. It is just like a man ! " 
"Not like many men," I could not help saying 
" It is very kind." 
 
"It is not very kind to me. What will grandma 
do in such a set of people, so unlike what she is 
used to ? And how is that dress ever to get made 
up, with all there is to do yet on mine ? " 
That was a consideration, I confess. However, 
I worked at the black by day and at the white by 
night; and after Olive left us, for she went first to 
Philadelphia, I had time to finish everything. All 
but a cap, which I knew I must get in Philadelphia. 
Grandma was in a state of glee which it was touch 
ing to see. Nothing, I suppose, in years had given 
her the pleasure this invitation gave. The honor 
of it, and the importance, .tickled her fancy greatly; 
and the black silk was a subject of constant self- 
gratulation. For me, I could have wished that 
any beneficent agency would have stolen away all 
my dresses, or called me unavoidably in some other 
direction, or done anything to hinder my taking 
part in the coming celebration. But those little 
convenient lifts over rough places rarely come to 
one's feet; they did not come to mine. Two days 
before the wedding, grandma and I packed ourselves into the cars and were rushed and whirled 
after the fashion of the nineteenth century over 
the miles that lay between us and our goal. Bet 
ter so, I suppose. A two weeks journey would 
have been harder to bear. What a long three 
days walk that must have been which Abraham 
took with Isaac ! I was sorry, and yet I was 
glad, when we steamed into the station at Philadelphia. 
 
Grandma and I occupied the same room at Caroline's, for though Mrs. Bowdoin was not there, other guests were; distant relations; and the house 
was full. I wondered that my sisters should de 
sire their presence, or anybody's presence, at such a 
time; but they and I were always wont to see things 
with different eyes. Grandma is very pleased. 
Grandma, of course, had been at half breath with 
astonishment all the way since we left home, it 
being her first railway journey; and Philadelphia 
was not calculated to restore her the free play of 
her lungs. 
"Ain't Caroline grown dreadful extravagant?" 
she began, when she had leisure to make remarks 
and we were alone. 
"People here do not live as we do in Chester 
field," I observed. 
"Well, they ain't obliged to; but there's reason 
in everythin . Why, Desire, this is a Brussels car 
pet, strong and good, and not faded nor worn, 
under my foot." 
" Yes," said I. " Well, what of that ? " 
"We're in the third story." 
"Yes, grandma. Caroline had to give her best 
room, she thought, to our cousins." 
"Tain't that, child; but ingrain's good enough 
when you get up to the third floor, or a good nice 
rag carpet either; or a bit of an old one, that's 
wore. Why, what has Caroline got on her parlour 
floor, I want to know?" 
"Something handsomer than Brussels." 
 
"Wnat sthat?" 
"They call it Axminster." 
"And is that the top of the ladder? " 
"0 no. There are Persian carpets, and Turkey 
carpets and Smyrna carpets ; much more costly, 
and more precious." 
"I should like to know, what's the sense of it?" 
said grandma discontentedly. "When you've got 
a good, strong, weH-wove rag carpet under your 
feet, you've got somethin as'll last and stay good, 
and be soft and warm and comfortable ; and what 
is the use o thro win down bank notes besides just 
to trample upon ? " 
" These carpets are handsomer, grandma." 
"I don't want nothin handsomer than a real 
good, well- wove rag carpet ! Sich a one as I had 
when I was first married ; striped with stripes of 
red and brown, and here and there a little speck 
of blue ; and it was warm and bright and had an 
excellent view. I call Caroline real wasteful. Are 
all these pictures hung up just for you and me? 
Don't she want em down stairs?" 
"There are plenty more down stairs; better 
ones." 
"There ain't no fault to these, as I kin see. The 
frames are beautiful, good enough for anywheres." 
"The pictures are not much, grandma." 
"What do you mean by not much ? " 
"I mean, they are not fine; not valuable. Caro 
line does not care for them particularly." 
"Why not? what ails em? I think they're 
 
elegant. There's nobody in Chesterfield has got 
better. I tell you, Caroline's got uplifted." 
" It is Philadelphia ways, grandma." 
" If that's so, then they ain't good ways. What's 
the use o spendin all you kin, to have nothin left 
at the end of it?" 
I think she went over nearly all the furniture 
of the room with the same sort of commentary. 
At last she got into bed, confessed that the bod 
was good, and sank immediately to sleep. Olive 
had begged me to come to her room when I was 
free. So I went. 
Well that grandma's eyes had not been called 
upon to do duty there ! The room was in a litter 
of dresses, shawls, lurs and laces. I stood aghast 
Olive's means were not sufficient to account for 
this display. 
"Yes, come in," she said laughing; "you are 
wondering at me. People have been very kind, 
Desire. Look most of these things are presents. 
Caroline asked what she should give me, and I 
told her I had nothing to wear; so she and Mr. 
Birkenstall have iust been hunting up pretty niceties for me. Look at that lace" putting an exquisite web into my hand, " that cost, I am afraid 
to tell you how much. Isn't it lovely ? And Mrs. 
Bowdoin sent that set of furs." 
I said little, wondering to myself if my sister 
understood her bridegroom, and if she were not 
harbouring expectations of a way of life which it 
would not be his purpose to lead. 
 
" I knew I should not want silver," she went on ; 
" it would be absurd to give me forks or teapots ; I 
did want something to dress myself in fittingly." 
"This looks, the room does, as if you expected 
to go into company a good deal," I remarked. 
" Must, of course. With Mr. Iredell's position. 
I am just expecting his gift, now; his wedding 
gift. I just hope it will be diamonds." 
" Olive ! " I cried. 
"What?" 
"Are you a Christian, and do you want dia 
monds ? " 
"A Christian, and do I want diamonds?" Olive 
repeated. "What has the one thing to do with 
the other?" 
"I do not know," said I. "That is what I asked 
you." 
"And why should not a Christian wear dia 
monds, and want them to wear ? " Olive asked 
coldly. " Don't you think Christians ought to 
dress according to their station ? " 
"Yes," said I; "as heirs of the kingdom of 
heaven." 
" How is that ? Is there any dress peculiar to 
them, as heirs ? " she said scornfully. 
" Yes, Olive ; because the heirs are servants also ; 
and servants must wear the dress that best fits 
their work." 
Olive was silent a little while, laying some articles into a trunk which stood open. I sat by the 
fire and took the view. The room was brightly 
lighted with gas; the warm glow of the fire was 
added to that, and gave its mellowing tint on all 
the riches scattered around. Laces and silks, and 
ribbands; parcels in brown paper; boxes of suggestive shapes and sizes; and in the midst of all, 
my sister's fine figure, busy and ordering, the mistress of the riches, the centre of the light. It 
seemed to me she ought to be very happy, for the 
warm glow of the room was not warmer or brighter 
than the prospect that was opening before her as 
Mr. Iredell's wife. It flashed across me, too, as 
irrelevant thoughts will at all sorts of times, how 
Olive had changed ; how little of the recluse country girl there was in her air or appearance. She 
looked and moved entirely fit to be Mr. Iredell's 
wife, I thought. And yet, she and I had lived in 
the mountains and seen little indeed of what is 
called the world. We had lived alone, in fact, and 
