drawn on the cloth, and funny boots on the shapeless legs. No other toys
appeared, but the girls sat on the floor of the great stone room,--for
there was no furniture,--playing contentedly with their poor dolls, and
smiling and nodding at "the little Americana," who gravely regarded this
sad spectacle, wondering how they could get on without china and waxen
babies, tea-sets, and pretty chairs and tables to keep house with.

The girls thought that she envied them their dolls, and presently one
came shyly up to offer two of their best, leaving the teacher to explain
in English their wish to be polite to their distinguished guest. Like
the little gentlewoman she was, Annie graciously accepted the ugly bits
of rag with answering nods and smiles, and carried them away with her as
carefully as if they were of great beauty and value.

But when she was at home she expressed much concern and distress at the
destitute condition of the children. Nothing but rags to play with
seemed a peculiarly touching state of poverty to her childish mind, and
being a generous creature she yearned to give of her abundance to "all
the poor orphans who didn't have any nice dollies." She had several pets
of her own, but not enough to go round even if she sacrificed them, so
kind grandmamma, who had been doing things of this sort all her life,
relieved the child's perplexity by promising to send twenty-five fine
dolls to Fayal as soon as the party returned to Boston, where these
necessaries of child-life are cheap and plenty.

Thus comforted, Annie felt that she could enjoy her dear Horta and Chica
Pico Fatiera, particular darlings rechristened since her arrival. A
bundle of gay bits of silk, cloth, and flannel, and a present of money
for books, were sent out to the convent by the ladies. A treat of little
cheeses for the girls to eat with their dry bread was added, much to
Annie's satisfaction, and helped to keep alive her interest in the
school of San Antonio.

After many pleasant adventures during the six months spent in the city,
our party came sailing home again all the better for the trip, and Annie
so full of tales to tell that it was a never-failing source of amusement
to hear her hold forth to her younger brother in her pretty way,
"splaining and 'scribing all about it."

Grandmamma's promise was faithfully kept, and Annie brooded blissfully
over the twenty-five dolls till they were dressed, packed, and sent away
to Fayal. A letter of thanks soon came back from the teacher, telling
how surprised and delighted the girls were, and how they talked of
Annie as if she were a sort of fairy princess who in return for two poor
rag-babies sent a miraculous shower of splendid china ladies with gay
gowns and smiling faces.

This childish charity was made memorable to all who knew of it by the
fact that three months after she came home from that happy voyage Annie
took the one from which there is no return. For this journey there was
needed no preparation but a little white gown, a coverlet of flowers,
and the casket where the treasure of many hearts was tenderly laid away.
All alone, but not afraid, little Annie crossed the unknown sea that
rolls between our world and the Islands of the Blest, to be welcomed
there, I am sure, by spirits as innocent as her own, leaving behind her
a very precious memory of her budding virtues and the relics of a short,
sweet life.

Every one mourned for her, and all her small treasures were so carefully
kept that they still exist. Poor Horta, in the pincushion arm-chair,
seems waiting patiently for the little mamma to come again; the two
rag-dolls lie side by side in grandma's scrap-book, since there is now
no happy voice to wake them into life; and far away in the convent of
San Antonio the orphans carefully keep their pretty gifts in memory of
the sweet giver. To them she is a saint now, not a fairy princess; for
when they heard of her death they asked if they might pray for the soul
of the dear little Americana, and the teacher said, "Pray rather for the
poor mother who has lost so much." So the grateful orphans prayed and
the mother was comforted, for now another little daughter lies in her
arms and kisses away the lonely pain at her heart.

      

The second small traveller I want to tell about lived in the same city
as the first, and her name was Maggie Woods. Her father was an
Englishman who came to America to try his fortune, but did not find it;
for, when Maggie was three months old, the great Chicago fire destroyed
their home; soon after, the mother died; then the father was drowned,
and Maggie was left all alone in a strange country.

She had a good aunt in England, however, who took great pains to
discover the child after the death of the parents, and sent for her to
come home and be cared for. It was no easy matter to get a five-years'
child across the Atlantic, for the aunt could not come to fetch her, and
no one whom she knew was going over. But Maggie had found friends in
Chicago; the American consul at Manchester was interested in the case,
and every one was glad to help the forlorn baby, who was too young to
understand the pathos of her story.

After letters had gone to and fro, it was decided to send the child to
England in charge of the captain of a steamer, trusting to the kindness
of all fellow-travellers to help her on her way.

The friends in Chicago bestirred themselves to get her ready, and then
it was that Annie's mother found that she could do something which would
have delighted her darling, had she been here to know of it. Laid
tenderly away were many small garments belonging to the other little
pilgrim, whose journeying was so soon ended; and from among all these
precious things Mrs. Percival carefully chose a comfortable outfit for
that cold March voyage.

The little gray gown went, and the red hood, the warm socks, and the
cosey wraps no longer needed by the quiet sleeper under the snow.
Perhaps something of her loving nature lingered about the clothes, and
helped to keep the orphan warm and safe, for Annie's great delight was
to pet and help all who needed comfort and protection.

When all was ready, Maggie's small effects were packed in a light
basket, so that she could carry it herself if need be. A card briefly
telling the story was fastened on the corner, and a similar paper
recommending her to the protection of all kind people, was sewed to the
bosom of her frock. Then, not in the least realizing what lay before
her, the child was consigned to the conductor of the train to be
forwarded to persons in New York who would see her safely on board the
steamer.

I should dearly like to have seen the little maid and the big basket as
they set out on that long trip as tranquilly as if for a day's visit;
and it is a comfort to know that before the train started, the persons
who took her there had interested a motherly lady in the young
traveller, who promised to watch over her while their ways were the
same.

All went well, and Maggie was safely delivered to the New York friends,
who forwarded her to the steamer, well supplied with toys and comforts
for the voyage, and placed in charge of captain and stewardess. She
sailed on the 3d of March, and on the 12th landed at Liverpool, after a
pleasant trip, during which she was the pet of all on board.

The aunt welcomed her joyfully, and the same day the child reached her
new home, the Commercial Inn, Compstall, after a journey of over four
thousand miles. The consul and owners of the steamer wanted to see the
adventurous young lady who had come so far alone, and neighbors and
strangers made quite a lion of her, for all kindly hearts were
interested, and the protective charity which had guided and guarded her
in two hemispheres and across the wide sea, made all men fathers, all
women mothers, to the little one till she was safe.

Her picture lies before me as I write,--a pretty child standing in a
chair, with a basket of toys on the table before her; curly hair pushed
back from the face, pensive eyes, and a pair of stout little feet
crossed one over the other as if glad to rest. I wish I could put the
photograph into the story, because the small heroine is an interesting
one, and still lives with the good aunt, who is very fond and proud of
her, and writes pleasant accounts of her progress to the friends in
America.

So ends the journey of my second small traveller, and when I think of
her safe and happy in a good home, I always fancy that (if such things
may be) in the land which is lovelier than even beautiful old England,
Maggie's mother watches over little Annie.




III.

A JOLLY FOURTH.


Door-step parties were the fashion that year, and it was while a dozen
young folks sat chatting on Annie Hadwin's steps in the twilight that
they laid the plan which turned out such a grand success in the end.

"For my part, I am glad we are to be put on a short allowance of
gunpowder, and that crackers are forbidden, they are such a nuisance,
burning holes in clothes, frightening horses, and setting houses afire,"
said sober Fred from the gate, where he and several other fellows were
roosting socially together.

"It won't seem a bit like a regular Fourth without the salutes three
times during the day. They are afraid the old cannon will kick, and blow
off some other fellow's arm, as it did last year," added Elly Dickens,
the beau of the party, as he pulled down his neat wristbands, hoping
Maud admired the new cuff-buttons in them.

"What shall we do in the evening, since the ball is given up? Just
because the old folks are too tired to enjoy dancing, we can't have any,
and I think it is too bad," said pretty Belle, impatiently, for she
danced like a fairy and was never tired.

"The authorities didn't dare to stop our races in the morning. There
would have been an insurrection if they had," called out long Herbert
from the grass, where he lay at the feet of black-eyed Julia.

"We must do something to finish off with. Come, somebody suggest a
new, nice, safe, and jolly plan for the evening," cried Grace, who liked
fun, and had just slipped a little toad into Jack Spratt's pocket as a
pleasant surprise when he felt for his handkerchief.

"Let us offer a prize for the brightest idea. Five minutes for
meditation, then all suggest a plan, and the best one shall be adopted,"
proposed Annie, glad to give a lively turn to her party.

All agreed, and sudden silence followed the chatter, broken now and
then by an exclamation of "I've got it! No, I haven't," which produced a
laugh at the impetuous party.

"Time's up," announced Fred, looking at "the turnip," as his big
old-fashioned watch was called. Every one had a proposal more or less
original, and much discussion followed; but it was finally decided that
Herbert's idea of floating about in boats to enjoy the fireworks on the
hill would be romantic, reposeful, and on the whole satisfactory.

"Each boat might have a colored lantern; that would look pretty, and
then there would be no danger of running into our neighbors in the
dark," said Annie, who was a little timid on the water in a wherry.

"Why not have lots, and make a regular 'feast of lanterns,' as they do
in China? I was reading about it the other day, and can show you how to
do it. Won't it be gay?" And Fred the bookworm nearly tumbled off his
perch, as an excited gesture emptied his pockets of the library books
which served as ballast.

"Yes! yes!" cried the other lads, with various demonstrations of
delight as the new fancy grew upon their lively minds.

"Fred and Annie must have the prize, for their idea is the most
brilliant one. Nan can give the flag to the winner of the race, and
'Deacon' can lead the boats, for I think it would be fine to have a
procession on the river. Fireworks are an old story, so let us surprise
the town by something regularly splendid," proposed Elly, fired in his
turn with a bright idea.

"We will! we will!" cried the rest, and at once plunged into the affair
with all the ardor of their years.

"Let us dress up," said Julia, who liked theatricals.

"In different characters," added Maud, thinking how well her long yellow
hair would look as a mermaid.

"And all sing as we go under the bridges," put in Annie, who adored
music.

"What a pity the boats can't dance, it would be so lovely to see them
waltzing round like fireflies!" said Belle, still longing for the ball.

"A lot of fellows are coming up to spend the day with us, and we ought
to have some sort of a picnic; city folks think so much of such things,"
said Herbert the hospitable, for his house and barn were the favorite
resorts of all his mates, and three gentle little sisters always came
into his plans if possible.

"I've got two girl cousins coming, and they would like it, I guess. I
should any way, for Jack will go tagging after Grace and leave me to
take care of them. Let's have a picnic, by all means," said lazy Fred,
who thought all girls but one great plagues.

"I shouldn't wonder if all our people liked that plan, and we might have
a town picnic as we did once before. Let every one ask his or her
mother, and see if we can't do it," suggested Annie, eager for a whole
day of merry-making.

The door-step party was late in breaking up that night; and if half the
plans proposed had been carried out, that town would have been
considered a large lunatic asylum. Wiser heads remodelled the wild
plans, however, and more skilful hands lent their aid, so that only the
possible was attempted, though the older folks had bright ideas as well
as the boys and girls, and gave the finishing touches to the affair.

The Fourth was a fine day, with a fresh air, cloudless sky, and no dust.
The town was early astir, though neither sunrise cannon nor the Antiques
and Horribles disturbed the dawn with their clamor. The bells rang
merrily, and at eight all flocked to the Town Hall to hear the
Declaration of Independence read by the good and great man of the town,
whose own wise and noble words go echoing round the world, teaching the
same lesson of justice, truth, and courage as that immortal protest. An
Ode by the master of the revels was sung, then every one shouted America
with hearty good-will, and before the echoes had fairly died away, the
crowd streamed forth to the river-side; for these energetic people were
bound to make a day of it.

At nine the races began, and both green banks of the stream were lined
with gay groups eagerly watching "our boys" as they swept by in
wherries, paddled in canoes, or splashed and tumbled in and out of their
tubs amid shouts of laughter from the spectators. The older fellows did
the scientific, and their prizes were duly awarded by the judges. But
our young party had their share of fun, and Fred and Herbert, who were
chums in everything, won the race for the little flag yearly given to
the lads for any success on the river. Then the weary heroes loaded the
big dory with a cargo of girls, and with the banner blowing gayly in the
wind, rowed away to the wide meadow, where seven oaks cast shade enough
to shelter a large picnic. And a large one they had, for the mammas took
kindly to the children's suggestion, agreeing to club together in a
social lunch, each contributing her stores, her family, and her guests,
all being happy together in the free and easy way so pleasant and
possible in summer weather.

A merry company they were, and it was a comfortable sight to see the
tired fathers lying in the shade, while the housewives forgot their
cares for a day, the young folks made table-setting and dishwashing a
joke by doing it together, and the children frolicked to their hearts'
content. Even the babies were trundled to the party by proud mammas and
took naps in their carriages, or held receptions for admiring friends
and neighbors with infantile dignity.

A social, sensible time, and when sunset came all turned homeward to
make ready for the evening festivities. It was vaguely rumored that the
pretty rustic bridge was to be illuminated, for the older people had
