of lights that seemed to float upon an expanse of 
sea. Lydia did not understand ; she thought she 
was again on board the Aroostook, and that the 
lights she saw were the lights of the shipping in 
Boston harbor. The illusion passed, and left her 
heart sore. She issued from the glare of the station 
upon the quay before it, bewildered by the ghostly 
beauty of the scene, but shivering in the chill of the 
dawn, and stunned by the clamor of the gondoliers. 
A tortuous course in the shadow of lofty walls, more 
deeply darkened from time to time by the arch of a 
bridge, and again suddenly pierced by the brilliance 
of a lamp that shot its red across the gloom, or 
plunged it into the black water, brought them to a 
palace gate at which they stopped, and where, after 
a dramatic ceremony of sliding bolts and the reluc- 
 
tant yielding of broad doors on a level with the 
water, she passed through a marble-paved court and 
up a stately marble staircase to her uncle's apart- 
ment. " You 're at home, now, you know," he said, 
in a kindly way, and took her hand, very cold and 
lax, in his for welcome. She could not answer, but 
made haste to follow Veronica to her room, whither 
the old woman led the way with a candle. It was 
a gloomily spacious chamber, with sombre walls and 
a lofty ceiling with a faded splendor of gilded panel- 
ing. Some tall, old-fashioned mirrors and bureaus 
stood about, with rugs before them on the stone 
floor ; in the middle of the room was a bed curtained 
with mosquito-netting. Carved chairs were pushed 
here and there against the wall. Lydia dropped 
into one of these, too strange and heavy-hearted to 
go to bed in that vastness and darkness, in which 
her candle seemed only to burn a small round hole. 
She longed forlornly to be back again in her pretty 
state-room on the Aroostook ; vanishing glimpses 
and echoes of the faces and voices grown so familiar 
in the past weeks haunted her; the helpless tears 
ran down her cheeks. 
There came a tap at her door, and her aunt's 
voice called, " Shall I come in ? " and before she 
could faintly consent, her aunt pushed in, and caught 
her in her arms, and kissed her, and broke into a 
twitter of welcome and compassion. " You poor 
child ! Did you think I was going to let you go to 
sleep without seeing you, after you 'd come half 
 
round the world to see me ? " Her aunt was dark 
and slight like Lydia, but not so tall ; she was still 
a very pretty woman, and she was a very effective 
presence now in the long white morning-gown of 
camel's hair, somewhat fantastically embroidered in 
crimson silk, in which she drifted about before Lyd- 
ia's bewildered eyes. " Let me see how you look ! 
Are you as handsome as ever? " She held the can- 
dle she carried so as to throw its light full upon Lyd- 
ia's face. " Yes ! " she sighed. " How pretty you 
are ! And at your age you 'll look even better by 
daylight ! I had begun to despair of you ; I thought 
you couldn 't be all I remembered ; but you are, — 
you 're more ! I wish I had you in Rome, instead 
of Venice ; there would be some use in it. There 's 
a great deal of society there, — English society ; but 
never mind : I 'm going to take you to church with 
me to-morrow, — the English service ; there are lots 
of English in Venice now, on their way south for 
the winter. I 'm crazy to see what dresses you 've 
brought ; your aunt Maria has told me how she 
fitted you out. I 've got two letters from her since 
you started, and they're all perfectly well, dear. 
Your black silk will do nicely, with bright ribbons, 
especially ; I hope you haven 't got it spotted or 
anything on the way over." She did not allow 
Lydia to answer, nor seem to expect it. " You 've 
got your mother's eyes, Lydia, but your father had 
those straight eyebrows : you 're very much like 
him. Poor Henry ! And now I 'm having you got 
 
something to eat. I 'm not going to risk coffee on 
you, for fear it will keep you awake ; though you 
can drink it in this climate with comparative impu- 
nity. Veronica is warming you a bowl of bouillon, 
and that 's all you 're to have till breakfast ! " 
" Why, aunt Josephine," said the girl, not knowing what bouillon was, and abashed by the sound 
of it, " I 'm not the least hungry. You oughtn 't 
to take the trouble " — 
" You 'll be hungry when you begin to eat. I 'm 
so impatient to hear about your voyage ! I am 
going to introduce you to some very nice people, 
here, — English people. There are no Americans 
living in Venice ; and the Americans in Europe are 
so queer ! You 've no idea how droll our customs 
seem here ; and I much prefer the English. Your 
poor uncle can never get me to ask Americans. I 
tell him I 'm American enough, and he 'll have to 
get on without others. Of course, he 's perfectly 
delighted to get at you. You 've quite taken him 
by storm, Lydia; he 's in raptures about your looks. 
It 's what I told him before you came ; but I could 
n't believe it till I took a look at you. I couldn 't 
have gone to sleep without it. Did Mr. Erwin talk 
much with you ? " 
" He was very pleasant. He talked — as long as 
he was awake," said Lydia. 
" I suppose he was trying to pick up Americanisms 
from you ; he 's always doing it. I keep him away 
from Americans as much as I can ; but he will 
 
get at them on the cars and at the hotels. He 's 
always asking them such ridiculous questions, and I 
know some of them just talk nonsense to him." 
Veronica came in with a tray, and a bowl of 
bouillon on it ; and Mrs. Erwin pulled up a light 
table, and slid about, serving her, in her cabalistic 
dress, like an Oriental sorceress performing her in- 
cantations. She volubly watched Lydia while she 
ate her supper, and at the end she kissed her again. 
" Now you feel better," she said. " I knew it would 
cheer you up more than any one thing. There 's 
nothing like something to eat when you 're home- 
sick. I found that out when I was off at school." 
Lydia was hardly kissed so much at home during 
a year as she had been since meeting Mrs. Erwin. 
Her aunt Maria sparely embraced her when she 
went and came each week from the Mill Village ; 
any tiling more than this would have come of insin- 
cerity between them ; but it had been agreed that 
Mrs. Erwin's demonstrations of affection, of which 
she had been lavish during her visit to South Brad- 
field, might not be so false. Lydia accepted them 
submissively, and she said, when Veronica returned 
for the tray, " I hate to give you so much trouble. 
And sending her all the way to Trieste on my ac- 
count, — I felt ashamed. There wasn't a thing for 
her to do." 
" Why, of course not ! " exclaimed her aunt. 
" But what did you think I was made of? Did you 
suppose I was going to have you come on a night- 
 
journey alone with your uncle ? It would have 
been all over Venice ; it would have been ridiculous. 
I sent Veronica along for a dragon.'' 
"A dragon? I don't understand," faltered 
Lydia. 
"Well, you will," said her aunt, putting the 
palms of her hands against Lydia's, and so pressing 
forward to kiss her. " We shall have breakfast at 
ten. Go to bed!" 
XXIII. 
When Iyydia came to breakfast she found her 
uncle alone in the room, reading Galignani's Mes- 
senger. He put down his paper, and came forward 
to take her hand. " You are all right this morning, 
I see, Miss Lydia," he said. " You were quite up 
a stump, last night, as your countrymen say." 
At the same time hands were laid upon her 
shoulders from behind, and she was pulled half 
round, and pushed back, and held at arm's-length. 
It was Mrs. Erwin, who, entering after her, first 
scanned her face, and then, with one devouring 
glance, seized every detail of her dress — the black 
silk which had already made its effect — before she 
kissed her. " You are lovely, my dear ! I shall 
spoil you, I know ; but you 're worth it ! What 
lashes you have, child ! And your aunt Maria made 
and fitted that dress ? She 's a genius ! " 
" Miss Lydia," said Mr. Erwin, as they sat down, 
"is of the fortunate age when one rises young every 
morning." He looked very fresh himself in his 
clean-shaven chin, and his striking evidence of 
snowy wristbands and shirt-bosom. " Later in life, 
you can't do that. She looks as blooming," he 
added, gallantly, " as a basket of chips, — as you 
say in America." 
 
" Smiling," said Lydia, mechanically correcting 
him. 
" Ah ! It is ? Smiling, — yes ; thanks. It 's very 
good either way ; very characteristic. It would be 
curious to know the origin of a saying like that. I 
imagine it goes back to the days of the first settlers. 
It suggests a wood-chopping period. Is it — ah — 
in general use ? " he inquired. 
" Of course it is n't, Henshaw ! " said his wife. 
" You 've been a great while out of the country, 
my dear," suggested Mr. Erwin. 
" Not so long as not to know that your Ameri- 
canisms are enough to make one wish we had held 
our tongues ever since we were discovered, or had 
never been discovered at all. I want to ask Lydia 
about her voyage. I haven 't heard a word yet. 
Did your aunt Maria come down to Boston with 
you?" 
" No, grandfather brought me." 
a And you had good weather coming over? Mr. 
Erwin told me you were not seasick." 
"We had one bad storm, before we reached 
Gibraltar; but I wasn 't seasick." 
" Were the other passengers? " 
" One was." Lydia reddened a little, and then 
turned somewhat paler than at first. 
" What is it, Lydia?" her aunt subtly demanded. 
" Who was the one that was sick ? " 
" Oh, a gentleman," answered Lydia. 
Her aunt looked at her keenly, and for whatever 
 
reason abruptly left the subject. " Your silk," 
she said, " will do very well for church, Lydia." 
"Oh, I say, now! " cried her husband, "you 're 
not going to make her go to church to-day ! " 
" Yes, I am ! There will be more people there 
to-clay than any other time this fall. She must 
go." 
" But she 's tired to death, — quite tuckered, you 
know." 
u Oh, I 'm rested, now," said Lydia. "I shouldn 't 
like to miss going to church." 
"Your silk," continued her aunt, "will be quite 
the thing for church." She looked hard at the 
dress, as if it were not quite the thing for break- 
fast. Mrs. Erwin herself wore a morning-dress of 
becoming delicacy, and an airy French cap ; she 
had a light fall of powder on her face. " What 
kind of overthing have you got ? " she asked. 
" There 's a sack goes with this," said the girl, 
suggestively. 
" That 's nice I What is your bonnet ? " 
" I haven 't any bonnet. But my best hat is 
nice. I could " — 
" No one goes to church in a hat ! You can't do 
it. It 's simply impossible." 
"Why, my dear," said her husband, " I saw some 
very pretty American girls in hats at church., last 
Sunday." 
" Yes, and everybody knew they were Americans 
by their hats ! " retorted Mrs. Erwin. 
 
"_Z knew they were Americans by their good 
looks," said Mr. Erwin, " and what you call their 
stylishness." 
" Oh, it 's all well enough for you to talk. You Ve 
an Englishman, and you could wear a hat, if you 
liked. It would be set down to character. But in 
an American it would be set down to greenness. If 
you were an American, you would have to wear a 
bonnet." 
" I 'm glad, then, I 'm not an American," said her 
husband; "I don't think I should look well in a 
bonnet." 
u Oh, stuff, Henshaw ! You know what I mean. 
And I 'm not going to have English people think- 
ing we 're ignorant of the common decencies of life. 
Lydia shall not go to church in a hat ; she had 
better never go. I will lend her one of my bonnets. 
Let me see, which one." She gazed at Lydia in 
critical abstraction. " I wear rather young bon- 
nets," she mused aloud, "and we're both rather 
dark. The only difficulty is I 'm so much more 
delicate " — She brooded upon the question in a 
silence, from which she burst exulting. " The very 
thing ! I can fuss it up in no time. It won't take 
two minutes to get it ready. And you 'll look just 
killing in it." She turned grave again. " Hen- 
shaw," she said, u I wish you would go to church 
this morning ! " 
" I would do almost anything for you, Josephine ; 
but really, you know, you oughtn 't to ask that. I 
 
was there last Sunday; I can't go every Sunday. 
It 's bad enough in England ; a man ought to have 
some relief on the Continent." 
" Well, well. I suppose I oughtn 't to ask you," 
sighed his wife, — " especially as you 're going with 
us to-night." 
" I 'll go to-night, with pleasure," said Mr. Er- 
win. He rose when his wife and Lydia left the 
table, and opened the door for them with a certain 
courtesy he had ; it struck even Lydia' s uneducated 
sense as something peculiarly sweet and fine, and it 
did not overawe her own simplicity, but seemed of 
kind with it. 
The bonnet, when put to proof, did not turn out 
to be all that it was vaunted. It looked a little 
odd, from the first ; and Mrs. Erwin, when she was 
herself dressed, ended by taking it off, and putting 
on Lydia the hat previously condemned. " You 're 
divine in that," she said. " And after all, you are 
a traveler, and I can say that some of your things 
were spoiled coming over, — people always get 
things ruined in a sea voyage, — and they 'll think 
it was your bonnet." 
" I kept my things very nicely, aunt Josephine," 
said Lydia conscientiously. " I don't believe any- 
thing was hurt." 
" Oh, well, you can't tell till you 've unpacked ; 
and we 're not responsible for what people happen 
to think, you know. Wait ! " her aunt suddenly 
cried. She pulled open a drawer, and snatched 
 
