 
trying to regard Mr. Shubrick as a foreign abstraction. Seeing which, he began to look at her more 
persistently than hitherto. 
" What is it ? " he asked, with not a little curiosity. 
"There is nobody else I can ask," Dolly went 
on; "and if you could give me the help I want, it 
would be a great thing for me." 
" I will if I can." 
The young man's eyes did not turn away now. 
And Dolly was an excessively pretty thing to look 
at; so taken up with her own thoughts that she 
was in no danger of finding out that she was an 
object of attention or perhaps admiration. Her 
companion perceived this, and indulged his eyes 
fearlessly. Dolly's fair, flushed face was thin with 
the work and the care of many weeks past; the 
traces of that were plain enough; yet it was delicately fair all the same, and perhaps more than 
ever, with the heightened spirituality of the expression. The writing on her features, of love and 
purity, habitual self-devotion and self-forgetfulness, 
patience and sweetness, was so plain and so unconscious, that it made her a very rare subject of 
contemplation and as her companion thought, extremely lovely. Her attitude spoke the same un-consciousness ; her dress was of the simplest ,de- 
scription ; her brown hair was tossed into disorder ; 
but dress and hair and attitude alike were deliciously graceful, with that mingling of characteristics of child and woman which was peculiar to 
Dolly. Lieutenant Shnbrick was familiar with a 
 
very diverse type of womanly charms in the shape 
of his long-betrothed Miss Thayer. The comparison, or contrast, might be interesting; at any rate, 
any one who had eyes to read this type before him 
needed no contrast to make it delightful ; and probably Mr. Shubrick had such eyes. He was quite 
silent, leaving Dolly to choose her time and her 
words at her own pleasure. 
" I know you will," she said slowly, taking up 
his last words; "you have already; but I am a 
bad learner. You know what you said, Mr. Shubrick, the day you came, that evening when we 
were at supper, about trusting, and not taking 
care ? " 
"Yes." 
Dolly did not look at him, and went on. " I do 
not find that I can do it." 
" Do what ? " 
" Lay down care. Quite lay it down." 
" It is not easy," Mr. Shubrick admitted. 
"Is it possible, always ? I find I can trust 
pretty well when I can see at least a possible way 
out of difficulties; but when the way seems all 
shut up, and no opening anywhere, then I do 
not quite lay down care. How can I ? " 
" There is only one thing that can make it possible." 
"I know you told me; but how then can I 
get that ? I must be very far from the knowledge 
of Christ if that is what is wanting." 
Dolly's eyes filled with tears. 
" No," said Mr. Shubrick gently, " but perhaps it 
does follow, that you have not enough of that 
knowledge." 
"Of course. And how shall I get it? I can 
trust when I see some light, but when I can see 
none, I am afraid." 
" If I promised to take you home, I mean, to 
America, by ways known to me but unknown 
to you, could you trust me and take the steps I 
bade you." 
I am not justifying Mr. Shubrick. This was a 
kind of tentative speech for his own satisfaction ; 
but he made it, watching for Dolly's answer the 
while. It came without hesitation. 
" Yes," she said. " I should believe you, if you 
told me so." 
"Yet in that case you would follow me blindly." 
" Yes." 
" Seeing no light." 
"Yes. But then I know you enough to know 
that you would not promise what you would not 
do." 
"Thank you. This is by way of illustration. 
You would not be afraid ? " 
" Not a bit. I see what you mean," said Dolly, 
colouring a little. 
"Do you think there is anything friends can 
give one another, so precious as such trust." 
" No I suppose not." 
"Is it wonderful, if the Lord wants it of his 
children ? " 
"No. Mr. Shubrick, I am ashamed of my- 
self! What is the reason that I can give it to you, 
for instance, and not to Him ? Is it just wickedness ? " 
" It is rather, distance." 
" Distance ! Then how shall I get near ? " 
" Do you know what a question you are asking 
me ? One of the grandest that a creature can ask. 
It is the question of questions. For to get near, 
is to see the Lord's beauty; and to see him is to 
love him, and to love with that absolute confidence. 
' Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace, whose mind 
is stayed on thee.' And, 'This is life eternal, to 
know thee.'" 
" Then how, Mr. Shubrick ? " said Dolly. " How 
is one to do ? " She was almost tearful in her 
earnestness. But he spoke, earnestly enough, yet 
with a smile. 
" There are two sides to the question. On your 
side, you must do what you would do in any 
case where you wanted to cultivata a friendship. 
How would that be ? " 
Dolly pondered. " I never put it so to myself," 
she said slowly, " and yet I suppose it must be so. 
Why, in any such case I should try to see a great 
deal of the person I wanted to make a friend of. 
I would be in the person's company, hear him talk, 
or hear her talk, if it was a woman; and talk to 
her. It would be the only way we could become 
known to each other." 
"Translate, now." 
 
"Translate?" said Dolly. "You mean, " 
" Apply to the case in hand." 
"You mean," said Dolly, "that to study the 
Bible is to hear the Lord speak; and to pray, 
is to speak to him." 
"To study the Bible with a heart ready to 
obey all it finds that is hearing the Lord speak; 
and if prayer is telling him your thoughts and 
wishes in your own language, that is speaking 
to him." 
"But it is speaking without an answer." 
"I beg your pardon. It is speaking without 
an audible answer; that is all." 
" Then how does the answer come ? " 
"In receiving what you ask for; in finding what 
you seek." 
Dolly brushed away a tear again. 
" One needs to take a good deal of time for all 
that," she said presently. 
" Can you cultivate a friendship on any other 
terms ? " 
" Perhaps not. This is quite a new view of the- 
whole matter, Mr. Shubrick. To me." 
" Common sense. And Bible." 
" Does the Bible speak of it ? " 
" The Bible speaks of the life of religion as contained in our knowing God and in his knowing 
us." 
" But He, he knows everybody." 
"Not in this way. It is the sweet knowledge 
of intimate friendship and relations of affection. 
 
'I know thee by name,' was one of the reasons 
given why the Lord would grant Moses' bold 
prayer. ' I have called thee by thy name, thou art 
mine,' is the word to his people Israel. ' He calleth his own sheep by name,' you know it is said 
of the Good Shepherd. And ' they shall all know 
me,' is the promise concerning the church in 
Christ. While you remember, the sentence of 
dismissal to the others will be simply, ' I know 
you not.' And, 'the Lord knoweth them that 
are his.' " 
There was silence; and then Dolly said, "You 
said there were two sides to the question." 
" Yes. Your part we have talked about ; it is to 
study, and ask, and obey, and believe. The Lord's 
part is to reveal himself to you. It is a matter 
of revelation. You cannot attain it by any efforts 
of your own, be they never so determinate. Therefore your prayer must be constantly like that of 
Moses 'I beseech thee, shew me thy glory.' And 
you see, that makes your part easy, because the 
other part is sure." 
" Mr. Shubrick, you are a very comforting talker ! " said Dolly. 
" Nay, I am only repeating the Lord's words of 
comfort." 
"So I am to study, and yet study will not do 
it," said Dolly. " And I am to pray, and yet 
prayer will not give it." 
" Study will not do it, certainly. But when the 
Lord bestows his light, study becomes illumination. No, prayer does not give it, either; yet 
you must ask if yon would have. And Christ's 
promise to one who loves him and keeps his commandments is, you recollect it, ' I will love him 
and wiU manifest myself to him.' " 
"That will do, Mr. Shubrick, thank you," said 
Dolly rising. " You need not say any more. I 
think I understand. And I am very much obliged 
to you." 
Mr. Shubrick made no answer. They went 
saunteringly along under the great trees, rather 
silent both of them after that. As the sun got 
lower the beauty of the wooded park ground grew 
more exceeding. All that a most noble growth 
of trees could shew, scattered and grouped, all 
that a most lovely undulation of ground surface 
could give, in slope and vista and broken light 
and shadow, was gilded here and there with vivid 
gold or filled elsewhere with a sunny misty glow 
of vapourous rays, as if the air were streaming 
with gold dust among the trees. All tints and 
hues of greensward, moss and fern, under all con- 
ditions of illumination, met their wondering eyes ; 
and for a while there was little spoken but exclamations of delight and discussion of beautiful effects 
that came under review. They went on so, from 
point to point, by much the same way that Dolly 
had taken on her first visit to the park; till they 
came out as she had done from the thinner part 
of the woodland, and stood at the edge of the 
wide plain of open greensward which stretched 
 
on up to the House. Here they stood still. The 
low sun was shining over it all ; the great groups 
of oaks and elms stood in full revealed beauty and 
majesty; and in the distance the House looked 
superbly down over the whole. 
"There is hardly anything about Brierley that 
I like better than this," said Dolly. " Isn't it 
lovely ? I always delight in this great slope of 
wavy green ground; and see how it is emphasized 
and set off by those magnificent trees ? And the 
House looks better from nowhere than from here." 
" It is very noble it is exceeding beautiful," 
Mr. Shubrick assented. 
"Now this, I suppose, one could not see in America," Dolly went on; "nor anything like it." 
"America has its own beauties; doubtless nothing like this. There is the dignity of many gen- 
erations here. But, Miss Dolly, as I said before, 
it would be difficult to use all this for Christ." 
" I do not see how it could be done," said Dol- 
ly. " Mr. Shubrick, I happen to know, it takes 
seven or eight thousand a year or more to keep 
the place up. Pounds sterling, I mean; not dollars. Merely to keep the establishment up and in 
order." 
"And yet, if I were its owner, I should find it 
hard to give up these ancestral acres and trees, or 
to cease to take care of them. I am glad I am a 
poor man ! " 
" Give them up ? " said Dolly. " Do you think 
that would be duty ? " 
 
"I do not know. How could I take seven or 
eight thousand pounds a year just to keep up all 
this magnificence, when the money is so wanted 
for the Lord's work, in so many ways ? When it 
would do such great things, given to him." 
"Then, Mr. Shubrick, the world must be very 
much mistaken in its calculations. People would 
not even understand you, if they heard you say 
that." 
" Do you understand me ? " 
"0 yes. And yet I cannot tell you what de- 
light I take in all this, every time I see it. The 
feeling of satisfaction seems to go to my very 
heart. And so when I am in the house, and 
the gardens. you have not seen the gardens, 
nor the house either; and there is no time to-day. 
But I do not know that I enjoy anything much 
more than this view. Though the house is delicious, Mr. Shubrick." 
" I can believe it," he said smiling. " You see 
what reason I have to rejoice that I am a poor 
man." 
Dolly thought, poor child, as they turned and 
went homeward, she could hardly go so far as to 
rejoice that she was a poor woman. Not that she 
wanted Brierley; but she did dread possible privation which seemed to be before her. She feared 
the uncertainty which lay over her future in regard to the very necessaries of life.; she shrank a 
little from the difficulty and the struggle of existence, which she knew already by experience. 
 
And then, Mr. Slmbrick, who had been such a 
help and had made such a temporary diversion of 
her troubled thoughts, would be soon far away; 
she had noticed that he did not speak of some 
other future opportunity of seeing the house and 
gardens, when she remarked that it was too late 
to-day. He would be going soon; this one walk 
with him was probably the last; and then the old 
times would set in again. Dolly went along down 
among the great oaks and beeches, down the bank 
now getting in shadow, and spoke hardly a word. 
And Mr. Shubrick was as silent as she, probably 
as busy with his own thoughts. So they went, 
until they came again in sight of the bridge and 
the little river down below them, and a few steps 
more would have brought the cottage into view. 
" We have come home fast," said Mr. Shubrick. 
" Do you think we need go in and shew ourselves 
quite yet ? Suppose we sit down here under this 
tree for a few minutes again, and enjoy all we 
can." 
Dolly knew it must be approaching, the time for 
her to see about supper; but she could not withstand the proposal. She sat down silently and 
took off her hat to cool herself. 
" I come here very often," she said, " to get a 
little refreshment. It is so pleasant, and so near 
home." 
"You call Brierley 'home.' Have you accepted 
it as a permanent home ? " 
"What can we do?" said Dolly. "Mother and 
 
I long to go back to America we cannot persuade 
father." 
" Miss Dolly, will you excuse me for remarking 
that you wear a very peculiar watch chain," Mr. 
Shubrick said next, somewhat irrelevantly. 
" My watch chain ! yes, I know it is peculiar," said Dolly. " For anything I know, there is 
only one in the world." 
" May I ask, whose manufacture it is ? " 
" It was made by somebody a sort of a friend, 
and yet not a friend either somebody I shall 
