moist veining accurately, and even the habits and opinions, as 
it were, of two minute green inhabitants, with six legs, of the 
size, taken both together, of a pin's point, who considered the 
stalk quite a prairie. 
When she was eighteen and nineteen years old, Marion 
Manning had refused several suitors, giving as a reason to 
her mother that they were all detestable ; since then, she had 
not been troubled with suitors to refuse. There were girls 
with more coloring and brighter eyes in Wilbarger, and girls 
with warmer hearts : so said the gossips. And, certainly, 
the calm reserve, the incisive words, and clear gray eyes that 
looked straight at you of Marion Manning were not calculated 
to encourage the embarrassed but at the same time decidedly 
favor-conferring attentions of the youths of the town. Mrs. 
Manning, in the course of the years they had been together, 
had gradually taken Bro as a humble confidant : he knew of 
the offers and refusals ; he knew of the succeeding suitorless 
period which Mrs. Manning, a stanch believer in love and 
romance, bewailed as wasted time. " I could never have resisted young Echols," she said, " sitting there on the door-step 
as he used to, with the sun shining on his curly hair. But 
there ! I always had a fancy for curls." Bro received these 
confidences with strict attention, as valuable items. But one 
peculiarity of his mind was that he never generalized ; and 
thus, for instance, instead of taking in the fact that curly hair 
plays a part in winning a heart, he only understood that Mrs. 
Manning, for some reason or other, liked kinks and twists in 
the covering of the head ; as some persons liked hempen 
shoestrings, others leathern. 
" But Miss Marion is happy," he said once, when the suit 
orless period was two years old, and the mother lament 
ing. 
" Yes ; but we can not live our lives more than once, Bro, 
and these years will never come back to her. What keeps 
me up through all the privations I have suffered but the mem 
ory of the short but happy time of my own courtship and 
marriage ? " Her Mrs. Manning shed tears. The memory 
must, indeed, have been a strong one, the unregenerated hu 
morist would have thought, to " keep up " such a weight as 
hers. But Bro was not a humorist : that Mrs. Manning was 
fat was no more to him than that he himself was lean. He 
had the most implicit belief in the romance of her life, upon 
which she often expatiated ; he knew all about the first time 
she saw him, and how she felt ; he knew every detail of the 
courtship. This was only when Marion was absent, how 
ever ; the mother, voluble as she was, said but little on that 
subject when her daughter was in the room. 
" But Miss Marion is happy," again said Bro, when the 
suitorless period was now five years old. 
" No, she is not," replied the mother this time. " She be 
gins to feel that her life is colorless and blank ; I can see she 
does. She is not an ordinary girl, and needlework and house 
keeping do not content her. If she had an orphan asylum to 
manage, now, or something of that kind But, dear me ! 
what would suit her best, I do believe, would be drilling a 
regiment," added Mrs. Manning, her comfortable amplitude 
heaving with laughter. " She is as straight as a ramrod al 
ways, for all her delicate, small bones. What she would like 
best of all, I suppose, would be keeping accounts ; she will 
do a sum now rather than any kind of embroidery, and a 
page of figures is fairly meat and drink to her. That Miss 
Drough has, I fear, done her more harm than good : you can 
not make life exactly even, like arithmetic, nor balance quan 
tities, try as you may. And, whatever variety men may suc 
ceed in getting, we women have to put up with a pretty 
steady course of subtraction, I notice." 
" I am sorry you do not think she is happy," said Bro 
thoughtfully. 
" There you go ! " said Mrs. Manning. " I do not mean 
that she is exactly unhappy ; but you never understand 
things, Bro." 
" I know it ; I have had so little experience," said the 
other. But Bro's experience, large or small, was a matter of 
no interest to Mrs. Manning, who rambled on about her 
daughter. 
"The Mannings were always slow to develop, Edward 
used to say : I sometimes think Marion is not older now at 
heart than most girls of eighteen. She has always been more 
like the best scholar, the clear-headed girl at the top of the 
class, than a woman with a woman's feelings. She will be 
bitterly miserable if she falls in love at last, and all in vain. 
An old maid in love is a desperate sight." 
" What do you call an old maid ? " asked Bro. 
" Any unmarried woman over well, I used to say twen 
ty-five, but Marion is that, and not much faded yet say 
twenty-eight," replied Mrs. Manning, decisively, having to 
the full the Southern ideas on the subject. 
" Then Miss Marion has three years more ? " 
" Yes ; but, dear me ! there is no one here she will look 
at. What I am afraid of is, that, after I am dead and gone, 
poor Marion, all thin and peaked (for she does not take after 
me in flesh), with spectacles on her nose, and little wrinkles 
at the corners of her eyes, will be falling in love with some 
one who will not care for her at all. I should say a clergy 
man," pursued Mrs. Manning meditatively, " only Marion 
hates clergymen ; a professor, then, or something of the kind. 
If I only had money enough to take her away and give her a 
change ! She might see somebody then who would not wind 
his legs around his chair." 
" Around his chair? " 
"Yes," said Mrs. Manning, beginning on another knitting- 
needle. " Have you not noticed how all the young men about 
here twist their feet around the legs of their chairs, especially 
when telling a long story or at table ? Sometimes it is one 
foot, sometimes the other, and sometimes both, which I ac 
knowledge is awkward. What pleasure they find in it I 
can not imagine ; / should think it \vould be dislocating. 
Young Harding, now, poor fellow ! had almost no fault but 
that." 
" And Miss Marion dislikes it ? I hope I do not do it 
then," said Bro simply. 
" Well, no," replied Mrs. Manning. " You see, your feet 
are rather long, Bro." 
They were ; it would have taken a giant's chair to give 
them space enough to twist. 
So Bro's life went on : the saw-mill to give him bread and 
clothes, Mrs. Manning to listen to, the flowers to water, and, 
at every other leisure moment night and day, his inventions. 
For there were several, all uncompleted : a valve for a steam- 
engine, an idea for a self-register, and, incidentally, a screw. 
He had most confidence in the valve ; when completed, it 
would regenerate the steam-engines of the world. The self- 
register gave him more trouble ; it haunted him, but would 
not come quite right. He covered pages of paper with cal 
culations concerning it. He had spent about twenty thousand 
hours, all told, over that valve and register during his eleven 
years at the saw-mill, and had not once been tired. He had 
not yet applied for patents, although the screw was complete. 
That was a trifle: he would wait for his more important 
works. 
One day old Mr. Vickery, having watched the superinten 
dent roll safely past down the road on his way to Bridge No. 
2, left his charge in the care of old Julius for the time being, 
and walked up the track toward Wilbarger. It was the 
shortest road to the village indeed, the only road ; but oroe 
could go by water. Before the days of the railroad, the 
Vickerys always went by water, in a wide-cushioned row- 
boat, with four pairs of arms to row. It was a great day, of 
course, when the first locomotive came over Vickery Marsh ; 
but old Mr. Vickery was lamentably old-fashioned, and pre 
ferred the small days of the past, with the winding, silver 
channels and the row-boat, and the sense of wide possession 
and isolation produced by the treeless, green expanse which 
separated him from the town. To-day, however, he did not 
stop to think of these things, but hastened on as fast as his 
short legs could carry him. Mrs. Manning was an old friend 
of his ; to her house he was hurrying. 
" You are both you are both," he gasped, bursting into 
the sitting-room and sinking into a chair " you are both 
ah, ugh ! ugh ! " 
He choked, gurgled, and turned from red to purple. Mrs. 
Manning seized a palm-leaf fan, and fanned him vigorously. 
" Why did you walk so fast, Mr. Vickery ? " she said reproachfully. " You know your short breath can not stand it." 
" You would, too, Nannie," articulated the old man, " if 
your boy had come home ! " 
" What, Lawrence ? You do not mean it ! " she exclaimed, 
sinking into a chair in her turn, and fanning herself now. " I 
congratulate you, Mr. Vickery ; I do, indeed. How long is it 
since you have seen him ? " 
" Thirteen years ; thir teen years ! He was fifteen when 
he went away, you know," whispered the old man, still giving 
out but the husky form of words without any voice to support 
them. " Under age, but would go. Since then he has been 
wandering over the ocean and all about, the bold boy ! " 
" Dear me ! " said Mrs. Manning; " how glad I shall be to 
see him ! I was very fond of his mother." 
" Yes ; Sally was a sweet, little woman, and Lawrence 
takes after his mother more than after his father, I see. My 
son was a true Vickery; yes, a true Vickery. But what I 
came to say was, that you and Marion must both come over 
to-morrow and spend the day. We must kill the fatted calf, 
Nannie indeed we must." 
Then, with his first free breath, the old man was obliged 
to go, lest the superintendent should return unexpectedly and 
find him absent. There was also the fatted calf to be pro 
vided : Julius must go across to the mainland and hunt down 
a wild turkey. 
At dinner Mrs. Manning had this great news to tell her 
listener two now, since Marion had returned. 
" Who do you think has come home ? " she said, enjoying 
her words as she spoke them. " Who but old Mr. Vickery's 
grandson, Lawrence, his only living grandchild ! He went 
away thirteen years ago, and one of the sweetest boys I ever 
knew he was then. You remember him, Marion." 
" I remember a boy," answered Marion briefly. " He 
never would finish any game, no matter what it was, but 
always wanted to try something new." 
" Like his mother," said Mrs. Manning, heaving a reminis 
cent sigh, and then laughing. " Sally Telfair used to change 
about the things in her work-basket and on her table every 
day of her life. Let me see Lawrence must be twenty-eight 
now." 
" He has come back, I suppose, to take care of his grand 
father in his old age," said Bro, who was eating his dinner in 
large, slow mouthfuls, in a manner which might have been 
called ruminative if ruminating animals were not generally 
fat. 
" Yes, of course," replied Mrs. Manning, with her com 
fortable belief in everybody's good motives. 
When Marion and her mother returned home the next 
day at dusk a third person was with them as they walked 
along the track, their figures outlined clearly against the orange 
after-glow in the west. Bro, who had come across for his tea, 
saw them, and supposed it was young Vickery. He supposed 
correctly. Young Vickery came in, staid to tea, and spent 
the evening. Bro, as usual, went over to the mill. The next 
day young Vickery came again, and the next ; the third day 
the Mannings went over to the island. Then it began over 
again. 
" I do hope, Bro, that your dinners have been attended to 
properly," said Mrs. Manning, during the second week of 
these visitations. 
" Oh, yes, certainly," replied Bro, who would have eaten 
broiled rhinoceros unnoticingly. 
" You see Mr. Vickery has the old-time ideas about com 
pany and visiting to celebrate a great occasion, and Lawrence's 
return is, of course, that. It is a perfect marvel to hear where, 
or rather where not, that young man has been." 
" Where ? " said Bro, obediently asking the usual question 
which connected Mrs. Manning's narratives, and gave them a 
reason for being. 
" Everywhere. All over the wide world, I should say." 
" Oh, no, mother ; he was in Germany most of the time," 
said Marion. 
" He saw the Alps, Marion." 
" The Bavarian Alps." 
" And he saw France." 
" From the banks of the Moselle." 
" And Russia, and Holland, and Bohemia," pursued Mrs. 
Manning. " You will never make me believe that one can 
see all those countries from Germany, Marion. Germany was 
never of so much importance in my day. And to think, too, 
that he has lived in Bohemia ! I must ask him about it. I 
have never understood where it was, exactly ; but I have 
heard persons called Bohemians who had not a foreign look 
at all." 
" He did not live in Bohemia, mother." 
" Oh, yes, he did, child ; I am sure I heard him say so." 
" You are thinking of Bavaria." 
" Marion ! Marion ! how can you tell what I am thinking 
of ? " said Mrs. Manning oracularly. " There is no rule of 
arithmetic that can tell you that. But here is Lawrence him 
self at the door. You have lived in Bohemia, have you not ? " 
she asked, as the young man entered : he came in and out 
now like one of the family. " Marion says you have not." 
" Pray, don't give it up, but stick to that opinion, Miss 
Marion," said the young man, with a merry glint in his eyes. 
Ah ! yes, young Vickery had wandered, there was no doubt 
of it ; he used contractions, and such words as " stick." Mrs. 
Manning and Marion had never said "don t" or "can t" in 
their lives. 
" I do not know what you mean," replied Marion, a slight 
color rising in her cheeks. " It is not a matter of opinion one 
way or the other, but of fact. You either have lived in Bohe 
mia, or you have not." 
" Well, then, I have," said Vickery, laughing. 
" There ! Marion," exclaimed Mrs. Manning triumphantly. 
Vickery, overcome by mirth, turned to Bro, as if for relief ; Bro was at least a man. 
But Bro returned his gaze mildly, comprehending nothing. 
"Going over to the mill?" said Vickery. "I'll go with 
you, and have a look about." 
They went off together, and Vickery examined the mill 
from top to bottom ; he measured the logs, inspected the en 
gine, chaffed the negroes, climbed out on the roof, put his 
head into Bro's cell-like bedroom, and came at last to the 
locked door. 
" What have we here ? " he asked. 
" Only a little workshop of mine, which I keep locked," 
replied Bro. 
" So I see. But what's inside ? " 
" Nothing of much consequence as yet," replied the other, 
unable to resist adding the adverb. 
" You must let me in," said Vickery, shaking the door. 
" I never could abide a secret. Come, Bro ; I won't tell. Let 
me in, or I shall climb up at night and break in," he added 
gayly. 
Bro stood looking at him in silence. Eleven years had he 
labored there alone, too humble to speak voluntarily of his 
labors ; too insignificant, apparently, for questions from others. 
Although for the most part happy over his work, there were 
times when he longed for a friendly ear to talk to, for other 
eyes to criticise, the sympathy of other minds, the help of 
other hands. At these moments he felt drearily lonely over 
his valve and register ; they even seemed to mock him. He 
was not imaginative, yet occasionally they acted as if moved 
by human motives, and, worse still, became fairly devilish in 
their crooked perverseness. Nobody had ever asked before 
to go into that room. Should he ? Should he not ? Should 
he ? Then he did. 
Lawrence, at home everywhere, sat on a high stool, and 
looked on with curiosity while the inventor brought out his 
inventions and explained them. It was a high day for Bro : 
new life was in him ; he talked rapidly ; a dark color burned 
in his thin cheeks. He talked for one hour without stopping, 
the buzz of the great saw below keeping up an accompani 
ment ; then he paused. 
" How do they seem to you ? " he asked feverishly. 
" Well, I have an idea that self-registers are about all they 
can be now ; I have seen them in use in several places at the 
North," said Lawrence. " As to the steam-valve, I don't 
know ; there may be something in it. But there is no doubt 
