a delightful sound ; it seemed to spread itself over 
the future. 

This was all the more reason, however, though 
she was ashamed and uncomfortable, why she should 
tell her father that Mr. Morris Townsend had called 
again. She announced the fact abruptly, almost 
violently, as soon as the Doctor came into the 
house ; and having done so it was her duty she 
took measures to leave the room. But she could 
not leave it fast enough; her father stopped her 
just as she reached the door. 

" Well, my dear, did he propose to you to-day ?" 
the Doctor asked. 

This was just what she had been afraid he would 
say ; and yet she had no answer ready. Of course 
she would have liked to take it as a joke as her 
father must have meant it ; and yet she would have 
liked also, in denying it, to be a little positive, a lit- 
tle sharp, so that he would perhaps not ask the ques- 
tion again. She didn't like it it made her unhap- 
py. But Catherine could never be sharp ; and for 
a moment she only stood, with her hand on the door- 
knob, looking at her satiric parent, and giving a 
little laugh. 

"Decidedly," said the Doctor to himself, "my 
daughter is not brilliant !" 

But he had no sooner made this reflection than 
Catherine found something ; she had decided, on the 
whole, to take the thing as a joke. 

" Perhaps he will do it the next time," she ex- 





claimed, with a repetition of her laugh ; and she 
quickly got out of the room. 

The Doctor stood staring; he wondered whether 
his daughter were serious. Catherine went straight 
to her own room, and by the time she reached it 
she bethought herself that there was something else 
something better she might have said. She al- 
most wished, now, that her father would ask his 
question again, so that she might reply, " Oh yes, 
Mr. Morris Townsend proposed to me, and I refused 
him." 

The Doctor, however, began to put his questions 
elsewhere ; it naturally having occurred to him that 
he ought to inform himself properly about this 
handsome young man, who had formed the habit of 
running in and out of his house. He addressed 
himself to the elder of his sisters, Mrs. Almond 
not going to her for the purpose ; there was no such 
hurry as that ; but having made a note of the mat- 
ter for the first opportunity. The Doctor was never 
eager, never impatient or nervous; but he made 
notes of everything, and he regularly consulted his 
notes. Among them the information he obtained 
from Mrs. Almond about Morris Townsend took its 
place. 

" Lavinia has already been to ask me," she said. 
" Lavinia is most excited ; I don't understand it. 
It's not, after all, Lavinia that the young man is 
supposed to have designs upon. She is very pecul- 
iar." 

" Ah, my dear," the Doctor replied, " she has not 
lived with me these twelve years without my finding 
it out." 





" She has got such an artificial mind," said Mrs. 
Almond, who always enjoyed an opportunity to dis- 
cuss Lavinia's peculiarities with her brother. " She 
didn't want me to tell you that she had asked me 
about Mr. Townsend ; but I told her I would. She 
always wants to conceal everything." 

"And yet at moments no one blurts things out 
with such crudity. She is like a revolving light- 
house pitch darkness alternating with a dazzling 
brilliancy ! But what did you tell her ?" the Doctor 
asked. 

"What I tell you that I know very little of 
him." 

"Lavinia must have been disappointed at that," 
said the Doctor; "she would prefer him to have 
been guilty of some romantic crime. However, we 
must make the best of people. They tell me our 
gentleman is the cousin of the little boy to whom 
you are about to intrust the future of your little 
girl." 

"Arthur is not a little boy ; he is a very old man ; 
you and I will never be so old ! He is a distant 
relation of Lavinia's protege. The name is the same, 
but I am given to understand that there are Towns- 
ends and Townsends. So Arthur's mother tells me ; 
she talked about 'branches' younger branches, 
elder branches, inferior branches as if it were a 
royal house. Arthur, it appears, is of the reigning 
line, but poor Lavinia's young man is not. Beyond 
this, Arthur's mother knows very little about him ; 
she has only a vague story that he has been 'wild.' 
But I know his sister a little, and she is a very nice 
woman. Her name is Mrs. Montgomery ; she is a 





widow, with a little property and five children. She 
lives in the Second Avenue." 

" What does Mrs. Montgomery say about him ?" 

" That he has talents by which he might distin- 
guish himself." 

"Only he is lazy, eh?" 

" She doesn't say so." 

"That's family pride," said the Doctor. "What 
is his profession ?" 

" He hasn't got any ; he is looking for something. 
I believe he was once in the Navy." 

" Once ? What is his age ?" 

" I suppose he is upward of thirty. He must have 
gone into the Navy very young. I think Arthur 
told me that he inherited a small property- which 
was perhaps the cause of his leaving the Navy and 
that he spent it all in a few years. He travelled all 
over the world, lived abroad, amused himself. I be- 
lieve it was a kind of system, a theory he had. He 
has lately come back to America with the intention, 
as he tells Arthur, of beginning life in earnest." 

" Is he in earnest about Catherine, then ?" 

"I don't see why you should be incredulous," said 
Mrs. Almond. " It seems to me that you have never 
done Catherine justice. You must remember that 
she has the prospect of thirty thousand a year." 

The Doctor looked at his sister a moment, and 
then, with lightest touch of bitterness, " You at least 
appreciate her," he said. 

Mrs. Almond blushed. 

"I don't mean that is her only merit; I simply 
mean that it is a great one. A great many young 
men think so ; and you appear to me never to have 



been properly aware of that. You have always had 
a little way of alluding to her as an un marriageable 
girl." 

"My allusions are as kind as yours, Elizabeth," 
said the Doctor, frankly. " How many suitors has 
Catherine had, with all her expectations how much 
attention has she ever received? Catherine is not 
unmarriageable, but she is absolutely unattractive. 
What other reason is there for Lavinia being so 
charmed with the idea that there is a lover in the 
house ? There has never been one before, and La- 
vinia, with her sensitive, sympathetic nature, is not 
used to the idea. It affects her imagination. I must 
do the young men of New York the justice to say 
that they strike me as very disinterested. They 
prefer pretty girls lively girls girls like your own. 
Catherine is neither pretty nor lively." 

" Catherine does very well ; she has a style of her 
own which is more than my poor Marian has, who 
has no style at all," said Mrs. Almond. " The reason 
Catherine has received so little attention, is that she 
seems to all the young men to be older than them- 
selves. She is so large, and she dresses so richly. 
They are rather afraid of her, I think ; she looks as 
if she had been married already, and you know they 
don't like married women. And if our young men 
appear disinterested," the Doctor's wiser sister went 
on, " it is because they marry, as a general thing, so 
young before twenty-five, at the age of innocence 
and sincerity before the age of calculation. If they 
only waited a little, Catherine would fare better." 

"As a calculation? Thank you very much," said 
the Doctor. 





"Wait till some intelligent man of forty comes 
along, and he will be delighted with Catherine," Mrs. 
Almond continued. 

" Mr. Townsend is not old enough, then ? His mo- 
tives may be pure." 

" It is very possible that his motives are pure ; I 
should be very sorry to take the contrary for grant- 
ed. Lavinia is sure of it; and, as he is a very pre- 
possessing youth, you might give him the benefit of 
the doubt." 

Doctor Sloper reflected a moment. 

" "What are his present means of subsistence ?" 

" I have no idea. He lives, as I say, with his sister." 

" A widow, with five children ? Do you mean he 
lives upon her ?" 

Mrs. Almond got up, and with a certain impa- 
tience, " Had you not better ask Mrs. Montgomery 
herself ?" she inquired. 

" Perhaps I may come to that," said the Doctor. 
"Did you say the Second Avenue?" He made a 
note of the Second Avenue. 







 



VII. 




HE was, however, by no means so much in earnest 
as this might seem to indicate ; and, indeed, he was 
more than anything else amused with the whole sit- 
uation. He was not in the least in a state of tension 
or of vigilance with regard to Catherine's prospects ; 
he was even on his guard against the ridicule that 
might attach itself to the spectacle of a house 




thrown into agitation by its daughter and heiress 
receiving attentions unprecedented in its annals. 
More than this, he went so far as to promise him- 
self some entertainment from the little drama if 
drama it was of which Mrs. Penniman desired to 
represent the ingenious Mr. Townsend as the hero. 
He had no intention, as yet, of regulating the denoue 
ment. He was perfectly willing, as Elizabeth had 
suggested, to give the young man the benefit of ev- 
ery doubt. There was no great danger in it; for 
Catherine, at the age of twenty-two, was, after all, a 
rather mature blossom, such as could be plucked from 
the stem only by a vigorous jerk. The fact that 
Morris Townsend was poor, was not of necessity 
against him ; the Doctor had never made up his 
mind that his daughter should marry a rich man. 
The fortune she would inherit struck him as a very 
sufficient provision for two reasonable persons, and 
if a penniless swain who could give a good account 
of himself should enter the lists, he should be judged 
quite upon his personal merits. There were other 
things besides. The Doctor thought it very vulgar 
to be precipitate in accusing people of mercenary 
motives, inasmuch as his door had as yet not been 
in the least besieged by fortune-hunters ; and, lastly, 
he was very curious to see whether Catherine might 
really be loved for her moral worth. He smiled as 
he reflected that poor Mr. Townsend had been only 
twice to the house, and he said to Mrs. Penniman 
