" Marvellous Fairy Queen Titania," read his friend. 

Roger sprang up with an eager laugh. 

" That's a century old, Ned J I went to it mysel Let's 
see how it looks." 

"Why, were you ever in L ; at the Odeon ? w 

"No, it wasn't there. What are you talking about? 
But I am the dunce, I dare say. This was at Branchville, 
ages ago. Titania was a most beautiful little creature. 
When was she in L ? " 

"Why, this has the date of last April." 

"April ? Then she has come back !" 

"Did you know her ? " was the wondering inquiry. 

Well, no," and Roger gave an odd little laugh. " It is 
a queer sort of complication. She resembled a picture of 
a lost child that my aunt was interested in, and I set out 
to find her," continued Roger, blushing boyishly. "The 
man who had her died, and the woman married and went 
to Europe, taking the child, I heard. And there I lost 
sight of them. She isn't the same child, of course," rather 
disconsolately. 

"What do you want of her, then, if she hasn't the 
identical strawberry mark on her arm? and then this 





Ocleon is not considered very first class, and finally, whaft 
will you do with her ? " 

" Chaff away as much as you like, Ned, I was wonderfully 
taken with the little creature. Then the other story 
was so romantic. The child is daughter of a nobleman, 
and the nurse who was with her when she was lost lives 
with my aunt. There was no connecting link but this re- 
markable likeness, and as far as I could learn this Barrett! 
was her father, though the woman was not her mother. 
Theatrical people have queer antecedents. But I'd give 
anything to find this Titania. I am glad your aunt was so 
careful of your socks, Ned. What if I should make you a 
flying visit ? " 

" Upon my word you are quite a hero of romance. Sup- 
pose you tell the story coherently, so that I can distinguish 
between the lady of high degree, and the wonderful acro- 
bat, tight-rope dancer, &c." 

Roger succeeded in interesting Ned Strathan almost as 
keenly as he had been interested, and they planned for a 
visit. Roger went to his room, in a brown study, with the 
bit of paper in his hand. How odd that this should crop 
out again ! And yet it might be a different person. Ti- 
tania was not an unusual stage cognomen. But he would 
hunt her up without saying a word to Lai or his aunt. If 
he could learn whether Barretti was really her father! 
And yet a child of seven would remember if she had been 
lost in the street. But such romances seldom happened 
out of books, he told himself, by way of moderating his 
ardor. 

Still, he would so like to find Titania again, and the 
vision of the beautiful child floated before his eyes, in all 
her grace and witchery. What gave him this intense, ab- 
surd longing for her? 

They wondered at his aunt's why he should be so crazy 
as to set off on Monday for Ned Strathan's, when he had 



only parted with him on Friday, and, moreover, was not 
acquainted with another member of the family. 

" Why did you not ask him here ? " said Aunt Alice. 
"You boys might have had such a nice visit together." 

" I'll invite him next vacation," returned Roger, laugh- 
ingly. 

A two-hours' journey brought him to L . Ned met 

him at the station. 

" Now here's the Odeon," explained Ned, walking up 
the street. " You see it is no great affair. I called here 
on Saturday, and found the manager. His name is King. 
This child was the one Signer Barretti had ; but King said 
she was a puny little thing, not a bit handsome, and didn't 
do half the feats Thomas claimed that she could. She had 
a bad fall, and was taken to the hospital. King called 
Thomas a drunken swindler. Still I made an engagement," 
and Ned glanced furtively to see if his friend was dis- 
gusted. 

" You were good to learn that much, Ned," was the cor- 
dial response. " Can we see this King soon ? " 

"Yes. I said my friend would be here at two. He 
promised to meet us at the theatre, if you don't mind go- 
ing in such a hole ! It is patronized chiefly by the roughs. 
We have a very pretty opera-house in town," he an- 
nounced, with some pride. 

" At which we will hear nothing of Titania," appended 
Roger, with a smile. 

" Here is the private entrance. It is a horrid little hole," 
and the aristocratic Ned drew up his nose. "Through 
here to the green-room and private office." 

Rose and Lily De Vere were starring it in fresh pas- 
tures, and with new lovers. Still there was no lack of re- 
markable attractions on the show-bills. The two young 
men picked their way through the dirty, ill-smelling pas- 
sages, and reached the desired haven, perfumed with the 
odor of whiskey and tobacco. Mr. King had just stepped 





out, but would be in presently. They sat down amidst the 
disorder, and waited until patience came nearly to an end. 

He made his appearance at length, a short, stout, red- 
faced man, with a brisk, almost rough business-air. Seeing 
the two young men he nodded, and said, " Oh ! " with a 
kind of grunt. 

Ned Strathan explained, and introduced his friend. The 
story was gone over again, interspersed with some oaths 
and forcible adjectives. For Mr. King considered that he 
had been grossly deceived by Thomas, and was not very 
complimentary to him or his little acrobat, to whom, in- 
deed, he allowed very few charms. 

"What has become of Thomas?" asked Roger. 

"I don't know. He was a drunken scoundrel. He was 
paying a high price, too, for the girl ; and had to make a 
profit on her. Poor stock, in my opinion. Might have 
been well enough once, but you see the business wears out 
children, and when they're gone, they're gone. A man 
wrote to me a few days ago about it I dare say she's 
dead. He was the agent, I believe. The public in my 
line demand first-rate talent, no half-way work. Though 
if she hadn't been weakly she might have done ; but they 
seldom get over anything in the back. No doubt she's as 
well off dead as alive, though you might learn more about 
her at the hospital. I don't trouble my head with people 
when I'm through with 'em," and King finished with a 
resolute nod. 

Roger obtained the agent's address, and they bowed 
themselves out. 

" What a vile hole ! That destroys stage glamour effect- 
ually," said Ned. 

" Now, can we go to the hospital ? " 

" There are two or three. Let me see ; we can take a 
car right to St. James'. We'll try that. 

It was the wrong one, of course. Yet a little girl had 
been injured by a fall and died there. 





Then they found another. The child had been there. 
A little acrobat, named Titania Barretti, hurt by a fall, a 
delicate little thing, sick with a fever. There had been a 
good deal of interest about her, at first, but it died out, as 
such things are apt to do. She was finally taken to the 
" Home for the Friendless." 

The short winter day had drawn to a close. 

" We must go home now," announced Ned. " Aunt 
Lucy's tea is exactly at half-past five, and it will never do 
to be late." 

" Where is this Home ? " asked Roger. 

" Out in the suburbs. Don't mind about it to-night. 
I've promised you to some friends of mine, a set of jolly, 
musical girls, where you always have the nicest of times. 
Then we will take a fresh start in the morning." 

Roger found himself overruled. Indeed, the warmth 
and cosiness of Miss Strathan's parlor proved so enticing 
that he had a mind to give up the nice musical girls. Misa 
Strathan was nearing forty, but as little like the traditional 
old maid as possible. Then there was a grandmother, a 
lovely old lady ; and Miss Katy, a second or third cousin, 
an invalid. An air of picturesque refinement pervaded the 
house, and Roger's artistic side was won immediately. 

However, Ned persisted and carried him off. They 
slept late the next morning, although their night's dissipa- 
tion had been a harmless one. Then they started out to 
discover what next had befallen the poor little acrobat. 

Mrs. Post received them politely. She remembered the 
child well, and was quite enthusiastic about her sweetness 
and beauty. But she had been taken away, and the record 
was searched for particulars. 

" A Mrs. Winstead, residence, Arlington, fifty or sixty 
miles from here, a most beautiful place, I have heard," ex- 
plained Mrs. Post. " Through Mrs. Gaylord, one of the 
patronesses of the Institution. She is in Europe, or you 





would be able to learn all the particulars, I might write 
and inquire?" 

" You think the child is surely there ? " 

" Oh, certainly. If she had not suited she would have 
been returned. I thought her a very lovely little being, 
and have often longed to hear how she fared ; but there are 
so many coming and going, that we cannot keep up with 
them all. The child had some friend or connection in 
Paris. She expected to hear from her, and I was to for- 
ward the letter, but it never came. You appear to be 
greatly interested in her ? " and Mrs. Post studied him. 

" I am," replied Roger. " It is important that I should 
find her." 

" Are you a relative ? n she ventured. 

" No, but I may place her in communication with 
relatives," was the brief response. 

" I should be so rejoiced. The child impressed me as 
being well born. If any good fortune happens to her will 
you let me know ? " 

" With pleasure," replied Roger, bowing his adieu. 

" The old case of the needle in a hay-stack," laughed 
Ned. " What will you do next ? " 

" Go to Arlington. Find this Mrs. Winstead." 

" Nonsense ! You don't mean it ! n 

" But I do mean it," said Roger, firmly. " I am deter- 
mined to find the child." 

"And when found many her. Slightly altered from 
Captain Cuttle." 

" Now it is you who talk nonsense," returned Roger, 
laughingly. "I fancy neither of us will be in great haste 
to rush into matrimony. And you forget that this little 
creature is a mere child. At present it will be more to the 
purpose to inquire about trains to Arlington." 

" Old fellow, you are not going to day, that is settled. I 
will not be so out-rivalled by this pretty stage heroine. 
Come, you have only given me a bit of last evening. To- 





morrow, if you must, you can take the train to Arlington, 
and then return direct to New York. The rest of to-day 
is mine." 

Roger yielded to his friend, and, it must be confessed, 
enjoved his visit. Yet he was glad to start the next morn- 
ing, and found himself on the way to Arlington with so 
buoyant a feeling, that he took it as an omen of success. 
He could hardly hope that this fairy, Titania, would prove 
the lost child, yet his heart was set upon finding her. 
With the help of Aunt Alice he would rescue her from a 
hard, dangerous life, and place her in the position that her 
remarkable beauty demanded. 

It was a bright, crisp, winter morning, with floods of 
brilliant sunshine. Beside him sat a plain, middle-aged 
woman, who nodded a drowsy accompaniment to the 
