burning, and stood there like Abdiel among the fallen angels, only indeed 
that is comparing great things with small She was less patient and 
prudent than Abdiel might have been. 
"Miss Farren," she said, speaking with the calmness of intensity, "there 
is not one bit of truth in all that Miss Dunstable has been saying to 
you." 
The young lady addressed looked in surprise at the new speaker. Rotha's 
indignant eyes were sending out angry fires. The other girls looked on 
too, in scorn and anger, but some awe. 
"Miss Carpenter is polite!" said one. 
"Her sort," said another, "What you might expect from her family."
"She is a favourite herself," cried a third. "Of course, Mrs. M. is 
smooth as butter to her."
"You may say what you like of me," said Rotha; "but you shall not tell a 
stranger all sorts of false things about Mrs. Mowbray, without my telling 
her that they are false."
"Don't speak so loud!" whispered a stander-by; but Sotha went on, 
overpowering and silencing her opponents for the moment by the moral 
force of her passionate utterance,-- 
"She is as kind as it is possible to be. She is kinder than ever you can 
think. She is as generous as a horn of plenty, and there is not a small 
thread in all her composition. She knows how to govern, and she will 
govern you, if you stay in her house; and she will keep her promises, as 
you will find to your cost if you break her laws; but she is good, and 
sweet, and bountiful, as a goddess of mercy. And whoever says anything 
else of her, you may be sure is not worthy of her Kindness; and speaks 
not true, but meanly, falsely, ungratefully, and mischievously!"
Rotha stood and blazed at them; and incensed and resentful as they were, 
the others were afraid now to say anything; for Mrs. Mowbray herself had 
come into the centre room, and other ears were near, which they did not 
wish to arouse. It passed for the time; but the next day another of her 
companions attacked Rotha on the subject. 
"You made Miss Dunstable awfully angry at you last evening, Rotha." 
"I suppose so."
"What did you do it for?" 
"Because she was telling a pack of lies!" said Rotha. "I'm not going to 
sit by and hear anybody talk so of Mrs. Mowbray. And you ought not; and 
nobody ought." 
"Miss Dunstable will hate you, I can tell you. She'll be your enemy after 
this." 
"That is nothing to me." 
"Yes, it's all very well to say that, but you won't think so when you 
come to find out. She belongs to a very rich family, and she is worth 
having for a friend." 
"A girl like that?" cried Rotha. "A low spirited, false girl? Worth 
having for a friend? Not to anybody who is worth anything herself." 
"But she is ever so rich." 
"What's that to me? Do you think I am going to sit by and hear Mrs. 
Mowbray slandered, or anybody else, because the story teller has plenty 
of money? What is her money to me?" 
"Well, I don't know," said the other deprecatingly. "It puts things in 
her power. Her family is one of the best in New York." 
"Then the other members of it are much superior to this one!--that's all 
I have got to say." 
"But Rotha, she can hurt you." 
"How?" 
"She can make the other girls treat you ill." 
"I can bear as much as that for Mrs. Mowbray, I guess." 
"What makes you like her so much?" 
Rotha's eyes gave a wondering, very expressive, glance at her 
interlocutor. 
"Because she is so unspeakably good, and beautiful, and generous. She 
is a kind of a queen!" 
"She likes to rule." 
"She has to rule. What sort of a place would the house be, if she did  
not rule?" 
"But, Julia Dunstable could do you good, if she liked." 
"Could she? How?" said Rotha drily. 
"O she could put pleasant things in your way. She gave some of us a 
lovely invitation to a Christmas party; we had a royal time; and she asks 
the girls every now and then." 
"And you would have me be a traitor for the sake of an invitation? Bell 
Savage, I do not want invitations from such people." 
"La, Rotha, the world is full of such people; you cannot pick and 
choose." 
"But I will. I will pick and choose those whom I honour with my 
friendship. And I can assure you of one thing; my family would be very 
much ashamed of such a one belonging to it, as the one you want me to 
court. I court nobody. And I will expose a lie wherever I find it, if 
it's my business." 
I think Rotha forgot at the moment that Mrs. Busby belonged to "her 
family." However, Miss Savage was not wrong in supposing that her 
interference with Miss Dunstable would come back upon her own head. She 
was made to feel that a large number of the girls looked down upon her 
and that they refused all community with her. Even from people one does 
not care for, this sort of treatment is more or less painful; and it 
certainly made Rotha's school days less joyous in some respects than they 
might otherwise have been. From one reason and another, the greater 
proportion of her companions turned her the cold shoulder. Some for 
partisanship, some for subserviency, some to be in the fashion, and 
others again for pure envy. 
For Rotha sprang forward in her learning and surpassed all who were 
associated with her, in their mutual studies. Her partial isolation 
contributed, no doubt, to this end; having little social distraction, no 
home outside her school walls, and no delight in the things which 
occupied most of the minds within them, she bent to her books; drank, and 
drank deep, of the "Castalian spring," and with ever increasing 
enjoyment. She studied, not to get and keep a high position, or to gain 
distinction, or to earn praise or prizes, but for pure pleasure in study 
and eagerness to increase knowledge and to satisfy Mrs. Mowbray. So her 
progress was not only rapid but thorough; what she gained she kept; and 
her mental growth was equal to her physical. 
The physical was rapid and beautiful. Rotha shot up tall, and developed 
into a very noble-looking girl; intelligent, spirited, sweet and strong 
at once. Her figure was excellent; her movement graceful and free, as 
suited her character; colour clear and brunette, telling of flawless 
health; and an eye of light and force and fire and honesty, which it was 
at all times a pleasure to meet, speaking of the active, brave and true 
spirit to which it belonged. By degrees, as all this became manifest, 
shewed itself also the effect of culture, and the blessing of real 
education. Refinement touched every line of Rotha's face, and marked 
every movement and every tone. She gained command over her impetuous 
nature, not so but that it broke bounds occasionally; yet the habit 
became moderation, and something of the beautiful quiet of manner which 
Rotha had always admired in Mr. Southwode, did truly now belong to 
herself. Mrs. Mowbray had perpetual delight in her. Was it wonderful, 
when so many faces were only carelessly obtuse, or stupidly indifferent, 
or obstinately perverse, that the mistress should turn to the bright eye 
which was sure to have caught her meaning, and watch for the answer from 
lips which were sure to give it with rare intelligence. 
Those lessons from her beloved teacher were beyond all other lessons 
prized and delighted in by Rotha. They gave incentive to a vast deal of 
useful reading, more or less directly connected with the subject in hand. 
Some of the girls followed out this 'reading extensively; and no one so 
much as Rotha. Her great quickness and diligence with her regular lessons 
made this possible. 
Meanwhile, it is not to be supposed that Rotha's feet remained 
permanently in their coarse habiliments. When the cold and the snows were 
gone, and lighter airs and warmer weather came in with spring, Mrs. 
Mowbray exchanged the uncomely boots and thick stockings for others which 
better suited Rotha's need and comfort. No more animadversions were heard 
on the subject from Mrs. Busby, who indeed seemed rather inclined to let 
Rotha alone. 
And so went by two years; two years of growth and up-building and varied 
developement; years of enjoyment and affection and peace. The short 
intervals during which she was an inmate of her aunt's family served only 
as enhancement of all the rest; foils to the brightness of Mrs. Mowbray's 
house, and sharpeners of the appetite that was fed there. Nothing was 
ever heard of Mr. Digby, not by Rotha at least; and this was her only 
grief. For Rotha was true to her affections; and where she had loved 
once, did not forget   Once she asked Mrs. Mowbray if it was not strange 
she never got any word from Mr. Southwode? "Why should you, my dear?" 
Mrs. Mowbray replied, with an impenetrable face. 
"Because--I suppose, because I loved him so much," said Rotha innocently; 
"and I think he is true." 
"He has done a friend's part by you; and now there is nothing more for 
him to do. I see no reason why he should write to you." 
I do!--thought Rotha; but Mrs. Mowbray's tone did not invite her to 
pursue the subject; and she let it thenceforth alone. 
CHAPTEK XXII. 
A CHANGE. 
The two years of smooth sailing along the stream of life, were ended. 
What was coming next? But how should the sailor learn navigation, if he 
had never anything but calm weather and quiet airs? 
It was spring, late in May; when one evening Mrs. Mowbray came into 
Rotha's little room, shut the door, and sat down. Rotha looked up from 
her book and smiled. Mrs. Mowbray looked down at the book and sighed. A 
heavy sigh, it seemed to Rotha, and her smile died away. 
"You want to speak to me, madame?" she said, and laid her book away. 
"I am going to send you home--" said the lady abruptly. 
"Home!--" the word was but half uttered. What was this? The term was not 
near at an end. 
"You must go, my dear," Mrs. Mowbray went on more softly; for the first 
word had been spoken with the sternness of pain. "I must send you all 
away from me." 
"Whom?" 
"All of you! It has pleased heaven to visit me with a great calamity. You 
must all go." 
"What is it, Mrs. Mowbray?" said Rotha, trembling with a fear to which 
she could give no form. 
"I do not know, but I think it too probable, that a contagious disease 
has broken out in my family. The little Snyders are both ill with scarlet 
fever." 
"They are at home." 
"But Miss Tremont is taken in just the same way, and Miss de Forest is 
complaining. I have isolated them both; but I have no choice but to send 
all the rest of you away, till I shall know how the thing will go." 
Rotha looked terribly blank. 
"It is hard, isn't it?" said Mrs. Mowbray, noticing this with a faint 
smile; "but it is not best for us to have things go too smooth. I have 
had no rubs for two years or more." 
That this was a hard "rub" was evident. Mrs. Mowbray sat looking before 
her with a troubled face. 
"Why is it best for us that things should not go smooth?" Rotha ventured. 
To her sense the possible good of this disturbance was not apparent, 
while the positive evil was manifold. 
"The Lord knows!" said Mrs. Mowbray. "He sees uses, and needs, which we 
do not suspect. I am sorry for you, my dear child." 
"And I am sorry you are troubled, dear Mrs. Mowbray!" 
"I know you are. Your sympathy is very sweet to me.--We have had a 
pleasant two years together, have we not?" 
"Oh so pleasant!" echoed Rotha, almost in tears. "But--this sickness will 
pass over; and then we may come back again, may we not?" 
"It is too near the end of term, to come back this spring. It cannot be 
before next September now; and that is a long way off. One never knows 
what will happen in so many months!" 
Rotha had never seen Mrs. Mowbray look or speak so despondently. She was 
too utterly downhearted herself to say another word of hope or 
confidence. Four months of interval and separation! Four months with her 
aunt! What would become of her? What might happen in the mean time? 
"When must I go, Mrs. Mowbray?" she asked sadly. 
"To-night. Yes, my child, I must send you away from me. You have been a 
comfort to me ever since you came into my house; and now I must send you 
away." She folded Rotha in her arms and kissed her almost passionately. 
Then let her go, and spoke in business tones again. 
"Put up whatever you wish to take with you. The carriage will be at the 
door at half past eight. I shall go with you." 
With which words she departed. 
The tears came now, which had been carefully kept back until Mrs. Mowbray 
was gone; and it was under a very shower of heavy drops that Rotha folded 
and stowed away all her belongings. 
Stowed them in her trunk, which Mrs. Mowbray had at once sent up to her 
room. Amidst all her tears, Rotha worked like a sprite; she would leave 
nothing on her kind friend's hands to do for her, not even anything to 
think of. She packed all away, wondering the while why this sudden 
interruption to her prosperous course of study and growth should have 
been allowed to come; wondering when and how the interrupted course would 
be allowed to go on again. Happily she did not know what experiences 
would fill the next few months, in which Mrs. Mowbray's fostering care 
would not help her nor reach her; nor what a new course of lessons she 
would be put upon. Not knowing all this, Rotha shed bitter tears, it is 
true, but not despairing. And when the summons came, she was ready, and 
joined Mrs. Mowbray in the carriage with calm self-possession restored. 
The drive was almost silent. Once Mrs. Mowbray asked if there was 
anything Rotha had left to be done for her in her room or in the house? 
Rotha said "Nothing; all was done"; and then the carriage rolled on 
silently as before; the one of its occupants too busy with grave thoughts 
to leave her tongue free, the other sorrowfully wishing she would talk, 
yet not daring to ask it. Arrived at the door, however, Mrs. Mowbray 
folded the girl in her arms, giving her warm kisses and broken words of 
love, and ending with bidding her write often. 
"I may be unable to answer you, but do not let that stop you. Write 
always; I shall want to hear everything about you." 
And Rotha answered, it would be the greatest joy to her; and they parted. 
She went in at a somewhat peculiar moment. Half an hour sooner, 
Antoinette had returned from a friend's house where she had been dining, 
and burst into the parlour with news. 
"Mamma!" she exclaimed, before the door was shut behind her,--"Guess what 
is coming." 
"What?" said her mother calmly. She was accustomed to Antoinette's 
superlatives. 
"Mr. Southwode is coming back.--" 
Now Mrs. Busby did prick up her ears. "How do you know?" 
"There was a Mr. Lingard at dinner--a prosy old fellow, as tiresome as 
ever he could be; but he is English, and knows the Southwodes, and he 
told lots about them." 
"What?" 
"O I don't know!--a lot of stuff. About the business and the property, 
and how old Mr. Southwode left it all to this son; and he carries it on 
in some ridiculous way that I didn't understand; and the uncle tried to 
break the will, and there has been a world of trouble; but now Mr. Digby 
Southwode is coming back to New York." 
"When?" 
"O soon; any day. He may be here any day. And then, mamma--" 
"And was the will broken?" 
"No, I believe not. At any rate, Mr. Southwode, our Mr. Southwode, has it 
all. But he's absurd, mamma; he pays people, workmen, more than they 
ought to have; and he sells, or makes them sell, for less; less than the 
market price; and he gives away all his income. So Mr. Lingard says." 
"He will learn better," said Mrs. Busby. 
"Well, mamma, he's coming back; and what will you do?" 
"Welcome him," said her mother. "I always liked Mr. Southwode." 
"Yes, yes, but I mean, about Rotha. He will look her up, the first thing; 
and she will fly ecstatically to meet him--I remember their parting 
salute two years ago, and their meeting.  I don't doubt, will be  
equally tender. Mamma, are you prepared to come down with something   
handsome in the way of wedding presents?"  
"Nonsense!" 
"It's not nonsense!" said Antoinette vehemently. "It will be the absurd 
truth, before you know where you are; and papa, and you, and I, we shall 
all have the felicity of offering congratulations and holding receptions. 
If you don't prevent it, mamma! Can't you prevent it? Won't you  
prevent it? O mamma! won't you prevent it?" 
"Get up, Antoinette"--for the young lady had thrown herself down on the 
floor in her urgency, at her mother's feet. "Get up, and take off your 
things; you are extremely silly. I have no intention of letting them meet 
at all." 
"Mamma, how are you going to help it? He will find out where she is at 
school--he will go straight there, and then you may depend Rotha will 
snap her fingers at you. So will he; and to have two people snapping 
their fingers at us will just drive me wild." 
Mrs. Busby could not help laughing. At the same time, she as well as 
Antoinette regarded the matter from a very serious point of view. She 
knew Rotha had grown up very handsome; and all her mother's partiality 
did not make her sure that men like Mr. Southwode might not prefer the 
sense and grace and spirit which breathed from every look and motion of 
Rotha's, to the doll beauty of her own daughter. Yet it was not insipid 
beauty either; the face of Antoinette was exceedingly pretty, the smile 
very captivating, and the white and peach-blossom very lovely in her 
cheeks. But for sense, or dignity, or sympathy with any thoughts high and 
noble, if one looked to Antoinette one would look in vain. No matter; 
hers was just a style which captivates men, Mrs. Busby knew; even 
sensible men,--the only danger as in possible comparison or contrast. 
That danger should be avoided. 
"Nobody will snap fingers at me," she complacently remarked. 
"But how will you help it?" 
"I dare say there is no danger. Get up, Antoinette! there is the door 
bell." 
And then in walked Rotha. 
It struck her that her aunt and cousin were a little more than ordinarily 
