
“Peradventure I mistook; but I did think me 
free, and so was I moved to seek again the kennel 
where I was bom and bred to misery, yet which 
harboreth my mother and my sisters, and so is home 
to me; whereas these pomps and splendors where- 
unto I am not used — oh, please you, sir, to let me go !” 

The king was silent and thoughtful awhile, and 
his face betrayed a growing distress and uneasiness. 
Presently he said, with something of hope in his 
voice; 

“Perchance he is but mad upon this one strain, 
and hath his wits unmarred as toucheth other 
matter. God send it may be so! We will make 
trial.” 

Then he asked Tom a question in Latin, and Tom 
answered him lamely in the same tongue. The king 
was delighted, and showed it. The lords and doctors 
manifested their gratification also. The king 
said: 

“’Twas not according to his schooling and ability, 
but sheweth that his mind is but diseased, not 
stricken fatally. How say you, sir?” 

The physician addressed bowed low, and replied: 

“It jumpeth with mine own conviction, sire, that 
thou hast divined aright.” 

The king looked pleased with this encouragement, 
coming as it did from so excellent authority, and 
continued with good heart: 

“Now mark ye all: we will try him further.” 

He put a question to Tom in French. Tom stood 
silent a moment, embarrassed by having so many 
eyes centered upon him, then said diffidently: 

“I have no knowledge of this tongue, so please 
your majesty.” 

The king fell back upon his couch. The attendants 
flew to his assistance; but he put them aside, 
and said: 

“Trouble me not — it is nothing but a scurvy 
faintness. Raise me! there, ’tis sufficient. Come 
hither, child; there, rest thy poor troubled head 
upon thy father’s heart, and be at peace. Thou’lt 
soon be well; ’tis but a passing fantasy. Pear thou 
not; thou’lt soon be well.” Then he turned toward 
the company; his gentle manner changed, and bale- 
ful lightnings began to play from his eyes. He 
said: 

“List ye all! This my son is mad; but it is not 
permanent. Overstudy hath done this, and some- 
what too much of confinement. Away with his 
books and teachers! see ye to it. Pleasure him with 
sports, beguile him in wholesome ways, so that his 
health come again.” He raised himseh higher 
still, and went on with energy. “He is mad; but 
he is my son, and England’s heir; and, mad of 
sane, still shall he reign! And hear ye further, and 
proclaim it: whoso speaketh of this his distemper 
worketh against the peace and order of these realms, 
and shall to the gallows! . . . Give me to drink — 
I bum: This sorrow sappeth my sti'ength. . . . 
There, take away the cup. . . . Support me. There, 
that is well. Mad, is he? Were he a thousand 
times mad, yet is he Prince of Wales, and I the 
king will confirm it. This very morrow shall he be 
installed in his princely dignity in due and ancient 
form. Take instant order for it, my Lord Hert- 
ford.” 

One of the nobles knelt at the royal couch, and 
said: 

“The king’s majesty knoweth that the Hereditary 
Great Marshal of England lieth attainted in the 
Tower. It were not meet that one attainted — ” 

“Peace! Insult not mine ears with his hated 
name. Is this man to live forever? Am I to be 
balked of my will? Is the prince to tarry uninstalled, 
because, forsooth, the realm lacketh an earl 
marshal free of treasonable taint to invest him with 
his honors? No, by the splendor of God! Warn 
my parliament to bring me Norfolk’s doom before 
the sun rise again, else shall they answer for it 
grievously!” 

Lord Hertford said: 

“The king’s will is law”; and, rising, returned 
to his former place. 

Gradually the wrath faded out of the old king’s 
face, and he said: 

“Kiss me, my prince. There . . . what fearest 
thou? Am I not thy loving father?” 

“Thou art good to me that am unworthy, O 
mighty and gracious lord; that in truth I know. 
But — but — it grieveth me to think of him that is 
to die, and — ” 

“Ah, ’tis like thee, ’tis like thee! I know thy 
heart is still the same, even though thy mind hath 
suffered hmt, for thou wert ever of a gentle spirit. 
But this duke standeth between thee and thine 
honors: I will have another in his stead that shall 
bring no taint to his great office. Comfort thee, my 
prince: trouble not thy poor head with this matter.” 

“But is it not I that speed him hence, my liege? 
How long might he not live, but for me?” 

“Take no thought of him, my prince: he is not 
worthy. Kiss me once again, and go to thy trifles 
and amusements; for my malady distresseth me. I 
am aweary, and would rest. Go with thine uncle 
Hertford and thy people, and come again when my 
body is refreshed.” 

Tom, hea'vy-hearted, was conducted from the 
presence, for this last sentence was a death-blow to 
the hope he had cherished that now he would be set 
free. Once more he heard the buzz of low voices 
exclaiming, “The prince, the prince comes!” 

His spirits sank lower and lower as he moved between 
the glittering files of bowing courtiers; for he 
recognized that he was indeed a captive now, and 
might remain forever shut up in this gilded cage, a 
forlorn and friendless prince, except God in his 
mercy take pity on him and set him free. 

And, turn where he would, he seemed to see 
floating in the air the severed head and the remem- 
bered face of the great Duke of Norfolk, the eyes 
fix ed on him reproachfully. 

His old dreams had been so pleasant; but this 
reality was so dreary! 


CHAPTER VI 


TOM RECEIVES INSTRUCTIONS 

Tom was conducted to the principal apartment 
of a noble suite, and made to sit down — a thing 
which he was loath to do, since there were elderly- 
men and men of high degree about him. He begged 
them to be seated, also, but they only bowed their 
tha.nbs or murmured them, and remained standing. 
He would have insisted, but his “uncle,” the Earl 
of Hertford, whispered in his ear: 

“Prithee, insist not, my lord; it is not meet that 
they sit in thy presence.” 

The Lord St. John was announced, and, after 
making obeisance to Tom, he said: 

“I come upon the king’s errand, concerning a 
matter which requireth privacy. Will it please your 
royal highness to dismiss all that attend you here, 
save my lord the Earl of Hertford?” 

Observing that Tom did not seem to know how 
to proceed, Hertford whispered him to make a sign 
with his hand and not trouble himself to speak un- 
less he chose. When the waiting gentlemen had 
retired. Lord St. John said: 

“His majesty commandeth, that for due and 
weighty reasons of state, the prince’s grace shall 
hide his infirmity in all ways that be wi thin his 
power, till it be passed and he be as he was before. 
To wit, that he shall deny to none that he is the 
true prince, and heir to England’s greatness; that 
he shall uphold his princely dignity, and shall re- 
ceive, without word or sign of protest, that rever- 
ence and observance which unto it do appertain of 
right and ancient usage; that he shall cease to 
speak to any of that lowly birth and life his malady 
hath conjured out of the unwholesome imaginings 
o’erwrought fancy; that he shall strive with diligence 
to bring unto his memory again those faces which 
he was wont to know — and where he faileth he shall 
hold his peace, neither betraying by semblance of 
surprise, or other sign, that he hath forgot; that 
upon occasions of state, whensoever any matter 
shaE perplex him as to the thing he should do or 
the utterance he should make, he shaE show naught 
of unrest to the curious that look on, but take 
advice in that matter of the Lord Hertford, or my 
humble seE, which are commanded of the king to 
be upon this service and close at caE, tEl this com- 
mandment be dissolved. Thus saith the king’s 
majesty, who sendeth greeting to your royal high- 
ness and prayeth that God wEl of His mercy quickly 
heal you and have you now and ever in His holy 
keeping.” 

The Lord St. John made reverence and stood 
aside. Tom replied, resignedly; 

“The king hath said it. None may palter with 
the king’s command, or fit it to his ease, where it 
doth chafe, with deft evasions. The king shall be 
obeyed.” 


“Touching the king’s majesty’s ordainment con- 
cerning books and such like serious matters, it may 
peradventure please your highness to ease your 
time with lightsome entertainment, lest you ga 
wearied to the banquet and suffer harm thereby.” 

Tom’s face showed inquiring surprise; and a 
blush followed when he saw Lord St. John’s eyes 
bent sorrowfully upon him. His lordship said: 

“Thy memory still wrongeth thee, and thou hast 
shown surprise — but suffer it not to trouble thee, 
for ’tis a matter that will not bide, but depart with 
thy mending malady. My Lord of Hertford speak- 
eth of the city’s banquet which the king’s majesty 
did promise two months flown, your highness should 
attend. Thou recallest it now?” 

“It grieves me to confess it had indeed escaped 
me,” said Tom, in a hesitating voice; and blushed 
again. 

At that moment the Lady Elizabeth and the Lady 
Jane Grey were announced. The two lords ex- 
changed significant glances, and Hertford stepped 
quickly toward the door. As the young girls passed 
him, he said in a low voice: 

“I pray ye, ladies, seem not to observe his humors, 
nor show surprise when his memory doth 
lapse — it will grieve you to note how it doth stick 
at every trifle.” 

Meanwhile Lord St. John was saying in Tom’s 
ear: 

“Please you, sir, keep diligently in mind his 
majesty’s desire. Remember all thou canst — seem 
to remember all else. Let them not perceive that 
thou art much changed from thy wont, for thou 
knowest how tenderly thy old playfellows bear thee 
in their hearts and how ’twould grieve them. Art 
willing, sir, that I remain? — and thine uncle?” 

Tom signified assent with a gesture and a mur- 
mured word, for he was already learning, and in his 
simple heart was resolved to acquit himself as best 
he might, according to the kmg’s command. 

In spite of every precaution, the conversation 
among the young people became a little embarrass- 
ing at times. More than once, in truth, Tom was 
near to breaking down and coixfessing himself equal 
to his tremendous part; but the tact of the 
Princess Elizabeth saved him, or a word from one 
or the other of the vigilant lords, thrown in apparently 
by chance, had the same happy effect. Once 
the Kttle Lady Jane turned to Tom and dismayed 
him with this question: 

“Hast paid thy duty to the queen’s majesty today, 
my lord?” 

Tom hesitated, looked distressed, and was about 
to stammer out something at hazard, when Lord St. 
John took the word and answered for him with the 
easy grace of a courtier accustomed to encotmter 
delicate difficulties and to be ready for them: 

“He hath indeed, madam, and she did greatly 
hearten him, as touching his majesty’s condition; 
is it not so, your highness?” 

Tom mumbled something that stood for assent, 
but felt that he was getting upon dangerous ground. 
Somewhat later it was mentioned that Tom was to 
