“Yes.”
“If you did n’t love me, you would n’t ask me to marry you?”
“No.”
“Then how can you expect me to marry you without loving you?”
“I don’t. All that I ask is that you won’t refuse me. I know that you
can love me.”
“No, no, never!”
“And I only want you to take time to try.”
“I don’t wish to try. If you persist, I must leave the room. We had
better part. I was foolish to see you. But I thought--I was sorry--I
hoped to make it less unkind to you.”
“In spite of yourself, you were relenting.”
“Not at all!”
“But if you pitied me, you did care for me a little?”
“You know that I had the highest respect for you as a physician. I
tell you that you were my ideal in that way, and I will tell you that
if”--she stopped, and he continued for her.
“If you had not resolved to give it up, you might have done what I
asked.”
“I did not say that,” she answered indignantly.
“But why do you give it up?”
“Because I am not equal to it.”
“How do you know it? Who told you?”
“You have told me,--by every look and act of yours,--and I’m grateful to
you for it.”
“And if I told you now by word that you were fit for it.”
“I shouldn’t believe you.”
“You would n’t believe my word?” She did not answer. “I see,” he said
presently, “that you doubt me somehow as a man. What is it you think of
me?”
“You wouldn’t like to know.”
“Oh, yes, I should.”
“Well, I will tell you. I think you are a tyrant, and that you want a
slave, not a wife. You wish to be obeyed. You despise women. I don’t
mean their minds,--they ‘re despicable enough, in most cases, as men’s
are,--but their nature.”
“This is news to me,” he said, laughing. “I never knew that I despised
women’s nature.”
“It’s true, whether you knew it or not.”
“Do I despise you?”
“You would, if you saw that I was afraid of you: Oh, why do you force me
to say such things? Why don’t you spare me--spare yourself?”
“In this cause I couldn’t spare myself. I can’t bear to give you up!
I’m what I am, whatever you say; but with you, I could be whatever you
would. I could show you that you are wrong if you gave me the chance. I
know that I could make you happy. Listen to me a moment.”
“It’s useless.”
“No! If you have taken the trouble to read me in this way, there must
have been a time when you might have cared.”
“There never was any such time. I read you from the first.”
“I will go away,” he said, after a pause, in which she had risen, and
began a retreat towards the door. “But I will not--I cannot--give you
up. I will see you again.”
“No, sir. You shall not see me again. I will not submit to it. I will
not be persecuted.” She was trembling, and she knew that he saw her
tremor.
“Well,” he said, with a smile that recognized her trepidation, “I will
not persecute you. I’ll renounce these pretensions. But I’ll ask you to
see me once more, as a friend,--an acquaintance.”
“I will not see you again.”
“You are rather hard with me, I think,” he urged gently. “I don’t think
I’m playing the tyrant with you now.”
“You are,--the baffled tyrant.”
“But if I promised not to offend again, why should you deny me your
acquaintance?”
“Because I don’t believe you.” She was getting nearer the door, and as
she put her hand behind her and touched the knob, the wild terror she
had felt, lest he should reach it first and prevent her escape, left
her. “You are treating me like a child that does n’t know its own mind,
or has none to know. You are laughing at me--playing with me; you have
shown me that you despise me.”
He actually laughed. “Well, you’ve shown that you are not afraid of me.
Why are you not afraid?”
“Because,” she answered, and she dealt the blow now without pity, “I’m
engaged,--engaged to Mr. Libby!” She whirled about and vanished through
the door, ashamed, indignant, fearing that if she had not fled, he would
somehow have found means to make his will prevail even yet.
He stood, stupefied, looking at the closed door, and he made a turn
or two about the room before he summoned intelligence to quit it. When
death itself comes, the sense of continuance is not at once broken in
the survivors. In these moral deaths, which men survive in their own
lives, there is no immediate consciousness of an end. For a while, habit
and the automatic tendency of desire carry them on.
He drove back to Corbitant perched on the rickety seat of his rattling
open buggy, and bowed forward as his wont was, his rounded shoulders
bringing his chin well over the dashboard. As he passed down the long
sandy street, toward the corner where his own house stood, the brooding
group of loafers, waiting in Hackett’s store for the distribution of the
mail, watched him through the open door, and from under the boughs of
the weatherbeaten poplar before it. Hackett had been cutting a pound of
cheese out of the thick yellow disk before him, for the Widow Holman,
and he stared at the street after Mulbridge passed, as if his mental eye
had halted him there for the public consideration, while he leaned over
the counter, and held by the point the long knife with which he had cut
the cheese.
“I see some the folks from over to Jocelyn’s, yist’d’y,” he said, in
a spasm of sharp, crackling speech, “and they seemed to think ‘t Mis’
Mulbridge’d got to step round pretty spry ‘f she did n’t want another
the same name in the house with her.”
A long silence followed, in which no one changed in any wise the posture
in which he found himself when Hackett began to speak. Cap’n George
Wray, tilted back against the wall in his chair, continued to stare at
the store-keeper; Cap’n Jabez Wray, did not look up from whittling the
chair between his legs; their cousin, Cap’n Wray Storrell, seated on a
nailkeg near the stove, went on fretting the rust on the pipe with the
end of a stiff, cast-off envelope; two other captains, more or less akin
to them, continued their game of checkers; the Widow Seth Wray’s boy
rested immovable, with his chin and hand on the counter, where he had
been trying since the Widow Holman went out to catch Hackett’s eye and
buy a corn-ball. Old Cap’n Billy Wray was the first to break the spell.
He took his cigar from his mouth, and held it between his shaking thumb
and forefinger, while he pursed his lips for speech. “Jabez,” he said,
“did Cap’n Sam’l git that coalier?”
“No,” answered the whittler, cutting deeper into his chair, “she did n’t
signal for him till she got into the channel, and then he’d got a couple
o’ passengers for Leyden; and Cap’n Jim brought her up.”
“I don’t know,” said Cap’n Billy, with a stiff yet tremulous reference
of himself to the storekeeper, “as spryness would help her, as long as
he took the notion. I guess he’s master of his own ship. Who’s he going
to marry? The grahs-widow got well enough?”
“No. As I understand,” crackled the store-keeper, “her husband’s turned
up. Folks over there seem to think’t he’s got his eye on the other
doctor.”
“Going to marry with her, hey? Well, if either of ‘em gets sick they
won’t have to go far for advice, and they won’t have any doctor’s bills
to pay. Still, I shouldn’t ha’ picked out just that kind of a wife for
him.”
“As I understand,” the storekeeper began; but here he caught sight of
Widow Seth Wray’s boy, and asked, “What’s wanted, Bub? Corn-ball?” and
turning to take that sweetmeat from the shelf behind him he added
the rest in the mouth of the hollowly reverberating jar, “She’s got
prop’ty.”
“Well, I never knew a Mulbridge yet ‘t objected to prop’ty,--especially,
other folks’s.”
“Barlow he’s tellin’ round that she ‘s very fine appearin’.” He handed
the corn-ball to Widow Seth Wray’s boy, who went noiselessly out on his
bare feet.
Cap’n Billy drew several long breaths. When another man might have been
supposed to have dismissed the subject he said, “Well, I never knew
a Mulbridge that objected to good looks in women folks. They’ve all
merried hahnsome wives, ever since the old gentleman set ‘em the example
with his second one. They got their own looks from the first. Well,” he
added, “I hope she’s a tough one. She’s got either to bend or to break.”
“They say,” said Cap’n George Wray, like one rising from the dead to say
it, so dumb and motionless had he been till now, “that Mis’ Mulbridge
was too much for the old doctor.”
“I don’t know about that,” Cap’n Billy replied, “but I guess her son’s
too much for her: she’s only Gardiner, and he’s Gardiner and Mulbridge
both.”
No one changed countenance, but a sense of Cap’n Billy’s wit sparely
yet satisfyingly glimmered from the eyes of Cap’n George and the
storekeeper, and Cap’n Jabez closed his knife with a snap and looked up.
“Perhaps,” he suggested, “she’s seen enough of him to know beforehand
that there would be too much of him.”
“I never rightly understood,” said Hackett, “just what it was about him,
there in the army--coming out a year beforehand, that way.”
“I guess you never will,--from him,” said Cap’n Jabez.
“Laziness, I guess,--too much work,” said old Cap’n Billy. “What he
wants is a wife with money. There ain’t a better doctor anywhere.
I’ve heard ‘t up to Boston, where he got his manifest, they thought
everything of him. He’s smart enough, but he’s lazy, and he always was
lazy, and harder’n a nut. He’s a curious mixtur’. ‘N’ I guess he’s been
on the lookout for somethin’ of this kind ever sence he begun practising
among the summer boarders. Guess he’s had an eye out.”
“They say he’s poplar among ‘em,” observed the storekeeper thoughtfully.
“He’s been pooty p’tic’lar, or they have,” said Cap’n Jabez.
“Well, most on ‘em’s merried women,” Hackett urged. “It’s astonishin’
how they do come off and leave their husbands, the whole summer long.
They say they’re all out o’ health, though.”
“I wonder,” said old Cap’n Billy, “if them coaliers is goin’ to make a
settled thing of haulin’ inside before they signal a pilot.”
“I know one thing,” answered Cap’n Jabez, “that if any coalier signals
me in the channel, I’ll see her in hell first” He slipped his smooth,
warm knife into his pocket, and walked out of the store amid a general
silence.
“He’s consid’ble worked up, about them coaliers,” said old Cap’n Billy.
“I don’t know as I’ve heard Jabez swear before--not since he was mate of
the Gallatin. He used to swear then, consid’able.”
“Them coaliers is enough to make any one swear,” said Cap’n George. “If
it’s any ways fair weather they won’t take you outside, and they cut you
down from twenty-five dollars to two dollars if they take you inside.”
Old Cap’n Billy did not answer before he had breathed awhile, and then,
having tried his cigar and found it out, he scraped a match on his
coat-sleeve. He looked at the flame while it burned from blue to yellow.
“Well, I guess if anybody’s been p’tic’lar, it’s been him. There ain’t
any doubt but what he’s got a takin’ way with the women. They like him.
He’s masterful, and he ain’t a fool, and women most gen’ly like a man
that ain’t a fool. I guess if he ‘s got his eye on the girl’s prop’ty,
she’ll have to come along. He’d begin by havin’ his own way about her
answer; he’d hang on till she said Yes, if she did n’t say it first-off;
and he’d keep on as he’d begun. I guess if he wants her it’s a match.”
 And Cap’n Billy threw his own into the square box of tobacco-stained
sawdust under the stove.
Mrs. Maynard fully shared the opinion which rocked Dr. Mulbridge’s
defeat with a belief in his invincible will. When it became necessary,
in the course of events which made Grace and Libby resolve upon a
short engagement, to tell her that they were going to be married, she
expressed a frank astonishment. “Walter Libby!” she cried. “Well, I
am surprised. When I was talking to you the other day about getting
married, of course I supposed it was going to be Dr. Mulbridge. I did
n’t want you to marry him, but I thought you were going to.”
“And why,” demanded Grace, with mounting sensation, “did you think
that?”
“Oh, I thought you would have to.”
“Have to?”
“Oh, you have such a weak will. Or I always thought you had. But perhaps
it’s only a weak will with other women. I don’t know! But Walter
Libby! I knew he was perfectly gone upon you, and I told you so at the
beginning; but I never dreamt of your caring for him. Why, it seems too
ridiculous.”
“Indeed! I’m glad that it amuses you.”
“Oh no, you’re not, Grace. But you know what I mean. He seems so much
younger.”
“Younger? He’s half a year older than I am.”
“I did n’t say he was younger. But you’re so very grave and he’s so very
light. Well, I always told Walter Libby I should get him a wife, but you
were the last person I should have thought of. What’s going to become
of all your high purposes? You can’t do anything with them when you’re
married! But you won’t have any occasion for them, that’s one comfort.”
“It’s not my idea of marriage that any high purpose will be lost in it.”
“Oh, it is n’t anybody’s, before they get married. I had such high
purposes I couldn’t rest. I felt like hiring a hall, as George says,
all the time. Walter Libby is n’t going to let you practise, is he? You
mustn’t let him! I know he’d be willing to do anything you said, but a
husband ought to be something more than a mere & Co.”
Grace laughed at the impudent cynicism of all this, for she was too
happy to be vexed with any one just then. “I’m glad you’ve come to think
so well of husbands’ rights at last, Louise,” she said.
Mrs. Maynard took the little puncture in good part. “Oh, yes, George
and I have had a good deal of light let in on us. I don’t suppose my
character was much changed outwardly in my sickness,” she suggested.
“It was not,” answered Grace warmly. “It was intensified, that was all.”
Mrs. Maynard laughed in her turn, with real enjoyment of the conception.
“Well, I wasn’t going to let on, unless it came to the worst; I did
n’t say much, but I kept up an awful thinking. It would have been easy
enough to get a divorce, and George would n’t have opposed it; but I
looked at it in this way: that the divorce wouldn’t have put us back
where we were, anyway, as I had supposed it would. We had broken into
each other’s lives, and we couldn’t get out again, with all the divorces
under the sun. That’s the worst of getting married: you break into each
other’s lives. You said something like it to me, that day when you came
back from your sail with Walter Libby. And I just concluded that there
could n’t be any trial that would n’t be a great deal easier to bear
than getting rid of all your trials; and I just made up my mind that
if any divorce was to be got, George Maynard might get it himself; a
temporary separation was bad enough for me, and I told him so, about the
first words I could speak. And we’re going to try the new departure
on that platform. We don’t either of us suspect we can have things
perfectly smooth, but we’ve agreed to rough it together when we can’t.
We’ve found out that we can’t marry and then become single, any more
than we could die and come to life again. And don’t you forget it,
Grace! You don’t half know yourself, now. You know what you have been;
but getting married lets loose all your possibilities. You don’t know
what a temper you’ve got, nor how badly you can behave--how much like a
naughty, good-for-nothing little girl; for a husband and wife are just
two children together: that’s what makes the sweetness of it, and that’s
what makes the dreadfulness. Oh, you’ll have need of all your good
principles, I can tell you, and if you’ve a mind to do anything
practical in the way of high purposes, I reckon there’ll be use for them
all.”
Another lady who was astonished at Grace’s choice was more incurably
disappointed and more grieved for the waste of those noble aims with
which her worshipping fancy had endowed the girl even more richly than
her own ambition. It was Grace’s wish to pass a year in Europe before
her husband should settle down in charge of his mills; and their
engagement, marriage, and departure followed so swiftly upon one
another, that Miss Gleason would have had no opportunity to proffer
remonstrance or advice. She could only account for Grace’s course on
the theory that Dr. Mulbridge had failed to offer himself; but this
explained her failure to marry him, without explaining her marriage
with Mr. Libby. That remained for some time a mystery, for Miss Gleason
firmly refused to believe that such a girl could be in love with a man
so much her inferior: the conception disgraced not only her idol,
but cast shame upon all other women, whose course in such matters is
notoriously governed by motives of the highest sagacity and judgment.
Mrs. Breen hesitated between the duty of accompanying the young couple
on their European travels, and that of going to the village where
Libby’s mills were situated,--in southern New Hampshire. She was not
strongly urged to a decision by her children, and she finally chose the
latter course. The mill property had been a long time abandoned before
Libby’s father bought it, and put it in a repair which he did not hasten
to extend to the village. This had remained in a sort of picturesque
neglect, which harmonized with the scenery of the wild little valley
where it nestled; and Mrs. Breen found, upon the vigorous inquiry
which she set on foot, that the operatives were deplorably destitute of
culture and drainage. She at once devoted herself to the establishment
of a circulating library and an enlightened system of cess-pools, to
such an effect of ingratitude in her beneficiaries that she was quite
ready to remand them to their former squalor when her son-in-law
returned. But he found her work all so good that he mediated between her
and the inhabitants, and adopted it with a hearty appreciation that went
far to console her, and finally popularized it. In fact, he entered into
the spirit of all practical reforms with an energy and intelligence that
quite reconciled her to him. It was rather with Grace than with him
that she had fault to find. She believed that the girl had returned from
Europe materialized and corrupted; and she regarded the souvenirs of
travel with which the house was filled as so many tokens of moral decay.
It is undeniable that Grace seemed for a time, to have softened to, a
certain degree of self-indulgence. During the brief opera season the
first winter after her return, she spent a week in Boston; she often
