"'Helen,' I answered, 'he did not love me. Do you not see that? I am
the one humiliated. When I saw you with him at St. Lucien's Church, I
knew that he loved you--probably had never loved any one save you.'

"I believed what I said. But this is what she answered: 'It is not true.
Since he saw you he has never loved me. I see it now. He married me from
pity, no doubt thinking that I was near death. How many times he must
have wished me dead indeed! I wonder that he has not murdered me.'

"This, also, Bagshot heard, for Helen had risen to her feet, and spoke
in a high, strained voice, unlike her own. I put my arms round her and
drew her down again. She struggled, but I would not let her go.

"'Helen,' I said, 'you are beside yourself. You were his wife, and you
were happy. That one look I had in church showed me that you were.'

"She relapsed into stillness. After a while she looked up, and said,
quietly, 'It is a good thing he is dead.'

"'Hush!' I answered; 'you do not know what you are saying.'

"'Yes, I do. It is a good thing that he is dead,' she repeated; 'for I
should have found it out, and made his life a torment. And I should
never have died; it would have determined me never to die. I should have
lived on forever, an old, old woman, close to him always, so that he
could not have you.'

"She seemed half mad; I think, at the moment, she was half mad, owing to
the shock, and to the dumb grief which was consuming her.

"'It would have been a strange life we should have led,' she went on. 'I
would not have left him even for a moment; he should have put on my
shawl and carried me to and fro just the same, and I should have kissed
him always when he went out and came in, as though we loved each other.
I know his nature. It is--O God! I mean it was--the kind I could have
worked upon. He was generous, very tender to all women; he would have
yielded to me always, so far as bearing silently all my torments to the
last.'"

Here Dexter interrupted the speaker. "You will acknowledge now what I
said concerning her?"

"No," replied Anne; "Helen imagined it all. She could never have carried
it out. She loved him too deeply."

Her eyes met his defiantly. The old feeling that he was an antagonist
rose in her face for a moment, met by a corresponding retort in his.
Then they both dropped their glance, and she resumed her narrative.

"It was here that she cried out, 'Yes, he has borne it so far, and now
he is dead. But if he were alive, I should have taunted him with it. Do
you hear? I say I should have taunted him.' This also Bagshot overheard.
And then--" She paused.

"And then?" repeated Dexter, his eyes full upon her face.

"She grew calmer," said the girl, turning her face from him, and
speaking for the first time hurriedly; "she even kissed me. 'You were
always good and true,' she said. 'But it was easy to be good and true,
if you did not love him.' I suppose she felt my heart throb suddenly
(she was lying in my arms), for she sprang up, and wound her arms round
my neck, bringing her eyes close to mine. Did you love him? she asked.
'Tell me--tell me; it will do no harm now.'

"But I drew myself out of her grasp, although she clung to me. I crossed
the room. She followed me. 'Tell me,' she whispered; 'I shall not mind
it. Indeed, I wish that you did love him, that you do love him, for
then we would mourn for him together. I can be jealous of his love for
you, but not of yours for him, poor child. Tell me, Anne; tell me. I
long to know that you are miserable too.' She was leaning on me: in
truth, she was too weak to stand alone. She clung to me in the old
caressing way. 'Tell me,' she whispered. But I set my lips. Then, still
clinging to me, her eyes fixed on mine, she said that I could not love;
that I did not know what love meant; that I never would know, because my
nature was too calm, too measured. She spoke other deriding words, which
I will not repeat; and then--and then--I do not know how it came about,
but I pushed her from me, with her whispering voice and shining eyes,
and spoke out aloud (we were standing near that door) those words--those
words which Bagshot has repeated."

"You said those words?"

"I did."

"Then you loved him?"

"Yes."

"Do you love him now?"

As Dexter asked this question his eyes were fixed upon her with a
strange intentness. At first she met his gaze with the same absorbed
expression unconscious of self which her face had worn from the
beginning. Then a burning blush rose, spread itself over her forehead,
and dyed even her throat before it faded. "You have no right to ask
that," she said, returning to her narrative with haste, as though it
were a refuge.

"After I had said those words, there was no more bitterness between us.
I think then Helen forgave me. She asked me to come and live with her
in her desolation. I answered that perhaps later I could come, but not
then; and it was at this time that she said, not what Bagshot has
reported, 'You can not conquer hate,' but, 'You can not conquer fate.'
And she added: 'We two must be together, Anne; we are bound by a tie
which can not be severed, even though we may wish it. You must bear with
me, and I must suffer you. It is our fate.'

"Later, she grew more feverish; her strength was exhausted. But when at
last I rose to go, she went with me to the door. 'If he had lived,' she
said, 'one of us must have died.' Then her voice sank to a whisper.
'Changed or died,' she added. 'And as we are not the kind of women who
change, it would have ended in the wearing out of the life of one of
us--the one who loved the most. And people would have called it by some
other name, and that would have been the end. But now it is he who has
been taken, and--oh! I can not bear it--I can not, can not bear it!'"
She paused; her eyes were full of tears.

"Is that all?" said Dexter, coldly.

"That is all."

Then there was a silence.

"Do you not think it important?" she asked at last, with a new timidity
in her voice.

"It will make an impression; it will be your word against Bagshot's. The
point proved will be that instead of your having separated in anger,
with words of bitterness and jealousy, you separated in peace, as
friends. Her letter will be important, if it proves this."

"It does. I have also another--a little note telling me of her husband's
safety, and dropped into a letter-box on her way to the train. And I
have the locket she gave me on the day of our last interview. She took
it from her own neck and clasped it round mine a moment before I left
her."

"Did Bagshot know of the existence of this locket?"

"She must have known it. For Helen said she always wore it; and Bagshot
dressed her daily."

"Will you let me see it? And the two letters also, if they are here?"

"They are up stairs. I will get them."

What he wished to find out was whether she wore the locket. She came
back so soon that he said to himself she could not have had it on--there
had not been time to remove it; besides, as he held it in his hand it
was not warm. He read the two letters carefully. Then he took up the
locket again and examined it. It was a costly trinket, set with
diamonds; within was a miniature, a life-like picture of Helen's
husband.

He looked at his rival silently. The man was in prison, charged with the
highest crime in the catalogue of crimes, and Dexter believed him
guilty. Yet it was, all the same, above all and through all, the face of
his rival still--of his triumphant, successful rival.

He laid down the locket, rose, and went over to Anne.

She was standing by the window, much dejected that he had not been more
impressed by the importance of that which she had revealed. She looked
up as he came near.

"Anne," he said, "I have promised to take you to Multomah, and I will
keep my promise, if you insist. But have you considered that if you
correct and restate Bagshot's testimony in all the other points, you
will also be required to acknowledge the words of that confession?"

"Yes, I know it," she murmured, turning toward the window again.

"It can not but be horribly repugnant to you. Think how you will be
talked about, misunderstood. The newspapers will be black with your
name; it will go through the length and breadth of the land accompanied
with jests, and possibly with worse than jests. Anne, look up; listen to
what I am going to say. Marry me, Anne; marry me to-day; and go on the
witness stand--if go you must--as my wife."

She gazed at him, her eyes widened with surprise.

He took her hands, and began to plead. "It is a strange time in which to
woo you; but it is a strange ordeal which you have to go through. As my
wife, no one will dare to insult you or to misconstrue your evidence;
for your marriage will have given the lie beforehand to the worst
comment that can be made, namely, that you still love Heathcote, and
hope, if he is acquitted, to be his wife. It will be said that you loved
him once, but that this tragedy has changed the feeling, and you will be
called noble in coming forward of your own accord to acknowledge an
avowal which must be now painful to you in the extreme. The 'unknown
young girl' will be unknown no longer, when she comes forward as Gregory
Dexter's wife, with Gregory Dexter by her side to give her, in the eyes
of all men, his proud protection and respect."

Anne's face responded to the warm earnestness of these words: she had
never felt herself so powerfully drawn toward him as at that moment.

"As to love, Anne," he continued, his voice softening, "do not fancy
that I am feigning anything when I say that I do love you. The feeling
has grown up unconsciously. I shall love you very dearly when you are my
wife; you could command me, child, to almost any extent. As for your
feeling toward me--marry me, and I will make you love me." He drew her
toward him. "I am not too old, too old for you, am I?" he said, gently.

"It is not that," she answered, in deep distress. "Oh, why, why have you
said this?"

"Well, because I am fond of you, I suppose," said Dexter, smiling. He
thought she was yielding.

"You do not understand," she said, breaking from him. "You are generous
and kind, the best friend I have ever had, and it is for that reason, if
for no other, that I would never wrong you by marrying you, because--"

"Because?" repeated Dexter.

"Because I still love him."

"Heathcote?"

"Yes."

His face changed sharply, yet he continued his urging. "Even if you do
love him, you would not marry him now."

She did not answer.

"You would not marry him with poor Helen's blood between you?"

"It is not between us. He is innocent."

"But if, after escaping conviction, it should yet be made clear to
you--perhaps to you alone--that he was guilty, then would you marry
him?"

"No. But the very greatness of his crime would make him in a certain way
sacred to me on account of the terrible remorse and anguish he would
have to endure."

"A good way to punish criminals," said Dexter, bitterly. "To give them
your love and your life, and make them happy."

"He would not be happy; he would be a wretched man through every moment
of his life, and die a wretched death. Whatever forgiveness might come
in another world, there would be none in this. Helen herself would wish
me to be his friend."

"For the ultra-refinement of self-deception, give me a woman," said
Dexter, with even deepened bitterness.

"But why do we waste time and words?" continued Anne. Then seeing him
take up his hat and turn toward the door, she ran to him and seized his
arm. "You are not going?" she cried, abandoning the subject with a
quick, burning anxiety which told more than all the rest. "Will you not
take me, as you promised, to Multomah?"

"You still ask me to take you there?"

"Yes, yes."

"What do you think a man is made of?" he said, throwing down his hat,
but leaving her, and walking across to the window.

Anne followed him. "Mr. Dexter," she said, standing behind him,
shrinkingly, so that he could not see her, "would you wish me to marry
you when I love--love him, as I said, in those words which you have
read, and--even more?" Her face was crimson, her voice broken, her hands
were clasped so tightly that the red marks of the pressure were visible.

He turned and looked at her. Her face told even more than her words. All
his anger faded; it seemed to him then that he was the most unfortunate
man in the whole world. He took her in his arms, and kissed her sadly.
"I yield, child," he said. "Think of it no more. But, oh, Anne, Anne, if
it could but have been! Why does he have everything, and I nothing?" He
bowed his head over hers as it lay on his breast, and stood a moment;
then he released her, went to the door, and breathed the outside air in
silence.

Closing it, he turned and came toward her again, and in quite another
tone said, "Are you ready? If you are, we will go to the city, and start
as soon as possible for Multomah."




CHAPTER XXXIV.

    "Then she rode forth, clothed on with chastity:
     The deep air listen'd round her as she rode,
     And all the low wind hardly breathed for fear.
     The little wide-mouth'd heads upon the spout
     Had cunning eyes to see: the barking cur
     Made her cheeks flame: ... the blind walls
     Were full of chinks and holes; and overhead
     Fantastic gables, crowding, stared: but she
     Not less thro' all bore up."--TENNYSON.


Gregory Dexter kept his word. He telegraphed to Miss Teller and to Miss
Teller's lawyers. He thought of everything, even recalling to Anne's
