she swept by and vanished in the now implacable 
twilight. She had nodded to the driver with a 
smile, as she passed him, one of those warm, 
brilliant, fatally generous smiles that an abundant 
feminine creature bestows anywhere, and takes no 
thought where they may strike, or how. The 
driver touched his cap with his whip. His pet 
oath stuck half-way in his throat, and gurgled 
away into " Evenin , Doctor ! " as he yielded the 
narrow road to the pony, and struggled on with 
unprecedented meekness into the silent, frozen 
village street. 

It occurred to Waldo Yorke, leaning back there 
in the stage, with his hand over his eyes, after she 
had swept by, that it was impossible for him to 
chatter with those people before he should see her. 
It was unbearable now that there should be any 
body in the world but herself and him. It was in 
credible. What man could have believed that one 
look would undo so much, would do so much ? 
She seemed to have sprung on him, like a 
leopardess indeed. He panted for breath, and thrust his 
hand out, alone there in the dark stage, with a 
motion as if he could have thrust her off for life 's 
sake. 

The driver reined up at the post-office, and the 
passenger got out. He walked over to the Sher 
man Hotel and called for supper, and tried to calm 
himself by a smoke in the dingy office. But his 
cigar disgusted him, and he threw it away. He 
got out into the freezing air again as soon as pos 
sible, and walked up and down, for a while, in the 
middle of the road. The sidewalks were not 
broken out ; the drifts lay even with the fences ; 
there were no street-lamps, and between the scat 
tered houses long wastes of blackness crouched. 
There were no pedestrians. Occasionally a sleigh 
tinkled up to the post-office ; the drivers clapped 
their ears with blue-mittened hands, and crouched 
under old buffaloes worn to the skin. 

He passed the town hall, where a sickly hand 
bill set forth that the celebrated Adonita Duella, 
the only female child drummer in the world, would 
perform that night, and could be seen and heard 
for the sum of twenty-five cents. 

He passed the Baptist church, where the vestry 
was lighted for a prayer-meeting, and a trustful 
choir were pathetically rehearsing Hold the Fort, 



 

with what they were pleased to call a cabinet or 
gan and a soprano who cultivated a cold upon the 
lungs. The frost was as thick as plush npon the 
windows of the vestry. 

It was too early for either of these sources of 
social diversion to be open to the public. Yorko 
met no one, and walked as slowly as he could 
without congealing, stumbling through the dark, 
over the drifted road, till he came in sight of Mr. 
Batter well 's familiar square house. He came first 
upon the doctor 's wing. Lights were in the office, 
and in her parlor. The reception-room was dark. 
Encouraged by this to think that the office hour 
was either over it used to be over by seven 
o clock or else that no one was there, he pushed 
on, and softly made his way up the walk and to 
the piazza, where he paused. It was now snowing 
fast, and he stood in the whirl and wet, over 
whelmed by a hesitation that he dared neither 
disregard nor obey. His thoughts at that moment, 
with a whimsical irrelevance, reverted to the let 
ter he wrote when he first got back to Nahant, in 
which he had asked for her bill. She sent it, after 
a scarcely perceptible delay. He thought it rather 
small, but dared not say so. She had not written 
since. Now, after a few moments reflection, he 
softly turned the handle of the door, without
ringing. There was no furnace in the house, and the 
entry was cold. The door of the reception-room 
was shut. He opened this, also, without knock 
ing, and, closing it quietly behind him, stood for 
a minute with his back to the door. She was not 
there, or she did not hear him. There was a soap- 
stone stove in the reception-room, in which a huge 
fire burned sturdily. Plants were blossoming some 
where, and he perceived that there must be carna 
tions among them. The office door and the door 
into the parlor were both open ; a delicious, even 
warmth, summer-like and scented, pervaded all the 
rooms. He stepped on into the office, and stood 
still. The snow was sprinkled on his fur collar 
and black hair and beard. 

" Handy ? " she called from the parlor, in that 
rapid way he had noticed when he first knew her, 
and which he had come to associate with her anx 
ious or wearied moods. " Handy, is that you ? 
Come here." 

Yorke made no answer, but advanced a step or 
two, and so met her for, startled by silence, she 
had risen immediately on the threshold of the 
inner room. 

His heart leaped to see that she lost her color. 
She did, indeed. A flash, like fear, vibrated across 
her figure and upraised face, then fell, and she had 



 

herself instantly. She held up both hands to him 
and drew him graciously into the bright warmth 
fo the room, led him to the lamp before she spoke, 
took off the yellow globe, and let the white 
radiance full on his face. 

" You are well ! " she said, exultantly. " You 
are a well man ! " 

" As well as I ever was in my life, Doctor Zay. 
And stronger, by far. Do you see ? " 

He squared his fine shoulders, and smiled. 

" Yes, I see." 

Her firm eyes lifted, looked at him piercingly, 
then wandered, wavered. A beautiful mistiness 
overswept them; her will, like a drowning thing, 
seemed to struggle with it ; she regarded him 
through it fixedly ; then her dark lashes dropped. 
She turned away, not without embarrassment, and 
motioned him to a chair. 

He forgot to take it, but stood looking at her 
dizzily. She wore something brown, a dress of 
heavy cloth, and it was trimmed with leopard fur, 
like that he saw in the sleigh. She did not 
recover her composure. She was like a beautiful 
wild creature. Her splendid color and fire mocked 
him. Who was he that he should think to tame 
her ? Yet, should a man let go his hold on a 
moment like this ? By the beating of his own 



 

beai t, he knew that life itself might never yield 
him such another. He flung his whole soul into 
one swift venture. 

" Dear," he said, " I am too strong, now, to be 
denied. I have come back for you." 

" Oh, hush ! " she cried. She had a tone of 
fathomless entreaty. She turned from him pas 
sionately, and began to pace the room. 

He saw how she tried to regain her poise, and 
he saw with exultance how she failed. 

"No, no," he said, with a low laugh. "That 
is not what I have traveled three hundred miles 
for. Oh, how glad I am I surprised you, that 
I took you off your guard ! Don't mind it ! Why 
should you care ? Why should you battle so ? 
Why should you fight me? Tell me why." 

He followed her with an imperious step. She 
came to a halt, midway in the bright room. She 
lowered her head and craned her neck, looking 
from him to the door, as if she would take flight, 
like a caged thing. He stretched his hand before 
her. 

" Why do you fear me so ? " 

" I fear you because you love me." 

" No, that is not it," he said, firmly. " You 
fear me because you love me" 

He thought, for the moment, that he had lost 



 

her forever by this bold detour. She seemed to 
double and wheel, and elude him. She drew her 
self up in her old way. 

"It is impossible ! " she said, haughtily. 

" It is natural," he said, gently. 

" You do not understand how to talk to a 
woman ! " blazed Doctor Zay. " It is 
presumptuous. It is unpardonable. You torture her. You 
;.re rough. You have no right " 

He advanced a step nearer to her. 

" How beautiful you are ! " he said, deliriously. 

She turned from him, and walked to the other 
end of the room. He looked across the warm, 
bright width. A high fire was flashing in the 
open hearth. She stopped, and held out her 
hands before it ; he could see that they shook. 
She stood with her back to him. He could hear 
the storm beating on the windows, as if it were 
mad to enter this sacred, sheltered place, where 
fate had thrown them together, they two out 
of the wintry world, for that one hour, alone. 

He advanced towards her, with resolute rever 
ence, and spoke her name. She looked over her 
shoulder. He felt that she defied him, soul and 
body. 

" I have assumed a great deal, I know," lie 
said, in a tone from which the last cadence of self- 



 

assertion had died ; " it is in your power to
correct my folly and deny my affirmation." 

She turned her face towards the fire again, 
before which her averted figure stood out like a 
splendid silhouette. This silent gesture was her 
only answer. 

" I am not so conceited a fellow as to insist that 
a woman loves me, against her denial," proceeded 
Yorke, with a manly timidity that well became 
him ; " and I have been rough, I know, coming 
upon you so suddenly, and taking advantage of 
your natural emotion. I do not wish to be ungen 
erous ; no, nor unfair. I will not urge you any 
more to-night, if you would rather not. Shall I 
go away ? " 

" Yes, please," she said in a whisper. 

He turned to obey her, but, half across the room, 
looked hungrily back. 

Then he saw that she had clasped her hands 
upon the mantel-piece, and that her strong face 
had sunk till it was buried in them. She started 
as he turned, as if his gaze had been a blow, and 
shrank before him, a shaken creature. 

Even at that moment, he felt more a sense of 
awe than of transport, at the sight of her royal 
overthrow. He was beside her in a moment, and 
gently putting his own hand upon her cold, clenched 
fingers said, 



 

" Dear, is it true ? " 

" Oh, I am afraid it is true." 

" And why should you be afraid of the truth ? " 

" Oh, it is a fearful thing for a woman to 
love a man "... 

"It doesn't  frighten me." He held out his 
arms, with his low, glad laugh. " Come, and see 
how dreadful it is ! Come ! " 

But she shook her head, and both her firm hands 
warned him off. 

" I have lost my self-possession," she pleaded. 
" I have lost myself. Let me alone. I cannot 
talk to you to-night. Go, and don't I cannot 
bear to have you expect anything. I entreat you 
not to hope for anything. It will be so hard to 
make you understand "... 
