men !" 

This was a trifle sententious, and Rowland turned to 
the bust of Miss Light. Like every one else in Rome 
by this time, Miss Blanchard had an opinion on the young 
girl 's beauty, and in her own fashion she expressed it in 

a quotable phrase. She looks half like a Madonna." 

Mr. Leavenworth and Roderick came to an under 
standing, and the young sculptor good-naturedly pro 
mised to do his best to rise to his patron 's conception. 
"His conception be hanged !" Roderick exclaimed, after 
he had departed. " His conception is sitting on an 
india-rubber cushion, with a pen in her ear and the lists 
of the stock exchange in her hand. I shall have to invent 
something myself. For the money I ought to be able to !" 

Mrs. Light meanwhile had fairly established herself in 
Roman society. "Heaven knows how!" Madame 
Grandoni said to Rowland, who had mentioned to her 
several evidences of the lady 's prosperity. " In such a 
case there is nothing like audacity. A month ago she 
knew no one but her washerwoman, and now I am told 
that the cards of Roman princesses are to be seen on her 
table. She is evidently determined to play a great part, 
and she has the wit to perceive that, to make remunera 
tive acquaintances, you must seem yourself to be worth 
knowing. You must have striking rooms and a bewilder 
ing variety of dresses ; you must give dinners and dances 
and concerts. She is spending a lot of money, and 
you ll see that in two or three weeks she will take upon 
herself to open the season by giving a magnificent ball. 
Of course it is Christina 's beauty that floats her. People 
go to see her because they are curious." 

" And they go again because they are charmed," said 
Rowland. "Miss Christina is a very remarkable young 
woman." 

" Oh, I know it well ; I had occasion to say so to 
myself the other day. She came to see me of her own 
free will, and for an hour she was deeply interesting. I 
think she is an actress, but she believes in her part while 
she is playing it. She took it into her head the other 
day to believe that she was very unhappy, and she sat 
there, where you are sitting, and told me a tale of her 



 

miseries which brought tears into my eyes. She cried 
profusely, and as naturally as possible. She said she 
was weary of life, and that she knew no one but me she 
could speak frankly to. She must speak, or she should 
go mad. She sobbed as if her heart would break. I 
assure you it 's well for you susceptible young men that 
you don't see her when she sobs. She said in so many 
words that her mother was an immoral woman. Heaven 
knows what she meant ! She meant, I suppose, that she 
makes debts that she knows she can't pay. She said the 
life they led was horrible ; that it was monstrous a poor 
girl should be dragged about the world to be sold to the 
highest bidder. She was meant for better things ; she 
could be perfectly happy in poverty. It was not money 
she wanted. I might not believe her, but she really 
cared for serious things. Sometimes she thought of 
taking poison ! " 

"What did you say to that ?" 

" I recommended her to come and see me instead. I 
would help her about as much, and I was, on the whole, 
less unpleasant. Of course I could help her only by 
letting her talk herself out, and kissing her, and patting 
her beautiful hands, and telling her to be patient and 
she would be happy yet. About once in two months 
I expect her to reappear on the same errand, and mean 
while to quite forget my existence. I believe I melted 
to the point of telling her that I would find some good, 
kind, quiet husband for her ; but she declared, almost 
with fury, that she was sick of the very name of husbands, 
which she begged I would never mention again. And 
in fact it was a rash offer ; for I am sure that there is 
not a man of the kind that might really make a woman 
happy but would be afraid to many mademoiselle. 
Looked at in that way she is certainly very much to be 
pitied, and, indeed, altogether, though I don't think she 
either means all she says, or, by a great deal, says all 
that she means, I feel very sorry for her. " 



Rowland met the two ladies about this time at several 
entertainments, and looked at Christina with a kind of 
imaginative attendrissement. He suspected more than 
once that there had been a passionate scene between 
them about coming out, and he wondered what arguments 
Mrs. Light had found effective. But Christina 's face 
told no tales, and she moved about, beautiful and silent, 
looking absently over people 's heads, barely heeding the 
men who pressed about her, and suggesting somehow that 
the soul of a world-wearied mortal had found its way into 
the blooming body of a goddess. " Where in the world 
has Miss Light been before she is twenty," observers 
asked, " to have left all her illusions behind ?" And the 
general verdict was that, though she was incomparably 
beautiful, she was intolerably proud. Young ladies to 
whom the former distinction was not conceded were free 
to reflect that she was " not at all liked." 

It would have been difficult to guess, however, how they 
reconciled this conviction with a variety of contradictory 
evidence, and in especial with the spectacle of Roderick 's 
inveterate devotion. All Rome might behold that he at 
least "liked" Christina Light. Wherever she appeared 
he was either awaiting her or immediately followed her. 
He was perpetually at her side, trying apparently to pre 
serve some broken thread of talk, the fate of which was, 
to judge by her face, profoundly immaterial to the 
young lady. People in general smiled at the radiant 
good faith of the handsome young sculptor, and asked 
each other whether he really supposed that beauties of 
that quality were meant to give themselves to juvenile 
artists. But although Christina 's deportment, as I have 
said, was one of superb inexpressiveness, Rowland had 
derived from Roderick no suspicion that he suffered from 
snubbing, and he was therefore surprised at an incident 
that occurred one evening at a large musical party. 
Roderick, as usual, was in the field, and on the ladies 
taking the chairs which had been arranged for them he 



 

immediately placed himself beside Christina. As most 
of the gentlemen were standing, his position made him 
as conspicuous as Hamlet at Ophelia 's feet. Rowland 
was leaning somewhat apart, against the chimney-piece. 
There was a long solemn pause before the music began, 
and in the midst of it Christina rose, left her place, came 
the whole length of the immense room, with every 
one looking at her, and stopped before him. She was 
neither pale nor flushed ; she had a soft smile. 

" Will you do me a favour ?" she asked. 

"A thousand I" 

" Not now, but at your earliest convenience. Please 
remind Mr. Hudson that he is not in a New England 
village that it is not the custom in Rome to address one 's 
conversation exclusively, night after night, to the same 
poor girl, and that " 

The music broke out with a great blare and covered 
her voice. She made a gesture of impatience, and 
Rowland offered her his arm and led her back to her 
seat. 

The next day he repeated her words to Roderick, who 
burst into joyous laughter. " She has a delightful un 
expectedness !" he cried. " She must do everything that 
comes into her head ! " 

" Had she never asked you before not to talk to her so 
much ?" 

"On the contrary, she has often said to me, Mind 
you now, I forbid you to leave me. Here comes that 
tiresome So-and-so. She cares as little about the custom 
as I do. What could be a better proof than her walking 
up to you with five hundred people looking at her ? Is 
that the custom for young girls in Rome ?" 

" Why, then, should she take such a step?" 

"Because as she sat there it came into her head. 
That 's reason enough for her ! I have imagined she 
wishes me well, as they say here though she has never 
distinguished me in such a way as that !" 



 

Madame Grandoni had foretold the truth ; Mrs. Light 
a couple of weeks later convoked all Roman society to 
a brilliant ball. Rowland went late, and found the stair 
case so encumbered with flower-pots and servants that he 
was a long time making his way into the presence of the 
hostess. At last he approached her as she stood making 
curtsies at the door with her daughter by her side. Some 
of Mrs. Light 's curtsies were veiy low, for she had the 
happiness of receiving a number of the social potentates 
of the Roman world. She was rosy with triumph, to say 
nothing of a less metaphysical cause, and was evidently 
vastly contented with herself, with her company, and 
with the general attitude of destiny. Her daughter was 
less overtly jubilant, and distributed her greetings with 
impartial frigidity. She had never been so beautiful. 
Dressed simply in vaporous white, relieved with half a 
dozen white roses, the perfection of her features and of 
her person, and the mysterious depth of her expression, 
seemed to glow with the white light of a splendid pearl. 
She recognised no one individually, and made her saluta 
tion slowly, gravely, with her eyes on the ground. 
Rowland fancied that, as he stood before her, her obei 
sance was slightly exaggerated, as with an intention of 
irony ; but he smiled philosophically to himself, and re 
flected as he passed on that if she disliked him he had 
nothing to reproach himself with. He walked about, 
had a few words with Miss Blanchard, who, with a fillet 
of cameos in her hair, was leaning on the arm of Mr. 
Leavenworth, and at last came upon the Cavaliere 
Giacosa, modestly stationed in a corner. The little 
gentleman 's coat lappet was decorated with an enormous 
bouquet, and his neck encased in a voluminous white 
handkerchief of the fashion of thirty years ago. His 
arms were folded, and he was surveying the scene with 
contracted eyelids, through which you saw the glitter of 
his intensely dark vivacious pupil. He immediately 
embarked on an elaborate apology for not having yet 



 

manifested as he felt it his sense of the honour Rowland 
had done him. 

"I am always on service with these ladies, you see," 
he explained, "and that is a duty to which one would 
not willingly be faithless for an instant." 

"Evidently," said Rowland, "you are a very devoted 
friend. Mrs. Light, in her situation, is very happy in 
having you." 

"We are old friends," said the Cavaliere, gravely. 
"Old friends. I knew the signora many years ago, 
when she was the prettiest woman in Rome or rather 
in Ancona, which is even better. The beautiful Chris 
tina now is perhaps the most beautiful young girl in 
Europe !" 

" Very likely," said Rowland. 

"Very well, sir, I taught her to read; I guided her 
little hands to touch the piano." And at these faded 
memories the Cavaliere 's eyes glittered more brightly. 
Rowland half expected him to proceed with a little flash 
of long-repressed passion, "And now and now, sir, they 
treat me as you observed the other day !" But the 
Cavaliere only looked out at him keenly from among his 
wrinkles, and seemed to say with all the vividness of the 
Italian glance, " Oh, I say nothing more. I am not so 
shallow as to complain !" 

Evidently the Cavaliere was not shallow, and Rowland 
repeated respectfully, "You are a devoted friend." 

"That 's very true. lama devoted friend. A man 
may do himself justice after twenty years !" 

Rowland after a pause made some remark about the 
beauty of the ball. It was very brilliant. 

" Stupendous !" said the Cavaliere, solemnly, " It is a 
great day. We have four Roman princes, to say nothing 
of others." And he counted them over on his ringers and 
held up his hand triumphantly. " And there she stands, 
the girl to whom I I, Giuseppe Giacosa taught her 
alphabet and her piano scales ; there she stands in her 



 

incomparable beauty, and Roman princes come and bow 
to her ! Here, in his quiet corner, her old master per 
mits himself to be proud. " 

" It is very friendly of him," said Rowland, smiling. 

The Cavaliere contracted his lids a little more and 
gave another keen glance. "It is very natural, signore. 
The Christina is a good girl ; she remembers my little 
services. But here comes," he added in a moment, 
" the young Prince of the Fine Arts. I am sure he has 
bowed lowest of all." 

Rowland looked round and saw Roderick moving 
slowly across the room and casting about him his usual 
luminous, unshrinking looks. He presently joined them, 
nodded familiarly to the Cavaliere, and immediately 
demanded of Rowland, " Have you seen her?" 

