entered from the next room. Nino bowed. 

"Curious is it," said the count, "that you and the 
about-to-make-his-appearance tenor should the same 
name have." 

" He is a near relation, Signor Conte, the same 
whom you heard sing in the Pantheon. I hope you 
will like his voice." 

"That is what we shall see, Signor Professore," 
answered the other severely. He had a curious way 
of bowing, as though he were made only in two 



 

pieces, from his waist to his heels, and from his 
waist to the crown of his head. Nino went his way 
sadly, and wondering how Hedwig would look when 
she should recognise him from her box in the theatre, 
that very evening. 

It is a terrible and a heart-tearing thing to part 
from the woman one loves. That is nothing new, 
you say. Every one knows that. Perhaps so, 
though I think not. Only those can know it who 
have experienced it, and for them no explanations 
are in any way at all necessary. The mere word 
"parting" calls up such an infinity of sorrow that it 
is better to draw a veil over the sad thing and bury 
it out of sight, and put upon it the seal on which is 
graven "No Hope." 

Moreover, when a man only supposes, as Nino did, 
that he is leaving the woman he loves, or is about 
to leave her, until he can devise some new plan for 
seeing her, the case is not so very serious. Never 
theless, Nino, who is of a very tender constitution of 
the affections, suffered certain pangs which are always hard to bear, and as he walked slowly down the 
street he hung his head low, and did not look like 
a man who could possibly be successful in anything 
he might undertake that day. Yet it was the most 
important day of his life, and had it not been that he 
had left Hedwig with little hope of ever giving her 
another lesson, he would have been so happy that the 
whole air would have seemed dancing with sunbeams 
and angels and flowers. I think that when a man 
loves he cares very little for what he does. The 
greatest success is indifferent to him, and he cares 



 

not at all for failure, in the ordinary undertakings 
of life. These are my reflections, and they are worth 
something, because I once loved very much myself, 
and was parted from her I loved many times, before 
the last parting. 

It was on this day that Nino came to me and told 
me all the history of the past months, of which I 
knew nothing; but, as you know all about it, I need 
not tell you what the conversation was like, until he 
had finished. Then I told him he was the prince and 
chief of donkeys, which was no more than the truth, 
as everybody will allow. He only spread out his 
palms and shrugged his shoulders, putting his head 
on one side, as though to say he could not help it. 

" Is it perhaps my fault that you are a little don 
key?" I asked; for you may imagine whether I was 
angry or not. 

"Certainly not, Sor Cornelio," he said. "It is 
entirely my own doing but I do not see that I am a 
donkey." 

" Blood of Bacchus ! " I ejaculated, holding up my 
hands. "He does not believe he is a great stupid! " 
But Nino was not angry at all. He busied himself 
a little with his costume, which was laid out on the 
piano, with the sword and the tinsel collar, and all 
the rest of it. 

"I am in love," he said. "What would you 
have?" 

"I would have you put a little giudizio, just a 
grain of judgment and common sense, into your love 
affairs. Why, you go about it as though it were the 
most innocent thing in the world to disguise yourself, and present yourself as a professor in a noble 
man's house, in order to make love to his daughter! 
You, to make love to a noble damigella, a young 
countess, with a fortune! Go back to Serveti, and 
marry the first contadina girl you meet ; it is much 
more fitting, if you must needs marry at all. I repeat it, you are an ignorant donkey! " 

"Eh!" cried Nino, perfectly unmoved, "if I am 
ignorant, it is not for lack of your teaching; and as 
for being the beast of burden to which you refer, I 
have heard it said that you were once in love yourself. Meanwhile, I have told you this, because there 
will perhaps be trouble, and I did not intend you to 
be surprised." 

"Surprised?" said I. "I should not be surprised 
at anything you might fancy doing, now. No, I 
should not dream of being surprised! " 

"So much the better," answered Nino imperturbably. He looked sad and weary, though, and as I 
am a prudent man I put my anger away to cool for 
a little while, and indulged in a cigar until it should 
be time to go to the theatre; for of course I went 
with him, and Mariuccia too, to help him with his 
dress. Poor old Mariuccia! she had dressed him 
when he was a ragged little boy, and she was deter 
mined to put the finishing touches to his appearance 
now that he was about to be a great man, she said. 
His dressing-room was a narrow little place, sufficiently ill lighted, and there was barely space to turn 
round. Mariuccia, who had brought the cat and had 
her pocket full of roasted chestnuts, sat outside on a 
chair until he was ready for her; and I am sure that 



 

if she had spent her life in the profession of adorning players she could not have used her fingers more 
deftly in the arrangement of the collar and sword. 
Nino had a fancy to wear a moustache and a pointed 
beard through the first part of the opera ; saying that 
a courtier always had hair on his face, but that he 
would naturally shave if he turned monk. I represented to him that it was a needless expense, since 
he must deposit the value of the false beard with the 
theatre barber, who lives opposite; and it was 
twenty-three francs. Besides, he would look like a 
different man two separate characters. 

"I do not care a cabbage for that," said Nino. 
"If they cannot recognise me with their ears, they 
need not trouble themselves to recognise me at all." 

"It is a fact that their ears are quite long enough," 
said Mariuccia. 

"Hush, Mariuccia!" I said. "The Roman public 
is the most intelligent public in the world." And 
at this she grumbled 

But I knew well enough why he wanted to wear 
the beard. He had a fancy to put off the evil moment as long as possible, so that Hedwig might not 
recognise him till the last act, a foolish fancy, in 
truth, for a woman's eyes are not like a man's; and 
though Hedwig had never thought twice about Nino's 
personality, she had not sat opposite him three times 
a week for nearly four months without knowing all 
his looks and gestures. It is an absurd idea, too, 
to attempt to fence with time, when a thing must 
come in the course of an hour or two. What is it, 
after all, the small delay you can produce? The 





 

click of a few more seconds in the clock-work, before 
the hammer smites its angry warning on the bell, 
and leaves echoes of pain writhing through the poor 
bronze, that is Time. As for Eternity, it is a 
question of the calculus, and does not enter into a 
singer's first appearance, nor into the recognition of
a lover. If it did, I would give you an eloquent 
dissertation upon it, so that you would yawn and 
take snuff, and wish me carried off by the diavolo 
to some place where I might lecture on the infinite 
without fear of being interrupted, or of keeping sinners like you unnecessarily long awake. There will 
be no hurry then. Poor old diavolo! He must have 
a dull time of it among all those heretics. Perhaps 
he has a little variety, for they say he has written up 
on his door, "Ici Ton parle fran^ais," since Monsieur 
de Voltaire died. But I must go on, or you will 
never be any wiser than you are now, which is not 
saying overmuch. 

I am not going to give you a description of the 
Favorita, which you may hear a dozen times a year 
at the theatre, for more or less money but it is 
only a franc if you stand; quite enough, too. I 
went upon the stage before it began, and peeped 
through the curtain to see what kind of an audience 
there was. It is an old curtain, and there is a hole 
in it on the right-hand side, which De Pretis says 
was made by a foreign tenor, some years ago, be 
tween the acts ; and Jacovacci, the impresario, tried 
to make him pay five francs to have it repaired, but 
did not get the money. It is a better hole than the 
one in the middle, which is so far from both sides of 



 

the house that you cannot see the people well. So 
I looked through, and there, sure enough, in a box 
very near to the stage, sat the Contessina di Lira and 
the baroness, whom I had never seen before, but recognised from Nino's description; and behind them 
sat the count himself, with his great grey moustaches 
and a white cravat. They made me think of the 
time when I used to go to the theatre myself and sit 
in a box, and applaud or hiss, just as I pleased. 
Dio mio! What changes in this world! 

I recognised also a great many of our noble ladies, 
with jewels and other ornaments, and it seemed to 
me that some of them were much more beautiful than 
the German contessina whom Nino had elected to 
worship, though she was well enough, to be sure, in 
white silk and white fur, with her little gold cross 
at her throat. To think that a statue like that, 
brought up with all the proprieties, should have 
such a strange chapter of life! But my eye began 
to smart from peering through the little hole, and 
just then a rough-looking fellow connected with the 
stage reminded me that, whatever relation I might be 
to the primo tenore, I was not dressed to appear in 
the first act; then the audience began to stamp and 
groan because the performance did not begin, and I 
went away again to tell Nino that he had a packed 
house. I found De Pretis giving him blackberry 
syrup, which he had brought in a bottle, and entreating him to have courage. Indeed, it seemed to me 
that Nino had the more courage of the two ; for De 
Pretis laughed and cried and blew his nose, and took 
snuff with his great fat fingers, and acted altogether 



 

like a poor fool ; while Nino sat on a rush-bottomed 
chair and watched Mariuccia, who was stroking the 
old cat and nibbling roasted chestnuts, declaring all 
the while that Nino was the most beautiful object 
she had ever seen. Then the bass and the baritone 
came, together, and spoke cheering words to Nino, 
and invited him to supper afterwards ; but he thanked 
them kindly, and told them that he was expected at 
home, and would go with them after the next performance if there ever were a " next. " He thought 
he might fail at the last minute. 

Nino had judged more rightly than I, when he supposed that his beard and moustaches would disguise 
him from Hedwig during the first two acts. She 
recognised the wondrous voice, and she saw the 
strong resemblance he had spoken of. Once or 
twice, as he looked toward her, it seemed indeed that 
the eyes must be his, with their deep circles and serious gaze. But it was absurd to suppose it anything 
more than a resemblance. As the opera advanced, 
it became evident that Nino was making a success. 
Then in the second act it was clear that the success 
was growing to be an ovation, and the ovation a 
furore, in which the house became entirely demoralised, and vouchsafed to listen only so long as Nino 
was singing screaming with delight before he had 
finished what he had to sing in each scene. People 
sent their servants away in hot haste to buy flowers 
wherever they could, and he came back to his dress 
ing-room, from the second act, carrying bouquets by 
the dozen, small bunches and big, such as people had 
been able to get, or had brought with them. His 



 

eyes shone like the coals in Mariuccia's scaldino, as 
he entered, and he was pale through his paint. He 
could hardly speak for joy; but, as old habits return 
unconsciously at great moments in a man's life, he 
took the cat on his knee and pulled its tail. 

"Sing thou also, little beast," he said gravely; 
and he pulled the tail till the cat squeaked a little, 
and he was satisfied. 

"Bene! " he cried; "and now for the tonsure and 
frock." So Mariuccia was turned out into the passage while he changed his dress. De Pretis came 
back a moment later, and tried to help him ; but he 
was so much overcome that he could only shed tears 
and give a last word of advice for the next act. 

"You must not sing it too loud, Nino mio," he 
said. 

"Diavolo! " said Nino. "I should think not! " 

" But you must not squeak it out in a little wee 
false voice, as small as this." The maestro held up 
his thumb and finger, with a pinch of snuff between 
