had learned lessons of caution in her life. Who steals hearts steals
souls, wherefore it behoves woman to look that the lock be strong and
the key hung high. Claudius thought so too, and he showed it in every
action, though unconsciously enough, for it was a knowledge natural and
not acquired, an instinctive determination to honour where honour was
due. Call it Quixotism if need be. There is nothing ridiculous in the
word, for there breathes no truer knight or gentler soul than
Cervantes's hero in all the pages of history or romance. Why cannot all
men see it? Why must an infamous world be ever sneering at the sight,
and smacking its filthy lips over some fresh gorge of martyrs? Society
has non-suited hell to-day, lest peradventure it should not sleep o'
nights.

Thomas Carlyle, late of Chelsea, knew that. How he hit and hammered and
churned in his wrath, with his great cast-iron words. How the world
shrieked when he wound his tenacious fingers in the glory of her golden
hair and twisted and wrenched and twisted till she yelled for mercy,
promising to be good, like a whipped child. There is a story told of him
which might be true.

It was at a dinner-party, and Carlyle sat silent, listening to the talk
of lesser men, the snow on his hair and the fire in his amber eyes. A
young Liberal was talking theory to a beefy old Conservative, who
despised youth and reason in an equal degree.

"The British people, sir," said he of the beef, "can afford to laugh at
theories."

"Sir," said Carlyle, speaking for the first time during dinner, "the
French nobility of a hundred years ago said they could afford to laugh
at theories. Then came a man and wrote a book called the Social
Contract. The man was called Jean-Jacques Rousseau, and his book was a
theory, and nothing but a theory. The nobles could laugh at his theory;
but their skins went to bind the second edition of his book[1]."

[Footnote 1: There was a tannery of human skins at Meudon during the
Revolution.]

Look to your skin, world, lest it be dressed to morocco and cunningly
tooled with gold. There is much binding yet to be done.

Claudius thought neither of the world nor of Mr. Carlyle as he walked
back to the hotel; for he was thinking of the Countess Margaret, to the
exclusion of every other earthly or unearthly consideration. But his
thoughts were sad, for he knew that he was to leave her, and he knew
also that he must tell her so. It was no easy matter, and his walk
slackened, till, at the corner of the great thoroughfare, he stood
still, looking at a poor woman who ground a tuneless hand-organ. The
instrument of tympanum torture was on wheels, and to the back of it was
attached a cradle. In the cradle was a dirty little baby, licking its
fist and listening with conscientious attention to the perpetual
trangle-tringle-jangle of the maternal music. In truth the little thing
could not well listen to anything else, considering the position in
which it was placed. Claudius stood staring at the little caravan,
halted at the corner of the most aristocratic street in New York, and
his attention was gradually roused to comprehend what he saw. He
reflected that next to being bound on the back of a wild horse, like
Mazeppa, the most horrible fate conceivable must be that of this dirty
baby, put to bed in perpetuity on the back of a crazy grind-organ. He
smiled at the idea, and the woman held out a battered tin dish with one
hand, while the other in its revolution ground out the final palpitating
squeaks of "Ah, che la morte ognora." Claudius put his hand into his
pocket and gave the poor creature a coin.

"You are encouraging a public nuisance," said a thin gentlemanly voice
at his elbow. Claudius looked down and saw Mr. Barker.

"Yes," said the Doctor, "I remember a remark you once made to me about
the deserving poor in New York--it was the day before yesterday, I
think. You said they went to the West."

"Talking of the West, I suppose you will be going there yourself one of
these days to take a look at our 'park'--eh?"

"No, I am going East."

"To Boston, I suppose?" inquired the inquisitive Barker. "You will be
very much amused with Boston. It is the largest village in the United
States."

"I am not going to Boston," said Claudius calmly.

"Oh! I thought when you said you were going East you meant--"

"I am going to sail for Europe on Wednesday," said the Doctor, who had
had time to reflect that he might as well inform Barker of his
intention. Mr. Barker smiled grimly under his moustache.

"You don't mean that?" he said, trying to feign astonishment and
disguise his satisfaction. It seemed too good to be true. "Going so
soon? Why, I thought you meant to spend some time."

"Yes, I am going immediately," and Claudius looked Barker straight in
the face. "I find it is necessary that I should procure certain papers
connected with my inheritance."

"Well," said Barker turning his eyes another way, for he did not like
the Doctor's look, "I am very sorry, any way. I suppose you mean to come
back soon?"

"Very soon," answered Claudius. "Good-morning, Barker."

"Good morning. I will call and see you before you sail. You have quite
taken my breath away with this news." Mr. Barker walked quickly away in
the direction of Elevated Road. He was evidently going down town.

"Strange," thought Claudius, "that Barker should take the news so
quietly. I think it ought to have astonished him more." Leaving the
organ-grinder, the dirty baby, and the horse-cars to their fate,
Claudius entered the hotel. He found the Duke over a late breakfast,
eating cantelopes voraciously. Cantelopes are American melons, small and
of sickly appearance, but of good vitality and unearthly freshness
within, a joy to the hot-stomached foreigner. Behold also, his Grace
eateth the cantelope and hath a cheerful countenance. Claudius sat down
at the table, looking rather gloomy.

"I want you to give me an introduction to the English Ambassador in
Petersburg. Lord Fitzdoggin, I believe he is."

"Good gracious!" exclaimed the peer; "what for?"

"I am going there," answered Claudius with his habitual calm, "and I
want to know somebody in power."

"Oh! are you going?" asked the Duke, suddenly grasping the situation.
He afterwards took some credit to himself for having been so quick to
catch Claudius's meaning.

"Yes. I sail on Wednesday."

"Tell me all about it," said the Duke, who recovered his equanimity, and
plunged a knife into a fresh cantelope at the same moment.

"Very well. I saw your friend, Mr. Horace Bellingham, this morning, and
he told me all about the Countess's troubles. In fact, they are in the
newspapers by this time, but I had not read about them. He suggested
that some personal friend of the Countess had better proceed to
headquarters at once, and see about it; so I said I would go; and he
gave me some introductions. They are probably good ones; but he advised
me to come to you and get one for your ambassador."

"Anything Uncle Horace advises is right, you know," said his Grace,
speaking with his mouth full. "He knows no end of people everywhere," he
added pensively, when he had swallowed.

"Very well, I will go; but I am glad you approve."

"But what the deuce are you going to do about that fortune of yours?"
asked the other suddenly. "Don't you think we had better go down and
swear to you at once? I may not be here when you get back, you know."

"No; that would not suit my arrangements," answered Claudius. "I would
rather not let it be known for what purpose I had gone. Do you
understand? I am going ostensibly to Heidelberg to get my papers from
the University, and so, with all thanks, I need not trouble you." The
Duke looked at him for a moment.

"What a queer fellow you are, Claudius," he said at last. "I should
think you would like her to know."

"Why? Suppose that I failed, what a figure I should cut, to be sure."
Claudius preferred to attribute to his vanity an action which was the
natural outcome of his love.

"Well, that is true," said the Duke; "but I think you are pretty safe
for all that. Have some breakfast--I forgot all about it."

"No, thanks. Are you going to Newport to-day? I would like to see
something outside of New York before I go back."

"By all means. Better go at once--all of us in a body. I know the
Countess is ready, and I am sure I am."

"Very good. I will get my things together. One word--please do not tell
them I am going; I will do it myself.

"All right," answered the Duke; and Claudius vanished. "He says 'them,'"
soliloquised the Englishman, "but he means 'her.'"

Claudius found on his table a note from Mr. Screw. This missive was
couched in formal terms, and emitted a kind of phosphorescent wrath. Mr.
Screw's dignity was seriously offended by the summary ejectment he had
suffered at the Doctor's hands on the previous day. He gave the Doctor
formal notice that his drafts would not be honoured until the executors
were satisfied concerning his identity; and he solemnly and legally
"regretted the position Dr. Claudius had assumed towards those whose
sacred duty it was to protect the interests of Dr. Claudius." The
cunning repetition of name conveyed the idea of two personages, the
claimant and the real heir, in a manner that did not escape the Doctor.
Since yesterday he had half regretted having lost his temper; and had he
known that Screw had been completely duped by Mr. Barker, Claudius would
probably have apologised to the lawyer. Indeed, he had a vague
suspicion, as the shadow of a distant event, that Barker was not
altogether clear of the business; and the fact that the latter had shown
so little surprise on hearing of his friend's sudden return to Europe
had aroused the Doctor's imagination, so that he found himself piecing
together everything he could remember to show that Barker had an
interest of some kind in removing him from the scene. Nevertheless, the
burden of responsibility for the annoyance he was now suffering seemed
to rest with Screw, and Screw should be taught a great lesson; and to
that end Claudius would write a letter. It was clear he was still angry.

The Doctor sat down to write; and his strong, white fingers held the pen
with unrelenting determination to be disagreeable. His face was set like
a mask, and ever and anon his blue eyes gleamed scornfully. And this is
what he said--

     "SIR--Having enjoyed the advantage of your society, somewhat longer
     than I could have wished, during yesterday afternoon, I had
     certainly not hoped for so early a mark of your favour and interest
     as a letter from you of to-day's date. As for your formal notice to
     me that my drafts will not be honoured in future, I regard it as a
     deliberate repetition of the insulting insinuation conveyed to me
     by your remarks during your visit. You are well aware that I have
     not drawn upon the estate in spite of your written authorisation to
     do so. I consider your conduct in this matter unworthy of a person
     professing the law, and your impertinence is in my opinion only
     second to the phenomenal clumsiness you have displayed throughout.
     As I fear that your ignorance of your profession may lead you into
     some act of folly disastrous to yourself, I will go so far as to
     inform you that on my return from Europe, two months hence, your
     proceedings as executor for the estate of the late Gustavus
     Lindstrand will be subjected to the severest scrutiny. In the
     meantime, I desire no further communications from you.

     CLAUDIUS."

This remarkable epistle was immediately despatched by messenger to Pine
Street; and if Mr. Screw had felt himself injured before, he was on the
verge of desperation when he read Claudius's polemic. He repeated to
himself the several sentences, which seemed to breathe war and carnage
in their trenchant brevity; and he thought that even if he had been
guilty of any breach of trust, he could hardly have felt worse. He ran
his fingers through his thick yellow-gray hair, and hooked his legs in
and out of each other as he sat, and bullied his clerks within an inch
of their lives. Then, to get consolation, he said to himself that
Claudius was certainly an impostor, or he would not be so angry, or go
to Europe, or refuse any more communications. In the midst of his rage,
Mr. Barker the younger opportunely appeared in the office of Messrs.
Screw and Scratch, prepared to throw any amount of oil upon the flames.

"Well?" said Mr. Barker interrogatively, as he settled the flower in his
gray coat, and let the paper ribband of the "ticker" run through his
other hand, with its tale of the tide of stocks. Yellow Mr. Screw shot a
lurid glance from his brassy little eyes.

"You're right, sir--the man's a humbug."

"Who?" asked Barker, in well-feigned innocence.

"Claudius. It's my belief he's a liar and a thief and a damned impostor,
sir. That's my belief, sir." He waxed warm as he vented his anger.

"Well, I only suggested taking precautions. I never said any of these
things," answered Barker, who had no idea of playing a prominent part in
his own plot. "Don't give me any credit, Mr. Screw."

"Now, see here, Mr. Barker; I'm talking to you. You're as clever a young
man as there is in New York. Now, listen to me; I'm talking to you,"
said Mr. Screw excitedly. "That man turned me out of his house--turned
me out of doors, sir, yesterday afternoon; and now he writes me this
letter; look here, look at it; read it for yourself, can't you? And so
he makes tracks for Europe, and leaves no address behind. An honest man
isn't going to act like that, sir--is he, now?"

"Not much," said Barker, as he took the letter. He read it through
twice, and gave it back. "Not much," he repeated. "Is it true that he
has drawn no money?"

"Well, yes, I suppose it is," answered Screw reluctantly, for this was
the weak point in his argument. "However, it would be just like such a
leg to make everything sure in playing a big game. You see he has left
himself the rear platform, so he can jump off when his car is boarded."

"However," said Barker sententiously, "I must say it is in his favour.
What we want are facts, you know, Mr. Screw. Besides, if he had taken
anything, I should have been responsible, because I accepted him abroad
as the right man."

"Well, as you say, there is nothing gone--not a red. So if he likes to
get away, he can; I'm well rid of him."

"Now that's the way to look at it. Don't be so down in the mouth, sir;
it will all come straight enough." Barker smiled benignly, knowing it
was all crooked enough at present.

"Well, I'm damned anyhow," said Mr. Screw, which was not fair to
himself, for he was an honest man, acting very properly according to his
lights. It was not his fault if Barker deceived him, and if that
hot-livered Swede was angry.

"Never mind," answered Barker, rather irrelevantly; "I will see him
before he sails, and tell you what I think about it. He is dead sure to
give himself away, somehow, before he gets off."

"Well, sail in, young man," said Screw, biting off the end of a cigar.
"I don't want to see him again, you can take your oath."

"All right; that settles it. I came about something else, though. I know
you can tell me all about this suit against the Western Union, can't
