
She had given her word to Miss Caruth, but nothing 
was to be said at present. If he should ref orm they would 
go there as had been planned, but she had not the slight- 
est hope. If she had thought to move him, it would have 
been but another added to the long list of disappoint- 
ments. Indeed, he appeared to grow more abusive, more 
foul in his language, and sharper to the children. She 





had to stand between them and bodily harm. Some nights 
he did not come home at all. 

She had not dared to tell Celia at first that their wild 
dream was feasible. "Wait," she kept saying, "be pa- 
tient a little while ; " but the child had a secret faith that 
buoyed her up. All these interviews with Miss Caruth 
must bring about some result. 

Westwater had once been a place of gardens and farms, 
and the town still adhered to the old custom of an April 
moving day. Early in March Mrs. Marshall purchased 
her store, and all necessary papers passed between the two 
parties. At the middle of the month Mrs. Marshall would 
take possession, to be ready for the spring trade. Miss 
Parker, Miss Caruth' s strong dependence, was engaged, 
other hands she would take on as business required. 

The store was large and pleasant, with two show win- 
dows. Back of this had been Miss Caruth's sleeping- 
room, curtained off from the passage-way. At the rear 
was another large room that looked into a pretty but small 
yard. On the second floor there was a quiet family of 
elderly people, and a photographer used the third floor, 
which contained but two rooms, in connection with the 
upper story of the next-door dwelling. There was a 
rather narrow hall entrance when they did not wish to 
use the store. 

Eleanor smiled somewhat drearily as she contrasted it 
with her first spacious and lovely home, and for a moment 
she shrank timorously from her undertaking. Ah, how 
much easier and pleasanter to be some one's darling, 
lapped in ease, surrounded with beauty and tenderness 
and devotion; and yet how immeasurably better than 
the last two years. Celia was wild with joy. She had 
not the heart to disturb her faith. Thorns and briars 
would spring up fast enough in the young life. 

For herself, she put off the evil day as long as possible. 
If her husband had shown one touch of tenderness or 





repentance, even of interest, her resolve at separation 
would have given way. She went to her new house and 
cleaned the rooms ; she sent clothes and furniture, all she 
could spare until the last day. The two younger children 
she committed to Miss Caruth's care until the unhappy 
explanation was over. She prepared Tom's breakfast 
when she heard him stirring, — if he had noted the dis- 
mantling of the rooms, he made no comment. 

When would she do this for him again ? At the very 
end, perhaps, when worn by dissipation and disease he 
came to the last refuge, a hospital. Then she would step 
in; she must let nothing mar this resolve. While he 
lived he was her husband. 

He sat down with his blear eyes and unkempt beard, 
and his clothes that had the appearance of having been 
thrown on him and lodged awry. This was not the man 
she had married. No accident, no wasting illness, had 
brought him to this repulsive state ; it had been his own 
doing. He had made his choice, so had she now. 

"Tom," she said, "have you found us any home?" 

" Time enough," he growled. " Women beat the very 
devil for nagging." 

" I have nagged very little I think," trying to steady 
her voice and keep it kindly. " When I gave you your 
choice, I told you I was in earnest. I have made some 
new arrangements quite independent of you. From 
henceforth our paths will lie apart until you reform and 
become what you promised me at God's altar. I will 
care for the children and myself, but my home you can- 
not enter while you cling to this deadly monster, intem- 
perance. I shall go out of this house to-day. For the 
next fortnight it will provide you a shelter, and then you 
must look elsewhere." 

He stared at her stupidly, his fork poised in the air. 
It seemed as if he would never speak. She had heard of 
people who had died from the effects of some sudden 



 

news, and oh, what if she should be his murderer ! She 
watched him with dilated eyes and throbbing nerves, but 
she might have spared herself. 

" This is some of your Aunt Clara's cursed meddling," 
he began fiercely. " She will learn what it is to part man 
and wife, or I am much mistaken." 

"Aunt Clara has nothing to do with it. She does not 
even know of nay plans. No relative has advised me. I 
could not stand this life, endurance had passed the far- 
thest point. I told you I could support you no longer. 
If we had no children, I might have given you my whole 
duty — to be mocked at and outraged; but I must save 
them. You have chosen. You have thrown away every- 
thing, prosperity, honor, manhood, love," and her voice 
trembled. "I have gathered up a few treasures from the 
wreck and shall care for them until you come clothed in 
your right mind to demand them." 

" Where are you going ? " 

"That does not matter now. I shall not be so far but 
that you can find me with honorable intent, and the law 
will protect me from any other. I shall earn my living 
decently and respectably — " 

"Will you? we'll see!" and he made a sudden 
plunge at her, but missing his aim, fell heavily to the 
floor. 

" O Tom," she cried, " do not seek to add any other 
crimes to the long list." Then she went to the door and 
held the knob in her hand. 

Tom Marshall began to cry: "Because a man's unfor- 
tunate, even his own wife casts him off. I 'd never have 
believed it of you, Nelly ! My love has never changed 
since the day I married you, but I 've been hunted from 
pillar to post ; and a man wants some comfort when it 's 
all down hill. I Ve tried to reform, I swear I have — " 

" Not in that tremendous earnest as souls do who want 
to be saved, who cry out of the very depths to Godl 





Ton could have helped all this wretched business. Sup- 
pose I had said when little Freddie died that I could not 
endure it, and found solace in the poisoned stimulants 
that sap the very springs of life. What if I had left my 
house and children for hours, and spent your money in 
some vile den — given my lips to be kissed by a — O 
God, the thought is horrible ! The whole world would 
execrate me." 

" But you are a — woman," he flung out sullenly. 

" Is not the sin just the same ? Society punishes the 
woman more heavily, and, not content with that, visits the 
sins of others upon her as well. Heaven only knows how 
bitterly I have suffered for yours. In God's sight one 
human being has rights as well as another." 

"And you throw me off; you desert me! You take 
my children away ! By heaven ! I will have my son 
again." 

" You shall have them all when you resolve to be man 
enough to care for them. I simply say that not another 
penny of my money shall go for rum. I will not aid you 
in your downward career, for it is surely that. What has 
my patience and long-suffering brought me ? You have 
been more cruelly indifferent this winter than ever be- 
fore." 

" It's very hard, God knows," he maundered, " when my 
own wife turns against me ! You promised to love, Nelly, 
'till death do us part.' " 

"What did you promise?" 

"Well, I love you. I'll knock down any villain who 
says I don't. O Nelly, Nelly, my heart's darling! " 

What avail was it to talk to such a man ? Eleanor left 
the room in disgust. Taking Celia, they walked rapidly 
down the street, and two turns brought them to Main 
Street, as it was called, a broad, quite pretentious thorough- 
fare, one of the chief business streets. The store was at 
one end, where traffic had begun to encroach on handsome, 



 

old-fashioned residences that were now divided into two 
tenements, let for offices, or turned into boarding-houses. 
Tet it had an air of cleanliness and thrift. The wide, 
flagged sidewalks, bordered by great elm and maple trees, 
with here and there the compact, cone-shaped horse- 
chestnut, were busy with throngs of people passing and 
repassing. Celia's face grew bright. She could oast the 
old life of discomfort quite behind her. 

"And now," began Miss Caruth as they entered, "let 
me bid you welcome to your new home, and wish you all 
success. Come and have a cup of coffee and a bit of 
steak, you look clear fagged out. Oh, dear! I dare say 
I shall wish myself back hundreds of times, though it 
does seem natural that Martha and I should want to be 
together." 

Miss Caruth bustled about in her kindly way. The 
large room would have to be parlor, dining-room, and 
kitchen ; but it looked very snug and comfortable. Mrs. 
Marshall had sent her lounge, but had taken Miss Caruth's 
bedroom suit and some other furniture, as well as the carpet. 
Pictures had been hung, the children's book-rack arranged, 
and one side looked quite like a parlor. On the other, the 
table was spread. Eleanor was too excited to eat, but 
she drank the coffee thankfully. 

For the next two hours she busied herself arranging the 
goods she had brought, and then it was time to go back 
for the rest. Would Tom be there ? What if he forbade 
her to move them? 

He was not there. He had locked the room, and taken 
the key ; but she had the key to the other one and the 
door between. She had left him one bed, and several 
useful articles that would no doubt be sold for a trifle in 
a few days. Then she stopped to say to Mrs. Beach that 
Mr. Marshall would of course have the right to the rooms 
the next fortnight, as the rent was paid. Eleanor's chill- 





ing dignity repelled cariosity, and she swept through the 
hall before Mrs. Beach could recover from her surprise. 

" She was actually enough to take your breath away," 
the lady declared afterward. " I s'pose she 's gone to her 
rich relations, the carriage people who used to come 
here. I dare say, if the truth was known, Marshall 's had 
a sight to put up with. People don't have such high 
and mighty airs for nothing. No one's children were 
good enough for hers to associate with, and that oldest 
girl 's her ma right over again. Still it 's hard on the 
poor man, and may be he'd done different if he 'd had 
another kind of a wife." 

Eleanor had left on the table a long letter for her hus- 
band that she had written at intervals, breathing the most 
wifely solicitude, imploring, praying, holding out a hope 
that all might yet be well, but keeping steadfastly to her 
conditions. If he wanted her, he knew what to do to win 
her back. Another she mailed for his mother, and a third 
to Mrs. Wilder. All needed explanations were made. 

She was so restless and nervous that she was glad of an 
excuse to be changing about and reducing the rooms to some 
kind of order. Celia danced in and out of the store, and 
the two younger children were wild with joy. Two cus- 
tomers came in, and Celia waited upon them with an air of 
responsibility. At nine the lights were put out and doors 
and windows barred, yet it seemed so strange that the 
children were a long while in going to sleep. 

As for Eleanor, after all was still, she paced the floor 
with softest steps, torturing herself with unanswerable 
questions. Was it right? Was her motive high and sin- 
gle, or selfish? Should she have gone on bearing to the 
bitter end, to the grave, and waited for her reward until 
she had reached the other country and fallen at the feet 
of the blessed Master ? If Thomas Marshall went swiftly 
to perdition — but was he not on the high road now? 
Had she not been powerless these seven years to hinder ? 



 

Then she looked at her sleeping children. Yes, it was 
worth while to work for them , to keep their white souls 
pure and clean, to train them in paths of purity and ten- 
derness, of honor and strength, to fortify them against the 
temptations from which no life was exempt. Bertie 
laughed in his sleep and uttered some incoherent words. 
Ah, how like that smile was to the lover of her youth ! 
