buried, and after a month's delay, Eli set out again, alone,
heavy-hearted, and very poor, for all his own little savings had been
consumed by various expenses. Mr. Hoadley's money was untouched, but not
increased, as he hoped to have it; and rather than borrow a penny of it,
Eli landed barefooted. His boots were so old he threw them overboard,
and spent his last dollar for a cheap pair of shoes to wear when he
appeared at home, for they were not stout enough to stand travel. So,
like Franklin with his rolls, the lad ate crackers and cheese as he
trudged through the city, and set out for the far-away farm-house among
the hills.

A long journey, but a pleasant one, in spite of his troubles; for spring
made the world lovely, habit made walking no hardship, and all he had
seen in his wanderings passed before him at will, like a panorama full
of color and variety.

Letters had gone before, but it was a sad homecoming, and when all was
told, Eli said:--

"Now, father, I'll go to work. I've had my wish and enjoyed it a sight;
and would go again, but I feel as if I ought to work, as long as I can't
pay for my time."

"That's hearty, son, and I'm obleeged to ye. Hear what mother's got to
say, and then do whichever you prefer," answered the farmer, with a nod
toward his wife, who, with the girls, seemed full of some pleasant news
which they longed to tell.

"I've sold all the cloth we made last winter for a good sum, and father
says you may hev the spendin' on't. It will be enough to pay your board
down to Uncle Tillotson's while you study with him, so 's 't you kin be
gettin' ready for college next year. I've sot my heart on't, and you
musn't disapp'int me and the girls," said the good woman, with a face
full of faith and pride in her boy, in spite of all mishaps.

"Oh, mammy, how good you be! It don't seem as if I ought to take it. But
I do want to go!" cried Eli, catching her round the neck in an ecstasy
of boyish delight and gratitude.

Here Miranda and Pamela appeared, bringing their homely gifts of warm
hose, and new shirts made from wool and flax grown by the father, and
spun and woven by the accomplished housewife.

A very happy youth was Eli when he again set off to the city, with his
humble outfit and slender purse, though father still looked doubtful,
and the brothers were more sure than ever that Eli was a fool to prefer
dry books to country work and fun.

A busy year followed, Eli studying, as never boy studied before, with
the excellent minister, who soon grew proud of his best pupil. Less
preparation was needed in those days, and perhaps more love and industry
went to the work; for necessity is a stern master, and poor boys often
work wonders if the spark of greatness is there.

Eli had his wish in time, and went to college, mother and sisters making
it possible by the sale of their handiwork; for the girls were famous
spinners, and the mother the best weaver in the country around. How
willingly they toiled for Eli!--rising early and sitting late, cheering
their labor with loving talk of the dear lad's progress, and an
unfailing faith in his future success. Many a long ride did that good
mother take to the city, miles away, with a great roll of cloth on the
pillion behind her to sell, that she might pay her son's college bills.
Many a coveted pleasure did the faithful sisters give up that they might
keep Eli well clothed, or send him some country dainty to cheer the
studies which seemed to them painfully hard and mysteriously precious.
Father began to take pride in the ugly duckling now, and brothers to
brag of his great learning. Neighbors came in to hear his letters, and
when vacation brought him home, the lads and lasses regarded him with a
certain awe; for his manners were better, his language purer, than
theirs, and the new life he led refined the country boy till he seemed a
gentleman.

The second year he yielded to temptation, and got into debt. Being
anxious to do credit to his family, of whom he was secretly a little
ashamed about this time, he spent money on his clothes, conscious that
he was a comely youth with a great love of beauty, and a longing for all
that cultivates and embellishes character and life. An elegant gentleman
astonished the hill folk that season, by appearing at the little church
in a suit such as the greatest rustic dandy never imagined in his
wildest dreams,--the tall white hat with rolling brim, Marseilles vest
with watch-chain and seals festooned across it, the fine blue coat with
its brass buttons, and the nankeen trousers strapped over boots so tight
that it was torture to walk in them. Armed with a cane in the
well-gloved hand, an imposing brooch in the frills of the linen shirt,
Eli sauntered across the green, the observed of all observers, proudly
hoping that the blue eyes of a certain sweet Lucinda were fixed
admiringly upon him.

The boys were the first to recover from the shock, and promptly resented
the transformation of their former butt into a city beau, by jeering
openly and affecting great scorn of the envied splendor. The poor
jackdaw, somewhat abashed at the effect of his plumes, tried to prove
that he felt no superiority, by being very affable, which won the
lasses, but failed to soften the hearts of the boys; and when he secured
the belle of the village for the Thanksgiving drive and dance, the young
men resolved that pride should have a fall.

Arrayed in all his finery, Eli drove pretty Lucinda in a smart borrowed
wagon to the tavern where the dance was held. Full of the airs and
graces he had learned at college, the once bashful, awkward Eli was the
admired of all eyes, as he pranced down the long contra-dance in the
agonizing boots, or played "threading the needle" without the least
reluctance on the part of the blushing girls to pay the fine of a kiss
when the players sung the old rhyme:--

  "The needle's eye no one can pass;
    The thread that runs so true--
  It has caught many a pretty lass,
    And now it has caught you."

But his glory was short-lived; for some enemy maliciously drew out the
linchpin from the smart wagon, and as they were gayly driving homeward
over the hills, the downfall came, and out they both went, to the great
damage of Eli's city suit, and poor Lucinda's simple finery.

Fortunately, no bones were broken, and picking themselves up, they sadly
footed it home, hoping the mishap would remain unknown. But the rogues
took care that Eli should not escape, and the whole neighborhood laughed
over the joke; for the fine hat was ruined, and the costly coat split
down the back, in the ignominious tumble.

Great was the humiliation of the poor student; for not only was he
ridiculed, but Lucinda would not forgive him, and the blue eyes smiled
upon another; worst of all, he had to confess his debts and borrow
money of his father to pay them. He meekly bore the stern rebuke that
came with the hard-earned dollars, but the sight of the tears his mother
shed, even while she comforted him, filled him with remorse. He went
back to his books, in a homespun suit, a sadder and a wiser boy, and
fell to work as if resolved to wash out past errors and regain the
confidence he had lost.

All that winter the wheels turned and the loom jangled, that the rolls
of cloth might be increased; and never was the day too cold, the way too
long, for the good mother's pious pilgrimage.

That summer, a man came home to them, shabby enough as to his clothes,
but so wonderfully improved in other ways, that not only did the women
folk glow with tender pride, but father and brothers looked at him with
respect, and owned at last there was something in Eli. "No vacation for
me," he said; "I must work to pay my debts; and as I am not of much use
here, I'll try my old plan, and peddle some money into my empty
pockets."

It was both comic and pathetic to see the shoulders that had worn the
fine broadcloth burdened with a yoke, the hands that had worn kid gloves
grasping the tin trunks, and the dapper feet trudging through dust and
dew in cow-hide boots. But the face under the old straw hat was a
manlier one than that which the tall beaver crowned, and the heart under
the rough vest was far happier than when the gold chain glittered above
it. He did so well that when he returned to college his debts were paid,
and the family faith in Eli restored.

That was an eventful year; for one brother married, and one went off to
seek his fortune, the father mortgaging his farm to give these sons a
fair start in life. Eli was to be a minister, and the farmer left his
fortunes in the hands of his wife, who, like many another good mother,
was the making of the great man of the family, and was content with that
knowledge, leaving him the glory.

The next year, Eli graduated with honor, and went home, to be received
with great rejoicing, just twenty-one, and a free man. He had longed for
this time, and planned a happy, studious life, preparing to preach the
gospel in a little parsonage of his own. But suddenly all was changed;
joy turned to sorrow, hope to doubt, and Eli was called to relinquish
liberty for duty,--to give up his own dreams of a home, to keep a roof
over the heads of the dear mother and the faithful sisters. His father
died suddenly, leaving very little for the women folk besides the
independence that lay in the skill of their own thrifty hands. The elder
brothers could not offer much help, and Eli was the one to whom the poor
souls turned in their hour of sorrow and anxiety.

"Go on, dear, and don't pester yourself about us. We can find food and
firin' here as long as the old farm is ours. I guess we can manage to
pay off the mortgage by-and-by. It don't seem as if I could turn out,
after livin' here ever sense I was married, and poor father so fond
on't."

The widow covered her face with her apron, and Eli put his arms about
her, saying manfully, as he gave up all his fondest hopes for her dearer
sake--

"Cheer up, mother, and trust to me. I should be a poor fellow if I
allowed you and the girls to want, after all you've done for me. I can
get a school, and earn instead of spend. Teaching and studying can go on
together. I'm sure I shouldn't prosper if I shirked my duty, and I
won't." The three sad women clung to him, and the brothers, looking at
his brave, bright face, felt that Eli was indeed a man to lean on and to
love in times like this.

"Well," thought the young philosopher, "the Lord knows what is best for
me, and perhaps this is a part of my education. I'll try to think so,
and hope to get some good out of a hard job."

In this spirit he set about teaching, and prospered wonderfully, for his
own great love of learning made it an easy and delightful task to help
others as he had longed to be helped. His innocent and tender nature
made all children love him, and gave him a remarkable power over them;
so when the first hard months were past, and his efforts began to bear
fruit, he found that what had seemed an affliction was a blessing, and
that teaching was his special gift. Filial duty sweetened the task, a
submissive heart found happiness in self-sacrifice, and a wise soul
showed him what a noble and lovely work it was to minister to little
children,--for of such is the kingdom of heaven.

For years Eli taught, and his school grew famous; for he copied the
fashions of other countries, invented new methods, and gave himself so
entirely to his profession that he could not fail of success. The
mortgage was paid off, and Eli made frequent pilgrimages to the dear
old mother, whose staff and comfort he still was. The sisters married
well, the brothers prospered, and at thirty, the schoolmaster found a
nobler mate than pretty Lucinda, and soon had some little pupils of his
very own to love and teach.

There his youth ends; but after the years of teaching he began to preach
at last, not in one pulpit, but in many all over the land, diffusing
good thoughts now as he had peddled small wares when a boy; still
learning as he went, still loving books and studying mankind, still
patient, pious, dutiful, and tender, a wise and beautiful old man, till,
at eighty, Eli's education ended.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

ONAWANDAH


"What in the world have I chosen?" exclaimed Geoff, as he drew out a
manuscript in his turn and read the queer name.

"A story that will just suit you, I think. The hero is an Indian, and a
brave one, as you will see. I learned the little tale from an old woman
who lived in the valley of the Connecticut, which the Indians called the
Long River of Pines."

With this very short preface, Aunt Elinor began to read, in her best
manner, the story of


                               ONAWANDAH.

Long ago,--when hostile Indians haunted the great forests, and every
settlement had its fort for the protection of the inhabitants,--in one
of the towns on the Connecticut River, lived Parson Bain and his little
son and daughter. The wife and mother was dead; but an old servant took
care of them, and did her best to make Reuben and Eunice good children.
Her direst threat, when they were naughty, was, "The Indians will come
and fetch you, if you don't behave." So they grew up in great fear of
the red men. Even the friendly Indians, who sometimes came for food or
powder, were regarded with suspicion by the people. No man went to work
without his gun near by. On Sundays, when they trudged to the rude
meeting-house, all carried the trusty rifle on the shoulder; and while
the pastor preached, a sentinel mounted guard at the door, to give
warning if canoes came down the river or a dark face peered from the
wood.

One autumn night, when the first heavy rains were falling and a cold
wind whistled through the valley, a knock came at the minister's door,
and, opening it, he found an Indian boy, ragged, hungry, and foot-sore,
who begged for food and shelter. In his broken way, he told how he had
fallen ill, and been left to die by enemies who had taken him from his
own people, months before; how he had wandered for days till almost
sinking; and that he had come now to ask for help, led by the hospitable
light in the parsonage window.

"Send him away, master, or harm will come of it. He is a spy, and we
shall all be scalped by the murdering Injuns who are waiting in the
wood," said old Becky, harshly; while little Eunice hid in the old
servant's ample skirts, and twelve-year-old Reuben laid his hand on his
cross-bow, ready to defend his sister if need be.

But the good man drew the poor lad in, saying, with his friendly smile:
"Shall not a Christian be as hospitable as a godless savage? Come in,
child, and be fed: you sorely need rest and shelter."

Leaving his face to express the gratitude he had no words to tell, the
boy sat by the comfortable fire and ate like a famished wolf, while
Becky muttered her forebodings and the children eyed the dark youth at a
safe distance. Something in his pinched face, wounded foot, and eyes
full of dumb pain and patience, touched the little girl's tender heart,
and, yielding to a pitiful impulse, she brought her own basin of new
milk and, setting it beside the stranger, ran to hide behind her father,
suddenly remembering that this was one of the dreaded Indians.

"That was well done, little daughter. Thou shalt love thine enemies, and
share thy bread with the needy. See, he is smiling; that pleased him,
and he wishes us to be his friends."

But Eunice ventured no more that night, and quaked in her little bed at
the thought of the strange boy sleeping on a blanket before the fire
below. Reuben hid his fears better, and resolved to watch while others
slept; but was off as soon as his curly head touched the pillow, and
dreamed of tomahawks and war-whoops till morning.

Next day, neighbors came to see the waif, and one and all advised
sending him away as soon as possible, since he was doubtless a spy, as
Becky said, and would bring trouble of some sort.
