" Who is left there now, of the family ? " Esther 
asked. 

" I have not heard." 

" Do they never write to you ? " 

" Never." 

" Nor you to them, papa ? " 

"No. Since I came away, there has been no 
intercourse whatever between our families." 





" Oh, papa ! " 

" I am inclined to regret it now, for your sake." 

"I arn not thinking of that. But papa, it must 
be sixteen or seventeen years now; isn't it?" 

" Something like so much." 

" papa, do write to them ! do write to them, and 
make it up. Do not let the quarrel last any longer." 

" Write to them and make it up ? " said the 
colonel rubbing his head again. In all his life 
Esther had hardly ever seen him do it before. 
" They have forgotten me long ago ; and I  suppose 
they are all grown out of my remembrance. But 
it might be better for you if we went home." 

"Never mind that, papa; that is not what I am 
thinking of. Why who could be better off than I 
am ? But write and make it all up, papa; do ! it 
isn't good for families to live so in hostility. Do 
what you can to make it up." 

The colonel sat silent, rubbing the hair of his 
head in every possible direction; while Esther's 
fancy for a while busied itself with images of an 
unknown crowd of relations that seemed to flit be 
fore her. How strange it would be, to have aunts 
and cousins; young and old family friends, such as 
other girls had; instead of being so entirely set 
apart by herself as it were. It was fascinating, the 
mere idea. Not that Esther felt her loneliness now ; 
she was busy and healthy and happy; yet this sudden vision made her realize that she was alone. 
How strange, and how pleasant, it would be, to have 
a crowd of friends; of one's own blood and name. 



 

She mused a little while over this picture, and then 
came back to the practical present. 

"Meanwhile, papa, what do you think of my 
plan? About getting a house in the city, and 
giving up Buonaparte and his oats? Don't you 
think it would be comfortable ? " 

The colonel considered the subject now in a 
quieter mood; discussed it a little further; and 
finally agreed to drive into town and see what he 
could find in the way of a house. 



CHAPTER XXX. 
A HOUSE. 

YET the colonel did not go. Days passed, and 
he did not go. Esther ventured some gentle 
reminders, which had no effect. And the winter 
was gone and the spring was come, before he made 
the first expedition to the city in search of a house. 
Once started on his quest, it is true the colonel 
carried it on vigorously, and made many journeys 
for it; but they were all in vain. Rents in the city 
were found to be so much higher than rents in the 
country, as fully to neutralize the advantage hoped 
for in a smaller household and the dismissal of the 
horse. Not a dwelling could be found where this 
would not be true. The search was finally given 
up; and things in the little family went on as they 
had been going for some time past. 

Esther at last, under stress of necessity, made 
fresh representations to her father, and besought 
leave to give lessons. They were running into 
debt, with no means of paying. It went sorely 
against the grain with the colonel to give his 
consent; pride and tenderness both rebelled; he 


 

hesitated long; but circumstances were too much 
for him. He yielded at last, not with a groan, but 
with many groans. 

" I came here to take care of you," he said; "and 
this is the end of it ! " 

"Don't take it so, papa," cried Esther. "I like 
to do it. It is not a hardship." 

" It is a hardship," he retorted ; " and you will 
find it so. I find it so now." 

" Even so, papa," said the girl with infinite 
sweetness; " suppose it be a hardship: The Lord 
has given it to me; and so long as I am sure it is 
something he has given, I want no better. Indeed, 
papa, you know I could have no better." 

" I know nothing of the kind. You are talking 
folly." 

" No, papa, if you please. Just remember, look 
here, papa, here are the words. Listen. The 
Lord God is a sun and shield; the Lord will give 
grace and glory ; no good thing ivill he withhold from 
them that walk uprightly. " 

"Do you mean to tell me," said the colonel 
angrily, " that well, that all the things that you 
have not just now, and ought to have, are not good 
things?" 

"Not good for me, or at least not the best, or I 
should have them." 

This answer was with a smile so absolutely 
shadowless, that the colonel found nothing to an 
swer but a groan, which was made up of pain and 
pride and pleasure in inscrutable proportions. 





The next step was to speak to Miss Fairbairn. 
That wise woman shewed no surprise and did not 
distress Esther with any sympathy; she took it 
as the most natural thing in the world that her 
favourite pupil should wish to become a teacher; 
and promised her utmost help. In her own school 
there was now no longer any opening; that chance 
was gone; but she gave Esther a recommendation 
in person to the principal of another establishment, 
where in consequence Miss Gainsborough found 
ready acceptance. 

And now indeed she felt herself a stranger, and 
found herself alone. This was a different thing 
from her first entering school as a pupil. And 
Esther began also presently to perceive that her 
father had not been entirely wrong in his estimate 
of a teacher's position and experiences. It is not a 
path of roses, that such a one has to tread; and 
even the love she may bear to those she teaches, 
and even the genuine love of teaching them, do not 
avail to make it so. Wo to the teacher who has 
not those two alleviations and helps to fall back 
upon ! Esther soon found both ; and yet, she gave 
her father credit for having known more about the 
matter than she did. She was truly alone now; 
the children loved her, but scattered away from 
her as soon as their tasks were done; her fellow 
teachers she scarcely saw; they were busy and 
jaded; and with the world outside of school she 
had nothing to do. She had never had much to do 
with it; yet at Miss Fairbairn's she had sometimes 



 

a little taste of society that was of high order; and 
all in the house had been at least well known to 
her and she to them, even if no particular congeniality had drawn them together. She had lost all 
that now. And it sometimes came over Esther in 
these days, the thought of her English aunts and 
cousins, as a vision of strange pleasantness. To 
have plenty of friends and relations, of one's own 
blood, and therefore inalienable; well-bred and refined and cultivated ; (whereby I am afraid Esther's 
fancy made them a multiplication of Pitt Dallas;) 
it looked very alluring ! She went bravely about 
her work, and did it beautifully, and was very contented in it, and relieved to be earning money; yet 
these visions now and again would come over her 
mind, bringing a kind of distant sunshiny glow 
with them, different from the light that fell on 
that particular bit of life's pathway she was tread 
ing just then. They came and went; what came 
and did not go was Esther's consciousness that she 
was earning only a little money, and that with that 
little she could not clear off all the debts that had 
accrued and were constantly accruing. When 
She had paid the butcher, the grocer's bill presented itself; and when she had after some delay 
got rid of that, then came the need for a fresh sup 
ply of coal. Esther spent nothing on her own dress 
that she could help; but her father's was another 
matter, and tailor's charges she found were heavy. 
She went bravely on ; she was young and full of 
spirit, and she was a Christian and full of confidence ; nevertheless she did begin to feel the worry 
of these petty, gnawing, money cares, which have 
broken the heart of so many a woman before her. 
Moreover, another thing demanded consideration. 
It was necessary, now that she had no longer a 
home with Miss Fairbairn, it was necessary that 
she should go into town and come back every day; 
and, furthermore, as she was giving lessons in a 
school, no circumstance, of weather or anything else, 
must hinder her being absolutely punctual. Yet Es 
ther foresaw that as the winter came on again it 
would be very difficult sometimes to maintain this 
punctuality; and it became clear to her that it 
would be almost indispensable for them to move 
into town. If only a house could be found ! 

Meantime Christopher went and came about the 
house; cultivated the garden and took care of the 
horse and drove Esther to school, all just as usual; 
his whilorne master never having as yet said one 
word to him on the subject of his marriage and 
consequent departure. Whether his wages were 
paid him, Esther was anxiously doubtful; but she 
dared not ask. I say " whilome " master, for there 
is no doubt that Mr. Bounder in these days felt 
that nobody was his master but himself. He did 
all his duties faithfully, but then he took leave to 
cross the little field which lay between his old 
home and his new, and to disappear for whole 
spaces of time from the view of the colonel's 
family. 

It was one evening in November. Mrs. Barker 



 

was just sitting down to her tea, and Christopher 
was preparing himself to leave her. I should remark that Mrs. Barker had called on the former 
Mrs. Blumenfeld, and established civil relations 
between the houses. 

" Won't you stay, Christopher ? " asked his sister. 

"No thank ye. I've got a little woman over 
there, who's expecting me." 

" Does she set as good a table for you as I used 
to do? in those days when I could," the house 
keeper added with a sigh. 

" Well, she aint just up to some o your arts," said 
Christopher, with a contented face in which his 
blue eye twinkled with a little slyness; "but I'll 
tell you what, she can cook a dish o pot pie that 
you can't beat, nor nobody else; and her rye bread 
is just uncommon ! " 

" Rye bread ! " said the housekeeper with an 
utterance of disdain. 

" I'll bring a loaf over," said Christopher nodding 
his head; "and you can give some to Miss Esther 
if you like. Good night ! " 

He made few steps of it through the dark cold 
evening to the house that had become his home. 
The room that received him might have pleased 
a more difficult man. It was as clean as hands 
could make it; bright with cleanliness; lighted and 
warmed with a glowing fire, and hopeful with a 
most savoury scent of supper. The mistress of 
the house was busy about her hearth, looking neat 
and comfortable enough to match her room. As 




Christopher came in she lit a candle that stood on 
the supper table. Christopher hugged himself at 
this instance of his wife's thrift, and sat down. 

" You've got something that smells uncommon 
good there ! " said he approvingly. 

" I allays du think a hot supper's comfortable at 
the end o a cold day," returned the new Mrs. 
