length, and separated their wheels from those of the 
open buggy in front which Lapham had driven into. 
He made his excuses to the occupant; and the 
accident relieved the tension of their feelings, and 
left them far from the point of mutual injury which 
they had reached in their common trouble and their 
unselfish will for their children's good. 
It was Lapham who resumed the talk. " I 'm 
afraid we can't either of us see this thing in the 
right light. We 're too near to it. I wish to the 
Lord there was somebody to talk to about it." 
"Yes," said his wife ; " but there ain't anybody." 
"Well, I dunno," suggested Lapham, after a 
moment; "why not talk to the minister of your 
church ? May be he could see some way out of it." 
Mrs. Lapham shook her head hopelessly. " It 
wouldn't do. I've never taken up my connection 
 
with the church, and I don't feel as if I 'd got any 
claim on him." 
" If he 's anything of a man, or anything of a 
preacher, you have got a claim on him," urged Lap- 
ham ; and he spoiled his argument by adding, " I 've 
contributed enough money to his church." 
" Oh, that 's nothing," said Mrs. Lapham. " I 
ain't well enough acquainted with Dr. Langworthy, 
or else I 'm too well. No ; if I was to ask any one, 
I should want to ask a total stranger. But what 's 
the use, Si ? Nobody could make us see it any dif 
ferent from what it is, and I don't know as I should 
want they should." 
It blotted out the tender beauty of the day, and 
weighed down their hearts ever more heavily within 
them. They ceased to talk of it a hundred times, 
and still came back to it. They drove on and on. 
It began to be late. " I guess we better go back, Si," 
said his wife ; and as he turned without speaking, 
she pulled her veil down and began to cry softly 
behind it, with low little broken sobs. 
Lapham started the mare up and drove swiftly 
homeward. At last his wife stopped crying and 
began trying to find her pocket. " Here, take mine, 
Persis," he said kindly, offering her his handkerchief, 
and she took it and dried her eyes with it. " There 
was one of those fellows there the other night," he 
spoke again, when his wife leaned back against the 
cushions in peaceful despair, " that I liked the looks 
of about as well as any man I ever saw. I guess he 
was a pretty good man. It was that Mr. Sewell." 
 
He looked at his wife, but she did not say anything. 
" Persis," he resumed, " I can't bear to go back with 
nothing settled in our minds. I can't bear to let 
you." 
"We must, Si," returned his wife, with gentle 
gratitude. Lapham groaned. " Where does he 
live ? " she asked. 
" On Bolingbroke Street. He gave me his 
number." 
" Well, it wouldn't do any good. What could he 
say to us ? " 
" Oh, I don't know as he could say anything," said 
Lapham hopelessly ; and neither of them said' any 
thing more till they crossed the Milldam and found 
themselves between the rows of city houses." 
"Don't drive past the new house, Si," pleaded his 
wife. " I couldn't bear to see it. Drive drive up 
Bolingbroke Street. We might as well see where 
he does live." 
" Well," said Lapham. He drove along slowly. 
" That 's the place," he said finally, stopping the 
mare and pointing with his whip. 
" It wouldn't do any good," said his wife, in a 
tone which he understood as well as he understood 
her words. He turned the mare up to the curb 
stone. 
" You take the reins a minute," he said, handing 
them to his wife. 
He got down and rang the bell, and waited till 
the door opened ; then he came back and lifted his 
wife out. " He 's in," he said. 
 
He got the hitch ing- weight from under the buggy- 
seat and made it fast to the mare's bit. 
"Do you think she'll stand with that?" asked 
Mrs. Lapham. 
" I guess so. If she don't, no matter." 
" Ain't you afraid she 'll take cold," she persisted, 
trying to make delay. 
" Let her ! " said Lapham. He took his wife's 
trembling hand under his arm, and drew her to the 
door. 
" He 'll think we 're crazy," she murmured in her 
broken pride. 
" Well, we are" said Lapham. " Tell him we 'd 
like to see him alone a while," he said to the girl 
who was holding the door ajar for him, and she 
showed him into the reception-room, which had 
been the Protestant confessional for many burdened 
souls before their time, coming, as they did, with the 
belief that they were bowed down with the only 
misery like theirs in the universe ; for each one of 
us must suffer long to himself before he can learn 
that he is but one in a great community of wretched 
ness which has been pitilessly repeating itself from 
the foundation of the world. 
They were as loath to touch their trouble when 
the minister came in as if it were their disgrace ; 
but Lapham did so at last, and, with a simple 
dignity which he had wanted in his bungling and 
apologetic approaches, he laid the affair clearly be 
fore the minister's compassionate and reverent eye.- 
He spared Corey's name, but he did not pretend that 
 
it was not himself and his wife and their daughters 
who were concerned. 
" I don't know as I Ve got any right to trouble 
you with this thing," he said, in the moment while 
Sewell sat pondering the case, " and I don't know as 
I Ve got any warrant for doing it. But, as I told 
my wife here, there was something about you I 
don't know whether it was anything you said 
exactly that made me feel as if you could help us. 
I guess I didn't say so much as that to her; but 
that 's the way I felt. And here we are. And if 
it ain't all right " 
" Surely," said Sewell, " it 's all right. I thank 
you for coming for trusting your trouble to ine. 
A time comes to every one of us when we can't help 
ourselves, and then we must get others to help us. 
If people turn to me at such a time, I feel sure that 
I was put into the world for something if nothing 
more than to give my pity, my sympathy." 
The brotherly words, so plain, so sincere, had a 
welcome in them that these poor outcasts of sorrow 
could not doubt. 
"Yes," said Lapham huskily, and his wife began 
to wipe the tears again under her veil. 
Sewell remained silent, and they waited till he 
should speak. " We can be of use to one another 
here, because we can always be wiser for some one 
else than we can for ourselves. We can see 
another's sins and errors in a more merciful light 
. and that is always a fairer light than we can 
our own ; and we can look more sanely at others' 
 
afflictions." He had addressed these words to 
Lapham ; now he turned to his wife. " If some 
one had come to you, Mrs. Lapham, in just this 
perplexity, what would you have thought ? " 
" I don't know as I understand you," faltered 
Mrs. Lapham. 
Sewell repeated his words, and added, " I mean, 
what do you think some one else ought to do in 
your place ? " 
" Was there ever any poor creatures in such a 
strait before ? " she asked, with pathetic incredulity. 
" There 's no new trouble under the sun," said 
the minister. 
" Oh, if it was any one else, I should say I 
should say Why, of course ! I should say that 
their duty was to let " She paused. 
" One suffer instead of three, if none is to blame ?" 
suggested Sewell. " That 's sense, and that 's justice. 
It 's the economy of pain which naturally suggests 
itself, and which would insist upon itself, if we were 
not all perverted by traditions which are the figment 
of the shallowest sentimentality. Tell me, Mrs. 
Lapham, didn't this come into your mind when you 
first learned how matters stood ? " 
"Why, yes, it flashed across me. But I didn't 
think it could be right." 
" And how was it with you, Mr. Lapham ? " 
" Why, 'that 's what I thought, of course. But I 
didn't see my way " 
" No," cried the minister, " we are all blinded, we. 
are all weakened by "a false ideal of self-sacrifice. It 
 
wraps us round with its meshes, and we can't fight 
our way out of it. Mrs. Lapham, what made you 
feel that it might be better for three to suffer than 
one f ' 
"Why, she did herself. I know she would die 
sooner than take him away from her." 
" I supposed so ! " cried the minister bitterly. 
" And yet she is a sensible girl, your daughter ?" 
" She has more common-sense " 
" Of course ! But in such a case we somehow 
think it must be wrong to use our common-sense. 
I don't know where this false ideal comes from, 
unless it comes from the novels that befool and 
debauch almost every intelligence in some degree. 
It certainly doesn't come from Christianity, which 
instantly repudiates it when confronted with it. 
Your daughter believes, in spite of her common- 
sense, that she ought to make herself and the man 
who loves her unhappy, in order to assure the life 
long wretchedness of her sister, whom he doesn't 
love, simply because her sister saw him and fancied 
him first ! And I 'm sorry to say that ninety-nine 
young people out of a hundred oh, nine hundred 
and ninety-nine out of a thousand ! would consider 
that noble and beautiful and heroic ; whereas you 
know at the bottom of your hearts that it would be 
foolish and cruel and revolting. You know what 
marriage is ! And what it must be without love on 
both sides." 
The minister had grown quite heated and red in 
the face. 
 SILAS LAPHAM. 
" I lose all patience !" he went on vehemently. 
" This poor child of yours has somehow been brought 
to believe that it will kill her sister if her sister does 
not have what does not belong to her, and what it 
is not in the power of all the world, or any soul in 
the world, to give her. Her sister will suffer yes, 
keenly ! in heart and in pride ; but she will not die. 
You will suffer too, in your tenderness for her ; but 
you must do your duty. You must help her to give 
up. You would be guilty if you did less. Keep 
clearly in mind that you are doing right, and the 
only possible good. And God be with you !" 
XIX. 
" HE talked sense, Persis," said Lapham gently, as 
he mounted to his wife's side in the buggy and drove 
slowly homeward through the dusk. 
"Yes, he talked sense," she admitted. But she 
added bitterly, " I guess, if he had it to do ! Oh, 
he 's right, and it 's got to be done. There ain't any 
other way for it. It 's sense ; and, yes, it 's justice." 
They walked to their door after they left the horse 
at the livery stable around the corner, where Lapham 
kept it. " I want you should send Irene up to our 
room as soon as we get in, Silas." 
"Why, ain't you going to have any supper first ?" 
faltered Lapham with his latch-key in the lock. 
"No. I can't lose a minute. If I do, I shan't do 
it at all." 
" Look here, Persis," said her husband tenderly, 
"let rtw do this thing." 
"Oh, you!" said his wife, with a woman's com 
passionate scorn for a man's helplessness in such a 
case. " Send her right up. And I shall feel 
She stopped to spare him. 
Then she opened the door, and ran up to her 
room without waiting to speak to Irene, who had 
come into the hall at the sound of her father's key 
in the door. 
" I guess your mother wants to see you upstairs," 
said Lapham, looking away. 
Her mother turned round and faced the girl's 
wondering look as Irene entered the chamber, so 
close upon her that she had not yet had time to lay 
off her bonnet ; she stood with her wraps still on 
her arm. 
" Irene ! " she said harshly, " there is something 
you have got to bear. It 's a mistake we 've all 
made. He don't care anything for you. He never 
did. He told Pen so last night. He cares for her." 
The sentences had fallen like blows. But the girl 
had taken them without flinching. She stood up 
immovable, but the delicate rose-liglit of her com 
plexion went out and left her colourless. She did 
not offer to speak. 
" Why don't you say something ? " cried her 
mother. " Do you want to kill me, Irene ? " 
" Why should I want to hurt you, mamma ? " the 
girl replied steadily, but in an alien voice. " There's 
nothing to say. I want to see Pen a minute.' 
She turned and left the room. As she mounted 
the stairs that led to her own and her sister's rooms 
on the floor above, her mother helplessly followed. 
Irene went first to her own room at the front of the 
house, and then came out leaving the door open and 
the gas flaring behind her. The mother could see 
that she had tumbled many things out of the drawers 
of her bureau upon the marble top. 
 
She passed her mother, where she stood in the 
entry. " You can come too, if you want to, 
mamma," she said. 
She opened Penelope's door without knocking, 
and went in. Penelope sat at the window, as in the 
morning. Irene did not go to her ; but she went 
and laid a gold hair-pin on her bureau, and said, 
without looking at her, " There 's a pin that I got 
to-day, because it was like his sister's. It won't be 
come a dark person so well, but you can have it." 
She stuck a scrap of paper in the side of Pene 
lope's mirror. " There 's that account of Mr. 
Stanton's ranch. You 'll want to read it, I pre 
sume." 
She laid a withered boutonnikre on the bureau 
beside the pin. " There 's his button-hole bouquet. 
He left it by his plate, and I stole it" 
She had a pine-shaving fantastically tied up with 
a knot of ribbon, in her hand. She held it a 
moment; then, looking deliberately at Penelope, 
she went up to her, and dropped it in her lap with 
out a word. She turned, and, advancing a few steps, 
