happiness. Socially, the result will be about the same: through
solidarity, association, and other means, men will learn how to make
the struggle of the individual with want less severe; yet, in all this,
his burdens will be merely lightened, and positive happiness will
remain unobtained.

Such are the outlines of Hartmann's conception of what future progress
will amount to. If the ideal is realized, man will be gradually raised
out of the misery in which he is plunged, and little by little approach
a state of indifference in every sphere of his activity. But it should
be remembered that the ideal is ever intangible; man may approach, but
he can never reach it, and consequently will remain always in a state
of suffering.

In this manner, but with a profusion of argument, which, if not always
convincing, is yet highly instructive, Hartmann has shown in brief that
the people that dwell nearest to nature are happier than the civilized
nations, that the poor are more contented than the rich, the poor in
spirit more blessed than the intelligent, and that in general that man
is the happiest whose sensibilities are the most obtuse, because
pleasure is then less dominated by pain, and illusions are more
steadfast and complete; moreover, that the progress of humanity
develops not only wealth and its needs, and consequently discontent,
but also the aptitudes and culture of the intellect, which in turn
awaken man to the consciousness of the misery of life, and in so doing
heighten the sentiment of general misfortune.

The dream that another golden age is to visit the earth is, therefore,
puerile in the extreme. As the wayfarer's burden grows heavier with the
miles, so do humanity's suffering and the consciousness of its misery
continually increase. The child lives in the moment, the adolescent
dreams of a transcendent ideal; man aspires to glory, then to wealth or
practical wisdom; lastly, old age, recognizing the vanity of all
things, holds but to peace, and bends a tired head to rest. "And so it
is with civilization,--nations rise, strengthen, and disappear.
Humanity, by unmistakable signs, shows that it is on the wane, and that
having employed its strength in maturity, age is now overtaking it. In
time it will be content to live on the accumulated wisdom of the
centuries, and, inured to thought, it will review the collective
agitations of its past life, and recognize the vanity of the goal
hitherto pursued.... Humanity, in its decline, will leave no heir to
profit by its accumulated wealth. It will have neither children nor
grandchildren to trouble the rigor of its judgment through the
illusions of parental love. It will sink finally into that melancholy
which is the appanage of great minds; it will in a measure float above
its own body like a spirit freed from matter; or, as Œdipus at
Colonna, it will in anticipation taste the calm of chaos, and assist
with compassionate self-pity at the spectacle of its own suffering.
Passions that have vanished into the depths of reason will be resolved
into ideas by the white light of thought. Illusions will have faded and
hope be done with, for what is there left to hope? Its highest aim can
be but the absence of pain, for it can no longer dream of happiness;
still weak and fragile, working to live, and yet not knowing why it
does so, it will ask but one gift, the rest of an endless sleep that
shall calm its weariness and immense ennui. It is then that humanity
will have passed through the three periods of illusion, and in
recognizing the nothingness of its former hopes will aspire only to
absolute insensibility and the chaos of Nirvâna."

It remains but to inquire what is to become of disillusionized
humanity, and to what goal evolution is tending. The foregoing account
of Hartmann's theory should have shown that this goal cannot be
happiness, for at no period has it ever been reached, and, moreover,
that with the progress of the world man is gaining a clearer perception
of his misery. On the other hand, it would be illogical to suppose that
evolution is to continue with no other aim than that of the discharge
of the successive moments that compose it; for if each of these moments
is valueless, evolution itself would be meaningless; but Hartmann, it
may be remembered, has recognized in the Unconscious a principle of
absolute wisdom, and the answer must be looked for elsewhere, but
preferably in that direction which most noticeably points to some
determined and progressive perfection. No such sign, however, is to be
met with anywhere save in the development of consciousness; here
progress has been clearly and uninterruptedly at work, from the
appearance of the first globule to contemporaneous humanity, and in all
probability will continue to advance so long as the world subsists.
All things aid in its production and development, while to its
assistance there come not only the perfecting of the nervous system,
but also such personal incentives as the desire for wealth, which in
increasing general welfare disfranchises the intellect; then, too,
there are the stimulants to intellectual activity, vanity and ambition,
and also sexual love, which heightens its aptitudes; in short, every
instinct which is valuable to the species, and which costs the
individual more pain than pleasure, is converted into an unalloyed and
increasing gain for consciousness.

In spite of all this, however, the development of consciousness is but
the means to an end, and cannot therefore be considered as an absolute
goal; "for consciousness," Hartmann says, "is born of pain, and exists
and expands with suffering, and yet what manner of consolation does it
offer? Merely a vain self-mirroring. Of course, if the world were good
and beautiful, this would not be without its advantage; but a world
which is absolutely miserable, a world which must curse its own
existence the moment it is able to judge it, can never regard its
apparent and purely ideal reflection as a reasonable goal and
termination of its existence. Is there not suffering enough in reality?
Is it necessary to reproduce it in a magic lantern? No; consciousness
cannot be the supreme goal of a world whose evolution is directed by
supreme wisdom.... Some other end must be sought for, then, to which
the development of consciousness shall be but the means."

But, however the question is regarded, from whatever standpoint the
matter is viewed, there seems to be but one possible goal, and that is
happiness. Everything that exists tends thereto, and it is the
principle on which rests each of the diverse forms of practical
philosophy; moreover, the pursuit of happiness is the essence of Will
seeking its own pacification. But happiness has been shown to be an
illusion; still there must be some key to the riddle. The solution is
at once simple and unexpected. There can be no positive happiness, and
yet happiness of some kind is necessary; the supreme aim of universal
progress, of which consciousness is but the instrument, is then the
realization of the highest possible felicity, which is nothing else
than the freedom from all pain, and, in consequence, the cessation of
all life; or, in other words, total annihilation.

This climax is the only one which Hartmann will consent to consider;
from any other point of view evolution would be a tireless progressus
which some day might be blindly arrested by chance, while life in the
mean time would remain in the utter desolation of an issueless
purgatory.

The path, however, through which the great deliverance is to be
effected is as tortuously perplexing as the irrational duality of the
Unconscious. Many generations of pessimists are needed before the world
will be fully ripe for its great leap into the night of time; even
then, though Hartmann does not appear to suspect it, there will
probably be quite a number of pantheists who, drunk on Nature, will
stupidly refuse the great bare bodkin, which will have thus been
carefully prepared for their viaticum.

It should not be supposed that in all this there is any question of the
suicide of the individual: Hartmann is far too dramatic to suggest a
final tableau so tame and humdrum as that; besides, it has been seen
that the death of the individual does not drag with it the
disappearance of the species, and in no wise disturbs the heedless calm
of Nature. It is not the momentary and ephemeral existence that is to
be destroyed, for, after its destruction, the repairing and reproducing
force would still survive; it is the principle of existence itself
which must be extinguished; the suicide, to be effectual, must be that
of the cosmos. This proceeding, which will shortly be explained, "will
be the act of the last moment, after which there will be neither will
nor activity; after which, to quote Saint John, 'time will have ceased
to be.'"

But here it may be pertinently asked whether humanity, such as it now
is, will be capable of this grandiose development of consciousness
which is to prepare the absolute renunciation of the will to live, or
whether some superior race is to appear on earth which will continue
the work and attain the goal. May it not be that the globe will be but
the theatre of an abortive effort of this description, and long after
it has gone to increase the number of frozen spheres, some other
planet, which is to us invisible, may, under more favorable
circumstances, realize the self-same aim and end? To this the answer is
made that if humanity is ever destined to conduct the world's evolution
to its coronation, it will assuredly not complete its task until the
culminating point of its progress has been reached, nor yet until it
has united the most favorable conditions of existence. We need not,
however, bother about the perspective which science has disclosed, and
which points to a future period of congelation and complete inertia;
long before that time, Hartmann says, evolution will have ended, and
this world of ours, with its continents and archipelagoes, will have
vanished.

The manner in which this great and final annihilation is to be
accomplished is of a threefold nature; the first condition necessary to
success is that humanity at some future time shall concentrate such a
mass of Will that the balance, spread about elsewhere over the world,
will be insignificant in proportion. This, Hartmann explains, is in no
wise impossible, "for the manifestation of Will in atomic forces is
greatly inferior to that which is exercised in the vegetable and animal
kingdom, and hence much less than that which irrupts in man. The
supposition, therefore, that the greater part may be capitalized in man
is not necessarily an idle dream. When that day arrives, it will
suffice for humanity to no longer will to live to annihilate the entire
fabric; for humanity will at that time represent more Will than all
the rest of Nature collectively considered."

The second condition necessary to success is that mankind shall be so
thoroughly alive to the folly of life, so imperiously in need of peace,
and shall have so completely disentangled every effort from its
aimlessness, that the yearning for an end to existence will be the
prime motive of every act. A condition such as this, Hartmann thinks,
will probably be realized in the old age of humanity. The theory that
life is an evil is already admitted by thinkers; the supposition,
therefore, that it may some day triumph over the prejudices of the
multitude is neither absurd nor preposterous. As is shown in the
history of other creeds, an idea may penetrate so deeply into the minds
of its adherents as to breed an entire race of fanatics; and it is the
opinion, not of Hartmann alone, but of many serious and cultivated
scholars, that if ever an idea was destined to triumph without recourse
to either passion or violence, and to exercise at the same time an
action purely pacific, yet so profound and durable as to assure its
success beforehand, that idea, or rather that sentiment, is the
compassion which the pessimist feels not only for himself, but for
everything that is. Its gradual adoption these gentlemen consider not
as problematical, but merely as a question of time. Indeed, the
difficulty is not so great as might be supposed; every day the will of
the individual suffices to triumph over the instinctive love of life,
and, Hartmann logically argues, may not the mass of humanity do the
same thing? The denial of the will to live on the part of the
individual is, it is true, barren of any benefit to the species, but,
on the other hand, a universal denial would result in complete
deliverance.

Mankind, however, has yet a long journey before it, and many
generations are needed to overcome, and to dissipate little by little,
through the influence of heredity, those passions which are opposed to
the desire for eternal peace. In time, Hartmann thinks, all this will
be brought about; and he holds, moreover, that the development of
consciousness will correspond with the weakening of passion, which is
to be one of the characteristics of the decline of humanity, as it is
now one of the signs of the day.

The third condition necessary for the perfect consummation of this
gigantic suicide is that communication between the inhabitants of the
world be so facilitated that they may simultaneously execute a common
resolution. Full play is allowed the imagination in picturing the
manner in which all this is to be accomplished. Hartmann has a contempt
for details, and contents himself with asserting that it is necessary
and possible, and that in the abdication of humanity every form of
existence will cease.

Such, in brief, is this vehement conception of the ordering of the
world, and the plan for its precipitate destruction. With a soldierly
disregard of objection, but with a prodigality of argument and
digression which, if not always substantial, is unusually vivid,
Hartmann explains the Unconscious and its reacting dualism of Will and
Idea. One principle is, as has been seen, constantly irrupting into
life, and it is through the revolt of the second that the first is to
be thwarted and extinguished. Nothing, indeed, could be more simple;
and it would be a graceless and pedantic task to laboriously clamber to
the same vague altitudes to which Hartmann has so lightly soared, and
there contradict his description of the perspective.

To any one who has cared to follow the writer thus far, the outlines
given of Hartmann's conspiracy against pain must have seemed
aggressively novel. Schopenhauer's ideas on the same subject were
seemingly more practical, if less lurid, but then Schopenhauer hugged a
fact and flouted chimeras. It may be that Schopenhauer was a little
behind the age, for Hartmann has criticised him very much as a
collegian on a holiday might jeer at the old-world manners of his
grandfather. As they cannot both be right, each may be wrong; and it
may be that the key to the whole great puzzle is contained in that one
word, resignation, which the poet-philosopher pronounced so long ago.
As a remedy this certainly has the advantage of being a more immediate
and serviceable palliative to the sufferer than either of those
suggested in the foregoing systems. It is admitted that--

     "Man cannot feed and be fed on the faith of to-morrow's baked meat;"

and it is in the same manner difficult for any one to hypnotize himself
and his suffering with the assurance that in the decline of humanity
all pain will cease; on the other hand, whether we have in regard to
future generations an after-me-the-deluge feeling, and practically care
very little whether or no they annihilate themselves and pain too,
still the more intelligent will readily recognize the ubiquity of
sorrow, and consider resignation at present as its most available
salve.

But in spite of its vagaries, pessimism, as expounded by Schopenhauer
and Hartmann, possesses a real and enduring value which it is difficult
to talk away; it is naturally most easy to laugh, in the heyday of
youth and health, at its fantastic misanthropy; indeed, it is in no
sense perfect; it has halted and tripped many times; it has points that
even to the haphazard and indifferent spectator are weak and faulty,
and yet what creed is logically perfect, and what creed is impregnable
to criticism? That there is none such can be truly admitted. The
reader, then, may well afford to be a little patient with pessimism;
theoretically, it is still in its infancy, but with increasing years
its blunders will give way to strength; and though many of the theories
that it now holds may alter, the cardinal, uncontrovertible tenet that
life is a burden will remain firm and changeless to the end of time.




CHAPTER VI.

IS LIFE AN AFFLICTION?


In very stately words, that were typical of him who uttered them,
Emerson said, "I do not wish to be amused;" and turned therewith a
figurative back on the enticements of the commonplace.

Broadly speaking, the sentiment that prompted this expression is common
to all individual men. The so-called allurements and charms of the
world are attractive to the vulgar, but not to the thinker, and whether
the thinker be a Trappist or a comedian, he will, if called to account,
express himself in a manner equally frank.

For sentiments of this description neither orthodoxy nor pessimism is
to blame. They are merely the resultants of the obvious and the true;
they leap into being in every intelligent mind. The holiday crowd on
its way to the Derby, to Coney Island, the Lido, or to any one of the
other thousand places of popular resort, causes even the ordinary
observer to wonder why it is that he cannot go too, and enjoy himself
with the same boisterous good humor which palpitates all about him; he
thinks at first that he has some fibre lacking, some incapacity for
that enjoyment which has in so large a measure been given to others;
