" Aiwishruthreina, Aihigaya, pure, lord of purity ! 

" Uslialiina, pure, lord of purity ! 

" To Havani, Shavangli and Vishya, the p)ure, the 
lords of purity most glorious, he hojiour and prayer and 
fulfilment and praise. 

" To the days, and the nights, and the hours, the 
months and the years and the feasts of years, he honour 
and prayer and fulfilment and praise hefore Auramazda, the All-Wise, for ever and ever and ever," 

As the white-robed priests shouted the verses of 
the long hymn, their eyes flashed and their bodies 
moved rhythmically from side to side with an ever- 
increasing motion. From time to time, the golden 
goblets were filled with the sweet Haoma juice, and 
passed rapidly from hand to hand along the line, and 
as each priest drank more freely of the subtle fer- 
mented liquor, his eyes gained a new and more unnat- 
ural light, and his gestures grew more wild, while 
the whole body of voices rose together from an even 
and dignified chant to an indistinguishable discord of 
deafening yells. 

Ever more and more they drank, repeating the 
verses of the hymn without order or sequence. One 
man repeated a verse over and over again in ear- 

1 Partly a translation, partly a close imitation in a condensed 
form of Yashna I. 



 

piercing shrieks, swaying his body to and fro till he 
dropped forward upon the ground, foaming at the 
mouth, his features distorted with a wild convulsion, 
and his limbs as rigid as stone. Here, a band of five 
locked their arms together, and, back to back, whirled 
madly round, screaming out the names of the arch- 
angels, in an indiscriminate rage of sound and broken 
syllables. One, less enduring than the rest, relaxed 
his hold upon his fellow's arm and fell headlong on 
the pavement, while the remaining four were carried 
on by the force of their whirling, and fell together 
against others who steadied themselves against the 
wall, swaying their heads and arms from side to side. 
Overthrown by the fall of their companions, these in 
their turn fell forward upon the others, and in a few 
moments, the whole company of priests lay grovelling 
one upon the other, foaming at the mouth, but still 
howling out detached verses of their hymn — a mass 
of raging, convulsed humanity, tearing each other in 
the frenzy of drunkenness, rolling over and over each 
other in the twisted contortions of frenzied maniacs. 
The air grew thick with the smoke of the fire and of 
the lamps, and the unceasing, indescribable din of 
the hoarsely howling voices seemed to make the very 
roof rock upon the pillars that held it up, as though 
the stones themselves must go mad and shriek in the 
universal fury of sound. The golden goblets rolled 
upon the marble pavement, and the sweet green juice 
ran in slimy streams upon the floor. The high priest 
himself, utterly intoxicated and screaming with a 
voice like a wild beast in agony, fell backwards across 
the marble vase at the foot of the mortar and his 



 

hand and arm plashed into the dregs of the fermented 
Haoma. 

Never had the drunken frenzy reached such a 
point before. The king had sat motionless and 
frowning upon his seat until he saw the high priest 
fall headlong into the receptacle of the sacred Haoma. 
Then, with a groan, he laid his two hands upon the 
drms of his carved chair, and rose to his feet in utter 
disgust and horror. But, as he turned to go, he stood 
still and shook from head to foot, for he saw beside 
him a figure that might, at such a moment, have 
startled the boldest. 

A tall man of unearthly looks stood there, whose 
features he seemed to know, but could not recognise. 
His face was thin to emaciation, and his long, white 
hair fell in tangled masses, with his huge beard, upon 
his half-naked shoulders and bare chest. The torn, 
dark mantle he wore was falling to the ground as he 
faced the drunken herd of howling priests and lifted 
up his thin blanched arms and bony fingers, as though 
in protest at the hideous sight. His deep-set eyes 
were blue and fiery, flashing with a strange light. 
He seemed not to see Darius, but he gazed in deepest 
horror upon the writhing mass of bestial humanity 
below. 

Suddenly his arms shook, and standing there, 
against the dark marble screen, like the very figure 
and incarnation of fate, he spoke in a voice that, 
without effort, seemed to dominate the hideous din of 
yelling voices — a voice that was calm and clear as a 
crystal bell, but having that in it which carried in- 
stantly the words he spoke to the ears of the very 



 

most besotted wretch that lay among the heaps upon 
the floor — a voice that struck like a sharp steel blade 
upon iron. 

"I am the prophet of the Lord. Hold ye your 
peace." 

As a wild beast's howling suddenly diminishes and 
grows less and dies away to silence, when the hunter's arrow has sped close to the heart with a mortal 
wound, so in one moment, the incoherent din sank 
down, and the dead stillness that followed was dreadful by contrast. Darius stood with his hand upon 
the arm of his chair, not understanding the words of 
the fearful stranger; still less the mastering power 
those words had upon the drunken priests. But his 
courage did not desert him, and he feared not to speak. 

" How sayest thou that thou art a prophet? Who 
art thou ? " he asked. 

"Thou knowest me and hast sent for me," an- 
swered the white-haired man, in his calm tones ; but 
his fiery eyes rested on the king's, and Darius almost 
quailed under the glance. " I am Zoroaster ; I am 
come to proclaim the truth to thee and to these mis- 
erable men, thy priests." 

The fear they felt had restored the frenzied men to 
their senses. One by one, they rose and crept back 
towards the high priest himself, who had struggled to 
his feet, and stood upon the basement of the mortar 
above all the rest. 

Then Darius looked, and he knew that it was Zoro- 
aster, but he knew not the strange look upon his face, 
and the light in his eyes was not as the light of other 
days. He turned to the priests. 



 

" Ye are unworthy priests," he cried angrily, " for 
ye are drunk with your own sacrifice, and ye defile 
God's temple with unseemly cries. Behold this man 
— can ye tell me whether he be indeed a prophet?" 
Darius, whose anger was fast taking the place of the 
awe he had felt when he first saw Zoroaster beside 
him, strode a step forward, with his hand upon his 
sword-hilt, as though he would take summary vengeance upon the desecrators of the temple. 

" He is surely a liar ! " cried the high priest from 
his position beyond the altar, as though hurling de- 
fiance at Zoroaster through the flames. 

"He is surely a liar!" repeated all the priests 
together, following their head. 

" He is a Magian, a worshipper of idols, a liar and 
the father of lies I Down with him ! Slay him be- 
fore the altar ; destroy the unbeliever that entereth 
the temple of Ahura Mazda ! " 

" Down with the Magian ! Down with the idol- 
ater ! " cried the priests, and moved forward in a 
body toward the thin white-haired man who stood 
facing them, serene and high. 

Darius drew his short sword and rushed before 
Zoroaster to strike down the foremost of the priests. 
But Zoroaster seized the keen blade in the air as 
though it had been a reed, and wrenched it from the 
king's strong grip, and broke it in pieces like glass, 
and cast the fragments at his feet. Darius staggered 
back in amazement, and the herd of angry men, in 
whose eyes still blazed the drunkenness of the Haoma, 
huddled together for a moment like frightened 
sheep. 



 

" I have no need of swords," said Zoroaster, in his 
cold, clear voice. 

Then the high priest cried aloud, and ran forward 
and seized a brand from the sacred fire. 

" It is Angramainyus, the Power of Evil," he yelled 
fiercely. " He is come to fight with Auramazda in 
his temple ! But the fire of the Lord shall destroy 

him : " 

As the priest rushed upon him, with the blazing 
brand raised high to strike, Zoroaster faced him and 
fixed his eyes upon the angry man. The priest sud- 
denly stood still, his hand in mid-air, and the stout 
piece of burning wood fell to the floor, and lay smoul- 
dering and smoking upon the pavement. 

" Tempt not the All- Wise Lord, lest he destroy 
thee," said Zoroaster solemnly. " Harken, ye priests, 
and obey the word from heaven. Take the brazier 
from your altar, and scatter the embers upon the 
floor, for the fire is defiled." 

Silent and trembling, the priests obeyed, for they 
were afraid; but the high priest stood looking in 
amazement upon Zoroaster. 

When the brazier was gone, and the coals were 
scattered out upon the pavement, and the priests had 
trodden out the fire with their leathern shoes, Zoroaster 
went to the black marble altar, and faced the east, 
looking towards the stone mortar at the end. He laid 
his long, thin hands upon the flat surface and drew 
them slowly together ; and, in the sight of the priests, 
a light sprang up softly between his fingers ; gradually 
at first, then higher and higher, till it stood like a 
blazing spear-head in the midst, emitting a calm, 



 

white effulgence that darkened the lamps overhead, 
and shed an unearthly whiteness on Zoroaster's white 
face. 

He stepped back from the altar, and a low murmur 
of astonishment rose from all the crowd of white- 
robed men. Darius stood in silent wonder, gazing 
alternately upon the figure of Zoroaster, and upon 
the fragments of his good sword that lay scattered 
upon the pavement. 

Zoroaster looked round upon the faces of the priests 
with blazing eyes : 

" If ye be true priests of Ahura Mazda, raise with 
me the hymn of praise," he said. " Let it be heard 
in the heavens, and let it echo beyond the spheres ! " 

Then his voice rose calm and clear above all the 
others, and lifting up his eyes and hands, he intoned 
the solemn chant ; 

"^e, who hy truth ruleth in purity^ ahideth accord- 
ing to the will of the Lord. 

" The Lord All- Wise is the giver of gifts to men for 
the ivorks which men in the world shall do in the truth 
of the Lord, 

" He who protecteth the poor giveth the kingdom to 
aod. 

" Best of all earthly goods is truth. 

" Grlory^ glory on high for ever to him who is best in 
heaven, and truest in truth on earth ! " 

Zoroaster's grand voice rang out, and all the priests 
sang melodiously together; and upon the place which 
had been the scene of such frenzy and fury and 
drunkenness, there descended a peace as holy and 




calm as the quiet flame that burned without fuel upon 
the black stone in the midst. One by one, the priests 
came and fell at Zoroaster's feet; the chief priest 
first of all. 

"Thou art the prophet and priest of the Lord," 
each said, one after another. " I acknowledge thee 
to be the chief priest, and I swear to be a true priest 
with thee." 

And last of all, the king, who had stood silently 
by, came and would have kneeled before Zoroaster. 
But Zoroaster took his hands, and they embraced. 

" Forgive me the wrong I did thee, Zoroaster," said 
Darius. " For thou art a holy man, and I will honour thee as thou wast not honoured before." 
