the close of the last century bought it from the crown, 
which had recovered it after a lapse. Like the castle 
of Blois it has been injured and defaced by base uses, 
but, unlike the castle of Blois, it has not been com 
pletely restored. "It is very, very dirty, but very 
curious," it is in these terms that I heard it described 
by an English lady, who was generally to be found 
engaged upon a tattered Tauchnitz in the little salon 
de lecture of the hotel at Tours. The description is 
not inaccurate; but it should be said that if part of 
the dirtiness of Amboise is the result of its having 
served for years as a barrack and as a prison, p art of 
it comes from the presence of restoring stone-masons, 
who have woven over a considerable portion of it a 
mask of scaffolding. There is a good deal of neatness 
as well, and the restoration of some of the parts seems 
finished. This process, at Amboise, consists for the 
most part of simply removing the vulgar excrescences 
of the last two centuries. 

The interior is virtually a blank, the old apart 
ments having been chopped up into small modern 
rooms; it will have to be completely reconstructed. A 



  

worthy woman, with a military profile and that sharp, 
positive manner which the goodwives who show you 
through the chateaux of Touraine are rather apt to 
have, and in whose high respectability, to say nothing 
of the frill of her cap and the cut of her thick brown 
dress, my companions and I thought we discovered 
the particular note, or nuance, of Orleanism, a com 
petent, appreciative, peremptory person, I say, at 
tended us through the particularly delightful hour we 
spent upon the ramparts of Amboise. Denuded and 
disfeatured within, and bristling without with brick 
layers ladders, the place was yet extraordinarily im 
pressive and interesting. I should confess that we 
spent a great deal of time in looking at the view. 
Sweet was the view, and magnificent; we preferred it 
so much to certain portions of the interior, and to oc 
casional effusions of historical information, that the 
old lady with the profile sometimes lost patience with 
us. We laid ourselves open to the charge of pre 
ferring it even to the little chapel of Saint Hubert, 
which stands on the edge of the great terrace, and 
has, over the portal, a wonderful sculpture of the mi 
raculous hunt of that holy man. In the way of plastic 
art this elaborate scene is the gem of Amboise. It 
seemed to us that we had never been in a place where 
there are so many points of vantage to look down 
from. In the matter of position Amboise is certainly 
supreme among the old houses of the Loire; and I 
say this with a due recollection of the claims of Chau- 
mont and of Loches, which latter, by the way (ex- 





cuse the afterthought), is not on the Loire. The plat 
forms, the bastions, the terraces, the high-perched 
windows and balconies, the hanging gardens and dizzy 
crenellations , of this complicated structure, keep you 
in perpetual intercourse with an immense horizon. 
The great feature of the place is the obligatory round 
tower which occupies the northern end of it, and 
which has now been completely restored. It is of 
astounding size, a fortress in itself, and contains, 
instead of a staircase, a wonderful inclined plane, so 
wide and gradual that a coach and four may be driven 
to the top. This colossal cylinder has to-day no 
visible use; but it corresponds, happily enough, with 
the great circle of the prospect. The gardens of Am- 
boise, perched in the air, covering the irregular rem 
nants of the platform on which the castle stands, and 
making up in picturesqueness what they lack in ex 
tent, constitute of course but a scanty domain. But 
bathed, as we found them, in the autumn sunshine, 
and doubly private from their aerial site, they offered 
irresistible opportunities for a stroll, interrupted, as 
one leaned against their low parapets, by long, con 
templative pauses. I remember, in particular, a certain 
terrace, planted with clipped limes, upon which we 
looked down from the summit of the big tower. It 
seemed from that point to be absolutely necessary to 
one 's happiness to go down and spend the rest of the 
morning there; it was an ideal place to walk to and 
fro and talk. Our venerable conductress, to whom 
our relation had gradually become more filial, per- 



  

milled us to gratify this innocent wish, to the extent, 
that is, of taking a turn or two under the mossy tilleuls. 
At the end of this terrace is the low door, in a wall, 
against the top of which, in 1498, Charles VIII. , ac 
cording to an accepted tradition, knocked his head to 
such good purpose that he died. It was within the 
walls of Amboise that his widow, Anne of Brittany, 
already in mourning for three children, two of whom 
we have seen commemorated in sepulchral marble at 
Tours, spent the first violence of that grief which was 
presently dispelled by a union with her husband 's 
cousin and successor, Louis XH. Amboise was a fre 
quent resort of the French Court during the sixteenth 
century; it was here that the young Mary Stuart spent 
sundry hours of her first marriage. The wars of re 
ligion-have left here the ineffaceable stain which they 
left wherever they passed. An imaginative visitor at 
Amboise to-day may fancy that the traces of blood 
are mixed with the red rust on the crossed iron bars 
of the grim-looking balcony, to which the heads of 
the Huguenots executed on the discovery of the con 
spiracy of La Renaudie are rumored to have been 
suspended. There was room on the stout balustrade 
an admirable piece of work for a ghastly array. The 
same rumor represents Catherine de Medici and the 
young queen as watching from this balcony the noyades 
of the captured Huguenots in the Loire. The facts of 
history are bad enough; the fictions are, if possible, 
worse; but there is little doubt that the future Queen 
of Scots learnt the first lessons of life at a horrible 





school. If in subsequent years she was a prodigy of 
innocence and virtue, it was not the fault of her whilom 
mother-in-law, of her uncles of the house of Guise, or 
of the examples presented to her either at the 
windows of the castle of Amboise or in its more pri 
vate recesses. 

It was difficult to believe in these dark deeds, how 
ever, as we looked through the golden morning at the 
placidity of the far-shining Loire. The ultimate con 
sequence of this spectacle was a desire to follow the 
river as far as the castle of Chaumont. It is true 
that the cruelties practised of old at Amboise might 
have seemed less phantasmal to persons destined to 
suffer from a modern form of inhumanity. The mis 
tress of the little inn at the base of the castle-rock 
it stands very pleasantly beside the river, and we had 
breakfasted there declared to us that the Chateau de 
Chaumont, which is often during the autumn closed 
to visitors, was at that particular moment standing so 
wide open to receive us that it was our duty Co hire 
one of her carriages and drive thither with speed. 
This assurance was so satisfactory that we presently 
found ourselves seated in this wily woman 's most com 
modious vehicle, and rolling, neither too fast nor too 
slow, along the margin of the Loire. The drive of 
about an hour, beneath constant clumps of chestnuts, 
was charming enough to have been taken for itself; 
and indeed, when we reached Chaumont, we saw that 
our reward was to be simply the usual reward of 
virtue, the consciousness of having attempted the 



  

right. The Chateau de Chaumont was inexorably 
closed; so we learned from a talkative lodge-keeper, 
who gave what grace she could to her refusal. This 
good woman 's dilemma was almost touching; she 
wished to reconcile two impossibles. The castle was 
not to be visited, for the family of its master was 
staying there; and yet she was loath to turn away a 
party of which she was good enough to say that it had 
a grand genre; for, as she also remarked, she had her 
living to earn. She tried to arrange a compromise, 
one of the elements of which was that we should 
descend from our carriage and trudge up a hill which 
would bring us to a designated point, where, over the 
paling of the garden, we might obtain an oblique and 
surreptitious view of a small portion of the castle walls. 
This suggestion led us to inquire (of each other) to 
what degree of baseness it is allowed to an enlightened 
lover of the picturesque to resort, in order to catch a 
glimpse of a feudal chateau. One of our trio decided, 
characteristically, against any form of derogation; so 
she sat in the carriage and sketched some object that 
was public property, while her two companions, who 
were not so proud, trudged up a muddy ascent which 
formed a kind of back-stairs. It is perhaps no more 
than they deserved that they were disappointed. Chau 
mont is feudal, if you please; but the modern spirit is 
in possession. It forms a vast clean-scraped mass, 
with big round towers, ungarnished with a leaf of ivy 
or a patch of moss, surrounded by gardens of moderate 
extent (save where the muddy lane of which I speak 





passes near it), and looking rather like an enormously 
magnified villa. The great merit of Chaumont is its 
position, which almost exactly resembles that of Am- 
boise; it sweeps the river up and down, and seems to 
look over half the province. This, however, was better 
appreciated as, after coming down the hill and re- 
entering the carriage, we drove across the long sus 
pension-bridge which crosses the Loire just beyond 
the village, and over which we made our way to the 
small station of Onzain, at the farther end, to take 
the train back to Tours. Look back from the middle 
of this bridge; the whole picture composes, as the 
painters say. The towers, the pinnacles, the fair front 
of the chateau, perched above its fringe of garden and 
the rusty roofs of the village, and facing the afternoon 
sky, which is reflected also in the great stream that 
sweeps below, all this makes a contribution to your 
happiest memories of Touraine. 



VII. 

WE never went to Chinon; it was a fatality. We 
planned it a dozen times; but the weather interfered, 
or the trains didn 't suit, or one of the party was 
fatigued with the adventures of the day before. This 
excursion was so much postponed that it was finally 
postponed to everything. Besides, we had to go to 
Chenonceaux, to Azay-le-Rideau, to Larigeais, to Loches. 
So I have not the memory of Chinon; I have only the 



  

regret. But regret, as well as memory, has its visions; 
especially when, like memory, it is assisted by photo 
graphs. The castle of Chinon in this form appears 
to me as an enormous ruin, a mediaeval fortress, of 
the extent almost of a city. It covers a hill above the 
Vienne, and after being impregnable in its time is in 
destructible to-day. (I risk this phrase in the face of 
the prosaic truth. Chinon, in the days when it was a 
prize, more than once suffered capture, and at present 
it is crumbling inch by inch. It is apparent, however, 
I believe, that these inches encroach little upon acres 
of masonry.) It was in the castle that Jeanne Dare 
had her first interview with Charles VH, and it is in 
the town that Francois Rabelais is supposed to have 
been born. To the castle, moreover, the lover of the 
picturesque is earnestly recommended to direct his 
steps. But one cannot do everything, and I w r ould 
rather have missed Chinon than Chenonceaux. For 
tunate exceedingly were the few hours that we passed 
at this exquisite residence. 

"In 1747," says Jean- Jacques Rousseau, in his 
"Confessions," "we went to spend the autumn in Tou- 
raine, at the Chateau of Chenonceaux., a royal resi 
dence upon the Cher, built by Henry ll. for Diana of 
Poitiers, whose initials are still to be seen there, and 
now in possession of M. Dupin, the farmer-general. 
We amused ourselves greatly in this fine spot; the liv 
ing was of the best, and I became as fat as a monk. 
We made a great deal of music, and acted comedies." 

This is the only description that Rousseau gives 





of one of the most romantic houses in France, and of 
an episode that must have counted as one of the most 
agreeable in his uncomfortable career. The eighteenth 
century contented itself with general epithets; and 
when Jean- Jacques has said that Chenonceaux was a 
"beau lieu," he thinks himself absolved from further 
characterization. We later sons of time have, both for 
our pleasure and our pain, invented the fashion of 
special terms, and I am afraid that even common 
decency obliges me to pay some larger tribute than 
this to the architectural gem of Touraine. Fortunately 
I can discharge my debt with gratitude. In going 
from Tours you leave the valley of the Loire and enter 
that of the Cher, and at the end of about an hour you 
see the turrets of the castle on your right, among the 
trees, down in the meadows, beside the quiet little 
river. The station and the village are about ten 
minutes walk from the chateau, and the village con 
tains a very tidy inn, where, if you are not in too 
great a hurry to commune with the shades of the royal 
favorite and the jealous queen, you will perhaps stop 
and order a dinner to be ready for you in the evening. 
A straight, tall avenue leads to the grounds of the 
