sympathizing friends of highly sensitive organizations were mysteriously
and correctly impressed with each other's general conditions, even when
long distances apart, and without any external communication?

I. I have heard and read of many such cases, but could have scarcely
believed them had I not had some experience of the kind myself.

P. There must, then, be here some medium of communication; that medium
is evidently not anything cognizable to either of the five outer senses.
What, then, can it be but the co-related spheres of the two persons,
which I have already told you are not atomic--not material but
spiritual, and as such have little relation to space?

I. That idea, if true, looks to me to be of some importance, and I
would like you, if you can, to show me clearly what relation these
"spheres," as you call them, have to the spiritual nature of man.

P. Consider, then, the primal meaning of the word "spirit:" It is
derived from the Latin spiritus, the basic meaning of which is
breath, wind, air--nearly the same idea that you attach to the word
"atmosphere." So the Greek word pneuma, also translated "spirit,"
means precisely the same thing. The same meaning is likewise attached
to the Hebrew word ruach, also sometimes translated "spirit." Now,
carrying out this use of terms, the wind, air, or atmosphere of the
earth (including the ether, electricity, and other imponderable
elements) is the spirit of the earth;[2] the atmosphere of any other
body, great or small, is the spirit of that body; the atmosphere, or
rather sphere, being now without atoms, of a man, considered as an
intellectual and moral being, is the spirit of that man; the sphere of
a disembodied man or soul is the spirit of that man or soul; and so the
Infinite and Eternal Sphere of the Deity which pervades and controls all
creations both in the spiritual and natural universe, is the Spirit of
the Deity, which in the Bible is called the Holy Spirit.

      [2] Query: Have we here the spiritus mundi of the old
      philosophers?

I. Well, those ideas seem singularly consistent with themselves, to
say the least, however novel they may appear. But now another point: You
have said that atmospheres or spheres surround and pervade all bodies,
unless, indeed, they be dead bodies--attributing, as I understand you,
a kind of cosmic life to plants, and a mineral life to minerals, as
well as a vegetable and animal life respectively to vegetables and
animals; do you mean by that to intimate that the sphere is the effect
or the cause of the living body?

P. Of each living material form, the sphere, or at least some
sphere, was the cause. Matter, considered simply by itself, is dead, and
can only live by the influx of a surrounding sphere or spirit. It may
be said at the last synthesis, that the general sphere even of each
microscopic monad that is in process of becoming vitalized, as well as
of the great nebulous mass that is to form a universe, is the Spirit
of the Infinite Deity, which is present with atoms in the degree of
atoms, as well as with worlds in the degree of worlds. This Spirit,
as it embodies itself in matter, becomes segregated, finited, and
individualized, and forms a specific soul, spirit, or sphere by itself,
now no longer deific, but always of a nature necessarily corresponding
to the peculiar form and condition of the matter in which it becomes
embodied. Life, therefore, is not the result of organization, but
organization is the result of life, which latter is eternal, never
having had a beginning, and never to have an end. Some of your
scientific men have recently discovered what they have been pleased to
term "the physical basis of life," in a microscopic and faintly vital
substance called protoplasm, which forms the material foundation of
all organic structures, both in the vegetable and animal kingdoms. They
have not yet, however, discovered the source from which the life found
in this substance comes--which would be plain to them if they understood
the doctrine of spheres and influx as I have here given it.

I. I thank you for this profoundly suggestive thought, even should it
prove to be no more than a thought. But please now show us what bearing
all this has upon the question more particularly before us--the question
as to the medium and process through which this little board is moved,
the tables are tipped, people are entranced and made to speak and write,
and all these modern wonders are produced--also how and why it is that
the alleged spirit-communications are commonly tinctured, more or less,
with the peculiar characteristics of the human agents through whom they
are given?

P. You now have some idea of the doctrine of spheres; you will,
however, understand that the spheres of created beings, owing to a unity
of origin, are universally co-related, and, under proper conditions, can
act and react upon each other. You have before had some true notion of
the laws of rapport, which means relation or correspondence. You will
understand, further, that there can be no action between any two things
or beings in any department of creation except as they are in rapport
or correspondence with each other, and that the action can go no farther
than the rapport or correspondence extends. Now, two spirits can
always, when it is in divine order, readily communicate with each other,
because they can always bring themselves into direct rapport at some
one or more points. Though matter is widely discreted from spirit, in
that the one is dead and the other is alive, yet there is a certain
correspondence between the two, and between the degrees of one and the
degrees of the other; and according to this correspondence, relation,
or rapport, spirit may act upon matter. Thus your spirit, in all its
degrees and faculties, is in the closest rapport with all the degrees
of matter composing your body, and for this reason alone it is able to
move it as it does, which it will no longer be able to do when that
rapport is destroyed by what you call death. Through your body it is
en rapport with, and is able to act upon, surrounding matter. If,
then, you are in a susceptible condition, a spirit can not only get into
rapport with your spirit, and through it with your body, and control
its motions, or even suspend your own proper action and external
consciousness by entrancement, but if you are at the same time en
rapport with this little board, it can, through contact of your hands,
get into rapport with that, and move it without any conscious or
volitional agency on your part. Furthermore, under certain favorable
conditions, a spirit may, through your sphere and body combined, come
into rapport even with the spheres of the ultimate particles of
material bodies near you, and thence with the particles and the whole
bodies themselves, and may thus, even without contact of your hands,
move them or make sounds upon them, as has often been witnessed. Its
action, however, as before said, ceases where the rapport ceases; and
if communications from really intelligent spirits have sometimes been
defective as to the quality of the intelligence manifested, it is
because there has been found nothing in the medium which could be
brought into rapport or correspondence with the more elevated ideas of
the spirit. The spirit, too, in frequent instances, is unable to prevent
its energizing influences from being diverted by the reactive power of
the medium, into the channels of the imperfect types of thought and
expression that are established in his mind, and it is for this simple
reason that the communication is, as you say, often tinctured with the
peculiarities of the medium, and even sometimes is nothing more than
a reproduction of the mental states of the latter, perhaps greatly
intensified.

I. If this theory, so far seemingly very plausible, is really the
correct one, it ought to go one step farther, and explain the many
disorderly unintelligible rappings, thumpings, throwing of stones,
hurling of furniture, etc., which often have occurred in the presence
of particular persons, or at particular places.[3]

      [3] See an article entitled "A Remarkable Case of Physical
      Phenomena," in the Atlantic Monthly for August, 1868.

P. Those are manifestations which, when not the designed work of evil
spirits, have their proximate source in the dream-region which lies
between the natural and spiritual worlds.

I. Pray tell us what you mean by the dream-region that lies between
the two worlds?

P. There are sometimes conditions in which the body is profoundly
asleep, with no perturbations of the nervous system caused by previous
mental and physical exercise. In this state the mind may still be
perfectly awake, and independently, consciously, and even intensely
active. When thus conditioned, it may be, and often is, among spirits
in the spiritual world, though from the nature of the case it is seldom
able to bring back into the bodily state any reminiscences of the scenes
of that world. The dream state, properly speaking, is not this, but
a state intermediate between this and the normal, wakeful state of
the bodily senses, and is a state of broken, confused, irrational,
inconsistent, and irresponsible thoughts, emotions, and apparent
actions--the whole arising from confusedly intermixed bodily and
spiritual states and influences. The potential spheres of spirits who
desire to make manifestations to the natural world sometimes become
commingled, designedly or otherwise, with the spheres of persons in the
body who, in consequence of certain nervous or psychic disorders, are
more or less in this dream-region even when the body is so far awake as
to be en rapport with external things; and in such cases, whatever
manifestations may arise from the spiritual potencies with which such
persons are surcharged, will of necessity be beyond the control, or
possibly even beyond the cognizance, of any governing spirit, and will
be irrational, inconsistent, and sometimes very annoying, or even
destructive, according to the types of the dreamy mentality of the
medium. If you will think for a moment, you will remember that the kind
of manifestations referred to are never known to occur except in the
presence of persons in a semi-somnambulic or highly hysterical state,
or laboring under some analogous nervous disorders; and the persons are
often of a low organization, and very ignorant.


THE MORAL AND RELIGIOUS DIFFICULTY.

I. I am constrained to say, my mysterious friend, that the novelty and
ingenuity of your ideas surprise me greatly, and I do, in all candor,
acknowledge that you have skillfully disposed of my objections to the
spiritual theory of these phenomena on rational grounds, and explained
the philosophy of this thing, in a manner which I am at present unable
to gainsay. I must still hesitate, however, to enroll myself among the
converts to the spiritual theory unless you can remove another serious
objection, which rests on moral and religious grounds. From so
important and startling a development as general open communications
from spirits, it seems to me that we would have a right to expect some
conspicuous good to mankind; yet, although this thing has been before
the world now over twenty years, I am unable to see the evidence that
it has wrought any improvement in the moral and social condition of
the converts to its claims. Pray, how do you account for that fact?

P. My friend, that question should be addressed to the Spiritualists,
not to me. I will say, however, that this whole subject, long as it has
been before the world, is still in a chaotic state, its laws have been
very little understood, and even its essential objects and uses have
been very much misconceived. I may add that, from its very nature, its
real practical fruits as well as its true philosophy must necessarily be
the growth of a considerable period of time.

I. I will not, then, press the objection in that form. When we look,
however, at the Religious tendencies of the thing, I do not think we
find much promise of the "practical fruits" which you here intimate may
yet come of it. I lay it down as a proposition which all history proves,
that Infidelity, in all its forms, is an enemy to the human race, and
that it never has done or can do anybody any good, but always has done
and must do harm. But it is notorious that the spirits, if they be
such, with their mediums and disciples, have generally (though not
universally, I grant) assumed an attitude at least of apparent
hostility to almost every thing peculiar to the Christian religion,
and most essential to it, and are constantly reiterating the almost
identical ribaldry and sophistry of the infidels of the last century.
How shall a good and Christian person who knows and has felt the truth
of the vital principles of Christianity become a Spiritualist while
Spiritualism thus denies and scoffs at doctrines which he feels and
knows to be true?

P. The point you thus make is apparently a very strong one. But let
me ask, Can you not conceive that there may be a difference between the
mere word-teaching of Spiritualists and even spirits themselves, and the
real teaching of Spiritualism as such? that is to say, between mere
verbal utterances and phenomenal demonstrations? For illustration,
suppose a man asserts at noonday that there is no sun, does he teach you
there is no sun? or does he teach you that he is blind?

I. That he is blind, of course.

P. So, then, when a spirit comes to you and asserts that there is no
God--it is seldom that they assert that, but we will take an extreme
case--does he teach you that there is no God, or does he teach you that
he himself is a fool?

I. Well, I should say he would teach the latter; but what use would
the knowledge that he is such a fool be to us?

P. It is one of the important providential designs of these
manifestations to teach mankind that spirits in general maintain
the characters that they formed to themselves during their earthly
life--that, indeed, they are the identical persons they were while
dwelling in the flesh--hence, that while there are just, truthful,
wise, and Christian spirits, there are also spirits addicted to lying,
profanity, obscenity, mischief, and violence, and spirits who deny God
and religion, just as they did while in your world. It has become very
necessary for mankind to know all this; it certainly could in no other
way be so effectually made known as by an actual manifestation of it;
and it is just as necessary that you should see the dark side as the
bright side of the picture.

I. Yet a person already adopting, or predisposed to adopt, any false
doctrine asserted by a spirit, would, it seems to me, be in danger of
receiving the spirit-assertion as verbally true.

P. That is to say, a person already in, or inclined to adopt, the
same error that a spirit is in, would be in danger of being confirmed,
for the time being, in that error, by listening to the spirit's
asseveration. This, I admit, is just the effect produced for a time
by the infidel word-teaching of some spirits upon those already
embracing, or inclined to embrace, infidel sentiments. But if you
will look beyond this superficial aspect of the subject at its great
phenomenal and rational teachings, I think you will see that its deeper,
stronger, and more permanent tendency is, not to promote infidelity, but
ultimately to destroy it for ever. I have said before, that the real
object of this development has been very much misconceived; I tell you
now that the great object is to purge the Church itself of its latent
infidelity; to renovate the Christian faith; and to bring theology and
religion up to that high standard which will be equal to the wants of
this age, as it certainly now is not.

I. Planchette, you are now touching upon a delicate subject. You
should know that we are inclined to be somewhat tenacious of our
theological and religious sentiments, and not to look with favor on any
innovations. Nevertheless, I am curious to know how you justify yourself
in this disparaging remark on the theology and religion of the day?

P. I do not mean to be understood that there is not much that is true
and good in it. There is; and I would not by a single harsh word wound
the loving hearts of those who have a spark of real religious life in
them. I would bind up the bruised reed, rather than break it; I would
fan the smoking flax into a flame, rather than quench it. This is the
sentiment of all good spirits, of whom I trust I am one. But let me
say most emphatically, that you want a public religion that will tower
high above all other influences whatsoever; that will predominate over
all, and ask favors of none; that will unite mankind in charity and
brotherly love, and not divide them into hostile sects, and that will
infuse its spirit into, and thus give direction to, all social and
political movements. Such a religion the world must have, or from this
hour degenerate.

I. Why might not the religion of the existing churches accomplish
these results, provided its professors would manifest the requisite zeal
and energy?

P. It is doing much good, and might, on the conditions you specify,
do much more. Yet the public religion has become negative to other
influences, instead of positive, as it should be, from which false
position it can not be reclaimed without such great and vital
improvements as would almost seem to amount to a renewal ab ovo.

I. On what ground do you assert that the religion of the day stands in
a position "negative" to other influences?

P. I will answer by asking: Is it not patent to you and all other
intelligent persons, that for the last hundred years the Christian
