the things he wanted to know was why in the world this 
ticklish spinster had written to him. 



IV. 

SHE had told him before they started that they should be 
early ; she wished to see Miss Birdseye alone, before the 
arrival of any one else. This was just for the pleasure of 
seeing her it was an opportunity ; she was always so taken 
up with others. She received Miss Chancellor in the hall 
of the mansion, which had a salient front, an enormous and 
very high number 756 painted in gilt on the glass light 
above the door, a tin sign bearing the name of a doctress 
(Mary J. Prance) suspended from one of the windows of 
the basement, and a peculiar look of being both new and 
faded a kind of modern fatigue like certain articles of 
commerce which are sold at a reduction as shop-worn. 
The hall was very narrow ; a considerable part of it was 
occupied by a large hat-tree, from which several coats and 
shawls already depended ; the rest offered space for certain 
lateral demonstrations on Miss Birdseye's part. She sidled 
about her visitors, and at last went round to open for them 
a door of further admission, which happened to be locked 
inside. She was a little old lady, with an enormous head ; 
that was the first thing Ransom noticed the vast, fair, 
protuberant, candid, ungarnished brow, surmounting a pair 
of weak, kind, tired-looking eyes, and ineffectually balanced 
in the rear by a cap which had the air of falling backward, 
and which Miss Birdseye suddenly felt for while she talked, 
with unsuccessful irrelevant movements. She had a sad, 
soft, pale face, which (and it was the effect of her whole 
head) looked as if it had been soaked, blurred, and made 
vague by exposure to some slow dissolvent. The long 
practice of philanthropy had not given accent to her features ; 
it had rubbed out their transitions, their meanings. The 
waves of sympathy, of enthusiasm, had wrought upon them 



 

in the same way in which the waves of time finally modify 
the surface of old marble busts, gradually washing away 
their sharpness, their details. In her large countenance her 
dim little smile scarcely showed. It was a mere sketch of 
a smile, a kind of instalment, or payment on account ; it 
seemed to say that she would smile more if she had time, 
but that you could see, without this, that she was gentle 
and easy to beguile. 

She always dressed in the same way : she wore a loose 
black jacket, with deep pockets, which were stuffed with 
papers, memoranda of a voluminous correspondence ; and 
from beneath her jacket depended a short stuff dress. The 
brevity of this simple garment was the one device by which 
Miss Birdseye managed to suggest that she was a woman 
of business, that she wished to be free for action. She 
belonged to the Short-Skirts League, as a matter of course; 
for she belonged to any and every league that had been 
founded for almost any purpose whatever. This did not 
prevent her being a confused, entangled, inconsequent, 
discursive old woman, whose charity began at home and 
ended nowhere, whose credulity kept pace with it, and who 
knew less about her fellow-creatures, if possible, after fifty 
years of humanitary zeal, than on the day she had gone 
into the field to testify against the iniquity of most arrange- 
ments. Basil Ransom knew very little about such a life as 
hers, but she seemed to him a revelation of a class, and a 
multitude of socialistic figures, of names and episodes that 
he had heard of, grouped themselves behind her. She 
looked as if she had spent her life on platforms, in audi- 
ences, in conventions, in phalansteries, in seances ; in her 
faded face there was a kind of reflection of ugly lecture- 
lamps ; with its habit of an upward angle, it seemed turned 
toward a public speaker, with an effort of respiration in the 
thick air in which social reforms are usually discussed. She 
talked continually, in a voice of which the spring seemed 
broken, like that of an over-worked bell-wire ; and when 
Miss Chancellor explained that she had brought Mr. Ran- 
som because he was so anxious to meet Mrs. Farrinder, 
she gave the young man a delicate, dirty, democratic little 
hand, looking at him kindly, as she could not help doing, 



 

but without the smallest discrimination as against others 
who might not have the good fortune (which involved, 
possibly, an injustice) to be present on such an interesting 
occasion. She struck him as very poor, but it was only 
afterward that he learned she had never had a penny in her 
life. No one had an idea how she lived; whenever 
money was given her she gave it away to a negro or a 
refugee. No woman could be less invidious, but on the 
whole she preferred these two classes of the human race. 
Since the Civil War much of her occupation was gone ; for 
before that her best hours had been spent in fancying that 
she was helping some Southern slave to escape. It would 
have been a nice question whether, in her heart of hearts, 
for the sake of this excitement, she did not sometimes wish 
the blacks back in bondage. She had suffered in the same 
way by the relaxation of many European despotisms, for in 
former years much of the romance of her life had been in 
smoothing the pillow of exile for banished conspirators. 
Her refugees had been very precious to her ; she was always 
trying to raise money for some cadaverous Pole, to obtain 
lessons for some shirtless Italian. There was a legend that 
an Hungarian had once possessed himself of her affections, 
and had disappeared after robbing her of everything she 
possessed. This, however, was very apocryphal, for she 
had never possessed anything, and it was open to grave 
doubt that she could have entertained a sentiment so 
personal. She was in love, even in those days, only with 
causes, and she languished only for emancipations. But 
they had been the happiest days, for when causes were em- 
bodied in foreigners (what else were the Africans?), they 
were certainly more appealing. 

She had just come down to see Doctor Prance to see 
whether she wouldn't like to come up. But she wasn't in 
her room, and Miss Birdseye guessed she had gone out to 
her supper ; she got her supper at a boarding-table about 
two blocks off. Miss Birdseye expressed the hope that 
Miss Chancellor had had hers ; she would have had plenty 
of time to take it, for no one had come in yet ; she didn't 
know what made them all so late. Ransom perceived that 
the garments suspended to the hat-rack were not a sign 



 

that Miss Birdseye's friends had assembled; if he had gone a 
little further still he would have recognised the house as one 
of those in which mysterious articles of clothing are always 
hooked to something in the hall. Miss Birdseye's visitors, 
those of Doctor Prance, and of other tenants for Number 
756 was the common residence of several persons, among 
whom there prevailed much vagueness of boundary used 
to leave things to be called for ; many of them went about 
with satchels and reticules, for which they were always 
looking for places of deposit. What completed the char- 
acter of this interior was Miss Birdseye's own apartment, 
into which her guests presently made their way, and where 
they were joined by various other members of the good 
lady's circle. Indeed, it completed Miss Birdseye herself, 
if anything could be said to render that office to this essen- 
tially formless old woman, who had no more outline than a 
bundle of hay. But the bareness of her long, loose, empty 
parlour (it was shaped exactly like Miss Chancellor's) told 
that she had never had any needs but moral needs, and that 
all her history had been that of her sympathies. The place 
was lighted by a small hot glare of gas, which made it look 
white and featureless. It struck even Basil Ransom with its 
flatness, and he said to himself that his cousin must have a 
very big bee in her bonnet to make her like such a house. 
He did not know then, and he never knew, that she mortally 
disliked it, and that in a career in which she was constantly 
exposing herself to offence and laceration, her most poignant 
suffering came from the injury of her taste. She had tried 
to kill that nerve, to persuade herself that taste was only 
frivolity in the disguise of knowledge ; but her susceptibility 
was constantly blooming afresh and making her wonder 
whether an absence of nice arrangements were a necessary 
part of the enthusiasm of humanity. Miss Birdseye was 
always trying to obtain employment, lessons in drawing, 
orders for portraits, for poor foreign artists, as to the great- 
ness of whose talent she pledged herself without reserve ; 
but in point of fact she had not the faintest sense of the 
scenic or plastic side of life. 

Toward nine o'clock the light of her hissing burners 
smote the majestic person of Mrs. Farrinder, who might 



 

have contributed to answer that question of Miss Chancellor's 
in the negative. She was a copious, handsome woman, in 
whom angularity had been corrected by the air of success ; 
she had a rustling dress (it was evident what she thought 
about taste), abundant hair of a glossy blackness, a pair of 
folded arms, the expression of which seemed to say that rest, 
in such a career as hers, was as sweet as it was brief, and a 
terrible regularity of feature. I apply that adjective to her 
fine placid mask because she seemed to face you with a 
question of which the answer was preordained, to ask you 
how a countenance could fail to be noble of which the 
measurements were so correct. You could contest neither 
the measurements nor the nobleness, and had to feel that 
Mrs. Farrinder imposed herself. There was a lithographic 
smoothness about her, and a mixture of the American 
matron and the public character. There was something 
public in her eye, which was large, cold, and quiet ; it had 
acquired a sort of exposed reticence from the habit of 
looking down from a lecture-desk, over a sea of heads, while 
its distinguished owner was eulogised by a leading citizen. 
Mrs. Farrinder, at almost any time, had the air of being 
introduced by a few remarks. She talked with great slow- 
ness and distinctness, and evidently a high sense of 
responsibility; she pronounced every syllable of every 
word and insisted on being explicit. If, in conversation 
with her, you attempted to take anything for granted, or to 
jump two or three steps at a time, she paused, looking at 
you with a cold patience, as if she knew that trick, and 
then went on at her own measured pace. She lectured on 
temperance and the rights of women ; the ends she laboured 
for were to give the ballot to every woman in the country 
and to take the flowing bowl from every man. She was 
held to have a very fine manner, and to embody the 
domestic virtues and the graces of the drawing-room ; to 
be a shining proof, in short, that the forum, for ladies, is 
not necessarily hostile to the fireside. She had a husband, 
and his name was Amariah. 

Doctor Prance had come back from supper and made 
her appearance in response to an invitation that Miss Birds- 
eye's relaxed voice had tinkled down to her from the hall 



 

over the banisters, with much repetition, to secure attention. 
She was a plain, spare young woman, with short hair and 
an eye-glass ; she looked about her with a kind of near- 
sighted deprecation, and seemed to hope that she should 
not be expected to generalise in any way, or supposed to 
have come up for any purpose more social than to see what 
Miss Birdseye wanted this time. By nine o'clock twenty 
other persons had arrived, and had placed themselves in 
the chairs that were ranged along the sides of the long, 
bald room, in which they ended by producing the similitude 
of an enormous street-car. The apartment contained little 
else but these chairs, many of which had a borrowed aspect, 
an implication of bare bedrooms in the upper regions ; a 
table or two with a discoloured marble top, a few books, 
and a collection of newspapers piled up in corners. Ransom 
could see for himself that the occasion was not crudely 
festive; there was a want of convivial movement, and, 
among most of the visitors, even of mutual recognition. 
They sat there as if they were waiting for something ; they 
looked obliquely and silently at Mrs. Farrinder, and were 
plainly under the impression that, fortunately, they were not 
there to amuse themselves. The ladies, who were much 
the more numerous, wore their bonnets, like Miss Chan- 
cellor j the men were in the garb of toil, many of them in 
weary-looking overcoats. Two or three had retained their 
overshoes, and as you approached them the odour of the 
india-rubber was perceptible. It was not, however, that 
Miss Birdseye ever noticed anything of that sort; she 
neither knew what she smelled nor tasted what she ate. 
Most of her friends had an anxious, haggard look, though 
there were sundry exceptions half a dozen placid, florid 
faces. Basil Ransom wondered who they all were ; he had 
a general idea they were mediums, communists, vege- 
tarians. It was not, either, that Miss Birdseye failed to 
wander about among them with repetitions of inquiry and 
friendly absences of attention ; she sat down near most of 
them in turn, saying 'Yes, yes,' vaguely and kindly, to 
remarks they made to her, feeling for the papers in the 
pockets of her loosened bodice, recovering her cap and 
sacrificing her spectacles, wondering most of all what had 



 

been her idea in convoking these people. Then she re- 
membered that it had been connected in some way with 
Mrs. Farrinder ; that this eloquent woman had promised to 
favour the company with a few reminiscences of her last 
campaign ; to sketch even, perhaps, the lines on which she 
intended to operate during the coming winter. This was 
what Olive Chancellor had come to hear ; this would be 
the attraction for the dark-eyed young man (he looked like 
a genius) she had brought with her. Miss Birdseye made 
her way back to the great lecturess, who was bending an 
indulgent attention on Miss Chancellor; the latter com- 
pressed into a small space, to be near her, and sitting with 
clasped hands and a concentration of inquiry which by 
contrast made Mrs. Farrinder's manner seem large and free. 
In her transit, however, the hostess was checked by the 
arrival of fresh pilgrims ; she had no idea she had mentioned 
the occasion to so many people she only remembered, as 
it were, those she had forgotten and it was certainly a 
proof of the interest felt in Mrs. Farrinder's work. The 
people who had just come in were Doctor and Mrs. Tarrant 
and their daughter Verena ; he was a mesmeric healer and 
she was of old Abolitionist stock. Miss Birdseye rested her 
dim, dry smile upon the daughter, who was new to her, 
and it floated before her that she would probably be remark- 
able as a genius ; her parentage was an implication of that. 
There was a genius for Miss Birdseye in every bush. 
Selah Tarrant had effected wonderful cures ; she knew so 
many people if they would only try him. His wife was a 
