
"Speak," said Gregorios,--"confess your sin, and you shall have rest."

"What am I to confess?" asked the old woman, hungrily watching the tiny
instrument in his fingers.

"This," answered Balsamides, lowering his voice. "You must tell me what
became of a Russian Effendi, whose name was Alexander, whom you caused
to be seized one night in the last week of"----

Again Laleli cried out, and rocked her body, apparently suffering more
than ever.

"The medicine!" she whispered almost inaudibly.--"Quick--I cannot
speak---- am dying of the pain." The perspiration streamed down her
yellow wrinkled face, and Balsamides feared the end was come.

"You must tell me first, or it will be of no use," he said. But he
quickly filled the syringe, and prepared to repeat the former operation.

"I cannot," groaned Laleli. "I die!--quick! Then I will tell."

A physician might have known whether the woman were really dying or not,
but Balsamides' science did not go so far as that. Without further
hesitation he pricked the skin of her hand and injected a small
quantity, a very little more than the first time. The effect was not
quite so sudden as before, but it followed after a few seconds. The
signs of extreme suffering disappeared from the Khanum's face, and she
once more looked up.

"Your medicine is good, Giaour," she said, with the ghost of a
disdainful laugh. But her voice was still very weak and hoarse.

"It will not save you unless you confess what became of the Frank," said
Gregorios, again putting his instrument into the case, and the case into
his pocket.

"It is very easy for me to have you kept here, and to force you to cure
me," she answered with a wicked smile. "Do you think you can leave my
house without my permission?"

"Easily," returned Balsamides, coolly. "I have not come here
unprotected. His Majesty's adjutant is outside. You will not find it
easy to take him prisoner."

"Who knows?" exclaimed Laleli. "The only thing which prevents me from
keeping you is, that I see you have very little of your medicine. It is
a good medicine. But I do not believe your story about repentance. It
may serve for Franks; it is not enough for a daughter of the true
Prophet."

"You shall see. If you wish to avoid further suffering, I advise you to
tell me what became of Alexander Patoff, and to tell me quickly. I was
wrong to give you the medicine until you had confessed, but if you
refuse I have another medicine ready which may persuade you."

"What do I know of your unbelieving dogs of Russians?" retorted the old
woman, fiercely.

"You know the answer to my question well enough. If you do not tell me
within five minutes what I want to know, I will tell you what the other
medicine is."

Laleli relapsed into a scornful silence. She was better of her pain, but
she was angry at the physician's manner. Balsamides took out his watch,
and began to count the minutes. There was a dead silence in the spacious
hall, where the lights burned as brightly as ever, while the heavy
clouds of tobacco smoke slowly wreathed themselves around the
chandeliers and mirrors. The two sat watching each other. It seemed an
eternity to the old woman, but the dose had been stronger this time, and
she was free from pain. At last Balsamides shut his watch and returned
it to his pocket.

"Will you, or will you not, tell me what became of Alexander Patoff,
whom you caused to be seized in or near Agia Sophia, one night in the
last week of the month of Ramazán before the last?"

Laleli's beady eyes were fixed on his as he spoke, with an air of
surprise, not unmingled with curiosity, and strongly tinged with
contempt.

"I know nothing about him," she answered steadily. "I never caused him
to be seized. I never heard of him."

"Then here is my medicine," said Gregorios, coldly. "It is a terrible
medicine. Listen to the pleasure of his Majesty the Hunkyar." He rose,
and pressed the document to his lips and forehead.

"What!" cried Laleli, in sudden terror, her voice gathering strength
from her fright.

"It is an order, dated to-day, to arrest Laleli Khanum Effendi, and to
convey her to a place of safety, where she shall await the further
commands of his Majesty."

"It is false," murmured the Khanum. But her white fingers twisted each
other nervously. "It is a forgery."

"So false," replied Balsamides, with cold contempt, "that the adjutant
is waiting outside, and a troop of horse is stationed within call to
conduct you to the place of safety aforesaid. I can force you to lay his
Majesty's signature on your forehead and to follow me to my carriage, if
I please."

"Allah alone is great!" groaned the Khanum, her head sinking on her
breast in despair. "Kadèr,--it is my fate."

"But if you will deliver me this man alive, I will save you out of the
hands even of the Hunkyar. I will say that you are too ill to be removed
from your house,--unless I give you my medicine," he added, flattering
her hopes to the last.

"Give me time. I know nothing--what shall I say?" muttered Laleli
incoherently, her thin fingers twitching at the stuff of her
snuff-colored gown, while as she bent her head her short, coarse, black
hair fell over her yellow cheeks, and concealed her expression from
Gregorios.

"You have not much time," he answered. "The pain will soon seize you
more sharply than before. If I arrest you, your sentence will be
banishment to Arabia,--not for this crime, but for that other which you
thought was pardoned. If I leave you here without help, my sentence upon
you is pain, pain and agony until you die. It is already returning; I
can see it in your face."

"I must have time to consider," said Laleli, her old firmness returning,
as it generally did in moments of great difficulty. She looked up,
tossing back her hair. "How long will you give me?"

"Till the morning light is first gray in the sky above Beikos," replied
Gregorios, without hesitation. "But for your own sake you had better
decide sooner."

Laleli was silent. She must have had the strongest reasons for refusing
to tell the secret of Alexander's fate, for the penalty of silence was a
fearful one. She felt herself to be dying, but the morphine had revived
in her the hope of life, and she loved life yet. But to live and suffer,
to go through the horrors of an exile to Arabia, to drag her gnawing
pain through the sands of the desert, was a prospect too awful to be
contemplated. As the effects of the last dose administered began to
disappear, and her sufferings recommenced, she realized her situation
with frightful vividness. Still she strove to be calm and to baffle her
tormentor to the very end. If she had not felt the unspeakable relief
she had gained from his medicine, she would have wished to die, but she
had tasted of life again. The problem was how to preserve this new life
while refusing to answer the question Gregorios had asked of her. She
was so clever, so thoroughly able to deal with difficulties, that if she
could but have relief from her sufferings, so that her mind might be
free to work undisturbed, she still hoped to find the solution. But the
pain was already returning. In a few minutes she would be writhing in
agony again.

"I will wait until morning,--it is not many hours now," said Balsamides,
after a pause. "But I strongly advise you to decide at once. You are
beginning to suffer, and I warn you that unless you confess you shall
not have the medicine."

"I lived without it until you came," answered Laleli. "I can live
without it now, if it is my fate." Her voice trembled convulsively, but
she finished her sentence by a great effort.

"It is not your fate," returned Gregorios. "You can not live without
it."

"Then at least I shall die and escape you," she groaned; but even in her
groan there was a sort of scorn. On the last occasion she had indeed
exaggerated her sufferings, pretending that she was at the point of
death in order to get relief without telling her secret. She had always
believed that at the last minute Balsamides would relent, out of fear
lest she should die, and that she could thus obtain a series of
intervals of rest, during which she might think what was to be done. She
did not know the relentless character of the man with whom she had to
deal.

"You cannot escape me," said Balsamides, sternly. "But you can save me
trouble by deciding quickly."

"I have decided to die!" she cried at last, with a great effort. She
groaned again, and began to rock herself in her seat upon the divan.

"You will not die yet," observed Gregorios, contemptuously. He had
understood that he had been deceived the previous time, and had
determined to let her suffer.

Indeed, she was suffering, and very terribly. Her groans had a different
character now, and it was evident that she was not playing a comedy. A
livid hue overspread her face, and she gasped for breath.

"If you are really in pain," said Balsamides, "confess, and I will give
you relief."

But Laleli shook her head, and did not look up. He attributed her
constancy to an intention to impose upon him a second time by appearing
to suffer in silence rather than to sell her secret for the medicine. He
looked on, quite unmoved, for some minutes. At last she raised her head
and showed the deathly color of her face.

"Medicine!" she gasped.

"Not this time, unless you make a full confession," said Balsamides
calmly. "I will not be deceived again."

The wretched woman cast an imploring glance at him, and seemed trying to
speak. But he thought she was acting again, and did not move from his
seat.

"You understand the price," he said, slowly taking the case from his
pocket. "Tell what you know, and you shall have it all, if you like."

The old Khanum's eyes glittered as she saw the receptacle of the coveted
medicine. Her lips moved, producing only inarticulate sounds. Then, with
a convulsive movement, she suddenly began to try and drag herself along
the divan to the place where Gregorios sat. He gazed at her scornfully.
She was very weak, and painfully moved on her hands and knees, the
straight hair falling about her face, while her eyes gleamed and her
lips moved. Occasionally she paused as though exhausted, and groaned
heavily in her agony. But Balsamides believed it to be but a comedy to
frighten him into administering the dose, and he sat still in his place,
holding the case in his hand and keeping his eyes upon her.

"You cannot deceive me," he said coldly. "All these contortions will not
prevail upon me. You must tell your secret, or you will get nothing."

Still Laleli dragged herself along, apparently trying to speak, but
uttering only inarticulate sounds. As she got nearer to him, still on
her hands and knees, Gregorios thought he had never seen so awful a
sight. The straight black hair was matted in the moisture upon her
clammy face; a deathly, greenish livid hue had overspread her features;
her chin was extended forward hungrily and her eyes shone dangerously,
while her lips chattered perpetually. She was very near to Balsamides.
Had she had the strength to stretch out her hand she could almost have
touched the small black case he held. He thought she was too near, at
last, and his grip tightened on the little box.

"Confess," he said once more, "and you shall have it."

For one moment more she tried to struggle on, still not speaking.
Balsamides rose and quietly put the case into his pocket, anticipating a
struggle. He little knew what the result would be. The miserable
creature uttered a short cry, and a wild look of despair was in her
eyes. Suddenly, as she crawled upon the divan, she reared herself up on
her knees, stretching out her wasted hands towards him.

"Give--give"--she cried. "I will tell you all--he is alive--he is--a
wan--"

Her staring black eyes abruptly seemed to turn white, and instantly her
face became ashy pale. One last convulsive effort,--the jaw dropped, the
features relaxed, the limbs were unstrung, and Laleli Khanum fell
forward to her full length upon her face on the peach-colored satin of
the divan.

She was dead, and Gregorios Balsamides knew it, as he turned her limp
body so that she lay upon her back. She was quite dead, but he was
neither startled nor horrified; he was bitterly disappointed, and again
and again he ground his heel into the thick Siné carpet under his feet.
What was it to him whether this hideous old hag were dead in one way or
another? She had died with her secret. There she lay in her shapeless
bag-like gown of snuff-colored stuff, under the brilliant lights and the
gorgeous mirrors, upon the delicate satin cushions, her white eyes
staring wide, her hands clenched still in the death agony, the coarse
hair clinging to her wet temples.

Presently the body moved, and appeared to draw one--two--three
convulsive breaths. Gregorios was startled, and bent down. But it was
only the very end.

"Bah!" he exclaimed, half aloud, "they often do that." Indeed, he had
many times in his life seen men die, on the battlefield, on the hospital
pallet, in their beds at home. But he had never seen such a death as
this, and for a moment longer he gazed at the dead woman's face. Then
the whole sense of disappointment rushed back upon him, and he hastily
strode down the long hall, under the lamps, between the mirrors, without
once looking behind him.




XVIII.


Balsamides found Selim outside the door at the other end of the passage,
sitting disconsolately upon the divan. The Lala turned up his ugly face
as Gregorios entered, and then rose from his seat, reluctantly, as
though much exhausted. Balsamides laid his hand upon the fellow's arm
and looked into his small red eyes.

"The Khanum is dead," said the pretended physician.

The negro trembled violently, and throwing up his arms would have
clapped his hands together. But Balsamides stopped him.

"No noise," he said sternly. "Come with me. All may yet be well with
you; but you must be quiet, or it will be the worse for you." He held
the Lala's arm and led him without resistance to the outer hall.

"Mehemet Bey! Mehemet Bey!" I heard him call, and I hastened from the
room where I had waited to join him in the vestibule. He was very pale
and grave. On hearing him enter, the porter appeared, and silently
opened the outer door. Balsamides addressed him as we prepared to leave
