manuscript, but, with the wilful and pleasing procras- 
tination of one who knows that satisfaction is 
within his grasp, he put the temptation aside for 
the present, and spent the day riding over his 
estates with his steward. He also gave his 
business affairs a minute attention which delighted 
his servant. After dinner he smoked a cigar, 
then went into his study and locked the door. 
He sat down before the desk, and for a moment 
experienced a feeling of dread. He wanted no 
more visions: would contact with those papers 
induce another ? He would like to read that 
poem with the calm criticism of a trained 
and cultivated mind; he had no desire to be 
whirled back into his study at Constantinople, 
his brain throbbing and bursting with what was 
coming next. He shrugged his shoulders. It 
was a humiliating confession, but there were 
forces over which he had no control; there was 
nothing to do but resign himself to the in- 
evitable. 

He opened the drawer and took out the 
manuscript. To his unspeakable satisfaction he re- 
mained calm and unperturbed. He felt merely 
a cold-blooded content that he had balked his 
enemiesand that his ambition was to be gratified. 
Once, before he opened the paper, he smiled at 
his readiness to accept the theory of 
reincarnation. It had taken complete possession of him, 
and he felt not the slightest desire to combat it. 
Did a doubt cross his mind, he had but to recall 
the park seen by his spiritual eyes, as he 
descended upon it to be born again. It was the 
park in which he, Harold Dartmouth, had played 
as a child during his annual visits to his parents; 
the park surrounding the castle in which he had 
been born, and which had belonged to his father's 
line for centuries. For the first time in his life 
he did not reason. It seemed to him that there 
was no corner or loophole for argument, nothing 
but a cold array of facts which must be 
unconditionally accepted or rejected. 

He spread out the poem. It was in blank 
verse, and very long. He was struck at once 
with its beauty and power. Although his soul 
responded to the words as to the tone of a dear 
but long unheard voice, still he was spared the 
mental exaltation which would have clouded his 
judgment and destroyed his pleasure. He leaned 
his elbows on the desk, and, taking his head be- 
tween his hands, read on and on, scarcely draw- 
ing breath. Poets past and present had been 



 

his familiar friends, but in them he had found no 
such beauty as this. The grand sweep of the 
poem, the depth of its philosophy, the sublimity 
of its thought, the melody of its verse, the color, 
the radiant richness of its imagery, the sonorous 
swell of its lines, the classic purity of its style — 
Dartmouth felt as if an organ were pealing with- 
in his soul, lifting the song on its notes to the 
celestial choir which had sent it forth. Heav- 
enly fingers were sweeping the keys, heavenly 
voices were quiring the melody they had with 
wanton hand flung into a mortal's brain. As 
Harold read on he felt that his spirit had 
dissolved and was flowing through the poem, 
to be blended, unified with it forever. He 
seemed to lose all physical sensation, not from 
the causes of the previous night, but from the 
spiritual exaltation and absorption induced by 
the beauty and grandeur of the theme. When he 
had finished, he flung out his arms upon the desk, 
buried his head in them, and burst into tears. 
The tears were the result, not so much of 
extreme nervous tension, as of the wonder and awe 
and ecstacy with which his own genius had filled 
him. In a few moments his emotion had 
subsided and was succeeded by a state less purely 
spiritual. He stood up, and leaning one hand 
on the desk, looked down at the poem, his soul 
filled with an exultant sense of power. Power 
was what he had gloried in all his life. His birth 
 

had given it to him socially, his money had lent 
its aid, and his personal fascination had com- 
pleted the chapter. But he had wanted some- 
thing more than the commonplace power which 
fate or fortune grants to many. He had wanted 
that power which lifts a man high above his 
fellow-men, condemning him to solitude, 
perhaps, but, in that fiercely beating light, revealing 
him to all men's gaze. If life had drifted by 
him, it had been because he was too much of a 
philosopher to attempt the impossible, too clever 
to publish his incompetence to the world. 

His inactivity had not been the result of lack 
of ambition, and yet, as he stood there gazing 
down upon his work, it seemed to him that he 
had never felt the stirrings of that passion 
before. With the power to gratify his ambition, 
ambition sprang from glowing coals into a 
mighty flame which roared and swept about him, 
darted into every corner and crevice of his 
being, pulsated through his mind and spirit, and 
temporarily drove out every other instinct and 
desire. He threw back his head, his eyes flash- 
ing and his lips quivering. For the moment he 
looked inspired, as he registered a vow to have 
his name known in every corner of the civilized 
world. That he had so far been unable to 
accomcomplish anything in his present 
embodiment gave him no uneasiness at the 
moment. Sooner or later the imprisoned song 


would force its way through the solid masonry 
in which it was walled up — He gave a short laugh 
and came down to earth; his fancy was running 
away with him. 

He folded the poem compactly and put it in his 
breast pocket, determined that it should never 
leave him again until a copy was in the hands of the 
printer. It should be sent forth from Constan- 
tinople. The poem must be the apparent off- 
spring of his present incarnation; and as he had 
never been in Constantinople he must go there 
and remain for several months before publica- 
tion. 

He went into the library and sat down before 
the fire. He closed his eyes and let his head fall 
back on the soft cushion, a pleasant languor and 
warmth stealing through his frame. What a 
future ! Power, honor, adoration — the proudest 
pedestal a man can stand upon. And, as if this 
were not enough, an unquestioned happiness with 
the woman he loved with his whole heart. To 
her advent into his life he owed his complete and 
final severance from the petty but infinite distrac- 
tions and temptations of the world. His present 
without flaw, and his future assured, what was to 
prevent his gifts from flowering thickly and un- 
ceasingly in their peaceful soil and atmosphere 
of calm ? He remembered that his first 
irresistible impulse to write had come on the night he 
had met her. Would he owe to her his final 



 

power to speak, as he had owed to that other — 
He sat suddenly erect, then leaned forward, 
gazing at the fire with eyes from which all
languor had vanished. He felt as if a flash of 
lightning had been projected into his brain. That 
other? Who was that other ? — why was she so 
marvellously like Weir ? Her grandmother ? 
Yes, but why had he felt for Weir that sense of 
recognition and spiritual kinship the moment he 
had seen her ? 

He sprang to his feet and strode to the middle 
of the room. Great God ! Was Weir reem- 
bodied as well as himself ? Lady Sioned Pen- 
rhyn was indisputably the woman he had loved 
in his former existence — that was proved once 
for all by the scene in the gallery at Rhyd- Alwyn 
and by the letters he had found addressed to 
her. He recalled Weir's childhood experience. 
Had she really died, and the desperate, 
determined spirit of Sioned Penrhyn taken possession 
of her body ? Otherwise, why that sense of 
affinity, and her strange empire over him the 
night of their mutual vision ? There was 
something more than racial resemblance in form and 
feature between Sioned and Weir Penrhyn; there 
was absolute identity of soul and mind. 

He strode rapidly from one end of the room 
to the other. Every nerve in his body seemed 
vibrating, but his mind acted rapidly and
sequentially. He put the links together one by 
 

one, until, from the moment of his last 
meeting with Sioned Penrhyn at Constantinople to 
the climax of his vision in his study, the chain 
was complete. Love, then, as well as genius, 
had triumphed over the vengeance of Dafyd 
Penrhyn and Catherine Dartmouth. In that 
moment he felt no affection for his grandmother. 
She had worshipped and spoilt him, and had 
shown him only her better side; but the weakness 
and evil of her nature had done him incalculable 
injury, and he was not prepared to forgive her at 
once. 

He returned to his seat. Truly they all were 
the victims of inexorable law, but the law was 
just, and if it took to-day it gave to-morrow. If 
he and Sioned Penhryn had been destined to 
short-lived happmess and tragic death in that 
other existence, there was not an obstacle or 
barrier between them in the present. And if — He 
pushed his chair suddenly back and brought his 
brows together. A thought had struck him 
which he did not like. He got up and put 
another log on the fire. . Then he went over to 
the table and took up a book — a volume of Fig- 
uier. He sat down and read a few pages, then 
threw down the book, and drawing writing 
materials toward him, wrote a half-dozen business 
letters When they were finished, together with 
a few lines to Weir, and no other correspondence 
suggested itself, he got up and walked the 

length of the room several times. Suddenly he 
brought his fist violently down on the table. 

" I am a fool," he exclaimed. " The idea of a 
man with my experience with women — " And 
then his voice died away and his hand relaxed, 
an expression of disgust crossing his face. He 
sank into a chair by the table and leaned his 
head on his hand. It was true that he was a 
man of the world, and that for conventional 
morality he had felt the contempt it deserved. 
Nevertheless, in loving this girl the finest and 
highest instincts of his nature had been aroused. 
He had felt for her even more of sentiment than 
of passion. When a man loves a girl whose 
mental purity is as absolute as her physical, there 
is, intermingled with his love, a leavening quality 
of reverence, and the result is a certain purification 
of his own nature. That Dartmouth had 
found himself capable of such a love had been a 
source of keenest gratification to him. He had 
been lifted to a spiritual level which he had never 
touched before, and there he had determined to 
remain. 

And to have this pure and exquisite love 
smirched with the memory of sin and vulgar 
crime! To take, into his arms as his wife the 
woman on whose soul was written the record of 
temptation and of sin! It was like marrying 
one's mistress: as a matter of fact, what else was 
it? But "Weir Penrhyn! To connect sin with 


her was monstrous. And yet, the vital spark 
called life — or soul, or intelligence, or personal 
force; whatever name science or ignorance might 
give it — was unchanged in its elements, as his 
own chapter of memories had taught him. Every 
instinct in Sioned's nature was unaltered. If 
these instincts were undeveloped in her present 
existence, it was because of Weir's sheltered 
life, and because she had met him this time 
before it was too late. 

He sprang to his feet, almost overturning the 
chair. " I can think no more to-night," he 
exclaimed. " My head feels as if it would burst." 

He went into his bedroom and poured out a 
dose of laudanum. When he was in bed he 
drank it, and he did not awake until late the next 
day. 

XL 

In the life of every man there comes a time 
when he is brought face to face with the great 
problem of morality. The murderer undoubtedly
comprehends the problem in all its 
significance when he is about to mount the scaffold , 
the faithless wife when she is dragged through 
the divorce court, and her family and friends are 
humbled to the dust. 

Dartmouth worked it out the next night as he 
sat by his library fire. He had given the 
afternoon to his business affairs, but when night 



 

