" Well, you introduced us to Mr. Waterlow and 
he introduced us to to his friends," Francie 
explained, blushing, as if it were a fault, for the 







inexactness engendered by her magnanimity. 
" That s why I thought I ought to tell you what 
you'd like." 

" Why, do you suppose if I'd known where that 
first visit of ours to Waterlow was going to bring 

you out I'd have taken you within fifty miles " 

He stopped suddenly; then in another tone, 
" Lord, there s no one like you ! And you told 
them it was all you?" 

" Never mind what I told them." 

" Miss Francie," said George Flack, " if you 'll 
marry me I 'll never ask a question again. I 'll go 
into some other business." 

" Then you didn 't do it on purpose ? " Francie 
asked. 

" On purpose ? " 

" To get me into a quarrel with them so that 
I might be free again 

"Well, of all the ideas !" the young man 

exclaimed, staring. " Your mind never produced 
that it was your sister s." 

" Wasn 't it natural it should occur to me, since 
if, as you say, you would never consciously have 
been the means " 

" Ah, but I was the means ! " Mr. Flack 
interrupted. "We must go, after all, by what 
did happen." 

" Well, I thanked you when I drove with you 
and let you draw me out. So we're square, aren 't 
we ? " The term Francie used was a colloquialism 







generally associated with levity, but her face, as 
she spoke, was none the less deeply serious 
serious even to pain. 

" We're square ? " Mr. Flack repeated. 

" I don 't think you ought to ask for anything 
more. Good-bye." 

" Good-bye ? Never ! " cried the young man. 

He had an air of flushing with disappointment 
which really showed that he had come with a 
certain confidence of success. 

Something in the way Francie repeated her 
" Good-bye ! " indicated that she perceived this 
and that in the vision of such a confidence 
there was little to please her. " Do go away ! " 
she broke out. 

" Well, I 'll come back very soon," said Mr. 
Flack, taking his hat. 

" Please don 't I don 't like it." She had now 
contrived to pat a wide space between them. 

" Oh, you tormentress ! " he groaned. He went 
toward the door, but before he reached it he 
turned round. " Will you tell me this, anyway ? 
Are you going to marry Mr. Probert after 
this ? " 

" Do you want to put that in the paper ? " 

" Of course I do and say you said it !" Mr. 
Flack held up his head. 

They stood looking at each other across the 
large room. " Well then I ain t. There ! " 

" That s all right," said Mr. Flack, going out. 



XIV. 

WHEN Gaston Probert came in that evening he 
was received by Mr. Dosson and Delia, and when 
he asked where Franoie was he was told by Delia 
that she would show herself half an hour later. 
Francie had instructed her sister that as Gaston 
would have, first of all, information to give their 
father about the business he had transacted in 
America he wouldn 't care for a lot of women in 
the room. When Delia made this speech before 
Mr. Dosson the old man protested that he was not 
in any hurry for the business ; what he wanted to 
find out most was whether he had a good time 
whether he liked it over there. Gaston might 
have liked it, but he did not look as if he had had 
a very good time. His face told of reverses, of 
suffering ; and Delia declared to him that if she 
had not received his assurance to the contrary she 
would have believed he was right down sick. He 
confessed that he had been very sick at sea and 
was still feeling the effect of it, but insisted that 



there was nothing the matter with him now. He 
sat for some time with Mr. Dosson and Delia, and 
never once alluded to the cloud that hung over 
their relations. The girl had schooled her father 
to reticence on this point, and the manner in 
which she had descended upon him in the morning, 
after Mr, Flack had come up stairs, was a lesson 
he was not likely soon to forget. It had been 
impressed upon him that she was indeed wiser 
than he could pretend to be, and he was now 
mindful that he must not speak of the "piece in 
the paper " unless young Probert should speak of 
it first. When Delia rushed down to him in the 
court she began by asking him categorically whom 
he had wished to do good to by sending Mr. Flack 
up to their parlour. To Francie or to her ? Why } 
the way they felt then, they detested his very 
name. To Mr. Flack himself? Why, he had 
simply exposed him to the biggest snub he had 
ever got in his life. 

" Well, hanged if I understand ! " poor Mr. 
Dosson had said. " I thought you liked the piece 
you think it s so queer they don 't like it." 
" They," in the parlance of the Dossons, now never 
meant anything but the Proberts in congress 
assembled. 

" I don 't think anything is queer but you ! " 
Delia had retorted ; and she had let her father 
know that she had left Francie in the very act of 
"handling "Mr. Flack. 







"Is that so?" the old gentleman had asked, 
helplessly. 

Francie s visitor came down a few minutes later 
and passed through the court and out of the hotel 
without looking at them. Mr. Dosson had been 
going to call after him, but Delia checked him 
with a violent pinch. The unsociable manner of 
the young journalist s departure added to Mr. 
Dosson s sense of the mystery of things. I think 
this may be said to have been the only incident in 
the whole business that gave him a personal pang. 
He remembered how many of his cigars he had 
smoked with Mr. Flack and how universal a parti 
cipant he had made him. This struck him as the 
failure of friendship, and not the publication of 
details about the Proberts. Deep in Mr. Dosson s 
spirit was a sense that if these people had done 
bad things they ought to be ashamed of themselves 
and he couldn 't pity them, and if they hadn 't 
done them there was no need of making such a 
rumpus about other people knowing. It was there 
fore, in spite of the young man s rough exit, still 
in the tone of American condonation that he had 
observed to Delia : " He says that s what they like 
over there and that it stands to reason that if you 
start a paper you've  got to give them what they 
like. If you want the people with you, you've  
got to be with the people." 

"Well, there are a good many people in the 
world. I don 't think the Proberts are with us much." 



" Oh, he doesn 't mean them," said Mr. Dosson. 

"Well, I do!" cried Delia. 

At one of the ormolu tables, near a lamp with a 
pink shade, Gaston insisted on making at least 
a partial statement. He did not say that he might 
never have another chance, but Delia felt with 
despair that this idea was in his mind. He was 
very gentle, very polite, but distinctly cold, she 
thought ; he was intensely depressed and for half 
an hour uttered not the least little pleasantry. 
There was no particular occasion for that when he 
talked about " preferred bonds " with her father. 
This was a language Delia could not translate, 
though she had heard it from childhood. He had 
a great many papers to show Mr. Dosson, records 
of the mission of which he had acquitted himself, 
but Mr. Dosson pushed them into the drawer of 
the ormolu table with the remark that he guessed 
they were all right. Now, after the fact, he ap 
peared to attach but little importance to Gaston s 
achievements an attitude which Delia perceived 
to be slightly disconcerting to the young man. 
Delia understood it : she had an instinctive sense 
that her father knew a great deal more than Gaston 
could tell him even about the work he had com 
mitted to him, and also that there was in such 
punctual settlements an eagerness, a literalism 
totally foreign to Mr. Dosson s domestic habits. 
If Gaston had cooled off he wanted at least to be 
able to say that he had rendered them services in 





America ; but now her father, for the moment at 
least, scarcely appeared to think his services worth 
speaking of: a circumstance that left him with 
more of the responsibility for his cooling. What 
Mr. Dosson wanted to know was how everything 
had struck him over there, especially the Pickett 
Building and the parlour-cars and Niagara and 
the hotels he had instructed him to go to, giving 
him an introduction in two or three cases to the 
gentleman in charge of the office. It was in relation 
to these themes that Gaston was guilty of a want of 
spring, as the girl phrased it to herself; that he 
evinced no superficial joy. He declared however, 
repeatedly, that it was a most extraordinary country 
most extraordinary and far beyond anything he 
had had any conception of. " Of course I didn 't 
like everything" he said, u any more than I like 
everything anywhere." 

"Well, what didn 't you like?" Mr. Dosson 
genially inquired. 

Gaston Probert hesitated. "Well, the light 
for instance." 

"The light the electric?" 

" No, the solar ! I thought it rather hard, 
too much like the scratching of a slate-pencil." 
As Mr. Dosson looked vague at this, as if the 
reference were to some enterprise (a great lamp- 
company) of which he had not heard conveying 
a suggestion that he was perhaps staying away 
too long, Gaston immediately added : " I really 





think Francie might come in. I wrote to her 
that I wanted particularly to see her." 

"I will go and call her I 'll make her come," 
said Delia, going out. She left her companions 
together and Gaston returned to the subject of Mr. 
Munster, Mr. Dosson s former partner, to whom he 
had taken a letter and who had shown him every 
sort of civility. Mr. Dosson was pleased at this ; 
nevertheless he broke out, suddenly 

" Look here, you know ; if you've  got anything 
to say that you don 't think very acceptable you 
had better say it to me" Gaston coloured, but 
his reply was checked by Delia s quick return. 
She announced that her sister would be obliged 
if he would go into the little dining-room he 
would find her there. She had something to 
communicate to him that she could mention 
only in private. It was very comfortable ; there 
