soldiers, and the noble hearted, heroic Stewart, whose soul was full
of blissful feelings at the thought that by his courage, obtained
through confidence in God, he had saved the lives of three hundred
men.




Voyage to the East Indies.


Soon after embarking, and wearied by the exertions I had been obliged
to make for the last few days, I betook myself to my cabin and to
rest. When I again ascended to the deck, I looked towards the shore we
had left, but nothing was to be seen, but a long gray stripe that lay
like a dim cloud along the distant horizon. It was the last sight of
my native land, and gradually its faint purple outline faded until it
was lost in the foam-crested waves. On all sides of me was the wild
waste of waters; as far as the eye could reach, it rested upon moving
masses like fields of sea-green. Above us was the blue and vaulted
heavens that were now illumined with the burnished rays of an August
sun, that was even now dipping his broad disk into the waves that
formed the distant horizon.

All around was life and motion; ours had not been the only ship that
had taken advantage of a favorable wind to put out from Cuxhaven to
the open sea. Four or five other ships were sailing along side, and as
they spread their snowy sails, on which the bright rays of the summer
sun was playing, they skimmed like white-winged sea-mews over the dark
green waters.

And now one of the pilot boats that lie here at anchor, yet tossed
year in and year out by the restless waves, sending on board both, to
the homeward and outward bound a skilful guide, to steer the ship
through the perilous shoals and sand banks that lie on this coast,
approached, to take up the pilot that had steered us safely into the
open sea. He took charge of all our letters--from those written to
parent, friend, or lady love left behind, to the tender lines penned
by the least shipboy, taking a long farewell of the mother who
standing on the pier, waved her hand to her child whose home was
henceforward to be on the deep, until long after we sailed. The pilot
thrust them all into his great leathern bag, held out his sea-hardened
hand to bid each one farewell and gave us his sailor-like greeting:
"Farewell, and a lucky voyage to you." He jumped into the boat, four
lusty rowers sat on the benches, and it flew over the glancing waters
with the speed of a bird until it reached the one-sailed craft he
called his pilot ship. This was our final adieu to the homes we had
left, for with the departure of the pilot from on board, the last link
that unites the sailor to his native land is broken, and it is then
the traveller feels how really every rolling wave increases the
distance between him and the fireside joys he has left behind.

Light winds soon drove us into the English channel, where we saw the
chalk cliffs of Dover shimmering in the bright sunshine on one
side--the coast of France like a soft blue cloud dipping into the sea
on the other. We approached so near to the British shore, that we
could distinguish the buildings and light-houses plainly. Near to
Dover, and on a rocky precipice, stands an old fortress of the middle
ages, looking out threateningly with bristling canon on the town and
over the sea that breaks and murmurs at its rocky base.

As it became dark, numerous beacon lights blazed from the watch-towers,
some speedily vanishing, others twinkling and glancing like meteors that
beguile the wanderer from his way, but many with clear and steady
ray, shone brightly over the face of the deep and guided the sailor
on his adventurous course. The first were the so-called fire drakes,
covered partly by metallic plates which turn, and thus is caused the
appearing and vanishing of the light so speedily, the latter is the
steady beacon of the light-house, which distinguishable from all
others by its brilliancy and the color of its flame, enables the
seaman to direct his craft safely through the channel. Hundreds of
other lights were glancing everywhere, like the fire flies of the
tropics upon the face of night, those were the burning lanterns
carried at the prow of the steamboats, warning each other of
approaching too near, and giving the same intelligence to ships.

On the following morning we found ourselves in the neighbourhood of
the Isle of Wight, and vainly looked out for some compassionate fisher
boat, that for a flask of brandy or some salted fish, would carry our
last letters to some port, from whence they might be forwarded to our
homes. A few days later, and we lost sight of the English coast; and
with it the last land in Europe faded from our eyes. We found
ourselves on the open sea, and with lightly swelling sails, steering
for the Cape de Verd Islands. Of the many vessels which we hailed or
passed in the British channel, not one was to be seen; here every ship
held silently on her own monotonous way, without troubling herself
about the fate of another; and here instead of the life and bustle to
be met with on a coasting voyage, nothing was to be seen, but the dark
blue waves of the broad Atlantic and the bright resplendent sky.

To enjoy a sea-voyage one must have entirely overcome the severe
ordeal of sea-sickness, and then with the high health that generally
follows the departure of this disagreeable visitant, life on the ocean
is not without a beauty and variety of its own. In a fortnight one
becomes sufficiently versed in the laws of equilibrium to maintain his
place in his hammock from a sudden lurching of the ship in a squall or
night of tempest, or so skilfully to balance himself and his plate at
table, that neither shall be thrown to the right or left. By degrees,
too, one becomes accustomed to the slovenliness of the cabin servants,
and the dusky appearance of stained and soiled table cloths, and at
last even ceases to miss the newspapers and the absence of cream in
his coffee.

During the first part of our voyage we had most beautiful weather; the
deep blue sea upon which the foam-crested waves chased each other as
if at play, and the bright heavens where thin and transparent clouds
were floating like veils of gossamer, filled the heart with gladness
and disposed it to profitable musings. Light winds filled the sails
that swelled beautifully on their masts and drove the ship, that under
a cloud of white canvass looked like a stately queen, onward.
Sometimes she would lie motionless on the waves for a time, then urged
by the breeze she would glide forth like a capricious beauty, cutting
the water at the rate of more than four miles an hour. So gentle was
the motion, that in the cabin one could scarce hear the murmur of the
waves as the ship kissed them with her bowsprit, or raised a track of
foam as she divided them with her sharp keel or directing rudder.

It may seem strange, but it is nevertheless true, that on the land,
the Sabbath never speaks to man with such solemn voice as it does in
beautiful weather on the deep blue sea. Then it seems as if wind and
wave and sun and sky were all holding sacred festival, and Nature,
such as she appears on that wide and wonderful expanse, invited man,
the favored creature, to worship with her in her grand and sacred
temple. On week days, with the perpetual industry usual on board a
ship, the bustling of the sailors as they pursue their several
avocations, the call of the boatswain, the noise of the carpenters'
hammer that cannot be excluded from the cabin, contrasts vividly with
the calm brought by the solemn stillness of the Sabbath,--its
influence is visible on all. No tar-bucket is seen on deck, no
paint-pot stands in the way, the sailor intermits his weekly task of
mending the sails, and the ropes that are to be repaired are laid
aside. The deck is scoured white and smooth with sand; everything is
clean, even the cabin-boy and the table-cloth, two articles that on
weekdays seem to hold themselves privileged to be dirty.

The sailors indeed, that is only some of them, take advantage of the
time bestowed by the Sabbath, to mend their jackets and stockings, or
patch up old boots and shoes; others lie stretched out on the deck
with a book in their hands or a cigar in their mouths, murmuring
something to which the waves are the only listeners; others are down
in the forecastle looking over their chests and coffers, the sight of
their humble effects, or perhaps some cherished keepsake, recalling
thoughts of loved ones at home. But in whatever business engaged, the
influence of the Sabbath is seen on all, for there is no countenance
but speaks the calm and quiet content, which this blessed day, so
wisely ordered as a respite from toil and care, brings to all, whether
on land or sea.

We were out four weeks without having seen anything but sky and water,
when one day we saw the rugged crest of a high mountain rising above a
pile of thick gray clouds. It was the high hill of the island of St.
Anthony, the most westerly of the Cape de Verd group. Little by little
the low-lying clouds ascend like a drawn up curtain, and the whole
island lay spread out, a living panorama, to our view. But alas! we
passengers were not permitted to leave the ship, and as soon as we had
taken in provisions and water, the anchor was lifted and we held on
our way towards the south.

As in all lands lying in the warm latitudes, the works of nature are
found in greater and more vigorous beauty than beneath our colder and
melancholy skies, so also do the tropical seas present appearances
never seen in the northern waters. If a storm arises, the whole
creation seems to be dissolving. No words can be found adequate to
describe the scene, or in any measure to convey the frightful
experience the sailor has to undergo. But on the other hand, in clear
and calm weather, the tropical sea presents an aspect of gorgeousness
and grandeur, with which the loveliest natural scenery of a northern
climate cannot compare. Here the rising of the sun from his bed of
waves, presents a spectacle that fills the heart with reverence and
awe at the same time that it swells with rapture of the purest kind.
The thick clouds that rested like a veil of darkness upon the
illimitable surface of the sea, at the coming of the god of day,
disperse in their vapors. The twinkling stars grow paler as he
approaches, the dark gray color of the water changes to a cheerful
blue, and streaks of clear purple are seen in the east, increasing
each moment to a varied hue, and as the horizon brightens, darkness
flies far from the bosom of the waters. Suddenly rays of glorious
light break forth from heaven and pour their golden glory on the sea,
the sun rises in his glowing strength above the bank of purple clouds,
and as they disperse themselves over the azure firmament, various are
the shapes, whether beautiful or grotesque, that they assume. One can
imagine he sees towns, hills, castles with tall towers, ships, and a
thousand other objects in their flitting shapes, but yet scarcely
formed ere they lose their evanescent beauty both of form and color,
as the sun mounts above the horizon.

The animal kingdom of the tropical ocean is extraordinarily rich and
varied. The sea birds are distinguished by their size, and beauty of
plumage, and greatly surpass those that belong to the north. Thousands
of flying fish spring above the surface, in order to escape some
lurking enemy below, only to find their death on the deck of the ship,
but oftener to fall an easy prey to some rapacious bird. Nothing can
equal the gay colors of the Bonito and Dorado, a smaller kind of
ravenous fish peculiar to the Southern seas, and which are always
found in close pursuit of their neighbors, the flying fish. With what
enchantment does the astonished spectator fasten his gaze upon the
lightly moving waters. His eye penetrates the depths that lie far
below the crystal surface, and is lost in wonder at beholding the
myriads of living creatures with which the mighty ocean teems! Not a
moment but what presents some new and interesting subject for inquiry
or contemplation, thus breaking in pleasantly on the otherwise
monotonous current of sea life.

So the day passes over, full of interest, if man will only take the
trouble to secure it; and the sun that here regularly measures his
diurnal course in twelve hours, is declining to his setting. Again the
attendant clouds, that at times assume the appearance of burning
volcanoes, gather around him, as though to curtain him as he sinks to
rest, but as his glancing rays reflected on the smooth water are
refracted in gushing vapors, thousands of fireballs seemed to rise as
from a crater, and streams of burning lava to flow into the ocean. At
length the sun is hidden beneath the waves; for a few minutes the
western horizon is like a sea of glowing purple, and then night comes,
shrouding all in her darksome veil. But there is no gloom; thousands
of stars far brighter than those of northern lands glitter in the
firmament, and are mirrored in the chrystal waters; fiery meteors dart
through the heavens, and the whole surface of the ocean is covered
with luminous insects.

Pleasant as is life on shipboard, even in a slow voyage, when with
sufficient wind, which is mostly the case in this latitude, to
keep the vessel moving, bringing refreshing coolness to the
sailor, and spreading life and healthful motion over the sea; not
less uncomfortable is the condition of a vessel when becalmed, as is
not seldom the case for many weeks together. With heavy heart the
mariner sees the breeze that so lately rippled the waves, gradually
die away, and leave the bosom of the ocean calm as a slumbering lake.
The sails hang flapping from the yards, the sea is motionless,
presenting a dull expanse of water as far as the eye can reach, and
no zephyrs float through the atmosphere to give relief from the
burning rays of the sun. The ship lies like a log on the water,
the discontent and murmurs of the crew increase every day, and in vain
do they try to drive the tedium away by practising all sorts of
diversion. But the night brings some relief, not only in her calm
beauty, but cooling dews refresh the heated atmosphere, and the moon
and stars shine forth in unsurpassable glory in the cloudless
heavens.

On the first of October, we passed the equator. Neptune, as is his
custom with all ships, honored us with a visit. With the early
twilight, we heard a deep bass voice that seemed to rise up out of the
waves, hail the ship in true nautical style. The helmsman answered
through his speaking trumpet, to the usual questions of where we were
bound, and from whence we had sailed. Two of the ship boys were
listening with all their ears, and peering curiously but vainly over
the bulwarks in order to get a sight of old Neptune. At length the
voice from the bowsprit made itself more audible, and in the
following manner. "I see that there are a few on board that have never
before been in my territory, and must submit to the regulations I
demand, as it becomes them to do." As the last words were uttered a
gigantic figure, his head covered with a periwig of knotted sea-grass,
with a false nose, and his face painted in various colors, now
ascended the ship's side, and clambered on deck. He carried a speaking
trumpet of three feet long in his right hand, under his left arm was a
few thick books, and from the leg of his boot a huge wooden compass
protruded itself. A masculine woman in whose soot-begrimed lineaments
I, with some trouble, recognized those of our boatswain, personating
Amphitrite, followed the god of the sea, carrying a long lubberly boy
in her arms, wrapped up in an old sail. They were introduced to us by
Neptune as his wife and son. Having advanced to the after deck, where
the sailors were assembled, he opened one of his colossal books and
spread an old sea chart out upon the deck. "Hallo, helmsman," he
inquired, "what is your latitude and longitude?" The answer being
given, he grumbled something as he pulled his huge compass from his
boot, and having carefully measured his old chart, at last struck a
hole in it, as he exclaimed, "Here you are--all right--what course are
you steering?" "South, south-east!" "You must go four degrees to
westward--you will have a better wind," growled Neptune, and therewith
he doubled up the chart, and stuck the compass in his boot again. "I
must see after my new circumnavigators," he added in the same gruff
tone as he turned his eyes on the two before-mentioned boys and one
old sailor who, although he had followed the sea for twelve years, had
never, until now, crossed the equator; "we must make a nearer
acquaintance."

The name, birth, and age of each being inquired into, and duly
registered in one of the large books, each one after having his eyes
blindfolded, was led by the sailors to the forecastle and seated on a
plank, under which was placed a large tub of water. The next operation
was to shave them, and accordingly their faces were smeared over with
a horrible mixture of shoemaker's wax, train oil and soot, most
ungently laid on with a coarse painter's brush. Neptune then performed
the office of barber himself, taking a long piece of iron which had
once served as the hoop of a tun, he scraped their chins in the most
unmerciful manner.

No sooner was this operation ended, then they pulled away the props of
the plank on which the three tyros were seated, so that they fell over
head and ears in the tub of water below, and thus received what the
sailors call a "genuine Neptune's baptism." After all these ceremonies
he turned as if to go, but the young sea-god at this moment set up a
most fearful outcry--he bawled as loud and lustily as any mortal.
"Just listen," said Neptune; "now I cannot go back to my cave in
peace, but that cub will roar and bellow the whole night, so as to
disturb all the waves below,--nothing even quiets him but a stiff
glass of grog, for he likes that far better than sea water."

The captain understood the hint; he laughed and nodded to the steward.
Young Neptune continued his lamentation nearly a quarter of an hour; I
saw one of the cabin servants carrying a smoking bowl of punch to the
