found him dying she had known that she could save his life. She 
had acquired a sense of certainty which nothing could disturb, and 
which had developed simultaneously with a moral energy no one had 
before suspected that she possessed. If there had ever been any 
resistance on either side the baroness would not have felt as though 
her daughter had suddenly taken the mastery over her, but there 
had been none. Never, in their peaceful lives, had they ex- 
perienced opposite desires or incompatible impulses. It had never 
seemed as though Hilda were submitting to her mother, even when 
she was a child, because their wishes appeared to be always exactly 
the same, so that Hilda would have done of her own freewill, and 
if left to herself, precisely what her mother desired her to do. 
The consequence was that since Hilda had found that she had a 
will of her own, she had imposed it upon her mother with the 
greatest ease ; for the latter was so much taken by surprise at 
Hilda's initiative, as to take refuge in believing that the girl must 
really want what she herself wanted, and that it was only the 
appearance which made the result look different. It was only a 
half belief, after all, for she could not help seeing that circum- 
stances had singularly developed the girl's character, and that they 
had been of a nature to do so, exceptional, startling and trying 
in every way. Frau von Sigmundskron liked to fancy that 
she could still control every impulse Hilda showed, as well as 
formerly, but she could not help being proud of her daughter's 
strength, for Hilda was like her father, a man who, with the 
sweetest temper imaginable, had dared anything that a man may 
dare. 





Greif carried out his intention of going to Sigmuudskron on the 
day after his conversation with Rex. During the drive he thought 
of what was before him, as he had thought three months earlier, 
when the prospect had been very different. 

At present he felt that it would be impossible to delay his 
retractation any longer. So far as his happiness was concerned, 
the situation might last until the eve of the wedding-day, but there 
were other considerations to be thought of, which he could not 
disregard. Hilda and he understood each other without words, 
but Hilda's mother could not be expected to understand without a 
formal explanation. She had a right to it. Greif 's last act before 
his illness had been to refuse the marriage ; the baroness was 
entitled not only to know from his own lips that he had changed 
his mind, but also to be consulted in the matter, as a question of 
courtesy. Greif did not know exactly how to manage it. To his 
mind there would be something inexpressibly ridiculous in asking an 
interview with Frau von Sigmundskron, for the purpose of formally 
requesting, a second time, the honour of her daughter's hand. 
And yet he assuredly could not go to her and say bluntly that 
he had changed his mind and intended to take Hilda after all. Any- 
thing between the two must necessarily take the shape of an apology 
of some sort and of a retractation, though Greif felt that he had 
done nothing needing an apology. He could not ask the baroness's 
forgiveness for having been stubbornly determined to sacrifice his 
whole life rather than injure her daughter by giving her his name. 
It was true that he now saw the matter differently, perceiving 
that he had done all that a man of the most quixotic chivalry 
could do to prove the case against himself, and that his judges 
refused wholly to be convinced. He did not regret what he had 
done, though he was willing to believe that he had gone too far in 
the right direction. He had offended no one, for his whole con- 
duct had been guided by the consideration of others. He had 
therefore nothing to be forgiven him, and no shadow of a reason 
for putting himself in the position of a penitent. To say that he 
had been mistaken, and to try and shift the responsibility of his 
action upon his illness, was not to his taste either. He had not 
refused to marry Hilda because he had been ill at the time, but 
because he had been convinced that he ought to do so. At present 
he was grateful both to her and to her mother for their readiness to 
oppose his self-sacrifice. That at least he could say ; but after 
that it would be necessary in common courtesy to put to the 
baroness the question old Greifenstein had asked long ago, in other 
words, to renew the formal proposition of marriage. As a man 



 

of honour it was indispensable that he should clearly define his 
position without further delay, and he could see no other way of 
defining it, satisfactory to himself and to the exigencies of his 
courteous rule of life. 

There was still another matter to be decided, and which did not 
tend to make the coming interview seem easier. The origin of the 
whole difficulty had not been removed, and although Greif had 
made up his mind to submit to the happiness which was thrust 
upon him, he still felt that to marry Hilda under his own name 
would be out of the question. He was even more sure of this than 
before, for he had learned during his convalescence that the tragedy 
of Greifenstein had been described in every paper of the empire, 
and he knew that it must be the common topic of conversation. 
His old comrades at Schwarzburg had read the story and had 
written, some offering condolences, some refusing to believe the 
tale at all. The professors of the University whose lectures Greif 
had chiefly attended, had written in various manners, and the 
Magnificus himself had deigned to offer his sympathy in a 
singularly human manner. Most of these communications had 
been answered by Rex, who explained that Greif had been 
seriously ill, and Greif himself replied to the more important ones. 
The horror of the story was known through the length and breadth 
of the land, and wherever Greif might go for years to come, his 
name would instantly recall the terrible details of the triple crime. 
All the arguments Greif had formerly used with so much force 
remained unshaken, and he felt that there could be but one way 
of placing himself and Hilda beyond their reach. Had Hilda never 
existed, he would have determined to live in retirement, and to 
allow his race to be extinguished in his own person, rather than 
perpetuate the memory of such deeds. As it was, he had given 
up the thought, for the love of her, and he knew that there was 
happiness in store for him. In order to accept it, however, he 
must be no longer Greifenstein. 

It was strange that each of the three in turn, Rex, the baroness, 
and lastly, Hilda herself, should have suggested the advisability 
of his taking the name of Sigmundskron in place of his own. 
Clearly, it was the only course open to him, but it was a curious 
coincidence that they should all have had the same thought. On 
the whole he was ready to follow their advice, but as he drew 
near to his destination he realised that it must be the first 
point settled. He did not exactly know how to formulate his 
request, for he had never known anybody who had asked another 
for his name. He almost wished that Hilda could manage it 





for him, which was a proof that he had not yet altogether 
recovered his strength. 

He was glad that Rex had not come, after all. It was one of 
those errands which he preferred to accomplish alone. Moreover, 
for some reason which he could not guess, Rex seemed to avoid 
the Sigmundskrons as much as he could. That he should never 
remain long in conversation with Hilda, Greif thought natural ; 
his cousin's action might proceed from delicacy, of a curiously un- 
usual kind, or it might be the result of Rex's constant wish to 
leave the two together as much as possible. In either case it was 
not altogether surprising. But Greif often wished that Rex would 
take the trouble to talk to the baroness, so that she might not be 
left so much alone. It would have completed the party and made 
every one feel more easy; after all, Rex was a man forty years 
of age, and might reasonably be expected to devote his attention 
with a good grace to a lady who was not much older than himself, 
though her white hair contrasted oddly with his uncommonly 
youthful appearance. But Rex hardly ever failed to find some 
excuse for staying at home when Greif went to Sigmundskron, and 
when the ladies came to Greifenstein he generally made his appear- 
ance as late as possible. Nevertheless Greif believed that his 
cousin did not dislike the Sigmundskrons, and it was certain that 
both mother and daughter thought extremely well of him. Greif 
could not explain Rex's coldness, and was obliged to ascribe it to 
some uncommon bias of a remarkable character which he had never 
wholly understood. 

Being full of such thoughts, the time that had elapsed, between 
the present day and the memorable visit three months earlier, 
seemed to Greif to have dropped away with all it had contained. 
He felt as though he had refused the marriage but yesterday and 
were going to take back his refusal to-day. Only the weather had 
changed between then and now. On that morning the ground had 
been covered with snow, and a bitter wind that cut like a knife 
had been blowing across the road. It was even yet not spring, but 
the snow was all gone, and the frost was thawing out of the ground 
under the warm sun. In a few days the white thorn would begin 
to bud, and fresh green violet leaves would come out along the 
borders of the woods. A few birds were already circling in the 
air above the fir-tops as though expecting to find the flies there 
already. The warmth and the moisture of everything brought out 
the sweet smell of the forest and blew it into Greif s face at every 
turn of the drive. 

For the twentieth time since he had been well enough to go 



 

out, he watched the sturdy horses' backs as they drew the light 
carriage up the last steep ascent. For the twentieth time he 
looked up as he reached the point whence the lower battlements of 
the half-ruined castle were visible. As often happened, he descried 
Hilda's tall figure against the sky, and then immediately the gleam 
of something white, waved high to welcome him. He wondered 
how she always knew when he was coming. But Hilda had found 
that when he came he naturally started always at the same hour, 
so that every morning she went up, and stood on the rampart for 
twenty minutes, scanning every bit of the winding road that was 
in sight. At the end of that time, if she had not seen the carriage, 
she knew that he was not coming, and descended again into the 
interior, her face less bright and her eyes less glad than when she 
had gone up the steps. 

There she was to-day, in her accustomed place, and a moment 
later the sun caught the white handkerchief she waved. As he 
flourished his in return, Greif wondered how he could ever have 
come over that same road with the fixed purpose of bidding farewell 
for ever to her who awaited him, and he was amazed at his own 
courage in having executed his intention, for he felt that he could 
not do as much now. But there was little time left him for 
reflexion. Five minutes later the carriage rattled through the 
gate into the wide paved court, swung round upon its wheels and 
stopped before the hall door. Out of the dim shadow Hilda came 
quickly forward and took his hands, and they were together once 
more, as they had been so often during the last month and a 
half. 

I have not come to see you,' said Greif, with a laugh that only 
half concealed his embarrassment. ' I have to request the honour 
of an interview with your mother to-day.' 

Hilda looked at him a moment and then laughed, too. 

' Has it come to this, Greif ! ' she exclaimed. 

' It has come to this,' he answered, his mirth subsiding at the 
prospect of what was before him. 

' And what are you going to say ? ' she asked. ' That you have 
changed your mind ? That you yield to pressure ? That you are 
the lawful prey of one Hilda von Sigmundskron and cannot escape 
your fate ? Or that you were very ill and never meant it, and are 
very sorry, and will never do so again ? Why did you not bring 
Rex to talk to me while you are explaining everything to my 
mother ? ' 

' Rex would not come to-day. He sends his homage 

' He always does I believe you invent it the message I 





mean. Rex hates me, Greif. Do you know why ? Because 
he is jealous. He thinks you do not care for his society any 

longer ' 

' That is absurd you must not say such foolish things ! ' 
They reached the door of the sitting-room as he spoke. Greif 
entered and found himself with the baroness. Hilda closed the 
door when he had gone in and went away, leaving the two 
together. 



CHAPTER XXII 

FEAU VON SIGMTJNDSKRON was somewhat surprised when she saw 
Greif enter the room without Hilda. Greif went up to her with 
the determination of a man who means to lose no time in getting 
through an unpleasant business. 

'Aunt Therese,' he said he called his father's cousin 'aunt,' 
after the German manner ' I told Hilda that I wanted to speak 
with you alone do you mind ? ' 

' On the contrary,' answered the baroness. ' Sit down. I will 
work while you talk. It will help me to understand you.' 

' The matter is very simple,' said Greif, seating himself. ' I 
want to ask whether you are still of the same opinion in regard to 
my marriage with Hilda, as before I was taken ill.' 

' Of course I am She looked up, in some surprise. 

' Because I am not,' said Greif, delighted with himself at having 
found a way to make his aunt state her case first. 

' Not of my opinion, or not of your own former opinion ? ' she 
inquired, rather puzzled. 

' I mean to say that I now once more ask for Hilda's hand 

Frau von Sigmundskron laughed, and laid down her work, to 
look at his face. She had not expected that he would express 
himself in such a way. Then all at once she saw that he had 
meant to act in the most loyal manner possible, and she grew grave, 
being pleased with him as she almost always was. 

'Do you think you need my consent again, Greif? You have 
it, with all my heart. You need hardly have asked it, for you 
knew the answer too well.' 

' It is this,' said Greif, coming to the point. ' In the first place, 
I knew very well what you would say, though I thank you all the 
same ; but it was necessary to come to a clear understanding, 
because there is another point to be settled upon which much must 
depend. What I said three months ago holds good to-day. As 





Greifenstein I cannot marry Hilda. As Greif, I cannot any longer 
