dilapidated air ; but, as Eve observed, it had possibili 
ties. The ceilings were moderately high, the doors 
and wood-work were good in spite of shabbiness. 
We retraced our steps, and investigated the cellar. 
 
It was under the main house, and had been very nice 
in its day of good order. There was a large closet, 
but the door had been carried away. The coal-bins 
had been partly torn down. There was an ash-shaft 
in the foundation of the chimney. When we went 
up again, we investigated. It connected with the 
grate ; and in the dining-room was set an odd sort of 
thing, a kind of fireplace heater, but different from 
any I had ever seen, more nearly resembling a fur 
nace in fact. There was a register through in the 
parlor, and three in rooms up-stairs. 
"If it heats at all," said Eve, "it must be 
excellent." 
On examination, I did not see why it should not 
heat ; as it was extremely simple, and its manner of 
disposing of the ashes was commendable. 
We had kept up a running fire of comment, fault 
finding, depreciation, and approval. It was oddly 
planned, yet convenient enough, with no waste room, 
\ 
no great useless halls. 
One small bedroom up-stairs had no mode of egress 
save through another, but that might not be much 
detriment. 
Then we went out to the barn. That was not 
large ; but it had a nice loft, and on this sunny day 
was positively warm. The hen-house would have to 
be made over altogether. It would take a good deal 
 
of time and labor, and not a little money, to get it in 
good order. 
It was nearing train-time, and we had to return. 
"I'll drop in this evening," said Piyor. "Miss 
Thurston, it is an excellent chance." 
We discussed it pro and con. I said the house 
was larger than our needs, and that a smaller place 
would cost less. I had come to have a horror of 
indebtedness. 
" A house is not quite like any thing else," per 
sisted Eve. 
"But the interest on three thousand dollars, 
repairs, and taxes," I suggested. 
" I could earn all that, I am sure," said she. 
" But you must have clothes and journeys " 
" Aunt Carry's trunkful is not exhausted yet," 
with a bright smile. " I shall have another music- 
scholar ; and when spring opens, I shall try to get a 
class in flower-painting." 
She had set her heart, on having a house and 
garden, I could plainly see. 
" After all, suppose we do give up a good many 
things for the next five years we can imagine our 
selves out on the ranch ; and when we have almost 
expired from sheer loneliness, we can go into New 
York." 
"But I might do better than forty-five dollars a 
 
month somewhere else. And this is a queer dead- 
and-alive little place." 
A fourth person might have supposed us in some 
heated argument that evening. I am not sure but 
we were. And it ended by Eve having the face to 
make an offer of three thousand dollars for the 
house. 
" Of course, she will not take that," said my young 
bargain-maker serenely. " But she may come down 
a little, and we can go up a little. And perhaps a 
month hence we may strike a bargain. And, Mr. 
Pryor, we shall depend upon you to study our best 
interest, and to warn and counsel if any adversary 
should be lurking around." 
With that, Eve raises her eyes in that half entreat 
ing, wholly bewitching manner, and I can almost 
guess how the young fellow's heart thumps against 
his ribs. 
"You would make a splendid real-estate agent, 
Miss Thurston," he says admiringly. 
" Would I ? " She straightens up, and the small 
face takes on a certain shade of haughtiness. "Well, 
I hate haggling, and cheapening and depreciating 
other people's belongings. If I were rich, even 
moderately wealthy, I never would have a word 
over any thing. If I wanted it, I would pay a fair 
price for it : if any one's charges were unreasonable, 
 
I would walk away without a word. And I hate 
business, because there is so much discussion over 
bargains." 
" Then you would not be so good," and he gives a 
little constrained laugh. " Why, I have known men 
who waited a year over a bargain for the sake of fifty 
or a hundred dollars." 
"I am devoutly thankful that stores have one 
settled price," appends Eve. " I am ashamed of a 
woman who beats down." 
" Eve," I said later on, " do you really think it 
wisdom to undertake such a wild scheme? We 
never can pay for the house, never ! " 
" Adam," she answers with a seraphic smile, " we 
will take up our common every-day lives for a few 
weeks, and not even dream of a return to Paradise. 
We may never go. But I wanted to see how it would 
seem just to talk about having a home of one's very 
own." 
I dare say we both dreamed of it, but she kept her 
word rigidly. She would not even let Mr. Pryor 
discuss it ; and when the word came that Mrs. Cassel 
could not for an instant entertain such an offer, I 
know I allowed myself to think of what I could do 
with the place, and the delight it would be. Is there 
some deep and secret charm in owning a bit of ground 
and the roof that shelters you? I even tolerated 
 
Eve's hens when they scratched up my garden, and 
called myself all manner of names because I had not 
saved up more money. 
February crept along. One day Mr. Pryor came 
up to the station with a very stylish black-eyed 
woman dressed like a princess. Some odd prescience 
told me it was Mrs. Cassel. I was so glad that Eve 
happened to be in ! 
There was a rather funny, wary sort of a discus 
sion. Mrs: Cassel finally offered to split the five 
hundred. That was the best she could do. Eve was 
gentle and polite, listened with the utmost affability 
to a detailed account of all the place had cost, and 
then very sweetly suggested that it was going to cost 
a great deal more for repairs, that a new owner 
could not be expected to pay for what was not there. 
No agreement was reached; and Mrs. Cassel went 
away rather vexed, I thought. She and Mr. Pryor 
walked up to look at the house. 
Meanwhile we visited several other places. Indeed, 
half of Athens, it seemed to me, came in and offered 
us houses, and paid us a curious deference. I could 
see that we had gone up several degrees in the social 
scale. But in whatever direction we went, our long 
ing feet led us thitherward. We viewed the place 
from every side. We were both curiously drawn 
to it. 
 
CHAPTER V 
EVE AT BARGAIN-MAKING 
ONE morning early in March, Eve went down to 
the city. The "girls," as she called her bevy of 
young friends, kept her in warm remembrance, and 
thought it rare fun to come over for an hour or two. 
Sadie Brooke had spent one night, and confessed 
herself in no end of trouble with two lovers. 
" I'd like to come over here and stay a month,"' 
she declared, " and in that time both of them would 
forget me." 
I supposed Eve's day would be mostly devoted to 
them. She came home with a radiant face. 
" You dear old Adam ! " and she kissed me fondly. 
"Have you missed me to-day and been lonesome? 
For sentiment's sake, say ' Yes/ '' 
" For truth's sake, my dear girl." 
I held her in my arms a moment. I was coming to 
have a strange, conscience-smitten feeling about Eve, 
as if there was some man in the world that I was 
defrauding of this sweetness and tender love. 
She busied herself about our meal. There were 
 
cold chicken, and potatoes to fry, and a dainty pud 
ding. She was detailing odds and ends of her day's 
enjoyment. 
" You had some luncheon ? " I asked suddenly. 
"Oh, yes! Do you remember Mrs. Harwood, 
Adam? Well, I went directly there, and staid 
unconscionably." 
"And she asked you if we had quarrelled, or 
whether I had decided to take care of some other 
fellow's sister?" 
"Exactly!" Eve laughed. "Then we talked 
business. And now I want to talk business with 
you, about the house." 
" Then, you haven't given it up ? " 
" We will consider the subject seriously. If you 
think it too much to undertake, then we will wait 
until we have saved a little more money. I went 
down to Mrs. Harwood to tell her about it, and ask 
some advice. I knew that she was putting money out 
all the time, and quite glad to find first mortgages. I 
confessed that our united savings and interest would 
amount to about seven hundred dollars, and what our 
income was likely to be. There was one point she 
asked me to consider, what I should do in event of 
your death ; and I told her of your insurance policy. 
Then she said, buy the house by all means. She will 
take a two-thousand-dollar mortgage on it, and give 
 
us five years to pay it, with a three years' exten 
sion if we should not be able to meet it all. The 
rest she will hold as' a note, and we can pay it in any 
sums that we like. She is coming over to inspect 
our bargain ; and, oddly enough, she knows a little 
about Mrs. Cassel, who is to be married in April to a 
rich old man, and go to Europe. And she says," 
laughed Eve, " that we must stand out for our offer, 
and that we will be sure to get it at the last. It 
doesn't seem real honorable to me, but I suppose it is 
business. Mrs. Harwood puts it in this light. The 
place never cost Mrs. Cassel any thing, and she would 
think nothing of spending two or three hundred 
dollars on her personal gratification. It is not as if 
she had worked and economized for it. And now 
she will be in affluent circumstances , while we need 
the money for repairs and so on, and it is our busi 
ness to make the best bargain we can for ourselves. 
But three thousand dollars does seem a ridiculous 
sum for such a house and nearly two acres of 
ground." 
" O Eve, you brave girl ! " I began. " To think 
of your doing all this when I hardly dared to take 
the first step ! But I learned through Pryor that we 
could take up two thousand dollars in almost any 
of the moneyed institutions. Didn't Mrs. Harwood 
say that I was a cad to let you go about it? " 
 
"You did not send me about it, and I took care 
to let her know that," says Eve, bridling her proud 
little head. " She was only afraid you might marry, 
and there would be some difficulty. You see, she 
counts on my being an old maid." 
" Eve," I reply, deeply moved, " if ever we do get 
the house, it must be settled upon you, because I 
never would have had the pluck to go at it alone." 
" It will belong to both. We will both work for 
it, both enjoy it. I shall be all impatience until Mrs. 
Harwood comes, and that will be on Thursday. You 
must like her, Adam. She would be a very good 
friend to me if I needed one : she is our friend now." 
After supper, Eve brought out her housekeeping- 
book, and we went over it carefully. We had been 
at Athens four and one-half months. Our real living 
expenses had averaged twenty-six dollars a month. 
There had been no rent to pay, and my fuel was 
bought at first cost. For pleasures, books, and inci 
dentals, we had averaged seven dollars. We had 
spent, besides our summer savings, some twenty 
dollars for furniture : we had needed very little in 
the way of clothes, and we had now twenty-five 
dollars on hand. It was not much to save during 
that time, I confessed. 
Then we counted up our assets. Eve had three 
hundred and sixty dollars, I had three hundred and 
 
forty odd. We could venture to pay seven hundred 
dollars down on the house. At the first of April, 
Eve would have forty dollars ; and there was quite a 
prospect of her getting a class in painting. 
Gordon Pryor came in presently, as usual. This 
time he had another bargain. There was a house a 
little farther to the north of us, to be sold under 
foreclosure the middle of March, for about twenty- 
five hundred. It was a larger and prettier house, with 
one acre of ground. 
The next morning we went to look at it. It was 
a double house with a hall through the middle, and a 
large parlor on one side, that had a very pretentious 
air. There were four sleeping-chambers up-stairs, 
and a nice attic for storage ; a furnace and a range. 
The fences were good, and the house in fair repair ; 
no barn, but a very nice hennery ; and some fruit. 
There certainly was a thousand dollars difference. 
Thursday brought Mrs. Harwood. She was a 
bright, keen-eyed little old lad}^, with snowy white 
hair, and a kind of apple-bloom in her cheeks, a rapid 
talker, and she had a habit of giving sagacious little 
nods to emphasize her sentences. We went over 
the Cassel cottage exhaustively, made an estimate 
of what repairs would cost, though I knew I should 
do it for half the sum. Still, that was for Mrs. 
Cassel's eye. Mrs. Harwood approved of the place, 
 
and she also believed in young people laying by 
something. 
" It is so easy," said she, " to take money out of 
a bank, but one cannot get it out of a house at a 
moment's notice." 
She had a cup of tea with us, and was as much 
interested in Eve's small housekeeping as if she had 
been some connection. 
We were to wait for some sign or word from Mrs. 
Cassel. Oddly enough, she came to hand the very 
next day. Pryor had a talk with her, in which he 
said he played out his right bower, told her we 
were looking at another place. They came up 
together, and we had a long talk over repairs and all 
that. 
" Well," she said at length, " I am going away for 
a year or so, and want to get rid of the house ; but 
it cost twice that sum. It is really giving it away, 
and I might better have done this soon after Mr. 
