to you to know it, Miss Vance, I can assure you 
that he was very unhappy, and I don't see how he 
could ever haAe been happy here." 
"It won't," said the girl steadily. "If people 
are born into this world, it's because they were 
meant to live in it. It isn't a question of being 
happy here ; no one is happy, in that old selfish way, 
or can be ; but he could have been of great use." 
" Perhaps he was of use in dying. Who knows ? 
He may have been trying to silence Lindau." 
 
" Oh, Lindau wasn't worth it ! " cried Mrs. !March, 
Miss Vance looked at her as if she did not quite 
understand. Then she turned to March. " He 
might have been unhappy, as we all are ; but I 
know that his life here would have had a higher 
happiness than we wish for or aim for." The tears 
began to run silently down her cheeks. 
"Ho looked strangely happy that day when he 
left me. He had hurt himself somehow, and his face 
was bleeding from a scratch ; he kept his handkerchief 
up ; he was pale, but such a light came into his face 
when he shook hands — ah, I know he went to try 
and do what I said ! " They were all silent, while 
she dried her eyes and then put her handkerchief 
back into the pocket from which she liad suddenly 
pulled it, with a series of vivid, young-ladyish ges- 
tures, which struck March by their incongruity with 
the occasion of their talk, and yet by their harmony 
with the rest of her elegance. " I am sorry, Miss 
Vance," he began, " that I can't really tell you any- 
thing more " 
" You are very kind," she said, controlling herself 
and rising quickly. " I thank you — thank you both 
very much." She turned to Mrs. March and shook 
hands with her and then with him. "I might have 
known — I did know that there wasn't anything more 
for you to tell. But at least I 've found out from 
you that there teas nothing, and now I can begin to 
bear what I must. How are those poor creatures 
— his mother and father, his sisters ? Some day, 
I hope, I shall be ashamed to have postponed 
  
 the m to the thought of myself ; but I can't pre- 
tend to be yet. I could not come to the funeral ; I 
wanted to." 
She addressed her question to Mrs. March, who 
answered : " I can understand. But they were 
pleased with the flowers you sent; people are, at 
such times, and they haven't many friends." 
" "Would you go to see them ] " asked the girl. 
" Would you tell them what I 've told you ? " 
Mrs. March looked at her husband. 
"I don't see what good it would do. They 
wouldn't understand. But if it would relieve 
you " 
" I 'll wait till it isn't a question of self-relief," 
said the girl. " Good-bye ! " 
She left them to long debate of the event. At 
the end Mrs. March said, " She is a strange being ; 
such a mixture of the society girl and the saint." 
Her husband answered : " She 's the potentiality 
of several kinds of fanatic. She's very unhappy, 
and I don't see how she 's to be happier about that 
poor fellow. I shouldn't be surprised if she did 
inspire him to attempt something of that kind." 
" Well, you got out of it very well, Basil. I 
admired the way you managed. I was afraid you 'd 
say something awkward." 
" Oh, with a plain line of truth before me, as the 
only possible thing, I can get on pretty well. When 
it comes to anything decorative, I'd rather leave it 
to you, Isabel." 
She seemed insensible of his jest. " Of course he 
was in love with her. That was the light that came 
into his face when he was going to do what he 
thought she wanted him to do." 
" And she — do you think that she was " 
" What an idea ! It would have been perfectly 
grotesque ! " 
VIII. 
Their affliction brought the Dryfooses into 
humaner relations with the Marches, who had 
hitherto regarded them as a necessary evil, as the 
odious means of their own prosperity. Mrs. March 
found that the women of the family seemed glad of 
her coming, and in the sense of her usefulness to them 
all she began to feel a kindness even for Christine. 
But she could not help seeing that between the girl 
and her father there was an unsettled account, some- 
 f" how, and that it was Christine and not the old man 
I who was holding out. She thought that their sorrow 
had tended to refine the others. JMela was much 
more subdued, and except when she abandoned her 
self to a childish interest in her mourning, she did 
nothing to shock Mrs. March's taste, or to seem 
__- unworthy of her grief. She was very good to her 
*s mother, whom the blow had left unchanged, and to 
her father, whom it had apparently fallen upon with 
crushing weight. Once, after visiting their house, 
Mrs. March described to March a little scene between 
Dryfoos and Mela, when he came home from Wall 
Street, and the girl met him at the door with a kind 
of country simpleness, and took his hat and stick, 
and brouglit him into the room where Mrs. March 
sat, looking tired and broken. 
She found this look of Diyfoos's pathetic, and 
dwelt on the sort of stupefaction there was in it; 
he must have loved his son more than they ever 
realised. "Yes," said March, "I suspect he did. 
He 's never been about the place since that day ; he 
was always dropping in before, on his way uptown. 
He seems to go down to Wall Street every day, just 
as before, but I suppose that's mechanical; he 
wouldn't know what else to do ; I dare say it's best 
for him. The sanguine Fulkcrson is getting a little 
anxious about the future of Every Oilier week. Now 
Conrad 's gone, he isn't sure the old man will want 
to keep on with it, or whether he 'll have to look up 
another Angel. He wants to get married, I imagine, 
and he can't venture till this point is settled." 
" It 's a very material point to ns, too, Basil," said 
Mrs. March. 
"Well, of course. I hadn't overlooked that, you 
may be sure. One of the things that Fulkerson and 
I have discussed is a scheme for buying the magazine. 
Its success is pretty well assured now, and I shouldn't 
be afraid to put money into it — if I had the money." 
" I couldn't let you sell the house in Boston, Basil !" 
"And I don't want to. I wish we could go back 
and live in it, and get the rent too ! It would be 
quite a support. But I suppose if Dryfoos won't 
keep on, it must come to another Angel, I hope it 
won't be a literary one, with a fancy for running my 
department." 
  
" Oil, I guess whoever takes the magazine will be 
glad enough to keep you ! " 
" Do you think so ? "Well, perhaps. But I don't 
believe Fulkerson would let mc stand long between 
him and an Angel of the right description." 
"Well, then, I believe he would. And you've 
never seen anything, Basil, to make you really think 
that Mr. Fulkerson didn't appreciate you to the 
utmost." 
" I think I came pretty near an undervaluation in 
that Lindau trouble. I shall always wonder what put 
a backbone into Fulkerson, just at that crisis. Fulker- 
son doesn't strike me as the stuff of a moral hero." 
"At any rate, he was one," said Mrs. March, "and 
that's quite enough for me." 
March did not answer. " What a noble thing life 
is, anyway ! Here I am, well on the way to fifty, 
after twenty-five years of hard work, looking forward 
to the potential poor-house as confidently as I did in 
youth. We might have saved a little more than we 
have saved ; but the little more wouldn't avail if I 
were turned out of my place now ; and we should 
have lived sordidly to no purpose. Some one 
always has you by the throat, unless you have some 
one else in your grip. I wonder if that 's the attitude 
the Almighty intended his respectable creatures to 
take toward one another ! I wonder if he meant 
our civilisation, the battle we fight in, the game we 
trick in ! I wonder if he considers it final, and if 
the kingdom of heaven on earth, which we pray 
for " 
" Have you seen Lindau to-day ? " Mrs. March 
asked. 
"You inferred it from the quahty of my piety?" 
March laughed, and then suddenly sobered. "Yes, 
I saw him. It's going rather hard with him, I'm 
afraid. The amputation doesn't heal very well ; 
the shock was very great, and he 's old. It 'll take 
time. There 's so much pain that they have to keep 
him under opiates, and I don't think he fully knew 
me. At any rate, I didn't get my piety from him 
to-day." 
"It's horrible! Horrible!" said Mrs. March. 
" I can't get over it ! After losing his hand in the 
war, to lose his whole arm now in this way ! It 
does seem too cruel ! Of course he oughtn't to have 
been there ; we can say that. But yoii oughtn't to 
have been there either, Basil." 
" Well, I wasn't exactly advising the police to go 
and club the railroad presidents." 
"Neither was poor Conrad Dryfoos." 
"I don't deny it. All that was distinctly the 
chance of life and death. That belonged to God ; 
and no doubt it was law, though it seems chance. 
But what I object to is this economic chance-world 
in which we live, and which we men seem to have 
created. It ought to be law as inflexible in human 
affairs as the order of day and night in the ])hysical 
world, that if a man will work he shall both rest 
and eat, and shall not be harassed with any question 
as to how his repose and his provision shall come. 
Nothins: less ideal than this satisfies the reason. 
  
But in our state of things no one is secure of this. 
No one is sure of finding work ; no one is sure of 
not losing it. I may have my  work taken away 
from me at any moment by the caprice, the mood, 
the indigestion of a man who has not the qualifica- 
tion for knowing whether I do it well or ill. At 
my time of life — at every time of life — a man ought 
to feel that if he will keep on doing his duty he 
shall not suffer in himself or in those who are dear 
to him, except through natural causes. But no man 
can feel this as things are now ; and so we go on, 
pushing and pulling, climbing and crawling, thrust- 
ing aside and trampling underfoot ; lying, cheating, 
stealing ; and when we get to the end, covered with 
blood and dirt and sin and shame, and look back 
over the way we 've come to a palace of our own, or 
the poor-house, which is about the only possession 
we can claim in common with our brother-men, I 
don't think the retrospect can be pleasing." 
" I know, I know ! " said his wife. " I think of 
those things too, Basil. Life isn't what it seems 
when you look forward to it. But I think people 
would suffer less, and wouldn't have to work so 
hard, and could make all reasonable provision for 
the future, if they were not so greedy and so 
foolish." 
" Oh, without doubt ! We can't put it all on the 
conditions ; we must put some of the blame on 
character. But conditions inake character; and 
people are greedy and foolish, and wish to have and 
to shine, because having and shining are held up to 
  
them by civilisation as the chief good of life. Wo 
all know they are not the chief good, perhaps not 
good at all ; but if some one ventures to say so, all 
the rest of us call him a fraud and a crank, and go 
moiling and toiling on to the palace or the poor- 
house. We can't help it. If one were less greedy, 
or less foolish, some one else would have, and would 
shine at his expense. We don't moil and toil to our- 
selves alone; the palace or the poor-house is not 
merely for ourselves, but for our children, whom we've 
brought up in the superstition that having and shining 
is the chief good. We dare not teach them otherwise, 
for fear they may falter in the fight, when it comes 
their turn ; and the children of others will crowd 
them out of the palace into the poor-house. If wo 
felt sure that honest work shared by all would bring 
them honest food shared by all, some heroic few of 
us, who did not wish our children to rise above their 
fellows — though we could not bear to have them fall 
below — might trust them with the truth. But we 
liave no such assurance ; and so we go on trembling 
before Dryfooses, and living in gimcrackeries." 
" Basil, Basil ! I was always willing to live more 
simply than you. You know I was ! " 
" I know you always said so, my dear. But how 
many bell-ratchets and speaking-tubes would you 
be willing to have at the street door below ? I re- 
member that when we were looking for a flat you 
rejected every building that had a bell-ratchet or a 
speaking-tube, and would have nothing to do with 
any that had more than an electric button ; you 
  
wanted a hall-boy, with electric buttons all over him. 
I don't blame yoii. I find such things quite as 
necessary as you do." 
" And do you mean to say, Basil," she asked, 
abandoning this unprofitable branch of the inquiry, 
" that you are really uneasy about your place ? that 
you are afraid Mr. Dryfoos may give up being an 
Angel, and Mr. Fulkerson may play you false ? " 
" Play me false ? Oh, it wouldn't be playing me 
false. It would be merely looking out for himself, 
if the new Angel had editorial tastes, and wanted 
my place. It's what any one would do." 
" You wouldn't do it, Basil ! " 
" Wouldn't I ? well, if any one ofTered nie more 
salary than Every Other Week pays — say twice as 
much — what do you think my duty to my suffering 
family would be ? It 's give and take in the business 
world, Isabel ; especially take. But as to being 
uneasy, I 'm not, in the least. I 've the spirit of a 
lion, when it comes to such a chance as that. When 
I see how readily the sensibilities of the passing 
stranger can be worked in New York, I think of 
taking up the rule of that desperate man on Tliird 
wenue, who went along looking for garbage in the 
gutter to eat. I think I could pick up at least 
twenty or thirty cents a day by that little game, 
and maintain my family in the affluence it's been 
accustomed to." 
 Basil!" cried his wife. "You don't mean to 
say that man was an impostor ! And I 've gone 
about, ever since, feeling that one such case in a 
  
million, the bare possibility of it, was enough to 
jnstif\' all that Lindaii said about the rich and the 
poor ! " 
March laughed tcasingly. "Oh, I don't say he 
was an impostor. Perhaps he really was hungry ; 
