clearly, define in their own minds some start- 
ing-point — without agreement upon which it 
is impossible to debate differences of either 
judgment or feeling, and for lack of which so 
many of our religious discussions are as wasted 
as the powder and blood of Malvern Hill. 

The average religious argument of to-day 
takes, perhaps, some such form as this, — 
the disputants, we may suppose, not having 
reached that stage of familiarity with each 
other's views at which controversy is tacitly 
and mutually conceded to be no accretion 
either to friendship or to faith. 



 



The believer — we use this term and its 
opposite as, on the whole, less objectionable 
and more precise than any others which exist- 
ing religious conflict has popularized — the 
believer begins by timidly expressing a hope 
that the unbeliever has " found Christ," or " is 
a Christian," or " is a man of faith." The 
unbeliever promptly and not at all timidly 
expresses his complete dissent from every 
point of conviction involved in these phrases. 
He may do this arrogantly or sadly, honestly 
or shrewdly, earnestly or flippantly, gently 
or maliciously, but he does it with decision. 
He speaks of the scientific paradoxes in the 
" poem of Genesis," of the morals of the Old 
Testament saints, of the physical impossibility 
of miracles, of the discoveries of geology, of 
personal imperfections in the character of 
Jesus, of the superior nature of Socrates, of 
the howling dervish, the negro revivals, and 
the damnation of children, — an article of 
faith which he asserts is generally wrought into 
the creeds of Christian churches of the present 
day, and secretly disavowed by kind-hearted 
but hypocritical people, who have not the cour- 
age openly to combat so monstrous a doctrine. 







At this point, the believer strikes in rather 
warmly, and if he does not reply that such ig- 
norance on any other vital point of contempo- 
rary difference would condemn his opponent to 
the strongest criticism of intelligent people, is 
tempted to do so, and feels a little out of tem- 
per and a little penitent, and suggests that the 
Bible is an inspired book, written by God for 
men and through men, and that we must 
expect to find difficulties in it, and earnestly 
and pointedly asks, Where will you find, on 
the whole, a better book for the guidance of 
human weakness ? 

The unbeliever replies that there is much 
fine poetry in the Bible, but more bad argu- 
ment, Oriental superstition, and confused met- 
aphor ; that many men are inspired ; that 
Goethe was a divine man ; and that Brown- 
ing's Paracelsus is as much a work of inspi- 
ration as the Song of Solomon, and far more 
moral. He adds that it is impossible to recon- 
cile God's sovereignty with man's freedom in 
any such make-shift manner as that adopted 
by the theologians, and that God either cre- 
ated sin, or he did not ; that if he did he was 
not benevolent, and if he did not he was not 







omnipotent ; and that we are made to cultivate 
our manhood, express our individuality, and 
study the secrets of nature. 

The believer suggests that it may be possi- 
ble we do not, as finite beings, understand all 
the mysteries in the nature of an infinite God ; 
that it is not to be wondered at if we must 
leave some points unexplained ; that this is 
perhaps a part of the discipline necessary to fit 
us for the eternal life. 

The unbeliever hastens to say that of the 
eternal life we know absolutely nothing, — we 
cannot conceive of either beginning or end ; 
that we are here and know it, but further than 
this we have no right to infer. We may cher- 
ish immortality only as a " solemn hope " (the 
believer's eyes fill, and he mentally ejaculates, 
" Poor fellow ! or we may expect to be as 
the beasts that perish, and live on in the forces 
of nature, and the resurrection of the seasons, 
and the memories of unborn generations, and 
so on, but that geology is making every hour 
discoveries which are to revolutionize belief; 
that hope, faith, love, and the. energies of im- 
agination are beautiful fancies, but rocks are 
facts, and therefore (as nearly as the believer 




can understand) he urges that we cling to the 
rocks. 

The believer suggests that rocks are cold 
comfort ; to the bereaved, for instance, or the 
remorseful. 

The unbeliever replies, vaguely, that he is 
not sure, either, that we comprehend the differ- 
ence between infinite or finite — Finite ? In- 
finite ? He is not certain that there is any in- 
finite, or that he himself, in short, is finite — 
but that science — And so on, and so on. 

Now, all this is firing wild. There is no 
gold in the target. There shows no target in 
the mist. If we set our aim in a fog-bank, 
who is to decide whether we have hit ? 

The believer may seek to " save " the unbe- 
liever in this fashion till " the eve of the day 
of the Last Awaking," — he will only irritate. 
The doubting may try to "reason" with the 
trusting on this wise, till his tongue returns to 
the dust that he claims his kin to, — he can 
only depress. The disputants have swerved 
from the most elementary of the principles of 
logic. They have discovered no major premise 
in common. They must agree upon something 
before they can disagree intelligently about 







anything. There can be no dispute without a 
basis of harmony. " We may never, perhaps," 
as Hamilton says, " arrive at truth, but we 
can always avoid self-contradiction." 

Let us now suppose, as it is the object of 
this paper to suggest, that these two equally 
earnest people ask of each other, at the outset 
of all sincere and serious discussion, one sim- 
ple question : What is a Fact f 

The believer, we will assume, happens to put 
the query. The unbeliever hesitates. Neither 
of the disputants are psychological scholars. 
Both are intelligently educated. The unbe- 
liever is the more accustomed of the two, 
probably, to sophistries of discussion. He 
perceives the importance of the point, and 
hesitates. It is one of the maxims of civil 
law that definitions are hazardous. After a 
thoughtful pause, he replies, with the blunt 
courage of common sense, which is quite as apt 
to hit the truth as the sharply refined point of 
the artist in philosophical language, that he 
should say a fact was a thing that could be 
verified. 

To this the believer, without hesitation, 
agrees. All he claims, he adds, is that religion 







is a matter of fact as well as science. Grant 
this, he urges, and we can pursue our discus- 
sion. Deny it, and the sooner we agree to dis- 
agree the better. The believers own vision 
has begun to clarify, with this closer exactness 
of definition, and his method of expression in- 
tensifies. 

The unbeliever replies, with animation, that 
it is impossible to put religion and science 
upon the same foot-hold. We have, he urges, 
reached the age of reason — at last. It is no 
longer practicable for intelligent men to bend 
their necks to the yoke of superstition. We 
deal no more with a realm of fancy. Jesus 
was a rhapsodist. Christianity was full of 
poetry. It appealed to the imaginative era. 
We have passed by the birth-time of great 
poets. Literature acknowledges it. We do 
not now write epics. We invent the phono- 
graph. Machinery, discovery, action, have 
replaced reverie, credulity, and dreams. We 
no longer pray. We telegraph. We have no 
time to sing psalms. We are engaged in the 
artificial propagation of fish. Why should we 
attend church when we can await the spon- 
taneous generation of animalcule in a bottle 
of boiled water ? 







At this point the listener smiles, and the 
speaker breaks off with some irritation. He 
sees nothing to smile at. He is very much 
in earnest. These are serious subjects which 
he has mentioned. He is indeed more logical 
than he had seemed, and abruptly turning 
upon his opponent says, — 

You ask me for my facts. I find them in 
the investigation of nature. Observe them. 
They alone are worthy of confidence. We 
seek, we study, we combine, we infer. The 
human mind was created — 

By whom ? interrupts the believer. 

Consistently, the unbeliever replies that he 
does not know. The powers of nature, for- 
merly called God, have not yet fully revealed 
themselves to our ken. I believe nothing that 
I do not understand. I will not accept what 
I cannot prove. This is the first duty of the 
human reason. Man should receive only what 
he knows. I find myself a mysterious being 
in a mysterious condition. My business is to 
investigate my condition. Whether there be 
another world is none of my concern. No eye 
has seen it, no foot has returned from it, no 
voice has spoken from it ; it is an absolutely 



unproved, and therefore unprovable, hypothe- 
sis. I find myself in the present world. I 
have occupation in the study of my limitations. 
There are mountains, the sea, the stars, the 
earth. There are geology, astronomy, the 
nautical sciences, the study of human diseases, 
the mysteries and cultus of the physical organ- 
ization. I learn from the fossil and the scal- 
pel. The telescope and the microscope, the 
chart and the battery, command my attention. 
These give me the undeniable. Exact inves- 
tigation presents me with my facts. Beyond 
a fact I am not justified in going. 

Where is God ? Can you handle him ? 
What is prayer ? Go weigh it for me ! An 
immortal soul ? My microscope has never re- 
vealed it. A fact is a thing revealed or reveal- 
able to my senses. Science alone is knowledge. 
Religion is superstition. Superstition is bond- 
age. I decline to be fettered. Christianity 
is slavery. I choose freedom. Exact thought 
is my master.  And thus, and thus, and thus. 

 "He could not accept Christianity ' said Renan of 
Spinoza (I quote from memory), at a celebration in honor 
of that philosopher's memory. " He could not thus surren- 
der his liberty. Descartes was his master "  




As the discussion waxes, the believer is op- 
pressed more and more with the hopelessness, 
but not the helplessness of his effort. In pro- 
portion as he learns the difficulty of dissuading 
a man from views hardened as they are ac- 
quired by the friction of dissent from heredi- 
tary faiths, he gains nerve for his own processes 
of thought, and muscle for his own maturing 
