them with light, throwing into cloudless relief the glorious heights and
the muttering depths. Last night she had dwelt on the heights, and in
that starry ether had given no glance to the yawning pits below. But
sleep had come; she had slid gently, unwittingly down; she had awakened
to find herself writhing on the sharp, jutting rocks of a rayless
cavern, on whose roof of sunset gold she had rambled for days and weeks
with a security which had in it the blindness of infatuation.

She marry Quintard and live with him as the woman he loved and honored
above all women! She try to scale those heights where was to be garnered
something better worth offering her lover than any stores in her own
sterile soul! That hideous, ineffaceable brand seemed scorching her
breast with letters of fire. If she had but half loved Cryder—but she
had not loved him for a moment. With her right hand she had cast the
veil over her eyes; with her left, she had fought away all promptings
that would have rent the veil in twain. Every moment, from beginning to
awakening, she had shut her ears to the voice which would have whispered
that her love was a deliberate delusion, created and developed by her
will. No! she had no excuse. She was a woman of brains; there was no
truth she might not have grasped had she chosen to turn her eyes and
face it.

She flung her arms over her head, grasping the fringes of the rug, and
twisting them into a shapeless mass. She moaned aloud in quick, short,
unconscious throbs of sound. She was five-and-twenty, and life was over.
She had wandered through long years in a wilderness as desolate as
night, and she had reached the gates of the city to find them shut. They
had opened for a moment and she had stood within them; then a hand had
flung her backward, and the great, golden portals had rushed together
with an impetus which welded them for all time. She made no excuses for
herself; she hurled no anathemas against fate. Her intellect had been
given to her to save her from the mistakes of foolish humanity, a lamp
to keep her out of the mud. She had shaded the lamp and gone down into
the mire. She had known by experience and by thought that no act of
man’s life passed without a scar; that the scars knit together and
formed the separate, indestructible constituent fibers of his character.
And each fiber influenced eternally the structure as a whole. She had
known this, and yet, without a glance into the future, without a stray
thought tossed to issues, she had burnt herself as indifferently as a
woman who has nothing to lose. It was true that great atonement was in
her power, that in a life’s reach of love and duty the scar would fade.
But that was not in the question. With such tragic natures there is no
medium. She could not see a year in the future that would not be haunted
with memories and regrets; an hour when that scar would not burn.

If life could not be perfect, she would have nothing less. She had dealt
her cards, she would accept the result. She had had it in her to enjoy a
happiness possible only to women of her intellect and temperament. She
had deliberately put happiness out of her life, and there could be but
one end to the matter.

She sprang to her feet. She had no tears, but it seemed as if something
had its teeth at her vitals and was tearing them as a tiger tears its
victim. She walked aimlessly up and down the room until exhausted, then
went mechanically to bed.

                 




                            CHAPTER XXXVII.


                    THE DOCTRINE OF THE INEVITABLE.

Late in the day her maid awoke her and said that Mrs. Dykman was
down-stairs.

Hermia hesitated; then she bade the girl bring the visitor up to her
boudoir. It was as well for several reasons that Mrs. Dykman should
know.

She thrust her feet into a pair of night-slippers, drew a dressing-gown
about her, and went into the next room. Mrs. Dykman, as she entered a
moment later, raised her level brows.

“Hermia!” she said, “what is the matter?”

Hermia glanced at herself in the mirror. She shuddered a little at her
reflection. “Several things,” she said, briefly. “Sit down.”

Mrs. Dykman, with an extremely uncomfortable sensation, took a chair. On
the occasion of her first long conversation with Hermia she had made up
her mind that her new-found relative would one day electrify the world
by some act which her family would strive to forget. How she wished
Hermia had been cast in that world’s conventional mold! It had come! She
was convinced of that, as she looked at Hermia’s face. What had she
done?

“I have something to tell you,” said Hermia; and then she stopped.

“Well?”

Mrs. Dykman uttered only one word; but before that calm, impassive
expectancy there was no retreat. She looked as immovable, yet as
compelling, as a sphinx.

Hermia told her story to the end. At so low an ebb was her vitality that
not a throb of excitement was in her voice.

When she had finished, Mrs. Dykman drew a breath of relief. It was all
very terrible, of course, but she had felt an indefinable dread of
something worse. She knew with whom she had to deal, however, and
decided upon her line of argument without the loss of a moment. For
Hermia to allow any barrier to stand between herself and Quintard was
ridiculous.

“It is a very unfortunate thing,” she said, in a tone intended to
impress Hermia with its lack of horror; “but has it occurred to you that
it could not be helped?”

“What do you mean?”

“Do you remember that for more years than you can count you nursed and
trained and hugged the idea of an adventurous love-affair? The moment
you got the necessary conditions you thought of nothing but of realizing
your dream. To have changed your ideas would have involved the changing
of your whole nature. The act was as inevitable as any minor act in life
which is the direct result of the act which preceded it. You could no
more have helped having an intrigue than you could help having typhoid
fever if your system were in the necessary condition. I think that is a
logical statement of the matter.”

“I do not deny it,” said Hermia indifferently; “but why was I so blind
as to mistake the wrong man for the right?”

“The men of your imagination were so far above reality that all men you
met were a disappointment. Cryder was the first who had any of the
qualities you demanded. And there was much about Cryder to please; he
was one of the most charming men I ever met. You found it delightful to
be with a man who, you thought, understood you, and whose mind was equal
to your own. You were lonely, too—you wanted a companion. If Quintard
had come first, there would have been no question of mistake; but, as
the case stands, it was perfectly natural for you to imagine yourself in
love with Cryder.”

Hermia turned her head listlessly against the back of the chair and
stared at the wall. It was all true; but what difference did it make?

Mrs. Dykman went on: “Moreover—although it is difficult for you to
accept such a truth in your present frame of mind—the affair did you
good, and your chances of happiness are greater than if you took into
matrimony neither experience nor the memory of mistakes. If you had met
Quintard first and married him, you would have carried with you through
life the regret that you had never realized your wayward dreams. You
would have continued to invest an intrigue with all the romance of your
imagination; now you know exactly how little there is in it. What is
more, you have learned something of the difference in men, and will be
able to appreciate a man like Quintard. You will realize how few men
there are in the world who satisfy all the wants of a woman’s nature.
There is no effect in a picture without both light and shade. The life
you will have with Quintard will be the more complete and beautiful by
its contrast to the emptiness and baldness of your attempt with Cryder.”

Hermia placed her elbows on her knees and pressed her hands against her
face. “You are appealing to my intellect,” she said; “and what you say
is very clever, and worthy of you. But, if I had met Quintard in time,
he would have dispelled all my false illusions and made me more than
content with what he offered in return. No, I have made a horrible
mistake, and no logic will help me.”

“But look at another side of the question. You have given yourself to
one man; Heaven knows how many love affairs Grettan Quintard has had.
You know this; you heard him acknowledge it in so many words. And yet
you find no fault with him. Why, then, is your one indiscretion so much
greater than his many? Your life until you met Quintard was your own to
do with as it pleased you. If you chose to take the same privilege that
the social code allows to men, the relative sin is very small; about
positive right and wrong I do not pretend to know anything. With the
uneven standard of morality set up by the world and by religion, who
does? But relatively you are so much less guilty than Quintard that the
matter is hardly worth discussing. And, if he never discovers that you
give him less than he believes, it will not hurt him. When you are
older, you will have a less tender regard for men than you have to-day.”

Hermia leaned back and sighed heavily. “Oh, it is not the abstract sin,”
she said. “It is that it was, and that now I love.”

“Hermia,” said Mrs. Dykman, sternly, “this is unworthy of a woman of
your brains and character. You have the strongest will of any woman I
have ever known; take your past by the throat and put it behind you.
Stifle it and forget it. You have the power, and you must surely have
the desire.”

“No,” said Hermia, “I have neither the power nor the desire. That is the
one thing in my life beyond the control of my will.”

“Then there is but one thing that will bring back your normal frame of
mind, and that is change. I will give you a summer in London and a
winter in Paris. I promise that at the end of that time you will marry
Quintard.”

“Well,” said Hermia, listlessly, “I will think of it.” She was beginning
to wish her aunt would go. She had made her more disgusted with life
than ever.

Mrs. Dykman divined that it was time to leave the girl alone, and rose.
She hesitated a moment and then placed her hand on Hermia’s shoulder. “I
have had every experience that life offers to women,” she said—and for
the first time in Hermia’s knowledge of her those even tones
deepened—“every tragedy, every comedy, every bitterness, every
joy—everything. Therefore, my advice has its worth. There is little
in life—make the most of that little when you find it. You are facing a
problem that more than one woman has faced before, and you will work it
out as other women have done. It was never intended that a life-time of
suffering should be the result of one mistake.” Then she gathered her
wraps about her and left the room.

Shortly after, Hermia drove down to her lawyer’s office and made a will.
She left bequests to Helen Simms and Miss Newton, and divided the bulk
of her property between Bessie, Miss Starbruck, and Mrs. Dykman.

                 




                            CHAPTER XXXVIII.


                         BETWEEN DAY AND NIGHT.

Hermia sat by the window waiting for Quintard. It was the saddest hour
of the day—that hour of dusk when the lamplighter trudges on his
rounds. How many women have sat in their darkening rooms at that hour
with their brows against the glass and watched their memories rise and
sing a dirge! Even a child—if it be a woman-child—is oppressed in that
shadow-haunted land between day and night, for the sadness of the future
is on her. It is the hour when souls in their strain feel that the
tension must snap; when tortured hearts send their cries through
forbidding brains. The sun has gone, the lamps are unlit, the shadows
lord and mock until they are blotted out under falling tears.

Hermia rose suddenly and left the room. She went into the dining-room
and drank a glass of sherry. She wore a black gown, and her face was as
wan as the white-faced sky; but in a moment the wine brought color to
her lips and cheeks. Then she went into the jungle and lit the lamps.

She was standing by one of the date-trees as Quintard entered. As he
came up to her he took her hand in both his own, but he did not kiss
her; he almost dreaded a renewal of last night’s excitement. Hermia,
moreover, was a woman whose moods must be respected; she did not look as
if she were ready to be kissed.

“Are you ill?” he asked, with a tenderness in his voice which made her
set her teeth. “Your eyes are hollow. I am afraid you did not sleep.
I”—the dark color coming under his skin—“did not sleep either.”

“I slept,” said Hermia—“a little; but I have a headache.”

They went to the end of the room and sat down, she on the bank, he
opposite, on a seat made to represent a hollowed stump.

They talked of many things, as lovers do in those intervals between the
end of one whirlwind and the half-feared, half-longed-for beginning of
another. He told her that the Poet’s Club, after a mighty battle which
had threatened disruption, had formally elected him a member. Word had
been sent to his rooms late in the afternoon. Then he told her that they
were to be married on Thursday, and to sail for Europe in the early
morning on his yacht. He spoke of the places they would visit, the old
cities he had loved to roam about alone, where idle talk would have
shattered the charm. And he would take her into the heart of nature and
teach her to forget that the world of men existed. And the sea—they
both loved the sea better than all. He would teach her how every ocean,
every river, every stream spoke a language of its own, and told legends
that put to shame those of forest and mountain, village and wilderness.
They would lie on the sands and listen to the deep, steady voice of the
ocean telling the secrets she carried in her stormy heart—secrets that
were safe save when some mortal tuned his ear to her tongue. He threw
back his head and quoted lingeringly from the divinest words that have
ever been written about the sea:

        “Mother of loves that are swift to fade,
          Mother of mutable winds and hours,
        A barren mother, a mother-maid,
          Cold and clean as her faint, salt flowers.
        I would we twain were even as she,
        Lost in the night and the light of the sea,
        Where faint sounds falter and wan beams wade,
          Break and are broken, and shed into showers.

            *    *    *    *    *    *    *

        “O tender-hearted, O perfect lover,
          Thy lips are bitter, and sweet thine heart.
        The hopes that hurt and the dreams that hover,
          Shall they not vanish away and apart?
        But thou, thou art sure, thou art older than earth;
        Thou art strong for death and fruitful of birth;
        Thy depths conceal and thy gulfs discover;
          From the first thou wert; in the end thou art.”

Hermia leaned forward and pressed her hands into his. “Come!” she said.

He dropped on the cushion beside her and caught her to him in an embrace
that hurt her; and under his kiss the coming hour was forgotten.

After a time he pushed her back among the cushions and pressed his lips
to her throat. Suddenly he stood up. “I am going,” he said. “We will be
