a cannon very readily, but had never had the good fortune 
to assist in a battle, although we had coasted along the 
French coast for a long time, and had captured seventeen 
ships, which surrendered without any resistance. We now 
returned back to Portsmouth harbor, and my master, to 
my great delight, carried me with him to the capital, 
which I had long desired to see. But my curiosity was 
destined not to be satisfied, for I had been seized with very 
painful chillblains in the cold climate to which I was so 
flnaccustomed, and they grew so much worse that I had to 
be carried to a hospital, where the evil increased to such a 
degree that the physicians feared mortification, and tried 
to persuade me to have my leg amputated ; but I obsti- 
nately refused to submit to the operation, declaring that I 
would rather die. My leg grew better at last without it. 
but just as I began to recover, I took the small-pox, and 
was obliged to keep my bed again. 
I grew quite well, however, in a few months, and went 
to my master, who had been appointed first lieutenant on 
board a ship of war of fifty guns. A few days after wa 
had set sail, an event occurred so sad in its warning, that 
it is yet indelibly impressed upon my memory. A young 
man, who was looking from the mast head one morningi 
for some trifle, cursed his eyes in the usual thoughtlesi 
way common on board of the ship. Scarcely had the 
curse left his lips, when a little grain of dust flew into his 
left eye ; by evening it was violently inflamed, the next 
day it was much worse, and in a week he had lost it 
entirely. 
Our vessel now joined a large squadron, and I saw my 
long cherished desire to witness a sea-fight about to be 
gratified, for one morning we discovered a division of the 
hostile fleet several miles before us. Although it was 
greatly our superior in strength, we immediately gave 
chase, and came up with it in the afternoon. Our vessel 
sailed directly past the whole hostile fleet in order to come 
up with the admiral's ship, which was at the head, and 
carried eighty-four guns. ' Although we were fired upon 
repeatedly, we could not return the fire without the cap- 
tain's orders, but were obliged to lie down flat upon the 
decks, until we came opposite to the admiral's ship, when we 
sprang up and gave him a broad-side. Our fire was imme- 
diately returned, and a fierce battle ensued, which lasted a 
long time. Deafened by the roar of the cannon, I stood 
still, trembling, and saw my companions falling on all 
sides ; at last the line of the enemy's fleet was broken and 
the victory was ours. This was announced by a loud 
" huzza" fi:om our men. We captured three vessels ; the 
rest crowded sail and took to flight ; we followed and drove
them on the coast of France where they were wrecked 
The admiral's ship took fire and blew up in the night
with a frightful noise. I never saw a more terrible sight 
for the space of one minute, thei dark night was changed 
to clearest day, and a rolling crash, louder and more di» 
tinct than thunder, threatened to overthrow and shatter 
every thing around us. My post during the fight was on 
the middle deck, where it was my duty to supply one of the 
cannons with powder. Fortunately, I escaped unwounded, 
although the balls fell thick around me, and some of my 
companions fell by my side, literally cut to pieces. My 
master had been wounded and carried down to the physi- 
cian, and although I was most anxious about him and 
longed to go to his assistance, I dared not leave my post, 
where I was for more than a half an hour in danger of 
instant death. In many cases the bottom of the cartridge 
boxes was rusted through, and the powder from the maga- 
zine was all over the deck, so that we could scarcely pre- 
vent it from taking fire. My duty exposed me more than 
any other to the enemy's fire, for I had to ruij nearly the 
whole length of the ship to bring powder. At first I was 
as prudent as possible, and only ran just after the enemy 
had fired, but I soon found all precaution useless ; the 
thought that the hour of my death was as certain as the 
hour of my birth, relieved me from all fear, and I contin- 
ued my dangerous employment with renewed courage. 
As our vessel had sufiered greatly in the battle, and we 
tad many wounded on board, we returned to the Thames, 
where I again stayed with my master in the family of one 
of his friends. I had now become quite a different per- 
son; the manners and customs of my new fellows no 
jonger filled me with fear and dismay. I no longer re- 
garded the whites as spirits, but as mere human beings, 
and I was very anxious to resemble them as much as pos- 
sible. I had long wished to be able to read and write, and 
had often endeavored to learn, but I had not made much 
progress. Now that I was living in London I made known 
this desire to the family with whom we were staying, and 
they immediately sent me to school. As the ladies of this 
family were continually telling me that I could never get 
to heaven if I were not baptized I became very anxious 
again, for I had a very dim idea of a future state. I at 
last disclosed my anxiety to my master, and requested that 
I might be baptized ; this he refused me for a long time 
and his consent was only obtained at last through the 
intercession of one of the family, to whom he considered 
himself under great obligations. 
The cause of this singular behaviour was soon clear to 
me, and destroyed the good opinion I had formed of the 
whites. 
Hitherto, it is true, my master had treated me with 
great kindness, although as it now appeared, from motives 
of self-interest. As soon as peace was concluded, he tried 
to sell me for the highest price he could procure. One day 
he took me on board of a ship which was about to sail for 
the West Indies, and carried me to the captain in the cabin. 
The captain asked me whether I knew him, and when I" 
replied in the negative, said, "Well, you are my slave 
now." I declared that my master could not sell me either 
to him or to any one else. 
" How so ?" he asked ; " did not your master buy 
you?" 
" Certainly," I replied, " but I have now been several 
years in his service, and he has in his possession all the 
prize money that I gained in the war. I have never had 
a penny of it ; besides I am baptized, and according to 
the laws of the land no one has any right to sell me." 
The captain told me that any one who had put such 
nonsense into my head, had been making game of me, but 
I answered boldly that it was strange if other people did 
not know what law was as well as he. Then he told me 
Boughly, that I talked too much, and that if I was not 
quiet and obedient, he had a quick way of making me so. 
I was too well convinced of his power over me to doubt 
what he said; the horrors that I had formerly endured on 
board of the slaver, occurred to my mind, and made me 
shudder. I said that I knew well that there was no jus- 
tice for me among men, but that I hoped to find it in 
heaven, and then left the cabin, plunged in the deepest 
grief My master then took from me my only coat, and 
without deigning even to look at me, got into his boat and 
sailed away. I followed the retreating boat with a tearful 
gaze, as long as it was in eight, and when it vanished from 
tny gaze, I threw myself upon the deck, and gave myself 
up to the utter despair that filled my soul. 
Thus far we have the poor negro boy's recital written by 
his own hand. He made many voyages to the West In- 
dies, and other countries, under various masters, and at 
last succeeded in saving money enough to purchase his 
freedom. Then he retired to London, where by unceasing 
industry and enterprise, he became quite a wealthy man 
At his death he left his considerable property to be dev* 
ted to the education of kidnapped negro children. 
The Caucasus, a chain of high, rugged mountains, whose 
Aimmits are covered with eternal snows, extend from the 
Caspian to the Black sea, a distance of one hundred and 
fifty miles. In wild and romantic scenery, calculated to 
awake admiration of nature in her most picturesque as 
well as sublimest form, they surpass the better known 
Alps and far-famed Pyrenees. Between their snow-clad 
summits are stretched immense fields of ice, and from the 
glaciers foaming cataracts dash down upon the rocks below, 
and losing their icy coldness as they proceed, the torrents 
are at length changed into calm brooks that wind like a 
thread of silver through the smiling vallies at their base. 
The steep dechvities are clothed with dark and tangled 
forests, with many a fruitful valley spread between 
For the protection of travellers on the highway which 
passes through these mountains, the Russians have estab- 
lished a chain of fortresses at certain distances along it j 
without this precaution there could be no escape from the 
marauding exactions of the robber chiefs, who dwell upon 
their rocky borders. No one journeys singly, but as in 
lands farther to the east, each one delays setting out until 
a caravan is ready. Accommodating their day's march to 
reach one of these forts by night, where they remain until 
morning, when they set out guarded by a convoy of 
mounted Cossacks, and a band of foot soldiers, until they 
reach the next, where the same routine is observed. The 
road at first winds through narrow passes and deep defiles, 
where on one side the turbid Terek roars and rushes, while 
the steep rocky walls of the other are clothed with dark 
woods, between the trees of which frowning clifis, beetling 
over the flood, threaten every moment to hurl their rocky 
masses into its foaming waters. The frightful sounds of 
the torrents as they dash from one precipice to another, 
and the mountain brooks as they burst through every 
obstacle that opposes their progress, the gloomy shadows 
of the forest through whose interlacing branches no sun- 
beam ever reaches the earth, or illumines the dreary 
mountain pass, the hoarse roar of the river as he urges 
his wild flood in rapid progress over rock and fallen tree, 
the shriek of ravenous birds, and the dread of a lurking 
enemy, fill the traveller's mind with terror and sad fore- 
boding. At length he ascent begins ; he leaves the dusky 
valley and the frightful Terek; the forests become less 
frequent and less dense, and rising to a higher region, he 
finds himself in a wide amphitheatre encircled by rocks. 
The higher he ascends, the grander the prospect becomes, 
chaotic confusion tells of the wonders of nature, and shows 
to man his own insignificance. Huge blocks of mountain 
stone are piled upon each other, pillar-like, as if to reach 
the clouds ; some looking loose and far from perpendicular, 
eeem almost to waver in the air, threatening to crush the 
illimitable sea around him, and if so happy as to pass them 
safely, the remainder of the journey is then pleasantly 
pursued through the valley that forms the entrance to the 
blooming and fertile land of Georgia. As he continues to 
descend, the air grows milder, the vegetation more luxuri 
ant. Meadows clothed with richest green, gardens bloom- 
ing with flowers, and fruit-laden orchards, cheer the eye 
of the traveller who less than twenty-four hours previous 
had been encompassed by icy winter, and spreading out a 
landscape of glowing beauty, fill his soul with rapture. 
The countries bordering on these stupendous mountains 
are inhabited by a warhke and freedom-loving people, and 
although living under separate governments, are known by 
the general name of Caucasians. They are, however, the 
bibjects of different dynasties, the most powerful among 
them being the Circassians. They are remarkable for 
beauty and strength of person, but disdaining the drudgery 
of agriculture, their favorite pursuits are robbery, the 
chase, and war. In open fight they are dangerous ene- ' 
mies, from their unerring aim as marksmen ; in the clefts 
of the rocks, or gorges of their native hills, they are invin- 
cible. The Russians, since adding the whole region of the 
Caucasus to their vast empire, have been attempting to 
subdue them ; although many years have passed the eflFort 
has been in vain. All they have been able to accomplish 
is the exaction of a mere form of submission, and by those 
fortresses along the road, where strong garrisons are con- 
stantly maintained, to keep guard over travellers, and 
 
shield the agricultural community from the aggressions of 
these indomitable children of the soil. 
Among the Circassian chieftains, no one was more dis« 
tinguished for intrepidity and daring than Mansur Bey. 
One of his relations had been taken prisoner by a party 
jf Russian soldiers, and carried to one of the fortresses, 
Inhere he was treated hardly. He sought to escape, but 
was recaptured, and put to death. When Mansur Bey 
feeard what had been done, he swore a fearful oath that he 
would exact blood for blood ; nothing would satisfy him 
but to kill the commander with his own hand. Placing 
nimself at the head of a small troop of followers, he sal- 
lied forth, and attacked the fortress. But owing to its ad 
vantageous position, and the strength of the garrison, it was 
almost impregnable ; it was impossible to take it by storm, 
and the Russians kept too close a watch to be overcome by 
any stratagem. The besiegers were obliged to retreat with 
great loss. Mansur Bey, still more embittered by the 
failure of his project, renewed his oath, and set all his wits 
to work in order to decoy the commandant from the 
strong-hold. His plan was certainly a most daring one, 
and fraught with danger to himself, for he staked his own 
iife on the game he was about to play, but he was willing 
to risk every thing rather than forego his determination 
of revenge. 
After disclosing his plan to his followers, he again ap- 
proached the fortress, fired several shots against it and 
then rode off at full gallop. He next pretended to reel in 
his saddle, and at last fell from his horse, thus making 
it appear that he had been wounded by one of the many 
 
)ullet<s sent by the besieged in answer to his own. His 
nilitary bearing, his rich equipment, his garments of mail, 
ind the boldness with which he acted throughout the 
rfhole of the war, induced the Russians to suspect— for 
;hey did not know him — that he was some distinguished 
!,hieftain. No sooner was he seen to fall than the com- 
nandant of the fortress, against all rules of prudence, came 
brth with a few riders, and dashed boldly up to the sup- 
posed wounded man, in order to take him whom they sup- 
posed to be a prize, prisoner. As they came up to the 
ipot where Mansur Bey was lying, he raised, himself up 
md with a sudden spring mounted up behind the Russian 
)flficer who was foremost of the party. Seizing him by the 
;hroat and tearing the bridle from his hand, he guided the 
mimal with his prisoner to the place where his compan- 
ons were in waiting. All this was done so quickly that 
jefore the Russian soldiers had time to think, it was too 
ate to attempt the rescue of the commandant; before 
ihey recovered from their astonishment the Circassians 
md the prisoner had disappeared. After a rapid ride of 
;ome miles, they made a halt. Mansur Bey ordered the 
Russian commandant to be brought before him, reproached 
lim with the murder of his kinsman, heaped terms of 
ibloquy upon him, and ordering him to be disrobed, 
vith one stroke of his sword severed his head from its 
runk. He carried this bloody trophy of his cunning and 
)ravery, back with him to his fastness in the mountains, 
eaving the body to be torn to pieces by the wolves and 
jackals. 
Such audacity on the part of the Circassians, drove, the 
 
Russians on their part, to deeds of similar boldness, such 
as in another war they found it hard to meet. Therefore, 
when the Russians fell into the power of this ruthless and 
vindictive enemy, made much more bitter by successful op- 
position, they knew a horrible lot was sure to be theirs, and 
60 they on their part shunned no medium, however cruel, 
to avoid being taken prisoners. A few years ago, an offi- 
cer bearing despatches of importance, was sent to the near- 
est fortress ; a detachment of Cossacks accompanied him. 
They passed over the first part of the road without meet- 
ing with any thing to disturb them ; but scarcely had they 
entered the next defile, when many shots were fired from 
a party under covert, upon the Russians, " I had just 
called out to my men," said the officer, in relating the 
occurrence, " to follow me, when a ball struck and wounded 
me, breaking both arms. I looked around and saw most of 
