since his arrival until, as he admitted, he was quite ashamed of the
lack of respect due his uncle. It was a bright, clear winter day, with a
sky of wonderful blue, against which the distant trees stood out
distinctly, the hemlocks looking almost black against it. The soldiers'
barracks stretched out, giving a strange appearance to the once peaceful
city. Groups of men were lounging idly about, and confusion seemed to
predominate. But they soon left the city behind them, and rode along the
Schuylkill, where the wintry landscape, leafless trees, and denuded
cornfields met their glance, dreary now, but to be ruinous by and by.
Primrose had a pony of her own and rode beside her aunt, with her
brother as her guard, while Lieutenant Vane was her aunt's escort.
Primrose wore a blue cloth coat and skirt, trimmed with fur, and her
white beaver hat was tied under her chin. Many women used a thin, silken
sort of mask to protect their complexion from wind and dust, but Madam
Wetherill had discarded it and did not always insist upon Primrose
wearing one.
Many of the beautiful houses destroyed later on were standing now. A few
had been taken as outposts for the army, others looked lonely enough
closed for the season, as it had not been considered prudent to leave
even the farmer in charge, after the battle of Germantown.
"Primrose does credit to someone's training," Captain Nevitt remarked.
"Is it a long ride?"
"We are used to this fashion of getting about and hardly think of
fatigue. It would be a poor weakling who could not stand a few miles.
The roads are rough for the chaise."
How pretty she looked in her white and blue. She smiled at him. They had
been quite good friends since the night of the dance, though there had
been no opportunity of teasing each other.
But she was not thinking of his regard nor his pleasure just now. She
seemed to have changed mysteriously, to have grown out of careless
childhood, and taken a great deal of thought about the country. When
she remembered that General Howe had come with his army to subdue it and
that her brother was in the soldiery she shrank from him. How could she
love him? He had pleaded for her sweet mother's sake, and that touched
her inmost soul.
She had listened with frightened eyes and a breathless throbbing of the
heart to the account of the battle of Germantown, and her fears for her
beloved country often outran her hopes when she had a quiet time to
think. The servants had been forbidden to tell her the more awesome part
of it, only she knew General Washington had been beaten and forced to
retreat, and the British hailed it as a great victory.
The young lieutenant and the stately dame found many things to talk
about, as well-bred people often do, skirting over the thin places, for
by this time he understood that madam's heart was not on the English
side. But he was confident when it was all over that she would accept
defeat gracefully.
The ascent from the city was gradual. In the distance they noted the
small gray stone houses, looking frosty in the wintry air, with here and
there a larger one, like the Chew House, to be famous long afterward in
history. Then they turned aside and lost sight of it. Captain Nevitt
thought he would like to have been in the fray, but he did not say so.
"Thou art very quiet, little one. I have heard people offer a penny for
one's thoughts, a big English penny," smilingly.
"Mine do not go as cheap as that," answered the maiden.
"A crown, then?"
"I do not think I will sell them."
"Thou art not very much in love with the cousins?" he said presently.
She colored quickly and turned her face to him, quite unaware of
betrayal until he laughed.
"Ah, I have thy thoughts without the penny! Is it the tall Quaker cousin
madam talks about, or the other--William Penn?"
"His name is simply Penn, Penn Morgan. And he is not an own cousin.
Surely it is not strange if I did think about them."
"Do not be offended. I shall like them if they have thy affection."
"Thou hast small mind of thy own if thou takest a girl's whims for thy
pattern," she answered with a show of disdain. "Whether I like them or
not is my own affair. And Patty declares I change about with every puff
of wind."
"Nay, I shall not believe that until I follow the changes, or they are
made in my behalf."
"Oh, you know why I am cross to you! I cannot like a redcoat! But
because my own mamma loved you----"
"Primrose, thou art quite too peppery in temper with thy brother,"
interrupted Madam Wetherill gently. "The Henrys will think I have
indulged thee ruinously."
She looked up laughingly. The soft yellow hair was blown about her like
a cloud, and the great bow under her chin gave her a coquettish air.
What a changeful little sprite she was!
They were coming in sight of the great barns and outhouses for the
cattle, and nestled down among them was the house, looking really
smaller. A line of blue smoke from the chimney was floating over to the
west, betokening a storm wind not far off. Someone was coming from the
barn, a stoutish man who walked with a cane, and paused to wonder at the
party.
"That is your uncle, your father's brother," said Madam Wetherill.
CHAPTER XIII.
UNDER THE ROSE.
Madam Wetherill made her brief explanation to show why she had ventured
to bring two dashing redcoats, in their military trappings, to the home
of the plain Quaker. James Henry looked at his nephew with many lines of
doubt in his face and evident disapprobation.
"I have planned for the last two years to come over," said the winsome
voice with the sound of glad, merry youth in it that jarred on the
sedateness of his listener. "I was waiting for a promotion, and then had
permission from the King to join General Howe. So I found him in
possession of my native city, and in short order I discovered my little
sister."
"We are men of peace," returned his uncle gravely. "William Penn founded
his colony on the cornerstones of peace and equity, and all we ask is to
live undisturbed and away from carnal pleasures and the wanton
fripperies of the world. And it pains me to see Philemon Henry's son
come among us in the habiliments of war. Still I suppose thou must do
thy duty to thy Master, the King, since thou hast strayed from thy
father's faith. There is no discipline now for children, and they follow
evil counsel as they will."
"It was my father's will rather than mine. I remember, big boy that I
was, crying many a night on shipboard for my stepmother's affection and
kisses."
"It was an error of judgment, and he hath no doubt bewailed his mistake
if it is given us to sorrow in the next world. But come in. And though
thou art of the world, worldly, there is much in kindred blood. Come in
and take welcome among us."
The keeping room was cheerful with a great fire of logs in the wide
stone chimney-place. There was a spicy fragrance of pine knots and
hemlock. In one corner Rachel Morgan sat at her spinning wheel, with a
woman's cap upon her head, and a bit of thin white muslin crossed inside
her frock at the neck; a full-fledged Quaker girl, with certain lines of
severity hardly meet for so young a face. Mother Lois sat beside the
fire knitting. She had never been quite so strong since her fever, and
Faith had a basket of woolen pieces out of which she was patching some
shapely blocks for a bed comfort.
She sprang up with a face full of joy. The summers were not so bad, but
she dreaded the long, dreary winters when she had to stay indoors and
sew and spin, with none of her own years to speak with.
"Oh, Primrose! And is it really thy brother? What a pretty habit thou
hast with all the fur, and the hat makes a picture of thee! There is one
upstairs of a great-grandmother, and thou lookest like it, but it
belongs to Andrew and not to our side, and," lowering her voice, "Uncle
Henry thinks it vain. Andrew wanted it in his room, but uncle would not
listen. Oh, I am so glad to see thee. I am so lonely," piteously.
The little Quaker girl in her sudden delight had forgotten her superior
virtue. Her eyes fairly danced as they devoured Primrose. All the others
seemed talking and explaining, so she had dared to step over the traces
in the din.
"We have some odd old portraits in Arch Street. If thou couldst visit
me, Faith!"
"Faith," said her uncle, "go and call Andrew. I left him threshing in
the farther barn."
Faith rose with sober gravity, running her needle through the patch, and
walked placidly through the room, though she had telegraphed to Primrose
with her eye. And just as she opened the door Primrose gathered up her
skirts and, saying, "I will go, too," flashed along before anyone could
frame a remonstrance.
"I wish thou wert here--nay, not that, for thou would be kept straitly,
and there would be no pleasure. Rachel has grown severe, and works so
much at her outfitting, for she means to be married sometime."
"Who will she marry?" There seemed no one besides Andrew, and the
child's heart made a sudden fierce protest.
"Oh, I do not know. William Frost hath walked home with her when the
meetings were at Friend Lester's. All girls marry, I think, and I shall
be glad enough when my time comes. If it were not for Andrew I hardly
know what would become of me. He is so good. He reads curious books and
tells them to me. And sometimes there are verses that I want to sing,
they are so sweet--but such things are wrong. Andrew! Nay, hide here,
Primrose," pushing her in a corner. "Andrew, guess what has happened,
and who hath come! An elegant soldier in scarlet and gold,
and--and--someone thou lovest. I was mad one day when I said I hated
her----"
"Not Primrose!" in a surprised but gladsome tone.
There was a swift rush and Primrose was in his arms. He did not kiss
her, but held her so tightly that she could feel his strong heart beat.
"Truly, Faith, thou didst not hate me?" she said when released, turning
to the girl.
The maiden's face was scarlet.
"She does not hate thee now, dear," said Andrew softly.
"It was most wicked and hateful! Thou hadst so many joys and pretty
things and lessons, and a beautiful face, and then Andrew said thou
didst have the sweetest big heart in all the world and could love me and
would be glad to share thy joys with me. Is it so, Primrose?"
Primrose clasped her in her arms and kissed her many times.
"I wish thou could come. There are so many things, and it makes no one
poorer by sharing them."
"And then I learned to love thee. We talk of thee until at night, when I
shut my eyes and draw the coverlid about me, I can see thee like a star
coming out in the blue. And Andrew thinks sometime he may take me in on
market day, when the spring opens, for I would like to see the great
city. And thou might come to meet us. I think Aunt Lois and Rachel would
be angry if I went to Madam Wetherill's. But I am forgetting. Thou hast
a soldier cousin, Andrew."
"He is my brother," explained Primrose with curious dignity. "And--I do
not like him to be a King's soldier."
Andrew gave a long whistle of amazement, and studied Primrose so keenly
that she flushed.
"Thy brother? Of course, then, being Uncle Philemon's son he is my
cousin. Is he not Lord somebody?"
"He is Captain Nevitt. And at times I love him, but he teases and
threatens to take me to England, and--and he is to fight our soldiers.
It does not seem right, then, to love him at all. Andrew," looking up
out of the softly radiant eyes, "I wish thou wert in his stead."
Andrew Henry was satisfied then. For an instant his soul had been wrung
with jealousy. But his look of tender regard answered hers and both
understood.
"And I must go see this British cousin. Faith, hand me that brush, even
if it does get used at times on Dobbin's sleek coat."
He brushed the dust of the grain out of his clothes and gave his hair a
stir with his fingers.
"And Primrose hath a pony!" cried Faith. "It is pretty, with great, soft
eyes! Next summer I shall learn to ride."
She caught the hand of her visitor and pressed it with pervading
rapture. Primrose wondered how she could have grown so different.
"Thou hast stayed finely!" said Rachel reprovingly. "It is ever the way
when two do an errand. And Madam Wetherill will take dinner with us, it
is so near noon. The horses must be put out, and Penn and Jonas are down
in the wood lot. Go to the kitchen and help Chloe."
There were tears in Faith's eyes, but she dared not even loiter, for
Rachel's hand was not light when it came with a box on the ear. There
were so few visitors at the house that this was a great treat, and Faith
hated to be shut out.
Philemon Nevitt surveyed his cousin with some curiosity and decided
that the plain young Quaker farmer was no great rival after all in his
young sister's favor. For he was not likely to fight for his country,
the great test Primrose seemed to require. But when Andrew went out to
care for the horses the two young men asked permission to leave the
ladies and take a look around.
"The country surprises me," declared Captain Nevitt. "We have heard much
talk about the wilderness and the forests, and the few towns such as
Penn's Colony, which is a much greater city than one could imagine. And
there is the town the Dutch started, New York, and the Puritan Boston,
beside many lesser places that must show wonderful capacity for settling
the New World. There are industries, too, that have amazed me. 'Tis a
great pity a people doing so well should rebel against all law and
order, and be willing to have their country destroyed rather than yield
while they have something to save."
"We shall not agree upon this matter," Andrew Henry replied with quiet
dignity. "And since we are of blood kin, we will not dispute. There are
other subjects of talk."
"But my uncle is strong for peace," in a tone of surprise.
"Yes. I, too, am for peace, unless manliness and honor goes not with it.
And when one has seen wrongs and usurpations creep in gradually, and
privileges taken away--but," checking himself, "I was not to discuss
such points. We are plain people but we may have some stock, and
browsing for it, that will interest thee."
The cattle were certainly fine and well fed. There were stacks of hay
and piles of Indian corn, great pits of vegetables, and potatoes enough
to feed an army, it seemed. Everything was so well kept, and there was a
great sheepfold with shelter for the flock in storm.
"And, now, which way retreated the rebels after their defeat?" asked
Captain Nevitt.
"They went on up the Schuylkill, on the other side, to Whitemarsh first,
and then to Valley Forge."
"A blacksmithy town?"
"There was once an old forge there. It is not a town."
"There seems many comfortable country houses about, as if there might be
gentry."
"Some of them now are filled with the wounded and the ill. They were
worth seeing in the summer."
Then they discussed horses and found the young Quaker no mean authority.
The horn blew to summon them within, where a bountiful feast was spread,
to which they all did ample justice and talked of family affairs.
Captain Nevitt had another view of his father from his brother's
comprehension of him, and though it was much narrower, not less
complimentary than that of Madam Wetherill. Certainly there was nothing
to regret on the Henry side. He was beginning to feel proud of these
clean, wholesome people of strong character.
When they had risen Madam Wetherill said they must leave presently. The
sky was getting to be rather lowering, with a grayish cloud in the south
that betokened snow, Friend Henry said.
"I will go out with thee, Andrew, and see about the horses," said the
lady.
"Nay," interposed Captain Nevitt smilingly. "It is hardly a lady's
business----"
"I have some privacy with Andrew," she returned. "I have had some useful
hints from him, young as he is, and you must know if women are not
equipped for soldiering, they make excellent farmers at times. But you
may all come, though if I extract any grand secret from Andrew as to how
to double the value of a crop next year, I shall not bruit it abroad, I
promise you."
Faith looked up wistfully.
"Child," she said, "thou and Primrose go take a little run in the keen
air. Thou art not very rosy for a farmer's maid, and Primrose hath been
housed overmuch of late, our streets are so full of roysterers."
"Faith hath some work----"
"Nay," interposed Madam Wetherill, "ten minutes' run will make her all
the brisker for work. Run along, children; and have a little visit with
each other."
There was something in Madam Wetherill not easily gainsaid. Rachel saved
up her displeasure for a scolding presently.
Andrew attended the lady to the stalls where the horses had been led.
"Thou hast not been in to market of late?"
"There had been so much disorder, and I believe a permit is needed. Then
there have been people about, buying up produce of all kinds."
"Dost thou know anything of the other army?" Her voice was very low.
"Somewhat," in a hesitating tone.
"They are likely to need many things. Howe's purpose to attack them was
frustrated by a timely warning. There may be other warnings as well, for
the army contains many braggarts. And their winter of dissipation, of
gambling and betting and carousing, will not fit them for a spring
campaign. I heard it said that Philadelphia was capturing them by
allurements, and it may be a poor victory for General Howe. I have a
faith--I cannot tell thee of any tangible groundwork, but I feel assured
we shall win."
"It is dark enough now."
"But there was the splendid capture of Burgoyne, and our army made much
richer by stores sorely needed. Canst thou get things to Valley Forge?"
"I know of someone who can," and he studied her eyes.
"Even if it is gold--British gold? It will not stick to anyone's
fingers?"
"I will warrant that," and the delight encouraged her.
"I have a small fund that will come in from time to time. Here is a
little bag. It is not much, but it will help. And if I could get needful
