said Captain Blowitt.

"I wish to add seriously, captain, as a friend and not as an officer,
I do not claim that the command of this expedition should be given to
me because I am first lieutenant of the Bronx, or for any other reason,"
added Christy with an earnest expression. "Perhaps it would be better to
give the command to the second lieutenant; and if you do so, I assure
you, upon my honor, that it will not produce a particle of feeling in my
mind. I shall honor, respect, and love you as I have always, Captain
Blowitt."

"My dear fellow, you are entirely misunderstanding me," protested the
commander, as earnestly as his subordinate had spoken. "I give you the
command of this expedition because I honestly and sincerely believe you
are the very best person on board to whom I can commit such a
responsibility."

"That is enough, captain, and a great deal more than you were under
any obligations to say to me; and I shall obey my orders with all the
prudence and discretion I can bring to bear upon them," said Christy,
taking the captain's offered hand. "If I fail it will not be because I
do not try to be prudent."

"There is such a thing as being too prudent, and I hope that nothing
which has been said to you by your father or by me will drive you to the
other extreme."

Though this conversation had at times been very animated, Christy was
glad that it had taken place, for it gave him a better insight into his
own standing than he had before. He did not look upon it as a very great
affair to command a couple of boats, in a night expedition, for he had
recently commanded two steamers, and brought them off victorious. He
had it in mind to ask the captain to send Flint in command of the
expedition, though it would compel him, on account of his rank, to
remain inactive on board of the Bronx; but he could not do this,
after what had been said, without leaving some evidence that he was
disaffected by what the commander had said to him about audacity.

It was found after a calculation of the run very carefully made that the
Bronx would arrive too soon at her destination, and she was slowed down
as the evening came on. In the ward room, of which Christy was now the
occupant of the forward berth on the starboard side, he studied the
chart with Amblen a good part of the waiting hours, and the executive
officer obtained all the information he could from the third lieutenant.
There were three principal keys, or cays, one of which, called the North
Key, was the nearest to the mainland, and was set in the mouth of a bay.
This was the nearest to the peninsula at the end of which the railroad
terminates. About southwest of it is the Seahorse Key, on which there is
a light in peaceful times. To the south of the point is the Snake Key,
and between the last two is the main channel to the port, which twists
about like the track of a snake. There is a town, or rather a village,
near the landing.

Six bells struck on deck, and all the officers, including the captain,
adjourned to the bridge, which was a useful institution on such
occasions as the present. A sharp watch had been kept by Lieutenant
Flint in charge; but though the night was clear, nothing had been made
out in the direction of the shore. All lights on board had been put out,
and the Bronx went along in the smooth sea as quietly as a lady on a
fashionable promenade, and it was not believed that anything could be
seen of her from the shore.

About midnight the lookout man aloft reported that he could see a
twinkling light. It was promptly investigated by Mr. Amblen, who went
aloft for the purpose. He was satisfied that it was a light in some
house in the village, probably in the upper story. It soon disappeared,
and it was thought to be occasioned by the late retiring of some person.

"I should say, Captain Blowitt, that we are not more than five miles
outside of Seahorse Key," said Mr. Amblen, after he had interpreted the
meaning of the light. "It is after midnight, and these people are not in
the habit of sitting up so late."

"If they are shipping much cotton from this port, it is not improbable
that there is a force here to protect the vessels, whatever they are,"
added the commander.

"Of that, of course, I can know nothing; but I shall expect to find a
Confederate battery somewhere on the point, and I know about where to
look for it."

"The place has never been of any great importance, and you can hardly
expect to find a very strong force in it," added the captain.

It has since become a place of more note, both as a resort for invalids
and pleasure-seekers, and as the termination of the railroad from
Fernandina and Jacksonville, and steamers have run regularly from the
port to Havana and New Orleans.

"If you will excuse me, Captain Blowitt, I should say that it was not
advisable to take the Bronx nearer than within about four miles of the
Seahorse Key," suggested Mr. Amblen.

"I was just thinking that we had gone as far as it is prudent to go.
Do you think you could take the Bronx up to the landing?" added the
captain.

"I am very sure that I could, for I have been in many a time on a darker
night than this."

"We will not go in to-night, but perhaps we may have occasion to do so
to-morrow. We shall know better what to do when we get a report of the
state of things in the place," replied the captain, as he gave the word
through the speaking tube to stop the steamer.

Christy had been given full powers to make all preparations for the boat
expedition, and was allowed ten men to each of the quarter boats. He had
selected the ones for his own boat, and had required Flint to pick his
own crew for the other. The oars had been carefully muffled by the
coxswains, for it was desirable that no alarm should be given in the
place. The starboard quarter boat was the first cutter, pulled by six
oars, and this was for Christy and Mr. Amblen, with the regular coxswain
and three hands in the bow. The second cutter was in charge of Mr.
Flint, and followed the other boat, keeping near enough to obtain her
course in the twists of the channel.

It was a long pull to the Seahorse Key, and a moderate stroke was taken
as well not to tire the men as to avoid all possible noise. When the
first cutter was abreast of the Key, the pilot pointed out the dark
outline of the peninsula, which was less than a mile distant. No vessel
could be seen; but the pilot thought they might be concealed by the
railroad buildings on the point. Christy asked where the battery was
which the pilot thought he could locate, and the spot was indicated to
him. Christy wanted a nearer view of it, and the cutter was headed in
that direction.




CHAPTER XXIII

THE VISIT TO A SHORE BATTERY


The first cutter reached the Seahorse Key closely followed by the
second. It was within an hour of high tide, the ordinary rise and fall
of which was two and a half feet. On the Key was a light house, and a
cottage for the keeper of it; but the former was no longer illuminated,
and the house was as dark as the head of the tower. So far as could be
discovered there was no one on the Key, though the boats did not stop to
investigate this matter. The crews still pulled a moderate stroke with
their muffled oars, the men were not allowed to talk, and everything was
as silent as the inside of a tomb.

The pilot stood up in the stern sheets of the cutter, gazing intently
in the direction of the point nearly a mile ahead. The outlines of the
buildings could be discerned, and Amblen soon declared that he could
make out the tops of the masts of several vessels to the westward of
the point with which the peninsula terminated. This looked hopeful, and
indicated that the information upon which the expedition had been sent
out was correct. Christy began to think he should have a busy night
before him when Amblen said there were at least three vessels at the
port.

The battery was first to be visited and cared for if there was one,
and it was not probable that a place so open to the operations of
the blockading force would be without one, especially if the people
were actually engaged in loading cotton, as the masts of the vessels
indicated, though the hulls could not yet be seen. As the first cutter
approached nearer to the place the outlines became more distinct, and
soon embodied themselves into definite objects. Both officers in the
stern sheets watched with the most anxious vigilance for any moving
object denoting the presence of life and intelligence.

As the boats came nearer to the shore, a breeze sprang up, and cooled
the air, for early as it was in the season, the weather was very warm,
and it was not uncommon for the thermometer to rise above ninety. These
breezes were usually present to cool the nights, and doubtless the
inhabitants slept the sounder for the one which had just begun to fan
the cheeks of the officers and seamen of the expedition.

"There is a battery there, Mr. Passford," said the pilot in a very low
tone. "I can make it out now, and it is just where I supposed it would
be."

"I can see something that seems like an earthwork at the right of the
buildings," added Christy. "Can you make out anything that looks like a
sentinel?"

"I can see nothing that denotes the presence of a man. If there were
a sentinel there, he would be on the top of the earthwork, or on the
highest ground about it, so that he could see out into the bay, for
there can be no danger from the land side of the place," added Amblen.

"I can hardly imagine such a thing as a battery without a sentinel to
give warning if anybody should try to carry it off. There must be a
sentry somewhere in the vicinity."

"I can't say there isn't, though I can't make out a man, or anything
that looks like one," replied the pilot.

"Very likely we shall soon wake him up, Mr. Amblen; and in that case it
will be necessary for us to find a safer place than in front of the guns
of the battery, for I do not feel at liberty to expose the men to the
fire of the works, whatever they are."

"All you have to do is to pull around to the other side of the point
into the bay, where the vessels are. I am confident there is no battery
on that side, and there can hardly be any need of one, for this one
commands the channel, the only approach to the place for a vessel larger
than a cutter."

"I fancy this battery does not amount to much, and is probably nothing
more than an earthwork, with a few field guns behind it. Suppose we
should wake it up, and have to make for the bay, can we get out of it
without putting the boats under the guns of the battery?"

"Without any difficulty at all, sir. We have only to pull around the
North Key, and pass out to the Gulf, beyond the reach of any field gun
that can be brought to bear on us," replied Mr. Amblen.

"If they have one or two field batteries here, they may hitch on the
horses, and follow us," suggested Christy, who, in spite of the audacity
with which he had been mildly charged, was not inclined to run into any
trap from which he could not readily withdraw his force.

"We shall have the short line, and if they pursue us with the guns, we
can retire by the way of the channel, which they will leave uncovered."

"We are getting quite near the shore," continued Christy. "How is the
water under us?"

"The bottom is sandy, and we shall take the ground before we reach the
shore if we don't manage properly. But we can tell something by the
mangroves that fringe the land," replied the pilot; "and I will go into
the bow of the cutter and look out for them."

Mr. Amblen made his way to the fore sheets, and asked Boxie, who was
there, for the boathook, with which he proceeded to sound. When he had
done so, he raised both his hands to a level with his shoulders, which
was the signal to go ahead, and the men pulled a very slow stroke. He
continued to sound, after he had selected the point for landing.

When the first cutter was within three lengths of the shore, he elevated
both his hands above his head, which was the signal to cease rowing,
though the two bow oarsmen kept their oars in the water instead of
boating them as the others did. Mr. Amblen continued to feel the way,
and in a few minutes more, aided by the shoving of the two bow oarsmen,
he brought the boat to the shore.

Then he gave his attention to the second cutter, bringing it to the
land alongside of the first. Stepping out on the sand himself, he
was followed by all the crew, with cutlass in hand, and revolvers in
readiness for use. The men were placed in order for an advance, and then
required to lie down on the sand, so that they could not readily be seen
if any stroller appeared on the ground.

Leaving the force in charge of Mr. Flint, Christy and Amblen walked
towards the battery, crouching behind such objects as they could
find that would conceal them in whole or in part. The earthwork was
semicircular in form, and was hardly more than a rifle pit. No sentinel
could be discovered, and getting down upon the sand, the two officers
crept cautiously towards the heaps of sand which formed the fort.

Christy climbed up the slope with some difficulty, for the dry sand
afforded a very weak foothold. On the top of it, which was about six
feet wide, they found a solid path which had evidently been a promenade
for sentinels or other persons. Behind it, on a wooden platform, were
four field guns, with depressions in the earthwork in front of the
muzzles.

Christy led the way down the slope on the inside to the pieces, which
were twelve-pounders. At a little distance from the platform was a sort
of casemate, which might have been constructed for a magazine, or for a
place of resort for the gunners if the fort should be bombarded. Not a
man could be seen, and if there was any garrison for the place, they
were certainly taking things very comfortably, for they must have been
asleep at this unseemly hour for any ordinary occupation.

Not far from the battery was a rude structure, hardly better than a
shanty, which Christy concluded must be the barracks of the soldiers if
there were any there. He walked over to it; but there was not a human
being to be seen in the vicinity. It was half past one at night, when
honest people ought to be abed and asleep, and the first lieutenant of
the Bronx concluded that the garrison, if this shanty was their
quarters, must be honest people.

Christy walked very cautiously to the side of the building, for the
entrance was at the end nearest to the fort, and found several windows
there, from which the sashes seemed to have been removed, if there had
ever been any. The bottom of each opening was no higher than his head,
and he went to one of them and looked in.

Extending along the middle of the interior was a row of berths. It was
very dark inside, and he could not make out whether or not these bunks
were occupied. The windows on the other side of the shanty enabled him
to see that there were two rows of berths, each backing against the
other. There were two in each tier, and he judged that the barrack would
accommodate forty-eight men.

He retained his place at the window in order to discover any movement
made by a sleeper that would inform him whether or not the berths were
occupied. If there were any soldiers there, they were as quiet as
statues; but while he was watching for a movement, he heard a decided
snore. There was at least one man there, and he continued to hear his
sonorous breathing as long as he remained at the window, which was the
first on the side of the shanty.

  [Illustration: Christy walked the whole length of the shanty.]

