
"Why were you annoyed? She's very handsome," said 
Mrs. Dallow, perversely. 

" I didn't know you looked at her ! " Nick laughed. 

Julia hesitated a moment. " Was I very rude ? " 

" Oh, it was all right. It was only awkward for me, because 
you didn't know," Nick replied. 

" I did know ; that's why I came." 





"How do you mean? My letter couldn't have reached 
you." 

"I don't know anything about your letter," said Mrs. 
Dallow, casting about her for a chair and then seating herself 
on the edge of a sofa, with her eyes on the floor. 

" She sat to me yesterday ; she was there all the morning ; 
but I didn't write to tell you. I went at her with great 
energy and, absurd as it may seem to you, found myself very 
tired afterwards. Besides, in the evening I went to see her 
act." 

" Does she act ? " asked Mrs. Dallow. 

" She's an actress ; it's her profession. Don't you remember 
her that day at Peter's, in Paris? She's already a celebrity; 
she has great talent ; she's engaged at a theatre here and is 
making a sensation. As I tell you, I saw her last night." 

" You needn't tell me," Mrs. Dallow replied, looking up 
at him with a face of which the intense, the tragic sadness 
startled him. 

He had been standing before her, but at this he instantly 
sat down beside her, taking her passive hand. " I want to, 
please ; otherwise it must seem so odd to you. I knew she 
was coming when I wrote to you the day before yesterday. 
But I didn't tell you then, because I didn't know how it- 
would turn out and I didn't want to exult in advance over a 
poor little attempt that might come to nothing. Moreover it 
was no use speaking of the matter at all unless I told you 
exactly how it came about," Nick went on, explaining kindly, 
copiously. "It was the result of a visit unexpectedly paid me 
by Gabriel Nash." 

"That man the man who spoke to me?" Julia asked, 
startled into a shuddering memory. 

" He did what he thought would please you, but I dare say 
it didn't. You met him in Paris and didn't like him ; so I 
thought it best to hold my tongue about him." 

" Do you like him ? " 

" Very much." 

" Great heaven ! " Julia ejaculated, almost under her breath. 

" The reason I was annoyed was because, somehow, when 
you came in, I suddenly had the air of having got out of those 
visits and shut myself up in town to do something that I had 
kept from you. And I have been very unhappy till I could 
explain." 

"You don't explain you can't explain," Mrs. Dallow de- 
clared, turning on her companion eyes which, in spite of her 



studied stillness, expressed deep excitement. " I knew it I 
knew everything ; that's why I came." 

" It was a sort of second-sight what they call a brain- 
wave," Nick smiled. 

" I felt uneasy, I felt a kind of call ; it came suddenly, 
yesterday. It was irresistible ; nothing could have kept me 
this morning." 

" That's very serious, but it's still more delightful. You 
mustn't go away again," said Nick. " We must stick together 
-forever and ever." 

He put his arm round her, but she detached herself as soon 
as she felt its pressure. She rose quickly, moving away, while, 
mystified, he sat looking up at her as she had looked a few 
moments before at him. " I've thought it all over ; I've been 
thinking of it all day," she began. "That's why I didn't 
come in." 

" Don't think of it too much ; it isn't worth it." 

" You like it more than anything else. You do you can't 
deny it," she went on. 

" My dear child, what are you talking about ? " Nick asked, 
gently. 

" That's what you like doing what you were this morning ; 
with women lolling, with their things off, to be painted, and 
people like that man." 

Nick slowly got up, hesitating. " My dear Julia, apart 
from the surprise, this morning, do you object to the living 
model ? " 

" Not a bit, for you." 

"What's the inconvenience, then, since in my studio they 
are only for me ? " 

" You love it, you revel in it ; that's what you want, and 
that's the only thing you want ! " Julia broke out. 

"To have models, lolling women, do you mean ? " 

" That's what I felt, what I knew, what came over me and 
haunted me yesterday, so that I couldn't throw it off. It 
seemed to me that if I could see it Avith my eyes and have the 
perfect proof I should feel better, I should be quiet. And 
now I am after a struggle of some hours, I confess. I have 
seen ; the whole thing's clear and I'm satisfied." 

" I'm not, and to me the whole thing isn't clear. What 
exactly are you talking about ? " Nick demanded. 

" About what you were doing this morning. That's your 
innermost preference, that's your secret passion." 

"A little go at something serious? Yes, it was almost 





serious," said Nick. <; But it was an accident, this morning 
and yesterday : I got on better than I intended." 

" I'm sure you have immense talent," Mrs. Dallow remarked, 
with a joylessness that was almost droll. 

" No, no, I might have had. I've plucked it up : it's too 
late for it to flower. My dear Julia, I'm perfectly incompetent 
and perfectly resigned." 

" Yes, you looked so this morning, when you hung over her. 
Oh, she'll bring back your talent ! " 

"She's an obliging and even an intelligent creature, and 
I've no doubt she would if she could. But I've received from 
you all the help that any woman is destined to give me. No 
one can do for me again what you have done." 

" I shouldn't try it again ; I acted in ignorance. Oh, I've 
thought it all out ! " Julia declared. Then, with a strange 
face of anguish resting on his, she said : " Before it's too late 
before it's too late ! " 

" Too late for what ? " 

" For you to be free for you to be free. And for me for 
me to be free too. You hate everything I like ! " she ex- 
claimed, with a trembling voice. " Don't pretend, don't 
pretend ! " she went on, as a sound of protest broke from him. 

" I thought you wanted me to paint," protested Nick, 
flushed and staring. 

" I do I do. That's why you must be free, why we must 
part." 

" Why we must part I " 

" Oh, I've turned it over. I've faced the truth. It wouldn't 
do at all," said Mrs. Dallow. 

" I like the way you talk of it, as if it were a trimming for 
your dress ! " Nick rejoined, with bitterness. " Won't it do 
for you to be loved and cherished as well as any woman in 
England ? " 

Mrs. Dallow turned away from him, closing her eyes as if 
not to see something that would be dangerous to her. " You 
mustn't give anything up for me. I should feel it all the 
while and I should hate it. I'm not afraid of the truth, but 
you are." 

"The truth, dear Julia? I only want to know it," said 
Nick. " It seems to me I've got hold of it. When two 
persons are united by the tenderest affection and are sane and 
generous and just, no difficulties that occur in the union their 
life makes for them are insurmountable, no problems are 
insoluble." 





Mrs. Dallow appeared for a moment to reflect upon this ; it 
was spoken in a tone that might have touched her. At any 
rate at the end of the moment, lifting her eyes, she announced : 
" I hate art, as you call it. I thought I did, I knew I did ; 
but till this morning I didn't know how much." 

" Bless your soul, that wasn't art," pleaded Nick. " The 
real thing will be a thousand miles away from us ; it will 
never come into the house, soyez tranquille. Why then should 
you worry? " 

" Because I want to understand, I want to know what I'm 
doing. You're an artist : you are, you are ! " Mrs. Dallow 
cried, accusing him passionately. 

" My poor Julia, it isn't so easy as that, nor a character 
one can take on from one day to the other. There are all 
sorts of things ; one must be caught young and put through 
the mill and see things as they are. There would be sacrifices 
I never can make." 

" Well then, there are sacrifices for both of us, and I can't 
make them either. I dare say it's all right for you, but for 
me it would be a terrible mistake. When I think I'm doing 
something I mustn't do just the opposite," Julia went on, as 
if she wished to explain and be clear. "There are things I've 
thought of, the things I like best ; and they are not what you 
mean. It would be a great deception, and it's not the way I 
see my life, and it would be misery if we don't understand." 

Nick looked at her in hard perplexity, for she did not 
succeed in explaining as well as she wished. " If we don't 
understand what? " 

" That we are awfully different that you are doing it all 
for me." 

"And is that an objection to me what I do for you?" 
asked Nick. 

" You do too much. You're awfully good, you're generous, 
you're a dear fellow ; but I don't believe in it. I didn't, at 
bottom, from the first that's why I made you wait, why I 
gave you your freedom. Oh, I've suspected you ! I had my 
ideas. It's all right for you, but it won't do for me : I'm 
different altogether. Why should it always be put upon me, 
when I hate it ? What have I done ? I was drenched with 
it, before." These last words, as they broke forth, were 
accompanied, even as the speaker uttered them, with a quick 
blush ; so that Nick could as quickly discern in them the un- 
calculated betrayal of an old irritation, an old shame almost 
her late husband's flat, inglorious taste for pretty things, his 





indifference to every chance to play a public part. This 
had been the mortification of her youth, and it was indeed a 
perversity of fate that a new alliance should contain for her 
even an oblique demand for the same spirit of accommodation, 
impose on her the secret bitterness of the same concessions. 
As Nick stood there before her, struggling sincerely with the 
force that he now felt to be strong in her, the intense resolu- 
tion to break with him, a force matured in a few hours, he 
read a riddle that hitherto had baffled him, saw a great mystery 
become simple. A personal passion for him had all but thrown 
her into his arms (the sort of thing that even a vain man and 
Nick was not especially vain might hesitate to recognize the 
strength of) ; held in check, with a tension of the cord at 
moments of which he could still feel the vibration, by her 
deep, her rare ambition, and arrested at the last only just in 
time to save her calculations. His present glimpse of the 
immense extent of these calculations did not make him think 
her cold or poor ; there was in fact a positive strange heat in 
them and they struck him rather as grand and high. The 
fact that she could drop him even while she longed for him 
drop him because it was now fixed in her mind that he would 
not after all serve her determination to be associated, so far 
as a woman could, with great affairs ; that she could postpone, 
and postpone to an uncertainty, the satisfaction of a gnawing 
tenderness and judge for the long run this exhibition of -will 
and courage, of the large plan that possessed her, commanded 
his admiration on the spot. He paid the heavy penalty of 
being a man of imagination ; he was capable of far excursions 
of the spirit, disloyalties to habit and even to faith, and open 
to wondrous communications. He ached for the moment to 
convince her that he would achieve what he wouldn't, for the 
vision of his future that she had tried to entertain shone before 
him as a bribe and a challenge. It seemed to him there was 
nothing he couldn't fancy enough, to be so fancied by her. 
Presently he said : 

" You want to be sure the man you marry will be prime 
