


The hotel stands upon the south front of the beach and near the sea,
above which it is sufficiently elevated to give a fine prospect. The
sound of the beating surf is perpetual there. At low tide there is a
splendid driving beach miles in extent, and though the slope is abrupt,
the opportunity for bathing is good, with a little care in regard to the
undertow. But there is a safe natatorium on the harbor side close to the
hotel. The stranger, when he first comes upon this novel hotel and this
marvellous scene of natural and created beauty, is apt to exhaust his
superlatives. I hesitate to attempt to describe this hotel--this airy
and picturesque and half-bizarre wooden creation of the architect.
Taking it and its situation together, I know nothing else in the world
with which to compare it, and I have never seen any other which so
surprised at first, that so improved on a two weeks' acquaintance, and
that has left in the mind an impression so entirely agreeable. It covers
about four and a half acres of ground, including an inner court of about
an acre, the rich made soil of which is raised to the level of the main
floor. The house surrounds this, in the Spanish mode of building, with a
series of galleries, so that most of the suites of rooms have a double
outlook--one upon this lovely garden, the other upon the ocean or the
harbor. The effect of this interior court or patio is to give gayety
and an air of friendliness to the place, brilliant as it is with flowers
and climbing vines; and when the royal and date palms that are
vigorously thriving in it attain their growth it will be magnificent.
Big hotels and caravansaries are usually tiresome, unfriendly places;
and if I should lay too much stress upon the vast dining-room (which has
a floor area of ten thousand feet without post or pillar), or the
beautiful breakfast-room, or the circular ballroom (which has an area of
eleven thousand feet, with its timber roof open to the lofty
observatory), or the music-room, billiard-rooms for ladies, the
reading-rooms and parlors, the pretty gallery overlooking the spacious
office rotunda, and then say that the whole is illuminated with electric
lights, and capable of being heated to any temperature desired--I might
convey a false impression as to the actual comfort and home-likeness of
this charming place. On the sea side the broad galleries of each story
are shut in by glass, which can be opened to admit or shut to exclude
the fresh ocean breeze. Whatever the temperature outside, those great
galleries are always agreeable for lounging or promenading. For me, I
never tire of the sea and its changing color and movement. If this great
house were filled with guests, so spacious are its lounging places I
should think it would never appear to be crowded; and if it were nearly
empty, so admirably are the rooms contrived for family life it will not
seem lonesome. I shall add that the management is of the sort that makes
the guest feel at home and at ease. Flowers, brought in from the gardens
and nurseries, are every where in profusion--on the dining-tables, in
the rooms, all about the house. So abundantly are they produced that no
amount of culling seems to make an impression upon their mass.



But any description would fail to give the secret of the charm of
existence here. Restlessness disappears, for one thing, but there is no
languor or depression. I cannot tell why, when the thermometer is at 60°
or 63°, the air seems genial and has no sense of chilliness, or why it
is not oppressive at 80° or 85°. I am sure the place will not suit those
whose highest idea of winter enjoyment is tobogganing and an ice palace,
nor those who revel in the steam and languor of a tropical island; but
for a person whose desires are moderate, whose tastes are temperate, who
is willing for once to be good-humored and content in equable
conditions, I should commend Coronado Beach and the Hotel del Coronado,
if I had not long ago learned that it is unsafe to commend to any human
being a climate or a doctor.

But you can take your choice. It lies there, our Mediterranean region,
on a blue ocean, protected by barriers of granite from the Northern
influences, an infinite variety of plain, cañon, hills, valleys,
sea-coast; our New Italy without malaria, and with every sort of fruit
which we desire (except the tropical), which will be grown in perfection
when our knowledge equals our ambition; and if you cannot find a winter
home there or pass some contented weeks in the months of Northern
inclemency, you are weighing social advantages against those of the
least objectionable climate within the Union. It is not yet proved that
this equability and the daily out-door life possible there will change
character, but they are likely to improve the disposition and soften the
asperities of common life. At any rate, there is a land where from
November to April one has not to make a continual fight with the
elements to keep alive.

It has been said that this land of the sun and of the equable climate
will have the effect that other lands of a southern aspect have upon
temperament and habits. It is feared that Northern-bred people, who are
guided by the necessity of making hay while the sun shines, will not
make hay at all in a land where the sun always shines. It is thought
that unless people are spurred on incessantly by the exigencies of the
changing seasons they will lose energy, and fall into an idle floating
along with gracious nature. Will not one sink into a comfortable and
easy procrastination if he has a whole year in which to perform the
labor of three months? Will Southern California be an exception to those
lands of equable climate and extraordinary fertility where every effort
is postponed till "to-morrow?"

I wish there might be something solid in this expectation; that this may
be a region where the restless American will lose something of his hurry
and petty, feverish ambition. Partially it may be so. He will take, he
is already taking, something of the tone of the climate and of the old
Spanish occupation. But the race instinct of thrift and of "getting on"
will not wear out in many generations. Besides, the condition of living
at all in Southern California in comfort, and with the social life
indispensable to our people, demands labor, not exhausting and killing,
but still incessant--demands industry. A land that will not yield
satisfactorily without irrigation, and whose best paying produce
requires intelligent as well as careful husbandry, will never be an idle
land. Egypt, with all its dolce far niente, was never an idle land for
the laborer.

It may be expected, however, that no more energy will be developed or
encouraged than is needed for the daily tasks, and these tasks being
lighter than elsewhere, and capable of being postponed, that there will
be less stress and strain in the daily life. Although the climate of
Southern California is not enervating, in fact is stimulating to the
new-comer, it is doubtless true that the monotony of good weather, of
the sight of perpetual bloom and color in orchards and gardens, will
take away nervousness and produce a certain placidity, which might be
taken for laziness by a Northern observer. It may be that engagements
will not be kept with desired punctuality, under the impression that the
enjoyment of life does not depend upon exact response to the second-hand
of a watch; and it is not unpleasant to think that there is a corner of
the Union where there will be a little more leisure, a little more of
serene waiting on Providence, an abatement of the restless rush and
haste of our usual life. The waves of population have been rolling
westward for a long time, and now, breaking over the mountains, they
flow over Pacific slopes and along the warm and inviting seas. Is it
altogether an unpleasing thought that the conditions of life will be
somewhat easier there, that there will be some physical repose, the race
having reached the sunset of the continent, comparable to the desirable
placidity of life called the sunset of old age? This may be altogether
fanciful, but I have sometimes felt, in the sunny moderation of nature
there, that this land might offer for thousands at least a winter of
content.




CHAPTER VIII.

THE GENERAL OUTLOOK.--LAND AND PRICES.


From the northern limit of California to the southern is about the same
distance as from Portsmouth, New Hampshire, to Charleston, South
Carolina. Of these two coast lines, covering nearly ten degrees of
latitude, or over seven hundred miles, the Atlantic has greater extremes
of climate and greater monthly variations, and the Pacific greater
variety of productions. The State of California is, however, so
mountainous, cut by longitudinal and transverse ranges, that any
reasonable person can find in it a temperature to suit him the year
through. But it does not need to be explained that it would be difficult
to hit upon any general characteristic that would apply to the stretch
of the Atlantic coast named, as a guide to a settler looking for a home;
the description of Massachusetts would be wholly misleading for South
Carolina. It is almost as difficult to make any comprehensive statement
about the long line of the California coast.

It is possible, however, limiting the inquiry to the southern third of
the State--an area of about fifty-eight thousand square miles, as large
as Maine, New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecticut, and Rhode
Island--to answer fairly some of the questions oftenest asked about it.
These relate to the price of land, its productiveness, the kind of
products most profitable, the sort of labor required, and its
desirability as a place of residence for the laborer, for the farmer or
horticulturist of small means, and for the man with considerable
capital. Questions on these subjects cannot be answered categorically,
but I hope to be able, by setting down my own observations and using
trustworthy reports, to give others the material on which to exercise
their judgment. In the first place, I think it demonstrable that a
person would profitably exchange 160 acres of farming land east of the
one hundredth parallel for ten acres, with a water right, in Southern
California.



In making this estimate I do not consider the question of health or
merely the agreeability of the climate, but the conditions of labor, the
ease with which one could support a family, and the profits over and
above a fair living. It has been customary in reckoning the value of
land there to look merely to the profit of it beyond its support of a
family, forgetting that agriculture and horticulture the world over,
like almost all other kinds of business, usually do little more than
procure a good comfortable living, with incidental education, to those
who engage in them. That the majority of the inhabitants of Southern
California will become rich by the culture of the orange and the vine is
an illusion; but it is not an illusion that twenty times its present
population can live there in comfort, in what might be called luxury
elsewhere, by the cultivation of the soil, all far removed from poverty
and much above the condition of the majority of the inhabitants of the
foreign wine and fruit-producing countries. This result is assured by
the extraordinary productiveness of the land, uninterrupted the year
through, and by the amazing extension of the market in the United States
for products that can be nowhere else produced with such certainty and
profusion as in California. That State is only just learning how to
supply a demand which is daily increasing, but it already begins to
command the market in certain fruits. This command of the market in the
future will depend upon itself, that is, whether it will send East and
North only sound wine, instead of crude, ill-cured juice of the grape,
only the best and most carefully canned apricots, nectarines, peaches,
and plums, only the raisins and prunes perfectly prepared, only such
oranges, lemons, and grapes and pears as the Californians are willing to
eat themselves. California has yet much to learn about fruit-raising and
fruit-curing, but it already knows that to compete with the rest of the
world in our markets it must beat the rest of the world in quality. It
will take some time yet to remove the unfavorable opinion of California
wines produced in the East by the first products of the vineyards sent
here.



The difficulty for the settler is that he cannot "take up" ten acres
with water in California as he can 160 acres elsewhere. There is left
little available Government land. There is plenty of government land not
taken up and which may never be occupied, that is, inaccessible mountain
and irreclaimable desert. There are also little nooks and fertile spots
here and there to be discovered which may be pre-empted, and which will
some day have value. But practically all the arable land, or that is
likely to become so, is owned now in large tracts, under grants or by
wholesale purchase. The circumstances of the case compelled associate
effort. Such a desert as that now blooming region known as Pasadena,
Pomona, Riverside, and so on, could not be subdued by individual
exertion. Consequently land and water companies were organized. They
bought large tracts of unimproved land, built dams in the mountain
cañons, sunk wells, drew water from the rivers, made reservoirs, laid
pipes, carried ditches and conduits across the country, and then sold
the land with the inseparable water right in small parcels. Thus the
region became subdivided among small holders, each independent, but all
mutually dependent as to water, which is the sine qua non of
existence. It is only a few years since there was a forlorn and
struggling colony a few miles east of Los Angeles known as the Indiana
settlement. It had scant water, no railway communication, and everything
to learn about horticulture. That spot is now the famous Pasadena.

What has been done in the Santa Ana and San Gabriel valleys will be done
elsewhere in the State. There are places in Kern County, north of the
Sierra Madre, where the land produces grain and alfalfa without
irrigation, where farms can be bought at from five to ten dollars an
acre--land that will undoubtedly increase in value with settlement and
also by irrigation. The great county of San Diego is practically
undeveloped, and contains an immense area, in scattered mesas and
valleys, of land which will produce apples, grain, and grass without
irrigation, and which the settler can get at moderate prices. Nay, more,
any one with a little ready money, who goes to Southern California
expecting to establish himself and willing to work, will be welcomed and
aided, and be pretty certain to find some place where he can steadily
improve his condition. But the regions about which one hears most,
which are already fruit gardens and well sprinkled with rose-clad homes,
command prices per acre which seem extravagant. Land, however, like a
mine, gets its value from what it will produce; and it is to be noted
that while the subsidence of the "boom" knocked the value out of
twenty-feet city lots staked out in the wilderness, and out of insanely
inflated city property, the land upon which crops are raised has
steadily appreciated in value.

So many conditions enter into the price of land that it is impossible to
name an average price for the arable land of the southern counties, but
I have heard good judges place it at $100 an acre. The lands, with
water, are very much alike in their producing power, but some, for
climatic reasons, are better adapted to citrus fruits, others to the
raisin grape, and others to deciduous fruits. The value is also affected
by railway facilities, contiguity to the local commercial centre, and
also by the character of the settlement--that is, by its morality,
public spirit, and facilities for education. Every town and settlement
thinks it has special advantages as to improved irrigation, equability
of temperature, adaptation to this or that product, attractions for
invalids, tempered ocean breezes, protection from "northers," schools,
and varied industries. These things are so much matter of personal
choice that each settler will do well to examine widely for himself, and
not buy until he is suited.

Some figures, which may be depended on, of actual sales and of annual
yields, may be of service. They are of the district east of Pasadena and
Pomona, but fairly represent the whole region down to Los Angeles. The
selling price of raisin grape land unimproved, but with water, at
Riverside is $250 to $300 per acre; at South Riverside, $150 to $200; in
the highland district of San Bernardino, and at Redlands (which is a new
settlement east of the city of San Bernardino), $200 to $250 per acre.
At Banning and at Hesperia, which lie north of the San Bernardino range,
$125 to $150 per acre are the prices asked. Distance from the commercial
centre accounts for the difference in price in the towns named. The crop
varies with the care and skill of the cultivator, but a fair average
from the vines at two years is two tons per acre; three years, three
tons; four years, five tons; five years, seven tons. The price varies
with the season, and also whether its sale is upon the vines, or after
picking, drying, and sweating, or the packed product. On the vines $20
per ton is a fair average price. In exceptional cases vineyards at
Riverside have produced four tons per acre in twenty months from the
setting of the cuttings, and six-year-old vines have produced thirteen
and a half tons per acre. If the grower has a crop of, say, 2000 packed
boxes of raisins of twenty pounds each box, it will pay him to pack his
own crop and establish a "brand" for it. In 1889 three adjoining
vineyards in Riverside, producing about the same average crops, were
sold as follows: The first vineyard, at $17 50 per ton on the vines,
yielded $150 per acre; the second, at six cents a pound, in the sweat
boxes, yielded $276 per acre; the third, at $1 80 per box, packed,
yielded $414 per acre.

Land adapted to the deciduous fruits, such as apricots and peaches, is
worth as much as raisin land, and some years pays better. The pear and
the apple need greater elevation, and are of better quality when grown
on high ground than in the valleys. I have reason to believe that the
mountain regions of San Diego County are specially adapted to the apple.
