are a woman and subtle. It may be that you can see what is too dark for
me.'

'It may be. Therefore give her back to me, and I will lay a trap for
her, so that she will betray herself if she has really done evil. And
when we have convicted her by her own words she shall die.'

'Are you not afraid, Zehowah?'

'Can I change my destiny? If my hour is come, I shall die of a fever, or
of a cold, whether she be with me or not. But if my years are not full,
she cannot hurt me.'

'This is undoubtedly true,' answered Khaled, who could find nothing to
say. 'But I will first question the woman myself.'

So he sent slaves with a litter to bring Almasta from the house of
mourning to the palace, and when she was come he sent out all the other
women and remained alone with her and Zehowah, making her sit down
before him so that he could see her face. Her cheeks were pale, for she
had not slept, having been occupied in weeping and lamentation during
the whole night, and her eyes moved restlessly as those of a person
distracted with grief.

Khaled then drew his sword and laid it across his feet as he sat and
looked fixedly at Almasta.

'If you do not speak the truth,' he said, 'I will cut off your head with
my own hand. Allah is witness.'

When Almasta saw the drawn sword, her face grew whiter than before, and
for some moments she seemed not able to breathe. But suddenly she began
to beat her breast, and broke out into loud wailings, rocking herself to
and fro as she sat on the carpet.

'My husband is dead!' she cried. 'He was young; he was beautiful! He is
dead! Wah! Wah! my husband is dead! Kill me too!'

Khaled looked at Zehowah, but she said nothing, though she watched
Almasta attentively. Then Khaled spoke to the woman again.

'Make an end of lamenting for the present,' he said. 'It has pleased
Allah to take your husband to the fellowship of the faithful. Peace be
upon him. Tell us in what manner he died, and what words he spoke when
he felt his end approaching, for he was my good friend and I wish to
know all.'

Almasta either did not understand or made a pretence of not
understanding, but when she heard Khaled's words she ceased from wailing
and sobbed silently, beating her breast from time to time.

'How did he die?' Khaled asked in a stern voice.

'He was asleep. He died,' replied Almasta in broken tones.

'You will get no other answer,' said Zehowah. 'She cannot speak our
tongue.'

'Is there no woman among them all who can talk this woman's language?'
asked Khaled with impatience, for he saw how useless it was to question
her.

'There is no one. I have inquired. Leave her with me, and if there is
anything to be known, I will try to find it out.'

So Khaled went away and Zehowah endeavoured to soothe Almasta and make
her talk in her broken words. But the woman made as though she would not
be comforted, and went and sat apart upon the stone floor where there
was no carpet, rocking to and fro, and wailing in a low voice. Zehowah
understood that whatever the truth might be Almasta was determined to
express her sorrow in the customary way, and that it would be better to
leave her alone.

For seven days she sat thus apart, covering her head and mourning, and
refusing to speak with any one, so that all the women supposed her to be
indeed distracted with grief at the death of Abdul Kerim. And each day
Khaled inquired of his wife whether she had yet learned anything, and
received the same answer. But in the meantime he was occupied with his
own thoughts, as well as with the affairs of the kingdom, though the
latter were as nothing in his mind compared with the workings of his
heart when he thought of Zehowah.

It chanced one evening that Khaled was riding among the gardens without
the city, attended only by a few horsemen, for he was simple in all his
ways and liked little to have a great throng of attendants about him. So
he rode alone, while the horsemen followed at a distance.

'Was ever a man, or an angel, so placed in the world as I am placed?' he
thought. 'How much better would it have been had I never seen Zehowah,
and if I had never slain the Indian prince. For I should still have
been with my fellows, the genii, from whom I am now cut off, and at
least I should have lived until the day of the resurrection. But now my
horse may stumble and fall, and my neck may be broken, and there is no
hereafter. Or I may die in my sleep, or be killed in my sleep, and there
will be no resurrection for me, nor any more life, anywhere in earth or
heaven. For Zehowah will never love me. Was ever a man so placed? And I
am ashamed to complain to her any more, for she is a good wife, obedient
and careful of my wants, and beautiful as the moon at the full, rising
amidst palm trees, besides being very wise and subtle. How can I
complain? Has she not given me herself, whom I desired, and a great
kingdom which, indeed, I did not desire, but which no man can despise as
a gift? Yet I am burned up within, and my heart is melting as a piece of
frankincense laid upon coals in an empty chamber, when no man cares for
its sweet savour. Surely, I am the most wretched of mankind. Oh, that
the angel who made garments for me of a ghada bush, and a bay mare of a
locust, would come down and lay his hand upon Zehowah's breast and make
a living heart of the stone which Allah has set in its place!'

So he rode slowly on, reasoning as he had often reasoned before, and
reaching the same conclusion in all his argument, which availed him
nothing. But suddenly, as the sun went down, a new thought entered his
mind and gave him a little hope.

'The sun is gone down,' he said to himself. 'But Allah has not destroyed
the sun. It will rise in the east to-morrow when the white cock crows in
the first heaven. Many things have being, which the sight of man cannot
see. It may be that although I see no signs of love in the heaven of
Zehowah's eyes, yet love is already there and will before long rise as
the sun and illuminate my darkness. For I am not subtle as the evil
genii are, but I must see very clearly before I am able to distinguish.'

He rode back into the city, planning how he might surprise Zehowah and
obtain from her unawares some proof that she indeed loved him. To this
end he entered the palace by a secret gate, covering his garments with
his aba, and his head with the kefiyeh he wore, in order to disguise
himself from the slaves and the soldiers whom he met on his way to the
harem. He passed on towards Zehowah's apartment by an unlighted passage
not generally used, and hid himself in a niche of the wall close to the
open door, from which he could see all that happened, and hear what was
said.

Zehowah was seated in her accustomed place and Almasta was beside her.
Khaled could watch their faces by the light of the hanging lamps, as the
two women talked together.

'You must put aside all mourning now,' Zehowah was saying. 'For I will
find another husband for you.'

'Another husband?' Almasta smiled and shook her head.

'Yes, there are other goodly men in Riad, though Abdul Kerim was of the
goodliest, as all say who knew him. He was the Sultan's friend, but he
was more soldier than courtier. He deserved a better death.'

'Abdul Kerim died in peace. He was asleep.' Almasta smiled still, but
more sadly, and her eyes were cast down.

'He died in peace,' Zehowah repeated, watching her narrowly. 'But it is
better to die in battle by the enemy's hand. Such a man, falling in the
front of the fight for the true faith, enters immediately into paradise,
to dwell for ever under the perpetual shade of the tree Sedrat, and
neither blackness nor shame shall cover his face. There the rivers flow
with milk and with clarified honey, and he shall rest on a couch covered
with thick silk embroidered with gold, and shall possess seventy
beautiful virgins whose eyes are blacker than mine and their skin whiter
than yours, having colour like rubies and pearls, and their voices like
the song of nightingales in Ajjem, of which travellers tell. These are
the rewards of the true believer as set forth in Al Koran by our
prophet, upon whom peace. A man slain in battle for the faith enters
directly into the possession of all this, but unbelievers shall be
taken by the forelock and the heels and cast into hell, to drink boiling
molten brass, as a thirsty camel drinks clear water.'

Almasta understood very little of what Zehowah said, but she smiled,
nevertheless, catching the meaning of some of the words.

'The Sultan Khaled loves black eyes,' she said. 'He will go to
paradise.'

'Doubtless, he will quench his thirst in the incorruptible milk of
heavenly rivers,' Zehowah replied. 'He is the chief of the brave, the
light of the faith and the burning torch of righteousness. Otherwise
Allah would not have chosen him to rule. But I spoke of Abdul Kerim.'

'He died in peace,' said Almasta the second time, and again looking
down.

'I do not know how he died,' Zehowah answered, looking steadily at the
woman's face. 'It was a great misfortune for you. Do you understand? I
am very sorry for you. You would have been happy with Abdul Kerim.'

'I mourn for him,' Almasta said, not raising her eyes.

'It is natural and right. Doubtless you loved him as soon as you saw
him.'

Almasta glanced quickly at Zehowah, as though suspecting a hidden
meaning in the words, and for a moment each of the women looked into
the other's eyes, but Zehowah saw nothing. For a wise man has truly said
that one may see into the depths of black eyes as into a deep well, but
that blue eyes are like the sea of Oman in winter, sparkling in the sun
as a plain of blue sand, but underneath more unfathomable than the
desert.

Almasta was too wise and deceitful to let the silence last. So when she
had looked at Zehowah and understood, she smiled somewhat sorrowfully
and spoke.

'I could have loved him,' she said. 'I desire no husband now.'

'That is not true,' Zehowah answered quickly. 'You wish to marry Khaled,
and that is the reason why you killed Abdul Kerim.'

Almasta started as a camel struck by a flight of locusts.

'What is this lie?' she cried out with indignation. 'Who has told you
this lie?' But her face was as grey as a stone, and her lips trembled.

'You probably killed him by magic arts learned in your own country,'
said Zehowah quietly. 'Do not be afraid. We are alone, and no one can
hear us. Tell me how you killed him. Truly it was very skilful of you,
since the physician, who is the wisest man in Arabia, could not tell how
it was done.'

But Almasta began to beat her breast and to make oaths and
asseverations in her own language, which Zehowah could not understand.

'If you will tell me how you did it, I will give you a rich gift,'
Zehowah continued.

But so much the more Almasta cried out, stretching her hands upwards and
speaking incomprehensible words. So Zehowah waited until she became
quiet again.

'It may be that Khaled will marry you, if you will tell me your secret,'
Zehowah said, after a time.

Then Almasta's cheek burned and she bent down her eyes.

'Will you tell me how to kill a man and leave no trace?' asked Zehowah,
still pressing her. 'Look at this pearl. Is it not beautiful? See how
well it looks upon your hair. It is as the leaf of a white rose upon a
river of red gold. And on your neck--you cannot see it yourself--it is
like the full moon hanging upon a milky cloud. Khaled would give you
many pearls like this, if he married you. Will you not tell me?'

'Whom do you wish to kill?' Almasta asked, very suddenly. But Zehowah
was unmoved.

'It may be that I have a private enemy,' she said. 'Perhaps there is one
who disturbs me, against whom I plot in the night, but can find no way
of ridding myself of him. A woman might give much to destroy such a
one.'

'Khaled will kill your enemies. He loves you. He will kill all whom you
hate.'

'You make progress. You speak our language better,' said Zehowah,
laughing a little. 'You will soon be able to tell the Sultan that you
love him, as well as I could myself.'

'But you do not love him,' Almasta answered boldly.

Zehowah bent her brows so that they met between her eyes as the grip of
a bow. Then Khaled's heart leaped in his breast, for he saw that she was
angry with the woman, and he supposed it was because she secretly loved
him. But he held his breath lest even his breathing should betray him.

'The portion of fools is fire,' said Zehowah, not deigning to give any
other answer. For she was a king's daughter and Almasta a bought slave,
though Khaled had taken her in war.

'Be merciful!' exclaimed Almasta, in humble tones. 'I am your handmaid,
and I speak Arabic badly.'

'You speak with exceeding clearness when it pleases you.'

'Indeed I cannot talk in your language, for it is not long since I came
into Arabia.'

'We will have you taught, for we will give you a husband who will teach
you with sticks. There is a certain hunchback, having one eye and marked
with the smallpox, whose fists are as the feet of an old camel. He will
be a good husband for you and will teach you the Arabic language, and
your skin shall be dissolved but your mind will be enlightened thereby.'

'Be merciful! I desire no husband.'

'It is good that a woman should marry, even though the bridegroom be a
hunchback. But if you will tell me your secret I will give you a better
husband and forgive you.'

'There is no secret! I have killed no one!' cried Almasta. 'Who has told
you the lie?'

'And moreover,' continued Zehowah, not regarding her protestations,
'there are other ways of learning secrets, besides by kindness; such,
for instance, as sticks, and hot irons, and hunger and thirst in a
prison where there are reptiles and poisonous spiders, besides many
other things with which I have no doubt the slaves of the palace are
acquainted. It is better that you should tell your secret and be happy.'

'There is no secret,' Almasta repeated, and she would say nothing else,
for she did not trust Zehowah and feared a cruel death if she told the
truth.

But Zehowah wearied of the contest at last, being by no means sure that
the woman had really done any evil, and having no intention of using any
violent means such as she had suggested. For she was as just as she was
wise and would have no one suffer wrongly. Khaled, indeed, cared little
