surrender to compassion or any kind of sentiment, yet; she must ask
one or two more questions. Tracy was reading her face; and what he read
there lifted his drooping hopes a little.
“An earl’s son to do that! Why, he were a man! A man to love!--oh, more,
a man to worship!”
“Why, I--?”
“But he never lived! He is not born, he will not be born. The
self-abnegation that could do that--even in utter folly, and hopeless of
conveying benefit to any, beyond the mere example--could be mistaken for
greatness; why, it would be greatness in this cold age of sordid ideals!
A moment--wait--let me finish; I have one question more. Your father is
earl of what?”
“Rossmore--and I am Viscount Berkeley!”
The fat was in the fire again. The girl felt so outraged that it was
difficult for her to speak.
“How can you venture such a brazen thing! You know that he is dead, and
you know that I know it. Oh, to rob the living of name and honors for
a selfish and temporary advantage is crime enough, but to rob the
defenceless dead--why it is more than crime, it degrades crime!”
“Oh, listen to me--just a word--don’t turn away like that. Don’t
go--don’t leave me, so--stay one moment. On my honor--”
“Oh, on your honor!”
“On my honor I am what I say! And I will prove it, and you will believe,
I know you will. I will bring you a message--a cablegram--”
“When?”
“To-morrow--next day--”
“Signed ‘Rossmore’?”
“Yes--signed Rossmore.”
“What will that prove?”
“What will it prove? What should it prove?”
“If you force me to say it--possibly the presence of a confederate
somewhere.”
This was a hard blow, and staggered him. He said, dejectedly:
“It is true. I did not think of it. Oh, my God, I do not know any way
to do; I do everything wrong. You are going?--and you won’t say even
good-night--or good-bye? Ah, we have not parted like this before.”
“Oh, I want to run and--no, go, now.” A pause--then she said, “You may
bring the message when it comes.”
“Oh, may I? God bless you.”
He was gone; and none too soon; her lips were already quivering, and now
she broke down. Through her sobbings her words broke from time to time.
“Oh, he is gone. I have lost him, I shall never see him any more. And he
didn’t kiss me good-bye; never even offered to force a kiss from me,
and he knowing it was the very, very last, and I expecting he would,
and never dreaming he would treat me so after all we have been to each
other. Oh, oh, oh, oh, what shall I do, what shall I do! He is a dear,
poor, miserable, good-hearted, transparent liar and humbug, but oh, I do
love him so--!” After a little she broke into speech again. “How dear
he is! and I shall miss him so, I shall miss him so! Why won’t he ever
think to forge a message and fetch it?--but no, he never will, he never
thinks of anything; he’s so honest and simple it wouldn’t ever occur to
him. Oh, what did possess him to think he could succeed as a fraud--and
he hasn’t the first requisite except duplicity that I can see. Oh, dear,
I’ll go to bed and give it all up. Oh, I wish I had told him to come
and tell me whenever he didn’t get any telegram--and now it’s all my own
fault if I never see him again. How my eyes must look!”
CHAPTER XXIV.
Next day, sure enough, the cablegram didn’t come. This was an immense
disaster; for Tracy couldn’t go into the presence without that ticket,
although it wasn’t going to possess any value as evidence. But if the
failure of the cablegram on that first day may be called an immense
disaster, where is the dictionary that can turn out a phrase sizeable
enough to describe the tenth day’s failure? Of course every day that the
cablegram didn’t come made Tracy all of twenty-four hours’ more ashamed
of himself than he was the day before, and made Sally fully twenty-four
hours more certain than ever that he not only hadn’t any father
anywhere, but hadn’t even a confederate--and so it followed that he was
a double-dyed humbug and couldn’t be otherwise.
These were hard days for Barrow and the art firm. All these had their
hands full, trying to comfort Tracy. Barrow’s task was particularly
hard, because he was made a confidant in full, and therefore had to
humor Tracy’s delusion that he had a father, and that the father was an
earl, and that he was going to send a cablegram. Barrow early gave up
the idea of trying to convince Tracy that he hadn’t any father, because
this had such a bad effect on the patient, and worked up his temper to
such an alarming degree. He had tried, as an experiment, letting Tracy
think he had a father; the result was so good that he went further, with
proper caution, and tried letting him think his father was an earl; this
wrought so well, that he grew bold, and tried letting him think he had
two fathers, if he wanted to, but he didn’t want to, so Barrow withdrew
one of them and substituted letting him think he was going to get a
cablegram--which Barrow judged he wouldn’t, and was right; but Barrow
worked the cablegram daily for all it was worth, and it was the one
thing that kept Tracy alive; that was Barrow’s opinion.
And these were bitter hard days for poor Sally, and mainly delivered
up to private crying. She kept her furniture pretty damp, and so caught
cold, and the dampness and the cold and the sorrow together undermined
her appetite, and she was a pitiful enough object, poor thing. Her state
was bad enough, as per statement of it above quoted; but all the forces
of nature and circumstance seemed conspiring to make it worse--and
succeeding. For instance, the morning after her dismissal of Tracy,
Hawkins and Sellers read in the associated press dispatches that a toy
puzzle called Pigs in the Clover, had come into sudden favor within
the past few weeks, and that from the Atlantic to the Pacific all the
populations of all the States had knocked off work to play with it,
and that the business of the country had now come to a standstill
by consequence; that judges, lawyers, burglars, parsons, thieves,
merchants, mechanics, murderers, women, children, babies--everybody,
indeed, could be seen from morning till midnight, absorbed in one deep
project and purpose, and only one--to pen those pigs, work out that
puzzle successfully; that all gayety, all cheerfulness had departed from
the nation, and in its place care, preoccupation and anxiety sat upon
every countenance, and all faces were drawn, distressed, and furrowed
with the signs of age and trouble, and marked with the still sadder
signs of mental decay and incipient madness; that factories were at
work night and day in eight cities, and yet to supply the demand for the
puzzle was thus far impossible. Hawkins was wild with joy, but Sellers
was calm. Small matters could not disturb his serenity. He said--
“That’s just the way things go. A man invents a thing which could
revolutionize the arts, produce mountains of money, and bless the earth,
and who will bother with it or show any interest in it?--and so you are
just as poor as you were before. But you invent some worthless thing to
amuse yourself with, and would throw it away if let alone, and all of
a sudden the whole world makes a snatch for it and out crops a fortune.
Hunt up that Yankee and collect, Hawkins--half is yours, you know. Leave
me to potter at my lecture.”
This was a temperance lecture. Sellers was head chief in the Temperance
camp, and had lectured, now and then in that interest, but had been
dissatisfied with his efforts; wherefore he was now about to try a new
plan. After much thought he had concluded that a main reason why his
lectures lacked fire or something, was that they were too transparently
amateurish; that is to say, it was probably too plainly perceptible
that the lecturer was trying to tell people about the horrid effects of
liquor when he didn’t really know anything about those effects except
from hearsay, since he had hardly ever tasted an intoxicant in his life.
His scheme, now, was to prepare himself to speak from bitter experience.
Hawkins was to stand by with the bottle, calculate the doses, watch the
effects, make notes of results, and otherwise assist in the preparation.
Time was short, for the ladies would be along about noon--that is to
say, the temperance organization called the Daughters of Siloam--and
Sellers must be ready to head the procession.
The time kept slipping along--Hawkins did not return--Sellers could not
venture to wait longer; so he attacked the bottle himself, and proceeded
to note the effects. Hawkins got back at last; took one comprehensive
glance at the lecturer, and went down and headed off the procession. The
ladies were grieved to hear that the champion had been taken suddenly
ill and violently so, but glad to hear that it was hoped he would be out
again in a few days.
As it turned out, the old gentleman didn’t turn over or show any signs
of life worth speaking of for twenty-four hours. Then he asked after the
procession, and learned what had happened about it. He was sorry; said
he had been “fixed” for it. He remained abed several days, and his
wife and daughter took turns in sitting with him and ministering to his
wants. Often he patted Sally’s head and tried to comfort her.
“Don’t cry, my child, don’t cry so; you know your old father did it
by mistake and didn’t mean a bit of harm; you know he wouldn’t
intentionally do anything to make you ashamed for the world; you know he
was trying to do good and only made the mistake through ignorance, not
knowing the right doses and Washington not there to help. Don’t cry so,
dear, it breaks my old heart to see you, and think I’ve brought this
humiliation on you and you so dear to me and so good. I won’t ever do it
again, indeed I won’t; now be comforted, honey, that’s a good child.”
But when she wasn’t on duty at the bedside the crying went on just the
same; then the mother would try to comfort her, and say:
“Don’t cry, dear, he never meant any harm; it was all one of those
happens that you can’t guard against when you are trying experiments,
that way. You see I don’t cry. It’s because I know him so well. I could
never look anybody in the face again if he had got into such an amazing
condition as that a-purpose; but bless you his intention was pure
and high, and that makes the act pure, though it was higher than was
necessary. We’re not humiliated, dear, he did it under a noble impulse
and we don’t need to be ashamed. There, don’t cry any more, honey.”
Thus, the old gentleman was useful to Sally, during several days, as an
explanation of her tearfulness. She felt thankful to him for the shelter
he was affording her, but often said to herself, “It’s a shame to let
him see in my crying a reproach--as if he could ever do anything that
could make me reproach him! But I can’t confess; I’ve got to go on using
him for a pretext, he’s the only one I’ve got in the world, and I do
need one so much.”
As soon as Sellers was out again, and found that stacks of money had
been placed in bank for him and Hawkins by the Yankee, he said, “Now
we’ll soon see who’s the Claimant and who’s the Authentic. I’ll just go
over there and warm up that House of Lords.” During the next few days
he and his wife were so busy with preparations for the voyage that Sally
had all the privacy she needed, and all the chance to cry that was good
for her. Then the old pair left for New York--and England.
Sally had also had a chance to do another thing. That was, to make up
her mind that life was not worth living upon the present terms. If she
must give up her impostor and die, doubtless she must submit; but might
she not lay her whole case before some disinterested person, first,
and see if there wasn’t perhaps some saving way out of the matter? She
turned this idea over in her mind a good deal. In her first visit with
Hawkins after her parents were gone, the talk fell upon Tracy, and she
was impelled to set her case before the statesman and take his counsel.
So she poured out her heart, and he listened with painful solicitude.
She concluded, pleadingly, with--
“Don’t tell me he is an impostor. I suppose he is, but doesn’t it look
to you as if he isn’t? You are cool, you know, and outside; and so,
maybe it can look to you as if he isn’t one, when it can’t to me.
Doesn’t it look to you as if he isn’t? Couldn’t you--can’t it look to
you that way--for--for my sake?”
The poor man was troubled, but he felt obliged to keep in the
neighborhood of the truth. He fought around the present detail a little
while, then gave it up and said he couldn’t really see his way to
clearing Tracy.
“No,” he said, “the truth is, he’s an impostor.”
“That is, you--you feel a little certain, but not entirely--oh, not
entirely, Mr. Hawkins!”
“It’s a pity to have to say it--I do hate to say it, but I don’t think
anything about it, I know he’s an impostor.”
“Oh, now, Mr. Hawkins, you can’t go that far. A body can’t really know
it, you know. It isn’t proved that he’s not what he says he is.”
Should he come out and make a clean breast of the whole wretched
business? Yes--at least the most of it--it ought to be done. So he set
his teeth and went at the matter with determination, but purposing to
spare the girl one pain--that of knowing that Tracy was a criminal.
“Now I am going to tell you a plain tale; one not pleasant for me to
tell or for you to hear, but we’ve got to stand it. I know all about
that fellow; and I know he is no earl’s son.”
The girl’s eyes flashed, and she said:
“I don’t care a snap for that--go on!”
This was so wholly unexpected that it at once obstructed the narrative;
Hawkins was not even sure that he had heard aright. He said:
“I don’t know that I quite understand. Do you mean to say that if he was
all right and proper otherwise you’d be indifferent about the earl part
of the business?”
“Absolutely.”
“You’d be entirely satisfied with him and wouldn’t care for his not
being an earl’s son,--that being an earl’s son wouldn’t add any value to
him?”
“Not the least value that I would care for. Why, Mr. Hawkins, I’ve
gotten over all that day-dreaming about earldoms and aristocracies and
all such nonsense and am become just a plain ordinary nobody and content
with it; and it is to him I owe my cure. And as to anything being able
to add a value to him, nothing can do that. He is the whole world to me,
just as he is; he comprehends all the values there are--then how can you
add one?”
“She’s pretty far gone.” He said that to himself. He continued, still to
himself, “I must change my plan again; I can’t seem to strike one that
will stand the requirements of this most variegated emergency five
minutes on a stretch. Without making this fellow a criminal, I believe I
will invent a name and a character for him calculated to disenchant her.
If it fails to do it, then I’ll know that the next rightest thing to do
will be to help her to her fate, poor thing, not hinder her.” Then he
said aloud:
“Well, Gwendolen--”
“I want to be called Sally.”
“I’m glad of it; I like it better, myself. Well, then, I’ll tell you
about this man Snodgrass.”
“Snodgrass! Is that his name?”
“Yes--Snodgrass. The other’s his nom de plume.”
“It’s hideous!”
“I know it is, but we can’t help our names.”
“And that is truly his real name--and not Howard Tracy?”
Hawkins answered, regretfully:
“Yes, it seems a pity.”
The girl sampled the name musingly, once or twice--
“Snodgrass. Snodgrass. No, I could not endure that. I could not get used
to it. No, I should call him by his first name. What is his first name?”
“His--er--his initials are S. M.”
“His initials? I don’t care anything about his initials. I can’t call
him by his initials. What do they stand for?”
“Well, you see, his father was a physician, and he--he--well he was an
idolater of his profession, and he--well, he was a very eccentric man,
and--”
“What do they stand for! What are you shuffling about?”
“They--well they stand for Spinal Meningitis. His father being a phy--”
“I never heard such an infamous name! Nobody can ever call a person
that--a person they love. I wouldn’t call an enemy by such a name.
It sounds like an epithet.” After a moment, she added with a kind of
consternation, “Why, it would be my name! Letters would come with it
on.”
“Yes--Mrs. Spinal Meningitis Snodgrass.”
“Don’t repeat it--don’t; I can’t bear it. Was the father a lunatic?”
“No, that is not charged.”
“I am glad of that, because that is transmissible. What do you think was
the matter with him, then?”
“Well, I don’t really know. The family used to run a good deal to
idiots, and so, maybe--”
“Oh, there isn’t any maybe about it. This one was an idiot.”
“Well, yes--he could have been. He was suspected.”
“Suspected!” said Sally, with irritation. “Would one suspect there was
going to be a dark time if he saw the constellations fall out of the
sky? But that is enough about the idiot, I don’t take any interest in
idiots; tell me about the son.”
“Very well, then, this one was the eldest, but not the favorite. His
brother, Zylobalsamum--”
“Wait--give me a chance to realize that. It is perfectly stupefying.
Zylo--what did you call it?”
“Zylobalsamum.”
“I never heard such a name: It sounds like a disease. Is it a disease?”
“No, I don’t think it’s a disease. It’s either Scriptural or--”
“Well, it’s not Scriptural.”
“Then it’s anatomical. I knew it was one or the other. Yes, I remember,
now, it is anatomical. It’s a ganglion--a nerve centre--it is what is
called the zylobalsamum process.”
“Well, go on; and if you come to any more of them, omit the names; they
make one feel so uncomfortable.”
“Very well, then. As I said, this one was not a favorite in the family,
and so he was neglected in every way, never sent to school, always
allowed to associate with the worst and coarsest characters, and so of
course he has grown up a rude, vulgar, ignorant, dissipated ruffian,
and--”
“He? It’s no such thing! You ought to be more generous than to make such
a statement as that about a poor young stranger who--who--why, he is the
very opposite of that! He is considerate, courteous, obliging, modest,
gentle, refined, cultivated-oh, for shame! how can you say such things
about him?”
“I don’t blame you, Sally--indeed I haven’t a word of blame for you for
being blinded by--your affection--blinded to these minor defects which
