"Ah, you're in love with him, yet! You shall never have him here in the
world, after the way he's treated you!"

"Don't be silly, Adeline! Don't be romantic! If you had ever been in
love yourself, you would know that people outlive that as well as other
things. Let's see how the drawing-room will do for the dance?"

She jumped from her chair and touched the electric button at the
chimney. "You think that nothing but death can kill a fancy, and yet
nobody marries their first love, and lots of women have second
husbands." The man showed himself at the door, and she said to him in a
rapid aside: "Turn up the lights in the drawing-room, James," and
returned to her sister. "No, Adeline! The only really enduring and
undying thing is a slight. That lasts--with me!"

Adeline was moved to say, in the perverse honesty of her soul, and from
the inborn New England love of justice, "I don't believe he ever meant
it, Sue. I don't believe but what he was influenced--"

Suzette laughed, not at all bitterly. "Oh, you're in love with him!
Well, you may have him if ever he offers himself to me. Let's look at
the drawing-room." She caught Adeline round her bony waist, where each
rib defined itself to her hand, and danced her out of the library,
across the hall into the white and gold saloon beyond. "Yes," she said,
with a critical look at the room, "it will do splendidly. We shall have
to put down linen, of course; but then the dancing will be superb--as
good as a bare floor. Yes, it will be a grand success. Ugh! Come out,
come out, come out! How deathly cold it is!"

She ran back into the warm library, and her sister followed more slowly.
"You shouldn't think," she said, as if something in Sue's words had
reminded her of it, "that coming so soon after Mrs. Newton's little
boy--"

"Well, that's like you, Adeline! To bring that up! No, indeed!
It'll be a whole week, nearly; and besides he isn't quite one of the
family. What an idea!"

"Of course," her sister assented, abashed by Sue's scornful surprise.

"It's too bad it should have happened just at this time," said the girl,
with some relenting. "When is it to be?"

"To-morrow, at eleven," said Adeline. She perceived that Sue's
selfishness was more a selfishness of words, perhaps, than of thoughts
or feelings. "You needn't have anything to do with it. I can tell them
you were not very well, and didn't feel exactly like coming. They will
understand." She was used to making excuses for Suzette, and a motherly
fib like this seemed no harm to her.




X.


In the morning before her sister was astir, Adeline went out to the
coachman's quarters in the stabling, and met the mother of the dead
child at the door. "Come right in!" she said, fiercely, as she set it
wide. "I presume you want to know if there's anything you can do for me;
that's what they all ask. Well, there ain't, unless you can bring him
back to life. I've been up and doin', as usual, this mornin'," she said,
and a sound of frying came from the kitchen where she had left her work
to let her visitor in. "We got to eat; we got to live."

The farmer's wife came in from the next chamber, where the little one
lay; she had her bonnet and shawl on as if going home after a night's
watching. She said, "I tell her he's better off where he's gone; but she
can't seem to sense the comfort of it."

"How do you know he's better off?" demanded the mother, turning upon
her. "It makes me tired to hear such stuff. Who's goin' to take more
care of the child where he's gone, than what his mother could? Don't you
talk nonsense, Mrs. Saunders! You don't know anything about it, and
nobody does. I can bear it; yes, I've got the stren'th to stand up
against death, but I don't want any comfort. You want to see Elbridge,
Miss Northwick? He's in the harness room, I guess. He's got to keep
about, too, if he don't want to go clear crazy. One thing, he don't have
to stand any comfortin'. I guess men don't say such things to each other
as women do, big fools as they be!"

Mrs. Saunders gave Miss Northwick a wink of pity for Mrs. Newton and
expressed that she was hardly accountable for what she was saying.

"He used to complain of me for lettin' Arty get out into the stable
among the horses; but I guess he won't be troubled that way much
more," said the mother; and then something in Miss Northwick's face
seemed to stay her in her wild talk; and she asked, "Want I should call
him for you?"

"No, no," said Adeline, "I'll go right through to him, myself." She knew
the way from the coachman's dwelling into the stable, and she found
Elbridge oiling one of the harnesses, with a sort of dogged attention to
the work, which he hardly turned from to look at her. "Elbridge," she
asked, "did you drive father to the depot yesterday morning?"

"Yes, ma'am, I did."

"When did he say he would be back?"

"Well, he said he couldn't say, exactly. But I understood in a day or
two."

"Did he expect to be anywhere but Ponkwasset?"

"No, ma'am, I didn't hear him say as he did."

"Then it's a mistake; and of course I knew it was a mistake. There's
more than one Northwick in the world, I presume." She laughed a little
hysterically; she had a newspaper in her hand, and it shook with the
nervous tremor that passed over her.

"Why, what is it, Miss Northwick?" said Elbridge with a perception of
the trouble in her voice through the trouble in his own heart. He
stopped pulling the greasy sponge over the trace in his hand, and turned
towards her.

"Oh, nothing. There's been an accident on the Union and Dominion
Railroad; and of course it's a mistake."

She handed him the paper, folded to the column which she wished to show,
and he took it between two finger-tips, so as to soil it as little as
possible, and stood reading it. She went on saying, "He wouldn't be on
the train if he was at Ponkwasset; I got the paper when I first came
down stairs, but I didn't happen to read the account till just now; and
then I thought I'd run out and see what father said to you about where
he was going. He told us he was going to the Mills, too, and--" Her
voice growing more and more wistful, died away in the fascination of
watching the fascination of Elbridge as he first took in the half-column
of scare-heads, and then followed down to the meagre details of the
dispatch eked out with double-leading to cover space.

It appeared that the Northern express had reached Wellwater Junction, on
the Union and Dominion line, several hours behind time, and after the
usual stop there for supper, had joined the Boston train, on the United
States and Canada, for Montreal, and had, just after leaving the
Junction, run off the track. "The deadly car stove got in its work" on
the wreck, and many lives had been lost by the fire, especially in the
parlor car. It was impossible to give a complete list of the killed and
wounded, but several bodies were identified, and among the names of
passengers in the Pullman that of T. W. Northwick was reported, from a
telegram received by the conductor at Wellwater asking to have a seat
reserved from that point to Montreal.

"It ain't him, I know it ain't, Miss Northwick," said Elbridge. He
offered to give her the paper, but took another look at it before he
finally yielded it. "There's lots of folks of the same name, I don't
care what it is, and the initials ain't the ones."

"No," she said, doubtfully, "but I didn't like the last name being the
same."

"Well, you can't help that; and as long as it ain't the initials, and
you know your father is safe and sound at the Mills, you don't want to
worry."

"No," said Adeline. "You're sure he told you he was going to the Mills?"

"Why, didn't he tell you he was? I don't recollect just what he said.
But he told me about that note he left for me, and that had the money in
it for the fun'al--" Elbridge stopped for a moment before he added, "He
said he'd telegraph just which train he wanted me to meet him when he
was comin' back.... Why, dumn it! I guess I must be crazy. We can
settle it in half an hour's time--or an hour or two at the outside--and
no need to worry about it. Telegraph to the Mills and find out whether
he's there or not."

He dropped his harness, and went to the telephone and called up the
Western Union operator at the station. He had the usual telephonic
contention with her as to who he was, and what he wanted, but he got her
at last to take his dispatch to Ponkwasset Falls, asking whether
Northwick was at the Mills.

"There!" he said, "I don't believe but what that'll fix it all right.
And I'll bring you in the answer myself, when it comes, Miss Northwick."

"I do hate to trouble you with my foolishness, when--"

"I guess you needn't mind about that," said Elbridge. "I guess it
wouldn't make much difference to me, if the whole world was burnt up. Be
a kind of a relief." He did not mean just the sense the words conveyed,
and she, in her preoccupation with her own anxiety, and her pity for
him, interpreted them aright.

She stayed to add, "I don't know what he could have been on that train
for, any way, do you?"

"No, and he wa'n't on it; you'll find that out."

"It'll be very provoking," she said, forecasting the minor trouble of
the greater trouble's failure. "Everybody will wonder if it isn't
father, and we shall have to tell them it isn't."

"Well, that won't be so bad as havin' to tell 'em it is," said Elbridge,
getting back for the moment to his native dryness.

"That's true," Adeline admitted. "Don't speak to anybody about it till
you hear." She knew from his making no answer that he would obey her,
and she hid the paper in her pocket, as if she would hide the
intelligence it bore from all the rest of the world.

She let Suzette sleep late, after the fatigues of her day in Boston and
the excitement of their talk at night, which she suspected had prevented
the girl from sleeping early. Elbridge's sympathetic incredulity had
comforted her, if it had not convinced her, and she possessed herself in
such patience as she could till the answer should come from the mills.
If her father were there, then it would be all right; and in the
meantime she found some excuses for not believing the worst she feared.
There was no reason in the world why he should be on that train; there
was no reason why she should identify him with that T. W. Northwick in
the burnt-up car; that was not his name, and that was not the place
where he would have been.




XI.


There was trouble with the telegraph and telephone connections between
Hatboro' and Ponkwasset, and Adeline had to go to the funeral without an
answer to Elbridge's message. Below her surface interest in the ceremony
and the behavior of the mourners and the friends, which nothing could
have alienated but the actual presence of calamity, she had a nether
misery of alternating hope and fear, of anxieties continually reasoned
down, and of security lost the instant it was found. The double strain
told so upon her nerves, that when the rites at the grave were ended,
she sent word to the clergyman and piteously begged him to drive home
with her.

"Why, aren't you well, Miss Northwick?" he asked, with a glance at her
troubled face, as he got into the covered sleigh with her.

"Oh, yes," she said, and she flung herself back against the cushioning
and began to cry.

"Poor Mrs. Newton's grief has been very trying," he said, gently, and
with a certain serenity of smile he had, and he added, as if he thought
it well to lure Miss Northwick from the minor affliction that we feel
for others' sorrows to the sorrow itself, "It has been a terrible blow
to her--so sudden, and her only child."

"Oh, it isn't that," said Adeline, frankly. "Have--have you seen
the--paper this morning?"

"It came," said the clergyman. "But in view of the duty before me, I
thought I wouldn't read it. Is there anything particular in it?"

"No, nothing. Only--only--" Adeline had not been able to separate
herself from the dreadful thing, and she took it out of the carriage
pocket. "There has been an accident on the railroad," she began firmly,
but she broke down in the effort to go on. "And I wanted to have you
see--see--" She stopped, and handed him the paper.

He took it and ran over the account of the accident, and came at her
trouble with an instant intelligence that was in itself a sort of
reassurance. "But had you any reason to suppose your father was on the
train?"

"No," she said from the strength he gave her. "That is the strange part
about it. He went up to the Mills, yesterday morning, and he couldn't
have been on the train at all. Only the name--"

"It isn't quite the name," said Wade, with a gentle moderation, as if he
would not willingly make too much of the difference, and felt truth to
be too sacred to be tampered with even while it had merely the form of
possibility.

"No," said Adeline, eager to be comforted, "and I'm sure he's at the
Mills. Elbridge has sent a dispatch to find out if he's there, but there
must be something the matter with the telegraph. We hadn't heard before
the funeral; or, at least, he didn't bring the word; and I hated to keep
round after him when--"

"He probably hadn't heard," said the clergyman, soothingly, "and no news
is good news, you know. But hadn't we better drive round by the station,
and find out whether any answer has been--"

"O, no! I couldn't do that!" said Adeline, nervously. "They will
telephone the answer up to Elbridge. But come home with me, if you
haven't something to do, and stay with us till we--"

"Oh, very willingly." On the way the young clergyman talked of the
accident, guessing that her hysterical conjectures had heightened the
horror, and that he should make it less dreadful by exploring its facts
with her. He did not declare it impossible her father should have been
on the train, but he urged the extreme improbability.

Elbridge and his wife passed them, driving rapidly in Simpson's booby,
which Adeline had ordered for their use at the funeral; and when she got
into the house Elbridge was waiting there for her. He began at once;
"Miss Northwick, I don't believe but what your father's staid over at
Springfield for something. He was talkin' to me last week about some
hosses there--"

"Isn't he at the Mills?" she demanded sharply.

Elbridge gave his hat a turn on his hand, before he looked up. "Well,
no, he hain't been, yet--"

