
"Well," said the gentleman, smiling, "how do you like it?"

"First-rate, sir."

"Do you think you would like to be going with me?"

"Yes, sir, but for my mother."

"Of course, it won't do to desert her; otherwise I might be tempted to
make you an offer. I am sure you would be very useful to me."

"I should like it very much, if mother did not need me."

Dan went up stairs with Mr. Stevens, and remained till visitors were
warned that it was time to go ashore.

"I must go, sir," he said.

Mr. Stevens drew a five-dollar bill from his vest pocket and handed it
to Dan.

"I haven't any change, sir," said Dan.

"None is required," said the gentleman, smiling.

"Do you really mean to give me five dollars, sir?"

"That is what the hackman wanted to charge me."

"But it was too much."

"It was too much for him; it is not too much for you, if I am willing to
give it to you."

"You are very kind, sir," said Dan, almost doubting the reality of his
good fortune.

"It will prove that I spoke truly when I said I didn't care for the
amount of money, only for the imposition. I am really very glad to give
it to you. Good-by, my boy."

He offered his hand. Dan shook it heartily, and, wishing him a pleasant
voyage, descended the gangplank.

"That is almost as much as Mike robbed me of," he said to himself. "How
lucky I came over to Jersey City! Now, if I could only get back part of
the money Mike robbed me of, I should be the better off for his mean
trick."

Dan did not immediately return to New York. He had been so fortunate
that he decided to spend the rest of the afternoon as he liked.

He walked on for ten minutes, Mike being temporarily out of his mind,
when his attention was suddenly drawn to him. Just in front of him he
saw Mike himself swaggering along, with a ten-cent cigar in his mouth,
and both hands thrust deep in his trousers pockets. He was strolling
along in fancied security, not dreaming of the near presence of the boy
whom he had so meanly robbed.

Dan's eyes sparkled when he recognized his enemy, and hastening his
pace, he put his hand on Mike's shoulder.

Mike turned quickly, and his countenance changed when he saw Dan.

"Has he found it out?" suggested his guilty conscience. "Anyway, he
can't prove anything. I'll bluff him off."

"Hallo, Dan!" he said, in affected cordiality. "What brings you over
here?"

"What brings you over here, Mike?" asked Dan, significantly.

"I'm looking for a job," said Mike.

"You look like it," retorted Dan, "with both hands in your pockets and
a cigar in your mouth! Times seem to be good with you. How much did that
cigar cost?"

"I don't know," answered Mike, with unblushing falsehood. "A man gave it
to me for holdin' his hoss."

Mike was never at a loss for a plausible lie.

"I thought you bought it."

"I haven't got any money."

"Did they let you over the ferry free, then?"

"Oh, I had money enough for that."

"I guess you have got more."

"No, I haven't. Ten cents was all I had."

"Then how are you going to take Terence Quinn to the theater to-night?"
asked Dan.

Even Mike's brazen effrontery was hardly prepared to meet this
unexpected question.

"What do you mane?" he stammered.

"Terence told me you had invited him."

"Then he lies!" said Mike, his self-assurance returning. "He invited
me."

"Look here, Mike Rafferty," said Dan, out of patience; "that won't go
down! Terence told the truth. I know where you got the money you were
going to treat him with."

"Where, then?"

"From my mother's pocket-book."

"It's a lie!" blustered Mike.

"It's the truth, and if you don't hand over what's left without making
any more trouble, I'll have you arrested."

"You can't. We're in Jersey----"

"I shall have you arrested as soon as you get home."

"I didn't take the money," said Mike, sullenly.

"You did, and you know it," said Dan, firmly. "Give me what you have
left, and I'll make no trouble about it. If you don't, you're booked for
another term at the island."

Mike tried to save his ill-gotten gains, but Dan was persistent, and
finally extracted from him four dollars and a half. The rest Mike
pretended he had spent. He was sly enough, however, to have saved enough
to take him to the Old Bowery.

On the whole, Dan was satisfied, considering the five dollars he had
received on the Cunard steamer, but he could not forbear giving Mike a
farewell shot.

"How did it happen, Mike, that you took the Jersey Ferry to Brooklyn?"

Mike did not deign a reply.

"That is my first appearance as a detective," thought Dan. "It seems to
pay."




CHAPTER XI.

DAN HAS ANOTHER ADVENTURE.


It was only five o'clock when Dan, returning from Jersey City, found
himself again in front of the Astor House.

"Shall I buy any evening papers?" Dan asked himself. "No, I won't. I've
made enough to satisfy me for one day."

Dan stood at the corner of Vesey street, glancing at the hurrying
crowds.

He rather enjoyed his temporary freedom from business cares.

He had made a good day's work, the morrow's rent was provided for, and
he felt like a gentleman of leisure.

All at once his attention was drawn to a low sob. It proceeded from a
little flower-girl of ten years, who usually stood near the hotel.

"What's the matter, Fanny?" asked Dan, calling her by her name, for the
little flower-girl was one of his acquaintances. "Haven't you sold as
many bouquets as usual?"

"Yes," said Fanny, pausing in her sobs, "I've sold more."

"Then what's the matter? Has any one been teasing you?"

"No, but a young man passed a bad half-dollar on me."

"Let me see it."

Dan inspected the piece. He did not need to ring it, for it was dull in
appearance and unmistakably bad.

"When did you take it?"

"Just now. A young man came up and bought a five-cent bouquet, and gave
me this to change."

"Didn't you see that it was bad?"

"I didn't look at it till afterward. Then it was too late."

"So you gave him forty-five cents in good money, Fanny?"

"Yes," said the little girl, again beginning to sob.

"How many bouquets had you sold?"

"Seven."

"Then you have less money than when you began?"

"Yes, Dan."

"Do you think the fellow knew the piece was bad?"

"Yes, for he hurried away."

"Which way did he go?"

"Down Broadway."

"Maybe he was going to Jersey City."

"No, I saw him turn down Fulton street."

"Then he was going to Brooklyn. How did he look?"

"He was short and had red hair."

"How was he dressed?"

"He had on a gray suit."

"How long ago did this happen?"

"About five minutes."

"Give me the bad piece, and I'll go after him. Stay here till I come
back."

Dan seized the money, and proceeded toward Fulton Ferry at a half run.

"I hope he won't have taken the boat," he said to himself. "If he has I
shall lose him."

Dan nearly overthrew an apple woman's stand not far from the ferry, but
did not stop to apologize. He ran into a fat gentleman who looked
daggers at him, but kept on.

Breathless he paid his ferriage, and just succeeded in catching a boat
as it was leaving the New York pier.

Thus far he had not seen the young man of whom he was in search.

"He may be on board the boat. I'll go forward," said Dan to himself.

He walked through the ladies' cabin, and stepped out on the forward
deck. The boat was crowded, for it was at the time when men who live in
Brooklyn, but are employed in New York, are returning to their homes.

Dan looked about him for a time without success, but all at once his
eyes lighted up. Just across the deck, near the door of the gentlemen's
cabin, stood a young man with red hair, holding a small bouquet in his
hand. His face was freckled, his eyes small, and he looked capable of
meanness.

Of course appearances are often deceptive, but not unfrequently a man's
character can be read upon his face.

"That's the fellow that cheated poor Fanny, I'll bet a hat," Dan decided
within himself. "He looks like it."

He immediately crossed to the other side of the deck.

The red-headed young man was talking to another young man of about the
same age.

"Where did you get that bouquet, Sanderson?" asked the latter.

"Bought it of a little girl in front of the Astor House," answered
Sanderson.

"That settles it," thought Dan.

He waited to hear what would come next.

"I suppose it is meant for some young lady," suggested the other.

"Maybe it is," answered Sanderson, with a grin.

Dan thought it was about time to come to business.

He touched the red-haired young man on the arm.

Sanderson looked round.

"Well, boy, what is it?" he asked.

"You bought that bouquet of a girl near the Astor House," said Dan.

"What if I did?" asked Sanderson, uneasily, for he had a suspicion of
what was coming.

"You gave her a bogus half-dollar in payment," continued Dan.
