you for a long time. I must tell you now. You must be the first to know
it. But I want to ask you first not to judge what I’ve done until I’ve
told you all about it.”

“Is it anything bad, Jack?” asked Mrs. Ralston, with quick anxiety,
bending far forward in her chair, while all her expression changed.

“No, mother--don’t be frightened. It’s this. Katharine and I were
married last winter.”

“Married!” cried Mrs. Ralston, in amazement. “Married!” she repeated in
a tone which showed that she was deeply hurt. “And you did not tell me!”

She said nothing more for a few moments, and John was silent, too,
giving her time to recover from her astonishment. She was the first to
speak.

“Either Katharine made you marry her, or you must have had some very
good reason for doing such a thing, Jack,” she said. “It’s not like you
to get married secretly. When was it?”

“It was on that day when I was so unlucky. When I lost my way, and
everybody thought I’d been drinking.”

“Jack! Do you mean to say that you had that on your mind, too? Oh, Jack
dear, why didn’t you tell me?”

“In the first place, I’d said I wouldn’t. The reasons seemed good then.
They haven’t seemed so good since. I’ll tell you the idea in two words.
We were to be privately married. Then we were to confide in uncle
Robert, expecting that he would find me something to do, that I could do
whatever he proposed well enough to earn a living without accepting
money as a gift. There was where the disappointment came. I found out
afterwards how true what he said was. Everybody’s on the lookout for a
congenial occupation that means living out of doors and enjoying
oneself. He said there was nothing to be done but to go back to Beman’s
and work at a desk for a year. Then he’d push me on. He tried to make me
take a lot of money, but I wouldn’t. I’m glad of that, anyhow. So we’ve
never said anything about it, except to him. But now something must be
done.”

“But you could have brought her here any time in these four months--at
least, you might have told me and I would have helped you.”

“I know--but then, it would have been a burden on you, as it’s going to
be now.”

“A burden! Don’t say such things.”

“Only that now--well--I don’t like to say it, but dear old uncle Robert
isn’t going to live long, and then you’ll be rich, compared to what you
are now, even if he only leaves you what he’d think a small legacy.”

“Yes--that’s true,” answered Mrs. Ralston, thoughtfully. “Isn’t life
strange, Jack?” she continued, after a short pause. “We’re both very
fond of him. We shall miss him very much more than we realize. I think
either you or I would do anything we could, and risk anything, to save
his life--and yet we can’t help counting on the money he’s sure to leave
us when he dies. I suppose most people would call it heartless to speak
about it, though they’d think about it from morning till night. But I
don’t think we’re heartless, do you?”

“No,” answered John, “I don’t. Not that it would be a crime if we were.
People are born so, or they aren’t. We can’t all be rough plastered with
goodness and stuccoed with virtue on top of it. We’re natural, that’s
all--and the majority of people aren’t. I don’t wish uncle Robert to
die, any more than you do, or than any one does, except cousin
Alexander. It’s only reasonable for us who are young to think of what we
may do when he’s gone, since he’s so old.”

“Yes, I suppose so,” assented Mrs. Ralston. “So you’ve been married all
these months! It hurts me a little to think that you shouldn’t have told
me. I’d have helped you. I’m sure I could have made it easier. But I
see--you were afraid that I should have to go without my toilet water
and have to wear ready made gloves, or some such ridiculous thing as
that! Married! Well--I’m not exactly sentimental, but I’d rather looked
forward to your wedding with Katharine. I always knew you’d marry her in
the end, and I liked to think of it. I’m glad, though--I’m glad it’s
done and can’t be undone, in spite of her father. Tell me all about it,
since you’ve told me everything else.”

It was not a long story--how Katharine had persuaded him, much against
his will, how he had found a clergyman willing to perform the ceremony,
and how Katharine and he had gone to the church early in the morning.

“And now she is Katharine Ralston, too, like me--and I’ve got a
daughter-in-law!” Mrs. Ralston smiled dreamily.

After the first moment of surprise and after the first sharp pain she
had felt for her son’s want of confidence in her, as she regarded his
secrecy, the news did not seem to disturb her much. For years she had
been convinced that Katharine was destined to be her son’s wife, and for
many months she had felt sure that, with his nature, his happiness and
success in life depended entirely upon his marrying her. She was
heartily glad that it had come, though, as she said, she had often
looked forward to the wedding as to something very bright in her own
existence.

“Jack,” she said, “leave it to me to set matters straight with the rest
of the family, will you?”

“Why--mother--if you think you can--of course,” answered Ralston, with
some hesitation. “The difficulty will be with cousin Alexander. We’re
enemies for life, now.”

“Yes. Until to-day you were only enemies by circumstance. You’ll never
be reconciled, now--not completely. You could never spend a night under
his roof after what has happened, could you? Of course you can say to
him that you acted under the impression that he was--well--what shall I
say?--that he was treating Katharine brutally, but that if he wasn’t,
you apologize for striking him. But after all, that’s only quibbling
with honour. It wouldn’t satisfy him and wouldn’t be very dignified for
you, it seems to me. And he’s not the man who would ever put out his
hand and forgive you frankly and say that by-gones should be by-gones.”

“Scarcely!” assented Ralston. “Not at all that kind of man. By the bye,
mother,--forgive me for going off to something else,--what do you think
is the reason why he seems so ready to offend uncle Robert, instead of
bowing down to him, as they all do? He wants the money more than any
one. He can’t suppose that if uncle Robert were to make a new will now,
after what has happened, he’d leave him anything. You should have heard
the old gentleman swear at him, and turn him out of the house!”

“I don’t know,” answered Mrs. Ralston, thoughtfully, “unless he wants to
irritate uncle Robert, and drive him into making some extraordinary will
that wouldn’t hold. Then he’d get it broken. You see, Jack, my uncle
Alexander, who’s uncle Robert’s own brother, and I, who am the only
child of uncle Robert’s other brother, are the next of kin. If there
were no will, or if the will were broken, we two should get the whole
fortune, equally divided, half and half, and none of the rest would get
anything. Mr. Brett told me that a long time ago. As it is, we don’t
know how the money’s left, though uncle Robert has often told me that I
should have a big share.”

“Katharine knows,” said John. “That’s the reason her father leaves her
no peace.”

“And she’s not told you, Jack?”

“Mother! Do you suppose Katharine would betray a confidence like that?
You don’t know her!”

“No, dear. I didn’t seriously think she would. But then--she’s your
wife, Jack. She might tell you what she wouldn’t tell any one else, and
yet not think that she were giving away a secret. Most women would, I
think.”

“Katharine’s not like most women,” said Ralston, gravely.

A silence followed, during which his mother watched his face, and her
own grew beautiful with mother’s pride in man, and woman’s gladness for
woman’s dignity.

When Ralston and his mother separated, they had come to a clear
understanding about the future. They had decided to say nothing about
the marriage until Katharine had recovered sufficiently to leave Robert
Lauderdale’s home, and then to establish her in their house, and tell
the world that there had been a private wedding. If the old gentleman
died,--and they were obliged to take this probability into
consideration,--Katharine would have to be brought at once. If anything,
this would make matters simpler. The household would be in mourning,
Katharine would be unable to go out or to appear at all for some time,
and society would easily believe that during the two or three weeks
which must pass in this way, the marriage might have taken place.




CHAPTER XIV.


No one slept much during the early part of the night in the
millionaire’s home. Katharine lay long awake, prevented from sleeping
partly by the painful numbness in her bandaged arm, and partly by the
ever recurring picture of the day’s doings which came back to her
unceasingly in the stillness. Just as the picture was growing shadowy
and dreamlike, some slight sound would break it and recall her to
herself,--a distant foot-fall on the stairs, the opening and shutting of
a door near her own, or even the occasional roll of a belated carriage
in the street.

There was a soft light in the sick man’s room. The white walls and
hangings took up and distributed the whiteness, so that even the
remotest corners were not dark. Robert Lauderdale lay in his bed,
breathing softly, his eyes not quite closed, and his bony hands lying
like knotty twigs upon the white Shetland wool that covered his body.
For they were like wood or stone, yellowish in colour, rough in shape,
and yet oddly polished by time, as some old men’s hands are. His snowy
beard and hair, too, were almost sandy again, as they had been in
youth, by contrast with the delicate linen and the snow-white, sheeny
material that was everywhere.

He was not sleeping with his eyes open, as dying persons sometimes sleep
a whole day. Nor was his mind wandering. Doctor Routh could see that
well enough, as he sat there hour after hour, watching his old friend.
The doctor wished that he might really fall asleep, and let his weary
old heart gather strength to live a little longer. But even Routh was
giving up hope. The machine was running down, and the game was played
out. There was not one chance in a hundred that Robert Lauderdale could
live another twelve hours. From time to time the doctor gave him a
little stimulant, but the failing heart reacted less and less.

Between three and four o’clock in the morning, the old man turned his
head slowly on the pillow, and his sunken eyes met Routh’s in a long
look--the look which those who have watched by the dying know very well.

“Routh,” said the hoarse voice, with solemn slowness, “I’m going to give
up the ghost.”

Still for a few seconds the deep, mysterious, wondering look continued
in the hollow eyes. Then he turned his head slowly back to the original
position. The words struck the doctor as singular. He did not remember
that he had ever heard a patient use just that phrase, though so many
persons when near the point of death give warning of their end in some
such expression.

“You’re not going yet,” the doctor answered, mechanically, and he held a
glass to the old man’s lips.

“I don’t want any false hope. I know it’s coming,” answered the dying
man, speaking against the rim of the little tumbler.

Routh stood up to his vast height, and then his nervous, emaciated frame
bent like a birch sapling in a gale as he leaned over the bed, and
listened to the fluttering beats of the heart that had almost done its
work.

“Shall I call anybody?” he asked. “Is there anything you want done?”

“How long do you think it will be?” asked Robert Lauderdale, trying to
speak more rapidly.

“Half an hour, perhaps,” answered Routh.

In their voices there was that indescribable tone with which the words
of brave men are uttered in the face of death. No one who has ever heard
it can forget it.

“I’d like to say good-bye to Katharine.” He paused and drew breath
heavily. “Will it hurt her?” he asked, presently.

“No,” answered the doctor, seeing the look of anxiety which accompanied
the question.

A broken arm seemed a very slight matter to Routh, compared with the
wish of his old friend. He did not hesitate, but touched the bell for
Mrs. Deems, who appeared at the door.

“He wishes to see Miss Lauderdale,” he whispered. “You must help her to
wrap herself up, and bring her here.”

Mrs. Deems nodded, and looked at the doctor with the grave glance of
enquiry which means the one question, ‘Life or death?’ And Routh
answered with the other glance, which means ‘Death.’ Mrs. Deems nodded
again, and left the room. Routh returned to the bedside.

“When she comes--leave us alone--please,” said the sick man.

There was silence again for a few minutes. Again the lids were half
closed, and the old eyes stared out beneath them into the soft
whiteness, and perhaps beyond. But the beard moved a little from time to
time, as though the lips were framing words, and Routh knew that the end
was near.

Then Katharine came, waxen pale, her raven hair coiled loosely upon her
shapely head, her creamy throat collarless, her left arm and hand free,
the rest of her wrapped and draped in soft, dark things. She, too,
looked up into Routh’s face with the glance of the question, ‘Life or
death?’ And again the answer was, ‘Death.’

But Mrs. Deems had told her. Her eyes said that she knew, and her face
told that she felt. Robert Lauderdale’s great head turned again, slowly
and painfully, towards her. She bent down to him, and the doctor left
the room, taking the nurse with him. He did not quite close the door. He
could almost hear, beforehand, the low cry the young girl would utter
when the end came.

Katharine bent down and laid her hand softly upon the old man’s brow.

“Uncle dear--you’re not going,” she said. “You’ll get well, after all.”

“I’m going to give up the ghost,” he said, as he had said to Doctor
Routh.

“No--no--” But she could not find anything to say, so she smoothed his
forehead.

She had never seen any one die, but she was not afraid. That is a matter
of temperament, and neither man nor woman should be blamed who can not
bear to feel a soul parting and see a body left behind. Katharine felt
only that she would keep him if she could. She knelt down and took one
of his hands, his left. It was cold and hard to touch, with little
warmth in it, like that of a statue in a garden when the sun has gone
down.

“I want to say good-bye,” said the hoarse voice, just above a whisper.

“Yes--I’m here,” answered Katharine, and there was silence again, while
she gently caressed the cold hand.

