instructor who came from Mexico to educate my 
brother and me." She had no intention of
being communicative with Diego Estenega, but 
his keen reflective gaze confused her, and she 
took refuge in words. 
" Dona Eustaquia tells me that^ unlike most 
of our women, you have read many books. Few 
Californian women care for anything but to look 
beautiful and to marry, — not, however, being 
unique in that respect. Would you not rather 
live in our capital? You are so far away down 
there, and there are but few of the gente de razon, 
no?" 
"We are well satisfied, seiior, and we are 
gay when, we wish. There are ten families in 
the town, and many rancheros within a hundred 
leagues. They think nothing of com- 
ing to our balls. And we have grand religious 
processions, and bull-fights, and races. We 
have beautiful canons for meriendas ; and I 
could dance every night if I wished. We are 
few, but we are quite as gay and quite as happy 
as you in your capital. " The pride of the Itur- 
bi y Moncadas and of the Barbarina flashed 
in her eyes, then made way for anger under 
the amused glance of Estenega. 
'*Oh, of course, "he said, teasingly. "You 
are to Monterey what Monterey is to the city 
of Mexico. But, pardon me, senorita ; I would 
not anger you for all the gold which is said to 
lie like rocks under our Californias, — if it be 
true that certain padres hold that mighty secret.
(God ! how I should like to get one by 
the throat and throttle it out of him !) Pardon 
me again, sefiorita ; I was going to say that 
you may be pleased to know that there is little 
magnificence where my ranchos are, — high on 
the coast, among the redwoods. I live in a 
house made of big ugly logs, unpainted. 
There are no cavalcades in the cold depths of 
those redwood forests, and the ocean beats 
against ragged cliffs. Only at Fort Ross, in her 
log palace, does the beautiful Russian, Princess 
H^l^ne Rotscheff, strive occasionally to make 
herself and others forget that the forest is not the 
Bois of her beloved Paris, that in it the grizzly 
and the panther hunger for her, and that an Ind- 
ian Prince, mad with love for the only fair-haired 
woman he has ever seen, is determined to carry 
her off '' 
" Tell me ! tell me ! " cried Chonita, eagerly, 
forgetting her role and her enemy. ''What is 
that ? I do not know the princess, although she 
has sent me word many times to visit her — 
Did an Indian try to carry her off ? " 
"It happened only the other day. Prince 
Solano, perhaps you have heard, is chief of all 
the tribes of Sonoma, Valley of the Moon. He 
is a handsome animal, with a strong will and 
remarkable organizing abilities. One day I 
was entertaining the Rotscheffs at dinner when 
Solano suddenly flung the door open and strode 
into the room : we are old friends, and my 
servants do not stand on ceremony with him. 
As he caught sight of the princess he halted 
abruptly, stared at her for a moment, much as 
the first man may have stared at the first 
woman, then turned and left the house, sprang 
on his mustang and galloped away. The 
princess, you must know, is as blonde as only 
a Russian can be, and an extremely pretty 
woman, small and dainty. No wonder the 
mighty prince of darkness took fire. She was 
much amused. So was Rotscheff, and he joked 
her the rest of the evening. Before he left, 
however, I had a word with him alone, and 
warned him not to let the princess stray be- 
yond the walls of the fortress. That same 
night I sent a courier to General Vallejo — 
who, fortunately, was at Sonoma — bidding him 
watch Solano. And, sure enough — the day I 
left for Monterey the Princess H61ne was in 
hysterics, Rotscheff was swearing like a 
madman, and a soldier was at every carronade : 
word had just come from General Vallejo that 
he had that morning intercepted Solano in his 
triumphant march, at the head of six tribes, 
upon Fort Ross, and sent him flying back to 
his mountain-top in disorder and bitterness 
of spirit" 
"That is very interesting ! " cried Chonita. 
" I like that. What an experience those 
Russians have had ! That terrible tragedy ! — Ah, I 
remember, it was you who were to have aided 
Natalie Ivanhoff in her escape " 
" Hush ! " said Estenega. '' Do not speak of 
that. Here we are. At your service, senorita. 
'' He sprang to the whaleboned pavement 
in front of the little church facing the blue bay 
and surrounded by the gray ruins of the old 
Pregidio, and lifted her down. 
Chonita recalled, and angry with herself for 
having been beguiled by her enemy, took the 
infant from the nurse's arms and carried it 
fearfully up the aisle. Estenega, walking beside her, 
regarded her meditatively. 
" What is she ? " he thought, " this Californian
woman with her hair of gold and her un- 
mistakable intellect, her marble face crossed 
now and again by the animation of the clever 
American woman ? What an anomaly to find 
on the shores of the Pacific ! All I had heard 
of The Doomswoman, The Golden Senorita, 
gave me no idea of this. What a pity that our 
houses are at war ! She is not maternal, at 
all events ; I never saw a baby held so 
awkwardly. What a poise of head ! She looks 
better fitted for tragedy than for this little 
comedy of life in the Califomias.
A sovereignty would suit her, — were it not for her eyes. 
They are not quite so calm and just and inex- 
orable as the rest of her face. She would not 
even make a good household tyrant, like Dona 
Jacoba Duncan. Unquestionably she is religious, 
and swaddled in all the traditions of her 
race ; but her eyes, — they are at odds wkh all 
the rest of her. They are not lovely eyes ; 
they lack softness and languor and tractability ; 
their expression changes too often, and they 
mirror too much intelligence for loveliness, but 
they never will be old eyes, and they never 
will cease to look. And they are the eyes best 
worth looking into that I have ever seen. No, 
a sovereignty would not suit her at all ; a salon 
might. But, like a few of us, she is some 
years ahead of her sphere. Glory be to the 
Californias — of the future, when we are dirt, 
and our children have found the gold ! " 
The baby was nearly baptized by the time 
he had finished his soliloquy. She had kicked 
alarmingly when the salt was laid on her 
tongue, and squalled under the deluge of water 
which gave her her name and also wet Cho- 
nita's sleeve. The godmother longed for the 
ceremony to be over ; but it was more protracted 
than usual, owing to the importance 
of the restless object on the pillow in her 
weary arms. When the last word was said, 
she handed pillow and baby to the nurse with 
a fervent sigh of relief which made her appear 
girlish and natural. 
After Estenega had lifted her to her horse he 
dried her sleeve with his handkerchief. He 
lingered over the task ; the cavalcade and 
populace went on without them, and when they 
started they were in the rearward of the blithe-
some crowd. 
"Do you know what I thought as I stood 
by you in the church ? " he asked. 
" No," she said, indifferently. ''I hope you 
prayed for the fortune of the little one." 
'*I did not; nor did you. You. were too 
afraid you would drop it. I was thinking how 
unmotherly, I had almost said unwomanly, 
you looked. You were made for the great 
world, — the restless world, where people fly 
faster from monotony than from a tidal wave. " 
She looked at him with cold dignity, but 
flushed a little. ' ' I am not unwomanly, senor, 
although I confess I do not understand babies 
and do detest to sew. But if I ever marry I 
shall be a good wife and mother. No Spanish 
woman was ever otherwise, for every Spanish 
woman has had a good mother for example.' 
"You have said exactly what you should 
have said, voicing the inborn principles and 
sentiments of the Spanish woman. I should 
be interested to know what your individual 
sentiments are. But you misunderstand me. 
I said that you were too good for the average 
lot of woman. You are a woman, not a doll ; 
an intelligence, not a bundle of shallow 
emotions and transient desires. You should have 
a larger destiny." 
She gave him a swift sidelong flash from 
eyes that suddenly looked childish and eager. 
"It is true," she said, frankly, " I have no 
desire to marry and have many children. My 
father has never said to me, *Thou must 
marry ; ' and I have sometimes thought I 
would say *No' when that time came. For 
the present I am contented with my books and 
to ride about the country on a wild horse ; but 
perhaps — I do not know — I may not always 
be contented with that. Sometimes when 
reading Shakespeare I have imagined myself 
each of those women in turn. But generally, 
of course, I have thought little of being any 
one but myself What else could I be here .? " 
" Nothing; excepting a Joan of Arc when 
the Americans sweep down upon us. But 
that would be only for a day ; we should be such 
easy prey. If I could put you to sleep and 
awaken you fifty years hence, when California 
was a modern civilization ! God speed the 
Americans: Therein lies our only chance.' 
" What ! " she cried. '*You — you would 
have the Americans ? You — a Californian ! 
But you are an Estenega ; that explains every- 
thing." 
'* I am a Californian," he said, ignoring the 
scorn of the last words, ' ' but I hope I have 
acquired some common-sense in roving about 
the world. The women of California are ad- 
mirable in every way, — chaste, strong of 
character, industrious, devoted wives and 
mothers, born with sufficient capacity for 
small pleasures. But what are our men ? 
Idle, thriftless, unambitious, too lazy to walk 
across the street, but with a horse for every 
step, sleeping all day in a hammock, gambling 
and drinking all night. They are the natural 
followers of a race of men who came here to 
force fortune out of an unbroken country ^yith 
little to help them but brains and will. The 
great effort produced great results ; therefore 
there is nothing for their sons to do, and they 
luxuriously do nothing. What will the next 
generation be ? Our women will marry Americans, 
— respect for men who are men will 
overcome prejudice, — the crossed blood will 
fight for a generation or two, then a race will 
be born worthy of California. Why are our 
few great men so very great to us? What 
have men of exceptional talent to fight down 
in the Californias except the barriers to its de- 
velopment ? In England or the United States 
they still would be great men, — Alvarado and 
Castro, at least, — but they would have to work 
harder. " 
Chonita, in spite of her disapproval and her 
blood, looked at him with interest His ideas 
and language were strikingly unlike the sentimental
rhetoric of the caballeros. 
"It is as you say," she admitted ; "but the 
Califomian's highest duty is loyalty to his country. 
Ours is a double duty, isolated as we are 
on this far strip of land, away from all other 
civilization. We should be more contemptible
than Indians if we were not true to our 
flag." 
"No wonder that you and that famous patriot 
of ours. Dona Eustaquia Ortega, are bonded 
friends. I doubt if you could hate as well as 
she. You have no such violence in your nature ; 
you could neither love nor hate very 
hard. You would love (if you loved at all) 
with majesty and serenity, and hate with chill 
severity." While he spoke he watched her 
intently. 
She met his gaze unflinchingly. " True, 
senor ; I am no * bundle of shallow emotions,' 
nor have I a lion in me, like Eustaquia. I am 
a creature of deliberation, not of impulse : I 
love and hate as duty dictates. " 
"You are by nature the most impulsive wo- 
man I ever saw," he said, much amused, "and 
Eustaquia's lion is a kitten to the one that sleeps 
in you. You have cold deliberation enough, 
but it is manufactured, and the result of pretty 
hard work at that. Like all edifices reared 
without a foundation, it will fall with a crash some 
day, and the fragments will be of very little use 
to you." And there the conversation ended: 
they had reached the plaza, and a babel of 
voices surrounded them. Governor Alvarado 
stood on the upper corridor of his house, 
throwing handfuls of small gold coins among the 
people, who were shrieking with delight. The 
girl guests mingled with them, seeing that no 
palm went home empty. Beside the governor 
sat Doiia Martina, radiant with pride, and 
behind her stood the nurse, holding the infant on its 
pillow. 
"We had better go to the house as soon as 
possible," said Estenega. "It is nearly time 
for the bull-bear fight, and we must have good 
seats." 
They forced their way through the crowd, 
dismounted at the door, and went up to the 
corridor. The Castros and I were already there, 
with a number of other invited guests. The 
women sat in chairs, close to the corridor 
railing ; several rows of men stood behind them. 
The plaza was a jagged circle surrounded by 
dwelling-houses, some one story in height, 
others with overhanging balconies ; from it 
radiated five streets. All corridors were crowded 
with the elegantly-dressed men and women of 
the aristocracy ; large black fans were waving ; 
