
"Oh, a secret, is it?"

"Yes, but I am going to make you my confidant. I am greatly in need of a
friend and partner, and I'll make it worth your while to stand by me.
I'll give you a quarter of--what I have here--if you'll see me safe to
Melbourne."

"What is it, pard? Out with it, quick!"

"It's--a nugget, and the biggest one that's been found at Bendigo since
they commenced mining."

"A nugget! Great Jehoshaphat! Let me see it!"

The thief drew the bundle--still wrapped in Obed's red bandanna--from
underneath the pallet, while his companion in intense excitement bent
over to catch a glimpse of the treasure.




CHAPTER XXVII.

BAFFLED CUPIDITY.

An expression of surprise and dismay, almost ludicrous, appeared on the
faces of the two adventurers as the contents of the handkerchief were
revealed.

"Why, it's nothing but a rock!" exclaimed the new-comer, with an oath.

The thief stared at him in helpless consternation, and was unable to
utter a word.

"What does all this mean?" asked the new-comer sternly. "If you are
humbugging me, I'll----" and he finished the sentence with an oath.

"I don't know what it means," answered the thief in a disconsolate tone.
"I'm just as much surprised as you are."

"Where did you get it? How came you to make such a fool of yourself?"
demanded the new-comer, frowning heavily.

"You know that Yankee and the two boys who have a claim next to
Pickett's?"

"Well?"

"Last night I was coming from the Hut"--that was the local name of the
cabin devoted to gambling purposes--"when I saw them coming from their
claim. The Yankee had this ---- rock tied up in yonder handkerchief. Of
course, I supposed it was a nugget. No one would suppose he was taking
all that pains with a common rock."

"Go on! Did you follow them?"

"Yes; that is, I kept them in sight. They entered their cabin, and I
waited, perhaps three-quarters of an hour, till they had time to fall
asleep."

"Were you near the cabin all the time?"

"No; I didn't dare to be too near for fear I should be observed. I
wanted the nugget, but I didn't want to run any risk."

"I have no doubt you were very prudent," said the second, with an
unpleasant sneer. Doubtless he would have done the same, but his
disappointment was so great that he could not resist the temptation of
indulging in this fling at the man who had unintentionally contributed
to it.

"Of course I was," said the first, with some indignation. "Would you
have had me enter the cabin while they were all awake, and carry it off
under their very eyes? That would be mighty sensible."

"At any rate, then you would have got the genuine nugget."

"What do you mean? Do you think there was a nugget?"

"Of course I do. It's as plain as the nose on your face, and that's
plain enough, in all conscience. They've played a trick on you."

"What trick?"

"It appears to me you are mighty stupid, my friend. They hid away the
real nugget, and put this in its place. That Yankee is a good deal
sharper than you are, and he wasn't going to run no risks."

"Do you believe this?" asked the thief, his jaw falling.

"There's no doubt of it. They've had a fine laugh at your expense before
this, I'll be bound."

"Just my luck!" ejaculated the thief dolefully. "After all the pains
I've taken, too."

"Yes, it is hard lines on a poor industrious man like you!" said the
new-comer cynically. "You're not smart enough to be a successful
thief."

"I suppose you are," retorted the other resentfully.

"Yes, I flatter myself I am," returned the other composedly. "When I
take anything, at any rate I have the sense to take something worth
carrying away--not a worthless rock like this. You must have had a fine
time lugging it from the mines."

"It nearly broke my back," said the thief gloomily.

"And now you don't know what to do with it? Take my advice, my friend,
and carry it back to the original owner. He may find it handy another
time."

"I'll be blessed if I do," growled the unhappy thief.

"I doubt that," said his companion dryly. "However, do as you please. It
don't interest me. I don't think on the whole I will accept your offer
of a partnership. When I take a partner I want a man with some small
supply of brains."

The first looked at him resentfully. He did not like these taunts, and
would have assaulted him had he dared, but the new-comer was powerfully
built, and evidently an unsafe man to take liberties with. He threw
himself back on the pallet and groaned.

"Well," said the second after a pause, "when you've got through crying
over spilt milk, will you kindly tell me where I can get something to
eat?"

"I don't know."

"Humph! that's short and to the point. It is something I would like very
much to know, for my part. I feel decidedly hungry."

"I have no appetite," said the luckless thief mournfully.

"You will have, after a while. Then you can't think of any cabin near by
where we could get a breakfast?"

"There's Joe's.'"

"Where's Joe's?"

"About a mile from here on the road to the camp."

"Are you acquainted with Joe?"

"Yes."

"Is your credit good with him?"

"I think he would trust me for a breakfast."

"And me? You can introduce me as a friend of yours."

"You haven't been talking like a friend of mine," said the first
resentfully.

"Perhaps not. However, you must make allowances for my natural
disappointment. You led me into it, you know."

"If it comes to that, I have done you no harm. Even if the nugget wasn't
real, you had no claim to it."

"You excited my hopes, and that's enough to rile any man--that is, when
disappointment follows. However, there's no use crying over spilt milk.
I have an idea that may lead to something."

"What is it?" asked the thief with some eagerness.

"I will tell you--after breakfast. My ideas don't flow freely when I am
hungry. Come, my friend, get up, and lead the way to Joe's. I have an
aching void within, which needs filling up. Your appetite may come
too--after a walk."

Somehow this man, cool and cynical as he was, impressed his fellow
adventurer, and he rose obediently, and led the way out of the cabin.

"I wish I knew what was your idea," he said.

"Well, I don't mind telling you. I believe the Yankee did find a
nugget."

"Well?"

"You haven't got it, but you may get it--that is, we may get it."

"I don't see how. He will be on his guard now."

"Of course he will. I don't mean that we should repeat the blunder of
last night. You may be sure he won't keep it in his cabin another
night."

"Then how are we to get it?"

"Follow him to Melbourne. He'll carry it there, and on the way we can
relieve him of it."

"There's something in that."

"We shall be together, and he won't take me in as readily as he did you.
After breakfast, if we are lucky enough to get any, we must go back to
the camp, and find out what we can about his plans. Do you think anyone
saw you last night when you were in the cabin?"

"No."

"That is well. Then you won't be suspected. But I can't say a word more
till I have had breakfast."

After half an hour's walking--it was only half a mile, but the soil was
boggy, rendering locomotion difficult--they reached a humble wayside
cabin, which was in some sort a restaurant, and by dint of diplomacy and
a promise of speedy payment, they secured a meal to which, despite their
disappointment, they did ample justice.

Breakfast over, they resumed their fatiguing walk, and reached the
mining camp about ten o'clock.




CHAPTER XXVIII.

THE NUGGET IN SAFETY.

Fatigued by their exertions of the previous days and the late hours they
had kept, Obed and the boys rose at a later hour than usual. About eight
o'clock Obed opened his eyes, and noticed that his two young companions
were fast asleep.

"It's time to get up, boys," he said, giving them a gentle shake.

The boys opened their eyes, and realized, by the bright sunshine
entering the cabin, that the day was already well advanced.

"What time is it, Obed?" asked Harry.

"Past eight o'clock. We shall be late at our work."

He smiled, and his smile was reflected on the faces of the boys. Their
success of the day before made it a matter of indifference whether they
accomplished a good day's work or not.

"What are we going to do about the nugget, Obed?" asked Harry.

"After breakfast we will carry it to the office of the commissioner, and
get his receipt for it."

"I shall be glad to get it out of our hands," said Jack.

"If that is the case, Jack, suppose you give your share to me," said
Harry, in joke.

"I didn't mean to get rid of it in that way," said the young sailor.

"You would be as ready to give it as I to accept it," said Harry. "No,
Jack, I want you to have your share. I am sure you will have a use for
it."

After breakfast the three emerged from the cabin, bearing the precious
nugget with them. They did not meet anyone on their way to the office of
the commissioner, for all the miners had gone to their work. This suited
them, for until they had disposed of the nugget, they did not care to
have their good luck made public.

The royal commissioner was a stout Englishman with a red face and
abundant whiskers of the same color. He chanced to be at the door of the
office as the party appeared.

"Well, can I do anything for you?" he asked.

"Yes, sir; you can give us a receipt for this nugget."

"Nugget!" ejaculated the commissioner, fixing his eyes for the first
time on the burden which Mr. Stackpole carried. "Bless my soul! you
don't mean to say that you have found a nugget of that size!"

"That's just what we've done," answered Obed.

"When did you find it?"

"Well, we took it from the mine about midnight. We found it in the
afternoon, but calculated we'd better take possession when there wasn't
so many lookin' on. I say, Mr. Commissioner, I don't think it would
agree with me to be a rich man. I got broken of my rest last night, from
havin' the nugget in the cabin."

"You ran very little risk. No one could have found out that you had it
in your possession," remarked the commissioner.

"That's where you are mistaken, commissioner. We came near being robbed
of it only an hour after we brought it home."

"Bless my soul! How did that happen?"

"A pesky thief sneaked in, and carried it off, as he thought."

"How could he think he carried it off when he did not?"
