strong, maidenly love, and it stood there still in the midst of her
heart, hanging its head in the cold, while she gazed at it and
wondered, and choked with anguish. But she could not lift her hand to
prop it, nor to cover it and warm it again, still less to root it up and
burn it.

She could only try to escape from seeing it, and she resolutely set
about making the attempt. She left her room and went downstairs,
treading more softly as she passed the door of the room in which her
mother worked during the morning hours. She did not wish to see her
again at present, and as she descended she could not help thinking with
wonder of the sudden and unaccountable change in their relations.

She entered the library, but though it was warm, it had that chilly look
about it which rooms principally used in the evening generally have when
there is no fire in them. The snow-glare was on everything, too, and
made it worse. She stood a moment in hesitation before the writing
table, and laid her hand uncertainly upon a sheet of writing paper. But
she realized that she could not write to John, and she turned away
almost immediately.

What could she have written? It was easy to talk to herself of a letter;
it was quite another matter to find words, or even to discover the
meaning of her own thoughts. She did not wish to see him. If she wished
anything, it was that she might never see him again. Nothing could have
been much worse than to meet him just then, and talking on paper was
next to talking in fact. It all rushed back upon her as she moved away,
and she paused a moment and steadied herself against her favourite chair
by the empty fireplace. Then she raised her head again, proudly, and
left the room, looking straight before her.

There was nothing to be done but to go out. The loneliness of the house
was absolutely intolerable, and she could not wander about in such an
aimless fashion all day long. Again she went upstairs to her room to put
on her hat and things. Mechanically she took the hat she had worn on the
previous day, but as she stood before the mirror and caught sight of it,
she suddenly took it from her head again and threw it behind her with a
passionate gesture, stared at herself a moment and then buried her face
in her hands. She had unconsciously put on the same frock as
yesterday--the frock in which she had been married--it was the rough
grey woollen one she had been wearing every day. And there were the same
simple little ornaments, the small silver pin at her throat, the tiny
gold bar of her thin watch chain at the third button from the top--the
hat had made it complete--just as she had been married. She could not
bear that.

A few moments later she rose, and without looking at herself in the
glass, began to change her clothes. She dressed herself entirely in
black, put on a black hat and a gold pin, and took a new pair of brown
gloves from a drawer. There was a relief, now, in her altered
appearance, as she fastened her veil. She felt that she could behave
differently if she could get rid of the outward things which reminded
her of yesterday. It is not wise to reflect contemptuously upon the
smallness of things which influence passionate people at great moments
in their lives. It needs less to send a fast express off the track, if
the obstacle be just so placed as to cause an accident, than it does to
upset a freight train going at twelve miles an hour.

Katharine descended the stairs again with a firm step, holding her head
higher than before, and with quite a different look in her eyes. She had
put on a sort of shell with her black clothes. It seemed to conceal her
real self from the outer world, the self that had worn rough grey
woollen and a silver pin and had been married to John Ralston yesterday
morning. She did not even take the trouble to tread softly as she passed
her mother’s studio, for she felt able to face any one, all at once. If
John himself had been standing in the entry below, and if she had come
upon him suddenly, she should have known how to meet him, and what to
say. She would have hurt him, and she would have been glad of it, with
all of her. What right had John Ralston to ruin her life?

But John was not there, nor was there any possibility of her meeting
him that morning. He had shut himself up in his room and was waiting for
her answer to the letter which Alexander Lauderdale had taken down town
in his pocket, and which he meant to burn before her eyes that evening
after delivering his little speech. It was not probable that John would
go out of the house until he was convinced that no answer was to be
expected.

Katharine went out into the street and paused on the last step. The snow
was deep everywhere, and wet and clinging. No attempt had as yet been
made to clear it away, though the horse-cars had ploughed their black
channel through, and it had been shovelled off the pavements before some
of the houses. There was a slushy muddiness about it where it was not
still white, which promised ill for a walk. Katharine knew exactly what
Washington Square would be like on such a morning. The little birds
would all be draggled and cold, the leafless twigs would be dripping,
the paths would be impracticable, and all the American boys would be
snowballing the Italian and French boys from South Fifth Avenue. The
University Building would look more than usual like a sepulchre to let,
and Waverley Place would be more savagely respectable than ever, as its
quiet red brick houses fronted the snow. Overhead the sky was of a
uniform grey. It was impossible to tell from any increase of light where
the sun ought to be. The air was damp and cold, and all the noises of
the street were muffled. Far away and out of sight, a hand-organ was
playing ‘Ah quell’ amore ond’ardo’--an air which Katharine most
especially and heartily detested. There was something ghostly in the
sound, as though the wretched instrument were grinding itself to death
out of sheer weariness. Katharine thought that if the world were making
music in its orbit that morning, the noise must be as melancholy and as
jarring as that of the miserable hurdy-gurdy. She thought vaguely, too,
of the poor old man who has stood every day for years with his back to
the railings on the south side of West Fourteenth Street, before you
come to Sixth Avenue, feebly turning the handle of a little box which
seems to be full of broken strings, which something stirs up into a
scarcely audible jangle at every sixth or seventh revolution. He has
yellowish grey hair, long and thick, and is generally bareheaded. She
felt inclined to go and see whether he were there now, in the wet snow,
with his torn shoes and his blind eyes, that could not feel the glare.
She found herself thinking of all the many familiar figures of distress,
just below the surface of the golden stream as it were, looking up out
of it with pitiful appealing faces, and without which New York could not
be itself. Her father said they made a good living out of their starving
appearance, and firmly refused to encourage what he called pauperism by
what other people called charity. Even if they were really poor, he
said, they probably deserved to be, and were only reaping the fruit of
their own improvidence, a deduction which did not appeal to Katharine.

She turned eastwards and would have walked up to Fourteenth Street in
order to give the hurdy-gurdy beggar something, had she not remembered
almost immediately that she had no money with her. She never had any
except what her mother gave her for her small expenses, and during the
last few days she had not cared to ask for any. In very economically
conducted families the reluctance to ask for small sums is generally
either the sign of a quarrel or the highest expression of sympathetic
consideration. Every family has its private barometer in which money
takes the place of mercury.

Katharine suddenly remembered that she had promised Crowdie another
sitting at eleven o’clock on Friday. It was the day and it was the hour,
and though by no means sure that she would enter the house when she
reached Lafayette Place, she turned in that direction and walked on,
picking her way across the streets as well as she could. The last time
she had gone to Crowdie’s she had gone with John, who had left her at
the door in order to go in search of a clergyman. She remembered that,
as she went along, and she chose the side of the street opposite to the
one on which she had gone with Ralston.

At the door of Crowdie’s house, she hesitated again. Crowdie was one of
the gossips. It was he who had told the story of John’s quarrel with
Bright. It seemed as though he must be more repulsive to her than ever.
On the other hand, she realized that if she failed to appear as she had
promised, he would naturally connect her absence with what had happened
to Ralston. He could hardly be blamed for that, she thought, but she
would not have such a story repeated if she could help it. She felt very
brave, and very unlike the Katharine Lauderdale of two hours earlier,
and after a moment’s thought, she rang the bell and was admitted
immediately.

Hester Crowdie was just coming down the stairs, and greeted Katharine
before reaching her. She seemed annoyed about something, Katharine
thought. There was a little bright colour in her pale cheeks, and her
dark eyes gleamed angrily.

“I’m so glad you’ve come!” she exclaimed, helping her friend to take off
her heavy coat. “Come in with me for a minute, won’t you?”

“What’s the matter?” asked Katharine, going with her into the little
front room. “You look angry.”

“Oh--it’s nothing! I’m so foolish, you know. It’s silly of me. Sit
down.”

“What is it, dear?” asked Katharine, affectionately, as she sat down
beside Hester upon a little sofa. “Have you and he been quarrelling?”

“Quarrelling!” Hester laughed gaily. “No, indeed. That’s impossible!
No--we were all by ourselves--Walter was singing over his work, and I
was just lying amongst the cushions and listening and thinking how
heavenly it was--and that stupid Mr. Griggs came in and spoiled it all.
So I came away in disgust. I was so angry, just for a minute--I could
have killed him!”

“Poor dear!” Katharine could not help smiling at the story.

“Oh, of course, you laugh at me. Everybody does. But what do I care? I
love him--and I love his voice, and I love to be all alone with him up
there under the sky--and at night, too, when there’s a full moon--you
have no idea how beautiful it is. And then I always think that the snowy
days, when I can’t go out on foot, belong especially to me. You’re
different--I knew you were coming at eleven--but that horrid Mr.
Griggs!”

“Poor Mr. Griggs! If he could only hear you!”

“Walter pretends to like him. That’s one of the few points on which we
shall never agree. There’s nothing against him, I know, and he’s rather
modest, considering how he has been talked about--and all that. But one
doesn’t like one’s husband’s old friends to come--bothering--you know,
and getting in the way when one wants to be alone with him. Oh, no! I’ve
nothing against the poor man--only that I hate him! How are you,
dearest, after the ball, last night? You seemed awfully tired when I
brought you home. As for me, I’m worn out. I never closed my eyes till
Walter came home--he danced the cotillion with your mother. Didn’t you
think he was looking ill? I did. There was one moment when I was just a
little afraid that--you know--that something might happen to him--as it
did the other day--did you notice anything?”

“No,” answered Katharine, thoughtfully. “He’s naturally pale. Don’t you
think that just happened once, and isn’t likely to occur again? He’s
been perfectly well ever since Monday, hasn’t he?”

“Oh, yes--perfectly. But you know it’s always on my mind, now. I want to
be with him more than ever. I suppose that accounts for my being so
angry with poor Mr. Griggs. I think I’d ask him to stay to luncheon if I
were sure he’d go away the minute it’s over. Shouldn’t you like to stay,
dear? Shall I ask him? That will just make four. Do! I shall feel that
I’ve atoned for being so horrid about him. I wish you would!”

Katharine did not answer at once. The vision of her luncheon at home
rose disagreeably before her--there would be her mother and her
grandfather, and probably Charlotte. The latter was quite sure to have
heard something about John, and would, of course, seize the occasion to
make unpleasant remarks. This consideration was a decisive argument.

“Dear,” she said at last, “if you really want me, I think I will stay.
Only--I don’t want to be in the way, like Mr. Griggs. You must send me
away when you’ve had enough of me.”

“Katharine! What an idea! I only wish you would stay forever.”

“Oh, no, you don’t!” answered Katharine, with a smile.

Hester rang the bell, and the immaculate and magnificent Fletcher
appeared to receive her orders about the luncheon. Katharine meanwhile
began to wonder at herself. She was so unlike what she had been a few
hours earlier, in the early morning, alone in her room. She wondered
whether, after all, she were not heartless, or whether the memory of all
that had lately happened to her might not be softened, like that of a
bad dream, which is horrible while it lasts, and at which one laughs at
breakfast, knowing that it has had no reality. Had her marriage any
reality? Last night, before the ball, the question would have seemed
blasphemous. It presented itself quite naturally just now. What value
had that contract? What power had the words of any man, priest or
layman, to tie her forever to one who had not the common decency to
behave like a gentleman, and to keep his appointment with her on the
same evening--on the evening of their wedding day? Was there a
mysterious magic in the mere words, which made them like a witch’s spell
in a fairy story? She had not seen him since. What was he doing? Had he
not even enough respect for her to send her a line of apology? Merely
what any man would have sent who had missed an appointment? Had she sold
her soul into bondage for the term of her natural life by uttering two
words--‘I will’? It was only her soul, after all. She had not seen his
face save for a moment at her own door in the afternoon. Did he think
that since they had been married he need not have even the most common
consideration for her? It seemed so. What had she dreamed, what had she
imagined during all those weeks and months before last Monday, while she
had been making up her mind that she would sacrifice anything and
everything for the sake of making him happy? She could not be mistaken,
now, for she was thinking it all over quite coldly during these two
minutes, while Hester was speaking to the butler. She was more than
cold. She was indifferent. She could have gone back to her room and put
on her grey frock, and the little silver pin again, and could have
looked at herself in the mirror for an hour without any sensation but
that of wonder--amazement at her own folly.

Talk of love! There was love between Walter Crowdie and his wife. Hester
could not be with any one for five minutes without speaking of him, and
as for Crowdie himself, he was infatuated. Everybody said so. Katharine
pardoned him his pale face, his red lips, and the incomprehensible
repulsion she felt for him, because he loved his wife.




CHAPTER XXIV.


Katharine and Hester went up to the studio together, and Hester opened
the door.

“I’ve brought your sitter, Walter,” she said, announcing Katharine.
“I’ve come back with a reinforcement.”

“Oh, Miss Lauderdale, how do you do?” Crowdie came forward. “Do you know
Mr. Griggs?” he asked in a low voice.

“Yes, he was introduced to me last night,” explained Katharine in an
undertone, and bending her head graciously as the elderly man bowed from
a distance.

“Oh! that’s very nice,” observed Crowdie. “I didn’t know whether you had
met. I hate introducing people. They’re apt to remember it against one.
Griggs is an old friend, Miss Lauderdale.”

Katharine looked at the painter and thought he was less repulsive than
usual.

“I know,” she answered. “Do you really want me to sit this morning, Mr.
Crowdie? You know, we said Friday--”

“Of course I do! There’s your chair, all ready for you--just where it
was last time. And the thing--it isn’t a picture yet--is in the corner
here. Hester, dear, just help Miss Lauderdale to take off her hat, won’t
you?”

He crossed the room as he spoke, and began to wheel up the easel on
which Katharine’s portrait stood. Griggs said nothing, but watched the
two women as they stood together, trying to understand the very opposite
impressions they made upon him, and wondering with an excess of cynicism
which Crowdie thought the more beautiful. For his own part, he fancied
