saying, "Ah, that is your theory. But I am com- 
ing over soon, and shall expect you and Dr. Leigh 
to take me about." 

The next morning Mr. Mavick's card gave him 
instant admission to the inner office of Mr. Hen- 
derson, the approach to whom was more carefully 
guarded than that to the President of the United 





States. This was not merely necessary to save him 
from the importunities of cranks who might carry 
concealed dynamite arguments, but as well to pro- 
tect him from hundreds of business men with 
whom he was indirectly dealing, and with whom 
he wished to evade explanations. He thoroughly 
understood the advantages of delay. He also un- 
derstood the value of the mystery that attends- 
inaccessibility. Even Mr. Havick himself was im- 
pressed by the show of ceremony, by the army of 
clerks, and by the signs of complete organization. 
He knew that the visitor was specially favored who 
penetrated these precincts so fa* as to get an inter- 
view, usually fruitless, with Henderson's confiden- 
tial man. This confidential man was a very' grave 
and confidence-begetting person, who dealt out du- 
bious hints and promises, and did not at all mind 
when Henderson found it necessary to repudiate 
as unauthorized anything that had been apparently 
said in his name. To be sure, this gave a general 
impression that Henderson was an inscrutable man 
to deal with, but at the same time it was confessed 
that his spoken word could be depended on. Any- 
thing written might, it is true, lead to litigation, 
and this gave rise to a saying in the Street that 
Henderson's word was better than his bond. 

Henderson was not a politician, but he was a 
friend of politicians. It was said that he contrib- 
uted about equally to both sides in a political cam- 



paign, and that this showed patriotism more than 
partisanship. It was for his interest to have friends 
on both sides in Congress, and friends in the Cabi- 
net, and it was even hinted that he was concerned 
to have men whose economic and financial theories 
accorded with his own on the Supreme Bench. He 
had unlimited confidence in the power of money. 
His visitor of the morning was not unlike him in 
many respects. He also was not a politician. He 
would have described himself as a governmental 
man, and had a theory of running the government 
with as little popular interference as possible. He 
regarded himself as belonging to the governing 
class. 

Between these two men, who each had his own 
interests in view, there was naturally an apparent 
putting aside of reserve. 

"I was very glad to make your acquaintance, 
Mr. Mavick," said Henderson, cordially. " I have 
known of you for a long time." 

" Yes ? I've been in the employ of the govern- 
ment for some time." 

" And I suppose it pays pretty well," said Hen- 
derson, smiling. 

"Oh, extravagantly," Mavick rejoined, in the 
same spirit. " You just about get your board and 
clothes out of government. Your washing is an- 
other thing. You are expected, you know, to have 
your washing done where you vote." 





Well, it's a sure thing." 

"Yes, till you are turned out. You know the 
theory at Washington is that virtue is its own re- 
ward. Tom Fakeltree says it's enough." 

" I wonder how he knows ?" 

" Observation, probably. Tom startled a dinner- 
table the other day with the remark that when a 
man once gives himself up to the full enjoyment of 
a virtuous life, it seems strange to him that more 
people do not follow his example." 

" The trouble with the virtue of Washington is 
that it always wants to interfere with other peo- 
ple's business. Fellows like Tom are always hunt- 
ing up mares' nests in order to be paid for breaking 
them up." 

" I can't say about Tom," rejoined Mavick. " I 
suppose it is necessary to live." 

" I suppose so. And that goes along with an- 
other proposition that the successful have no 
rights which the unsuccessful are bound to respect. 
As soon as a man gets ahead," Henderson contin- 
ued, with a tone of bitterness, " the whole pack are 
trying to pull him down. A capitalist is a public 
nemy. Why, look at that Hodge bill ! Strikes 
directly at the ability of the railways to develop 
the country. Have you seen it ?" 

" Yes," Mavick admitted ; " the drawer of it was 
good enough to consult me on its constitutionality. 
It's a mighty queer bill." 





" It can't get through the Senate," said Hender- 
son ; " but it's a bother. Such schemes are coming 
up all the time, and they unsettle business. These 
fellows need watching." 

" And managing," added Mavick. 

"Exactly. I can't be in Washington all the 
time. And I need to know what is going on every 
twenty-four hours from the inside. I can't rely on 
politicians or lobbyists." 

" Well," said Mr. Mavick, in his easiest manner, 
"that's easy enough. You want a disinterested 
friend." 

Henderson nodded, but did not even smile, and 
the talk went on about other measures, and confi- 
dentially about certain men in Washington, until, 
after twenty minutes' conversation, the two men 
came to a perfect understanding. When Mavick 
arose to go they shook hands even more cordially 
than at first, and Henderson said, 

" Well, I expect to hear from you, and remem- 
ber that our house will always be your home in the 
city." 



CHAPTER IX 

IT seemed very fortunate to Jack Delancy that 
he should have such a clever woman as Carmen for 
his confidante, a man so powerful as Henderson as 
his backer, and a person so omniscient as Mavick 
for his friend. No combination could be more de- 
sirable for a young man who proposed to himself 
a career of getting money by adroit management 
and spending it in pure and simple self-indulgence. 
There are plenty of men who have taken advantage 
of like conditions to climb from one position to 
another, and have then kicked down the ladders 
behind them as fast as they attained a new footing. 
It was Jack's fault that he was not one of these. 
You could scarcely dignify his character by saying 
that he had an aim, except to saunter through life 
with as little personal inconvenience as possible. His 
selfishness was boneless. It was not by any means 
negative, for no part of his amiable nature was bet- 
ter developed than regard for his own care and 
comfort ; but it was not strong enough to give him 
Henderson's capacity for hard work and even self- 
denial, nor Mavick's cool, persevering skill in mak- 
ing a way for himself in the world. 







Why was not Edith his confidante ? His respect 
for her was undoubted ; his love for her was un- 
questioned; his trust in her was absolute. And 
yet with either Carmen or Miss Tavish he fell into 
confidential revelations of himself which instinct- 
ively he did not make to Edith. The explanation 
of this is on the surface, and it is the ke} r to half 
the unhappiness in domestic life. He felt that 
Edith was not in sympathy with the associations 
and the life he was leading. The pitiful and hope- 
less part of it is that if she had been in sympathy 
with them, Jack would have gone on in his frivo- 
lous career at an accelerated pace. It was not ab- 
sence of love, it was not unfaithfulness, that made 
Jack enjoy the hours he spent with Carmen, or 
with the pleasing and not too fastidious Miss Tav- 
ish, with a zest that was wanting to his hours at 
home. If he had been upon a sinking steamboat 
with the three women, and could have saved only 
one of them, he would not have had a moment's 
hesitation in rescuing Edith and letting the other 
two sink out of his life. The character is not un- 
usual, nor the situation uncommon. What is a 
woman to do ? Her very virtues are enemies of her 
peace ; if she appears as a constant check and moni- 
tor, she repels ; if she weakly acquiesces, the stream 
will flow over both of them. The dilemma seems 
hopeless. 

It would be a mistake to suppose that either 





Edith or Jack put their relations in any such defi- 
nite shape as this. He was unthinking. She was 
too high-spirited, too confident of her position, to 
be assailed by such fears. And it must be said, 
since she was a woman, that she had the conscious- 
ness of power which goes along with the possession 
of loveliness and keen wit. Those who knew her 
best knew that under her serenity was a gay tem- 
perament, inherited from the original settlers of 
Manhattan, an abounding enjoyment of life, and 
capacity for passion. It was early discovered in 
her childhood that little Edith had a will of her 
own. 

Lent was oyer. It was the time of the twitter- 
ing of sparrows, of the opening of windows, of 
putting in order the little sentimental spots called 
" squares," where the poor children get their idea 
of forests, and the rich renew their faint recollec- 
tions of innocence and country life ; when the 
hawkers go about the streets, and the hand-organs 
celebrate the return of spring and the possibility 
of love. Even the idle felt that it was a time for 
relaxation and quiet. 

" Have you answered Miss Tavish's invitation ?" 
asked Jack one morning at the breakfast-table. 

" Not yet. I shall decline to-day for myself." 

"Why? It's for charity." 

" Well, my charity extends to Miss Tavish. I 
don't want to see her dance." 





" That leaves me in a nice hole. I said I'd go." 

" And why not ? You go to a good many places 
you don't take me the clubs, brokers' offices, 
Stalker's, the Conventional, and " 

" Oh, go on. Why do you object to my going 
to see this dance ?" 

"My dear Jack," said Edith, "I haven't ob- 
jected the least in the world ;" and her animated 
face sparkled with a smile, which seemed to irritate 
Jack more than a frown would have done. 

" I don't see why you set yourself up. I'll bet 
Miss Tavish will raise more money for the Baxter 
Street Guild, yes, and do more good, than you and 
the priest and that woman doctor slopping about 
on the East Side in six months." 

" Yery likely," replied Edith, still with the same 
good-humored smile. " But, Jack, it's delightful to 
see your philanthropic spirit stirred up in this way. 
You ought to be encouraged. Why don't you join 
Miss Tavish in this charity ? I have no doubt that 
if it was advertised that Miss Tavish and Mr. Jack 
Delancy would dance for the benefit of an East 
Side guild in the biggest hall in the city, there 
wouldn't be standing room." 

" Oh, bosh !" said Jack, getting up from his chair 
and striding about the room, with more irritation 
than he had ever shown to Edith before. " I 
wouldn't be a prude." 

Edith's eyes flashed and her face flushed, but her 


