water give out and they starved to death; but Tom 
said no wild animals nor vultures hadn't meddled 
with them, and so that guess wouldn't do. So at 
last we give it up, and judged we wouldn't think 
about it no more, because it made us low-spirited. 

Then we opened the box, and it had gems and 
jewels in it, quite a pile, and some little veils of the 
kind the dead women had on, with fringes made 
out of curious gold money that we warn't acquainted 
with. We wondered if we better go and try to find 
them again and give it back ; but Tom thought it 
over and said no ; it was a country that was full of 
robbers, and they would come and steal it, and then 
the sin would be on us for putting the temptation 
in their way. So we went on ; but I wished we 
had took all they had, so there wouldn't 'a' been no 
temptation at all left. 

We had had two hours of that blazing weather 
down there, and was dreadful thirsty when we got 
aboard again. We went straight for the water, but 
it was spoiled and bitter, besides being pretty near 
hot enough to scald your mouth. We couldn't 
drink it. It was Mississippi river water, the best 
in the world, and we stirred up the mud in it to see 
if that would help ; but no, the mud wasn't any 
better than the water. 

Well, we hadn't been so very, very thirsty before, 
whilst we was interested in the lost people, but we 
was now, and as soon as we found we couldn't have 
a drink we was more than thirsty — five times as 
thirsty as we was a quarter of a minute before. 
Why, in a little while we wanted to hold our mouths 
open and pant like a dog. 

Tom said keep a sharp look-out all around, 
everywheres," because we'd got to find an oasis, or 
there warn't no telling what would happen. So 

we done it. We kept the glasses gliding around all 
the time, till our arms got so tired we couldn't hold 
them any more. Two hours — three hours — just 
gazing and gazing, and nothing but sand, sand, 
sand, and you could see the quivering heat-shimmer 
playing over it. Dear, dear ! a body don't know 
what real misery is till he is thirsty all the way 
through and is certain he ain't ever going to come 
to any water any more. At last I couldn't stand it 
to look around on them baking plains ; I laid down 
on the locker and give it up. 

But by-and-by Tom raised a whoop, and there 
she was. A lake, wide and shiny, with pam trees 
leaning over it asleep, and their shadders in the 
water just as soft and delicate as ever you see. I 
never see anything look so good. It was a long 
ways off, but that warn't anything to us ; we just 
slapped on a hundred-mile gait, and calculated to 
be there in seven minutes ; but she stayed the same 
old distance away all the time— we couldn't seem to 
gain on her ; yes, sir, just as far, and shiny, and 
like a dream, but we couldn't get no nearer ; and 
at last, all of a sudden, she was gone. 

Tom's eyes took a spread, and he says : 

' Boys, it was a ?nyridge ! ' 

Said it like he was glad. I didn't see nothing 
to be glad about. I says : 

' Maybe. I don't care nothing about its name : 
the thing I want to know is, what's become of it ? ' 

Jim was trembling all over, and so scared he 
couldn't speak, but he wanted to ask that question 
himself if he could 'a' done it. Tom says : 

' What's ha-ontc of it ? Why, you see yourself 
it's gone.' 

'Yes, I know ; but where's it gone to ? ' 

He looked me over and says : 
Well, now, Huck Finn, where would it go to ? 
Don't you know what a myridge is ? ' 

' No, I don't. What is it ? ' 

'It ain't anything but imagination. There 
ain't anything to it.' 

It warmed me up a little to hear him talk like 
that, and I says : 

' What's the use you talking that kind of stuff, 
Tom Sawyer ? Didn't I see the lake ? ' 

' Yes ; you think you did.' 

' I don't think nothing about it ; I did see it.' 

' I tell you you didn't see it, either — because it 
warn't there to see.' 

It astonished Jim to hear him talk so, and he 
broke in and says, kind of pleading and dis- 
tressed : 

' Mars Tom, please don't say sich things in sich 
an awful time as dis. You ain't only reskin' yo' 
own self, but you's reskin' us— same way like Anna 
Nias en Suffira. De lake wuz dah — I seen it jis' as 
plain as I sees you en Huck dis minute.' 

I says : 

' Why, he seen it himself ! He was the very 
one that seen it first. Noic, then.' 

' Yes, Mars Tom, hit's so — you can't deny it. 
We all seen it, en dat prove it was dah.' 

' Proves it ! How does it prove it ? ' 

' Same way it does in de courts en everywheres, 
Mars Tom. One pusson might be drunk or dreamy 
or suthin',en he could be mistaken; en two might, 
maybe; but I tell you, sah, when three sees a thing, 
drunk er sober, it's so. Dey ain't no gittin' aroun' 
dat, en you knows it, Mars Tom.' 


'I don't know nothing of the kind. There used 
to be forty thousand million people that seen the 
sun move from one side of the sky to the other 
every day. Did that prove that the sun done it ? ' 

' 'Course it did. En, besides, dey warn't no 
'casion to prove it. A body 'at's got any sense 
ain't gwyne to doubt it. Dah she is now — a sailin' 
thoo de sky des like she allays done.' 

Tom turned on me then, and says : 

' What do you say — is the sun standing still ? ' 

' Tom Sawyer, what's the use to ask such a 
jackass question ? Anybody that ain't blind can 
see it don't stand still.' 

' Well,' he says, ' I'm lost in the sky with no 
company but a passel of low-down animals that 
don't know no more than the head boss of a uni- 
versity did three or four hundred years ago. W r hy, 
blame it, Huck Finn, there was Popes, in them 
days, that knowed as much as you do.' 

It warn't fair play, and I let him know it. I 
says : 

'Throwin' mud ain't arguin', Tom Sawyer.' 

' Who's throwin' mud ? ' 

' You done it.' 

' I never. It ain't no disgrace, I reckon, to 
compare a backwoods Missouri muggins like you to 
a Pope, even the orneriest one that ever set on the 
throne. Why it's an honour to you, you tadpole ; 
the Pope's the one that's hit hard, not you, and you 
couldn't blame him for cussing about it, only they 
don't cuss. Not now they don't, I mean.' 
' Sho, Tom, did they ever ? ' 
' In the Middle Ages ? Why, it was their com- 
mon diet.' 

' No ! You don't really mean they cussed ? ' 
That started his mill a-going, and he ground out 
a regular speech, the way he done sometimes when 
he was feeling his oats ; and I got him to write 
down some of the last half of it for me, because it 
was like book-talk and tough to remember, and had 
words in it that I warn't used to, and is pretty 
tiresome to spell : 

' Yes, they did. I don't mean that they went 
charging around the way Ben Miller does, and put 
the cuss-words just the same way he puts them. 
No ; they used the same words, but they put them 

together different, because they'd been learnt by 
the very best masters, and they knowed hmr, 
which Ben Miller don't, because he just picked it 
up here and there and around, and hadn't had no 
competent person to learn him. But they knowed. 
It warn't no frivolous random cussing, like Ben 
Miller's, that starts in anywheres and comes out 
nowheres — it was scientific cussing, and systematic ; 
and it was stern, and solemn, and awful — not a 
thing for you to stand off and laugh at, the way 
people does when that poor ignorant Ben Miller 
gits a-going. Why, Ben Miller's kind can stand up 
and cuss a person a week, steady, and it wouldn't 
phaze him no more than a goose cackling ; but it 
was a mighty different thing in them Middle Ages 
when a Pope, educated to cuss, got his cussing- 
things together and begun to lay into a king, or a 
kingdom, or a heretic, or a Jew, or anybody that 
was unsatisfactory and needed straightening out. 
He didn't go at it harum-scarum ; no, he took that 
king or that other person, and begun at the top, 
and cussed him all the way down in detail. He 
cussed him in the hairs of his head, and in the 

bones of his skull, and in the hearing of his ears, 
and in the sight of his eyes, and in the breath of 
his nostrils, and in his vitals, and in his veins, and 
in his limbs and his feet and his hands, and the 
blood and flesh and bones of his whole body ; and 
cussed him in the loves of his heart and in his 
friendships, and turned him out in the world, and 
cussed anybody that give him food to eat, or shelter 
and bed, or water to drink, or rags to cover him 
when he was freezing. Land ! that was cussing 
worth talking about ; that was the only cussing 
worth shucks that's ever been done in this world — 
the man it fell on, or the country it fell on, would 
better 'a' been dead forty times over. Ben Miller ! 
The idea of him thinking he can cuss ! Why, the 
poorest little one-horse back-country bishop in the 
Middle Ages could cuss all around him. We don't 
know nothing about cussing nowadays.' 

' Well,' I says, * you needn't cry about it ; I 
reckon we can get along. Can a bishop cuss now 
the way they useter ? ' 

' Yes, they learn it because it's part of the polite 
learning that belongs to his lay-out — kind of bells 
letters, as you may say — and although he ain't got 
no more use for it than Missouri girls has for 
French, he's got to learn it, same as they do, 
because a Missouri girl that can't polly-voo and a 
bishop that can't cuss ain't got no business in 
society.' 

' Don't they ever cuss at all now, Tom ? ' 
' Not but very seldom. P'r'aps they do in Peru, 
but amongst people that knows anything it's 
played out, and they don't mind it no more than 
they do Ben Miller's kind. It's because they've 
got so far along that they know as much now as 
the grasshoppers did in the Middle Ages.' 
' The grasshoppers ? ' 

' Yes. In the Middle Ages, in France, when the 
grasshoppers started in to eat up the crops, the 
bishop would go out in the fields and pull a solemn 
face and give them a most solid good cussing. Just 
the way they done with a Jew or a heretic or a 
king, as I was telling you.' 

' And what did the grasshoppers do, Tom ? ' 
' Just laughed, and went on and et up the crop, 
same as they started in to do. The difference 
betwixt a man and a grasshopper, in the Middle 
Ages, was that the grasshopper warn't a fool.' 

' Oh, my goodness, oh, my goodness gracious, 
dah's de lake a'gin ! ' yelled Jim just then. ' Now, 
Mars Tom, what you gwyne to say ? ' 

Yes sir, there was the lake again, away yonder 
across the Desert, perfectly plain, trees and all, 
just the same as it was before. I says : 

'I reckon you're satisfied now, Tom Sawyer.' 

But he says, perfectly cam : 

' Yes, satisfied there ain't no lake there.' 

Jim says : 

' Don't talk so, Mars Tom — it sk'yers me to hear 
you. It's so hot, en you's so thirsty, dat you ain't 
in yo' right mine, Mars Tom. Oh, but don't she 
look good ! 'Clah I doan' know how I's gwyne 
to wait tell we gits dah, I's so thirsty.' 

' Well, you'll have to wait ; and it won't do you 
no good, either, because there ain't no lake there, I 
tell you.' 

I says : 

