too, there was the wide, the wealthy, and 
the fabulously respectable contingent adherent to the Presbyterian Church, of which, as 
already noted, Mr. Attersol was a pillar. 
And inevitably the flying squadron of 
acquaintances and friends encountered and 
recruited among the penal colonies on the 
Seine, on the Arno, and the Riviera ladies 





of a certain age, whose conception of 
morality appeared to consist in the improper 
thoughts they had of other people ; and 
stately gentlemen of suave address, without 
an enemy in the world or an idea in their 
heads. 

Where was the obstacle that should prevent these representatives of fashion from 
becoming aware that Miss Attersol was to 
enter society ? Mrs. Smithwick saw but 
one Miss Attersol's father. To her surprise, however, and more to her content, the 
suggestion made, there was no veto from 
him ; a protest merely from Myrrha, to 
which Mrs. Smithwick paid no attention at 
all, but promptly consulted with Sherry and 
ordered the cards. 

To this function Quain was duly bidden. 
It needed some urging, though, before he 
consented to come. Oh, not much ! He 
balked ; he was not a society man, he 
insisted ; he would not know what not 
to do, nor what not to say. But Myrrha 
brushed his objections aside like cob- 





webs. " I want you," she told him, and 
he came. 

But the visit was brief. " I'm off," 
he muttered to her the first chance he 
got. 

The drawing-room, the great dining-room 
beyond, the reception-rooms, the hall, the 
stairway too, were pervaded and possessed 
by a set of people as well sent out as any 
capital of the globe could produce. At the 
time being Myrrha was engaged in talk 
with Arthur Bancroft, a lawyer still young 
yet already famous, a man with the look of 
an athlete that had taken honors, one in 
whom her father reposed great trust, as well 
he might, for he was frank as a sword and 
just as keen. 

" I feel like a pike in a tank of goldfish," 
Quain added. 

The girl looked up. " Nonsense ! " she 
exclaimed. "I won't have you go." 

But as he nodded merely, a flush 
mounted to her cheek, she turned away. 
A moment, and he had gone. 





" What rights has she over me ? " he 
queried indignantly. There was no one to 
reply. 

That night the question haunted him, 
and in the morning it greeted him anew. 

" What is her ill-humor to me ?" he asked 
himself. "Haven't I provoked and experienced it a thousand times before ? I 
thought her changed : she isn't. Since her 
return she has done nothing but try to get 
me under her thumb. It's absurd." 

But in spite of the irritation Myrrha inhabited his thoughts. Yet not the Myrrha 
whom he had known. Another had come, 
a new one, so to speak, made up of beauties 
and imperfections, perversities and charms, 
that fused into a unity, adorable, gracious, 
sincere. The form, invisible and undefined, 
which surely accompanies the thoughts of 
the adolescent, and which is but the unincarnated soul of her that is destined to 
reside therein, abruptly took substance. As 
a weed of the sea, loosened and detached, 
rises slowly, stayed by one eddy, then by 





another, before achieving its gradual yet 
sure ascent, a revelation, arrested now by 
an objection, again by a query, yet ever 
nearer the surface, rose from the depths of 
his being and suddenly surged before him. 

" But I love her," he cried. 

There is a magic in those words. No 
sooner were they uttered than an exterior 
force seemed to lift him from himself. His 
mind became a rendezvous of apparitions. 
Myrrha reappeared in countless phases, 
as he had seen her first, as he had seen 
her last, in all the different changes of 
the years ; and a shudder seized him at 
the perception of this love which had 
not existed the day before, and which had 
revealed itself, causelessly, after a night of 
dream, after too many glasses of champagne, perhaps. 

" I love her," he repeated. " But but 
she is not for such as I. She would be 
amused indeed could she suspect." 

He drew breath, went to the dressing- 
table, shut his eyes, waited a moment, 





opened them, and stared at the thing which 
was there. 

" Never," he muttered, as he turned away, 
" never could she care for that" 

During the rest of the day that weariness 
which succeeds a long journey oppressed 
him. He had travelled far indeed into 
that loveliest of lands where the flowers 
distil the reason of love, where the unknown 
and the divine saunter familiarly like the 
gods of old, through mornings mellower 
than August nights, through dusks more 
languid than the moon. But he returned, 
outwearied ; and, as the day waned, a vision 
retreated. His heart was lighter ; he felt 
that his love was decreasing, that it would 
last but a few hours yet, that with sleep 
perhaps it would fade and be lost in the 
penumbra of the past. 

As he lay down, a face seemed pressed to 
his, lips were seeking his own. Myrrha was 
with him still. 

The morrow happened to be Sunday. He 
would see her as a matter of course, and, 






perhaps, through that clairvoyant intuition 
which girls possess, she would divine and 
jest. As he told himself this, it occurred to 
him that he might parry any possible thrust 
by the announcement that he was to leave 
town. After all, never yet had he asked 
for a holiday ; there was not an imaginable 
reason why he should not demand and 
obtain leave for an outing in Florida. But 
fate, that uncertain force which we recognize secretly and openly deny, willed otherwise. He was not destined to mingle with 
the magnolias that year no, nor on any 
other. 

" I think," he began, when the soup had 
gone, " I think, if Mr. Attersol don't mind, 
that I will take a run out of town to-morrow. 
What do you say, Myrrha ? Wouldn't it be 
a good idea for me to go to St. Augustine, 
or somewhere? These gayeties, you know, 
are upsetting." 

The girl shrugged a shoulder indiffer- 
ently. " A good idea yes, if you want to." 

Quain bit his lip. There had been a failure in the street, others were imminent. A 
political job, a triumph in trickery had been 
unearthed. The papers were dripping with 
scandals social, financial, ecclesiastic. A 
wave of corruption seemed to be crossing 
the continent. Mr. Attersol touched on the 
subject, but distantly, with his finger-tips. 
Quain picked it up bodily. Never had he 
appeared so intractable. You would have 
said that everything which was occurring 
was a matter of personal import. The 
ataraxia had gone. 

"At this rate," he declared, by way of 
conclusion, " the hour is near when this 
globe of ours, in whirling through space, 
will poison the universe with the fetidity of 
its exhalations." 

" My ! " exclaimed Mrs. Smithwick, whom 
the prospect startled. " My ! my ! ! " 

But Quain had turned to Myrrha. There 
was a violence in his eyes, a bitterness, an 
unreasoning anger, a light as well, which 
suddenly inundated her. A flush flamed to 
her face, she could have cried aloud ; she 





wished herself anywhere save where she was ; 
she was smitten by emotion as by a blow. 
"He loves me," she reflected. "He is 
angry because I have not seen it and I 
have." 

Mr. Attersol leaned from his seat : 

" What is the matter with you ? You are 
scarlet." 

The girl muttered something, but what ? 
The words were inaudible. She stood up 
and left the room. 

" Gayeties are upsetting," Mr. Attersol 
announced significantly. " Adelaide," he 
continued to Mrs. Smithwick, " see to it 
that she goes nowhere this week." 

As quickly as he could Quain got from 
the house. On the steps he reeled. He, too, 
had seen. He was blinded. It was unreal, 
he kept telling himself. It was impossible. 
He was the toy of an illusion. But the expression which her face had taken on in 
answer to the reproach on his was voluble. 
" She knows that I love her," he muttered. 
"She knows it, and if I read her eyes aright 





dear God, if I have, life is as fair as a 
dream." 

On the morrow he was irresolute, vacillant 
still. By four he left the office. An hour 
later he was at the house, determined if at 
all but as to one thing to know. 

" Yes, Miss Attersol was at home," he 
learned from the serwant ; and from coats in 
the hall, that Miss Attersol was not alone. 
How he entered the room he could not afterward recall. He was conscious merely that 
Melanchthon Stitt spoke to him, Bancroft 
as well, that he hated them both, and that 
for a second he held Myrrha's hand in his. 

"Yes, it was most odd," Stitt was saying. 
" Have you heard, Quain ? " the novelist interrupted himself to ask. " That little rival 
of mine, Mrs. Fordyce, has committed suicide. I was just telling Miss Attersol. Suicide always seems to me such a poor climax, 
particularly as life is well enough, agreeable 
even, if you let it have its own way. Of 
course, if you try to oppose it with all sorts 
of ideas you have got you don't know how, 





you make a mess of the whole thing. Life 
is a current. Of your conceptions of right 
or wrong, of your likes and dislikes, it takes 
no account at all. Drift with it, don't op- 
pose it. It is a guide that won't be guided ; 
you must yield to it or drown." 

The novelist stood up. The little speech 
was just so much " copy " which he pro- 
posed to amplify at leisure. 

" But how did she do it ? " Myrrha asked. 

