
For as much as a minute Rogers pondered, with all 
eyes and a breathless interest fastened upon him. 
Then he gave the word: "Ready, sir." 

"Kick!" 

The kick that followed was an exact duplicate of 
the first one. 

"Now, then, Mr. Rogers, one of those kicks was 
an individual kick, not a mutual one. You will now 
State positively which was the mutual one." 

The witness said, with a crestfallen look: 

"I've got to give it up. There ain't any man in 
the woiM that could tell t'other from which, sir." 

"Do yc." still assert that last night's kick was a 
mutual kick;" 

"Indeed, I don't, sir." 

"That will do, Mr. Rogers. If my brother Allen 
desires to address the court, your honor, very well; 





 

but as far as I am concerned I am ready to let the 
case be at once delivered into the hands of this 
intelligent jury without comment." 

Mr. Justice Robinson had been in office only two 
months, and in that short time had not had many 
cases to try, of course. He had no knowledge of 
laws and courts except what he had picked up since 
he came into office. He was a sore trouble to the 
lawyers, for his rulings were pretty eccentric some- 
times, and he stood by them with Roman simplicity 
and fortitude ; but the people were well satisfied with 
him, for they saw that his intentions were always 
right, that he was entirely impartial, and that he 
usually made up in good sense what he lacked in 
technique, so to speak. He now perceived that 
there was likely to be a miscarriage of justice here, 
and he rose to the occasion. 

"Wait a moment, gentlemen," he said, "it is 
plain that an assault has been committed — it is 
plain to anybody; but the way things are going, 
the guilty will certainly escape conviction. I can- 
not allow this. Now — " 

"But, your honor!" said Wilson, interrupting him, 
earnestly but respectfully, "you are deciding the 
case yourself, whereas the jury — " 

"Never mind the jury, Mr. Wilson; the jury will 
have a chance when there is a reasonable d- j.bt for 
them to take hold of — which there isn't, so far. 
There is no doubt whatever that an assault has been 
committed. The attempt to show that both of the 
accused committed it has failed. Are they both to 
escape justice on that account? Not in this court, 





 

if I can prevent it. It appears to have been a mis- 
take to bring the charge against them as a corpora- 
tion ; each should have been charged in his capacity 
as an individual, and — " 

"But, your honor!" said Wilson, "in fairness to 
my clients I must insist that inasmuch as the prose- 
cution did not separate the — " 

"No wrong will be done your clients, sir — they 
will be protected; also the public and the offended 
laws. Mr. Allen, you will amend your pleadings, 
and put one of the accused on trial at a time." 

Wilson broke in: "But, your honor! this is 
wholly unprecedented! To imperil an accused per- 
son by arbitrarily altering and widening the charge 
against him in order to compass his conviction when 
the charge as originally brought promises to fail to 
convict, is a thing unheard of before." 

"Unheard of where?" 

"In the courts of this or any other state." 

The Judge said with dignity: "I am not ac- 
quainted with the customs of other courts, and am 
not concerned to know what they are. I am respon- 
sible for this court, and I cannot conscientiously 
allow my judgment to be warped and my judicial 
liberty hampered by trying to conform to the 
caprices of other courts, be they — " 

"But, your honor, the oldest and highest courts 
in Europe — " 

"This court is not run on the European plan, 
Mr. Wilson; it is not run on any plan but its own. 
It has a plan of its own; and that plan is, to find 
justice for both State and accused, no matter what 





 

happens to be practice and custom in Europe or 
anywhere else." (Great applause.) "Silence! It 
has not been the custom of this court to imitate 
other courts; it has not been the custom of this 
court to take shelter behind the decisions of other 
courts, and we will not begin now. We will do the 
best we can by the light that God has given us, and 
while this court continues to have His approval, it 
will remain indifferent to what other organizations 
may think of it." (Applause.) "Gentlemen, I 
must have order! — quiet yourselves! Mr. Allen, 
you will now proceed against the prisoners one at a 
time. Go on with the case." 

Allen was not at his ease. However, after whis- 
pering a moment with his client and with one or 
two other people, he rose and said: 

"Your honor, I find it to be reported and be- 
lieved that the accused are able to act independently 
in many ways, but that this independence does not 
extend to their legs, authority over their legs being 
vested exclusively in the one brother during a 
specific term of days, and then passing to the other 
brother for a like term, and so on, by regular alter- 
nation. I could call witnesses who would prove 
that the accused had revealed to them the existence 
of this extraordinary fact, and had also made known 
which of them was in possession of the legs yester- 
day — and this would, of course, indicate where the 
guilt of the assault belongs — but as this would be 
mere hearsay evidence, these revelations not having 
been made under oath — " 

"Never mind about that, Mr. Allen. It may not 





 

all be hearsay. We shall see. It may at least help 
to put us on the right track. Call the witnesses." 

"Then I will call Mr. John Buckstone, who is 
now present, and I beg that Mrs. Patsy Cooper may 
be sent for. Take the stand, Mr. Buckstone." 

Buckstone took the oath, and then testified that 
on the previous evening the Count Angelo Capello 
had protested against going to the hall, and had 
called all present to witness that he was going by 
compulsion and would not go if he could help him- 
self. Also, that the Count Luigi had replied sharply 
that he would go, just the same, and that he, Count 
Luigi, would see to that himself. Also, that upon 
Count Angelo's complaining about being kept on his 
legs so long, Count Luigi retorted with apparent 
surprise, " Your legs! — I like your impudence!" 

"Now we are getting at the kernel of the thing," 
observed the Judge, with grave and earnest satisfac- 
tion. "It looks as if the Count Luigi was in pos- 
session of the battery at the time of the assault." 

Nothing further was elicited from Mr. Buckstone 
on direct examination. Mr. Wilson took the witness. 

"Mr. Buckstone, about what time was it that that 
conversation took place?" 

"Toward nine yesterday evening, sir." 

"Did you then proceed directly to the hall?" 

"Yes, sir." 

"How long did it take you to go there?" 

"Well, we walked; and as it was from the ex- 
treme edge of the town, and there was no hurry, I 
judge it took us about twenty minutes, maybe a, 
trifle more." 





 

"About what hour was the kick delivered?" 

"About thirteen minutes and a half to ten." 

"Admirable! You are a pattern witness, Mr. 
Buckstone. How did you happen to look at your 
watch at that particular moment?" 

"I always do it when I see an assault. It's likely 
I shall be called as a witness, and it's a good point 
to have." 

"It would be well if others were as thoughtful. 
Was anything said, between the conversation at my 
house and the assault, upon the detail which we are 
now examining into?" 

"No, sir." 

"If power over the mutual legs was in the pos- 
session of one brother at nine, and passed into the 
possession of the other one during the next thirty or 
forty minutes, do you think you could have de- 
tected the change?" 

"By no means!" 

"That is all, Mr. Buckstone." 

Mrs. Patsy Cooper was called. The crowd made 
way for her, and she came smiling and bowing 
through the narrow human lane, with Betsy Hale, as 
escort and support, smiling and bowing in her wake, 
the audience breaking into welcoming cheers as the 
old favorites filed along. The Judge did not check 
this kindly demonstration of homage and affection, 
but let it run its course unrebuked. 

The old ladies stopped and shook hands with the 
twins with effusion, then gave the Judge a friendly 
nod, and bustled into the seats provided for them. 
They immediately began to deliver a volley of eager 





 

questions at the friends around them: "What is 
this thing for?" "What is that thing for?" "Who 
is that young man that's writing at the desk? Why, 
I declare, it's Jack Bunce! I thought he was sick." 
"Which is the jury? Why, is that the jury? Billy 
Price and Job Turner, and Jack Lounsbury, and 
— well, I never!" "Now who would ever 'a* 
thought—" 

But they were gently called to order at this point, 
and asked not to talk in court. Their tongues fell 
silent, but the radiant interest in their faces re- 
mained, and their gratitude for the blessing of a 
new sensation and a novel experience still beamed 
undimmed from their eyes. Aunt Patsy stood up 
and took the oath, and Mr. Allen explained the 
point in issue, and asked her to go on now, in her 
own way, and throw as much light upon it as she 
could. She toyed with her reticule a moment or two, 
as if considering where to begin, then she said: 

"Well, the way of it is this. They are Luigi's 
legs a week at a time, and then they are Angelo's, 
and he can do whatever he wants to with them." 

"You are making a mistake, Aunt Patsy Cooper," 
said the Judge. "You shouldn't state that as a. fact, 
because you don't know it to be a fact." 

"What's the reason I don't?" said Aunt Patsy, 
bridling a little. 

"What is the reason that you do know it?" 

"The best in the world — because they told me." 

"That isn't a reason." 
