after the necessary delay of unharnessing, a man pushed open the side
door, and entered the kitchen. He, too, was short and square of build,
though he had no superfluous flesh. His ankles would doubtless continue
to bear him for many a year to come. His face was but slightly
accented; he had very thin eyebrows, light hair, and only a shaggy
fringe of whisker beneath the chin. This was Heman Blaisdell, the
Widder Poll's brother-in-law, for whom she had persistently kept house
ever since the death of his wife, four years ago. He came in without
speaking, and after shaking himself out of his great-coat, sat silently
down in his armchair by the fire. The Widder Poll held both hands to
her face, and groaned again. At length, curiosity overcame her, and,
quite against her judgment, she spoke. She was always resolving that
she would never again take the initiative; but every time her
resolution went down before the certainty that if she did not talk,
there would be no conversation at all,--for Heman had a staying power
that was positively amazing.

"Well?" she began, interrogatively.

Heman only stirred slightly in his chair.

"Well! ain't you goin' to tell me what went on at the meetin'?"

Her quarry answered patiently, yet with a certain dogged resistance of
her,--

"I dunno's there's anything to tell."

"How'd it go off?"

"'Bout as usual."

"Did you speak?"

"No."

"Lead in prayer?"

"No."

"Wa'n't you asked?"

"No."

"Well, my soul! Was Roxy Cole there?"

"Yes."

"Did you fetch her home?"

"No, I didn't!" Some mild exasperation animated his tone at last. The
Widder detected it, and occupied herself with her tooth.

"My soul an' body! I wonder if it's goin' to grumble all night long!"
she exclaimed, bending lower over the blaze. "I've tried everything but
a roasted raisin, an' I b'lieve I shall come to that."

Heman rose, and opened the clock on the mantel; he drew forth the key
from under the pendulum, and slowly wound up the time-worn machinery.
In another instant, he would be on his way to bed; the Widder knew she
must waste no time in hurt silence, if she meant to find out anything.
She began hastily,--

"Did they say anything about the church fair?"

"They ain't goin' to have it."

"Not have it! Well, how be they goin' to git the shinglin' paid for?"

"They've got up the idee of an Old Folks' Concert."

"Singin'?"

"Singin' an' playin'."

"Who's goin' to play?"

"Brad Freeman an' Jont Marshall agreed to play fust an' second fiddle."
Heman paused a moment, and straightened himself with an air of
conscious pride; then he added,--

"They've asked me to play the bass-viol."

The Widder had no special objections to this arrangement, but it did
strike her as an innovation; and when she had no other reason for
disapproval, she still believed in it on general principles. So
altogether effective a weapon should never rust from infrequent use!

"Well!" she announced. "I never heard of such carryin's-on,--never!"

Heman was lighting a small kerosene lamp. The little circle of light
seemed even brilliant in the dusky room; it affected him with a relief
so sudden and manifest as to rouse also a temporary irritation at
having endured the previous gloom even for a moment.

"'Ain't you got no oil in the house?" he exclaimed, testily. "I wish
you'd light up, evenin's, an' not set here by one taller candle!"

He had ventured on this remonstrance before, the only one he permitted
himself against his housekeeper's ways, and at the instant of making
it, he realized its futility.

"The gre't lamp's all full," said the Widder, warming her apron and
pressing it to her poulticed face. "You can light it, if you've got the
heart to. That was poor Mary's lamp, an' hard as I've tried, I never
could bring myself to put a match to that wick. How many evenin's I've
seen her set by it, rockin' back'ards an' for'ards,--an' her needle
goin' in an' out! She was a worker, if ever there was one, poor
creatur'! At it all the time, jes' like a silk-worm."

Heman was perfectly familiar with this explanation; from long
repetition, he had it quite by heart. Possibly that was why he did not
wait for its conclusion, but tramped stolidly away to his bedroom,
where he had begun to kick off his shoes by the time his sister-in-law
reached a period.

The Widder had a fresh poultice waiting by the fire. She applied it to
her cheek, did up her face in an old flannel petticoat, and then,
having covered the fire, toiled up to bed. It was a wearisome journey,
for she carried a heavy soapstone which showed a tendency to conflict
with the candle, and she found it necessary to hold together most of
her garments; these she had "loosened a mite by the fire," according to
custom on cold nights, after Heman had left her the field.

Next day, Heman went away into the woods chopping, and carried his
dinner of doughnuts and cheese, with a chunk of bean-porridge frozen
into a ball, to be thawed out by his noontime fire. He returned much
earlier than usual, and the Widder was at the window awaiting him. The
swelling in her cheek had somewhat subsided; and the bandage, no longer
distended by a poultice beneath, seemed, in comparison, a species of
holiday device. She was very impatient. She watched Heman, as he went
first to the barn; and even opened the back door a crack to listen for
the rattling of chains, the signal of feeding or watering.

"What's he want to do that now for?" she muttered, closing the door
again, as the cold struck her cheek. "He'll have to feed 'em ag'in,
come night!"

But at last he came, and, according to his silent wont, crossed the
kitchen to the sink, to wash his hands. He was an unobservant man, and
it did not occur to him that the Widder had on her Tycoon rep, the gown
she kept "for nice." Indeed, he was so unused to looking at her that he
might well have forgotten her outward appearance. He was only sure of
her size; he knew she cut off a good deal of light. One sign, however,
he did recognize; she was very cheerful, with a hollow good-nature
which had its meaning.

"I got your shavin'-water all ready," she began. "Don't you burn ye
when ye turn it out."

It had once been said of the Widder Poll that if she could hold her
tongue, the devil himself couldn't get ahead of her. But fortune had
not gifted her with such endurance, and she always spoke too often and
too soon.

"Brad Freeman's been up here," she continued, eying Heman, as she drew
out the supper-table and put up the leaves. "I dunno's I ever knew
anybody so took up as he is with that concert, an' goin' to the vestry
to sing to-night, an' all. He said he'd call here an' ride 'long o'
you, an' I told him there'd be plenty o' room, for you'd take the
pung."

If Heman felt any surprise at her knowledge of his purpose, he did not
betray it. He poured out his shaving-water, and looked about him for an
old newspaper.

"I ain't goin' in the pung," he answered, without glancing at her. "The
shoe's most off'n one o' the runners now."

The Widder Poll set a pie on the table with an emphasis unconsciously
embodying her sense that now, indeed, had come the time for remedies.

"I dunno what you can take," she remarked, with that same foreboding
liveliness. "Three on a seat, an' your bass-viol, too!"

Heman was lathering his cheeks before the mirror, where a sinuous Venus
and a too-corpulent Cupid disported themselves in a green landscape
above the glass. "There ain't goin' to be three," he said, patiently.
"T'others are goin' by themselves."

The Widder took up her stand at a well-chosen angle, and looked at him
in silence. He paid no attention to her, and it was she who, of
necessity, broke into speech.

"Well! I've got no more to say. Do you mean to tell me you'd go off
playin' on fiddles an' bass-viols, an' leave me, your own wife's
sister, settin' here the whole evenin' long, all swelled up with the
toothache?"

Heman often felt that he had reached a state of mind where nothing
could surprise him, but this point of view was really unexpected. He
decided, however, with some scorn, that the present misunderstanding
might arise from a confusion of terms in the feminine mind.

"This ain't the concert," he replied, much as if she had proposed going
to the polls. "It's the rehearsal. That means where you play the tunes
over. The concert ain't comin' off for a month."

And now the Widder Poll spoke with the air of one injured almost beyond
reparation.

"I'd like to know what difference that makes! If a man's goin' where he
can't take his womenfolks, I say he'd better stay to home! an' if
there's things goin' on there't you don't want me to git hold of, I
tell you, Heman Blaisdell, you'd better by half stop shavin' you now,
an' take yourself off to bed at seven o'clock! Traipsin' round playin'
the fiddle at your age! Ain't I fond o' music?"

"No, you ain't!" burst forth Heman, roused to brief revolt where his
beloved instrument was concerned. "You don't know Old Hunderd from
Yankee Doodle!"

The Widder walked round the table and confronted him as he was turning
away from the glass, shaving-mug in hand.

"You answer me one question! I know who's goin' to be there, an' set in
the chorus an' sing alto. Brad Freeman told me, as innercent as a lamb.
Heman Blaisdell, you answer me? Be you goin' to bring anybody here to
this house, an' set her in poor Mary's place? If you be, I ought to be
the fust one to know it."

Heman looked at the shaving-mug for a moment, as if he contemplated
dashing it to the floor. Then he tightened his grasp on it, like one
putting the devil behind him.

"No, I ain't," he said, doggedly, adding under his breath, "not unless
I'm drove to 't."

"I dunno who could ha' done more," said the Widder, so patently with
the air of continuing for an indefinite period that Heman reached up
for his hat. "Where you goin'? Mercy sakes alive! don't you mean to eat
no supper, now I've got it all ready?"

But Heman pushed his way past her and escaped, muttering something
about "feedin' the critters." Perhaps the "critters" under his care
were fed oftener than those on farms where the ingle-nook was at least
as cosey as the barn.

These slight skirmishes always left Heman with an uneasy sense that
somehow he also must be to blame, though he never got beyond wondering
what could have been done to avert the squall. When he went back into
the kitchen, however,--the "critters" fed, and his own nerves soothed
by pitchforking the haymow with the vigor of one who assaults a
citadel,--he was much relieved at finding the atmosphere as clear as
usual; and as the early twilight drew on, he became almost happy at
thought of; the vivid pleasure before him. Never, since his wife died,
had he played his bass-viol in public; but he had long been in the
habit of "slying off" upstairs to it, as to a tryst with lover or
friend whom the world denied. The Widder Poll, though she heard it
wailing and droning thence, never seriously objected to it; the
practice was undoubtedly "shaller," but it kept him in the house.

They ate supper in silence; and then, while she washed the dishes,
Heman changed his clothes, and went to the barn to harness. He stood
for a moment, irresolute, when the horse was ready, and then backed him
into the old blue pung. A queer little smile lurked at the corners of
his mouth.

"I guess the shoe'll go once more," he muttered. "No, I ain't goin' to
marry ag'in! I said I ain't, an' I ain't. But I guess I can give a
neighbor a lift, if I want to!"

Brad Freeman was waiting near the tack door when Heman led the horse
out of the barn. He was lank and lean, and his thick red hair strayed
low over the forehead. His army overcoat was rent here and there beyond
the salvation which lay in his wife's patient mending, and his old fur
cap showed the skin in moth-eaten patches; yet Heman thought, with a
wondering protest, how young he looked, how free from care.

"Hullo, Heman!" called Brad.

"How are ye?" responded Heman, with a cordiality Brad never failed to
elicit from his brother man.

Heman left the horse standing, and opened the back door.

He stopped short. An awful vision confronted him,--the Widder Poll,
clad not only in the Tycoon rep, but her best palm-leaf shawl, her
fitch tippet, and pumpkin hood; her face was still bandaged, and her
head-gear had been enwound by a green barège veil. She stepped
forward with an alertness quite unusual in one so accustomed to
remembering her weight of mortal flesh.

"Here!" she called, "you kind o' help me climb in. I ain't so spry as I
was once. You better give me a real boost. But, land! I mustn't talk. I
wouldn't git a mite of air into that tooth for a dollar bill."

Heman stepped into the house for his bass-viol, and brought it out with
an extremity of tender care; he placed it, enveloped in its green baize
covering, in the bottom of the pung. Some ludicrous association between
the baize and the green barège veil struck Brad so forcibly that he
gave vent to a chuckle, sliding cleverly into a cough. He tried to meet
Heman's eye, but Heman only motioned him to get in, and took his own
place without a word. Brad wondered if he could be ill; his face had
grown yellowish in its pallor, and he seemed to breathe heavily.

Midway in their drive to the vestry, they passed a woman walking
briskly along in the snowy track. She was carrying her singing-books
under one arm, and holding her head high with that proud lift which had
seemed, more than anything else, to keep alive her girlhood's charm.
