and quick, luxuriant growth of the warm elimato 
gave to that month something of the ehaivwtarit4tiH 
of our owu Juno. \Jt was the time of Bim awl splen- 
dor. It was the time of leaf and blossom. 1 1. wan 
the time when hope and f ulflllmont mot in Urn face 
of the fields, and when the countenance of the Hky 
and the breath of the atmosphere hold that Homo- 
thing separate from this oavth whfch appertains to 
all perfect beauty. The dullest of UH are oonHcious 
of it, when the fire Iwrna m the young grann-Mado 
and the color in the ojxmiug flower, the dasdb in 
the air, and the depth in the hcavon**. 

The Galilean girl folt the holinwH of bounty, for 
she was capable of fooling everything puro and ex- 
quisite; and she kept hornolf ifloiuNi-ixIwclI nprtn tlw 
gentle thoughts dovolojxjd in Jwr by tlw divinity of 
the day elected for the marvel wluuh glorifion iho 
name of one little mountain town forcwn*, 

Tho hour of evening prayer among hor pooplo foil 
at the sotting of the suu and the ootning of thontat^* 
But hers wo# no ordinary, mechanical nutnro, ntioli 
as prays because it IH, ecclesiastical and civil law to 



PKESAGE 5 

do so at an ordered time. Prayer with her was the 
luxury of the soul. 

She trod the village street abstractedly. Her 
foot, from modest habit, led her home. Without 
speaking, sho emptied her urn into the water-jar 
that stood near the door, and quietly freshened the 
herbs that floated on the top of the water. She 
wished to be alone. Tho commoner minds about 
her wore still dissipated in their distractions ; hers 
had already ontorod into that rovery which is 
neither wholly thought nor wholly prayer, but par- 
takes of the reality of both. 

In the space between the sunset and the twilight 
the girl stolo up, unnoticed, to the roof of the house, 
the Hat roof, In all hot countries the place of 
family mooting, of relief from the scorching 1 weather, 
of iwlulgWK'o in private grief or of prayer ; in fact, 
among the poor, it wan t.ho only possible place of 
roti foment at homo* Her poverty was not of the 
wjnalid, but only of the strenuous kind $ and the 
uaual conveniences or the usual comforts of a re- 
npoc'tablo homo wore horn. But those, in the East, 
wore always few enough* 

Tho hour of the ovotmig sacrifice arrived* The 
cool broods from the west died down. Poaco fell 
with the culm. 

Tho HUH had not over the valley* The view from 
the hotiHo4op wan not a broad one ; it wa restricted 
by the hills, A Httlct fartlior up the groat slopes, a 
wid panorama (often called one of the fairest in the 
world) opium splendidly, But the scenery apparent 
from the young girl's home, was not of the kind 



6 THE STUJbiX O.tr JJUBUti <JJL1111&JL 

that carries the mind far into vague dreams o 
beauty; rather of the sort which defines familiar 
outlines, the architecture of the closing Irilltt, 
the cleft of the narrowing valley, the siffhtn of the 
village street; the kind of outlook which makes 
humility and duty seem more natural than nuitlosH- 
ness, acceptance, than interrogation. 

But the luxuriant vogotation of Niusarolh wart 
fair to see, even if one saw little more. Tho greon 
that is half gold melted over the hillsides, and ran 
riot in the valley. Flowers wore at a high tone. 
The red lamps of the pomegrauatoH were burning 
freely. Fruit gardens touched in rich, metallic 
colors to the landscape; gold of apriuot, with piilo, 
silver leaves, purple of grape, and yellow -grotm 
of fig, passed each in its time. Hollyhock*, rone 
and red and yellow, unfurled thoir baimm. AM 
in their season, too, lilioH of differing IIUOH *ul 
petals would Ibc abloom; the faiivt of thorn* tall* 
white, slender, maidenly, like girls in nwoul pnxu*H- 
sion, or like angels in a vision. 

In the village, roof-gardens HonwUwoH tuldod How- 
ers to the gentle joys of homo. One of tihcwo nky- 
gardens belonged to the jioor home of which wo 
think, a little, cubic dwelling looking like a hlcwk 
and tall, white flowers ntood abovo the VUJOH T loan- 
ing against the evening aky. 

The girl crept among thorn. Her oyon wore on 
the heavens* There wa an auroolu in hop heart. 
Her prayer had passed the phuno of worcU. Hh<^ 
had ceased to address God, she hod come 00 tumr 
Him. 



PRESAGE 7 

The flood-tide of the siinset ebbed away from the 
houses of the villagers, her neighbors. These houses 
wore white, of limestone ; vines and the shadows of 
vinos crept freely over the houses, softening their 
dasszlo. Flocks of doves swayed over and settled 
upon the roofs ; when these were of delicate shades, 
softly darker than the roof, the effect was charming ; 
as the twilight foil, the doves scattered to their cotes 
or slept in those which they had found within the 

hoUHO itself. 

One of these lovely birds, in all ages and in 
most countries the symbol of purity, dipping 
across tlio dunk, and hanging over the roof, called 
the maiden's attention to the appearance which had 
awaited the slow turn of hor head, and the con- 
contratiou of her goutlo eyes from their devout ab- 
straction, upon it,solf, 

Threre is always something which makes one hold 
the breath when a bird of the air brushes one, or 
even swings near enough to have boon caught if one 
luul wished. It in not to be wondered at thatimagi- 
imtioti has connected the spirits of the unseen, or the 
departed, with the visits of birds. In Palestine 
the clovo wan especially lovod aud cared for ; it was 
Huorod to the USOB of the Temple, and roligious asso- 
ciation was always busy with it, A gentle mind like 
that of thin girl would turn tenderly to the move- 
montw of the Boft wingB wluuh arronted hor notice. 

TJum, did B!IO BOO the Angol? Did ho break a 
Btatk of ouo of the white flowers, aw ho stirred, and 
BO hold it in his hand, smiling to reassure hor by the 
ouso and cordiality of the act? 



8 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 

Whence came he? Had he swept from the 
heights of distant Lebanon, whose white head, turn- 
ing gray in the twilight, was darkening as if the 
mountain drew a mantle over it ? Had he floated 
on the departing cloud that rode like a chariot of 
fire past the sun whose own face was hidden from 
the marvel? Or had he formed from the ether, 
where he stood, against the faint sky, quietly and 
naturally, as inspiration forms in the soul, and faith 
in the heart that is fit for it? Whatever of the 
strange was in the manner of his coming, the angel 
came. 

n 

There have been in all ages three kinds of per- 
sons: those who never see mystical appearances, 
those who think they do, and those who do ; and 
the three types may be confounded. It is also to 
be suggested that visitors from an invisible life, if 
such there are, and whoever such there are, may be 
responsive to the absence or the presence of wel- 
come, like any other superior or sensitive being. 
Angels, like people, might come where they are 
wanted, trusted, or expected. 

In fact, there are laws of spiritual hospitality, 
breach of which may, for aught we know to the con- 
trary, deprive a human creature of the mystical 
privileges. The soul of this Hebrew girl was host- 
ess to all that was pure and perfect, delicate, ethe- 
real, devout. As the flower receives the sun at 
dawn, as the earth the rain at drought, she inStinc- 
tively received the divine. 



PRESAGE 9 

The angel stood quietly. He seemed to wish not 
to alarm the girl. She thought him a spirit of high 
rank. lie spoke with the tenderness natural to 
strength and to superiority alone. Was he used to 
stand in the presence of God ? Yet he said, " Fear 
not, Mary." 

I low astonishing the conversation which followed ! 
The HCOUO moved on steadily to its solemn climax. 
Question and answer succeeded with increasing 
courage on the part of the Galilean girl, and with 
growing doiiuitonoss on that of her celestial guest. 
Clearly but gently nho was given to understand that 
rthc hud not been made the subject of an inconse- 
quent itppavition, Bueh an wore frequent enough in 
Oriental experience or imagination; but that she 
was the medium of the most tremendous revelation 
which thin planet has ever known. 

( Jhonen out of all "the world, the Hebrew maiden 
wh<we (itialiHcatiouB for her Bolonm miHHiou were the 
gimplo, womanly oww of a pure heart and a devout 
life received the ungol'n moBBage aB she who could 
bo ohoBon by it would be stiro to do. Tho fiat of 
Dolfcy WJis in the magnificent attitude of the angel ; 
ho Btood tall, erect, majestic. Awed, the woman 
Ml upon hor knooB before the mosBenger of God, 
uncl veiled her face from sight of him. "Be it 
unto ims" Bhe Baid, " according to thy word." 

Now, when ho perceived that Mary understood 
the import of IUB omlwBBy, the angel left her. Ga- 
briel, a great; Hpirit, mighty in rank, wont his way 
to that myHtoriouH condition of life from which in- 
being may wauder why not? not for 



10 THE STOKY OF JESUS CHRIST 

petty purposes, but when sufficient cause exists to 
summon a superior to an inferior creature from a 
higher to a lower system of things. 

The woman was left, in a world like ours, to her 
unique experience. 

She had received from the vision a prediction 
whose nature so utterly transcends all mortal laws 
and all mortal experience that he would profane the 
very courts of mystery who should descend to offer 
for it any human explanation. 

There is no quibbling possible with the marvel. 
It must be rejected or accepted on its own great 
grounds. No compromise between fact and fancy 
has dignity in the isolation of the case. 

Shall we be less high-minded than the instinct of 
the race and the faith of the ages ? 

Take the wonder as it is told. 

*> 

The incarnation of Deity is an idea older than 
the time when the Galilean girl in Nazareth re- 
ceived a spirit's message. This mystical possibil- 
ity has been a favorite with certain crude and 
ancient religions. Instances might be given of it, 
but not here ; they jar upon the lofty and beautiful 
character of the Christian story, which so far sur- 
passes them in purity, in pathos, and in philosophy, 
that one has not the rudeness of heart to introduce 
them in its matchless, opening chapter. 

Was all the fable but a perplexed, prophetic 
yearning for the fact ? At last, in this simple, hal- 
lowed way, has history met it ? 

Gabriel seems to have been something of a phi- 



PKESAGE 11 

losopher (as well as altogether an angel) when he 
reminded the astonished woman, at the close of his 
announcement of the incredible facts, that with God 
nothing is impossible. These were astute words 
under the circumstances, and worthy of a superior 
intelligence. The argument admitted of no reply. 

Mary listened to it gently. Her soul was a lily. 
All motherhood, has been dignified forever by the 
spotless mystery. All humanity is nobler for the 
delicacy of the womanly nature from which the Son 
of the Highest should be born into a low world. 



ni 

The story of the Gospels was written by men. 
Men have studied and expounded it for two thousand 
years. Men have been its commentators, its trans- 
lators, its preaehern. All the? feminine element in 
it has corno to UH passed through the medium of 
inaHmiHno minds. Of the oxqiiisite movements in 
the thought and fooling of Mary at this erisis of 
