Graham Strait, after the boy who pulled the second oar.
"But the island?" said Charles.
"Paul Spencer pulls the third oar; we will call it Spencer Island."
The position of the boat was a favorable one for observing the
conformation of the country, and Mrs. Sedley improved the opportunity
to point out the various divisions of the land.
Half-way between Centre Island and the north shore was another island;
and after coasting along by the banks of the lake, applying names to
miniature sounds, bays, gulfs, and seas, the Zephyr arrived at its
southerly side.
"Here is a channel," said Frank; "a passage of water wider than a
strait."
"Fred's turn; we must call it Harper Channel," replied Tony.
"And the island?--we are out of names," continued Frank.
"We will call it Mary's Island, after Mary Weston."
"Agreed!" cried a dozen boys at once.
"I thank you for the compliment," said Mary, blushing.
The excursion was continued, the boys rowing leisurely, and pausing
frequently to listen to the music of the band, and discuss the
geographical formation of the lake and its shores. They passed entirely
round the lake, and had given so many names to the various divisions of
land and water, that it seemed improbable they could ever remember
them.
As they came round to the boat-house, Mrs. Sedley was landed, and the
club rowed up to Weston Bay, to leave the widow and her daughter. Both
the passengers were delighted with their excursion, and were profuse of
their thanks to Frank and his companions for their kindness and
consideration.
"What shall we do now?" said Charles, as they pushed off.
"Hadn't we better give up for to-day?" suggested Frank.
"Let us go down to Rippleton for your father," added Fred.
"I will do that," answered Frank; and the Zephyr dashed away towards
the village.
They had scarcely passed the boat-house before they discovered the
Thunderbolt, directly ahead of them. Uncle Ben had landed the band at
Rippleton, and had housed the Sylph, so that the Bunkers would no
longer be restrained by his presence and that of Mrs. Sedley. But there
was no way to avoid them, and Frank continued his course with some
misgivings as to the consequences.
"Bunkers ahead!" said he.
"Never mind them, Frank," added Fred Harper. "We won't say anything to
them."
"Tim will get his revenge upon us for this morning if he can,"
suggested the coxswain.
"We can keep out of his way, though I don't like the idea of running
away from them," replied Fred.
"I like it better than I do the idea of fighting with them. But the
lake is narrow near the village," said Frank.
"We can row two rods to their one."
"They have improved a great deal by their day's practice. They are
resting on their oars, waiting for us."
"Let them wait; we will mind nothing about them."
The Zephyr continued on her course. It was necessary for her to pass
within a short distance of the Thunderbolt, and Frank feared they would
retaliate upon them for their discomfiture in the forenoon.
"Let every member of the club mind his oar," said he, as the boat
approached the vicinity of the Bunkers; "I will watch them; I want you
to mind what I say, and work quick when I speak."
"We will," answered the boys.
"I suspect, if they mean anything, that they intend to rush upon us
when we pass them. Yes, there is Tim bringing her head round so that
she lies broadside to us, and every one of them has his oar ready to
pull," Frank explained.
"Can't you cut across the lake, and avoid them?" asked Tony.
"We must pass them somewhere; and they can cut us off, whatever course
we take."
"Smash them if they come too near," said Fred.
"No, no, Fred; that wouldn't do. When I tell you to stop and back her,
do it promptly, and we can easily get away from them. Pull steady."
The boys rowed leisurely, and the Zephyr in a short time reached a
position which was exposed to the assault of the Thunderbolt.
"Pull," cried Tim Bunker, with energy.
Her course was at right angles with that of the Zephyr. Tim had
apparently made a nice calculation in regard to his intended movements.
He had started so as to come up with his rival when she reached the
point in her course directly ahead of him.
The Bunkers pulled with all their might, and the two boats were rapidly
nearing each other. Tim's plan had been well conceived, and the
collision seemed inevitable. Frank saw that he had rightly interpreted
the intentions of the Bunkers, but he still continued his course.
Suddenly, as the Thunderbolt was on the point of pouncing upon her
prey, Frank, with startling energy, gave the command,--
"Way enough! Hold water! Stern all!"
Every boy, expecting the orders, was ready to execute them. The oars
bent under the violent exertion they made to check the farther progress
of the boat.
When the collision seemed unavoidable, Tim abandoned the helm, and
leaped forward into the bow of the boat. He had a large stick in his
hand; and it was evidently his intention to use it upon poor Tony, for
his glance was fixed upon him with savage ferocity.
Frank's plan worked well. He had withheld the order to stop and back
her till the last moment, so that Tim should have no time to change the
course of the Thunderbolt, and thus derange his plan. As it was, it was
a very narrow escape, and nothing but the promptness with which the
order was executed averted the impending catastrophe.
The Thunderbolt passed across the course of the Zephyr, not three feet
from her bow. Tim saw that he was foiled; and enraged at his
disappointment, he aimed a blow at Tony with the long stick, as his
boat shot past.
Tony was beyond his reach; he leaned over the gunwale of the boat in a
vain attempt to accomplish his malignant purpose. But in doing so, he
lost his foothold, and was precipitated head foremost into the lake!
He disappeared beneath the dark surface of the deep water, and his boat
passed over the spot. The Zephyr, impelled backward by the vigorous
strokes of her crew, was several rods from the place before the club
fully realized the nature of the unfortunate occurrence.
The Thunderbolt was much nearer the place where Tim had disappeared
than the Zephyr; but her crew seemed to be utterly paralyzed by the
event, and unable to render the slightest assistance. One of the
Bunkers took the helm, and endeavored to rally his companions; but in
their confusion they were incapable of handling their oars; some pulled
one way, and some another, and instead of urging the boat ahead, they
only turned it round in a circle.
"Way enough!" shouted Frank, as soon as he discovered the accident.
"Give way! Tim Bunker has fallen overboard!"
The crew, though affected to some extent as the Bunkers were, used
their oars with skill and energy. The presence of mind which Frank
displayed inspired them with courage, and the Zephyr darted forward
towards the spot where Tim had gone down.
"There he is ahead!" exclaimed Frank, with frantic earnestness; "pull
with all your might!"
"Help! Save me!" cried Tim, as he rose to the surface.
The boats were both several rods distant from him. He did not swim, but
seemed to struggle with all his strength, apparently with a spasmodic
effort, as though he had entirely lost his self-control.
"Tony, stand by with your boat-hook," shouted Frank.
But Tim struggled only for an instant on the surface, and then went
down again.
"Way enough!" said Frank, as the Zephyr approached the spot. "Hold
water! Oars!"
The boat, under the skilful management of the resolute young coxswain,
lost her headway, and lay motionless on the water near the spot where
Tim had last appeared.
"Do you see him, Tony?"
"No."
"Fred, forward with your boat-hook," continued Frank.
Fred took the boat-hook, and went forward to the bow of the Zephyr.
"There he is!" exclaimed Tony, as he caught a sight of the drowning boy
beneath the surface.
Fred dropped his boat-hook into the water intending to fasten it into
Tim's clothes.
"He sinks again!" cried Tony, throwing off his jacket and shoes.
Before any of the crew could fully understand his purpose, so quick
were his movements, he dived from the bow of the boat deep down into
the water.
The boys held their breath in the intensity of their feelings. One or
two of them had dropped their oars, and were leaving their places.
"Keep your places, and hold on to your oars!" said Frank sternly. "Ned
Graham, take the other boat-hook."
"Back her a little--one stroke," said Fred Harper. "We are passing over
the spot."
Frank ordered the boat back, as desired.
"Here they rise! Tony has him!" exclaimed Fred, as he hooked into Tim's
clothes. "Grasp the other boat-hook, Tony."
Tim was drawn into the boat, apparently dead.
Tony was so exhausted that he could not speak, and sank into the bottom
of the boat.
"Give way!" said Frank, heading the Zephyr towards Rippleton.
The sad event had been observed from the shore, and before the arrival
of the club boat quite a number of persons had collected. Scarcely a
minute elapsed before the Zephyr touched the bank, and the lifeless
body of Tim Bunker was taken out, and conveyed to the nearest house.
"How do you feel, Tony?" asked Frank, lifting the noble little fellow
from his position.
"Badly, Frank; I want to go home," replied he faintly.
Among other persons who had gathered on the shore of the lake was one
of the physicians of Rippleton. He followed the party that conveyed Tim
into the house, and applied himself vigorously to the means of
restoring him. It was a long time before there were any signs of life,
and the people in the meantime believed him dead.
While Dr. Allen was at work over Tim, Fred Harper came to request his
assistance for Tony. Fortunately Dr. Davis, another physician, arrived
at this moment, and accompanied him to the boat.
"What ails him, Dr. Davis?" asked Frank.
"Exhaustion and excitement have overcome him."
"Is it anything serious?"
"I think not. We must get his wet clothes off, and put him to bed."
"Will you go home with him? We will row you up and back again."
The physician was very willing to go, and the boat put off. The club
pulled with all their strength, and the distance to Tony's house was
accomplished in a very few moments. Mrs. Weston was greatly alarmed
when Tony was brought in, but the doctor assured her it was nothing
serious. He was put to bed, the doctor prescribed for him, and when the
boys were ready to leave, they had the satisfaction of knowing the
patient was much better.
When they reached Rippleton, they found that Tim had been restored, and
conveyed to his father's house. Captain Sedley came in the last train,
and the boys rowed him home.
CHAPTER XVIII
TIM BUNKER
Captain Sedley was much disturbed by the painful event which had
occurred; and though the club were entirely free from blame, he could
not but question the expediency of continuing the organization. The
malicious spirit of Tim Bunker had been the cause of his misfortune.
People thought he was lucky to escape with his life, and that it would
be a lesson he would remember a great many years.
Tony's praises were upon everybody's lips. He had saved the life of his
enemy, had plunged in at the risk of his own, to rescue one who had
been intent upon his injury. It was a noble and a Christian deed, so
the good men and women said, while others declared, if they had been in
Tony's place, they would have let him drown.
The noble deed was appreciated; and the day after the event, a
subscription paper was opened at the Rippleton Bank for Tony's benefit.
Before night over a hundred dollars was collected, which the cashier
presented to him, as he lay upon his bed, sick from the effects of his
exertions.
The crew of the boat club were very highly commended for their
efficient labors on the occasion. If Frank had displayed less courage
and address, or the discipline of the club had been less perfect, Tim
must certainly have been drowned. This fact was rendered the more
apparent by the contrast between the conduct of the crew of the Zephyr
and that of the Thunderbolt. With all their exertion, on account of
their want of discipline, the latter had been unable even to reach the
spot until the former had received Tim on board.
All the sympathies of the people were with the boat club. Nobody pitied
Tim; for he was a quarrelsome, disagreeable boy, and had nearly lost
his life in his attempt to gratify his malicious spite against his
noble and generous deliverer.
In a few days Tony, who had suffered more from the shock than Tim, was
able to go out again. He was everywhere received with enthusiasm; and
the first time the Zephyr visited Rippleton after the accident, people
seemed determined to make a little lion of him.
Captain Sedley's attention was now directed to the trial of Tony, which
would take place in a few days, and he was exceedingly desirous of
ascertaining how Tim was affected towards him since the rescue. But the
Thunderbolt had been laid up at Joe Braman's landing, and the Bunkers
appeared to be dispersed and separated since the accident. Captain
Sedley did not find their leader for several days, but at last he made
a visit to his father's house before Tim got up.
The young ruffian was very desirous of avoiding him; and when his
mother went up-stairs and told him who had come, he put on his clothes,
and slipped out of the house by the back door. Captain Sedley happened
to see him, however, as he was skulking off through the garden.
"Tim," said he, running after him.
The leader of the Bunkers did not dare to run away from such an
influential person as Captain Sedley; and, turning, he doggedly
approached him.
"Tim, I want to see you about the trial, which, you know, takes place
in a few days."
"I don't know nothin' about it."
"You don't?" said Captain Sedley.
"No, I don't;" and Tim, fixing his eyes upon the ground, amused himself
by kicking a hole in the soil with his foot.
"Don't you know anything about the wallet, or the money that was in
it?"
"No, I don't."
"Just think a moment."
"Don't want to think; I don't know nothin' about it," replied Tim
sulkily.
"Tony is accused of the crime, and you know what a terrible thing it
would be to have an innocent person suffer."
"I s'pose it would."
"You know Tony saved your life."
"So I needn't be evidence against him," growled Tim.
Captain Sedley was astonished at his want of even the commonest feeling
of gratitude.
"If that had been his motive, he would have let you drown."
"I wonder he didn't."
"Tim, you are utterly hardened in iniquity."
"No, I ain't."
"You have no gratitude towards your deliverer."
"Yes, I have; I am much obliged to him for what he done, and when I see
him, I'll tell him so."
"You do not seem in the least obliged to him."
"I am; and besides, the folks gave him over a hundred dollars for what
he done. I should like to jump in after a dozen on the same terms."
"You have nothing to say about the trial then, have you, Tim?"
"Don't know nothin' about it. All I can say is, I saw him stickin'
somethin' into his pocket."
"You bought the boat in which you have been sailing on the lake."
"No, I didn't; it is Joe Braman's," replied Tim stoutly.
"Didn't you tell the boys that you gave him ten dollars for it?"
"No, I didn't."
"And that you paid five dollars for having it fitted up?"
"I was only joking--tryin' to sell 'em," answered Tim, attempting to
smile and look funny.
"That was it, was it?"
"That's all."
"And you have not paid Joe Braman any money?"
"Not a cent."
"Tim," said Captain Sedley sternly, "people think that you stole the
wallet."
"Me! I hope to die if I did!"
"That you took some of the money out, and then put the wallet into
Tony's pocket, so as to fasten the guilt on him."
"No such thing!"
"Just consider, Tim. If you did, you had better confess it."
"I didn't."
"Only think that Tony saved your life."
"I've nothin' against him."
"But you ought to be for him. If you have injured him in this matter,
people will think a great deal better of you, if you confess it, and
ask his forgiveness, whatever the consequences may be to yourself."
"I hain't hurt him."
"If you are the guilty one, it will certainly come out at the trial."
"I ain't; I don't know nothin' about the wallet. I'm sure I didn't take
it--I hope to die if I did!"
"Very well, Tim; if you have made up your mind not to confess it, I
have nothing more to say."
"I ain't a going to confess it when I didn't do it," said Tim stoutly.
