The people who fill the picturesque 

village houses are of a noble and digni- 
fied type. Clovelly women are tall and 
shapely; the men bear in face and car- 
riage unmistakable marks of thought and 
feeling, and the children are marvels of 
dark-eyed beauty. With such simplicity 
and directness does the body here express 
the soul that you may read daily, in 
living lineaments, the story of a fine and 
striving race. Life to these men is little 
more or less than a year-long struggle 
with the treacherous sea. So constantly 
are they brought face to face with danger 
that minor griefs are no longer present 
to remembrance, and the desire of eter- 
nal life becomes to them all in all. Such 
men were their dead-and-gone ancestors, 
who fought the Armada, and went, "grim 
or jocund," in quest of the "golden South 
Americas ; " such, in endurance and rigid 
purpose, was Salvation Yeo, of "West- 
ward Ho!" who was bom in Clovelly 
Street, in the year 1526, where his "father 
exercised the mystery of a barber sur- 
geon and a preacher of the people since 
called Anabaptists." One noticeable cir- 
cumstance, strange and pregnant, is that 
Clovelly has no young men. They are 
all at sea, serving their apprenticeship, 
 

to come home for the innocent kisses of 
a dozen joyous women waiting on the 
quay, or to furnish new cause for the old 
ache, throbbing for the wanderer who 
may not return. 

Clovelly may be approached through 
the Hobby Drive, a way of marvelous 
beauty skirting the top of the cliff, 
guarded by towering trees, and bordered 
with a lush undergrowth of ferns. From 
time to time in his course, the traveler 
will come upon a natural window in the 
leafy walls, — an airy space, whence he 
may overlook the blue sea, seek out 
Lundy's outline, severely simple, and in 
the distance the shadowy coast of Wales ; 
and finally shall he receive the crowning 
vision of Clovelly herself, far below his 
eyrie, nestling in her flowery gorge, and 
drowsily indifferent to sea or wind. This 
road, a veritable fairy progress, belongs 
to Clovelly Court, where in the sixteenth 
century lived the Carys, one of whom 
figures so prominently among Kingsley's 
giants of action. They held it till the 
eighteenth century, when their branch 
of the family died out. And where now 
shall we seek a trace of the gallant Will 
who was one of that noble Brotherhood 
 

of the Rose, founded by Frank Leigh, 
worthy favorite of the Virgin Queen? 
Only Kingsley can rehearse his mimic 
history, though, if the trace of one of 
his forbears be cheering to the eye, the 
traveller may climb the height to the 
little church, to find a Gary's name in 
enduring brass. Another point of pil- 
grimage on the estate is Gallantry Bower, 
a steep cliff rising four hundred feet out 
of the sea, and commanding Hartland 
Point, Bideford Bay, and, stretching ever 
outward like a weird finger, Morte Point, 
where so many ships have gone down, — 
barren and dreadful Morte, which of all 
places on earth " God made last, and the 
devil will take first' Gallantry Bower, 
as Amyas says, is so named when one is 
on land, though you "always call it White 
Cliff when you see it from the seaboard." 
It has its appropriate legend ; for here, in 
a lonely tower, lived the fair lady of a 
Norman lord. She had a fine vantage 
point for surveying the world around, 
this victim of soft durance! Peace to 
her dust, — peace equal in measure to 
the skyful of beauty whereon she daily 
looked ! 

To go into lodgings at Clovelly is to 
 

invite a possibility of becoming soon in- 
terknit with the life of its kindly people. 
In an angle of the stairlike street, almost 
overhanging the quay, stands a bench 
serving as council ground for the village 
fathers. There, usually at twilight, when 
the boats have come in and nets are dry- 
ing, sits a row of grizzled mariners dis- 
cussing the state — of the world, think 
you ? Nay, of the universe itself. One 
bit of quaint philosophy, overheard during 
such a twilight symposium, has lingered 
in my ears, to sweeten many a tough 
morsel of experience. "Well,'' said one 
of these weatherworn sea-dogs, in the 
tone of those who have drawn their own 
conclusions from the inexplicable drama 
called Life, " human nature 's looking up 
a bit ; that 's the only comfort." And 
is human nature looking up even a bit, 
Clovelly sailor, more familiar with the 
deep than with human countenance, and 
unpolluted by the grime of great cities ? 
It may be so ; for out of the lips of men 
unspotted from the world come often 
truths more crystalline than those of sci- 
ence or statistics. In the village is sold 
a photograph of Clovelly mariners, and 
one face, a humorous, droll physiognomy, 
 

at once strikes the attention. "And 
who is this?" I asked the sympathetic 
dealer. " Oh, that is poor old Captain 
Folly," said she, with a tear in her voice. 
" He died the other day. You must have 
been here." Yes, we were there in our 
lodgings at the head of the street, when 
Captain Folly was borne past by his 
brother mariners in their Sunday best ; 
wearing also the becoming gravity of 
those who think gently and seriously of 
death, not during the one hour when it 
disturbs them at their avocations, but as 
children recognize the night as the inevi- 
table foil of day. A solemn hymn was 
sung, strong voices sustaining the burden, 
and up the street to the little church was 
carried the old man whose journey was 
finished, and who slept, wrapped in honor 
and full of days, beneath the flag spread 
reverently upon his coffin. 

Midway down the street stands — or 
stood — another old man, whose race is 
not soon to be run, judging from his 
apparent ability to keep feebleness and 
sorrow at bay. He is crippled, and waits 
at the domestic receipt of custom, ready 
to retail village gossip, and readier still 
to dispose, in a very self-respecting 
manner, of the forthcoming shilling or 
sixpence. He is a trifle more cynical than 
many of his brother mariners, this aged 
man, the daily implication of whose life 
is, "A penny, if you please,'' yet he 
furnishes savor and spice in a godly 
community. 

But in order to find himself actually 
near the heart of this simple folk, it is 
the part of the reflective traveler to 
attend chapel on Sunday, and not the 
church. Such a service, once sought 
out and followed, is never to be forgotten. 
A rough hall in an obscure corner jutting 
from the street, bare and uninteresting 
as the old country schoolhouse, is filled 
with worshipers, who at entrance and 
departure make a mighty clattering on 
the uncarpeted floor, and whose heart of 
religious love raises their hymn-singing 
to a resounding if strident chorus. What 
lover of human expression would not 
study reverently the faces in that lowly 
chapel.? Every eye fixed upon the 
preacher, — a man who had somewhat 
to say, a sermon full of hard and lov- 
ing common -sense, — their earnestness 
bespoke sheep worthy the guidance of 
a faithful shepherd ; not such as feed 
 

in grassy vales, but accustomed to stony 
ways and mountain fastnesses, to storm 
and night. One old man, whose every 
look and gesture was of the sea, empha- 
sized the prayers, from point to point, 
with sonorous "amens." His soul drank 
of the waters of life, said the recurrent 
response ; this was his thanksgiving. 

Eleven miles from Clovelly lies Lun- 
dy, from whose southeast edge rises the 
Shutter Rock, terrible dramatic centre 
of the tragedy so marvelously described 
in " Westward Ho ! " when, at the end 
of Amy as Leigh's sixteen days' chase 
of the Spaniard, the wind a destroying 
angel, and lightnings and thunder the 
messengers of an avenging heaven, Don 
Guzman's ship was cast upon the rocks. 
What traveler so painstaking as to seek 
out Lundy will not remember at the 
south that cliff overhanging the shore- 
less cove and deep, dark sea, where blind 
Amyas sat and drank in his vision of 
the Spanish galleon, and her men "all 
lying round her, asleep until the judg- 
ment day " ? 

" Don Guzman he never heeded, but 
sat still and drank his wine. Then he 
took a locket from his bosom ; and I 
 

heard him speak, Will, and he said, 

' Here 's the picture of my fair and true 
lady ; drink to her, Sefiors all.' Then he 
spoke to me. Will, and called me right 
up through the oar-weed and the sea: 

' We have had a fair quarrel, Sefior, and 
it is time to be friends once more. My 
wife and your brother have forgiven me, 
so your honor takes no stain.' And I 
answered, 'We are friends, Don Guz- 
man ; God has judged our quarrel, and 
not we.' Then he said, ' I have sinned, 
and I am punished.' And I said, 'And, 
Sefior, so am I.' Then he held out his 
hand to me, Gary, and I stooped to take 
it, and I woke." 

Lundy, in the days before steam had 
rendered traveling "as easy as lying," 
was so inaccessible as to provoke the re- 
mark that the difficulty of getting there 
was exceeded only by the difficulty of 
getting away. Indeed, it is said that the 
clergymen of five or six coast parishes 
once made an excursion thither, and 
were detained on the island over two 
Sundays, to the exceeding dismay of 
their waiting congregations, — an en- 
forced season of retirement which, it is 
hoped, the reverend gentlemen employed 
S 

for the good of their souls. The island 
is one of that brood of earth pigmies 
bom to mightiness of garb and history. 
Its granite and slate defenses present an 
impregnable front to the Atlantic, and 
surging currents rage about it with a 
strength and fury to be surpassed only 
at Land's End. But once within its 
rocky gates, more smiling beauties greet 
the eye, for its vegetation is rich in 
that coloring which is the benison of sea 
air. Here heather and furze glow in 
rose and gold, the royal foxglove stands, 
and the sedum blesses the earth with 
bloom. 

Lundy has had a checkered history, 
ever painted in gloomy and glaring hues. 
It can boast remains of a primeval popu- 
lation in flint and pottery, but few will 
, care to trace its history further than the 
day of Sir Jordan de Moresco, its earliest 
recorded lord, who in the reign of Henry 
II. lived there a turbulent and piratical 
life, undaunted by king or peer, though 
his bit of land was declared forfeit to the 
crown. Of good old stuff were the Mo- 
rescos, and they fought a valiant fight 
against law and order until 1242, when 
William of that name was seized and 

hanged in London town. Thereafter, 
Lundy became a favorite resort for 
pirates, and was captured in turn by 
French, Spanish, and even Turkish pri- 
vateers. Seek its pages to-day, and you 
will read the tamer sequel to so bold 
a story : a few houses cluster at the 
landing-cove, a lighthouse crowns the 
plateau above ; the scene is one of qui- 
etude, broken only by the turmoil of 
nature. On the upper plain lie also the 
ruins of an ancient fortress known as 
