
" Good-morning," said Westover. 

" How are you ? " returned the other, without moving 
or making any sign of welcome for a moment. But 
then he lifted his axe, and struck it into the carf on 
the tree, and came to meet Westover. 

As he advanced he held out his hand. " Oh, 



 

you're the one that stopped that fellow that day when 
he was tryin' to scare my children. Well, I thought 
I should run across you, some time." He shook hands 
with Westover, in token of the gratitude which did 
not express itself in words. " How are you ? Treat 
you pretty well up at the Durgins ' ? I guess so. The 
old woman knows how to cook, anyway. Jackson's 
about the best o' the lot above ground, though I don't 
know as I know very much against the old man, either. 
But that boy, I declare I 'most feel like takin' the 
top of his head off when he gets at his tricks. Set 
down." 

Whitwell, as Westover divined the man to be, took 
a seat himself on a high stump, which suited his 
length of leg, and courteously waved Westover to a 
place on the log in front of him. A long ragged beard 
of brown, with lines of gray in it, hung from his chin, 
and mounted well up on his thin cheeks toward his 
friendly eyes. His mustache lay sunken on his lip, 
which had fallen in with the loss of his upper teeth. 
From the lower jaw a few incisors showed at this slant 
and that as he talked. 

" Well, well ! " he said, with the air of wishing the 
talk to go on, but without having anything immedi- 
ately to offer himself. 

Westover said, " Thank you," as he dropped on the 
-log, and Whitwell added, relentingly, " I don't suppose 
a fellow's so much to blame, if he's got the devil in 
him, as what the devil is." 

He referred the point with a twinkle of his eyes to 
Westover, who said: "It's always a question, of 



 

course, whether it's the devil. It may be original sin 
with the fellow himself." 

"Well, that's something so," said Whitwell, with 
pleasure in the distinction rather than assent. '' But 
I guess it ain't original sin in the boy. Got it from 
his gran'father pootty straight, I should say, and may- 
be the old man had it second-hand. Ha'd to say just 
where so much cussedness gits statted." 

" His father's father ? " asked Westover, willing to 
humor Whitwell's evident wish to philosophize the 
Durgins' history. 

" Mother's. He kept the old tavern stand on the 
west side of Lion's Head, on the St. Albans Eoad, and 
I guess he kept a pootty good house in the old times 
when the stages stopped with him. Ever noticed how 
a man on the mean side in politics always knows how 
to keep a hotel ? Well, it's something curious. If 
there was ever a mean side to any question, old Mason 
was on it. My folks used to live around there, and I 
can remember when I was a boy hangin' around the 
bar-room nights hearin' him argue that colored folks 
had no souls ; and along about the time the fugitive 
slave law was passed, the folks pootty near run him 
out o' town for puttin' the United States Marshal on 
the scent of a fellow that was breakin' for Canada. 
Well, it was just so when the war come. It was known 
for a fact that he was in with them Secesh devils up 
over the line that was plannin' a raid into Vermont in 
'63. He'd got pootty low down by that time ; railroads 
took o£E all the travel ; tavern 'd got to be a regular 
doggery ; old man always drank some, I guess. That 



 

was a good while after his girl Ijad married Durgin. 
He was dead against it, and it broke him up consid'a- 
ble when she would have him. Well, cue night, the 
old stand burnt up and him in it, and neither of 'em 
insured ! " 

Whitwell laughed with a pleasure in his satire which 
gave the monuments in his lower jaw a rather sinister 
action. But as if he felt a rebuke in Westover's 
silence, he added : " There ain't anything against Mis' 
Durgin. She's done her part, and she's had more 
than her share of hard knocks. If she was tough, to 
sta't with, she's had blows enough to meller her. But 
that's the way I account for the boy. I s'pose I'd 
oughtn't to feel the way I do about him, but he's such 
a pest to the whole neighborhood that he'd have the 
most pop'la' fune'l — Well, I guess I've said enough. 
I'm much obliged to you, though, Mr. — " 

" Westover," the painter suggested. " But the boy 
isn't so bad, all the time." 

" Couldn't be ! " said Whitwell, with a cackle of 
humorous enjoyment. " He has his spells of bein' 
decent, and he's pootty smart, too. But when the 
other spell ketches him, it's like as if the devil got a 
hold of him, as I said in the first place. I lost my 
wife, here, two-three years along back, and that little 
girl you see him tormentin', she's a regular little moth- 
er to her brother ; and whenever Jeff Durgin sees her 
with him, seems as if the Old Scratch got into him. 
Well, I'm glad I didn't come across him, that day. 
How you gittin' along with Lion's Head ? Sets quiet 
enough for you ! " Whitwell rose from the stump, and 




brushed the clinging chips from his thighs. " Folks 
trouble you any, lookin' on ? " 

" Not yet," said Westover. 

" Well, there ain't a great many to," said Whitvvell, 
going back to his axe. " I should like to see you 
workin' some day. Do' know as I ever saw an attist 
at it." 

" I should like to have you," said Westover. " Any 
time." 

" All right." Whitwell pulled his axe out of the 
carf, and struck it in again with a force that made a 
wide, square chip leap out. He looked over his shoul- 
der at Westover, who was moving away. " Say ! Stop 
in, some time you're passin'. I live in that wood-col- 
ored house at the foot of the Durgins' lane." 



VIII. 

In a little sunken place, behind a rock, some rods 
away, Westover found Jefi lurking with his dog, both 
silent and motionless. " Hello ! " he said, inquiringhr. 

" Come back to show you the way," said the boy. 
" Thought you couldn't find it alone." 

" Oh ! why didn't you say you'd wait ? " The boy 
grinned. " I shouldn't think a fellow like you would 
want to be afraid of any man, even for the fun of scar- 
ing a little girl." JefE stopped grinning, and looked 
interested, as if this was a view of the case that had 
not occurred to him. " But perhaps you like to be 
afraid." 

" I don't know as I do," said the boy, and West- 
over left him to the question a great part of the way 
home. He did not express any regret, or promise any 
reparation. But a few days after that, when he had 
begun to convoy parties of children up to see West- 
over at work, in the late afternoon, on their way home 
from school, and to show the painter off to them as a 
sort of family property, he once brought the young 
Whitwells. He seemed on perfect terms with them 
now, and when the crowd of larger children hindered 



 

the little boy's view of the picture, Jeff, in his quality 
of host, lifted him under his arms and held him up so 
that he could look as long as he liked. 

The girl seemed ashamed of the good understand- 
ing, before Westover. JeflE offered to make a place 
for her among the other children who had looked long 
enough, but she pulled the front of her bonnet across 
her face and said that she did not want to look, and 
caught her brother by the hand and ran away with 
him. Westover thought this charming somehow ; he 
liked the intense shyness which the child's intense 
passion had hidden from him before. 

Jeff acted as host to the neighbors who came to 
inspect the picture, and they all came, within a circuit 
of several miles around, and gave him their opinions 
freely, or scantily, according to their several tempera- 
ments. They were mainly favorable, though there was 
some frank criticism, too, spoken over the painter's 
shoulder as openly as if he were not by. There was 
no question but of likeness ; all finer facts were far 
from them ; they wished to see how good a portrait 
Westover had made, and some of them consoled him 
with the suggestion that the likeness would come out 
more when the picture got dry. 

Whitwell when he came attempted a larger view of 
the artist's work, but apparently more out of kindness 
for him than admiration of the picture. He said he 
presumed you could not always get a thing like that 
just right, the first time, and that you had to keep 
trying till you did get it ; but it paid in the end. Jeff 
had stolen down from the house with his dog, drawn 



 

by the fascination which one we have injured always 
has for us; when Whitwell suddenly turned upon him, 
and asked, jocularly, " What do you think, JeS ? " the 
boy could only kick his dog, and drive it home, as a 
means of hiding his feelings. 

He brought the teacher to see the picture, the last 
Friday before the painter went away. She was a cold- 
looking, austere girl, pretty enough, with eyes that 
wandered away from the young man, although JefE 
used all his arts to make her feel at home in his pres- 
ence. She pretended to have merely stopped on her 
way up to see Mrs. Diirgin, and she did not venture 
any comment on the painting; but when Westover 
asked something about her school, she answered him 
promptly enough, as to the number and ages and sexes 
of the school-children. He ventured so far toward a 
joke with her as to ask if she had much trouble with 
such a tough subject as JeS, and she said he could be 
good enough when he had a mind. If he could get 
over his teasing, she said, with the air of reading him 
a lecture, she would not have anything to complain of ; 
and Jefi looked ashamed, but rather of the praise than 
the blame. His humiliation seemed complete when 
she said, finally, " He's a good scholar." 

On the Tuesday following, Westover meant to go. 
It was the end of his third week, and it had brought 
him into September. The weather since he had begun 
to paint Lion's Head was perfect for his work; but 
with the long drought it had grown very warm. Many 
trees now had flamed into crimson on the hill slopes ; 
the yellowing corn in the fields gave out a thin, dry 



 

sound as the delicate wind stirred the blades ; but 
only the sounds and sights were autumnal. The heat 
was oppressive at mid-day, and at night the cold had 
lost its edge. There was no dew, and Mrs. Durgin 
sat out with Weslover on the porch while he smoked 
a final pipe there. She had come to join him for 
some fixed purpose apparently, and she called to her 
boy, " You go to bed, JefE," as if she wished to be 
alone with Westover; the men folks were already in 
bed ; he could hear them cough, now and then. 

" Mr. Westover," the woman began, even as she 
swept her skirts forward before she sat down, " I want 
to ask you whether you would let that picture of yours 
go on part board ? I'll give you back just as much 
as you say of this money." 

He looked round and saw that she had in the hand 
dropped in her lap the bills he had given her after 
supper. 

" Why, I couldn't, very well, Mrs. Durgin," he 
began. 

" I presume you'll think I'm foolish," she pursued. 
" But I do want that picture ; I don't know when I've 
ever wanted a thing more. It's just like Lion's Head, 
the way I've seen it, day in and day out, every summer 
since I come here thirty-five years ago ; it's beautiful ! " 

"Mrs. Durgin," said Westover, "you gratify me 
more than I can tell you. I wish — I wish I could let 
you have the picture. I — I don't know what to say — " 

" Why dmi't you let me have it then ? If we ever 
had to go away from here — if anything happened to 
us — it's the one thing I should want to keep and take 

