like a sea bird and tipped with shell, a line from the silver tendon of
a deer, a hook of polished bone--these were the mysteries he learned,
and learned them laughing, her silken head bent close to his.
The first night that the bow was wrought and the glossy string attuned,
she stole into the moonlit forest to the brook; and there they stood,
whispering, listening, and whispering, though neither understood the
voice they loved.
In the deeper woods, Kaug, the porcupine, scraped and snuffed. They
heard Wabóse, the rabbit, pit-a-pat, pit-a-pat, loping across dead
leaves in the moonlight. Skeé-skah, the wood-duck, sailed past,
noiseless, gorgeous as a floating blossom.
Out on the ocean's placid silver, Shinge-bis, the diver, shook the
scented silence with his idle laughter, till Kay-óshk, the gray gull,
stirred in his slumber. There came a sudden ripple in the stream, a
mellow splash, a soft sound on the sand.
"Ihó! Behold!"
"I see nothing."
The beloved voice was only a wordless melody to her.
"Ihó! Ta-hinca, the red deer! E-hó! The buck will follow!"
"Ta-hinca," he repeated, notching the arrow.
"E-tó! Ta-mdóka!"
So he drew the arrow to the head, and the gray gull feathers brushed
his ear, and the darkness hummed with the harmony of the singing
string.
Thus died Ta-mdóka, the buck deer of seven prongs.
VI.
As an apple tossed spinning into the air, so spun the world above the
hand that tossed it into space.
And one day in early spring, Sé-só-Kah, the robin, awoke at dawn, and
saw a girl at the foot of the blossoming tree holding a babe cradled in
the silken sheets of her hair.
At its feeble cry, Kaug, the porcupine, raised his quilled head.
Wabóse, the rabbit, sat still with palpitating sides. Kay-óshk, the
gray gull, tiptoed along the beach.
Kent knelt with one bronzed arm around them both.
"Ihó! Inâh!" whispered the girl, and held the babe up in the rosy
flames of dawn.
But Kent trembled as he looked, and his eyes filled. On the pale green
moss their shadows lay--three shadows. But the shadow of the babe was
white as froth.
Because it was the firstborn son, they named it Chaské; and the girl
sang as she cradled it there in the silken vestments of her hair; all
day long in the sunshine she sang:
    Wâ-wa, wâ-wa, wâ-we--yeá;
  Kah-wéen, nee-zhéka Ke-diaus-âi,
  Ke-gâh nau-wâi, ne-mé-go S'weén,
  Ne-bâun, ne-bâun, ne-dâun-is âis.
  E-we wâ-wa, wâ-we--yeá;
  E-we wâ-wa, wâ-we--yeá.
Out in the calm ocean, Shinge-bis, the diver, listened, preening his
satin breast in silence. In the forest, Ta-hinca, the red deer, turned
her delicate head to the wind.
That night Kent thought of the dead, for the first time since he had
come to the Key of Grief.
"Aké-u! aké-u!" chirped Sé-só-Kah, the robin. But the dead never come
again.
"Beloved, sit close to us," whispered the girl, watching his troubled
eyes. "Ma-cânte maséca."
But he looked at the babe and its white shadow on the moss, and he only
sighed: "Ma-cânte maséca, beloved! Death sits watching us across the
sea."
Now for the first time he knew more than the fear of fear; he knew
fear. And with fear came grief.
He never before knew that grief lay hidden there in the forest. Now he
knew it. Still, that happiness, eternally reborn when two small hands
reached up around his neck, when feeble fingers clutched his hand--that
happiness that Sé-só-Kah understood, chirping to his brooding
mate--that Ta-mdóka knew, licking his dappled fawns--that happiness
gave him heart to meet grief calmly, in dreams or in the forest depths,
and it helped him to look into the hollow eyes of fear.
He often thought of the camp now; of Bates, his blanket mate; of Dyce,
whose wrist he had broken with a blow; of Tully, whose brother he had
shot. He even seemed to hear the shot, the sudden report among the
hemlocks; again he saw the haze of smoke, he caught a glimpse of a tall
form falling through the bushes.
He remembered every minute incident of the trial: Bates's hand laid
on his shoulder; Tully, red-bearded and wild-eyed, demanding his
death; while Dyce spat and spat and smoked and kicked at the blackened
log-ends projecting from the fire. He remembered, too, the verdict, and
Tully's terrible laugh; and the new jute rope that they stripped off
the market-sealed gum packs.
He thought of these things, sometimes wading out on the shoals,
shell-tipped fish spear poised: at such times he would miss his fish.
He thought of it sometimes when he knelt by the forest stream listening
for Ta-hinca's splash among the cresses: at such moments the feathered
shaft whistled far from the mark, and Ta-mdóka stamped and snorted
till even the white fisher, stretched on a rotting log, flattened his
whiskers and stole away into the forest's blackest depths.
When the child was a year old, hour for hour notched at sunset and
sunrise, it prattled with the birds, and called to Ne-Kâ, the wild
goose, who called again to the child from the sky: "Northward!
northward, beloved!"
When winter came--there is no frost on the Island of Grief--Ne-Kâ, the
wild goose, passing high in the clouds, called: "Southward! southward,
beloved!" And the child answered in a soft whisper of an unknown
tongue, till the mother shivered, and covered it with her silken hair.
"O beloved!" said the girl, "Chaské calls to all things living--to
Kaug, the porcupine, to Wabóse, to Kay-óshk, the gray gull--he calls,
and they understand."
Kent bent and looked into her eyes.
"Hush, beloved; it is not that I fear."
"Then what, beloved?"
"His shadow. It is white as surf foam. And at night--I--I have seen----"
"Oh, what?"
"The air about him aglow like a pale rose."
"Ma cânté maséca. The earth alone lasts. I speak as one dying--I know,
O beloved!"
Her voice died away like a summer wind.
"Beloved!" he cried.
But there before him she was changing; the air grew misty, and her hair
wavered like shreds of fog, and her slender form swayed, and faded, and
swerved, like the mist above a pond.
In her arms the babe was a figure of mist, rosy, vague as a breath on
a mirror.
"The earth alone lasts. Inâh! It is the end, O beloved!"
The words came from the mist--a mist as formless as the ether--a mist
that drove in and crowded him, that came from the sea, from the clouds,
from the earth at his feet. Faint with terror, he staggered forward
calling, "Beloved! And thou, Chaské, O beloved! Aké u! Aké u!"
Far out at sea a rosy star glimmered an instant in the mist and went
out.
A sea bird screamed, soaring over the waste of fog-smothered waters.
Again he saw the rosy star; it came nearer; its reflection glimmered in
the water.
"Chaské!" he cried.
He heard a voice, dull in the choking mist.
"O beloved, I am here!" he called again.
There was a sound on the shoal, a flicker in the fog, the flare of a
torch, a face white, livid, terrible--the face of the dead.
He fell upon his knees; he closed his eyes and opened them. Tully stood
beside him with a coil of rope.
       
Ihó! Behold the end! The earth alone lasts. The sand, the opal wave on
the golden beach, the sea of sapphire, the dusted starlight, the wind,
and love, shall die. Death also shall die, and lie on the shores of
the skies like the bleached skull there on the Key to Grief, polished,
empty, with its teeth embedded in the sand.
A MATTER OF INTEREST.
A MATTER OF INTEREST.
  He that knows not, and knows not that he knows not, is a fool. Shun
      him.
  He that knows not, and knows that he knows not, is simple. Teach him.
  He that knows, and knows not that he knows, is asleep. Wake him.
  He that knows, and knows that he knows, is wise. Follow him.
                                       Arabian Proverb.
I.
Much as I dislike it, I am obliged to include this story in a volume
devoted to fiction: I have attempted to tell it as an absolutely true
story, but until three months ago, when the indisputable proofs were
placed before the British Association by Professor James Holroyd,
I was regarded as an impostor. Now that the Smithsonian Institute
in Washington, the Philadelphia Zoölogical Society, and the Natural
History Museum of New York city, are convinced that the story is
truthful and accurate in every particular, I prefer to tell it my own
way. Professor Holroyd urges me to do this, although Professor Bruce
Stoddard, of Columbia College, is now at work upon a pamphlet, to be
published the latter part of next month, describing scientifically the
extraordinary discovery which, to the shame of the United States, was
first accepted and recognised in England.
Now, having no technical ability concerning the affair in question,
and having no knowledge of either comparative anatomy or zoölogy, I
am perhaps unfitted to tell this story. But the story is true; the
episode occurred under my own eyes--here, within a few hours' sail of
the Battery. And as I was one of the first persons to verify what has
long been a theory among scientists, and, moreover, as the result of
Professor Holroyd's discovery is to be placed on exhibition in Madison
Square Garden on the twentieth of next month, I have decided to tell,
as simply as I am able, exactly what occurred.
I first wrote out the story on April 1, 1896. The North American
Review, the Popular Science Monthly, the Scientific American, Nature,
Forest and Stream, and the Fossiliferous Magazine in turn rejected it;
some curtly informing me that fiction had no place in their columns.
When I attempted to explain that it was not fiction, the editors of
these periodicals either maintained a contemptuous silence, or bluntly
notified me that my literary services and opinions were not desired.
But finally, when several publishers offered to take the story as
fiction, I cut short all negotiations and decided to publish it myself.
Where I am known at all, it is my misfortune to be known as a writer
of fiction. This makes it impossible for me to receive a hearing from a
scientific audience. I regret it bitterly, because now, when it is too
late, I am prepared to prove certain scientific matters of interest,
and to produce the proofs. In this case, however, I am fortunate, for
nobody can dispute the existence of a thing when the bodily proof is
exhibited as evidence.
This is the story; and if I write it as I write fiction, it is because
I do not know how to write it otherwise.
I was walking along the beach below Pine Inlet, on the south shore
of Long Island. The railroad and telegraph station is at West Oyster
Bay. Everybody who has travelled on the Long Island Railroad knows the
station, but few, perhaps, know Pine Inlet. Duck shooters, of course,
are familiar with it; but as there are no hotels there, and nothing
to see except salt meadow, salt creek, and a strip of dune and sand,
the summer-squatting public may probably be unaware of its existence.
The local name for the place is Pine Inlet; the maps give its name as
Sand Point, I believe, but anybody at West Oyster Bay can direct you
to it. Captain McPeek, who keeps the West Oyster Bay House, drives duck
shooters there in winter. It lies five miles southeast from West Oyster
Bay.
I had walked over that afternoon from Captain McPeek's. There was a
reason for my going to Pine Inlet--it embarrasses me to explain it,
but the truth is I meditated writing an ode to the ocean. It was out
of the question to write it in West Oyster Bay, with the whistle of
locomotives in my ears. I knew that Pine Inlet was one of the loneliest
places on the Atlantic coast; it is out of sight of everything except
leagues of gray ocean. Rarely one might make out fishing smacks
drifting across the horizon. Summer squatters never visited it;
sportsmen shunned it, except in winter. Therefore, as I was about to do
a bit of poetry, I thought that Pine Inlet was the spot for the deed.
So I went there.
As I was strolling along the beach, biting my pencil reflectively,
tremendously impressed by the solitude and the solemn thunder of
the surf, a thought occurred to me: how unpleasant it would be if I
suddenly stumbled on a summer boarder. As this joyless impossibility
flitted across my mind, I rounded a bleak sand dune.
A summer girl stood directly in my path.
If I jumped, I think the young lady has pardoned me by this time. She
ought to, because she also started, and said something in a very faint
voice. What she said was "Oh!"
She stared at me as though I had just crawled up out of the sea to bite
her. I don't know what my own expression resembled, but I have been
given to understand it was idiotic.
Now I perceived, after a few moments, that the young lady was
frightened, and I knew I ought to say something civil. So I said, "Are
there any mosquitoes here?"
"No," she replied, with a slight quiver in her voice; "I have only seen
one, and it was biting somebody else."
I looked foolish; the conversation seemed so futile, and the young
lady appeared to be more nervous than before. I had an impulse to say,
"Do not run; I have breakfasted," for she seemed to be meditating a
plunge into the breakers. What I did say was: "I did not know anybody
was here. I do not intend to intrude. I come from Captain McPeek's,
and I am writing an ode to the ocean." After I had said this it seemed
to ring in my ears like, "I come from Table Mountain, and my name is
Truthful James."
I glanced timidly at her.
"She's thinking of the same thing," said I to myself. "What an ass I
must appear!"
However, the young lady seemed to be a trifle reassured. I noticed she
drew a sigh of relief and looked at my shoes. She looked so long that
it made me suspicious, and I also examined my shoes. They seemed to be
fairly respectable.
"I--I am sorry," she said, "but would you mind not walking on the
beach?"
This was sudden. I had intended to retire and leave the beach to her,
but I did not fancy being driven away so abruptly.
"I was about to withdraw, madam," said I, bowing stiffly; "I beg you
will pardon any inconvenience----"
"Dear me!" she cried, "you don't understand. I do not--I would
not think for a moment of asking you to leave Pine Inlet. I merely
ventured to request you to walk on the dunes. I am so afraid that your
footprints may obliterate the impressions that my father is studying."
"Oh!" said I, looking about me as though I had been caught in the
middle of a flower-bed; "really I did not notice any impressions.
Impressions of what--if I may be permitted?"
"I don't know," she said, smiling a little at my awkward pose. "If you
step this way in a straight line you can do no damage."
I did as she bade me. I suppose my movements resembled the gait of
a wet peacock. Possibly they recalled the delicate manœuvres of the
kangaroo. Anyway, she laughed.
This seriously annoyed me. I had been at a disadvantage; I walk well
enough when let alone.
"You can scarcely expect," said I, "that a man absorbed in his own
ideas could notice impressions on the sand. I trust I have obliterated
nothing."
As I said this I looked back at the long line of footprints stretching
away in prospective across the sand. They were my own. How large they
looked! Was that what she was laughing at?
"I wish to explain," she said gravely, looking at the point of her
parasol. "I am very sorry to be obliged to warn you--to ask you to
forego the pleasure of strolling on a beach that does not belong to me.
Perhaps," she continued, in sudden alarm, "perhaps this beach belongs
to you?"
"The beach? Oh, no," I said.
"But--but you were going to write poems about it?"
"Only one--and that does not necessitate owning the beach. I have
observed," said I frankly, "that the people who own nothing write many
poems about it."
She looked at me seriously.
"I write many poems," I added.
She laughed doubtfully.
"Would you rather I went away?" I asked politely.
"I? Why, no--I mean that you may do as you please--except please do not
walk on the beach."
"Then I do not alarm you by my presence?" I inquired. My clothes
were a bit ancient. I wore them shooting, sometimes. "My family is
respectable," I added; and I told her my name.
"Oh! Then you wrote 'Culled Cowslips' and 'Faded Fig-Leaves,' and
you imitate Maeterlinck, and you---- Oh, I know lots of people that
you know;" she cried with every symptom of relief; "and you know my
brother."
"I am the author," said I coldly, "of 'Culled Cowslips,' but 'Faded
Fig-Leaves' was an earlier work, which I no longer recognise, and I
should be grateful to you if you would be kind enough to deny that I
ever imitated Maeterlinck. Possibly," I added, "he imitates me."
"Now, do you know," she said, "I was afraid of you at first? Papa is
digging in the salt meadows nearly a mile away."
It was hard to bear.
"Can you not see," said I, "that I am wearing a shooting coat?"
"I do see--now; but it is so--so old," she pleaded.
"It is a shooting coat all the same," I said bitterly.
