
I was not of a rank to make suggestions, or I would 
have suggested that if we went faster we should get by 
sooner. It seemed to me that it was an ill-judged time to 
be taking a walk. Just as we were drifting in that 
suffocating stillness past a great cannon that stood just 
within a raised portcullis, with nothing between me and it 
but the moat, a most uncommon jackass in there split the 
world with his bray, and I fell out of the saddle. Sir 
Bertrand grabbed me as I went, which was well, for if I 
had gone to the ground in my armour I could not have 
gotten up again by myself. The English warders on the 
battlements laughed a coarse laugh, forgetting that every 
one must begin, and that there had been a time when they 
themselves would have fared no better when shot by a 
jackass. 

The English never uttered a challenge nor fired a shot. 
It was said afterwards that when their men saw the Maid 
riding at the front and saw how lovely she was, their eager 
courage cooled down in many cases and vanished in the 
rest, they feeling certain that that creature was not mortal, 
but the very child of Satan ; and so the officers were 
prudent and did not try to make them fight. It was said 
also that some of the officers were aff'ected by the same 
superstitious fears. Well, in any case, they never offered 
to molest us, and we poked by all the grisly fortresses in 
peace. During the march I caught up on my devotions, 
which were in arrears ; so it was not all loss and no profit 
for me, after all. 

It was on this march that the histories say Dunois told 
Joan that the English were expecting reinforcements under 
the command of Sir John Falstaff, and that she turned 
upon him and said — 

' Bastard, Bastard, in God's name I warn you to let me 
know of his coming as soon as you hear of it ; for if he 
passes without my knowledge you shall lose your head ! ' 

It may be so ; I don't deny it, but I didn't hear it. If 
she really said it, I think she only meant she would take 
off his official head — degrade him from his command. It 
was not like her to threaten a comrade's life. She did 
have her doubts of her generals, and was entitled to them, 
for she was all for storm and assault, and they were for 
holding still and tiring the English out. Since they did 
not believe in her way and were experienced old soldiers, it 
would be natural for them to prefer their own and try to 
get around carrying hers out. 

But I did hear something that the histories didn't men- 
tion and don't know about. I heard Joan say that now 
that the garrisons on the other side had been weakened to 
strengthen those on our side, the most effective point of 
operations had shifted to the south shore ; so she meant 
to go over there and storm the forts which held the bridge 
end, and that would open up communication with our own 
dominions and raise the siege. The generals began to 
balk, privately, right away, but they only baffled and 
delayed her, and that for only four days. 

All Orleans met the army at the gate and huzzahed it 
through the bannered streets to its various quarters, but 
nobody had to rock it to sleep ; it slumped down dog- 
tired, for Dunois had rushed it without mercy, and for the 
next twenty-four hours it would be quiet, all but the snoring. 



CHAPTER XVII 

When we got home, breakfast for us minor fry was waiting 
in our mess-room and the family honoured us by coming 
in to eat it with us. The nice old treasurer, and in fact all 
three, were flatteringly eager to hear about our adventures. 
Nobody asked the Paladin to begin, but he did begin, 
because now that his specially ordained and peculiar 
military rank set him above everybody on the personal 
staff but old D'Aulon, who didn't eat with us, he didn't 
care a farthing for the knights' nobility nor mine, but took 
precedence in the talk whenever it suited him, which was 
all the time, because he was born that way. He said : 

' God be thanked, we found the army in admirable con- 
dition. I think I have never seen a finer body of animals.' 

' Animals ? ' said Miss Catherine. 

' I will explain to you what he means,' said Noel. 
'He— ' 

' I will trouble you not to trouble yourself to explain 
anything for me,' said the Paladin, loftily. ' I have reason 
to think—' 

'That is his way,' said Noel ; ' always when he thinks 
he has reason to think, he thinks he does think, but this 
is an error. He didn't see the army. I noticed him, and 
he didn't see it. He was troubled by his old complaint.' 

' What is his old complaint ? ' Catherine asked. 
' Prudence,' I said, seeing my chance to help. 

But it was not a fortunate remark, for the Paladin said : 

' It probably isn't your turn to criticise people's pru- 
dence — you who fall out of the saddle when a donkey 
brays.' 

They all laughed, and I was ashamed of myself for my 
hasty smartness. I said : 

' It isn't quite fair for you to say I fell out on account 
of the donkey's braying. It was emotion, just ordinary 
emotion.' 

' Very well, if you want to call it that, I am not object- 
ing. What would you call it. Sir Bertrand ? ' 

' Well, it — well, whatever it was, it was excusable, I ' 
think. All of you have learned how to behave in hot hand- 
to-hand engagements, and you don't need to be ashamed 
of your record in that matter ; but to walk along in front 
of death, with one's hands idle, and no noise, no music, 
and nothing- going on, is a very trying situation. If I were 
you, De Conte, I would name the emotion ; it's nothing to 
be ashamed of.' 

It was as straight and sensible a speech as ever I heard, 
and I was grateful for the opening it gave me ; so I came 
out and said : 

' It was fear — and thank you for the honest idea, too.' 

' It was the cleanest and best way out,' said the old 
treasurer ; ' you've done well, my lad.' 

That made me comfortable, and when Miss Catherine 
said, ' It's what I think, too,' I was grateful to myself for 
getting into that scrape. 

Sir Jean de Metz said — 

' We were all in a body together when the donkey 
brayed, and it was dismally still at the time. I don't see 
how any young campaigner could escape some little touch 
of that emotion.' 

He looked about him with a pleasant expression of 
inquiry on his good face, and as each pair of eyes in turn 
met his the head they were in nodded a confession. Even 
the Paladin delivered his nod. That surprised everybody, 
and saved the Standard-Bearer's credit. It was clever of 
him ; nobody believed he could tell the truth that way 
without practice, or would tell that particular sort of a truth 
either with or without practice. I suppose he judged it 
would favourably impress the family. Then the old 
treasurer said — 

'Passing the forts in that trying way required the same 
sort of nerve that a person must have when ghosts are 
about him in the dark, I should think. What does the 
Standard-Bearer think ? ' 

' Well, I don't quite know about that, sir. I've often 
thought I would like to see a ghost if I — ' 

' Would you ? ' exclaimed the young lady. ' We've got 
one ! Would you try that one ? Will you ? ' 

She was so eager and pretty that the Paladin said 

straight out that he would ; and then as none of the rest 
had bravery enough to expose the fear that was in him, 
one volunteered after the other with a prompt mouth and 
a sick heart till all were shipped for the voyage ; then the 
girl clapped her hands in glee, and the parents were 
gratified too, saying that the ghosts of their house had 
been a dread and a misery to them and their forebears for 
generations, and nobody had ever been found yet who was 
willing to confront them and find out what their trouble 
was, so that the family could heal it and content the poor 
spectres and beguile them to tranquillity and peace. 

CHAPTER XVIII 

About noon I was chatting with Madame Boucher ; nothing 
was going on, all was quiet, when Catherine Boucher sud- 
denly entered in great excitement, and said — 

' Fly, sir, fly ! The Maid was dozing in her chair in my 
room, when she sprang up and cried out, '' French blood 
is flowing !— my arms, give me my arms ! " Her giant was 
on guard at the door, and he brought D'Aulon, who began 
to arm her, and I and the giant have been warning the 
staff. Fly !— and stay by her; and if there really is a 
battle, keep her out of it — don't let her risk herself — there 
is no need — if the men know she is near and looking on, it 
is all that is necessary. Keep her out of the fight — don't 
fail of this ! ' 

I started on a run, saying, sarcastically — for I was 
always fond of sarcasm, and it was said that I had a most 
neat gift that way — 

' Oh yes, nothing easier than that — I'll attend to It ! ' 
At the furthest end of the house I met Joan, fully armed, 

hurrying toward the door, and she said — 

' Ah, French blood is being spilt, and you did not tell 
me.' 

' Indeed I did not know it,' I said ; ' there are no sounds 
of war ; everything is quiet, your Excellency.' 

' You will hear war-sounds enough in a moment,' she 
said, and was gone. 

It was true. Before one could count five there broke 
upon the stillness the swelling rush and tramp of an 
approaching multitude of men and horses, with hoarse cries 
of command ; and then out of the distance came the muffled 
deep boo7n I — boom-boom ! — boom ! of cannon, and straight- 
way that rushing multitude was roaring by the house like 
a hurricane. 

Our knights and all our staff came flying, armed, but 
with no horses ready, and we burst out after Joan in a 
body, the Paladin in the lead with the banner. The surg- 
ing crowd was made up half of citizens and half of soldiers, 
and had no recognised leader. When Joan was seen a 
huzzah went up, and she shouted — 

' A horse — a horse ! ' 

A dozen saddles were at her disposal in a moment. 
She mounted, a hundred people shouting — 

' Way, there — way for the Maid of Orleans ! ' The 
first time that that immortal name was ever uttered — and 
I, praise God, was there to hear it ! The mass divided 
itself like the waters of the Red Sea, and down this lane 
Joan went skimming like a bird, crying ' Forward, French 
hearts — follow me ! ' and we came winging in her wake 
on the rest of the borrowed horses, the holy standard 
streaming above us, and the lane closing together in our 
rear. 

This was a different thing from the ghastly march past 
the dismal bastilles. No, we felt fine, now, and all a-whirl 
with enthusiasm. The explanation of this sudden uprising 
was this. The city and the little garrison, so long hope- 
less and afraid, had gone wild over Joan's coming, and 
could no longer restrain their desire to get at the enemy ; 
so, without orders from anybody, a few hundred soldiers 
and citizens had plunged out at the Burgundy gate on a 
sudden impulse and made a charge on one of Lord Talbot's 
most formidable fortresses — St. Loup — and were getting 
the worst of it. The news of this had swept through the 
city and startled this new crowd that we were with. 

As we poured out at the gate we met a force bringing 
in the wounded from the front. The sight moved Joan, 
and she said — 

' Ah, French blood ; it makes my hair rise to see it ! ' 

We were soon on the field, soon in the midst of the 
turmoil. Joan was seeing her first real battle, and so 
were we. 

It was a battle in the open field ; for the garrison of St. 
Loup had sallied confidently out to meet the attack, being 
used to victories when ' witches ' were not around. The 
sally had been re-enforced by troops from the ' Paris ' 
bastille, and when we approached the French were getting 
whipped and were falling back. But when Joan came 
charging through the disorder with her banner displayed, 
crying ' Forward, men — follow me ! ' there was a. change ; 
the French turned about and surged forward like a solid 
wave of the sea, and swept the English before them, hack- 
ing and slashing, and being hacked and slashed, in a way 
that was terrible to see. 

In the field the Dwarf had no assignment ; that is to 
say, he was not under orders to occupy any particular 
place, therefore he chose his place for himself, and went 
ahead of Joan and made a road for her. It was horrible to 
see the iron helmets fly into fragments under his dreadful 
axe. He called it cracking nuts, and it looked like that. 
He made a good road, and paved it well with flesh and 
iron. Joan and the rest of us followed it so briskly that 
we outspeeded our forces and had the English behind us 
as well as before. The knights commanded us to face out- 
wards around Joan, which we did, and then there was 
work done that was fine to see. One was obliged to 
respect the Paladin, now. Being right under Joan's exalting
and transforming eye, he forgot his native prudence, 
