never tire of praising.' 
Dele broke off a sprig for herself, and one for 
Hanny. The spaces were larger, the houses 
' 
farther apart. On the west side was a tree -nursery 
and garden, and two quaint old frame-houses that 
hardly looked large enough for any one to live in ; 
but there were children playing about ; and on the 
other side a cemetery. All this tract was known 
as Mount Pleasant. 
At the north of the cemetery, they plunged 
down a stony way called a road, mostly by courtesy, 
though it was the only way of getting up from 
the river. Great trees overhung it on one side, 
and gave it a weird, darkened aspect. 
" It might be a ghost-walk, at night," exclaimed 
Delia. " Edgar A. Poe could have put a story here. 
I like the tragic; but I 'm not so fond of the 
horrible." 
Another turn showed them the river and the 
opposite shore crowned with green glittering in 
the afternoon sunshine. They all paused, it was 
such a wonderful outlook. 
And when they reached it, and glanced up and 
down, it was a picture indeed. The river made 
little bends, and wound around tiny points, edged 
with the greenest of sedge grass in some places, 
then grey stones with mossy sea-growth, or wil- 
lows dipping their branches in the lightly ruffled 
water. Not a soul to be seen anywhere, not a 
sound save the voices of birds ; but while they 
looked, a flock of geese came floating grandly down. 
" On thy fair bosom, silver lake, 
The white swan spreads her snowy sail," 
quoted Delia. 
"It is not the first time swans have proved 
geese," said Mr. Theodore, with a smile. "But 
for the sake of the picturesque we will let it pass. 
" I wonder if the Wye or the Severn would 
be so enchanting to us if poets had not lived there 
and immortalised them ? ' 
" When we are an old country, we will, no doubt, 
sigh for relics. In 1666, this was called ' Neworke 
or Pesayak towne; ' and a little more than a hun- 
dred years ago this Gully was made the dividing 
line between the towns. There are many historic 
spots in Belleville, and an old copper mine that 
once made a great addition to her prosperity. 
But my quest ends here. I don't know as I have 
a hero exactly, Miss Hanny, yet my friend, Frank 
Forrester, has had a varied and eventful life. 
This way.' 
Mr. Whitney led them up a path mostly over- 
grown with pale, spindling grass that had no 
chance for sunshine, so close and tall were the 
trees. It was undeniably gloomy, hidden away 
here. A little old brown, weather-beaten house 
hung with vines, that even stretched up into the 
trees; small, narrow windows, with diamond- 
shaped panes that could not let in much light, 
it would seem. 
"It's a horrid place," cried Dele. "Hanny, 
we shall surely see a ghost. The idea of living 
at the very foot of a burying-ground ! ' 
Hanny held tight to Joe's hand. She was 
beginning to have what Miss Cynthia called the 
"creeps." 
CHAPTER XIII 
OUT-OF-THE-WAY CORNERS 
IF the outside was gloomy, it had a queer, dis- 
orderly, and rather cheerful aspect within, for the 
sun was pouring a flood of gold in one window 
where it happened to strike a spot between two 
trees. And Frank Forrester was by no means 
melancholy to-day. He shook hands cordially 
with Mr. Whitney, and welcomed the rest of the 
party with the utmost affability, - -a fine-looking 
Englishman with a picturesque air, due largely 
to his rather long hair, which fell about his fore- 
head and neck in a tumbled manner, suggesting a 
tendency to curls. 
'These young people may like to look over 
my curiosities, while we have our talk," he said. 
"Take a cigar, and I'll bring a bottle of wine. 
Won't you join us, Doctor? Here, young folks, 
are curiosities from everywhere." 
He ushered them into a small room that was 
library and everything by turns. There were 
trophies of hunting expeditions, some rare birds 
stuffed and mounted, looking so alive Hanny 
would not have been surprised if they had sud- 
denly begun to warble; books in every stage of 
dilapidation, some of them quite rare copies, Ben 
found; portfolios of old engravings; curious 
weapons; foreign wraps; Grecian and Turkish 
bits of pottery; and the odd things we call bric- 
a-brac nowadays. 
Delia began to make some notes. Ben laughed 
a little. Interviewing was not such a fine art 
then; and people were considered greater subjects 
of interest than their belongings. But Delia was 
saving up things for stories which she meant to 
write as she found time. 
Doctor Joe had come in here with the young 
people, leaving the two friends to discuss their 
business. He, too, found much to interest him; 
and he was amused at Delia's running comments, 
some of them very bright indeed. She was quite 
a spur to Ben, he found ; and he was surprised 
at the varied stock of knowledge Ben had 
accumulated. 
It did not seem as if they had explored half, 
when Mr. Whitney opened the door. 
; Young folks, we must be going, if we expect 
to reach home that very same night, like the old 
woman with her pig," he said. 
"Are you talked out?' asked Delia, archly; 
"for we haven't half looked through things.' 
"I want your brother to stay and have some 
supper with me. I 'in my own housekeeper now; 
but I think we could manage.'' 
" What fun it would be, " said Delia. " As there 
are no stores, we should have to start at the 
foundation of things." 
 
"I have a loaf of bread, and some cold mutton, 
and eggs, I think, and tea and coffee. Come, 
you had better accept my hospitality." 
"I must be home in the early evening," re- 
marked Doctor Joe. 
"And Hanny 's not to stay out after dark," 
appended Ben. 
"We are going down to Cockloft Hall," ex- 
plained Mr. Whitney. " I am sorry we cannot 
accept." 
"Then you must bring your happy family again. 
If they are fond of curiosities, the old house could 
entertain them all day long." 
" And if they are fond of adventures, which 
they are, they might put you to the test," said 
Delia, daringly. 
Herbert laughed at the vivacious tone. 
"Then you 'd have to find me in the mood. In 
that respect, I am variable." 
"Do you have a mood for each day? Then 
your friends could be sure ' 
" A good idea, like the ladies' reception-days. 
Must I put on the card, Serious, Jolly, Adventur- 
ous, etc. ? ' 
"And supernatural. I should come on the 
ghost days. For if ever a ghost walked out of its 
earthy habitation, I should think it would be here. 
Did you ever see a ghost, Mr. Herbert? ' 
" I have seen some queer things. But these up 
here," nodding his head, "seem a very well 
behaved community. I can't say that they have 
troubled me; and I've come down the road at 
twelve or so at night. Perhaps my imagination 
is not vivid enough in that line. Have you ever 
seen a ghost, Miss Whitney? ' 
' No, I have not, except the ghosts of my imagi- 
nation. I can shut my eyes now, and see them come 
trooping down that lonely road by twos and threes. " 
Herbert laughed again. "A vivid imagination 
is worth a good deal at times," he said. "There 
ought to be a ghost-walk about here; and next 
time you come over, we 'll arrange one so perfectly 
that he shall defy detection. I 'll walk a bit with 
you, if I am not a ghost." 
When he put on his wide-brimmed, rather 
high-crowned hat, he looked more Spanish than 
English. They went through another room that 
opened on a porch, and, from thence, through the 
garden, or an attempt at one that did not betoken 
signal success. 
The cemetery sloped down from a high hill that 
was such a thicket of woods it hid all indications 
of the City of the Dead. The placid river, in 
which there was only a gentle tide up here, lapped 
the shores with a little murmur as it came up 
from the bay. The green, irregular shore oppo- 
site showed here and there a house. The wood- 
robins were beginning their vespers already. 
Hanny thought them the sweetest singers she had 
ever heard. 
Just here there was a terraced garden-spot and 
an old house adorned with all kinds of blossoming 
shrubbery. 
" You see we two are guardians of the place, at 
 
either end. Miss Whitney, this house could 
tell some interesting tales of the bygone time; 
but the glory is departing. In a few years the 
city will stretch out and invade our solitude.' 
A wild spot of ground it was below, hilly, 
gravelly, sloping sharply down to the river. But 
people were beginning to take advantage of the 
shore-edge for business. There were shops, and 
a foundry stretching out smoky, dingy arms in 
various directions. 
They said their good-byes here, as they were in 
'sight of the old Gouverneur mansion. And no one 
guessed then that a tragedy of love and despera- 
tion to madness was soon to follow, and that in 
the dreary old house " Frank Forrester " was to lie, 
slain by his own hand, that he waved so jauntily 
to them as he bade them "Come again." 
They scrambled up the small ascent, and sprang 
over the wall. Here was 'where the Nine Worthies 
used to come for their merry-making in their 
exuberant youth, and, as one of their number said 
afterward, "enlivened the solitude by their mad- 
cap pranks and juvenile orgies." The house had 
not been much modernised up to that period. Its 
young owner, Mr. Kemble, who was the Patroon 
of the merry company, still held it. They found 
the old honeydew cherry-tree standing; but some 
of its long-armed branches were going to decay. 
The odd. octagonal summer-house had not then 
fallen down. 
They went up to the old room in the south- 
western angle, the green moreen chamber, as it 
had been called, where the Nine Worthies used to 
congregate, and where Irving concocted some 
choice bits of fun for the Salamagundi Club. 
And here was the great drawing-room where they 
disposed themselves to sociable naps on Sunday 
afternoons, the vine-covered porch on which they 
sat and smoked starlit evenings, and the grassy 
lawn over which they rambled. And now Mr. 
Washington Irving had been minister to Spain, 
and the guest of noted people in England and on 
the continent. He had won fame in more than 
one line, and hosts of appreciative readers. 
Hanny could hardly realise it all, as she thought 
of the still handsome though rather delicate man, 
past middle life, gracious and dignified and 
kindly, sitting on his own porch at Sunnyside. 
She couldn't help going back to her first love, 
the old "Knickerbocker History" that seemed so 
real to her, even now. 
The hand of improvement touched Cockloft 
Hall shortly after. The old summer-house was 
taken down; the famous cherry-tree, where the 
robins sang and reared their young for so many 
generations, succumbed to old age and wintry 
blasts ; but she was glad she had seen it in its 
romantic halo. 
They were not far from the upper railroad 
station then, - -the old Morris and Essex that had 
stirred up the country people mightily when it 
first went thundering through quiet vales, and 
screaming out at little way-stations. They were 
just in time for a train. The sun had dropped 
 
down behind the Orange Mountain, though the 
whole west was alive with changeful gold and 
scarlet, melting to fainter tints, changing to 
indescribable hues and visionary islands floating 
in seas of amber and chrysoprase. 
Hanny was quite tired, and leaned her head on 
Joe's shoulder. Ben and Delia were in front, 
and Mr. Whitney in the seat behind. They kept 
up an animated conversation, and thought it had 
been a delightful afternoon. 
"And I feel like quoting a bit out of a letter 
of the Poet Gray," said Ben. " 'Do you not think 
a man may be the wiser, I had almost said better, 
for going a hundred or two miles ? ' We have gone 
a tenth or so of that, and I feel ever so much 
richer as well as wiser. How is it with you, 
little Hanny?" 
"I 've been to the land of heroes," she replied, 
with a soft smile. 'I shall insist that Jim must 
honour New Jersey in the future." 
"Bravo!" said Mr. Whitney. "And there are 
many more heroes in it, and I think some heroines, 
that we must hunt up at a leisure day. There 
was Ann Halsted of Elizabethtovvn, who saw the 
British foraging expedition coming over from 
Staten Island, where the ship lay at anchor; and, 
donning a suit of her father's clothes, and taking 
an old musket, she went down to the only road 
they could come up, and blazed away at them with 
such intrepidity that the red-coats were alarmed 
lest a whole squad might be quartered there, and 
retreated in haste. It was said when Washington 
heard of it, he toasted the young lady. And there 
were the brave women of Valley Forge.' 
"And Moll Pitcher, don't forget her," put in 
Ben. " We in New York don't own quite 
everything."
They went rumbling into the tunnel, and 
Hanny started. She was used to the Harlem 
tunnel ; but this came upon her unexpectedly. 
"And there are three considerable tunnels," 
laughed Delia. " Yet there are people who believe 
the State is one vast sandy plain, and that the 
agricultural products are solely watermelons and 
peaches. Some one always stands ready to believe 
