callous, utterly destitute of human feelings, heartless toward 
*" Having planted a bullet in the shoulder-bone of au elephant, and caused the 
agonized creature to lean for support against a tree, I proceeded to brew some coffee. 
Having refreshed myself, taking observations of the elephant's spasms and writh- 
ings between the sips, I resolved to make experiments on vulnerable points, and, 
approaching very near, I fired several bullets at different parts of his enormous skull. 
He only acknowledged the shots by a salaam-like movement of his trunk, with the 
point of which he gently touched the wounds with a striking and peculiar action. 
Surprised and shocked to find that I was only prolonging the suffering of the noble 
beast, which bore its trials with such dignified composure, I resolved to finish the 
proceeding with all possible despatch, and accordingly opened fire upon him from 
the left side. Aiming at the shoulder, I fired six shots with the two-grooved rifle, 
which must have eventually proved mortal, after which I fired six shots at the same 
part with the Dutch six-pounder. Large tears now trickled down from his eyes, 
which he slowly shut and openecl, his colossal frame shivered convulsively, and fall- 
ing on his side he expired." — Gordon Cumming. 
their own families as well as toward other people's ; but this 
was not so. Like all other Indians, they had a passionate love 
for their kin. A shrewd British officer who knew the Indian 
character, took that characteristic into account in laying his 
plans for the capture of Eugene Sue's famous Feringhea. He 
found out Feringhea's hiding-place, and sent a guard by night 
to seize him, but the squad was awkward and he got away. 
However, they got the rest of the family — the mother, wife, 
child, and brother — and brought them to the officer, at Jubbul- 
pore ; the officer did not fret, but bided his time : " I knew 
Feringhea would not go far while links so dear to him were in 
my hands." He was right. Feringhea knew all the danger 
he was running by staying in the neighborhood, still he could 
not tear himself away. The officer found that he divided his time 
between five villages where he had relatives and friends who 
could get news for him from his family in Jubbulpore jail ; 
and that he never slept two consecutive nights in the same 
village. The officer traced out his several haunts, then pounced 
upon all the five villages on the one night and at the same 
hour, and got his man. 
Another example of family affection. A little while 
previously to the capture of Feringhea's family, the British 
officer had captured Feringhea's foster-brother, leader of a 
gang of ten, and had tried the eleven and condemned them to 
be hanged. Feringhea's captured family arrived at the jail 
the day before the execution was to take place. The foster- 
brother, Jhurhoo, entreated to be allowed to see the aged 
mother and the others. The prayer was granted, and this is 
what took place — it is the British officer who speaks : 
"In the morning, just before going to the scaffold, the interview took 
place before me. He fell at the old woman's feet and begged that she would 
relieve him from the obligations of the milk with which she had nourished 
him from infancy, as he was about to die before he could fulfill any of them. 
She placed her hands on his head, and he knelt, and she said she forgave him 
all, and bid him die like a man." 
If a capable artist should make a picture of it, it would be 
full of dignity and solemnity and pathos ; and it could touch 
you. You would imagine it to be anything but what it was. 
There is reverence there, and tenderness, and gratefulness, and 
compassion, and resignation, and fortitude, and self-respect — 
and no sense of disgrace, no thought of dishonor. Everything 
is there that goes to make a noble parting, and give it a 
moving grace and beauty and dignity. And yet one of these 
people is a Thug and the other a mother of Thugs ! The in- 
congruities of our human nature seem to reach their limit here. 
I wish to make note of one curious thing while I think of 
it. One of the very commonest remarks to be found in. this 
bewildering array of Thug confessions is this : 
" Strangled him and threw him in a well ! " In one case 
they threw sixteen into a well — and they had thrown others 
in the same well before. It makes a body thirsty to read 
about it. 
And there is another very curious thing. The bands of 
Thugs had jprivate graveyards. They did not like to kill and 
bury at random, here and there and everywhere. They pre- 
ferred to wait, and toll the victims along, and get to one of 
their regular burying-places (bheels) if they could. In the 
little kingdom of Oude, which was about half as big as Ireland 
and about as big as the State of Maine, they had two hundred 
am.d seventy-four hheels. They were scattered along fourteen 
hundred miles of road, at an average of ovly five miles apart, 
and the British government traced out and located each and 
every one of them and set them down on the map. 
The Oude bands seldom went out of their own country, but 
they did a thriving business within its borders. So did outside 
bands who came in and helped. Some of the Thug leaders of 
Oude were noted for their successful careers. Each of four of 
them confessed to above 300 murders ; another to nearly 400 ; 
our friend Kamzam to 604 — he is the one who got leave of 
absence to attend a wedding and went thugging instead ; and 
he is also the one who betrayed Buhram to the British. 
But the biggest records of all were the murder-lists of Futty 
Khan and Buhram. Futty Khan's number is smaller than 
Ramzam's, but he is placed at the head because his average is 
the best in Oude-Thug history per year of service. His 
slaughter was 508 men in twenty years, and he was still a 
young man when the British stopped his industry. Buhram's 
list was 931 murders, but it took him forty years. His aver- 
age was one man and nearly all of another man per month for 
forty years, but Futty Khan's average was two men and a little 
of another man per month during his twenty years of useful- 
ness. 
There is one very striking thing which I wish to call atten- 
tion to. You have surmised from the listed callings followed 
by the victims of the Thugs that nobody could travel the 
Indian roads unprotected and live to get through ; that the 
Thugs respected no quality, no vocation, no religion, nobody ; 
that they killed every unarmed man that came in their way. 
That is wholly true — with one reservation. In all the long 
file of Thug confessions an FMglish traveler is mentioned hut 
once — and this is what the Thug says of the circumstance : 
" He was on his way from Mhow to Bombay. We studiously avoided Mm. 
He proceeded next morning with a number of travelers wJw had sought Ms 
protection, and they took the road to Baroda." 
"We do not know who he was ; he flits aross the page of 
this rusty old book and disappears in the obscurity beyond ; 
but he is an impressive figure, moving through that valley 
of death serene and unafraid, clothed in the might of the Eng- 
lish name. 
"We have now followed the big official book through, and 
we understand what Thuggee was, what a bloody terror it 
was, what a desolating scourge it was. In 1830 the English- 
found this cancerous organization imbedded in the vitals of the 
empire, doing its devastating work in secrecy, and assisted, 
protected, sheltered, and hidden by innumerable confederates — 
big and little native chiefs, customs officers, village officials, and 
native police, all ready to lie for it, and the mass of the people, 
through fear, persistently pretending to know nothing about 
its doings ; and this condition of things had existed for genera- 
tions, and was formidable with the sanctions of age and old 
custom. If ever there was an unpromising task, if ever there 
was a hopeless task in the world, surely it was offered here — 
the task of conquering Thuggee. But that little handful of 
English officials in India set their sturdy and confident grip 
upon it, and ripped it out, root and branch ! How modest do 
Captain Yallancey's vords sound now, when we read them 
again, knowing what we know : 
"The day that sees this far-spread evil completely eradicated from India, 
and known only in name, will greatly tend to immortalize British rule in the 
East." 
It would be hard to word a claim more modestly than that 
for this most noble work. 
CHAPTER XLVIII. 
Grief can take care of itself ; but to get the full value of a joy you must have 
somebody to divide it with. — Puddnfiead WUsons New Calendar. 
WE left Bombay for Allahabad by a night train. It is 
the custom of the country to avoid day travel when it 
can conveniently be done. But there is one trouble : 
while you can seemingly " secure " the two lower berths by 
making early application, there is no ticket as witness of it, 
and no other producible evidence in case your proprietorship 
shall chance to be challenged. The word " engaged " appears 
on the window, but it doesn't state who the compartment is 
engaged to. If your Satan and your Barney arrive before 
somebody else's servants, and spread the bedding on the two 
sofas and then stand guard till you come, all will be well ; but 
if they step aside on an errand, they may find the beds pro- 
moted to the two shelves, and somebody else's demons standing 
guard over their master's beds, which in the meantime have 
been spread upon your sofas. 
You do not pay anything extra for your sleeping place ; that 
is where the trouble lies. If you buy a fare-ticket and fail 
to use it, there is room thus made available for someone else ; 
but if the place were secured to you it would remain vacant, 
and yet your ticket would secure you another place when you 
were presently ready to travel. 
However, no explanation of such a system can make it 
seem quite rational to a person who has been used to a more 
rational system. If our people had the arranging of it, we 
should charge extra for securing the place, and then the road 
would suffer no loss if the purchaser did not occupy it. 
The present system encourages good manners — and also 
discourages them. If a young girl has a lower berth and an 
elderly lady comes in, it is usual for the girl to offer her place 
to this late comer ; and it is usual for the late comer to thank 
her courteously and take it. But the thing happens differently 
sometimes. When we were ready to leave Bombay my daugh- 
ter's satchels were holding possession of her berth — a lower 
one. At the last moment, a middle-aged American lady 
swarmed into the compartment, followed by native porters 
laden with her baggage. She was growling and snarling and 
scolding, and trying to make herself phenomenally disagreea- 
ble ; and succeeding. Without a word, she hoisted the 
satchels into the hanging shelf, and took possession of that 
lower berth. 
On one of our trips Mr. Smythe and I got out at a station 
to walk up and down, and when we came back Smythe's bed 
was in the hanging shelf and an English cavalry officer was in 
bed on the sofa which he had lately been occupying. It was 
mean to be glad about it, but it is the way we are made; 
I could not have been gladder if it had been my enemy that 
had suffered this misfortune. We all like to see people in 
trouble, if it doesn't cost us anything. I was so happy over 
Mr. Smythe's chagrin that I couldn't go to sleep for thinking 
of it and enjoying it. I knew he supposed the officer had 
committed the robbery himself, whereas without a doubt the 
officer's servant had done it without his knowledge. Mr. 
Smythe kept this incident warm in his heart, and longed for 
a chance to get even with somebody for it. Sometime after- 
ward the opportunity came, in Calcutta. We were leaving 
on a 24-hour journey to Darjeeling. Mr. Barclay, the general 
superintendent, has made special provision for our accommo- 
dation, Mr. Smythe said ; so there was no need to hurry about 
getting to the train ; consequently, we were a little late. 
When we arrived, the usual immense turmoil and confusion of 
a great Indian station were in full blast. It was an immoder- 
ately long train, for all the natives of India were going by it 
somewhither, and the native officials were being pestered to 
frenzy by belated and anxious people. They didn't know 
where our car was, and couldn't remember having received 
any orders about it. It was a deep disappointment ; more- 
over, it looked as if our half of our party would be left behind 
altogether. Then Satan came running and said he had found 
a compartment with one shelf and one sofa unoccupied, and 
had made our beds and had stowed our baofg'aor'e. We rushed 
to the place, and just as the train was ready to pull out and 
the porters were slamming the doors to, all down the line, an 
officer of the Indian Civil Service, a good friend of ours, put 
his head in and said : —  
" I have been hunting for you everywhere. What are you 
doing here ? Don't you know ' — " 
The train started before he could finish. Mr. Smythe's 
opportunity was come. His bedding, on the shelf, at once 
changed places with the bedding — a stranger's — that was 
occupying the sofa that was opposite to mine. About ten 
o'clock we stopped somewhere, and a large Englishman of 
official military bearing stepped in. We pretended to be asleep. 
The lamps were covered, but there was light enough for us to 
note his look of surprise. He stood there, grand and fine, 
peering down at Smythe, and wondering in silence at the 
situation. After a bit he said : — 
" Well ! " And that was all. 
But that was enough. It was easy to understand. It 
meant: "This is extraordinary. This is high-handed. I 
haven't had an experience like this before." 
He sat down on his baggage, and for twenty minutes we 
watched him through our eyelashes, rocking and swaying there 
to the motion of the train. Then we came to a station, and he 
got up and went out, muttering : " I must find a lower berth, 
or wait over." His servant came presently and carried away 
his things. 
Mr. Smythe's sore place was healed, his hunger for revenge 
was satisfied. But he couldn't sleep, and neither could I ; for 
this was a venerable old car, and nothing about it was taut. 
The closet door slammed all nigit, and defied every fastening 
we could invent. We got up very much jaded, at dawn, and 
stepped out at a way station ; and, while we were taking a cup 
of coffee, that Englishman ranged up alongside, and somebody 
said to him : 
" So you didn't stop ofl', after all ? " 
"No. The guard found a place for me that had been 
engaged and not occupied. I had a whole saloon car all to 
myself — oh, quite palatial ! I never had such luck in my 
life." 
That was our car, you see. We moved into it, straight off, 
the family and all. But I asked the English gentleman to re- 
main, and he did. A pleasant man, an infantry colonel ; and 
doesn't know, yet, that Smythe robbed him of his berth, but 
thinks it was done by Smythe's servant without Smythe's 
knowledge. He was assisted in gathering this impression. 
The Indian trains are manned by natives exclusively. The 
Indian stations — except very large and important ones — are 
manned entirely by natives, and so are the posts and tele- 
graphs. The rank and file of the police are natives. All 
these people are pleasant and accommodating. One day I left 
an express train to lounge about in that perennially ravishing 
show, the ebb and flow and whirl of gaudy natives, that is 
always surging up and down the spacious platform of a great 
Indian station ; and I lost myself in the ecstasy of it, and 
when I turned, the train was moving swiftly away. I was 
going to sit down and wait for another train, as I would have 
done at home ; I had no thought of any other course. But a 
native official, who had a green flag in his hand, saw me, and 
said politely : 
" Don't you belong in the train, sir ? " 
" Yes," I said. 
He waved his flag, and the train came back I And he put 
me aboard with as much ceremony as if I had been the Gen- 
eral Superintendent. They - are kindly people, the natives. 
The face and the bearing that indicate a surly spirit and a bad 
heart seemed to me to be so rare among Indians — so nearly 
non-existent, in fact — that I sometimes wondered if Thuggee 
wasn't a dream, and not a reality. The bad hearts are there, 
but I believe that they are in a small, poor minority. One 
thing is sure : They are much the most interesting people in 
the world — and the nearest to being incomprehensible. At 
any rate, the hardest to account for. Their character and 
their history, their customs and their religion, confront you 
with riddles at every turn — riddles which are a trifle more 
perplexing after they are explained than they were before. 
You can get the facts of a custom — like caste, and Suttee, 
and Thuggee, and so on — and with the facts a theory which 
tries to explain, but never quite does it to your satisfaction. 
You can never quite understand hoio so strange a thing could 
have been born, nor why. 
For instance 7— the Suttee. This is the explanation of it: 
A woman who throws away her life when her husband dies is 
instantly joined to him again, and is forever afterward happy 
with him in heaven ; her family wall build a little monument 
to her, or a temple, and will hold her in honor, and, indeed, 
worship her memory always; they will themselves be held 
in honor by the public; the woman's self-sacrifice has 
conferred a noble and lasting distinction upon her posterity. 
And, besides, see what she has escaped : If she had elected 
