voices. He waited, trembling, for now it would be a man on foot
with naked sabre who should sink under his spring. Would he never
come?

At last, unable to stand the suspense, he moved his eyes to the
edge of the tree. There they were, a group of Uhlans standing
near two men who stood facing each other, jackets off, shirts
open to the throat.

The two men were Rickerl and Von Steyr.

Rickerl rolled up his white shirt-sleeve and tucked the cuff into
the folds, his naked sabre under his arm. Von Steyr, in shirt,
riding-breeches, and boots, stood with one leg crossed before the
other, leaning on his bared sabre. The surgeon and the two
seconds walked apart, speaking in undertones, with now and then a
quick gesture from the surgeon. The three troopers held the
horses of the party, and watched silently. When at last one of
the Uhlans spoke, they were so near that every word was perfectly
distinct to Jack:

"Gentlemen, an affair of honour in the face of the enemy is
always deplorable."

Rickerl burst out violently. "There can be no compromise--no
adjustment. Is it Lieutenant von Steyr who seeks it? Then I tell
him he is a hangman and a coward! He hangs a franc-tireur who
fires on us with explosive bullets, but he himself does not
hesitate to disgrace his uniform and regiment by firing explosive
bullets at an escaping wretch in a balloon!"

"You lie!" said Von Steyr, his face convulsed. At the same moment
the surgeon stepped forward with a gesture, the two seconds
placed themselves; somebody muttered a formula in a gross bass
voice and the swordsmen raised their heavy sabres and saluted.
The next moment they were at it like tigers; their sabres flashed
above their heads, the sabres of the seconds hovering around the
outer edge of the circle of glimmering steel like snakes coiling
to spring.

To and fro swayed the little group under the blinding flashes of
light, stroke rang on stroke, steel shivered and tinkled and
clanged on steel.

Fascinated by the spectacle, Jack crouched close to the tree,
seeing all he dared to see, but keeping a sharp eye on the three
Uhlans who were holding the horses, and who should have been
doing sentry duty also. But they were human, and their eyes could
not be dragged away from the terrible combat before them.

Suddenly, from the woods to the right, a rifle-shot rang out,
clear and sharp, and one of the Uhlans dropped the three bridles,
straightened out to his full height, trembled, and lurched
sideways. The horses, freed, backed into the other horses; the
two remaining Uhlans tried to seize them, but another shot rang
out--another, and then another. In the confusion and turmoil a
voice cried: "Mount, for God's sake!" but one of the horses was
already free, and was galloping away riderless through the woods.

A terrible yell arose from the underbrush, where a belt of smoke
hung above the bushes, and again the rifles cracked. Von Steyr
turned and seized a horse, throwing himself heavily across the
saddle; the surgeon and the two seconds scrambled into their
saddles, and the remaining pair of Uhlans, already mounted,
wheeled their horses and galloped headlong into the woods.

Jack saw Rickerl set his foot in the stirrup, but his horse was
restive and started, dragging him.

"Hurry, Herr Hauptmann!" cried a Uhlan, passing him at a gallop.
Rickerl cast a startled glance over his shoulder, where, from the
thickets, a dozen franc-tireurs were springing towards him,
shouting and shaking their chassepots. Something had given
way--Jack saw that--for the horse started on at a trot, snorting
with fright. He saw Rickerl run after him, seize the bridle,
stumble, recover, and hang to the stirrup; but the horse tore
away and left him running on behind, one hand grasping his naked
sabre, one clutching a bit of the treacherous bridle.

"À mort les Uhlans!" shouted the franc-tireurs, their ferocious
faces lighting up as Rickerl's horse eluded its rider and crashed
away through the saplings.

Rickerl cast one swift glance at the savage faces, turned his
head like a trapped wolf in a pit, hesitated, and started to run.
A chorus of howls greeted him: "À mort!" "À mort le voleur!" "À
la lanterne les Uhlans!"

Scarcely conscious of what he was doing, Jack sprang from his
tree and ran parallel to Rickerl.

"Ricky!" he called in English--"follow me! Hurry! hurry!"

The franc-tireurs could not see Jack, but they heard his voice,
and answered it with a roar. Rickerl, too, heard it, and he also
heard the sound of Jack's feet crashing through the willows along
the river-bottom.

"Jack!" he cried.

"Quick! Take to the river-bank!" shouted Jack in English again.
In a moment they were running side by side up the river-bottom,
hidden from the view of the franc-tireurs.

"Do as I do," panted Jack. "Throw your sabre away and follow me.
It's our last chance." But Rickerl clung to his sabre and ran on.
And now the park wall rose right in their path, seeming to block
all progress.

"We can't get over--it's ended," gasped Rickerl.

"Yes, we can--follow," whispered Jack, and dashed straight into
the river where it washed the base of the wall.

"Do exactly as I do. Follow close," urged Jack; and, wading to the
edge of the wall, he felt along under the water for a moment, then
knelt down, ducked his head, gave a wriggle, and disappeared.
Rickerl followed him, kneeling and ducking his head. At the same
moment he felt a powerful current pulling him forward, and, groping
around under the shallow water, his hands encountered the rim of a
large iron conduit. He stuck his head into it, gave himself a push,
and shot through the short pipe into a deep pool on the other side
of the wall, from which Jack dragged him dripping and exhausted.

"You are my prisoner!" said Jack, between his gasps. "Give me
your sabre, Ricky--quick! Look yonder!" A loud explosion followed
his words, and a column of smoke rose above the foliage of the
vineyard before them.

"Artillery!" blurted out Rickerl, in amazement.

"French artillery--look out! Here come the franc-tireurs over the
wall! Give me that sabre and run for the French lines--if you
don't want to hang!" And, as Rickerl hesitated, with a scowl of
hate at the franc-tireurs now swarming over the wall, Jack seized
the sabre and jerked it violently from his hand.

"You're crazy!" he muttered. "Run for the batteries!--here, this
way!"

A franc-tireur fired at them point-blank, and the bullet whistled
between them. "Leave me. Give me my sabre," said Rickerl, in a
low voice.

"Then we'll both stay."

"Leave me! I'll not hang, I tell you."

"No."

The franc-tireurs were running towards them.

"They'll kill us both. Here they come!"

"You stood by me--" said Jack, in a faint voice.

Rickerl looked him in the eyes, hesitated, and cried, "I
surrender! Come on! Hurry, Jack--for your sister's sake!"




XX

SIR THORALD IS SILENT


It was a long run to the foot of the vineyard hill, where, on the
crest, deep hidden among the vines, three cannon clanged at
regular intervals, stroke following stroke, like the thundering
summons of a gigantic tocsin.

Behind them they saw the franc-tireurs for a moment, thrashing
waist-deep through the rank marsh weeds; then, as they plunged
into a wheat-field, the landscape disappeared, and all around the
yellow grain rustled, waving above their heads, dense, sun-heated,
suffocating.

Their shoes sank ankle-deep in the reddish-yellow soil; they
panted, wet with perspiration as they ran. Jack still clutched
Rickerl's sabre, and the tall corn, brushing the blade, fell
under the edge, keen as a scythe.

"I can go no farther," breathed Jack, at last. "Wait a moment,
Ricky."

The hot air in the depths of the wheat was stifling, and they
stretched their heads above the sea of golden grain, gasping like
fishes in a bowl.

"Perhaps I won't have to surrender you, after all," said Jack.
"Do you see that old straw-stack on the slope? If we could reach
the other slope--"

He held out his hand to gauge the exact direction, then bent
again and plodded towards it, Rickerl jogging in his footprints.

As they pressed on under the rustling canopy, the sound of the
cannon receded, for they were skirting the vineyard at the base
of the hill, bearing always towards the south. And now they came
to the edge of the long field, beyond which stretched another
patch of stubble. The straw-stack stood half-way up the slope.

"Here's your sabre," motioned Jack. He was exhausted and reeled
about in the stubble, but Rickerl passed one arm about him, and,
sabre clutched in the other hand, aided him to the straw-stack.

The fresh wind strengthened them both; the sweat cooled and dried
on their throbbing faces. They leaned against the stack,
breathing heavily, the breeze blowing their wet hair, the solemn
cannon-din thrilling their ears, stroke on stroke.

"The thing is plain to me," gasped Rickerl, pointing to the
smoke-cloud eddying above the vineyard--"a brigade or two of
Frossard's corps have been cut off and hurled back towards Nancy.
Their rear-guard is making a stand--that's all. Jack, what on
earth did you get into such a terrible scrape for?"

Jack, panting full length in the shadow of the straw-stack, told
Rickerl the whole wretched story, from the time of his leaving
Forbach, after having sent the despatches to the Herald, up to
the moment he had called to Rickerl there in the meadow,
surrounded by Uhlans, a rope already choking him senseless.

Rickerl listened impassively, playing with the sabre on his
knees, glancing right and left across the country with his
restless baby-blue eyes. When Jack finished he said nothing, but
it was plain enough how seriously he viewed the matter.

"As for your damned Uhlans," ended Jack, "I have tried to keep
out of their way. It's a relief to me to know that I didn't kill
that trooper; but--confound him!--he shot at me so enthusiastically
that I thought it time to join the party myself. Ricky, would they
have hanged me if they had given me a fair court-martial?"

"As a favour they might have shot you," replied Rickerl,
gloomily.

"Then," said Jack, "there are two things left for me to do--go to
Paris, which I can't unless Mademoiselle de Nesville goes, or
join some franc-tireur corps and give the German army as good as
they send. If you Uhlans think," he continued, violently, "that
you're coming into France to hang and shoot and raise hell
without getting hell in return, you're a pack of idiots!"

"The war is none of your affair," said Rickerl, flushing. "You
brought it on yourself--this hanging business. Good heavens! the
whole thing makes me sick! I can't believe that two weeks ago we
were all there together at Morteyn--"

"A pretty return you're making for Morteyn hospitality!" blurted
out Jack. Then, shocked at what he had said, he begged Rickerl's
pardon and bitterly took himself to task.

"I am a fool, Ricky; I know you've got to follow your regiment,
and I know it must cut you to the heart. Don't mind what I say;
I'm so miserable and bewildered, and I haven't got the feeling
of that rope off my neck yet."

Rickerl raised his hand gently, but his face was hard set.

"Jack, you don't begin to know what a hell I am living in, I who
care so much for France and the French people, to know that all,
all is ended forever, that I can never again--"

His voice choked; he cleared it and went on: "The very name of
Uhlan is held in horror in France now; the word Prussian is a
curse when it falls from French lips. God knows why we are
fighting! We Germans obey, that is all. I am a captain in a
Prussian cavalry regiment; the call comes, that is all that I
know. And here I am, riding through the land I love; I sit on my
horse and see the torch touched to field and barn; I see
railroads torn out of the ground, I see wretched peasants hung to
the rafters of their own cottages." He lowered his voice; his
face grew paler. "I see the friend I care most for in all the
world, a rope around his neck, my own troopers dragging him to
the vilest death a man can die! That is war! Why? I am a
Prussian, it is not necessary for me to know; but the regiment
moves, and I move! it halts, I halt! it charges, retreats, burns,
tramples, rends, devastates! I am always with it, unless some
bullet settles me. For this war is nearly ended, Jack, nearly
ended--a battle or two, a siege or two, nothing more. What can
stand against us? Not this bewildered France."

Jack was silent.

Rickerl's blue eyes sought his; he rested his square chin on one
hand and spoke again:

"Jack, do you know that--that I love your sister?"

"Her last letter said as much," replied Jack, coldly.

Rickerl watched his face.

"You are sorry?"

"I don't know; I had hoped she would marry an American. Have you
spoken?"

