manhood and womanhood, and step out from under 
the shadow. And then 
He stopped suddenly. Had he anything a 
proud man could offer to such a woman ? The 
deserted husband of another ! A legal freedom, 
to be sure, but would not he often think of the 
 
poor little butterfly dancing her way through the 
world, and perhaps losing its favor presently ? 
He knew now how so many of these lives ended. 
What if he should be called upon to rescue her 
from a fate he could hardly contemplate. Almost 
like a horrible presentiment a misgiving came to 
him that she might make some sign when she 
heard he had attained to a wider sphere. If she 
should tire of her frivolous aims and return ? He 
had promised the door should be open to her. 
He had no right to dream of this other woman ; 
it was sacrilege. After that one impassioned 
moment when he had realized what she of all 
others might be to him, he put her image away 
reverently, a lost possibility in God's keeping. 
Westhorpe was a little startled at Thirza's en 
gagement. It had somehow settled to the belief 
that any business life was incompatible with a 
woman's marriage. Yet when the first surprise 
had expended itself there was a very cordial 
acceptance of the fact. They were glad to have 
the right to enjoy her successes. And they were 
the two people of all others to blend in taste and 
intelligence. 
Clara Kent, it must be admitted, was disap 
pointed. She would have preferred Royal Palmer 
with a divorce, a hundred times over. How Ber 
nard Ward could make anything beyond a comfort- 
able living she couldn't see. Even when he was 
offered a Greek professorship in the new Seminary 
she could not be appeased. 
"Thirza could have done much better if she 
hadn't been so set on that foolish sort of work. 
Pictures and all that seem well enough for chil 
dren, and a book cover doesn't require any great 
amount of common sense. I only hope Ward 
won't get disgusted with her ignorance of house 
keeping." 
But Thirza had attained to the other grand 
knowledge, that of home-making. She deferred 
sufficiently to her sister to be married from her 
house, though she obstinately decided to go to 
church in her travelling dress and start at once on 
a brief journey. The new house had been pur 
chased and was undergoing a few repairs. She 
sent her belongings there and would go home at 
once on their return. It was queer, of course, 
but Thirza was not like other people. 
Miss Otis had settled the perplexity about Edith. 
" Let me take her home with me. She can go on 
with her music, and the different conditions will 
enlarge her thoughts and interests. When she 
returns she will more readily accept the new life 
and the second place." 
"You are very thoughtful." Thirza smiled a 
little, then colored vividly. 
 
" I am afraid that I am very much in love in the 
old womanly fashion. I had hardly suspected 
myself of the power to respond so entirely. 
Every day is a new revelation, a delicious aban 
donment of one's self ; and it was really generous 
in Bernard to assent so readily to my interest in 
Edith. Yes, I shall be very glad to trust her to 
you. She does not seem to assimilate readily with 
my sister's children, and Mrs. Kent has her hands 
so full just now. It is very thoughtful of you." 
" I am so interested in her. She is an unusual 
child." 
" I am not sure but that it is a wise dispensation 
of nature that most people and most children 
should be simply ordinary. And I am glad to 
have Edith enlarge her view and appreciation 
of friends. Yet all this summer I have had only 
two rivals, yourself and Mr. Palmer." 
Helen flushed and smiled. But it was true. 
Still Royal Palmer had loved the child devotedly, 
and with him there had been no ground for 
jealousy. 
Thirza's marriage was not the only topic of dis 
cussion. There was a good deal of party spirit 
and not a little anxiety about the coming election 
that had gone rather outside of strict party lines. 
But Palmer had a decided triumph, and with him 
was the best of the party element. Westhorpe 
was proud of his success. He quite expected to 
hear from Bessie. He shrank from a horrible mis 
giving that she would propose a half-reconciliation 
that would admit of her keeping her position as 
his wife ; but no word came. Even when he 
assumed his new duties at the capitol of his state, 
she made no sign. There had never been so long 
an interval of silence on her part. She had been 
quite used to announcing the special changes of 
location, but now he did not really know where 
she was. This was desertion in its plainest sense. 
Yet he kept the fact steadily before himself that 
he would make no move for freedom. To do it 
and put his fate to the touch and lose, would be 
more than he could bear. Ignorance was much to 
be preferred. 
When they were all gone, he went back to the 
old house that held delightful recollections for him. 
It was no longer lonely. He spent evenings at the 
piano catching vague strains that floated through 
his brain with remembered delight. Ah, if the 
world were full of such women as Helen and 
Thirza ! 
The travellers found a warm welcome awaiting 
them on their return. Judge Brinsley gave them 
an elegant reception. Bernard Ward seemed to 
have improved immeasurably during the brief fort 
night, and rilled his place with charming dignity. 
 
Miss Brinsley took occasion to confide to Thirza 
that her example had been contagious. 
" Most of us have some sentimental episode in 
youth," she admitted with a faint blush. " Mine 
was very ordinary. I wonder at it now. An at 
tractive young fellow with no particular aptitude 
for anything, and whose means were very limited. 
Papa put him on a two years' probation. He went 
to the city and found a position, but steady em 
ployment was irksome. His restlessness I mis 
took for ambition, and sympathized profoundly 
with him. In less than a year he relinquished 
his claim to my hand in most heroic style and 
married a pretty girl who was a clerk in a fancy 
store. I hope they have prospered. I have 
had a happy and I think useful young woman 
hood. And now at nine and twenty I shall 
marry my ideal man, Doctor Lansing. We shall 
be neighbors, and I hope always the warmest of 
friends." 
Doctor Lansing was five and thirty. He had 
gained quite a famous reputation in hospital sur 
gery, and broken down in health ; that misfortune 
having brought him to Westhorpe some two or 
three years previous for quiet and rest. Inde 
pendent in means, he felt now that he could de 
vote himself to some of his earlier dreams in the 
intellectual line. He had purchased a lovely 
corner residence and been one of the great 
attractions among marriageable women. 
" I am delighted beyond measure ; can I say 
more?" and Thirza smiled charmingly. "And 
I am honored by the proffer of your friendship." 
" The doctor admires Mr. Ward so much. They 
have spent many an evening over antiquities, and 
Greek poets, and the knowledges of past ages. 
We shall have to join forces to keep up our side 
of modern lore." 
Thirza was proud of the compliment to her 
husband. 
They had a few weeks to themselves, and 
Bernard found the restful charm Seth Rolfe had 
enjoyed so much without understanding it 
Thirza's gift for home-making in its most intelli 
gent aspects. His new position occupied him 
during the morning only, and he still kept his 
Greek class at the Academy. 
Martha came for maid of all work. Thirza 
spent her mornings in the studio, occasionally 
trenching on the afternoon, but it was her inten 
tion to keep that and the evening for social pur 
poses. 
Her mother came over for a visit, but she felt 
within her secret soul that she liked the common 
place stir at Clara's much better, with the neigh 
bors running in and out, and the bits of gossip. 
 
" They're altogether too fine and full of book 
talk for me," said the old lady. " Thirza always 
was different somehow, more like her father." 
" If I was Bernard Ward, I'd put down my foot 
that Thirza shouldn't work at pictures and things 
as if he wasn't able to maintain her. Miss Miner's 
fixed that Greek professorship so the salary is sure. 
And I just say to everybody that she has no need 
of working in that fashion," rejoined Clara. 
They heard from Seth, who was enchanted with 
his new home and settling to ranch life and domes 
ticity with an enthusiasm that Thirza had hardly 
suspected. Hazel was happy as a bird. Jennie 
made one of the best of wives, and her letters were 
really delightful. 
Helen Otis missed her little guest very much 
when, shortly after the holidays, she took her to 
her new home. She found Thirza and her hus 
band delightfully situated and certainly very 
happy; and Edith accepted the new order with 
a grave sweetness that won her uncle's regard, 
since he understood now how firmly his supremacy 
was established. 
Helen knew her father desired most of all a 
happy marriage for her. She had come to appre 
ciate the wisdom of his choice, and the added 
interest it had given to the home while it left her 
with a great deal of freedom. Aunt Margaret 
was a cherished member of the household. She 
found many things to engross her attention. She 
had some charms to offer society, and was sought 
out for many social occasions. There were numer 
ous good works without taking up any aggressive 
warfare on established regulations. Ardently as 
she had longed to fill an especial place, to take up 
a line that indicated genius, she admitted to her 
self, at first with a secret mortification, but now 
quite frankly, that she had no particular gift, but 
a fine appreciation of all the higher gifts, that 
made her a charming and fascinating companion. 
Mrs. Otis was much interested in the enlighten 
ment and progression of women, and in the chari 
ties of the day. Helen felt that she really owed 
to her influence the breadth of thought her father 
was acquiring, and she knew now that, sweet and 
fond as youth might be in its devotion, it lacked 
the power and concentration of mature years. 
It was curiously interesting to follow Thirza in 
her new life, to note now and then some change 
of opinion, to find her love for her husband grow 
ing deeper and richer as they understand each 
other better. She was amused and touched as 
well by some delicate little rhapsody of love that 
seemed to flow unconsciously from her pen. Ber 
nard's tastes were so true and delicate, now they 
were reading this poet, now that. Bernard had 
 
brought home some fine critical article from Doctor 
Lansing, or Mrs. Lansing has started some intel 
lectual discussion at the Club. Edith was doing 
very well, but she was unchildlike. 
" She does need companions of her own age," 
wrote Thirza. " She is too much with grown 
people. Yet we meet so few children that she 
likes or will even tolerate. Bernard is very gener 
ous to his small rival, for I find that I love her 
more as the days go on. Yet in the course of a 
few years I hope to summon courage enough to 
send her to some nice school that she may have 
the experience of girl friendships." 
Helen smiled a little, as she read part of the 
letter to her mother. 
" She must come to us for another visit," said 
Mrs. Otis. " She is very exigent, yet by no means 
a disagreeable child. But I think we need not 
fear that Thirza will allow any influence to inter 
fere with her devotion to her husband. She is 
very much in love, and with a nature that answers 
hers, the bond between them will be strengthened 
by many fine ties that an intimate knowledge will 
develop. It was a really fortunate thing that they 
did not begin life together in earlier youth. There 
will be no disenchantment now." 
No, youth was not always wise. For such a 
perfect understanding one could afford to wait. 
She was glad also to hear that Royal Palmer 
had acquitted himself bravely and honorably in 
his new responsibilities. He had been sent to 
make a bold stand against certain political in 
trigues, and though at first he seemed leading a 
forlorn hope, before the close of the session many 
who had hesitated to avow their true opinions at 
first, followed him. And on his return he had 
been congratulated by a fine reception at Judge 
Brinsley's, and a cordial recognition of his courage 
and ability. A more vigorous life seemed marked 
out for him. 
CHAPTER XVIII 
THE BUTTERFLY'S BRIEF SUMMER 
MRS. OTIS had been much interested through 
the winter in a Home for convalescents under 
taken by some kindly women, among whom were 
two enthusiastic young physicians. There seemed 
a great need of a house of rest for girls and 
women who had no comfortable place to spend the 
interim between the Hospital discharge and the 
establishment of normal strength to enable them 
to take up the daily work of life again. 
One morning early in May Helen wended .her 
way thither, being on the list of helpers for that 
week. The Home was not able to dispense with 
this kindly assistance as yet. 
" Oh," the matron exclaimed, " you are just the 
one we want to come and read. There are three 
poor women who cannot use their eyes. So few 
people read well, and among the patients no one 
has a really good voice. Miss Guyon was here 
yesterday, and they enjoyed her so much." 
Helen expressed her willingness, and laid aside 
her wraps. Then they entered a large, airy 
room, very simply furnished, but with several 
easy chairs. Two women sat sewing, both re 
