
Maisie produced an ingenious solution. 
"To make her go. To take her." 

Mrs. Wix met it without a concession. 
"If he can make her go so easily, why 
should he have let her come?" 

Maisie considered. "Oh, just to see me. 
She has a right." 

" Yes she has a right. " 

"She's my mother!" Maisie tentatively 
tittered. 

" Yes she 's your mother. " 

"Besides," Maisie went on, "he didn't 





let her come. He doesn't like her coming; 
and if he doesn't like it " 

Mrs. Wix took her up. " He must lump 
it that's what he must do! Your mother 
was right about him I mean your real one. 
He has no strength. No none at all. " 
She seemed more profoundly to muse. " He 
might have had some even with her I 
mean with her ladyship. He 's just a poor, 
sunk slave, " she asserted with sudden energy. 

Maisie wondered again. " A slave ? " 

"To his passions." 

She continued to wonder and even to be 
impressed; after which she went on: "But 
how do you know he 'll stay? " 

" Because he likes us ! " and Mrs. Wix, 
with her emphasis of the word, whirled her 
charge round again to deal with posterior 
hooks. She had positively never shaken 
her so. 

It was as if she quite shook something out 
of her. "But how will that help him if we 
in spite of his affection ! don't stay? " 

" Do you mean if we go off and leave him 
with her? " Mrs. Wix put the question to 
the back of her pupil's head. "It wont 
help him. It will be his ruin. He 'll have 
got nothing. He'll have lost everything. 





It will be his utter destruction, for he 's 
certain after a while to loathe her." 

"Then when he loathes her" it was 
astonishing how she caught the idea " he 'll 
just come right after us ! " Maisie announced. 

"Never." 

"Never?" 

" She 'll keep him. She 'll hold him for- 
ever." 

Maisie doubted. "When he 'loathes' 
her?" 

"That won't matter. She won't loathe 
him. People don't !" Mrs. Wix brought up. 

"Some do. Mamma does," Maisie con- 
tended. 

"Mamma does not!" It was startling 
her friend contradicted her flat. " She 
loves him she adores him. A woman 
knows." Mrs. Wix spoke not only as if 
Maisie were not a woman, but as if she 
would never be one. "  know ! " she cried. 

"Then why on earth has she left him? " 

Mrs. Wix hesitated. "He hates her. 
Don't stoop so lift up your hair. You 
know how I 'm affected toward him," she 
added, with dignity; "but you must also 
know that I see clear." 

Maisie, all this time, was trying hard to 





do likewise. "Then, if she has left him 
for that, why should n't Mrs. Beale leave 
him?" 

" Because she 's not such a fool ! " 

" Not such a fool as mamma? " 

" Precisely if you will have it. Does it 
look like her leaving him ? " Mrs. Wix in- 
quired. She hung fire again ; then she went 
on with more intensity: "Do you want to 
know really and truly why? So that she 
may be his wretchedness and his punish- 
ment." 

" His punishment ? " this was more than 
as yet Maisie could quite accept. " For 
what?" 

"For everything. That's what will hap- 
pen: he'll be tied to her forever. She 
won't mind in the least his hating her, and 
she won't hate him back. She 'll only hate 
us." 

" Us ? " the child faintly echoed. 

" She 'll hate you." 

"Me? Why, I brought them together!" 
Maisie resentfully cried. 

"You brought them together." There 
was a completeness in Mrs. Wix's assent. 
" Yes ; it was a pretty job. Sit down. " She 
began to brush her pupil's hair and, as she 


  

took up the mass of it with some force of 
hand, went on with a sharp recall: "Your 
mother adored him at first it might have 
lasted. But he began too soon with Mrs. 
Beale. As you say," she pursued with a 
free application of the brush, "you brought 
them together." 

" I brought them together " Maisie was 
ready to reaffirm it. She felt, none the 
less, for a moment, at the bottom of a hole ; 
then she seemed to see a way out. " But I 
didn't bring mamma together." She just 
faltered. 

" With all those gentlemen ? " Mrs. Wix 
pulled her up. "No; it isn't quite so bad 
as that. " 

" I only said to the Captain " Maisie 
had the quick memory of it " that I hoped 
he at least (he was awfully nice !) would love 
her and keep her." 

"And even that wasn't much harm," 
threw in Mrs. Wix. 

"It wasn't much good," Maisie was 
obliged to recognize. "She can't bear 
him not even a mite. She told me at 
Folkestone. " 

Mrs. Wix suppressed a gasp ; then after a 
bridling instant during which she might 





have appeared to deflect with difficulty from 
her odd consideration of Ida's wrongs: "He 
was a nice sort of person for her to talk to 
you about ! " 

" Oh, I like him ! " Maisie promptly re- 
joined; and at this, with an inarticulate 
sound and an inconsequence still more 
marked, her companion bent over and dealt 
her, on the cheek, a rapid peck which had 
the apparent intention of a kiss. 

"Well, if her ladyship doesn't agree with 
you, what does it only prove?" Mrs. Wix 
demanded in conclusion. " It proves that 
she's fond of Sir Claude!" 

Maisie, in the light of some of the evi- 
dence, reflected on that till her hair was 
finished; but when she at last started up 
she gave a sign of no very close embrace 
of it. She grasped, at this moment, Mrs. 
Wix's arm. "He must have got his 
divorce ! " 

" Since day before yesterday? Don't talk 
trash ! " 

This was spoken with an impatience 
which left the child nothing to reply; 
whereupon she sought her defence in a completely different relation to the fact. " Well, 
I knew he would come ! " 




"So did I; but not in twenty-four hours. 
I gave him a few days ! " Mrs. Wix wailed. 

Maisie, whom she had now released, 
looked at her with interest. " How many 
did she give him ? " 

Mrs. Wix faced her a moment; then as 
if with a bewildered sniff : " You had better 
ask her!" But she had no sooner uttered 
the words than she caught herself up. " Lord 
of mercy, how we talk ! " 

Maisie felt that, however they talked, she 
must see him, but she said nothing more for 
a time, a time during which she conscien- 
tiously finished dressing and Mrs. Wix also 
kept silent. It was as if they each had 
almost too much to think of, and even as if 
the child had the sense that her friend was 
watching her and seeing if she herself were 
watched. At last Mrs. Wix turned to the 
window and stood sightlessly, as Maisie 
could guess looking away. Then our 
young lady, before the glass, gave the su- 
preme shake. "Well, I 'm ready. And now 
to see him ! " 

Mrs. Wix turned round, seemingly without 
having heard her. "It's tremendously 
grave." There were slow, still tears behind 
the straighteners. 





"It is it is." Maisie spoke as one 
now dressed quite up to the occasion; as 
one indeed who, with the last touch, had 
put on the judgment-cap. " I must see him 
immediately." 

" How can you see him if he does n't send 
for you ? " 

"Why can't I go and find him? " 

"Because you don't know where he is." 

"Can't I just look in the salon?" That 
still seemed simple to Maisie. 

Mrs. Wix, however, instantly cut it off. 
"I wouldn't have you look in the salon for 
all the world ! " Then she explained a little : 
"The salon isn't ours now." 

"Ours?" 

"Yours and mine. It 's theirs." 

"Theirs?" Maisie, with her stare, con- 
tinued to echo. "You mean they want to 
keep us out ? " 

Mrs. Wix faltered ; she sank into a chair 
and, as Maisie had often enough seen her do 
before, covered her face with her hands. 
"They ought to, at least. The situation's 
too monstrous ! " 

Maisie stood there a moment she looked 
about the room. " I 'll go to him I' ll find 
him." 

