village—a majority of them under mortgage to him—and became its
president.  It isn’t a pleasant type, but it’s ideally American.”
“Yes,” said Kendricks ruefully.
“But his daughter,” I continued, “is probably altogether different.
There is something fine about her—really fine.  Our world wouldn’t
shrivel in her eye; it would probably swell up and fill the universe,” I
added by an impulse that came from nowhere irresistibly upon me: “that
is, if she could see you in it.”
“What do you mean?” he asked with a start.
“Oh, now I must tell you what I mean,” I said desperately.  “It’s you
that have complicated this case so dreadfully for us.  Can’t you think
why?”
“No, I can’t,” he said; but he had to say that.
His fine, sensitive face flamed at once so fire-red that it could only
turn pale for a change when I plunged on: “I’m afraid we’ve trifled with
her happiness”; and this formulation of the case disgusted me so much
that I laughed wildly, and added, “unless we’ve trifled with yours, too.”
“I don’t know why you call it trifling with happiness,” he returned with
dignity, but without offence.  “If you will leave her out of the
question, I will say that you have given me the greatest happiness of my
life in introducing me to Miss Gage.”
“Now,” I demanded, “may I ask what you mean?  You know I wouldn’t if I
didn’t feel bound for her sake, and if you hadn’t said just what you have
said.  You needn’t answer me unless you like!  It’s pleasant to know that
you’ve not been bored, and Mrs. March and I are infinitely obliged to you
for helping us out.”
Kendricks made as if he were going to say something, and then he did not.
He hung his head lower and lower in the silence which I had to break for
him—“I hope I haven’t been intrusive, my dear fellow.  This is something
I felt bound to speak of.  You know we couldn’t let it go on.  Mrs. March
and I have blamed ourselves a good deal, and we couldn’t let it go on.
But I’m afraid I haven’t been as delicate with you—”
“Oh! delicate!”  He lifted his head and flashed a face of generous
self-reproach upon me.  “It’s I that haven’t been delicate with you.
I’ve been monstrously indelicate.  But I never meant to be, and—and—I was
coming to see you just now when we met—to see you—Miss Gage—and ask
her—tell her that we—I—must tell you and Mrs. March—Mr. March!  At the
hop last night I asked her to be my wife, and as soon as she can hear
from her father—But the first thing when I woke this morning, I saw that
I must tell Mrs. March and you.  And you—you must forgive us—or me,
rather; for it was my fault—for not telling you last night—at once—oh,
thank you! thank you!”
I had seized his hand, and was wringing it vehemently in expression of my
pleasure in what he had told me.  In that first moment I felt nothing but
pure joy and an immeasurable relief.  I drew my breath, a very deep and
full one, in a sudden, absolute freedom from anxieties which had been
none the less real and constant because so often burlesqued.  Afterward
considerations presented themselves to alloy my rapture, but for that
moment, as I say, it was nothing but rapture.  There was no question in
it of the lovers’ fitness for each other, of their acceptability to their
respective families, of their general conduct, or of their especial
behaviour toward us.  All that I could realise was that it was a great
escape for both of us, and a great triumph for me.  I had been afraid
that I should not have the courage to speak to Kendricks of the matter at
all, much less ask him to go away; and here I had actually spoken to him,
with the splendid result that I need only congratulate him on his
engagement to the lady whose unrequited affections I had been wishing him
to spare.  I don’t remember just the terms I used in doing this, but they
seemed satisfactory to Kendricks; probably a repetition of the letters of
the alphabet would have been equally acceptable.  At last I said, “Well,
now I must go and tell the great news to Mrs. March,” and I shook hands
with him again; we had been shaking hands at half-minutely intervals ever
since the first time.
XVIII
I SAW Mrs. March waiting for me on the hotel verandah.  She wore her
bonnet, and she warned me not to approach, and then ran down to meet me.
“Well, my dear,” she said, as she pushed her hand through my arm and
began to propel me away from the sight and hearing of people on the
piazza, “I hope you didn’t make a fool of yourself with Kendricks.
They’re engaged!”
She apparently expected me to be prostrated by this stroke.  “Yes,” I
said very coolly; “I was just coming to tell you.”
“How did you know it?  Who told you?  Did Kendricks?  I don’t believe
it!” she cried in an excitement not unmixed with resentment.
“No one told me,” I said.  “I simply divined it.”
She didn’t mind that for a moment.  “Well, I’m glad he had the grace to
do so, and I hope he did it before you asked him any leading questions.”
Without waiting to hear whether this was so or not, she went on, with an
emphasis on the next word that almost blotted it out of the language,
“She came back to me almost the instant you were gone, and told me
everything.  She said she wanted to tell me last night, but she hadn’t
the courage, and this morning, when she saw that I was beginning to hint
up to Mr. Kendricks a little, she hadn’t the courage at all.  I sent her
straight off to telegraph for her father.  She is behaving splendidly.
And now, what are we going to do?”
“What the rest of the world is—nothing.  It seems to me that we are out
of the story, my dear.  At any rate, I shan’t attempt to compete with
Miss Gage in splendid behaviour, and I hope you won’t.  It would be so
easy for us.  I wonder what Papa Gage is going to be like.”
I felt my thrill of apprehension impart itself to her.  “Yes!” she
gasped; “what if he shouldn’t like it?”
“Well, then, that’s his affair.”  But I did not feel so lightly about it
as I spoke, and from time to time during the day I was overtaken with a
cold dismay at the thought of the unknown quantity in the problem.
When we returned to the hotel after a tour of the block, we saw Kendricks
in our corner of the verandah with Miss Gage.  They were both laughing
convulsively, and they ran down to meet us in yet wilder throes of
merriment.
“We’ve just been comparing notes,” he said, “and at the very moment when
I was telling you, Mr. March, Julia was telling Mrs. March.”
“Wonderful case of telepathy,” I mocked.
“Give it to the Psychical Research.”
They both seemed a little daunted, and Miss Gage said, “I know Mr. March
doesn’t like the way we’ve done.”
“Like it!” cried Mrs. March, contriving to shake me a little with the
hand she still had in my arm.  “Of course he likes it.  He was just
saying you had behaved splendidly.  He said he wouldn’t attempt to
compete with you.  But you mustn’t regard him in the least.”
I admired the skill with which Isabel saved her conscience in this
statement too much to dispute it; and I suppose that whatever she had
said, Miss Gage would have been reassured.  I cannot particularly praise
the wisdom of her behaviour during that day, or, for the matter of that,
the behaviour of Kendricks either.  The ideal thing would have been for
him to keep away now till her father came, but it seemed to me that he
was about under our feet all the while, and that she, so far from making
him remain at his own hotel, encouraged him to pass the time at ours.
Without consulting me, Mrs. March asked him to stay to dinner after he
had stayed all the forenoon, and he made this a pretext for spending the
afternoon in our corner of the verandah.  She made me give it up to him
and Miss Gage, so that they could be alone together, though I must say
they did not seem to mind us a great deal when we were present; he was
always leaning on the back of her chair, or sitting next her with his
hand dangling over it in a manner that made me sick.  I wondered if I was
ever such an ass as that, and I quite lost the respect for Kendricks’s
good sense and good taste which had been the ground of my liking for him.
I felt myself withdrawn from the affair farther and farther in sympathy,
since it had now passed beyond my control; and I resented the strain of
the responsibility which I had thrown off, I found, only for a moment,
and must continue to suffer until the girl’s father appeared and finally
relieved me.  The worst was that I had to bear it alone.  It was
impossible to detach Mrs. March’s interest from Miss Gage, as a girl who
had been made love to, long enough to enable her to realise her as a
daughter with filial ties and duties.  She did try in a perfunctory way
to do it, but I could see that she never gave her mind to it.  I could
not even make her share my sense of my own culpability, a thing she was
only too willing to do in most matters.  She admitted that it was absurd
for me to have let my fancy play about the girl when I first saw her
until we felt that I must do something for her; but I could not get her
to own that we had both acted preposterously in letting Mrs. Deering
leave Miss Gage in our charge.  In the first place, she denied that she
had been left in our charge.  She had simply been left in the hotel where
we were staying, and we should have been perfectly free to do nothing for
her.  But when Kendricks turned up so unexpectedly, it was quite natural
we should ask him to be polite to her.  Mrs. March saw nothing strange in
all that.  What was I worrying about?  What she had been afraid of was
that he had not been in love with the girl when she was so clearly in
love with him.  But now!
“And suppose her father doesn’t like it!”
“Not like Mr. Kendricks!”  She stared at me, and I could see how
infatuated she was.
I was myself always charmed with the young fellow.  He was not only good
and generous and handsome, and clever—I never thought him a first-class
talent—but he was beautifully well bred, and he was very well born, as
those things go with us.  That is, he came of people who had not done
much of anything for a generation, and had acquired merit with themselves
for it.  They were not very rich, but they had a right to think that he
might have done nothing, or done something better than literature; and I
wish I could set forth exactly the terms, tacit and explicit, in which
his mother and sisters condoned his dereliction to me at a reception
where he presented me to them.  In virtue of his wish to do something, he
had become a human being, and they could not quite follow him; but they
were very polite in tolerating me, and trying to make me feel that I was
not at all odd, though he was so queer in being proud of writing for my
paper, as they called it.  He was so unlike them all that I liked him
more than ever after meeting them.  Still, I could imagine a fond father,
as I imagined Miss Gage’s father to be, objecting to him, on some grounds
at least, till he knew him, and Mrs. March apparently could not imagine
even this.
I do not know why I should have prefigured Miss Gage’s father as tall and
lank.  She was not herself so very tall, though she was rather tall than
short, and though she was rather of the Diana or girlish type of goddess,
she was by no means lank.  Yet it was in this shape that I had always
thought of him, perhaps through an obscure association with his
fellow-villager, Deering.  I had fancied him saturnine of spirit,
slovenly of dress, and lounging of habit, upon no authority that I could
allege, and I was wholly unprepared for the neat, small figure of a man,
very precise of manner and scrupulous of aspect, who said, “How do you
do, sir?  I hope I see you well, sir,” when his daughter presented us to
each other, the morning after the eventful day described, and he shook my
hand with his very small, dry hand.
I could not make out from their manner with each other whether they had
been speaking of the great matter in hand or not.  I am rather at a loss
about people of that Philistine make as to what their procedure will be
in circumstances where I know just what people of my own sort of
sophistication would do.  These would come straight at the trouble, but I
fancy that with the other sort the convention is a preliminary reserve.
I found Mr. Gage disposed to prolong, with me at least, a discussion of
the weather, and the aspects of Saratoga, the events of his journey from
De Witt Point, and the hardship of having to ride all the way to Mooer’s
Junction in a stage-coach.  I felt more and more, while we bandied these
futilities, as if Mr. Gage had an overdue note of mine, and was waiting
for me, since I could not pay it, to make some proposition toward its
renewal; and he did really tire me out at last, so that I said, “Well,
Mr. Gage, I suppose Miss Gage has told you something of the tremendous
situation that has developed itself here?”
I thought I had better give the affair such smiling character as a jocose
treatment might impart, and the dry little man twinkled up responsively
so far as manner was concerned.  “Well, yes, yes.  There has been some
talk of it between us,” and again he left the word to me.
“Mrs. March urged your daughter to send for you at once because that was
the right and fit thing to do, and because we felt that the affair had
now quite transcended our powers, such as they were, and nobody could
really cope with it but yourself.  I hope you were not unduly alarmed by
the summons?”
“Not at all.  She said in the despatch that she was not sick.  I had been
anticipating a short visit to Saratoga for some days, and my business was
in a shape so that I could leave.”
“Oh!” I said vaguely, “I am very glad.  Mrs. March felt, as I did, that
circumstances had given us a certain obligation in regard to Miss Gage,
and we were anxious to discharge it faithfully and to the utmost.  We
should have written to you, summoned you, before, if we could have
supposed—or been sure; but you know these things go on so obscurely, and
we acted at the very first possible moment.  I wish you to understand
that.  We talked it over a great deal, and I hope you will believe that
we studied throughout—that we were most solicitous from beginning to end
for Miss Gage’s happiness, and that if we could have foreseen or
imagined—if we could have taken any steps—I trust you will believe—”  I
was furious at myself for being so confoundedly apologetic, for I was
thinking all the time of the bother and affliction we had had with the
girl; and there sat that little wooden image accepting my
self-inculpations, and apparently demanding more of me; but I could not
help going on in the same strain: “We felt especially bound in the
matter, from the fact that Mr. Kendricks was a personal friend of ours,
whom we are very fond of, and we both are very anxious that you should
not suppose that we promoted, or that we were not most vigilant—that we
were for a moment forgetful of your rights in such an affair—”
I stopped, and Mr. Gage passed his hand across his little meagre, smiling
mouth.
“Then he is not a connection of yours, Mr. March?”
“Bless me, no!” I said in great relief; “we are not so swell as that.”
And I tried to give him some notion of Kendricks’s local quality,
repeating a list of agglutinated New York surnames to which his was more
or less affiliated.  They always amuse me, those names, which more than
any in the world give the notion of social straining; but I doubt if they
affected the imagination of Mr. Gage, either in this way or in the way I
meanly meant them to affect him.
“And what did you say his business was?” he asked, with that implication
of a previous statement on your part which some people think it so clever
to make when they question you.
I always hate it, and I avenged myself by answering simply, “Bless my
soul, he has no business!” and letting him take up the word now or not,
as he liked.
“Then he is a man of independent means?”
I could not resist answering, “Independent means?  Kendricks has no means
whatever.”  But having dealt this blow, I could add, “I believe his
mother has some money.  They are people who live comfortably.”
“Then he has no profession?” asked Mr. Gage, with a little more
stringency in his smile.
“I don’t know whether you will call it a profession.  He is a writer.”
“Ah!” Mr. Gage softly breathed.  “Does he write for your—paper?”
I noted that as to the literary technicalities he seemed not to be much
more ignorant than Kendricks’s own family, and I said, tolerantly, “Yes;
he writes for our magazine.”
“Magazine—yes; I beg your pardon,” he interrupted.
“And for any others where he can place his material.”
This apparently did not convey any very luminous idea to Mr. Gage’s mind,
and he asked after a moment, “What kind of things does he write?”
“Oh, stories, sketches, poems, reviews, essays—almost anything, in fact.”
The light left his face, and I perceived that I had carried my revenge
too far, at least for Kendricks’s advantage, and I determined to take a
new departure at the first chance.  The chance did not come immediately.
“And can a man support a wife by that kind of writing?” asked Mr. Gage.
I laughed uneasily.  “Some people do.  It depends upon how much of it he
can sell.  It depends upon how handsomely a wife wishes to be supported.
The result isn’t usually beyond the dreams of avarice,” I said, with a
desperate levity.
“Excuse me,” returned the little man.  “Do you live in that way?  By your
writings?”
“No,” I said with some state, which I tried to subdue; “I am the editor
of Every Other Week, and part owner.  Mr. Kendricks is merely a
contributor.”
“Ah,” he breathed again.  “And if he were successful in selling his
writings, how much would he probably make in a year?”
“In a year?” I repeated, to gain time.  “Mr. Kendricks is comparatively a
beginner.  Say fifteen hundred—two thousand—twenty-five hundred.”
“And that would not go very far in New York.”
“No; that would not go far in New York.”  I was beginning to find a
certain pleasure in dealing so frankly with this hard little man.  I
liked to see him suffer, and I could see that he did suffer; he suffered
as a father must who learns that from a pecuniary point of view his
daughter is imprudently in love.  Why should we always regard such a
sufferer as a comic figure?  He is, if we think of it rightly, a most
serious, even tragical figure, and at all events a most respectable
figure.  He loves her, and his heart is torn between the wish to indulge
her and the wish to do what will be finally best for her.  Why should our
sympathies, in such a case, be all for the foolish young lovers?  They
ought in great measure to be for the father, too.  Something like a sense
of this smote me, and I was ashamed in my pleasure.
“Then I should say, Mr. March, that this seems a most undesirable
engagement for my daughter.  What should you say?  I ask you to make the
case your own.”
“Excuse me,” I answered; “I would much rather not make the case my own,
Mr. Gage, and I must decline to have you consult me.  I think that in
this matter I have done all that I was called upon to do.  I have told
you what I know of Mr. Kendricks’s circumstances and connections.  As to
his character, I can truly say that he is one of the best men I ever
knew.  I believe in his absolute purity of heart, and he is the most
unselfish, the most generous—”
Mr. Gage waved the facts aside with his hand.  “I don’t undervalue those
things.  If I could be master, no one should have my girl without them.
