
" Caramba ! " exclaimed Roldan, " but I 
am famished, not to say tired. If it had 
been ten miles instead of twenty, it would 
not have been worth while." 



VI 



THEY rode on rapidly, too hungry to 
talk. The ground began to rise, 
and they advanced through hills sprout 
ing with the early green of winter. Once 
they paused, and tethering the horses 
where they could feed, shot several quail 
and roasted them. But the pangs of 
hunger were by no means allayed, and 
when, in the early afternoon, they saw 
the white walls of the Mission below them, 
they gave a shout of joy. 

The Mission stood in the middle of a 
valley, well away from woods and hills, 
and surrounded by a large vineyard and 
orchard. On the long corridor traversing 
the building adjoining the church, several 
figures in habit and cowl walked slowly 
behind the arches. Indians were in the 
vineyards and orchards and moving about 
the rancheria adjacent to the main build 
ings. Cattle were browsing on the hills. 



 

A stream tangled in willows cut a zig-zag 
course across the valley. 

The boys rode quickly down the hill 
side. As the padres heard the approach 
ing hoof-beats they paused in their walk, 
and shading their eyes with their hands 
gazed earnestly at the travellers. 

"Friends! Friends!" cried Roldan gaily, 
as the tired steeds trotted up to the
corridor. The boys dismounted and made 
a deep reverence. One of the priests, 
a man with a grave stern face came 
forward. 

" Who are you, my children ? " he asked. 
" You are the sons of aristocrats, and yet 
you are torn and unkempt, and one of you 
has ridden many leagues without a saddle. 
Are you runaways ? The shelter of the 
Mission is for all, but we do not counte 
nance insubordination." 

Roldan introduced himself and his 
friend. " We are runaways, my father, 
he added, " but from the government; and 
Ave have arranged that our parents shall 
not be anxious. We do not wish to be 
drafted." 



 

The priest's brow relaxed. The padres 
had little respect for a system that owed 
its existence mainly to the vanity of 
governors and generals, and the present 
governor, Micheltorena, had by no means 
won the approval of the Church. 

" You are welcome, my sons," he said. 
"If the officers come we cannot deny your 
presence; but I do not think they will find 
their way here, and we certainly shall not 
send for them. You are hungry and tired, 
no ? " 

" Father, we could eat our horses." 

The padre laughed, and calling a young 
brother who was piously telling his beads 
bade him go and see that a hasty luncheon 
was prepared. An Indian came and took 
the mustangs, and the boys were led by 
the hospitable priest into a large room, 
comfortably furnished, the walls hung with 
some very good religious pictures. 

The padres, in truth, were glad of vis 
itors at any time. They were clever 
educated men who had given their lives 
to christianising brainless savages in a 
sparsely settled country; and any news of 

the outer world was very welcome. They 
pushed back their hoods and sat about the 
boys, their faces beaming with interest 
and amusement as they listened to the 
adventures of those wayward youths. And 
as all men, even priests, love courage and 
audacity, they clapped their hands together 
more than once or embraced the lads 
heartily. 

When luncheon was announced and 
the doors of the long refectory thrown 
open, the boys were shown in as if they 
had been princes and told to satisfy 
themselves. This they did, nor ever uttered a 
word. The priests had tactfully with 
drawn. Rolclan a-nd Adan ate enough 
beans, rice, cold chicken, tongue, and 
dulces to make up for their prolonged 
fast, and finished with a cup of choco 
late and a bunch of grapes. After that 
they went to sleep in two clean little 
cells, to which they were conducted, nor 
awakened until all the air was ringing 
with the sweet-voiced clangor of mission 
bells. 

Roldan turned on his elbow and looked 

out of the window. The square was 
rapidly filling with Indians, some running 
in willingly enough, others driven in at the 
end of the leash by the lay brethren. All 
knelt on the ground for a few moments. 
Roldan, whose eyes were very keen, and, 
during these days, preternaturally sharp 
ened, noted that several of the Indians 
were whispering under cover of the loud 
mutterings about them. The face of the 
Californian Indian is not pleasant to
contemplate at any time : it is either stupid or 
sinister. Roldan fancied he detected some 
thing particularly evil in the glance of the 
whispering savages, and resolved to warn 
the priests. 

The scene was peaceful enough. The 
cattle browsing on the hills gave the land 
scape an air of great repose, and the 
mountains beyond were lost under a purple mist. 
The large stone fountain in the 
court splashed lazily. As the worshippers 
rose and withdrew, the silver bells rang out 
a merry peal, announcing that the morrow 
would be Sunday. 

Roldan fell asleep again. When he 

awoke it was dark outside, but on the 
table by his cot was a lighted taper and a 
dish of fruit. He ate of the fine grapes 
and pears, then rose and opened his door. 
In the small room beyond a young priest 
was seated at a table, bending over a large 
leaf of parchment, to which he was apply 
ing a pen with quick delicate strokes. 
He looked up with a smile. 

"What are you doing?" asked Roldan, 
curiously, approaching the table. 

" Illuminating the manuscripts of a 
mass. Look." And he displayed the 
exquisite border to the music, the latter 
written with equal precision and neatness. 
" This will be alive when I am not even 
dust. No one will know that I did it ; 
but I like the thought that it may live for 
centuries." 

" If I did it, I should sign my name to 
it," said Roldan, with his first prompting 
of ambition. But I never could do that ; 
I have not the patience. I mean to be 
governor of the Californias." 

" I hope you may be," said the young 
priest, gravely. 



 

"Are all your Indians docile?" asked 
Roldan, abruptly. 

The priest raised his head. " Why do 
you ask ? " 

Roldan related his suspicions. 

The priest shot a furtive glance through 
the open window at the dark square. 

" I don't know," he said slowly. " Some 
times I have thought you see, many are 
stubborn and intractable, and have to be 
flogged and chained. Privately I think we 
are wasting our energies. We will leave 
California several beautiful monuments for 
posterity to wonder at, but as for the 
Indians we will end where we began. 
They are always escaping and running 
back to the mountains. Their every in 
stinct is for barbarism ; they have not one 
for civilization, nor can any be planted 
whose roots will not trail over the surface. 
The good Lord intended them to be 
savages, nothing more; and it is mistaken 
sentimentalism However, it is not for 
me to criticise, and I beg, Don Roldan, 
that you will not repeat what I have 
said." 



 

" Of course I shall not ; but tell me, do 
you think there is danger? " 

" We have one rather bright young 
Indian there are about a dozen
exceptions in all California, and they are
treacherous. His name is Anastacio, and he has 
great influence with the other Indians. A 
good many of them are angry at present 
because they have been punished for steal 
ing grapes and stores, and just now they 
are rather excited because it has been 
proposed to banish Anastacio to a Mission 
where there are more soldiers, he is 
regarded as the inciter of the outrages." 

" Have you soldiers here ? " 

" Eleven. The guard house is in the 
left hand corner of the square. But what 
could they do in an uprising? We must 
get rid of Anastacio. I will go now and 
speak to Padre Flores." 

Roldan went out into the square and 
strolled over to the soldiers quarters. 
The door was closed, but light streamed 
from an uncovered window, and he had a 
good view of the guard room. A half 
dozen soldiers were lying about on 



 

benches, half-dressed, smoking the eternal 
cigarito. Two were at a table writing. 
None looked alert, but as Roldan passed 
out of the plaza to the open beyond, he 
encountered a sentinel who was ready to 
gossip with the young don and told him 
that three more were on duty on the 
several sides of the square. 

Roldan strolled on to the rancheria, a 
collection of six or eight hundred huts of 
mud and straw among a thicket of willows 
by the creek. Here all was dark and 
quiet. He glanced through several of the 
uncurtained windows and saw whole fam 
ilies peacefully asleep. Suddenly he 
paused and held his breath, at the same 
time retreating into the heavy shade of 
a willow. A number of doors had opened 
almost simultaneously ; there was the 
sharp crunch of dry brush, and dark 
figures glided, with the snake-like motion 
peculiar to the Indian, toward the upper 
end of the rancheria. 

Roldan waited a moment, then followed 
softly. He had set himself the duty of 
saving the Mission which had shown him 



 
