This was the entry:

    "RICHARD GRAFTON, London, England."

Underneath, to his amazement, he read another name:

     "MASTER PHILIP GRAFTON, London, England."

"I suppose that means me," he said to himself. "What does it all
mean? How did Mr. Grafton know that I would be here? He had never
seen me. And how did he find clothes to fit me so exactly?"

There was certainly a mystery, but it was fraught with so much to
the advantage of our hero that he resolved to cease asking questions
and accept the gifts of fortune.




                           CHAPTER VIII.

          AN UNEXPECTED MEETING AT THE GRAND OPERA HOUSE.


When Clarence Plantagenet saw his poor country cousin marching up
Broadway escorted by a policeman he was very much surprised, but on
the whole he was not displeased.

"Do you know that boy?" asked his companion.

"No, certainly not," answered Clarence, coloring.

"I thought you looked as if you did."

"He looks like a boy I met in the country last summer," was the
evasive answer.

"Poor devil! I wonder what he has been doing."

"Stealing, very likely," said Clarence, shrugging his shoulders.

"He doesn't look like a thief."

"Appearances are deceitful," said Clarence, oracularly.

At the supper-table, where Clarence met his father for the first
time since he had called at his office, he said:

"Oh, papa, what do you think? That country boy I saw in your office
has got into trouble."

"Do you mean your cousin Benjamin?"

"I suppose he is my cousin," said Clarence, reluctantly, "but I
don't care about knowing him for a relation. I saw him on Broadway
in charge of a policeman."

"Are you sure of this?" said Mr. Walton, much surprised.

"Yes; I knew him well enough by his clothes."

Clarence then gave an account of his meeting Ben.

"Did you speak to him?" asked his father.

"Mercy, no! Percy Van Dyke was with me. I wouldn't for a hundred
dollars have him know that I had a cousin arrested, and such a
countryfied-looking cousin, too."

"I think Benjamin would be a good-looking boy if he were well
dressed," said Mr. Walton.

"I don't," said Clarence, decidedly.

"I am sorry to hear he has got into trouble," said Mr. Walton, who
was not so mean as his son. "I think I ought to do something to help
him."

"Better leave him to his fate, pa. No doubt he is a bad boy."

"I can't understand why he should be. My sister is poor but an
excellent woman, and his father was an exemplary man."

"I don't think we have any call to trouble ourselves about this
boy," said Clarence. "He has disgraced us, and we couldn't do
anything without having it all come out."

"By the way, Clarence, I have two tickets to the Grand Opera House
this evening; would you like to go?"

"Just the thing, pa; I was wondering what we should do to pass the
time."

"Edwin Booth is to appear as Cardinal Richelieu. It is one of his
best characters. It will be a rare treat."

"Percy Van Dyke is to be there with his sister," said Clarence.
"That is the reason why he wouldn't take supper with me at
Delmonico's this evening."

"You will have a chance to see your friends between the acts," said
Mr. Walton. "I am perfectly willing you should become intimate with
the Van Dykes. By the way, bring your friend around and introduce
him to me."

"Yes, pa."

Mr. Walton had been the architect of his own fortune, while the Van
Dykes were descended from an old Dutch family, and had held for over
a century a high social position. Now that the merchant had money,
he thirsted for social recognition--something money will not always
buy.

Eight o'clock found father and son in choice orchestra seats in the
Grand Opera House, and they began to look about them.

Suddenly Mr. Walton said, sharply:

"What was all that rubbish you were telling me about your cousin
being arrested?"

"It was perfectly true, pa," answered Clarence, looking at his
father in surprise.

"What do you say to that, then?"

Following the direction of his father's finger, Clarence's eyes
rested upon his despised country cousin, elegantly dressed, sitting
two rows to the front, and a little to the right, with his eyes
fixed upon the curtain, which was then rising.

"That looks very much as if your cousin had been arrested!" said his
father, with a sneer.

"I can't understand it," ejaculated Clarence. "It can't be my
cousin. It must be some other boy that looks like him."

Just then Ben chanced to turn round. Observing his uncle's eyes
fixed upon him, he bowed politely and turned once more to the stage.




                            CHAPTER IX.

                       CLARENCE IS PUZZLED.


Clarence Plantagenet was so puzzled by the appearance of his cousin
at a fashionable theatre at a time when he supposed him to be
enjoying the hospitality of the police authorities that he paid
little attention to the stage performance. He had a large share of
curiosity, and resolved to gratify it, even if it were necessary to
speak to Ben himself.

At the end of the second act, Ben, feeling thirsty, and having
noticed that ice-water could be obtained in the lobby, left his seat
and walked up the aisle.

Clarence, observing this, rose also, and followed him.

He came to the water-fount just as Ben had quenched his thirst. He
was surprised anew when he observed how elegantly his cousin was
dressed. He was fastidious as to his own dress, but was obliged to
confess that Ben surpassed him in this respect.

Ben was conscious of the same thing, and, under the circumstances,
it gratified him.

Another thing also was evident to Clarence, though he admitted it
with reluctance, that Ben was a strikingly handsome boy. He had
appeared somewhat to disadvantage in his country-made suit, but all
signs of rusticity had now disappeared.

"Good evening," said Clarence, with a good deal more politeness than
he had displayed at the office.

"Good evening," said Ben, politely.

"I am surprised to see you here," continued Clarence.

"Yes," answered Ben. "I didn't expect to see you here."

"Oh, I come here often. I thought you would spend the evening in an
entirely different place," said Clarence, significantly.

"You are kind to think of me at all," said Ben, smiling.

Clarence was puzzled. He began to think that he must have been
mistaken in the person when he supposed he saw Ben in the custody
of an officer. Now he came to think of it, the boy under arrest had
shown no signs of recognition. We know that it was because Ben was
far from wishing to attract the attention of any one who knew him.

"Have you passed the day pleasantly?" inquired Clarence, thinking he
might lead up to the subject on which he desired light.

"Quite pleasantly," answered Ben. "New York is a beautiful city."

"I was afraid you had got into a scrape," said Clarence. "As I was
walking along Broadway, soon after you left father's office, I saw a
boy just like you in charge of a policeman."

"Poor fellow! I hope he got off. Did you stop and speak to him?"

"No; I was so surprised that I stood still and stared till it was
too late."

"I am not at all anxious to make the acquaintance of the police,"
said Ben, not sorry to have put his cousin off the scent.

"You have changed your dress," said Clarence, wishing to satisfy
his curiosity in another direction.

"Yes," answered Ben, with studied indifference.

"You have a good seat to-night."

"Yes; I have an excellent view of the play."

"The orchestra seats are high-priced. I thought you were short of
money."

"I was, but I am earning a good income now, and----"

"You haven't got a place, have you?" ejaculated his cousin, in
surprise.

"Yes, I have."

"Is it in a store?"

"No; I am private secretary to a gentleman living at the
Metropolitan Hotel."

"Private secretary!" exclaimed Clarence, in continued surprise. "You
can't be fit for such a position. How did you get it?"

"I am not sure whether I shall suit," said Ben, "but the gentleman
applied to me, and I accepted."

"I never heard of anything so strange. How much pay do you get?"

"Fifty dollars a month and board."

"It can't be possible!"

"That is what I say to myself," responded Ben, good-naturedly. "I am
afraid that my employer will find out that he is paying me too much
money."

"Are you staying at the Metropolitan, too?"

"Yes, for the present."

"I will call on you before long."

"Thank you."

"My aristocratic cousin seems disposed to be very polite to me now,"
thought Ben. "I am glad I put him off the track about the arrest."

"Excuse me," he said. "I believe the curtain is rising."

"Who is that fine-looking boy you were just speaking to?" asked
Percy Van Dyke, who came up at this moment.

"It is a cousin of mine," answered Clarence, not unwillingly.

"I should like to know what tailor he employs. He is finely
dressed, and a handsome fellow, besides."

"Of course, being a cousin of mine," said Clarence, with a smirk.

"How does it happen I have never met your cousin before?"

"He has only recently come to the city. He is staying at the
Metropolitan just at present."

Wonders will never cease. Here was Clarence Plantagenet Walton, the
son of a wealthy merchant, actually acknowledging with complacency
his relationship to a country cousin whom earlier in the day he had
snubbed.

He did not have another chance to speak to Ben that evening, as his
cousin remained in his seat till the close of the performance, and
in the throng at the close he lost sight of him.

As he and his father were walking home, Clarence said:

"I saw Ben in the lobby, between the acts."

"What did he say?" asked the merchant, who was himself not without
curiosity.

"I must have been mistaken about his being in charge of a
policeman," said Clarence.

"I thought you were."

