" O, no, no ! " cried Princess, eagerly. " We have so 
much love we need not grudge Ruth that, even if we are 
rather jealous and want Mrs. Kenneth's regard," smiling 
a little out of frank and tender eyes. 
Ray smiled, too. " And whatever happens will be a 
lovely thing for both of them," she said, proud of herself 
that she had crowded down some faintly jealous feeling. 
Even if any one asked her in marriage, and she had a 
premonition that no one ever would, she must fulfil the 
duty made so plain to the two who had been glad and 
thankful to have her. 
There was a call for the girls, and some new pleasure 
on hand. Sherburne seemed to think they must always 
be ready for any turn of fancy, and if ever there was a 
slight protest he said pathetically — "And when I have 
been away two whole years," which would have con- 
quered the most obdurate girl. 
They went over to the river for a row down to one of 
the islands, and on the way they picked up a few more to 
join them in a merry time. Princess sang for them, 
helped get the picnic dinner and was the brightest in re- 
membering quotations from Shakespeare to grace the 
feast. 
Yet through it all her heart was heavy. Some special 
brightness seemed gone out of the sun, though it shone 
over the long reaches of field and quivered about the 
woodlands. Now and then she lost what some one said 
as her thoughts wandered a little. What had happened 
to her ! 
"You look tired," said her mother, tenderly, patting 
the soft cheek and kissing the cool brow. "To-morrow 
must be rest day — the boys shall not take you out any- 
where." 
" I am a little tired," Princess admitted. 
"And next week you are all to go to Atlantic City, 
when there will be more dissipation. You must be fresh 
for that." 
Sherburne decided to go to Baltimore with his cousins. 
Another little plan he did not consider necessary to con- 
fide to any one. 
"Sherburne," his father said, as they sat out on the 
piazza the last evening, "it is almost time to consider 
plans for the future, if you have anything beyond vague 
ideas. It is time you settled to some permanency." 
"I think I have about settled. I was talking with 
Uncle Bertram while I was in New York " 
Judge Beaumanoir kept silent. Sherburne was a little 
embarrassed. He had promised the doctor he would 
consult his father at the earliest opportunity, but some- 
thing was always happening. 
"I think I shall take up medicine. Dr. Underwood 
and Dr. Carew set one a fine example. I concluded I 
wanted something with a wider scope than a professor's 
chair, something that brings me nearer in touch with 
real people. I hope you don't object? " when he waited 
a moment or two for his father's comment. 
" I should not object to any course into which you put 
your whole heart and soul, and that was best calculated 
to develop your highest possibilities. Still, I confess 
frankly I had hoped " 
Sherburne was playing with the little spaniel who sud- 
denly bounced down the steps and uttered a sharp yelp, 
and he rushed to pick it up. 
"I beg your pardon," as he glanced at his father's 
grave face. " I am afraid the law hasn't quite the right 
scope for me. And I am sorry if you — but you certainly 
can't have any objections, if — if it isn't quite what you 
had hoped," with the confident ring of youth in his 
voice. 
"I shall not object if you are in earnest, and choose 
from firm convictions," was the grave reply. 
" It is a noble profession." 
' ' When nobly carried out — yes. Yet it seems to me 
there is as much call for noble minds in building up the 
walls of justice and probity, and quite as high problems 
to solve in law. It leads to some of the best positions, 
some of the greatest honors, and though it may be used 
for perverted ends, a man can be as upright in this walk 
as in any other. I hoped some son of mine would take 
up my work when I was ready to lay it down. He would 
have the prestige of an honorable name, and step into an 
enviable connection. I can see that Bertram's heart is 
elsewhere ' ' 
There was little Larry left, but it would be years before 
he could make any election. 
"I am sorry we can't look at the matter alike," the 
young fellow said, in a softened tone that he meant for 
partial regret. " It isn't altogether a new thought with 
me." 
The father sighed regretfully. It had been quite a 
dream of late that he and his son would work on the 
same lines. The companionship would have been so 
grateful, so cheering. But he could not insist or force 
his inclinations. 
"You will find a good deal of detail and drudgery. 
And it is not given to every man to come up with such 
bounds as Doctor Carew. Do not look at his career and 
idealize too much, but make up your mind to good, 
hard, solid work." 
" O the work doesn't frighten me. Uncle Bertram 
said I must discuss the matter with you, but I told him I 
knew you would consent to whatever I had set my heart 
upon." 
Had youth any deep seriousness of purpose? He 
looked at his gay, handsome son as he sat there on the 
step, thrown up clearly by the long ray of lamplight 
streaming from the window, and it brought back the re- 
membrance of his own careless youth, of the follies even 
of his two years of invalidism, his headstrong perversity, 
his love of his own will and pleasure. So far, though 
Sherburne had been rather extravagant, he had committed 
no overt act of folly. Surely he could trust him to Ber- 
tram Carew and his dear Cousin Dell, who had really 
been one of the good angels of his life, the other being 
his beloved helpmeet, whose trust he had never for an 
instant betrayed. 
But he had built up a fine reputation, and he would 
have been glad for his son to come after him and reap its 
advantages. Yet he said graciously : 
" Whatever you feel equal to, that is the right thing 
for you to undertake." 
Then he went in for comfort to the sweet wife of his 
youth. 
CHAPTER VII. 
ACCEPTANCE. 
'TpHE consciousness that was a long time coming to 
-*- Princess Beaumanoir, that filled her at first with 
incredulity, and later with a protest in which was a deli- 
cate half shame, stole over her at last with a convincing 
force. All the year she had been dreaming of some one's 
commendation. She had been striving to reach heights 
that he had approved and thought worthy of one's best 
and truest aim. Was it not to come nearer to his fine 
standard that she had wanted to go on in the ways of 
fascinating knowledge ? 
She had been more disappointed than she would have 
cared to own, than she could have owned to any human 
being, when Professor Kenneth's visit had been delayed. 
There had been so few crosses in her young life, every 
thing had gone smoothly, joyously, and at first she felt 
bewildered, almost indignant that any one should suppose 
the grave self-centred man deep in the beginnings of the 
world's history should stop to care for any girl. But 
Aunt Millicent had suggested it a year ago, and after all, 
what more natural than that it should be Ruth Ensign ? 
He had seen so much of her this summer. And Mrs. 
Kenneth was very fond of her. She just fitted into the 
place, which must have been made hers from the begin- 
ning. 
Everybody thought so, it seemed. Grown-up eyes 
 
must be wiser, eyes that had not lost themselves in the 
fascinating radiance of dreams, could see more clearly. 
She had been half asleep in the enchanted land of pos- 
sibility, and now she roused herself with a resolute shake. 
She could almost wish she were Bertram, going to see 
him every day, to study, to be helped onward in the 
attractive realm of knowledge. She could spend even- 
ings then with Mrs. Kenneth and watch happy Ruth, 
sweet and smiling— any girl must be proud and happy 
whom the professor loved. 
For herself, she had made a mistake and almost fallen 
to coveting what was her neighbor's. But it was a thing 
one could live over, put away with swift hands like any 
other temptation. She was too healthy toned to brood 
over such a thing, once convinced. 
If she needed any other tonic draught she had it in 
Ruth's letter. They had not gone far away this time, 
to a pretty little settlement on the ocean side of Long 
Island, a great, old-fashioned, roomy house, where Mr. 
and Mrs. Drayton and the two children would come 
presently and Mrs. Mallory with her two. The Carews 
were to take a yachting tour up to Newfoundland ; two 
of the children had been rather ailing and the doctor 
very tired out. Of course Princess had heard all this 
news at first hand. 
There had been some lovely letters from Mrs. Phillips, 
who was very happy. And Professor Kenneth had stayed 
three days getting them settled, as he had to go to Lab- 
rador sooner than he expected. They had been out row- 
ing one day and were caught in a shower, but she had 
not felt afraid, and though it was rough it was grand as 
well. He had brought them a plentiful supply of books, 
and he would come to them at once on his return. Life 
was so glad and full that sometimes she was afraid she 
had more than her share. 
All that God sent was her share. There had been 
many dark days in her eighteen years. Now the sun- 
shine and smiling skies had come, and Princess was glad 
for her friend. She would never envy her again. 
They had a gay, happy time in the city by the sea, 
when the cousins were all together. They sailed, they 
promenaded, they made sketches, they danced in the 
evening and older people looked on and wondered if they 
had ever had such a good time in their youth. 
Sherburne Beaumanoir was a trifle annoyed by Miss 
Maurice's answer to his note. It was not curt, rather too 
business-like and evasive. After that he dared not take 
in the little town, for he was a gentleman. 
He was lounging on the sands one afternoon beside 
Princess, to whom he had just brought a handful of 
letters. 
"This is from Ruth," she said. "And O, this is 
from Kitty Saxon." 
"And is there one from the other girl — that came to 
your luncheon in New York?" asked the deceitful young 
man, in his most indifferent tone. 
" Miss Maurice? No. She is a queer correspondent. 
She did write me one letter a day or two after she went 
home. O, I believe I have not answered it." 
" You naughty girl ! What is her home like ? " 
"They live in an old, old house that belonged to her 
mother's father " 
" Then she had a grandfather ? " 
" O yes. They are old Delaware people. You know 
there are a great many nice, comparatively poor people 
scattered about the world," 
" Yes, my dear young mentor. But her folks were 
able to send her to school with the aristocracy, it seems." 
" The way it came was this. I suppose I may tell over 
the story, since she did not make any secret of it. I think 
she is very honest. And it was delightful that she should 
meet Mrs. Townsend." 
Sherburne was much interested in the school episode 
and the marriage of her sister. 
" I suppose the home isn't " 
" Things go at very loose ends, I fancy." 
Princess colored a little, thinking of Uncle Con. That 
was his secret, and she had no right to even suggest there 
was a secret. 
Sherburne comforted himself with the thought that 
Miss Maurice had a good deal of pride and her home 
was not quite what she would like to invite curious eyes 
to inspect. But she need not have minded him. 
" O, look at this," exclaimed Princess, a few days 
later, holding a paper in her hand. "Mrs. Townsend 
has gone to Chautauqua. She is to speak in two of the 
courses. And I suppose Miss Maurice went with her." 
Sherburne was devoted in an amusing fashion to Pearl 
Amory, who was proud of her good-looking cousin. 
Princess found Ned Beaumanoir very entertaining. 
He could talk to one girl very well, and he knew so 
many curious things, even if he did not shine in general 
society. But Sherburne soon became a prime favorite, 
and was in great demand among the girls outside of 
cousinly lines. Bertram was hardly old enough to enjoy 
the badinage, but he did like the sails and the rowing, 
and the walks along the beach. He often coaxed Prin- 
cess to accompany him. And he let her read the pro- 
fessor's letters, which were full of entertainment. 
" He seems just like another boy with you," said Prin- 
cess, with a soft smile in her eyes. 
" He is. A splendid, wise big boy that you can never 
bother with questions. If he can't talk about the subject 
just then, he gets you a book to read about it. I don't 
see how he can remember so many things. And if I 
wasn't myself and going up to Columbia College, and 
had to be a girl, I'd just like to be Ruth Ensign." 
Princess felt a sudden heat in her cheeks. 
" Wasn't it queer that we should think him old up 
there on Melchias island?" Then Bertram laughed. 
"But I am glad I don't have to be a girl, though you 
are so sweet, Princess. Boys have such jolly good times, 
and they don't have to think about growing up and put- 
ting on long gowns and doing their hair. And when 
they are as large as Sher and can do as they like 
" He hasn't all the rights. I believe you have to be 
twenty-one to reach a state of independence." 
"But papa doesn't decide for him any longer. Now 
if he had thought /couldn't go to Columbia, I suppose 
I must have given in " 
Sherburne had not given in to his father's desires, 
Princess remembered. She had hardly wanted to. And 
just then she had a girlish idea that she ought to help 
make up for the other disappointment. She had been 
finding duties toward Bertram. And there were three 
younger children. Surely there were duties enough. 
Mrs. Osborne had decided to leave Violet for the win- 
ter with her uncle and aunt. Even now Mr. Amory 
gave her an hour's lesson every day in painting, and 
not only that, but a walk and a talk about nature, and 
the continual variations, the solemn beauty of the night, 
the changeful brilliance of the day from glowing sunrise 
ioo THE HEIR OE SHERBURNE. 
to golden sunset, the curves of the swelling and retreat- 
ing sea with its crested foam or melancholy music of re- 
gret growing fainter and fainter, the long stretches of 
blue-grey expanse that met the curve of the other blue. 
She had so many artistic thoughts, such vivid apprecia- 
tion — if he could rouse in her the true artistic ambition ! 
Could one so inspire a girl ? 
For the girl's heart turned to fun and pleasure and 
pretty gowns, and what Washington would be in the win- 
ter and the dances and merrymaking. 
"I'm glad I haven't any genius," Pearl Amory said, 
frequently. " I shall not have to make efforts to reach 
up to grand heights, but just sit gracefully and talk in my 
most fascinating manner." 
" And draw admirers to your feet. You do love to be 
admired, Pearl." 
