
“Thank you; you are very gallant. Still, it isn’t much of a compliment.
Irene belongs to a rich family, but she is disagreeable, and few like
her.”

“Is Mark an admirer of hers?”

“He likes to be seen with her because she is of a rich and prominent
family. But he likes his cousin, Jennie Cunningham, best. He is jealous
of every boy who pays her any attention. But I want to ask you a
question. Why have I never met you before at any parties? I am sure I
should have remembered you.”

“This is the first party I ever attended.”

“Indeed! How can that be?”

“Because I am really what I represent, a telegraph boy.”

Paul watched the face of his young companion closely, fearing that this
revelation would cut him off from her favor.

“You don’t mean to say that you are the telegraph boy that frightened
away the burglar?” inquired Grace, eagerly.

“I believe I am.”

“Why, you are quite a hero!” exclaimed Grace, enthusiastically.

“O, no,” answered Paul, modestly. “It didn’t take much courage.”

Grace asked Paul a great many questions, and did not seem at all
shocked to learn that she was escorted by a common telegraph boy.

“Come, Grace,” said Jennie, after a while, “we can’t have you two
monopolize each other. My cousin, Mark, solicits the honor of escorting
you. Paul, if you are a very good boy, you may walk with me.”

“Did you know, Miss Grace,” said Mark, “that you were walking with a
real telegraph boy?”

“Yes, he told me so.”

“I am surprised that my Cousin Jennie should have invited him here.”

“I am not at all. I think him the handsomest boy at the party.”

“There is no accounting for taste,” rejoined Mark, very much disgusted
at this laudation of a boy he despised.

“He is so agreeable, too,” added Grace, with malicious pleasure at her
companion’s discomfiture.

“He has plenty of cheek!” said Mark. “He tries to make himself very
conspicuous. It would be better taste to stand quietly in a corner.”

Later in the evening, Paul became more conspicuous, and Mark became
still more disgusted with him.




CHAPTER XXII. THE YOUNG MINSTRELS.


About half past nine Jennie beckoned Paul to come into the back parlor,
which was comparatively deserted.

“I am going to ask a favor of you,” she said.

“I shall be glad to do anything you wish,” said Paul, earnestly.

“I am preparing a surprise for the company--something not down in the
programme. I ask you to help me because you can sing.”

Paul blushed.

“I don’t call it singing,” he said, modestly.

“I am sure you have a very nice voice, Paul. Now I will tell you what I
want. You and I are to dress as Italian street singers--I have a harp
on which I can play a little. We will come in as soon as we are ready
and surprise the company.”

“Will it be necessary to sing in Italian?” asked Paul, with a smile. “I
have forgotten all mine.”

“You know as much as I do. We will sing some of the popular ballads.
Here is a list which I have written down. Do you know them?”

Paul looked over the list and selected three which he felt able to sing.

“Very well,” said Jennie, with satisfaction. “You will find your suit
ready in your dressing room. I have spoken to one of the boys--Arthur
Constable--to go up and assist you. Now, will you be ready in fifteen
minutes?”

“Yes,” answered Paul, confidently.

“I wonder what Jennie and the telegraph boy are talking about so
earnestly!” thought Mark, with a scowl, for he had just noticed their
conversation. “I never suspected that Jennie had such low tastes.”

An unpleasant frown gathered on Mark’s face, which he made no attempt
to conceal. He was getting to dislike Paul more and more.

Next the two whose intimacy had provoked his discontent left the room,
and his anger increased.

Presently, however, Mr. Cunningham entered the room and said, with a
smile:

“Young people, I have engaged the services of two Italian minstrels,
who will try to entertain you for a short time.”

Instantly there was a hush of expectation, for the announcement was
understood literally.

The door was thrown open, and Paul and Jennie entered. Paul wore a suit
of black velvet, and a hat also of velvet, in which it must be admitted
he looked very handsome. Jennie was attired also in a characteristic
national costume, and carried in her hand a harp.

As they entered together most of the company agreed that they made a
very attractive picture.

They advanced, hand in hand, till they reached a position at the head
of the room. Then Jennie struck her harp, and the two began to sing a
favorite melody, their voices according remarkably well.

There was a sound of applause at the end of the first song. Paul bowed,
and, taking his hat from his head, gravely made the round of the
guests. Pennies were dropped by such as had them.

When Paul reached Mark he was tempted to pass him by, for he saw the
scornful smile upon his face, but he did not care to make a scene, and
held out his cap to him as well as the rest.

Mark dropped in a penny.

“That’s for the monkey,” he said, in a significant tone. “Keep it
yourself.”

“Thank you,” said Paul, with unruffled good humor, for he felt that he
could afford to be good natured. “Your liberality is unexpected.”

Mark bit his lips, foolishly taking offense at this good natured retort.

Another song was vociferously called for and given. Then a third was
demanded, and the two minstrels retired amid a volley of plaudits.

“That was perfectly charming,” said Grace De Vere, enthusiastically.
“What a nice looking boy that Paul Parton is! He looked perfectly
lovely in his velvet suit.”

The boy to whom this was addressed was Mark Sterling, and it may well
be believed that it was far from pleasing him.

“Are you falling in love with him?” he asked, with a sneer.

“I do believe I am!” answered Grace. “Don’t tell him, though!”

“I am not likely to. The fellow is conceited enough already.”

“Now, Mark, you are too bad. To me he seems remarkably modest.”

“He ought to have more sense than to push himself forward so, being
only a telegraph boy.”

“I don’t care what he is; he is very nice and very good looking.”

“I suppose you admire his singing, too?”

“Yes, he has a sweet voice.”

“That’s a matter of opinion.”

“I do believe you’re jealous of him, Mark. You don’t like it because
Jennie didn’t ask you to take the part.”

This was really true, for Mark fancied himself a singer, though his
voice was thin and shrill. Had he taken Paul’s part the effect would
have been ludicrous, but, of course, he had no idea of this.

It so happened that he knew the three songs which had been sung, and
he was very much annoyed to have been passed over in what was the
pronounced success of the evening, and to see a mere telegraph boy
selected instead of him.

“Jealous of a telegraph boy!” repeated Mark, with a scornful
inflection. “I am not sunk quite so low as that.”

About eleven o’clock the party broke up. Being a juvenile party, it
was not kept up as late as if it had been attended by older persons.
Paul took his leave with the rest, feeling that he had enjoyed himself
uncommonly well.

“I must thank you for a pleasant evening, Miss Jennie,” he said, as he
said adieu to his youthful hostess.

“You did your part towards making it so, Paul.”

“Thank you for the opportunity.”

“Don’t forget to come soon to see us,” said Jennie, giving her hand to
Paul.

Paul bowed his thanks, and left the house with three or four others in
his company. Among them was Mark Sterling.

“Where do you live?” asked Mark, abruptly.

“Down town,” answered Paul, shortly. He felt reluctant to say that he
lived in Ludlow Street, although he conjectured rightly that Mark would
have no idea where it was situated.

“I thought, perhaps, you might live on Fifth Avenue.”

“Not at present; that may come later.”

Mark laughed disdainfully.

“When you give a party, I hope you will do us all the honor to send an
invitation.”

“Would you accept?”

“Yes, I think I would.”

“I will bear it in mind. Now, let me bid you all good night.”

Mark was disappointed to find that not one of his companions would
join in his sarcasms against the telegraph boy. All thought him very
agreeable and very handsome, and Mark was at last obliged to give up
his attack, and lapse into sullenness.

Paul walked to Sixth Avenue, though that was not the most direct
route homewards, and in place of taking a car, walked slowly down the
avenue. It was a pleasant night, and he felt broad awake, and by no
means fatigued. It seemed to him pleasanter to walk part of the way
at least. As he walked he fell into serious thought. He had left an
elegant house, crowded with a gay and fashionable company, and he
was going--where? To a miserable tenement house, in which he shared
a poor and ill furnished room with a squalid and miserly old man, in
appearance not above a tramp. Certainly the contrast was a startling
one. As he dwelt upon it, Paul felt more and more disgusted with his
home and surroundings.

“Why can’t I live in a refined house, among refined people?” he asked
himself. “I feel much more at home with them than with old Jerry. Must
I always live a beggar?”

Paul’s mental answer was an emphatic “No!” He was young and hopeful.
The world was before him. He was poor, but other poor boys had raised
themselves from poverty as great, and he felt that there was an equal
chance for him.

His reflections were interrupted by the sight of a tall young man,
not far in advance, whose unsteady gait showed that he was under the
influence of liquor.




CHAPTER XXIII. THE PICKPOCKET.


Such a sight as this is by no means uncommon in a large city, and of
course Paul had witnessed it many times. But for one circumstance, he
would have given the young man a passing glance, and gone on. But he
observed that the young man was followed. The person following was
also a young man, rather flashily attired, and, as Paul thought, of
suspicious appearance. It seemed to him clear that he had designs upon
the first young man, whose condition was likely to make him an easy
prey to an unscrupulous acquaintance.

“Where have I seen that man before?” thought Paul.

He was puzzled for a moment, and then he remembered that he had strayed
one day into a court room, and seen him as a prisoner at the bar,
charged with picking a pocket.

“That’s what he’s after now,” thought Paul. “I will prevent him if I
can.”

The telegraph boy moderated his pace, so as not to attract the
attention of the man in the rear, but kept a close watch over him.

Finally the pickpocket came to a sudden resolution, and quickening his
pace came up with the man he was following.

“Excuse me, my friend,” he said, smoothly, “but I see you are in need
of assistance. Won’t you take my arm? I’ll take you home, if you wish.”

“You’re very good,” said the stranger. “I’ve been drinking more than is
good for me, I’m afraid.”

“We all do that sometimes,” said his new acquaintance. “I’ve been there
myself. Where are you staying?”

