" All right," the shoeman shouted back. " Call it 
a numba one shoe and then see if you can 't find that 
lost foot in it, some eres. Or try a little flour, and 
see if it won 't feel more at home. I 've  hea'd of a 
shoe that give that sensation of looseness by not goin 
on at all." 

The girls exulted joyfully together at the defeat of 
their companion, but the shoeman kept a grave face, 
while he searched out other sorts of shoes and slip 
pers, and offered them, or responded to some definite 
demand with something as near like as he could hope 
to make serve. The tumult of talk and laughter grew 
till the chef put his head out of the kitchen door, and 
then came sauntering across the grass to the helps 
piazza. At the same time the clerk suffered himself 
to be lured from his post by the excitement. He 
came and stood beside the chef, who listened to the 
shoeman 's flow of banter with a longing to take his 
chances with him. 

" That 's a nice hawss," he said. " What 'll you 
take for him ? " 

" Why, hello ! " said the shoeman, with an eye that 
dwelt upon the chefs official white cap and apron, 
"You talk English, don 't you? Fust off, I didn 't 
know but it was one of them foreign dukes come over 
he a to marry some oua poor raillionai cs daughtas." 
the girls cried out for joy, and they bore their 




mirth stoically, but not without a personal relish of the 
shoeman 's np-and coming-ness. "Want a hawss?" 
asked tlie shoeman with an air of business. " What 'll 
you give ? " 

" I 'll give fou thutty-seven dollas and a half," said 
the chef. 

"Sorry I can 't take it. That hawss is sellin at 
present for just one hundred and fifty dollas." 

"Well," said the chef, "I 'll raise you a dolla and a 
quanta. Say tlmtty-eight and seventy-five." 

"Well now, you 're gittin up among the figgas 
where you 're liable to own a hawss. You just keep 
right on a raisin me, while I sell these ladies some 
shoes, and maybe you 'll hit it yit, for e night." 

The girls were trying on shoes on every side now, 
and they had dispensed with the formality of going 
in-doors for the purpose. More than one put out her 
foot to the clerk for his opinion of the tit, and the 
shoeman was mingling with the crowd, testing with 
his hand, advising from his professional knowledge, 
suggesting, urging, and in some cases artfully agreeing 
with the reluctance shown. 

" This man," said the chef, indicating Fane, " says 
you can tell moa lies to the square inch than any man 
out o Boston." 

" Doos he ? " asked the shoeman, turning with a 
pair of high-heeled bronze slippers in his hand from 
the wagon. " Well, now, if I stood as nea to him as 
you do, I believe I sh'd hit him." 

" Why, man, I can 't dispute him ! " said the chef, 
and as if he had now at last scored a point, he threw 



 

back his head and laughed. When he brought down 
his head again, it was to perceive the approach of 
Clementina. " Hello," he said for her to hear, "he e 
comes the Boss. Well, I guess I must be goin ," he 
added, in mock anxiety. " I 'm a goin , Boss, I 'm a 
goin ." 

Clementina ignored him. "Mr. Atwell wants to 
see you a moment, Mr. Fane," she said to the clerk. 

" All right, Miss Claxon," Fane answered, with the 
sorrowful respect which he always showed Clemen 
tina, now, " I 'll be right there." But he waited a 
moment, either in expression of his personal independ 
ence, or from curiosity to know what the shoeman 
was going to say of the bronze slippers. 

Clementina felt the fascination, too; she thought 
the slippers were beautiful, and her foot thrilled with 
a mysterious prescience of its fitness for them. 

" Now, the e, ladies, or as I may say guls, if you 'll 
excuse it in one that 's moa like a fatha to you than 
anything else, in his feelings" the girls tittered, and 
some one shouted derisively " It 's true ! now there 
is a shoe, or call it a slippa, that I 've  rutha hesitated 
about showin to you, because I know that you 're all 
rutha serious-minded, I don 't ca e how young ye be, 
or how good-foo&m ye be ; and I don 't presume the e 's 
one among you that 's eva hea'd o dancin ." In the 
mirthful hooting and mocking that followed, the shoe 
man hedged gravely from the extreme position he had 
taken. " What ? Well, maybe you have among some 
the summa folks, but we all know what summa folks 
ah , and I don 't expect you to patte n by them. But 




what I will say is that if any young lady within the 
sound of my voice," he looked round for the ap 
plause which did not fail him in his parody of the 
pulpit style "should get an invitation to a dance 
next winta, and should feel it a wo k of a charity to 
the young man to go, she 'll be sorry on his account, 
rememba that she hain 't got this pair o slippas. 
The a ! They 're a numba two, and they 'll fit any lady 
here, I don 't ca e how small a foot she 's got. Don 't 
all speak at once, sistas ! Ample time allowed for 
meals. That 's a custom-made shoe, and if it hadn 't 
b en too small for the lady they was oddid foh, you 
couldn 't a got em for less than seven dollas ; but 
now I 'm throwin on em away for three." 

A groan of dismay went up from the whole circle, 
and some who had pressed forward for a sight of the 
slippers, shrank back again. 

" Did I hea just now," asked the shoernan, with a 
soft insinuation in his voice, and in the glance he 
suddenly turned upon Clementina, " a party addressed 
as Boss?" Clementina flushed, but she did not cow 
er; the chef walked away with a laugh, and the shoe- 
man pursued him with his voice. " Not that I am 
goin to folia the wicked example of a man who tries 
to make spo t of young ladies; but if the young lady 
addressed as Boss " 

"Miss Claxon," said the clerk with ingratiating 
reverence. 

" Miss Claxon I starf corrected," pursued the shoe- 
man. "If Miss Claxon will do me the fava just to 
try on this slippa, I sh'd be able to tell at the next 




place I stopped just how it looked on a lady 's foot. 
I see you aVt any of you disposed to buy cm tliis 
aftanoon, and I ain 't complainin ; you done pootty 
vvell by me, already, and I don 't want to uhge you ; 
but I do want to carry away the picture, in my mind 's 
eye what you may call a mental photograph of 
this slipper on the kind of a foot it was made foh, so t 
I can praise it truthfully to my next customer. What 
do you say, ma am ? " he addressed himself with pro 
found respect to Clementina. 

" Oh, do let him, Clem ! " said one of the girls, and 
another pleaded, " Just so he needn 't tell a story to 
his next customa," and that made the rest laugh. 

Clementina 's heart was throbbing, and joyous lights 
were dancing in her eyes. " I don 't care if I do," 
she said, and she stooped to unlace her shoe, but one 
of the big girls threw herself on her knees at her feet 
to prevent her. Clementina remembered too late that 
there was a hole in her stocking and that her little toe 
came through it, but she now folded the toe artfully 
down, and the big girl discovered the hole in time 
to abet her attempt at concealment. She caught the 
slipper from the shoeman and hurried it on ; she tied 
the ribbons across the instep, and then put on the 
other. " Now put out youa foot, Clem ! Fust dancin 
position ! " She leaned back upon her own heels, and 
Clementina daintily lifted the edge of her skirt a little, 
and peered over at her feet. The slippers might or 
might not have been of an imperfect taste, in their 
imitation of the prevalent fashion, but on Clementina 's 
feet they had distinction. 



 

" Them feet was made for them slippas," said the 
shoeman devoutly. 

The clerk was silent; he put his hand helplessly to 
his mouth, and then dropped it at his side again. 

Gregory came round the corner of the building from 
the dining-room, and the big girl who was crouching 
before Clementina, and who boasted that she was not 
afraid of the student, called saucily to him, " Come 
here, a minute, Mr. Gregory," and as he approached, 
she tilted aside, to let him see Clementina 's slippers. 

Clementina beamed up at him with all her happi 
ness in her eyes, but after a faltering instant, his face 
reddened through its freckles, and he gave her a 're 
buking frown and passed on. 

" Well, I declare ! " said the big girl. Fane turned 
uneasily, and said with a sigh, he guessed he must be 
going, now. 

A blight fell upon the gay spirits of the group, 
and the shoeman asked with an ironical glance after 
Gregory 's retreating figure, " Owna of this propaty ? " 

" No, just the ea th," said the big girl, angrily. 

The voice of Clementina made itself heard with a 
cheerfulness which had apparently suffered no chill, 
but was really a rising rebellion. " How much ah 
the slippas ? " 

" Three dollas," said the shoeman in a surprise 
which he could not conceal at Clementina 's courage. 

She laughed, and stooped to untie the slippers. 
" That 's too much for me." 

" Let me untie em, Clem," said the big girl. " It 's 
a shame for you eva to take em off." 



 

" That 's right, lady," said the shocman. " And 
you don 't eva need to," he added, to Clementina, " un 
less you object to sleepin in em. You pay me what 
you want to now, and the rest when I come around 
the latta paht of August." 

" Oh keep cm, Clem ! " the big girl urged, passion 
ately, and the rest joined her with their entreaties. 

" I guess I bctta not," said Clementina, and she 
completed the work of taking off the slippers in which 
the big girl could lend her no further aid, such was 
her affliction of spirit. 

" All right, lady," said the shoeman. " Them 's 
youa slippas, and I 'll just keep em for you till the 
latta paht of August." 

He drove away, and in the woods which he had to 
pass through on the road to another hotel he overtook 
the figure of a man pacing rapidly. He easily recog 
nized Gregory, but he bore him no malice. " Like a 
lift ? " he asked, slowing up beside him. 

" No, thank you," said Gregory. " I 'm out for the 
walk." He looked round furtively, and then put his 
hand on the side of the wagon, mechanically, as if to 
detain it, while he walked on. 

" Did you sell the slippers to the young lady ? " 

" Well, not as you may say sell, exactly," returned 
the shoeman, cautiously. 

" Have you got them yet ? " asked the student. 

"Guess so," said the man. "Like to see cm?" 
He pulled up his horse. 

Gregory faltered a moment. Then he said, " I'd 
like to buy them. Quick ! " He looked guiltily 



 

about, while the shoeman alertly obeyed, with some 
delay for a box to put them in. " How much are 
they ? " 

" Well, that 's a custom made slipper, and the price 
to the lady that oddid em was seven dollas. But I 'll 
let you have em for three if you want em for a 
present." The shoeman was far too discreet to per 
mit himself anything so overt as a smile ; he merely 
let a light of intelligence come into his face. 

Gregory paid the money. " Please consider this as 
confidential," he said, and he made swiftly away. 
Before the shoeman could lock the drawer that had 
