
"I hate that boy!" soliloquized Mrs. Fogson, looking after him with a
frown. "He is the most independent young rascal I ever came across--he
actually disobeys and defies me. I must get Fogson to give him a
horse-whipping some of these fine days; and when he does, I'm going to
be there and see it done!" she continued, her black eyes twinkling
viciously. "Every blow he received would do me good. I'd gloat over it!
I'd flog him myself if I was strong enough."

The amiable character of Mrs. Fogson may be inferred from this gentle
soliloquy. When Fogson married her he caught a Tartar, as he found to
his cost. But he was not so much to be pitied, for his own disposition
was not unlike that of his wife, but he lacked her courage and intense
malignity, and was a craven at heart.

As Jed walked to the gate his face became grave and almost melancholy.

"I can't stand this kind of life long!" he said to himself. "Mrs. Fogson
is about the ugliest-tempered woman I ever knew, and her husband isn't
much better. What a contrast to Mr. Avery and his good wife! When they
kept the poorhouse we were all happy and contented. They had a kind word
for all. But when Squire Dixon became overseer he put in the Fogsons,
and since then we haven't heard a kind word or had a happy day."

Just then Squire Dixon's top buggy neared the gate. He was a
pompous-looking man with a bald head and red face, the color, as was
well known, being imparted by too frequent potations of brandy. With him
was his only son and heir, Percy Dixon, a boy who "put on airs," and
was, in consequence, heartily detested by his schoolmates and
companions. He had small, mean features and a pair of gray eyes, while
his nose had an upward tendency, as if he were turning it up at the
world in general.

Jed held the gate open in silence and the top buggy passed through.

Then he slowly closed the gate and walked up to the house.

There stood Mrs. Fogson, her thin lips wreathed in smiles, as she ducked
her head obsequiously to the town magnate.

"How do you do, Squire Dixon?" she said. "It does me good to see you.
But I needn't ask for your health, you look so fine and noble this
morning."

Squire Dixon was far from being inaccessible to flattery.

"I am very well, I thank you, my good friend, Mrs. Fogson," he said in a
stately tone, with a gracious smile upon his florid countenance. "And
how are you yourself?"

"As well as I can be, squire, thanking you for asking, but them paupers
is trials, as I daily discover."

"Nothing new in the way of trouble, I hope, Mrs. Fogson?"

"Well, no; but walk in and I'll send for my husband. He would never
forgive me if I didn't send for him when you were here. Master Percy,
forgive me for not speaking to you before. I hear such good accounts of
you from everybody. Your father is indeed fortunate to have such a son."

Percy raised his eyebrows a little. Even he was aware of his
unpopularity, and he wondered who had been speaking so well of him.

"I'm all right!" he answered curtly.

Squire Dixon, too, though he overestimated Percy, who was popularly
regarded as a chip of the old block, was at a loss to know why he should
be proud of him. Still it was pleasing to have one so near to him
complimented.

"You are kind to speak of Percy in that way," he said.

"He's so like you, the dear boy!" murmured Mrs. Fogson.

This might be a compliment, but as Percy stood low in his studies and
frequently quarreled with his school companions, Squire Dixon hardly
knew whether to feel flattered.

Percy looked rather disgusted to be called a "dear boy" by a woman whom
he regarded as so much his social inferior as Mrs. Fogson, but it was
difficult to resent so complimentary a speech, and he remained silent.
He looked scornfully about the plainly-furnished room, and reflected
that it would be pleasanter out of doors.

"I guess I'll go out in the yard," he said abruptly.

"Would you be kind enough in that case, Master Percy, to tell the boy
Jed to go and call my husband from the three-acre lot? He is at work
there."

"Yes, Mrs. Fogson, I'll tell him."

Percy left the room and walked up to where Jed was splitting wood.

"Go and call Mr. Fogson from the three-acre lot!" he said peremptorily.

Jed paused in his work.

"Who says so?" he inquired.

"I say so!"

"Then I shan't go. You are not my boss."

"You are an impudent boy."

"Why am I?"

"You have no business to talk back to me. You'd better go after Mr.
Fogson, if you know what's best for yourself."

"Did Mrs. Fogson send the message by you?"

"Yes."

"Then I will go. Why didn't you tell me that before?"

"Because it was enough that I told you. My father's the Overseer of the
Poor."

"I am aware of that."

"And he put the Fogsons where they are."

"Then I wish he hadn't. We had a good time when Mr. Avery was here. Now
all is changed."

"So you don't like Mr. and Mrs. Fogson?" asked Percy curiously.

"No, I don't. But I must be going to the lot to call Mr. Fogson."

"I'll go with you. I don't want to be left alone."

Jed ought doubtless to have felt complimented at this offer of company
from his high-toned visitor, but he did not appear to be overwhelmed by
it.

"You can go along if you like," he said.

"Of course I can. I don't need to ask permission of you."

"Certainly not. No offense was meant."

"It is well for you that there isn't. So you liked Mr. and Mrs. Avery
better than the Fogsons?"

"Yes," answered Jed guardedly, for he understood now that Percy wanted
to "pump" him.

"Why?"

"Because they treated me better."

"My father thinks well of the Fogsons. He says that old Avery pampered
the paupers and almost spoiled them."

"I won't argue the question. I only know that we all liked Mr. and Mrs.
Avery. Now it's scold, scold, scold all day and every day, and we don't
live nearly as well as we did."

"Paupers mustn't expect to live as well as at a first-class hotel!" said
Percy sarcastically.

"They certainly don't live like that here."

"And they won't while my father is overseer. He says he's going to put a
stop to their being pampered at the town's expense. You live well enough
now."

"If you think we live so well, I wish you would come and board here for
a week."

"Me--board at a poorhouse!" ejaculated Percy in intense disgust. "You
are very kind, but I shouldn't like it."

"I don't think you would."

"All the same, you ought to be grateful for such a good home."

"It may be a good home, but I shan't stay here long."

"You shan't stay here long?" exclaimed Percy in amazement. "Do you mean
to tell me you are going to run away?"

"I haven't formed any plans yet."

"I'll tell my father, and he'll put a spoke in your wheel. What do you
expect to do if you leave? You haven't got any money?"

"No."

"Then don't make a fool of yourself."

Jed did not reply, for they had reached the fence that bounded the
three-acre lot, and Mr. Fogson had discovered their approach.




CHAPTER II.

MR. AND MRS. FOGSON.


Mr. Fogson was about as unpleasant-looking as his wife, but was not so
thin. He had stiff red hair with a tendency to stand up straight, a
blotched complexion, and red eyes, corresponding very well with the
color of his hair. He was quite as cross as his wife, but she was more
venomous and malicious. Like her he was disposed to fawn upon Squire
Dixon, the Overseer of the Poor, with whom he knew it was necessary to
stand well.

Had Jed come alone he might have met with a disagreeable reception; but
Mr. Fogson's quick eye recognized in his companion the son of the
poorhouse autocrat, Squire Dixon, and he summoned up an ingratiating
smile on his rugged features.

"How are you, Master Percy?" he said smoothly. "Did your pa come with
you?"

"Yes, he's over to the house. Mrs. Fogson wants you to go right home,
as he may want to see you."

"All right! It will give me pleasure. It always does me good to see your
pa."

Percy looked at him critically, and thought that Mr. Fogson was about as
homely a man as he had ever seen. It was fortunate that the keeper of
the poorhouse could not read his thoughts, for, like most ugly men, Mr.
Fogson thought himself on the whole rather prepossessing.

Fogson took his place beside Percy, and curtly desired Jed to walk
behind.

Jed smiled to himself, for he understood that Mr. Fogson considered him
not entitled to a place in such superior company.

Mr. Fogson addressed several questions to Percy, which the latter
answered languidly, as if he considered it rather a bore to be
entertained by a man in Fogson's position. Indeed he almost snubbed him,
and Jed was pleased to find the man who made so many unpleasant speeches
to others treated in the same manner himself. As a general thing, a man
who bullies others has to take his turn in being bullied himself.

Meanwhile Mrs. Fogson was chatting with Squire Dixon.

"Nobody can tell what I have to put up with from them paupers," she
said. "You'd actilly think they paid their board by the way they talk.
The fact is, the Averys pampered and indulged them altogether too much."

"That is so, Mrs. Fogson," said the squire pompously, "and that, I may
remark, was the reason I dismissed them from their responsible position.
Do they--ahem!--complain of anything in particular?"

"Why, they want butter every day!" exclaimed Mrs. Fogson. "Think of it!
Butter every day for paupers!"

"As you justly observe, this is very unreasonable. And how often do you
give them butter?"

"Once a week--on Sundays."

"Very judicious. It impresses them with the difference between Sunday
and other days. It shows your religious training, Mrs. Fogson."

"I always aim to be religious, Squire Dixon," said Mrs. Fogson meekly.

"Well, and what else?"

"Likewise the old people expect tea every day. They say Mrs. Avery gave
it to them."

"I dare say she did. It's an imposition on the town to spend
their--ahem!--hard-earned money on such luxuries."

"That's the way I look at it, Squire Dixon."

"How often do you give them meat?"

"Every other day. I get the cheapest cuts from the butcher--what he has
left over. But they ain't satisfied. They want it every day."

"Shocking!" exclaimed the squire, arching his brows.

"So I say. Of course I get a good many sour looks, and more complaints,
but I tell 'em that if they ain't suited with their boarding-house they
can go somewhere else."

"Very good! Very good indeed; ha, ha! I presume none of them have left
the poorhouse in consequence?"

"No, but one has threatened to do so."

"Who is that?" asked Squire Dixon quickly.

"The boy Jed."

"Oh, yes, he was the one who opened the gate for me. Now, what sort of a
boy is he, Mrs. Fogson?"

