
"You can give some idea."

"Well, there was a little over two dollars in silver change."

"My boy," said the new actor in the scene, "will you trust me with the
purse while I ascertain whether this young woman is correct."

"Yes, sir," answered Rupert, who felt confidence in the good will of his
new acquaintance.

The lawyer, for he was one, opened the purse, and his eye lighted up, as
he looked inside.

"Did you say there was as much as five dollars in the purse?" he asked.

"No, sir, there wasn't as much as that," answered the girl, positively.

The lawyer nodded as if a suspicion were verified.

"Then the purse isn't yours," he said.

"There may have been more," said the girl, finding she had made a
mistake. "Yes, I remember now there was, for my sister paid me back some
money she was owing me."

"That won't do," said the lawyer, quietly. "The purse isn't yours."

"If it isn't hers," said the old lady sharply, "how did she happen to
describe it so exactly?" and she looked round triumphantly.

"I could have described it just as accurately," returned the lawyer.

"You're smart!" said the severe-looking old lady, with a sneer.

"Not at all. Soon after the boy got in the car he took out the purse, so
that anyone could see it. The person who charges him with taking it from
her saw it in his hands, and scrutinized it closely. I understand now
the object she had in doing so."

"It's a shame," said the girl, with a last desperate effort at
imposition. "It's a shame that a poor girl should be robbed, and a
gentleman like you," she added spitefully, "should try to protect the
thief."

"So I say," put in the old lady, frowning severely at Rupert. "I don't
know who you are, young woman, but I advise you to call an officer and
have the young scamp arrested."

Rupert felt uneasy, for he knew that in an arrest like this he might not
be able to clear himself.

"Why don't you ask the boy how much money there is in the purse?"
continued the old lady.

"Well thought of. My boy, can you tell me what the purse contains?"

Rupert colored. He saw at once that he was in a tight place. He wished
now that he had examined the purse when he left the house in Harlem.

"No," he answered. "I do not know."

"Didn't I tell you?" cried the old lady, venomously.

Even the lawyer looked surprised.

"How is it that you can't tell, if the purse is yours?" he asked.

"Because, sir, it was given me this evening by a gentleman in Harlem,
and I have not yet had time to examine it."

"Your story may be true," said the lawyer, "but it does not seem
probable."

"Oho!" the old lady said, "the boy owns up that he is a thief. If he
didn't get it from this young woman he stole it from a man in Harlem."

Rupert glanced from one to the other, and he realized that things looked
dark for him.




CHAPTER IV.

A FALSE REPORT.


"What was the name of the gentleman in Harlem from whom you say you
obtained the purse?" asked the lawyer.

"Mr. Frank Sylvester," answered Rupert, promptly.

The lawyer looked interested.

"I know Mr. Sylvester," he said. "I live on the same street."

"He gave me this basket of provisions also," added Rupert.

"Why did he give you the purse?"

"Because I met him down town feeling ill, and at his request went home
with him."

"The boy is all right," said the lawyer, looking satisfied. "Here is the
purse. It is undoubtedly yours."

"And where do I come in?" asked the young woman. "Is that boy going off
with my money?"

Just then they reached the next station, and among those who boarded
the train was a policeman. The girl evidently recognized him, for she
turned away to escape attention.

Before the officer had a chance to speak to her the old lady broke in
with:

"Policeman, there's a poor girl been robbed of her purse by that boy,
and that gentleman there is protecting him."

The policeman laughed.

"So, Kate, you have had your purse stolen, have you?" he asked.

The girl looked embarrassed.

"I may be mistaken," she admitted.

"I am afraid you have been up to one of your tricks."

"Do you know the girl?" asked the lawyer.

"I have arrested her more than once for playing a confidence game. It is
only three weeks since I had her up before the Jefferson Market Police
Court."

"Well, I declare!" exclaimed the old lady, astounded.

The girl sprang from her seat when the next station was reached, and
hastily left the car.

"My boy," said the lawyer, "I must ask your pardon for doubting you
even for a moment. This good lady, too, ought to apologize to you."

The old lady sniffed contemptuously.

"I never apologize to boys," she said.

"Then, madam, take care you don't do them injustice," said the lawyer
gravely.

"I am old enough to manage my own affairs," cried the old lady, with
asperity.

"You are certainly old enough, but----"

"Don't you speak to me again, sir."

The lawyer smiled, and crossing the car sat down at Rupert's side.

"My boy," he said, "you came near getting into a scrape because you did
not know how much the purse contained. Suppose you count the money now."

Rupert took out the purse and followed this friendly advice. To his
gratification and surprise he found a ten-dollar gold piece and two
dollars and a half in silver.

His face expressed the joy he felt.

"That is a godsend," he said. "Do you think Mr. Sylvester knew about the
gold?"

"I have no doubt of it. He is a very kind-hearted and generous man. You
may keep the money without hesitation."

The time soon came when Rupert was to leave the Elevated train. He
hurried home with joyful heart, feeling that he was carrying good news.
When he entered the little room he found his mother again in an attitude
of despondency.

"What is the matter, mother?" he asked.

"I don't know what we shall do, Rupert," she said. "I went round to Mr.
Jacob Grubb's clothing store this afternoon for more work, and he said
business was so dull he would not have any more work for a month."

"Then you can take a vacation, mother," said Rupert, lightly.

"But how shall we live in that case, Rupert? You are out of work."

"Mother, don't worry. I have made more to-day than in any week when I
had regular work. First, here is a basketful of provisions," and he
removed the cover from the basket, displaying the contents. "Have you
had supper yet?"

"No."

"Then suppose you make some tea, and we will have a nice supper."

"You didn't buy those provisions, Rupert?"

"No, they were given me by a new friend. But that isn't all. What do you
say to this?" and he emptied the purse on the table.

"Truly you have been fortunate," said Mrs. Rollins, with new
cheerfulness. "It has come in good time, too, for our rent will fall due
on Saturday."

"Then, mother, you had better take this money, and take care of it till
it is wanted."

Just as Mrs. Rollins was placing the purse in a bureau drawer Mrs.
Marlow, who lived on the floor below, opened the door and entered the
room without knocking.

"Excuse my comin' in without knockin'," she said. "I didn't think."

Mrs. Marlow was in the habit of moving about in a noiseless, stealthy
way, and was not a favorite with Rupert or his mother. They felt that
there was something suspicious and underhanded about her.

"What can I do for you, Mrs. Marlow?" asked Mrs. Rollins, civilly.

"I'm all out of matches. Can you give me a few?"

"Certainly."

Mrs. Marlow took the matches, but did not go. She sank into a chair and
grew social.

"And how is the times affectin' you, Mrs. Rollins?" she asked.

"Rupert is out of employment. All he has to depend upon are odd jobs."

Mrs. Marlow darted a curious glance at the bureau drawer in which her
neighbor had deposited the purse.

"It don't make so much difference as long as a body has got money to
fall back upon," she said.

"That is not my condition."

"I'm sorry for it. I surmised you might have money ahead. You're better
off than I am, for I have no boy to work for me."

"If I am better off than anybody," said Mrs. Rollins, with a faint
smile, "I suppose I ought not to complain."

"My! What a nice lot of provisions!" exclaimed Mrs. Marlow, espying for
the first time the open basket. "Sure, you buy things by the quantity."

"That was a present to Rupert from a rich gentleman whose acquaintance
he made."

"It's a nice thing to have rich friends. Rupert, would you mind tellin'
the gentleman that you know a poor widder that would be thankful for his
kind assistance?"

"I don't feel well enough acquainted with Mr. Sylvester for that," said
Rupert, annoyed.

"Sure his name is Sylvester, is it? And where does he live?"

"In Harlem."

"And what's the street and number?"

"I should prefer not to tell you."

"Ah, it's selfish you are. You want to keep him to yourself."

"I don't expect to see him again."

"Then why do you mind tellin' me where he lives?"

"I don't want to annoy him."

Mrs. Marlow turned her attention to his mother.

"Would you mind givin' me a small bit of meat for my supper, you've got
so much?" she said.

Her request was complied with, and she at length left the room.

"What a disagreeable woman!" exclaimed Rupert. "She was prying about all
the time she was here."

"Yes. I don't enjoy her company much, but I can't order her out of the
room."

They had a nice supper, which Mrs. Rollins and Grace enjoyed. Rupert sat
down at the table, but confined himself to a cup of tea, having already
supped at Mr. Sylvester's.

The next day he resumed his hunt for a place, knowing well that his good
luck of the day previous would not take the place of regular employment.
But in dull times searching for a place is discouraging work.

He was indeed offered a position in a drug store up town at three
dollars a week, but there were two objections to accepting it. The small
