Senate or the House?" 

" God forbid ! But I am a man, and those things 
are in the atmosphere; a man's brain accumulates 
naturally all widely diffused impressions. I've been 
a great deal in the smoking-cars of railroad-trains, and 
spent two years in a Western State where a man who 
had taken a fortune out of a mine made no bones 
of buying a seat in the Senate from the Legislature, 
nor the Legislature about selling it. It was the most 
abominable transaction I ever came close to, and had 
as much to do with my leaving the place as anything 
else." 

" And you mean to say that you judge all the old 
States of the country by a newly settled community of 
adventurers out West?" 

" New York and Pennsylvania are notorious." 

" There are bad boys in every school. What I want 
to know is can you assert on your knowledge that 
all the Southern and New England States are corrupt 
and send only small politicians to Washington? This 
is a more serious charge than Molly's assertion that 
they all use toothpicks." 

" I repeat that I do not believe there is an honest 
man in that Capitol." 

" Do you know this ? Have you investigated the 
life of every man in the Senate and the House?" 




 

" What a good district attorney you would make ! " 
" You are talking a lot of copybook platitudes with 
which you have allowed your mind to stagnate. But 
you must convince me, for if what you say is true I 
shall have nothing to do with politics. Let us begin 
with Senator North. How and when did he buy his 
seat, and what Trust does he represent?" 

"Oh, I never have heard anything against North. 
He is too big a gun in Washington " 

" You will admit then that he is not corrupt " 
" I don't doubt he has his own methods " 
" I don't care three cents about your suppositions. 
I want facts. How about Senator Maxwell?" 

" He has been in Congress since before I was born. 
One never hears him discussed." 

" And his Puritanical State has heaped every honor 
on him that it can think of. Tell me the biography of 
Senator Ward all that is too awful to be printed in 
the Congressional Directory " 

"He is from one of those dreadful Northwestern 
States and bound to be corrupt," cried Emory, triumphantly. He wished desperately that he had waited 
and got up his case. He spoke from sincere conviction. " There may be a rag of decency left in the 
older States, but the West is positively fetid. I give 
you my word I am speaking the truth, Betty dear, 
and in your own interest. If I have no more details 
to give you, it is because I promised my father on 
his death-bed that I would have nothing to do with 
politics, and I have kept my word to the extent of 
reading as little about them as possible. But I can 
assure you that I know as much about them as anybody 
not in the accursed business. It is in the air " 



 

" There are so many things in the air that they get 
mixed up. Your whole argument is based on air. 
Now, mon ami, you turn to to-morrow and study up 
the record of every man in that Senate, as well as the 
legislative methods of his State. When you know 
all about it, I shall be delighted to be instructed. 
But I don't want any more air. Now come in to 
dinner, and if you allude to the subject before Molly, 
I'll leave the table." 

He bowed over her hand again with his old-fashioned 
courtesy. " When you issue a command I am bound 
to obey," he said, " and although you have set me 
an unpleasant, an obnoxious task, I certainly shall 
accomplish that also to the best of my ability. You 
belong to this old house, Betty, to this old set ; I love 
to think of you as the last rose on the old Southern 
tree, and you shall not be blighted if I can help it." 

Betty tapped him lightly with her fan. 

" I belong to the whole country, my dear boy ; I 
am no old cabbage rose on a half-dead bush, but the 
same vegetable under a new name, the American 
Beauty Rose. Do you see the parable ? And I've a 
great many thorns on my long stem. Remember that 
also." 



BETTY, in accordance with a time-honored habit, was 
the last to arrive at the dinner-party on the following 
evening. She had arranged her heavy large -waved 
hair low on her neck, and the pale green velvet of 
her gown lifted its dull mahogany hue and the deep 



 



Southern whiteness of her skin. She did not take 
a beautiful picture, for her features had the national 
irregularity, but she seldom entered a room that several 
men did not turn and stare at her. She carried herself 
with the air of one used to commanding the homage 
of men, her lovely coloring was always enhanced 
by dress, and she radiated magnetism. It was such 
an alive, warm, buoyant personality that men turned 
to her as naturally as children do to the maternal 
woman ; even when they did not love her they liked 
to be near her, for she recalled some vague ideal. 
She knew her power perfectly, and after one or two 
memorable lessons had put from her the temptation 
to give it active exercise. It should be the instrument 
of unqualified happiness when her hour came ; mean- 
while she cultivated an impersonal attitude which 
baffled men unable to propose and tempered the 
wind to those that could. 

During the few moments in the drawing-room she 
could gather only a collective impression of the men 
who stared at her to-night. There was a general 
suggestion of weight, in the sculptor's sense, and 
repose combined with alertness, and they stood very 
squarely on their feet. Betty had only had time to 
single out one long beard dependent from a visage 
otherwise shorn, and to observe further that some 
of the women were charmingly dressed, while others 
wore light silk afternoon frocks, when dinner was 
announced. 

Her partner was evidently one of the younger Sena- 
tors, one of those juvenile enthusiasts of forty-five who 
beat their breasts for some years upon the Senate's 
impassive front. He was extremely good-looking, 



 

with a fair strong impatient face, trimmed with a 
moustache only, and a well-built figure full of nervous 
energy. He had less repose than most of the men 
about him, but he suggested the same solidity. He 
might fail or go wrong, but not because there was 
any room in his mind for shams. His name was 
Burleigh, but what his section was, Betty, as they 
exchanged amenities and admired the lavish display 
of flowers, could not determine ; he had no accent 
whatever, and although his voice was deep and sonorous, it had not the peculiar richness of the South. 
His gray eyes smiled as they met hers, and his manners 
were charming; but Betty, accustomed to grasp the 
salient points of character in a first interview, fancied 
that he could be overbearing and truculent. 

"Are they going to talk politics to-night?" she 
asked, when the platitudes had run their course. 

t( I hope not. I 've had enough of politics, all 
day," 

" Oh, I hoped you would," said Betty, in a deeply 
disappointed tone. 

He looked amused. 

"Why?" he asked. 

" Oh, I am so interested. That sounds very vague, 
but I am. When Lady Mary told me she was dining 
members of the two Committees, I thought it was to 
talk politics, and and settle it amicably or something." Betty could look infantile when she chose, 
and was always ready to cover real ignorance with 
an exaggerated assumption which inspired doubt. 

" We have the excessive pleasure of discussing the 
bill in Senator North's comfortable Committee room 
for several hours every few days, and we usually are 



 

amiable. We are merely dining out to-night in each 
other's good company. Still, I guess your desire will 
be more or less gratified. Second nature is strong, 
and one or two will probably get down to it about 
the middle of dinner." 

"You are from New England," exclaimed Betty, 
triumphantly. " I have been waiting for you to say ' I 
reckon ' or < I guess.' " 

" I was born and educated in Maine, but I went 
West to practise law as soon as I knew enough, and I 
am Senator from one of the middle Western States." 

"Ah!" Betty gave him a swift side glance. He 
looked anything but "corrupt," and that truculent 
note in his voice did not indicate subservience to party 
bosses. She determined to write to Jack Emory in the 
morning and command him to look up Senator Burleigh's record at once. 

" I suppose all the Senators here to-night are the 
the big ones?" 

" Oh, no ; North and Ward are the only two on this. 
Committee belonging to the very first rank. The other 
four here are in that group that is pressing close upon 
their heels ; and myself, who am a new member : I 've 
been here four years only. Would you mind telling me 
who you are? Of course American women don't take 
much interest in politics, but do you know as little as 
you pretend?" 

" I wish I knew more ; but I've been abroad for the 
last two years, and my mother prefers rattlesnakes to 
politics. Which is Senator North ? " 

" He is at the head of the table with Lady Mary, but 
that rosebush is in the way ; you cannot see him." 

"And which is Senator Ward? " 



 

" Over there by Mrs. Shattuc, the woman in ivory- 
white and heliotrope." 

Betty flashed him a glance of renewed interest. 
"You like women," she exclaimed. "And you must 
be married, or have sisters." 

" I like women and I am not married, nor have I any 
sisters. I particularly like woman's dress. If you'll 
pardon me, that combination of pale green and white 
lace and soft stuff is the most stunning thing I 've seen 
for a long while." 

" Law, politics, and woman's dress ! How hard you 
must have worked ! " 

" Our strong natural inclinations help us so much ! " 
He gave her an amused glance, and his manner was a 
trifle patronizing, as of a prominent man used to the 
admiration of pretty girls. It was evident that he knew 
nothing of her and her long line of conquests. 

" Senator Ward looks half asleep," she remarked 
abruptly. 

"He usually does until dinner is two-thirds over. 
He is Chairman of one Committee and serving on two 
others; and all have important bills before them at 
present. So he is tired." 

" He doesn't look corrupt." 

" Corrupt ? Who ? Ward ? Who on earth ever said 
he was corrupt? " 

"Well, I heard his State was." 

" ' Corruption ' is the father of more platitudes than 
any word in the American language. There are corrupt 
men in his State, no doubt, and one of the Trusts with 
which we are ridden at present tried to buy its Legislature and put their man in. But Ward won his fight 
without the expenditure of a dollar beyond paying for 



 

the band and a few courtesies of that sort. His State 
is proud of him both as a statesman and a scholar, and 
he is likely to stay in the Senate until he drops in his 
tracks." 
