it seemed to him there was something almost cruel in the motion.
"I cannot force her will. It is as she shall choose."
And seeing Jeanne all eager interest in the doorway of the old cottage,
he knew that she would never choose to shut herself out of the radiant
sunlight.
"Here is the old gift for you, my child;" and he clasped the chain with
its little locket round her neck.
Pani came and looked at it. "Yes, yes," she said. "It was on thy baby
neck, little one. And there are the two letters--"
"It was cruel to prick them in the soft baby flesh," the Sieur said,
smilingly. "I wonder I had the courage. They alone would prove my right.
And now there is no time to waste. Will you make ready--"
"I am not often asked among the quality," and her face turned scarlet.
"I have no fine attire. Wilt thou be ashamed of me?"
She looked so radiant in her girlish beauty, that it seemed to him at
the moment there was nothing more to desire. And the delicious archness
in her tone captivated him anew. Consign her to convent walls--never!
Mam'selle Fleury took charge of Jeanne at once and led her through the
large hall to a side chamber. Not so long ago she was a gay, laughing
girl, now she was a gravely sweet woman, nursing a sorrow.
"It was a sudden summons," she explained. "And we could not expect to
know just when the child grew into a maiden. Therefore you will not feel
hurt, that I, having a wider experience, prepared for the occasion. Let
me arrange your costume now. I had this frock when I was of your age,
though I was hardly as slim. How much you are like your father, child!"
"I think he was a little hurt that I had nothing to honor you with,"
Jeanne said, simply.
"Monsieur Loisel was saying that you needed a woman's hand, now that you
were outgrowing childhood."
She drew off Jeanne's plain gown; and though this was simple for the
fashion of the day, it transformed the child into a woman. The long,
pointed bodice, the square neck, with its bordering of handsome lace,
showing the exquisite throat sloping into the shoulders and chest, the
puffings that fell like waves about the hips and made ripples as they
went down the skirt, the sleeves ending at the elbow with a fall of
lace, and her hair caught up high and falling in a cascade of curls,
tied with a great bow that looked like a butterfly, changed her so that
she hardly knew herself.
"O, Mam'selle, you have made me beautiful!" she cried, in delight. "I
shall be glad to do you honor, and for the sake of M. St. Armand; but my
father would love me in the plainest gown."
Mam'selle smiled over her handiwork. But Jeanne's beauty was her own.
She had grown many shades fairer during the winter, and had not rambled
about so much nor been on the water so often. Her slim figure, in its
virginal lines, was as lissome as the child's, but there was an
exquisite roundness to every limb and it lent flexibility to her
movements. A beautiful girl, Mademoiselle Fleury acknowledged to
herself, and she wondered that no one beside M. St. Armand had seen the
promise in her.
The Sieur Angelot had been presented to the guest so lately returned
from abroad.
"I desire to thank you most heartily, Monsieur St. Armand," M. Angelot
began, "for an unusual interest in my child that I did not know was
living until a few weeks ago. She is most enthusiastic about you.
Indeed, I have been almost jealous."
St. Armand smiled, and bowed gracefully.
"I believe I shall prove to you that I had a right, and, if my discovery
holds good, we are of some distant kin. When I first heard her name a
vague memory puzzled me, and when I went to France I resolved to search
for a family link almost forgotten in the many turns there have been in
the old families in my native land. Three generations ago a Gaston de la
Touchê Angelot gave his life for his religious faith. Those were
perilous times, and there was little chance for freedom of belief."
"He was my grandfather," returned the Sieur Angelot gravely. "We have
been Huguenots for generations. More than one has died for his faith."
"And he was a cousin to my father. I am, as you see, in the generation
before you. And I am glad fate or fortune, as you will, has brought
about this meeting. When I learned this fact I said: 'As soon as I
return to America I shall search out this little girl in Old Detroit and
take her under my care. There will be no one to object, no one who will
have a better right.' I am all curiosity to know how on your side you
made the discovery."
There was a rustle of silken trains in the hall. Madame Fleury entered
in a stiff brocade and a sparkle of jewels, Mam'selle in a softer,
though still elegant attire, and Jeanne, who stood amazed at the eyes
bent upon her; even her father was mute from very surprise.
"Oh, my sweet Jeanne," began M. St. Armand, smilingly, "thou hast
strangely outgrown the little girl I used to know. Memory hath cheated
me in the years. For the child that kept such a warm place in my heart
hath grown into a woman, and not only that, but hath a new friend and
will not need me."
"Monsieur, no one with remembrance in her heart can so easily give up an
old friend who made life brighter and happier for her, and who kindled
the spark of ambition in her soul. I think even my father owes you a
great debt. I might still have been a wild thing, haunting the woods and
waters Indian fashion, and, as one might say, despising civilized life,"
smiling with a bewitching air. "I thank you, Monsieur, for your interest
in me. For it has given me a great deal of happiness, and no doubt saved
me from some foolish mistakes."
She had proffered him her dainty hand at the beginning of her speech,
and now with a charming color she raised her eyes to her father. One
could trace a decided likeness between them.
"Monsieur St. Armand has done still more," subjoined her father. "He has
taken pains while in France to hunt up bygone records, and found that
the families are related. So you have not only a friend but a relative,
and I surely will join you in gratitude."
"I am most happy." She glanced smilingly from one to the other.
Mam'selle Fleury watched her with surprise. The grace, ease, and
presence of mind one could hardly have looked for. "It is in the blood,"
she said to herself, and she wished, too, that she had made herself a
friend of this enchanting girl.
Then they moved toward the dining room. M. Fleury took in Jeanne as the
honored guest, and seated her at his right. The Sieur Angelot was beside
the hostess. The conversation in the nature of the startling incidents
was largely personal and between the two men. Mam'selle Fleury was
deeply interested in the adventures of the Sieur Angelot, detailed with
spirit and vivacity. Jeanne's varying color and her evident pride in her
father was delightful to witness. That he and this elegant St. Armand
should have sprung from the same stock was easy to believe. While the
gentlemen sat over their wine and cigars Mam'selle took Jeanne to the
pretty sitting room that she had once visited with such awe. It was
odorous with the evening dew on the vines outside and the peculiar
fragrance of sweetbrier.
"What an odd thing that you should have been carried off by Indians and
taken to your father's house!" she began. "And this double
marriage--though the Church had annulled your mother's. We have heard of
the White Chief, but no one could have guessed you were his child. It is
said--your mother desires you--" Mam'selle hesitated as if afraid to
trench on secret matters, and not sure of the conclusion.
"She wishes me to go into the convent. But I am not like Berthê Campeau.
I should fret and be miserable like a wild beast in a cage. If she were
ill and needed a nurse and affection, I should be drawn to her. And
then, I am not of the same faith."
"But--a mother--"
"O Mam'selle, she doesn't seem like my mother. My father kissed me and
held me in his arms at once and my whole heart went out to him. I feel
strange and far away from her, and she thinks human love a snare to draw
the soul from God. O Mam'selle, when he has made the world so beautiful
with all the varying seasons, the singing birds and the blooms and the
leaping waters that take on wonderful tints at sunrise and sunset, how
could one be shut away from it all? There is so much to give thanks for
in the wide, splendid world. It must be better to give them with a free,
grateful heart."
"I have had some sorrow, and once I looked toward convent peace with
secret longing. But my mother and father said, 'Wait, we both shall need
thee as we grow older.' There is much good to be done outside. And one
can pray as I have learned. I cannot think human ties are easily to be
cast aside when God's own hand has welded them."
"And she sent me to my father. I feel that I belong to him;" Jeanne
declared, proudly.
"He is a man to be fond of, so gracious and noble. And his island home
is said to be most beautiful."
Jeanne gave an eloquent description of it and the two handsome boys with
their splendid mother. Mam'selle wondered that there was no jealousy in
her young heart. What a charming character she had! Why had not she
taken her up as well, instead of feeling that M. St. Armand's interest
was much misplaced? She might have won this sweet child's affection that
had been lavished upon an old Indian woman. At times she had hungered
for love. Her sister was away, happily married, with babies clinging to
her knees, and the sufficiency of a gratified life.
Jeanne was sitting upon a silken covered stool, her round arm daintily
reclining on the other's knee. The elder bent over and kissed her on the
forehead.
"You belong to love's world," she said.
Then the gentlemen entered. Mam'selle played on the harpsichord, and
there was conversation until it was time to go.
"You will come again," she exclaimed. "I shall want to see you, though I
know what your decision will be, and I think it right. And now will you
keep this gown as a little gift from me? You may want to go elsewhere.
My mother and I will be happy to chaperon you."
Jeanne looked up, wide-eyed and grateful. "Every one has always been so
good to me," she rejoined. "Then I will not take it off. It will be such
a pleasure to Pani. I never thought to look so lovely."
Both gentlemen attended her home, and gave her a tender good night.
Pleasant as the evening was Pani hovered over a handful of fire. Jeanne
threw some fir twigs and broken pieces of birch bark on the coals, and
the blaze set the room in a glow. "Look, Pani!" she cried, and then she
went whirling round the room, her eyes shining, her rose red lips parted
with a laugh.
"It is a spirit." Pani shook her head and her eyes, distended, looked
frightened in the gleam of the fire. "Little Jeanne has gone, has gone
forever."
Yes, little Jeanne had gone. She felt that herself. She was gay, eager,
impetuous, but something new had stolen mysteriously over her.
"Little Jeanne can never go away from you, Pani. Make room in your lap,
so; now put your arms about me. Never mind the gown. Now, am I not your
little one?"
Pani laughed, the soft, broken croon of old age.
"My little one come back," she kept repeating in a delighted tone,
stroking the soft curls.
The next morning M. St. Armand came for a long call. There was so much
to talk over. He felt sorry for the poor mother, but he, too, objected
strenuously to Jeanne being persuaded into convent life. He praised her
for her perseverance in studying, for her improvement under limited
conditions. Then he wondered a little about her future. If he could have
the ordering of it!
That afternoon Father Rameau came for her. A ship was to sail the next
day for Montreal, and her mother would return in it. But when he looked
in the child's eyes he knew the mother would go alone. Had he been
derelict in duty and let this lamb wander from the fold? Father Gilbert
blamed him. Even the mother had rebuked him sharply. Looking into the
child's radiant face he understood that she had no vocation for a holy
life. Was not the hand of God over all his children? There were strange
mysteries no one could fathom. He uttered no word of persuasion, he
could not. God would guide.
To Jeanne it was an almost heart-breaking interview. Impassioned
tenderness might have won, to lifelong regret, but it was duty, the
salvation of her soul always uppermost.
"Still I should not be with you," said Jeanne. "I should take up a
strange life among strangers. We could not talk over the past, nor be
the dearest of human beings to each other--"
"That is the cross," interrupted the mother. "Sinful desires must be
nailed to it."
And all her warm, throbbing, eager life, her love for all human
creatures, for all of God's works.
Jeanne Angelot stood up very straight. Her laughing face grew almost
severe.
"I cannot do it. I belong to my father. You sent me to him once. I--I
love him."
The mother turned and left the room. At that instant she could not trust
herself to say farewell.
CHAPTER XX.
THE LAST OF OLD DETROIT.
The Sieur Angelot was gladly consulted on many points. The British still
retained the command of the Grand Portage on Lake Superior, and the
Ottawa river route to the upper country. By presents and subsidies they
maintained an influence over the savages of the Northwest. The different
Indian tribes, though they might have disputes with each other, were
gradually being drawn together with the desire of once more sweeping the
latest conquerors out of existence.
The fur company endeavored to keep friendly with all, and the Indians
were well aware that much of their support must be drawn from them. The
new governor was expected shortly, and Detroit was to be his home.
The Sieur Angelot advised better fortifications and a larger garrison.
Many points were examined and found weak. The general government had
been appealed to, but the country was poor and could hardly believe, in
the face of all the treaties, there could be danger.
There was also the outcome of the fur trade to be discussed with the
merchants, and new arrangements were being made, for the Sieur was to
return before long.
Jeanne had spent a sorrowful time within her own soul, though she strove
to be outwardly cheerful. June was upon them in all its glory and
richness. Sunshine scattered golden rays and made a clarified atmosphere
that dazzled. The river with rosy fogs in the morning, the quivering
breath of noon when spirals of yellow light shot up, changing tints and
pallors every moment, the softer purplish coloring as the sun began to
drop behind the tree tops, illuminating the different shades of green
and intensifying the birches until one could imagine them white-robed
ghosts. The sails on the river, the rambles in the woods, were Jeanne's
delight once more, and with so charming a companion as M. St. Armand,
her cup seemed full of joy.
At times the thought of her lonely mother haunted her. Yet what a dreary
life it must be that had robbed her of every semblance of youth and set
stern lines in her face, that had uprooted the sweetest human love! How
could she have turned from the husband of her choice, and that husband
so brave and tender a man as Sieur Angelot? For day by day it seemed to
Jeanne that she found new graces and tenderness in him.
Yet she knew she must pain him, too. Only for a brief while, perhaps.
And--there was a curious hesitation about the new home.
"Jeanne," he said one afternoon, when they, too, were lingering idly
about the suburban part of the town, the gardens, the orchards, the long
fields stretching back distantly, here and there a cottage, a nest of
bloom. There were the stolid farmers working in their old-fashioned
methods, there was a sound of strokes in the dusky woods where some men
were chopping that brought faint, reverberating echoes, there was the
humming of bees, the laughter of children. Little naked Indian babies
ran about, the sun making the copper of their skins burnished, squaws
sat with bead work, young fellows were playing games with smooth stones
or throwing at a mark. French women had brought their wheels out under
the shade of some tree, and were making a pleasant whir with the
spinning.
"Jeanne," he began again, "it is time for me to go up North. And I must
take you, my daughter--" looking at her with questioning eyes.
She raised her hand as if to entreat. A soft color wavered over her
face, and then she glanced up with a gentle gravity.
"Oh, my father, leave me here a little longer. I cannot go now;" and her
voice was persuasively sweet.
"Cannot--why?" There was insistence in his tone.
"There is Pani--"
"But we will take Pani. I would not think of leaving her behind."
"She will not go. I have planned and talked. She is no longer strong. To
tear her up by the roots would be cruel. And do you not see that all her
life is wound about me? She has been the tenderest of mothers. I must
give her back some of the care she has bestowed upon me. She has never
been quite the same since I was taken away. She came near to dying then.
Yes, you must leave me awhile."
"Jeanne, my little one, I cannot permit this sacrifice;" and the
tenderness in his eyes smote her.
"Ah, you cannot imagine how I should pine for Detroit and for her. Then
besides--"
A warm color flooded her face; her eyes drooped.
"My darling, can you not trust yourself to my love?"
"There is another to share your love. Oh, believe me, I am not jealous
that one so beautiful and worthy should stand in the place my mother
contemned. She has the right."
"Child, you have wondered how I found the clew to your existence. I have
meant to tell you but there have been so many things intervening. Do you
remember one night she asked your name, after having heard your story?
She had listened to the other side more than once, and, piecing them
together, she guessed--"
Jeanne recalled the sudden change from delight to coldness. Ah, was this
the key?
"The boys were full of enthusiasm over the strange guest, whose eyes
were like their father's. No suspicion struck me. Blue eyes are not so
unusual, though they all have dark ones. Neither was it so strange that
one should be captured by the Indians and escape. But I saw presently
that something weighed heavily on the heart that had always been open as
the day. Now and then she seemed on the point of some confession. I
have large patience, Jeanne, and I waited, since I knew it had nothing
to do with any lack of love towards me. And one night when her secret
