had always seen before. It was something strangely familiar, yet
beautiful and high and clear. Her consciousness was in the midst of a
world of light, at peace; and then, all round her, a brightness stole
upwards as out of a clear and soft horizon, more radiant than the light
itself that was already in the air. And as when evening creeps up to the
sky the stars begin to shine faintly, more guessed at than really seen,
so she began to see heavenly beings, growing more and more distinct, and
she was lifted up among them, and all her heart cried out in joy and
praise. And suddenly the cross shone out in a rosy radiance brighter
than all, and from head to foot and from arm to arm of it the light
flowed and flashed, and joined and passed and parted, in the holy sign.
From itself came forth a melody, in which she was rapt and swept upwards
as though she were herself a wave of the glorious sound. But of the
words, three only came to her, and they were these: Arise and
conquer![1]

[1: A free translation of some passages in the fourteenth canto
of Dante's Paradiso.]

Then all was still and calm again, and she was kneeling at her chair,
the sight still in her inward eyes, the words still ringing in her
heart, but herself awake again.

She knew the vision now that it was past; for often, reading the
matchless verses of the "Paradise," she had intensely longed to see as
the dead poet must have seen before he could write as he wrote. It did
not seem strange that her hope should have been fulfilled at last in the
church of the Holy Cross. Her lips formed the words, and she spoke them,
consciously in her own voice, sweet and low:

"Arise and conquer!"

It was what she had prayed for--the peace, the strength, the knowledge;
it was all in that little sentence. She rose to her feet, and stood
still a moment, and her face was calm and radiant, like the faces of the
heavenly beings she had looked upon. There was a world before her of
which she had not dreamt before, better than that ancient one that had
vanished and in which she had been a Vestal Virgin, more real than that
mysterious one in which she had floated between two existences, and
whence the miserable longing for an earthly body had brought her back to
be Cecilia Palladio, and to fight again her battle for freedom and
immortality.

It mattered little that her prayer should have been answered by the
imagined sight of something described by another, and long familiar to
her in his lofty verse. The prayer was answered, and she had strength to
go on, and she should find wisdom and light to choose the right path.
Henceforth, when she was weak and weary, and filled with loathing of
what she dreaded most, she could shut her eyes as she had done just now,
and pray, and wait, and the transcendent glory of paradise would rise
within her, and give her strength to live, and drive away that power of
evil that hurt her, and made night frightful, and day but a long waiting
for the night.

She came out into the summer glare with the patient Petersen, and
breathed the summer heat as if she were drawing in new life with every
breath; and they drove home, down the long and lonely road that leads to
the new quarter, between dust-whitened trees, and then down into the
city and through the cooler streets, till at last the cab stopped before
the columns of the Palazzo Massimo.

Celia ran up the stairs, as if her light feet did not need to touch them
to carry her upwards, while Petersen solemnly panted after her, and she
went to her own room.

She had a vague desire to change everything in it, to get rid of all the
objects that reminded her of the miserable nights, and the sad hours of
day, which she had spent there; she wanted to move the bed to the other
end of the room, the writing table to the other window, the long glass
to a different place, to hang the walls with another colour, and to
banish the two tall candlesticks for ever. It would be like beginning
her life over again.




                               CHAPTER XVI


After this Cecilia no longer avoided Lamberti; on the contrary, she
sought opportunities of seeing him and of talking with him, for she was
sure that she had gained some sort of new strength which could protect
her against her imagination, till all her old illusions should vanish in
the clear light of daily familiarity. For some time she did not dream of
Lamberti, she believed that the spell was broken, and her fear of
meeting him diminished quickly.

She made her mother ask him to dinner, but he wrote an excuse and did
not come. Then she complained to Guido, and Guido reproached his friend.

"They really wish to know you better," he said. "If the Contessina ever
felt for you quite the same antipathy which you felt for her, she has
got over it. I think you ought to try to do as much. Will you?"

The invitation was renewed for another day, and Lamberti accepted it. In
the evening, in order to give his friend a chance of talking with
Cecilia, Guido sat down by the Countess, and began to discuss matters
connected with the wedding. It would have been contrary to all
established custom that the marriage should take place without a
contract, and that alone was a subject about which much could be said.
Guido insisted that Cecilia should remain sole mistress of her fortune,
and the Countess would naturally have made no objection, but the
Princess had told her, and had repeated more than once, that she
expected Cecilia to bring her husband a dowry of at least a million of
francs. Baron Goldbirn thought this too much, but the Countess was
willing to consent, because she feared that the Princess would make
trouble at the last minute if she did not. Cecilia had of course never
discussed the matter with the Princess, but she was altogether of the
latter's opinion, and told her mother so. The obstacle lay in Guido's
refusal to accept a penny of his future wife's fortune, and on this
point the whole obstinacy of his father's race was roused. The Countess
could manifestly not threaten to break off the engagement because Guido
would not accept the dowry, but on the other hand she greatly feared
Guido's aunt. So there was ample matter for discussion whenever the
subject was broached.

It was a hot evening, and all the curtains were drawn back before the
open windows, only the blinds being closed. Cecilia and Lamberti
gravitated, as it were, to the farther end of the room. A piano stood
near the window there.

"Do you play?" Lamberti asked, looking at the instrument.

He thought that she did. All young girls are supposed to have talent for
music.

"No," Cecilia answered. "I have no accomplishments. Do you play the
piano?"

"Only by ear. I do not know a note of music."

"Play me something. Will you? But I suppose the piano is out of tune,
for nobody ever uses it since we stopped dancing."

Lamberti touched the keys, standing, and struck a few soft chords.

"No," he said. "It is not badly out of tune. But if I play, it will be
the end of our acquaintance."

"Perhaps it may be the beginning," Cecilia answered, and their eyes met
for a moment.

"If it amuses you, I will try," said Lamberti, looking away, and sitting
down before the keys. "You must be easily pleased if you can listen to
me," he added, laughing, as he struck a few chords again.

Cecilia sat down in a low chair between him and the window, at the left
of the key-board. Her mother glanced at Lamberti with a little surprise,
and then went on talking with Guido.

Lamberti began to play a favourite waltz, not loud, but with a good deal
of spirit and a perfect sense of time. Cecilia had often danced to the
tune in the spring, and liked it. He broke off suddenly, and made slow
chords again.

"Have you forgotten the rest?" Cecilia asked.

"No. I was thinking of something else. Did you ever hear this?"

He played an old Sicilian melody with one hand, and then took it up in a
second part, and then a third, that made strange minor harmonies.

"I never heard that," Cecilia said, as he looked at her. "I like it. It
must be very ancient. Play it again."

By way of answer, he began to sing the old song, accompanying himself
with the same old harmonies. He had no particular voice, and it was more
like humming than singing, so far as the tone was concerned, but he
pronounced every word distinctly, and imitated the peculiar intonation
of the southern people to perfection.

"Do you understand?" he asked, when he came to the end.

"Not a word." Cecilia asked, "Is it Arabic? It sounds like it."

"No. It is our own beloved Italian," laughed Lamberti, "only it is the
Sicilian dialect. If that sort of thing amuses you, I can go on for
hours."

Many Italians have the facility he possessed, and the good memory for
both words and music, and he had unconsciously developed what talent he
had, in places where time was long and there was nothing to do. He
changed the key and hummed a little Arab melody from the desert.

Cecilia sat quite still and watched the outline of his head against the
light. It was an energetic head, but the face was not a cruel one, and
this evening she had not seen what she called the ruthless look in his
eyes. She was not at all afraid of him now, nor would she have been even
if they had been quite alone in the room. She almost wished to tell him
so, and then smiled at the thought.

So this was the reality of the vision that had haunted her dreams and
had caused her such unutterable suffering until she had found strength
to break the habit of her imagination. The reality was not at all
terrible. She could imagine the man roused to action, fighting for his
life, single-handed against many, as she had been told that he had
fought. He looked both brave and strong. But she could not imagine that
she should ever have cause to be afraid of him again. There he sat,
beside her, humming snatches of songs he remembered from his many
voyages, his hands moving not at all gracefully over the keys; he was
evidently a very simple and good-natured man, willing to do anything
that could amuse her, without the slightest affectation. He was just the
kind of friend for Guido, and it was her duty to like Guido's friend. It
would not be hard, now that she had got out of the labyrinth of absurd
illusions that had made it impossible. She resolutely put aside the
recollection of that afternoon at the Villa Madama. It belonged to the
class of things about which she was determined never to think again.
"Arise and conquer!" She had come back to her real self, and had
overcome.

He stopped singing, but his hands still lay on the keys and he struck
occasional chords; and he turned his face half towards her, and spoke in
an undertone.

"I am very sorry if I offended you by not coming more often to your
house," he said. "Guido told me. I thought perhaps you would understand
why I did not come."

Cecilia looked at him and was silent for a moment, but she felt very
strong and sure of herself.

"Signor Lamberti," she said presently, "I want to ask you to do
something--for me."

There was a little emphasis on the last word. He turned quite towards
her now, but he still made chords on the instrument, for he knew that
the Countess had extraordinary ears. His impulse was to tell her that he
would do anything she asked of him, no matter how hard it might be; but
he controlled it.

"Certainly," he answered. "What is it?"

"Forget that we met in the Forum, and forget what we said to each other
at the garden party. Will you? It was all a coincidence, of course, but
I behaved very foolishly, and I do not like to think that you remember
it. Will you try and forget it all?"

"I will try," Lamberti answered, looking down at the keys. "At all
events, I can promise never to remind you of it, as I did just now."

"That is what I meant," Cecilia said. "Let us never remind each other of
it. Of course we cannot really forget, in our own selves, but we can
begin again from the beginning, this evening, as if it had never
happened. We can be real friends, as we ought to be."

"Can we?" Lamberti asked the question in a doubtful tone, and glanced
uneasily at her.

"I can, if you can," she answered courageously, "and I mean to be."

"Then I can, too," Lamberti said, but his lips shut tightly as if he
regretted the words as soon as they were spoken.

"It will be easy, now," Cecilia went on. "It will be much easier
because----" She stopped.

"Why will it be so much easier?" Lamberti asked, looking down again.

"We were not going to speak of those things again," Cecilia said. "We
had better not begin."

"I only ask that one question. Tell me why it will be easier now. It may
help me to forget."

"It will be easier--because I do not dream of you any more--I mean of
the man who is like you." She was blushing faintly, but she knew that he
would not look at her, and she was sitting in the shadow.

"On what day did you stop dreaming?" he asked, between two chords.

"It was last week. Let me see. It was a Wednesday. On Wednesday night I
did not dream." He nodded gravely over the keys, as if he had expected
the answer.

"Did you ever read anything about telepathy?" he asked. "I did not dream
of you on Wednesday night either. It seemed to me that I tried to find
you and could not."

"Were you trying to find me before?" Cecilia asked, as if it were the
most natural question in the world.

"Yes. In my dreams I almost always found you. There was a break--I
forget when. The old dream about the house of the Vestals stopped
suddenly. Then I missed you and tried to find you. You were always
sitting on that bench by the fountain in the villa. Last Wednesday I
dreamt I was there, but you did not come."

Cecilia shuddered, as if the night air from the open window chilled her.

"Are you cold?" he asked. "Shall I shut the window?"

"No, I was frightened," she answered. "We must never talk about all that
again. Do you know, I think it is wrong to talk about them. There is
some power of evil----"

"I do not deny the existence of the devil at all," Lamberti answered,
with a faint smile. "But I think this is only a strange case of
telepathy. I will do as you wish; though my own belief is, after this
evening, that it is better to talk about it all quite fearlessly, and
grow used to it. We shall be much less afraid of it if we look upon it
