still with her hand on the latoh, as if she had forgotten 
something. She was not a woman of sudden intuitions 
nor much given to acting on impulses, and when a new 
idea crossed her mind she almost always paused to 
think it over, no matter what she chanced to be doing. 
It was as if she had accidentally run against something 
which stunned her a little. 

" What is it ? " asked Sabina, very naturally. 

The Baroness beckoned silently to her, and she 
rose. 

"Only one moment, Signor Malipieri," said the 
Baroness, apologizing for leaving him alone. 

"When she and Sabina were out of the room, she shut 
the door and went on a few paces before speaking. 





"My husband has telephoned that he cannot leave 
the Senate," she said. 

" Well? " Sabina did not understand. 

"But Malipieri has come expressly to see him." 

" He can see him at the Senate," suggested Sabina. 

"But I have asked Malipieri to stay to luncheon. 
If I tell him that my husband is not coming, perhaps 
he will not stay after all." 

" Perhaps not," echoed Sabina with great calmness. 

" You do not seem to care," said the Baroness. 

" Why should I ? " 

" I thought you liked him. I thought it would 
amuse you if he lunched with us." 

Sabina looked at her with some curiosity. 

" Did you tell the Baron that Signor Malipieri is 
here ? " she asked carelessly. 

" No," answered the Baroness, looking away. " As 
my husband said he could not come to luncheon, it 
seemed useless." 

Sabina understood now, and smiled. This was the 
direct consequence of the talk which had preceded 
Malipieri's coming ; the Baroness had at once con- 
ceived the idea of marrying her to Malipieri. 

" What shall we do ? " asked the Baroness. 

" Whatever you think best," answered Sabina, with 
sudden meekness. " I think you ought at least to 
tell Signor Malipieri that the Baron is not coming. 
He may be in a hurry, you know. He may be wasting 
time." 

The Baroness smiled incredulously. 



 

" My dear," she said, " if he had been so very anxious 
to see my husband, he would have gone to the Senate 
first. It is near the palace." 

She said no more, but led the way back to the 
morning room, while Sabina reflected upon the possible 
truth of the last suggestion, and wondered whether 
Malipieri had really made his visit for the sake of 
exchanging a few words with her rather than in order 
to see Volterra. The Baroness spoke to him as she 
opened the door. 

"My husband has not come yet," she said. "We 
will not wait for him." 

She rang the bell to order luncheon, and Malipieri 
glanced at Sabina's face, wondering what the Baroness 
had said to her, for it was not reasonable to suppose 
that the two had left the room in order to consult in 
secret upon the question of waiting for Volterra. But 
Sabina did not meet his look, and her pale young face 
was impenetrably calm, for she was thinking about 
what she had just discovered. She was as certain 
that she knew what had passed in the Baroness's 
thoughts, as if the latter had spoken aloud. The 
knowledge, for it amounted to that, momentarily 
chased away the recollection of what Malipieri had 
said. 

It was rather amusing to be looked upon as mar- 
riageable, and to a man she already knew. Her 
mother had often talked to her with cynical frankness, 
telling her that she was to make the best match that 
could be obtained for her, naming numbers of young men 





she had never seen and assuring her that likes and 
dislikes had nothing to do with matrimony. They 
came afterwards, the Princess said, and it generally 
pleased Providence to send a mild form of aversion as 
the permanent condition of the bond. But Sabina 
had never believed her mother, who had cheated her 
when she was a child, as many foolish and heartless 
women do, promising rewards which were never given, 
and excursions which were always put off and little 
joys which always turned to sorrows less little by 
far. 

Moreover, her sister Clementina had told her that 
there was only one way to treat the world, and that 
was to leave it with the contempt it deserved ; and 
she had heard her brother tell his wife in one of his 
miserable fits of weakly brutal anger that marriage 
was hell, and nothing else ; to which the young prin- 
cess had coldly replied that he was only where he 
deserved to be. Sabina had not been brought up 
with the traditional pious and proper views about 
matrimony, and if she did not think even worse of it, 
the merit was due to her own nature, in which there 
was much good and hardly any real evil. 

But she could not escape from a little inherited and 
acquired cynicism either, and while Malipieri chatted 
quietly during luncheon, an explanation of the whole 
matter occurred to hef which was not pleasant to 
contemplate. The story about the treasure might or 
might not be true, but he believed in it, and so did 
Volterra. The Baron was therefore employing him 



 

to discover the prize. But Malipieri showed plainly 
that he wished her to possess it, if it were ever found, 
and perhaps he meant it to be her dowry, in which 
case it would come into his own hands if he could 
marry her. This was ingenious, if it was nothing 
else, and though Sabina felt that there was something 
mean about it, she resented the idea that he should 
expect her to think him a model of generosity when 
she hardly knew him. 

She was therefore very quiet, and looked at him 
rather coldly when he spoke to her, but the Baroness 
put this down to her admirably correct manners, and 
was already beginning to consider how she could 
approach Malipieri on the subject of his marrying 
Sabina. She was quite in ignorance of the business 
which had brought him and her husband together, as 
Sabina now knew from many remarks she remembered. 
Volterra was accustomed to tell his wife what he had 
been doing when the matter was settled, and she had 
long ago given up trying to make him talk of his 
affairs when he chose to be silent. 

On the whole, so far as Sabina was concerned, the 
circumstances were not at first very favourable to the 
Baroness's newly formed plan on this occasion, though 
she did not know it. On the other hand, Malipieri 
discovered before luncheon was over, that Sabina in- 
terested him very much, that she was much prettier 
than he had realized at his first meeting with her, and 
that he had unconsciously thought about her a good 
deal in the interval. 



CHAPTER VIII 

Malipieri was convinced before long that his doings 
interested some one who was able to employ men to 
watch him, and he connected the fact with Bruni's 
visit. He was not much disturbed by it, however, and 
was careful not to show that he noticed it at all. Nat- 
urally enough, he supposed that his short career as a 
promoter of republican ideas had caused him to be re- 
membered as a dangerous person, and that a careful 
ministry was anxious to know why he lived alone in a 
vast palace, in the heart of Rome, knowing very few 
people and seeing hardly any one except Volterra. 
The Baron himself was apparently quite indifferent to 
any risk in the matter, and yet, as a staunch monarch- 
ist and supporter of the ministry then in office, it might 
have been expected that he would not openly associate 
with the monarchy's professed enemies. That was his 
affair, as Malipieri had frankly told him at the begin- 
ning. For the rest, the young architect smiled as he 
thought of the time and money the government was 
wasting on the supposition that he was plotting against 
it, but it annoyed him to find that certain faces of men 
in the streets were becoming familiar to him, quiet, 
blank faces of respectable middle-aged men, who always 
avoided meeting his eyes, and were very polite in stand- 
no 



 

ing aside to let him pass them on the pavement. There 
were now three whom he knew by sight, and he saw 
one of them every time he went out of the house. He 
knew what that meant. He had not the smallest doubt 
but that all three reported what they saw of his move- 
ments to Signor Vittorio Bruni, every day, in some par- 
ticularly quiet little ofBce in one of the government 
buildings connected with the Ministry of the Interior. 
It troubled him very little, since he was quite innocent 
of any political machinations for the present. 

He had determined from the first not to employ any 
workmen to help him unless it should be absolutely 
necessary. He was strong and his practical experience 
in Carthage had taught him the use of pick and crow- 
bar. Masin was equal to two ordinary men for such 
work, and could be trusted to hold his tongue. 

Malipieri told the porter that he was exploring the 
foundations before attempting to strengthen them, and 
from time to time he gave him a little money. At first 
the old man offered to call Toto, who had always served 
the house, he said ; but Malipieri answered that no help 
was needed in a mere preliminary exploration, and that 
another man would only be in the way. He made no 
secret of the fact that he was working with his own 
hands, however. Every morning, he and his servant 
went down into the north-west cellars by a winding 
staircase that was entered from a passage between the 
disused stables and the empty coach-house. Like every 
large Roman palace, the Palazzo Conti had two arched 
entrances, one of which had never been opened except 





on important occasions, when the carriages that drove 
in on the one side drove out at the other after their 
owner had alighted. This second gate was at the west 
end of the court, not far from the coach-house. To 
reach their work Malipieri and Masin had to go down 
the grand staircase and pass the porter's lodge. Masin 
wore the rough clothes of a working mason and Mali- 
pieri appeared in overalls and a heavy canvas jacket. 
Very soon the garments of both were so effectually 
stained with mud, green mould and water that the two 
men could hardly have been distinguished from ordi- 
nary day labourers, even in broad daylight. 

They began work on the very spot at which the snuffy 
little expert had stopped to listen to the water. It was 
evidently out of the question to break through the wall 
at the level of the cellar floor, for the water could be 
heard running steadily through its hidden channel, and 
if this were opened the cellars might be completely 
flooded. Besides, Malipieri knew that the water might 
rise unexpectedly to a considerable height. 

It was therefore best to make the opening as high as 
possible, under the vault, which at that point was not 
more than ten feet from the ground. The simplest 
plan would have been to put up a small scaffolding on 
which to work, but there was no timber suitable for 
the purpose in the cellar, and Malipieri did not wish to 
endanger the secrecy of his operations by having any 
brought down. He therefore set to work to excavate 
an inclined aperture, like a tunnel, which began at a 
height of about five feet and was intended to slope 



 

upwards so as to reach the interior chamber at the 
highest point practicable. 

It was very hard work at first, and it was not un- 
attended by danger. Masin declared at the outset that 
it was impracticable without blasting. The wall ap- 
peared to be built of solid blocks of travertine stone, 
rough hewn on the face but neatly fitted together. It 
would take two men several days to loosen a single 
one of these blocks, and if they finally succeeded in 
