power by which he earns his bread, are things 
so entirely distinct that they may not occur together 
at all! The man may have both, but then again 
he may only have the former. — And in that case 
he will die like a poisoned rat in a hole. 

What is the first principle of the democracy 
of which we boast, if it be not that excellence, 
that power, that Genius, is not the attribute of 
the rich or the nable, but that it may make its ap- 
pearance anywhere among men? And you who 
sigh for men of talent to raise American letters 
— what do you do about it? I will tell you some- 
thing right now, to begin with; it will startle you, 
perhaps, and you may not believe it; but I mean 
to prove it later on. For the present I say this: 
that of the seven poets who constitute the glory 
of the literature of England in the nineteenth 
century, four of them were rich men, five of them 
were independent, one of them was endowed 
when he was a youth, and the seventh, the 
greatest of them all, died like a poisoned rat 
in a hole. 







And what do you do about it? What you do 
is to lean back in your chair and say : " The Uter- 
ary market was never so wide-awake as it is now, 
and the publishers never so anxious for new tal- 
ent"! 

Fools ! And you think that the publishers are 
in business for the developing of talent, and for 
the glory of literature! And that they care about 
whether a man of Genius dies in the streets, or 
not! Why, have I not heard them tell me, with 
their own lips, that " a publisher who published 
books that the trade did not want would be 
driven out of business in a year"? 

And you tell me that the author is an inde- 
pendent man nowadays! And can earn his liv- 
ing with his books! 

It is your privilege to think that, if you 
choose; but perhaps you will not mind hearing 
what I tell you — that the author can find no way 
to a living more degrading to him than the earn- 
ing of it with his books. I have shoveled snow, 
and shoveled manure too, in the streets, and 
shoveled food for swine in a restaurant.. But I 



never did anything so degrading as I should have 
had to do if I had tried to earn my Hving with 
my books. 

Oh, the author may be independent, may he! 
And you will escape with that fine platitude, 
and with that bitter mockery ! And never think 
that the author's independence is but the fine 
phrase for your own indifference! 

Again it is your privilege to think what you 
choose; but again perhaps you will not mind 
hearing what I tell you — that there can never 
be any man in this world more dependent than 
an author, if he be a true author. A true au- 
thor is the singer and dreamer of society; and 
who is there more dependent than the singer 
and the dreamer — who is there less powerful and 
less cunning in the things of the body? 

Why, the author gives up his whole life for 
your joy and help, he consecrates himself, he 
lashes and burns and tortures himself — for your 
sake! And you spurn him from you, and tell 
him he is "independent "! 

Here is the truth, here is the crux, here is the 
whole thing in" a sentence.-- A publisher is hot in 





business for the furtherance of Art, or for the up- 
lifting of humanity, or for the worship of God. 
He doesn't mind doing these things incidentally, 
of course, when the fortunate occasion arises; 
but do you think if he had his choice between 
publishing a new Paradise Lost to be read fifty 
years from date, and publishing a biography of 
a reigning prince, or a treatise on gastronomy, 
or a new dime novel by Marie Corelli in a first 
edition of a hundred thousand copies — do you 
think he would hesitate, now really? 

You say that " literary excellence is identical 
with publishing availability"! I tell you that 
they are as far apart — why, that they are just 
exactly this far apart — as far as what mankind 
likes is from what mankind ought to like. 

And you ask the man of Genius to cringe 
and tremble before the standard of what the 
reading public likes! You ask him to tame the 
frenzy of his inspiration, to pull your pleasure- 
carriages with his winged steed! He shall be no 
more the seer and the prophet and the leader — 
he shall be mountebank and public-entertainer. 

And you call yourself civilized! O God! 

And the poet! Again the poet! Is he not 


vital to your society? Is he not, in the last analy- 
sis, the lawmaker, the law-enforcer — this seeker, 
this inspirer, this man with the new vision of 
right? I look at this society — body enough I 
see, bone and muscle, and a good, large, capable 
stomach. Brain enough I see, too, or nearly 
enough; but Soul? Soul? Who will dare to tell 
me that there is Soul enough? And your poet — 
why, he is your Soul! He is the man who fills the 
millions with the breath of life, who makes the 
whole vast machine a living, rejoicing, beautiful 
thing. He — every noble impulse that you have 
has come originally from him — the memory of 
his words thrill in the hearts of men — pupils 
gather to study them — tired hearts seek them for 
refreshment — they grow and they fill all the 
earth — and never through the centuries do they 
die! They blossom into noble impulses, into new 
movements, — into reforms that reach down to 
the lowest wretches of the gutter, who never 
even heard of a poet. Why, they have reached 
to the very dogs, that are beaten less than they 
were. 

And what is it that makes civilization in the 
end? What is it that the world really honors in 

the end? You Americans, you who love your 
country, you who believe in your country's insti- 
tutions, who believe that your country holds in 
her womb the future of mankind ! You who want 
the world to believe that! — how are you going to 
get the world to believe that? Is it — poor, im- 
potent, foolish creatures — by covering your land 
until it is a maze of twenty-story office buildings? 
By lining it with railroads six feet apart? — Do you 
not know that this very hour the reason why Eu- 
rope does not believe in America is that it has 
not a man to sing its Soul? That it has been a 
century in the eyes of the world, and has not yet 
brought forth one single poet or thinker of the 
first rank? 

The poet! And I sought to be that man, 
my heart burned to sing that song! And look 
at me! 

Who will dare to say that I might not have 
sung it? What chance have I had — have I not 
been handicapped and stunted, beaten and dis- 
couraged, punished as if I had been a loafer — by 
you, the world? Here I am — I am only a boy — 
and thrilling with unutterable things! And I am 
going: down,- down to destruction! Why, for 

what I had to say I needed years and years to 
ripen; and how can I tell now — how can any 
man tell now — what those things would have 
been? 

And I — what am I? — a worm, an atom! But 
what happens to me to-day may happen to an- 
other to-morrow, and may happen to a hundred 
in a century. And who knows? — who cares? 

'hat do you do with your railroad presi- 
dents? You take good care that they get their 
work done, don't you? They have secretaries to 
catch every word, they have private cars to carry 
them where they would go, men to run and serve 
them, to make smooth their paths and save their 
every instant for them ! But your poet, your man 
of genius — who makes smooth his paths, who 
helps himf He needs nobody to run and serve 
him — he needs no cars and no palaces, no gold 
and precious raiment — no, nor even praise and 
honor! What he needs — I have said it once — 
he needs but to be left alone, to listen to the 
voices of his soul, and to have some one bring 
him food to keep him alive while he does it. That 
— only that! — think of it — for the most precious 
things of this life, the things that alone save- this- 
life from being a barren mockery and a grinning 
farce! And he can not have them — and you, you 
enlightened society, you never care about it, you 
never think of it! 

If he comes a master, he can force his way; 
or if he be rich, or if some one honor him, then 
he can live his life and heed nothing. But when 
he is poor! And when he is weak ! And when he 
is young! God help him, God help him! — for 
you, you great savage world, you crush him. 

You send him to the publishers! And he is 
young, and crude, and inexperienced! He has 
not found himself, he has not found his voice, 
he stammers, he falters, he is weak! And you 
send him to the publishers ! 

I have said it once, I say it again: that the 
publisher is part of the world and his law is a 
law of iron — he publishes the books that will 
sell. And this feeble voice, this young love, this 
tender aspiration, this holy purpose — oh, it is a 
thing to make one shudder! 

And these things higher yet, these things 
so precious that we dare not whisper them — this 
new awe of righteousness — this new rage at what 
the world loves best — this flash of insight that 
will astound a new age! 

You send it all to the publisher! 

But what can you do? I will tell you what 
you can do — I will tell you what you will do when 
you come finally to honor what is truly precious 
in this life — when you are really civilized and en- 
lightened — when you really believe in and value 
Genius. 

You will provide it that your young poet, 
your young worshiper, come elsewhere to receive 
a judgment than to the money-making publisher, 
and to the staring, vulgar crowd. You will pro- 
vide it that he does not measure his voice against 
the big-drum thumping of the best-selling pom- 
posities of the hour. You will provide it that he 
come, with all honor and all dignity, to the best 
and truest men that you can engage for the serv- 
ice; and that he come to be judged by one stand- 
ard, and that not the standard of sales. Whether 
it be true, whether it be noble, whether it be sin- 
cere; whether it show imagination, whether it 
have melody, beauty, love, aspiration, knowl- 






edge; whether, in short, in those forms or in 
any other forms, it have power! Whether the 
man who wrote it is a man worth training, 
whether he will repay society for its trust, 
whether he will bring new beauty into the world! 
— And then, if these things be true, so long as 
he works, and grows, and proves his value, so 
long shall he have the pittance that he needs until 
he be the master of his voice. 

Yes, you never thought of that before! I 
read everything — everywhere — and I never 
heard it before. And what does that tell about 
the poverty and blindness and stupidity of this 
world? Are we not rich enough? Are we not 
the richest nation in the world? Have we not 
railroads and houses, food and clothing and bank- 
stocks enough to make the brain reel? And do 
we not call ourselves a Christian land? And wor- 
ship as divine the Teacher who said that " man 
shall not live by bread alone, but by every word 
that proceedeth out of the mouth of God "? 

Oh, you world! 

And what would it do? What would it mean ? 
I will tell you a few things that it would mean. 


First of all it would mean that the man who 
felt in him the voice of God would know that 
there was a road he could travel, would know 
that there was a home for him. He would no 
longer face the fearful alternative of mediocrity 
or starvation. He would no longer be tempted, 
