:nents his impression was composed ; but he none the 

felt, as he sat with the charming girl, the signal 

wth of a confidence. For she was charming, when all 

  said — and none the less so for the visible habit and 

ractice of freedom and fluency. She was charming, he 

1'  aware, in spite of the fact that if he hadn't found her 

he would have found her something he should have 

 n in peril of expressing as " funny." Yes, she was 

nny, wonderful Mamie, and without dreaming it ; she 

as bland, she was bridal — with never, that he could make 

it as yet, a bridegroom to support it ; she was handsome 




and portly and easy and chatty, soft and sweet and almosti 
disconcertingly reassuring. She was dressed, if we mightl 
so far discriminate, less as a young lady than as an oldl 
one — had an old one been supposable to Strether as soi 
committed to vanity ; the complexities of her hair missed 
moreover also the looseness of youth ; and she had a 
mature manner of bending a little, as to encourage and 
reward, while she held neatly together in front of her a 
pair of strikingly polished hands: the combination of all! 
of which kept up about her the glamour of her " receiv- ; 
ing," placed her again perpetually between the windows' 
and within sound of the ice-cream plates, suggested the' 
enumeration of all the names, all the Mr. Coxes and   
Mr. Coleses, gregarious specimens of a single type, she 
was happy to " meet." ' 

But if all this was where she was funny, and if what wa; 1 
funnier than the rest was the contrast between her beautifu 
benevolent patronage — such a hint of the polysyllabic a 
might make her something of a bore toward middle age— 
and her rather flat little voice, the voice, naturally, un 
affectedly yet, of a girl of fifteen ; so Strether, none th' 
less, at the end of ten minutes, felt in her a quiet dignit; 
that pulled things bravely together. If quiet dignity, almos 
more than matronly, with voluminous, too voluminou 

(  clothes, was the effect she proposed to produce, that wa 
an ideal one could like in her when once one had got int 
relation. The great thing now, for her visitor, was tha 
this was exactly what he had done ; it made so extra 
ordinary a mixture of the brief and crowded hour. It wa 
the mark of a relation that he had begun so quickly t 
find himself sure she was, of all people, as might hav 
been said, on the side and of the party of Mrs. Newsome' 

  original ambassador. She was in /it's interest, and not 
Sarah's ; and some sign of that was precisely what he ha 
been feeling in her, these last days, as imminent. Final  
placed, in Paris, in immediate presence of the situatio 
and of the hero of it — by whom Strether was incapable c 
meaning anyone but Chad — she had accomplished, an 
really in a manner all unexpected to herself, a change c 
base ; deej), still things had come to pass within her, an 
by the time she had grown sure of them Strether hal( 





become aware of the little drama. When she knew where 
she was, in short, he had made it out ; and he made it out 
at present still better, though with never a direct word 
passing between them all the while on the subject of his 
own predicament. There had been at first, as he sat there 
with her, a moment during which he wondered if she 
meant to break ground in respect to his prime undertaking. 
That door stood so strangely ajar that he was half pre- 
pared to be conscious, at any juncture, of her having, of 
someone's having, quite bounced in. But, friendly, familiar, 
light of touch and happy of tact, she exquisitely stayed 
out ; so that it was, for all the world, as if to show she 
could deal with him without being reduced to — well, to 
scarcely anything. 

It fully came up for them then, by means of their talking 
of everything but Chad, that Mamie, unlike Sarah, unlike 
Jim, knew perfectly what had become of him. It fully 
came up that she had taken to the last fraction of an inch 
the measure of the change in him, and that she wanted 
Strether to know what a secret she proposed to make of 
it. They talked most conveniently — as if they had had 
no chance yet — about Woollett, and that had virtually 
the effect of their keeping the secret more close. The 
hour took on for Strether, little by little, an odd, sad 
sweetness of savour ; he had such a revulsion in Mamie's 
favour and on behalf of her social value as might have 
come from remorse at some early injustice. She made 
him, as under the breath of some vague western whifif, 
homesick and freshly restless ; he could really, for the 
time, have fancied himself stranded with her, on a far 
shore, during an ominous calm, in a quaint community of 
shipwreck. Their little interview was like a picnic on a 
. coral strand ; they passed each other, with melancholy 
smiles and looks sufficiently allusive, such cupfuls of water 
as they had saved. Especially sharp in Strether, mean- 
.; while, was the conviction that his companion really knew, 
I as we have hinted, where she had come out. It was at a 
,; very particular place — only that she would never tell him ; 
i it would be above all what he should have to puzzle for 
himself. This was what he hoped for, because his interest 
in the girl wouldn't be complete without it. No more 





would the appreciation to which she was entitled — so 
assured was he that the more he saw of her process the . 
more he should see of her pride. She saw, herself, every- I 
thing ; but she knew what she didn't want, and this it was 
that had helped her. What didn't she want ? — there was 
a pleasure lost for her old friend in not yet knowing, as 
there would doubtless be a thrill in getting a glimpse. 
Gently and sociably she kept that dark to him, and it was 
as if she soothed and beguiled him in other ways to 
compensate him. She aired for him her impression of 
Mme. de Vionnet — of whom she had "heard so much"; 
she threw off her impression of Jeanne, whom she had been il 
" dying to see " ; she produced it with a blandness by 
which her auditor was really stirred that she had been : 
with Sarah early that very afternoon, and after dreadful 
delays caused by all sorts of things, mainly, eternally, 
by the purchase of clothes — clothes that unfortunately   
wouldn't be themselves eternal — to call in the Rue de  
Bellechasse.   

At the sound of these names Strether almost blushed to s 
feel that he couldn't have sounded them first — and yet 
couldn't either have justified his squeamishness. Mamie ! 
made them easy as he couldn't have begun to do, and yet ; 
it could only have cost her more than he should ever have ' 
had to spend. It was as friends of Chad's — friends special, 
distinguished, desirable, enviable — that she spoke of them, 
and she beautifully carried it off that, much as she had I 
heard of them, though she didn't say how or where, 
which was a- touch of her own, she had found them   
beyond her supposition. She abounded in their praise, 
and after the manner of Woollett — which made the manner ! 
of Woollett a lovable thing again to Strether. He had 
never so felt the true inwardness of it as when his bloom- 1 
ing companion pronounced the elder of the ladies of the 
Rue de Bellechasse too fascinating for words, and declared 
of the younger that she was perfectly ideal — a real little I 
miracle of charm. " Nothing," she said of Jeanne, " ought 
ever to happen to her — she's so awfully right as she is. 
Another touch will spoil her — so she oughtn't to de I 
touched." ! 

" Ah, but things here in Paris," Strether observed, " do I 





happen to little girls." And then for the joke's and the 
occasion's sake, " Haven't you found that yourself?" 

"That things happen ? Oh, I'm not a little girl. 

I'm a big, battered, blowsy one. / don't care," Mamie 
laughed, " ivhat happens." 

Strether had a pause while he wondered if it mightn't 
happen that he should give her the pleasure of hearing 
from him that he found her nicer than he had really 
dreamed — a pause that ended when he had said to himself 
that, so far as it at all mattered for her, she had in fact 
perhaps already made this out. He risked accordingly 
a different question, though conscious, as soon as he had 
spoken, that he seemed to place it in relation to her last 
speech. " But that Mile, de Vionnet is to be married — I 
suppose you've heard of that  

For all, he then found, he need fear ! " Dear, yes ; the 
gentleman was there — M. de Montbron, whom Mme. de 
Vionnet presented to us." 

" And was he nice ? " 

Mamie bloomed and bridled with her best reception 
manner. " Any man's nice when he's in love." 

It made Strether laugh. " But is M. de Montbron in 
love — already — with you ?" 

" Oh, that's not necessary — it's so much better he should 
be so with her: which, thank goodness, I lost no time 
in discovering for myself. He's perfectly gone — and I 
couldn't have borne it for her if he hadn't been. She's just 
too sweet." 

Strether hesitated. " And through being in love too   " 

On which, with a smile that struck him as wonderful, 
Mamie had a wonderful answer. " She doesn't know if she 
is or not." 

It made him again laugh out. " Oh, but you do ? " 

She was willing to take it that way. " Oh yes, I know 
everything." And as she sat there rubbing her polished 
hands and making the best of it — only holding her elbows 
perhaps a little too much out — the momentary effect for 
Strether was that everyone else, in all their affair, seemed 
stupid. 

" Know that poor little Jeanne doesn't know what's the 
matter with her ? " 





It was as near as they came to saying that she was 
probably in love with Chad ; but it was quite near enough 
for what Strether wanted, which was to be confirmed in his 
certitude that, whether in love or not, she appealed to 
something large and easy in the girl before him. Mamie  
would be fat, too fat, at thirty ; but she would always be  
the person who, at the present sharp hour, had been dis- 
interestedly tender. " If I see a little more of her — as 
I hope I shall — I think she'll like me enough (for she li 
seemed to like me to-day), to want me to tell her." 

" And s/iall you ? " 

" Perfectly. I shall tell her the matter with her is that 
she wants only too much to do right. To do right, for her, I 
naturally," said Mamie, " is to please." n 

" Her mother, do you mean ? "  ! 

"Her mother first." 

Strether waited. "And then?" I 

" Well, ' then '—Mr. Newsome." ! 

There was something really grand for him in the serenity j  
of this reference. " And last only M. de Montbron ? " i, 

" Last only" — she good-humouredly kept it up.   

Strether considered. " So that everyone, after all then, 
will be suited?" 

She had one of her few hesitations, but it was a question 
only of a moment ; and it was her nearest approach to 
being explicit with him about what was between them. ; 
" I think I can speak for myself / shall be." : 

It said indeed so much, told such a story of her being 
ready to help him, so committed to him that truth, in : 
short, for such use as he might make of it toward those  
ends of his own with which, patiently and trustfully, she 
had nothing to do — it so fully achieved all this that he 
appeared to himself simply to meet it in its own spirit  
by the last frankness of admiration. Admiration was I 
of itself almost accusatory, but nothing less would serve 
to show her how nearly he understood. He put out his 
hand for good-bye with a " Splendid, splendid, splendid ! " 
And he left her, with her splendour, still waiting for little I 
Bilham. 



PART TENTH 



XXV 

HE occupied, next this appreciated youth, three even- 
ings after his interview with Mamie Pocock, the 
same deep divan they had enjoyed together on the first 
occasion of our friend's meeting Mme. de Vionnet and her 
daughter in the apartment of the Boulevard Malesherbes, 
where his position affirmed itself again as ministering to an 
easy exchange of impressions. The present evening had a 
different stamp ; if the company was much more numerous, 
so, inevitably, were the ideas set in motion. It was on the 
other hand, however, now strongly marked that the talkers 
moved, in respect to such matters, round an inner, a pro- 
tected circle. They knew, at any rate, what really con- 
cerned them to-night, and Strether had begun by keeping 
