"Yes." 
"She's got a beau. Pa'son Walker's Visin' young 
 
people to marry, an' it does smart up the young fel 
lows and keep them out of taverns. An' then they get 
thinking 'bout a house. Well, you jes' make the most 
out of M'liss. Is your father's garden turning out 
much? We've had quite a dry spell." 
"Father had it all wet one day. Yes, it is in good 
order. I hope next year we'll have ever so many 
berries." 
"Chicago won't ever be the garden of the Lord, but 
Adam an' Eve were turned out of that. Even a 
thistle wouldn't grow here unless you planted and 
watered it. What people ever see in this place to come 
an' settle passes me ; an' ther's so many splendid places 
in the world where things grow fairly wild. I don't 
wonder people sell out an' go away." 
"We're going to be a big port sometime," I an 
nounced. 
"Sho, that's the men's talk. I've heard men talk 
before. Where's all the people comin' from, I'd like 
to know? To hear em brag sometimes you'd think 
they'd be crossin' the Rocky Mountains 'cause there 
wasn't any room on this side!" 
Mother threw back her head and laughed. 
Father was walking up the path and then she de 
clared she must get supper. 
"Oh, let me put on the dishes," and Ruth rose, hang 
ing her bonnet carefully on a wooden peg. 
Father greeted her cordially and said it had been a 
full month since he set eyes on her. We all filed in 
doors, even to the big tiger cat, who kept following 
Ruth about wistfully. The boys never tormented him 
when Ruth was around. They came to the table with 
cleaner hands, and were much more mannerly, I 
noticed. 
We had a rather jolly meal even if it was Sunday. 
Afterward we sung some hymns. Mother was very 
fond of them. Then I walked home with Ruth, 
though Ben glanced at us large-eyed and wistful. 
"Were you very very much affronted?" I asked, 
as we were nearing her house. 
She seemed considering. 
"Because," in a hurried voice, as if I wasn't quite 
sure I was right "I've thought it over. I'd just as 
leave be a Whig as not." 
"I shouldn't like you to quarrel with father." 
"I'm not going to," I protested earnestly. "And I 
want to be good friends." 
"Oh, I want us always to be good friends," and the 
strong sweetness of her tone enraptured me. 
She held out her hand, and so we renewed our 
friendship. 
CHAPTER V 
OF COMMON DAILY THINGS 
THE picnic was a grand event, a new sort of entertain 
ment. Some distance to the southeast was the nearest 
real woods about us. Here and there would be a belt 
of scrubby pines, good for little besides firewood, or 
a group of cottonwood trees. But this might justly 
be called a forest. 
Tree planting had aroused no especial interest ex 
cept the fruit and shade trees in some of the newer 
residences. A wide clearing was considered a greater 
protection in the earlier days, as one could sight roving 
bands of Indians when there was nothing to shelter 
them. 
One would have thought from the discussions that 
the question of salvation was imperilled by this new 
form of dissipation. Still the day was carried for it, 
and some of the old people and most of the provision 
went out in great ox carts. But the children and 
young people did not mind walking and were full of 
spirit and eagerness. 
I managed to get off for half a day. Fortunately, 
the sun went under a cloud now and then, for which 
I was thankful as I hurried along. And when I came 
in sight I stood still a moment with a strange awe, 
touched by the beauty of the scene. The trees had 
grown up tall and straight, with no troublesome under 
brush. The branches made arches overhead and 
waved to and fro against the sky, that in most places 
had a background of faint gray, where darker clouds 
went drifting over it, or here and there parted to show 
a rift of blue. I did not know about dryads or wood 
nymphs in those days, but the figures flitting about 
gave me a curious unreal sense, as if they could 
scarcely be human beings. As I came nearer the 
hum of the voices and the swish of the two swings 
through a clear path, barely escaping the rugged tree 
boles or a drooping branch, mingled with the shout of 
some daring boy who twisted a little and escaped 
damage. 
There had been a fire built, and the uprights with 
the crotch were standing but the crosspiece had 
caught the blaze at last and fallen except at one end. 
A heap of ashes, and charred sticks lying about the 
edge looked rather melancholy, yet I had seen the like 
many a time when a band of roving Indians, tired with 
a long journey, had stopped to cook a meal. There 
were groups of women together, some of them with 
babies, and others with their knitting, while they sang 
the hymns most in vogue at that day. One haunts me 
through all this lapse of time: 
"Am I a soldier of the Cross, 
A follower of the Lamb, 
And shall I blush to own His cause 
Or fear to speak His name?" 
 
and it always suggests those old pioneer missionaries 
of the Roman Church,, who braved all dangers and 
even death to carry the Gospel to the Indians of the 
far west. 
The children were having a grand time, as I both 
heard and saw, as I came nearer. They were playing 
"tag," from point to point, running in and out in a 
fashion that might have designed a labyrinth, groups 
sitting on the dry leaves playing mumble peg, a few 
big boys outside tossing up pennies. Then a girl hold 
ing some of her compeers in awe with a ghost story. 
What an odd, pretty picture it was! 
"Oh, Norman, I was afraid you wouldn't come," 
and a gentle step ran up behind me and caught my 
arm. I had been peering about for her. 
"It is a long walk," I said, "and through the heat." 
"Yes, but it is lovely here. Oh, you'll want to sit 
down and rest." 
"That ain't a bit fair, Ruth Gaynor! You'll break 
up the play." 
"Here's Betty March she'll take my place." 
"Oh, yes, you're very fine going off with a boy. 
Betty don't know how to play." 
"If it's telling riddles, I guess I do," rather indig 
nantly, returned Betty. 
"But it's guessing them." 
"I don't believe that'll puzzle me. I've heard every 
riddle in Chicago." 
"Oh! Oh!" exclaimed a dozen voices in chorus. 
We passed on. 
"I've had a nice, nice time. Do you want to swing?" 
"No," I returned. "Let us find a cool place and 
sit down." 
There were older couples who had achieved such a 
search and were enjoying it evidently. We plunged a 
little deeper in the forest. 
"Oh, I do love trees so much, a great woods full 
of them. I wish they grew up all around the town." 
I was used to its barrenness, but the beauty and 
awe of this touched me. A woodpecker ran up and 
down a tree, surveying it with his beady black eyes 
and drumming with his bill. Then he paused, turned 
his head this way and that with a dainty sort of assur 
ance, and suddenly drew a worm out of his snug nest 
and away he flew. We looked at each other and 
laughed. 
Then a squirrel came scampering along and eyed us 
suspiciously, but as we did not stir he grew braver. 
How pretty he was with his bushy tail like a waving 
plume. 
"Oh, I wish I had a bit of bread," cried Ruth, "I 
have two quite tame ones at home. They beg so 
prettily that I love to tease them a little, and sometimes 
I hide the bread to see them hunt for it. They have a 
home in that old gnarled tree. I found it out one 
time, and I was afraid the cat would get at them." 
"Oh, they would fight the cat if she poked her nose 
in the hole." 
"I hope they would." 
Great black ants scurried about this way and that, 
listening or thinking, it seemed, and occasionally one 
dragged a burden as big as himself. What queer peo- 
 
pie they were! And, later on, when I came to know- 
more about them, I was filled with a curious ad 
miration. 
The soft wind cradled in the green branches mur 
mured its wonderful song, the keynote to so many 
melodies. It seemed as if we had gone into some en 
chanted country. 
"It is a real forest," she said musingly. "And now 
one need not be afraid of Indians " yet she peered 
about suspiciously. 
"But there might be a bear," I said, teasingly. 
"A bear !" Her eyes were large with fright and she 
caught my arm. "Are there really bears " 
"There was one not so very long ago. He made 
havoc with some pigs and the men turned out for a 
bear hunt. You see there's no hiding place for them 
on the prairies, so he ran off into these woods, and they 
caught him indulging in a comfortable rest. But he had 
sharp ears and when he found he was pursued he 
climbed up a tree." 
"Oh, that was bright and funny too," laughing. 
"But a few shots dislodged him. There was quite 
an excitement. So we had plenty of bear steak." 
"Oh, poor fellow," pityingly. 
"And they dressed the hide and gave it to the 
mayor a real native robe, not quite a buffalo, 
though." 
"Did any others come?" 
"To the funeral? Oh, no. He must have strayed 
away from his compeers. But there are plenty of 
wolves." 
"Yes, father killed one in the winter that was 
prowling round." 
She leaned her head down on my shoulder. How 
lovely and peaceful it was. I could have drowsed oil, 
but a voice roused me. 
"Ruth, Ruth Gaynor?" with a boyish cadence, 
"Oh," opening her eyes, then listening. "That's 
Ben's voice, isn't it? I promised to walk with him if 
he would swing the children. Can't we three walk to 
gether if you are rested? And I believe I went to 
sleep. Norman, this wood is like reading beautiful 
poetry. Oh, do you remember 'The Lady of the 
Lake'?" 
"Ruth Gaynor?" 
She gave a pretty call as we rose. Then glancing 
around, we started toward a little opening and pres 
ently heard a crunch on the leafy turf, and discerned 
a figure going in a direction that would have taken 
him quite by us, only I called, rather against my will. 
"Hello, Norme! When did you come?" He cer 
tainly did look disappointed. 
"Not long ago," I said. "How splendid it all is !" 
"Well, I haven't had much of the splendor, gathering 
wood and waiting on mother and the women and 
swinging children. You better go and do some of the 
work." 
"Oh, I just came for pleasure. Remember, I'm in a 
stuffy warehouse six days in the week." 
"Well, ain't I in school an' chopping wood an' bring 
ing water and hoeing weeds and busy enough, I can 
tell you. I'd like to be down there among the boats. 
 
An' I'm tired. I've been hunting these woods all over 
for you." 
"Several squirrels found us and some birds came and 
sung to us. Well, let us sit down again. Poor tired 
Ben!" 
Her tone was very sweet with no mockery in it. 
Ben dropped at the foot of a tree and stretched him 
self out. What a big boy he was getting to be ! 
Ruth sat down near him, I on the other side. She 
delicately pushed the hair from his warm forehead and 
smiled in his eyes. 
"Did you swing all that little crew?" she asked. 
"Yes, and twice as many more. I think there are 
four hundred children on this picnic." 
"Half of the children in Chicago. How do you sup 
pose we found enough for them to eat?" 
Ben laughed with restored good nature. He was 
never cross long at a time. 
Then they began to relate the funny mishaps, and we 
did not lack for merriment. Ruth had so many shrewd 
comparisons. But a group of children found us out. 
"They want us all to git together," announced a 
shock-headed boy. "Mr. Walker's goin' to hev' a 
meetin'." 
They were gathering from near and from far, like 
Scottish clans. Mothers hustled their families to 
gether. Teachers called the scholars in groups and 
made sure of their number. The baskets were put in 
the ox van and some cushions to ease up the joints of 
the old ladies. The remnants of cake were distributed. 
Then Mr. Walker gave out a hymn. In those days 
they were sung over so often, at least the favorites 
were, that every one knew them by heart. With what 
a shout it went up there at the edge of the wood. Then 
a very earnest, thankful prayer for the pleasure of the 
day, another hymn and the line began to form. 
It had been a success to judge from the happy faces 
and joyous, if tired, voices. Plans were made for a 
much greater time another year. 
The sun was slowly sinking into that wonderful 
west, and filling the sky with the red gold glow of later 
summer. The wind breezed up and brought freshness 
from the great lake, that now and then seemed a 
molten sea. It stirred every pulse within me. 
Presently Ruth's step began to lag. It was growing 
dusky, and I slipped my arm around her waist, some 
times almost lifting the tired little feet off the ground. 
"I've had such a good, good time," she whispered, 
"but the best was to have you come out. Only 
hadn't you better let Ben walk out home with me?" 
"Oh, why?" in a tone of decided objection. 
"I can't just tell. It is one of the things you feel. 
He would like it. And you can come in to-morrow 
for dinner." 
That would compensate, but there was no need and 
I was secretly glad. Mr. Gaynor was there waiting 
for her with his mule cart, and I think the weary Little 
Girl was satisfied. 
That made a fine break in the everlasting political 
talk. No one was dreaming of Woman's Suffrage 
then, but the weaker sex were as strenuous for their 
favorite as the men. For a little while they forgot 
 
even him and enjoyed spiritual conferences, went to 
