stood up, making an excuse, imperceptibility lurching as he did so.

It was after ten. Long since coffee had been served. Orr, too, got up.
He thanked his hostess. The other men imitated him. Loftus and Marie
were alone.

Loftus went to a window. Then he turned. "Put on your hat, little
girl, and we will go out; though, after all, I do not see that you
need bother with a hat, unless you prefer."

"I will do as you wish, dear."

Presently they were in Lexington avenue, a moment more, in Gramercy
Park. Loftus, after fumbling for his key, opened one of the little
gates. Within was silence. Occasionally, from the pavement without
came the sound of footsteps.

Loftus and Marie seated themselves on a bench near the gate through
which they had entered. Loftus was smoking. A boy passed; stopped, and
sticking his nose through the railings, called: "Hi, mister, will you
give me a light?"

Loftus made no answer. The boy called again. "Will you? And a cigar
with it?"

Then he laughed and passed on. The silence increased. In the air was a
fragrance, the clinging odor of the honeysuckle, the clean smell of
fresh turf. Beyond, the great dim houses that front the park gave the
place and the hour an accent of their own.

"I like it here," said Marie, "it is so elegant."

"Never let me hear you use that word again. It is provincial, suburban
and, worse, it is shopgirl."

"Yes, dear."

"This evening I saw you eat an ice with a spoon. Never do that. Use a
fork."

"Yes, dear."

Appeased by this docility, Loftus condescended to agree in turn with
her. He, too, liked the park. At night, when the weather was decent,
always he sat there a bit quite by himself. He had done so for years.
He told her this, adding confidentially, "It is a habit."

To Marie the habit seemed most poetic. She said so, explaining that
she was very fond of poetry.

Loftus looked up at the stars. "The only real poetry is there. By the
way, do you believe in God?"

Marie, uncertain of her lover's creeds, hesitatingly glanced at him.
"Yes--in a way. But I won't, if you object."

This self-abnegation pleased Loftus. He twisted his mustache and
smiled. "But no, you little goose, I don't object in the least. On the
contrary. It is right and proper that you should."

Gratified at this encouraging indulgence the girl's hand stole into
his. Then for awhile they sat and talked about nothing whatever,
which, of all subjects, is, perhaps, the least disagreeable. Wearying
at last even of that, they got up to go.

At the gate Marie drew back. A man was passing, swaying uncertainly,
arguing with himself.

"Why! it is Mr. Annandale," the girl in a frightened whisper murmured.

"I wonder where he got all that liquor?" Loftus queried. "Not at
Sylvia Waldron's, I'll wager."

"Sylvia Waldron! What a sweet name," said Marie. "Who is she?"

"The girl he is engaged to."

"Is she pretty?"

"Oh, tall and dark, don't you know. Not at all my style."

But now night had swallowed Annandale. Loftus and Marie passed on.




CHAPTER VI

THE YELLOW FAY


At noon the next day Annandale was not awake nor was he asleep.
Through spaces in which memories met, entangled and sank, he was
groping in search of himself. In these spaces there were things, some
formless, others half-formed, that got between consciousness and
interfered with the search.

These things pulled at him, tripped him, shoved him down to the
memories that were sinking below. The spaces themselves were very
dark. But, in the deeper depths, where memories swooned, the darkness
was punctuated by slender flames the size of pins. They burned him.

Up and away he tried to rise. When he nearly succeeded, the things
above, the things half-formed and formless that were waiting there,
pushed him back. Again he tried. But the darkness was thick, the
depths were thunderous, the things above pounded on his head, the thin
flames lapped at him.

A force took and lifted him high, very high, and suddenly dropped him.
In the abrupt descent he clutched at the things, but he was whirled
through them to receding plains and up again, higher, still higher.
There a ray filtered, in the light of which a memory staggered. He saw
himself drinking in the rooms of that girl of Loftus. From there he
passed into blankness at the end of which stood Sylvia, her face white
and drawn. The vision vanished. Then it seemed to him that he was
drinking with a fat man who had prominent teeth which he took from his
mouth and changed into dice. But where? In hell, perhaps. Annandale
was uncertain. He knew merely that he had been beastly drunk and that
his head was simply splitting.

It continued to split. Hours later, sedatives and his servant aiding,
the splitting ceased. But the blanks did not fill and though behind
them he could not look, yet the subconscious self that registers and
retains everything we do and hear and say prompted him dumbly that
behind the blanks there lurked the dismal and, perhaps, the dire.

This foreboding he attributed to his nerves. As a matter of fact they
were rather shaky. But inaction was intolerable. He tried to write a
note to Sylvia, but his hand was insufficiently steady. Failing in
that he told Harris to get some flowers, take them to Miss Waldron,
and say that he would call that evening. When later the man returned
he brought no answer to the message.

"Was Miss Waldron out?" Annandale asked.

"I could not say, sir. I gave the flowers to the maid, and said as how
you would call this evening, sir. The maid came back and said Miss
Waldron would not be at 'ome."

At this Annandale flushed. It is true he was flushed already. But the
affront was a little more than he could stand. Was he not engaged to
her? What did she mean? Yet, then, too, what had he done? He wished to
the devil he could tell. Try, though, as he might, he could not recall
a thing except a vision of the girl's face, white, drawn and angered.
The rest was not blurred, it was blank. It was extremely unfortunate,
and Annandale decided that he was both unhappy and misused.

These meditations Harris interrupted.

"Mr. Orr, sir."

Annandale, who had been far away, looked up. Then he nodded.

A moment and Orr entered, eying Annandale curiously as he came.

"What a deuce of a chap you are," he began.

"Who? I? Why? Why do you say that?"

Orr looked about the room, contemplated a wide lounge of black
leather, selected a straight-backed chair instead and seated himself,
his hat and stick in his hand.

"You know well enough," he answered. "But there," he added at a
protest from Annandale, "I don't propose to scold you. My visit is
purely official. Sylvia has asked me to inform you that the engagement
is at an end."

Had any little dog which Annandale did not possess run out from
nowhere and bit him fiercely on the leg, he could not have started
more. He stared at Orr, who stared at him.

"But! It is impossible! What have I done?"

"It would be more to the point," Orr cheerfully replied, "to ask what
you have not done. Though just what you did do Sylvia omitted to
state. She said she could not."

"Could not tell you?"

"Could not or would not."

"Then I can't," said Annandale helplessly. "I went there last evening,
I remember that. I remember, too, that she was angry. But why I do
not know. Though, to be candid, she had cause to be. I was drunk."

"You seemed all right at the Arundel," Orr objected.

"At all events, drunk or sober, I cannot recall a thing. I have tried.
I have tried hard. It has gone."

"Does it happen to you often?"

"What?"

"To forget like that?"

Annandale shook his head. He stood up and stalked about. Orr eyed him.
He saw he was not shamming.

"You know, Annandale," he said at last, "you could not get many to
accept that. But I can and do. I have seen cases of the kind before.
Will you permit me to advise you?"

"Advise me? I wish to God you would."

"Littré, who was the wisest and ugliest of men, stated that
Hippocrates recommended everybody to get tight once a month, asserting
that it was hygienic, good for the system, that it relaxed the nerves.
Littré must have known what he was talking about. He put Hippocrates
in French, into ten volumes at that! But what is good for everybody is
bad for you. Don't drink, Annandale. It will get you into mischief."

"As if it had not? Look at the box I am in. But could you not get
Sylvia to reconsider the matter? If she will, I pledge my word never
to touch another drop. Of course, I apologize for everything I did. I
am only too anxious to. You must understand that I am profoundly
humiliated at the idea that I could have done anything she did not
like. Certainly I did not intend to. Won't you say that to her?"

"Oh, I appreciate your position," said Orr. "To me the essence of
crime is the intent. But, then, you see, I am a man. Now girls are
different, and my cousin is very different even from most girls. Her
views are very strict. Even otherwise, to any decent girl, a man in
his cups is not agreeable. But then, you know, it is not merely a
question of that. It is a question of matrimony. Matrimony generally
means children. It is on them that the sins of the father are visited.
There is the rub. Sylvia, I have not a doubt, will in the end forgive
you, but were she to marry you and her children have your sins visited
on them, never would she forgive herself. That I am sure you can
realize. Anyway, for the moment argument with her would be futile.
Besides, she has gone from town."

"Gone?"

"Yes, she left for Newport today. If I were you I would not attempt
to follow. But I will write. I will tell her what you say, and I will
tell you her reply."

Orr stood up. As he did so Annandale sat down. He cared for Sylvia
Waldron, absolutely, uniquely. He felt, too, that she had cared for
him. But while Orr had been speaking he told himself that her caring
had ceased. Had any affection remained she could not have gone. It was
his fault, though. He had shocked it out of existence. At the thought
of that he felt unutterably miserable. What he felt he looked.

Orr saw his dejection. "Annandale," he said, "I hardly suppose that it
will console you now to have me tell you that nothing earthly is of
any consequence, but, if you let the idea permeate you, ultimately
perhaps it may. By the way, that is a new man you have, isn't it?"

In the wreckage amid which Annandale was floundering the question was
like a rope; he caught at it and swam up.

"Who? Harris? Yes, the other poor devil I had was run over and died in
an ambulance."

Orr tapped at his foot with his stick. "I may be in error," he said,
"but I think I have seen him before."

"Then it must have been in London. He has been here only a short time.
He tells me he used to be with Catty."

Catty was a relative of Annandale, a New York girl who had married the
Duke of Kincardine.

"Possibly," said Orr. "Well," he added, reverting to the episode that
had brought him there, "I am sorry for all this. I know you are. I
will write to Sylvia and tell her so."

"Please do."

Annandale stood up and accompanied him to the door. When he turned
life seemed blank as the blanks of the night.




CHAPTER VII

SWEET-AND-TWENTY


What Sylvia replied to Orr's communication, whether indeed she replied
at all, Annandale was not informed. He himself wrote to her. The
letter was long; it was also abject. But he got no answer. He wrote
again. The result was the same.

Then both at her and at himself he rebelled. He had supped on
humiliations. He had no appetite for more. With some bravery, yet
without bravado, he tore a leaf from his life and on it wrote Finis.
The epitaph was figurative, but he thought it final. He thought that
he could dictate to Fate. It is a mistake that many make.

Presently it surprised him to find how laborious is the task of
putting people out of your life. If you have cared for them they will
come back. In the pages of a book, in the pauses of speech, suddenly
you behold them. In sleep they will not let you be. When you awake,
there they are. However detestable their behavior may have been, in
dream they visit and caress you. It takes time and vigilance; it takes
