mantilla, held high with a comb, caught back with a rose. It was an
enchanting sight; and above all was the dazzling blue and gold of the
sky. Through the chatter of the good-natured crowd wandered the strains
of solemn music, and his was the only alien face.

He was staring upward at a little balcony from which hung a magnificent
blue silk shawl, embroidered and fringed with white, and admiring the
mantillas and roses, the languid fans and fine eyes above it, when
Catalina came through the window behind and looked down upon him. She,
too, wore a mantilla, the white mantilla of Spanish lace he had watched
her buy in Barcelona. A red rose held it above her left ear, and in her
hand she carried her fan. She had also assumed the lofty dignity of the
Spanish woman of high degree, and she had never looked so beautiful. For
a moment she returned his gaze stolidly, and he fancied she meant to cut
him; then she bowed, said something to one of her companions, pointed to
the stern, brass-bound door below, and disappeared.

A moment later the door opened and he was shown into the patio, a
shadowy retreat from the glare and noise of the street, full of palms
and pomegranates, roses and lilies, with a cool fountain playing, and
many ancient chairs of iron and wood.

Catalina was standing by the fountain looking as Spanish as if these old
walls had encircled her cradle. She shook hands with him cordially.

“I have had a bad time,” she said, “and hated you, as well as the
Moultons, but it was unreasonable and I am over it. You were as nice and
kind as possible, and I shall always remember it. Don’t ask me what that
dreadful woman said. I shall forget it, but I shall never speak to any
of them again, and I should be glad if you would tell them so, and that
I shall remain here until they leave.”

His mind grasped at once the substance of Mrs. Moulton’s diatribe; he
had given the subject no thought before. He turned hot and then cold,
and involuntarily took a step nearer to the girl, with a fierce instinct
of protection. Catalina may have understood, for a spot of color
appeared on her high cheek-bones, but she continued, calmly:

“Of course you want to know where I have been and what I am doing in
this house. When I left the hotel I went directly to the archbishop and
told him as much as was necessary, using as passport a circular letter
the fathers of the mission of Santa Barbara had given me. He brought me
here at once. The Señora Villéna has this beautiful house, but is
poor—and so kind. I have enjoyed the change, I can tell you.”

“You certainly are more in your element. I am glad it has turned out so
well. I have been very uneasy.”

“Have you? Did you think I had thrown myself into the Tagus, or was
wandering about roofless with my big grip in my hand?”

“It was my knowledge of your good sense, familiarity with the language,
and winning manner—when you choose to exert it—that permitted me to go
to bed at night. Nevertheless, you are not the woman to travel alone in
Spain. What are your plans?”

“What are the Moultons’ plans?”

“They have had enough of Spain—of travel, for that matter—and they are
still in dread of Jesus Maria. They will go from here to Barcelona, take
a boat for Genoa, and remain there until their steamer arrives. They say
that Italy will feel like home after Spain.”

“Then I shall go from here to Granada. Perhaps I can persuade some one
to chaperon me, but if not I shall go alone. Nothing shall cheat me out
of Granada.”

“If you find no one else I shall go with you.”

The red spots spread down to her throat, but she lifted her head higher.
“No,” she said, “I suppose it does not look right.”

He cursed Mrs. Moulton for shattering the serene innocence of the girl;
nevertheless, something even more captivating had replaced it. “I shall
go,” he repeated, “unless I can persuade you to return to America with
your relatives. Then my mind will be at rest. But as long as you are
alone in Spain I shall do my best to protect you. If you forbid me to
travel with you, well and good. I shall merely follow—that is to say, be
your companion on the trains. In the towns we need not meet unless you
wish it. You can always put yourself under the protection of the woman
of the house and employ a duenna. But do adopt me as a brother and
dismiss all nonsensical ideas from your mind.”

For the first time her eyes fell before his. She turned away abruptly.
“You are very good,” she said. “Come up-stairs and meet the señora and
her daughter. They are charming people.”

A few moments later, as they were standing on the balcony, she said to
him: “They are taking me to the bull-fight this afternoon. Shall you
go?”

“Possibly. But I am surprised that you wish to go. It is a beastly
exhibition and no place for you.”

“I am going,” she said, imperturbably. “It is a part of Spain, and I
should as soon think of missing a religious festival like this. Besides,
I have seen bull-fights in southern California. You may as well come
with us. Of course, Cousin Lyman is not going.”

“Probably not. Very well, I will go with you, if your friends will have
me. I must lunch at the hotel with the Moultons and set their minds at
rest; but it is an hour until then. Would you care to walk about the
streets and see the crowd?”

The Señora Villéna was very large and the day was warm, but she amiably
consented to walk as far as the cathedral in the wake of her guest.

“I have not been out alone since I came to her,” said Catalina, with a
sigh, as she walked beside Over up the street. “At Granada I know of a
pension, and liberty will be sweet again.”

Over’s eyes twinkled as he looked at the face between the soft edges of
the mantilla.

“Your new rôle is vastly becoming. I had no idea that two days of
Old-World discipline could effect such a change. You look as if you had
always walked with a duenna at your heels.”

“So I have, nearly always. I never was on the street alone in my life
until my mother died. You think me improved?” she added, quickly.

“I did not say that.”

“I have always thought your bluntness the best thing about you—I like
the short skirt and covert coat best,” she said, defiantly.

“They do very well to disguise you on the train; but if I never saw you
again I should prefer to remember you as you are now—or as you were that
night in Tarragona. You hardly deserve your beauty, you know.”

And then, in a new spirit of coquetry, born perhaps of the mantilla,
into whose silken mesh many a dream no doubt had flowed, she lifted her
chin, dropped her eyelashes for a second, flashed him a swift personal
glance. Before he could adjust himself to the new phase, however, she
had dismissed it and remarked that she hoped not to meet the Moultons;
and, unaccountably perturbed, he replied that they were sure to be
fatigued and resting for luncheon.

It would have been easy to avoid them in the dense crowd packed into the
plaza before the cathedral, waiting for the procession to pass. Over and
Catalina paused a few moments to look at the superb gobelins with which
the façade of the cathedral was hung, and then ran the gamut of the
beggars and entered the cloister.

“I shall go into the Chapel of the Incarnacion and pray,” said the
Señora Villéna, “and meet you here in half an hour—no?”

The Cathedral of Toledo is one of the world’s treasures, and all the
world should see it; but for those who would or must read the sights of
Europe a hundred descriptions of this vast, complex dream in early
Gothic and late Renaissance and baroque have been written; and the best
is forgotten at the end of an hour’s visit.

It was almost deserted, and Over and Catalina walked slowly towards the
Capilla Mayor, through the rich brown silence of the nave, whispering
occasionally, but overpowered by the forest of shafts uplifting an
immensity of vaulting before which the eye reeled. The centuries of
carving, as various as the peoples that had come and gone, crystallizing
even the broken voice of the Moor, melted into a harmony comparable
only, said Catalina, to the wonders of a Californian mountain-forest—of
redwood and pine, madroño and oak, and giant ferns as delicate as the
lace of her mantilla. There were high vaultings, too, where the sun
never ripened the moss on the earth, and endless cryptograms wrought
before the hand of man had taken the message of the gods.

Over replied, promptly: “I don’t believe half you have told me about
California. Next year I shall obtain leave of absence and visit it—that
is, if you will be my cicerone.”

“Why not this year?”

“Shall I?”

“It is all the same to me, but I may not be there next year. I need
Europe. Of course, I know that I am a sort of cowboy.”

“Ah!” He hardly knew whether to be gratified or not. “Don’t desert your
ranch altogether—nor surrender all the individuality it has given you.
If you should be the great lady in Europe and ranch-girl at home—what a
fascinating combination!”

“Well, I can be anything I choose, and on five minutes’ notice, too.”

“I am sure of it—but which is the real you? I think I know—then I am all
at sea.”

She gave him another swift, upward glance, but she replied, sedately:
“The worst, of course. That is what people always decide when a person
suddenly reveals himself in a bad light. Twenty other sides may have
been exhibited, but it is the revelation of the worst that always
inspires the phrase, ‘At last he has shown himself in his true colors.’”

“Then you are too philosophical to condemn Mrs. Moulton utterly?”

“She has taught me the extent of my philosophy, so I forgive her—and
ignore her existence.”

He made no reply, for he saw the Moultons not three yards away. They
were in the Capilla Mayor, their necks craned in a vain attempt to
register a permanent impression of the gorgeous coloring, the phalanxes
of saints, the riotous beauty of carving on wall and arch and tomb.
While he hesitated, Mr. Moulton brought down his tired eyes and they
rested on Catalina. He gave a sharp exclamation of pleasure and hurried
forward, his hand out-stretched. Catalina had included him in her wrath,
but she forgave him instantly, and simultaneously conceived a stroke of
revenge. Mrs. Moulton and Jane retreated, but Lydia ran to Catalina and
kissed her.

“Where have you been?” she cried. “We have been just wild. How perfectly
sweet you look in that mantilla!”

Catalina explained, and Mr. Moulton drew a long sigh of relief. “I shall
never worry about you again, my dear child. And now tell me what you
wish to do. I trust you will become reconciled—”

“I shall remain in Spain perhaps for some months—I have cancelled my
passage. But I shall like to see you again. Will you come to the Casa
Villéna immediately after luncheon? I have a little plan to propose to
you.”

“Certainly I will—but is your decision irrevocable?”

“Quite. Perhaps I shouldn’t keep you now. And my duenna must be waiting
for me.”

She nodded and turned away, but Lydia followed and took her arm.

“I can go back to the hotel with Captain Over,” she said to her father,
and the two girls walked down the nave with heads together, oblivious of
the half-amused, half-sulky man in their wake.

“Well, what of Jesus Maria?”

“I have given up all hope of ever seeing him again.”

“Hope? Do you want to?”

“I do and I don’t. Of course, it had to end sooner or later, but—well—I
was fascinated! And there is so little to look back upon! However, it
was great fun imagining what things might happen, and all the while to
be quite safe under the paternal wing. I suppose if I had seen him alone
I really wouldn’t have kissed him—I probably should have run away in
disgust—but I enjoyed it all in imagination. Now, I shall be rather
relieved when I am safely out of Spain, for I know that he was quite
serious. When we were running away from Albacete and then from Alcazar,
I felt as serious as he did—I was really romantic and love-lorn—but I
took myself in hand when I arrived here, and now I am quite sensible
again.”

“What a tangle! Is that the way people fall in love—and out again?”
Catalina felt puzzled and depressed. Life suddenly seemed commonplace,
love a sort of cap-and-bells, to be worn now and again when convenient.

“Well, I wish you good luck,” she said. “Write me when you are really
engaged, and I’ll send you a lot of jewels from our California
mines—tourmalines and chrysoprases and turquoises and garnets and
beryls. I have jugs full of them.”

Lydia’s eyes expanded. “Jugs full! They cost frightfully in New York.
Will you really send me some?”

“Dozens.”

“What a fairy princess you are! I am only beginning to appreciate you,
and now you are throwing us over—for good and all!”

“Good-bye,” said Catalina, kissing her. “At two, Captain Over, and don’t
forget to bring Cousin Lyman. And make no confidences,” she murmured.




                                  XVI


“But, my dear Catalina—why, of course, I cannot go—the idea is
preposterous—”

“Now you are talking by the book. Why was Europe made except for the
American to play in and refresh himself for the same old duties at home?
And for a man of your intelligence to balk at a bull-fight—”

“It isn’t that I exactly balk—I mean I am not squeamish—and I could look
away at the worst part—but I do not approve of bull-fights, and think it
wrong to lend my countenance—”

“The bull-fight will go on just the same; and no one race is good enough
to condemn the customs of another. See the world impartially and then go
your own gait. Besides, you have come to study Spain, and how can you
pretend to know it unless you see it at its most characteristic
amusement? Don’t look at the arena if you had rather not—but think of
the opportunity to see Spain en masse at its very worst!”

“There is much in what you say, but—great Heaven!—suppose it ever were
known in America that I had been to a bull-fight! I should lose the
confidence of a million people—I might be driven out of the Church—”

“There aren’t a dozen Americans in Toledo—and the bull-ring holds five
thousand people. You can sit in the back of the box. No one will be
looking at anything but the bull-fight, anyhow.”
