able to do so could not be ignored as a possible weapon 
if Quarrier should by any chance learn of it. 

In all his life he had taken Leila into his arms but 
once; had kissed her but once — but that once had been 
enough to arm jNIortimer with danger from head to 
foot. Some prying servant had either listened or seen 
— perhaps a glimmer of a mirror had betrayed them. At 
all events, whoever had seen or heard had informed Mor- 
timer, and now the man was equipped ; the one and only 
man in all the world who could with truth accuse Plank ; 
the only man of whom he stood in honest fear. 

And it was characteristic of Plank that never for 
one moment had it occurred to him that the sheer fault 
of it all lay with Leila ; that it was her imprudence alone 
that now threatened herself and the man she loved — 
that threatened his very success in life as long as Mor- 
timer should live. 

All this, Plank, in his thorough, painstaking review 
of the subject, had taken into account; and he could 
not see how it could possibly bear upon the matters now 
finally to be adjusted between Quarrier and himself, be- 
cause Quarrier was in New York and Mortimer in 
Saratoga, and unless the latter had already sold his in- 
formation the former could not strike at him through 
knowledge of it. 

And yet a curious reluctancy, a hesitation inex- 




 

plicable — unless overwork explained it — had come over 
him when Siward had proposed their dining together 
on the very eve of his completed victory over Quarrier. 

It seemed absurd, and Plank was too stolid to enter- 
tain superstitions, but he could not, even with Leila 
laughing there beside him, shake off the dull instinct that 
all was not well — that Quarrier's attitude was still the 
attitude of a dangerous man ; that he, Plank, should have 
had this evening in his room alone to study out the 
matters he had so patiently plodded through in the long 
hours while Siward slept. 

Yet not for one instant did he dream of shifting the 
responsibility — if responsibility entailed blame — on 
Siward, who, against Plank's judgment and desire, had 
on the very eve of consummation drawn him away from 
that sleepless vigilance which must for ever be the price 
of a business man's safety. 

Leila, gay and excited as a schoolgirl, chattered on 
ceaselessly to Plank ; all the silence, all the secrecy of the 
arid years turning to laughter on her red lips, pouring 
out, in broken phrases of delight, words strung together 
for the sheer pleasure of speech and the happiness of 
her lot to be with him unrestrained. 

He remembered once listening to the song of a wild 
bird on the edge of a clearing at night, and how, stand- 
ing entranced, the low, distant jar of thunder sounded 
at moments, scarcely audible — like his heart now, at 
intervals, dully persistent amid the gaiety of her voice. 

" And would you believe it, Beverly," she said, " I 
formed the habit at Shotover of walking across the 
boundary and strolling into your greenhouses and de- 
liberately helping myself. And every time I did it I 
was certain one of your men would march me out ! " 

He laughed, but did not tell her that his men had 








reported the first episode and that he had instructed them 
that Mrs. Mortimer and her friends were to do exactly 
as they pleased at the Fells. However she knew it, 
because a garrulous gardenei', proud of his service with 
Plank, had informed her. 

" Beverly," she said, " you are a dear. If people 
only knew what I know ! " 

He began to turn red ; she could see it even in 
the flickering, lamp-shot darkness. And she teased him 
for a while, very gently, even tenderly ; and their voices 
grew lower in a half-serious badinage that ended with a 
quiet, indrawn breath, a sigh, and silence. 

And now the river swept into view, a darkly luminous 
sheet set with reflected stars. MiiTored lights gleamed 
in it; sudden bright, yellow flashes zigzagged into its 
sombre depths ; the foliage edged it with a deep>er gloom 
over which, on the heights, twinkled the multicoloured 
lights of Riverside Inn. 

Up the broad, gentle grade they sped, curving in 
and out among the clumps of trees and shrubber}', then 
on a level, sweeping in a great circle up to the steps 
of the inn. 

Now all about them from the brilliantly lighted ve- 
randas the gay tumult broke out like an uproarious wel- 
come after the swift silence of their journey ; the stir of 
jolly people keen for pleasure; the clatter of crockery; 
the coming and going of waiters, of guests, of hansoms, 
coupes, victorias, and scores of motor-cars wheeling and 
turning through the blinding glare of their own head- 
lights. 

Somewhere a gipsy orchestra, full of fitful crescen- 
does and throbbing suspensions of caprice, furnished 
resonant accompaniment to the joyous clamour: the 
scent of fountain sprav and flowers was in the air. 





 

" I didn't know you had telephoned for a table," 
said Siward, as a head-waiter came up smiling and 
bowing to Plank. " I confess, in the new excitement of 
things, I clean forgot it ! What a man you are to 
think of other people ! " 

Plank reddened again, muttering something evasive, 
and went forward with Leila. 

Sylvia, moving leisurely beside Siward who was 
walking slowly but confidently without crutches, whis- 
pered to him : " I never really liked Mr. Plank before I 
understood his attitude toward you." 

" He is a man, every inch," said Siward simply. 

" I think that generally includes what men of your 
sort demand, doesn't it.'' " she asked. 

" Men of my sort sometimes demand in others what 
they themselves are lacking in," said Siward, laughing. 
" Sylvia, look at this jolly crowd! Look at all those 
tables ! It seems an age since I have done anything of 
this sort. I feel like a boy of eighteen — the same funny, 
quickening fascination in me toward everything gay and 
bright and alive ! " He looked around at her, laugh- 
ingly. " As for you," he said, " you look about six- 
teen. You certainly are the most beautiful thing this 
beautiful world ever saw ! " 

" Schoolboy courtship ! " she mocked him, lingering 
as he made his slow way through the crowded place. The 
tint of excitement was in her eyes and cheeks ; the echo 
of it in her low, happy voice. " Where on earth is Mr. 
Plank ? Oh, I see them ! They have a table by the 
balcony rail, in the corner; and it seems to be rather 
secluded, Stephen, so I shall, of course, expect you to 
say nothing further about beauty of any species. . . . 
Are you a trifle tired.'' No.'' . . . Well, you need not 
be indignant. I don't care whether you tumble. Indeed, 









I don't believe tliere is really anything the matter with 
you — you are walking with the same old careless saunter. 
Mr. Plank," as they arrived and seated themselves, " Mr. 
Siward has just admitted that he uses crutches only be- 
cause they are ornamental. Leila, isn't this air de- 
licious .'' All sorts of people, too, aren't there, Mr. 
Plank.'' Such curious-looking women, some of them — 
quite pretty, too, in a certain way. Are you hungry, 
St— Mr. Siward.?" 

 Are you, St — Mr. Siward.''" mimicked Leila 
promptly. 

" I am," said Siward, laughing at Sylvia's significant 
colour and noting Plank's direct gaze as the waiter filled 
Leila's slender-stemmed glass. And " nothing but 
Apollinaris," he said coolly, as the waiter approached 
him ; but though his voice was easy enough, a dull patch 
of colour came out under the cheek-bones. 

" That is all I care for, either," said Sylvia with 
elaborate carelessness. 

Plank and Leila immediately began to make conver- 
sation. Siward, his eyes bent on the glass of mineral 
water at his elbow, looked up in silence at Sylvia ques- 
tioningly. 

There was something in her face he did not quite 
comprehend. She made as though to speak, looked at 
him, hesitated, her lovely face eloquent under the im- 
pulse. Then, leaning toward him, she said: 

" ' And thy ways shall be my ways.' " 

" Sylvia, you must not deny yourself, just because 
I " 

" Let me. It is the happiest thing I have ever done 
for myself." 

" But I don't wish it." 

'' Ah, but I do," she said, the low excited laughter 




 

scarcely fluttering her lips. " Listen : I never before, in 
all my life, gave up anything for your sake, only this 
one little pitiful thing." 

" I won't let you ! " he breathed ; " it is nonsense 
to " 

" You must let me ! Am I to be on friendly 
terms with — with your mortal enemy .'' " She was still 
smiling, but now her sensitive mouth quivered sud- 
denly. 

He sat silent, considering her, his restless fingers 
playing with his glass in which the harmless bubbles 
were breaking. 

" I drink to your health, Stephen," she said under 
her breath. " I drink to your happiness, too ; and — and 
to your fortune, and to all that you desire from fortune," 
And she raised her glass in the star-hght, looking over 
it into his eyes. 

' All I desire from fortune.'" he repeated signifi- 
cantly. 

" All— almost all " 

" No, all," he demanded. 

But she only raised the glass to her hps, still looking 
at him as she drank. 

They became unreasonably gay almost immediately, 
though the beverage scarcely accounted for the deli- 
cate intoxication that seemed to creep into their veins. 
Yet it was suflScient for Siward to say an amusing 
thing wittily, for Sylvia to return his lead with all the 
delightful, unconscious brilliancy that he seemed to 
inspire in her — as though awaking into real life once 
more. All that had slumbered in her through the winter 
and spring, and the long, arid summer now crumbling 
to the edge of autumn, broke out into a delicate riot of 
exquisite florescence ; the very sounds of her voice, every 






intonation, every accent, every pause, were charming 
surprises ; her laughter was a miracle, her beauty a 
revelation, 

Leila, aware of it, exchanged glance after glance 
with Plank. Siward, alternately the leader in it all, then 
the enchanted listener, bewitched, enthralled, felt care 
slipping from his shoulders like a mantle, and sadness 
exhahng from a heart that was beating strongly, steadily, 
fearlessly — as a heart should beat in the breast of him 
who has taken at last his fighting chance. He took 
it now, under her eyes, for honour, for manhood, and 
for the ideal which had made manhood no longer an 
empty term muttered in desperation by a sick body, and 
a mind too sick to control it. 

Yes, at last the lifelong battle was on. He knew 
it. He knew, too, whatever his fate with her or without 
her, he must always go on with the battle for the safe- 
guarding of that manhood the consciousness of which 
she had aroused. 
