


palaces.” Then she gave Kathie the basket 
and some money, and repeated the list of 
articles she needed. 

The little girl trudged along in the cold, 
thinking of all the wonderful things that might 
be done if one had the power; and then won- 
dered what her mother meant by saying there 
were different kinds of fairies. Of course, no 
one really believed in them, charming as the 
stories were. Money could do a great many 
things that seemed almost like magic ; but she 
had no money, perhaps never would have. 
Little girls could n’t earn any, and women 
never became rich. When Rob and Freddy 
grew to be men — but that was a long way off. 

There was a bright little star twinkling up in 
the sky. It looked so oddly at her out of its 
one golden eye that she could n’t help saying, 
“O you lovely fairy star!” and somehow it 
seemed as if the fairies were not all dead. But 
she was at the store before she knew it, went 
in and made her purchases, and started for 

home, watching the same beautiful star until 
she came in sight of the cottage. Then she 
drew a long breath of dismay. Mamma had 
put a little tin pail in the bottom of the basket, 
and told her to leave it at the baker’s going, 
and stop for it coming back. 

‘‘O dear!” sighed Kathie, ‘T ought to have 
a fairy named Memory;” and for an instant 
she felt tempted to cry. Should she go home 
first, or carry the heavy basket back to the 
baker’s?” 

“Back to the baker’s,” said the star, though 
I think it was a fairy inside of the little girl 
called Conscience. 

“It will teach me a lesson, for I am heed- 
less;” and she turned round instantly. Then 
at the baker’s she had to take nearly all of the 
things out of the basket, and afterward she 
hurried home, to make up for lost time. 

“How quick you have been,” her mother 
said, with a smile. Kathie, like other children 
was sometimes given to loitering. “Did you 
see the boys?” 





“Oh! I forgot, mamma; but I did n’t see 
them nor hear them. I ’ll go look for them.” 

Looking for the boys was one of Kathie’s 
hardships. It was n’t pleasant to go out in the 
cold and hunt round for them; the star up in 
the blue sky seemed to challenge her to a race, 
and in a few seconds she had reached the hill 
where the boys coasted. Rob knew it was n’t 
supper-time, and did n’t want to come in. 

She took Freddy by the hand, and then 
Charley Darrell wanted her to try just once on 
his new Christmas sled, but she declined 
cheerfully, though it was something of a 
struggle to put the temptation by. Rob soon 
followed them. 

“I mean to tease mother to let me go out 
again to-night,” he exclaimed. “All the boys 
will be there.” 

“Rob,” Kathie said, with her heart in her 

throat, “I wish you ’d do something partly for 
« 

me instead.” 

“What.” rather crossly. 




“Mamma will have to go to Mrs. Grayson’s 
this evening, and I wish you would go with 
her. It will make the walk seem shorter, and 
it is my fault, for I read in my fairy book this 
afternoon when I should have gone.” 

“Bother! I wish you ’d attend to your own 
business.” 

“I ’m very sorry, Rob,” with an effort. “You 
may have my paint-box on the first rainy 
day.” 

Rob said nothing then, and ate his supper 
rather soberly. Afterward Kathie proposed 
washing the dishes, so that her mother might 
go immediately. Mrs. Alston looked pleased, 
-'and put on her shawl. 

“I ’m going along, so that no one will run 
away with you,” Rob announced, ’with an 
assumption of manliness. 

“Are you? O ! thank you.” 

Then Freddy thought he ought to go, 
though the warm room and the warm tea had 
made him look rather sleepy; besides he was 




too small a boy to take such a tramp after 
supper. 

“I ’ll put you to bed and tell you a story,” 
Kathie whispered as the others went away. 

Kathie hated washing dishes, but she went 
at it cheerfully now. It was surprising how 
soon she seemed to get through. Then she 
brushed up the room, drew Aunt Ruth’s chair 
up to the table — for she was an almost help- 
less invalid — and found all her sewing mate- 
rials. Fred was nodding in the corner by this 
time, and was rather cross when she roused 
him, but by the time she had him snugly 
tucked in bed he remembered the story. She 
wrapped a shawl around her, and commenced 
in a bright, happy voice. 

“Why, you ’re almost a fairy yourself,” Fred 
said presently, and a warm glow came to her 
face as she recalled her mother’s words. 

She could n’t transport them all to an ele- 
gant palace, she could not surround them with 
luxury, not have servants come at her call, but 




she began to think of the real fairies there 
were in the world — love, to begin with, a spirit 
who was tender, patient, self-sacrificing, never 
cross when things went wrong, never indo- 



“ Kathie hated washing dishes” 


lent when others around could be saved any 
toil or burden. 

“Oh!” she said, with a sigh, “I can never be 
such a fairy;” and she felt very humble. “But 
I will try to do a little.” 




“.What are you looking for?” Aunt Ruth 
said, as she entered the sitting-room. 

“Rob told mamma his mittens wanted mend- 
ing, and I thought I could do it;” and so she 
did, darning very well for a little girl ; and she 
was very glad the next morning when she 
heard Rob remind mamma that she had forgotten 
all about his mittens. 

Rob came home in a state of felicity. 

“I had a splendid talk with Dick Grayson,” 
he said, “and he is n’t half so proud as the boys 
make out, although he does go to the Acad- 
emy. He asked me to come over some even- 
ing ; and, oh ! Kathie, he has such lots of books, 
and a little study all by himself, where he reads 
and tries experiments, and his father is so 
pleasant and kind. Mrs. Grayson praised me 
for not letting mamma go out alone, and I 
wanted to tell her that it was your thought, 
not mine. I ought to do it always. And, 
Kathie, I shall not want the paints — at least, 
not for pay.” 





“You can have them to paint your boat/’ 
she rejoined, yielding of her own free will a 
point that she had refused Rob several times. 

“You ’re a darling,” exclaimed Rob, boy 
fashion. 

She took a long look at the star before she 
went to bed. Did it never get tired shining 
steadily on and on? Did n’t it want to go to 
some other place, or do something else — 
become a sun, or moon for instance, as any 
little boy or girl would in its place? God 
wanted it just to shine, and it did its duty. And 
He wanted her to be a helpful little girl, or else 
He would have given her a beautiful house, 
plenty of servants, and plenty of money, and 
nothing to do. There were princesses in the 
fairy stories who had everything they called 
for, but the real fairies ran to and fro, did as 
they were bidden, and never complained of the 
hard work: and a little while ago she was 
wishing to be a fairy. One of the working 
kind it must be. 


 


Kathie did not forget her resolves the next 
morning. I don’t mean you to think that she 
did everything without a bit of trouble, and 
that it was easy for her to give up her own 
wishes and pleasures. Sometimes it seemed 
very hard, and it was difficult to think in time, 
even when she was quite willing to perform a 
good action; but she remembered the star 
going on and on, and prayed for strength, for 
love, instead of wishing for idle things no one 
can ever have. 

But one day, a long while after this, some- 
thing just like a fairy-story did happen to 
Kathie. Coming home from school, she found 
a tall, foreign-looking gentleman in the sitting- 
room, talking very familiarly to her mother 
and Aunt Ruth. Cousin Robert they called 
him ; and then Kathie remembered the stories 
she had heard of Cousin Robert going to China 
years and years ago. He took her up on his 
knee and studied her face. 

‘‘What a charming little fairy you are!” he 





said, kissing her, and the warm color came to 
her cheeks. “I think I shall spirit you away to 

 


a palace I am going to have, and if your 
mother and Aunt Ruth ever want to see you 
again, they must come, too.” 

It was n’t a palace exactly, but a delightful 
home, and Cousin Robert insisted upon their 
sharing it with him, as he was all alone in the 
world. Mrs. Alston grew young and rosy 
again when relieved from the necessity of con- 
stant toil, and Aunt Ruth, always sweet and 
patient, enjoyed many things in the new life. 
But Kathie gave a wonderful charm to the 
household. She did not forget the lessons she 
had learned in adversity, and I think she 
proved a fairy to many outside of her home 
circle. Rob and Fred always thought her the 
dearest little body in the world. 





IT had come to be pretty hard lines with 
us, you see. The gov’ner had never 
held up his head, so to speak, since the 
accident on his train. He had been 
switch-tender at North Lumberton Junction 
for years and years, and I do say he was n’t to 
blame for the accident then; but big ’uns 
always do crowd out little ’uns. The way it 
