little rebellion at Aphrodite was very brief. But, assuming the nepenthe,
it has been assumed also that in it was the secret of the spell with which
she so promptly disarmed Menelaus. To modern eyes his attitude is
ambiguous. His complaisance has an air of complicity. But Menelaus lived
in an heroic age. Moreover, when Sarah vacated the palace of the
Pharaohs, the complaisance of Abraham was the same.
In both instances the principle involved was one of ownership. In
patriarchal and heroic days woman was an asset. She was the living money
of the period. Agamemnon, in devising how he might calm the anger of
Achilles, offered him a quantity of girls. They were so much current coin.
When stolen, recovery was the owner's chief aim. What may have happened in
the interim was a detail, better appreciable when it is remembered that
booty was treated, as Helen at Ilium was treated, in the light of Paris'
lawful wife; for robbery at that time was a highly legitimate mode of
acquiring property, provided and on condition that the robber and the
robbed were foes. The idea of enticing the property was too complicated
for the simplicity of those days. It was in that simplicity, together with
the belief that whatever occurred was attributable to the gods, that the
morality of the epoch resided.
In the story of Paris and Helen the morality of Aphrodite is as ambiguous
as the attitude of Menelaus. She has the air of an entremetteuse. But
her purpose was not to favorize frailty. Her purpose was the exercise of
her sovereign pleasure. Paris, in adjudging to her the prize of beauty,
became the object of her special regard, his people became her people,
their enemies her own. The latter prevailed, but that was because
Destiny--to whose power the gods themselves had to yield--so willed.
In the Odyssey the morality of the Iliad is enhanced. The enchantments
of Calypso, the sorceries of Circe, the seductions of sirens, long years
themselves, wanderings over perilous seas, dangers, hardships,
temptations, failed to divert Odysseus from his memories of Penelope, who
in turn resisted every suitor for his sake. When the later philosophy of
Greece inquired what was woman at her best, it answered its own question
in looking back at her. A thousand years after she had been sung, Horace,
writing to Lollius, said: "I have been re-reading the poet of the Trojan
War. No one has told so well as he what is noble and what is base." St.
Basilius, writing later still, declared that the Homeric epics were a
perpetual praise of right. The fact, he noted, was particularly obvious in
the passage in which Odysseus confronted Nausicaa.
That little princess, historically the first who washed household linen in
public, was, when so engaged, surprised by the shipwrecked hero. Instead
of being alarmed at the appearance of this man whom the waters had
disrobed, she was conscious only of a deep respect. St. Basilius gives the
reason. In default of clothing Homer had dressed him in virtue.[6]
The deduction is so pleasant that the views of the saint concerning Circe
and Calypso would be of interest. But they are unrecorded. It may be that
he had none. The enchantresses themselves with their philters and
enthralments are supposedly fabulous. Yet in the Homeric account of their
seas, once thought to be but a dream of fairyland, mariners have found a
log book of Mediterranean facts so accurate that a pilot's guide is but a
prose rendering of its indications.[7] As with the seas so with the
sirens. Their enchantments were real.
At an epoch when women generally were but things, too passively
indifferent and too respectfully obedient to care to attempt, even could
they have divined how, to captivate, Circe and Calypso displayed the then
novel lures of coquetry and fascination. In the charm of their voices, in
the grace of their manners, in the harmony of their dress, in the perfume
of their lips, in their use of unguents, in their desire to please joined
to the high art of it, was a subtlety of seduction so new and unimagined
that it was magical indeed. In the violent Iliad, women, hunted like
game, were but booty. In the suaver Odyssey was their revenge. It was
they who captured and detained, reducing the hardiest heroes into servants
of their pleasure. It is reasonable that their islands should have been
thought enchanted and they enchantresses.
The story of their spells, of their refinements, and of their consequent
dominations, exerted gradually an influence wide and profound. Women began
to conjecture something else than marriage by right of might. Into the
conjecturings came attempts at emancipation that preoccupied husbands and
moralists. Hesiod denounced the new ambitions, and, finding denunciation
perhaps ineffective, employed irony. He told of Pandora who, fashioned
first out of clay, afterward adorned with a parure of beauty, was then
given perfidy, falsehood and ruse, that, in being a delight to man, she
should be also a disaster.[8]
The picture, interesting in its suggestion of Eve, was originally perhaps
a Chaldæan curio, imported by Phoenician traders. Its first Hellenic
setting was due probably to Orpheus, the great lost poet of love, whose
songs charmed all nature, all hell as well. From him, through problematic
hands, it drifted to Hesiod, as already his lyre had drifted to Lesbos.
The picture persisted, the lyre as well. To the latter the Mitylenes
attributed the wonder of the beauty of their nightingales, chief among
whom was Sappho.
IV
SAPPHO
Sappho was contemporaneous with Nebuchadnezzar. While he was chastening
the Jews, she was creating love. In her day the condition of Hellenic
women differed from what it had been. Generally they were shut apart,
excluded from any exercise of their possible minds, restricted to strict
domesticity. At Athens a girl might not so much as look from a window. If
she did, she saw nothing. The window did not give on the street. But in
the temples the candor of her eyes was violated. In the festivals of Ceres
the modesty of her ears was assailed. Otherwise, she was securely guarded.
If, to her detriment, she eluded guardianship, she could be sold. With
marriage she entered into a form of superior slavery. When her husband's
friends supped with him, she was not permitted to be present. Without
permission she could not go from one apartment to the next. Without
permission she could not go out. When she did, it was at her husband's
side, heavily veiled. With his permission, she might go to the theatre,
but only when tragedy was given. At comedies and at the games she was
forbidden to assist. In case of disobedience the penalty was death.
Pleasures and privileges were limited to housekeeping and motherhood. At
the immanence of the latter her surroundings were embellished with
beautiful trifles, with objects of art, with whatever influences might
prenatally affect, and, in affecting, perfect the offspring. Otherwise,
her existence was simple and severe. The peplos tissue of gold was not for
her. Garments colored or flowered were not, either. These were reserved
for her inferiors and superiors, for the hierodules of Aphrodite Pandemos
and the images of the gods. Though her robes were simple, they had to be
heavy. If light, a fine was incurred. If they did not hang properly,
another fine was imposed. If, to the detriment of her husband, a man
succeeded in approaching her, she could be killed or merely repudiated; in
the latter case, she could no longer enter a temple, any one might insult
her. Still a slave, she was an outcast as well.
Such were the laws. Their observance is a different matter. In
Aristophanes and the comic poets generally Athenian women of position were
dissolute when they were not stupid, and usually they were both. They may
have been. But poets exaggerate. Besides, divorce was obtainable. Divorce
was granted on joint request. On the demand of the husband it could be
had. In the event of superscandalous conduct on his part, it was granted
to the wife, provided she appeared before a magistrate and personally
demanded it. The wife of the wicked and winning Alcibiades went on such an
errand. Alcibiades met her, caught her in his arms and, to the applause of
the wittiest people in the world, carried her triumphantly home.
Aristophanes and Alcibiades came in a later and more brilliant epoch. In
the days of Sappho severity was the rigorous rule, one sanctioned by the
sentiment of a people in whose virile sports clothing was discarded, and
in whose plays jest was too violent for delicate ears.
In Sparta the condition of women was similar, but girls had the antique
freedom which Nausicaa enjoyed. Destined by the belligerent constitution
of Lacedæmon to share, even in battle, the labors of their brothers, they
devoted themselves, not to domesticity, but to physical development. They
wrestled with young men, raced with them, swam the Eurotas, preparing
themselves proudly and purely to be mothers among a people who destroyed
any child that was deformed, fined any man that presumed to be stout,
forced debilitated husbands to cede their wives to stronger arms, and who,
meanwhile, protected the honor of their daughters with laws of which an
infraction was death.
The marriage of Spartan girls was so arranged that during the first years
of it they saw their husbands infrequently, furtively, almost
clandestinely, in a sort of hide-and-go-seek devised by Lycurgus in order
that love, instead of declining into indifference, should, while
insensibly losing its illusions, preserve and prolong its strength.
Otherwise, the Spartan wife became subject to the common Hellenic custom.
Her liberty departed with her girlhood. Save her husband, no man might see
her, none could praise her, none but he could blame. Her sole jewels were
her children. Her richest garments were stoicism and pride. "What dower
did you bring your husband?" an Athenian woman asked of one of them.
"Chastity," was the superb reply.[9]
Lesbos differed from Lacedæmon. The Spartans declared that they knew how
to fight, not how to talk. They put all their art into not having any. The
Lesbians put theirs into the production of verse. At Mitylene, poetic
development was preferred to physical culture. The girls there thought
more of immortality than of motherhood. But the unusual liberty which they
enjoyed was due to influences either Boeotian or Egyptian, perhaps to
both. Egypt was neighborly. With Lesbos, Egypt was in constant
communication. The liberty of women there, as generally throughout the
morning lands, religion had procured. Where Ishtar passed, she fevered,
but also she freed. Beneath her mantle women acquired a liberty that was
very real. On the very sites in which Islâm was to shut them up,
Semiramis, Strantonice, Dido, Cleopatra, and Zenobia appeared. Isis, who
was Ishtar's Egyptian avatar, was particularly liberal. Among the cities
especially dedicated to her was Naucratis.
Charaxus, a brother of Sappho, went there, met Rhodopis, a local beauty,
and fell in love with her. Charaxus was a merchant. He brought wine to
Egypt, sold it, returned to Greece for more. During one of his absences,
Rhodopis, while lolling on a terrace, dropped her sandal which, legend
says, a vulture seized, carried away, and let fall into the lap of King
Amasis. The story of Cinderella originated there. With this difference:
though the king, after prodigal and impatient researches, discovered the
little foot to which the tiny sandal belonged, Rhodopis, because of
Charaxus, disassociated herself from his advances. Subsequently a young
Naucratian offered a fortune to have relations with her. Because of
Charaxus, Rhodopis again refused. The young man dreamed that she
consented, dreamed that she was his, and boasted of the dream.
Indignantly Rhodopis cited him before the magistrates, contending that he
should pay her as proposed. The matter was delicate. But the magistrates
decided it with great wisdom. They authorized Rhodopis to dream that she
was paid.
Rumors of these and of similar incidents were probably reported in Lesbos
and may have influenced the condition of women there. But memories of
Boeotia from which their forefathers came was perhaps also a factor.
Boeotia was a haunt of the muses. In the temple to them, which Lesbos
became, the freedom of Erato was almost of necessity accorded to her
priestesses.
Lesbos was then a stretch of green gardens and white peristyles set
beneath a purple dome. To-day there is no blue bluer than its waters.
There is nothing so violet as the velvet of its sky. With such accessories
the presence of Erato was perhaps inevitable. In any case it was profuse.
Nowhere, at no time, has emotional æstheticism, the love of the lovely,
the fervor of individual utterance, been as general and spontaneous as it
was in this early Academe.
In the later Academe at Athens laughter was prohibited. That of Mitylene
was less severe. To loiter there some familiarity with the magnificence of
Homer may have been exacted, but otherwise a receptive mind, appreciative
eyes, and kissable lips were the best passports to Sappho, the girl Plato
of its groves, who, like Plato, taught beauty, sang it as well and with it
the glukupikros--the bitterness of things too sweet.
Others sang with her. Among those, whose names at least, the fates and the
Fathers have spared us, were Erinna and Andromeda. Sappho cited them as
her rivals. One may wonder could they have been really that. Plato called
Sappho the tenth muse. Solon, after hearing one of her poems, prayed that
he might not die until he had learned it. Longinus spoke of her with awe.
Strabo said that at no period had any one been known who in any way,
however slight, could be compared to her.
Though twenty-five centuries have gone since then, Sappho is still
unexceeded. Twice only has she been approached; in the first instance by
Horace, in the second by Swinburne, and though it be admitted, as is
customary among scholars, that Horace is the most correct of the Latin
poets, as Swinburne is the most faultless of our day, Sappho sits and
sings above them atop, like her own perfect simile of a bride:
   Like the sweet apple which reddens atop on the topmost bough,
   Atop on the topmost twig which the pluckers forgot somehow.
   Forget it not, nay, but got it not, for none could get it till now.[10]
It is regrettable that one cannot now get Sappho. But of at least nine
books there remain but two odes and a handful of fragments. The rest has
been lost on the way, turned into palimpsests, or burned in Byzance. The
surviving fragments are limited some to a line, some to a measure, some to
a single word. They are the citations of lexicographers and grammarians,
made either as illustrations of the Æolic tongue or as examples of metre.
The odes are addressed, the one to Aphrodite, the other to Anactoria. The
first is derived from Dionysius of Halicarnassus, who quoted it as a
perfect illustration of perfect verse. The second was given by Longinus as
an example of the sublime in poetry--of the display, as he put it, not of
one emotion, but of a congress of them. Under the collective title of
Anactoria, these odes together with many of the fragments, Swinburne has
interwoven into an exquisite whole.
To appreciate it, Sappho herself should be understood. Her features, which
the Lesbians put on their coins, are those of a handsome boy. On seeing
them one does not say, Can this be Sappho? But rather, This is Sappho
herself. They fit her, fit her verse, fit her fame. That fame, prodigious
in her own day, is serviceable in ours. It has retained the name of
Phaon, her lover; the names of girls for whom she also cared. Of these,
Suidas particularly mentioned Atthis and Gorgo. Regarding Anactoria there
is the testimony of the ode. There is more. "I loved thee once, Atthis,
long ago," she exclaimed in one fragment. In another she declared herself
"Of Gorgo full weary." But the extreme poles of her affection are
supposably represented by Phaon and Anactoria. The ode to the latter is,
apart from its perfection, merely a jealous plaint, yet otherwise useful
in showing the trend of her fancy, in addition to the fact that her love
was not always returned. Of that, though, there is further evidence in the
fragments. Some one she reproached with being "Fonder of girls than
Gello." Elsewhere she said "Scornfuller than thou have I nowhere found."
But even in the absence of such evidence, the episode connected with
Phaon, although of a different order, would suffice.
Contemporaneous knowledge of it is derived from Strabo, Servius,
Palæphatus, and from an alleged letter in one of Ovid's literary
forgeries. According to these writers, Phaon was a good-looking young
brute engaged in the not inelegant occupation of ferryman. In what manner
he first approached Sappho, whether indeed Sappho did not first approach
him, is uncertain. Pliny, who perhaps was credulous, believed that Phaon
had happened on the male root of a seaweed which was supposed to act as a
love charm and that by means of it he succeeded in winning Sappho's rather
volatile heart. However that may be, presently Phaon wearied. It was
probably in these circumstances that the Ode to Aphrodite was written,
which, in Swinburne's paraphrase--slightly paraphrased anew--is as
follows:
     I beheld in sleep the light that is
     In her high place in Paphos, heard the kiss
     Of body and soul that mix with eager tears
     And laughter stinging through the eyes and ears;
     Saw Love, as burning flame from crown to feet,
     Imperishable upon her storied seat;
     Clear eyelids lifted toward the north and south,
     A mind of many colors and a mouth
     Of many tunes and kisses; and she bowed
     With all her subtle face laughing aloud,
     Bowed down upon me saying, "Who doth the wrong,
     Sappho?" But thou--thy body is the song,
     Thy mouth the music; thou art more than I,
     Though my voice die not till the whole world die,
     Though men that hear it madden; though love weep,
     Though nature change, though shame be charmed to sleep.
     Ah, wilt thou slay me lest I kiss thee dead?
     Yet the queen laughed and from her sweet heart said:
     "Even he that flees shall follow for thy sake,
     And he shall give thee gifts that would not take,
     Shall kiss that would not kiss thee" (Yea, kiss me)
     "When thou wouldst not"--When I would not kiss thee!
If Phaon heard he did not heed. He took ship and sailed away, to Sicily it
is said, where, it is also said, Sappho followed, desisting only when he
flung at her some gibe about Anactoria and Atthis. In a letter which Ovid
pretended she then addressed to him, she referred to the gibe, but whether
by way of denial or admission, is now, owing to different readings of the
text, uncertain. In some copies she said, quas (the Lesbian girls) non
sine crimine (reproach) amavi. In others, quas hic (in Lesbos) sine
crimine amavi. Disregarding the fact that the letter itself is imaginary,
the second reading is to be preferred, not because it is true, but
precisely because it is not. Sappho, though a woman, was a poet. Several
of her verses contain allusions to attributes poetically praised by poets
who never possessed them, and Ovid who had not written a treatise on the
Art of Love for the purpose of displaying his ignorance, was too adroit to
let his imaginary Sappho admit what the real Sappho would have denied.[11]
Meanwhile Phaon refused to return. At Lesbos there was a white rock that
stretched out to the sea. On it was a temple to Apollo. A fall from the
rock was, at the time, locally regarded as a cure for love. Arthemesia,
queen of Caria, whom another Phaon had rebuffed and who, to teach him
better manners, put his eyes out, threw herself from it. Sappho did also.
It cured her of the malady, of all others as well.
Such is the story, such, rather, is its outline, one interesting from the
fact that it constitutes the initial love-tragedy of the Occident, as,
also, because of a climax befitting the singer of the bitterness of things
too sweet.
