saddled with about thirty thousand of them, and more coming on every
steamer from Honolulu and Japan. Some years ago when they began to find
themselves as a nation, and to rebel at the foreigners that were ruling
things through the open ports, they let it be pretty well known that it
was going to be Japan for the Japanese. Well, now the sooner they know
that it's California for the Californians the better it will be for all
hands. We don't go round lookin' for trouble, but if it comes our way we
don't mind it one little bit. We'll tolerate the Japs just in so far as
we find them useful, and useful they are as servants; for if they don't
hold a candle to the old Chinee, they're a long sight better than our
lazy high-toned hired girls, who are good for just exactly nothing; and
we need a certain amount of them for hire in other fields; but as
citizens, not much. We've put a stop to that right here, in this county
at least; and so, Mr. Gwynne, that's the milk in the cocoanut, and we
hope that you'll see things our way, and not sell any of your land to
the Japs."

"You see," interposed Judge Leslie, that Gwynne might not feel himself
rushed to a decision. "These little men, while possessing so many
admirable traits that I am quite willing to take off my hat to them, are
not desirable citizens in a white man's country. Not only is their whole
view of life and religion, every antecedent and tradition, exactly
opposed to the Occidental, so that we never could assimilate them, never
even contemplate their taking a part in our legislation nor marrying our
daughters, but--and for the majority of the people this is the crux of
the whole matter--commercially and industrially they are a menace. With
their excessive frugality they can undersell the most thrifty white man,
both as farmers and merchants; and the contempt they excite,
particularly in this state of extravagant traditions, is as detrimental
in its effects as their business methods; the more a man exercises his
faculty for contempt the more must his general standards sink toward
pessimism, and pessimism is neither more nor less than a confession of
failure in the struggle with life. I never was much of a fighter, so I
believe in eliminating the foe whenever it is possible. At all events we
have made up our minds to eliminate the Jap, what with one motive and
another, and I think we will. It may come to war in time--when the
United States are ready--but we Californians have a way of taking
matters into our own hands, and as war is a remote possibility, and we
have little prospects of legislation--what with the treaty and the
unpreparedness of the country for war--we just do what we can to freeze
the Japs out. If we must have small farmers and our own young men have
other ambitions, there are plenty of good European immigrants, and it
is our business to encourage them. We assimilate anything white so
quickly it is a wonder an immigrant remembers the native way of
pronouncing his own name. But the Oriental we can't assimilate, for all
our ostrich-like digestion, and what we can't assimilate we won't have.
It is also true that we don't like the Jap. He antagonizes us with his
ill-concealed impertinence under a thin veneer of servility; and
superior as he is, still he has a colored skin. Now, right or wrong,
Christian or merely natural, we despise and dislike colored blood, every
decent man of us in this United States of America. Your sentimentalists
can come over and wonder and write about us, reproach us and do their
honest ingenuous best to convert us, it never will make one damned bit
of difference. We are as we are and that is the end of it. The
antagonism, of course, only leaps to life when the colored man wants
equal rights and recognition, something he will never get in the United
States of America, as long as the stripes and the stars wave over it;
and the sooner the sentimentalists quit holding out false hopes the
better. As to the Chinese, it is quite true that there was no objection
to them outside of politics. And the reason was, they kept their place.
The antipathy to the Japanese extends throughout all classes. Every
thinking man in the State is concerned with the question. California
will be overrun with them before we know where we are; and we are hoping
that other counties will give an ear to the wisdom and farsightedness
Mr. Boutts has displayed, in proposing that no more land shall be
sold--or rented--to the Japanese. They can work for us if we have need
of them, for a while, but they cannot settle."

Gwynne had been thinking rapidly as Judge Leslie drawled out his
homily. In his new apprehension of latent weaknesses in his character he
was indisposed to yield to pressure, but he was equally desirous not to
let the turmoil into which his inner life had been thrown lead him to
any ridiculous extremes; not only interfering with his prospects, but
converting himself into chaos. He was extremely anxious to make no
mistakes at the outset of his new career, beset with difficulties
enough. Their words had every appearance of being a just presentment of
a just cause. He didn't care a hang about the "Jap." For the matter of
that, he reflected with some bitterness, he didn't care a hang about
California. At this point in his reflections he became aware that Colton
was turning his head with a sort of slow significance. He looked up and
watched a pale eyelash drop over a deep gleam of intelligence. Mr.
Leslie finished speaking, and Gwynne replied with an elaborate
politeness, which might be his vehicle for spontaneous sympathy or utter
indifference.

"Thank you all very much for your confidence in me, and also for
preventing me from making what no doubt would have been a serious
mistake. I have no desire whatever for the Japanese as a neighbor. I was
one of the few to recognize the menace of Japan to Occidental
civilization when all the world was sympathizing with it during its war
with Russia, and they will get no encouragement from me. So the matter
is settled as far as I am concerned."

"Shake!" said Mr. Wheaton, in a deep rumbling voice.

The four shook hands solemnly with their new neighbor, then, with even a
greater gusto, drank his health. Gwynne suddenly remembering the
California tradition, and the ducks, invited them to remain for supper;
but all declined except Colton, who sent his wife a message by his
father-in-law. The other three climbed into Judge Leslie's surrey and
departed, Colton remarking, apologetically, and somewhat wistfully:

"She's dining at the judge's and won't miss me: I never leave her alone.
I'll get back in time to take her home."




XIII


Mariana cooked the ducks with the skill of the unsung chef she was,
and enhanced them with other delicacies for which she alone had a name.
Gwynne, faithless to Isabel's crude though honest effort, rose to gayety
and wondered whether California was practising the insidious methods of
the wife. Colton, absent of eye, disposed of his share of the repast as
negatively as he did most things, and as soon as they had retired to the
veranda produced a bag of peanuts from his pocket, without which, he
remarked, no meal was complete. Gwynne declined the national delicacy,
feeling that diplomacy had its limits, and lit a pipe, wondering how he
should lead his new friend to give him some practical political
information. He detected the guile under that bland, almost vacant
exterior, and Colton's prattle about duck-shooting and deer-hunting,
although apparently endless, did not divert him for a moment. But he had
less trouble than he had anticipated. Colton's mind seldom roved far
from politics, and it required little tact to lead him to the trough.

"As I am necessarily in your confidence I will take you voluntarily into
mine," he announced, in his clear high pipe. "I don't in my heart care a
hang more for the Democratic party than I do for the Republican. But the
Republicans own the State at present, and there's no chance to get your
name up and really do things in that party. They're out for graft, every
last one of them. The chance is on the other side. It's a big chance;
for the laboring class, what with unions, and being rotten spoilt with
easy living in this State, is becoming more and more dissatisfied every
day. If they were let alone it would never occur to them they weren't
the chosen of the Lord; but we--the Democratic party--can't afford to
let them alone, unless we want to go out of business altogether. They
are just about the only dough we've got to work on, and for the last few
years we've been systematically sowing the seeds of discontent by means
of the press, metropolitan and local, abusing the rich, the trusts,
harping on the segregation of capital by a favored few, to the unjust
and illegal impoverishment of the many, painting gaudy pictures of what
the working-man's lot will be when he gets his rights, emphasizing that
in this State, of all others, man was intended to be happy and share
equally in her abundance. We sail pretty close to anarchy; but they are
an ignorant foolish lot, and we keep a tight hand on the reins and will
drive them in a straight line when the time comes. I am qualifying for
the position of district leader hereabouts, although I'm not announcing
it from the house-tops. But the present one is getting old, and I'm on
the inside track. I dress in these battered old clothes, that make my
little wife weep--she'll never have any other cause from me--just to
impress the farmers what a good Democrat I am; not a bit like Hyliard
Wheaton, who is a dude. All he is waiting for is his father's death so
that he can move to San Francisco. But I drive round in a dusty old
buggy, with candy for the children in my pocket, and chin with the
farmers about the crops and any old thing. When this county turns
Democratic, as it shall in the next five years--likely as not sooner, we
have so much raw material to work on in these immigrants--I intend to go
to Congress, hold on in the House until there is a vacancy in the
Senate, and there I'll be for life, and the boss of this State to boot.
I can't say I care about the Presidency. It's only a chance that there
may be anything doing while you're in--it's largely luck--and then when
you're out, if you survive the White House--which most Presidents
don't--you're as good as dead. I don't care about going abroad as a
Consul-General, or even Ambassador, for I wouldn't hold any office under
the United States government that was dependent upon the favor of a
small group in Washington. You're no better than a servant, and you
never know where you are. Political enemies at home, liars abroad,
somebody with a little more influence, or any low political business,
and you're fired without being heard in your own defence. You've got no
redress, and may be disgraced for life without ever knowing where you
were hit. None of that for me, although I'd like a big position of that
sort for my wife. But she can cut all the dash she wants as a senator's
wife, and I'll wield the big stick. That's where the fun comes in. I
have a natural turn for politics, and then it's the only road out of
Rosewater. The old gentleman is dead set upon my succeeding him in the
bank, and he'd never give me a lift, although if I made a hit at
anything he'd be so proud it would be easy sailing after. He's not a bit
displeased that I've turned over a few thousands an aunt left me. But
I'm after bigger game than that. She also left me two thousand acres of
land, that look hopeless because there's not so much as a spring on
them, and they're in one of the droughtiest sections in the State--she
got them as a bad debt. Now, just over the border of that ranch is a big
lake, and the owner of it won't sell or rent me water rights, thinking
I'll sell out for a song. But he don't know Tom Colton. I'm a member of
the present legislature--and that isn't the least of the reasons why. A
few hundreds in a few hungry pockets, and we run a snake through the
legislature declaring that lake state property. Then I ditch from the
lake, and I am the proud owner of a large tract of valuable irrigated
land. I sell off in small farms, and clean up a hundred thousand
dollars. That I'll invest in a Class A building in San Francisco. I'm
also in this projected electric railway of Boutts's--would advise you to
buy a block of that stock--I can let you in on the ground floor. Money
and political power, boss of this State--that's what I'm after--and no
idle dream either. I know the ropes, and all I have to do is to hang on.
I'll build a house on Connecticut Avenue in Washington, and my wife
shall have dresses four times a year from Paris." He turned to Gwynne
with glowing eyes. "You've barely seen her--and you haven't had a sight
of the kids. She's Isabel's great friend. I wonder you haven't been
round. I've got the nicest little shanty you ever saw, and we'd always
be glad to see you."

Gwynne thanked him absently; then, while his guest, dismissing politics,
indulged in domestic rhapsodies, relating several anecdotes the while he
consumed another bag of peanuts, Gwynne's brain worked rapidly. He
boiled with discouragement and disgust. The cynical frankness of this
young provincial, with his serene confidence in his star, and in his
power to handle the millions he despised, bore a primitive and
humiliating likeness to his younger self: Americanized by the lower
standards of his country perhaps, but painfully like in its elements.
All he could claim, it seemed to him at the moment, was a higher
personal sense of honesty and honor; and how long would he keep it in
this country? While he was hesitating between taking a possible rival
into his confidence, and an arrogant desire to announce his reason for
coming to California, without regard to consequences, Colton dropped the
subject of his family, scattered the mass of shells on the floor with a
sudden sweep of his foot, and tipping his chair back against the wall,
produced a large red apple and his pocket-knife.

"I can't say that I like the seamy side of politics," he remarked,
absently, as he performed a delicate operation without breaking the
skin. "My wife always maintains that I'm the most honest man alive, and
I shouldn't wonder if that was the way I really was made. Anyhow, I know
I'd a heap sight rather do a man a good turn than an ill one; but when
he gets in your way what are you going to do in a country where politics
are machine-made and every cog has to be oiled with graft? I'm thankful
I'll never be forced to accept a bribe--there's a lot of difference
between giving and taking, and I guess I'll have to do a lot of the
first. But it's politics or nothing with me, aside from having a natural
genius for them. I'll never get out of Rosewater otherwise. My father is
likely to live for twenty years yet, and I hope to God he will; but I
want the big game while I'm young. If the country was better I'd be,
too, and like my job. But you've got to play the game in your
shirt-sleeves. Kid gloves, and you sit on the fence and watch somebody
else wallow in after the prizes."

"It seems to me that the best chance for fame and power lies in that
superior strength which is allied with honesty. A man who is at the same
time a clever manipulator of men, and whose aim is statesmanship, should
be able to reach his goal by a clean road."

Gwynne had been long enough in the United States to blush uneasily as he
delivered these sentiments, and his color deepened as Colton gave a
little snort.

"Can't be done. Not in this State, anyhow. You've been talking to
Isabel. She looks like the Pilgrim Fathers and has inherited all their
antiquated notions. Honest, now--are your politics so much better than
ours?"

"A long sight. And they are by no means perfect. We have our machine and
our compromises, and all the rest of it; and even a few wholly rotten
boroughs. Fifty years ago we were blatantly worse than you are to-day.
As long as the game lasts, and there are two parties, there must be more
or less chicanery, but we are snow-white compared with the mire of this
country. And it is an anomaly I cannot understand. I have now been a
year in the United States, have talked with hundreds of Americans,
studied them and their institutions. Few have struck me as personally
dishonest--as we interpret the word in England. Human nature in this
country, indeed, has at times appeared to me almost elemental, utterly
without the subtlety that makes for crooked dealing. There is a thousand
times more petty trickery in Europe; and, with us, more hypocrisy,
certainly; but politics we have at least elevated. Here, the best man in
private life seems to become transformed the moment he enters the
political atmosphere, and if he is not a scoundrel, he sails pretty
close to the wind."

"H--m! All you say may be true. I don't agitate my gray matter over
problems. I know what we are, and the work cut out for me if I want to
stay on top. I have known reformers. We have lots of spasmodic attempts
at reform right here in this district. When the reform is directed at
some glaring evil, something that makes us uncomfortable, then it goes
through. When it's directed against politics in general, then the
reformer falls so hard he never gets up--unless, to be sure, he
scrambles up p. d. q. and trims with the wind. And that, I'm bound to
say, he generally does. We've had our idealists--talk till your mouth
waters. One session in Sacramento generally cures them. When it doesn't,
we have no more idea what becomes of them than of an ant that butts in
on a procession of other ants. Ever watch ants?"

It was Gwynne's turn to snort.

"I take my boy up on the hills every Sunday afternoon when it is fine,
and we watch ants and grasshoppers and birds and all the rest of it. Why
don't you get married? There's nothing like it. I may have some hard
hoeing ahead of me, but I always have that cosy pretty home at the end
of the day, and the sweetest wife in the world--who doesn't know the
Republican party from the Democrat, and never opens a newspaper. Isabel
is too high and mighty. She's a wonderful girl all right, but the last
woman I'd want for a wife. I know a girl that would just suit you--Dolly
Boutts. She's as pretty as a peach, and as domestic as Anabel. I'll have
you both in to supper, as soon as we get a new cook. We've had four this
month, and my wife warned me I was not to ask you to anything until she
was perfectly satisfied. She's the best housekeeper you ever saw."

Gwynne maintained an infuriated silence. It was some moments before he
could trust himself to articulate. Colton, munching his apple, and
twirling the long spiral of skin he had peeled off without a break,
detected nothing unusual in the atmosphere. It was characteristic of him
