The fever began to burn the traveller, the fever of thirst which
surely ends in raving madness, as he knew, for he had wandered much in
deserts, and had seen men go mad for lack of water. His hands felt red
hot, the pulses were hammering at his temples, and his tongue became
as hot as baked clay; he would have borne great pain for a time if it
could have brought sleep, for this was much worse than pain, and it
made sleep impossible. He tried to take account of what he felt, for
he was strong, and he was conscious that the heat of the fever, and
the throbbing in his arteries, and the choking dryness in his mouth
and throat, were not really his main sensations, but only accessories
to it or consequences of it. The real suffering was the craving for
the sight, the touch, and the taste of water; to see it alone would be
a relief, even if he were not allowed to drink, and to dip his hands
into a stream would be heaven though he were not permitted to taste a
drop. He understood, in a strangely clear way, that what suffered now
was not, in the ordinary sense, his own self, that is, his nerves, but
the physical composition of his body, which was being by degrees
deprived of the one prime ingredient more necessary than all others.
He knew that his body was eight-tenths water, or thereabouts, but that
this proportion was fast decreasing by the process of thirst, and that
what tormented him was the unsettling of the hydrostatic balance which
nature requires and maintains where there is any sort of life in
animals, plants, or stones; for stones live and are not even
temporarily dead till they are calcined to the state of quicklime, or
hydraulic cement, or plaster of Paris; and they come to life again
with furious violence and boiling heat if they are brought into
contact with water suddenly; or they regain the living state by slow
degrees if they are merely exposed to dampness. The man knew that what
hurt him was the battle between forces of nature which was being
fought in his flesh, and it was as much more terrible than the mere
pain his fleshly nerves actually suffered from it, as real death is
more awful than the most tremendous representation of it that ever was
shown in a play. Yet a stage tragedy may draw real burning tears of
sorrow and sympathy from them that look on.

The traveller was a modern man of science, and understood these
things, but the knowledge of them did not make it easier to bear
thirst or to die of hunger.

Baraka was not thirsty yet, because she had drunk her fill in the
morning, and was not used to drink often; it was enough that she could
look at the man she loved, for the end would come soon enough without
thinking about it. All day long the traveller crouched in the hollow
of the ruby cave, and Baraka watched him from her place; when it grew
dark the vulture on the pinnacle of rock thrust its ugly head under
its wing. As soon as Baraka could not see any more she curled herself
up on the white sand like a little wild animal and went to sleep,
though she was thirsty.

It was dawn when she awoke, and her linen garment was damp with the
dew, so that the touch of it refreshed her. The traveller had come out
and was lying prone on the sand, his face buried against his arm, as
soldiers sleep in a bivouac. She could not tell whether he was asleep
or not, but she knew that he could not see her, and she cautiously
sucked the dew from her garment, drawing it up to her mouth and
squeezing it between her lips.

It was little enough refreshment, but it was something, and she was
not afraid, which made a difference. Just as she had drawn the edge of
her shift down and round her ankles again, the man turned on his side
suddenly, and then rose to his feet. For an instant he glared at her,
and she saw that his blue eyes were bloodshot and burning; then he
picked up the heavy camel bag, and began to make his way round what
had been the beach of the pool, towards the passage through which they
had entered, and which was now a dry cave, wide below, narrow at the
top, and between six or seven feet high. He trod carefully and tried
his way, for he feared the quicksand, but he knew that there was none
in the passage, since he had walked through the water and had felt the
way hard under his feet. In a few moments he disappeared under the
rock.

Baraka knew what he meant to do; he was going to try to dig through
the dam at the entrance to let the water in, even if he could not get
out. But she was sure that this would be impossible, for by this time
her father and brothers had, no doubt, completely filled the spring
with earth and stones, and had turned the water in the other
direction. The traveller must have been almost sure of this too, else
he would have made the attempt much sooner. It was the despotism of
thirst that was driving him to it now, and he had no tool with which
to dig--it would be hopeless work with his hands.

The girl did not move, for in that narrow place and in the dark she
could not have helped him. She sat and waited. By and by he would come
out, drenched with sweat and yet parching with thirst, and he would
glare at her horribly again; perhaps he would be mad when he came out
and would kill her because she had brought him there.

After some time she heard a very faint sound overhead, and when she
looked up the vulture was gone from his pinnacle. She wondered at
this, and her eyes searched every point and crevice of the rock as far
as she could see, for she knew that the evil bird could only have been
frightened away; and though it fears neither bird nor beast, but only
man, she could not believe that any human being could find a foothold
near to where it had perched.

But now she started, and held her breath and steadied herself with one
hand on the sand beside her as she leaned back to look up. Something
white had flashed in the high sun, far up the precipice, and the
sensation the sight left was that of having seen sunshine on a moving
white garment.

For some seconds, perhaps for a whole minute, she saw nothing more,
though she gazed up steadily, then there was another flash and a small
patch of snowy white was moving slowly on the face of the cliff, at
some distance above the place where the vulture had been. She bent her
brows in the effort to see more by straining her sight, and meanwhile
the patch descended faster than it seemed possible that a man could
climb down that perilous steep. Yet it was a man, she knew from the
first, and soon she saw him plainly, in his loose shirt and white
turban. Baraka thought of a big white moth crawling on a flat wall.
She was light of foot and sure of hold herself, and could step
securely where few living things could move at all without instant
danger, but she held her breath as she watched the climber's descent
towards her. She saw him plainly now, a brown-legged, brown-armed man
in a white shirt and a fur cap, and he had a long gun slung across his
back. Nearer still, and he was down to the jutting pinnacle where the
vulture had sat, and she saw his black beard; still nearer by a few
feet and she knew him, and then her glance darted to the mouth of the
cave, at the other end of which the man she loved was toiling
desperately alone in the dark to pierce the dam of earth and stones.
It was only a glance, in a second of time, but when she looked up the
black-bearded man had already made another step downwards. Baraka
measured the distance. If he spoke loud now she could understand him,
and he could hear her answer. He paused and looked down, and he saw
her as plainly as she saw him. She knew him well, and she knew why he
had come, with his long gun. He was her father's brother's son, to
whom she was betrothed; he was Saäd, and he was risking his life to
come down and kill her and the man whom she had led to the ruby mines
for love's sake.

He would come down till he was within easy range, and then he would
wait till he had a fair chance at them, when they were standing still,
and she knew that he was a dead shot. The traveller's revolver could
never carry as far as the long gun, Baraka was sure, and Saäd could
come quite near with safety, since he seemed able to climb down the
face of a flat rock where there was not foothold for a cat. He was
still descending, he was getting very near; if the traveller were not
warned he might come out of the cave unsuspiciously and Saäd would
shoot him. Saäd would wish to shoot him first, because of his
revolver, and then he would kill Baraka at his leisure. If he fired at
her first the traveller would have a chance at him while he was
reloading his old gun. She understood why he had not killed her yet,
if indeed he wanted to, for it was barely possible that he loved her
enough to take her alive.

After hesitating for a few moments, not from fear but in doubt, she
gathered herself to spring, and made a dash like an antelope along the
sand for the mouth of the cave, for she knew that Saäd would not risk
wasting his shot on her while she was running. She stopped just under
the shelter of the rock and called inward.

'Saäd is coming down the rock with his gun!' she cried. 'Load your
weapon!'

When she had given this warning she went out again and stood before
the mouth of the cave with her back to it. Saäd was on the rock, not
fifty feet above the ground, at the other side of the natural wall,
but looked as if even he could get no farther down. He was standing
with both his heels on a ledge so narrow that more than half the
length of his brown feet stood over it; he was leaning back, flat
against the sloping cliff, and he had his gun before him, for he was
just able to use both his hands without falling. He pointed the gun at
her and spoke.

'Where is the man?'

'He is dead,' Baraka answered without hesitation.

'Dead? Already?'

'I killed him in his sleep,' she said, 'and I dragged his body into
the cave for fear of the vulture, and buried it in the sand. Be not
angry, Saäd, though he was my father's guest. Come down hither and I
will tell all. Then you shall shoot me or take me home to be your
wife, as you will, for I am quite innocent.'

She meant to entice him within range of the stranger's weapon.

'There is no foothold whereby to get lower,' he answered, but he
rested the stock of his gun on the narrow ledge behind him.

'Drag out the man's body, that I may see it.'

'I tell you I buried it. I killed him the night before last; I cannot
dig him up now.'

'Why did you run to the mouth of the cave when you saw me, if the man
is dead?'

'Because at first I was afraid you would shoot me from above,
therefore I took shelter.'

'Why did you come out again, if you were in fear?'

'After I had run in I was ashamed, for I felt sure that you would not
kill me without hearing the truth. So I came out to speak with you.
Get down, and I will show you the man's grave.'

'Have I wings? I cannot come down. It is impossible.'

Baraka felt a puff of hot air pass her, just above her right ankle,
and at the same instant she heard a sharp report, not very loud, and
more like the snapping of a strong but very dry stick than the
explosion of firearms. She instinctively sprang to the left, keeping
her eyes on Saäd.

For a moment he did not move. But he was already dead as he slowly
bent forward from the rock, making a deep obeisance with both arms
hanging down before him, so that his body shot down perpendicularly to
the sand, where it struck head first, rolled over and lay motionless
in a heap. The traveller's was a Mauser pistol that would have killed
as surely at five hundred yards as fifty; and the bullet had gone
through the Tartar's brain.

Baraka sprang up the sandy slope and ran along the narrow beach to the
body. In an instant she had detached the large brown water-gourd from
the thong by which it had hung over Saäd's shoulder, and she felt that
it was full. Without a thought for herself she hastened back to the
mouth of the cave where the traveller was now standing. His face was
dripping with perspiration that ran down into his matted golden beard,
his eyes were wild, his hands were bleeding.

'Drink!' cried Baraka joyfully, and she gave him the gourd.

He gripped it as a greedy dog snaps at a bit of meat, and pulling out
the wooden plug he set the gourd to his lips, with an expression of
beatitude. But he was an old traveller and only drank a little,
knowing that his life might depend on making the small supply last. A
gourd of water was worth more than many rubies just then.

'Are you very thirsty yet?' he asked in a harsh voice.

'No,' answered Baraka bravely; 'keep it for yourself.'

His hand closed round the neck of the gourd and he looked up towards
the rocks above. The vulture had come back and was circling slowly
down.

'You had better bury the body, while I go on working,' said the
traveller, turning back into the cave and taking the gourd with him.

Baraka had marked the place where he had tried to dig for water and
had almost disappeared in the quicksand. She took from the body the
wallet, in which were dates and some half-dry bread, and then dragged
and pushed, and rolled the dead man from the place where he had
fallen. The vulture sat on the lowest ledge where his claws could find
a hold, and though he watched her with horrible red eyes while she
robbed him of his prey, he did not dare go nearer.

The body sank into the moving sand, and Baraka had to roll herself
back to firmer ground in haste to escape being swallowed up with the
dead man. The last she saw of him was one brown foot sticking up. It
sank slowly out of sight, and then she went to the hollow where the
ruby mine was and took up a piece of the broken crust, full of
precious stones, and threw it at the vulture as hard as she could. It
did not hit him, but he at once tumbled off the ledge into the air,
opened his queer, bedraggled wings and struck upwards.

Then Baraka sat down in the shade and slowly brushed away the dry sand
that had got into the folds of her linen garment, and looked steadily
at the mouth of the cave and tried not to realise that her throat was
parched and her lips almost cracking with thirst, and that the
traveller had a gourd almost full of water with him. For she loved
him, and was willing to die that he might live a little longer;
besides, if he succeeded in digging his way out, there would be plenty
to drink, and when he was free she was sure that he would love her
because she had made him so rich.

The sun rose higher and at last shone down to the bottom of the chasm,
and she sat in the narrow strip of shade, where she had passed most of
the previous day. She was very thirsty and feverish, and felt tired,
and wished she could sleep, but could not. Still the traveller toiled
in the darkness, and from time to time she heard sounds from far away
as of stones and loose earth falling. He was still working hard, for
he was very strong and he was desperate.

Baraka thought that if he was able to dig through the dam the water
would run in again, and she watched the sand for hours, but it was
drier than ever. The shadow broadened again, and crept up the rock
quickly as the afternoon passed.

It was a long time since she had heard any sound from the cave; she
went to the entrance and listened, but all was quite still. Perhaps
the traveller had fallen asleep from exhaustion, too tired even to
drag himself out into the air when he could work no longer. She sat
down in the entrance and waited.

An hour passed. Perhaps he was dead. At the mere inward suggestion
Baraka sprang to her feet, and her heart beat frantically, and stood
still an instant, and then beat again as if it would burst, and she
could hardly breathe. She steadied herself against the rock, and then
went in to know the truth, feeling her way, and instinctively shading
her eyes as many people do in the dark.

A breath of cool air made her open them, and to her amazement there
was light before her. She thought she must have turned quite round
while she was walking, and that she was going back to the entrance, so
she turned again. But in a few seconds there was light before her once
more, and soon she saw the dry sand, full of her footprints and the
traveller's, and then the hollow where the mine was came in sight.
