of delight, of boasting, since it would all be 
true. She doesn't act as though she lived in 
a palace. You are a fortunate girl.” 
“ I am proud of her love," Helen returned. 
“ It would look silly to protest that I should 
love her the same without a penny, but I 
should.” 
“ No one would disbelieve you on that 
point.” 
The children interested Leslie very much, 
and though they were shy at first, she soon 
won their favor. Leslie felt the spirit of cor- 
diality that animated the household and made 
one feel so delightfully at home. 
She had dropped upon a week of unusual 
gaiety: two elegant lawn parties, one with 
an out-of-door moonlight dance, several drives 
in picnic style to points of interest, a musicale, 
teas, and a very funny little comedietta. 
Leslie's week lengthened into almost a fort- 
night, and she reached home barely in time to 
welcome her brother and the bride. 
“ I shall just count the days until college 
opens,” Leslie said with her good-by. “ And, 
Miss Craven, please do visit us and spend a 
Sunday, although we would take you in for 
a week any time.” 
Afterward, Helen wrestled with shopping 
and dressmakers, and the first month’s senior 
exercises. She did not want to be caught un- 
prepared and have some work to be made up. 
She was ambitious to have this the crowning 
year. 
Willard’s visit could not be refused. There 
were many things to talk about. A family 
from the city had rented the old home for 
three months and were so enamored of it that 
a proposal had been made for purchasing it. 
The family consisted of an old gentleman who 
had a longing for country diversions, his wife, 
his married son, and five growing children. 
“ I would rather settle nearer the city,” ex- 
plained Willard. “ Mother simply couldn’t 
live there alone, and Marjorie wants her; she 
planned this at first. These people offer a 
very fair price for the place; the deed is in 
mother’s name, though we should all be will- 
ing to do whatever is best for her. So that 
will make mother very comfortable all her 
 
days. There will be some hard things about 
it, but mother looks at it in a practical light. 
I shall board in the city; I did last winter, 
and I can run up every week. The parish is 
certainly a very attractive one, with work 
enough to keep one busy, and it isn’t full of 
snobs, but there are many nice, cultured people 
and some thrifty middle-class working , folk. 
There is a paper-mill, a wire factory, and 
enough labor to preserve a fair balance. 
Laurence is a fine clergyman, too.’’ 
But Willard found Helen inexorable on the 
point of an engagement. 
“ I want to be sure of myself ; certain this 
is the best and wisest, the only true step to 
take. I shall be very busy, as I have said 
times before, and I do not want my interest 
diverted.” 
“ But you do not seem to think about me,” 
Willard replied in a despondent sort of tone. 
She had been thinking steadily about him 
for the last three days. There was little fault 
to find in him. He was attractive, gentle- 
manly, intelligent, but nothing of a prig, 
quick to respond to a bit of fun, and with all 
the readiness one acquires in society. What 
more could a girl ask? Nothing, if she loved 
him. It had been blind contact, not the 
necessity of loving. He did not touch the 
depths of her soul; had she truly any deep 
feelings? She stood aghast as she asked her- 
self the question. A strong, definite person- 
ality was what some of the girls talked about, 
claimed, and emotional excitability was one of 
the signs of a rather weak character. College 
was to shape them into well-balanced women, 
better able to take up all the relations of life, 
to enjoy and to appreciate, to be influential 
in the circle they were called to fill. This was 
her ambition. Was she going to fail in it? 
She was glad to be whirled along the way 
that had come to have a familiar look. At this 
town a man who didn’t believe in college girls 
had entered during her first journey; here 
a woman, who considered them equally repre- 
hensible, and that a girl’s destiny was to “ keep 
company ” and marry, came in. The train was 
half-filled with girls. It was early now, and 
there were not many half-frightened girls who 
were not certain of their acceptance in the 
 
freshman class. Mothers of some of the girls 
were with them, and sisters, also. One girl 
she remembered as a last summer senior who 
was evidently instilling fortitude into an ir- 
resolute face that betrayed hesitancy in every 
line. 
“ Another sacrifice,” thought Helen. “ She 
will never make a college girl." 
Leslie Brooks stood on the platform, and 
grasped her hand warmly. 
“ I came last evening,” she announced, 
“ and was down to meet the noon train. 
We’re filling up fast. Girls are entering for 
the second year, several of them from other 
places. Jarvis Hall will overflow. Our fame 
has gone abroad.” 
A group was standing uncertainly, and 
Leslie approached them. 
“ It's such an awful big place ! ” declared 
a young woman in amazement. “ And such 
beautiful buildings and grounds! We’re from 
the West, and everything is strange. Where 
ought we to go? I hate to seem so ignorant. 
I’ve been teaching in a seminary, too.” 
Leslie made a few inquiries and piloted 
them to a place of refuge until their standing 
was established, explaining to them where 
they were to go for examinations, which were 
in progress now and would be for several 
days. 
“ I thought you lived in little houses, a 
dozen or so girls together,” said another. “ I 
read about it in a story.” 
“ It is considered better to live in the halls, 
though some do go outside. You will soon 
get acquainted. Many of the girls are just as 
much strangers as you. Come this way.” 
“ Are you one of the teachers? ” 
“ Oh, no!” 
“ I thought you looked young for a teacher. 
I’m twenty-four. That isn’t too old to begin, 
is it? I’ve been teaching to get enough money 
together; I’ve always wanted to go to college, 
and we six girls are all friends.” 
“ I’m glad you know some one,” returned 
Leslie. “ That is a cheerful outlook.” 
“ It’s hard in the beginning, isn’t it?” said 
Leslie to Helen. 
“ I found you in the beginning,” returned 
Llelen, with gratitude shining in her eyes. 
 
They went to the Seniors’ Hall. That, too, 
was filling up, and trunks and boxes stood 
about in the corridors. There were glad 
greetings and welcomes, bits of splendid vaca- 
tions, and wretched ones wthout a bit of fun, 
dismal anticipations of the thorny path before 
them, a wonder if the seniors could have as 
much fun as the juniors, and one girl said : 
“ The sophs is the place for pure, un- 
adulterated fun. You have gotten over the 
scare of the profs., and the girls’ snubs, for 
you find they are no better or wiser than you, 
and you just don’t care whether you get in 
the juniors or not. I wish I'd slipped up on 
more problems and stayed there another 
year.” 
“What a curious hodgepodge it all is!" 
declared Helen, her eyes twinkling with mirth. 
“ It sounds like reading across the columns of 
a newspaper, as the sentences and complaints 
break in upon one another, but if you waited 
for one or two to finish, you would never get 
a chance yourself.” 
“ Let us go to our room and put things in 
order. I have a nice, new rug that will look 
very well, though it was a heart-break for my 
new sister-in-law. They had been furnishing 
simply and prettily in soft grays and browns, 
with a bit of lovely red for contrast, and this 
queer blue killed everything. It was terrible, 
so we just changed off with some articles I 
was going to pack away. I think Miss Bond 
will want to buy it, she is so fond of bizarre 
effects, but we will use it for awhile. ” 
It was rather a queer pattern, with some- 
thing that suggested Chinese dragons crawl- 
ing about, but which were only impossible 
growths of sedgy blooms that must have 
grown in a blue and yellow sea. 
“ It really made the poor girl nervous. I 
can’t see any sense in such things. But we 
will put the lounge across the corner with the 
bookcase back of it. I don’t like my books too 
handy, selfish mortal that I am. You see, this 
will make quite a cosy corner with the orna- 
ments and hangings.” 
“ Why, it will be very artistic, and we will 
tread the dragons underfoot.” 
They worked industriously for awhile, 
Leslie breaking out now and then with enthu- 
 
siasm over her visit to Miss Craven. There 
was a tap at the door. 
“ That’s the tenth girl I've refused,” began 
Leslie impatiently. “ Hammer and nails and 
tack drawer and needles and thread. Oh!” 
in delighted surprise. “ Miss Morse, is my 
face full of all ungracious lines? You are 
doubly welcome,” and she caught the out- 
stretched hand in both of hers. 
“ Were you indulging in tempers ? It 
couldn't have been very bad,” smilingly. 
“ Please have a subject given out for the 
first public essay on ‘ The Evils of Borrow- 
ing.’ ” 
“ And the worse evil of never returning,” 
laughed Helen, her face radiant with pleasure. 
“ It's just a delight to see you looking so well 
and full of animation. You had a splendid 
time. Sit down and tell us about it.” 
“ That will keep. I’ve something that in- 
terests me still more. Oh, do you remember 
Stockton’s ‘ House of Martha ’ ? ” and her 
face gleamed with amusement. “ You know 
the hero went abroad and returned stuffed 
full of wonders that he was dying to unload.” 
“ But we are ready to listen,” declared 
Helen. 
“ The traveller with the pack was like 
myself, and I shared the fate of that redoubt- 
able hero. There was so much to talk about 
with Sidney; he had been over the ground, 
but lo, when I began, he had a wondrous tale 
to unfold, and mine was pushed cavalierly 
aside. He had been to a sort of Garden of 
Eden place, called Hope.” 
" Oh! oh! ” ejaculated Helen, her face 
rosy red. 
“ He went expecting a quiet time with an 
elderly relative who he supposed would be 
booky and prosy, and really he was in a 
perfect blaze of enthusiasm. There was a 
charming college girl, Miss Grant, and her 
most agreeable and delightful friend, Miss 
Craven, whose views of what might be done 
in the world quite coincided with his own ; a 
praiseworthy library for the benefit of which 
he gave a talk; some remarkably intelligent 
people, musical, too ; and a young farmer who 
has taken his fancy altogether. Why, I 
haven’t recovered my surprise yet ! Every 
 
time I began about a picture or a church or a 
palace, it suggested to his fertile mind or im- 
agination something at Hope. What enchant- 
ment did you use, Miss Grant? And wasn't 
that Miss Craven here at commencement?” 
“And if you could see her home!” Leslie 
exclaimed, the delightful memory giving 
pretty lines to her face. 
“Was he there, too?'’ 
Both girls turned scarlet. 
“ That was impertinent,” Miss Morse sub- 
joined quickly. “ I beg your pardon.” 
“ No, he wasn’t, but I was. It is like a 
lovely picture. I do not believe there is any- 
thing more attractive abroad.” 
“ He seemed to know so much about it, and 
two sweet children she had sort of adopted.” 
“ I suppose I am to blame for that,” said 
Helen, with gay frankness. “ She is the most 
modest body in the world, and she has a 
morbid horror of being admired for the 
money’s sake, and there is ever so much of it. 
She would adopt me, too,” with an ingenuous 
flush, “ only I think I am not quite poor 
enough. We are the best of friends; I may 
have said we were at school together. Oh, 
Miss Morse, I wish you knew her well! ” 
“ It’s funny, but Sidney said the same thing. 
Can’t you invite her here and let me meet her 
in a friendly way ? She might stay over a 
Sunday. There was another event that he 
couldn’t participate in, to his chagrin. Miss 
Grant gave a talk on college life before the 
Ladies’ Club, and he heard that it was very 
well done.” 
“ I think I had greatness thrust upon me,” 
and an embarrassed expression went flutter- 
ing over the girl's face. “ I did try to do my 
training justice and not talk over the heads 
of my audience, keeping the great ‘ I ’ well in 
the background. We all had a very nice time, 
I do believe, and everybody liked your brother 
so much. I feel deeply obliged for the interest 
he took in my cousin Nat, who is really a fine 
young country fellow, bright and sensible.” 
“ Sidney is so fond of young men, especially 
