Northern Mississippi.

They had gone so far as to conduct a survey, and to make a careful
estimate of the cost of the proposed extension. Montague knew about
this, because it had chanced that he, together with Lucy’s brother,
who was now in California, had spent part of his vacation on a
hunting trip, during which they had camped near the surveying party.
The proposed line had to find its way through the Talula swamps, and
here was where the uncertainty of the project came in. There were a
dozen routes proposed, and Montague remembered how he had sat by the
campfire one evening, and got into conversation with one of the
younger men of the party, and listened to his grumbling about the
blundering of the survey. It was his opinion that the head-surveyor
was incompetent, that he was obstinately rejecting the best routes
in favour of others which were almost impossible.

Montague had taken this gossip to his father, but he did not know
whether his father had ever looked into the matter. He only knew
that when the project for the proposed extension had been brought up
at a stockholders’ meeting, the cost of the work was found so great
that it was impossible to raise the money. A proposal to go to the
Mississippi Steel Company was voted down, because Mississippi Steel
was in the hands of Wall Street men; and neither Judge Dupree nor
General Montague had realised at that time the hopelessness of the
plight of the little railroad.

All these matters were brought up in the conversation between Lucy
and Montague. There was no reason, he assured her, why they should
still hold on to their stock; if, by the proposed extension, or by
any other plan, new capitalists could make a success of the company,
it would be well to make some combination with them, or, better yet,
to sell out entirely. Montague promised that he would take the
matter in hand and see what he could do.

His first thought, as he went down town, was of Jim Hegan. “Come and
see me sometime,” Hegan had said, and Montague had never accepted
the invitation. The Northern Mississippi would, of course, be a mere
bagatelle to a man like Hegan, but who could tell what new plans he
might be able to fit it into? Montague knew by the rumours in the
street that the great financier had sold out all his holdings in two
or three of his most important ventures.

He went at once to Hegan’s office, in the building of one of the
great insurance companies downtown. He made his way through
corridors of marble to a gate of massively ornamented bronze, behind
which stood a huge guardian in uniform, also massively ornamented.
Montague generally passed for a big man, but this personage made him
feel like an office-boy.

“Is Mr. Hegan in?” he asked.

“Do you call by appointment?” was the response.

“Not precisely,” said Montague, producing a card. “Will you kindly
send this to Mr. Hegan?”

“Do you know Mr. Hegan personally?” the man demanded.

“I do,” Montague answered.

The other had made no sign, as far as Montague could make out, but
at this moment a dapper young secretary made his appearance from the
doors behind the gate. “Would you kindly state the business upon
which you wish to see Mr. Hegan?” he said.

“I wish to see Mr. Hegan personally,” Montague answered, with just a
trifle of asperity, “If you will kindly take in this card, it will
be sufficient.”

He submitted with what grace he could to a swift inspection at the
secretary’s hands, wondering, in the meantime, if his new spring
overcoat was sufficiently up-to-date to entitle him, in the
secretary’s judgment, to be a friend of the great man within.
Finally the man disappeared with the card, and half a minute later
came back, smiling effusively. He ushered Montague into a huge
office with leather-cushioned chairs large enough to hold several
people each, and too large for any one person to be comfortable in.
There was a map of the continent upon the wall, across which Jim
Hegan’s railroads stretched like scarlet ribbons. There were also
heads of bison and reindeer, which Hegan had shot himself.

Montague had to wait only a minute or two, and then he was escorted
through a chain of rooms, and came at last to the magnate’s inner
sanctum. This was plain, with an elaborate and studied plainness,
and Jim Hegan sat in front of a flat mahogany desk which had not a
scrap of paper anywhere upon it.

He rose as the other came in, stretching out his huge form. “How do
you do, Mr. Montague?” he said, and shook hands. Then he sat down in
his chair, and settled back until his head rested on the back, and
bent his great beetling brows, and gazed at his visitor.

The last time that Montague had met Hegan they had talked about
horses, and about old days in Texas; but Montague was wise enough to
realise that this had been in the evening. “I have come on a matter
of business, Mr. Hegan,” he said. “So I will be as brief as
possible.”

“A course of action which I do my best to pardon,” was the smiling
reply.

“I want to propose to you to interest yourself in the affairs of the
Northern Mississippi Railroad,” said the other.

“The Northern Mississippi?” said Hegan, knitting his brows. “I have
never heard of it.”

“I don’t imagine that many people have,” the other answered, and
went on to tell the story of the line.

“I have five hundred shares of the stock myself,” he said, “but it
has been in my family for a long time, and I am perfectly satisfied
to let it stay there. I am not making this proposition on my own
account, but for a client who has a block of five thousand shares. I
have here the annual reports of the road for several years, and some
other information about its condition. My idea was that you might
care to take the road, and make the proposed extension to the works
of the Mississippi Steel Company.”

“Mississippi Steel!” exclaimed Hegan. He had evidently heard of
that.

“How long ago did you say it was that this plan was looked into?” he
asked. And Montague told him the story of the survey, and what he
himself had heard about it.

“That sounds curious,” said Hegan, and bent his brows, evidently in
deep thought. “I will look into the matter,” he said, finally. “I
have no plans of my own that would take me into that neighbourhood,
but it may be possible that I can think of someone who would be
interested. Have you any idea what your client wants for the
thousand shares?”

“My client has put the matter into my hands,” he answered. “The
matter was only broached to me this morning, and I shall have to
look further into the condition of the road. I should advise her to
accept a fair offer--say seventy-five per cent of the par value of
the stock.”

“We can talk about that later,” said Hegan, “if I can find the man
for you.” And Montague shook hands with him and left.

He stopped in on his way home in the evening to tell Lucy about the
result of his interview. “We shall hear from him soon,” he said. “I
don’t imagine that Hegan is a man who takes long to make up his
mind.”

“My prayers will be with him,” said Lucy, with a laugh. Then she
added, “I suppose I shall see you Friday night at Mr. Harvey’s.”

“I shan’t come out until Saturday afternoon,” said he. “I am very
busy these days, working on a case. But I try to find time to get
down to Siegfried Harvey’s; I seem to get along with him.”

“They tell me he goes in for horses,” said Lucy.

“He has a splendid stable,” he answered.

“It was good of Ollie to bring him round,” said she. “I have
certainly jumped into the midst of things. What do you think I’m
going to do to-morrow?”

“I have no idea,” he said.

“I have been invited to see Mr. Waterman’s art gallery.”

“Dan Waterman’s!” he exclaimed. “How did that happen?”

“Mrs. Alden’s brother asked me. He knows him, and got me the
invitation. Wouldn’t you like to go?”

“I shall be busy in court all day to-morrow,” said Montague. “But
I’d like to see the collection. I understand it’s a wonderful
affair,--the old man has spent all his spare time at it. You hear
fabulous estimates of what it’s cost him--four or five millions at
the least.”

“But why in the world does he hide it in a studio way up the
Hudson?” cried Lucy.

The other shrugged his shoulders. “Just a whim,” he said. “He didn’t
collect it for other people’s pleasure.”

“Well, so long as he lets me see it, I can’t complain,” said Lucy.
“There are so many things to see in this city, I am sure I shall be
busy for a year.”

“You will get tired before you have seen half of them,” he answered.
“Everybody does.”

“Do you know Mr. Waterman?” she asked.

“I have never met him,” he said. “I have seen him a couple of
times.” And Montague went on to tell her of the occasion in the
Millonaires’ Club, when he had seen the Croesus of Wall Street
surrounded by an attending throng of “little millionaires.”

“I hope I shan’t meet him,” said Lucy. “I know I should be
frightened to death.”

“They say he can be charming when he wants to,” replied Montague.
“The ladies are fond of him.”

On Saturday afternoon, when Montague went down to Harvey’s Long
Island home, his brother met him at the ferry.

“Allan,” he began, immediately, “did you know that Lucy had come
down here with Stanley Ryder?”

“Heavens, no!” exclaimed Montague. “Is Ryder down here?”

“He got Harvey to invite him,” Oliver replied. “And I know it was
for no reason in the world but to be with Lucy. He took her out in
his automobile.”

Montague was dumfounded.

“She never hinted it to me,” he said.

“By God!” exclaimed Oliver, “I wonder if that fellow is going after
Lucy!”

Montague stood for some time, lost in sombre thought. “I don’t think
it will do him much good,” he said. “Lucy knows too much.”

“Lucy has never met a man like Stanley Ryder!” declared the other.
“He has spent all his life hunting women, and she is no match for
him at all.”

“What do you know about him?” asked Montague.

“What don’t I know about him!” exclaimed the other. “He was in love
with Betty Wyman once.”

“Oh, my Lord!” exclaimed Montague.

“Yes,” said Oliver, “and she told me all about it. He has as many
tricks as a conjurer. He has read a lot of New Thought stuff, and he
talks about his yearning soul, and every woman he meets is his
affinity. And then again, he is a free thinker, and he discourses
about liberty and the rights of women. He takes all the moralities
and shuffles them up, until you’d think the noblest role a woman
could play is that of a married man’s mistress.”

Montague could not forbear to smile. “I have known you to shuffle
the moralities now and then yourself, Ollie,” he said.

“Yes, that’s all right,” replied the other. “But this is Lucy. And
somebody’s got to talk to her about Stanley Ryder.”

“I will do it,” Montague answered.

He found Lucy in a cosy corner of the library when he came down to
dinner. She was full of all the wonderful things that she had seen
in Dan Waterman’s art gallery. “And Allan,” she exclaimed, “what do
you think, I met him!”

“You don’t mean it!” said he.

“He was there the whole afternoon!” declared Lucy. “And he never did
a thing but be nice to me!”

“Then you didn’t find him so terrible as you expected,” said
Montague.

“He was perfectly charming,” said Lucy. “He showed me his whole
collection and told me the history of the different paintings, and
stories about how he got them. I never had such an experience in my
life.”

“He can be an interesting man when he chooses,” Montague responded.

“He is marvellous!” said she. “You look at that lean figure, and the
wizened-up old hawk’s face, with the white hair all round it, and
you’d think that he was in his dotage. But when he talks--I don’t
wonder men obey him!”

“They obey him!” said Montague. “No mistake about that! There is not
a man in Wall Street who could live for twenty-four hours if old Dan
Waterman went after him in earnest.”

“How in the world does he do it?” asked Lucy. “Is he so enormously
rich?”

“It is not the money he owns,” said Montague; “it’s what he
controls. He is master of the banks; and no man can take a step in
Wall Street without his knowing it if he wants to. And he can break
a man’s credit; he can have all his loans called. He can swing the
market so as to break a man. And then, think of his power in
Washington! He uses the Treasury as if it were one of his branch
offices.”

“It seems frightful,” said Lucy. “And that old man--over eighty! I’m
glad that I met him, at any rate.”

She paused, seeing Stanley Ryder in the doorway. He was evidently
looking for her. He took her in to dinner; and every now and then,
when Montague stole a glance at her, he saw that Ryder was
monopolising her attention.

