that she came down on the same train with herself and 
you." 
" Did she say that she grabbed the whole victoria for 
herself and maid at the station?" Verrian demanded, 
in a burst of rage, " and left us to get here the best 
way we could ?" 
Bushwick grinned. " She supposed there were other 
carriages, and when she found there weren't she hur- 
ried the victoria back for you." 
" You think she believes all that ? I'm glad she has 
the decency to be ashamed of her behavior." 
" I'm not defending her. Miss Macroyd knows how 
to take care of herself." 
The matter rather dropped for the moment, in which 
Bushwick filled a pipe he took from his pocket and 
lighted it. After the first few whiffs he took it from 
his mouth, and, with a droll look across at Verrian, said, 
" Who was your fair friend ?" 
If Verrian was going to talk of this thing, he was not 
going to do it with the burden of any sort of reserve 
or contrivance on his soul. " This afternoon ?" Bush- 
wick nodded ; and Verrian added, " That was she." Then 
he went on, wrathf ully : " She's a girl who has to make 
her living, and she's doing it in a new way that she's 
invented for herself. She has supposed that the stupid 
rich, or the lazy rich, who want to entertain people 
may be willing to pay for ideas, and she proposes to 
supply the ideas for a money consideration. She's not 
a guest in the house, and she won't take herself on a 
society basis at all. I don't know what her history is, 
 
and I don't care. She's a lady by training, and, if she 
had the accent, I should say she was from the South, 
for she has the enterprise of the South that comes 
North and tries to make its living. It's all inex- 
pressibly none of my business, but I happen to be 
knowing to so much of the case, and if you're knowing 
to anything else, Mr. Bushwick, I want you to get it 
straight. That's why I'm talking of it, and not because 
I think you've any right to know anything about it." 
" Thank you," Bushwick returned, unruffled. " It's 
about what Miss Macroyd told me. That's the reason 
I don't want the ghost-dance to fail." 
Verrian did not notice him. He found it more im- 
portant to say : " She's so loyal to Mrs. Westangle that 
she wouldn't have wished, in Mrs. Westangle's inter- 
est, to have her presence, or her agency in what is going 
on, known; but, of course, if Mrs. Westangle chooses 
to tell it, that's her affair." 
" She would have had to tell it, sooner or later, Mrs. 
Westangle would ; and she only told it to Miss Macroyd 
this afternoon on compulsion, after Miss Macroyd and 
I had seen you in the wood-road, and Mrs. Westangle 
had to account for the young lady's presence there in 
your company. Then Miss Macroyd had to tell me; 
but I assure you, my dear fellow, the matter hasn't 
gone any further." 
" Oh, it's quite indifferent to me," Verrian retorted. 
" I'm nothing but a dispassionate witness of the situa- 
tion." 
" Of course," Bushwick assented, and then he added, 
with a bonhomie really so amiable that a man with even 
an unreasonable grudge could hardly resist it, " If 
you call it dispassionate." 
Verrian could not help laughing. " Well, passion- 
ate, then. I don't know why it should be so conf ounded- 
 
ly vexatious. But somehow I would have chosen Miss 
Macroyd — Is she specially dear to you?" 
"Not the least!" 
" I would have chosen her as the last person to have 
the business, which is so inexpressibly none of my 
business — " 
" Or mine, as I think you remarked," Bushwick in- 
terposed. 
" Come out through," Verrian concluded, accepting 
his interposition with a bow. 
" I see what you mean," Bushwick said, after a 
moment's thought. " But, really, I don't think it's likely 
to go further. If you want to know, I believe Miss 
Macroyd feels the distinction of being in the secret so 
much that she'll prefer to hint round till Mrs. Westr 
angle gives the thing away. She had to tell me, be- 
cause I was there with her when she saw you with the 
young lady, to keep me from going with my curiosity 
to you. Come, I do think she's honest about it." 
" Don't you think they're rather more dangerous 
when they're honest ?" 
" Well, only when they're obliged to be. Cheer up ! 
I don't believe Miss Macroyd is one to spoil sport." 
" Oh, I think I shall live through it," Verrian said, 
rather stiffening again. But he relaxed, in rising from 
his chair, and said, " Well, good-night, old fellow. I 
believe I shall go to bed now." 
" You won't wait for me till my pipe's out ?" 
" No, I think not. I seem to be just making it, and 
if I waited I might lose my grip." He offered Bush- 
wick a friendly hand. 
" Do you suppose it's been my soothing conversation ? 
I'm like the actor that the doctor advised to go and 
see himself act. I can't talk myself sleepy." 
" You might try it," Verrian said, going out. 
XVIII 
The men who had talked of going away on Thursday 
seemed to have found it practicable to stay. At any 
rate, they were all there on the Saturday night for the 
ghost-seeing, and, of course, none of the women had 
gone. What was more remarkable, in a house rather 
full of girls, nobody was sick; or, at least, everybody 
was well enough to be at dinner, and, after dinner, at 
the dance, which impatiently, if a little ironically, 
preceded the supernatural part of the evening's amuse- 
ment. It was the decorum of a woman who might have 
been expected not to have it that Mrs. Westangle had 
arranged that the evening's amusement should not pass 
the bound between Saturday night and Sunday morn- 
ing. The supper was to be later, but that was like other 
eating and drinking on the Sabbath; and it was to be 
a cold supper. 
At half -past ten the dancing stopped in the foyer and 
the drawing-room, and by eleven the guests were all 
seated fronting the closed doors of the library. There 
were not so many of them but that in the handsome 
space there was interval enough to lend a desired dis- 
tance to the apparitions; and when the doors were slid 
aside it was applausively found that there was a veil 
of gauze falling from the roof to the floor, which prom- 
ised its aid in heightening the coming mystery. This 
was again heightened by the universal ignorance as to 
how the apparitions were to make their advents and 
on what terms. 
 
It was with an access of a certain nervous anxiety that 
Verrian found himself next Miss Macroyd, whose frank 
good - fellowship first expressed itself in a pleasure at 
the chance which he did not share, and then extended 
to a confidential sympathy for the success of the enter- 
prise which he did not believe she felt. She laughed, 
but sotto voce, in bending her head close to his and 
whispering, " I hope she'll be equal to her mise en scene. 
It's really very nice. So simple." Besides the gauze 
veil, there was no preparation except in the stretch of 
black drapery which hid the book-shelves at the farther 
wall of the library. 
" Mrs. Westangle's note is always simplicity," Ver- 
rian returned. 
" Oh yes, indeed ! And you wish to keep up the West- 
angle convention?" 
" I don't see any reason for dropping it." 
" Oh, none in the world," she mocked. 
He determined to push her, since she had tried to 
push him, and he asked, " What reason could there be ?" 
" Now, Mr. Verrian, asking a woman for a reason ! 
I shall begin to think some one else wrote your book, 
too ! Perhaps she'll take up supplying ideas to authors 
as well as hostesses. Of course, I mean Mrs. West- 
angle." 
Verrian wished he had not tried to push Miss Mac- 
royd, and he was still grinding his teeth in a vain 
endeavor to get out some fit retort between them, when 
he saw Bushwick shuffling to his feet, in the front row 
of the spectators, and heard him beginning a sort of 
speech. 
" Ladies and gentlemen : Mrs. Westangle has chosen 
me, because a real - estate broker is sometimes an 
auctioneer, and may be supposed to have the gift of 
oratory, to make known the conditions on which you 
may interview the ghosts which you are going to see. 
Anybody may do it who will comply with the condi- 
tions. In the first place, you have got to he serious, and 
to think up something that you would really like to 
know about your past, present, or future. Remember, 
this is no joking matter, and the only difference between 
the ghost that you will see here and a real materializa- 
tion under professional auspices is that the ghost won't 
charge you anything. Of course, if any lady or gentle- 
man — especially lady — wishes to contribute to any 
charitable object, after a satisfactory interview with the 
ghost, a hat will be found at the hall-door for the pur- 
pose, and Mrs. Westangle will choose the object : I have 
put in a special plea for my own firm, at a season when 
the real-estate business is not at its best." By this time 
Busbwick had his audience laughing, perhaps the more 
easily because they were all more or less in a hysterical 
mood, which, whether we own it or not, is always in- 
duced by an approximation to the supernatural. He 
frowned and said, " No laughing !" and then they 
laughed the more. When he had waited for them to be 
quiet he went on gravely, " The conditions are simply 
these: Each person who chooses may interview the 
ghost, keeping a respectful distance, but not so far off 
but that the ghost can distinctly hear a stage whisper. 
The question put must be seriously meant, and it must 
be the question which the questioner would prefer to 
have answered above everything else at the time being. 
Certain questions will be absolutely ruled out, such as, 
' Does Maria love me V or, ' Has Reuben ever been 
engaged before V The laughter interrupted the speaker 
again, and Verrian hung his head in rage and shame; 
this stupid ass was spoiling the hope of anything 
beautiful in the spectacle and turning it into a gross 
burlesque. Somehow he felt that the girl who had in- 
vented it had meant, in the last analysis, something 
serious, and it was in her behalf that he would have 
liked to choke Bushwick. All the time he believed that 
Miss Macroyd, whose laugh sounded above the others, 
was somehow enjoying his indignation and divining 
its reason. 
" Other questions, touching intemperance or divorce, 
the questioner will feel must not be asked; though it 
isn't necessary to more than suggest this, I hope; it 
will be left entirely to the good taste and good feeling 
of the — party. We all know what the temptations of 
South Dakota and the rum fiend are, and that to err 
is human, and forgive divine." He paused, having 
failed to get a laugh, but got it by asking, confidentially, 
" Where was I % Oh !" — he caught himself up — " I re- 
member. Those of you who are in the habit of seeing 
ghosts need not be told that a ghost never speaks first ; 
and those who have never met an apparition before, 
but are in the habit of going to the theatre, will recall 
the fact that in W. Shakespeare's beautiful play of 
' Hamlet ' the play could not have gone on after the first 
scene if Horatio had not spoken to the ghost of Hamlet's 
father and taken the chances of being snubbed. Here 
there are no chances of that kind ; the chances are that 
you'll wish the ghost had not been entreated: I think 
that is the phrase." 
In the laugh that followed a girl on Miss Macroyd's 
other hand audibly asked her, " Oh, isn't he too funny f " 
" Delicious !" Miss Macroyd agreed. Verrian felt 
she said it to vex him, 
" Now, there's just one other point," Bushwick re- 
sumed, " and then I have done. Only one question can 
be allowed to each person, but if the questioner is a 
lady she can ask a question and a half, provided she 
is not satisfied with the answer. In this case, however, 
she will only get half an answer. Now I have done, 
and if my arguments have convinced any one within the 
sound of my voice that our ghost really means busi- 
ness, I shall feel fully repaid for the pains and expense 
of getting up these few impromptu remarks, to which 
I have endeavored to give a humorous character, in 
order that you may all laugh your laugh out, and no 
unseemly mirth may interrupt the subsequent pro- 
ceedings. We will now have a little music, and those 
who can recall my words will be allowed to sing them." 
In the giggling and chatter which ensued the chords 
softly played passed into ears that might as well have 
been deaf; but at last there was a general quiescence of 
expectation, in which every one's eyes were strained to 
pierce through the gauze curtain to the sombre drapery 
beyond. The wait was so long that the tension relaxed 
and a whispering began, and Verrian felt a sickness of 
pity for the girl who was probably going to make a fail- 
ure of it. He asked himself what could have happened 
to her. Had she lost courage? Or had her physical 
strength, not yet fully renewed, given way under the 
stress? Or had she, in sheer disgust for the turn the 
affair had been given by that brute Bushwick, thrown 
up the whole business ? He looked round for Mrs. West- 
angle ; she was not there ; he conjectured — he could only 
conjecture — that she was absent conferring with Miss 
Shirley and trying to save the day. 
A long, deeply sighed " Oh-h-h-h !" shuddering from 
many lips made him turn abruptly, and he saw, glim- 
mering against the pall at the bottom of the darkened 
library, a figure vaguely white, in which he recognized 
a pose, a gesture familiar to him. For the others the 
figure was It, but for him it was preciously She. It 
was she, and she was going to carry it through ; she was 
going to triumph, and not fail. A lump came into his 
 
throat, and a mist blurred his eyes, which, when it 
cleared again, left him staring at nothing. 
A girl's young voice uttered the common feeling, 
"Why, is that all?" 
" It is, till some one asks the ghost a question ; then 
it will reappear," Bushwick rose to say. " Will Miss 
Andrews kindly step forward and ask the question near- 
est her heart ?" 
" Oh no !" the girl answered, with a sincerity that 
left no one quite free to laugh. 
" Some other lady, then ?" Bushwick suggested. No 
one moved, and he added, " This is a difficulty which 
had been foreseen. Some gentleman will step forward 
and put the question next his heart." Again no one 
offered to go forward, and there was some muted laugh- 
ter, which Bushwick checked. " This difficulty had 
been foreseen, too. I see that I shall have to make the 
first move, and all that I shall require of the audience 
is that I shall not be supposed to be in collusion with the 
illusion. I hope that after my experience, whatever 
it is, some young woman of courage will follow." 
He passed into the foyer, and from that came into 
the library, where he showed against the dark back- 
ground in an attitude of entreaty slightly burlesqued. 
The ghost reappeared. 
" Shall I marry the woman I am thinking of ?" he 
asked. 
