"Oh, yes," she said wearily, "I know what I did. It was that."

And after he had waited for her in silence for fully a minute she said
in a low voice:

"I was very lonely, very, very tired; he urged me; I had been crying. I
have seldom cried since. It is curious, isn't it? I can feel the tears
in my eyes at night sometimes. But they never fall."

She passed her gloved hand slowly across her forehead and eyes.

"I--married him. At first I did not know what to do; did not realise,
understand. I scarcely do yet. I had supposed I was to go to mother and
dad and tell them that I had a name in the world--that all was well with
me at last. But I could not credit it myself; the boy--I had known him
always--went and came in our house as freely as Gray. And I could not
convince myself that the thing that had happened was serious--had really
occurred."

"How did it occur?"

"I will tell you exactly. We were walking home, all of us, along Fifth
Avenue, that winter afternoon. The avenue was gay and densely crowded;
and I remember the furs I wore and the western sunset crimsoning the
cross-streets, and the early dusk--and Jessie ahead with Cecile and the
dogs. And then he said that now was the time, for he was going back to
college that same day, and would not return before Easter--and he urged
it, and hurried me--and--I couldn't think; and I went with him, west, I
believe--yes, the sky was red over the river--west, two blocks, or
more.... There was a parsonage. It lasted only a few minutes.... We took
the elevated to Fifty-ninth Street and hurried east, almost running.
They had just reached the Park and had not yet missed us.... And that is
all."

"All?"

"Yes," she said, raising her pale face to his. "What more is there?"

"The--man."

"He was as frightened as I," she said simply, "and he went back to
college that same evening. And when I had become still more frightened
and a little saner I wrote asking him if it was really true. It was.
There seemed to be nothing to do; I had no money, nor had he. And there
was no love--because I could not endure even his touch or suffer the
least sentiment from him when he came back at Easter. He was a boy and
silly. He annoyed me. I don't know why he persisted so; and finally I
became thoroughly exasperated.... We did not part on very friendly
terms; and I think that was why he did not return to us from college
when he graduated. A man offered him a position, and he went away to try
to make a place for himself in the world. And after he had gone, somehow
the very mention of his name began to chill me. You see nobody knew. The
deception became a shame to me, then a dull horror. But, little by
little, not seeing him, and being young, after a year the unreality of
it all grew stronger, and it seemed as though I were awaking from a
nightmare, among familiar things once more.... And for a year it has
been so, though at night, sometimes, I still lie awake. But I have been
contented--until--you came.... Now you know it all."

"All?"

"Every word. And now you understand why I cannot care for you, or you
for me."

He said in a deadened voice: "There is a law that deals with that sort
of man--"

"What are you saying?" she faltered.

"That you cannot remain bound! Its monstrous. There is a law--"

"I cannot disgrace dad!" she said. "There is no chance that way! I'd
rather die than have him know--have mother know--and Jessie and Cecile
and Gray! Didn't you understand that?"

"You must tell them nevertheless, and they must help you."

"Help me?"

"To free yourself--"

Flushed with anger and disdain she drew bridle and faced him.

"If this is the sort of friendship you bring me, what is your love
worth?" she asked almost fiercely. "And--I cared for you--cared for the
man I believed you to be; bared my heart to you--wrung every secret from
it--thinking you understood! And you turn on me counselling the law,
divorce, horrors unthinkable!--because you say you love me!... And I
tell you that if I loved you--dearly--blindly--I could not endure to
free myself at the expense of pain--to them--even for your sake! They
took me, nameless, as I was--a--a foundling. If they ever learn what I
have done I shall ask their pardon on my knees, and accept life with the
man I married. But if they never learn I shall remain with them--always.
You have asked me what chance you have. Now you know! It is useless to
love me. I cared enough for you to try to kill what you call love last
night. I cared enough to-day to strip my heart naked for you--to show
you there was no chance. If I have done right or wrong I do not
know--but I did it for your sake."

His face reddened painfully, but as he offered no reply she put her
horse in motion and rode on, proud little head averted. For a few
minutes neither he nor she spoke, their horses pacing neck and neck
through the forest. At last he said: "You are right, Shiela; I am not
worth it. Forgive me."

She turned, eyes level and fearless. Suddenly her mouth quivered.

"Forgive me," she said impulsively; "you are worth more than I dare
give you. Love me in your own fashion. I wish it. And I will care for
you very faithfully in mine."

They were very young, very hopeless, deeply impressed with one another,
and quite inexperienced enough to trust each other. She leaned from her
saddle and laid her slim bare hands in both of his, lifting her gaze
bravely to his--a little dim of eye and still tremulous of lip. And he
looked back, love's tragedy dawning in his gaze, yet forcing the smile
that the very young employ as a defiance to destiny and an artistic
insult in the face of Fate; that Fate which looks back so placid and
unmoved.

"Can you forgive me, Shiela?"

"Look at me?" she whispered.

       *       *       *       *       *

A few moments later she hastily disengaged her hand.

"There seems to be a fire, yonder," he said; "and somebody seated before
it; your Seminole, I think. By Jove, Shiela, he's certainly
picturesque!"

A sullen-eyed Indian rose as they rode up, his turban brilliant in the
declining sunshine, his fringed leggings softly luminous as woven cloth
of gold.

"He--a--mah, Coacochee!" said the girl in friendly greeting. "It is good
to see you, Little Tiger. The people of the East salute the Uchee
Seminoles."

The Indian answered briefly and with dignity, then stood impassive, not
noticing Hamil.

"Mr. Hamil," she said, "this is my old friend Coacochee or Little Tiger;
an Okichobi Seminole of the Clan of the Wind; a brave hunter and an
upright man."

"Sommus-Kala-ne-sha-ma-lin," said the Indian quietly; and the girl
interpreted: "He says, 'Good wishes to the white man.'"

Hamil dismounted, turned and lifted Shiela from her saddle, then walked
straight to the Seminole and offered his hand. The Indian grasped it in
silence.

"I wish well to Little Tiger, a Seminole and a brave hunter," said Hamil
pleasantly.

The red hand and the white hand tightened and fell apart.

A moment later Gray came galloping up with Eudo Stent.

"How are you, Coacochee!" he called out; "glad to see you again! We saw
the pine tops blue a mile back."

To which the Seminole replied with composure in terse English. But for
Mr. Cardross, when he arrived, there was a shade less reserve in the
Indian's greeting, and there was no mistaking the friendship between
them.

"Why did you speak to him in his own tongue?" asked Hamil of Shiela as
they strolled together toward the palmetto-thatched, open-face camp
fronting on Ruffle Lake.

"He takes it as a compliment," she said. "Besides he taught me."

"It's a pretty courtesy," said Hamil, "but you always do everything more
graciously than anybody else in the world."

"I am afraid you are biassed."

"Can any man who knows you remain non-partisan?--even your red Seminole
yonder?"

"I am proud of that conquest," she said gaily. "Do you know anything
about the Seminoles? No? Well, then, let me inform you that a Seminole
rarely speaks to a white man except when trading at the posts. They are
a very proud people; they consider themselves still unconquered, still
in a state of rebellion against the United States."

"What!" exclaimed Hamil, astonished.

"Yes, indeed. All these years of peace they consider only as an armed
truce. They are proud, reticent, sensitive, suspicious people; and there
are few cases on record where any such thing as friendship has existed
between a Seminole and a white man. This is a genuine case; Coacochee is
really devoted to dad."

The guides and the wagon had now arrived; camp was already in the
confusion and bustle of unloading equipage and supplies; picket lines
were established, water-jars buried, blankets spread, guns, ammunition,
rods, and saddles ranged in their proper places.

Carter unsheathed his heavy cane-knife and cut palmetto fans for
rethatching where required; Eudo Stent looked after the horses; Bulow's
axe rang among the fragrant red cedars; the Indian squatted gravely
before a characteristic Seminole fire built of logs, radiating like the
spokes of a cart-wheel from the centre which was a hub of glowing coals.
And whenever it was necessary he simply shoved the burning log-ends
toward the centre where kettles were already boiling and sweet potatoes
lay amid the white ashes, and a dozen wild ducks, split and skewered and
basted with pork, were exhaling a matchless fragrance.

Table-legs, bench-legs, and the bases of all culinary furniture, like
the body of the camp, were made out of palmetto logs driven into the
ground to support cedar planks for the tops.

And it was seated at one of these tables, under the giant oaks, pines,
and palmettos, that Shiela and Hamil ate their first camp-repast
together, with Gray and his father opposite.

Never had he tasted such a heavenly banquet, never had he dreamed of
such delicacies. Eudo Stent brought panfuls of fried bass, still
sizzling under the crisp bacon; and great panniers woven of green
palmetto, piled high with smoking sweet potatoes all dusty from the
ashes; and pots of coffee and tea, steaming and aromatic.

Then came broiled mallard duck, still crackling from the coals, and
coonti bread, and a cold salad of palm cabbage, nut-flavored,
delectable. Then in the thermos-jugs were spring water and a light
German vintage to mix with it. And after everything, fresh oranges in a
nest of Spanish moss.

Red sunlight struck through the forest, bronzing bark and foliage;
sombre patches of shade passed and repassed across the table--the
shadows of black vultures soaring low above the camp smoke. The waters
of the lake burned gold.

As yet the approach of sunset had not stirred the water-fowl to
restlessness; dark streaks on the lake gleamed white at moments as some
string of swimming ducks turned and the light glinted on throat and
breast. Herons stood in the shallows; a bittern, squawking, rose from
the saw-grass, circled, and pitched downward again.



"This is a peaceful place," said Cardross, narrowing eyes watching
the lake through the haze of his pipe. "I almost hate to disturb it with
a gun-shot; but if we stay here we've got to eat." And, turning toward
the guides' table where they lounged over their after-dinner pipes:
"Coacochee, my little daughter has never shot a wild turkey. Do you
think she had better try this evening or go after the big duck?"

"Pen-ni-chah," said the Seminole quietly.

"He says, 'turkey-gobbler,'" whispered Shiela to Hamil; "'pen-nit-kee'
is the word for hen turkey. Oh, I hope I have a chance. You'll pair
with me, won't you?"

"Of course."

Cardross, listening, smiled. "Is it yelping or roosting, Little Tiger?"

"Roost um pen-ni-chah, aw-tee-tus-chee. I-hoo-es-chay."

"He says that we can roost them by and by and that we ought to start
now," whispered the girl, slightly excited. "Dad, Mr. Hamil has never
shot a wild turkey--"

"Neither have I," observed her father humourously.

"Oh, I forgot! Well, then--why can't we all--"

"Not much! No sitting in swamps for me, but a good, clean, and easy boat
in the saw-grass. Gray, are you going after ducks with me or are you
going to sit with one hopeful girl, one credulous white man, and one
determined red man on a shell heap in a bog and yawn till moonrise?
Ducks? Sure! Well, then, we'd better be about it, my son."

The guides rose laughing, and went about their duties, Carter and Bulow
to clean up camp, Eudo Stent with Cardross, senior and junior, carrying
guns and shell cases down to the landing where the boats lay; and
Shiela and Hamil to mount the two fresh led-horses and follow the
Seminole into the forest.

"Shame on your laziness, dad!" said Shiela, as Cardross looked after her
in pretended pity; "anybody can shoot ducks from a boat, but it takes
real hunters to stalk turkeys! I suppose Eudo loads for you and Gray
pulls the triggers!"

"The turkey you get will be a water-turkey," observed Cardross; "or a
fragrant buzzard. Hamil, I'm sorry for you. I've tried that sort of
thing myself when younger. I'm still turkeyless but wiser."

"You'd better bring Eudo and let us help you to retrieve yourself!"
called back Shiela.

But he refused scornfully, and she waved them adieu; then, settling in
her stirrups, turned smilingly to Hamil who brought his horse alongside.

"Dad is probably right; there's not much chance for us this way. But if
