ried upstairs, and put in his crib while the 
supper was cooking. The children had their 
play hour. The happy group around the table 
was like a picture, Helen thought. They were 
not rude or boisterous, though they talked or 
laughed, or told some bright incident or a new 
fact that had come out at school. Lois, with 
a small basket, went round and gathered up 
knives and folks and spoons without any un- 
necessary rattle, then the plates, and brought 
on the simple dessert. All the while the con- 
versation flowed on harmoniously, and there 
seemed no haste to leave the table. Then Lois 
and Ethel helped their mother clear the rest of 
the table, put on the cloth, and the children 
went into a small ante-room to study their 
lessons. Mrs. Dean took up a bit of sewing. 

“ I don’t see how you keep them so good- 
natured,” Helen said in surprise. 

“ Why, they are healthy children, not over- 
worked, and have time for play. Of course 
there are little tiffs, but they soon learn that 
each child has equal rights. One isn’t made 
to give in to the other unless there is a good 
reason. Lois is quite a womanly little girl al- 




ready, but I don’t mean to have her grow up 
too soon, nor carry too many burdens. And 
they get plenty of sleep. I let them lie as long 
as possible in the morning. I can get my break- 
fast easier alone. And at night I send them 
out for a little run in the fresh air before they 
go to bed. Since they are here, it is my duty 
to give them good sound bodies.” 

Lois wanted to walk with father when he 
took Helen home and her mother consented. 
Helen felt as if she had been reading a page 
out of a book when she went there. Why 
couldn’t other mothers be as wise and ju- 
dicious, and give the home an air of restful- 
ness? 

The four months had widened her horizon 
a good deal, Helen felt. She was glad of the 
little break and she wanted to see her friends 
so much. She would have liked a few days 
with the old college tutors, and she almost 
envied Mr. Hildreth his visit with the 
Yarrows. 


CHAPTER XI 


A MERRY CHRISTMAS 

“ Shirley, why are you so mysterious?” 
Helen asked laughingly as they rose from the 
dinner table. They were well and had wel- 
comed her warmly, but there was an indescrib- 
able charm about her friend that roused 
Helen’s curiosity. 

They went to the pretty parlor, where the 
lights were softened and already some Christ- 
mas greens were in evidence. The piano stood 
invitingly open. Helen sat down and ran her 
fingers over the keys. 

“ I’m starved for some music of my own 
making,” she exclaimed. “ And I miss the 
college and chapel singing. There is a sort of 
cultivated playing, and the young girls who 
pound or wander through the latest lesson, and 
ragtime songs. There are some good voices in 
school, — we are not rich enough to have a 


 


 

regular musical trainer. I'd like to start a glee 
club. They have a mandolin club and a band 
at the clubhouse, but only men and boys be- 
long to that. Mr. Underwood has a fine voice, 
but he will not even take the trouble to sing in 
church. And Lilian Firth used to sing in the 
choir of her country church. O dear ! ” in a 
perplexed tone. 

“ Leave all the school matters alone,” in- 
sisted Shirley. “ Come over here. We have a 
great Christmas surprise for you. I have been 
keeping it almost a month and it has nearly 
worn me out. You are going up to Kingsland 
on Monday, and we must go quite early Tues- 
day morning. So we have decided ” 

“What is all this preamble about?” Helen 
glanced from one to the other; both faces were 
full of smiles. 

“It is a Christmas gift we have for you,” 
Willard said. “ I must be the donor. So — 
imagine the loveliest presentation speech — I 
couldn’t say anything beautiful enough,” and 
Shirley’s eyes were luminous with emotion. 
“ Open your box. From the two people who 
love you dearly.” 




It was folded in paper and tied with a white 
satin ribbon. 

“ The bow is too beautiful to disturb,” glanc- 
ing up archly. “ I hope you haven’t been ex- 
travagant. I am only a half-country school 
ma’am, you must remember, really fallen from 
my high estate.” 

She untied it as she saw the curiously re- 
pressed look husband and wife exchanged, and 
lifted the cover. There lay a beautiful book 
in a pale lavender tint and gilt. “ Poems, by 
Shirley Chardevoyne.” 

“ Oh ! ” was all Helen said, too much sur- 
prised for any other word. 

Shirley turned the cover and title page. 
There was an inscription 

“ To my dearest friend, H. G.” 

Helen reached up her arms and clasped 
them about Shirley’s neck. For a moment 
neither spoke. 

Presently Shirley said, “ Oh, do not let us 
get unduly sentimental ! I want to tell you the 
story.” 

She dropped down beside Helen on the 
divan. 



“ And I want to hear it. And how you 
could keep the secret,” and Helen’s voice was 
tremulous with emotion. 

“ It was awfully hard,” and her pretty face 
was wrinkled up with the remembered en- 
deavor, making it like the veriest girl’s. 

“ But the story. Tell it while I am getting 
my delight into shape.” 

“ Do you recall the person — Willard’s 
friend — who set some songs to music? He 
had a friend in a publishing house, a Mr. Len- 
hart, who liked one of them very much, and 
Mr. Harrison brought him here one evening. 
I played and sang, and talked about you, and 
the old poem you made me write about Stre- 
phon and Phyllis. And he said it was a gem. 
Then he wanted to see some of the others, and 
I’ve promised him a sight of you, too,” press- 
ing her hand fondly, and giving a rippling 
laugh. “ Willard said he had thought of col- 
lecting them in a book when he was a little 
richer, because they suggested so many of the 
lovely things in our lives. He took them all 
away with him and said he would consider it, 
and it might not be so costly if it was out for 



a Christmas holiday book. Well, they planned 
and planned and decided to bring them out, 
though everybody says poetry is not a money- 
making scheme. But we didn’t either of us 
care for the money, and I thought how utterly 
lovely it would be for Christmas gifts. That 
was long before Thanksgiving. Didn’t I keep 
my secret well ? ” triumphantly. 

“ Oh, you darling ! ” 

“ You know I never dreamed of being a real 
poet and writing grand things. I don’t care 
especially about fame. I think I should feel 
as if I were a sort of fraud when people 
praised me. I love to write verses for you and 
Willard, and sometimes a little thing comes in 
my mind just like a strain of music, but I 
couldn’t work days and nights over a thing 
and polish it and do it according to rule. So I 
didn’t expect anything but just the pure pleas- 
ure. Only Mr. Lenhart insisted that it should 
be put on the market, that it would be a shame 
to spend so much money for nothing. And 
they found some beautiful plates that had been 
very little used — of course I didn’t mind that,” 
smiling. “ But if it was offered for sale I was 


 

afraid it would leak out to you. We bound 
Miss Craven over, and she is delighted. She 
will tell you all that herself.’ 

Willard’s face was alight with enjoyment 
as he watched his wife and the fascinating 
changes that seemed to make her face prettier 
each time. 

“ I sent a copy to father, but all the rest are 
to be real Christmas gifts and mailed to-mor- 
row. I’m so glad to have something of my 
very own to send to the girls.” 

“ We came near a dispute on one point,” in- 
terposed Willard. “ I don’t know which you 
would have liked best, but I felt — somehow — ” 
hesitating. 

“ About the dedication,” and Shirley’s face 
was brilliant with eager interest. “ I wanted 
it ‘ Helen Grant,’ but Willard said that it 
would seem like a precious thing just between 
us and the ones who loved you best, who 

would surely know ” 

“ Willard was right.” Helen passed her 
hand over to him with a warm and sincere 
clasp. “ It does seem to unite us more closely 
and save some explanation to people that 




we do not care about. Yes, I am truly 
glad.” 

“ I have to laugh when I think how you 
hammered away about the Strephon poem. 
And I really was disgusted. If I had not been 
afraid you would have thrown me over I never 
would have done it. And the other was a 
foolish thing,” blushing rosily. “ Oh, how 
good you were to me in those days, Helen! 
And I used to get jealous of Leslie. I had a 
charming letter from her, and I know she will 
be very happy. And what a surprise for Miss 
Morse!” 

“ You will have to go back and take a post- 
graduate course,” said Helen with mock seri- 
ousness. 

“ It would be in verse alone, certainly not 
in mathematics or chemistry,” she laughed. 

“ I don’t know what to say, Shirley,” 
and Helen clasped her closely, deeply 
moved. 

“ You are not to say anything or I shall be- 
gin to count up what you have done for me, 
and be so deeply in debt that I shall have to 
write another book. Just now I am living 


 

poetry. But there is another splendid side to 
it. I dare say the cover and the lovely engrav- 
ings help. It has had a real, truly sale,” laugh- 
ing delightedly. “ Willard advanced some 
money and Mr. Lenhart says he will get it back 
and more, too. And there are some pretty 
notices of it that make me feel quite proud. 
You know what the girl who edited the ‘ Mis- 
cellany ’ said — ‘ that it suggested the old Eng- 
lish poetry I didn’t quite like it then but I 
understand now, and here is one that says the 
same thing. And they all seem to think it so 
