own New York, called after the old York, as soon as 
the English had robbed the Dutch of it, and the King 
of England had given the province to his brother the 
Duke of York. Both cities are still towns on rivers, 
but the Ouse is no more an image or forecast of the 
Hudson than Old York is of New York. For that 
reason, the bridge over it is not to be compared to our 
Brooklyn Bridge, or even to any bridge which is yet 
to span the Hudson. The difference is so greatly in 
our favor that we may well yield our city's mother the 
primacy in her city wall. We have ourselves as yet 
no Plantagenet wall, and we have not yet got a medi- 
aeval gate through which the traveller passes in return- 
ing from the Elatiron Building to his hotel in the 
Grand Central Station. 

We do not begin to have such a hoar antiquity as 



is articulate in the mother city, speaking with muted 
voices from the innumerable monuments which the 
earth has yielded from the site of our hotel and its 
adjacent railway station. All underground York is 
doubtless fuller of Rome than even Bath is ; and it has 
happened that her civilization was much more largely 
dug up here than elsewhere when the foundations of 
the spreading edifices were laid. The relics are mainly 
the witnesses of pagan Rome, but Christianity polit- 
ically began in York, as it has politically ended in 
New York, and doubtless some soldiers of the Sixth 
Legion and many of the British slaves were religiously 
Christians in the ancient metropolis before Constantino 
was elected emperor there. 

I have been in many places where history is hos- 
pitably at home and is not merely an unwilling guest, 
as in our unmemoried land. Florence is very well, 
Venice is not so bad, Naples has her long thoughts, and 
Milan is mediaeval-minded, not to speak of Genoa, or 
Marseilles, or Paris, or those romantic German towns 
where the legends, if not the facts, abound ; but, after 
all, for my pleasure in the past, I could not choose any 
place before York. You need not be so very definite 
in your knowledge. The event of Constantine's pres- 
ence and election is so spacious as to leave no room 
for particulars in the imagination ; and you are so rich 
in it that you will even reject them from your thoughts, 
as you sit in the close-cropped flowery lawn of your 
hotel garden (try to imagine a railroad hotel garden 
in New York!) on the sunniest of the afternoons be- 
fore you are turned out for Doncaster Week, and, while 
you watch a little adventurous American boy climbing 
over a pile of rock-work, realize the most august, the 
most important fact in the story of the race as native 
to the very air you are breathing! Where you sit you 

 

are in full view of the Minster, which is to say in 
view of something like the towers and battlements of 
the celestial city. Or if you wake very early on a 
morning still nearer the fatal Doncaster Week of your 
impending banishment, and look out of your lofty win- 
dows at the sunrise reddening the level bars of cloud 
behind the Minster, you shall find it bulked up against 
the pearl-gray masses of the sunny mist which hangs 
in all the intervening trees, and solidifies them in un- 
broken masses of foliage. All round your hotel spreads 
a gridiron of railroad, yet such is the force of the Eng- 
lish genius for quiet that you hear no clatter of trains ; 
the expresses whir in and out of the station with not 
more noise than humming-birds; and amid this peace 
the past has some chance with modernity. The Britons 
dwell, unmolested by our latter - day clamor, in their 
wattled huts and dugouts ; the Romans come and make 
them slaves and then Christians, and after three or 
four hundred years send word from the Tiber to the 
Ouse that they can stay no longer, and so leave them 
naked to their enemies, the Picts and Scots and Saxons 
and Angles; and in due course come the ravaging and 
burning Danes ; and in due course still, the murdering 
and plundering and scorning Normans. But all so 
quietly, like the humming-bird-like expresses, with a 
kind of railway celerity in the foreshortened retro- 
spect ; and after the Normans have crushed themselves 
down into the mass of the vanquished, and formed the 
English out of the blend, there follow the many wars 
of the successions, of the Roses, of the Stuarts, with 
all the intermediate insurrections and rebellions. In 
the splendid Histories of Shakespeare, which are full 
of Yorh, the imagination visits and revisits the place, 
and you are entreated by mouth of one of his princely 

personages, 



" I pray you let us satisfy our eyes 
With the memorials and things of fame, 
That do renown this city," 

where his Henrys and Eichards and Margarets and 
Edwards and Eleanors abide still and shall forever 
abide while the English speech lasts. 



VI 

Something of all this I knew, and more pretended, 
with a mounting indignation at the fast-coming Don- 
caster Week which was to turn us out of our hotel. We 
began our search for other lodgings with what seemed 
to be increasing failure. The failure had consolation 
in it so far as the sweet regret of people whose apart- 
ments were taken could console. They would have 
taken us at other hotels for double the usual price, 
but, when we showed ourselves willing to pay, it proved 
that they had no rooms at any price. From house to 
house, then, we went, at first vaingloriously, in the 
spaces about the Minster, and then meekly into any 
side street, wherever the legend of Apartments showed 
itself in a transom. At last, the second day, after 
being denied at seven successive houses, we found quite 
the refuge we wanted in the Bootham, which means 
very much more than the ignorant reader can imagine. 
Our upper rooms looked on a pretty grassy garden space 
behind, where there was sun when there was sun, and 
in front on the fine old brick dwellings of a most 
personable street, with a sentiment of bygone fash- 
ion. At the upper end of it was a famous city gate 
Bootham Bar, namely with a practicable portcullis, 
which we verified at an early moment by going up into 
" the chamber over the gate," where it was once worked, 

 

and whence its lower beam, set thick with savage spikes, 
was dropped. Outside the gate there was a sign in the 
wall saying that guards were to be had there to guide 
travellers through the Forest of Galtres beyond Boot- 
ham, and keep them from the wolves. Now woods and 
wolves and guards are all gone, and Bootham Bar is 
never closed. 

The upper room is a passageway for people who are 
walking round the town on the Plantagenet wall, and 
one morning we took this walk in sunshine that be- 
fitted the Sabbath. Half the children of York seemed 
to be taking it, too, with their good parents, who had 
stayed away from church to give them this pleasure, 
the fathers putting on their frock-coats and top-hats, 
which are worn on no other days in the provincial cities 
of England. For a Plantagenet wall, that of York is 
in excellent repair, and it is very clean, so that the 
children could not spoil their Sunday best by clamber- 
ing on the parapet, and trying to fall over it. There 
was no parapet on the other side, and they could have 
fallen over that without trouble ; but it would not have 
served the same purpose; for under the parapet there 
were the most alluringly ragged little boys, with un- 
tidy goats and delightfully dirty geese. There was no 
trace of a moat outside the wall, where pleasant cot- 
tages pressed close to it with their gardens full of bright 
flowers. At one point there were far-spreading sheep 
and cattle pens, where there is a weekly market, and at 
another the old Norman castle which cruel Conqueror 
William built to hold the city, and which has suffered 
change, not unpicturesque, into prisons for unluckier 
criminals, and the Assize Courts for their condemna- 
tion. From time to time the wall left off, and then 
we got down, perforce, and walked to the next piece 
of it. In these pieces we made the most of the old 


gates, especially Walmgate Bar, which has a barbican. 
I should be at a loss to say why the barbican should 
have commended it so ; perhaps it was because we there 
realized, for the first time, what a barbican was; I 
doubt if the reader knows, now. Otherwise, I should 
have preferred Monk Bar or Micklegate Bar, as being 
more like those I was used to in the theatre. But we 
came back gladly to Bootham Bar, holding that a port- 
cullis was equal any day to a barbican, and feeling as 
if we had got home in the more familiar neighborhood. 

There were small shops in the Bootham, thread-and- 
needle stores, newspaper stores, and provision stores 
mainly, which I affected, and there was one united 
florist's and fruiterer's which I particularly liked be- 
cause of the conversability of the proprietor. He was 
a stout man, of a vinous complexion, with what I 
should call here, where our speech is mostly uncouth, 
an educated accent, though with few and wandering 
aspirates in it. Him I visited every morning to buy 
for my breakfast one of those Spanish melons which 
they have everywhere in England, and which put our 
native cantaloupes to shame; and we always fell into 
a little talk over our transaction of fourpence or six- 
pence, as the case might be. After I had confided that 
I was an American, he said one day, " Ah, the Amer- 
icans are clever people." Then he added, " I hope you 
won't mind my saying it, sir, but I think their ladies 
are rather harder than our English ladies, sir." 

" Yes," I eagerly assented. " How do you mean ? 
Sharper ? Keener ?" 

" Well, not just that, sir." 

" More practical ? More business-like ?" I pursued. 

" Well, I shouldn't like to say that, sir. But they 
seem rather harder, sir ; at least, judging from what I 

see of them in York, sir. Bather harder, sir." 

 

We remained not the less friends with that mystery 
between us ; and I bought my last melon of him. on 
my last morning, when the early September had turned 
somewhat sharply chill. That turn made me ask what 
the winter was in York, and he boasted it very cold, 
with ice and snow aplenty, and degrees of frost much 
like our own. But apparently those York women re- 
sisted it and remained of a tenderness which contrasted 
to their advantage with the summer hardness of our 
women. 



VII 

It was a pleasure, which I should be glad to share 
with the reader, to lose one's self in the streets of York. 
They were all kinds of streets except straight, and 
they seemed not to go anywhere except for the joke 
of bringing the wayfarer unexpectedly back to, or near, 
his starting-point and far from his goal. The blame 
of their vagariousness, if it was a fault, is put upon 
the Danes, who found York when they captured it very 
rectangular, for so the Romans built it, and so the 
Angles kept it; but nothing would serve the Danes 
but to crook its streets and call them gates, so that the 
real gates of the city have to be called bars, or else 
the stranger might take them for streets. If he asked 
another wayfarer, he could sometimes baffle the streets, 
and get to the point he aimed at, but, whether he did 
or not, he could always amuse himself in them; they 
would take a friendly interest in him, and show him 
the old houses and churches which the American 
stranger prefers. They abound in the poorer sorts 
of buildings, of course, just as they do in the poorer 
sorts of people, but in their simpler courts and squares 
and expanses they have often dignified mansions of 



that Georgian architecture which seems the last word 
in its way, and which is known here in our older edi- 
fices as there in their newer. Some of them are said 
to have " richly carved ceilings, wainscoted, panelled 
rooms, chimneypieces with paintings framed in the 
over-mantel, dentilled cornices, and pedimented doors," 
and I could well helieve it, as I passed them with an 
envious heart. There were gardens behind these man- 
sions which hung their trees over the spiked coping 
of their high-shouldered walls and gates, and seques- 
tered I know not what damp social events in their 
flowery and leafy bounds. 

At times I distinctly wished to know something of 
the life of York, but I was not in the way of it. The 
nearest to an acquaintance I had there, besides my 
critical fruiterer, was the actor whose name I recog- 
nized on his bills as that of a brave youth who had 
once dramatized a novel of mine, and all too briefly 
played the piece, and who was now to come to York 
for a week of Shakespeare. Perhaps I could not for- 
give him the recrudescence ; at any rate, I did not try 
to see him, and there was no other social chance for me, 
except as I could buy in for a few glimpses at the tidy 
confectioners', where persons of civil condition resorted 
for afternoon tea. Even to these one could not speak, 
and I could only do my best in a little mercenary con- 
versation with the bookseller about Y r ork histories. The 
book-stores were not on our scale, and generally the 
shops in York were not of the modern department type, 
but were perhaps the pleasaiiter for that reason. 

In my earlier wanderings I made the acquaintance 
of a most agreeable market-place, stretching the length 
of two squares, which on a Saturday afternoon I found 
filled with every manner of bank and booth and can- 
opied counter, three deep, and humming pleasantly 

 

