to see him now?"

Wilton hesitated: "I suppose I am.... See here, Duane, how much do you
know about--anything?"

"Nothing," he said without humour; "I'm beginning to worry over my
father's health.... Guy, don't tell me anything that my father's son
ought not to know; but is there something I should know and
don't?--anything in which I could possibly be of help to my father?"

Wilton looked carefully at a distant policeman for nearly a minute, then
his meditative glance became focussed on vacancy.

"I--don't--know," he said slowly. "I'm going to see your father now. If
there is anything to tell, I think he ought to tell it to you. Don't
you?"

"Yes. But he won't. Guy, I don't care a damn about anything except his
health and happiness. If anything threatens either, he won't tell me,
but don't you think I ought to know?"

"You ask too hard a question for me to answer."

"Then can you answer me this? Is father at all involved in any of Jack
Dysart's schemes?"

"I--had better not answer, Duane."

"You know best. You understand that it is nothing except anxiety for his
personal condition that I thought warranted my butting into his affairs
and yours."

"Yes, I understand. Let me think over things for a day or two. Now I've
got to hustle. Good-bye."

He hastened on eastward; Duane went west, slowly, more slowly, halted,
head bent in troubled concentration; then he wheeled in his tracks with
nervous decision, walked back to the Plaza Club, sent for a cab, and
presently rattled off up-town.

In a few minutes the cab swung east and came to a standstill a few
doors from Fifth Avenue; and Duane sprang out and touched the button at
a bronze grille.

The servant who admitted him addressed him by name with smiling
deference and ushered him into a two-room reception suite beyond the
tiny elevator.

There was evidently somebody in the second room; Duane had also noticed
a motor waiting outside as he descended from his cab; so he took a seat
and sat twirling his walking-stick between his knees, gloomily
inspecting a room which, in pleasanter days, had not been unfamiliar to
him.

Instead of the servant returning, there came a click from the elevator,
a quick step, and the master of the house himself walked swiftly into
the room wearing hat and gloves.

"What do you want?" he inquired briefly.

"I want to ask you a question or two," said Duane, shocked at the change
in Dysart's face. Haggard, thin, snow-white at the temples with the
light in his eyes almost extinct, the very precision and freshness of
linen and clothing brutally accentuated the ravaged features.

"What questions?" demanded Dysart, still standing, and without any
emotion whatever in either voice or manner.

"The first is this: are you in communication with my father concerning
mining stock known as Yo Espero?"

"I am."

"Is my father involved in any business transactions in which you figure,
or have figured?"

"There are some. Yes."

"Is the Cascade Development and Securities Co. one of them?"

"Yes, it is."

Duane's lips were dry with fear; he swallowed, controlled the rising
anger that began to twitch at his throat, and went on in a low, quiet
voice:

"Is this man--Moebus--connected with any of these transactions in which
you and--and my father are interested?"

"Yes."

"Is Klawber?"

"Max Moebus, Emanuel Klawber, James Skelton, and Amos Flack are
interested. Is that what you want to know?"

Duane looked at him, stunned. Dysart stepped nearer, speaking almost in
a whisper:

"Well, what about it? Once I warned you to keep your damned nose out of
my personal affairs----"

"I make some of them mine!" said Duane sharply; "when crooks get hold of
an honest man, every citizen is a policeman!"

Dysart, face convulsed with fury, seized his arm in a vicelike grip:

"Will you keep your cursed mouth shut!" he breathed. "My father is in
the next room. Do you want to kill him?"

At the same moment there came a stir from the room beyond, the tap-tap
of a cane and shuffling steps across the polished parquet. Dysart's grip
relaxed, his hand fell away, and he made a ghastly grimace as a little
old gentleman came half-trotting, half-shambling to the doorway. He was
small and dapper and pink-skinned under his wig; the pink was paint; his
lips and eyes peered and simpered; from one bird-claw hand dangled a
monocle.

Jack Dysart made a ghastly and supreme effort:

"I was just saying to Duane, father, that all this financial agitation
is bound to blow over by December--Duane Mallett, father!"--as the old
man raised his eye-glass and peeped up at the young fellow--"you know
his father, Colonel Mallett."

"Yes, to be sure, yes, to be sure!" piped the old beau. "How-de-do!
How-de-do-o-o! My son Jack and I motor every morning at this hour. It is
becoming a custom--he! he!--every day from ten to eleven--then a biscuit
and a glass of sherry--then a nap--te-he! Oh, yes, every day, Mr. Mallett,
rain or fair--then luncheon at one, and the cigarette--te-he!--and a
little sleep--and the drive at five! Yes, Mr. Mallett, it is the routine
of a very old man who knew your grandfather--and all his set--when the
town was gay below Bleecker Street! Yes, yes--te-he-he!"

Nervous spasms which passed as smiles distorted the younger Dysart's
visage; the aged beau offered his hand to Duane, who took it in silence,
his eyes fixed on the shrivelled, painted face:

"Your grandfather was a very fine man," he piped; "very fine! ve-ery
fine! And so I perceive is his grandson--te-he!--and I flatter myself
that my boy Jack is not unadmired--te-he-he!--no, no--not precisely
unnoticed in New York--the town whose history is the history of his own
race, Mr. Mallett--he is a good son to me--yes, yes, a good son. It is
gratifying to me to know that you are his friend. He is a good friend to
have, Mr. Mallett, a good friend and a good son."

Duane bent gently over the shrivelled hand.

"I won't detain you from your drive, Mr. Dysart. I hope you will have a
pleasant one. It is a pleasure to know my grandfather's old friends.
Good-bye."

And, erect, he hesitated a moment, then, for an old man's sake he held
out his hand to Jack Dysart, bidding him good-bye in a pleasant voice
pitched clear and decided, so that deaf ears might corroborate what
half-blind and peering eyes so dimly beheld.

Dysart walked to the door with him, waved the servant aside, and, laying
a shaking hand on the bronze knob, opened the door for his unbidden
guest.

As Duane passed him he said:

"Thank you, Mallett," in a voice so low that Duane was half-way to his
cab before he understood.

       *       *       *       *       *

That day, and the next, and all that week he worked in his pitlike
studio. Through the high sky-window a cloudless zenith brooded; the heat
became terrific; except for the inevitable crush of the morning and
evening migration south and north, the streets were almost empty under a
blazing sun.

His father seemed to be physically better. Although he offered no
confidences, it appeared to the son that there was something a little
more cheerful in his voice and manner. It may have been only the
anticipation of departure; for he was going West in a day or two, and it
came out that Wilton was going with him.

The day he left, Duane drove him to the station. There was a private
car, the "Cyane," attached to the long train. Wilton met them, spoke
pleasantly to Duane; but Colonel Mallett did not invite his son to enter
the car, and adieux were said where they stood.

As the young fellow turned and passed beneath the car-windows, he caught
a glimpse above him of a heavy-jowled, red face into which a cigar was
stuck--a perfectly enormous expanse of face with two little piglike eyes
almost buried in the mottled fat.

"That's Max Moebus," observed a train hand respectfully, as Duane
passed close to him; "I guess there's more billions into that there
private car than old Pip's crowd can dig out of their pants pockets on
pay day."

A little, dry-faced, chin-whiskered man with a loose pot-belly and thin
legs came waddling along, followed by two red-capped negroes with his
luggage. He climbed up the steps of the "Cyane"; the train man winked at
Duane, who had turned to watch him.

"Amos Flack," he said. "He's their 'lobbygow.'" With which contemptuous
information he spat upon the air-brakes and, shoving both hands into his
pockets, meditatively jingled a bunch of keys.

       *       *       *       *       *

The club was absolutely deserted that night; Duane dined there alone,
then wandered into the great empty room facing Fifth Avenue, his steps
echoing sharply across the carpetless floor. The big windows were open;
there was thunder in the air--the sonorous stillness in which voices and
footsteps in the street ring out ominously.

He smoked and watched the dim forms of those whom the heat drove forth
into the night, men with coats over their arms and straw hats in their
hands, young girls thinly clad in white, bare-headed, moving two and two
with dragging steps and scarcely spirit left even for common coquetry or
any response to the jesting oafs who passed.

Here and there a cruising street-dryad threaded the by-paths of the
metropolitan jungle; here and there a policeman, gray helmet in hand,
stood mopping his face, night-club tucked up snugly under one arm. Few
cabs were moving; at intervals a creaking, groaning omnibus rolled
past, its hurricane deck white with the fluttering gowns of women and
young girls.

Somebody came into the room behind him; Duane turned, but could not
distinguish who it was in the dusk. A little while later the man came
over to where he sat, and he looked up; and it was Dysart.

There was silence for a full minute; Dysart stood by the window looking
out; Duane paid him no further attention until he wheeled slowly and
said:

"Do you mind if I have a word with you, Mallett?"

"Not if it is necessary."

"I don't know whether it is necessary."

"Don't bother about it if you are in the slightest doubt."

Dysart waited a moment, perhaps for some unpleasant emotion to subside;
then:

"I'll sit down a moment, if you permit."

He dropped into one of the big, deep, leather chairs and touched the
bell. A servant came; he looked across at Duane, hesitated to speak:

"Thank you," said Duane curtly. "I've cut it out."

"Scotch. Bring the decanter," murmured Dysart to the servant.

When it was served he drained the glass, refilled it, and turned in the
rest of the mineral water. Before he spoke he emptied the glass again
and rang for more mineral water. Then he looked at Duane and said in a
low voice:

"I thought you were worried the other day when I saw you at my house."

"What is that to you?"

Dysart said: "You were very kind--under provocation."

"I was not kind on your account."

"I understand. But I don't forget such things."

Duane glanced at him in profound contempt. Here was the stereotyped
scoundrel with the classical saving trait--the one conventionally
inevitable impulse for good shining like a diamond on a muck-heap--his
apparently disinterested affection for his father.

"You were very decent to me that day," Dysart said. "You had something
to say to me--but were good enough not to. I came over to-night to give
you a chance to curse me out. It's the square thing to do."

"What do you know about square dealing?"

"Go on."

"I have nothing to add."

"Then I have if you'll let me." He paused; the other remained silent.
"I've this to say: you are worried sick; I saw that. What worries you
concerns your father. You were merciful to mine. I'll do what I can for
you."

He swallowed half of what remained in his iced glass, set it back on the
table with fastidious precision:

"The worst that can happen to your father is to lose control of the Yo
Espero property. I think he is going to lose it. They've crowded me out.
If I could have endured the strain I'd have stood by your father--for
what you did for mine.... But I couldn't, Mallett."

He moistened his lips again; leaned forward:

"I think I know one thing about you, anyway; and I'm not afraid you'd
ever use any words of mine against me----"
