
"Hello, Bertie!" she said. 

" Hello ! " the other replied, and then added. 
" This is my cousin. Miss Wygant. Glad, this is 
Samuel Prescott." 

The girl made a slight acknowledgment, and 
stared at Samuel with a look in which curiosity 
and hauteur were equally mingled. She was a 
brunette with dark hair, and an almost Oriental 
richness of coloring. She was lithe and grace- 
fully built, and quick in her motions. There was 
eager alertness in her whole aspect; her glance 
was swift and her voice imperious. One could 
read her at a glance for a person accustomed to 
command — impatient and adventurous, passion- 
ate and proud. 

"I've had an adventure," said her cousin by 
way of explanation. " Samuel, here, saved my 
life." 

And Samuel thrilled to see the sudden look 
of interest which came into the girl's face. 
"What!" she cried. 

" Yes," said the other. " Spitfire ran away 
with me." 

" You don't mean it, Bertie I " 





" Yes. The rein broke. He started near the 
gate here and ran three or four miles with me." 

"Bertie I" cried the girl. "And what hap- 
pened? " 

" Samuel stopped him." 

" How? " 

" It was splendid. Glad — the nerviest thing I 
ever saw. He just flung himself at the rein and 
caught it and hung on. He saved my life, be- 
yond question." 

And now Samuel, burning up with embarrass- 
ment, faced the full blaze of the girl's impetu- 
ous interest. " How perfectly fine ! " she ex- 
claimed; then, " Where do you come from? " she 
asked. 

" He's just oflf a farm," said Lockman. " He 
was on his way to New York to make his fortune. 
And think of it, Glad, he'd been robbed, and he'd 
been wandering about town begging for work, 
and he was nearly starving." 

" You don't say so ! " gasped the girl. 

She took a chair and indicated to Samuel to 
sit in front of her. " Tell me all about yoiu-self," 
she said; and proceeded to cross-question him 
about his life and his adventures. 

Poor Samuel was like a witness in the hands 
of a prosecutor — he became hopelessly confused 
and frightened. But that made no difference to 
the girl, who poiired a ceaseless fire of questions 





Upon him, until she had laid his whole life hare. 
She even made him tell about Manning, the 
stockbroker, and how the family had lost its 
money in the collapse of Glass Bottle Securities. 
!And then her cousin put in a word about his ad- 
venture with " Old Stew," and Samuel had to tell 
that all over again, and to set forth his sociologi- 
cal convictions — Miss Wygant and her cousin 
meantime exchanging glances of wonder and 
amusement. 

At last, however, they tired of him and fell to 
talking of a dance they were to attend and a 
tennis tournament in which they were to play. 
And so Samuel had a chance to gaze at Miss 
Wygant and to feast his eyes upon her beauty. 
He could have dreamed of no greater joy in all 
this world than to watch her for hours — to study 
every detail of her features and her costume, and 
to see the play of laughter about her mouth and 
eyes. 

But then came the butler announcing luncheon ; 
and Samuel rose in a panic. He had a sudden 
vision of himself being asked to the table, to sit 
under Miss Wygant's merciless survey. " I 
think I'd better go now," he said. 

"All right," said yoimg Lockman. "Will 
you come to-morrow morning, and we'll fix 
things up?" 

" I'll come," said Samuel. 





" What are you going to do with him? '* asked 
the girl. 

" He Kkes to take care of horses," said Lock- 
man. 

" No," exclaimed the other promptly, " that 
won't do." 

" Why not? " asked he. 

" Because, Bertie, you don't want to make 
a stable boy out of him. He has too many 
possibihties. For one thing, he's good look- 
ing." 

Samuel flushed scarlet and dropped his eyes. 
He felt again that penetrating gaze. 

" All right," said Lockman. " What can you 
suggest? " 

" I don't know, I'm sure. But something de- 
cent." 

" He doesn't know enough to be a house ser- 
vant, Glad " 

" No — but something outside. Couldn't he 
learn gardening? Are you fond of flowers, Sam- 
uel? " 

" Yes, ma'am," said Samuel quickly. 

" Well, then, make a gardener out of him," 
said Miss Wygant; and that settled Samuel's 
destiny. 

The boy took his departure and went home, 
almost running in his excitement. He was trans- 
ported into a distant heaven of bliss; he had been 





seated among the gods — he was to dwell there 
forever after! 

His new patron had given him a five-dollar 
bill; and before he reached the Stedman home he 
stopped in a grocery store and loaded up his 
arms with bundles. And then, seized by a sud- 
den thought, he went into a notion store and set 
down his bundles and purchased a clean, white 
linen collar, and a necktie of royal purple and 
brilliant green — already tied, so that it would al- 
ways be perfect in shape. 

Then he went into the Stedmans, and the 
widow and the youngest children sat round and 
listened open-eyed to his tale. And then came 
Sophie, and he had to tell it all over again. 

The girl's eyes opened wide with excitement 
when he came to the end of his recital. " Miss 
Wygant!" she exclaimed. "Miss Gladys Wy- 
gant? " 

" Yes," said Samuel. " You've heard of her? " 

"I've seen herl" exclaimed Sophie eagerly. 
"Twice!" 

" You don't mean it," he said. 

" Yes. Once she came to our church festival 
at Christmas." 

" Does she belong to your church? " 

" It's the mission. Great folks like her wouldn't 
want us in the church with them. She goes to 
St. Matthew's, you know — up there on the hill. 





But she came to the festival at the mission and 
helped to give out the presents. And she was 
dressed all in red — something filmy and soft, like 
you'd see in a dream. And, oh, Samuel — she was 
so beautiful! She had a rose in her hair — and 
such a sweet perfvmie — you could hardly bear it! 
And she stood there and smiled at all the children 
and gave them the presents. She gave me mine, 
and it was like seeing a princess. I wanted to 
fall down and kiss her feet." 

" Yes," said Samuel understandingly. 

" And to think that you've met her! " cried So- 
phie in ecstasy. " And talked with her ! Oh, how 
could you do it? " 

" I— I don't think I did it very well," said 
Samuel. 

" What did you say to her? " 

" I don't remember much of it." 

" I never heard her voice," said Sophie. " She 
was talking, the other time I saw her, but the 
machinery drowned it out. That was in the mill 
— she came there with some other people and 
walked about, looking at everything. We were 
all so excited. You know, her father owns the 
mill." 

" No, I didn't know it," replied Samuel. 

" He owns all sorts of things in Lockmanville. 
They're very, very rich. And she's his only 
daughter, and so beautiful — everybody worships 





her. I've got two pictures of her that were in 
the newspapers once. Come — you must see them." 

And so the two rushed upstairs; and over the 
bed were two faded newspaper clippings, one 
showing Miss Gladys in an evening gown, and 
the other in dimity en princesse, with a bunch of 
roses in her arms. 

" Did you ever see anything so lovely? " asked 
the girl. " I made her my fairy godmother. 
And she used to say such lovely things to me. 
She must be very kind, you know — no one could 
be so beautiful who wasn't very, very good and 
kind." 

" No," said Samuel. " She must be, I'm sure." 

And then a sudden idea came to him. " So- 
phie!" he exclaimed — "she said I was good 
looking! I wonder if I am." 

And Sophie shot a quick glance at him. " Why, 
of course you are!" she cried. "You stupid 
boy!" 

Samuel went to the cracked mirror which hung 
upon the wall and looked at himself with new 
and wondering interest. 

" Don't you see how fine and strong you are? " 
said Sophie. " And what a bright color you've 
got?" 

" I never thought of it," said he, and recollected 
the green and purple necktie. 

" And to think that you've talked with her! " 





exclaimed Sophie, turning back to the pictures; 
and she added in a sudden burst of generosity, 
" I tell you what I'll do, Samuel — I'll give you 
these, and you can put them in your room! " 
" You mustn't do that ! " he protested. 
But the girl insisted. "No, no I I know them 
by heart, so it won't make any diflFerence. And 
they'll mean so much more to you, because you've 
really met her !" 
