little in safety; and, perfectly certain of herself, enjoy as much of
what his friendship offered as her own clear wits and common sense
permitted. For she had found, so far, no metal in any man unalloyed. Two
years' experience alone with men had educated her; and whatever the
alloy in Desboro might be that lowered his value, she thought it less
objectionable than the similar amalgam out of which were fashioned the
harmless youths in whose noisy company she danced, and dined, and
bathed, and witnessed Broadway "shows"; the Eddies and Joes of the
metropolis, replicas in mind and body of clothing advertisements in
street cars.
Her blue eyes, wandering from the ruddy andirons, were arrested by the
clock. What had happened? Was the clock still going? She listened, and
heard it ticking.
"Is that the right time?" she demanded incredulously.
He said, so low she could scarcely hear him: "Yes, Stray Lock. Must I
close the story book and lay it away until another day?"
She rose, brushing the bright strand from her cheek; he stood up, pulled
the tassel of an old-time bell rope, and, when the butler came, ordered
the car.
She went away to her room, where Mrs. Quant swathed her in rain garments
and veils, and secretly pressed into her hand a bottle containing "a
suffusion" warranted to discourage any insidious advances of typod.
"A spoonful before meals, dearie," she whispered hoarsely; "and don't
tell Mr. James--he'd be that disgusted with me for doin' of a Christian
duty. I'll have some of my magic drops ready when you come to-morrow,
and you can just lock the door and set and rock and enj'y them onto a
lump of sugar."
A little dismayed, but contriving to look serious, Jacqueline thanked
her and fled. Desboro put her into the car and climbed in beside her.
"You needn't, you know," she protested. "There are no highwaymen, are
there?"
"None more to be dreaded than myself."
"Then why do you go to the station with me?"
He did not answer. She presently settled into her corner, and he wrapped
her in the fur robe. Neither spoke; the lamplight flashed ahead through
the falling rain; all else was darkness--the widest world of darkness,
it seemed to her fancy, that she ever looked out upon, for it seemed to
leave this man and herself alone in the centre of things.
Conscious of him beside her, she was curiously content not to look at
him or to disturb the silence encompassing them. The sense of speed, the
rush through obscurity, seemed part of it--part of a confused and
pleasurable irresponsibility.
Later, standing under the dripping eaves of the station platform with
him, watching the approaching headlight of the distant locomotive, she
said:
"You have made it a very delightful day for me. I wanted to thank you."
He was silent; the distant locomotive whistled, and the vista of wet
rails began to glisten red in the swift approach.
"I don't want you to go to town alone on that train," he said abruptly.
"What?" in utter surprise.
"Will you let me go with you, Miss Nevers?"
"Nonsense! I wander about everywhere alone. Please don't spoil it all.
Don't even go aboard to find a seat for me."
The long train thundered by, brakes gripping, slowed, stopped. She
sprang aboard, turned on the steps and offered her hand:
"Good-bye, Mr. Desboro."
"To-morrow?" he asked.
"Yes."
They exchanged no further words; she stood a moment on the platform, as
the cars glided slowly past him and on into the rainy night. All the way
to New York she remained motionless in the corner of the seat, her cheek
resting against her gloved palm, thinking of what had happened--closing
her blue eyes, sometimes, to bring it nearer and make more real a day of
life already ended.
CHAPTER IV
When the doorbell rang the maid of all work pushed the button and stood
waiting at the top of the stairs. There was a pause, a moment's
whispering, then light footsteps flying through the corridor, and:
"Where on earth have you been for a week?" asked Cynthia Lessler, coming
into Jacqueline's little parlour, where the latter sat knitting a white
wool skating jacket for herself.
Jacqueline laid aside the knitting and greeted her visitor with a warm,
quick embrace.
"Oh, I've been everywhere," she said. "Out in Westchester, mostly.
To-day being Sunday, I'm at home."
"What were you doing in the country, sweetness?"
"Business."
"What kind?"
"Oh, cataloguing a collection. Take the armchair and sit near the stove,
dear. And here are the chocolates. Put your feet on the fender as I do.
It was frightfully cold in Westchester yesterday--everything frozen
solid--and we--I skated all over the flooded fields and swamps. It was
simply glorious, Cynthia----"
"I thought you were out there on business," remarked Cynthia dryly.
"I was. I merely took an hour at noon for luncheon."
"Did you?"
"Certainly. Even a bricklayer has an hour at noon to himself."
"Whose collection are you cataloguing?"
"It belongs to a Mr. Desboro," said Jacqueline carelessly.
"Where is it?"
"In his house--a big, old house about five miles from the station----"
"How do you get there?"
"They send a car for me----"
"Who?"
"They--Mr. Desboro."
"They? Is he plural?"
"Don't be foolish," said Jacqueline. "It is his car and his collection,
and I'm having a perfectly good time with both."
"And with him, too? Yes?"
"If you knew him you wouldn't talk that way."
"I know who he is."
"Do you?" said Jacqueline calmly.
"Yes, I do. He's the 'Jim' Desboro whose name you see in the fashionable
columns. I know something about that young man," she added
emphatically.
Jacqueline looked up at her with dawning displeasure. Cynthia,
undisturbed, bit into a chocolate and waved one pretty hand:
"Read the Tattler, as I do, and you'll see what sort of a man your
young man is."
"I don't care to read such a----"
"I do. It tells you funny things about society. Every week or two
there's something about him. You can't exactly understand it--they put
it in a funny way--but you can guess. Besides, he's always going around
town with Reggie Ledyard, and Stuyve Van Alstyne, and--Jack Cairns----"
"Don't speak that way--as though you usually lunched with them. I hate
it."
"How do you know I don't lunch with some of them? Besides everybody
calls them Reggie, and Stuyve, and Jack----"
"Everybody except their mothers, probably. I don't want to hear about
them, anyway."
"Why not, darling?"
"Because you and I don't know them and never will----"
Cynthia said maliciously: "You may meet them through your friend, Jimmy
Desboro----"
"That is the limit!" exclaimed Jacqueline, flushing; and her pretty
companion leaned back in her armchair and laughed until Jacqueline's
unwilling smile began to glimmer in her wrath-darkened eyes.
"Don't torment me, Cynthia," she said. "You know quite well that it's a
business matter with me entirely."
"Was it a business matter with that Dawley man? You had to get me to go
with you into that den of his whenever you went at all."
Jacqueline shrugged and resumed her knitting: "What a horrid thing he
was," she murmured.
Cynthia assented philosophically: "But most men bother a girl sooner or
later," she concluded. "You don't read about it in novels, but it's
true. Go down town and take dictation for a living. It's an education in
how to look out for yourself."
"It's a rotten state of things," said Jacqueline under her breath.
"Yes. It's funny, too. So many men are that way. What do they care? Do
you suppose we'd be that way, too, if we were men?"
"No. There are nice men, too."
"Yes--dead ones."
"Nonsense!"
"With very few exceptions, Jacqueline. There are horrid, horrid ones,
and nice, horrid ones, and dead ones and dead ones--but only a few
nice, nice ones. I've known some. You think your Mr. Desboro is one,
don't you?"
"I haven't thought about him----"
"Honestly, Jacqueline?"
"I tell you I haven't! He's nice to me. That's all I know."
"Is he too nice?"
"No. Besides, he's under his own roof. And it depends on a girl,
anyway."
"Not always. If we behave ourselves we're dead ones; if we don't we'd
better be. Isn't it a rotten deal, Jacqueline! Just one fresh man after
another dropped into the discards because he gets too gay. And being
employed by the kind who'd never marry us spoils us for the others.
You could marry one of your clients, I suppose, but I never could in a
million years."
"You and I will never marry such men," said Jacqueline coolly. "Perhaps
we wouldn't if they asked us."
"You might. You're educated and bright, and--you look the part, with
all the things you know--and your trips to Europe--and the kind of
beauty yours is. Why not? If I were you," she added, "I'd kill a man who
thought me good enough to hold hands with, but not good enough to
marry."
"I don't hold hands," observed Jacqueline scornfully.
"I do. I've done it when it was all right; and I've done it when I had
no business to; and the chances are I'll do it again without getting
hurt. And then I'll finally marry the sort of man you call Ed," she
added disgustedly.
Jacqueline laughed, and looked intently at her: "You're so pretty,
Cynthia--and so silly sometimes."
Cynthia stretched her young figure full length in the chair, yawning and
crooking both arms back under her curly brown head. Her eyes, too, were
brown, and had in them always a half-veiled languor that few men could
encounter undisturbed.
"A week ago," she said, "you told me over the telephone that you would
be at the dance. I never laid eyes on you."
"I came home too tired. It was my first day at Silverwood. I overdid it,
I suppose."
"Silverwood?"
"Where I go to business in Westchester," she explained patiently.
"Oh, Mr. Desboro's place!" with laughing malice.
"Yes, Mr. Desboro's place."
The hint of latent impatience in Jacqueline's voice was not lost on
Cynthia; and she resumed her tormenting inquisition:
"How long is it going to take you to catalogue Mr. Desboro's
collection?"
"I have several weeks' work, I think--I don't know exactly."
"All winter, perhaps?"
"Possibly."
"Is he always there, darling?"
Jacqueline was visibly annoyed: "He has happened to be, so far. I
believe he is going South very soon--if that interests you."
"'Phone me when he goes," retorted Cynthia, unbelievingly.
"What makes you say such things!" exclaimed Jacqueline. "I tell you he
isn't that kind of a man."
"Read the Tattler, dearest!"
"I won't."
"Don't you ever read it?"
"No. Why should I?"
"Curiosity."
"I haven't any."
Cynthia laughed incredulously:
"People who have no curiosity are either idiots or they have already
found out. Now, you are not an idiot."
Jacqueline smiled: "And I haven't found out, either."
"Then you're just as full of curiosity as the rest of us."
"Not of unworthy curiosity----"
"I never knew a good person who wasn't. I'm good, am I not, Jacqueline?"
"Of course."
"Well, then, I'm full of all kinds of curiosities--worthy and unworthy.
I want to know about everything!"
"Everything good."
"Good and bad. God lets both exist. I want to know about them."
"Why be curious about what is bad? It doesn't concern us."
"If you know what concerns you only, you'll never know anything. Now,
when I read a newspaper I read about fashionable weddings, millionaires,
shows, murders--I read everything--not because I'm going to be
fashionably married, or become a millionaire or a murderer, but because
all these things exist and happen, and I want to know all about them
because I'm not an idiot, and I haven't already found out. And so that's
why I buy the Tattler whenever I have five cents to spend on it!"
"It's a pity you're not more curious about things worth while,"
commented Jacqueline serenely.
Cynthia reddened: "Dear, I haven't the education or brain to be
interested in the things that occupy you."
"I didn't mean that," protested Jacqueline, embarrassed. "I only----"
"I know, dear. You are too sweet to say it; but it's true. The bunch you
play with knows it. We all realise that you are way ahead of us--that
you're different----"
"Please don't say that--or think it."
"But it's true. You really belong with the others--" she made a gay
little gesture--"over there in the Fifth Avenue district, where art gets
gay with fashion; where lady highbrows wear tiaras; where the Jims and
Jacks and Reggies float about and hand each other new ones between
quarts; where you belong, darling--wherever you finally land!"
Jacqueline was laughing: "But I don't wish to land there! I never
wanted to."
"All girls do! We all dream about it!"
"Here is one girl who really doesn't. Of course, I'd like to have a few
friends of that kind. I'd rather like to visit houses where nobody has
to think of money, and where young people are jolly, and educated, and
dress well, and talk about interesting things----"
"Dear, we all would like it. That's what I'm saying. Only there's a
chance for you because you know something--but none for us. We
understand that perfectly well--and we dream on all the same. We'd miss
a lot if we didn't dream."
Jacqueline said mockingly: "I'll invite you to my Fifth Avenue
residence the minute I marry what you call a Reggie."
"I'll come if you'll stand for me. I'm not afraid of any Reggie in the
bench show!"
They laughed; Cynthia stretched out a lazy hand for another chocolate;
Jacqueline knitted, the smile still hovering on her scarlet lips.
Bending over her work, she said: "You won't misunderstand when I tell
you how much I enjoy being at Silverwood, and how nice Mr. Desboro has
been."
"Has been."
"Is, and surely will continue to be," insisted Jacqueline tranquilly.
"Shall I tell you about Silverwood?"
Cynthia nodded.
"Well, then, Mr. Desboro has such a funny old housekeeper there, who
gives me 'magic drops' on lumps of sugar. The drops are aromatic and
harmless, so I take them to please her. And he has an old, old butler,
who is too feeble to be very useful; and an old, old armourer, who comes
once a week and potters about with a bit of chamois; and a parlour maid
who is sixty and wears glasses; and a laundress still older. And a whole
troop of dogs and cats come to luncheon with us. Sometimes the butler
goes to sleep in the pantry, and Mr. Desboro and I sit and talk. And if
he doesn't wake up, Mr. Desboro hunts about for somebody to wait on us.
Of course there are other servants there, and farmers and gardeners,
too. Mr. Desboro has a great deal of land. And so," she chattered on
quite happily and irrelevantly, "we go skating for half an hour after
lunch before I resume my cataloguing. He skates very well; we are
learning to waltz on skates----"
"Who does the teaching?"
"He does. I don't skate very well; and unless it were for him I'd have
such tumbles! And once we went sleighing--that is, he drove me to the
station--in rather a roundabout way. And the country was so beautiful!
And the stars--oh, millions and millions, Cynthia! It was as cold as the
North Pole, but I loved it--and I had on his other fur coat and gloves.
He is very nice to me. I wanted you to understand the sort of man he
is."
"Perhaps he is the original hundredth man," remarked Cynthia
skeptically.
"Most men are hundredth men when the nine and ninety girls behave
themselves. It's the hundredth girl who makes the nine and ninety men
horrid."
"That's what you believe, is it?"
"I do."
"Dream on, dear." She went to a glass, pinned her pretty hat, slipped
into the smart fur coat that Jacqueline held for her, and began to draw
on her gloves.
"Can't you stay to dinner," asked Jacqueline.
"Thank you, sweetness, but I'm dining at the Beaux Arts."
"With any people I know?"
"You don't know that particular 'people'," said Cynthia, smiling, "but
you know a friend of his."
"Who?"
