motion of dismissal to me.

As I walked toward the front door, which was now striding open, I saw
Major Tallmadge go out ahead of me, run to the mounting-block, and
climb into his saddle. Colonel Sheldon followed him to the doorway, and
called after him:

"Take a dozen men with you, and meet Colonel Moylan! A dozen will be
sufficient, Major!"

Then he turned back into the house, saying to Major Lockwood and Mr.
Hunt he was positive that the large body of dragoons in rapid motion,
which had been seen and reported by one of our videttes a few minutes
since, could be no other than Moylan's expected regiment; and that he
would mount his own men presently and draw them up in front of the
Meeting House.

The rain had now nearly ceased; a cloudy, greyish horizon became
visible, and the dim light spreading from a watery sky made objects
dimly discernible out of doors.

I hastened back to the shed where I had left the strange maid swathed
in her scarlet cape; and found her there, slowly pacing the trampled
sod before it.

As I came up with her, she said:

"Why are the light dragoons riding on the Bedford road? Is aught amiss?"

"A very large body of horse has passed our videttes, making toward
Ridgefield. Colonel Sheldon thinks it must be Moylan's regiment."

"Do you?"

"It may be so."

"And if it be the leather-caps?"

"Then we must find ourselves in a sorry pickle."

As I spoke, the little bugle-horn of Sheldon's Horse blew boots and
saddles, and four score dragoons scrambled into their saddles down by
the barns, and came riding up the sloppy road, their horses slipping
badly and floundering through the puddles and across the stream, where,
led by a captain, the whole troop took the Meeting House road at a
stiff canter.

We watched them out of sight, then she said:

"I have awaited your pleasure, Mr. Loskiel. Pray, in what further
manner can I be of service to--my country?"

"I have come back to tell you," said I, "that you can be of no further
use. Our errand to the Sagamore has now ended, and most happily. You
have served your country better than you can ever understand. I have
come to say so, and to thank you with--with a heart--very full."

"Have I then done well?" she asked slowly.

"Indeed you have!" I replied, with such a warmth of feeling that it
surprised myself.

"Then why may I not understand this thing that I have done--for my
country?"

"I wish I might tell you."

"May you not?"

"No, I dare not."

She bit her lip, gazing at nothing over the ragged collar of her cape,
and stood so, musing. And after a while she seemed to come to herself,
wearily, and she cast a tragic upward glance at me. Then, dropping her
eyes, and with the slightest inclination of her head, not looking at me
at all, she started across the trampled grass.

"Wait----" I was by her side again in the same breath.

"Well, sir?" And she confronted me with cool mien and lifted brows.
Under them her grey eyes hinted of a disdain which I had seen in them
more than once.

"May I not suitably express my gratitude to you?" I said.

"You have already done so."

"I have tried to do so properly, but it is not easy for me to say how
grateful to you we men of the Northland are--how deeply we must ever
remain in your debt. Yet--I will attempt to express our thanks--if you
care to listen."

After a pause: "Then--if there is nothing more to say--"

"There is, I tell you. Will you not listen?"

"I have been thanked--suitably.... I will say adieu, sir."

"Would you--would you so far favour me as to make known to me your
name?" I said, stammering a little.

"Lois is my name," she said indifferently.

"No more than that?"

"No more than that."

How it was now going with me I did not clearly understand, but it
appeared to be my instinct not to let her slip away into the world
without something more friendly said--some truer gratitude
expressed--some warmth.

"Lois," I said very gravely, "what we Americans give to our country
demands no ignoble reward. Therefore, I offer none of any sort. Yet,
because you have been a good comrade to me--and because now we are
about to go our different ways into the world before us--I ask of you
two things. May I do so?"

After a moment, looking away from me across the meadow:

"Ask," she said.

"Then the first is--will you take my hand in adieu--and let us part as
good soldiers part?"

Still gazing absently across the meadow, she extended her hand. I
retained it for a moment, then released it. Her arm fell inert by her
side, but mine tingled to the shoulder.

"And one more thing," I said, while this strange and curious reluctance
to let her go was now steadily invading me.

"Yes?"

"Will you wear a comrade's token--in memory of an hour or two with him?"

"What!"

She spoke with a quick intake of breath and her grey eyes were on me
now, piercing me to the roots of speech and motive.

I wore a heavy ring beaten out of gold; Guy Johnson gave it. This I
took from my trembling finger, scarce knowing why I was doing it at
all, and stooping and lifting her little, wind-roughened hand, put it
on the first finger I encountered--blindly, now, and clumsily past all
belief, my hand was shaking so absurdly.

If my face were now as red as it was hot, hers, on the contrary, had
become very strange and still and white. For a moment I seemed to read
distrust, scorn, even hatred, in her level stare, and something of
fear, too, in every quickening breath that moved the scarlet mantle on
her breast. Then, in a flash, she had turned her back on me and was
standing there in the grey dawn, with both hands over her face,
straight and still as a young pine. But my ring was shining on her
finger.

Emotion of a nature to which I was an utter stranger was meddling with
my breath and pulses, now checking, now speeding both so that I stood
with mind disconcerted in a silly sort of daze.

At length I gathered sufficient composure to step to her side again.

"Once more, little comrade, good-bye," I said. "This ends it all."

Again she turned her shoulder to me, but I heard her low reply:

"Good-bye--Mr. Loskiel."

And so it ended.

A moment later I found myself walking aimlessly across the grass in no
particular direction. Three times I turned in my tracks to watch her.
Then she disappeared beyond the brookside willows.

I remember now that I had turned and was walking slowly back to where
our horses stood, moving listlessly through the freshly mowed meadow
between drenched haystacks--the first I had seen that year--and God
alone knows where were my thoughts a-gypsying, when, very far away, I
heard a gun-shot.

At first I could perceive nothing, then on the distant Bedford road I
saw one of our dragoons running his horse and bending low in his saddle.

Another dragoon appeared, riding a diable--and a dozen more behind
these; and on their heels a-galloping, a great body of red-jacketed
horsemen--hundreds of them--the foremost shooting from their saddles,
the great mass of them swinging their heavy cutlasses and spurring
furiously after our flying men.

I had seen far more than was necessary, and I ran for my horse. Other
officers came running, too--Sheldon, Thomas, Lockwood, and my
Lieutenant Boyd.

As we clutched bridle and stirrup and popped upward into out saddles,
it seemed that the red-coats must cut us off, but we spurred out of the
meadow into the Meeting House road, and Boyd cried furiously in my ear:

"See what this damned Sheldon has done for us now! God! What disgrace
is ours!"

I saw Colonel Sheldon presently, pale as death, and heard him exclaim:

"Oh, Christ! I shall be broke for this! I shall be broke!"

I made out to say to Boyd:

"The enemy are coming in hundreds, sir, and we have scarce four score
men mounted by the Meeting House."

"They'll never stand, either," he panted. "But if they do we'll see
this matter to an end."

"Our orders?" I asked.

"Damn our orders," said he. "We'll see this matter to an end."

We rode hard, but already some of Tallmadge's terror-stricken patrol
were overhauling us, and the clangor of the British cavalry broke
louder and louder on our ears as we came in sight of the Meeting House.
Sheldon's four score troopers heard the uproar of the coming storm,
wavered, broke, and whirled their horses about into a most disorderly
flight along the Stamford road. Everybody ran--there was no other
choice for officers and men--and close on our heels came pelting the
17th British Dragoons, the Hussars, and Mounted Yagers of the Legion;
and behind these galloped their mounted infantry.

A mad anxiety to get away from this terrible and overwhelming force
thundering on our heels under full charge possessed us all, I think,
and this paramount necessity held shame and fury in abeyance. There was
nothing on earth for us to do but to ride and try to keep our horses
from falling headlong on the rocky, slippery road; for it was now a
very hell of trampling horsemen, riding frantically knee against knee,
buffeted, driven, crowded, crushed, slipping; and trooper after trooper
went down with a crash under the terrible hoofs, horse and rider
battered instantly into eternity.

For full three-quarters of a mile they ran us full speed, and we drove
on headlong; then at the junction of the New Canaan road our horsemen
separated, and I found myself riding in the rear beside Boyd and Jack
Mount once more. Turning to look back, I perceived the Legion Cavalry
were slowing to a trot to rest their hard-blown horses; and gradually
our men did the same. But the Hussars continued to come on, and we
continued our retreat, matching our speed to theirs.

They let drive at us once with their heavy pistols, and we in the rear
returned their fire, emptying one saddle and knocking two horses into
the roadside bushes.

Then they ran us hard again, and strove to flank us, but the rocky
country was too stiff for their riders, and they could not make out to
cut us off or attain our flanks.

"What a disgrace! What a disgrace!" was all Boyd found to say; and I
knew he meant the shameful surprise, not the retreat of our eighty
light horsemen before the thundering charge of their heavy hundreds.

Our troopers did not seem really frightened; they now jogged along
doggedly, but coolly enough. We had with us on the New Canaan road some
twenty light dragoons, not including Boyd, myself, and Jack Mount--one
captain, one cornet and a trumpeter lad, the remainder being rank and
file, and several mounted militiamen.

The captain, riding in the rear with us, was ever twisting his hatless
head to scowl back at the Hussars; and he talked continually in a loud,
confident voice to reassure his men.

"They're dropping off by tens and twenties," he said. "If they keep to
that habit we'll give 'em a charge. Wait till the odds lessen. Steady
there, boys! This cattle chase is not ended. We'll fetch 'em a crack
yet. We'll get a chance at their mounted infantry yet. All in God's
time, boys. Never doubt it."

The bugle-horns of the Legion were now sounding their derisive,
fox-hunting calls, and behind us we could hear the far laughter and
shouting: "Yoicks! Forrard! Stole away--stole away!"

My cheeks began to burn; Boyd gnawed his lips continually, and I saw
our dragoons turning angrily in their saddles as they understood the
insult of the British trumpets.

Half a mile farther on there ran a sandy, narrow cross road into the
woods on either side of us.

The captain drew bridle, stood up in his stirrups, and looked back. For
some time, now, the taunting trumpets had not jeered us, and the
pursuit seemed to have slackened after nearly three hard miles of
running. But they still followed us, though it was some minutes before
their red jackets came bobbing up again over the sandy crest of the
hill behind us.

All our men who had been looking back were now wheeled; and we divided,
half backing into the sandy road to the right, half taking the
left-hand road under command of Lieutenant Boyd.

"They are not too many," said the dragoon captain coolly, beckoning to
his little bugle-horn.

Willows hid us until their advanced troopers were close to where we
sat--so close that one of our excited dragoons, spurring suddenly
forward into the main road, beat down a Hussar's guard, flung his arms
