growing toward her? He was real rude.” 

Jack had experienced many qualms of con- 
science about throwing the ball that day, but 
Marilla made no reference to it. Still she 
might tell Bridget, she and Bridget were such 



cronies, and Bridget would make an awful 
fuss.’ 

"Marilla,” he said one night when she was 
getting him ready for bed — didn’t mean to 
hurt you that day with the ball — you know. 
I didn’t think girls were so tender.” 

was tired and there had been something 
stopping my breath like, now and then, maybe 
it wasn’t the ball.” 

"You were good not to tell on a fellow. I’ll 
never, never hurt you again, nor pinch you, 
nor be ugly to you. You’re so sweet, Ma- 
rilla,” and he clasped his arms around her 
neck, kissing her. 


CHAPTER XI 


THE ARK OF LOVE 

The glowing golden October weather had 
given place to several lowering days. Fur- 
naces and grates were started up, and over- 
coats brought out, and pedestrians hurried 
along. Even children did not stop to play, for 
now a cold drizzle had set in. 

It was very warm and cheery in Miss Ar- 
mitage’s library. There was a fire in the grate, 
a pot of beautiful red carnations on one stand, 
a great vase of roses on the other, and a 
dainty tea table set out with Wedgewood. 
Thursday afternoon she was always at home. 
From some cause there had been very few in. 
Jane came and put two big lumps of cannel 
coal on the fire and said a few words, then went 
to answer the ring at the door; it was Dr. 
Richards. 

'I’m glad to seeyou,"she said. 'Will you 
please light a burner or two?" 

'Oh, no, let us sit in this mysterious light 
and watch the blaze leaping over and around 




those black hillocks. Have yoa been busy to- 
day?’

"Not very. Some days I don't feel in a 
working humor. I had only two calls this 
afternoon. Will you have a cup of tea?" 

"Yes; when have you been to the Bordens?'' 

''Yesterday." 

"And how are the invalids?" 

"Mrs. Vanderveer is sinking in a comatose 
state ; she doesn't suffer, which is a great bless- 
ing toward the last. As for Marilla — she made 
a pause. 

“Well — inquiringly. 

“I'm not satisfied, she has such a blue, tired 
look. But she is about as usual. Dr. Richards, 
I want her.’ 

Something in the tone touched him. It 
seemed the cry of motherhood. 

“Well, wouldn't they give her up?" 

“I really think they would; a friend came to 
see if they did not want her nursemaid, a nice 
well trained girl of twenty; an excellent seam- 
stress. She is going to California. Mrs. 
Borden told me this as we were down in the 
hall. Dr. Baker said something about the 
child's health that rather startled her. But 



before we could have any discussion another 
visitor called. She thinks Marilla doesn’t 
have anything much to do; but the babies are 
a constant care. They want to be entertained 
every minute of the time. Violet is develop- 
ing quite a temper and slaps her little nurse. 
All her mother said was Violet, that’s naughty.’ 
But you should have seen Pansy speak some 
Mother Goose rhymes. Marilla had been 
training her. The gestures, the roll of the 
eyes, the coquettish turn of the head was the 
daintiest thing you ever saw. Then she re- 
peated — Where are you going, my pretty 
maid?’ and she had a little milk pail on her 
arm, and she managed to keep the two parts 
wonderfully distinct — it was remarkable in a 
child not three years old, and when she said 
— Then I won’t marry you, my pretty maid’ 
and answered so pertly — Nobody asked you, 
sir, she said,’ it would have done credit to an 
exhibition. Her mother sprang up and kissed 
her rapturously, crying — Tsn’t she the dearest 
and sweetest thing and the smartest! Think 
of her learning that and acting it off so com- 
pletely, and not three years old! She is 
smarter than Violet’ — and then Violet set up 




such a howl! Her mother pacified her by 
saying Marilla should tell her a piece, and after 
several efforts Cinderella did induce her to say 
by a great deal of prompting 'Milkman, Milk- 
man, where have you been?’ Think of the 
wear on the child’s nerves, and she looked so 
tired. I really couldn’t stand it a moment 
longer. They think she has nothing to do 
but just amuse those two strong irrepressible 
children who climb over her and torment her 
in every fashion. I can’t stand it. I hardly 
slept last night thinking of it.” 

"Can’t you bring her over for a visit?” 
thought of proposing that. If I could per- 
suade her to transfer the child to me — ” 
"But if she gets another nurse?” 

"Yes, I must try. The strain on her is too 
great, and now for almost a week she has not 
been out of the house; Mrs. Borden bewails 
it for the childrens’ sake. She thinks only of 

them with a mother’s selfishness, and she 
doesn’t give Marilla credit for these pretty 
ways or their intelligence. She is just their nurse 
girl. It is a cruel waste of the child’s gifts.” 

'I’d like to see Dr. Baker; most of all I’d 
like to see Marilla, but it wouldn’t be etiquette 
to call.” 



go tomorrow with courage enough to 
have a gentle talk or a straight out one,' said 
Miss Armitage resolutely. "We try to save 
other hves, why not this one? And this one is 
dear to me. It has so much of promise in it, 
and life gets lonely sometimes." 

He longed to come into it, but he kept his 
promise. Until she made some sign he must 
be content with friendship. He rose abruptly 
and said he must be going. She did not de- 
tain him. 

It was raining a-softly now and he hurried 
along. His office was in a little ell part in a 
rather inviting looking house, and he took his 
meals with the tenant. The office boy was on 
the lookout for him, it was time he went 
home. 

'There’s a gentleman in there waiting for 
you,’ he said with his good-night. 

The gentleman was comfortably ensconced 
in the Morris chair, smoking a cigar. Doctor 
Richards took a second look. 

“Why, Lorimer!" he exclaimed. “Where 
have you dropped from? I haven't seen you 
in an age — but I'm glad, old fellow; Iwasfeel- 
ing rather down; I should have had a gay 
presentiment." 



''Remembering old times when we were 
both bloated aristocrats, favorites with the 
gods.’ 

"And are now earning daily bread,” laughed 
the doctor. "At least I am and trying to help 
suffering humanity. Isn’t that neatly put?” 

"I don’t know whether I can claim all that; 
now and then I get some poor fellow’s affairs 
out of a snarl and make him pay for it, and one 
end of something has drifted here to Newton 
and I’m after that, but I thought I’d hunt you 
up first. I’ve been here a good haK hour.” 

"And supper is ready in the house. Then* 
we will have a good hour before any one drops 
in. Come in,” and he opened a side door into 
a hall. 

There were three persons at the table, an 
elderly couple and a woman in the thirties. 
They made Mr. Lorimer cordially welcome 
and the supper was inviting. The guest 
asked some questions about Newton which 
was a quiet rather old fashioned town quite 
set in its ways. 

Afterward they settled themselves com- 
fortably in the office. 

"I’ve come to hunt up some one — do you 




know anything about a Bethany Home for 
orphans, girls, I believe.’ 

Dr. Richards roused from his lazy position. 
Yes, I know about it, though I never been 
on the staff. Why?” 

want to learn about a child placed there 
four or five years ago. Let me see,” referring 
to a memorandum, "name, Marilla Bond; 
mother and father died in this town.” 

"Marilla Bond. Yes. I know the child. 
What of her?” 

"I’ll begin at the very first. Hardly two 
years ago Peter Schermerhorn died at the age 
of ninety-eight. He was the black sheep of an 
otherwise respectable family, went off and 
spent his portion in riotous living, afterward 
bought a tract of ground above Harlem, turned 
hermit, raised geese and ducks and pigs, 
married and had three daughters and they in 
turn married, glad, I suppose, to get away from 
the penurious living. So it went on. He had 
to give up the pigs and geese, did a little gar- 
dening and two years ago died without a will. 
Oddly enough he had kept a family record 
which has been of great service to us. The old 
shanty was a disgrace, the ground valuable. 



The city was bringing up one of its fine 
avenues and a syndicate made a proffer for the 
land. Of course the heirs soon scented this 
out, and our firm has been trying to settle 
the estate so the property can be turned into 
money, and a good deed given. We have 
found about everybody, I believe, but the 
mother of this child who is in very direct 
descent, eluded us a long while. 

"And this child is one of the heirs?’ ' in sur- 
prise. 

"Exactly. Her mother came here after her 
marriage. The father was killed in some 
machinery mishap. The mother was in a 
store, a bakery, I believe, and dying, gave her 
little girl to the friend she had lived with, 
and the friend married and went out to Easton. 
We found she did not take the child with her 
but put her in this Bethany Home with some 
important papers. So we want the child and 
the papers.” 

'The child was twelve, a year ago Septem- 
ber. She was bound-out to some fairly nice 
people as a little nursemaid. And an heiress !” 
in a tone of glad surprise. 

‘'Well not to any great extent. There are a 


