The white bedstead with brass trimming had 
been wrapped up like a fine lady. The paper and 
excelsior did make a litter. With a little help 
Dan set it up, put on the springs and the mattress, 
opened the package of blankets and sheets and 
pillows, amid the most delighted exclamations. 
Then Dan rolled it to the recess and began to 
pick up the debris. 
“ I had better get a basket to put it in,” he 
said. 
While he was gone they examined the suit again. 
There was a pretty white woolen blouse orna- 
mented with red velvet buttons, some dainty neck- 
wear, and a box of handkerchiefs. 
‘‘ You are each to have two,” Amaryllis said, 
and there are some new gloves for all of us.” 
‘‘ Oh, isn’t it splendid to have spandy new 
things ! ” cried Marigold, and not have them 
made out of people’s old clothes! And you de- 
serve them first, Rilla, because you are the oldest 
and you’ve had to help keep house so much, and 
couldn’t go to school. And we mustn’t get filled 
up with pride and vanity, as Miss Beers said, but 
is it pride to feel glad through and through when 
so many good things happen to you ? ” 
“ No, it isn’t,” answered Prim. “ I like to be 
out snowballing and running around just as much 
as ever! Oh, I hope it will snow all winter! 
Think of the sleigh rides! Oh, it will be fun to 
show off to some of the girls ! ” 
‘‘ That’s vanity ! ” 
No, it isn’t, either. I’m just the same Prim 
Firth as I used to be. O dear, something has hap- 
pened to' Lai ! Rhoda is so bossy.” 
Dan came with a big basket. Goldie brought 
a broom. The cry was not repeated; so they went 
on with their own matters. The twins were often 
allowed to fight out their own disputes. 
Prim found a dust-cloth. Rilla was putting 
various articles in the new drawers. 
I think ril give you each a drawer for fancy 
things,' she said. 
Oh, goody ! ” Prim almost hugged the breath 
out of her, then remarked lugubriously, “ But I 
haven’t any fancy things.” 
Rhoda had secretly envied her twin the doll. 
As a general thing, she had not cared for them, 
her only idea of dollhood being formed on Lai’s 
rag baby that was always getting shamefully dirty. „ 
But Laurel overflowed with incipient motherhood. 
When poor dolly was battered and bruised, she was 
full of pity for it, and her own mother sympathized 
with her. Then Primrose would make her over, 
cover her with a piece of muslin that was starched 
and ironed smooth, pick out some strands of rope 
to make fluffy hair, put in blue eyes with indigo, 
and color the cheeks with red cambric that rubbed 
off when you wet it. Primrose was quite an adept 
at making up. Then her clothes were washed. 
They were fastened with buttons, pins had such an 
exasperating fashion of getting lost. On these oc- 
casions Rhoda would deign to ask her to tea. 
Laurel carried her about, talked to her, retold in 
baby fashion the stories the older ones read aloud, 
took her to bed with her, and they really were in- 
separable. 
Dolly never had any name. It had been a source 
of great amusement to the elder children to proffer 
names that little Laurel could not pronounce ex- 
cept in some broken, laughable fashion. She had 
not been a forward child in anything, and her ef- 
forts at talking had proved a source of great fun. 
So, when they asked her pet’s name, she said, 
‘‘ Best Dolly.” 
Rhoda’s great diversion had always been play- 
ing tea and having imaginary visitors. She knew 
nothing about Barmecide feasts, but she had them 
daily, so Mrs. Mann thought a set of dishes would 
be a greater pleasure to her. 
The new doll was a marvel. They made it walk 
across the floor and say ‘‘ mamma.” There was a 
dainty willow chair for it to sit in. But Laurel 
still clung to the old doll that had been made anew 
before Christmas. After a little Rhoda began to 
covet the newcomer in her beauty and her fine 
clothes. 
Laurel had been out talking to Mrs. Alden, and, 
entering the library, she saw Dolly sitting at 
Rhoda’s play-table in the corner. She had piled 
up her gifts in the other corner, and when she saw 
Dolly had been carried off without a word of ask- 
ing, she was affronted. 
“ You san’t have new Dolly! ” and she made a 
dive for her. 
“ I’ve invited her to dinner, and she’s come,” 
was the defense with great dignity, as she fenced 
out her sister with her arm. 
I want my Dolly,” in a resentful tone. 
“ You don’t treat her half good, Lai Firth ! She 
stays there, and is so lonesome, and she cries be- 
cause she’s neglected,” stumbling over the word 
as if she were not quite certain. “ It’s a shame! 
You don’t ’serve such a nice, dressed-up doll. The 
old rag one is good enough for you.” 
Laurel reached over, and down went some of 
the cups as she snatched her own belongings. 
Now see what you’ve done, broken my lovely 
tea set I You’re a naughty bad girl ! ” and she hit 
her a slap on the shoulder. It did not hurt much, 
but Lai cried out in anger. 
“ Hush up this minnit or the big black bear will 
come out of the woods and bite you,” and she 
shook Laurel. 
“ Tan’t get fro winder ! Dan would catch him ! ” 
in a tone of triumph. “ ’Tain’t boked, neder,” and 
she picked up two cups and a saucer that had not 
been injured, falling on the soft carpet. 
‘‘Well, it just might have been, so now! Take 
your doll and go. I won’t ever ask her to tea 
again, and she’ll just break her heart.” 
Laurel took her doll and ran out into the hall. 
She’ll go upstairs and tell, the mean little 
scamp. I was only funning about the bear. 
They’re just in picture-books.” 
Then Rhoda espied the rag doll and, snatching 
her up, relieved her own temper by administering 
a sound spanking. 
Laurel sat on the step and cried a little. Then 
she crept softly up. They had been told not to 
carry their playthings upstairs, but she must hide 
it somewhere. Chan sat in his room reading, and 
the door was invitingly open. She paused and 
hesitated. 
“ What is it, Lai ? ” The kindly tone reassured 
her. 
Chan,” with a winsome beseechingness, 
will you have Dolly hided ’way in your closet ? 
I don’t want her downstairs any more. Wody 
takes her all the time. An’ I didn’t boke Wody’s 
dishes not a teeny bit.” 
Did you and Rhoda have a fight? Well, 
come here. I think you always get the worst 
of it.” 
No-o — only Wody slapped me ’tause I tooked 
my own Dolly. It’s mine. She’s got dishes an’ 
books an’ things.” 
Why, yes, we can hide Dolly in the closet on 
this shelf, and cover her up, so, until the storm 
blows over. Rhoda’ll get trounced some day for 
slapping you. There, no one will find her 
now.” 
Laurel laughed joyfully. Then the little face 
settled into wistful lines. 
Come and sit with me,” fancying rightly that 
she did not want to go downstairs. 
Oh, yes, I love ’ou, Chan,” in a sweet tone. 
He lifted her up beside himself in the chair, and 
she gave a little ripple of delight. 
Now I am going to read to you.” 
She loved to listen to the voice, if she did not 
understand the words. He was reading verses, 
and she cuddled closer, presently falling asleep. 
The girls settled their room, then called Mrs. 
Alden up, who thought everything very nice, and 
admired the pretty suit. Just then the sleigh drove 
up with Mr. and Mrs. Mann, so they rushed down 
with the wonderful news. 
Why, how smart you must have been to get 
it all in order. I am glad you like everything. 
And now you must change your dresses — you 
know Mr. Evans is coming to dinner — and get the 
children in order.” 
“ But tell us, Mother — did you see those people, 
and will they take the house ? ” 
Yes, and we had a nice call on the Burnhamv
and a lovely social one with the Briggses. I’ll tell 
you all about it later.” 
She had been taking off her cloak, and now went 
downstairs. Lide was ironing in the kitchen. 
The table was arranged, and the dinner under way. 
I really shouldn’t have stayed so,” she began 
in apology. And I did forget about the new 
things coming.” 
Oh, the girls looked after that part. They 
are very clever and efficient. Everything has gone 
on smoothly.” 
“ And we had two nice calls on the old 
friends.” 
Tip was summoned from the barn and put in 
order. Linn brushed up, and Rhoda was called 
upstairs and submitted very amiably to the polish- 
ing process. 
Where’s Lai ? ” she asked rather hesitatingly. 
Asleep in Chan’s chair. Now be a nice girl, 
and don’t get yourself all crushed up. There, run 
down and be out of the way.” 
Chan kissed his little sister and woke her. Prim- 
rose curled her soft light hair and put on a clean 
white apron. Linn came running up. 
‘‘ Hurry, do,” he began. ‘‘ You ought to have 
been down. Now you’ll have to string in like a 
flock of geese.” 
“ Oh, has he come? And there are so many of 
us.” Prim’s face turned crimson. 
‘‘ Don’t be silly. Yes, he’s here. Oh, you’ll 
like him. He’s a real young man. Come on.” 
“ What will he do to us? ” asked Tip. 
Well, he won’t eat you up. He isn’t equal to 
Prim’s Kron, and Pll bet he couldn’t repeat the 
whole name.” 
They marched downstairs. Their mother stood 
in the hall and took Laurel’s hand. They were 
duly presented. Mr. Evans shook hands and 
smiled, and then somehow they all seemed ac- 
quainted, and answered his greeting. Prim said 
afterward, Why, he’s just like folks, real nice 
folks, and you don’t feel a bit afraid of him.” 
Laurel evidently wasn’t. She brought her 
pretty illustrated “ Mother Goose ” to show him. 
Can you read? ” he asked. 
“ She can’t,” interposed Rhoda. “ Chan taught 
her by heart. But I can read in other books, and 
stories that don’t rhyme. They’re harder.” 
What else can you do ? ” with a smile. 
“ Why, I know twice two, and three times one 
are three, and — and two pints make a quart, 
and ” She glanced around as if to refresh her 
memory. Pm big enough to go to school. But 
Laurel ” 
I can wead, too, so now ! ” put in Laurel in- 
dignantly. 
Rhoda has outgrown her twin,” said Mr. 
Mann, laughingly, “ but we need one baby in the 
family,” and he caught the little girl up in his 
arms. 
And you must give us a chance to air our 
knowledge, Rhoda,” said her mother, with a soft 
smile that the child wondered about. But they 
were summoned to dinner, and Mr. Evans was 
surprised at the quiet manner in which they took 
their places. They were not wild Arabs, cer- 
tainly. 
Will they do to fill up, Mr. Evans? ” inquired 
his host humorously. “ Can you find places for 
them?” 
‘‘ I shall be only too glad to have them.” 
‘‘ Is it Sunday-school ? ” asked Prim. Are 
there many classes ? ” • 
Well, not many in some of the classes. How 
was the school at Denby ? Did you like it ? ” 
“ I liked it about Christmas time very much on 
account of the carols.” 
“ Oh, then you sing? ” 
“ I can sing with the others. Pm apt to get off 
the track when I go it alone. Goldie and Chan 
are the songsters of this family.” 
“ So you like the carols ? ” The question 
seemed for all of them. 
‘‘ I brought them home. We don’t know all the 
tunes,” said Chan. “ Maybe you could play them 
for us. But I suppose you had some fine ones. 
We have only a squeaky melodeon in the Sunday- 
school room. I’d rather sing without.” 
We have a very nice parlor organ, and in 
the church an excellent one. I’m glad you like 
music.” 
I want some of them to learn to play. I am 
very fond of singing as well. Is there any teacher 
about? ” asked Mr. Mann. 
‘‘Yes; we have a lady organist at church, and 
she gives music lessons; is, indeed, a fine hand to 
train children. Her sister keeps the only school 
in the place, and she assists when she can.” 
“ And a day school is another thing I must con- 
sider. Where do the larger children go ? ” 
“ There is a fine public school just in the edge 
of Ridgewood. Some day I suppose we shall all 
be the town of Ridgewood. You see, a sort of 
syndicate planned this suburb, and there would not 
be enough children for a school. Miss Raynor is 
well liked.” 
“ The other is — how far? ” 
“ I think most of the children ride in and walk 
home. Nearly a mile — we passed it this 
morning.” 
Mr. Mann considered. The four older ones 
could go,” he said tentatively. 
“ I want to,” began Tip. Why couldn’t we 
go in the sleigh? ” 
There mightn’t always be snow,” remarked 
Mr. Mann sagely. 
‘‘ Then Dan could take the wagon.” 
I think you would like the school here better,” 
suggested Mr. Evans. “ The Raynors have a 
pretty old house, with quite large grounds. For- 
tunately, Elm Street did not disturb them. The 
north and south streets are named from trees, the 
cross streets from Presidents, as you may have ob- 
served,” to Mr. Mann. 
“ The street just below us is Maple,” said Prim- 
