"Ah, Elsa, I am afraid; I am more afraid of Warrington than of a man of
Craig's type."

"And why?"

"It sounds foolish, but I can't explain.  I am just afraid of him."

"Bother!  You talk like an old maid."

"And I am one, by preference."

"We are always quarreling, Martha; and it doesn't do either of us any
good.  When you oppose me, I find that that is the very thing I want to
do.  You haven't any diplomacy."

"I would gladly cultivate it if I thought it would prove effectual,"
was the retort.

"Try it," advised Elsa dryly.

Warrington's appearance that afternoon astonished Elsa.  She had
naturally expected some change, but scarcely such elegance.  He was,
without question, one of the handsomest men she had ever met.  He was
handsomer than Arthur because he was more manly in type.  Arthur
himself, an exquisite in the matter of clothes, could not have improved
upon this man's taste or selection.  What a mystery he was!  She
greeted him cordially, without restraint; but for all that, a little
shiver stirred the tendrils of hair at the nape of her neck.

"The most famous man in Rangoon to-day," she said, smiling.

"So you have read that tommy-rot in the newspaper?"

They sat on her private balcony, under an awning.  Rain was
threatening.  Martha laid aside her knitting and did her utmost to give
her smile of welcome an air of graciousness.

"I shouldn't call it tommy-rot," Elsa declared.  "It was not chance.
It was pluck and foresight.  Men who possess those two attributes get
about everything worth having."

"There are exceptions," studying the ferrule of his cane.

"Is there really anything you want now and can't have?"

Martha looked at her charge in dread and wonder.

"There is the moon," he answered.  "I have always wanted that.  But
there it hangs, just as far out of reach as ever."

"Two lumps?"

"None.  My sugar-tooth is gone."

Elsa had heard that hard drinkers disliked sweets.  Had this been the
Gordian knot he had cut?

"Perhaps, after all," she said, "you would prefer a peg, as you call it
over here."

"No, thanks.  I was never fond of whisky.  Sometimes, when I am dead
tired, and have to go on working, I take a little."

So that wasn't it.  Elsa's curiosity to-day was keenly alive.  She
wanted to ask a thousand questions; but the ease with which the man
wore his new clothes, used his voice and eyes and hands, convinced her
more than ever that the subtlest questions she might devise would not
stir him into any confession.  That he had once been a gentleman of her
own class, and more, something of an exquisite, there remained no doubt
in her mind.  What had he done?  What in the world had he done?

On his part he regretted the presence of Martha; for, so strongly had
this girl worked upon his imagination that he had called with the
deliberate intention of telling her everything.  But he could not open
the gates of his heart before a third person, one he intuitively knew
was antagonistic.

Conversation went afield: pictures and music and the polished capitals
of the world; the latest books and plays.  The information in regard to
these Elsa supplied him.  They discussed also the problems of the day
as frankly as if they had been in an Occidental drawing-room.  Martha's
tea was bitter.  She liked Arthur, who was always charming, who never
surprised or astonished anybody, or shocked them with unexpected phases
of character; and each time she looked at Warrington, Arthur seemed to
recede.  And when the time came for the guest to take his leave, Martha
regretted to find that the major part of her antagonism was gone.

"I wish to thank you, Miss Chetwood, for your kindness to a very lonely
man.  It isn't probable that I shall see you again.  I sail next
Thursday for Singapore."  He reached into a pocket.  "I wonder if you
would consider it an impertinence if I offered you this old trinket?"
He held out the mandarin's ring.

"What a beauty!" she exclaimed.  "Of course I'll accept it.  It is very
kind of you.  I am inordinately fond of such things.  Thank you.  How
easily it slips over my finger!"

"Chinamen have very slender fingers," he explained.  "Good-by.  Those
characters say 'Good luck and prosperity.'"

No expressed desire of wishing to meet her again; just an ordinary
every-day farewell; and she liked him all the better for his apparent
lack of sentiment.

"Good-by," she said.  She winced, for his hand was rough-palmed and
strong.

A little later she saw him pass down the street.  He never turned and
looked back.

"And why," asked Martha, "did you not tell the man that we sail on the
same ship?"

"You're a simpleton, Martha."  Elsa turned the ring round and round on
her finger.  "If I had told him, he would have canceled his sailing and
taken another boat."




VII

CONFIDENCES

That night Martha wrote a letter.  During the writing of it she jumped
at every sound: a footstep in the hall, the shutting of a door, a voice
calling in the street.  And yet, Martha was guilty of performing only
what she considered to be her bounden duty.  It is the prerogative of
fate to tangle or untangle the skein of human lives; but still, there
are those who elect themselves to break the news gently, to lessen the
shock of the blow which fate is about to deliver.


"My dear Mr. Arthur:

. . . I do not know what to make of it.  His likeness to you is the
most unheard of thing.  He is a little bigger and broader and he wears
his beard longer.  That's all the difference.  When he came on the boat
that night, it was like a hand clutching at my throat.  And you know
how romantic Elsa is, for all that she believes she is prosaic.  I am
certain that she sees you in this stranger who calls himself
Warrington.  If only you had had the foresight to follow us, a sailing
or two later!  And now they'll be together for four or five days, down
to Singapore.  I don't like it.  There's something uncanny in the
thing.  What if she did forbid you to follow?  There are some promises
women like men to break.  You should have followed.

Neither of us has the slightest idea what the man has done to exile
himself in this horrible land for ten years.  He still behaves like a
gentleman, and he must have been one in the past.  But he has never yet
spoken of his home, of his past, of his people.  We don't even know
that Warrington is his name.  And you know that's a sign that something
is wrong.  I wonder if you have any relatives by the name of
Warrington?  I begin to see that man's face in my dreams.

I am worried.  For Elsa is a puzzle.  She has always been one to me.  I
have been with her since her babyhood; and yet I know as little of what
goes on in her mind as a stranger would.  Her father, you know, was a
soldier, of fierce loves and hates; her mother was a handsome statue.
Elsa has her father's scorn for convention and his independence,
clothed in her mother's impenetrable mask.  Don't mistake me.  Elsa is
the most adorable creature to me, and I worship her; but I worry about
her.  I believe that it would be wise on your part to meet us in San
Francisco.  Give my love and respect to your dear beautiful mother.
And marry Elsa as fast as ever you can."


There followed some rambling comments on the weather, the rains and the
dust, the execrable food and the lack of drinking-water.  The man who
eventually received this letter never reached that part of it.


The day of sailing was brilliant and warm.  Elsa sat in a chair on the
deck of the tender, watching the passengers as they came aboard.  A
large tourist party bustled about, rummaged among the heaps of luggage,
and shouted questions at their unhappy conductor.  They wanted to know
where their staterooms were, grumbled about the size of the boat,
prophesied typhoons and wrecks, got in everybody's way, and ordered
other people's servants about.  Never before had Elsa realized the
difficulties that beset the path of the personal conductor.  Whatever
his salary was, he was entitled to it.  It was all he got.  No one
thought to offer him a little kindness.  He was a human guide-book
which his fares opened and shut how and when they pleased.

She saw Hooghly standing in the bow.  A steamer-trunk, a kit-bag, a
bedding-bag, and the inevitable parrot-cage, reposed at his feet.  He
was watching without interest or excitement the stream passing up and
down the gangplank.  If his master came, very well; if he did not, he
would get off with the luggage.  How she would have liked to question
him regarding his master!  Elsa began to offer excuses for her interest
in Warrington.  He was the counterpart of Arthur Ellison.  He had made
his fortune against odds.  He was a mystery.  Why shouldn't he interest
her?  Her mind was not ice, nor was her heart a stone.  She pitied him,
always wondering what was back of it all.  She would be a week in
Singapore; after that their paths would widen and become lost in the
future, and she would forget all about him, save in a shadowy way.  She
would marry Arthur whether she loved him or not.  She was certain that
he loved her.  He had a comfortable income, not equal to hers, but
enough.  He was, besides, her own sort; and there wasn't any mystery
about him at all.  He was as clear to her as glass.  For nearly ten
years she had known him, since his and his mother's arrival in the
small pretty Kentuckian town.  What was the use of hunting a fancy?
Yes, she would marry Arthur.  She was almost inclined to cable him to
meet her in San Francisco.

That there was real danger in her interest in Warrington did not occur
to her.  The fact that she was now willing to marry Arthur, without
analyzing the causes that had brought her to this decision, should have
warned her that she was dimly afraid of the stranger.  Her glance fell
upon the mandarin's ring.  She twirled it round undecidedly.  Should
she wear it or put it away?  The question remained suspended.  She saw
Craig coming aboard; and she hid her face behind her magazine.  Upon
second thought she let the magazine fall.  She was quite confident that
that chapter was closed.  Craig might be a scoundrel, but he was no
fool.

A sharp blast from the tender's whistle drew her attention to the
gangplank.  The last man to come aboard was Warrington.  He appeared in
no especial hurry.  He immediately sought James; and they stood
together chatting until the tender drew up alongside the steamer of the
British-India line.  The two men shook hands finally.  There seemed to
be some argument, in which Warrington bore down the servant.  The
latter added a friendly tap on the Eurasian's shoulder.  No one would
have suspected that the white man and his dark companion had been
"shipmates," in good times and in bad, for nearly a decade.  Elsa,
watching them from her secure nook, admired the lack of effusiveness.
The dignity of the parting told her of the depth of feeling.

An hour later they were heading for the delta.  Elsa amused herself by
casting bits of bread to the gulls.  Always they caught it on the wing,
no matter in what direction she threw it.  Sometimes one would wing up
to her very hand for charity, its coral feet stretched out to meet the
quick back-play of the wings, its cry shallow and plaintive and
world-lonely.

Suddenly she became aware of a presence at her side.

A voice said: "It was not quite fair of you."

"What wasn't?" without turning her head.  She brushed her hands free of
the crumbs.

"You should have let me know that you were going to sail on this boat."

"You would have run away, then."

"Why?" startled at her insight.

"Because you are a little afraid of me."  She faced him, without a
smile either on her lips or in her eyes.  "Aren't you?"

"Yes.  I am afraid of all things I do not quite understand."

"There is not the least need in the world, Mr. Warrington.  I am quite
harmless.  My claws have been clipped.  I am engaged to be married, and
am going home to decide the day."

"He's a lucky man."  He was astonished at his calm, for the blow went
deep.

"Lucky?  That is in the future.  What a lonely thing a gull is!"

"What a lonely thing a lonely man is!" he added.  Poor fool!  To have
dreamed so fair a dream for a single moment!  He tried to believe that
he was glad that she had told him about the other man.  The least this
information could do would be to give him better control of himself.
He had not been out in the open long enough entirely to master his
feelings.

"Men ought not to be lonely," she said.  "There's the excitement of
work, of mingling with crowds, of going when and where one pleases.  A
woman is hemmed in by a thousand petty must-nots.  She can't go out
after dark; she can't play whist or billiards, or sit at a table in the
open and drink and smoke and spin yarns.  Woman's lot is wondering and
waiting at home.  When I marry I suppose that I shall learn the truth
of that."

Perhaps it was because he had been away from them so long and had lost
track of the moods of the feminine mind; but surely it could not be
possible that there was real happiness in this young woman's heart.
Its evidence was lacking in her voice, in her face, in her gestures.
He thought it over with a sigh.  It was probably one of those marriages
of convenience, money on one side and social position on the other.  He
felt sorry for the girl, sorry for the man; for it was not possible
that a girl like this one would go through life without experiencing
that flash of insanity that is called the grand passion.

He loved her.  He could lean against the rail, his shoulder lightly
touching hers, and calmly say to himself that he loved her.  He could
calmly permit her to pass out of his life as a cloud passes down the
sea-rim.  He hadn't enough, but this evil must befall him.  Love!  He
spread out his hands unconsciously.

"What does that mean?" she asked, smiling now.  "An invocation?"

"It's a sign to ward off evil," he returned.

"From whom?"

"From me."
