the council, giving them the right to choose his successor.  He himself
would remain home with the girls.  Then he gazed up at the moon and
smiled grimly.
"Hukum hai!" he murmured in Hindustani.  "It is the orders.  I've
simply got to go.  When I recall those rubies and emeralds and
pearls. . . .  Well, it's not cupidity for myself.  It's for the girls.
Besides; there's the call, the adventure.  I've simply got to go.  I
can't escape it.  I must be always on the go . . . since she died."
A few days later he stood again before the desk in the living-room.  He
was dressed for travel.  He sat down and penned a note.  From the box
which contained the order he extracted a large envelope heavily sealed.
This he balanced in his hand for a moment, frowned, laughed, and swore
softly.  He would abdicate, but at a snug profit.  Why not? . . .  He
was an old fool.  Into a still larger envelope he put the sealed
envelope and his own note, then wrote upon it.  He was blotting it as
his daughters entered.
"Come here, my pretty cubs."  He held out the envelope.  "I want you,
Kit, to open this on December thirty-first, at midnight.  Girls like
mysteries, and if you opened it any time but midnight it wouldn't be
mysterious.  Indeed, I shall probably have you both on the arms of my
chair when you open it."
"Is it about the medal?" demanded Winnie.
"By George, Kit, the child is beginning to reason out things," he
jested.
Winnie laughed, and so did Kathlyn, but she did so because occultly she
felt that her father expected her to laugh.  She was positively uncanny
sometimes in her perspicacity.
"On December thirty-first, at midnight," she repeated.  "All right,
father.  You must write to us at least once every fortnight."
"I'll cable from Singapore, from Ceylon, and write a long letter from
Allaha.  Come on.  We must be off.  Ahmed is waiting."
Some hours later the two girls saw the Pacific Mail steamer move with
cold and insolent majesty out toward the Golden Gate.  Kathlyn proved
rather uncommunicative on the way home.  December thirty-first kept
running through her mind.  It held a portent of evil.  She knew
something of the Orient, though she had never visited India.  Had her
father made an implacable enemy?  Was he going into some unknown,
unseen danger?  December thirty-first, at midnight.  Could she hold her
curiosity in check that long?
Many of the days that followed dragged, many flew--the first for
Kathlyn, the last for Winnie, who now had a beau, a young newspaper man
from San Francisco.  He came out regularly every Saturday and returned
at night.  Winnie became, if anything, more flighty than ever.  Her
father never had young men about.  The men he generally gathered round
his board were old hunters or sailors.  Kathlyn watched this budding
romance amusedly.  The young man was very nice.  But her thoughts were
always and eternally with her father.
During the last week in December there arrived at the Palace Hotel in
San Francisco an East Indian, tall, well formed, rather handsome.
Except for his brown turban he would have passed unnoticed.  For Hindus
and Japanese and Chinamen and what-nots from the southern seas were
every-day affairs.  The brown turban, however, and an enormous emerald
on one of his fingers, produced an effect quite gratifying to him.
Vanity in the Oriental is never conspicuous for its absence.  The
reporters gave him scant attention, though, for this was at a time when
the Gaikwar of Baroda was unknown.
The stranger, after two or three days of idling, casually asked the way
to the wild animal farm of his old friend, Colonel Hare.  It was easy
enough to find.  At the village inn he was treated with tolerant
contempt.  These brown fellows were forever coming and going, to and
fro, from the colonel's.
At five o'clock in the afternoon of the thirty-first day of December,
this East Indian peered cautiously into the French window of the Hare
bungalow.  The picture he saw there sent a thrill into his heart.  She
was as fair and beautiful as an houri of Sa'adi.  She sat at a desk,
holding a long white envelope in her hand.  By and by she put it away,
and he was particular to note the drawer in which she placed it.  That
the dark-haired girl at the tea tabouret was equally charming did not
stir the watcher.  Dark-haired women were plentiful in his native land.
Yonder was the girl of the photograph, the likeness of which had fired
his heart for many a day.  With the patience of the Oriental he stood
in the shadow and waited.  Sooner or later they would leave the room,
and sooner or later, with the deftness of his breed, he would enter.
The leopard he had heard about was nowhere to be seen.
"Winnie," said Kathlyn, "I dread it."
Winnie set down the teacup; her eyes were brimming.
"What can it all mean?  Not a line from father since Colombo, five
months gone."
"Do you think----"
"No, no!" replied Kathlyn hastily.  "Father sometimes forgets.  He may
be hunting miles from telegraph wires and railroads; it is only that he
should forget us so long.  Who knows?  He may have dropped down into
Borneo.  He wanted some pythons, so I heard him say."
The elder sister did not care to instil into the heart of her charge
the fear which was in her own.
"Who knows but there may be good news in the envelope?  Dad's always
doing something like that.  New Year's!"
The collie, released from the kitchen, came bounding in.  In his
exuberance he knocked over a cloisonne vase.  Both girls were glad to
welcome this diversion.  They rose simultaneously and gave chase.  The
dog headed for the outdoor studio, where they caught him and made
believe they were punishing him.
Quietly the watcher entered through the window, alert and tense.  He
flew to the desk, found the envelope, steamed it open at the kettle,
extracted the sealed envelope and Colonel Hare's note.  He smiled as he
read the letter and changed his plans completely.  He would not play
messenger; he would use a lure instead.  With his ear strained for
sounds, he wrote and substituted a note.  This houri of Sa'adi would
not pause to note the difference in writing; the vitalness of the
subject would enchain her thoughts.  It was all accomplished in the
space of a few minutes.  Smiling, he passed out into the fast settling
twilight.
They were shipping a lion to San Francisco, and the roaring and
confusion were all very satisfactory to the trespasser.
Midnight.  From afar came the mellow notes of the bells in the ancient
Spanish mission.  The old year was dead, the new year was born,
carrying with it the unchanging sound of happiness and misery, of
promises made and promises broken, of good and evil.
"The packet!" cried Winnie.
Kathlyn recognized in that call that Winnie was only a child.  All the
responsibility lay upon her shoulders.  She ripped the cover from the
packet and read the note.
"Kathlyn: If not heard from I'm held captive in Allaha.  Sealed
document can save me.  Bring it yourself to Allaha by first steamer.
"Father."
"I knew it," said Kathlyn calmly.  The fear in her heart had, as the
brown man had anticipated, blinded her to the fact that this was not
her father's characteristic blunt scrawl.
"Oh, Kit, Kit!"
"Hush, Winnie!  I must go, and go alone.  Where's the evening paper?
Ah, there it is.  Let me see what boat leaves San Francisco to-morrow.
The Empress of India, six a. m.  I must make that.  Now, you're your
father's daughter, too, Winnie.  You must stay behind and be brave and
wait.  I shall come back.  I shall find father, if I have to rouse all
India.  Now, to pack."
When they arrived at the station the passenger train had just drawn
out.  For a while Kathlyn felt beaten.  She would be compelled to wait
another week.  It was disheartening.
"Why not try the freight, then?" cried Winnie.
"You little angel!  I never thought of that!"
But the crew would not hear of it.  It was absolutely against the
company's rules.  Kathlyn could have cried.
"It isn't money, miss, it's the rules," said the conductor kindly.  "I
can't do it."
Kathlyn turned in despair toward the station.  It was then she saw the
boxed lion on the platform.  She returned to the conductor of the
freight.
"Why isn't that lion shipped?"
"We can't carry a lion without an attendant, miss.  You ought to know
that."
"Very well," replied Kathlyn.  She smiled at the conductor confidently.
"I'll travel as the lion's attendant.  You certainly can not object to
that."
"I guess you've got me," admitted the conductor.  "But where the
dickens will we put the cat?  Every car is closed and locked, and there
is not an empty."
"You can easily get the lion in the caboose.  I'll see that he doesn't
bother any one."
"Lions in the caboose is a new one on me.  Well, you know your dad's
business better than I do.  Look alive, boys, and get that angora
aboard.  This is Miss Hare herself, and she'll take charge."
"Kit, Kit!"
"Winnie!"
"Oh, I'll be brave.  I've just got to be.  But I've never been left
alone before."
The two girls embraced, and Winnie went sobbing back to the maid who
waited on the platform.
What happened in that particular caboose has long since been newspaper
history.  The crew will go on telling it till it becomes as fabulous as
one of Sindbad's yarns.  How the lion escaped, how the fearless young
woman captured it alone, unaided, may be found in the files of all
metropolitan newspapers.  Of the brown man who was found hiding in the
coat closet of the caboose nothing was said.  But the sight of him
dismayed Kathlyn as no lion could have done.  Any-dark skinned person
was now a subtle menace.  And when, later, she saw peering into the
port-hole of her stateroom, dismay became terror.
Who was this man?
CHAPTER II
THE UNWELCOME THRONE
Kathlyn sensed great loneliness when, about a month later, she arrived
at the basin in Calcutta.  A thousand or more natives were bathing
ceremoniously in the ghat--men, women and children.  It was early morn,
and they were making solemn genuflections toward the bright sun.  The
water-front swarmed with brown bodies, and great wheeled carts drawn by
sad-eyed bullocks threaded slowly through the maze.  The many white
turbans, stirring hither and thither, reminded her of a field of white
poppies in a breeze.  India!  There it lay, ready for her eager feet.
Always had she dreamed about it, and romanced over it, and sought it on
the wings of her spirit.  Yonder it lay, ancient as China, enchanting
as storied Persia.
If only she were on pleasure bent!  If only she knew some one in this
great teeming city!  She knew no one; she carried no letters of
introduction, no letters of credit, nothing but the gold and notes the
paymaster at the farm had hastily turned over to her.  Only by constant
application to maps and guide books had she managed to arrange the
short cut to the far kingdom.  She had been warned that it was a wild
and turbulent place, out of the beaten path, beyond the reach of iron
rails.  Three long sea voyages: across the Pacific (which wasn't), down
the bitter Yellow Sea, up the blue Bay of Bengal, with many a sea
change and many a strange picture.  What though her heart ached, it was
impossible that her young eyes should not absorb all she saw and marvel
over it.  India!
The strange elusive Hindu had disappeared after Hongkong.  That was a
weight off her soul.  She was now assured that her imagination had
beguiled her.  How should he know anything about her?  What was more
natural than that he should wish to hurry back to his native state?
She was not the only one in a hurry.  And there were Hindus of all
castes on all three ships.  By now she had almost forgot him.
There was one bright recollection to break the unending loneliness.
Coming down from Hongkong to Singapore she had met at the captain's
table a young man by the name of Bruce.  He was a quiet, rather
untalkative man, lean and sinewy, sun and wind bitten.  Kathlyn had as
yet had no sentimental affairs.  Absorbed in her work, her father and
the care of Winnie, such young men as she had met had scarcely
interested her.  She had only tolerated contempt for idlers, and these
young men had belonged to that category.  Bruce caught her interest in
the very fact that he had but little to say and said that crisply and
well.  There was something authoritative in the shape of his mouth and
the steadiness of his eye, though before her he never exercised this
power.  A dozen times she had been on the point of taking him into her
confidence, but the irony of fate had always firmly closed her lips.
And now, waiting for the ship to warp into its pier, she realized what
a fatal mistake her reticence had been.  A friend of her father!
Bruce had left the Lloyder before dinner (at Singapore), and as
Kathlyn's British-India coaster did not leave till morning she had
elected to remain over night on the German boat.
As Bruce disappeared among the disembarking passengers and climbed into
a rickshaw she turned to the captain, who stood beside her.
"Do you know Mr. Bruce?"
"Very well," said the German.  "Didn't he tell you who he is?  No?
Ach!  Why, Mr. Bruce is a great hunter.  He has shot everything,
written books, climbed the Himalayas.  Only last year he brought me the
sack of a musk deer, and that is the most dangerous of all sports.  He
collects animals."
Then Kathlyn knew.  The name had been vaguely familiar, but the young
man's reticence had given her no opportunity to dig into her
recollection.  Bruce!  How many times her father had spoken of him!
What a fool she had been!  Bruce knew the country she was going to,
perhaps as well as her father; and he could have simplified her journey
to the last word.  Well, what was done could not be recalled and done
over.
"My father is a great hunter, too," she said simply, eying wistfully
the road taken by Bruce into town.
"What?  Herr Gott!  Are you Colonel Hare's daughter?" exclaimed the
captain.
"Yes."
He seized her by the shoulders.  "Why did you not tell me?  Why,
Colonel Hare and I have smoked many a Burma cheroot together on these
waters.  Herr Gott!  And you never said anything!  What a woman for a
man to marry!" he laughed.  "You have sat at my table for five days,
and only now I find that you are Hare's daughter!  And you have a
sister.  Ach, yes!  He was always taking out some photographs in the
smoke-room and showing them to us old chaps."
Tears filled Kathlyn's eyes.  In an Indian prison, out of the
jurisdiction of the British Raj, and with her two small hands and
woman's mind she must free him!  Always the mysterious packet lay close
to her heart, never for a moment was it beyond the reach of her hand.
Her father's freedom!
The rusty metal sides of the ship scraped against the pier and the
gangplank was lowered; and presently the tourists flocked down with
variant emotions, to be besieged by fruit sellers, water carriers,
cabmen, blind beggars, and maimed, naked little children with curious,
insolent black eyes, women with infants straddling their hips, stolid
Chinamen; a riot of color and a bewildering babel of tongues.
Kathlyn found a presentable carriage, and with her luggage pressing
about her feet directed the driver to the Great Eastern Hotel.
Her white sola-topee (sun helmet) had scarcely disappeared in the crowd
when the Hindu of the freight caboose emerged from the steerage, no
longer in bedraggled linen trousers and ragged turban, but dressed like
a native fop.  He was in no hurry.  Leisurely he followed Kathlyn to
the hotel, then proceeded to the railway station.  He had need no
longer to watch and worry.  There was nothing left now but to greet her
upon her arrival, this golden houri from the verses of Sa'adi.  The two
weeks of durance vile among the low castes in the steerage should be
amply repaid.  In six days he would be beyond the hand of the meddling
British Raj, in his own country.  Sport!  What was more beautiful to
watch than cat play?  He was the cat, the tiger cat.  And what would
the Colonel Sahib say when he felt the claws?  Beautiful, beautiful,
like a pattern woven in an Agra rug.
Kathlyn began her journey at once.  Now that she was on land, moving
toward her father, all her vigor returned.  She felt strangely alive,
exhilarated.  She knew that she was not going to be afraid of anything
hereafter.  To enter the strange country without having her purpose
known would be the main difficulty.  Where was Ahmed all this time?
Doubtless in a cell like his master.
Three days later she stood at the frontier, and her servant set about
arguing and bargaining with the mahouts to engage elephants for the
three days' march through jungles and mountainous divides to the
capital.  Three elephants were necessary.  There were two howdah
elephants and one pack elephant, who was always lagging behind.
Through long aisles of magnificent trees they passed, across hot
blistering deserts, dotted here and there by shrubs and stunted trees,
in and out of gloomy defiles of flinty rock, over sluggish and swiftly
flowing streams.  The days were hot, but the nights were bitter cold.
Sometimes a blue miasmic haze settled down, and the dry raspy hides of
the elephants grew damp and they fretted at their chains.
Rao, the khidmutgar Kathlyn had hired in Calcutta, proved invaluable.
Without him she would never have succeeded in entering the strange
country; for these wild-eyed Mohammedan mahouts (and it is pertinent to
note that only Mohammedans are ever made mahouts, it being against the
tenets of Hinduism to kill or ride anything that kills) scowled at her
evilly.  They would have made way with her for an anna-piece.  Rao was
a Mohammedan himself, so they listened and obeyed.
All this the first day and night out.  On the following morning a
leopard crossed the trail.  Kathlyn seized her rifle and broke its
spine.  The jabbering of the mahouts would have amused her at any other
time.
"Good, Mem-sahib," whispered Rao.  "You have put fear into their
devils' hearts.  Good!  Chup!" he called.  "Stop your noise."
After that they gave Kathlyn's dog tent plenty of room.
