turn this note over to the police.  If you can't do that, then God help
us all!"  And with that he ran from the house.

Susan eyed the revolver with growing terror.  For what had she left the
peace and quiet of Miss Farlow's; assassination, robbery, thieves and
kidnapers?  She wanted to shriek, but her throat was as dry as paper.
Gingerly she touched the pistol.  The cold steel sent a thrill of fear
over her.  He hadn't told her how to shoot it!

Two blocks down the street, up an alley, was the garage wherein
Hargreave had been wont to keep his car.  Toward this Jones ran with
the speed of a track athlete.  There might be half a dozen taxicabs
about, but he would not run the risk of engaging any of them.  The
Black Hundred was capable of anticipating his every movement.

The shadow across the street stood undecided.  At length he concluded
to give Jones ten minutes in which to return.  If he did not return in
that time, the watcher would go up to the drug store and telephone for
instructions.

But Jones did not come back.

"Where's Howard?" he demanded.

"Hello, Jones; what's up?"

"Howard, get that car out at once."

"Out she comes.  Wait till I give her radiator a bucket of water.
Gee!" whispered Howard, whom Hargreave often used as his chauffeur,
"get on to his nibs!  First time I ever saw him awake.  I wonder what's
doing?  You never know what's back of those mummy-faced head
waiters....  All right, Jones!"

The chauffeur jumped into the car and Jones took the seat beside him.

"Where to?"

"Number 78..." and the rest of it trailed away, smothered in the
violent thunder of the big six's engines.

During the car's flight several policemen hailed it without success.
Down this street, up that, round this corner, fifty miles an hour; and
all the while Jones shouted: "Faster, faster!"

Within twelve minutes from the time it left the garage, the car stopped
opposite 78 Grove Street, and Jones got out.

"Wait here, Howard.  If several men come rushing out, or I don't appear
within ten minutes, fire your gun a couple of times for the police.  I
don't want them if we can manage without.  They'd only bungle."

"All right, Mr. Jones," said the chauffeur.  He had, in the past
quarter of an hour, acquired a deep and lasting respect for the butler
chap.  He was a regular fellow, for all his brass buttons.

As Jones reached the curb, Florence came forth as if on invisible
wings.  Jones caught her by the arm.  She flung him aside with a
strength he had not dreamed existed in her slim body.

"Florence, I am Jones!"

She stopped, recognized him, and without a word ran across the street
to the automobile and climbed into the tonneau.  Jones followed
immediately.

"Home!"

The car shot up the dimly lighted street, shone palely for a second
under the corner lamp, and vanished.

"Ah, child, child!" groaned the man at her side, all the tenseness gone
from his body.  He was Jones again.

Still she did not speak, but stared ahead with unseeing eyes.

No further reproach fell from the butler's lips.  It was enough that
God had guided him to her at the appointed moment.  He felt assured
that never again would she be drawn into any trap.  Poor child!  What
had they said to her, done to her?  How, in God's name, had she escaped
from them who never let anybody escape?  Presently she would become
normal, and then she would tell him.

"I found the lying note.  You dropped it."

"Horrible, horrible!" she said almost inaudibly.

"What did they do to you?"

"He said he was my father....  He put his arms around me....  And I
knew!"

"Knew what?"

"That he lied.  I can't explain."

"Don't try!"

Suddenly she laid her head against the butler's shoulder and cried.  It
was terrible to hear youth weep in this fashion.  Jones put his arm
about her and tried to console her.

"Horrible!" she murmured between the violent hiccoughs.  "I was wrong,
wrong!  Forgive me!"

Unconsciously the arm sustaining her drew her closer.

"Never mind," he consoled.  "Tell no one what has happened.  Go about
as usual.  Don't let even Susan know.  Whatever your poor father did
was for your sake.  He wanted you to be happy, without a care in the
world."

"I promise."  And gradually the sobs ceased.  "But I feel so old,
Jones, so very old.  I threw over the lamp.  I threw a chair through
the window.  They thought that it was I who had jumped out.  That gave
me the necessary time.  I don't understand how I did it.  I wasn't
frightened at all till I gained the street."

They found Susan still seated in the chair, the automatic in her lap.
She had not moved in all this time!


Braine paced the apartment of the Countess Perigoff.  From the living
room to the boudoir and back, fully twenty times.  From the divan Olga
watched him nervously.  He was like a tiger, fresh in captivity.  All
at once he paused in front of her.

"Do you realize what that mere chit did?"

"I do."

"Planned to the minute.  We had her; seven of us; doors locked, and all
that.  No weeping, no wailing; I could not understand then, but I do
now.  It's in the blood.  Hargreave was as peaceful as a St. Bernard
dog till you cornered him, and then he was a lion.  Oh, the devil!
Slipped out of our fingers like an eel.  And across the street, Jones
in a racer!  I never paid any particular attention to Jones, but from
now on I shall.  The girl may or may not know where the money is, but
Jones does, Jones does!  Two men shall watch.  Felton on the street and
Orloff from the windows of the deserted house.  With opera glasses he
will be able to take note of all that happens in the house during the
day.  He will be able to see the girl's room.  And that's the important
point.  It was a good plan, little woman; and it would have been plain
sailing if only we had remembered that the girl was Hargreave's
daughter.  Be very careful hereafter when you call on her.  A night
like this will have made her suspicious of every one.  Our hope lies
with you.  Anything on your mind?"

"Yes.  Why not insert a personal in the Herald?"  She drew some
writing paper toward her and scribbled a few words.

He read: "Florence--the hiding place is discovered.  Remove it to a
more secret spot at once.  S.H."--He laughed and shook his head.  "I'm
afraid that will never do."



"If she reads it, Jones will.  The man with the opera glasses may see
something.  There's a chance Jones might become worried."

"Well, we'll give it a chance."

It was midnight when he made his departure.  As he stepped into the
street, he glanced about cautiously.  On the corner he saw a policeman
swinging his night stick.  Otherwise the street was deserted.  Braine
proceeded jauntily down the street.

And yet, from the darkened doors of the house across the way, the
figure of a man emerged and stood contemplating the windows of the
Perigoff apartment.  Suddenly the lights went out.  The watcher made no
effort to follow Braine.  The knowledge he was after did not
necessitate any such procedure.

Of course, Florence read the "personal."  She took the newspaper at
once to Jones, who smiled grimly.

"You see, I trust you."

"And so long as you continue to trust me no harm will befall you.  You
were left in my care by your father.  I am to guard you at the expense
of my life.  Last night's affair was a miracle.  The next time you will
not find it so easy to escape."

Nor did she.

"There will be no next time," gravely.  "But I am going to ask you a
direct question.  Is my father alive?"

The butler's brow puckered.  "I have promised to say nothing, one way
or the other."

She laughed.

"Why do you laugh?"

"I laugh because if he were dead there would be no earthly reason for
your not saying so at once.  But I hate money, the name of it, the
sound of it, the sight of it.  It is at the bottom of all wars and
crimes.  I despise it!"

"The root of all evil.  Yet it performs many noble deeds.  But never
mind the money.  Let us give our attention to this personal.  Doubtless
it originated in the same mind which conceived the letter.  Your father
would never have inserted such a personal.  What!  Give his enemies a
chance to learn his secret?  No.  On the other hand, I want you to show
this personal to all you meet to-day, Susan, the reporter, to
everybody.  Talk about it.  Say that you wonder what you shall do.
Trust no one with your real thoughts."

"Not even you, Mr. Jones," thought the girl as she nodded.

"And tell them that you showed it to me and that I appeared worried."

That night there was a meeting of the organization called the Black
Hundred.  Braine asked if any one knew what the Hargreave butler looked
like.



"I had a glimpse of him the other night; but being unprepared, I might
not recognize him again."

Vroon described Jones minutely.  Braine could almost see the portrait.

"Vroon, that memory of yours is worth a lot of money," was his only
comment.

"I hope it will be worth more soon."

"I believe I'll be able to recognize Mr. Jones if I see him.  Who is he
and what is he?"

"He has been with Hargreave for fourteen years.  There was a homicidal
case in which Jones was active.  Hargreave saved him.  He is faithful
and uncommunicative.  Money will not touch him.  If he does know where
that million is, hot irons could not make him own up to it.  The only
way is to watch him, follow him, wait for the moment when he'll grow
careless.  No man is always on his mettle; he lets up sooner or later."

"He is being watched, as you know."

Vroon nodded approvingly.  "The captain of the tramp steamer Orient,
by the way, was seen with a roll of money.  He was in one of the
water-front saloons, bragging how he had hoodwinked some one."

"Did he say where he'd got the cash?" asked Braine.

"They tried to pump him on that, but he shut up.  Well, we have agreed
that Felton shall watch from the street and Orloff from the window.
Orloff will whistle if he sees Jones removing anything from any of the
rooms.  The rest will be left to Felton."

"And, Felton, my friend," said Braine softly--he always spoke softly
when he was in a deadly humor--"Felton, you slept on duty the other
night.  Hargreave stole up, consulted Jones, and got away after
knocking me down.  The next failure will mean short shift.  Be warned!"

"I saw only you, sir.  So help me.  I was not asleep.  I saw you run
down the street after the taxicab.  I did not see any one else."

Braine shrugged.  "Remember what I said."

Felton bowed respectfully and made his exit.  He wished in his soul
that he might some day catch the master mind free of his eternal mask.
It was an iron hand which ruled them and there were friends of his
(Felton's) who had mysteriously vanished after a brief period of
rebellion.  The boss was a swell; probably belonged to clubs and
society which he adroitly pilfered.  The organization always had money.
Whenever there was a desperate job to be undertaken, Vroon simply
poured out the money necessary to promote it.  Whenever Braine and
Vroon became engaged in earnest conversation they talked Slav.  Braine
was never called by name here; the boss, simply that.

Well, ten per cent. of a million was a hundred thousand.  This would be
equally divided between the second ten of the Black Hundred.  Another
ten per cent. would go to eighty members; the balance would be divided
between Vroon and the boss.  But his soul rebelled at being ordered
about like so much dirt under another man's feet.  He would take his
ten thousand and make the grand getaway.

The next afternoon the countess called upon Florence.  Nothing was said
about the adventure, and this fact created a vague unrest in the
scheming woman's mind.  She realized that she must play her cards more
carefully than ever.  Not the least distrust must be permitted to enter
the child's head.  Once that happened good-by to the wonderful
emeralds.  Was it that she really craved the stone?  Was it not rather
a venom acquired from the knowledge that this child's mother had won
what she herself, with all her cleverness, was not sure of--Braine's
love?  Did he really care for her or was she only the cats-paw to pluck
his hot chestnuts from the fire?

When Florence showed her the "personal," her vague doubts became
instantly dissipated.  The child would not have shown her the newspaper
had there been any distrust on her part.

"My child, your father is alive, then?" animatedly.

"We don't know," sadly.

"Why, I should say that this proves it."
