salient. I allow our people an hour." 

"Yes." 

"But if, even now, you had rather go 
back -- " 



"There is no disgrace in going back." 
"You said once, anybody can weep for 
friend and country. Few avenge either. I 
am happy to be among the few." 
He nodded. After a moment he said: 
"I'll bet you something. My country is all 









right, but it's sick. It's got a nauseous dose 
of verbiage to spew up something it's swal 
lowed something about being too proud to 
fight. . . . My brother and I couldn't stand 
it, so we came to France. . . . He was in the 
photo air service. He was in mufti and 
about two miles up, I believe. Six Huns went 
for him. . . . And winged him. He had to 
land behind their lines. ... In mufti. . . . 
"Well I've never found courage to hear the 
details. I can't stand them yet." 

"Your brother is dead, monsieur?" she 
asked timidly. 

"Oh, yes. "With circumstances. "Well, then 
after that, from an ordinary, commonplace 
man I became a machine for the extermination 
of vermin. That's all I am an animated maga 
zine of Persian powder or I do it in any 
handy way. It's not a sporting proposition, 
you see, just get rid of them any old way. 
You don't understand, do you?" 

"A little." 

"But it's slow work slow work," he mut 
tered vaguely, " and the world is crawling 
crawling with them. But if God guides my 





 



bomb this time and if I hit one of their gas 
cylinders that ought to be worth while." 

In the starlight his features became tense 
and terrible; she shivered in her threadbare 
jacket. 

After a few moments silence he went away 
up the steps to put on his German uniform. 
When he descended again she had a troubled 
question for him to answer: 

"But how shall you account for me, a French 
girl, monsieur, if they come to the belfry f" 

A heavy flush darkened his face: 

"Little mistress of the bells, I shall pretend 
to be what the Huns are. Do you know how 
they treat French women?" 

"I have heard," she said faintly. 

"Then if they come and find you here as 
my prisoner they will think they under 
stand." 

The colour flamed in her face and she bowed 
it, resting her elbows on the keyboard. 

"Come," he said, "don't be distressed. Does 
it matter what a Hun thinks? Come; let's 
be cheerful. Can you hum for me La Bra- 
bangonne ?" 









She did not reply. 

"Well, never mind," he said. "But it's a 
grand battle anthem. . . . We Americans have 
one. . . . It's out of fashion. And after all, 
I had rather hear La Brabangonne when the 
time comes. . . . What a terrible admission! 
But what Americans have done to my country 
is far more terrible. The nation's sick sick! 
... I prefer La Brabangonne for the time 
being." 

The Prussians entered Nivelle a little be 
fore dawn. The airman had been watching 
the street below. Down there in the slight 
glow from the cinders of what once had been 
a cottage a cat had been squatting, staring 
at the bed of coals, as though she were once 
more installed upon the family hearthstone. 

Then something unseen as yet by the air 
man attracted the animal's attention. Alert, 
crouching, she stared down the vista of dark, 
deserted houses, then turned and fled like a 
ghost. 

For a long while the airman perceived 
nothing. Suddenly close to the house facades 





 



on either side of the street, shadowy forms 
came gliding forward. 

They passed the glowing embers and went 
on toward Sainte-Lesse ; jagers, with knap 
sacks on back and rifles trailing; and on their 
heads oddly shaped pot helmets with battered 
looking visors. 

One or two motorcyclists followed, whiz 
zing through the desolate street and into the 
country beyond. 

After a few minutes, out of the throat of 
the darkness emerged a solid column of infan 
try. In a moment, beneath the bell tower, the 
ground was swarming with Huns; every inch 
of the earth became infested with them ; fields, 
hedges, alleys crawled alive with Germans. 
They overran every road, every street, every 
inch of open country; their wagons choked the 
main thoroughfare, they were already estab 
lishing themselves in the redoubt below, in the 
trench, running in and out of dugouts and all 
over scarp, counter-scarp, parades and para 
pet, ant-like in energy, busy with machine gun, 
trench mortar, installing telephones, search 
lights, periscopes, machine guns. 









Automobiles arrived two armoured cars 
and grey passenger machines in which there 
were officers. 

The airman laid his hand on Maryette's arm. 

"Little bell-mistress," he said, "German offi 
cers are coming into the tower. I want them 
to find you in my arms when they come up 
into this belfry. Understand me, and forgive 
me." 

"I understand," she whispered. 

"Play your part bravely. "Will you?" 

"Yes." 

He put his arms around her; they stood 
rigid, listening. 

"Now!" he whispered, and drew her close, 
kissing her. 

Spurred boots clattered on the stone floor: 

"Herr Je!" exclaimed an astonished voice. 
Somebody laughed. But the airman coolly 
pushed the girl aside, and as the faint grey 
light of dawn fell on his field uniform bearing 
the ribbon of the iron cross, two pairs of 
spurred heels hastily clinked together and two 
hands flew to the oddly shaped helmet visors. 

"Also!" exclaimed the airman in a mincing 





Berlin accent. "When I require a corps of 
observers I usually send my aide. That being 
now quite perfectly understood, you gentlemen 
will give yourselves the trouble to descend 
as you have come. Further, you will place a 
sentry at the tower door, and inform enquirers 
that General Count von Gierdorff and his 
staff are occupying the Nivelle belfry for pur 
poses of observation." 

The astounded officers saluted steadily; and 
if they imagined that the mythical staff of this 
general officer was clustered aloft somewhere 
up there where the bells hung it was impossi 
ble to tell by the strained expressions on their 
wooden countenances. 

However, it was evidently perfectly plain 
to them what the high Excellent was about in 
this vaulted room where wires led aloft to 
an unseen carillon on the landing in the bel 
fry above. 

The airman nodded; they went. And when 
their clattering steps echoed far below on the 
spiral stone stairs, the airman motioned to 
the little bell-mistress. She followed him up 
the short flight to where the bells hung. 









"We're in for it now," he said. "If High 
Command conies into this place to investigate 
then I shall have to hold those stairs. . . . 
It's growing quite light in the east. Which 
way is the wind?" 

"North," she said in a steady voice. She 
was terribly pale. 

He went to the parapet and looked over, 
half wondering, perhaps, whether he would 
receive a rifle shot through the head. 

Far below at the foot of the bell-tower 
the dimly discerned Nivelle redoubt, swarming 
with men, was being armed; and, to the south, 
wired he thought, but could not see dis 
tinctly. 

Then, as the dusk of early dawn grew 
greyer, the first rifle shots rattled out in 
the west. The French salient was saluting 
the wire-stringers. 

Back under shelter they tumbled; whistles 
sounded distantly; a trench mortar crashed; 
then the accentless tattoo of machine guns 
broke from every emplacement. 

"The east is turning a little yellow," he said 
calmly. "I believe this matter is going through. 





Toss some dust into the air. Which way?" 

"North," said the girl. 

"Good. I think they're placing their cylin 
ders. I think I can see them laying their coils. 
I'm certain of it. What luck!" 

