effect; and I am sure that no one got harm from a sincerity of
conviction that devoted itself to the highest interests of the reader,
that appealed to nothing base, and flattered nothing foolish in him. It
went from our home to the homes of the people in a very literal sense,
for my father usually brought his exchanges from the office at the end
of his day there, and made his selections or wrote his editorials while
the household work went on him, about and his children gathered around
the same lamp, with their books or their jokes; there were a good many
of both.

Our county was the most characteristic of that remarkable group of
counties in northern Ohio called the Western Reserve, and forty years
ago the population was almost purely New England in origin, either by
direct settlement from Connecticut, or indirectly after the sojourn of a
generation in New York State. We were ourselves from southern Ohio,
where the life was then strongly tinged by the adjoining life of
Kentucky and Virginia, and we found these transplanted Yankees cold and
blunt in their manners; but we did not undervalue their virtues. They
were very radical in every way, and hospitable to novelty of all kinds.
I imagine that they tested more new religions and new patents than have
been even heard of in less inquiring communities. When we came among
them they had lately been swept by the fires of spiritualism, which left
behind a great deal of smoke and ashes where the inherited New England
orthodoxy had been. They were temperate, hard-working, hard-thinking
folks, who dwelt on their scattered farms, and came up to the county
fair once a year, when they were apt to visit the printing-office and
pay for their papers. They thought it droll, as people of the simpler
occupations are apt to think all the more complex arts; and one of them
once went so far in expression of his humorous conception as to say,
after a long stare at one of the compositors dodging and pecking at the
type in his case, "Like an old hen pickin' up millet." This sort of
silence, and this sort of comment, both exasperated the printers, who
took their revenge as they could. They fed it full, once, when a country
subscriber's horse, hitched before the office, crossed his hind legs
and sat down in his harness like a tired man, and they proposed to go
out and offer him a chair, to take him a glass of water, and ask him to
come inside. Fate did not often give them such innings; they mostly had
to create their chances of reprisal, but they did not mind that.

There was always a good deal of talk going on, but, although we were
very ardent politicians, our talk was not political. When it was not
mere banter, it was mostly literary; we disputed about authors among
ourselves and with the village wits who dropped in, and liked to stand
with their backs to our stove and challenge opinion concerning Holmes
and Poe, Irving and Macaulay, Pope and Byron, Dickens and Shakespeare.
But it was Shakespeare who was oftenest on our tongues; indeed, the
printing-office of former days had so much affinity with the theater
that compositors and comedians were almost convertible. Religion entered
a good deal into our discussions, which my father, the most tolerant of
men, would not suffer to become irreverent. Part of his duty, as
publisher of the paper, was to bear patiently with the type of farmer
who thought he wished to discontinue his paper, and really wished to be
talked into continuing it. I think he rather enjoyed letting such a
subscriber talk himself out, and carrying him from point to point in his
argument, always consenting that he knew best what he wanted to do, but
skilfully persuading him at last that a home paper was more suited to
his needs than any city substitute. Once I could have given the heads of
his reasoning, but they are gone from me now.

He was like all country editors then, and I dare say now, in being a
printer as well as an editor, and he took a just share in the mechanical
labors. These were formerly much more burdensome, for twice or thrice
the present type-setting was then done in the country offices. In that
time we had three journeymen at work and two or three girl-compositors,
and commonly a boy-apprentice besides. The paper was richer in a
personal quality, and the printing-office was unquestionably more of a
school. After we began to take girl-apprentices it became coeducative,
as far as they cared to profit by it; but I think it did not serve to
widen their thoughts or quicken their wits as it did those of the boys.
They looked to their craft as a living, not as a life, and they had no
pride in it. They did not learn the whole trade, as the journeymen had
done; but served only such apprenticeship as fitted them to set type;
and their earnings were usually as great at the end of a month as at the
end of a year.


VII

The printing-office had been my school from childhood so largely that I
could almost say I had no other, but the time had come, even before
this, when its opportunities did not satisfy the hunger which was always
in me for knowledge convertible into such beauty as I imagined and
wished to devote my life to. I was willing and glad to do my part in
helping my father, but he recognized my right to help myself forward in
the line of my own longing, and it was early arranged that I should have
a certain measure of work to do, and when it was done I should be free
for the day. My task was finished early in the afternoon, and then my
consuming pleasures began when I had already done a man's work. I was
studying four or five languages, blindly and blunderingly enough, but
with a confidence at which I can even now hardly smile; I was attempting
many things in verse and prose which I seldom carried to a definite
close, and I was reading, reading, reading, right and left, hither and
yon, wherever an author tempted me. I was not meaning to do less than
the greatest things, or to know less than the most, but my criticism
outran my performance and exacted of me an endeavor for the perfection
which I found forever beyond me. Far into the night I clung to my
labored failures in rhyme while I listened for the ticking of the
death-watch in the walls of my little study; or if I had imagined, in my
imitations of others' fiction, some character that the poet had devoted
to an early death, I helplessly identified myself with that character,
and expected his fate. It was the day when this world was much more
intimate with the other world than it is now, and the spiritualism which
had evoked its phenomena through most houses in the village had left
them haunted by dread sounds, if not sights; but it was not yet the day
when nervous prostration had got its name or was known in its nature.
For me this malady came in the hypochondria which was misery not less
real because at the end of the ends I knew it to be the exaggeration of
an apprehension without ground in reality.

I have hesitated to make any record of this episode, but I think it
essential to the study of my very morbid boyhood, and I hope some
knowledge of it may be helpful to others in like suffering. Somehow as a
child I had always had a terror of hydrophobia, perhaps from hearing
talk of that poor man who had died of it in the town where we then
lived, and when years afterward I was, as I have told, bitten by a dog,
my terror was the greater because I happened to find myself alone in the
house when I ran home. I had heard of excising a snake-bite to keep the
venom from spreading, and I would now have cut out the place with my
knife, if I had known how. In the end I did nothing, and when my father
came home he did not have the wound cauterized. He may have believed
that anything which tended to fix my mind upon it would be bad, and
perhaps I forgot it the sooner for his decision. I have not forgotten
the make of the gloomy autumnal afternoon when the thing happened, or
the moment when years afterward certain unguarded words awoke the fear
in me which as many more years were needed to allay. By some chance
there was talk with our village doctor about hydrophobia, and the
capricious way the poison of a dog's bite may work. "Works round in your
system," he said, "for seven years or more, and then it breaks out and
kills you." The words he let heedlessly fall fell into a mind prepared
by ill-health for their deadly potency, and when the summer heat came I
was helpless under it. Somehow I knew what the symptoms of the malady
were, and I began to force it upon myself by watching for them. The
splash of water anywhere was a sound I had to set my teeth against, lest
the dreaded spasms should seize me; my fancy turned the scent of the
forest fires burning round the village into the subjective odor of smoke
which stifles the victim. I had no release from my obsession, except in
the dreamless sleep which I fell into exhausted at night, or that little
instant of waking in the morning, when I had not yet had time to gather
my terrors about me, or to begin the frenzied stress of my effort to
experience the thing I dreaded. There was no longer question of work for
me, with hand or head. I could read, yes, but with the double
consciousness in which my fear haunted every line and word without
barring the sense from my perception. I read many novels, where the
strong plot befriended me and formed a partial refuge, but I did not
attempt escape in the poor boyish inventions, verse or prose, which I
had fondly trusted might be literature. Instinct taught me that some
sort of bodily fatigue was my safety; I spent the horrible days in the
woods with a gun, or in the fields gathering wild berries, and walked
to and from the distant places that I might tire myself the more. My
father reasoned to the same effect for me, and helped me as best he
could; of course I was released from my tasks in the printing-office,
and he took me with him in driving about the country on political and
business errands. We could not have spent many days in this way, when,
as it seems, I woke one morning in a sort of crisis, and having put my
fear to the test of water suddenly dashed from a doorway beside me and
failed of the convulsion which I was always expecting, I began
imperceptibly to get the better of my demon. My father's talk always
distracted me somewhat, and that morning especially his disgust with the
beefsteak fried in lard which the landlady gave us for breakfast at the
country tavern where we had passed the night must even have amused me,
as a touch of the comedy blent with the tragedy in the Shakespearian
drama of life. But no doubt a more real help was his recurrence, as
often as I chose, to his own youthful suffering from hypochondria, and
his constantly repeated assurance that I not only would not and could
not have hydrophobia from that out-dated dog-bite, but that I must also
soon cease to have hypochondria. I understood as well as he that it was
not the fear of that malady which I was suffering, but the fear of the
fear; that I was in no hallucination, no illusion as to the facts, but
was helpless in the nervous prostration which science, or our poor
village medicine, was yet many years from knowing or imagining. I have
heard and read that sometimes people in their apprehension of the
reality can bring on a false hydrophobia and die of it in the agonies
their fancy creates. It may be so; but all that fear could do was done
in me; and I did not die.

I could not absolutely fix the moment when I began to find my way out of
the cloud of misery which lowered on my life, but I think that it was
when I had gathered a little strength in my forced respite from work,
and from the passing of the summer heat. It was as if the frost which
people used to think put an end to the poisonous miasm of the swamps,
but really only killed the insect sources of the malaria, had wrought a
like sanitation in my fancy. My fear when it once lifted never quite
overwhelmed me again, but it was years before I could endure the sight
of the word which embodied it; I shut the book or threw from me the
paper where I found it in print; and even now, after sixty years, I
cannot bring myself to write it or speak it without some such shutting
of the heart as I knew at the sight or sound of it in that dreadful
time. The effect went deeper than I could say without accusing myself of
exaggeration for both good and evil. In self-defense I learnt to
practise a psychological juggle; I came to deal with my own state of
mind as another would deal with it, and to combat my fears as if they
were alien.

I cannot leave this confession without the further confession that
though I am always openly afraid of dogs, secretly I am always fond of
them; and it is only fair to add that they reciprocate my liking with
even exaggerated affection. Dogs, especially of any more ferocious type,
make up to me in spite of my diffidence; and at a hotel where we were
once passing the summer the landlord's bulldog, ugliest and dreadest of
his tribe, used to divine my intention of a drive and climb into my
buggy, where he couched himself on my feet, with a confidence in my
reciprocal tenderness which I was anxious not to dispel by the least
movement.


VIII

As soon as my nerves regained something of their former tone, I renewed
my struggle with those alien languages, using such weapons as I could
fit my hand to. Notably there was a most comprehensive manual which,
because it proposed instruction in so many languages, I called (from my
father's invention or my own, for I had early learnt the trick of his
drolling) a sixteen-bladed grammar. I wish now I could see that book,
which did not include Greek or Hebrew or German, but abounded in
examples of Latin, Italian, French, Spanish and probably Portuguese, and
other tongues of that kinship, with literal versions of the texts. These
versions falsified the native order of the words to the end that the
English of them might proceed in the wonted way, and when I detected the
imposition, I was the more offended because the right order of the words
in those idioms was always perplexing me. The sixteen-bladed grammar was
superseded by the ordinary school-books, Arnold's for Latin, and
Anthon's for Greek, but the perplexities of one sort or other persisted.
Such a very little instruction would have enlightened me; but who was to
give it me? My father, perhaps, but he may not have known how, though in
his own youth he had written an English grammar and more or less taught
it, or he may have thought I would find it out for myself. He would have
temperamentally trusted to that; he was always prouder than I of what I
did unaided; he believed I could do everything without help. That was an
error, but more than I ever could say do I owe to his taste in
literature and the constant guidance up to a certain limit which he gave
me. When I came back from the fields and woods with the sense of their
beauty, and eager to turn it into literature, he guarded me against
translating it in the terms of my English poets, with their larks and
nightingales, their daisies and cowslips. He contended that our own
birds and flowers were quite as good, besides being genuine; but he
taught me to love the earlier English classics; and if I began to love
the later classics, both English and American, and to be his guide in
turn, this is only saying that each one is born of his generation. The
time came early in our companionship when he thought fit to tell me that
he regarded me as different from other boys of my age; and I had a very
great and sweet happiness without alloy of vanity, from his serious and
considered words. He did not say that he expected great things of me;
though I had to check his fondness in offering my poor endeavors for the
recognition of print, and I soon had the support of editors in this. But
he justified himself and convinced me by once bringing to our house a
kindly editor from a neighboring city whom he showed some of my things,
and who carried away with him one of the minutely realistic sketches in
which I had begun to practise such art as I have been able to carry
farthest. When week after week the handsomely printed Ohio Farmer came
with something in it, verse or prose, which I had done, I am not sure I
had greater joy in it than my father, though now he thought it well to
hide his joy as I always did mine.

All the while I was doing sketches and studies and poems for our own
paper, which I put into type without first writing them, and short
stories imitated from some favorite author of the moment with an art
which I imagined must conceal itself from the reader. Once I carried
Shakespeare beyond himself in a scene transferred from one of the
histories, with such comedy characters as Pistol and Bardolph speaking
the interchangeable prose and verse of his plays in adapting themselves
to some local theme, which met with applause from the group of
middle-aged cronies whom I most consorted with at the time. Once, also.
I attempted a serial romance which, after a succession of several
numbers, faltered and at last would not go on. I have told in another
place how I had to force it to a tragic close without mercy for the
heroine, hurried to an untimely death as the only means of getting her
out of the way, and I will not repeat the miserable details here. It was
a thing which could not meet with praise from any one, not even my
father, though he did his best to comfort me in the strange disaster.

If my mother was the heart, he was the soul of our family life. In those
young days when he did so much of his newspaper work at home he would
always turn from it to take part in our evening jollity. He was gladly
our equal in the jokes which followed around our table; and when he was
stricken in his great age with the paralysis which he rallied from for a
time, it was his joy to join his gray-haired children at the board in
his wheeled chair and share in their laughing and making laugh. It seems
to me that I can render him intelligible by saying that while my very
religious-minded grandfather expected and humbly if fervently hoped to
reach a heaven beyond this world by means of prayers and hymns and
revivals and conversions, my not less religious-minded father lived for
a heaven on earth in his beloved and loving home; a heaven of poetry and
humor, and good-will and right thinking. He made it that sort of heaven
for himself, and as he was the bravest man I have known because he never
believed there was any danger, I think he must have felt himself as safe
from sorrow in it as if he were in the world beyond this. When one of my
younger brothers died, he was as if astonished that such a thing could
be; it burst his innocent and beautiful dream; and afterward when I
first met him, I was aware of his clinging, a broken man, to what was
left of it. Death struck again and again, and he shrank under the
bewildering blows; but a sense of that inexpressible pathos of his
first bereavement remains with me.


IX

The family scene that passed in that earlier time was not always as
idyllic as I have painted it. With five brothers in it there was often
the strife which is always openly or covertly between brothers. My elder
brother, who was four years my elder, had changed from the whimsical
