embarrassment and disapproval, made no sign, she added peremptorily,
"Come here, my dear."

Lydia came. It was true that Madame Beattie had attained to privilege
through courts and high estate. When she herself had ruled by the
prerogative of a perfect throat and a mind attuned to it, she had
imbibed a sense of power which was still dividend-paying even now,
though the throat was dead to melody. When she really asked you to do
anything, you did it, that was all. She seldom asked now, because her
attitude was all careless tolerance, keen to the main chance but lax in
exacting smaller tribute, as one having had such greater toll. But
Lydia's wilful hesitation awakened her to some slight curiosity, and she
bade her the more commandingly. Lydia was standing before her, red,
unwillingly civil, and Madame Beattie reached forward and took one of
her little plump work-roughened hands, held it for a moment, as if in
guarantee of kindliness, and then dropped it.

"Now," said she, "who are you?"

Jeffrey, seeing Lydia so put about, answered for her again, but this
time in terms of a warmth which astonished him as it did Lydia.

"She is my sister Lydia."

Madame Beattie looked at him in a frank perplexity.

"Now," said she, "what do you mean by that? No, no, my dear, don't go."
Lydia had turned by the slightest movement. "You haven't any sisters,
Jeff. Oh, I remember. It was that romantic marriage." Lydia turned back
now and looked straight at her, as if to imply if there were any
qualifying of the marriage she had a word to say. "Wasn't there another
child?" Madame Beattie continued, still to Jeff.

"Anne is in the house," said he.

He had placed a chair for Lydia, with a kindly solicitude, seeing how
uncomfortable she was; but Lydia took no notice. Now she straightened
slightly, and put her pretty head up. She looked again as she did when
the music was about to begin, and her little feet, though they kept
their decorous calm, were really beating time.

"Well, you're a pretty girl," said Madame Beattie, dropping her lorgnon.
She had lifted it for a stare and taken in the whole rebellious figure.
"Esther didn't tell me you were pretty. You know Esther, don't you?"

"No," said Lydia, in a wilful stubbornness; "I don't know her."

"You've seen her, haven't you?"

"Yes, I've seen her."

"You don't like her then?" said Madame astutely. "What's the matter with
her?"

Something gave way in Lydia. The pressure of feeling was too great and
candour seethed over the top.

"She's a horrid woman."

Or was it because some inner watchman on the tower told her Jeff himself
had better hear again what one person thought of Esther? Madame Beattie
threw back her plumed head and laughed, the same laugh she had used to
annotate the stories. Lydia immediately hated herself for having
challenged it. Jeffrey, she knew, was faintly smiling, though she could
not guess his inner commentary:

"What a little devil!"

Madame Beattie now turned to him.

"Same old story, isn't it?" she stated. "Every woman of woman born is
bound to hate her."

"Yes," said Jeff.

Lydia walked away, expecting, as she went, to be called back and
resolving that no inherent power in the voice of aged hatefulness should
force her. But Madame Beattie, having placed her, had forgotten all
about her. She rose, and brushed the ashes from her velvet curves.

"Come," she was saying to Jeffrey, "walk along with me."

He obediently picked up his hat.

"I sha'n't go home with you," said he, "if that's what you mean."

She took his arm and convoyed him down the steps, leaning wearily. She
had long ago ceased to exercise happy control over useful muscles. They
even creaked in her ears and did strange things when she made requests
of them.

"You understand," said Jeffrey, when they were pursuing a slow way along
the street, he with a chafed sense of ridiculous captivity. "I sha'n't
go into the house. I won't even go to the door."

"Stuff!" said the lady. "You needn't tell me you don't want to see
Esther."

Jeff didn't tell her that. He didn't tell her anything. He stolidly
guided her along.

"There isn't a man born that wouldn't want to see Esther if he'd seen
her once," said Madame Beattie.

But this he neither combated nor confirmed, and at the corner nearest
Esther's house he stopped, lifted the hand from his arm and placed it in
a stiff rigour at her waist. He then took off his hat, prepared to stand
while she went on. And Madame Beattie laughed.

"You're a brute," said she pleasantly, "a dear, sweet brute. Well,
you'll come to it. I shall tell Esther you love her so much you hate
her, and she'll send out spies after you. Good-bye. If you don't come,
I'll come again."

Jeffrey made no answer. He watched her retreating figure until it turned
in at the gate, and then he wheeled abruptly and went back. An instinct
of flight was on him. Here in the open street he longed for walls, only
perhaps because he knew how well everybody wished him and their kindness
he could not meet.

Madame Beattie found Esther at the door, waiting. She was an excited
Esther, bright-eyed, short of breath.

"Where have you been?" she demanded.

Madame Beattie took off her hat and stabbed the pin through it. Her
toupée, deranged by the act, perceptibly slid, but though she knew it by
the feel, that eccentricity did not, in the company of a mere niece,
trouble her at all. She sank into a chair and laid her hat on the
neighbouring stand.

"Where have you been?" repeated Esther, a pulse of something like anger
beating through the words.

Madame Beattie answered idly: "Up to see Jeff."

"I knew it!" Esther breathed.

"Of course," said Madame Beattie carelessly. "Jeff and I were quite
friends in old times. I was glad I went. It cheered him up."

"Did he--" Esther paused.

"Ask for you?" supplied Madame Beattie pleasantly. "Not a word."

Here Esther's curiosity did whip her on. She had to ask:

"How does he look?"

"Oh, youngish," said Madame. "Rather flabby. Obstinate. Ugly, too."

"Ugly? Plain, do you mean?"

"No. American for ugly--obstinate, sore-headed. He's hardened. He was
rather a silly boy, I remember. Had enthusiasms. Much in love. He isn't
now. He's no use for women."

Esther looked at her in an arrested thoughtfulness. Madame Beattie could
have laughed. She had delivered the challenge Jeff had not sent, and
Esther was accepting it, wherever it might lead, to whatever duelling
ground. Esther couldn't help that. A challenge was a challenge. She had
to answer. It was a necessity of type. Madame Beattie saw the least
little flickering thought run into her eyes, and knew she was
involuntarily charting the means of summons, setting up the loom, as it
were, to weave the magic web. She got up, took her hat, gave her toupée
a little smack with the hand, and unhinged it worse than ever.

"You'll have to give him up," she said.

"Give him up!" flamed Esther. "Do you think I want--"

There she paused and Madame Beattie supplied temperately:

"No matter what you want. You couldn't have him."

Then she went toiling upstairs, her chained ornaments clinking, and only
when she had shut the door upon herself did she relax and smile over the
simplicity of even a feminine creature so versed in obliquity as
Esther. For Esther might want to escape the man who had brought disgrace
upon her, but her flying feet would do her no good, so long as the
mainspring of her life set her heart beating irrationally for conquest.
Esther had to conquer even when the event would bring disaster: like a
chieftain who would enlarge his boundaries at the risk of taking in
savages bound to sow the dragon's teeth.




IX


That evening the Blake house had the sound and look of social life,
voices in conversational interchange and lights where Mary Nellen
excitedly arrayed them. Alston Choate had come to call, and following
him appeared an elderly lady whom Jeffrey greeted with more outward
warmth than he had even shown his father. Alston Choate had walked in
with a simple directness as though he were there daily, and Anne
impulsively went forward to him. She felt she knew him very well. They
were quite friends. Alston, smiling at her and taking her hand on the
way to the colonel and Jeff, seemed to recognise that, and greeted her
less formally than the others. The colonel was moved at seeing him. The
Choates were among the best of local lineage, men and women
distinguished by clear rigidities of conduct. Their friendship was a
promissory note, bound to be honoured to the full. Lydia was for some
reason abashed, and Jeff, both she and Anne thought, not adequately
welcoming. But how could he be, Anne considered. He was in a position of
unique loneliness. He lacked fellowship. Nobody but Alston, in their
stratum at least, had come in person. No wonder he looked warily, lest
he assume too much.

Before they settled down, the elderly lady, with a thud of feet softly
shod, walked through the hall and stood at the library door regarding
them benignantly. And then Jeff, with an outspoken sound of pleasure and
surprise, got up and drew her in, and Choate smiled upon her as if she
were delightfully unlike anybody else. The colonel, with a quick, moved
look, just said her name:

"Amabel!"

She gave warm, quick grasps from a firm hand, gave them all round, not
seeming to know she hadn't met Anne and Lydia, and at once took off her
bonnet. It had strings and altogether belonged to an epoch at least
twenty years away. The bonnet she "laid aside" on a table with a certain
absent care, as ladies were accustomed to treat bonnets before they got
into the way of jabbing them with pins. Then she sat down, earnestly
solicitous and attentive as at a consultation. Anne thought she was the
most beautiful person she had ever seen. It was a pity Miss Amabel
Bracebridge could not have known that impetuous verdict. It would have
brought her a surprised, spontaneous laugh: nothing could have convinced
her it was not delicious foolery. She was tall and broad and heavy. When
she stood in the doorway, she seemed to fill it. Now that she sat in the
chair, she filled that, a soft, stout woman with great shoulders and a
benign face, a troubled face, as if she were used to soothing ills, yet
found for them no adequate recompense. Her dark grey dress was buttoned
in front, after the fashion of a time long past. It was so archaic in
cut, with a little ruffle at neck and sleeves, that it did more than
adequate service toward maturing her. Indeed, there was no youth about
Miss Amabel, except the youth of her eyes and smile. There were
childlike wistfulness and hope, but experience chiefly, of life, of the
unaccounted for, the unaccountable. She had, above all, an expression of
well-wishing. Now she sat and looked about her.

"Dear me!" she said, "how pleasant it is to see this house open again."

"But it's been open," Lydia impulsively reminded her.

"Yes," said Miss Amabel. "But not this way." She turned to Jeff and
regarded him anxiously. "Don't you smoke?" she asked.

He laughed again. He was exceedingly pleased, Anne saw, merely at seeing
her. Miss Amabel was exactly as he remembered her.

"Yes," said he. "Want us to?"

She put up her long eyebrows and smiled as if in some amusement at
herself.

"I've learned lately," she said, "that gentlemen are so devoted to it
they feel lost without it."

"Light up, Choate," said Jeffrey. "My sisters won't mind. Will you?" He
interrogated Anne. "They get along with me."

No, Anne didn't mind, and she rose and brought matches and little trays.
Lydia often wondered how Anne knew the exact pattern of man's
convenience. But though Choate accepted a cigar, he did not light it.

"Not now," he said, when Jeffrey offered him a light; he laid the cigar
down, tapping it once or twice with his fine hand, and Anne thought he
refrained in courtesy toward her and Lydia.

"This is very pleasant," said the colonel suddenly. "It's good to see
you, Amabel. Now I feel myself at home."

But what, after the first settling was over, had they to say? The same
thought was in all their minds. What was Jeffrey going to do? He knew
that, and moved unhappily. Whatever he was going to do, he wouldn't talk
about it. But Miss Amabel was approaching him with the clearest
simplicity.

"Jeff, my dear," she said, "I can't wait to hear about your ideal
republic."

And then, all his satisfaction gone and his scowl come back, Jeff shook
his head as if a persistent fly had lighted on him, and again he
disclaimed achievement.

"Amabel," said he, "I'm awfully sick of that, you know."

"But, dear boy, you revolutionised--" she was about to add, "the
prison," but stumbled lamely--"the place."

"The papers told us that," said Choate. It was apparent he was helping
somebody out, but whether Jeff or Miss Amabel even he couldn't have
said.

"It isn't revolutionised," said Jeff. He turned upon Choate brusquely.
"It's exactly the same."

"They say it's revolutionised," Miss Amabel offered anxiously.
