
 The first thing Hal did was to seek out Tom 
Olson and narrate this experience. The two of them had 
a merry time over it. " I'm the favourite of a boss now I " 
laughed Hal. 

But the organiser became suddenly serious. " Be care- 
ful what you do for that fellow." 

"Why?" 

" He might use it on you later on. One of the things 
they try to do if you make any trouble for them, is to 
prove that you took money from them, or tried to." 

" But he won't have any proofs." ' 

" That's my point — don't give him any. If Stone 
says you've been playing the political game for him, then 
some fellow might remember that you did ask him about 
politics. So don't have any marked money on you." 

Hal laughed. " Money doesn't stay on me very long 
these days. But what shall I say if he asks me for a re- 
port?" 

" You'd better put your job right through, Joe — so that 
he won't have time to ask for any report." 

" All right," was the reply. " But just the same, I'm 
going to get all the fun there is, being the* favourite of a 
boss ! " 

And so, early the next morning when Hal went to his 
work he proceeded to " sprain his wrist." He walked 
about in pain, to the great concern of Old Mike ; and when 
finally he decided that he would have to lay off, Mike fol- 
lowed him half way to the shaft, giving him advice about 
hot and cold cloths. Leaving the old Slovak to struggle 
along as best he could alone, Hal went out to bask in the 
wonderful sunshine of the upper world, and the still more 
wonderful sunshine of a boss's favour. 



 

First he went to his room at Reminitsky's, and tied a 
strip of old shirt about his wrist, and a clean handkerchief 
on top of that ; by this symbol he was entitled to the free- 
dom of the camp and the sympathy of all men, and so he 
sallied forth. 

Strolling towards the tipple of Number One, he encoun- 
tered a wiry, quick-moving little man, with restless black 
eyes and a lean, intelligent face. He wore a pair of com- 
mon miner's "jumpers," but even so, he was not to be 
taken for a workingman. Everything about him spoke 
of authority. 

" Morning, Mr. Cartwright," said Hal. 

" Good morning," replied the superintendent ; then, with 
a glance at Hal's bandage, " You hurt ? " 

" Yes, sir. Just a bit of sprain, but I thought I'd bet- 
ter lay off." 

" Been to the doctor ? " 

" No, sir. I don't think it's that bad." 

" You'd better go. You never know how bad a sprain 
is." 

"Eight, sir," said Hal. Then, as the superintendent 
was passing, " Do you think, Mr. Cartwright, that Mac- 
Dougall stands any chance of being elected ? " 

" I don't know," replied the other, surprised. " I hope 
not. You aren't going to vote for him, are you ? " 

" Oh, no. I'm a Republican — born that way. But I 
wondered if you'd heard any MacDougall talk." 

"Well, I'm hardly the one that would hear it. You 
take an interest in politics ? " 

" Yes, sir — in a way. In fact, that's how I came to 
get this wrist." 

" How's that ? In a fight ? " 

" No, sir ; but you see, Mr. Stone wanted me to feel out 
sentiment in the camp, and he told me I'd better sprain my 
wrist and lay off." 

The " super," after staring at Hal, could not keep from 



 

laughing. Then he looked about him. " You want to be 
careful, talking about such things ' 

" I thought I could surely trust the superintendent," 
said Hal, drily. 

The other measured him with his keen eyes ; and Hal, 
who was getting the spirit of political democracy, took the 
liberty of returning the gaze. " You're a wide-awake 
young fellow," said Cartwright, at last. " Learn the ropes 
here, and make yourself useful, and I'll see you're not 
passed over." 

" All right, sir — thank you." 

"Maybe you'll be made an election-clerk this time. 
That's worth three dollars a day, you know." 

"Very good, sir." And Hal put on his smile again. 
" They tell me you're the mayor of North Valley." 

" I am." 

u And the justice of the peace is a clerk in your store. 
Well, Mr. Cartwright, if you need a president of the board 
of health or a dog catcher, I'm your man — as soon, that 
is, as my wrist gets well." 

And so Hal went on his way. Such " joshing " on the 
part of a " buddy " was of course absurdly presumptuous ; 
the superintendent stood looking after him with a puzzled 
frown upon his face. 



 Hal did not look back, but turned into the com- 
pany-store. " North Valley Trading Company " read the 
sign over the door ; within was a Serbian woman pointing 
out what she wanted to buy, and two little Lithuanian 
girls watching the weighing of a pound of sugar. Hal 
strolled up to the person who was doing the weighing, a 
middle-aged man with a yellow moustache stained with 
tobacco-juice. " Morning, Judge." 

" Huh ! " was the reply from Silas Adams, justice of 
the peace in the town of North Valley. 



 

" Judge," said Hal, " what do you think about the elec- 
tion ? " 

"I don't think about it," said the other. "Busy 
weighin' sugar." 

" Anybody round here going to vote for MacDougall ? " 

" They better not tell me if they are ! " 

"What?" smiled Hal. "In this free American re- 
public ? " 

" In this part of the free American republic a man is 
free to dig coal, but not to vote for a skunk like Mac- 
Dougall." Then, having tied up the sugar, the " J. P." 
whittled off a fresh chew from his plug, and turned to 
Hal. " What'll you have ? " 

Hal purchased half a pound of dried peaches, so that 
he might have an excuse to loiter, and be able to keep time 
with the jaws of the Judge. While the order was being 
filled, he seated himself upon the counter. " You know," 
said he, " I used to work in a grocery." 

" That so ? Where at ? " 

"Peterson & Co., in American City." Hal had told 
this so often that he had begun to believe it. 

" Pay pretty good up there ? " 

"Yes, pretty fair." Then, realising that he had no 
idea what would constitute good pay in a grocery, Hal 
added, quickly, " Got a bad wrist here ! " 

" That so ? " said the other. 

He did not show much sociability; but Hal persisted, 

refusing to believe that any one in a country store would 

miss an opening to discuss politics, even with a miner's 

.helper. "Tell me," said he, "just what is, the matter 

with MacDougall ? " 

" The matter with him," said the Judge, " is that the 
company's against him." He looked hard at the young 
miner. "You meddlin' in politics?" he growled. But 
the young miner's gay brown eyes showed only appreci- 
ation of the earlier response ; so the " J. P." was tempted 



 

into specifying the would-be congressman's vices. Thus 
conversation started; and pretty soon the others in the 
store joined in — "Bob" Johnson, bookkeeper and 
post-master, and "Jake" Predovich, the Galician Jew 
who was a member of the local school-board, and knew the 
words for staple groceries in fifteen languages. 

Hal listened to an exposition of the crimes of the politi- 
cal opposition in Pedro County. Their candidate, Mac- 
Dougall, had come to the state as a " tin-horn gambler," 
yet now he was going around making speeches in churches, 
and talking about the moral sentiment of the community. 
" And him with a district chairman keeping three families 
in Pedro ! " declared Si Adams. 

" Well," ventured Hal, " if what I hear is true, the 
Republican chairman isn't a plaster saint. They say he 
was drunk at the convention — " 

" Maybe so," said the " J. P." " But we ain't playin' 
for the prohibition vote; and we ain't playin' for the 
labour vote — tryin' to stir up the riff-raff in these coal- 
camps, promisin' 'em high wages an' short hours. Don't 
he know he can't get it for 'em ? But he figgers he'll go 
off to Washington and leave us here to deal with the mess 
he's stirred up ! " 

" Don't you fret," put in Bob Johnson — " he ain't goin' 
to no Washin'ton." 

The other two agreed, and Hal ventured again, "He 
says you stuff the ballot-boxes." 

" What do you suppose his crowd is doin' in the cities ? 
We got to meet 'em some way, ain't we ? " 

"Oh, I see," said Hal, naively. "You stuff them 
worse ! " 

" Sometimes we stuff the boxes, and sometimes we stuff 
the voters." There was an appreciative titter from the 
others, and the "J. P." was moved to reminiscence. 
" Two years ago I was election clerk, over to Sheridan, 
and we found we'd let 'em get ahead of us — they had 




carried the whole state, i By God  said Alf . Raymond, 
' we'll show 'em a trick from the coal-counties ! And 
there won't be no recount business either ! ' So we held 
back our returns till the rest had come in, and when we 
seen how many votes we needed, we wrote 'em down. And 
that settled it." 

" That seems a simple method," remarked Hal. 
" They'll have to get up early to beat Alf." 

" You bet you ! " said Si, with the complacency of one 
of the gang. "They call this county the ' Empire of 
Raymond.' " 

" It must be a cinch," said Hal — " being the sheriff, 
and having the naming of so many deputies as they need 
in these coal-camps ! " 

" Yes," agreed the other. " And there's his wholesale 
liquor business, too. If you want a license in Pedro 
county, you not only vote for Alf, but you pay your bills 
on time ! " 

" Must be a fortune in that ! " remarked Hal ; and the 
Judge, the Post-master and the School-commissioner ap- 
peared like children listening to a story of a feast. " You 
bet you ! " 

" I suppose it takes money to run politics in this county," 
Hal added. 

"Well, Alf don't put none of it up, you can bet! 
That's the company's job." 

This from tie Judge; and the School-commissioner 
added, " De coin in dese camps is beer." 

" Oh, I see ! " laughed Hal. " The companies buy 
Alf 's beer, and use it to get him votes ! " 

