"No one but myself," he said with his eyes on 
her. 

"Oh, I think you will least of all." 

She had answered so straight that it had almost 
the sound of levity; by the hint of which he was 
justly enough irritated. "It's too portentous 
what you ask!" 

But she found for this her quickest reply. "I 
don't ask anything. It's you who ask. I only 
answer. I decline the honour of your hand, and 
I give my reasons. If I had given none I should 
have been doubtless less absurd, and my reward 
is that I'm not really sure I should have been even 
less cruel. I'm sure," she continued, "but of one 
thing or rather perhaps of two: that I'm as in 
sane as you please, but that I'm also as rigid. 
Don't think, at all events, that you need, or that 
you possibly can, tell me how my attitude strikes 





  

you. Do me the simple justice to believe that I 
know." 

So she appeared quietly to conclude, and it was 
in her quietness indeed that her perversity most 
showed; though this was in a manner an aid, if 
a lame one, to her suitor, called upon at a mo 
ment's notice both to measure its extent and to 
give up the hope of getting round it. "You call 
me a 'case,' but it seems to me you're at least 
as extraordinary a one." 

"I didn't apply the term to you abusively," 
she made sufficient haste to explain. And then 
as, however she applied it, he but sat, in his hard 
dilemma, with his head in his hands: "Am I not 
the first to admit that I can only appear unaccountably exalted it's the word you must have 
in your mind about me; and exalted on the subject on which it most seems to people grotesque 
to be so?" She gave herself up, in fine, as extravagant, maniacal, and then, further, to the 
moral of it, which was that they lacked all ground 
for possibly meeting. They must accept their 
preposterous difference, and she could herself do 
so the better that she was sure of what he had 
intended to say to her. He had his plans made; 
he "sailed," didn't he? next week, next month, 
next year even, if that should be more convenient 
to her, and had come to propose that she should 
sail with him. This was, as he saw, not so much 
as discussable; but he must go on sailing as if 





  

nothing whatever had happened. He must stay 
a long time, and it was indeed all but a certainty 
for her that when once he should get well into it 
he would find himself staying indefinitely. Yes, 
that was inevitably what must happen to him: 
he offered the bright example of a man of thirty, 
with means, curiosity, the highest culture, who 
had, for whatever reasons, never gone at all, but 
he would show how people with that history in 
fallibly made it up by never coming back when 
once they did go. Why should he come back ? 
With his tastes, his resources and opportunities, 
his intensified longing and disciplined youth, he 
would have an admirable life. 

Many things were before him while she talked, 
but most of all perhaps the almost sinister strangeness of his having been condemned to this ordeal. 
It was the last predicament he had ever dreamed 
of, the prescription of further patience least on 
the cards for him, he would have supposed, and 
least congruous with other realities. This in fact 
made her spring of action, the unconfessed influence that had worked in her, constantly less and 
less doubtful. The difficulty was that though he 
had everything on his side he actually felt himself 
in a cleft stick. "Don't you then," he appealed, 
"just simply and personally care for me the least 
little bit ? What you seem to me to have in your 
head," he went on after waiting a while in vain 
for her reply, "is, however you express it, a mere 





  

cold little theory, which is rather proud of itself, 
but which has the peculiarity of being both so 
phisticated and stupid. I don't quite see, you 
know, why I should be offered up on such an 
altar." After which, as she was still silent, 
though only as if because she had already said 
all: "Is it inconceivable," he demanded, "that I 
should in the course of time go for a few months 
without you?" 

She smiled in her implacable splendour at his 
touching want of grasp. "Isn't the whole point 
that you can't possibly go for a few months ? It 
would be a shame moreover if you did. I had 
quite as soon you went for a lifetime as for three 
days. I want you perfect, and three hours would 
prevent it. When I say 'I want   you," she hand 
somely developed, "I only mean I should want 
you if I had a right. My insanity, I quite under 
stand, deprives me of all rights. But at the same 
time," she insisted, "you don't in the least under 
mine it by calling it a cold little theory. I don't 
pretend that it's anything else: my cold little 
theory is exactly indeed that it would be interest- 
' ing to catch you catch you young, as they say, 
i since you are young and put you through." 

He followed her with his face of gloom. " For 
the amusement of seeing what I should be at 
(fifty?" 

"There you are" it had made her again quick; 
"and see what it is to be really intelligent ! Pre- 




  

cisely for the amusement, if you prefer that word 
though I should use some other: save for the 
high idea, the intense interest, the peculiar beauty. 
I should see," said Mrs. Coyne, "what it makes 
of a man." 

"You would indeed!" her visitor brooded. 

She laughed out at his tone. "Ah but don't 
put it as a threat as if you'd be Nick o' the 
Woods, and, to punish me for what I should have 
kept you from, wish to beat out my brains. You'd 
really be as pleased with me, I feel sure, as I 
should with you, and we'd grow old together in 
honour and patriotism." She became, however, 
the next moment braver; which had the effect of 
showing her as kinder. "It's all, when one con 
siders, the fault of your peculiar situation added, 
I mean, to the turn of your mind. The result of 
the combination of your starved state (which I 
call, you see, to oblige you, what you would call 
it) and your natural passion for everything old is 
as calculable as to-morrow's dawn." It was the 
sort of fact one could put in a nutshell. "The 
only way for you not to remain is not to go." 

"You'll see whether I remain," Ralph said as 
drily as he could. 

"Oh but do! Do," she earnestly repeated. 
"The great thing is after all not to spoil it 
whichever way you take it; and isn't it also, when 
one thinks, much better you should be perfect 
for yourself than for me ?" 





  

"How you must, fortunately, hate and loathe 
me!" Ralph returned to that with the same 
mastered misery. "Because if it weren't for that 
what a question for us to separate on!" 

This appeared just to strike her. "It wouldn't 
be such a base one as you seem to suggest; but, 
to give you the benefit of the doubt, don't let us 
admit for a moment that it is the one ! By which 
I mean that we don't separate, inasmuch as for 
people to do that they must first have come to 
gether. For you to decline my condition I must 
first have imposed it. I mentioned just now," 
she added for further lucidity, "the fact that 
makes you such a catch for one's theory, but I 
didn't mention the other fact, the way you're in 
spite of everything pledged and committed 
which spoils it all. The ideal subject of my ex 
periment," she perfectly allowed, "needn't cer 
tainly be that particular rare bird, a young New 
' Yorker who's an ardent student of history. It's 
over there," she appeared magnanimously to 
muse, "that history can best be studied !" 

"How you laugh at me and lash me and rub 
it in !" Ralph grimly observed. 

But she put the matter for him now as if in 
her achieved indulgence of it no misjudgment 
could interrupt her. "You've earned your holi 
day, and nothing can be more right and just than 
for it to be long and unclouded. I know nothing 
of a finer grace than the way you've gone on year 





  

after year doing without it for the charity nearest 
home; and I'm not so stupid as not to have a 
notion of the disadvantage at which, in the in 
tellectual work you scraped time for, your limita 
tions and privations must often have placed you. 
You did it, bravely and patiently, as you could, 
and I'm sure, ignorant as I am, that no one else 
could have in the conditions done it half so well. 
Only the conditions were so wrong that it's de 
lightful they can at last be right. I'll wait for 
another day," she smiled, "to try my theory." 

"What you'll wait for," he after a moment 
returned, "is evidently and more especially 
another person." 

She shook her head in general relinquishment. 
"Another person will never turn up. There will 
always be a flaw. If he's worth one's idea he'll 
be sure to have been over. If he hasn't been over 
he'll be sure not to be worth one's idea. You" 
oh she could indeed, as he said, rub it in ! 
"would have been so perfectly worth it." 

"Perhaps I might still try to be," he thought 
fully suggested, "if I could by any chance come 
as near to it as really to understand it. But I 
assure you I don't so much as to take hold of it." 

She struck him for a moment as on the point, 
in answer to this, of breaking into impatience 
and declaring that his failure of comprehension 
needn't matter to him. He had a glimpse thus 
of what he believed that she truly would have 





  

wished him to take her conception on trust and, 
as it were, for the love of her; to oblige her by 
adopting it, by accommodating himself blindly. 
Her courage, however, he made out, was insuffi 
cient for this, and the next minute she only did 
for herself what she could. "That's because I'm 
at the disadvantage, which I perfectly recognise, 
of not having practised what I preach because 
I naturally, in my position, have everything 
against me." She smiled again for the vanity of 

j the regret, but she went on. "If I could have 
known how I was now to feel I would never have 

gone." 

Ralph tried to follow her as if something might 
come of it. "But it took nothing less than your 
charming experience, I gather, to produce your 
actual attitude. You would have had no attitude 
without it. You had to qualify yourself for your 
remonstrance." 

He spoke so gravely that it made, in effect, for 
irony, and that in turn just visibly made her 
flinch. "Well, I do of course hold myself quali 
fied, and of course I'm glad to be, on any terms. 
I give it to you at best as mere inevitable reaction, 
but the point I make is that as reaction it's final. 
One must choose at last" she couldn't, he saw, 
but let herself go; "and I take up definitely with 
my own country. It's high time; here, en fin de 
compte, one can at least do or be something, show 
something, make something. To try and make 





