soul called Militarism, this force which seized hold of men and 
made them into automatons, moving machines which obeyed 
orders in a mass, and went out and did deeds of which none of 
them taken separately would have been capable, even in their 
dreams. Here was a bunch of average nice Leesville boys, 
employes of the shops nearby, "soda-jerkers" and "counter- 
jumpers, clerks who had deftly fitted shoes onto the feet of 
pretty ladies. Now they were submitting themselves to this 
deforming discipline, undergoing this devilish transmogrifica- 
tion! 

Jimmie's eye ran down the line: there was a street-car 
conductor he knew, there was a machinist from the Empire, 
also there was a son of Ashton Chalmers, president of the First 
National Bank of Leesville. And suddenly Jimmie gave a 
start. Impossible! It could not be! But it was! Young 
Emil Forster ! Emil a Socialist, Emil a German, Emil a student 
and thinker, who had penetrated the hypocritical disguises of 
this capitalist war, and had fearlessly proclaimed the truth 
every Friday night at the local here he was with a suit of 






khaki on his rather frail figure, a rifle in his hand and a look 
of grim resolve on his face, going through the evolutions of 
squad-drill: left, right, left, right, left, right column left, 
march one, two, three, four left, right, left, right, squad 
right about, march left, right, left, right squad left oblique, 
march and so on. If you are to form any picture of the 
scene you must imagine the swift tramp of many feet in unison 
thump, thump, thump, thump, thump, thump; you must 
imagine the marchers, with their solemnly set faces, and the 
orders thundered out by a red-faced young man of desperate 
aspect, the word march coming each time with a punch that 
hit you over the heart. This red-faced young man was the 
very incarnation of the military despot as Jimmie had pic- 
tured him; watching with hawk-like eye, scolding, pounding, 
driving, with no slightest regard for the feelings of the slaves 
he commanded, or for any of the decencies of civilised inter- 
course. 

"Hold those half steps, Casey! Keep your eye on the end 
man you'll have him splitting his legs if you don't wait for 
him. Column left, march one, two, three, four now you're 
all right off with you that's better! Put a little pep into 
your feet, Chalmers, for God's sake if you go marching into 
Berlin like that they'll think it's the hospital squad! By the 
right flank, column fours, march watch your distance there, 
end man ! How many times do you want me to tell you that ?" 
And so on and on tramp, tramp, tramp, tramp while a 
small boy standing beside Jimmie, evidently a truant from 
school, chanted over and over: "Left left the soldier got 
drunk and he packed up his trunk and he left left ! And do 
you not think he was right right?" 


ISTow if you have ever stood about and watched outdoor 
exercise or games, on a day in March with snow on the ground 
and a keen wind blowing, you know how it is you have to 
stamp your feet to keep warm; and if in your neighbourhood 
there are twenty left feet smiting the ground in unison, and 
then twenty right feet smiting the ground in unison, it is 
absolutely inevitable that your stamping should keep time to the 
smiting; also the rhythm of your stamping will be communi- 



 

cated upwards into your body your thoughts will keep time 
with the marching squad tramp, tramp, tramp, tramp left, 
right, left, right! The psychologists tell us that one who goes 
through the actions appropriate to an emotion will begin to feel 
that emotion ; and so it was with Jimmie Higgins. By a process 
so subtle that he never suspected it Jimmie was being made into 
a militarist! Jimmie's hands were clenched, Jimmie's jaw was 
set, Jimmie's feet were tramping, tramping on the road to Ber- 
lin, to teach the Prussian war-lords what it meant to defy the 
free men of a great republic ! 

But then something would happen to blast these budding 
excitements in Jimmie's soul. The red-faced fellow would break 
into the rhythm of the march. "For the love of Mike, Pete 
Casey, can't you remember those half -steps ? Squad, halt ! Now 
look here, what's the matter with you? Step out and let me 
show you once more." And poor Casey, a meek-faced little man 
with sloping shoulders, who had been running the elevator in 
the Chalmers Building up to a week ago, would patiently prac- 
tise marching without moving, so that the rest of the line could 
wheel round him as a pivot. The petty tyrant who scolded at 
him was determined to have his own way ; and Jimmie, who had 
had to do with many such tyrants in his long years of industrial 
servitude, was glad when this particular one got mixed up in 
his orders, and ran his squad into the fountain in the middle 
of the drill-ground, and some of them marched over the para- 
pet, sliding down into the ice-covered basin below. The spec- 
tators roared, and so did the marchers, and the red-faced young 
man had to join in, and to come down off his high horse. 

The conflict of impulses went on in Jimmie's soul. These 
marching men were the "boobs" at whom he had been mocking 
for something over two years. They did not look like "boobs," 
he had to admit; on the contrary, they looked quite capable of 
deciding what they wanted to do. And they had decided; they 
had quit their jobs several weeks in advance of the time when 
they would be called for the draft, and had set to work to learn 
the rudiments of the military art, in the hope of thus getting 
more quickly to France. Among them were bankers and mer- 
chants and real estate dealers, side by side with soda-jerkers 
and counter-jumpers and elevator-men and all taking their 
orders from an ex-blacksmith's helper, who had run away to 
fight in the Philippines. 





Jimmie got this last bit of information from a fellow who 
stood watching; so he realised that here was the thing he 
had been reading about in the papers the new army of the 
people, that was going forth to make the world safe for democ- 
racy! Jimmie had read such words, and thought them just 
camouflage, a trap for the "boobs." But here, a sight of won- 
der before his eyes, a son of Ashton Chalmers, president of the 
First National Bank of Leesville, being ordered about and 
hauled over the coals by an ex-blacksmith's helper, who happened 
to know how to shout with the accents of a pile-driver : "Shoul- 
der humps! Order humps! Present humps!" 

The squad spread itself out for exercise grasping their 
heavy rifles and swinging them this way and that with desperate 
violence. "Swing over head and return, ready, exercise one, 
two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight eight, seven, six, five, 
four, three, two, one' It was no joke making those swings 
in such quick time; the poor little elevator-man Casey was left 
hopelessly behind, he could only make half the swing, and then 
couldn't get bacE to place on the count; he would look about, 
grinning sheepishly, and then fall into time and try again. 
Everybody's face was set, everybody's breath was coming harder 
and harder, everybody's complexion was becoming apoplectic. 

"Swing to the right!" shouted the blacksmith-tyrant. 
"Keady, exercise one, two" and so on. And then he would 
yell: "No, Chalmers, don't punch out with your arms swing 
up your gun ! Swing it up from the bottom ! That's the way ! 
Poke 'em! Poke 'em! Put the punch into 'em!" And over 
Jimmie stole a cold horror. There was nothing on the end of 
those guns but a little black hole, but Jimmie knew what was 
supposed to be there what would some day be there; the ex- 
ercise meant that these affable young Leesville store-clerks 
were getting ready to drive a sharp, gleaming blade into the 
bowels of human beings! "Poke 'em! Poke 'em!" shouted 
the ex-blacksmith, and with desperate force they swung the 
heavy rifles, throwing their bodies to one side and leaping out 
with one foot. Horrible ! Horrible ! 



Man is a gregarious animal, and it is a fundamental law 
of his being that when a group of his fellows are doing a cer- 



 

tain thing, and doing it with energy and fervor, any one who 
does not do it, who does not share the mood of energy and fer- 
vour, shall be the object of ridicule and anger, shall feel within 
his own heart confusion and distress. This is true, even if the 
group is doing nothing more worth-while than making itself 
drunk. How much more shall it be when it is engaged in mak- 
ing the world safe for democracy! 

The only way the man can save himself is by holding before 
his mind the belief that he is right, and that some day this will 
be recognised; in other words, by appealing to some other 
group of men, who in some future time will applaud him. 
If he is sure of this future applause, he can manage to stand 
the jeers for the moment. But how when he begins to doubt 
when his mind is haunted by the possibility that the men of the 
future may agree with those of the present, who are learning 
to march in unison, and to poke bayonets into the bodies of 
Huns? 

One of the things which brought this destructive doubt to 
Jimmie's soul was the sight of Emil Forster, learning to march 
and to poke. Emil had been one of his heroes, Emil knew a 
hundred times as much as he and Emil was going to the war ! 
The squad marched away to the city hall across the square, 
and deposited its rifles in a room in the basement, and then 
Emil came out, and Jimmie went up to him. The young car- 
pet-designer of course was delighted to meet his old friend, 
and asked him to go to lunch. As they walked along the street 
together Jimmie asked what it meant, and Emil answered : 
"It meane that I have made up my mind." 

"You're going to fight the German people ?" 

"Strange as you'll think it, I'm going to fight them for: 
their own good. Bebel wrote in his memoirs that the way to 
get democratic progress in autocratic countries is through 
military defeat; and it seems up to America to provide this de- 
feat for Germany." 

"But you were preaching just the opposite!" 

"I know; it makes me feel foolish sometimes. But things 
have changed, and there's no sense shutting your eyes to facts." 

Jimmie waited. 

"Eussia, more especially," continued Emil, answering the 
unspoken question. "What's the use of getting Socialism, if 
you're just throwing yourself down for a military machine to 





run over you? You're playing the fool, that's all and you 
have to see it. What hope is there for Russia now?" 

"There's the German Socialists.' 

"Well, they just didn't have the power, that's all. What's 
more, we have to face the fact that a lot of them aren't really 
revolutionists they're politicians, and haven't dared to stand 
out against the crowd. Anyhow, whatever the reason is, they 
didn't save their own country, and they didn't save Russia. 
They certainly can't expect us to give them a third chance it 
costs too much." 

"But then," argued Jimmie, "ain't we doin' just what we 
blame them for doin' turnin' patriots, supportin' a capitalist 
government ?" 

"When you're supporting a government," replied Emil, "it 
makes a lot of difference what use it's making of your support. 
We all know the faults of our government, but we know too 
that the people can change it when enough of them get ready, 
and that makes a real difference. I've come to realise that if 
we give the Kaiser a beating, the German people will kick him 
put, and then we can talk sense to them." 



IV 

They walked along for a bit in silence, Jimmie trying to 
assimilate these ideas. They were new not in the sense that he 
had not heard them before, but in the sense that he had not heard 
them from a German. "How does your father feel?" he asked, 
at last. 

"He hasn't changed," replied the other. "And that makes it 
pretty hard it's all we can do to keep from quarrelling. He's 
old, and new ideas don't come to him easily. Yet you'd think 
he'd be the first to see it his father was one of the old revolu- 
tionists, he was put in jail in Dresden. I don't suppose you 
know much about the history of Germany." 

"No," said Jimmie. 

"Well, in those days the German people tried to get free, 
and they were put down by the troops, and the real revolu- 
tionists were driven into exile. Some of them came over here 
like my grandfather. But you see, their children have for- 
gotten about their wrongs they look back on Germany now, 
and think of it sentimentally, as it's pictured in the stories and 



 

songs a sort of Christmas-tree Germany. They don't know 
about the Germany that's grown up the Germany of iron and 
coal kings, that combines all the cruelty of feudalism with mod- 
ern efficiency and science the Beast with the Brains of an 
Engineer I" 

They walked on, Emil lost in thought. "You know.' he broke 
out, suddenly, "this war has been a revelation to me the most 
horrible you could imagine. It's as if you loved a woman, and 
saw her go insane before your eyes, or turn into some sort of 
degenerate. For I believed in the Christmas-tree Germany; 
I loved it, and I argued for it, I just couldn't bring myself to 
believe what I read in the papers. Now I look back, and it 
seems like a trap that the German war-lords had set for my mind 
reaching way over here into America, and making me think 
what they wanted me to! Perhaps I've gone to the other ex- 
treme I find I distrust everything that's German. Father 
accused me of it last night; he was singing an old German 
song that says that when you hear men singing you may lie 
down in peace, for bad men have no songs. And I reminded 
him that the nation which taught that idea had marched into 
Belgium singing!" 

