Almost immediately she heard Ilse's voice on the wire.
"What is the matter, dear?" inquired Palla with the slightest shiver
of that premonition which had haunted her all day.
But Ilse's voice was cheerful: "We were so sorry not to go with you
this evening, darling, but Jack is feeling so queer that he's turned
in and I've sent for a physician."
"Shall I come around?" asked Palla.
"Oh, no," replied Ilse calmly, "but I've an idea Jack may need a
nurse--perhaps two."
"What is it?" faltered Palla.
"I don't know. But he is running a high temperature and he says that
it feels as though something were wrong with his appendix.
"You see Jack is almost a physician himself, so if it really is acute
appendicitis we must know as soon as possible."
"Is there anything I could do?" pleaded Palla. "Darling, I do so
want to be of use if----"
"I'll let you know, dear. There isn't anything so far."
"Are you going to stay there to-night?"
"Of course," replied Ilse calmly. "Tell me, Palla, how did the
soap-box arguments go?"
"Not very well. I was heckled. I'm such a wretched public speaker,
Ilse;--I can never remember what rejoinders to make until it's too
late."
She did not mention her encounter with the unknown man; Ilse had
enough to occupy her.
They chatted a few moments longer, then Ilse promised to call her if
necessary, and said good-night.
A little after midnight Palla's telephone rang beside her bed and she
started upright with a pang of fear and groped for the instrument.
"Jack is seriously ill," came the level voice of Ilse. "We have taken
him to the Memorial Hospital in one of their ambulances."
"W--what is it?" asked Palla.
"They say it is pneumonia."
"Oh, Ilse!----"
"I'm not afraid. Jack is in magnificent physical condition. He is too
splendid not to win the fight.... And I shall be with him.... I shall
not let him lose."
"Tell me what I can do, darling!"
"Nothing--except love us both."
"I do--I do indeed----"
"Both, Palla!"
"Y--yes."
"Do you understand?"
"Oh, I--I think I do. And I do love you--love you both--devotedly----"
"You must, now.... I am going home to get some things. Then I shall
go to the hospital. You can call me there until he is convalescent."
"Will they let you stay there?"
"I have volunteered for general work. They are terribly short-handed
and they are glad to have me."
"I'll come to-morrow," said Palla.
"No. Wait.... Good-night, my darling."
CHAPTER XXI
As a mischievous caricaturist, in the beginning, draws a fairly good
portrait of his victim and then gradually habituates his public to a
series of progressively exaggerated extravagances, so progressed the
programme of the Bolsheviki in America, revealing little by little
their final conception of liberty and equality in the bloody and
distorted monster which they had now evolved, and which they publicly
owned as their ideal emblem.
In the Red Flag Club, Sondheim shouted that a Red Republic was
impossible because it admitted on an equality the rich and well-to-do.
Karl Kastner, more cynical, coolly preached the autocracy of the
worker; told his listeners frankly that there would always be masters
and servants in the world, and asked them which they preferred to be.
With the new year came sporadic symptoms of unrest;--strikes,
unwarranted confiscations by Government, increasingly bad service
in public utilities controlled by Government, loose talk in a
contemptible Congress, looser gabble among those who witlessly lent
themselves to German or Bolshevik propaganda--or both--by repeating
stories of alleged differences between America and England, America
and France, America and Italy.
The hen-brained--a small minority--misbehaved as usual whenever the
opportunity came to do the wrong thing; the meanest and most
contemptible partisanship since the shameful era of the carpet bagger
prevailed in a section of the Republic where the traditions of great
men and great deeds had led the nation to expect nobler things.
For the same old hydra seemed to be still alive on earth, lifting, by
turns, its separate heads of envy, intolerance, bigotry and greed.
Ignorance, robed with authority, legally robbed those comfortably
off.
The bleat of the pacifist was heard in the land. Those who had once
chanted in sanctimonious chorus, "He kept us out of war," now sang
sentimental hymns invoking mercy and forgiveness for the crucifiers of
children and the rapers of women, who licked their lips furtively and
leered at the imbecile choir. Representatives of a great electorate
vaunted their patriotism and proudly repeated: "We forced him into
war!" Whereas they themselves had been kicked headlong into it by a
press and public at the end of its martyred patience.
There appeared to be, so far, no business revival. Prosperity was
penalised, taxed to the verge of blackmail, constantly suspected and
admonished; and the Congressional Bolsheviki were gradually breaking
the neck of legitimate enterprise everywhere throughout the Republic.
And everywhere over the world the crimson tide crept almost
imperceptibly a little higher every day.
                  *       *       *       *       *
Toward the middle of January the fever which had burnt John Estridge
for a week fell a degree or two.
Palla, who had called twice a day at the Memorial Hospital, was seated
that morning in a little room near the disinfecting plant, talking to
Ilse, who had just laid aside her mask.
"You look rather ill yourself," said Ilse in her cheery, even voice.
"Is anything worrying you, darling?"
"Yes.... You are."
"I!" exclaimed the girl, really astonished. "Why?"
"Sometimes," murmured Palla, "my anxiety makes me almost sick."
"Anxiety about me!----"
"You know why," whispered Palla.
A bright flush stained Ilse's face: she said calmly:
"But our creed is broad enough to include all things beautiful and
good."
Palla shrank as though she had been struck, and sat staring out of the
narrow window.
Ilse lifted a basket of soiled linen and carried it away. When,
presently, she returned to take away another basket, she inquired
whether Palla had made up her quarrel with Jim Shotwell, and Palla
shook her head.
"Do you really suppose Marya has made mischief between you?" asked
Ilse curiously.
"Oh, I don't know, Ilse," said the girl listlessly. "I don't know what
it is that seems to be so wrong with the world--with everybody--with
me----"
She rose nervously, bade Ilse adieu, and went out without turning her
head--perhaps because her brown eyes had suddenly blurred with tears.
                  *       *       *       *       *
Half way to Red Cross headquarters she passed the Hotel Rajah. And why
she did it she had no very clear idea, but she turned abruptly and
entered the gorgeous lobby, went to the desk, and sent up her name to
Marya Lanois.
It appeared, presently, that Miss Lanois was at home and would receive
her in her apartment.
The accolade was perfunctory: Palla's first glance informed her that
Marya had grown a trifle more svelte since they had met--more
brilliant in her distinctive coloration. There was a tawny beauty
about the girl that almost blazed from her hair and delicately
sanguine skin and lips.
They seated themselves, and Marya lighted the cigarette which Palla
had refused; and they fell into the animated, gossiping conversation
characteristic of such reunions.
"Vanya?" repeated Marya, smiling, "no, I have not seen him. That is
quite finished, you see. But I hope he is well. Do you happen to
know?"
"He seems--changed. But he is working hard, which is always best for
the unhappy. And he and his somewhat vociferous friend, Mr. Wilding,
are very busy preparing for their Philadelphia concert."
"Wilding," repeated Marya, as though swallowing something distasteful.
"He was the last straw! But tell me, Palla, what are you doing these
jolly days of the new year?"
"Nothing.... Red Cross, canteen, club--and recently I go twice a day
to the Memorial Hospital."
"Why?"
"John Estridge is ill there."
"What is the matter with him?"
"Pneumonia."
"Oh. I am so sorry for Ilse!----" Her eyes rested intently on Palla's
for a moment; then she smiled subtly, as though sharing with Palla
some occult understanding.
Palla's face whitened a little: "I want to ask you a question,
Marya.... You know our belief--concerning life in general.... Tell
me--since your separation from Vanya, do you still believe in that
creed?"
"Do I still believe in my own personal liberty to do as I choose? Of
course."
"From the moral side?"
"Moral!" mocked Marya, "--What are morals? Artificial conventions
accidentally established! Haphazard folkways of ancient peoples whose
very origin has been forgotten! What is moral in India is immoral in
England: what is right in China is wrong in America. It's purely a
matter of local folkways--racial customs--as to whether one is or is
not immoral.
"Ethics apply to the Greek Ethos; morals to the Latin Mores--moeurs
in French, sitte in German, custom in English;--and all mean
practically the same thing--metaphysical hair-splitters to the
contrary--which is simply this: all beliefs are local, and local
customs or morals are the result. Therefore, they don't worry me."
Palla sat with her troubled eyes on the careless, garrulous,
half-smiling Russian girl, and trying to follow with an immature mind
the half-baked philosophy offered for her consumption.
She said hesitatingly, almost shyly: "I've wondered a little, Marya,
how it ever happened that such an institution as marriage became
practically universal----"
"Marriage isn't an institution," exclaimed Marya smilingly. "The
family, which existed long before marriage, is the institution,
because it has a definite structure which marriage hasn't.
"Marriage always has been merely a locally varying mode of sex
association. No laws can control it. Local rules merely try to
regulate the various manners of entering into a marital state, the
obligations and personal rights of the sexes involved. What really
controls two people who have entered into such a relation is local
opinion----"
She snapped her fingers and tossed aside her cigarette: "You and I
happen to be, locally, in the minority with our opinions, that's
all."
Palla rose and walked slowly to the door. "Have you seen Jim
recently?" she managed to say carelessly.
Marya waited for her to turn before replying: "Haven't you seen
him?" she asked with the leisurely malice of certainty.
"No, not for a long while," replied Palla, facing with a painful flush
this miserable crisis to which her candour had finally committed her.
"We had a little difference.... Have you seen him lately?"
Marya's sympathy flickered swift as a dagger:
"What a shame for him to behave so childishly!" she cried. "I shall
scold him soundly. He's like an infant--that boy--the way he sulks if
you deny him anything--" She checked herself, laughed in a confused
way which confessed and defied.
Palla's fixed smile was still stamped on her rigid lips as she made
her adieux. Then she went out with death in her heart.
                  *       *       *       *       *
At the Red Cross his mother exchanged a few words with her at
intervals, as usual, during the séance.
The conversation drifted toward the subject of religious orders in
Russia, and Mrs. Shotwell asked her how it was that she came to begin
a novitiate in a country where Catholic orders had, she understood,
been forbidden permission to establish themselves in the realm of the
Greek church.
Palla explained in her sweet, colourless voice that the Czar had
permitted certain religious orders to establish themselves--very few,
however,--the number of nuns of all orders not exceeding five hundred.
Also she explained that they were forbidden to make converts from the
orthodox religion, which was why the Empress had sternly refused the
pleading of the little Grand Duchess.
"I do not think," added Palla, "that the Bolsheviki have left any
Catholic nuns in Russia, unless perhaps they have spared the Sisters
of Mercy. But I hear that non-cloistered orders like the Dominicans,
and cloistered orders such as the Carmelites and Ursulines have been
driven away.... I don't know whether this is true."
Mrs. Shotwell, her eyes on her flying needle, said casually: "Have you
never felt the desire to reconsider--to return to your novitiate?"
The girl, bending low over her work, drew a deep, still breath.
"Yes," she said, "it has occurred to me."
"Does it still appeal to you at times?"
The girl lifted her honest eyes: "In life there are moments when any
refuge appeals."
"Refuge from what?" asked Helen quietly.
Palla did not evade the question: "From the unkindness of life," she
said. "But I have concluded that such a motive for cloistered life is
a cowardly one."
"Was that your motive when you took the white veil?"
"No, not then.... It seemed to be an overwhelming need for service
and adoration.... It's strange how faiths change though need
remains."
"You still feel that need?"
"Of course," said the girl simply.
"I see. Your clubs and other service give you what you require to
satisfy you and make you happy and contented."
As Palla made no reply, Helen glanced at her askance; and caught a
fleeting glimpse of tragedy in this girl's still face--the face of a
cloistered nun burnt white--purged utterly of all save the mystic
passion of the spirit.
The face altered immediately, and colour came into it; and her slender
hands were steady as she turned her bandage and cut off the thread.
What thoughts concerning this girl were in her mind, Helen could
neither entirely comprehend nor analyse. At moments a hot hatred for
the girl passed over her like flame--anger because of what she was
doing to her only son.
For Jim had changed; and it was love for this woman that had changed
him--which had made of him the silent, listless man whose grey face
haunted his mother's dreams.
That he, dissipating all her hopes of him, had fallen in love with
Palla Dumont was enough unhappiness, it seemed; but that this girl
should have found it possible to refuse him--that seemed to Helen a
monstrous thing.
And even were Jim able to forget the girl and free himself from this
exasperating unhappiness which almost maddened his mother, still she
must always afterward remember with bitterness the girl who had
rejected her only son.
Not since Palla had telephoned on that unfortunate night had she or
Helen ever mentioned Jim. The mother, expecting his obsession to wear
itself out, had been only too glad to approve the rupture.
But recently, at moments, her courage had weakened when, evening after
evening, she had watched her son where he sat so silent, listless, his
eyes dull and remote and the book forgotten on his knees.
A steady resentment for all this change in her son possessed Helen,
varied by flashes of impulse to seize Palla and shake her into
comprehension of her responsibility--of her astounding stupidity,
perhaps.
Not that she wanted her for a daughter-in-law. She wanted Elorn. But
now she was beginning to understand that it never would be Elorn
Sharrow. And--save when the change in Jim worried her too deeply--she
remained obstinately determined that he should not bring this girl
into the Shotwell family.
And the amazing paradox was revealed in the fact that Palla fascinated
her; that she believed her to be as fine as she was perverse; as
honest as she was beautiful; as spiritually chaste as she knew her to
be mentally and bodily untainted by anything ignoble.
This, and because Palla was the woman to whom her son's unhappiness
was wholly due, combined to exercise an uncanny fascination on Helen,
so that she experienced a constant and haunting desire to be near the
girl, where she could see her and hear her voice.
At moments, even, she experienced a vague desire to intervene--do
something to mitigate Jim's misery--yet realising all the while she
did not desire Palla to relent.
                  *       *       *       *       *
As for Palla, she was becoming too deeply worried over the darkening
aspects of life to care what Helen thought, even if she had divined
the occult trend of her mind toward herself.
One thing after another seemed to crowd more threateningly upon
her;--Jim's absence, Marya's attitude, and the certainty, now, that
she saw Jim;--and then the grave illness of John Estridge and her
apprehensions regarding Ilse; and the increasing difficulties of club
problems; and the brutality and hatred which were becoming daily more
