Grady now pulled out his papers, and began to talk over with Donald
Gordon the proceedings of the evening. He had had a telegram from
the national headquarters of the I. W. W., promising support, and
his thin, hungry face lighted up with pride as he showed this. Then
he announced that “Bud” Connor was to be present--a well-known
organizer, who had been up in the oil country with McCormick, and
brought news that the workers there were on the verge of a big
strike. Then came Mrs. Jennings, a poor, tormented little woman who
was slowly dying of a cancer, and whose husband was suing her for
divorce because she had given money to the I. W. W. With her, and
helping her along, came “Andy” Adams, a big machinist, who had been
kicked out of his lodge for talking too much “direct action.” He
pulled from his pocket a copy of the “Evening Telegraph,” and read a
few lines from an editorial, denouncing “direct action” as meaning
dynamiting, which it didn’t, of course, and asking how long it would
be before the friends of law and order in American City would use a
little “direct action” of their own.




Section 58


So they gathered, until about thirty were present, and then the
meeting speedily got down to business. It was evident, said Grady,
that the authorities had deliberately framed-up the dynamite
conspiracy, in order to have an excuse for wiping out the I. W. W.
organization; they had closed the hall, and confiscated everything,
typewriters and office furniture and books--including a book on
Sabotage which they had turned over to the editor of the “Evening
Times”! There was a hiss of anger at this. Also, they had taken to
interfering with the mail of the organization; the I. W. W. were
having to get out their literature by express. They were fighting
for their existence, and they must find some way of getting the
truth to people. If anybody had any suggestions to make, now was the
time.

There came one suggestion after another; and meantime Peter sat as
if his chair were full of pins. Why didn’t they come--the younger
members of the Chamber of Commerce and the Merchants’ and
Manufacturers’ Association--and do what they were going to do
without any further delay? Did they expect Peter to sit there all
night, trembling with alarm--and he not having any dinner besides?

Suddenly Peter gave a jump. Outside came a yell, and Donald Gordon,
who was making a speech, stopped suddenly, and the members of the
company stared at one another, and some sprang to their feet. There
were more yells, rising to screams, and some of the company made for
the front doors, and some for the back doors, and yet others for the
windows and the staircase. Peter wasted no time, but dived into the
clothes closet in the hallway back of the living-room, and got into
the farthest corner of this closet, and pulled some of the clothes
on top of him; and then, to make him safer yet, came several other
people piling on top of him.

From his place of refuge he listened to the confusion that reigned.
The place was a bedlam of women’s shrieks, and the curses of
fighting men, and the crash of overturning furniture, and of clubs
and monkey-wrenches on human heads. The younger members of the
Chamber of Commerce and the Merchants’ and Manufacturers’
Association had come in sufficient force to make sure of their
purpose. There were enough to crowd the room full, and to pack all
the doorways, and two or three to guard each window, and a flying
squadron to keep watch for anybody who jumped from the roof or tried
to hide in the trees of the garden.

Peter cowered, and listened to the furious uproar, and presently he
heard the cries of those on top of him, and realized that they were
being pulled off and clubbed; he felt hands reach down and grab him,
and he cringed and cried in terror; but nothing happened to him, and
presently he glanced up and he saw a man wearing a black mask, but
easily to be recognized as McGivney. Never in all his life had Peter
been gladder to see a human face than he was to see that masked face
of a rat! McGivney had a club in his hand, and was dealing ferocious
blows to the clothes heaped around Peter. Behind McGivney were
Hammett and Cummings, covering the proceedings, and now and then
carefully putting in a blow of their own.

Most of the fighting inside the house and outside came quickly to an
end, because everybody who fought was laid out or overpowered. Then
several of the agents of Guffey, who had been studying these Reds
for a year or two and knew them all, went about picking out the ones
who were especially wanted, and searching them for arms, and then
handcuffing them. One of these men approached Peter, who instantly
fell unconscious, and closed his eyes; then Hammett caught him under
the armpits and Cummings by the feet, and McGivney walked alongside
as a bodyguard, remarking now and then, “We want this fellow, we’ll
take care of him.”

They carried Peter outside, and in the darkness he opened his eyes
just enough to see that the street was lined with automobiles, and
that the Reds were being loaded aboard. Peter’s friends carried him
to one car and drove him away, and then Peter returned to
consciousness, and the four of them sat up and laughed to split
their sides, and slapped one another on the back, and mentioned the
satisfactory things they had seen. Had Hammett noticed that slice
Grady had got over the eyes, and the way the blood had run all over
him? Well, he wanted to be a Red--they had helped him be one--inside
and out! Had McGivney noticed how “Buck” Ellis, one of their men,
had put the nose of the hobo poet out of joint? And young Ogden, son
of the president of the Chamber of Commerce, had certainly managed
to show how he felt about these cattle, the female ones as well as
the males; when that Yankovich slut had slapped his face, he had
caught her by the breasts and nearly twisted them off, and she had
screamed and fainted!

Yes, they had cleaned them out. But that wasn’t all of it, they were
going to finish the job tonight, by God! They were going to give
these pacifists a taste of the war, they were going to put an end to
the Red Terror in American City! Peter might go along if he liked
and see the good work; they were going into the country, and it
would be dark, and if he kept a mask on he would be quite safe. And
Peter said yes; his blood was up, he was full of the spirit of the
hunt, he wanted to be in at the death, regardless of everything.




Section 59


The motor purred softly, and the car sped as if upon wings thru the
suburbs of American City, and to the country beyond. There were cars
in front, and other cars behind, a long stream of white lights
flying out into the country. They came to a grove of big pine trees,
which rose two or three feet thick, like church arches, and covered
the ground beneath them with a soft, brown carpet. It was a
well-known picnic place, and here all the cars were gathering by
appointment. Evidently it had all been pre-arranged, with that
efficiency which is the pride of 100% Americans. A man with a black
mask over his face stood in the center of the grove, and shouted his
directions thru a megaphone, and each car as it swept in ranged
itself alongside the next car in a broad circle, more than a hundred
feet across. These cars of the younger members of the Chamber of
Commerce and the Merchants’ and Manufacturers’ Association were well
behaved--they were accustomed to sliding precisely into place
according to orders of a megaphone man, when receptions were being
given, or when the younger members and their wives and
fiancees, clad in soft silks and satins, came rolling up to
their dinner-parties and dances.

The cars came and came, until there was just room enough for the
last one to slide in. Then at a shouted command, “Number one!” a
group of men stepped out of one of the cars, dragging a handcuffed
prisoner. It was Michael Dubin, the young Jewish tailor who had
spent fifteen days in jail with Peter. Michael was a student and
dreamer, and not used to scenes of violence; also, he belonged to a
race which expresses its emotions, and consequently is offensive to
100% Americans. He screamed and moaned while the masked men
un-handcuffed him, and took off his coat and tore his shirt in the
back. They dragged him to a tree in the center of the ring, a
somewhat smaller tree, just right for his wrists to meet around and
be handcuffed again. There he stood in the blinding glare of thirty
or forty cars, writhing and moaning, while one of the black-masked
men stripped off his coat and got ready for action. He produced a
long black-snake whip, and stood poised for a moment; then in a
booming voice the man with the megaphone shouted, “Go!” and the whip
whistled thru the air and was laid across the back of Michael, and
tore into the flesh so that the blood leaped into sight. There was a
scream of anguish, and the victim began to twist and turn and kick
about as if in his death-throes. Again the whip whistled, and again
you heard the thud as it tore into the flesh, and another red stripe
leaped to view.

Now the younger members of the Chamber of Commerce and the
Merchants’ and Manufacturers’ Association were in excellent
condition for this evening’s labor. They were not pale and thin,
underfed and overworked, as were their prisoners; they were sleek
and rosy, and ashine with health. It was as if long years ago their
fathers had foreseen the Red menace, and the steps that would have
to be taken to preserve 100% Americanism; the fathers had imported a
game which consisted of knocking little white balls around a field
with various styles and sizes of clubs. They had built magnificent
club-houses out here in the suburbs, and had many hundreds of acres
of ground laid out for this game, and would leave their occupations
of merchanting and manufacturing early in the afternoon, in order to
repair to these fields and keep their muscles in condition. They
would hold tournaments, and vie with one another, and tell over the
stories of the mighty strokes which they had made with their clubs,
and of the hundreds of strokes they had made in a single afternoon.
So the man with the black-snake whip was “fit,” and didn’t need to
stop for breath. Stroke after stroke he laid on, with a splendid
rhythmic motion; he kept it up easily, on and on. Had he forgotten?

Did he think this was a little white ball he was swinging down upon?
He kept on and on, until you could no longer count the welts, until
the whole back of Michael Dubin was a mass of raw and bleeding
flesh. The screams of Michael Dubin died away, and his convulsive
struggling ceased, and his head hung limp, and he sunk lower and
lower upon the tree.

At last the master of ceremonies stepped forward and ordered a halt,
and the man with the whip wiped the sweat from his forehead with his
shirt-sleeve, and the other men unchained the body of Michael Dubin,
and dragged it a few feet to one side and dumped it face downward in
the pine-leaves.

“Number two!” called the master of ceremonies, in a clear,
compelling voice, as if he were calling the figures of a quadrille;
and from another car another set of men emerged, dragging another
prisoner. It was Bert Glikas, a “blanket-stiff” who was a member of
the I. W. W.’s executive committee, and had had two teeth knocked
out in a harvest-strike only a couple of weeks previously. While
they were getting off his coat, he managed to get one hand free, and
he shook it at the spectators behind the white lights of the
automobiles. “God damn you!” he yelled; and so they tied him up, and
a fresh man stepped forward and picked up the whip, and spit on his
hands for good luck, and laid on with a double will; and at every
stroke Glikas yelled a fresh curse; first in English, and then, as
if he were delirious, in some foreign language. But at last his
curses died away, and he too sank insensible, and was unhitched and
dragged away and dumped down beside the first man. “Number three!”
 called the master of ceremonies.




Section 60


Now Peter was sitting in the back seat of his car, wearing the mask
which McGivney had given him, a piece of cloth with two holes for
his eyes and another hole for him to breathe thru. Peter hated these
Reds, and wanted them punished, but he was not used to bloody
sights, and was finding this endless thud, thud of the whip on human
flesh rather more than he could stand. Why had he come? This wasn’t
his part of the job of saving his country from the Red menace. He
had done his share in pointing out the dangerous ones; he was a man
of brains, not a man of violence. Peter saw that the next victim was
Tom Duggan with his broken and bloody nose, and in spite of himself,
Peter started with dismay. He realized that without intending it he
had become a little fond of Tom Duggan. For all his queerness,
Duggan was loyal, he was a good fellow when you had got underneath
his surly manners. He had never done anything except just to
grumble, and to put his grumbles into verses; they were making a
mistake in whipping him, and for a moment Peter had a crazy impulse
to interfere and tell them so.

The poet never made a sound. Peter got one glimpse of his face in
the blazing white light, and in spite of the fact that it was
smashed and bloody, Peter read Tom Duggan’s resolve--he would die
before they would get a moan out of him. Each time the lash fell you
could see a quiver all over his form; but there was never a sound,
and he stood, hugging the tree in a convulsive grip. They lashed him
until the whip was spattering blood all over them, until blood was
running to the ground. They had taken the precaution to bring along
a doctor with a little black case, and he now stepped up and
whispered to the master of ceremonies. They unfastened Duggan, and
broke the grip of his arms about the tree, and dumped him down
beside Glikas.

Next came the turn of Donald Gordon, the Socialist Quaker, which
brought a bit of cheap drama. Donald took his religion seriously; he
was always shouting his anti-war sentiments in the name of Jesus,
which made him especially obnoxious. Now he saw a chance to get off
one of his theatrical stunts; he raised his two manacled hands into
the air as if he were praying, and shouted in piercing tones:
“Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do!”

A murmur started in the crowd; you could hear it mounting to a roar.
“Blasphemy!” they cried. “Stop his dirty mouth!” It was the same
mouth that had been heard on a hundred platforms, denouncing the war
and those who made money out of the war. They were here now, the men
who had been denounced, the younger members of the Chamber of
Commerce and the Merchants’ and Manufacturers’ Association, the best
people of the city, those who were saving the country, and charging
no more than the service was worth. So they roared with fury at this
sacreligious upstart. A man whose mask was a joke, because he was so
burly and hearty that everybody in the crowd knew him, took up the
bloody whip. It was Billy Nash, secretary of the “Improve America
League,” and the crowd shouted, “Go to it, Billy! Good eye, old
boy!” Donald Gordon might tell God that Billy Nash didn’t know what
he was doing, but Billy thought that he knew, and he meant before he
got thru to convince Donald that he knew. It didn’t take very long,
because there was nothing much to the young Quaker but voice, and he
fainted at the fourth or fifth stroke, and after the twentieth
stroke the doctor interfered.

Then came the turn of Grady, secretary of the I. W. W., and here a
terrible thing happened. Grady, watching this scene from one of the
cars, had grown desperate, and when they loosed the handcuffs to get
off his coat, he gave a sudden wrench and broke free, striking down
one man after another. He had been brought up in the lumber country,
and his strength was amazing, and before the crowd quite realized
it, he was leaping between two of the cars. A dozen men sprang upon
him from a dozen directions, and he went down in the midst of a wild
melee. They pinned him with his face mashed into the dirt, and from
the crowd there rose a roar as from wild beasts in the night-time,

“String him up! String him up!” One man came running with a rope,
shouting, “Hang him!”

The master of ceremonies tried to protest thru his megaphone, but
the instrument was knocked out of his hands, and he was hauled to
one side, and presently there was a man climbing up the pine tree
and hanging the rope over a limb. You could not see Grady for the
jostling throng about him, but suddenly there was a yell from the
crowd, and you saw him quite plainly--he shot high up into the air,
with the rope about his neck and his feet kicking wildly.
