sergeants--both already suspected.
Well, we got away from Stoner's, marching in double file, and only the
little creatures of the forest to hear our drums and fifes.
But the old discipline which had obtained in all our Tryon regiments
when Sir William was our Major General and the landed gentry our
officers seemed gone; a dull sense of bewilderment reigned, confusing
many among us, as when leaderless men begin to realize how they had
depended upon a sturdy staff now broken forever.
We marched with neither advanced guard nor flankers for the first half
mile; then Joe Scott halted us and made Nick Stoner put away his beloved
fife and sent him out on our right flank where the forest was heavy.
Me he selected to scout forward on the left--a dirty job where alders
and willows grew thick above the bogs.
But why in God's name our music played to advertise our coming I can not
guess, for our men needed no heartening, having courage and resolution,
only the lack of officers causing them any anxiety at all.
On the left flank of the little column I kept very easily in touch
because of this same silly drumming and fifing. And I was glad when we
came to high ground and breasted the hills which lead to that higher
plateau, over which runs the road to Johnstown.
Plodding along in the bush, keeping a keen watch for any enemy who might
come in paint or in scarlet coat, and the far rhythm of our drums
thumping dully in my ears, I wondered whether other companies of my
regiment were marching on Johnstown, and if other Tryon regiments--or
what was left of them--were also afoot that day.
Was this, then, the beginning of the war in the Northland? And, when we
made a prisoner of Sir John, would all the dusky forests glow with
scarlet war-paint and scarlet coats?
Today birds sang. Tomorrow the terrific panther-slogan of the Iroquois
might break out into hell's own uproar among these purple hills.
Was this truly the beginning? Would these still, leafy trails where the
crested partridge strutted witness bloody combats between old
neighbors--all the horrors of a fratricidal war?
Would the painted men of the woods hold their hands while Tory and
patriot fought it out? Or was this utter and supreme horror to be added
to this unnatural conflict?
Reflecting very seriously upon these matters, I trotted forward, rifle
a-trail, and saw nothing living in the woods save a big hare or two in
the alders, and the wild brown poultry of the woods, that ran to cover
or rose into thunderous flight among the thickets.
       
About four o'clock came to me Godfrey Shew, of Fish House, a private
soldier like myself, with news of a halt on the Johnstown road, and
orders that I eat a snack and rest in my tracks.
He told me that a company of horse from Albany was out scouting along
the Mohawk, and that a column of three thousand men under Colonel
Dayton were marching on Johnstown and had passed Schenectady about noon.
Other news he had none, excepting that our company was to remain where
we had halted, in order to stop the road to Fonda's Bush and Saratoga,
in case Sir John should attempt to retire this way.
"Well, Godfrey," said I, "if Sir John truly turns out to be without
shame and honour, and if he marches this way, there is like to be a
lively time for us of the Bush, because Sir John has three hundred
Highlanders to thirty odd of ourselves, and enough Borderers and Tory
militia to double the count."
"We all know that," said Shew calmly, "and are not afraid."
"Do you think our people mean to stand?"
"Yes," said he simply.
A hot thrill of pride tingled my every vein. Suddenly I completely
comprehended that these plain folk of Fonda's Bush were my own people;
that I was one of them; that, as they meant to stand for the ancient
liberties of all Englishmen, now wickedly denied them, so I also meant
to stand to the end.
And now, at last, I comprehended that I was in actual revolt against
that King and against that nobility and gentry who were deserting us
when we had so desperate need of them in this coming battle for human
freedom in a slave-cursed world.
The cleavage had come at last; the Northland was clean split; the red
livery of the King's men had suddenly become a target for every honest
rifle in Tryon.
"Godfrey," I said, "the last chance for truce is passing as you and I
stand here,--the last chance for any reconciliation and brotherly
understanding between us and our Tory neighbors."
"It is better that way," he said, giving me a sombre look.
I nodded, but all the horror of civil war lay heavy in my heart and I
thought of my many friends in Tryon who would wear the scarlet coat
tomorrow, and whom I now must try to murder with my proper hands, lest
they do the like for me.
Around us, where we were standing, a golden dusk reigned in the forest,
into which, through the roof of green above, fell a long sunbeam,
lighting the wooded aisle as a single candle on the altar gleams athwart
the gloom of some still cathedral.
       
At five o'clock Godfrey and I had not moved from that silent place where
we stood on watch, leaning upon our rifles.
Twice soldiers came to bid us keep close guard in these open woods
which, being primeval, were clear of underbrush and deep with the brown
carpet of dead leaves.
At last, toward six o'clock, we heard our drums rolling in the
distance--signal to scout forward. I ran out among the great trees and
started on toward Johnstown, keeping Godfrey in view on my left hand.
Very soon I came out of the forest on the edge of cleared land. Against
the evening sky I saw the spires of Johnstown, stained crimson in the
westering sun which was going down red as a cherry.
But what held me in spell was the sight that met my eyes across the open
meadows, where moving ranks of musket-barrels glanced redly in the last
gleam of sunset and the naked swords and gorgets of mounted officers
glittered.
Godfrey Shew emerged from the edge of the forest on my left and stood
knee deep in last year's wild grass, one hand shading his eyes.
"What troops are those?" I shouted to him. "They look like the
Continental Line!"
"It's a reg'lar rig'ment," he bawled, "but whose I know not!"
The clanking of their armament came clearly to my ears; the timing tap
of their drum sounded nearer still.
"There can be no mistake," I called out to Godfrey; "yonder marches a
regiment of the New York line! We're at war!"
We moved out across the pasture. I examined my flint and priming, and,
finding all tight and bright, waded forward waist high, through last
year's ghostly golden-rod, ready for a quick shot if necessary.
The sun had gone down; a lilac-tinted dusk veiled the fields, through
which the gay evening chirruping of the robins rang incessantly.
"There go our people!" shouted Godfrey.
I had already caught sight of the Fonda's Bush Company filing between
some cattle-bars to the left of us; and knew they must be making
straight for Johnson Hall.
We shouldered our pieces and ran through the dead weeds to intercept
them; but there was no need for haste, because they halted presently in
some disorder; and I saw Joe Scott walking to and fro along the files,
gesticulating.
And then, as Godfrey and I came up with them, we witnessed the first
shameful exhibition of disorder that for so many months disgraced the
militia of New York--a stupidity partly cowardly, partly treacherous,
which at one time so incensed His Excellency the Virginian that he said
they were, as a body, more detrimental than helpful to the cause, and
proposed to disband them.
In the light of later events, I now realize that their apparent
poltroonery arose not from individual cowardice. But these levies had no
faith in their companies because every battalion was still full of
Tories, nor had any regiment yet been purged.
Also, they had no confidence in their officers, who, for the greater
part, were as inexperienced as they themselves. And I think it was
because of these things that the New York militia behaved so
contemptibly after the battle of Long Island, and in Tryon County, until
the terrific trial by fire at Oriskany had burnt the dross out of us and
left only the nobler metal.
       
Our Fonda's Bush Company presented a most mortifying spectacle as
Godfrey and I came up. Joe Scott stood facing the slovenly single rank
which he had contrived to parade in the gathering dusk; and he was
arguing with the men while they talked back loudly.
There was a hubbub of voices, angry arguments, some laughter which
sounded more sinister to me than the cursing.
Then Charlie Cady and John Howell of Sacandaga left the ranks, refusing
to listen to Scott, and withdrew a little distance, where they stood
sullenly in their defiance.
Elias Cady called out that he would not march to the Hall to take Sir
John, and he, also, left the ranks.
Then, and despite Joe Scott's pleading, Phil Helmer and his sullen son,
John, walked away and joined the Cadys, and called on Andrew Bowman to
do the like.
Dries wavered; but Baltus Weed and Eugene Grinnis left the company.
Which so enraged me that I, also, forgot all discipline and duty, and
shook my rifles at the mutineers.
"You Tory dogs!" I said, "we're well purged of you, and I for one thank
God that we now know you for what you are!"
Godfrey, a stark, fierce figure in his blackened buckskins, went out in
front of our single rank and called to the malcontents:
"Pull foot, you swine, or I'll mark you!"
And, "Pull foot!" shouted Nick Stoner, "and be damned to you! Why do you
loiter! Do you wait for a volley in your guts!"
At that, Balty Weed turned and ran toward the woods; but the others
moved more slowly and sullenly, not exactly menacing us with their
rifles, but carrying them conveniently across the hollow of their left
arms.
In the increasing darkness I heard somebody sob, and saw Joe Scott
standing with one hand across his eyes, as though to close from his
sight such a scene of deep disgrace.
Then I went to him. I was trembling and could scarce command my voice,
but gave him a salute and stood at attention until he finally noticed
me.
"Well, John," said he, "this is like to be the death of me."
"Sir; will you order the drums to beat a march?"
"Do you think the men will march?"
"Yes, sir--what remains of them."
He came slowly back, motioning what was left of the company to close up.
I could not hear what he said, but the men began to count off, and their
voices were resolute enough to hearten all.
So presently Nick Stoner, who acted as fife-major, blew lustily into his
fife, playing the marching tune, which is called "The Little Red Foot";
and the drums beat it; and we marched in column of fours to take Sir
John at his ancestral Hall, if it chanced to be God's will.
CHAPTER IX
STOLE AWAY
Johnson Hall was a blaze of light with candles in every window, and
great lanterns flaring from both stone forts which flanked the Hall, and
along the new palisades which Sir John had built recently for his
defense.
All gates and doors stood wide open, and officers in Continental uniform
and in the uniform of the Palatine Regiment, were passing in and out
with a great clanking of swords and spurs.
Everywhere companies of regular infantry from Colonel Dayton's regiment
of the New York Line were making camp, and I saw their baggage waggons
drive up from the town below and go into park to the east of the Hall,
where cattle were lying in the new grass.
An officer of the Palatine Regiment carrying a torch came up to Joe
Scott, where our little company stood at ease along the hedge fence.
"What troops are these, sir?" he inquired, indicating us with a nervous
gesture.
And when he was informed:
"Oho!" said he, "there should be material for rangers among your
farmer-militia. Pick me two men for Colonel Dayton who live by rifle and
trap and who know the wilderness from Albany to the Lakes."
So our captain told off Nick Stoner and me, and we stepped out of the
ranks into the red torch-glow.
"Thank you, sir," said the Palatine officer to our Captain. And to us:
"Follow me, lads."
He was a brisk, handsome and smartly uniformed officer of militia; and
his cheerful demeanor heartened me who had lately witnessed such
humiliations and disgrace.
We followed him through the stockade gate and into the great house, so
perfectly familiar to me in happier days.
Excepting for the noise and confusion of officers coming and going,
there was no disorder within; the beautiful furniture stood ranged in
stately symmetry; the pictures hung on the walls; but I saw no silver
anywhere, and all the candlesticks were pewter.
As we came to the library, an officer in the uniform of a colonel of the
Continental Line turned from a group of men crowded around the centre
table, on which lay a map. Nick Stoner and I saluted his epaulettes.
He came close to us and searched our faces coolly enough, as a farmer
inspects an offered horse.
"This is young Nick Stoner, of Fonda's Bush, sir," said the Palatine
officer.
"Oh," said the Colonel drily, "I have heard of the Stoner boys. And what
may be your name?" he inquired, fastening his piercing eyes on mine.
"John Drogue, sir."
"I have heard of you, also," he remarked, more drily still.
For a full minute, it seemed to me, he scrutinized me from head to foot
with a sort of curiosity almost brutal. Then, on his features a fine
smile softened what had seemed insolence. With a glance he dismissed the
Palatine, motioned us to follow him, and we three entered the
drawing-room across the hall, which was lighted but empty.
"Mr. Drogue," said he, "I am Colonel Dayton; and I have in my personal
baggage a lieutenant's commission for you from our good Governor,
procured, I believe, through the solicitation of our mutual and most
excellent friend, Lord Stirling."
I stood astonished to learn of my preferment, never dreaming nor even
wishing for military rank, but perfectly content to carry the sack of a
private soldier in this most just of all wars. And as for Billy
Alexander remembering to so serve me, I was still more amazed. For Lord
Stirling was already a general officer in His Excellency's new army, and
I never expected him to remember me amid the desperate anxieties of his
new position.
"Mr. Drogue," said Dayton, "you, I believe, are the only example among
the gentry of Tryon County who has openly embraced the cause of our
thirteen colonies. I do not include the Albany Patroon; I speak only of
the nobility and gentry of this county.... And it took courage to turn
your back upon your own caste."
"It would have taken more to turn against my own countrymen, sir."
He smiled. "Come, sir, were you not sometime Brent-Meester to Sir
William?"
"Yes, sir."
"Then you should know the forest, Mr. Drogue."
"I do know it."
"So General Schuyler has informed me."
He clasped his gloved hands behind his back and began to pace to and
fro, his absent glances on the window candles. Presently he halted:
"Sir John is fled. Did you know it?" he said abruptly.
I felt the hot shame burn my face to the roots of my hair.
"Broke his parole of honour and gone off," added Dayton. "Where do you
suppose he is making for with his Tories and Highlanders?"
I could scarcely speak, so mortified was I that a gentleman of my own
class could have so foully conducted. But I made out to say that Sir
John, no doubt, was traveling toward Canada. "Certainly," said the
Colonel; "but which route?"
"God knows, sir. By the Sacandaga and the Lakes, no doubt."
"Could he go by Saratoga and the top o' the Hudson?"
"It is a pathless wilderness."
"Yes. And still I think the rogue went that way. I have rangers out
looking for signs of him beyond Ballston. Also, I sent half a battalion
toward the Sacandaga. Of course Albany Royalists warned him of my
coming; I couldn't prevent that, nor could Schuyler, no, nor the very
devil himself!
"And here am I at the Hall, and the fox stole away to the Canadas. And
what now to do I know not.... Do you?"
He shot the question in my face point blank; and I stood dumb for a
minute, striving to collect and marshall any ideas that might bear upon
so urgent a matter.
"Colonel," said I, "unless the British hold Champlain, Sir John would
scarcely risk a flight in that direction. No. He would prefer to plunge
into the wilderness and travel by Oswegatchi."
"Do you so believe, Mr. Drogue?"
I considered a moment more; then:
"Yet, if Guy Johnson's Indians have come down toward the Sacandaga to
protect him--knowing that he had meant to flee----"
I looked at Dayton, then turned to Nick.
"What think you, Nick?" I demanded.
"By God," he blurted out, "I am of that mind too! Only a madman would
attempt the wilderness by Oswegatchi; and I wager that Sir John is
already beyond the Sacandaga and making for the Canadas on the old
Mohawk war-trail!"
Colonel Dayton laid one hand on my shoulder:
"Mr. Drogue," said he, "we have militia and partizans more than
sufficient in Tryon. What we need are more regulars, too; but most of
all, and in this crisis, we need rangers. God alone knows what is coming
upon Tryon County from the North,--what evil is breeding there,--what
sinister forces are gathering to overwhelm these defenceless
settlements.
"We have scarcely a fort on this frontier, scarcely a block house. Every
town and village and hamlet north of Albany is unprotected; every lonely
