him tell me that. I believe that he will keep his word, too."
"Jane, he has broken the law of the sea. I don't know what the penalty is
these days, but it used to be hanging to the yard-arm. He won't be
particular about his word if by breaking it he can save his skin. He's
been blarneying you. You've let his plausible tongue and handsome face
befog you."
"That is not true!" she flared. Afterward she wondered what caused the
flash of perversity. "And I resent your inference!" she added with
uplifted chin.
Dennison whirled her about savagely, stared into her eyes, then walked to
the companion, up which he disappeared. This rudeness astonished her
profoundly. She appealed silently to the father.
"We are riding a volcano," said Cleigh. "I'm not sure but he's setting
some trap for you. He may need you as a witness for the defense. Of course
I can't control your actions, but it would relieve me immensely if you'd
give him a wide berth."
"He was not the one who brought me aboard."
"No. And the more I look at it, the more I am convinced that you came on
board of your own volition. You had two or three good opportunities to
call for assistance."
"You believe that?"
"I've as much right to believe that as you have that Cunningham will keep
his word."
"Oh!" she cried, but it was an outburst of anger. And it had a peculiar
twist, too. She was furious because both father and son were partly
correct; and yet there was no diminution of that trust she was putting in
Cunningham. "Next you'll be hinting that I'm in collusion with him!"
"No. Only he is an extraordinarily fascinating rogue, and you are wearing
the tinted goggles of romance."
Fearing that she might utter something regrettable, she flew down the port
passage and entered her cabin, where she remained until dinner. She spent
the intervening hours endeavouring to analyze the cause of her temper, but
the cause was as elusive as quicksilver. Why should she trust Cunningham?
What was the basis of this trust? He had, as Denny said, broken the law of
the sea. Was there a bit of black sheep in her, and was the man calling to
it? And this perversity of hers might create an estrangement between her
and Denny; she must not let that happen. The singular beauty of the man's
face, his amazing career, and his pathetic deformity--was that it?
                   *       *       *       *       *
"Where's the captain?" asked Cunningham, curiously, as he noted the vacant
chair at the table that night.
"On deck, I suppose."
"Isn't he dining to-night?"--an accent of suspicion creeping into his
voice. "He isn't contemplating making a fool of himself, is he? He'll get
hurt if he approaches the wireless."
"Togo," broke in Cleigh, "bring the avocats and the pineapple."
Cunningham turned upon him with a laugh.
"Cleigh, when I spin this yarn some day I'll carry you through it as the
man who never batted an eye. I can see now how you must have bluffed Wall
Street out of its boots."
When Cunningham saw that Jane was distrait he made no attempt to pull her
out of it. He ate his dinner, commenting only occasionally. Still, he bade
her a cheery good-night as he returned to the chart house, where he stayed
continually, never quite certain what old Captain Newton might do to the
wheel and the compass if left alone too long.
Dennison came in immediately after Cunningham's departure and contritely
apologized to Jane for his rudeness.
"I suppose I'm on the rack; nerves all raw; tearing me to pieces to sit
down and twiddle my thumbs. Will you forgive me?"
"Of course I will! I understand. You are all anxious about me.
Theoretically, this yacht is a volcano, and you're trying to keep me from
kicking off the lid. But I've an idea that the lid will stay on tightly if
we make believe we are Mr. Cunningham's guests. But it is almost
impossible to suspect that anything is wrong. Whenever a member of the
crew comes in sight he is properly polite, just as he would be on a liner.
If I do go to the bridge again I'll give you warning. Good-night, Mr.
Cleigh, I'll read to you in the morning. Good-night--Denny."
Cleigh, sighing contentedly, dipped his fingers into the finger bowl and
brushed his lips.
The son drank a cup of coffee hastily, lit his pipe, and went on deck. He
proceeded directly to the chart house.
"Cunningham, I'll swallow my pride and ask a favour of you."
"Ah!"--in a neutral tone.
"The cook tells me that all the wine and liquor are in the dry-stores
compartment. Will you open it and let me chuck the stuff overboard?"
"No," said Cunningham, promptly. "When I turn this yacht back to your
father not a single guy rope will be out of order. It would be a fine
piece of work to throw all those rare vintages over the rail simply to
appease an unsubstantial fear on your part! No!"
"But if the men should break in? And it would be easy, because it is
nearer them than us."
"Thank your father for building the deck like a city flat. But if the boys
should break in, there's the answer," said Cunningham, laying his
regulation revolver on the chart table. "And every mother's son of them
knows it."
"You refuse?"
"Yes."
"All right. But if anything happens I'll be on top of you, and all the
bullets in that clip won't stop me."
"Captain, you bore me. Your father and the girl are good sports. You ought
to be one. I've given you the freedom of the yacht for the girl's sake
when caution bids me dump you into the brig. I begin to suspect that your
misfortunes are due to a violent temper. Run along with your thunder; I
don't want you hurt."
"If I come through this alive----"
"You'll join your dad peeling off my hide--if you can catch me!"
It was with the greatest effort that Dennison crushed down the desire to
leap upon his tormentor. He stood tense for a moment, then stepped out
upon the bridge. His fury was suffocating him, and he realized that he was
utterly helpless.
Ten minutes later the crew in their quarters were astonished to see the
old man's son enter. None of them stirred.
"I say, any you chaps got an extra suit of twill? This uniform is getting
too thick for this latitude. I'm fair melting down to the bone."
"Sure!" bellowed a young giant, swinging out of his bunk. He rummaged
round for a space and brought forth a light-weight khaki shirt and a pair
of ducks. "Guess these'll fit you, sir."
"Thanks. Navy stores?"
"Yes, sir. You're welcome."
Dennison's glance travelled from face to face, and he had to admit that
there was none of the criminal type here. They might carry through
decently. Nevertheless, hereafter he would sleep on the lounge in the
main salon. If any tried to force the dry-stores door he would be likely
to hear it.
At eleven o'clock the following morning there occurred an episode which
considerably dampened Jane's romantical point of view regarding this
remarkable voyage. Cleigh had gone below for some illuminated manuscripts
and Dennison was out of sight for the moment. She leaned over the rail and
watched the flying fish. Suddenly out of nowhere came the odour of
whisky.
"You ought to take a trip up to the cutwater at night and see the flying
fish in the phosphorescence."
She did not stir. Instinctively she knew who the owner of this voice would
be--the man Cunningham called Flint. A minute--an unbearable
minute--passed.
"Oh! Too haughty to be a good fellow, huh?"
Footsteps, a rush of wind, a scuffling, and an oath brought her head
about. She saw Flint go balancing and stumbling backward, finally to sprawl
on his hands and knees, and following him, in an unmistakable attitude,
was Dennison. Jane was beginning to understand these Cleighs; their rage
was terrible because it was always cold.
"Denny!" she called.
But Dennison continued on toward Flint.
CHAPTER XV
Flint was a powerful man, or had been. The surprise of the attack over, he
jumped to his feet, and blazing with murderous fury rushed Dennison. Jane
saw a tangle of arms, and out of this tangle came a picture that would
always remain vivid--Flint practically dangling at the end of Dennison's
right arm. The rogue tore and heaved and kicked and struck, but futilely,
because his reach was shorter. Dennison let go unexpectedly.
"Listen to me, you filthy beachcomber! If you ever dare speak to Miss
Norman again or come within ten feet of her I'll kill you with bare hands!
There are no guns on board this yacht--bare hands. Now go back to your
master and say that I'd like to do the same to him."
Flint, his hands touching his throat with inquiring solicitude--Flint eyed
Dennison with that mixture of pain and astonishment that marks the face of
a man who has been grossly deceived. Slowly he revolved on his shaking
legs and staggered forward, shortly to disappear round the deck house.
"Oh, Denny, you've done a foolish thing! You've shamed that man before me
and put murder in his heart. It isn't as if we were running the yacht. We
are prisoners of that man and his fellows. It would have been enough for
you to have stepped in between."
"I haven't any parlour varnish left, Jane. His shoulder was almost
touching yours. It was an intentional insult, and that was enough for me.
The dog! Still looking at the business romantically?"
His tone was bitter. Her reproach, no doubt justified, cut deeply.
"No, I'm beginning to become a little afraid--afraid that the men may get
out of hand. I don't care what you and your father think, but I believe
Cunningham honestly wishes us to reach the Catwick without any conflict."
"Ah, Cunningham!"
"There you go again--angry and bitter! Why can't you take it sensibly,
like your father?"
"My father doesn't happen to be----"
He stopped with mystifying abruptness.
"Doesn't happen to be what?"
"The sort of fool I am!"
"You're not so good a comrade as you were."
"Can't you understand? I've been stood upon my head. The worry about you
on one side and the contact with my father on the other would be
sufficient. But Cunningham and this pirate crew as a tail to the kite!
But, thank God, I had the wit to come in search of you!"
"I thank God every minute, Denny! You are very strong," she added, shyly.
"Glad of that, too. But I repeat, I've lost the parlour varnish and the
art of parlour talk. For seven years I've been wandering in strange
places, most of them hard; so I say what I think and act on the spur. That
dog had liquor on his breath. Is Cunningham secretly letting them into the
dry-stores?"
"The man may have brought it aboard at Shanghai. What a horrible thing a
great war is! In a week it knocks aside all the bars of restraint it took
years to erect. Could a venture like this have happened in 1913? I doubt
it. There comes your father. But who is the man with him? He's been
hurt."
"Father's watchdog. They had to beat him up to get his gun away from him.
That was the racket we heard. Evidently Father expects you to read to him,
so I'll take a constitutional."
"Why, where's your uniform?" she cried.
"Laid it aside. From now on it will be stuffy. Those military boots were
killing me. I borrowed the rig from one of the pirates, but I'll have to
go barefoot."
"Will you come to your chair soon? I shall worry otherwise. You might run
into that man again."
"I shan't go below," he promised, starting off.
Twenty thousand at compound interest for seven years, he thought, as he
made the first turn. A tidy sum to start life with. Could he swallow his
pride? And yet what hope was there of making a real living? He had never
specialized in anything, and the world was calling for specialists and
discarding the others. Another point to consider: Foot-loose for seven
years, could he stand the shackles of office work, routine, the sameness
day in and day out? He was returning to the States without the least idea
what he wanted to do; that was the disturbing phase of it. If only he were
keen for something! A typical son of the rich man. The only point in his
favour was that he had not spent his allowances up and down Broadway. No,
he would never touch a dollar of that money. That was final.
What lay back of this sudden desire to make good in the world? Love! There
wasn't the slightest use in lying to himself. He wanted Jane Norman with
all the blood in his body, with all the marrow in his bones; and he had
nothing to offer her but empty hands.
He shot a glance toward the bridge. And because he had no right to
speak--obligated to silence by two reasons--that easy-speaking scoundrel
might trap her fancy. It could not be denied that he was handsome, but he
was nevertheless a rogue. The two reasons why he must not speak were
potent. In the first place, he had nothing to offer; in the second place,
the terror she was no doubt hiding bravely would serve only to confuse
her--that is, she might confuse a natural desire for protection with
something deeper and tenderer, and then discover her mistake when it was
too late.
What was she going to ask of his father when the time came for reparation?
That puzzled him.
He made the rounds steadily for an hour, and during this time Jane
frequently looked over the top of the manuscript she was reading aloud. At
length she laid the manuscript upon her knees.
"Mr. Cleigh, what is it that makes art treasures so priceless?"
"Generally the depth of the buyer's purse. That is what they say of me in
the great auction rooms."
"But you don't buy them just because you are rich enough to outbid
somebody else?"
"No, I am actually fond of all the treasures I possess. Aside from this,
it is the most fascinating game there is. The original! A painting that
Holbein laid his own brushes on, mixed his own paint for! I have then
something of the man, tangible, visible; something of his beautiful
dreams, his poverty, his success. There before me is the authentic labour
of his hand, which was guided by the genius of his brain--before machinery
spoiled mankind. Oh, yes, machinery has made me rich! It has given the
proletariat the privilege of wearing yellow diamonds and riding about in
flivvers. That must be admitted. But to have lived in those days when
ambition thought only in beauty! To have been the boon companions of men
like Da Vinci, Cellini, Michelangelo! Then there are the adventures of
this concrete dream of the artist. I can trace it back to the bare studio
in which it was conceived, follow its journeys, its abiding places, down
to the hour it comes to me."
Jane stared at him astonishedly. All that had been crampedly hidden in his
soul flowed into his face, warming and mellowing it, even beautifying it.
Cleigh went on:
"Where will it go when I have done my little span? What new adventures lie
in store for it? Across the Ponte Vecchio in Florence runs a gallery of
portraits: at the south end of this gallery there is or was a corner given
over to a copyist. He strikes you dumb with the cleverness of his work,
but he has only an eye and a hand--he hasn't a soul. A copy is to the
original what a dummy is to a live man, no matter how amazingly well done
the copy is. The original, the dream; nothing else satisfies the true
collector."
"I didn't know," said Jane, "that you had so much romance in you."
"Romance?" It was almost a bark.
"Why, certainly. No human being could love beauty the way you do and not
be romantic."
"Romantic!" Cleigh leaned back in his chair. "That's a new point of view
for Tungsten Cleigh. That's what my enemies call me--the hardest metal on
earth. Romantic!" He chuckled. "To hear a woman call me romantic!"
"It does not follow that to be romantic one must be sentimental. Romance
is something heroic, imaginative, big; it isn't a young man and a girl
spooning on a park bench. I myself am romantic, but nobody could possibly
call me sentimental."
"No?"
"Why, if I knew that we'd come through this without anybody getting hurt
I'd be gloriously happy. All my life I've been cooped up. For a little
while to be free! But I don't like that."
She indicated Dodge, who sat in Dennison's chair, his head bandaged, his
arm in a sling, thousands of miles from his native plains, at odds with
his environment. His lean brown jaws were set and the pupils of his blue
eyes were mere pin points. During the discussion of art, during the
reading, he had not stirred.
"You mean," said Cleigh, gravely, "that Dodge may be only the beginning?"
"Yes. Your--Captain Dennison had an encounter with the man Flint before
you came up. He is very strong and--and a bit intolerant."
"Ah!" Cleigh rubbed his jaw and smiled ruminatively. "He was always rather
handy with his fists. Did he kill the ruffian?"
"No, held him at arm's length and threatened to kill him. I'm afraid Flint
will not accept the situation with good grace."
"Flint? I never liked that rogue's face."
"He has found liquor somewhere, and I saw murder in his eyes. Denny isn't
afraid, and that's why I am--afraid he'll run amuck uselessly. His very
strength will react against him."
"I was like that thirty years ago." So she called him Denny? Cleigh laid
his hand over hers. "Keep your chin up. There's a revolver handy should we
need it. I dare not carry it for fear Cunningham might discover and
confiscate it. Six bullets."
"And if worse comes to worse, will--will you save one for me? Please don't
let Denny do it! You are old, and if you lived after it wouldn't be in
your thoughts so long as it would be in his--if he killed me. Will you
promise?"
"Yes--if worse comes to worse. Will you forgive me?"
"I do. But still I'm going to hold you to your word."
"I'll pay the score, whatever it is. Now suppose you come below with me
and take a look at the paintings? You haven't seen my cabin yet."
What was this unusual young woman going to ask of him? He wondered. The
more he thought over it the more convinced he was that she had assisted in
the abduction.
CHAPTER XVI
After they had gone below Dennison dropped into Jane's chair. Immediately
Dodge began to talk: "So you nearly throttled that ornery coyote, huh?
