great unanswerable question: "What are you going to do about the problem
of jealousy?" And I had no response at hand; for jealousy is truly a
most cruel and devastating and unlovely emotion; and yet, how can you
escape it, if you are going to preserve monogamy?

The Anarchist shoemaker's solution was to break down all the prejudices
against sexual promiscuity. Free and unlimited license was every
person's right, and for any other person to interfere was enslavement,
for any other person to criticize was superstition. But the power of
superstition is strong in the world, and the shoemaker found men
resentful of his teachings, and disposed to confiscate the rights of
their wives and daughters. Hence the shoemaker's disapproval of
jealousy.

Other men, less purely physiological in their attitude to sex, have
wrestled with this same problem of jealousy. H. G. Wells has a novel,
"In the Days of the Comet," in which he portrays two men, both nobly and
truly in love with the same woman. One in a passion of jealousy is about
to murder the other, when a great social transformation is magically
brought about, and the would-be murderer wakes up to universal love, and
the two men nobly and lovingly share the same woman. Shelley also
dreamed this dream, inviting two women to share him. I have known others
who tried it, but never permanently. I do not say that it never has
succeeded, or that it never can succeed. In this book I am renouncing
the future--I am trying to give practical advice to people, for the
conduct of their lives here and now, and my advice on this point is
that polygamous and polyandrous experiments in modern capitalist society
cost more than they are worth.

I once knew a certain high school teacher, who believed religiously in
every kind of freedom. When she married, she and her husband, an artist,
made a vow against jealousy; but as it worked out, this vow meant that
the wife had a steady job and took care of the husband, while he loafed
and loved other women. When finally she grew tired of it, he accused her
of being jealous; also, she had brought it down to the matter of money!
I know another woman, an Anarchist, widely known as a lecturer on sex
freedom. She laid down the general principle of unlimited personal
freedom for all, and she tried to live up to her faith. She entered into
a "free union" with a certain man, and when she discovered that he was
making love to another woman, in the presence of a friend of mine she
threw a vase of flowers at his head. You see, her general principles had
clashed with another general principle, to the effect that a person who
feels deep and strong love inevitably desires that love to endure, and
cannot but suffer to see it preyed upon and destroyed.

Let us first consider the question, just what are the true and proper
implications of monogamous love? The Roman Catholic church advocates
"monogamy," and understands thereby that a man and woman pledge
themselves "till death do us part," and if either of them cancels this
arrangement it is adultery and mortal sin. I hope that none of my
readers understands by "monogamy" any such system of spiritual
strangulation. My own idea is rather what some churchman has
sarcastically described by the term "progressive polygamy." I believe
that a man and woman should pledge their faith in love, and should keep
that faith, and endeavor with all their best energies to make a success
of it; they should strive each to understand the other's needs, and
unselfishly to fulfill them, within the limits of fair play. But if,
after such an effort has been truly made, it becomes clear that the
union does not mean health and happiness for one of the parties, that
party has a right to withdraw from it, and for any government or church
or other power to deny that right is both folly and cruelty.

Now, on the basis of this definition of monogamy--or, if you prefer, of
progressive polygamy--we are in position to say what we think about
jealousy. If two people pledge their faith, and one breaks it, and the
other complains, we do not call that jealousy, but just common decency.
Neither do we call it jealousy if one expects the other to avoid the
appearance of guilt; for love is a serious thing, not to be played with,
and I think that a person who truly loves will do everything possible to
make clear to the beloved that he is keeping and means to keep the
plighted faith.

You may say that I am using words arbitrarily, in endeavoring thus to
distinguish between justifiable and unjustifiable jealousy, and calling
the former by some other name. It does not make much difference about
words, provided I make clear my meaning. I could point out a whole
string of words which have good meanings and bad meanings, and cannot be
discussed without preliminary explanations and distinctions; religion,
for example, and morality, and aristocracy, and justice, to name only a
few. Most people's thinking about marriage and love has been made like
soup in a cheap restaurant, by dumping in all kinds of scraps and
notions from such opposite poles of human thought as Christian monkery
and Renaissance license, absurdly called "romance." So before you can do
any thinking about a problem like jealousy, you have to agree to use the
word to mean something definite, whether good or bad.

We shall take jealousy as a "bad" word, and use it to mean the setting
up, by a man or woman, of some claim to the love of another person,
which claim cannot be justified in the court of reason and fair play.
This includes, in the first place, all claims based upon a courtship,
not ratified by marriage. It is to the interest of society and the race
that men and women should be free to investigate persons of the other
sex, and to experiment with the affections before pledges of marriage
are made. If sensible customs of love and just laws of marriage were
made, there would be no excuse for a woman's giving herself to a man
before marriage; she should be taught not to do it, and then if she does
it, the risk is her own, and the disgusting perversion of venality and
greed known as the "breach of promise suit" should be unknown in our
law. The young should be taught that it is the other person's right to
change his mind and withdraw at any time before marriage; whatever pains
and pangs this may cause must be borne in silence.

The second kind of jealousy is that which seeks to keep in the marriage
bond a person who is not happy in it and has asked to be released. The
law sanctions this kind of cowardly selfishness, which manifests itself
every day on the front pages of our newspapers--a spectacle of monstrous
and loathsome passions unleashed and even glorified. Husbands set the
bloodhounds of the law after wives who have fled with some other man,
and send the man to a cell, and drag the woman back to a loveless home.
Wives engage private detectives, and trail their husbands to some "love
nest," and then ensue long public wrangles, with washing of filthy
linen, and the matter is settled by a "separation." The virtuous wife,
who may have driven the man away by neglect or vanity or stupidity, is
granted a share of his earnings for the balance of her life; and two
more people are added to the millions who are denied sexual happiness
under the law, and are thereby impelled to live as law violators.

For this there is only one remedy conceivable. We have banned
cannibalism and slavery and piracy and duelling, and we must ban one
more ancient and cruel form of human oppression, the effort to hold
people in the bonds of sex by any other power save that of love. I am
aware that the reactionaries who read this book will take this sentence
out of its context and quote it to prove that I am a "free lover." I
shall be sorry to have that done, but even so, I was not willing to live
in slavery myself, and I am not willing to advocate it for others. I am
aware that there are degenerate and defective individuals, and that we
have to make special provision for them, as I shall presently set forth;
but the average, normal human being must be free to decide what is love
for him, and what is happiness for him. Every person in the world will
have to deny himself the right to demand love where love is not freely
given, and all lovers in the world will have to hold themselves ready to
let the loved one go if and when the loved one demands it. I am aware
that this is a hard saying, and a hard duty, but it is one that life
lays upon us, and one that there is no escaping.




CHAPTER XLVI

THE PROBLEM OF DIVORCE

     (Defends divorce as a protection to monogamous love, and one of the
     means of preventing infidelity and prostitution.)


You will hear sermons and read newspaper editorials about the "divorce
evil," and you will find that to the preacher or editor this "evil"
consists of the fact that more and more people are refusing to stay
unhappily married. It does not interest these moralizers if the
statistics show that it is women who are getting most of the divorces,
and that the meaning of the phenomenon is that women are refusing to
continue living with drunken and dissolute men. To the clergy, the
breaking of a marriage is an evil per se, and regardless of
circumstances. They know this because God has told them so, and in the
name of God they seek to keep people tied in sex unions which have come
to mean loathing instead of love.

Now, I will assert it as a mathematical certainty that a considerable
percentage of marriages must fail. It is essential to progress that
human beings should grow, both mentally and spiritually, and manifestly
they cannot all grow in the same way. If they grow differently, must
they not sometimes lose the power to make each other happy in the
marital bonds? Who does not know the man who masters life and becomes a
vital force, while his wife remains dull and empty? If such a man
changes wives, the world in general denounces him as a selfish beast;
but the world does not know nor does it care about those thousands of
men who, not caring to be branded as selfish beasts, fulfill the needs
of their lives by keeping mistresses in secret.

I knew a certain country school teacher, one of the most narrowly
conventional young women imaginable, who was engaged to a middle-aged
business man. He went to New York on a business trip, and stayed a
couple of months, and wrote her that he had met some Anarchists, and had
discovered that all he had read about them in the newspapers was false,
and that they were the true and pure idealists to whom the rest of his
life must be devoted. The young lady was horrified; nor was she any
happier when she came to New York and met her fiancé's new friends. She
ought in common sense to have broken the engagement; but she was in
love, and she married, as many another fool woman does, with the idea of
"reforming" the man. She failed, and was utterly and unspeakably
wretched.

I know another man, a conservative capitalist of narrow and aggressive
temper, whose wife turned into an ardent Bolshevik. The man thinks that
all Bolsheviks should be shut up in jail for life, while the wife is
equally certain that all jails should be razed to the ground and all
Bolsheviks placed in control of the government. These two people have
got to a point where they cannot sit down to the breakfast table without
flying into a quarrel. I know another case of a modern scientist, an
agnostic, whose wife, a half-educated, sentimental woman, took to
dabbling in mysticism, and drove him wild by setting up an image of
Buddha in her bedroom, and consorting with "swamis" in long yellow
robes. I know another whose wife turned into an ultra-pious Catholic,
and turned over the care of his domestic life to a priest. Is it not
obvious that the only possible solution of such problems lies in
divorce? Unless, indeed, we are all of us going to turn over the care of
our domestic lives to the priests!

Our grandfathers and grandmothers believed one thing, and believed the
same thing when they were seventy as when they were twenty; so it was
possible for them to dwell in domestic security and permanence till
death did them part. But we are learning to change our minds; and
whether what we believe is better or worse than what our ancestors
believed, at least it is different. Also we are coming to take what we
believe with more seriousness; the intellectual life means more and more
to us, and it becomes harder and harder for us to find sexual and
domestic happiness with a partner who does not share our convictions,
but, on the contrary, may be contributing to the campaign funds of the
opposition party.

I do not mean by this that people should get a divorce as soon as they
find they differ about some intellectual idea; on the contrary, I have
advocated that they should do everything possible to understand and to
tolerate each other. But it is a fact that intellectual convictions are
the raw material out of which characters and lives are made, and it is
inevitable that some characters and lives that fit quite well at twenty
should fit very badly at thirty or forty. When we refuse divorce under
such circumstances we are not fostering marriage, as we fondly imagine;
we are really fostering adultery. It is a fact that not one person in
ten who is held by legal or social force in an unhappy sex union will
refrain from seeking satisfaction outside; and because these outside
satisfactions are disgraceful, and in some cases criminal, they seldom
have any permanence. Therefore it follows that "strict" divorce laws,
such as the clerical propaganda urges upon us, are in reality laws for
the promotion of fornication and prostitution.

There is a short story by Edith Wharton, in which the "divorce evil" is
exhibited to us in its naked horror; the story called "The Other Two,"
in the volume "The Descent of Man." A society woman has been divorced
twice and married three times, and by an ingenious set of circumstances
the woman and all three of the men are brought into the same
drawing-room at the same time. Just imagine, if you can, such an
excruciating situation: a woman, her husband, and two men who used to be
her husbands, all compelled to meet together and think of something to
say! I cite this story because it is a perfect illustration of the
extent to which the "divorce problem" is a problem of our lack of sense.
Mrs. Wharton will, I fear, consider me a very vulgar person if I assert
that there is absolutely no reason whatever why any of those four people
in her story should have had a moment's discomfort of mind, except that
they thought there was. There is absolutely nothing to prevent a man and
woman who used to be married from meeting socially and being decent to
each other, or to prevent two men from being decent to each other under
such circumstances. I would not say that they should choose to be
intimate friends--though even that may be possible occasionally.

I know, because I have seen it happen. In Holland I met a certain
eminent novelist and poet, a great and lovable man. I visited his home,
and met his wife and two little children, and saw a man and woman living
in domestic happiness. The man had also two grown sons, and after a few
days he remarked that he would like me to meet the mother of these young
men. We went for a walk of a mile or so, and met a lady who lived in a
small house by herself, and who received us with a friendly welcome and
talked with us for a couple of hours about music and books and art. This
lady had been the writer's wife for ten years or so, and there had been
a terrible uproar when they voluntarily parted. But they had refused to
pay attention to this uproar; they understood why they did not wish to
remain husband and wife any longer, but they did not consider it
necessary to quarrel about it, nor even to break off the friendship
which their common interests made possible. The two women in the case
were not intimate, I gathered, but they frequently met at the homes of
others, and found no difficulty in being friendly. I suggest to Mrs.
Wharton that this story is at least as interesting as the one she has
told; but I fear she will not care to write it, because apparently she
considers it necessary that people who are well bred and refined should
be the helpless victims of destructive manias.




CHAPTER XLVII

THE RESTRICTION OF DIVORCE

     (Discusses the circumstances under which society has the right to
     forbid divorce, or to impose limitations upon it.)


We have quoted the old maxim, "Marry in haste and repent at leisure,"
and we suggested that parents and guardians should have the right to ask
the young to wait before marriage, and make certain of the state of
their hearts. We have now the same advice to give concerning divorce;
the same claim to enter on behalf of society--that it has and should
assert the right to ask people to delay and think carefully before
breaking up a marriage.

What interest has society in the restriction of divorce? What affair is
it of any other person if I choose to get a divorce and marry a new wife
once a month? There are many reasons, not in any way based upon
religious superstition or conventional prejudice. In the first place,
there are or may be children, and society should try to preserve for
every child a home with a father and a mother in it. Second, there are
property rights, of which every marriage is a tangle, and the settlement
of which the law should always oversee. Third, there is the question of
venereal disease, which society has an unquestionable right to keep
down, by every reasonable restriction upon sexual promiscuity. And
finally, there is the respect which all men and women owe to love. It
seems to me that society has the same right to protect love against
extreme outrage, as it has to forbid indecent exposure of the person on
the street.
