ready. I had no idea she could go so fast." 

"Know anything about ships?" 

"This kind. I have seen many of them. Once a 
sick sailor drew three pictures for me and set down 
every stay and brace and sail — square-rigger, 
schooner, and sloop. But this is the first time I ever 
sailed on any one of the three. And I find I can't tell 
one stay from another!" 

McClintock laughed. "You can't go to sea with 
a book of rules. The Tigress is second-hand, built 
for coast-trade. There used to be an after deck- 
house and a shallow well for the wheel; but I changed 
that. Wanted a clean sweep for elbow-room. Of 
course I ought to have some lights over the saloon; 
but by leaving all the cabin doors open in the day- 
time, there's plenty of daylight. She's not for plea- 
sure, but for work. Some day I'm going to paint 
her; but that will be when I've retired." 

Ruth laughed. "The doctor said something about 
that." 



 

''I'll tell you really why I keep her in peeled paint. 
Natives are queer. I have established a fine trade. 
She is known everywhere within the radius of five 
hundred miles. But if I painted her as I'd like to> 
the natives would instantly distrust me; and I'd 
have to build up confidence all over again. I did not 
know you spoke Kanaka ' he broke off. 

''So the wheelman told you? I've always spoken 
it, though I can neither read nor write it." 

"I never heard of anybody who coidd," declared 
McClintock.  'I have had Kanakas who could read 
and write in Dutch, and English, though. The 
Kanaka — which means man —  is a Sandwich Islander, 
with a Malayan base. He's the only native I trust 
in these parts. My boys are all Sandwich Island 
bom. I wouldn't trust a Malay, not if he were 
reared in the Vatican." 

Spurlock, who was absorbing this talk thirstily, 
laughed. 

"What's that?" demanded McClintock. 

"The idea of a Malay, bom Mahometan, being 
reared in the Vatican, hit me as funny." 

"It woidd be funny —  just as a trustworthy Malay 
would be funny. I have a hundred of them —  mixed 
blood — on my island, and they are always rooking me. 
But none ever puts his foot on this boat. To- 
morrow we'll raise our first island. And from then 
on we'll see them, port and starboard, to the end of 
the voyage. I've opened the case of books. They're 



dlO The Ragged Edge 

on the forward lounge in the saloon. Take your pick, 
Mrs. Spurlock ' 

The shock of hearing this title pronounced was 
equally distributed between Ruth and her husband; 
but it aroused two absolutely different emotions. 
There came to Spurlock the recurrence of the grim 
resolution of what he had set out to do: that 
comradeship was all he might ever give this ex- 
quisite creature; for she was exquisite, and in a 
way she dominated this picture of sea and sky 
and sail. Ruth's emotion was a primitive joy: 
she was essential in this man's life, and she would 
always be happy because he would always be need- 
ing her. 

' You will be wanting your broth, Hoddy," she 
said. "I'll fetch it." 

She made the companion without touching stay 
or rail, which necessitated a fine sense of balance, 
for there was a growing vigour to the wind and a 
corresponding lift to the roll of the sea. The old- 
fashioned dress, with its series of ruffles and printed 
flowers, ballooned treacherously, revealing her well- 
turned leg in silk stockings, as it snapped against 
her body as a mould. 

Silk. In Singapore that had been her only dis- 
sipation: a dozen pairs of silk stockings. She did not 
question or analyze the craving; she took the plunge 
joyously. It was the first expression of the mother's 
blood. Woman's love of silk is not set by fashion; 



 

it is bred in the bone; and somewhere, somehow, a 
woman will have her bit of silk. 

McClintock watched her interestedly until her 
golden head vanished below; then, with tolerant pity, 
he looked down at Spurlock, who had closed his eyes. 
She would always be waiting upon this boy, he 
mused. Proper enough now, when he could not help 
himself, but the habit would be formed; and when he 
was strong again it would become the normal rdle, 
hers to give and his to receive. He wondered if the 
young fool had any idea of what he had drawn in 
this tragic lottery called marriage. Probably hadn't. 
As for that, what man ever had? 

"That's a remarkable young woman," he offered, 
merely to note what effect it would have. 

Spurlock looked up. "She's glorious!" He knew 
that he must hoodwink this keen-eyed Scot, even as 
he must hoodwink everybody: publicly, the devoted 
husband; privately, the celibate. He was continually 
dramatizing the future, anticipating the singular rdle 
he had elected to play. He saw it in book-covers, on 
the stage. "Did you ever see the like of her?" 

"No," answered McClintock, gravely. "I wonder 
how she picked up Kanaka? On her island they 
don't talk Kanaka lingo." 

Her island! How well he knew it, thought Spur- 
lock, for all he lacked the name and whereabouts! 
Suddenly a new thought arose and buffeted him. 
How little he knew about Ruth —  the background 





from which she had sprung! He knew that her 
father was a missioner, that her mother was dead, 
that she had been bom on this island, and that» at the 
time of his collapse, she had been on the way to an 
amit in the States. But what did he know beyond 
these facts? Nothing, clearly. Oh, yes; of Ruth 
herself he knew much; but the more he mulled over 
what he knew, the deeper grew his chagrin. The 
real Ruth was as completely hidden as though she 
stood behind the walls of Agra Fort. But after all, 
what did it matter whether she had secrets or not? 
To him she was not a woman but a symbol; and one 
did not investigate the antecedents of symbols. 

  She tells me there was a Kanaka cook; been in 
the family as long as she can remember.'' 

"I see. I deal with the Malay mostly; but twice 
a year I visit islands occupied by the true blacks, 
recently cured of their ancient taste for long-pig." 

"What's that?" 

"Think it over," said McClintock, grimly. 

" Good Lord ! — cannibals? " 

"Aye. Someday I'll take you down there and have 
them rig up the coconut dance for you. The Malays 
have one, too, but it's a rank imitation, totii-toms 
and all. But what I want to get at is this. If your 
wife can coach you a bit in native lingo, it will help 
all round. I have two Malay clerks in the store; 
but I'm obliged to have a white man to watch over 
them, or they'd clean me out. Single pearls —  Lord 



 

knows where they come from! —  are always turning 
up, some of them of fine lustre; but I never set eyes 
on them. My boys buy them with beads or bolts of 
calico of mine. They steal over to Copeley's at 
ni t and dispose of the pearl for cash. That's how I 
finally got wind of it. Primarily your job will be to 
balance the stores against the influx of coconut and 
keep an eye on these boys. There'll be busy days 
and idle. Everything goes —  the copra for oil, the 
fibre of the husk for rope, and the shell for carbon. 
If you fall upon a good pearl, buy it in barter and 
pay me out of your salary." 

  Pearls!" 

'' Sounds romantic, eh? Well, forty years ago the 
pearl game hereabouts was romantic; but there's only 
one real pearl region left — the Persian Gulf. In these 
waters the shell has about given out. Still, they bob 
up occasionally. I need a white man, if only to talk 
to; and it will be a god send to talk to someone of 
your intelligence. The doctor said you wrote." 

"Trymgto." 

'' Well, you'll have lots of time down there." 

Here Ruth returned with the broth; and McClin- 
tock strode aft, convinced that he was going to have 
something far more interesting than books to read. 

Spurlock stared at Ruth across the rim of his bowl. 
He was vaguely uneasy; he knew not what about. 
Here was the same Ruth who had left him a few 
minutes since: the same outwardly; and yet.     t 





On the ninth day Spurlock was up and about   tliat 
is, he was strong enough to walk alone, {roro. the 
companicm to his chair, to lean upon the rail  p Jben 
the chair grew irksome, to join Ruth and his em- 
ployer at lunch and dinner: strong enough to surgixe  
about books, music, paintings. He was, in tsLGt.  
quite eager to go on living. 

Ruth drank in these intellectual controversies  
storing away facts. What she admired in her man 
was his resolute defense of his opinions. McClintook 
could not browbeat him, storm as he might. But 
whenever the storm grew dangerous, either Mc- 
Clintock or Spurlock broke into saving lau ter. 

McClintock would bang his fist upon the table. 
''I wouldn't give a betel-nut for a man who wouldn't 
stick to his guns, if he believed himself in the right. 
We'll have some fun down there at my place, Spur- 
lock; but we'll probably bore your wife to death ' 

"Oh, no!" Ruth protested. "I have so much to 
learn." 

"Aye," said McClintock, in a tone so peculiar that 
it sent Spurlock's glance to his plate. 

"All my life I've dreamed of something like this,'' 
he said, divertingly, with a gesture which included 
the yacht. "These islands that come out of no- 
where, like transparent amethyst, that deepen to 
sapphire, and then become thickly green! And al- 
ways the white coral sand rimming them — emeralds 
set in pearls!" 




tlu " 'A thing of beauty is a joy forever !' '' quoted Mc- 
tt Clintock. "But I like Bobby Bums best. He's 
ry neighbourly; he has a jingle for every ache and joy 
I've had ' 

So Ruth heard about the poets; she became toler- 
ably familiar with the exploits of that engaging 
ruffian Cellini; she heard of the pathetic deafness of 
Beethoven; she was thrilled, saddened, exhilarated; 
and on the evening of the twelfth day she made bold 
to enter the talk. 

'' There is something in The Tale of Two Cities that 
is wonderful," she said. 

'' That's a fine tale," said Spurlock. "The end is 
the most beautiful in English literature. Tt is a far, 
far better thing that I do, than I have ever done; it is 
a far, far better rest that I go to, than I have ever 
known.' That has always haunted me." 

"I liked that, too," she replied; "but it wasn't that 
I had in mind. Here it i&" She opened the book 
which she had brought to the table. " 'A wonderful 
fact to reflect upon, that every human creature is 
constituted to be that profound secret and mystery 
to every other. A solemn consideration, when I 
enter a great city at night, that every one of those 
darkly clustered houses encloses its own secret; that 
every room in every one of them encloses its own 
secret; that every beating heart in the hundreds of 
thousands of breasts there, is, in some of its imagia- 
ings, a secret to the heart nearest it!'   »   It 



