"You must pray yourself, Mr. Farringford," said she, when she had
finished. "You must feel the need of help, and then seek it earnestly
and devoutly."
"I thank you, madam, for all your kindness. I will try to do better.
I will try to pray," said he. "Could you give me some more of the
medicine I took last night and this morning? It helped me very much."
"Certainly I can. I will do everything in the world for you, if you
will only stay here and try to get well."
She left the room, and went into the kitchen to prepare the soothing
drinks which the excited nerves of the patient demanded.
"I will reform, Philip. I will follow this good lady's advice. Give me
your hand, my son," said my father.
"O, if you only would, father! This world would be full of happiness
for us then. We could find my mother, and be reunited forever."
"God helping me, I will never drink another drop of liquor," said he,
solemnly lifting up his eyes, as I held his trembling hand.
Mrs. Greenough opportunely returned with the medicines, and with a
folded paper in her hand. As my father took his potion, she opened the
paper, which was a temperance pledge, on which was subscribed the name
of "Amos Greenough."
"This is the pledge my husband signed, with trembling hand, ten years
before his death. It was salvation to him here--and hereafter. Will you
add your name to it, Mr. Farringford?" said Mrs. Greenough.
"I will."
"Not unless you are solemnly resolved, with the help of God, to keep
your promise," she added. "Not unless you are willing to work, and
struggle, and pray for your own salvation."
  [Illustration: PHILS FATHER SIGNS THE PLEDGE. Page 193.]
"I am willing; and I feel a hope, even now, madam, that God has heard
your prayer for a poor wretch like me."
"Sign, then; and God bless you, and enable you to keep this solemn
covenant with him."
She took the writing materials from the bureau, and my father, with
trembling hand, wrote his name upon the pledge.
"May God enable me to keep it!" said he, fervently, as he completed the
flourish beneath the signature.
"Amen!" ejaculated Mrs. Greenough. "May you be as faithful as he was
whose name is on the paper with you."
"Stimulated by his example, and by your kindness, I trust I shall be,"
said my father.
Mrs. Greenough then provided a light supper for him, of which he
partook, and very soon retired. I told my kind landlady that I had
recovered my money, and should now be able to pay my father's board for
a time. She had not thought of that matter, and would be glad to take
care of him for nothing if she could only save him. As I went to bed I
could not but congratulate myself upon finding such a kind and devoted
friend as she had proved to be.
  CHAPTER XVII.
  IN WHICH PHIL MEETS THE LAST OF THE ROCKWOODS.
The next day my father was quite sick; but Mrs. Greenough was an angel
at his bedside, and I went to my work as usual. I was filled with hope
that the wanderer might yet be reclaimed. Though I longed intensely
to see my mother, I think if I had known she was in the city I should
not have sought to find her, for I desired to carry to her the joyful
news of the salvation of my father. When I could say that he was no
longer a drunkard, I should be glad to meet her with this intelligence
upon my lips. But she was wandering in distant lands. Plenty and
luxury surrounded her, while I was struggling to earn my daily bread,
and to take care of my father. The fact that she was in affluence was
consoling to me, and I was the more willing to cling to my father in
his infirmities.
When I went to work that morning I was introduced to a plane and a
plank--to test my ability, I supposed, for the men had not yet finished
shingling the roof. A plank partition was to be put up in order to make
a counting-room in one corner of the storehouse. I had never in my life
seen a plane till I came to St. Louis; but I had carefully observed the
instrument and its uses. Conant told me how to handle it with ease and
effect, and instructed me in setting the iron, so as to make it cut
more or less deeply, according to the work to be done.
It was hard work, harder than boarding or shingling; but I made it
unnecessarily severe for the first hour, and though it was a cool day,
the sweat poured off me in big drops. I had not yet got the hang of the
thing; but when Conant came from the roof for a bundle of shingles,
he looked in to see how I succeeded. A little more instruction from
him put me on the right track, and I worked much easier; in a word,
I learned to use the plane. After removing the rough side from the
plank, it was a relief to handle the smoothing-plane, and I polished
off the wood to my own satisfaction and that of my employer.
In the afternoon I was sent upon the roof again to lay shingles, and
we finished that part of the job before night. At six o'clock all the
hands were paid off for their week's work. I felt considerable interest
in this performance. I had worked three days, and at the price agreed
upon I was entitled to a dollar and a half.
"I shall not want you any longer, Blair," said Mr. Clinch to the young
fellow of whom Conant had spoken so disparagingly to me. "I owe you six
dollars; here is the amount."
"You don't want me any longer?" replied Blair, as he took his wages.
"No."
"Why not?"
"You don't suit me. I can't afford to pay you six dollars a week for
what you do," answered the employer, bluntly. "You don't understand the
business, and you don't try to learn it. That boy there does twice as
much work in a day as you do."
I did not think it right to hear any more of this conversation, and
moved away. Though I was pleased with the compliment, I was sorry to
have it bestowed upon me at the expense or to the disparagement of
another. I walked around the building, but I was soon sent for to
receive my wages.
"Phil, you have done remarkably well," said Mr. Clinch; "and I want to
use you well. You handle a plane well for one who never saw one before,
