with a smile. 
" I suppose it is possible," said Ellen, — " but — " 
" But lovely as this world is, Ellie, man has filled it with 
sin, and sin has everywhere brought its punishment, and 
under the weight of both the earth groans. There will be 
no sin there ; sorrow and sighing shall flee away ; love to 
each other and love to their blessed King will fill all hearts, 
and his presence will be with them. Don't you see that 
even if that world shall be in itself no better than this, it will 
yet be far, far more lovely than this can ever be with the 
shadow of sin upon it ?" 
" yes !" said Ellen. " I know whenever I feel wrong 
in any way nothing seems pretty or pleasant to me, or not 
half so much." 
" Very well," said John, — " I see you understand me. I 
like to think of that land, Ellen, — very much." 
" Mr. John," said Ellen, — " don't you think people will 
know each other again ?" 
" Those that love each other here ? — I have no doubt of it." 
Before either John or Ellen had broken the long musing fit 
that followed these words, they were joined by Alice. Her 
head was better ; and taking her place in the window-seat, 
the talk began again, between the brother and sister now ; 
Ellen too happy to sit with them and listen. They talked 
of that land again, of the happy company preparing for it ; 
of their dead mother, but not much of her ; of the glory of 
their King, and the joy of his service, even here ; — till thoughts 
grew too strong for words, and silence again stole upon the 
group. The short winter day came to an end ; the sunhght 
faded away into moonlight. Ko shadows lay now on the 
lawn ; and from where she sat Ellen could see the great 
hemlock all silvered with the moonlight which began to steal 
in at the window. It was very, very beautiful ; — yet she 
could think now without sorrow that all this should come to 
an end ; because of that new heaven and new earth wherein 
righteousness should dwell. 
" We have eaten up all your grapes, Ellie," said Alice, — 
or rather I have, for John didn't help me much. I think I 
never ate so sweet grapes in my life ; John said the reason 
was because eveiy one tasted of you." 
" I am very glad," said Ellen laughing. 
" There is no evil without some good," Alice went on ; — 
" except for my headache John would not have held my head 
by the hour as he did ; and you couldn't have given me the 
pleasure you did, Ellie. Oh Jack ! — there has been many a 
day lately when I would gladly have had a headache for the 
power of laying my head on your shoulder !" 
" And if mamma had not gone away I should never have 
known you," said Ellen. " I wish she never had gone, but 
I am very, very glad for this !" 
She had kneeled upon the window-seat and clasped Alice 
round the neck, just as they were called to tea. The conversation had banished every disagreeable feeling from Ellen's 
mind. She met her companions in the drawing-room almost 
forgetting that she had any cause of complaint against them. 
And this appeared when in the course of the evening it came 
in her way to perform some little office of pohteness for 
Marianne. It was done with the gracefulness that could 
only come from a spirit entirely free from ungraceful feelings. 
The children felt it, and for the time were shamed into better 
behavior. The evening passed pleasantly, and Ellen went 
to bed very happy. 
CHAPTER XXXL 
The next day it happened that the young people were 
amusing themselves with talking in a room where John 
Humphreys, walking up and down, was amusing himself 
with thinkino^. In the course of his walk he beoan to find 
their amusement rather disturbing to his. The children were 
all grouped closely round Margaret Dunscombe, who was 
entertaining them with a long and very detailed account of 
a wedding and great party at Randolph which she had had 
the happiness of attending. Eagerly fighting her battles 
over again, and pleased with the rapt attention of her hearers, 
the speaker forgot herself and raised her voice much more 
than she meant to do. As every turn of his walk brought 
John near, there came to his ears sufficient bits and scraps of 
Margaret's story to give him a very fair sample of the whole ; 
and he was sorry to see Ellen among the rest, and as the 
rest, hanging upon her lips and drinking in what seemed to 
him to be very poor nonsense. " Her gown was all blue 
satin, trimmed here, — and so, — you know, with the most 
exqmsite lace, as deep as that, — and on the shoulders and 
here — you know, it was looped up with the most lovely 
bunches of" — here John lost the sense. When he came 
near again she had got upon a different topic — " Miss Simmons," says I, " what did you do that for?" " Why," says 
she, how could I help it ? I saw Mr. Pyne coming, and 
I thought I'd get behind you, and so ." The next time 
the speaker was saying with great animation, " And lo, and 
behold, when I was in the midst of all my pleasure, up comes 
a little gentleman of about his dimensions ." He had 
not taken many turns when he saw that Margaret's nonsense" 
was branching out right and left into worse than nonsense. 
" Ellen !" said he suddenly, — " I want you in the library." 
" My conscience !" said Margaret as he left the room, — 
" King John the Second, and no less." 
" Don't go on till I come back," said Ellen ; " I won't be 
three minutes ; just wait for me." 
She found John seated at one of the tables in the library, 
sharpening a pencil. 
" Ellen," said he in his usual manner, — I want you to do 
something for me." 
She waited eagerly to hear what, but instead of telling her 
he took a piece of drawing paper and began to sketch something. Ellen stood by, wondering and impatient to the last 
degree ; not caring however to show her impatience, though 
her very feet were twitching to run back to her companions. 
" Ellen," said John as he finished the old stump of a tree 
with one branch left on it, and a little bit of ground at the 
bottom, " did you ever try your hand at drawing ?" 
No," said Ellen. 
" Then sit down here," said he rising from his chair, 
" and let me see what you can make of that." 
"But I don't know how," said Ellen. 
I will teach you. There is a piece of paper, and this 
pencil is sharp enough. Is that chair too low for you ?" 
He placed another, and with extreme unwillingness and 
some displeasure Ellen sat down. It was on her tongue to 
ask if another time would not do, but somehow she could not 
get the words out. John showed her how to hold her pencil, 
how to place her paper, where to begin and how to go on ; 
and then went to the other end of the room and took up his 
walk again. Ellen at first felt more inclined to drive her 
pencil through the paper then to make quiet marks upon it. 
However necessity was upon her. She began her work; 
and once fairly begun it grew delightfully interesting. Her 
vexation went off entirely ; she forgot Margaret and hoi 
story ; the wrinkles on the old trunk smoothed those on her 
brow, and those troublesome leaves at the branch end brushed 
away all thoughts of everything else. Her cheeks were burning with intense interest, when the library door burst open 
and the whole tioop of children rushed in ; they wanted 
Ellen for a round game in which all their number were 
needed ; she must come directly. 
" I can't come just yet," said she ; " I must finish this first." 
" Afterwards will just do as well," said George ; — " come 
Ellen, do ! — you can finish it afterwards." 
No I can't," said Ellen, — " I can't leave it till it's done. 
Why I thought Mr. John was here ! I didn't see him go out. 
I'll come in a little while." 
" Did he set you about that pracious piece of business ?" 
said William. 
" Yes." 
" I declare," said Margaret, — " he's fitter to be the Grand 
Turk than any one else I know of." 
" I don't know who the Grand Turk is," said Ellen. 
" I'll tell you," said William, putting his mouth close to 
her ear, and speaking in a disagreeable loud whisper, — " it's 
the biggest gobbler in the yard." 
Aint you ashamed William !" cried little Ellen Chauncey. 
" That's it exactly," said Margaret, — always strutting 
about." 
" He isn't a bit," said Ellen veiy angry ; " I've seen peo- 
ple a great deal more like gobblers than he is." 
" Well," said William, reddening in his turn, " I had 
rather at any rate be a good turkey gobbler than one of those 
outlandish birds that have an appetite for stones and glass 
and bits of morocco, and such things. Come, let's us leave 
her to do the Grand Turk's bidding. Come Ellen Chauncey — 
you mustn't stay to interrupt her — we want you !" 
They left her alone. Ellen had colored, but WiUiam's 
words did not hit very sore ; since John's talk with her about 
the matter referred to she had thought of it humbly and 
wisely ; it is only pride that makes such fault-finding very hard 
to bear. She was very sorry however that they had fallen out 
again, and that her own passion, as she feared, had been the 
cause. A few tears had to be wiped away before she could see 
exactly how the old tree stood, — then taking up her pencil she 
soon forgot everything in her work. It was finished, and 
with bead now on one side, now on the other, she was look- 
ing at her picture with very great satisfaction, when her 
caught the figure of John standing before her. 
" Is it done ?" said he. 
" It is done," said Ellen smiling, as she rose up to let him 
come. He sat down to look at it. 
 
" It is very well," he said, — " better than I expected, — it 
is very well indeed. Is this your first trial, Ellen ?" 
Yes— the first." 
" You found it pleasant work ?" 
" very ! — very pleasant. I like it dearly." 
" Then I will teach you. This shows you have a taste for 
it, and that is precisely what I wanted to find out. I will 
give you an easier copy next time. I rather expected when 
you sat down," said he, smiling a little, " that the old tree 
would grow a good deal more crooked under your hands than 
I meant it to be." 
Ellen blushed exceedingly. " I do believe, Mr. John," 
said she, stammering, " that you know everything I am 
thinking about." 
" I might do that, Ellen, without being as wise as an oracle. But I do not expect to make any very painful discoveries in that line." 
Ellen thought, if he did not, it would not be her fault. She 
truly repented her momentary anger and hasty speech to 
William. Not that he did not deserve it, or that it was not 
true ; but it was unwise, and had done mischief, and " it was 
not a bit like peacemaking, nor meek at all," Ellen said to 
herself. She had been reading that morning the fifth chapter of Matthew, and it ran in her head, " Blessed are the 
meek," — " Blessed are the peacemakers : for they shall be 
called the children of God." She strove to get back a pleasant feeling toward her young companions, and prayed that 
she might not be angry at anything they should say. She 
was tried again at tea-time. 
Miss Sophia had quitted the table, bidding William hand the 
doughnuts to those who could not reach them. Marianne took 
a great while to make her choice. Her brother grew impatient. 
" Well I hope you have suited yourself," said he. " Come, 
Miss Montgomery, don't you be as long ; my arm is tired. 
Shut your eyes, and then you'll be sure to get the biggest 
one in the basket." 
" No Ellen," said John, who none of the children thought 
was near, — it would be ungenerous — I wouldn't deprive 
Master William of his best arguments." 
What do you mean by my arguments ?" said Wilhaiu 
sharply. 
" General!}'-, those which are the most difficult to take in," 
answered his tormentor with perfect gravity. 
Ellen tried to keep from smiling, but could not ; and otherg 
of the party did not try. William and his sister were enraged, the more because John had said nothing they could 
take hold of, or even repeat. Gilbert made common cause with 
them. 
" I wish I was grown up for once," said William. 
Will you fight rn,e sir ?" asked Gilbert, who was a matter of three years older, and well grown enough. 
His question received no answer, and was repeated. 
" No, sir." 
" Why not sir ?" 
" I am afraid you'd lay me up with a sprained ankle," said 
John, " and I should not get back to Doncaster as quickly as 
I must." 
It is very mean of him," said Gilbert, as John walked 
away, — " I could whip him I know." 
" Who's that ?" said Mr. Howard Marshman. 
"John Humphreys," 
" John Humphreys ! You had better not meddle with him 
my dear fellow. It would be no particular proof of wisdom." 
"Why he is no such great affair," said Gilbert; "he's 
tall enough to be sure, but I don't believe he is heavier than 
I am." 
" You don't know, in the first place, how to judge of the 
size of a perfectly well-made man ; And in the second place 
I was not a match for him a year ago ; so you may judge. — I 
do not know precisely," he went on to the lady he was walk- 
ing with, " what it takes to rouse John Humphreys, but when 
he is roused he seems to me to have strength enough for 
twice his bone and muscle. I have seen him do. curious 
things once or twice !" 
" That quiet Mr. Humphreys ?" 
"Humph!" said Mr. Howard, — "gunpowder is pretty 
quiet stuff so long as it keeps cool." 
The next day another matter happened to disturb Ellen. 
Margaret had received an elegant pair of ear-rings as a Christmas present, and was showing them for the admiration of her 
young friends. Ellen's did not satisfy her. 
" Aint they splendid ?" said she. "Tell the truth now 
Ellen Montgomery, wouldn't you give a great deal if somebody would send you such a pair ?" 
" They are very pretty," said Ellen, but I don't think I 
care much for such things, — I would rather have the money." 
" you avaricious ! — Mr. Marshman !" cried Margaret, as 
the old gentleman was just then passing through the room, 
— " here's Ellen Montgomery says she'd rather have money 
than anything else for her present." 
He did not seem to hear her, and went out without mak- 
ing any reply. 
" O Margaret !" said Ellen, shocked and distressed, — " how 
could you ! how could you ! What will Mr. Marshman think ?" 
Margaret answered she didn't care what he thought. 
Ellen could only hope he had not heard. 
But a day or two after, when neither Ellen nor her friends 
were present, Mr. Marshman asked who it was that had told 
him Ellen Montgomery would like money better than anything else for her New Year's present." 
" It was I, sir," said Margaret. 
" It sounds very unlike her to say so," remarked Mrs. 
Chauncey. 
"Did she say so ?" inquired Mr. Marshman. 
" I understood her so," said Margaret, — " I understood her 
to say she wouldn't care for anything else." 
" I am disappointed in her," said the old gentleman ; " I 
wouldn't have believed it." 
" I do not beheve it," said Mrs. Chauncey quietly ; " there 
has been some mistake." 
It was hard for Ellen now to keep to what she thought 
right. Disagreeable feelings would rise when she remembered the impoliteness, the half sneer, the whole taunt, and 
the real unkindness of several of the young party. She found 
herself ready to be irritated, inclined to dislike the sight of 
those, even wishing to visit some sort of punishment upon 
them. But Christian principle had taken strong hold in 
little Ellen's heart; she fought her evil tempers manfully. 
It was not an easy battle to gain. Ellen found that resentment and pride had roots deep enough to keep her pulling up 
the shoots for a good while. She used to get alone when she 
could, to read a verse, if no more, of her Bible, and pray ; 
she could forgive William and Margaret moro easily then. 
Solitude and darkness saw many a prayer and tear of hers 
that week. As she struggled thus to get rid of sin and to 
be more like what would please God, she grew humble and 
happy. Never was such a struggle carried on by faith in 
him, without .success. And after a time, though a twinge of 
the old feeling might come, it was very slight ; she would 
bid William and Margaret good morning, and join them in 
any enterprise of pleasure or business, with a brow as unclouded as the sun. They however were too conscious of 
having behaved unbecomingly towards their little stranger 
guest to be over fond of her company. For the most part 
she and Ellen Chauncey were left to each other. 
Meanwhile the famous needlebook was in a fair way to be 
finished. Great dismay had at first been excited in the breast 
of the intended giver, by the discovery that Gilbeit had 
consulted what seemed to be a very extraordinary fancy, in 
making the rose a yellow one. Ellen did her best to comfort 
her. She asked Alice, and found there were such things as 
yellow roses, and they were very beautiful too ; and besides 
it would match so nicely the yellow butterfly on the other 
leaf. 
I had rather it wouldn't match !" said Ellen Chauncey ; 
— " and it don't match the rose-colored silk besides. Are the 
yellow roses sweet?" 
" No," said Ellen, — " but this couldn't have been a sweet 
rose at any rate, you know." 
" Oh but," said the other, bursting out into a fresh passion 
of inconsolable tears, — " I wanted it should be the picture of 
a sweet rose ! — And I think he might have put a purple 
butterfly — yellow butterflies are so common ! I had a great 
deal rather have had a purple butterfly and a red rose !" 
What cannot, be cured, however, must be endured. The 
tears were dried, in course of time, and the needlebook with 
its yellow pictures and pink edges was very neatly finished. 
Ellen had been busy too on her own account. Alice had got 
a piece -of fine hnen for her from Aliss Sophia; the collar for 
Mr. Van Brunt had been cut out, and Ellen with great pleasure had made it. The stitching, the strings, and the very 
button-hole, after infinite pains, were all finished by Thuisday 
night. She had also made a needlecase for Alice, not of so 
much pretension as the other one ; this was green morocco 
lined with crimson satin ; no leaves, but ribbon stitched in to 
hold papers of needles, and a place for a bodkin. Ellen 
worked very bard at this ; it was made with the extremest 
care, and made beautifully. Ellen Chauncey admired it very 
much, and anew lamented the uncouth variety of colors in 
her own. It was a grave question whether pink oi- yellow 
ribbons should be used for the latter ; Ellen Montgomery 
recommended pink, she herself inclined to yellow ; and tired 
of doubting, at last resolved to split the difference and put one 
string of each color. Ellen thought that did not mend matters, but wisely kept her thoughts to herself. Besides the 
needlecase for Alice, she had snatched the time whenever 
she could get away from Ellen Chauncey to work at something for her. She had begged Alice's advice and help ; and 
between them, out of Ellen's scraps of morocco and silk, they 
had manufactured a little bag of all the colors of the rainbow, 
and very pretty and tasteful withal. Ellen thought it a chef- 
d'oeuvre, and was unbounded in her admiration. It lay folded 
up in white paper in a locked drawer ready for New Year's 
day. In addition to all these pieces of business John had 
begun to give her drawing lessons, according to his promise. 
These became Ellen's delight. She would willingly have 
spent much more time upon them than he would allow 
her. It was the most loved employment of the day. 
Her teacher's skill was not greater than the perfect gen- 
tleness and kindness with which he tauo-ht. Ellen thought 
of Mr. Howard's speech about gunpowder, — she could not 
understand it. 
" What is your conclusion on the whole ?" asked John one 
day, as he stood beside her mending a pencil. 
" Why," said Ellen, laughing and blushing, — " how could 
you guess what I was thinking about, Mr. John ?" 
" Not very difficult, when you are eyeing me so hard." 
" I was thinking," said Ellen, — " I don't know whether it 
IS right in me to tell it — because somebody said you" — 
- Well ?" 
" Were like gunpowder." 
" Very kind of somebody ! And so you have been in 
doubt of an explosion ?" 
" No — I don't know — I wondered what he meant." 
Never believe what you hear said of people, Ellen; judge 
for yourself. Look here — that house has suffered from a 
severe gale of wind, I should think — all the uprights are 
slanting off to the right — can't you set it up straight?" 
Ellen laughed at the tumble-down condition of her house 
as thus pointed out to her, and set about reforming it. 
It was Thursday afternoon that Alice and Ellen were left 
alone in the library, several of the family having been called 
out to receive some visitors ; Alice had excused herself, and 
Ellen as soon as they were gone nestled up to her side. 
" How pleasant it is to be alone together, dear AHce ! — I 
don't have you even at night now. 
"It is very pleasant, dear Ellie ! Home will not look disagreeable again, will it? even after all our gayety here." 
" No indeed ! — at least your home won't — I don't know 
what mine will. Oh me ! I had almost forgotten aunt Fortune !— " 
" Never mind, dear Ellie ! You and I have each some- 
thing to bear — we must be brave and bear it manfully. 
There is a friend that sticketh closer than a brother, you 
know. We sha'n't be unhappy if we do our duty and love 
Him." 
" How soon is Mr. John going away ?" 
" Not for all next week. And so long as he stays, I do 
not mean that you shall leave me." 
Ellen cried for joy. 
" I can manage it with Miss Fortune I know," said Alice. 
" These fine drawing lessons must not be interrupted. John 
is very much pleased with your performances." 
" Is he ?" said Ellen delighted ; — " I have taken all the pains 
I could." 
That is the sure way to success, Ellie. But, Ellie, I 
want to ask you about something. What was that you said 
to Margaret Dunscombe about wanting money for a New 
Year's present ?" 
" You know it then !" cried Ellen, starting up. " I'm 
so glad ! I wanted to speak to you about it so I didn't know 
what to do, and I thought I oughtn't to. What shall I do 
about it, dear Alice ? How did you know ? George said 
you were not there." 
Mrs. Chauncey told me ; she thought there had been 
some mistake, or something wrong ; — how was it, Ellen ?" 
" Why," said Ellen, " she was showing us her ear-rings, 
and asking us what we thought of them, and she asked me 
if I wouldn't like to have such a pair ; and I thought I would 
a great deal rather have the money they cost, to buy other 
things with, you know, that I would like better ; and I said 
so ; "and just then Mr, Marshman came in, and she called out 
to him, loud, that I wanted money for a present, or would 
like it better than anything else, or something like that. O, 
Alice, how I felt! I was frightened ; — but then I hoped Mr. 
Marshman did not hear her, for he did not say anything ; but 
the next day George told me all about what she had been 
saying in there, and O, it made me so unhappy !" said poor 
Ellen, looking very dismal. " What will Mr. Marshman 
think of me ? he will think I expected a present, and I never 
dreamed of such a thing ! it makes me ashamed to speak of 
it even ; and I cant bear he should think so — I can't bear it ! 
What shall I do, dear Alice ?" 
" I don't know what you can do, dear EHie, but be patient. 
Mr. Marsliman vfill not think anything very hard of you, I 
dare say." 
" But I think he does already ; he hasn't kissed me since 
that as he did before ; I know he does, and I dont know what 
to do. How could Margaret say that ! oh how could she ! 
it was very unkind. — What can I do ?" said Ellen again, after 
a pause, and wiping away a few tears. " Couldn't Mrs. 
Chauncey tell Mr. Marshman not to give me anything, for 
that I never expected it, and would a great deal rather not ?" 
" Why no, Ellie, I do not think that would be exactly the 
best or most dignified way." 
" What then, dear Alice ? I'll do just as you say." 
" I would just remain quiet." 
" But Ellen says the things are all put on the plates in the 
morning ; and if there should be money on mine — I don't 
know what I should do, I should feel so badly. I couldn't 
keep it, Alice ! — I couldn't !" 
" Very well — you need not — but remain quiet in the mean- 
while ; and if it should be so, then say what you please, only 
take care that you say it in a right spirifr and in a right manner. Nobody can hurt you much, my child, while you keep 
the even path of duty ; poor Margarejt is' her own worst 
enemy." 
" Then if there should be money in the morning, I may tell 
Mr. Marshman the truth about it ?" 
Certainly — only do not be in haste ; speak gently." 
" Oh I wish everybody would be kind and pleasant always !" 
said poor Ellen, but half comforted. 
" What a sigh was there !" said John, coming in. " What 
is the matter with my little sister ?" 
Some of the minor trials of life, John," said AHce, with a 
smile. 
What is the matter, Ellie?" 
" O, something you can't help," said Ellen. 
" And something I mustn't know. Well, to change the 
scene, — suppose you go with me to visit the greenhouse and 
hot-houses. Have you see them yet?" 
" No," said Ellen, as she eagerly sprang forward to take 
his hand ; — " Ellen promised to go with me, but we have been 
so busy." 
" Will you come, Alice ?" 
" Not I," said Alice, — " I wnsb I could, but I shall be wanted 
elsewhere. 
" By whom I wonder so much as by me," said her brother. 
" However, after to-morrow I will have you all to myself." 
As he and Ellen were crossing the hall they met Mrs. 
Marshman. 
" Where are you going, John ?" said she. 
" Where I ought to have been before, ma'am, — to pay ray 
respects to Mr. Hutchinson." 
" You've not see|| him yet ! that is very ungrateful of you. 
Hutchinson is one of your warmest friends and admirers. 
There are few people he mentions with so much respect, or 
that he is so glad to see, as Mr. John Humphreys." 
" A distinction I owe, I fear, principally to my English 
blood," said John shaking his head. 
"It is not altogether that," said Mrs. Marshman lauo^hin gr 
" though I do believe I am the only Yankee good Hutchinson 
has ever made up his mind entirely to like. But go and 
see him, do, he will be very much pleased." 
" Who is Mr. Hutcliinson ?" snid Ellen as they went on. 
" He is the gardener, or rather the head gardener. He 
came out with his master some thirty or forty years ago, but 
his old English prejudice, -will go to the grave with him, I 
believe." 
" But why don't he like the Americans ?" 
John laughed. "It would never do for me to attempt to 
answer that question, Ellie ; fond of going to the bottom of 
things as you are. We should just get to hard fighting about 
tea-time, and should barely make peace by mid-day to-morrow 
at the most moderate calculation. You shall have an answer 
to your question however." 
Ellen could not conceive what he meant, but resolved to 
wait for his promised answer. 
As they entered the large and beautifully kept gi-eenhouse 
Hutchinson came from the further end of it to meet them ; an 
old man, of most respectable appearance. He bowed very 
civilly, and then slipped his pruning knife into his left hand to 
leave the right at liberty for John, who shook it cordially. 
" And why 'aven't you been to see me before, Mr. John ? 
I have thought it rather 'ard of you, Miss h' Alice has come 
several times." 
"The ladies have more leisure, Mr. Hutchinson. You 
look flourishing here." 
" Why yes sir, — pretty middling, within doors ; but I don't 
like the climate, Mr. John, I don't like the climate, sir. 
There's no country like h' England, I believe, for my busi- 
ness. 'Ere's a fine rose, sir, — if you'll step a bit this was — 
quite a new kind — I got it over last h' autumn — the Palmerston it is. Those are fine buds, sir." 
The old man was evidently much plea^d to see his visitor, 
and presently plunged him deep into English politics, for 
which he seemed to have lost no interest by forty yeais' life 
in America. As Ellen could not understand what they were 
talking about, she quitted John's side and went wandering 
about by herself. Fiom the moment the sweet aromatic 
smell of the plants had greeted her she had been in a high 
state of delight ; and now, lost to all the world beside, from 
the mystery of one beautiful and strange green thing to another, she went wondering and admiring, and now and then 
timidly advancing her nose to see if something glorious was 
something sweet too. She could hardly leave a superb 
cactus, in the petals of which thvre was such a singular 
blending of scarlet and crimson as almost to dazzle her sight ; 
and if the pleasure of smell could intoxicate she would have 
reeled away from a luxuriant daphne odorata in full flower, 
over which she feasted for a long time. The variety of green 
leaves alone was a marvel to her ; some rough and brown- 
streaked, some shiniflg as if they were varnished, others of 
hair-like delicacy of structure, — all lovely. At last she stood 
still with admiration and almost held her breath before a 
white Camellia. 
What does that flower make you think of, Kllen ?" said 
John coming up ; his friend the gardener had left him to seek 
a newspapei- in which he wished to show him a paragraph. 
" I don't know," said Ellen, — " I couldn't think of anything but itself." 
" It reminds me of what I ought be — and of what I shall 
be if I ever see heaven ; — it seems to me the emblem of a 
sinless pure spirit, — looking up in fearless spotlessness. Do 
you remember what was said to the old Church of Sardis, — 
* Thou hast a few names that have not defiled their garments ; 
and they shall walk with me in white, for they are worthy.' " 
The tears rushed to Ellen's eyes, she felt she was so very 
unlike this; but Mr. Hutchinson coming back prevented 
anything more from being said. She looked at the white 
Camellia ; it seemed to speak to her. 
" That's the paragraph, sir," said the old gardener, giving 
the paper to John. " 'Ere's a little lady that is fond of flowers, 
if I don't make a mistake ; this is somebody I've not seen 
before. Is this the little lady little Miss h'Ellen was telling 
me about ?" 
" I presume so," said John ; — she is Miss Ellen Mont- 
gomery, a sister of mine Mr. Hutchinson, and Mr. Marshman's 
guest." 
" By both names h' entitled to my greatest respect," said 
the old man, stepping back and making a very low bow to 
Ellen with his hand upon his heart, at which she could not 
help laughing. I am very glad to see Miss h' Ellen ; what 
can I do to make her remember old 'Utchinson ? Would 
Miss h' Ellen like a bouquet?" 
Ellen did not venture to say yes, but her blush and sparkling eyes answered him. The old gardener understood her, 
and was as good as his word. He began with cutting a beautiful sprig of a large purple geranium, then a slip of lemon 
myrtle. Ellen watched him as the bunch grew in his hand, 
and could hardl}'' believe her eyes as one beauty after another was added to what became a most elegant bouquet. And 
most sweet too ; to her joy the delicious daphne and fragrant 
lemon blossom went to make part of it Her thanks, when 
it was given her, were made with few words but with all her 
face ; the old gardener smiled, and was quite satisfied that 
his gift was not thrown away. He afterwards showed them 
his hot-houses, where Ellen was astonished and very much 
interested to see ripe oranges and lemons in abundance, and 
pines too, such as she had been eating since she came to 
Ventnor, thinking nothing less than that they grew so near 
home. The grapes had all been cut. 
There was to be quite a party at Ventnor in the evening of 
New Year's day. Ellen knew this, and destined her precious 
flowers for Alice's adornment. How to keep them in the 
meanwhile ? She consulted Mr. John, and according to his 
advice took them to Mrs. Bland the housekeeper, to be put 
in water and kept in a safe place for her till the time. She 
knew Mrs. Bland, for Ellen Chauncey and she had often gone 
to her room to work where none of the children would find 
and trouble them. Mrs. Bland promised to take famous care 
of the flowers, and said she would do it with the greatest 
pleasure. Mr. Marshman's guests, she added smiling, — must 
have everything they wanted. 
" What does that mean, Mrs. Bland ?" said Ellen. 
" Why, you see. Miss Ellen, there's a deal of company 
always coming, and some is Mrs. Gillespie's friends, and some 
Mr. Hov\'avd's, and some to see Miss Sophia more particularly, 
and S^^J^feJr-lpag to Mrs. Marshman, or the whole family 
mayt>,*v..^I|^^ C .V and then Mr. Marshman has an old English 
frierji*^ ||^c^' ;*^.:it he sets the greatest store by ; and them he 
calni^^llfc '/^ts ; and the best in the house is hardly good 
or the country either." 
* '.'I^^Mrfe I am one of Mr. Marshman's guests !" said Ellen, 
know what it meant." 
She saved out one little piece of rose-geranium from her 
flowers, for the gratification of her own nose ; and skipped 
ciway through the hall to rejoin her companions, very light- 
hearted indeed. 
CHAPTEK XXXIL 
This life, sae far's I understand, 
Is a' enchanted fairy-land, 
Where pleasure is the magic wand, 
That wielded right, 
Makes hours like minutes, hand in hand, 
Dance by fu' light. 
Burns. 
New Year's morning dawned. 
" How I wish breakfast was over !" — thought Ellen as she 
was dressing. However, there is no way of getting over this life 
but by going through it ; so when the bell rang she went 
down as usual. Mr. Marshman had decreed that he would 
not have a confusion of gifts at the breakfast table ; other 
people might make presents in their own way ; they must not 
interfere with his. Needlecases, bags, and so forth, must 
therefore wait another opportunity ; and Ellen Chauncey de- 
cided it would just make the pleasure so much longer, and 
was a great improvement on the old plan. " Happy New 
Years" and pleasant greetings were exchanged as the party 
gathered in the breakfast room ; pleasure sat on all faces, except Ellen's, and many a one wore a broad smile as they sat 
down to table. For the napkins were in singular disarrangement this morning ; instead of being neatly folded up on the 
plates, in their usual fashion, they were in all sorts of disorder, — sticking up in curious angles, some high, some low, 
some half folded, some quite unfolded, according to the size 
and shape of that which they covered. It was worth while 
to see that long tableful, and the faces of the company, before 
yet a napkin was touched. An anxious glance at her own 
showed Ellen that it lay quite flat ; Alice's, which was next, 
had an odd little rising in the middle, as if there were a small 
dumpling under it. Ellen was in an agony for this pause to 
come to an end. It was broken by some of the older persons. 
and then in a trice every plate was uncovered. And then 
what a buzz ! — pleasure and thanks and admiration, and even 
laughter. Ellen dreaded at first to look at her plate ; she bethought her however that if she waited long slie would have 
to do it with all eyes upon her ; she lifted the napkin slow' — yes — just as she feared — there lay a clean bank note — of 
what value she could not see, for confusion covered her ; the 
blood rushed to her cheeks and the tears to her eyes. She 
could not have spoken, and happily it was no time then ; 
everybody else was speaking ; she could not have been heard. 
She had time to cool and recollect herself ; but she sat with 
her eyes cast down, fastened upon her plate and the unfortunate bank bill, which she detested with all her heart. She 
did not know what Alice had received ; she understood 
nothing that was going on, till Alice touched hei- and said 
gently, " Mr. Marshman is speaking to you, Ellen." 
" Sir !" said Ellen, starting. 
" You need not look so terrified," said Mr. Marshman, 
smiling, — " I only asked you if your bill was a counterfeit — 
something seems to be wrong about it." 
Ellen looked at her plate and hesitated. Her lip trembled. 
"What is it?" continued the old gentleman. " Is any- 
thing the matter." 
Ellen desperately took up the bill, and with burning cheeks 
marched to his end of the table. 
" I am very much obliged to you sir, but I had a great deal 
rather not ; — if you please — if you will please to be so good 
as to let me give it back to you — I should be very glad " — 
" Why hoity toity !" said the old gentleman, — " what's all 
this ? what's the matter ? don't you like it ? I thought I 
was doing the very thing that would please you best of all." 
" I am very sorry you should think so, sir," said Ellen, who 
had recovered a little breath, but had the greatest difficulty 
to keep back her tears ; — " I never thought of such a thing as 
your giving me anything, sir, till somebody spoke of it ; and 
I had rather never have anything in the world than that you 
should think what you thought about me." 
" What did I think about you ?" 
" George told me that somebody told you, sir, I wanted 
money for my present." 
" And didn't you say so ?" 
" Indeed I didn't, sir !" said Ellen with sudden fire. " I 
never thought of such a thing !" 
" What did you say then ?" 
" Mai-praret was showino; us her ear-rinofs, and she asked 
me if I wouldn't like to have some like them ; and I couldn't 
help thinking I would a great deal rather have the money 
they would cost to buy something for Alice ; and just when 
I said so you came in, sir, and she said what she did. I was 
very much ashamed, I wasn't thinking of you, sir, at all, 
nor of New Year." 
"Then you would like something else better than money." 
" No sir, nothing at all if you please. If you'll only be so 
good as not to give me this I will be very much obliged to 
you indeed ; and please not to think I could be so shameful 
as you thought I was." 
Ellen's face was not to be withstood. The old gentleman 
took the bill from her hand, 
" I will never think anything of you," said he, " but what 
is the very tip-top of honorable propriety. But you make 
me ashamed now — what am I going to do with this ? here 
have you come and made me a present, and I feel very 
awkward indeed." 
" I don't care what you do with it, sir," said Ellen, laughing, though in imminent danger of bursting into tears ; — " I 
am very glad it is out of my hands." 
" But you needn't think I am going to let you off so," said 
he ; — " you must give me half-a-dozen kisses at least to prove 
that you have forgiven me for making so great a blunder." 
" Half-a-dozen is too many at once," said Ellen, gayly ; — 
" three now, and three to-night." 
So she gave the old gentleman three kisses, but he caught 
her in his arms and gave her a dozen at least ; after which he 
found out that the waiter was holding a cup of coffee at his 
elbow, and Ellen went back to her place with a very good 
appetite for her breakfast. 
After breakfast the needlecases were delivered. Both gave 
the most entire satisfaction. Mrs. Chauncey assured her 
daughter that she would quite as hef have a yellow as a red rose 
on the cover, and that she liked the inscription extremely ; 
which the little girl acknowledged to have been a joint device 
of her own and Ellen's. Ellen's bag gave great delight and 
was paraded all over the house. 
After the bustle of thanks and rejoicing was at last over, and 
when she had a minute to herself, which Ellen Chauncey did not 
give her foi a good while, Ellen bethought her of her flowers, 
— a sweet gift still to be made. Why not make it now ? why 
should not Alice have the pleasure of them all day ? A bright 
thought ! Ellen ran forthwith to the housekeeper's room, 
and after a long; admirini^ look at her treasures, carried them 
glass and all to the library, where Alice and John often were 
in the morning alone. Alice thanked her in the way she liked 
best, and then the flowers were smelled and admired afresh. 
" Nothing could have been pleasanter to me, Ellie, except 
Mr. Marshman's gift." 
" And what was that, Alice ? I haven't seen it yet." 
Alice pulled out of her pocket a small round morocco case, 
the very thing that Ellen had thought looked like a dumpling 
under the napkin, and opened it. 
" It's Mr. John !" exclaimed Ellen. " how beautiful !" 
Neither of her hearers could help laughing. 
" It is very fine, Ellie," said Alice ; " you are quite right. 
Now I know what was the business that took John to Randolph every day and kept him there so long, while I was 
wondering at him unspeakably. Kind, kind Mr. Marshman." 
"Did Mr. John get anything?" 
" Ask him, Ellie." 
" Did you get anything, Mr. John ?" said Ellen, going up 
to him where he was reading on the sofa. 
" I o-ot this," said John, handino- her a little book which 
lay beside him. 
" What is this ? Wime's — Wiem's — Life of Washington — 
Washington? he was — May I look at it ?" 
" Certainly !" 
She opened the book, and presently sat down on the floor 
where she was by the side of the L.ofa. Whatever she had 
found within the leaves of the book, she had certainly lost 
herself. An hour passed. Ellen had not spoken or moved 
except to turn over kaves. 
" Ellen !" said John. 
She looked up, her cheeks colored high. 
" What have you found there ?" said he, smiling. 
" a great deal ! But — did Mr. Marshman give you this ?" 
" No." 
" Oh !" said Ellen, looking puzzled, — " I thought you said 
you got this this morning." 
No, I got it last night. I got it for you, Ellie." 
" For me !" said Ellen, her color deepening very much, — 
" for me ! did you ? thank you ! — oh I'm so much obliged 
to you, Mr. John." 
" It is only an answer to one of your questions." 
" This ! is it ? — I don't know what, I am sure. Oh I wish 
I could do something to please you, Mr. John !" 
You shall, Ellie ; you shall give me a brother's right 
again." 
Blushingly Ellen approached her lips to receive one of his 
grave kisses ; and then, not at all displeased, went down on 
the floor and was lost in her book. 
Oh the long joy of that New Year's day ! — how shall it 
be told ? The pleasure of that delightful book, in which she 
was wrapped the whole day ; even when called off, as she 
often was, by Ellen Chauncey to help her in fifty little matters 
of business or pleasure. These were attended to, and faithfully and cheerfully, but the hook was in her head all the 
while. And this pleasure was mixed with Alice's pleasure, 
the flowers and the miniature, and Mr. Marshman's restored 
kindness. She never met John's or Alice's eye that day 
without a smile. Even when she went to be dressed her book 
went with her, and was laid on the bed within sight, ready 
to be taken up the moment she was at liberty. Ellen Chauncey lent her a white frock which was found to answer very 
well with a tuck let out ; and Alice herself dressed her. 
While this was doing, Margaret Dunscombe put her head in 
at the door to ask Anne, Miss Sophia's maid, if she was almost 
ready to come and curl her hair. 
" Indeed I can't say that I am. Miss Margaret," said Anne. 
I've something to do for Miss Humphreys, and Miss Sophia 
hasn't so much as done the first thino- towards beojinninor to 
get ready yet. It'll be a good hour and more." 
Margaret went away exclaiming impatiently that she 
could get nobody to help her, and would have to wait till 
everybody was down stairs. 
A few minutes after she heard Ellen's voice at the door of 
her room asking if she might come in. 
" Yes — who's that ? — what do you want ?" 
" I'll fix your hair if you'll let me," said Ellen. 
" You ? I don't believe you can." 
" yes I can ; I used to do mamma's very often ; I am 
not afraid if you'll trust me." 
" Well, thank you, I don't care if you try then," said Margaret, seating herself, — " it won't do any harm at any rate ; 
and I want to be down stairs before anybody gets here ; I 
think it's half the fun to see them come in. Bless me ! you're 
dressed and all ready." 
Margaret's hair was in long thick curls ; it was not a trifling matter to dress them. Ellen plodded through it patiently 
and faithfully, taking great pains, and doing the work well ; 
and then went back to Alice. Margaret's thanks, not very 
gracefully given, would have been a poor reward for the loss 
of three-quarters of an hour of pleasure. But Ellen was very 
happy in having done right. It was no longer time to read ; 
