" Now Mr. Van Brunt would you be so very good as to read it 
once more ?" 
He obeyed. It was easier this time. She listened as 
before with closed eyes, but the color came and went once or 
twice. 
" Thank you very much," she said, when he had done. 
" Are you going ?" 
" I must ; I have some things to look after." 
She held his hand still. 
" Mr. Van Brunt, — don't you love hymns ?" 
" I don't know much about 'em Miss Ellen." 
" Mr. Van Brunt, are you one of that fold ?"
"What fold?" 
" The fold of Christ's people." 
"I'm afeard not, Miss Ellen," said he soberly, after a minute's pause. 
" Because," said Ellen bursting into tears, " I wish you 
were, very much." 
She carried the great brown hand to her lips before she let 
it go. He went without saying a word. But when he got 
out he stopped and looked at a little tear she had left on the 
back of it. And he looked till one of his own fell there to 
keep it company. 
CHAPTER XXI. 
The next day, about the middle of the afternoon, a light 
step crossed the shed, and the great door opening gently, in 
walked Miss Alice Humphreys. The room was all "redd 
up," and Miss Fortune and her mother sat there at work ; 
one picking over white beans at the table, the other in her 
usual seat by the fire and at her usiial employment, which 
was knitting. Alice came forward and asked the old lady 
how she did. 
" Pretty well — pretty well !" — she answered, with the 
look of bland good-humor her face almost always wore, — 
" and glad to see you dear. Take a chair." 
Alice did so, quite aware that the other person in the room 
was not glad to see her. 
" And how goes the world with you, Miss Fortune ?" 
" Humph ! it's a queer kind of a world I think," answered 
that lady dryly, sweeping some of the picked beans into her 
pan ; — " I get a'most sick of it sometimes." 
" Why what's the matter ?" said Alice pleasantly ; " may 
I ask ? Has anything happened to trouble you ?" 
" no !" said the other somewhat impatiently ; " nothing 
that's any matter to any one but myself ; it's no use speaking 
about it." 
" Ah ! Fortune never would take the world easy," said 
the old woman shaking her head from side to side ; — " never 
would ; — I never could get her to." 
" Now do hush mother, will you !" said her daughter, 
turning round upon her with startling sharpness of look and 
tone ; — " ' take the world easy !' you always did ; I am glad I 
aint like you." 
" I don't think it's a bad way after all," said Alice ; " what's 
the use of taking it hard Miss Fortune ?" 
" The way one goes on !" said that lady, picking away at 
her beans very fast and not answering Alice's question, — " I'm 
tired of it ; — toil, toil, and drive, drive, — from morning to 
night ; — and what's the end of it all ?" 
" Not much," said Alice gravely, " if our toiling looks no 
further than this world. When we go we shall carry nothing 
away with us. I should think it would be very wearisome 
to toil only for what we cannot keep nor stay long to enjoy." 
" It's a pity you warn't a minister Miss Alice," said Miss 
Fortune dryly. 
" no, Miss Fortune," said Alice smiling, " the family 
would be overstocked. My father is one and my brother 
will be another ; a third would be too much. You must be 
so good as to let me preach without taking orders." 
" Well I wish every minister was as good a one as you'd 
make," said Miss Fortune, her hard face giving way a little ; — 
" at any rate nobody 'd mind anything you'd say Miss Alice." 
" That would be unlucky, in one sense," said Alice ; " but 
I believe I know what you mean. But Miss Fortune no one 
would dream the world went very hard with you. I don't 
know anybody I think lives in more independent comfort and 
plenty and has things more to her mind. I never come to 
the house that I am not struck with the fine look of the farm 
and all that belongs to it." 
"Yes," said the old lady nodding her head two or three 
times, " Mr. Van Brunt is a good farmer — very good — there's 
no doubt about that." 
" I wonder what hed do," said Miss Fortune, quickly and 
sharply as before, " if there warn't a head to manage for 
him ! — O the farm's well enough Miss Alice, — tain't that ; 
every one knows where his own shoe pinches." 
" I wish you'd let me into the secret then, Miss Fortune ; 
I'm a cobbler by profession." 
Miss Fortune's ill humor was giving way, but something 
disagreeable seemed again to cross her mind. Her brow 
darkened. 
" I say it's a poor kind of world and I'm sick of it ! One 
may slave and slave one's life out for other people, and what 
thanks do you get ? — I'm sick of it." 
" There's a little body up-stairs, or I'm much mistaken, 
who will give you very sincere thanks for every kindness 
shown her." 
Miss Fortune tossed her head, and brushing the refuse 
beans into her lap, she pushed back her chair with a jerk to 
go the fire with them. 
" Much you know about her Miss Alice ! Thanks indeed ! 
I haven't seen the sign of such a thing since she's been here, 
for all I have worked and worked and had plague enough 
with her I am sure. Deliver me from other people's children, say I !" 
" After all, Miss Fortune," said Alice soberly, " it is not 
what we do for people that makes them love us, — or at least 
everything depends on the way things are done. A look of 
love, a word of kindness, goes further towards winning the 
heart than years of service or benefactions mountain-high 
without them." 
" Does she say I am unkind to her ?" asked Miss Fortune 
fiercely. 
" Pardon me," said Alice, " words on her part are un- 
necessary ; it is easy to see from your own that there is no 
love lost between you, and I am very sorry it is so." 
" Love indeed !" said Miss Fortune with great indignation ; 
" there never was any to lose I can assure you. She plagues 
the very life out of me. Why she hadn't been here three 
days before she went off with that girl Nancy Vawse that I 
had told her never to go near, and was gone all night ; that's 
the time she got in the brook. And if you'd seen her face 
when I was scolding her about it ! — it was like seven thunder clouds. Much you know about it ! I dare say she's 
very sweet to you ; that's the way she is to everybody beside me — they all think she's too good to live ; and it just 
makes me mad !" 
" She told me herself," said Alice, " of her behaving ill 
another time, about her mother's letter." 
" Yes — that was another time. I wish you'd seen her !" 
" I believe she saw and felt her fault in that case. Didn't 
she ask your pardon? she said she would." 
" Yes," said Miss Fortune dryly, " after a fashion." 
" Has she had her letter yet ?" 
"No." 
" How is she to-day ?" 
" she's well enough — she's sitting up. You can go up 
and see her." 
" I will directly," said Alice. " But now Miss Fortune I 
am going to ask a favor of you, — will you do me a great 
pleasure ?" 
" Certainly Miss Alice, — if I can." 
" If you think Ellen has been sufficiently punished for her 
ill-behavior — if you do not think it right to withhold her 
letter still, — will you let me have the pleasure of giving it to 
her ? I should take it as a great favor to myself." 
Miss Fortune made no kind of reply to this, but stalked 
out of the room, and in a few minutes stalked in again with 
the letter, which she gave to Alice, only saying shortly, " It 
came to me in a letter from her father." 
" You are willing she should have it?" said Alice. 
"yes ! — do what you like with it." 
Alice now went softly up-stairs. She found Ellen's door 
a little ajar, and looking in could see Ellen seated in a rocking-chair between the door and the fire, in her double-gown, 
and with her hymn-book in hand. It happened that 
Ellen had spent a good part of that afternoon in crying for 
her lost letter ; and the face that she turned to the door on 
hearing some slight noise outside was very white and thin 
indeed. And though it was placid too, her eye searched the 
crack of the door with a keen wistfulness that went to Alice's 
heart. But as the door was gently pushed open, and the 
eye caught the figure that stood behind it, the sudden and 
entire change of expression took away all her powers of 
speech.- Ellen's face became radiant; she rose from her 
chair, and as Alice silently came in and kneeling down to be 
near her took her in her arms, Ellen put both hers round 
Alice's neck and laid her face there ; — one was too happy 
and the other too touched to say a word. 
"My poor child!" was Alice's first expression. 
" No I aint," said Ellen, tightening the squeeze of her 
arms round Alice's neck ; "I am not poor at all now." 
Alice presently rose, sat down in the rocking-chair and 
took Ellen in her lap ; and Ellen rested her head on her 
bosom as she had been wont to do of old time on her mother's. 
" I am too happy," she murmured. But she was weep- 
ing, and the current of tears seemed to gather force as it 
flowed. What was little Ellen thinking of just then? O 
those times gone by ! — when she had sat just so ; her head 
pillowed on another as gentle a breast ; kind aims wrapped 
round her, just as now ; the same little old double-gown ; 
the same weak helpless feeling ; the same committing herself 
to the strength and care of another ; — how much the same, 
and oh ! how much not the same ! — and Ellen knew both. 
Blessing as she did the breast on which she leaned and the 
arms whose pressure she felt, they yet reminded her sadly of 
those most loved and so very far away ; and it was an odd 
mixture of relief and regret, joy and sorrow, gratified and 
ungratified affection, that opened the sluices of her eyes. 
Tears poured. 
" What is the matter my love ?" said Alice softly. 
" I don't know," whispered Ellen. 
" Are you so glad to see me ? or so sorry ? or what is it ?"
" Oh, glad and sorry both, I think," said Ellen with a long 
breath, and sitting up. 
" Have you wanted me so much my poor child ?" 
" I cannot tell you how much," — said Ellen, her words cut 
short. 
" And didn't you know that I have been sick too ? What 
did you think had become of me ? Why Mrs. Vawse was 
with me a whole week, and this is the very first day I have 
been able to go out. It is so fine to-day I was permitted to 
ride Sharp down." 
" Was that it?" said Ellen. " I did wonder-Miss Alice, I 
did wonder very much why you did not come to see me, but 
I never liked to ask aunt Fortune, because — " 
" Because what ?" 
" I don't know as I ought to say what I was going to ; — I 
had a feeling she would be glad about what I was sorry 
about." 
" Don't know that you ought to say," said Alice. "Remember, you are to study English with me." 
Ellen smiled a glad smile. 
" And you have had a weary two weeks of it, haven't you, 
dear ?" 
" Oh," said Ellen, with another long drawn sigh, " how 
weary ! Part of that time to be sure I was out of my head ; 
but I have got so tired lying here all alone ; aunt Fortune 
coming in and out was just as good as nobody. " 
"Poor child!" said Alice, "you have had a worse time 
than I." 
" I used to lie and watch that crack in the door at the foot 
of my bed," said Ellen, " and I got so tired of it I hated to 
see it but when I opened my eyes I couldn't help looking at 
it, and watching all the little ins and outs in the crack till I 
was as sick of it as could be. And that button too that fast- 
ens the door, and the little round mark the button has made, 
and thinking how far the button went round. And then if I 
looked towards the windows I would go right to counting the 
panes, first up and down and then across ; and I didn't want 
to count them, but I couldn't help it ; and watching to see 
through which pane the sky looked brightest. Oh I got so 
sick of it all ! There was only the fire that I didn't get tired 
of looking at ; I always liked to lie and look at that, except 
when it hurt my eyes. And oh how I wanted to see you, Miss 
Alice ! You can't think how sad I felt that you didn't come 
to see me. I couldn't think what could be the matter." 
" I should have been with you, dear, and not have left you, 
if I had not been tied at home myself." 
" So I thought ; and that made it seem so very strange. 
But ! don't you think," said Ellen, her face suddenly 
brightening, — " don't you think Mr. Van Brunt came up to 
see me last night ? Wasn't it good of him ? He even 
sat down and read to me ; only think of that. And isn't 
he kind ? he asked if I would like a rocking-chair ; and of 
course I said yes, for these other chairs are dreadful, they 
break my back ; and there wasn't such a thing as a rocking- 
chair in aunt Fortune's house, she hates 'em she says ; and 
this morning, the first thing I knew in walked Mr. Van Brunt 
with this nice rocking-chair. Just get up and see how nice 
it is ; — you see the back is cushioned, and the elbows, as well 
as the seat ; — it's queer-looking, aint it ? but it's very comfy table. Wasn't it good of him ?" 
" It was very kind, I think. But do you know, Ellen, I 
am going to have a quarrel with you ?" 
" What about ?" said Ellen. " I don't believe it's anything 
very bad, for you look pretty good-humored, considering." 
"Nothing very bad," said Alice, "but still enough to 
quarrel about. You have twice said ' ainf since I have been 
here." 
" Oh,' said Ellen, laughing, " is that all ?" 
" Yes," said Alice, " and my English ears don't like it 
at all." 
" Then they sha'n't hear it," said Ellen, kissing her. " I 
don't know what makes me say it ; I never used to. But 
I've got more to tell you ; I've had more visiters. Who do 
you think came to see me ? — you'd never guess — Nancy 
Yawse ! Mr. Yan Brunt came in the very nick of time, when 
I was almost worried to death with her. Only think of her 
coming up here ! unknown to everybody. And she stayed an 
age, and how she did go on. She cracked nuts on the hearth ; 
— she got every stitch of my clothes out of my trunk and 
scattered them over the floor ; — she tried to make me drink 
gruel till between us we spilled a great parcel on the bed ; 
and she had begun to tickle me when Mr. Yan Brunt came. 
wasn't I glad to see him ! And when aunt Fortune came 
up and saw it all she was as angry as she could be ; and she 
scolded and scolded, till at last I told her it was none of my 
doing, — I couldn't help it at all, — and she needn't talk so to 
me about it ; and then she said it was my fault the whole 
of it ! that if I hadn't scraped acquaintance with Nancy 
when she had forbidden me all this would never have hap- 
pened." 
" There is some truth in that, isn't there, Ellen ?" 
" Perhaps so ; but I think it might all have happened whether or no ; and at any rate it is a little hard to talk so to me 
about it now when it's all over and can't be helped. 0, I 
have been so tired to-day, Miss Alice ! — aunt Fortune has 
been in such a bad humor." 
" What put her in a bad humor ?" 
" Why all this about Nancy in the first place ; and then I 
know she didn't like Mr. Van Brunt's bringing the rocking- 
chair for me ; she couldn't say much but I could see by her 
face. And then Mrs. Yan Brunt's coming — I don't think 
she liked that. O, Mrs. Yan Brunt came to see me this 
morning and brought me a custard. How many people are 
kind to me ! — everywhere I go." 
" I hope, dear Ellen, you don't forget whose kindness sends 
them all." 
" I don't, Miss Alice ; I always think of that now ; and it 
seems you can't think how pleasant to me sometimes." 
" Then I hope you can bear unkindness from one poor 
woman, — who after all isn't as happy as you are, — without 
feeling any ill-will towards her in return." 
" I don't think I feel ill-will towards heii," said Ellen ; " I 
always try as hard as I can not to ; but I can't like her Miss 
Alice ; and I do get out of patience. It's very easy to put 
me out of patience I think ; it takes almost nothing sometimes." 
" But remember, ' charity suffereth long and is kind.' " 
" And I try all the while dear Miss Alioe to keep down my 
bad feelings," said Ellen, her eyes watering as she spoke ; 
" I try and pray to get rid of them, and I hope I shall by-and- 
by ; I believe I am very bad." 
Alice drew her closer. 
" I have felt very sad part of to-day," said Ellen presently ; " aunt Fortune, and my being so lonely, and my poor letter, altogether ; — but part of the time I felt a great deal better. I was learning that lovely hymn, — do you know it Miss 
Alice ? — * Poor, weak, and worthless, though I am ? ' " 
Alice went on : — 
I have a rich almighty friend, 
Jesus the Saviour is his name, 
He freely loves, and without end. 
" dear, Ellen, whoever can say that, has no right to be 
unhappy. No matter what happens, we have enough to be 
glad of." 
" .'Mid then I was thinking of those words in the Psalms, — 
' Blessed is the man' — stop, I'll find it ; I don't know exactly 
how it goes ; — ' Blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven ; 
whose sin is covered.' " 
" O yes indeed !" said Alice. " It is a shame that any 
trifles should worry much those whose sins are forgiven them 
and who are the children of the great King. Poor Miss For- 
tune never knew the sweetness of those words. We ought 
to be sorry for her and pray for her Ellen ; and never, never, 
even in thought, return evil for evil. It is not like Christ to 
do so." 
" I will not, I will not, if I can help it," said Ellen. 
" You can help it ; but there is only cne way. Now Ellen 
dear, I have three pieces of news for you that I think you 
will like. One concerns you, another myself, and the third 
concerns both you and myself. Which will you have first ?" 
" Three pieces of good news !" said Ellen with opening 
eyes ; — " I think I'll have my part first." 
Directing Ellen's eyes to her pocket, Alice slowly made the 
corner of the letter show itself. Ellen's color came and went 
quick as it was drawn forth ; but when it was fairly out and 
she knew it again, she flung herself upon it with a desperate 
eagerness Alice had not looked for ; she was startled at the 
half frantic way in which the child clasped and kissed it, 
weeping bitterly at the same time. Her transport was almost 
hysterical. She had opened the letter, but she was not able 
to read a word ; and quitting xVlice's arms she threw herself 
upon the bed, sobbing in a mixture of joy and sorrow that 
seemed to take away her reason. iYlice looked on surprised 
a moment, but only a moment, and turned away. 
When Ellen was able to begin her letter the reading of it 
served to throw her back into fresh fits of tears. Many a word 
of Mrs. Montgomery's went so to her little daughter's heart that 
its very inmost cords of love and tenderness were wrung. It 
is true the letter was short and very simple ; but it came from 
her mother's heart ; it was written by her mother's hand ; 
and the very old remembered handwriting had mighty power 
to move her. She was so wrapped up in her own feelings 
that through it all she never noticed that Alice was not near 
her, that Alice did not speak to comfort her. When the letter had been read time after time and wept over again and 
again, and Ellen at last was folding it up for the present, she 
bethought herself of her friend and turned to look after her. 
Alice was sitting by the window, her face hid in her hands ; 
and as Ellen drew near she was surprised to see that her tears 
were flowing and her breast heaving. Ellen came quite close 
and softly laid her hand on Alice's shoulder. But it drew no 
attention. 
" Miss Alice," said Ellen almost fearfully, — " dear Miss 
Alice," — and her own eyes filled fast again, " what is the 
matter ? — won't you tell me ? — Oh don't do so ! please 
don't !'' 
" I will not," said Alice lifting her head ; "I am sony I 
have troubled you dear ; I am sorry I could not help it." 
She kissed Ellen, who stood anxious and sorrowful by her 
side, and brushed away her tears. But Ellen saw she had 
been shedding a great many. 
" What is the matter, dear Miss Alice ? what has happened to trouble you ? — won't you tell me ?" — Ellen was almost 
crying herself. 
Alice came back to the rocking-chair, and took Ellen in her 
arms again ; but she did not answer her. Leaning her face 
against Ellen's forehead she remained silent. Ellen ventured 
to ask no more questions ; but lifting her hand once or twice 
caressingly to Alice's face she was distressed to find her cheek 
wet still. Alice spoke at last. 
" It isn't fair not to tell you what is the matter, dear Ellen, 
since I have let you see me sorrowing. It is nothing new, 
nor anything J would have otherwise if I could. It is only 
that I have had a mother once, and have lost her ; — and you 
brought back the old time so strongly that I could not command myself." 
Ellen felt a hot tear drop upon her forehead, and again 
ventured to speak her sympathy only by silently stroking 
Alice's cheek. 
" It is all past bow,' said Alice ; " it is all well. I would 
not have her back again. I shall go to her I hope by- 
and-by." 
"Oh no ! you must stay with me," said Ellen, clasping 
both arms round her. 
There was a long silence, during which they remained 
locked in each other's arms. 
"Ellen dear," said Alice at length, " we are both motherless, for the present at least, — both of us almost alone ; I 
think God has brought us together to be a comfort to each 
other. We will be sisters while he permits us to be so. 
Don't call me Miss Alice any more. You shall be my little 
sister and I will be your elder sister, and my home shall be 
your home as well." 
Ellen's arms were drawn very close round her companion 
at this, but she said nothing, and her face was hid in Alice's 
bosom. There was another very long pause. Then Alice 
spoke in a livelier tone. 
" Come Ellen ! look up ! you and I have forgotten our- 
selves ; it isn't good for sick people to get down in the dumps. 
Look up and let me see these pale cheeks. Don't you want 
something to eat ?" 
" I don't know," said Ellen faintly. 
" What would you say to a cup of chicken broth ?" 
"I should like it very much !'' said Ellen with new 
energy. 
" Margery made me some particularly nice, as she always 
does ; and I took it into my head a little might not come 
amiss to you ; so I resolved to stand the chance of Sharp's 
jolting it all over me, and I rode down with a little pail of it 
on my arm. Let me rake open these coals and you shall 
have some directly." 
" And did you come without being spattered ?" said Ellen. 
"Not a drop. Is this what you use to warm things in? 
Never mind, it has had gruel in it ; I'll set the tin pail on the 
fi e ; it won't hurt it." 
" I am so much obliged to you," said Ellen, " for do you 
know I have got quite tired of gruel, and panada I can't 
bear." 
" Then I am very glad I brought it." 
While it was warming Alice washed Ellen's gruel cup and 
spoon ; and presently she had the satisfaction of seeing Ellen 
eating the broth with that keen enjoyment none know but 
those that have been sick and are getting well. She smiled 
to see her gaining strength almost in the very act of swallowing. 
" Ellen," said she presently, " I have been considering your 
dressing-table. It looks rather doleful. I'll make you a 
present of some dimity, and when you come to see me you 
shall make a cover for it that will reach down to the floor 
and hide those Long legs." 
"That wouldn't do at all," said Ellen; "aunt Fortune 
would go off into all sorts of fits." 
" What about ?" 
" Why the washing, Miss Alice — to nave such a great thing 
to wash every now and then. You can't think what a fuss 
she makes if I have more than just so many white clothes in 
the wash every week." 
" That's too bad," said Alice. " Suppose you bring it up 
to me — it wouldn't be often — and I'll have it washed for you, 
— if you care enough about it to take the trouble." 
" indeed I do !" said Ellen ; " I should like it very much ; 
and I'll get Mr. Van Brunt to — no I can't, aunt Fortune 
won't let me ; I was going to say I would get him to saw off 
the legs and make it low r er for me, and then my dressing-box 
would stand so nicely on the top. Maybe I can yet. Oh I 
never showed you my boxes and things." 
Ellen brought them all out and displayed their beauties. 
In the course of going over the -writing-desk she came to the 
secret drawer and a little money in it. 
" Oh that puts me in mind ! she said. " Miss Alice, this 
money is to be spent for some- poor child ; — now I've been 
thinking Nancy has behaved so to me I should like to give 
her something to show her that I don't feel unkindly about 
it — what do you think would be a good thing ?" 
" I don't know Ellen — I'll take the matter into consideration." 
" Do you think a Bible would do ?" 
" Perhaps that would do as well as anything ; — I'll think 
about it." 
" I should like to do it very much," said Ellen, " for she 
has vexed me wonderfully." 
"Well, Ellen, would you like to hear my other pieces of 
news? or have you no curiosity?" 
" yes indeed," said Ellen ; "I had forgotten it entirely ; 
what is it Miss Alice ?" 
" You know I told you one concerns only myself, but it is 
great news to me. I learnt this morning that my brother 
will come to spend the holidays with me. It is many 
months since I have seen him." 
" Does he live far away ?" said Ellen. 
" Yes, — he has gone far away to pursue his studies, and 
cannot come home often. The other piece of news is that I 
intend, if you have no objection, to ask Miss Fortune's leave 
to have you spend the holidays with me too." 
" Oh, delightful !" said Ellen, starting up and clapping her 
hands and then throwing them round her adopted sister's 
neck ; — " dear Alice how r good you are !" 
" Then I suppose I may reckon upon your consent," 
said Alice, " and I'll speak to Miss Fortune without delay." 
" thank you dear Miss Alice ; — how glad I am ! I shall 
be happy all the time from now till then thinking of it. You 
aren't going?" 
" I must." 
" Ah don't go yet ! Sit down again ; you know you're 
my sister, — don't you want to read mamma's letter ?" 
** If you please Ellen, I should like it very much." 
She sat down, and Ellen gave her the letter, and stood by 
while she read it, watching her with glistening eyes ; and 
though as she saw Alice's fill her own overflowed again, she 
hung over her still to the last ; going over every line this 
time with a new pleasure. 
" New York, Saturday, Nov. 22, 18 — . 
" My Dear Ellen, 
" I meant to have written to you before, but have been 
scarcely able to do so. I did make one or two efforts which 
came to nothing ; I was obliged to give it up before finishing 
anything that could be called a letter. To-day I feel much 
stronger than I have at any time since your departure. 
" I have missed you my dear child very much. There is not 
an hour in the day, nor a half hour, that the want of you does 
not come home to my heart ; and I think I have missed you 
in my very dreams. This separation is a very hard thing to 
bear. But the hand that has arranged it does nothing amiss ; 
we must trust Him my daughter that all will be well. I feel 
it is well ; though sometimes the thought of your dear little 
face is almost too much for me. I will thank God lhave had 
such a blessing so long, and I now commit my treasure to 
Him. It is an unspeakable comfort to me to do this, for 
nothing committed to his care is ever forgotten or neglected. 
Oh my daughter never forget to pray ; never slight it. It is 
almost my only refuge, now I have lost you, and it bears me 
up. How often — how often, — through years gone by, — 
when heart-sick and faint, — I have fallen on my knees, and 
presently there have been as it were drops of cool water 
sprinkled upon my spirit's fever. Learn to love prayer, dear 
Ellen, and then you will have a cure for all the sorrows of 
life. And keep this letter, that if ever you are like to forget 
it, your mother's testimony may come to mind again. 
" My tea, that used to be so pleasant, has become a sad meal 
to me. I drink it mechanically and set down my cup, remembering only that the dear little hand which used to minis- 
ter to my wants is near me no more. My child — my child ! 
— words are poor to express the heart's yearnings, — my spirit 
is near you all the time. 
" Your old gentleman has paid me several visits. The day 
after you went came some beautiful pigeons. I sent word 
back that you were no longer here to enjoy his gifts, and the 
next day he came to see me. He has shown himself very 
kind. And all this, dear Ellen, had for its immediate cause 
your proper and ladylike behavior in the store. That 
thought has been sweeter to me than all the old gentleman's 
birds and fruit. I am sorry to inform you that though I have 
seen him so many times I am still perfectly ignorant of his 
name. 
" We set sail Monday in the England. Your father has secured a nice state-room for me, and I have a store of comforts 
laid up for the voyage. So next week you may imagine me 
out on the broad ocean, with nothing but sky and clouds and 
water be seen around me, and probably much too sick to look 
at those. Never mind that ; the sickness is good for me. 
" I will write you as soon as I can again, and send by the 
first conveyance. 
" And now my dear baby — my precious child — farewell. 
May the blessing of God be with you ! 
' Your affectionate mother, 
E. Montgomery." 
" You ought to be a good child Ellen," said Alice, as she 
dashed away some tears. " Thank you for letting me see 
this; it has been a great pleasure to me." 
" And now," said Ellen, " you feel as if you knew mamma 
a little." 
"Enough to honor and respect her very much. Now 
good-bye, my love ; I must be at home before !; is late. I 
will see you again before Christmas comes." 
CHAPTER XXII. 
 
To Ellen's sorrow she was pronounced next morning well 
enough to come down stairs ; her aunt averring that " it was 
no use to keep a fire burning up there for nothing." She 
must get up and dress in the cold again ; and winter had 
fairly set in now ; the 19th of December rose clear and keen. 
Ellen looked sighingly at the heap of ashes and the dead 
brands in the fireplace where the bright little fire had blazed 
so cheerfully the evening before. But regrets did not help 
the matter ; and shivering she began to dress as fast as she 
could. Since her illness a basin and pitcher had been brought 
into her room, so the washing at the spout was ended for the 
present ; and though the basin had no place but a chair and 
the pitcher must stand on the floor, Ellen thought herself too 
happy. But how cold it was ! The wind swept past her 
windows giving wintry shakes to the panes of glass, and 
through many an opening in the wooden frame-work of the 
house it came in and saluted Ellen's bare arms and neck. 
She hurried to finish her dressing, and wrapping her double- 
gown over all, went down to the kitchen. It was another 
climate there. A great fire was burning that it quite cheered 
Ellen's heart to look at ; and the air seemed to be full of 
coffee and buckweat cakes ; Ellen almost thought she should 
get enough breakfast by the sense of smell. 
" Ah ! here you are," said Miss Fortune. " What have 
you got that thing on for ?" 
" It was so cold up stairs," said Ellen, drawing up her 
shoulders. The warmth had not got inside of her wrapper 
yet. 
" Well 'taint cold here ; you'd better pull it off right away. 
I've no notion of people's making themselves tender. You'll 
be warm enough directly. Breakfast'll warm you." 
Ellen felt almost inclined to quarrel with the breakfast that 
was offered in exchange for her comfortable wrapper ; she 
pulled it off however and sat down without saying anything. 
Mr. Van Brunt put some cakes on her plate. 
"If breakfast's a going to warm you," said he, "make 
haste and get something down ; or drink a cup of coffee ; 
you're as blue as skim milk." 
" Am I ?" said Ellen lauo-hinor ; " I feel blue ; but I can't 
eat such a pile of cakes as that, Mr. Van Brunt." 
As a general thing the meals at Miss Fortune's were silent 
solemnities ; an occasional consultation, or a few questions and 
remarks about farm affairs, being all that ever passed. The 
breakfast this morning was a singular exception to the common rule. 
" I am in a regular quandary," said the mistress of the 
house when the meal was about half over. 
Mr. Van Brunt looked up for an instant, and asked " what 
about ?" 
" Why how I am ever going to do to get those apples and 
sausage-meat done. If I go to doing 'em myself I shall 
about get through by spring." 
" Why don't you make a bee ?" said Mr. Van Brunt. 
" Aint enough of either on 'em to make it worth while. I 
aint a going to have all the bother of a bee without something to show for't." 
" Turn 'em both into one," suQ-jrested her counsellor, vomv 
on with his breakfast. 
" Both ?" 
" Yes — let 'em pare apples in one room and cut pork in 
t'other." 
" But I wonder who ever heard of such a thing before," 
said Miss Fortune, pausing with her cup of coffee half way to 
her lips. Presently, however, it was carried to her mouth, 
drunk off, and set down with an air of determination. 
" I don't care," said she, " if it never was heard of. I'll 
do it for once anyhow. I'm not one of them to care what 
folks say. I'll have it so ! But I won't have 'em to tea, 
mind you ; I'd rather throw apples and all into the fire at 
once. I'll have but one plague of setting tables, and that. 
I won't have 'em to tea. I'll make it up to 'em in the supper 
though." 
" I'll take care to publish that," said Mr. Van Brunt. 
" Don't you go and do such a thing," said Miss Fortune 
earnestly. " I shall have the whole country on my hands. 
I won't have but just as many on 'em as'll do what I want 
done ; that'll be as much as I can stand under. Don't you 
whisper a word of it to a living creature. I'll go round and 
ask 'em myself to come Monday evening." 
" Monday evening — then I suppose you'd like to have up 
the sleigh this afternoon. Who's acoming ?" 
" I don't know ; I ha'n't asked 'em yet." 
" They'll every soul come that's asked, that you may depend ; there aint one on 'em that would miss of it for a dollar." 
Miss Fortune bridled a little at the implied tribute to her 
housekeeping. 
" If I was some folks I wouldn't let people know I was in 
such a mighty hurry to got a good supper," she observed 
rather scornfully. 
" Humph !" said Mr. Van Brunt ; " I think a good supper 
aint a bad thing ; and I've no objection to folk's knowing it." 
" Pshaw ! I didn't mean you," said Miss Fortune ; " I was 
thinking of those Lawsons, and other folks." 
" Jf you're agoing to ask them to your bee you aint of my 
mind." 
"Well I am though," replied Miss Fortune; "there's a 
good many hands of 'em ; they can turn off a good lot of 
work in an evening ; and they always take care to get me to 
their bees. I may as well get something out of them in re- 
turn if I can." 
" They'll reckon on getting as much as they can out o' 
you, if they come, there's no sort of doubt in my mind. It's 
my belief Mirny Lawson will kill herself some of these days 
upon green corn. She was at home to tea one day last sum- 
mer, and I declare I thought — " 
What Mr. Van Brunt thought he left his hearers to guess. 
" Well, let them kill themselves if they like," said Miss 
Fortune ; " I am sure I am willing ; there'll be enough ; I 
aint agoing to mince matters when once I begin. Now let 
me see. There's five of the Lawsons to begin with — I 
suppose they'll all come ; — Bill Huff, and Jany, that's 
seven ; — " 
" That Bill Huff is as good-natured a fellow as ever broke 
ground," remarked Mr. Van Brunt. " Aint better people in 
the town than them Huffs are.' ? 
" They're well enough," said Miss Fortune. " Seven — and 
the Hitchcocks, there's three of them, that'll make ten, — " 
" Dennison's aint far from there," said Mr. Van Brunt. 
Dan Dennison's a fine hand at a'most anything, in doors or 
out," 
" That's more than you can say for his sister. Cilly Dennison gives herself so many airs it's altogether too much for 
plain country folks. I should like to know what she thinks 
herself. It's a'most too much for my stomach to see her 
flourishing that watch and chain." 
" What's the use of troubling yourself about other people's 
notions ?" said Mr. Van Brunt. " If folks want to take the 
road let 'em have it. That's my way. I am satisfied, pro- 
vided they don't run me over." 
" 'Taint my way then, I'd have you to know," said Miss 
Fortune ; " T despise it ! And 'taint your way neither, Van 
Brunt ; what did you give Tom Larkens a cowhiding for ?" 
" 'Cause he deserved it, if ever a man did," said Mr. Van 
Brunt, quite rousing up ;— "he was treating that little brother of his'n in a way a boy shouldn't be treated, and I am 
glad I did it. I gave him notice to quit before I laid a finger 
on him. He warn't doing; nothing to me." 
" And how much good do you suppose it did ?" said . 
Miss Fortune rather scornfully. 
" It did just the good I wanted to do. He has seen fit to 
let little Billy alone ever since." 
" Well I guess I'll let the Dennisons come," said Miss Fortune ; " that makes twelve, and you and your mother are 
fourteen. I suppose that man Marshchalk will come dang- 
ling along after the Hitchcocks." 
" To be sure he will ; and his aunt, Miss Janet, will come 
with him most likely." 
" Well — there's no help for it," said Miss Fortune. " That 
makes sixteen." 
"Will you ask Miss Alice ?" 
" Not I ! she's another of your proud set. I don't want to 
see anybody that thinks she's going to do me a great favor 
by coming." 
Ellen's lips opened, but wisdom came in time to stop the 
words that were on her tongue. It did not however prevent 
the quick little turn of her head which showed what she 
thought, and the pale cheeks w r ere for a moment bright 
enough. 
" She is, and I don't care who hears it," repeated Miss 
Fortune. " I suppose she'd look as sober as a judge too if 
she saw cider on the table ; they say she won't touch a drop 
ever, and thinks it's wicked ; and if that aint setting oneself
up for better than other folks I don't know what is." 
" I saw her paring apples at the Huffs though," said Mr. 
Van Brunt, " and as pleasant as anybody ; but she didn't stay 
to supper." 
" I'd ask Mrs. Vawse if I could get word to her," said 
Miss Fortune, — "but I can never travel up that mountain. If 
I get a sight of Nancy I'll tell her." 
" There she is then," said Mr. Van Brunt, looking towards 
the little window that opened into the shed. And there in- 
deed was the face of Miss Nancy pressed flat against the 
glass, peering into the room. Miss Fortune beckoned to her. 
" That is the most impudent, shameless, outrageous piece 
of . What were you doing at the window?" said she 
as Nancy came in. 
" Looking at you, Miss Fortune," said Nancy coolly. 
" What have you been talking about this great while ? Jf 
there had only been a pane of glass broken I needn't have 
asked." 
" Hold your tongue," said Miss Fortune, " and listen to 
me." 
"I'll listen, ma'am," said Nancy, "but it's of no use to 
hold my tongue. I do try sometimes, but I never could keep 
it long." 
" Have you done ?" 
" I don't know, ma'am," said Nancy, shaking her head ; 
"it's just as it happens." 
" You tell your granny I am going to have a bee here next 
Monday evening, and ask her if she'll come to it." 
Nancy nodded. iS If it's good weather," she added con- 
ditionally. 
" Stop, Nancy !" said Miss Fortune, " here !" — for Nancy 
was shutting the door behind her. — "As sure as you come 
here Monday night without your grandma you'll go out of 
the house quicker than you come in ; see if you don't !' 
With another gracious nod and smile Nancy departed. 
" Well," said Mr. Van Brunt rising, " I'll despatch this 
business down stairs, and then I'll bring up the sleigh. The 
pickle's ready I suppose." 
" No it aint," said Miss Fortune, " I couldn't make it 
yesterday ; but it's all in the kettle, and I told Sam to make 
a fire down stairs, so you can put it on when you go down. 
The kits are all ready, and the salt and everything else." 
Mr. Van Brunt went down the stairs that led to the lower 
kitchen ; and Miss Fortune, to make up for lost time, set 
about her morning's work with even an uncommon measure 
of activity. Ellen, in consideration of her being still weak, 
was not required to do anything. She sat and looked on, 
keeping out of the way of her bustling aunt as far as it was 
possible ; but Miss Fortune's gyrations were of that character that no one could tell five minutes beforehand what she 
she might consider " in the way." Ellen wished for her quiet 
room again. Mr. Van Brunt's voice sounded down stairs in 
tones of business ; what could he be about ? it must be very 
uncommon business that kept him in the house. Ellen grew 
restless with the desire to go and see, and to change her 
aunt's company for his ; and no sooner was Miss Fortune 
fairly shut up in the buttery at some secret work than Ellen 
gently opened the door at the head of the lower stairs and 
looked down. Mr. Van Brunt was standing at the bottom 
and he looked up. 
" May I come down there Mr. Van Brunt ?" said Ellen 
softly. 
" Come down here ? to be be sure you may ! You may 
always come straight where I am without asking any ques- 
tions." 
Ellen went down. But before she reached the bottom 
stair she stopped with almost a start, and stood fixed with 
such a horrified face that neither Mr. Van Brunt nor Sam 
Larkens, who was there, could help laughing. 
"What's the matter?" said the former, — "they're all
dead enough Miss Ellen ; you needn't be scared." 
Three enormous bogs which had been killed the day before 
greeted Ellen's eyes. They lay in different parts of the 
room, with each a cob in his mouth. A fourth lay stretched 
upon his back on the kitchen table, which was drawn out into 
the middle of the floor. Ellen stood fast on the stair. 
" Have they been killed !" was her first astonished exclamation, to which Sam responded with another burst. 
"Be quiet Sam Larkens," said Mr. Van Brunt. "Yes 
Miss Ellen, they've been killed sure enough." 
" Are these the same pigs I used to see you feeding with 
corn, Mr. Van Brunt?" 
" The identical same ones," replied that gentleman, as 
laying hold of the head of the one on the table and applying 
his long sharp knife with the other hand, he while he was 
speaking severed it neatly and quickly from the trunk. " And 
very fine porkers they are ; I aint ashamed of 'em." 
