situation were such as to drive them to so humiliating a resource.
"Deeply in earnest," was the mother's reply.
"We are left alone in the world. He who cared for us and provided for
us so liberally has been taken away, and we have nowhere to look for
aid but to the resources that are in ourselves. These well applied,
will give us, I feel strongly assured, all that we need. The thing to
decide is, what we ought to do. If we choose aright, all will doubtless
come out right. To choose aright is, therefore, of the first
importance; and to do this, we must not suffer distorting suggestions
nor the appeals of a false pride to influence our minds in the least.
You are my oldest child, Edith; and, as such, I cannot but look upon
you as, to some extent, jointly with me, the guardian of your younger
brothers and sisters. True, Miriam is of age, and Henry nearly so; but
still you are the eldest--your mind is more matured, and in your
judgment I have the most confidence. Try and forget, Edith, all but the
fact that, unless we make an exertion, one home for all cannot be
retained. Are you willing that we should be scattered like leaves in
the autumn wind? No! you would consider that one of the greatest
calamities that could befall us--an evil to prevent which we should use
every effort in our power. Do you, not see this clearly?"
"I do, mother," was replied by Edith in a more rational tone of voice
than that in which she had yet spoken.
"To open a store of any kind would involve five times the exposure of a
boarding-house; and, moreover, I know nothing of business."
"Keeping a store? Oh, no! we couldn't do that. Think of the dreadful
exposure!"
"But in taking boarders we only increase our family, and all goes on as
usual. To my mind, it is the most genteel thing that we can do. Our
style of living will be the same; our waiter and all our servants will
be retained. In fact, to the eye there will be little change, and the
world need never know how greatly reduced our circumstances have
become."
This mode of argument tended to reconcile Edith to taking boarders.
Something, she saw, had to be done. Opening a store was felt to be out
of the question; and as to commencing a school, the thought was
repulsed at the very first suggestion.
A few friends were consulted on the subject, and all agreed that the
best thing for the widow to do was to take boarders. Each one could
point to some lady who had commenced the business with far less ability
to make boarders comfortable, and who had yet got along very well. It
was conceded on all hands that it was a very genteel business, and that
some of the first ladies had been compelled to resort to it, without
being any the less respected. Almost every one to whom the matter was
referred spoke in favour of the thing, and but a single individual
suggested difficulty; but what he said was not permitted to have much
weight. This individual was a brother of the widow, who had always been
looked upon as rather eccentric. He was a bachelor and without fortune,
merely enjoying a moderate income as book-keeper in the office of an
insurance company. But more of him hereafter.
CHAPTER II.
MRS. DARLINGTON, the widow we have just introduced to the reader, had
five children. Edith, the oldest daughter, was twenty-two years of age
at the time of her father's death; and Henry, the oldest son, just
twenty. Next to Henry was Miriam, eighteen years old. The ages of the
two youngest children, Ellen and Edward, were ten and eight.
Mr. Darlington, while living, was a lawyer of distinguished ability,
and his talents and reputation at the Philadelphia bar enabled him to
accumulate a handsome fortune. Upon this he had lived for some years in
a style of great elegance. About a year before his death, he had been
induced to enter into some speculation that promised great results; but
he found, when too late to retreat, that he had been greatly deceived.
Heavy losses soon followed. In a struggle to recover himself, he became
still further involved; and, ere the expiration of a twelvemonth, saw
every thing falling from under him. The trouble brought on by this was
the real cause of his death, which was sudden, and resulted from
inflammation and congestion of the brain.
Henry Darlington, the oldest son, was a young man of promising talents.
He remained at college until a few months before his father's death,
when he returned home and commenced the study of law, in which he felt
ambitious to distinguish himself.
Edith, the oldest daughter, possessed a fine mind, which had been well
educated. She had some false views of life, natural to her position;
but, apart from this, was a girl of sound sense and great force of
character. Thus far in life she had not encountered circumstances of a
nature calculated to develop what was in her. The time for that,
however, was approaching. Miriam, her sister, was a quiet, gentle,
retiring, almost timid girl. She went into company with reluctance, and
then always shrunk as far from observation as it was possible to get;
but, like most quiet, retiring persons, there were deep places in her
mind and heart. She thought and felt more than was supposed. All who
knew Miriam loved her. Of the younger children we need not here speak.
Mrs. Darlington knew comparatively nothing of the world beyond her own
social circle. She was, perhaps, as little calculated for doing what
she proposed to do as a woman could well be. She had no habits of
economy, and had never in her life been called upon to make
calculations of expense in household matters. There was a tendency to
generosity rather than selfishness in her character, and she rarely
thought evil of any one. But all that she was need not here be set
forth, for it will appear as our narrative progresses.
Mr. Hiram Ellis, the brother of Mrs. Darlington to whom brief allusion
has been made, was not a great favourite in the family--although Mr.
Darlington understood his good qualities, and very highly respected
him--because he had not much that was prepossessing in his external
appearance, and was thought to be a little eccentric. Moreover, he was
not rich--merely holding the place of book-keeper in an insurance
office, at a moderate salary. But as he had never married, and had only
himself to support, his income supplied amply all his wants, and left
him a small annual surplus.
After the death of Mr. Darlington, he visited his sister much more
frequently than before. Of the exact condition of her affairs, he was
much better acquainted than she supposed. The anxiety which she felt,
some months after her husband's death, when the result of the
settlement of his estate became known, led her to be rather more
communicative. After determining to open a boarding-house, she said to
him, on the occasion of his visiting her one evening--
"As it is necessary for me to do something, Hiram, I have concluded to
move to a better location, and take a few boarders."
"Don't do any such thing, Margaret," her brother made answer. "Taking
boarders! It's the last thing of which a woman should think."
"Why do you say that, Hiram?" asked Mrs. Darlington, evincing no little
surprise at this unexpected reply.
"Because I think that a woman who has a living to make can hardly try a
more doubtful experiment. Not one in ten ever succeeds in doing any
thing."
"But why, Hiram? Why? I'm sure a great many ladies get a living in that
way."
"What you will never do, Margaret, mark my words for it. It takes a
woman of shrewdness, caution, and knowledge of the world, and one
thoroughly versed in household economy, to get along in this pursuit.
Even if you possessed all these prerequisites to success, you have just
the family that ought not to come in contact with anybody and everybody
that find their way into boarding-houses."
"I must do something, Hiram," said Mrs. Darlington, evincing impatience
at the opposition of her brother.
"I perfectly agree with you in that, Margaret," replied Mr. Ellis. "The
only doubt is as to your choice of occupation. You think that your best
plan will be to take boarders; while I think you could not fall upon a
worse expedient."
"Why do you think so?"
"Have I not just said?"
"What?"
"Why, that, in the first place, it takes a woman of great shrewdness,
caution, and knowledge of the world, and one thoroughly versed in
household economy, to succeed in the business."
"I'm not a fool, Hiram!" exclaimed Mrs. Darlington, losing her
self-command.
"Perhaps you may alter your opinion on that head some time within the
next twelve months," coolly returned Mr. Ellis, rising and beginning to
button up his coat.
"Such language to me, at this time, is cruel!" said Mrs. Darlington,
putting her handkerchief to her eyes.
"No," calmly replied her brother, "not cruel, but kind. I wish to save
you from trouble."
"What else can I do?" asked the widow, removing the handkerchief from
her face.
"Many things, I was going to say," returned Mr. Ellis. "But, in truth,
the choice of employment is not very great. Still, something with a
fairer promise than taking boarders may be found."
"If you can point me to some better way, brother," said Mrs.
Darlington, "I shall feel greatly indebted to you."
"Almost any thing is better. Suppose you and Edith were to open a
school. Both of you are well--"
"Open a school!" exclaimed Mrs. Darlington, interrupting her brother,
and exhibiting most profound astonishment. "I open a school! I didn't
think you would take advantage of my grief and misfortune to offer me
an insult."
Mr. Ellis buttoned the top button of his coat nervously, as his sister
said this, and, partly turning himself towards the door, said--
"Teaching school is a far more useful, and, if you will, more
respectable employment, than keeping a boarding-house. This you ought
to see at a glance. As a teacher, you would be a minister of truth to
the mind, and have it in your power to bend from evil and lead to good
the young immortals committed to your care; while, as a boarding-house
keeper, you would merely furnish food for the natural body--a use below
what you are capable of rendering to society."
But Mrs. Darlington was in no state of mind to feel the force of such
an argument. From the thought of a school she shrunk as from something
degrading, and turned from it with displeasure.
"Don't mention such a thing to me," said she fretfully, "I will not
listen to the proposition."
"Oh, well, Margaret, as you please," replied her brother, now moving
towards the door. "When you ask my advice, I will give it according to
my best judgment, and with a sincere desire for your good. If, however,
it conflicts with your views, reject it; but, in simple justice to me,
do so in a better spirit than you manifest on the present occasion.
Good evening!"
Mrs. Darlington was too much disturbed in mind to make a reply, and Mr.
Hiram Ellis left the room without any attempt on the part of his sister
to detain him. On both sides there had been the indulgence of rather
more impatience and intolerance than was commendable.
CHAPTER III.
IN due time, Mrs. Darlington removed to a house in Arch Street, the
annual rent of which was six hundred dollars, and there began her
experiment. The expense of a removal, and the cost of the additional
chamber furniture required, exhausted about two hundred dollars of the
widow's slender stock of money, and caused her, to feel a little
troubled when she noticed the diminution.
She began her new business with two boarders, a gentleman and his wife
by the name of Grimes, who had entered her house on the recommendation
of a friend. They were to pay her the sum of eight dollars a week. A
young man named Barling, clerk in a wholesale Market Street house, came
next; and he introduced, soon after, a friend of his, a clerk in the
same store, named Mason. They were room-mates, and paid three dollars
and a half each. Three or four weeks elapsed before any further
additions were made; then an advertisement brought several
applications. One was from a gentleman who wanted two rooms for himself
and wife, a nurse and four children. He wanted the second story front
and back chambers, furnished, and was not willing to pay over sixteen
dollars, although his oldest child was twelve and his youngest four
years of age--seven good eaters and two of the best rooms in the house
for sixteen dollars!
Mrs. Darlington demurred. The man said--
"Very well, ma'am," in a tone of indifference. "I can find plenty of
accommodations quite as good as yours for the price I offer. It's all I
pay now." Poor Mrs. Darlington sighed. She had but fifteen dollars yet
in the house--that is, boarders who paid this amount weekly--and the
rent alone amounted to twelve dollars. Sixteen dollars, she argued with
herself, as she sat with her eyes upon the floor, would make a great
difference in her income; would, in fact, meet all the expenses of the
house. Two good rooms would still remain, and all that she received for
these would be so much clear profit. Such was the hurried conclusion of
Mrs. Darlington's mind.
"I suppose I will have to take you," said she, lifting her eyes to the
man's hard features. "But those rooms ought to bring me twenty-four
dollars."
"Sixteen is the utmost I will pay," replied the man. In fact, I did
think of offering only fourteen dollars. "But the rooms are fine, and I
like them. Sixteen is a liberal price. Your terms are considerably
above the ordinary range."
The widow sighed again.
If the man heard this sound, it did not touch a single chord of feeling.
"Then it is understood that I am to have your rooms at sixteen
dollars?" said he.
"Yes, sir. I will take you for that."
"Very well. My name is Scragg. We will be ready to come in on Monday
next. You can have all prepared for us?"
"Yes, sir."
Scarcely had Mr. Scragg departed, when a gentleman called to know if
Mrs. Darlington had a vacant front room in the second story.
"I had this morning; but it is taken," replied the widow.
"Ah! I'm sorry for that."
"Will not a third story front room suit you?" "No. My wife is not in
very good health, and wishes a second story room. We pay twelve dollars
a week, and would even give more, if necessary, to obtain just the
accommodations we like. The situation of your house pleases me. I'm
sorry that I happen to be too late."
"Will you look at the room?" said Mrs. Darlington, into whose mind came
the desire to break the bad bargain she had just made.
"If you please," returned the man.
And both went up to the large and beautifully furnished chambers.
"Just the thing!" said the man, as he looked around, much pleased with
the appearance of every thing. "But I understood you to say that it was
taken."
"Why, yes," replied Mrs. Darlington, "I did partly engage it this
morning; but, no doubt, I can arrange with the family to take the two
rooms above, which will suit them just as well."
"If you can"--
"There'll be no difficulty, I presume. You'll pay twelve dollars a
week?"
"Yes."
"Only yourself and lady?"
"That's all."
"Very well, sir; you can have the room."
"It's a bargain, then. My name is Ring. Our week is up to-day where we
are; and, if it is agreeable, we will become your guests to-morrow."
"Perfectly agreeable, Mr. Ring."
The gentleman bowed politely and retired.
Now Mrs. Darlington did not feel very comfortable when she reflected on
what she had done. The rooms in the second story were positively
engaged to Mr. Scragg, and now one of them was as positively engaged to
Mr. Ring. The face of Mr. Scragg she remembered very well. It was a
hard, sinister face, just such a one as we rarely forget because of the
disagreeable impression it makes. As it came up distinctly before the
eyes of her mind, she was oppressed with a sense of coming trouble. Nor
did she feel altogether satisfied with what she had done--satisfied in
her own conscience.
On the next morning, Mr. and Mrs. Ring came and took possession of the
room previously engaged to Mr. Scragg. They were pleasant people, and
made a good first impression.
As day after day glided past, Mrs. Darlington felt more and more uneasy
about Mr. Scragg, with whom, she had a decided presentiment, there
would be trouble. Had she known where to find him, she would have sent
him a note, saying that she had changed her mind about the rooms, and
could not let him have them. But she was ignorant of his address; and
the only thing left for her was to wait until he came on Monday, and
then get over the difficulty in the best way possible. She and Edith
had talked over the matter frequently, and had come to the
determination to offer Mr. Scragg the two chambers in the third story
for fourteen dollars.
On Monday morning, Mrs. Darlington was nervous. This was the day on
which Mr. Scragg and family were to arrive, and she felt that there
would be trouble.
Mr. Ring, and the other gentlemen boarders, left soon after breakfast.
About ten o'clock, the door-bell rang. Mrs. Darlington was in her room
at the time changing her dress. Thinking that this might be the
announcement of Mr. Scragg's arrival, she hurried through her dressing
in order to get down to the parlour as quickly as possible to meet him
and the difficulty that was to be encountered; but before she was in a
condition to be seen, she heard a man's voice on the stairs, saying--
"Walk up, my dear. The rooms on the second floor are ours."
Then came the noise of many feet in the passage, and the din of
children's voices. Mr. Scragg and his family had arrived.
Mrs. Ring was sitting with the morning paper in her hand, when her door
was flung widely open, and a strange man stepped boldly in, saying, as
he did so, to the lady who followed him--
"This is one of the chambers."
Mrs. Ring arose, bowed, and looked at the intruders with surprise and
embarrassment. Just then, four rude children bounded into the room,
spreading themselves around it, and making themselves perfectly at home.
"There is some mistake, I presume," said Mrs. Scragg, on perceiving a
lady in the room, whose manner said plainly enough that they were out
of their place.
"Oh no! no mistake at all," replied Scragg.
"These are the two rooms I engaged."
Just then Mrs. Darlington entered, in manifest excitement.
"Walk down into the parlour, if you please," said she.
"These are our rooms," said Scragg, showing no inclination to vacate
the premises.
"Be kind enough to walk down into the parlour," repeated Mrs.
Darlington, whose sense of propriety was outraged by the man's conduct,
and who felt a corresponding degree of indignation.
With some show of reluctance, this invitation was acceded to, and Mr.
Scragg went muttering down stairs, followed by his brood. The moment he
left the chamber, the door was shut and locked by Mrs. Ring, who was a
good deal frightened by so unexpected an intrusion.
"What am I to understand by this, madam?" said Mr. Scragg, fiercely, as
soon as they had all reached the parlour, planting his hands upon his
hips as he spoke, drawing himself up, and looking at Mrs. Darlington
with a lowering countenance.
"Take a seat, madam," said Mrs. Darlington, addressing the man's wife
in a tone of forced composure. She was struggling for self-possession.
The lady sat down.
"Will you be good enough to explain the meaning of all this, madam?"
repeated Mr. Scragg.
"The meaning is simply," replied Mrs. Darlington, "that I have let the
front room in the second story to a gentleman and his wife for twelve
dollars a week."
"The deuse you have!" said Mr. Scragg, with a particular exhibition of
gentlemanly indignation.
"And pray, madam, didn't you let both the rooms in the second story to
me for sixteen dollars?"
"I did; but"--
"Oh, very well. That's all I wish to know about it. The rooms were
rented to me, and from that day became mine. Please to inform the lady
and her husband that I am here with my family, and desire them to
vacate the chambers as quickly as possible. I'm a man that knows his
rights, and, knowing, always maintains them."
"You cannot have the rooms, sir. That is out of the question," said
Mrs. Darlington, looking both distressed and indignant.
"And I tell you that I will have them!" replied Scragg, angrily.
"Peter! Peter! Don't act so," now interposed Mrs. Scragg. "There's no
use in it."
"Ain't there, indeed? We'll see. Madam"--he addressed Mrs.
Darlington--"will you be kind enough to inform the lady and gentleman
who now occupy one of our rooms"--
"Mr. Scragg!" said Mrs. Darlington, in whose fainting heart his
outrageous conduct had awakened something of the right spirit--"Mr.
Scragg, I wish you to understand, once for all, that the front room is
taken and now occupied, and that you cannot have it."
"Madam!"
"It's no use for you to waste words, sir! What I say I mean. I have
other rooms in the house very nearly as good, and am willing to take
you for something less in consideration of this disappointment. If that
will meet your views, well; if not, let us have no more words on the
subject."
There was a certain something in Mrs. Darlington's tone of voice that
Scragg understood to mean a fixed purpose. Moreover, his mind caught at
the idea of getting boarded for something less than sixteen dollars a
week.
"Where are the rooms?" he asked gruffly.
"The third story chambers."
"Front?"
"Yes."
"I don't want to go to the third story."
"Very well. Then you can have the back chamber down stairs, and the
front chamber above."
"What will be your charge?"
"Fourteen dollars."
"That will do, Peter," said Mrs. Scragg. "Two dollars a week is
considerable abatement."
"It's something, of course. But I don't like this off and on kind of
business. When I make an agreement, I'm up to the mark, and expect the
same from everybody else. Will you let my wife see the rooms, madam?"
"Certainly," replied Mrs. Darlington, and moved towards the door. Mrs.
Scragg followed, and so did all the juvenile Scraggs--the latter
springing up the stairs with the agility of apes and the noise of a
dozen rude schoolboys just freed from the terror of rod and ferule.
The rooms suited Mrs. Scragg very well--at least such was her report to
her husband--and, after some further rudeness on the part of Mr.
Scragg, and an effort to beat Mrs. Darlington down to twelve dollars a
week, were taken, and forthwith occupied.
CHAPTER IV.
MRS. DARLINGTON was a woman of refinement herself, and had been used to
the society of refined persons. She was, naturally enough, shocked at
the coarseness and brutality of Mr. Scragg, and, ere an hour went by,
in despair at the unmannerly rudeness of the children, the oldest a
stout, vulgar-looking boy, who went racing and rummaging about the
house from the garret to the cellar. For a long time after her exciting
interview with Mr. Scragg, she sat weeping and trembling in her own
room, with Edith by her side, who sought earnestly to comfort and
encourage her.
"Oh, Edith!" she sobbed, "to think that we should be humbled to this!"
"Necessity has forced us into our present unhappy position, mother,"
replied Edith. "Let us meet its difficulties with as brave hearts as
possible."
"I shall never be able to treat that dreadful man with even common
civility," said Mrs. Darlington.
"We have accepted him as our guest, mother, and it will be our duty to
make all as pleasant and comfortable as possible. We will have to bear
much, I see--much beyond what I had anticipated."
Mrs. Darlington sighed deeply as she replied--
"Yes, yes, Edith. Ah, the thought makes me miserable!"
"No more of that sweet drawing together in our own dear home circle,"
remarked Edith, sadly.
"Henceforth we are to bear the constant presence and intrusion of
strangers, with whom we have few or no sentiments in common. We open
our house and take in the ignorant, the selfish, the vulgar, and feed
them for a certain price! Does not the thought bring a feeling of
painful humiliation? What can pay for all this? Ah me! The anticipation
had in it not a glimpse of what we have found in our brief experience.
Except Mr. and Mrs. Ring, there isn't a lady nor gentleman in the
house. That Mason is so rudely familiar that I cannot bear to come near
him. He's making himself quite intimate with Henry already, and I don't
like to see it."
"Nor do I," replied Mrs. Darlington. "Henry's been out with him twice
to the theatre already."
"I'm afraid of his influence over Henry. He's not the kind of a
companion he ought to choose," said Edith. "And then Mr. Barling is
with Miriam in the parlour almost every evening. He asks her to sing,
and she says she doesn't like to refuse."
The mother sighed deeply. While they were conversing, a servant came to
their room to say that Mr. Ring was in the parlour, and wished to speak
with Mrs. Darlington. It was late in the afternoon of the day on which
the Scraggs had made their appearance.
With a presentiment of trouble, Mrs. Darlington went down to the
parlour.
"Madam," said Mr. Ring, as soon as she entered, speaking in a firm
voice, "I find that my wife has been grossly insulted by a fellow whose
family you have taken into your house. Now they must leave here, or we
will, and that forthwith."
"I regret extremely," replied Mrs. Darlington, "the unpleasant
occurrence to which you allude; but I do not see how it is possible for
me to turn these people out of the house."
"Very well, ma'am. Suit yourself about that. You can choose between us.
Both can't remain."
"If I were to tell this Mr. Scragg to seek another boarding-house, he
would insult me," said Mrs. Darlington.
"Strange that you would take such a fellow into your house!"
"My rooms were vacant, and I had to fill them."
"Better to have let them remain vacant. But this is neither here nor
there. If this fellow remains, we go."
And go they did on the next day. Mrs. Darlington was afraid to approach
Mr. Scragg on the subject. Had she done so, she would have received
nothing but abuse.
Two weeks afterward, the room vacated by Mr. and Mrs. Ring was taken by
a tall, fine-looking man, who wore a pair of handsome whiskers and
dressed elegantly. He gave his name as Burton, and agreed to pay eight
dollars. Mrs. Darlington liked him very much. There was a certain style
about him that evidenced good breeding and a knowledge of the world.
What his business was he did not say. He was usually in the house as
late as ten o'clock in the morning, and rarely came in before twelve at
night.
Soon after Mr. Burton became a member of Mrs. Darlington's household,
he began to show particular attentions to Miriam, who was in her
nineteenth year, and was, as we have said, a gentle, timid, shrinking
girl. Though she did not encourage, she would not reject the attentions
of the polite and elegant stranger, who had so much that was agreeable
to say that she insensibly acquired a kind of prepossession in his
favour.
As now constituted, the family of Mrs. Darlington was not so pleasant
and harmonious as could have been desired. Mr. Scragg had already
succeeded in making himself so disagreeable to the other boarders, that
they were scarcely civil to him; and Mrs. Grimes, who was quite
gracious with Mrs. Scragg at first, no longer spoke to her. They had
fallen out about some trifle, quarrelled, and then cut each other's
acquaintance. When the breakfast, dinner, or tea bell rang, and the
boarders assembled at the table, there was generally, at first, an
embarrassing silence. Scragg looked like a bull-dog waiting for an
occasion to bark; Mrs. Scragg sat with her lips closely compressed and
her head partly turned away, so as to keep her eyes out of the line of
vision with Mrs. Grimes's face; while Mrs. Grimes gave an occasional
glance of contempt towards the lady with whom she had had a "tiff."
Barling and Mason, observing all this, and enjoying it, were generally
the first to break the reigning silence; and this was usually done by
addressing some remark to Scragg, for no other reason, it seemed, than
to hear his growling reply. Usually, they succeeded in drawing him into
an argument, when they would goad him until he became angry; a species
of irritation in which they never suffered themselves to indulge. As
for Mr. Grimes, he was a man of few words. When spoken to, he would
reply; but he never made conversation. The only man who really behaved
like a gentleman was Mr. Burton; and the contrast seen in him naturally
prepossessed the family in his favour.
The first three months' experience in taking boarders was enough to
make the heart of Mrs. Darlington sick. All domestic comfort was gone.
From early morning until late at night, she toiled harder than any
servant in the house; and, with all, had a mind pressed down with care
and anxiety. Three times during this period she had been obliged to
change her cook, yet, for all, scarcely a day passed that she did not
set badly cooked food before her guests. Sometimes certain of the
boarders complained, and it generally happened that rudeness
accompanied the complaint. The sense of pain that attended this was
always most acute, for it was accompanied by deep humiliation and a
feeling of helplessness. Moreover, during these first three months, Mr.
and Mrs. Grimes had left the house without paying their board for five
weeks, thus throwing her into a loss of forty dollars.
At the beginning of this experiment, after completing the furniture of
her house, Mrs. Darlington had about three hundred dollars. When the
quarter's bill for rent was paid, she had only a hundred and fifty
dollars left. Thus, instead of making any thing by boarders, so far,
she had sunk a hundred and fifty dollars. This fact disheartened her
dreadfully. Then, the effect upon almost every member of her family had
been bad. Harry was no longer the thoughtful affectionate,
innocent-minded young man of former days. Mason and Barling had
introduced him into gay company, and, fascinated with a new and more
exciting kind of life, he was fast forming associations and acquiring
habits of a dangerous character. It was rare that he spent an evening
at home; and, instead of being of any assistance to his mother, was
constantly making demands on her for money. The pain all this
occasioned Mrs. Darlington was of the most distressing character. Since
the children of Mr. and Mrs. Scragg came into the house, Edward and
Ellen, who had heretofore been under the constant care and instruction
of their mother, left almost entirely to themselves, associated
constantly with these children, and learned from them to be rude,
vulgar, and, in some things, even vicious. And Miriam had become
apparently so much interested in Mr. Burton, who was constantly
attentive to her, that both Mrs. Darlington and Edith became anxious on
her account. Burton was entire stranger to them all, and there were
many things about him that appeared strange, if not wrong.
So much for the experiment of taking boarders, after the lapse of a
single quarter of a year.
CHAPTER V.
ABOUT this time a lady and gentleman, named Marion, called and engaged
boarding for themselves and three children. In Mrs. Marion there was
something that won the heart at first sight, and her children were as
lovely and attractive as herself; but towards her husband there was a
feeling of instant repulsion. Not that he was coarse or rude in his
exterior--that was polished; but there were a sensualism and want of
principle about him that could be felt.
They had been in the house only a week or two, when their oldest child,
a beautiful boy, was taken ill. He had fever, and complained of
distress in his back and pain in his head. The mother appeared anxious,
but the father treated the matter lightly, and said he would be well
again in a few hours.
"I think you'd better call in a doctor," Mrs. Darlington heard the
mother say, as her husband stood at the chamber door ready to go away.
"Nonsense, Jane," he replied. "You are easily frightened. There's
nothing serious the matter."
"I'm afraid of scarlet fever, Henry," was answered to this.
"Fiddlesticks! You're always afraid of something," was lightly and
unkindly returned.
Mrs. Marion said no more, and her husband went away. About half an hour
afterwards, as Mrs. Darlington sat in her room, there was a light tap
at her door, which was immediately opened, and Mrs. Marion stepped in.
Her face was pale, and it was some moments before her quivering lips
could articulate.
"Won't you come up and look at my Willy?" she at length said, in a
tremulous voice.
"Certainly, ma'am," replied Mrs. Darlington, rising immediately. "What
do you think ails your little boy?"
"I don't know, ma'am; but I'm afraid of scarlet fever--that dreadful
disease."
Mrs. Darlington went up to the chamber of Mrs. Marion. On the bed lay
Willy, his face flushed with fever, and his eyes wearing a glassy
lustre.
"Do you feel sick, my dear?" asked Mrs. Darlington, as she laid her
hand on his burning forehead.
"Yes, ma'am," replied the child.
"There are you sick?"
"My head aches."
"Is your throat sore?"
"Yes, ma'am."
"Very sore?"
"It hurts me so that I can hardly swallow."
"What do you think ails him?" asked the mother, in anxious tones.
"It's hard to say, Mrs. Marion; but, if it were my case, I would send
for a doctor. Who is your physician?"
"Dr. M----."
"If you would like to have him called in, I will send the waiter to his
office."
Mrs. Marion looked troubled and alarmed.
"My husband doesn't think it any thing serious," said she. "I wanted
him to go for the doctor."
"Take my advice, and send for a physician," replied Mrs. Darlington.
"If you will send for Dr. M----, I will feel greatly obliged," said
Mrs. Marion.
The doctor was sent for immediately. He did not come for two hours, in
which time Willy had grown much worse. He looked serious, and answered
all questions evasively. After writing a prescription, he gave a few
directions, and said he would call again in the evening. At his second
visit, he found his patient much worse; and, on the following morning,
pronounced it a case of scarlatina.
Already, Willy had made a friend in every member of Mrs. Darlington's
family, and the announcement of his dangerous illness was received with
acute pain. Miriam took her place beside Mrs. Marion in the sick
chamber, all her sympathies alive, and all her fears awakened; and
Edith and her mother gave every attention that their other duties in
the household would permit.
Rapidly did the disease, which had fixed itself upon the delicate frame
of the child, run its fatal course. On the fourth day he died in the
arms of his almost frantic mother.
Though Mrs. Marion had been only a short time in the house, yet she had
already deeply interested the feelings of Mrs. Darlington and her two
eldest daughters, who suffered with her in the affliction almost as
severely as if they had themselves experienced a bereavement; and this
added to the weight, already painfully oppressive, that rested upon
them.
The nearer contact into which the family of Mrs. Darlington and the
bereaved mother were brought by this affliction, discovered to the
former many things that strengthened the repugnance first felt towards
Mr. Marion, and awakened still livelier sympathies for his suffering
wife.
One evening, a week after the body of the child was borne out by the
mourners and laid to moulder in its kindred dust, the voice of Mr.
Marion was heard in loud, angry tones. He was alone with his wife in
their chamber. This chamber was next to hat of Edith and Miriam, where
they, at the time, happened to be. What he said they could not make
out; but they distinctly heard the voice of Mrs. Marion, and the words--
"Oh, Henry! don't! don't!" uttered in tones the most agonizing. They
also heard the words, "For the sake of our dear, dear Willy!" used in
some appeal.
Both Edith and Miriam were terribly frightened, and sat panting and
looking at each other with pale faces.
All now became silent. Not a sound could be heard in the chamber save
an occasional low sob. For half an hour this silence continued. Then
the door of the chamber was opened, and Marion went down stairs. The
closing of the front door announced his departure from the house. Edith
and her sister sat listening for some minutes after Marion had left,
but not a movement could they perceive in the adjoining chamber.
"Strange! What can it mean?" at length said Miriam, in a husky whisper.
Edith breathed heavily to relieve the pressure on her bosom, but made
no answer.
"He didn't strike her?" said Miriam, her face growing paler as she made
this suggestion.
The moment this was uttered, Edith arose quickly and moved towards the
door.
"Where are you going?" asked her sister.
"Into Mrs. Marion's room."
"Oh no, don't!" returned Miriam, speaking from some vague fear that
made her heart shrink.
But Edith did not heed the words. Her light tap at Mrs. Marion's door
was not answered. Opening it softly, she stepped within the chamber. On
the bed, where she had evidently thrown herself, lay Mrs. Marion; and,
on approaching and bending over her, Edith discovered that she was
sleeping. On perceiving this, she retired as noiselessly as she had
entered.
Ten, eleven, twelve o'clock came; and yet Mr. Marion had not returned.
An hour later than this, Edith and her sister lay awake, but up to that
time he was still away. On the next morning, when the bell rang for
breakfast, and the family assembled at the table, the places of Mr. and
Mrs. Marion were vacant. From their nurse it was ascertained that Mr.
Marion had not come home since he went out on the evening before, and
that his wife had not yet arisen. Between nine and ten o'clock, Mrs.
Darlington sent up to know if Mrs. Marion wished any thing, but was
answered in the negative. At dinner time Mr. Marion did not make his
appearance, and his wife remained in her chamber. Food was sent to her,
but it was returned untasted.
During the afternoon, Mrs. Darlington knocked at her door, but the
nurse said that Mrs. Marion asked to be excused from seeing her. At
supper time food was sent again to her room; but, save part of a cup of
tea, nothing was tasted. After tea, Mrs. Darlington called again at her
room, but the desire to be excused from seeing her was repeated. Marion
did not return that night.
Nearly a week passed, the husband still remaining away, and not once
during that time had Mrs. Marion been seen by any member of the family.
At the end of this period, she sent word to Mrs. Darlington that she
would be glad to see her.
When the latter entered her room, she found her lying upon the bed,
with a face so pale and grief-stricken, that she could not help an
exclamation of painful surprise.
"My dear madam, what has happened?" said she, as she took her hand.
Mrs. Marion was too much overcome by emotion to be able to speak for
some moments. Acquiring self-possession at length, she said, in a low,
sad voice--
"My heart is almost broken, Mrs. Darlington. I feel crushed to the very
ground. How shall I speak of what I am suffering?"
Her voice quivered and failed. But in a few moments she recovered
herself again, and said, more calmly--
"I need not tell you that my husband has been absent for a week; he
went away in a moment of anger, vowing that he would never return.
Hourly have I waited since, in the hope that he would come back; but,
alas! I have thus far received from him neither word nor sign."
Mrs. Marion here gave way to her feelings, and wept bitterly.
"Did he ever leave you before?" asked Mrs. Darlington, as soon as she
had grown calm.
"Once."
"How long did he remain away?"
"More than a year."
"Have you friends?"
"I have no relative but an aunt, who is very poor."
Mrs. Darlington sighed involuntarily. On that very day she had been
seriously examining into her affairs, and the result was a conviction
that, under her present range of expenses, she must go behind-hand with
great rapidity. Mr. and Mrs. Marion were to pay fourteen dollars a
weeks Thus far, nothing had been received from them; and now the
husband had gone off and left his family on her hands. She could not
turn them off, yet how could she bear up under this additional burden!
All this passed through her mind in a moment, and produced the sigh
which distracted her bosom.
"Do you not know where he has gone?" she asked, seeking to throw as
much sympathy and interest in her voice as possible, and thus to
conceal the pressure upon her own feelings which the intelligence had
occasioned.
Mrs. Marion shook her head. She knew that, in the effort to speak, her
voice would fail her.
For nearly the space of a minute there was silence. This was broken, at
length, by Mrs. Marion, who again wept violently. As soon as the
passionate burst of feeling was over, Mrs. Darlington said to her in a
kind and sympathizing voice--
"Do not grieve so deeply. You are not friendless altogether. Though you
have been with us only a short time, we feel an interest in you, and
will not"--
The sentence remained unfinished. There was an impulse in Mrs.
Darlington's mind to proffer the unhappy woman a home for herself and
children; but a sudden recollection of the embarrassing nature of her
own circumstances checked the words on her tongue.
"I cannot remain a burden upon you," quickly answered Mrs. Marion. "But
where can I go? What shall I do?"
The last few words were spoken half to herself, in a low tone of
distressing despondency.
"For the present," said Mrs. Darlington, anxious to mitigate, even in a
small degree, the anguish of the unhappy woman's mind, "let this give
you no trouble. Doubtless the way will open before you. After the
darkest hour the morning breaks."
Yet, even while Mrs. Darlington sought thus to give comfort, her own
heart felt the weight upon it growing heavier. Scarcely able to stand
up in her difficulties alone, here was a new burden laid upon her.
None could have sympathized more deeply with the afflicted mother and
deserted wife than did Mrs. Darlington and her family; and none could
have extended more willingly a helping hand in time of need. But, in
sustaining the burden of her support, they felt that the additional
weight was bearing them under.
CHAPTER VI.
THREE months more elapsed. Mrs. Marion was still an inmate of the
family. Up to this time, not a word had come from her husband, and she
had not been able to pay Mrs. Darlington a single dollar.
Painfully did she feel her dependent situation, although she was
treated with the utmost delicacy and consideration. But all the widow's
means were now exhausted in the payment of the second quarter's rent,
and she found her weekly income reduced to thirty-five dollars,
scarcely sufficient to meet the weekly expense for supplying the table,
paying the servants, etc., leaving nothing for future rent bills, the
cost of clothing, and education for the younger children. With all
this, Mrs. Darlington's duties had been growing daily more and more
severe. Nothing could be trusted to servants that was not, in some way,
defectively done, causing repeated complaints from the boarders. What
proved most annoying was the bad cooking, to remedy which Mrs.
Darlington strove in vain. One day the coffee was not fit to drink, and
on the next day the steak would be burnt or broiled as dry as a chip,
or the sirloin roasted until every particle of juice had evaporated. If
hot cakes were ordered for breakfast, ten chances to one that they were
not sour; or, if rolls were baked, they would, most likely, be as heavy
as lead.
Such mishaps were so frequent, that the guests of Mrs. Darlington
became impatient, and Mr. Scragg, in particular, never let an occasion
for grumbling or insolence pass without fully improving it.
"Is your coal out?" said he, one morning, about this time, as he sat at
the breakfast table.
Mrs. Darlington understood, by the man's tone and manner, that he meant
to be rude, though she did not comprehend the meaning of the question.
"No, sir," she replied, with some dignity of manner. "Why do you ask?"
"It struck me," he answered, "that such might be the case. But,
perhaps, cook is too lazy to bring it out of the cellar. If she'll send
for me to-morrow morning, I'll bring her up an extra scuttleful, as I
particularly like a good cup of hot coffee."
His meaning was now plain. Quick as thought, the blood rushed to the
face of Mrs. Darlington.
She had borne so much from this man, and felt towards him such utter
disgust, that she could forbear no longer.
"Mr. Scragg," said she, with marked indignation, "when a gentleman has
any complaint to make, he does it as a gentleman."
"Madam!" exclaimed Scragg, with a threat in his voice, while his coarse
face became red with anger.
"When a gentleman has any complaint to make, he does it as a
gentleman," repeated Mrs. Darlington, with a more particular emphasis
than at first.
"I'd thank you to explain yourself," said Scragg, dropping his hands
from the table, and elevating his person.
"My words convey my meaning plainly enough. But, if you cannot
understand, I will try to make them clearer. Your conduct is not that
of a gentleman."
Of course, Mr. Scragg asked for no further explanation. Starting from
the table, he said, looking at Mrs. Scragg--
"Come!"
And Mrs. Scragg arose and followed her indignant spouse.
"Served him right," remarked Burton, in a low voice, bending a little
towards Miriam, who sat near him. "I hope we shall now be rid of the
low-bred fellow."
Miriam was too much disturbed to make a reply. All at the table felt
more or less uncomfortable, and soon retired. Ere dinner time, Mr. and
Mrs. Scragg, with their whole brood, had left the house, thus reducing
the income of Mrs. Darlington from thirty-five to twenty-three dollars
a week.
At dinner time, Mrs. Darlington was in bed. The reaction which followed
the excitement of the morning, accompanied as it was with the
conviction that, in parting with the Scraggs, insufferable as they
were, she had parted with the very means of sustaining herself,
completely prostrated her. During the afternoon, she was better, and
was able to confer with Edith on the desperate nature of their affairs.
"What are we to do?" said she to her daughter, breaking thus abruptly a
silence which had continued for many minutes. "We have an income of
only twenty-three dollars a week, and that will scarcely supply the
table."
Edith sighed, but did not answer.
"Twenty-three dollars a week," repeated Mrs. Darlington. "What are we
to do?"
"Our rooms will not remain vacant long, I hope," said Edith.
"There is little prospect of filling them that I can see," murmured
Mrs. Darlington. "If all our rooms were taken, we might get along."
"I don't know," returned Edith to this, speaking thoughtfully. "I
sometimes think that our expenses are too great for us to make any
