
" papa, let Tom take me. Poor fellow ! it pleases Mm ; 
and you know it's all he can do now, and he wants to do 
something !" 

" So do I, Eva," said her father."

" Well, papa, you can do everything, and are everything to 
me. You read to me you sit up nights and Tom. has only 
this one thing, and his singing ; and I know, too, he does it 
easier than you can. He carries me so strong !" 

The desire to do something was not confined to Tom. 
Every servant in the establishment showed the same feeling, 
and in their way did what they could. 

Poor Mammy's heart yearned towards her darling ; but 
she found no opportunity, night or day, as Marie declared 
that the state of her mind was such, it was impossible for 
her to rest ; and, of course, it was against her principles to 
let any one else rest. Twenty times in a night Mammy 
would be roused to rub her feet, to bathe her head, to find 
her pocket-handkerchief, to see what the noise was in Eva's 
room, to let down a curtain because it was too light, or to 
put it up because it was too dark ; and, in the day-time, 
when she longed to have some share in the nursing of her 
pet, Marie seemed unusually ingenious in keeping her busy 
anywhere and everywhere all over the house, or about her 
own person ; so that stolen interviews and momentary 
glimpses were all she could obtain. 

" I feel it my duty to be particularly careful of myself, 
now," she would say, " feeble as I am, and with the whole 
care and nursing of that dear child upon me." 

" Indeed, my dear," said St. Clare, " I thought our cousin 
relieved you of that." 

"You talk like a man, St. Clare just as if a mother 
could be relieved of the care of a child in that state ; but, 
then, it's all alike no one ever knows what I feel ! I can't 
throw things off, as you do." 

St. Clare smiled. You must excuse him, he couldn't help 
it for St. Clare could smile yet. For so bright and placid 
was the farewell voyage of the little spirit by such sweet 
and fragrant breezes was the small bark borne towards the 
heavenly shores that it was impossible to realise that it 
was death that was approaching. The child felt no pain 
only a tranquil, soft weakness, daily and almost insensibly 





increasing ; and she was so beautiful, so loving, so trustful, 
so happy, that one could not resist the. soothing influence of 
that air of innocence and, peace which seemed to breathe 
around her. St. Clare found a strange calm coming over 
him. It was not hope that was impossible ; it was not 
resignation ; it was only a calm resting in the present, 
which seemed so beautiful that he wished to think of no 
future. It was like that hush of spirit which we feel amid 
the bright, mild woods of autumn, when the bright hectic 
flush is on the trees, and the last lingering flowers by the 
brook ; and we joy in it all the more, because we know that 
soon it will all pass away. 

The friend who knew most of Eva's own imaginings and 
foreshadowings was her faithful bearer, Tom. To him she 
said what she would not disturb her father by saying. To 
him she imparted those mysterious intimations which the 
soul feels, as the cords begin to unbind ere it leaves its clay 
for ever. 

Tom, at last, would not sleep in his room, but lay all night 
in the outer verandah, ready to rouse at every call. 

" Uncle Tom, what alive have you taken to sleeping any- 
where and everywhere, like a dog, for ? " said Miss Ophelia. 
" I thought you was one of the orderly sort, that liked to lie 
in bed in a Christian way." 

" I do, Miss Feely," said Tom, mysteriously. " I do, but 
now " 

" Well, what now ? " 

" "We mustn't speak loud ; Mas'r St. Clare won't hear 
on't ; but, Miss Feely, you know there must be somebody 
watchin' for the bridegroom." 

" What do you mean, Tom ? " 

" You know it says in Scripture, ' At midnight there was 
a great cry made, Behold the bridegroom cometh.' That's 
what I'm 'spectin' now every night, Miss Feely and I 
couldn't sleep out o' hearin' no ways." 

" Why, Uncle Tom, what makes you think so ? " 

" Miss Eva, she talks to me. . The Lord, he sends his 
messenger in the soul. I must be thar, Miss Eeely ; for 
when that ar blessed child goes into the kingdom, they'll 
open the door so wide, we'll all get a look in at the glory, 
Miss Eeely." 





" Uncle Tom, did Miss Eva say slie felt more unwell than 
usual to-night? " 

" No ; but she telTed me this morning she was coming 
nearer thar's them that tells it to the child, Miss Eeely. 
It's the angels. 'It's the trumpet sound afore the break o' 
day,' " said Tom, quoting from a favourite hymn. 

This dialogue passed between Miss Ophelia and Tom, 
between ten and eleven one evening, after her arrangements 
had all been made for the night, when, on going to bolt her 
outer door, she found Tom * stretched along by it, in the 
outer verandah. 

She was not nervous or impressible; but the solemn, 
heartfelt manner struck her. Eva had been unusually 
bright and cheerful that afternoon, and had sat raised in 
her bed, and looked over all her little trinkets and precious 
things, and designated the friends to whom she would have 
them given ; and her manner was more animated, and her 
voice more natural, than they had known it for weeks. Her 
father had been in in the evening, and had said that Eva 
appeared more like her former self than ever she had done 
since her sickness ; and when he kissed her for the night, he 
said to Miss Ophelia, " Cousin, we may keep her with us, 
after all ; she is certainly better : " and he had retired with a 
lighter heart in his bosom than he had had there for weeks. 

But at midnight strange, mystic hour, when the veil 
between the frail present and the eternal future grows thin 
then came the messenger ! 

There was a sound in that chamber, first of one who 
stepped quickly. It was Miss Ophelia, who had resolved to 
sit up all night with her little charge, and who, at the turn of 
the night, had discerned what experienced nurses significantly call a " change." The outer door was quickly opened, 
and Tom, who was watching outside, was on the alert in a 
moment. 

" Go for the doctor, Tom ! lose not a moment," said Miss 
Ophelia ; and, stepping across the room, she rapped at St. 
Clare's door. 

" Cousin," she said, "I wish you would come." 
Those words fell on his heart like clods upon a coffin. 
Why did they ? He was up and in the room in an instant, 
and bending over Eva, who still slept. 





"What was it he saw that made his heart stand still ? 
"Why was no word spoken between the two ? Thou canst 
say, who has seen that same expression on the face dearest 
to thee; that look, indescribable, hopeless, unmistakable, 
that says to thee that thy beloved is no longer thine. 

On the face of the child, however, there was no ghastly 
imprint only a high and almost sublime expression the 
overshadowing presence of spiritual natures, the dawning of 
immortal life in that childish soul. 

They stood there so still, gazing upon her, that even the 
ticking of the watch seemed too loud. In a few moments 
Tom returned with the doctor. He entered, gave one look, 
and stood silent as the rest. 

" When did this change take place ? " said he, in a low 
whisper, to Miss Ophelia. 

" About the turn of the night," was the reply. 

Marie, roused by the entrance of the doctor, appeared 
hurriedly from the next room. 

" Augustine ! Cousin ! Oh ! what ? " she hurriedly 

began. 

" Hush !" said St. Clare hoarsely ; " she is dying ! " 

Mammy heard the words, and flew to awaken the servants. 
The house was soon roused lights were seen, footsteps 
heard, anxious faces thronged the verandah, and looked 
tearfully through the glass doors ; but St. Clare heard and 
said nothing ; he saw only that look on the face of the little 
sleeper. 

" Oh, if she would only wake, and speak once more ! " he 
said ; and, stooping over her, he spoke in her ear " Eva, 
darling!" 

The large blue eyes unclosed a smile passed over her 
face ; she tried to raise her head, and to speak. 

" Do you know me, Eva ? " 

" Dear papa," said the child with a last eifort, throwing 
her arms about his neck. In a moment they dropped again ; 
and, as St. Clare raised his head, he saw a spasm of mortal 
agony pass over the face she struggled for breath, and 
threw up her little hands. 

" O's Grod, this is dreadful ! " he said, turning away in 
agony, and wringing Tom's hand, scarce conscious what 
he was doing. " Tom, my boy, it is killing me ! " 





Tom had his master's hands between his own ; and, with 
tears streaming down his dark cheeks, looked up for help 
where he had always been used to look. 

" Pray that this may be cut short ! " said St. Clare ; " this 
wrings my heart ! " 

" Oh, bless the Lord ! it's over it's over, dear mas'r ! " 
said Tom ; " look at her." 

The child lay panting on her pillows, as one exhausted 
the large clear eyes rolled up and fixed. Ah, what said those 
eyes, that spoke so much of heaven ? Earth was passed, and 
earthly pain ; but so solemn, so mysterious, was the triumphant brightness of that face, that it checked even the sobs 
of sorrow. They pressed around her in breathless stilness. 

" Era ! " said St. Clare, gently. 

She did not hear. 

" 0, Eva, tell us what you see ! What is it ? " said her 
father. 

A bright, a glorious smile passed over her face, and she 
said, brokenly " Oh ! love joy peace ! " gave one sigh, 
and passed from death unto life ! 

"Farewell, beloved child! the bright, eternal doors have 
closed after thee ; we shall see thy sweet face no more. Oh, 
woe for them who watched thy entrance into heaven, when 
they shall wake and find only the cold gray sky of daily life, 
and thou gone for ever ! " 



CHAPTER XXVII. 

" THIS IS THE LAST OF EARTH." 

THE statuettes and pictures in Eva's room were shrouded 
in white napkins, and only hushed breathings and muffled 
footfalls were heard there, and the light stole in solemnly 
through windows partially darkened by closed blinds. 

The bed was draped in white ; and there, beneath the 
drooping angel-figure, lay a little sleeping form sleeping 
never to waken ! 

There she lay, robed in one of the simple white dresses 



she had been wont to wear when living ; the rose-coloured 
light through the curtains cast over the icy coldness of death 
a warm glow. The heavy eyelashes drooped softly on the 
pure cheek ; the head was turned a little to one side, as if in 
natural sleep, but there was diffused over every lineament 
of the face that high celestial expression, that mingling of 
rapture and repose, which showed it was no earthly or 
temporary sleep, but the long, sacred rest which " He giveth 
to his beloved." 

There is no death to such as thou, dear Eva ! neither 
darkness nor shadow of death ; only such a bright fading 
as when the morning star fades in the golden dawn. Thine 
is the victory without the battle the crown without the 
conflict. 

So did St. Clare think, as, with folded arms, he stood 
there gazing. Ah ! who shall say what he did think ? for, 
from the hour that voices had said, in the dying chamber, 
"She is gone," it had been all a dreary mist, a heavy 
" dimness of anguish." He had heard voices around him ; 
he had had questions asked, and answered them ; they had 
asked him when he would have the funeral, and where they 
should lay her ; and he had answered impatiently, that he 
cared not. 

Adolph and Eosa had arranged the chamber; volatile, 
fickle, and childish as they generally were, they were soft- 
hearted and full of feeling ; and while Miss Ophelia presided 
over the general details of order and neatness, it was their 
hands that added those soft, poetic touches to the arrangements, that took from the death-room the grim and ghastly 
air which too often marks a New-England funeral. 

There were still flowers on the shelves all white, delicate, 
and fragrant, with graceful, drooping leaves. Eva's little 
table, covered with white, bore on it her favourite vase, with 
a single white moss rose-bud in it. The folds of the 
drapery, the fall of the curtains had been arranged, and 
re-arranged, by Adolph and Eosa, with that nicety of eye 
which characterises their race. Even now, while St. Clare 
stood there thinking, little Eosa tripped softly into the 
chamber with a basket of white flowers. She stepped back 
when she saw St. Clare, and stopped respectfully; but, 
seeing that he did not observe her, she came forward to 





place them around the dead. St. Clare saw her as in a 
dream, while she placed in the small hands a fair cape 
jessamine, and, with admirable taste, disposed other flowers 
around the couch. 

The door opened again, and Topsy, her eyes swelled with 
crying, appeared, holding something under her apron. Bosa 
made a quick, forbidding gesture ; but she took a step into 
the room. 

" You must go out," said Bosa, in a sharp positive 
whisper ; "you haven't any business here ! " 

" Oh, do let me ! I brought a flower such a pretty one !" 
said Topsy, holding up a half-blown tea rose-bud. " Do let 
me put just one there." 

" G-et along ! " said Bosa, more decidedly. 

" Let her stay ! " said St. Clare, suddenly stamping his 
foot. " She shall come." 

Bosa suddenly retreated, and Topsy came forward and 
laid her offering at the feet of the corpse ; then suddenly, 
with a wild and bitter cry, she threw herself on the floor 
alongside the bed, and wept and moaned aloud. 

Miss Ophelia hastened into the room, and tried to raise 
and silence her ; but in vain. 

" Miss Eva ! Miss Eva ! I wish I's dead, too 
I do ! " 

There was a piercing wildness in the cry ; the blood 
flushed into St. Clare's white, marble-like face, and the first 
tears he had shed since Eva died stood in his eyes. 

" Get up, child," said Miss Ophelia, in a softened voice ; 
" don't cry so. Miss Eva is gone to heaven ; she is an 



" But I can't see her ! " said Topsy. " I never shall see 
her ! " and she sobbed again. 

They all stood a moment in silence. 

"She said she loved me," said Topsy "she did! Oh, 
dear ! oh, dear ! there ain't nobody left now there ain't !" 

"That's true enough," said St. Clare; "but do," he 
said to Miss Ophelia, " see if you can't comfort the poor 
creature." 

" I jist wish I hadn't never been born," said Topsy. " I 
didn't want to be born, no ways ; and I don't see no use 
on't." 





Miss Ophelia raised her gently but firmly, and took her 
from the room; but, as she did so, some tears fell from 
her eyes. 

" Topsy, you poor child," she said, as she led her into her 
room, " don't give up ! I can love you, though I am not like 
that dear little child. I hope I've learnt something of the 
love of Christ from her. I can love you ; I do, and I'll try 
to help you to grow up a good Christian girl." 

Miss Ophelia's voice was more than her words, and more 
than that were the honest tears that fell down her face. 
From that hour she acquired an influence over the mind of 
the destitute child that she never lost. 

" 0, my Eva, whose little hour on earth did so much of 
good," thought St. Clare, "what account have I to give for 
my long years ? " 

There were, for a while, soft whisperings and foot-falls in 
the chamber, as one after another stole in, to look at the 
dead ; and then came the little coffin ; and then there was a 
funeral, and carriages drove to the door, and strangers came 
and were seated ; and there were white scarfs and ribbons, 
and crape bands, and mourners dressed in black crape ; and 
there were words read from the Bible, and prayers offered ; 
and St. Clare lived, and walked, and moved, as one who has 
shed every tear. To the last he saw only one thing, that 
golden head in the coffin ; but then he saw the cloth spread 
over it, the lid of the coffin closed ; and he walked, when he 
was put beside the others, down to a little place at the 
bottom of the garden, and there, by the mossy seat where 
she and Tom had talked, and sung, and read so often, was 
the little grave. St. Clare stood beside it looked vacantly 
down ; he saw them lower the little coffin ; he heard, dimly, 
the solemn words, " I am the Resurrection and the Life ; he 
that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live;" 
and as the earth was cast in and filled up the little grave, he 
could not realise that it was his Eva that they were hiding 
from his sight. 

Nor was it not Eva, but only the frail seed of that 
bright, immortal form with which she shall yet come forth, 
in the day of the Lord Jesus ! 

And then all were gone, and the mourners went back to 
the place which should know her no more ; and Marie's 





room was darkened, and she lay on the bed, sobbing and 
moaning in uncontrollable grief, and calling every moment 
for the attentions of all her servants. Of course, they had, 
no time to cry why should they ? the grief was her grief, 
and she was fully convinced that nobody on earth did, could, 
or would feel it as she did. 

"St. Clare did not shed a tear," she said, "he didn't 
sympathise with her ; it was perfectly wonderful to think 
how hard-hearted and unfeeling he was, when he must know 
how she suffered." 

So much are people the slave of their eye and ear, that 
many of the servants really thought that missis was the 
principal sufferer in the case, especially as Marie began to 
have hysterical spasms, and sent for the doctor, and at last 
declared herself dying ; and in the running and scampering, 
and bringing up hot bottles, and heating of flannels, and 
chafing, and fussing, that ensued, there was quite a 
diversion. 

Tom, however, had a feeling at his own heart, that drew 
him to his master. He followed him wherever he walked, 
wistfully and sadly, and when he saw him sitting, so pale 
and quiet, in Eva's room, holding before his eyes her little 
open Bible, though seeing no letter or word of what was in 
it, there was more sorrow to Tom in that still, fixed, tearless 
eye, than in all Marie's moans and lamentations. 

In a few days the St. Clare family were back again in the 
city ; Augustine, with the restlessness of grief, longing for 
another scene, to change the current of his thoughts. So 
they left the house and garden, with its little grave, and 
came back to New Orleans ; and St. Clare walked the streets 
busily, and strove to fill up the chasm in his heart with 
hurry and bustle, and change of place ; and people who saw 
him in the street, or met him at the cafe, knew of his loss 
only by the weed on his hat ; for there he was, smiling and 
talking, and reading the newspaper, and speculating on 
politics, and attending to business matters ; and who could 
see that all this smiling outside was but a hollow shell over 
a heart that was a dark and silent sepulchre ? 

" Mr. St. Clare is a singular man," said Marie to Miss 
Ophelia, in a complaining tone. " I used to think, if there 
was anything in the world he did love, it was our dear little 









Eva ; but he seems to be forgetting her very easily. I 
ever get him to talk about her. I really did think he 



cannot 
would 
show more feeling." 

" Still waters run deepest, they used to tell me," said Miss 
Ophelia, oracularly. 

" Oh, I don't believe in such things ; it's all talk. If 
people have feeling, they will show it they can't help it ; 
but, then, it's a great misfortune to have feeling. I'd rather 
have been made like St. Clare. My feelings prey upon 
me so ! " 

" Sure, missis, Mas'r St. Clare is getting thin as a shader. 
They say he don't never eat nothin'," said Mammy. "I 
know he don't forget Miss Eva; I know there couldn't 
nobody dear, little, blessed cretur!" she added, wiping 
her eyes. 

" Well, at all events, he has no consideration for me," 
said Marie ; " he hasn't spoken one word of sympathy, and 
he must know how much more a mother feels than any 
man can." 

"The heart knoweth its own bitterness," said Miss 
Ophelia, gravely. 

" That's just what I think. I know just what I feel 
nobody else seems to. Eva used to, but she's gone! " 
and Marie lay back on her lounge, and began to sob dis- 
consolately. 

Marie was one of those unfortunately constituted mortals, 
in whose eyes whatever is lost and gone assumes a value 
which it never had in possession. Whatever she had, she 
seemed to survey only to pick flaws in it ; but, once fairly 
away, there was no end to her valuation of it. 

While this conversation was taking place in the parlour, 
another was going on in St. Clare's library. 

Tom, who was always uneasily following his master about, 
had seen him go to his library, some hours before ; and after 
vainly waiting for him to come out, determined, at last, to 
make an errand in. He entered softly. St. Clare lay on his 
lounge at the further end of the room. He was lying on his 
face, with Eva's Bible open before him, at a little distance. 
Tom walked up, and stood by the sofa. He hesitated ; and, 
while he was hesitating, St. Clare suddenly raised himself 
up. The honest face, so full of grief, and with such an 





imploring expression of affection and sympathy, struck his 
master. He laid his hand on Tom's, and bowed down his 
forehead on it. 

" Tom, my boy, the whole world is as empty as an egg- 
shell." 

" I know it, mas'r I know it," said Tom. "But, oh, if 
mas'r could only look up up where our dear Miss Eva is 
up to the dear Lord Jesus ! " 

" Ah, Tom ! I do look up ; but the trouble is, I don't see 
anything when I do. I wish I could." 

Tom sighed heavily. 

" It seems to be given to children, and poor honest fellows 
like you, to see what we can't," said St. Clare. " How 
comes it ? " 

" Thou hast ' hid from the wise and prudent, and revealed 
unto babes,' " murmured Tom ; " ' even so, Father, for so it 
seemed good in thy sight.' " 

" Tom, I don't believe I can't believe ; I've got the 
habit of doubting," said St. Clare. " I want to believe this 
Bible, and I can't." 

" Dear mas'r, pray to the good Lord ' Lord, I believe ; 
help thou my unbelief." 

" Who knows anything about anything ? " said St. Clare, 
his eyes wandering dreamily, and speaking to himself. 
" Was all that beautiful love and faith only one of the 
ever-shifting phases of human feeling, having nothing real to 
rest on, passing away with the little breath ? And is there 
no more Eva no heaven no Christ nothing ? " 

"O dear mas'r, there is! I know it; I'm sure of it," 
said Tom, falling on his knees. " Do, do, dear mas'r, 
believe it!" 

" How do you know there's any Christ, Tom ? You never 
saw the Lord." 

" Eelt him in my soul, mas'r feel him now ! O mas'r, 
when I was sold away from my old woman and the children, 
I was jest a'most broke up. I felt as if there warn't nothin' 
left ; and then the good Lord he stood by me, and he says, 
1 Eear not, Tom ;' and he brings light and joy into a poor 
feller's soul makes all peace ; and I's so happy, and loves 
everybody, and feels willin' jest to be the Lord's, and have 
the Lord's will done, and be put jest where the Lord wants to 





put me. I kQow it couldn't come from me, cause I's a poor, 
complainin' cretur ; it comes from the Lord ; and I know 
he's willing to do for mas'r." 

Tom spoke with fast-running tears and choking voice. 
St. Clare leaned his head on his shoulder, and wrung the hard, 
faithful, black hand. 

" Tom, you love me," he said. 

" I's willin' to lay down my life, this blessed day, to see 
mas'r a Christian." 

" Poor, foolish boy," said St. Clare, half raising himself. 
" I'm not worth the love of one good, honest heart like 
yours." 

" O mas'r, dere's more than me loves you the blessed 
Lord Jesus loves you." 

" How do you know that, Tom ? " said St. Clare. 

"Feels it in my soul. O mas'r! 'the love of Christ, that 
passeth knowledge.' " 

" Singular ! " said St. Clare, turning away, " that the story 
of a man that lived and died eighteen hundred years ago -can 
affect people so yet. But he was no man," he added sud- 
denly. " JS"o man ever had such long and living power! Oh 
that I could believe what my mother taught me, and pray as 
I did when Jwas a boy ! " 

"If mas'r pleases," said Tom, "Miss Eva used to read 
this so beautifully. I wish mas'r 'd be so good as read it. 
Don't get no readin', hardly, now Miss Eva's gone." 

The chapter was the eleventh of John the touching 
account of the raising of Lazarus. St. Clare read it aloud, 
often pausing to wrestle down feelings which were aroused 
by the pathos of the story. Tom knelt before him, with 
clasped hands, and with an absorbed expression of love, 
trust, adoration, on his quiet face. 

" Tom," said his master, " this is all real to you ! " 

" I can jest fairly see it, mas'r," said Tom. 

" I wish I had your eyes, Tom." 

" I wish to the dear Lord mas'r had ! " 

" But, Tom, you know that I have a great deal more know- 
ledge than you. "What if I should tell you that I don't 
believe this Bible?" 

"0 mas'r!" said Tom, holding up his hands, with a 
deprecating gesture. 





"Wouldn't it shake your faith some, Toin ? " 

"Not a grain," said torn. 

" Why, Tom, you must know I know the most." 

" O mas'r, haven't you jest read how He hides from the 
wise and prudent, and reveals unto babes ? But mas'r 
wasn't in earnest, for sartin, now ? " said Tom anxiously. 

" No, Tom, I was not. I don't disbelieve, and I think 
there is reason to believe ; and still I don't. It's a troublesome bad habit I've got, Tom." 

" If mas'r would only pray ! " 

" How do you know I don't, Tom ? " 

"Does mas'r?" 

" I would, Tom, if there was anybody there when I pray ; 
but it's all speaking unto nothing, when I do. But come, 
Tom, you pray, now, and show me how." 

Tom's heart was full; he poured it out in prayer, like 
waters that have been long suppressed. One thing was plain 
enough ; Tom thought there was somebody to hear, whether 
there were or not. In fact, St. Clare felt himself borne, on 
the tide of his faith and feeling, almost to the gates of that 
heaven he seemed so vividly to conceive. It seemed to bring* 
him nearer to Eva. 

" Thank you, my boy," said St. Clare, when Tom rose. 
" I like to hear you, Tom ; but go, now, and leave me alone : 
some other time I'll talk more." 

Tom silently left the room. 



CHAPTEE XXVIII. 

REUNION. 

WEEK after week glided away in the. St. Clare mansion, 
and the waves of life settled back to their usual flow where 
that little bark had gone down. For how imperiously, how 
coolly, in disregard of all one's feeling, does the hard, cold, 
uninteresting course of daily realities move on ! Still must 
we eat, and drink, and sleep and wake again still bargain, 
buy, sell, ask and answer questions pursue, in short, a 





thousand shadows, though all interest in them be over ; the 
cold, mechanical habit of living remaining, after all vital 
interest in it has fled. 

All the interests and hopes of St. Clare's life had unconsciously wound themselves around this child. It was for 
Eva that he had managed his property ; it was for Siva that 
he had planned the disposal of his time ; and, to do this and 
that for Eva to buy, improve, alter and arrange, or dispose 
something for her had been so long his habit, that, now 
she was gone, there seemed nothing to be thought of, and 
nothing to be done. 

True, there was another life a life which, once believed 
in, stands as a solemn, significant figure before the otherwise 
unmeaning ciphers of time, changing them to orders of 
mysterious, untold value. St. Clare knew this well, and 
often, in many a weary hour, he heard that slender, childish 
voice calling him to the skies, and saw that little hand 
pointing to him the way of life ; but a heavy lethargy of 
sorrow lay on him he could not arise. He had one of those 
natures which could better and more "dearly conceive of 
religious things from its own perceptions and instincts, than 
many a matter-of-fact and practical Christian. The gift to 
appreciate and the sense to feel the finer shades and relations 
of moral things, often seems an attribute of those whose 
whole life shows a careless disregard of them. Hence 
Moore, Byron, Groethe, often speak words more wisely 
descriptive of the true religious sentiment, than another 
man whose whole life is governed by it. In such minds, 
disregard of religion is a more fearful treason a more 
deadly sin. 

St. Clare had never pretended to govern himself by any 
religious obligation ; and a certain fineness of nature gave 
him such an instinctive view of the extent of the requirements of Christianity, that he shrank, by anticipation, from 
what he felt would be the exactions of his own conscience, 
if he once did resolve to assume them. For, so inconsistent 
is human nature, especially in the ideal, that not to undertake a thing at all seems better than to undertake and 
come short. 

Still St. Clare was in many respects another man. He 
read his little Eva's Bible seriously and honestly; he 





thought more soberly and practically of his relations to his 
servants enough to make him extremely dissatisfied with 
both his past and present course ; and one thing he did, 
soon after his return to New Orleans, and that was to 
commence the legal steps necessary to Tom's emancipation, 
which was to be perfected as soon as he could get through 
the necessary formalities. Meantime, he attached himself 
to Tom more and more, every day. In all the wide world, 
there was nothing that seemed to remind him so much 
of Eva; and he would insist on keeping him constantly 
about him, and, fastidious and unapproachable as he was 
with regard to his deeper feelings, he almost thought aloud 
to Tom. Nor would any one have wondered at it, who had 
seen the expression of affection and devotion with which 
Tom continually followed his young master. 

"Well, Tom," said St. Clare, the day after he had commenced the legal formalities for his enfranchisement, " I'm 
going to make a free man of you ; so, have your trunk 
packed, and get ready to set out for Kentuck.'" 

The sudden light of joy that shone in Tom's face as he 
raised his hands to heaven, his emphatic " Bless the Lord ! " 
rather discomposed St. Clare ; he did not like it that Tom 
should be so ready to leave him. 

