" Now, would it be possible to give to one that had not 
seen it an idea of how this looks ? " Let me try if words 
can paint it. -Right above the fiat roof of the houses on the 
opposite side of the street rose this immense mountain wall. 
The lower tier seemed to be a turbulent swell of pasture 
land, rolling into every imaginable shape ; green billows and 
dells, rising higher and higher in the air as you looked upward, 



 

dyed here and there in bright yellow streaks, by the wild 
crocus, and spotted over with cattle. Dark clumps and belts 
of pine now and then rise up among them ; and scattered 
here and there in the heights, among green hollows, were 
cottages, that looked about as big as hickory nuts. 

Above all this region was still another, of black pines 
and crags ; the pines going up, and up, and up, till they 
looked no larger than pin feathers ; and surmounting all, 
straight, castellated turrets of rock, looking out of swathing 
bands of cloud. A narrow, dazzling line of snow crowned 
the summit. 

You see before you three distinct regions — of pasture, of 
pine, of bare, eternal sterility. On inquiring the name of the 
mountain, I was told that it was the " Aiguille " something, I 
forget what ; but I discovered that almost all the peaks in 
this region of the Alps are called Aiguille, (needle,) I suppose 
from the straight, sharp points that rise at their summits. 

There is a bridge here in Sallenches, from which, in clear 
weather, one of the best views of Mont Blanc can be obtained 
— so they tell us. To-day it is as much behind the veil, and 
as absolutely a matter of faith as heaven itself. Looking in 
that direction you could not believe that there ever had been, 
or could be, a mountain there. The concealing clouds look 
as gray, as cool, and as absolutely unconscious of any world 
of glory behind them as our dull, cold, every-day life does of 
a heaven, which is, perhaps, equally near us. As we were 
passing the bridge, however, a gust of icy wind swept down 
the course of the river, whose chilly breath spoke of glaciers 
and avalanches. 

Our driver was one of those merry souls, to be found the 
world over, whose hearts yearn after talk ; and when I volunteered to share the outside seat with him, that I might 
see better, he inquired anxiously if "mademoiselle understood French," that he might have the pleasure of enlightening her on the localities. Of course mademoiselle could do 
no less than be exceedingly grateful, since a peasant on his 
own ground is generally better informed than a philosopher 
from elsewhere. 

Our path lay along the banks of the Arvc, a raving, brawling, turbulent stream of muddy water. A w ide belt of drifted, 
pebbly land, on either side of it, showed that at times the 
torrent had a much wider sweep than at present. 

In fact, my guide informed me that the Arve, like most 
oilier mountain streams, had many troublesome and inconvenient personal habits, such as rising up all of a sudden, 
some night, and whisking off houses, cattle, pine trees; in 
short, getting up sailing parties in such a promiscuous manner 
that it is neither safe nor agreeable to live in his neighborhood. He showed me, from time to time, the traces of such 
Kuhleborn pranks. 

We were now descending rapidly through the valley of 
Cliamouni, by a winding road, the scenery becoming every 
moment more and more impressive. The path was so steep 
and so stony that our guide was well enough contented to have 
us walk. I was glad to walk on alone ; for the scenery was 
so wonderful that human sympathy and communion seemed to 
be out of the question. The effect of such scenery to our gen- 
erally Bleeping and drowsy souls, bound with the double chain 
of earthliness and sin, is like the electric touch of the angel 
on Peter, bound and sleeping. They make us realize that 
we were not onlv made to commune with (lod, but also what 
a God he is with whom we may commune. We talk of poetry, tve talk of painting, we go to the ends of the earth to see 
the artists and great men of this world ; but what a poet, 
what an artist is God ! Truly said Michael Angelo, " The 
true painting is only a copy of the divine perfections — a 
shadow of his pencil.'.' 

I was sitting on a mossy trunk of an old pine, looking up 
admiringly on the wonderful heights around me — crystal 
peaks sparkling over dark pine trees — shadowy, airy dis- 
tances of mountain heights, rising crystalline amid many-colored 
masses of cloud ; while, looking out over my head from green 
hollows, I saw the small cottages, so tiny, in their airy distance, that they seemed scarcely bigger than a squirrel's nut, 
which he might have dropped in his passage. A pretty 
Savoyard girl, I should think about fifteen years old, came 
up to me. 

" Madame admires the mountains," she said. 
I assented. 

"Yes," she added, "strangers always admire our moun- 
tains." 

" And don't you admire them ? " said I, looking, I suppose, 
rather amused into her bright eyes. 

" No," she said, laughing. " Strangers come from hundreds 
of miles to see them all the time ; but we peasants don't care 
for them, no more than the dust of the road." 

I could but half believe the bright little puss when she said 
so ; but there was a lumpish, soggy fellow accompanying her, 
whose nature appeared to be sufficiently unleavened to make 
almost any thing credible in the line of stupidity. In fact, it 
is one of the greatest drawbacks to the pleasure with which 
one travels through this beautiful country, to see what kind 
of human beings inhabit it. Here in the Alps, heaven above 


and earth beneath, tree, rock, water, light and shadow, every 
form, and agent, and power of nature, seem to be exerting 
themselves to produce a constant and changing poem and ro- 
mance ; every thing is grand, noble, free, and yet beautiful : 
in all these regions there is nothing so. repulsive as a human 
dwelling. 

A little further on we stopped at a village to refresh the 
horses. The auberge where we stopped Avas built like a great 
barn, with an earth floor, desolate and comfortless. The people looked poor and ground down, as if they had not a thought 
above the coarsest animal wants. The dirty children, with 
their hair tangled beyond all hope of combing, had the begging whine, and the trick of raising their hands for money, 
when one looked at them, which is universal in the Catholic 
parts of Switzerland. Indeed, all the way from the Sardinian 
frontier we had been dogged by beggars continually. Parents 
seemed to look upon their children as valuable only for this 
purpose ; the very baby in arms is taught to make a" pitiful 
little whine, and put out its fat hand, if your eye rests on it. 
The fact is, they are poor — poor because invention, enterprise, and intellectual vigor — all that surrounds the New 
England mountain farmer with competence and comfort — 
are quenched and dead, by the combined influence of a religion and government whose interest it is to keep people stupid 
that they may be manageable. Yet the Savoyard*, as a race, 
it seems to me, are naturally intelligent ; and I cannot but 
hope that the liberal course lately adopted by the Sardinian 
government may at hist reach them. My heart yearns over 
many of the bright, pretty children, whose little hands have 
been up. from time to time, around our carriage. I could not 
help thinking whal good schools and good instruction might do 







for them. It is not their fault, poor little things, that they are 
educated to whine and beg, and grow up rude, uncultured, 
to bring forth another set of children just like themselves ; 
but what to do with them is the question. One generally be- 
gins with giving money ; but a day or two of .experience shows 
that it would be just about as hopeful to feed the locusts of 
Egypt on a loaf of bread. But it is hard to refuse children, 
especially to a mother who has left five or six at home, 
and who fancies she sees, in some of these little eager, childish faces, something now and then that reminds her of her 
own. For my part, I got schooled so that I could stand them 
all, except the little toddling three-year olds — they fairly overcame me. So I supplied my pocket with a quantity of sugar 
lozenges, for the relief of my own mind. I usually found 
the little fellows looked exceedingly delighted when they discovered the nature of the coin. Children are unsophisticated, 
and like sugar better than silver, any day. 

In this auberge was a little chamois kid, of which fact we 
were duly apprised, when we got out, by a board put up, which 
said, " Here one can see a live chamois." The little live representative of chamoisdom came skipping out with the most 
amiable unconsciousness, and went through his paces for our 
entertainment with as much propriety as a New England child 
says Ins catechism. He hopped up on a table after some green 
leaves, which were then economically used to make him hop 
down again. The same illusive prospect was used to make 
him jump over a stick, and perform a number of other evolutions. I could not but admire the sweetness of temper with 
which he took all this tantalizing, and the innocence with 
which he chewed his cabbage leaf after he got it, not harboring a single revengeful thought at us for the trouble we had 



 

given him. Of course the issue of the matter was, that we 
all paid a few sous for the sight — not to the chamois, which 
would have been the most equitable way, but to those who had 
appropriated his gifts and graces to eke out their own convenience. 

"Where's his mother  ?" said I, desiring to enlarge my 
sphere of natural history as much as possible. 

" On a tue sa mere " — " They have killed his mother," was 
the reply, cool enough. 

. There we had the whole story. His enterprising neighbors 
had invaded the domestic hearth, shot his mother, and eaten 
her up, made her skin into chamois leather, and were keeping 
him till he got big enough for the same disposition, using his 
talents meanwhile to turn a penny upon ; yet not a word of 
all this thought he ; not a bit the less heartily did he caper ; 
never speculated a minute on why it was, on the origin of evil, 
cr any thing of the sort ; or, if he did, at least never said a 
word about it. I gave one good look into his soft, round, 
glassy eyes, and could see nothing there but the most tranquil 
contentment. He had finished his cabbage leaf, and we had 
finished our call ; so we will go on. 

It was now drawing towards evening, and the air began to 
be sensibly and piercingly cold. One effect of this mountain 
air on myself is, to bring on the most acute headache that 
I ever recollect to have felt. Still, the increasing glory and 
magnificence of the scenery overcame bodily fatigue. Mont 
Blanc, and his army of white-robed brethren, rose before us 
in the distance, glorious as the four and twenty elders around 
the great white throne. The "-wonderful gradations of coloring in this Alpine landscape are not among the least of its 
charms. How can I describe it? Imagine yourself standing 







"with me on this projecting rock, overlooking a deep, piny gorge, 
through which flow the brawling waters of the Arve. On the 
other side of this rise mountains whose heaving swells of vel- 
vet green, cliffs and dark pines, are fully made out and colored ; 
behind this mountain, rises another, whose greens are softened 
and shaded, and seem to be seen through a purplish veil ; be- 
hind that rises another, of a decided cloud-like purple ; and in 
the next still the purple tint changes to rosy lilac ; while above 
all, like another world up in the sky, mingling its tints with 
the passing clouds, sometimes obscured by them, and then 
breaking out between them, lie the glacier regions. These 
glaciers, in the setting sun, look like rivers of light pouring 
down from the clouds. Such was the scene, which I remember with perfect distinctness as enchaining my attention on one 
point of the road. 

We had now got up to the valley of Chamouni. I looked 
before me, and saw, lying in the lap of the green valley, a gi- 
gantic pile of icy pillars, which, seen through the trees, at first 
suggested the idea of a cascade. 

"What is that? " said I to the guide. 

" The Glacier de Boisson." 

I may as well stop here, and explain to you, once for all, 
what a glacier is. You see before you, as in this case, say 
thirty or forty mountain peaks, and between these peaks what 
seem to you frozen rivers. The snow from time to time melt- 
ing, and dripping down the sides of the mountain, and congealing in the elevated hollows between the peaks, forms a 
half-fluid mass — a river of ice — which is called a glacier. 

As it lies upon the slanting surface, and is not entirely solid 
throughout, the whole mass is continually pushing, with a 
gradual but imperceptible motion, down into the valleys below. 



 

At a distance these glaciers, as I have said before, look like 
frozen rivers ; when one approaches nearer, or where they 
press downward into the valley, like this Glacier de Boisson, 
they look like immense crystals and pillars of ice piled together in every conceivable form. The effect of this pile of 
ice, lying directly in the lap of green grass and flowers, is 
quite singular. The village of Chamouni itself has nothing 
in particular to recommend it. The buildings and every thing 
about it have a rough, coarse appearance. Before we had 
entered the valley this evening the sun had gone down; the 
sky behind the mountains was clear, and it seemed for a few 
moments as if darkness was rapidly coming on. On our right 
hand were black, jagged, furrowed walls of mountain, and on 
our left Mont Blanc, with his fields of glaciers and worlds of 
snow ; they seemed to hem us in, and almost press us down. 
But in a few moments commenced a scene of transfiguration, 
more glorious than any thing I had witnessed yet. The cold, 
white, dismal fields of ice gradually changed into hues of the 
most beautiful rose color. A bank of white clouds, which 
rested above the mountains, kindled and glowed, as if some 
spirit of light had entered into them. You did not lose your 
idea of the dazzling, spiritual whiteness of the snow, yet you 
seemed to see it through a rosy veil. The sharp edges of the 
glaciers, and the hollows between the peaks, reflected wavering tints of lilac and purple. The effect was solemn and spiritual above every thing I have ever seen. These words, 
which had been often in my mind through the day, and which 
occurred to me more often than any others while I was travelling through the Alps, came into my mind with a pomp and 
magnificence of meaning unknown before — " For by Him were 
all things created in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible, whether they be thrones, or dominions, or principalities, 
or powers ; all things are by him and for him ; and he is be- 
fore all things, and by him all things subsist." 

In this dazzling revelation I saw not that cold, distant, un- 
feeling fate, or that crushing regularity of power and wisdom, 
which was all the ancient Greek or modern Deist can behold 
in God ; but I beheld, as it were, crowned and glorified, one 
who had loved with our loves, and suffered with our sufferings. 
Those shining snows were as his garments on the Mount of 
Transfiguration, and that serene and ineffable atmosphere of 
tenderness and beauty, which seemed to change these dreary 
deserts into worlds of heavenly light, was to me an image of 
the light shed by his eternal love on the sins and sorrows of 
time, and the dread abyss of eternity. 







LETTER XXXIII. 

My Dear : — 

Well, I waked up this morning, and the first thought was, 
" Here I am in the valley of Chamouni, right under the shadow of Mont Blanc, that I have studied about in childhood 
and found on the atlas." I sprang up, and ran to the window, to see if it was really there where I left it last night. 
Yes, true enough, there it was ! right over our heads, as it 
were, blocking up our very existence ; filling our minds with 
its presence ; that colossal pyramid of dazzling snow ! Its 
lower parts concealed by the roofs, only the three rounded 
domes of the summit cut their forms with icy distinctness on 
the intense blue of the sky ! 

On the evening before I had taken my last look at about 
nine o'clock, and had mentally resolved to go out before day- 
break and repeat Coleridge's celebrated hymn ; but I advise 
any one who has any such liturgic designs to execute them 
over night, for after a day of climbing one acquires an aptitude for sleep that interferes with early rising. When I left 
last evening its countenance was " filled with rosy light," and 
they tell us, that hours before it is daylight in the valley this 
mountain top breaks into brightness, like that pillar of fire 
which enlightened the darkness of the Israelites. 

I rejoice every hour that I am among these scenes in my 
familiarity with the language of the Bible. In it alone can I 
find vocabulary and images to express what this world of 



 

wonders excites. Mechanically I repeat to myself, " The ever- 
lasting mountains were scattered ; the perpetual hills did bow ; 
his ways are everlasting." But as straws, chips, and seaweed 
play in a thousand fantastic figures on the face of the ocean, 
sometimes even concealing the solemn depths beneath, so the 
prose of daily existence mixes itself up with the solemn 
poetry of life, here as elsewhere. 

You must have a breakfast, and then you cannot rush out 
and up Mont Blanc ad libitum ; you must go up in the regular appointed way, with mule and guides. This matter of 
guides is perfectly systematized here ; for, the mountains being 
the great overpowering fact of life, it follows that all that 
enterprise and talent which in other places develop themselves 
in various forms, here take the single channel of climbing 
mountains. In America, if a man is a genius he strikes out a 
new way of cleaning cotton ; but in Chamouni, if he is a genius he finds a new way of going up Mont Blanc. 

As a sailor knows every timber, rope, and spar of his ship, 
and seems to identify his existence with her, so these guides 
their mountains. The mountains are their calendar, their 
book, their newspaper, their cabinet, herbarium, barometer, 
their education, and their livelihood. 

In fine, behold us about eight o'clock, C, S., *W., little G., 
and self, in all the bustle of fitting out in the front of our 
hotel. Two guides, Balmat and Alexandre, lead two mules, 
long-eared, slow-footed, considerate brutes, who have borne a 
thousand ladies over a thousand pokerish places, and are ready 
to bear a thousand more. Equipped with low-backed saddles, 
they stand, their noses down, their eyes contemplatively closed, 
their whole appearance impressing one with an air of practical 
talent and reliableness. Your mule is evidently safe and stupid as any conservative of any country ; you may be sure that 
no erratic lircs, no new influx of ideas will ever lead him to 
desert the good old paths, and tumble you down precipices. 
The harness they wear is so exceedingly ancient, and has such 
a dilapidated appearance, as if held together only by the 
merest accident, that I could not but express a little alarm on 
mounting. 

" Those girths — won't they break ? " 

" O, no, no, mademoiselle ! " said the guides. In fact, they 
seem so delighted with their arrangements, that I swallow 
ray doubts in silence. A third mule being added for the joint 
use of the gentlemen, and all being equipped with iron-pointed poles, off we start in high spirits. 

A glorious day ; air clear as crystal, sky with as fixed a 
blue as if it could not think a cloud ; guides congratulate us, 
"Qu'il fait tres beau!" We pass the lanes of the village, 
our heads almost on a level with the flat stone-laden roofs ; 
our mules, with their long rolling pace, like the waves of the 
sea, give to their riders a facetious wag of the body that is 
quite striking. Now the village is passed, and see, a road 
banded with green ribands of turf. S.'s mule and guide pass 
on, and head the party. G. rides another mule. C. and W. 
leap along trying their alpenstocks ; stopping once in a while 
to admire the glaciers, as their brilliant forms appear through 
the pines. 

Here a discussion commences as to where we are going. 
We had agreed among ourselves that we would visit the Mer 
dc Glace. We fully meant to go there, and had so told the 
guide on starting ; but it appears he had other views for us. 
There is a regular way of seeing things, orthodox and appointed ; and to get sight of any thing in the wrong way would 



 



be as bad as to get well without a scientific physician, or any 
other irregular piece of proceeding. 

It appeared from the representations of the guide that to 
visit Mer de Glace before we had seen La Flegere, would no 
more answer than for Jacob to marry Rachel before he had 
married Leah. Determined not to yield, as we were, we 
somehow found ourselves vanquished by our guide's arguments, and soberly going off his way instead of ours, doing 
exactly what we had resolved not to do. However, the point 
being yielded we proceeded merrily. 

As we had some way, however, to trot along the valley 
before we came to the ascending place, I improved the opportunity to cultivate a little the acquaintance of my guide. He 
was a tall, spare man, with black eyes, black hair, and features 
expressive of shrewdness, energy, and determination. Either 
from paralysis, or some other cause, he was subject to a spasmodic twitching of the features, producing very much the 
effect that heat lightning does in the summer sky — it seemed 
to flash over his face and be gone in a wink ; at first this 
looked to me very odd, but so much do our ideas depend on 
association, that after I had known him for some time, I really thought that I liked him better with, than I should without 
it. It seemed to give originality to the expression of his face ; 
he was such a good, fatherly man, and took such excellent 
care of me and the mule, and showed so much intelligence 
and dignity in his conversation, that I could do no less than 
like him, heat lightning and all. 

This valley of Chamouni, through winch we are winding 
now, is every where as flat as a parlor floor. These valleys in 
the Alps seem to have this peculiarity — they are not hollows, 
bending downward in the middle, and imperceptibly sloping 







upward into the mountains, but they lie perfectly flat. The 
mountains rise up around them like walls almost perpendic- 
ularly. 

" Voild! " says my guide, pointing to the left, to a great, bare 
ravine, " down there came an avalanche, and knocked down 
those houses and killed several people." 

" Ah ! " said I ; " but don't avalanches generally come in the 
same places every year ? " 

" Generally, they do." 

" Why do people build houses in the way of them?" said I. 
"Ah! this was an unusual avalanche, this one here." 
" Do the avalanches ever bring rocks with them ?" 
" No, not often ; nothing but snow." 

" There ! " says my guide, pointing to an object about as big 
as a good-sized fly, on the side of a distant mountain, " there's 
the auberge, on La Flegere, where we are going." 

" Up there ? " say I, looking up apprehensively, and que- 
rying in my mind how my estimable friend the mule is ever 
to get up there with me on his back. 

" O yes," says my guide, cheerily, " and the road is up 
through that ravine." 

The ravine is a charming specimen of a road to be sure, 
but no matter — on we go. 

u There," says a guide, " those black rocks in the middle 
of that glacier on Mont Blanc are the Grands Mulct , where 
travellers sleep going up Mont Blanc." 

We wind now among the pine tree still we come almost 
under the Mer do Glace. A most fairy-like cascade falls 
down from under its pillars of ice over the dark rocks, — a 
cloud of feathery foam, — and then streams into the valley 
below. 



" Voild, L'Arveiron !" says the guide. 

"O, is that the Arveiron?" say I; "happy to make the 
acquaintance." 

But now we cross the Arve into a grove of pines, and direct our way to the ascent. We begin to thread a zigzag path 
on the sides of the mountain. 

As mules are most determined followers of precedent, every 
one keeps his nose close by the heels of his predecessor. The 
delicate point, therefore, of the whole operation is keeping the 
first mule straight. The first mule in our party, who rejoiced 
in the name of Rousse, was selected to head the caravan, perhaps because he had more native originality than most mules, 
and was therefore better fitted to lead than to follow. A 
troublesome beast was he, from a habit of abstract meditation 
which was always liable to come on him in most inconvenient 
localities. Every now and then, simply in accordance with, 
his own sovereign will and pleasure, and without consulting 
those behind him, he would stop short and descend into himself in gloomy revery ; not that he seemed to have any thing 
in particular on his mind, — at least nothing of the sort es- 
caped his lips, — but the idea would seem to strike him all of 
a sudden that he was an ill-used beast, and that he'd be hanged 
if he went another step. -Now, as his stopping stopped all the 
rest, wheresoever they might happen to be, it often occurred 
that we were detained in most critical localities, just on the 
very verge of some tremendous precipice, or up a rocky stair- 
way. In vain did the foremost driver admonish him by 
thumping his nose with a sharp stick, and tugging and pulling 
upon the bridle. Rousse was gifted with one of those long, 
India rubber necks that can stretch out indefinitely, so that 
the utmost pulling and jerking only took his head along a little 



farther, but left his heels planted exactly where they were be- 
fore, somewhat after this fashion. His eyes, meanwhile, devoutly closed, with an air of meekness overspreading his 
visage, he might have stood as an emblem of conscientious 
obstinacy. 

The fact is, that in ascending these mountains there is just 
enough danger to make one's nerves a little unsteady ; not by 
any means as much as on board a rail car at home ; .-till it 
comes to you in a more demonstrable form. Here you are, 
for instance, on a precipice two thousand feet deep ; pine trees, 
which, when you passed them at the foot you saw were a 
hundred feet high, have dwindled to the size of pins. No 
barrier of any kind protects the dizzy edge, and your mule is 
particularly conscientious to stand on the very verge, no mattor how wide the path may be. Now, under such circum- 
stances, though your guide assures you that an accident or a 
person killed is a thing unknown, you cannot help seeing that 
if the saddle should turn, or the girths break, or a bit of the 
crumbling edge cave away — all which things appear quite 
possible — all would be over with you. Yet I suppose we 
are no more really dependent upon God's providence in 
such circumstances, than in many cases where we think ourselves most secure. Still the thrill of this sensation is not 
without its pleasure, especially with such an image of almighty 
power and glory constantly before one's eyes as Mont Blanc. 
Our own littleness and helplessness, in new of these vast objects which surround us, give a strong and pathetic force to 
the words, B The eternal God is thy refuge, and underneath 
thee are the everlasting arms." 

I like best these snow-pure glaciers seen through these 
black pines ; there is something mysterious about them when 
you thus catch glimpses, and see not the earthly base on which 
they rest. I recollect the same fact in seeing the Cataract of 
Niagara through trees, where merely the dizzying fall of water was visible, with its foam, and spray, and rainbows ; it 
produced an idea of something supernatural. 

I forgot to say that at the foot of the mountain a party of 
girls started to ascend with us, carrying along bottles of milk 
and small saucers full of mountain strawberries. About half 
way up the ascent we halted by a spring of water which 
gushed from the side of the mountain, and there we found the 
advantage of these arrangements. The milk is very nice, 
almost as rich as cream. I think they told me it was goat's 
milk. The strawberries are very small indeed, like our field 
strawberries, but not as good. One devours them with great 



 

relish, simply because the keen air of the mountain disposes* 
one to eat something, and there is nothing better to be had. 
They were hearty, rosy-looking girls, cheerful and obliging, 
wore the flat, Swiss hat, and carried their knitting work along 
with them, and knit whenever they could. 

When you asked them the price of their wares they always 
said, " Au plaisir" i. e., whatever you please ; but when we 
came to offer them money, we found " au plaisir " meant so 
much at any rate, and as much more as they could get. 

There were some children who straggled up with the party, 
who offered us flowers and crystals " au plaisir" to about the 
same intent and purpose. This cortege of people, wanting 
to sell you something, accompanies you every where in the 
Alps. The guides generally look upon it with complacency, 
and in a quiet way favor it. I suppose that the fact was, these 
were neighbors and acquaintances, and the mutual understand- 
ing was, that they should help each other. 

It was about twelve o'clock when we gained a bare board 
shanty as near the top of La Flegere as it is possible to go 
on mules. 

It is rather a discouraging reflection that one should travel 
three or four hours to get to such a desolate place as these 
mountain tops generally are ; nothing but grass, rocks, and 
snow ; a shanty, with a show case full of minerals, articles of 
carved wood, and engravings of the place for sale. In these 
show cases the Alps are brought to market as thoroughly as 
human ingenuity can do the thing. The chamois figures 
largely ; there are pouches made of chamois skin, walking 
licks and alpenstocks tipped with chamois horn; sometimes 
SO entire skin, horns and all, hanging disconsolately downward. Then all manner ol* crystals, such as are found in the 







rocks, are served up — agate pins, rings, seals, bracelets, cups, 
and snuffboxes — all which are duly urged on your attention ; 
so, instead of falling into a rapture at the sight of Mont Blanc, 
the regular routine for a Yankee is to begin a bargain for a 
walking stick or a snuffbox. 

There is another curious fact, and that is, that every prospect loses by being made definite. As long as we only see a 
thing by glimpses, and imagine that there is a deal more that 
we do not see, the mind is kept in a constant excitement and 
play ; but come to a point where you can fairly and squarely 
take in the whole, and there your mind falls listless. It is 
the greatest proof to me of the infinite nature of our minds, 
that we almost instantly undervalue what we have thoroughly 
attained. This sensation afflicted me, for I had been reining 
in my enthusiasm for two days, as rather premature, and keep- 
ing myself in reserve for this ultimate display. But now I 
stood there, no longer seeing by glimpses, no longer catching 
rapturous intimations as I turned angles of rock, or glanced 
through windows of pine — here it was, all spread out before 
me like a map, not a cloud, not a shadow to soften the outline 
— there was Mont Bianc, a great alabaster pyramid, with a 
glacier running down each side of it ; there was the Arve, 
and there was the Arveiron, names most magical in song, but 
now literal geographic realities. 

But in full possession of the whole my mind gave out like 
a rocket that will not go off at the critical moment. I re- 
member, once after finishing a very circumstantial treatise on 
the nature of heaven, being oppressed with a similar sensation 
of satiety, — that which hath not entered the heart of man to 
conceive must not be mapped out, — hence the wisdom of the 
dim, indefinite imagery of the Scriptures ; they give you no 







hard outline, no definite limit ; occasionally they part as do the 
clouds around these mountains, giving you flashes and gleams 
of something supernatural and splendid, but never fully 
unveiling. 

But La Flegere is doubtless the best point for getting a 
statistically accurate idea of how the Alps lie, of any easily 
accessible to ladies. This print you may regard more as a 
chart than as a picture. 

Our guide pointed out every feature with praiseworthy ac- 
curacy. Midmost is Mont Blanc ; on the right the Glacier 
de Boisson. Two or three little black peaks in it are the 
sleeping-place for travellers ascending — the zigzag line shows 
their path. On the left of the mountain lies Mer de Glace, 
with the Arveiron falling from it. The Arve crosses the val- 
ley below us ; the fall is not indicated in this view. The un- 
dulations, whicl^ on near view, are fifty feet high, seem mere 
ripples. Its purity is much soiled by the dust and debris 
which are constantly blown upon it, making it look in some 
places more like mud than ice. Its soiled masses contrast 
with the dazzling whiteness of the upper regions, just as hu- 
man virtue exposed to the wind and dust of earth, with the 
spotless purity of Jesus. 







These mulets, which at this distance appear like black 
points, are needle cliffs rising in a desert of snow, thus : — 




Coming down I mentally compared Mont Blanc and Niaga- 
ra, as one should compare two grand pictures in different 
styles of the same master. Both are of that class of things 
which mark eras in a mind's history, and open a new door 
which no man can shut. Of the two, I think Niagara is the 
most impressive, perhaps because those aerial elements of 
foam and spray give that vague and dreamy indefiniteness of 
outline which seems essential in the sublime. For this reason, 







while Niagara is equally impressive in the distance, it does 
not lose on the nearest approach — it is always mysterious, 
and, therefore, stimulating. Those varying spray wreaths, 
rising like Ossian's ghosts from its abyss ; those shimmering 
rainbows, through whose veil you look; those dizzying falls 
of water that seem like clouds poured from the hollow of 
God's hand ; and that mystic undertone of sound that seems to 
pervade the whole being as the voice of the Almighty, — all 
these bewilder and enchant the discriminative and prosaic 
part of us, and bring us into that cloudy region of ecstasy 
where the soul comes nearest to Him whom no eye hath seen, 
or can see. I have sometimes asked myself if, in the count- 
less ages of the future, the heirs of God shall ever be en- 
dowed by him with a creative power, by which they shall 
bring into being things like these ? In this infancy of his existence, man creates pictures, statues, cathedrals ; but when he 
is made " ruler over many things," will his Father intrust to 
him the building and adorning of worlds ? the ruling of the 
glorious, dazzling forces of nature ? 

At the foot of the mountain we found again our company 
of strawberry girls, wiih knitting work and goat's milk, lying 
in wait for us. They knew we should be thirsty and hungry, 
and wisely turned the circumstance to account. Some of our 
party would not buy of them, because they said they were 
sharpers, trying to get all they could out of people ; but if 
every body who tries to do this is to be called a sharper, what 
is to become of respectable society, I wonder ? 

On the strength of this reflection, I bought some more 
goat's milk and strawberries, and verily found them excellent ; 
for, as Shakspeare says, " How many things by season seas- 
oned are." 








We returned to our hotel, and after dining and taking a 
long nap, I began to feel fresh once more, for the air here acts 
like an elixir, so that one is able to do twice as much as any 
where else. S. was too much overcome to go with us, but the 
rest of us started with our guides once more at five o'clock. 
This time we were to visit the Cascade des Pelerins, which 
comes next on the orthodox list of places to be seen. 

It was a lovely afternoon ; the sun had got over the Mont 
Blanc side of the world, and threw the broad, cool shadow 
of the mountains quite across the valley. What a curious 
kind of thing shadow is, — that invisible veil, falling so even- 
ly and so lightly over all things, bringing with it such thoughts 
of calmness, of coolness, and of rest. I wonder the old Greeks 
did not build temples to Shadow, and call her the sister of 
Thought and Peace. The Hebrew writers speak of the 
"overshadowing of the Almighty;" they call his protection 
" the shadow of a great rock in a weary land." Even as the 
shadow of Mont Blanc falls like a Sabbath across this valley, 
so falls the sense of his presence across our weary life-road ! 

As we rode along under the sides of the mountain every 
thing seemed so beautiful, so thoughtful, and so calm ! All 
the goats and cows were in motion along the mountain paths, 
each one tinkling his little bell and filling the rocks with gentle melodies. You can trace the lines of these cattle paths, 
running like threads all along the sides of the mountains. 
We went in the same road that we had gone in the morning. 
How different it seemed, in the soberness of this afternoon 
light, from its aspect under the clear, crisp, sharp light of 
morning ! 

We pass again through the pine woods in the valley, and 
cross the Arvc ; then up the mountain side to where a tiny 







cascade throws up its feathery spray in a brilliant jet d'eau. 
Every body knows, even in our sober New England, that 
mountain brooks are a frisky, indiscreet set, rattling, chattering, and capering in defiance of all law and order, tumbling 
over precipices, and picking themselves up at the bottom, no 
whit wiser or more disposed to be tranquil than they were at 
the top ; in fact, seeming to grow more mad and frolicsome 
with every leap. TTell, that is just the way brooks do here in 
the Alps, and the people, taking advantage of it, have built a 
little shanty, where they show up the capers of this child of 
the mountain, as if he tumbled for their special profit. Here, 
of course, in the shanty are the agates, and the carved work, 
and so forth, and so on, and you must buy something for a 
souvenir. 

I sat down on the rocks to take, not a sketch, — for who can 
sketch a mountain torrent ? — but to note down on paper a kind 
of diagram, from which afterwards I might reconstruct an 
