covered with mill-stones just taken from the quarry. The process of
blowing the rocks was still going on. Suddenly a violent explosion was
heard. I looked. At a distance of four or five hundred paces, a gray
smoke, which seemed to come from a hole, rose from the ground. Stones
were then thrown up in the air, horrible cries were heard, and springing
from this hole appeared a man, who began to run across the plain as if
mad. He shook his arms, screamed, fell down, got up again, disappeared
in the great crevices of the plain, and appeared again. The distance and
the irregularity of his path prevented me from distinguishing anything
clearly; but, at the height of his head, in the place of his face, I saw
a great, red mark. In alarm, I approached him, while from the other side
of the plain, from Noiesemont, a troop of men and women were advancing,
crying aloud. I was the first to reach the poor creature. His face was
all one wound, and torrents of blood were streaming over his garments,
which were all in rags.
“Scarcely had I taken hold of him, when a woman, followed by twenty
peasants, approached, and threw herself before him.
“‘James, James, is it you? I did not know you, James.’
“The poor man, without answering, struggled furiously in our hands.
“‘Ah!’ cried the woman, suddenly, and with a heart-rending voice, ‘it is
he!’
“She had recognised a large silver pin, which fastened his shirt, which
was covered with blood.
“It was indeed he, her husband, the father of three children, a
poor labourer, who, in blasting a rock with powder, had received the
explosion in his face, and was blind, mutilated, perhaps mortally
wounded.
“He was carried home. I was obliged to go away the same day, on a
journey, and was absent a month. Before my departure, I sent him our
doctor, a man devoted to his profession as a country physician, and as
learned as a city physician. On my return--
“‘Ah! well, doctor,’ said I, ‘the blind man?’
“‘It is all over with him. His wounds are healed, his head is doing
well, he is only blind; but he will die; despair has seized him, and he
will kill himself. I can do nothing more for him, This is all,’ he said;
‘an internal inflammation is taking place. He must die.’
“I hastened to the poor man. I arrived. I shall never forget the sight.
He was seated on a wooden stool, beside a hearth on which there was no
fire, his eyes covered with a white bandage. On the floor an infant of
three months was sleeping; a little girl of four years old was playing
in the ashes; one, still older, was shivering opposite to her; and, in
front of the fireplace, seated on the disordered bed, her arms hanging
down, was the wife. What was left to be imagined in this spectacle was
more than met the eye. One felt that for several hours, perhaps, no word
had been spoken in this room. The wife was doing nothing, and seemed
to have no care to do anything. They were not merely unfortunate, they
seemed like condemned persons. At the sound of my footsteps they arose,
but without speaking.
“‘You are the blind man of the quarry?”
“‘Yes, sir.’
“‘I have come to see you.’
“‘Thank you, sir.’
“‘You met with a sad misfortune there.’
“‘Yes, sir.’
“His voice was cold, short, without any emotion. He expected nothing
from any one. I pronounced the words ‘assistance,’ ‘public compassion.’
“‘Assistance!’ cried his wife, suddenly, with a tone of despair; ‘they
ought to give it to us; they must help us; we have done nothing to bring
upon us this misfortune; they will not let my children die with hunger.’
“She asked for nothing--begged for nothing. She claimed help. This
imperative beggary touched me more than the common lamentations of
poverty, for it was the voice of despair; and I felt in my purse for
some pieces of silver.
“The man then, who had till now been silent, said, with a hollow tone,
“‘Your children must die, since I can no longer see.’
“There is a strange power in the human voice. My money fell back into my
purse. I was ashamed of the precarious assistance. I felt that here was
a call for something more than mere almsgiving--the charity of a day. I
soon formed my resolution.”
“But what could you do?” said the young man, to Mr. Desgranges.
“What could I do?” replied he, with animation. “Fifteen days after,
James was saved. A year after, he gained his own living, and might be
heard singing at his work.”
“Saved! working! singing! but how?”
“How! by very natural means. But wait, I think I hear him. I will make
him tell you his simple story. It will touch you more from his lips. It
will embarrass me less, and his cordial and ardent face will complete
the work.”
In fact, the noise of some one taking off his wooden shoes was heard at
the door, and then a little tap.
“Come in, James;” and he entered with his wife,
“I have brought Juliana, my dear Mr. Desgranges, the poor woman--she
must see you sometimes, must she not?”
“You did right, James. Sit down.”
He came forward, pushing his stick before him, that he might not knock
against a chair. He found one, and seated himself. He was young, small,
vigorous, with black hair, a high and open forehead, a singularly
expansive face for a blind man, and, as Rabelais says, a magnificent
smile of thirty-two teeth. His wife remained standing behind him.
“James,” said Mr. Desgranges to him, “here is one of my good friends,
who is very desirous to see you.”
“He is a good man, then, since he is your friend.”
“Yes. Talk with him; I am going to see my geraniums. But do not be sad,
you know I forbid you that.”
“No, no, my dear friend, no!”
This tender and simple appellation seemed to charm the young man; and
after the departure of his friend, approaching the blind man, he said,
“You are very fond of Mr. Desgranges?”
“Fond of him!” cried the blind man, with impetuosity; “he saved me from
ruin, sir. It was all over with me; the thought of my children consumed
me; I was dying because I could not see. He saved me.”
“With assistance--with money?”
“Money! what is money? Everybody can give that. Yes, he clothed us, he
fed us, he obtained a subscription of five hundred francs (about one
hundred dollars) for me; but all this was as nothing; he did more--he
cured my heart!”
“But how?”
“By his kind words, sir. Yes, he, a person of so much consequence in the
world, he came every day into my poor house, he sat on my poor stool, he
talked with me an hour, two hours, till I became quiet and easy.”
“What did he say to you?”
“I do not know; I am but a foolish fellow, and he must tell you all he
said to me; but they were things I had never heard before. He spoke to
me of the good God better than a minister; and he brought sleep back to
me.”
“How was that?”
“It was two months since I had slept soundly. I would just doze, and
then start up, saying,
“‘James, you are blind,’ and then my head would go round--round, like
a madman; and this was killing me. One morning he came in, this dear
friend, and said to me,
“‘James, do you believe in God?’
“‘Why do you ask that, Mr. Desgranges?’
“‘Well, this night, when you wake, and the thought of your misfortune
comes upon you, say aloud a prayer--then two--then three--and you will
go to sleep.’”
“Yes,” said the wife, with her calm voice, “the good God, He gives
sleep.”
“This is not all, sir. In my despair I would have killed myself. I said
to myself, ‘You are useless to your family, you are the woman of the
house, and others support you.’ But he was displeased--‘Is it not you
who support your family? If you had not been blind, would any one have
given you the five hundred francs?’
“‘That is true, Mr. Desgranges.’
“‘If you were not blind, would any one provide for your children?’
“‘That is true, Mr. Desgranges.’
“‘If you were not blind, would every one love you, as we love you?’
“‘It is true, Mr. Desgranges, it is true.’
“‘You see, James, there are misfortunes in all families. Misfortune is
like rain; it must fall a little on everybody. If you were not blind,
your wife would, perhaps, be sick; one of your children might have
died. Instead of that, you have all the misfortune, my poor man; but
they--they have none.’
“‘True, true.’ And I began to feel less sad. I was even happy to suffer
for them. And then he added,
“‘Dear James, misfortune is either the greatest enemy or the greatest
friend of men. There are people whom it makes wicked; there are others
made better by it. For you, it must make you beloved by everybody; you
must become so grateful, so affectionate, that when they wish to speak
of any one who is good, they will say, good as the blind man of the
Noiesemont. That will serve for a dowry to your daughter.’ This is the
way he talked to me, sir: and it gave me heart to be unfortunate.”
“Yes; but when he was not here?”
“Ah, when he was not here, I had, to be sure, some heavy moments. I
thought of my eyes--the light is so beautiful! Oh, God! cried I, in
anguish, if ever I should see clearly again, I would get up at three
o’clock in the morning, and I would, not go to bed till ten at night,
that I might gather up more light.”
“James, James!” said his wife.
“You are right, Juliana; he has forbidden me to be sad. He would
perceive it, sir. Do you think that when my head had gone wrong in the
night, and he came in the morning, and merely looked at me, he would
say--‘James, you have been thinking that;’ and then he would scold me,
this dear friend. Yes,” added he, with an expression of joy--“he would
scold me, and that would give me pleasure, because he tried to make his
words cross, but he could not do it.”
“And what gave you the idea of becoming a water-carrier?”
“He gave me that, also. Do you suppose I have ideas? I began to lose my
grief, but my time hung heavy on my hands. At thirty-two years old, to
be sitting all day in a chair! He then began to instruct me, as he said,
and he told me beautiful stories. The Bible--the history of an old
man, blind like me, named Tobias; the history of Joseph; the history
of David; the history of Jesus Christ. And then he made me repeat them
after him. But my head, it was hard--it was hard; it was not used to
learning, and I was always getting tired in my arms and my legs.”
“And he tormented us to death,” said his wife, laughing.
“True, true,” replied he, laughing also; “I became cross. He came again,
and said,
“‘James, you must go to work.’
“I showed him my poor, burned hands.
“‘It is no matter; I have bought you a capital in trade.’
“‘Me, Mr. Desgranges?’
“‘Yes, James, a capital into which they never put goods, and where they
always find them.’
“‘It must have cost you a great deal, sir.’
“‘Nothing at all, my lad.’
“‘What is then this fund?’
“‘The river.’
“‘The river? Do you wish me to become a fisherman?’
“‘Not all; a water-carrier.’
“‘Water-carrier! but eyes?’
“‘Eyes; of what use are they? do the dray-horses have eyes? If they do,
they make use of them; if they do not, they do without them. Come, you
must be a water-carrier.’
“‘But a cask?’
“‘I will give you one.’
“‘A cart?’
“‘I have ordered one at the cart-maker’s.’
“‘But customers?’
“I will give you my custom, to begin with, eighteen francs a month; (my
dear friend pays for water as dearly as for wine.) Moreover, you have
nothing to say, either yes or no. I have dismissed my water-carrier,
and you would not let my wife and me die with thirst. This dear Madame
Desgranges, just think of it. And so, my boy, in three days--work. And
you, Madam James, come here;’ and he carried off Juliana.”
“Yes, sir,” continued the wife, “he carried me off, ordered leather
straps, made me buy the wheels, harnessed me; we were all astonishment,
James and I; but stop, if you can, when Mr. Desgranges drives you.
At the end of three days, here we are with the cask, he harnessed and
drawing it, I behind, pushing; we were ashamed at crossing the village,
as if we were doing something wrong; it seemed as if everybody would
laugh at us. But Mr. Desgranges was there in the street.
“‘Come on, James,’ said he, ‘courage.’
“We came along, and in the evening he put into our hands a piece of
money, saying,” continued the blind man, with emotion--
“‘James, here are twenty sous you have earned to-day.’
“Earned, sir, think of that! earned, it was fifteen months that I had
only eaten what had been given to me. It is good to receive from good
people, it is true; but the bread that one earns, it is as we say, half
corn, half barley; it nourishes better, and then it was done, I was
no longer the woman, I was a labourer--a labourer--James earned his
living.”
A sort of pride shone from his face.
“How!” said the young man, “was your cask sufficient to support you?”
“Not alone, sir; but I have still another profession.”
“Another profession!”
“Ha, ha, yes, sir; the river always runs, except when it is frozen, and,
as Mr. Desgranges says, ‘water-carriers do not make their fortune with
ice,’ so he gave me a Winter trade and Summer trade.”
“Winter trade!”
Mr. Desgranges returned at this moment--James heard him--“Is it
not true, Mr. Desgranges, that I have another trade besides that of
water-carrier?”
“Undoubtedly.”
“What is it then?”
“Wood-sawyer.”
“Wood-sawyer? impossible; how could you measure the length of the
sticks? how could you cut wood without cutting yourself?”
“Cut myself, sir,” replied the blind man, with a pleasant shade of
confidence; “I formerly was a woodsawyer, and the saw knows me well; and
then one learns everything--I go to school, indeed. They put a pile of
wood at my left side, my saw and saw horse before me, a stick that is
to be sawed in three; I take a thread, I cut it the size of the third of
the stick--this is the measure. Every place I saw, I try it, and so it
goes on till now there is nothing burned or drunk in the village without
calling upon me.”
“Without mentioning,” added Mr. Desgranges, “that he is a commissioner.”
“A commissioner!” said the young man, still more surprised.
“Yes, sir, when there is an errand to be done at Melun, I put my little
girl on my back, and then off I go. She sees for me, I walk for her;
those who meet me, say, ‘Here is a gentleman who carries his eyes very
high;’ to which I answer, ‘that is so I may see the farther.’ And then
at night I have twenty sous more to bring home.”
“But are you not afraid of stumbling against the stones?”
“I lift my feet pretty high; and then I am used to it; I come from
Noiesemont here all alone.”
“All alone! how do you find your way?”
“I find the course of the wind as I leave home, and this takes the place
of the sun with me.”
“But the holes?”
“I know them all.”
“And the walls?”
“I feel them. When I approach anything thick, sir, the air comes with
less force upon my face; it is but now and then that I get a hard knock,
as by example, if sometimes a little handcart is left on the road, I do
not suspect it--whack! bad for you, poor five-and-thirty, but this
is soon over. It is only when I get bewildered, as I did day before
yesterday. O then---”
“You have not told me of that, James,” said Mr. Desgranges.
“I was, however, somewhat embarrassed, my dear friend. While I was here
the wind changed, I did not perceive it; but at the end of a quarter of
an hour, when I had reached the plain of Noiesemont, I had lost my way,
and I felt so bewildered that I did not dare to stir a step. You know
the plain, not a house, no passersby. I sat down on the ground, I
listened; after a moment I heard at, as I supposed, about two hundred
paces distant, a noise of running water. I said, ‘If this should be the
stream which is at the bottom of the plain?’ I went feeling along on the
side from which the noise came--I reached the stream; then I reasoned in
this way: the water comes down from the side of Noiesemont and crosses
it. I put in my hand to feel the current.”
“Bravo, James.”
“Yes, but the water was so low and the current so small, that my hand
felt nothing. I put in the end of my stick, it was not moved. I rubbed
my head finally, I said, ‘I am a fool, here is my handkerchief;’ I
took it, I fastened it to the end of my cane. Soon I felt that it moved
gently to the right, very gently. Noiesemont is on the right. I started
again and I get home to Juliana, who began to be uneasy.”
“O,” cried the young man, “this is admir----”
But Mr. Desgranges stopped him, and leading him to the other end of the
room,
“Silence!” said he to him in a low voice. “Not admirable--do not corrupt
by pride the simplicity of this man. Look at him, see how tranquil his
face is, how calm after this recital which has moved you so much. He is
ignorant of himself, do not spoil him.”
“It is so touching,” said the young man, in a low tone.
“Undoubtedly, and still his superiority does not lie there. A thousand
blind men have found out these ingenious resources, a thousand will find
them again; but this moral perfection--this heart, which opens itself
so readily to elevated consolations--this heart which so willingly takes
upon it the part of a victim--this heart which has restored him to
life. For do not be deceived, it is not I who have saved him, it is his
affection for me; his ardent gratitude has filled his whole soul, and
has sustained--he has lived because he has loved!”
At that moment, James, who had remained at the other end of the room,
and who perceived that we were speaking low, got up softly, and with a
delicate discretion, said to his wife,
“We will go away without making any noise.”
“Are you going, James?”
“I am in the way, my dear Mr. Desgranges.”
“No, pray stay longer.”
His benefactor retained him, reaching out to him cordially his hand. The
blind man seized the hand in his turn, and pressed it warmly against his
heart.
“My dear friend, my dear good friend, you permit me to stay a little
longer. How glad I am to find myself near you. When I am sad I
say--‘James, the good God will, perhaps, of His mercy, put you in the
same paradise with Mr. Desgranges,’ and that does me good.”
The young man smiled at this simple tenderness, which believed in a
hierarchy in Heaven. James heard him.
“You smile, sir. But this good man has re-created James. I dream of it
every night--I have never seen him, but I shall know him then. Oh my
God, if I recover my sight I will look at him for ever--for ever, like
the light, till he shall say to me, James, go away. But he will not
say so, he is too good. If I had known him four years ago, I would have
served him, and never have left him.”
“James, James!” said Mr. Desgranges; but the poor man could not be
silenced.
“It is enough to know he is in the village; this makes my heart easy. I
do not always wish to come in, but I pass before his house, it is always
there; and when he is gone a journey I make Juliana lead me into the
plain of Noiesemont, and I say--‘turn me towards the place where he is
gone, that I may breathe the same air with him.’”
Mr. Desgranges put his hand before his mouth. James stopped.
“You are right, Mr. Desgranges, my mouth is rude, it is only my heart
which is right. Come, wife,” said he, gayly, and drying his great tears
which rolled from his eyes, “Come, we must give our children their
supper. Good-by, my dear friend, good-by, sir.”
He went away, moving his staff before him. Just as he laid his hand upon
the door, Mr. Desgranges called him back.
“I want to tell you a piece of news which will give you pleasure. I was
going to leave the village this year; but I have just taken a new lease
of five years of my landlady.”
“Do you see, Juliana,” said James to his wife, turning round, “I was
right when I said he was going away.”
“How,” replied Mr. Desgranges, “I had told them not to tell you of it.”
“Yes; but here,” putting his hand on his heart, “everything is plain
here. I heard about a month since, some little words, which had begun to
make my head turn round; when, last Sunday, your landlady called me to
her, and showed me more kindness than usual, promising me that she would
take care of me, and that she would never abandon me. When I came home,
I said to Juliana, ‘Wife, Mr. Desgranges is going to quit the village;
but that lady has consoled me.’”
In a few moments the blind man had returned to his home.
DEPENDENCE.
“WELL, Mary,” said Aunt Frances, “how do you propose to spend the
summer? It is so long since the failure and death of your guardian, that
I suppose you are now familiar with your position, and prepared to mark
out some course for the future.”
“True, aunt; I have had many painful thoughts with regard to the loss
of my fortune, and I was for a time in great uncertainty about my future
course, but a kind offer, which I received, yesterday, has removed that
burden. I now know where to find a respectable and pleasant home.”
“Is the offer you speak of one of marriage?” asked Aunt Frances,
smiling.
“Oh! dear, no; I am too young for that yet. But Cousin Kate is happily
married, and lives a few miles out of the city, in just the cosiest
little spot, only a little too retired; and she has persuaded me that I
shall do her a great kindness to accept a home with her.”
“Let me see. Kate’s husband is not wealthy, I believe?”
“No: Charles Howard is not wealthy, but his business is very good, and
improving every year; and both he and Kate are too whole-souled and
generous to regret giving an asylum to an unfortunate girl like me. They
feel that ‘it is more blessed to give than to receive.’”
“A very noble feeling, Mary; but one in which I am sorry to perceive
that you are a little wanting.”
“Oh! no, Aunt Frances, I do feel it deeply; but it is the curse of
poverty that one must give up, in some measure, the power of benefiting
others. And, then, I mean to beguile Kate of so many lonely hours, and
perform so many friendly offices for her husband, that they will think
me not a burden but a treasure.”
“And you really think you can give them as much comfort as the expense
of your maintenance could procure them in any other way?”
“Yes, aunt; it may sound conceited, perhaps, but I do really think I
can. I am sure, if I thought otherwise, I would never consent to become
a burden to them.”
“Well, my dear, then your own interest is all that remains to be
considered. There are few blessings in life that can compensate for the
loss of self-reliance. She who derives her support from persons upon
whom she has no natural claim, finds the effect upon herself to
be decidedly narrowing. Perpetually in debt, without the means of
reimbursement, barred from any generous action which does not seem like
‘robbing Peter to pay Paul,’ she sinks too often into the character of
a sponge, whose only business is absorption. But I see you do not like
what I am saying, and I will tell you something which I am sure you
will like--my own veritable history.
“I was left an orphan in childhood, like yourself, and when my father’s
affairs were settled, not a dollar remained for my support. I was only
six years of age, but I had attracted the notice of a distant relative,
who was a man of considerable wealth. Without any effort of my own, I
became an inmate of his family, and his only son, a few years my elder,
was taught to consider me as a sister.
“George Somers was a generous, kind-hearted boy, and I believe he was
none the less fond of me, because I was likely to rob him of half his
fortune. Mr. Somers often spoke of making a will, in which I was to
share equally with his son in the division of his property, but a
natural reluctance to so grave a task led him to defer it from one year
to another. Meantime, I was sent to expensive schools, and was as idle
and superficial as any heiress in the land.
“I was just sixteen when my kind benefactor suddenly perished on board
the ill-fated Lexington, and, as he died without a will, I had no legal
claim to any farther favours. But George Somers was known as a very
open-handed youth, upright and honourable, and, as he was perfectly well
acquainted with the wishes of his father, I felt no fears with regard to
my pecuniary condition. While yet overwhelmed with grief at the loss of
one whom my heart called father, I received a very kind and sympathizing
letter from George, in which he said he thought I had better remain at
school for another year, as had been originally intended.
“‘Of course,’ he added, ‘the death of my father does not alter our
relation in the least; you are still my dear and only sister.’
“And, in compliance with his wishes, I passed another year at a very
fashionable school--a year of girlish frivolity, in which my last chance
of acquiring knowledge as a means of future independence was wholly
thrown away. Before the close of this year I received another letter
from George, which somewhat surprised, but did not at all dishearten me.
It was, in substance, as follows:--
“‘MY own dear Sister:--I wrote you, some months ago, from Savannah, in
Georgia told you how much I was delighted with the place and people; how
charmed with Southern frankness and hospitality. But I did not tell you
that I had there met with positively the most bewitching creature in the
world--for I was but a timid lover, and feared that, as the song says,
the course of true love never would run smooth. My charming Laura was a
considerable heiress, and, although no sordid considerations ever had a
feather’s weight upon her own preferences, of course, yet her father
was naturally and very properly anxious that the guardian of so fair
a flower should be able to shield it from the biting winds of poverty.
Indeed, I had some difficulty in satisfying his wishes on this point,
and in order to do so, I will frankly own that I assumed to myself the
unencumbered possession of my father’s estate, of which so large a share
belongs of right to you. I am confident that when you know my Laura you
will forgive me this merely nominal injustice. Of course, this connexion
can make no sort of difference in your rights and expectations. You will
always have a home at my house. Laura is delighted, with the idea of
such a companion, and says she would on no account dispense with that
arrangement. And whenever, you marry as girls do and will, I shall hold
myself bound to satisfy any reasonable wishes on the part of the
happy youth that wins you. Circumstances hastened my marriage somewhat
unexpectedly, or I should certainly have informed you previously, and
requested your presence at the nuptial ceremony. We have secured a
beautiful house in Brooklyn, and shall expect you to join us as soon
as your present year expires, Laura sends her kindest regards, and
I remain, as always, your sincere and affectionate brother, GEORGE
SOMERS.’
“Not long after the receipt of this letter, one of the instructresses,
in the institution where I resided requested the favour of a private
interview. She then said she knew something generally of my position
and prospects, and, as she had always felt an instinctive interest in
my fortunes, she could not see me leave the place without seeking
my confidence, and rendering me aid, if aid was in her power. Though
surprised and, to say the truth, indignant, I simply inquired what
views, had occurred to her with regard to my future life.
“She said, then, very kindly, that although I was not very thorough
in, any branch of study, yet she thought I had a decided taste for the
lighter and more ornamental parts of female education. That a few months
earnest attention to these would fit me for a position independent of my
connexions, and one of which none of my friends would have cause to be
ashamed.
“I am deeply pained to own to you how I answered her. Drawing myself up,
I said, coldly,
“‘I am obliged to you, madam, for your quite unsolicited interest in
my affairs. When I leave this place, it will be to join my brother and
sister in Brooklyn, and, as we are all reasonably wealthy, I must try to
make gold varnish over any defects in my neglected education.’
“I looked to see my kind adviser entirely annihilated by these imposing
words, but she answered with perfect calmness,
“‘I know Laura Wentworth, now Mrs. Somers. She was educated at the
North, and was a pupil of my own for a year. She is wealthy and
beautiful, and I hope you will never have cause to regret assuming a
position with regard to her that might be mistaken for dependence.’
“With these words, my well-meaning, but perhaps injudicious friend, took
leave, and I burst into a mocking laugh, that I hoped she might linger
long enough to hear. ‘This is too good!’ I repeated to myself--but I
could not feel perfectly at ease. However, I soon forgot all thoughts
of the future, in the present duties of scribbling in fifty albums, and
exchanging keepsakes, tears, and kisses, with a like number of very
intimate friends.
“It was not until I had finally left school, and was fairly on the way
to the home of my brother, that I found a moment’s leisure to think
seriously of the life that was before me. I confess that I felt some
secret misgivings, as I stood at last upon the steps of the very elegant
house that was to be my future home. The servant who obeyed my summons,
inquired if I was Miss Rankin, a name I had never borne since childhood.
“I was about to reply in the negative, when she added, ‘If you are the
young lady that Mr. Somers is expecting from the seminary, I will show
you to your room.’
“I followed mechanically, and was left in a very pretty chamber, with
the information that Mrs. Somers was a little indisposed, but would meet
me at dinner. The maid added that Mr. Somers was out of town, and would
not return till evening. After a very uncomfortable hour, during which
I resolutely suspended my opinion with regard to my position, the
dinner-bell rang, and the domestic again appeared to show me to the
dining-room.
“Mrs. Somers met me with extended hand. ‘My dear Miss Rankin!’ she
exclaimed, ‘I am most happy to see you. I have heard George speak of
you so often and so warmly that I consider you quite as a relative. Come
directly to the table. I am sure you must be famished after your long
ride. I hope you will make yourself one of us, at once, and let me call
you Fanny. May I call you Cousin Fanny?’ she pursued, with an air of
sweet condescension that was meant to be irresistible.
“‘As you please,’ I replied coldly.
“To which she quickly responded, ‘Oh, that will be delightful.’
“She then turned to superintend the carving of a fowl, and I had time
to look at her undisturbed. She was tall and finely formed, with small
delicate features, and an exquisite grace in every movement; a haughty
sweetness that was perfectly indescribable. She had very beautiful
teeth, which she showed liberally when she smiled, and in her graver
moments her slight features wore an imperturbable serenity, as if the
round world contained nothing that was really worth her attention. An
animated statue, cold, polished, and pitiless! was my inward thought, as
I bent over my dinner.
“When the meal was over, Mrs. Somers said to me, in a tone of playful
authority,
“‘Now, Cousin Fanny, I want you to go to your room and rest, and not do
an earthly thing until teatime. After that I have a thousand things to
show you.’
“At night I was accordingly shown a great part of the house; a costly
residence, and exquisitely furnished, but, alas! I already wearied of
this icy splendour. Every smile of my beautiful hostess (I could not now
call her sister), every tone of her soft voice, every movement of her
superb form, half queen-like dignity, half fawn-like grace--seemed to
place an insurmountable barrier between herself and me. It was not that
I thought more humbly of myself--not that I did not even consider myself
her equal--but her dainty blandishments were a delicate frost-work, that
almost made me shiver and when, she touched her cool lips to mine, and
said ‘Good-night, dear,’ I felt as if even then separated from her real,
living self, by a wall of freezing marble.
“‘Poor George!’ I said, as I retired to rest--‘You have wedded this
soulless woman, and she will wind you round her finger.’
“I did not sit up for him, for he was detained till a late hour, but
I obeyed the breakfast-bell with unfashionable eagerness, as I was
becoming nervous about our meeting, and really anxious to have it over.
After a delay of some minutes, I heard the wedded pair coming leisurely
down the stairs, in, very amicable chatter.
“‘I am glad you like her, Laura,’ said a voice which I knew in a moment
as that of George. How I shivered as I caught the smooth reply, ‘A nice
little thing. I am very glad of the connexion. It will be such a relief
not to rely entirely upon servants. There should be a middle class in
every family.’
“With these words she glided through the door, looked with perfect
calmness in my flashing eyes, and said,
“‘Ah, Fanny! I, was just telling George here how much I shall like you.’
“The husband came forward with an embarrassed air; I strove to meet him
with dignity, but my heart failed me, and I burst into tears.
“‘Forgive me, madam,’ I said, on regaining my composure--‘This is our
first meeting since the death of our father.’
“‘I understand your feelings perfectly,’ she quietly replied. ‘My father
knew the late Mr. Somers well, and thought very highly of him, He was
charitable to a fault, and yet remarkable for discernment. His bounty
was seldom unworthily bestowed.’
“His bounty! I had never been thought easy to intimidate, but I quailed
before this unapproachable ice-berg. It made no attempt from that moment
to vindicate what I was pleased to call my rights, but awaited passively
the progress of events.
“After breakfast, Mrs. Somers said to the maid in attendance,
“‘Dorothy, bring some hot water and towels for Miss Rankin.’
“She then turned to me and continued, ‘I shall feel the china perfectly
safe in your hands, cousin. These servants are so very unreliable.’
“And she followed George to the parlour above, where their lively tones
and light laughter made agreeable music.
“In the same easy way, I was invested with a variety of domestic cares,
most of them such as I would willingly have accepted, had she waited for
me to manifest such a willingness. But a few days after my arrival, we
received a visit from little Ella Grey, a cousin of Laura’s, who was
taken seriously ill on the first evening of her stay. A physician was
promptly summoned, and, after a conference with him, Mrs. Somers came to
me, inquiring earnestly,
“‘Cousin Fanny, have you ever had the measles?’
“I replied in the affirmative.
“‘Oh, I am very glad!’ was her response; ‘for little Ella is attacked
with them, and very severely; but, if you will take charge of her,
I shall feel no anxiety. It is dreadful in sickness to be obliged to
depend upon hirelings.’
“So I was duly installed as little Ella’s nurse, and, as she was a
spoiled child, my task was neither easy nor agreeable.
“No sooner was the whining little creature sufficiently improved to
be taken to her own home, than the house was thrown into confusion by
preparations for a brilliant party. Laura took me with her on a shopping
excursion, and bade me select whatever I wished, and send the bill with
hers to Mr. Somers. I purchased a few indispensable articles, but I felt
embarrassed by her calm, scrutinizing gaze, and by the consciousness
that every item of my expenditures would be scanned by, perhaps,
censorious eyes.
“What with my previous fatigue while acting as Ella’s nurse, and the
laborious preparations for the approaching festival, I felt, as the time
drew near, completely exhausted. Yet I was determined not to so far give
way to the depressing influences that surrounded me, as to absent myself
from the party. So, after snatching an interval of rest, to relieve my
aching head, I dressed myself with unusual care, and repaired to the
brilliantly lighted rooms. They were already filled, and murmuring like
a swarm of bees, although, as one of the guests remarked, there were
more drones than workers in the hive. I was now no drone, certainly, and
that was some consolation. When I entered, Laura was conversing with a
group of dashing young men, who were blundering over a book of charades.
Seeing me enter, she came towards me immediately.
“‘Cousin Fanny, you who help everybody, I want you to come to the aid
of these stupid young men. Gentlemen, this is our Cousin Fanny, the very
best creature in the world.’ And with this introduction she left me, and
turned to greet some new arrivals. After discussing the charades till my
ears were weary of empty and aimless chatter, I was very glad to find my
group of young men gradually dispersing, and myself at liberty to look
about me, undisturbed. George soon came to me, gave me his arm, and took
me to a room where were several ladies, friends of his father, and who
had known me very well as a child.
“‘You remember Fanny,’ he said to them; and then left me, and devoted
himself to the courteous duties of the hour. While I was indulging in
a quiet chat with a very kind old friend, she proposed to go with me
to look at the dancers, as the music was remarkably fine, and it was
thought the collected beauty and fashion of the evening would make
a very brilliant show. We left our seats, accordingly, but were soon
engaged in the crowd, and while waiting for an opportunity to move on, I
heard one of my young men ask another,
“‘How do you like la cousine?’
“I lost a part of the answer, but heard the closing words
distinctly--‘et un peu passee.’ ‘Oui, decidement!’ was the prompt
response, and a light laugh followed, while, shrinking close to my kind
friend, I rejoiced that my short stature concealed me from observation.
I was not very well taught, but, like most school-girls, I had a
smattering of French, and I knew the meaning of the very ordinary
phrases that had been used with regard to me. Before the supper-hour, my
headache became so severe that I was glad to take refuge in my own room.
There I consulted my mirror, and felt disposed to forgive, the young
critics for their disparaging remarks. Passee! I looked twenty-five at
least, and yet I was not eighteen, and six months before I had fancied
myself a beauty and an heiress!
“But I will not weary you with details. Suffice it to say; that I
spent only three months of this kind of life, and then relinquished
the protection of Mr. and Mrs. Somers, and removed to a second-rate
boarding-house, where I attempted to maintain myself by giving lessons
in music. Every day, however, convinced me of my unfitness for this
task, and, as I soon felt an interest in the sweet little girls who
looked up to me for instruction, my position with regard to them became
truly embarrassing. One day I had been wearying myself by attempting
the impossible task of making clear to another mind, ideas that lay
confusedly in my own, and at last I said to my pupil,
“‘You may go home now, Clara, dear, and practise the lesson of
yesterday. I am really ill to-day, but to-morrow I shall feel better,
and I hope I shall then be able to make you understand me.’
“The child glided out, but a shadow still fell across the carpet. I
looked up, and saw in the doorway a young man, whose eccentricities
sometimes excited a smile among his fellow-boarders, but who was much
respected for his sense and independence.
“‘To make yourself understood by others, you must first learn to
understand yourself,’ said he, as he came forward. Then, taking my hand,
he continued,--‘What if you should give up all this abortive labour,
take a new pupil, and, instead of imparting to others what you have not
very firmly grasped yourself, try if you can make a human being of me?’
“I looked into his large gray eyes, and saw the truth and earnestness
shining in their depths, like pebbles at the bottom of a pellucid
spring. I never once thought of giving him a conventional reply. On the
contrary, I stammered out,
“‘I am full, of faults and errors; I could never do you any good.’
“‘I have studied your character attentively,’ returned he, ‘and I know
you have faults, but they are unlike mine; and I think that you might be
of great service to me; or, if the expression suits you better, that we
might be of great aid to each other. Become my wife, and I will promise
to improve more rapidly than any pupil in your class.’
“And I did become his wife, but not until a much longer acquaintance
had convinced me, that in so doing, I should not exchange one form of
dependence for another, more galling and more hopeless.”
“Then this eccentric young man was Uncle Robert?”
“Precisely. But you see he has made great improvement, since.”
“Well, Aunt Frances, I thank you for your story; and now for the moral.
What do you think I had better do?”
“I will tell you what you can do, if you choose. Your uncle has just
returned from a visit to his mother. He finds her a mere child, gentle
and amiable, but wholly unfit to take charge of herself. Her clothes
have taken fire repeatedly, from her want of judgment with regard to
fuel and lights, and she needs a companion for every moment of the day.
This, with their present family, is impossible, and they are desirous to
secure some one who will devote herself to your grandmother during the
hours when your aunt and the domestics are necessarily engaged. You were
always a favourite there, and I know they would be very much relieved
if you would take this office for a time, but they feel a delicacy
in making any such proposal. You can have all your favourites about
you--books, flowers, and piano; for the dear old lady delights to hear
reading or music, and will sit for hours with a vacant smile upon her
pale, faded face. Then your afternoons will be entirely your own, and
Robert is empowered to pay any reliable person a salary of a fixed and
ample amount, which will make you independent for the time.”
“But, aunt, you will laugh at me, I know, yet I do really fear that Kate
will feel this arrangement as a disappointment.”
“Suppose I send her a note, stating that you have given me some
encouragement of assuming this important duty, but that you could not
think of deciding without showing a grateful deference to her wishes?”
“That will be just the thing. We shall get a reply to-morrow.” With
to-morrow came the following note:--
“My Dear Aunt Frances:--Your favour of yesterday took us a little by
surprise, I must own I had promised myself a great deal of pleasure in
the society of our Mary; but since she is inclined (and I think it is
very noble in her) to foster with the dew of her youth the graceful but
fallen stem that lent beauty to us all, I cannot say a word to prevent
it. Indeed, it has occurred to me, since the receipt of your note, that
we shall need the room we had reserved for Mary, to accommodate little
Willie, Mr. Howard’s pet nephew, who has the misfortune to be lame. His
physicians insist upon country air, and a room upon the first floor. So
tell Mary I love her a thousand times better for her self-sacrifice,
and will try to imitate it by doing all in my power for the poor little
invalid that is coming.
“With the kindest regards, I remain
“Your affectionate niece,
“KATE HOWARD.”
“Are you now decided, Mary?” asked Aunt Frances, after their joint
perusal of the letter.
“Not only decided, but grateful. I have lost my fortune, it is true; but
while youth and health remain, I shall hardly feel tempted to taste the
luxuries of dependence.”
TWO RIDES WITH THE DOCTOR.
JUMP in, if you would ride with the doctor. You have no time to lose,
for the patient horse, thankful for the unusual blessing which he has
enjoyed in obtaining a good night’s rest, stands early at the door this
rainy morning, and the worthy doctor himself is already in his seat, and
is hastily gathering up the reins, for there have been no less than six
rings at his bell within as many minutes, and immediate attendance is
requested in several different places.
It is not exactly the day one might select for a ride, for the storm is
a regular north-easter, and your hands and feet are benumbed with the
piercing cold wind, while you are drenched with the driving rain.
But the doctor is used to all this, and, unmindful of wind and rain, he
urges his faithful horse to his utmost speed, eager to reach the spot
where the most pressing duty calls. He has at least the satisfaction of
being welcome. Anxious eyes are watching for his well-known vehicle from
the window; the door is opened ere he puts his hand upon the lock, and
the heartfelt exclamation,
“Oh, doctor, I am so thankful you have come!” greets him as he enters.
Hastily the anxious father leads the way to the room where his
half-distracted wife is bending in agony over their first-born, a lovely
infant of some ten months, who is now in strong convulsions. The mother
clasps her hands, and raises her eyes in gratitude to heaven, as
the doctor enters,-he is her only earthly hope. Prompt and efficient
remedies are resorted to, and in an hour the restored little one is
sleeping tranquilly in his mother’s arms.
The doctor departs amid a shower of blessings, and again urging his
horse to speed, reaches his second place of destination. It is a stately
mansion. A spruce waiter hastens to answer his ring, but the lady
herself meets him as he enters the hall.
“We have been expecting you anxiously, doctor. Mr. Palmer is quite ill,
this morning. Walk up, if you please.”
The doctor obeys, and is eagerly welcomed by his patient.
“Do exert your utmost skill to save me from a fever, doctor. The
symptoms are much the same which I experienced last year, previous to
that long siege with the typhoid. It distracts me to think of it. At
this particular juncture I should lose thousands by absence from my
business.”
The doctor’s feelings are enlisted,--his feelings of humanity and
his feelings of self-interest, for doctors must live as well as other
people; and the thought of the round sum which would find its way to his
own purse, if he could but succeed in preventing the loss of thousands
to his patient, was by no means unpleasing.
The most careful examination of the symptoms is made, and well-chosen
prescriptions given. He is requested to call as often as possible
through the day, which he readily promises to do, although press of
business and a pouring rain render it somewhat difficult.
The result, however, will be favourable to his wishes. His second and
third call give him great encouragement, and on the second day after the
attack, the merchant returns to his counting-room exulting in the skill
of his physician.
But we must resume our ride. On, on goes the doctor; rain pouring, wind
blowing, mud splashing. Ever and anon he checks his horse’s speed, at
his various posts of duty. High and low, rich and poor anxiously await
his coming. He may not shrink from the ghastly spectacle of human
suffering and death. Humanity, in its most loathsome forms, is presented
to him.
The nearest and dearest may turn away in grief and horror, but the
doctor blenches not.
Again we are digressing. The doctor’s well-known tap is heard at
the door of a sick-room, where for many days he has been in constant
attendance. Noiselessly he is admitted. The young husband kneels at the
side of the bed where lies his dearest earthly treasure. The calm but
deeply-afflicted mother advances to the doctor, and whispers fearfully
low,
“There is a change. She sleeps. Is it--oh! can it be the sleep of
death?”
Quickly the physician is at the bedside, and anxiously bending over his
patient.
Another moment and he grasps the husband’s hand, while the glad words
“She will live,” burst from his lips.
We may not picture forth their joy. On, on, we are riding with the
doctor. Once more we are at his own door. Hastily he enters, and takes
up the slate containing the list of calls during his absence. At half a
dozen places his presence is requested without delay.
A quick step is heard on the stairs, and his gentle wife hastens to
welcome him.
“I am so glad you have come; how wet you must be!”
The parlour door is thrown open. What a cheerful fire, and how inviting
look the dressing-gown and the nicely warmed slippers!
“Take off your wet clothes, dear; dinner will soon be ready,” urges the
wife.
“It is impossible, Mary. There are several places to visit yet. Nay,
never look so sad. Have not six years taught you what a doctor’s wife
must expect?”
“I shall never feel easy when you are working so hard, Henry; but surely
