stand thinking about it, like the pendulum of the 
" old clock which had stood for fifty years in a farm- 
er's kitchen, without giving its owner any cause of 
complaint." 
Bobby walked down the road towards the village 
with a rapid step. He was thinking very fast, and 
probably that made him step quick. But as he ap- 
proached Squire Lee's house, his pace slackened, and 
he seemed to be very uneasy. When he reached the 
great gate that led up to the house, he stopped for 
an instant, and thrust his hands down very deep into 
his trousers pockets. I cannot tell what the trousers pockets had to do with what he was thinking 
about ; but if he was searching for any thing in them, 
he did not find it ; for after an instant's hesitation he 
drew out his hands, struck one of them against his 
chest, and in an audible voice exclaimed, 
"Now or never." 
All this pantomime, I suppose, meant that Bobby 
had some misgivings as to the ultimate success of his 
mission at Squire Lee's, and that when he struck his 
breast and uttered his favorite expression, they were 
conquered and driven out. 
Marching with a bold and determined step up to 
the squire's back door Bobby's ideas of etiquette 
would not have answered for the meridian of fashion- 
able society he gave three smart raps. 
Bobby's heart beat a little wildly as he waited a 
response to his summons. It seemed thut he still 
had some doubts as to the practicability of his mis- 
sion ; but they were not permitted to disturb him 
long, for the door was opened by the Squire's pretty 
daughter Annie, a young miss of twelve. 
" Bobby, is it you ? I am so glad you have 
come ! " exclaimed the little lady. 
Bobby blushed he didn't know why, unless it 
was that the young lady desired to see him. He 
stammered out a reply, and for the moment forgot 
the object of his visit. 
" I want you to go down to the village for me, and 
get some books the expressman was to bring up from 
Boston for me. Will you go ? ' 
" Certainly, Miss Annie, I shall be very glad to go 
for you" replied Bobby with an emphasis that made 
the little maiden blush in her turn. 
" You are real good, Bobby ; but I will give you 
something for going." 
" I don't want any thing," said Bobby, stoutly. 
" You are too generous ! Ah, I heard what you 
did this forenoon ; and pa says that a great many 
men would not have dared to do what you did. I 
 
always thought you were as brave as a lion ; now I 
know it." 
" The books are at the express office, I suppose," 
said Bobby, turning as red as a blood beet. 
" Yes, Bobby ; I am so anxious to get them that I 
can't wait till pa goes down this evening." 
" I will not be gone long." 
" O, you needn't rim, Bobby ; take your time." 
" I will go very quick. But, Miss Annie, is your 
father at home ? ' : 
" Not now ; he has gone over to the wood lot ; 
but he will be back by the time you return." 
" Will you please- to tell him that I want to see 
him about something very particular, when he gets 
back?" 
" I will, Bobby." 
" Thank you, Miss Annie ; " and Bobby hastened 
to the village to execute his commission. 
" I wonder what he wants to see pa so very particu- 
larly for," said the young lady to herself, as sho 
watched his receding form. " In my opinion, some- 
thing has happened at the little black house, for I 
could see that he looked very sober." 
Either Bobby had a very great regard for the 
young lady, and wished to relieve her impatience to 
behold the coveted books, or he was in a hurry to 
see Squire Lee ; for the squire's old roan horse could 
hardly have gone quicker. 
" You should not have run, Bobby," said the little 
maiden when he placed the books in her hand ; " I 
would not have asked you to go if I had thought you 
would run all the way. You must be very tired." 
" Not at all ; I didn't run, only walked very quick," 
replied he ; but his quick breathing indicated that his 
words or his walk had been very much exaggerated. 
" Has your father returned? ' 
" He has ; he is waiting for you in the sitting 
room. Come in, Bobby." 
Bobbv followed her into the room, and took the 
chair which Annie offered him. 
" How do you do, Bobby ? I am glad to see you," 
said the squire, taking him by the hand, and bestow- 
ing a benignant smile upon him a smile which 
cheered his heart more than any thing else could at 
that moment. " I have heard of you before to-day." 
"Have you? " 
" I have, Bobby ; you are a brave little fellow." 
" I came over to see you, sir, about something very 
particular," replied Bobby, whose natural modesty in- 
duced him to change the topic. 
Indeed ; well, what can I do for you ? ' 
A great deal, sir ; perhaps you will think I am 
very bold, sir, but I can't help it." 
" I know you are a very bold little fellow, or you 
would not have done what you did this forenoon," 
laughed the squire. 
" I didn't mean that, sir," answered Bobby, blush- 
ing up to the eyes. 
" I know you didn't ; but go on." 
" I only meant that you would think me presuming, 
or impudent, or something of that kind." 
" O, no, far from it. You cannot be presuming 
or impudent. Speak out, Bobby ; any thing under 
the heavens that I can do for you, I shall be glad 
to do." 
" Well, sir, I am going to leave Riverdale." 
" Leave Riverdale ! ' 
" Yes, sir ; I am going to Boston, where I mean to 
do something to help mother." 
 
Bravo ! you are a good lad. What do you 
mean to do ? ' 
" I was thinking I should go into the book busi- 
ness." 
" Indeed ! " and Squire Lee was much amused by 
the matter-of-fact manner of the young aspirant. 
" I was talking with a young fellow who went 
through the place last spring, selling books. He told 
me that some davs he made three or four dollars, and 
that he averaged twelve dollars a week." 
" He did well ; perhaps, though, only a few of 
them make so much." 
" I know I can make twelve dollars a week," re- 
plied Bobby, confidently, for that something within 
him made him feel capable of 2;reat things. 
i. O O 
" I dare say you can. You have energy and per- 
severance, and people take a liking to you." 
" But I wanted to see you about another matter. 
To speak out at once, I want to borrow sixty dollars 
of you ;" and Bobby blushed, and seemed very much 
embarrassed by his own boldness. 
" Sixty dollars ! " exclaimed the squire. 
" I knew you would think me impudent," replied 
our hero, his heart sinking within him. 
 
" Bat I don't, Bobby. You want this money to go 
into business with to bay your stock of books ? ' 
" 0, no, sir ; I am going to apply to Mr. Bayard 
for that." 
" Just so ; Mr. Bayard is the' gentleman whose 
daughter you saved : ' 
" Yes, sir. I want this money to pay off Mr. Hard- 
hand. We owe him but sixty dollars now, and he 
has threatened to turn us out, if it is not paid by to- 
morrow noon.' 
" The old hunks ! ' 
Bobby briefly related to the squire the events of 
the morning, much to the indignation and disgust of 
the honest, kind-hearted man. The courageous boy 
detailed more clearly his purpose, and doubted not 
he should be able to pay the loan in a few months. 
" Very well, Bobby, here is the money; " and the 
squire took it from his wallet, and gave it to him. 
" Thank you, sir. May Heaven bless you! I shall 
certainly pay you." 
" Don't worry about it, Bobby. Pay it when you 
get ready." 
I will give you my note, and " 
The squire laughed heartily at this, and told him, 
that, as he was a minor, his note was not good for 
any thing. 
" You shall see whether it is, or not," returned 
Bobby. " Let me give it to you, at least, so that we 
can tell how much I owe you from time to time." 
" You shall have your own way." 
Annie Lee, as much amused as her father at 
Bobby's big talk, got the writing materials, and 
the little merchant in embryo wrote and signed the 
note. 
" Good, Bobby ! Now promise that you will come 
and see me every lime you come home, and tell me 
how you are getting along." 
-' I will, sir, with the greatest pleasure ; " and with 
a light heart Bobby tripped away home. 
 
CHAPTER VI. 
IN WHICH BOBBY SETS OUT OX HIS TB.AYELS. 
SQUIRE LEE, though only a plain farmer, was the 
richest man in Riverdale. He had taken a great fancy 
to Bobby, and often employed him to do errands, ride 
the horse to plough in the cornfields, and such chores 
about the place as a boy could do. He liked to talk 
with Bobby because there was a great deal of good 
sense in him, for one with a small head. 
If there was any one thing upon which the squire 
particularly prided himself, it was his knowledge of 
human nature. He declared that he only wanted to 
look a man in the face to know what he was ; and as 
for Bobby Bright, he had summered him and wintered 
him, and he was satisfied that he would make some- 
thing in good time. 
He was not much astonished when Bobby opened 
his ambitious scheme of going into business for himself. 
But he had full faith in his ability to work out 
a useful and profitable, if not a brilliant life. He 
often said that Bobby was worth his weight in gold, 
and that he would trust him with any thing he had. 
Perhaps he did not suspect that the time was at hand 
when he would be called upon to verify his words 
practically ; for it was only that morning, when one 
of the neighbors told him about Bobby stopping the 
horse, that he had repeated the expression for the 
twentieth time. 
It was not an idle remark. Sixty dollars was 
hardly worth mentioning with a man of his wealth 
and liberal views, though so careful a man as he 
was would not have been likely to throw away that 
amount. But as a matter of investment, Bobby had 
made the note read " with interest," he would as 
readily have let him have it, as the next richest man 
in the place, so much confidence had he in our hero's 
integrity, and so sure was he that he would soon have 
the means of paying him. 
Bobby was overjoyed at the fortunate issue of his 
mission, and he walked into the room where his 
mother was closing shoes, with a dignity worthy a 
 
banker or a great merchant. Mrs. Bright was very 
sad. Perhaps she felt a little grieved th:tt her son, 
whom she loved so much, had so thoughtlessly 
plunged her into a new difficulty. 
"Come, cheer up, mother; it is all right," said 
Bobby in his usual elastic and gay tones ; and at the 
same time he took the sixty dollars from his pocket 
and handed it to her. " There is the money, and 
you will be forever quit of Mr. Hardhand to-morrow." 
" What, Bobbv ! Whv, where did vou get all this 
money ? " asked Mrs. Bright, utterly astonished. 
In a few words the ambitious boy told his story, 
and then informed his mother that he was going to 
Boston the next Monday morning, to commence busi- 
ness for himself. 
" Why, what can you do, Bobby ? ' 
"Do? I can do a great many things;" and he 
enfolded his scheme of becoming a little book mer- 
chant. 
" You are a courageous fellow ! Who would have 
thought of such a thing ! ' 
" I should, and did." 
" But you are not old enough." 
" O, yes, I am." 
" You had better wait a while." 
" Now or never, mother ! You see I have given 
my note, and my paper will be dishonored, if I am 
not up and doing." 
" Your paper ! ' ' said Mrs. Bright, with a smile. 
" That is what Mr. Wing, the boot manufacturer, 
calls it." 
" You needn't go away to earn this money ; I can 
pay it myself." 
" This note is my affair, and I mean to pay it my- 
self with my own earnings. No objections, mother." 
Like a sensible woman as she was, she did not 
make any objections. She was conscious of Bobby's 
talents ; she knew that he had a strong mind of his 
own, and could take care of himself. It is true, she 
feared the influence of the great world, and especially 
of the great city, upon the tender mind of her son ; 
but if he was never tempted, he would never be a 
conqueror over the foes that beset him. 
She determined to do her whole duty towards him ; 
and she carefully pointed out to him the sins and the 
moral danger to which he would be exposed, and 
 
warned him always to resist temptation. She coun- 
selled him to think of her when he felt like going 
astray. 
Bobby declared that he would try to be a good 
boy. He did not speak contemptuously of the an- 
ticipated perils, as many boys would have done, be- 
cause he knew that his mother would not make bug- 
bears out of things which she knew had no real ex- 
istence. 
The next day, Mr. Hardhand came ; and my young 
readers can judge how astonished and chagrined he 
was, when the widow Bright offered him the sixty 
dollars. The Lord was with the widow and the 
fatherless, and the wretch Avas cheated out of his 
revenge. The note was given up, and the mortgage 
cancelled. 
Mr. Hardhand insisted that she should pay the in- 
terest on the sixty dollars for one day, as it was then 
the second day of July ; but when Bobby reckoned it 
up, and found it was less than one cent, even the 
wretched miser seemed ashamed of himself, and 
changed the subject of conversation. 
He did not dare to say any thing saucy to the 
 
widow this time. He had lost his power over her, 
and there stood Bobby, who had convj to look just 
like a young lion to him, coward and knave as 
he was. 
The business was all settled now, and Bobby spent 
the rest of the week in getting ready for his great 
enterprise. He visited all his friends, and went each 
day to talk with Squire Lee and Annie. The little 
maiden promised to buy a great many books of 
him, if he would bring his stock to Riverdale, for 
she was quite as much interested in him as her 
father was. 
Monday morning came, and Bobby was out of bed 
with the first streak of dawn. The excitement of the 
great event which was about to happen had not per- 
mitted him to sleep for the two hours preceding ; yet 
when he got up, he could not help feeling sad. He 
was going to leave the little black house, going to 
leave his mother, going to leave the children, to de- 
part for the great city. 
His mother was up before him. She was even 
nore sad than he was, for she could see plainer than 
 the perils that environed him, and her maternal 
 
heart, in spite of the reasonable confidence she had in 
his integrity and good principles, trembled for his 
safety. 
As he ate his breakfast, his mother repeated the 
warnings and the good lessons she had before im- 
parted. She particularly cautioned him to keep out 
of bad company. If he found that his companions 
would lie and swear, he might depend upon it they 
would steal, and he had better forsake them at once. 
This was excellent advice, and Bobby had occasion at 
a later period to call it to his sorrowing heart. 
" Here is three dollars, Bobby ; it is all the money 
I have. Your fare to Boston will be one dollar, and 
you will have two left to pay the expenses of your 
first trip. It is all I have now," said Mrs. Bright. 
" I will not take the whole of it. You will want it 
yourself. One dollar is enough. When I find Mr. 
Bayard, I shall do very well." 
" Yes, Bobby, take the whole of it." 
" I will take just one dollar, and no more," replied 
Bobby, resolutely, as he handed her the other two 
dollars. 
"Do take it, Bobby." 
" No, mother ; it will only make me lazy and in- 
different." 
Taking a clean shirt, a pair of socks, and a hand- 
kerchief in his bundle, he was ready for a start. 
" Good by, mother," said he, kissing her and taking 
her hand. " I shall try and come home on Saturday, 
so as to be with you on Sunday." 
Then kissing the children, who had not yet got up, 
and to whom he had bidden adieu the night before, 
he left the house. He had seen the flood of tears 
that filled his mother's eyes, as he crossed the thresh- 
old ; and he could not help crying a little himself. 
It is a sad thing to leave one's home, one's mother, 
especially, to go out into the great world ; and we 
need not wonder that Bobby, who had hardly been 
out of Eiverdale before, should weep. But he soon 
restrained the flowing tears. 
" Now or never ! ' said he, and he put his best 
foot forward. 
It was an epoch in his history, and though he was 
too young to realize the importance of the event, he 
seemed to feel that what he did now was to give 
character to his whole future life. 
It was a bright and beautiful morning somehow, 
it is always a bright and beautiful morning when boys 
leave their homes to commence the journey of life; 
it is typical of the season of youth and hope, and it is 
meet that the sky should be clear, and the sun shine 
brightly, when the little pilgrim sets out upon his 
tour. He will see clouds and storms before he has 
gone far let him have a fair start. 
He had to walk five miles to the nearest railroad 
station. His road lay by the house of his friend, 
Squire Lee ; and as he was approaching it, he met 
Annie. She said she had come out to take her morn- 
ing walk ; but Bobby knew very well that she did not 
usually walk till an hour later ; which, with the fact 
that she had asked him particularly, the day before, 
what time he was going, made Bobby believe that she 
had come out to say good by, and bid him God 
speed on his journey. At any rate, he was very glad 
to see her. He said a great many pretty things to 
her, and talked so big about what he was going to do, 
that the little maiden could hardly help laughing in 
his face. 
Then at the house he shook hands with the squire, 
and sliook hands again with. Annie, and resumed his 
journey. His heart felt lighter for having met them, 
or at least for having met one of them, if not both ; 
for Annie's eyes were so full of sunshine that they 
seemed to gladden his heart, and make him feel truer 
and stronger. 
After a pleasant walk, for he scarcely heeded the 
distance, so full was he of his big thoughts, he 
reached the railroad station. The cars had not yet 
arrived, and would not for half an hour. 
" Why should I give them a dollar for carrying me 
to Boston, when I can just as well walk ? If I get 
tired, I can sit down and rest me. If I save the dol- 
lar, I shall have to earn only fifty-nine more to pay 
my note. So here goes ; " and he started down the 
track. 
 
CHAPTER VII. 
IN WHICH BOBBY STANDS UP FOR " CERTAIN IN- 
ALIENABLE RIGHTS." 
WHETHER it was wise policy, or " penny wise and 
pound foolish' policy for Bobby to undertake such a 
long walk, is certainly a debatable question ; but as 
my young readers would probably object to an argu-ment, we will follow him to the city, and let every 
one settle the point to suit himself. 
His cheerful heart made the road smooth beneath 
his feet. He had always been accustomed to an active, busy life, and had probably often walked more 
than twenty miles in a day. About ten o'clock, 
though he did not feel much fatigued, he seated himself on a rock by a brook, from which he had just 
taken a drink, to rest himself. He had walked slowly 
so as to husband his strength ; and he felt confident 
that he should be able to accomplish the journey uith- 
out injury to himself. 
After resting for half an hour, he resumed his walk. 
At twelve o'clock he reached a point from which he 
obtained his first view of the city. His heart bounded 
at the sight, and his first impulse was to increase his 
speed so that he should the sooner gratify his curios- 
ity ; but a second thought reminded him that he had 
eaten nothing since breakfast ; so, finding a shady 
tree by the road side, he seated himself on a stone to 
eat the luncheon which his considerate mother had 
placed in his bundle. 
Thus refreshed, he felt like a new man, and con- 
tinued his journey again till he was on the very out- 
skirts of the city, where a sign, " No passing over this 
bridge," interrupted his farther progress. Unlike 
many others, Bobby took this sign literally, and did 
not venture to cross the bridge. Having some doubts 
as to the direct road to the city, he hailed a man in a 
butcher's cart, who not only pointed the way, but 
gave him an invitation to ride with him, which Bobby 
was glad to accept. 
They crossed the Milldam, and the little pilgrim 
forgot the long walk he had taken forgot River- 
dale, his mother, Squire Lee, arid Annie, for the time, 
 
in the absorbing interest of the exciting scene. The 
Common beat Biverdale Common all hollow ; he had 
never seen any thing like it before. But when the 
wagon reached Washington Street, the measure of his 
surprise was filled up. 
" My gracious ! how. thick the houses are ! ' ex- 
claimed he, much to the amusement of the kind-hearted 
butcher. 
" We have high fences here," he replied. 
" Where are all these folks going to ? ' 
" You will have to ask them, if YOU want to know." 
 
But the wonder soon abated, and Bobby began to 
think of his great mission in the city. He got tired 
of gazing and wondering, and even began to smile 
with contempt at the silly fops as they sauntered 
along, and the gayly- dressed ladies, that flaunted like 
so many idle butterflies, on the sidewalk. It was an 
exciting scene ; but it did not look real to him. It 
was more like Herr Grundcrslung's exhibition of the 
magic lantern, than any thing substantial. The men 
and women were like so many puppets. They did 
not seem to be doing any thing, or to be walking for 
any purpose. 
 
He got out of the butcher's cart at the Old South. 
His first impression, as he joined the busy throng, 
was, that he was one of the puppets. He did not 
seem to have any hold upon the scene, and for several 
minutes this sensation of vacancy chained him to the 
spot. 
" All right ! " exclaimed he to himself at last. " I 
am here. Now's my time to make a strike. Now 
or never.' 
He pulled Mr. Bayard's card from his pocket, and 
fixed the number of his store in his mind. Now, 
numbers were not a Riverdale institution, and Bobby 
was a little perplexed about finding the one indicated. 
A little study into the matter, however, set him right, 
and he soon had the satisfaction of seeing the book- 
seller's name over his store. 
" F. Bayard," he read ; " this is the place." 
" Country ! ' shouted a little ragged boy, who 
dodged across the street at that moment. 
" Just so, my beauty ! " said Bobby, a little nettled 
at this imputation of verdancy. 
" What a greeny ! ' shouted the little vagabond, 
from the other side of the street. 
"No matter, rag- tag ! We'll settle that matter 
some other time." 
But Bobby felt that there was something in his 
appearance which subjected him to the remarks of others, and, as he entered the shop, he determined to 
correct it as soon as possible. 
A spruce young gentleman was behind the counter, 
who cast a mischievous glance at him as he entered. 
" Mr. Bayard keep here ? " asked Bobby. 
" Well, I reckon he does. How are all the folks 
up country?" replied the spruce clerk, with a rude 
grin. 
" How are they ? " repeated Bobby, the color flying 
to his cheek. 
" Yes, ha-ow do they dew ? ): 
" They behave themselves better than they do 
here." 
"Eh, greeny?" 
" Eh, sappy ? " repeated Bobby, mimicking the soft, 
silk tones of the young city gentleman. 
" What do you mean by sappy ? ' : asked the clerk, 
indignantly. 
" What do you mean by greenx ? " 
 
" I'll let you know what I mean ! ' 
" When you do, I'll let you know what I mean by 
sappy." 
" Good ! ' exclaimed one of the salesmen, who had 
heard part of this spirited conversation. " You will 
learn better by and by, Timmins, than to impose upon 
boys from out of town." 
" You seem to be a gentleman, sir," said Bobby, 
approaching the salesman. " I wish to see Mr. Bay- 
ard." 
" You can't see him ! ' growled Timmins. 
" Can't I ? " 
" Not at this minute ; he is engaged just now," 
added the salesman, who seemed to have a profound 
respect for Bobby's discrimination. " He will be at 
liberty in a few moments." 
" I will wait, then," said Bobby, seating himself on 
a stool by the counter. 
Pretty soon the civil gentleman left the store to go 
to dinner, and Timmins, a little timid about provok- 
ing the young lion, cast an occasional glance of hatred 
at him. He had evidently found that " Country " was 
an embryo American citizen, and that he was a firm 
believer in the self-evident truths of the Declaration 
of Independence. 
Bobby bore no ill will towards the spruce clerk, 
ready as he had been to defend his " certain inalienable rights." 
" You do a big business here," suggested Bobby, in 
a conciliatory tone, and with a smile on his face which 
ought to have convinced the uncourteous clerk that 
he meant well. 
" Who told you so ? ' replied Timmins, gruffly. 
" I merely judged from appearances. You have a 
big store, and an immense quantity of books." 
"Appearances are deceitful," replied Timmins; 
and perhaps he had been impressed by the fact from 
his experience with the lad from the country. 
" That is true," added Bobby, with a good-natured 
smile, which, when interpreted, might have meant, " I 
took you for a civil fellow, but I have been very much 
mistaken." 
" You will find it out before you are many days 
older." 
"The book business is good just now, isn't it?' 
continued Bobby, without clearly comprehending the 
meaning of the other's last, remark. 
 
" Humph ! What's that to you ? ' 
" O, I intend to sro into it myself." 
" Ha, ha, ha ! Good ! You do ? " 
" I do," replied Bobby, seemingly unconcerned at 
the taunts of the clerk. 
" I suppose you want to get a place here," sneered 
Timmins, alarmed at the prospect. " But let me tell 
you, you can't do it. Bayard has all the help he 
wants ; and if that is what you come for, you can 
move on as fast as you please." 
" I guess I will see him," added Bobby quietly. 
" No use." 
" No harm in seeing him." 
As he spoke, he took up a book that lay on the 
counter, and began to turn over the leaves. 
" Put that book down ! ' said the amiable Mr. 
Timmins. 
" I won't hurt it," replied Bobby, who had just 
fixed his eye upon some very pretty engravings in the 
volume. 
" Put it down ! " repeated Mr. Timmins, in a loud, 
imperative tone. 
" Certainly I will, if you say so," said Bobby, who, 
 
though not much intimidated by the harsh tones of 
the clerk, did not know the rules of the store, and 
deemed it prudent not to meddle. 
" I do say so ! " added Mr. Timmins, magnificently ; 
"and what's more, you'd better mind me, too." 
Bobby had minded, and probably the stately little 
clerk would not have been so bold if he had not. 
Some people like to threaten after the danger is over. 
Then our visitor from the country espied some little 
blank books lying on the counter. He had already 
made up his mind to have one, in which to keep his 
accounts ; and he thought, while he was waiting, that 
he would purchase one. He meant to do things me- 
thodically ; so when he picked up one of the blank 
books, it was with the intention of buying it. 
" Put that book down ! ' said Mr. Timmins, en- 
couraged in his aggressive intentions by the previous 
docility of our hero. 
" I want to buy one." 
" No, you don't : put it down." 
" What is the price of these ? ' asked Bobby, res- 
olutely. 
" None of your business ! ' 
 
" Is that the way you treat your customers ? " asked 
Bobby, with a little sternness in his looks and tones. 
'' I say I want to buy one." 
'' Put it down ! " 
'' But I will not ; I say I want to buy it.' : 
" No, you don't ! " 
'' What is the price of it ? " 
" Twenty-five cents," growled Timmins, which was 
just four times the retail price. 
" Twenty-five cents ! That's high." 
" Put it down, then." 
" Is that your lowest price ? ' asked Bobby, who 
was as cool as a cucumber. 
" Yes, it is ; and if you don't put it down, I'll kick 
you out of the store." 
' ' Will you ? Then I won't put it down." 
Mr. Timmins took this as a " 4 stump ; ' his ire was 
up, and he walked round from behind the counter to 
execute his threat. 
I must say I think Bobby was a little forward, and 
I would have my young readers a little more pliant 
with small men like Timmins. There are always men 
enough in the world who are ready and willing to 
 
quarrel on any provocation ; and it is always best not 
to provoke them, even if they are overbearing and in- 
solent, as Mr. Timmins certainly was. 
" Hold on a minute before you do it," said Bobby, 
with the same provoking coolness. " I want to buy 
this book, and I am willing to pay a fair price for it. 
But I happen to know that you can buy them up in 
Riverdale, where I came from, for six cents." 
" No matter," exclaimed the indignant clerk, seiz- 
ing Bobby by the coat collar for the purpose of eject- 
ing him; " you shall find your way into the street." 
Xow, Bobby, as I have before intimated, was an 
embryo American citizen, and the act of Mr. Timmins 
seemed like an invasion of his inalienable rights. 
No time was given him to make a formal declaration 
of rights in the premises ; so the instinct of self-pres- 
ervation was allowed to have free course. 
Mr. Timmins pulled and tugged at his coat collar, 
and Bobby hung back like a mule ; and for an instant 
there was quite a spirited scene. 
" Hallo ! Timmins, what does this mean ? ' said a 
voice, at which the valiant little clerk instantly let go 
his hold. 
CHAPTER VIII. 
IN WHICH MR. TIMMINS IS ASTONISHED, AND 
BOBBY DINES IN CHESTNUT STREET. 
IT was Mr. Bayard. He had finished his business 
with the gentleman by his side, and hearing the noise 
of the scuffle, had come to learn the occasion of it. 
" This impudent young puppy wouldn't let the 
books alone ! " began Mr. Timmins. " I threatened 
to turn him out if he didn't ; and I meant to make 
good my threat. I think he meant to steal some- 
thing." 
Bobby was astonished and shocked at this bold im- 
putation ; but he wished to have his case judged on 
its own merits, so he turned his face away, that Mr. 
Bayard might not recognize him. 
" I wanted to buy one of these blank books," add- 
ed Bobby, picking up the one he had dropped on the 
floor in the struggle. 
All stuff! " ejaculated Timmins. "lie is an im- 
pudent, obstinate puppy ! In my opinion he meant 
to steal that book." 
"I asked him the price, and told him I wanted to 
buy it," added Bobby, still averting his face. 
" Well, I told him ; and he said it was too high." 
"He asked me twenty-five cents for it." 
" Is this true, Timmins ? ' asked Mr. Bayard, 
sternly. 
" No, sir ! I told him fourpence," replied Timmins 
boldly. 
" By gracious ! What a whopper ! ' exclaimed 
Bobby, startled out of his propriety by this mon- 
strous lie. " He said twenty-five cents ; and I told 
him I could buy one up in Riverdale, where I came 
from, for six cents. Can you deny that ? ' 
" It's a lie ! " protested Timmins. 
"Riverdale," said Mr. Bayard. "Are you from 
Riverdale, boy ? ' 
" Yes, sir, I am ; and if you will look on your 
memorandum book you will find my name there." 
" Bless me ! I am sure I have seen that face before," 
exclaimed Mr. Bayard, as he grasped the hand of 
 
Bobby, much to the astonishment and consternation 
of Mr. Timmins. " You are " 
" Robert Bright, sir." 
.. 
My brave little fellow ! I am heartily glad to 
see you ; " and the bookseller shook the hand he held 
with hearty good will. " I was thinking of you only 
a little while ago." 
M 
"This fellow calls me a liar," said Bobby, point- 
ing to the astonished Mr. Timmins, who did not 
know what to make of the cordial reception which 
"Country" was receiving from his employer. 
"Well, Robert, we know that lie is a liar ; this is 
not the first time he has been caught in a lie. Tim- 
mins, your time is out." 
The spruce clerk hung his head with shame and 
mortification. 
" I hope, sir, you will " he began, but pride 
or fear stopped him short. 
" Don't be hard with him, sir, if you please," said 
Bobby. "I suppose I aggravated him." 
Mr. Bayard looked at the gentleman who stood by 
his side, and a smile of approbation lighted up his 
face. 
" Generous as he is noble ! Butler, this is the boy 
that saved Ellen." 
" Indeed ! He is a little giant ! ' replied Mr. 
Butler, grasping Bobby's hand. 
Even Timmins glanced with something like admi- 
ration in his looks at the youth whom he had so 
lately despised. Perhaps, too, he thought of that 
Scripture wisdom about entertaining angels unawares. 
He was very much abashed, and nothing but his silly 
pride prevented him from acknowledging his error, 
and beguin"; Bobby's forgiveness. 
"I can't have a liar about me," said Mr. Bayard. 
" There may be some mistake," suggested Mr. 
Butler. 
" I think not. Robert Bright couldn't lie. So 
brave and noble a boy is incapable of a falsehood. 
Besides, I got a letter from my friend Squire Lee by 
this morning's mail, in. which he informed me of my 
young friend's coming." 
Mr. Bayard took from his pocket a bundle of letters, 
and selected the squire's from among them. Opening 
it, he read a passage which had a direct bearing upon 
the case before him. 
 
" ' I do not know what Bobby's faults are,' " the 
letter said, " ' but this I do know : that Bobby 
would rather be whipped than tell a lie. He is 
noted through the place for his love of truth.' That 
is pretty strong testimony ; and you see, Bobby, 
that's what the squire calls you, your reputation 
has preceded you." 
Bobby blushed, as he always did when he was 
praised, and Mr. Timmins was more abashed than 
ever. 
" Did you hear that, Timmins ? TVho is the liar 
now ? " said Mr. Bayard, turning to the culprit. 
" Forgive me, sir, this time. If you turn me off 
now, I cannot get another place, and my mother de- 
pends upon my wages." 
" You ought to have thought of this before." 
" He aggravated me, sir, so that I wanted to pay 
him off." 
"As to that, he commenced upon me the moment I 
came into the store. But don't turn him off, if you 
please, sir," said Bobby, who even now wished no 
harm to his discomfited assailant. " He will do 
better hereafter: won't you, Timmins?" 
 
Thus appealed to, Timmins, though he did not rel- 
ish so direct an inquiry, and from such a source, was 
compelled to reply in the affirmative ; and Mr. Bay- 
ard graciously remitted the sentence he had passed 
against the offending clerk. 
" Now, Robert, you will come over to my house 
and dine with me. Ellen will be delighted to see 
you." 
 
" Thank you, sir," replied Bobby, bashfully, " I 
have been to dinner " referring to the luncheon he 
had eaten at Brighton. 
" But you must go to the house with me." 
" I should be very glad to do so, sir, but I came on 
business. I will stay here with Mr. Timmins till 
you come back." 
The truth is, he had heard something about the fine 
houses of the city, and how stylish the people were, 
he had some misgivings about venturing into 
juch a strange and untried scene as the parlor of a 
Boston merchant. 
"Indeed, you must come with me. Ellen would 
