and Paul felt that, if he was not their equal in 
vvorldly possessions, he could hold his head up 
with the best of them in the management of a 
boat. 
One day, when the young fisherman called at 
the house of Major Nettle to sell fish, he met 
Thomas in the garden, who unfolded to him a 
magnificent project in which the Teneans — as the 
members of the Boat Club were generally called — 
were about to engage. 
" We think of going on a cruise in the Flya- 
way," said Thomas. 
« Where ? " 
" I don't know- where yet ; but we mean to be 
gone a week or ten days." 
" Who is going with you ? " 
" Captain Littleton, I suppose, though I had 
just as lief he would stay at home." 
" Of course he wouldn't let a lot of boys go oif 
for a week in the yacht, without some one to take 
care of them," said Paul, with a smile. 
" We can take care of ourselves ; we don't want 
any one to take care of us." 
" How many of you are going r " 
" Ten or twelve ; we want you with us." 
" But I can't go." 
'' Yes you can ; why not ? " 
•' I have to attend to my business." 
" You can afford to take a vacation of a week 
or two, I should think." 
Paul shook his head. He was delighted with 
the idea, and would have been very glad to go, 
but he could not think of neglecting his business 
to go away upon a pleasure excursion. 
" You must go, Paul ; the fellows all want you 
to go, and we shall have a first-rate time.". 
'' I have no doubt you will ; and I should be 
very glad to go with you if I could ; but it is of 
no use for me to think of such a thing." 
"It is not fully decided that we are to go yet ; 
but Captain Littleton and my father have con- 
sented to let us have the Flyaway. We shall 
know all about it next week." 
Paul continued his walk, but the project of the 
excursion in the Flyaway haunted his imagination, 
and it required a great deal of self-denial for him 
to forego the anticipated pleasure. He felt that 
the summer season was the harvest time of his 
business, and he could not afford to waste a week 
 
or two in idle play. '' Little by Little," was his 
motto, and lie was not willing that any of those 
'' littles " should slip through his fingers. 
When they "went down in the Fawm the next 
day, he told John about the excursion, and that 
he had been invited to form one of the party. 
" But I can't afford to go," he added. 
" Why not ? It won't cost you any thing." 
'' I shall lose my time, for the Fawn will lie 
idle at her moorings while I' am gone." 
" No, she won't. I will go a fishing in her every 
day." 
" I think not, John." 
" Do you think I can't manage her ? " demanded 
the first officer, indignant that such an aspersion 
should be cast upon his nautical skill. 
" She's too heavy a boat for you to manage 
alone." 
" I will get a couple of fellows to help me ; 
they will be glad enough of the chance." 
" I dare say they will ; but you are not quite 
old enough yet to run the boat yourself," 
 
" What odds does it make how old I am, if I 
only know how to handle her ? Could you work 
her any better if you were a hundred years old ? " 
"But you are reckless, careless, John; you 
know you are." 
'' I don't think I am ; but I will promise to be 
very careful. You may take the foresail off, if 
you please, before you go ; then you will be sure 
I shall not carry too much sail." 
" I don't intend to go ; so it is of no use to 
talk about it." 
'' You are a fool if you don't ; that's all I have 
to say." 
" You have a right to your own opinion, John." 
" I wish I had a chance to go. I would give all 
my old shoes, if I could only be one of the party. 
What a glorious time they will have ! " 
Paul was of precisely the same opinion, but the 
idea of letting John run the Fawn during his absences 
not for a moment to be tolerated. He 
would certainly run her on the rocks, or carry sail 
till the wind took the masts out of her. 
 
As it was a very pleasant day, Paul decided to 
run down below, and try his luck among the cod 
and haddock ; and they went farther out than they 
had ever been before, A fine lot of fish, including 
a mammoth cod, that had required the strength of 
both of them to pull out of the water, rewarded 
their enterprise. 
The wind was very light, and instead of getting 
home before the tide turned, as Paul had calcu- 
lated, they were two miles below Rock Island, when 
the ebb tide set in against them. To add to this 
misfortune, the wind entirely died out, and they 
were forced to come to anchor, to prevent drifting 
down with the tide. With a good wind they 
were only two hours' sail from home ; but, as it 
was, there was a prospect of spending another 
night in the cabin of the Fawn — not a very un- 
pleasant alternative, John thought, especially as 
they had a lantern, and plenty of provisions on 
board. 
The cod and haddock had all been dressed, and 
there was nothing for the boys to do ; so Paul 
 
went into the cabin and stretched himself on his 
berth. He had placed two or three books on 
board for such an emergency as the present, and 
he was soon absorbed in the contents of one of 
them. He did not read longv for a hard day's 
work is not a good preparation for literary labors. 
The book fell from his hand, and to the music of 
the flapping sails he dropped asleep. 
It is a noticeable fact that fishermen can sleep 
twenty- four hours on a stretch. Many years ago, 
we went down a-fishing in one of the pinkey-stern 
schooners, which wpre much more common then 
in the waters of Massachusetts Bay than at the 
present time. The crew consisted of the skipper 
and three men, the former of whom was an old, 
weather-beaten fisherman, who had roughed it on 
the coast from his boyhood. We went down one 
night, intending to fish the next day, and return 
by sunset ; but unfortunately a heavy rain kept us 
at our anchorage off Spectacle Island for twenty-four 
hours. The old skipper got out of his berth and 
ate his breakfast about ten, and after going half way 
 
up the companion ladder, to smell the weather, 
turned in again, and slept till four, when he was 
called to partake of a greasy chowder. As soon 
as he had disposed of a reasonable allowance for 
four hearty men, be tumbled into his berth once 
more, and was not visible again till the next' morn- 
ing. The rest of the crew slept about two thirds 
of the time. They were the sleepiest men we ever 
encountered during their leisure; but even the old 
skipper su4denly joined the "wide-awakes" when 
we reached the fishing grounds. 
Paul had already contracted this fisherman's 
habit, and while the Fawn lay at anchor, he slept 
like a rock. After amusing himself for an hour 
on deck, John went below to take an observation, 
and to announce the prospect of "a breeze from 
the southward," for he had discovered a gentle 
ripple on the water at a distance. ' But when he 
saw that Paul was having his watch below," he 
quickly returned to the standing room, closing the 
cabin doors behind him. 
" There is a capfull of wind," said he to him- 
 
self, " and I will just show the skipper of the Fawn 
that I can handle her as well as he can." 
He waited till the breeze reached her, and then, 
with as little noise as possible, he weighed the 
anchor, and took his place at the helm. 
'' All right. Captain Duncan ; you can finish 
your snooze at your leisure," muttered he, con- 
gratulating himself upon the fact that he had got 
off without waking Paul. 
The wind freshened into a nice little breeze, 
and the Fawn, close-hauled, rippled merrily through 
the water. Still Paul slept on, unconscious of the 
progress she was making, while John was jubilant 
over the success of his trick. He was obliged to 
tack so as to go to the windward of Rock Island, 
but he twice accomplished this manoeuvre without 
disturbing the sleeper. 
The boat was now up with Rock Island, and 
John, who could never see why Paul always 
wanted to keep half a mile away from this dan- 
gerous reef, laid her course very near the rocks. 
" All right, my boy," said John, who had a 
 
bad habit of talking to himself when there was no 
one present to whom he could address his re- 
marks; "won't Captain Duncan be astonished 
when he comes out of the cabin ! " 
And Captain Duncan was astonished when he 
came out, for just as the rash first officer arrived 
to the conclusion that the boat had run clear of ail 
the dangers of the navigation in that quarter, — 
Bump ! went the Fawn on a hidden ledge. 
"What are you about?" cried Paul, angrily, as 
he rushed out of the cabin. 
" About got aground, I should say," replied 
John, a good deal more astonished than he had 
calculated Paul would be. 
" Let go your sheets ! Take the boat-hook, and 
let us push her off, if we can," cried Paul. 
Both the boys went to work, and after a few 
moments of hard labor, succeeded in pushing the 
Fawn off the ledge upon which she had struck. 
" I suppose this is a specimen of your manage- 
ment," said Paul, as he hauled the sheets home, 
and seated himself at the helm. 
 
"Rather bad management, I am willing to own," 
replied John, who felt that his reputation as a 
skilful navigator had departed in the twinkling 
of an eye. 
"Next time, when you undertake to sail the 
Fawn without me, don't you do it. You would 
be a pretty fellow to run the boat if I were away 
a week; there wouldn't be a board left on her 
ribs in three days." 
" It hasn't hurt her any, Paul." 
" I suppose it hasn't ; but it would have been 
just the same if it had been blowing a ten-knot 
breeze." 
But John felt that, if it hadn't hurt the Fawn 
any, it had hurt himself a great deal ; and he made 
a tremendous great resolution to be more careful 
in future. The boat reached her mooring in good 
season, notwithstanding the detention. 
CHAPTER XV. 
PAUL GOES ON A. CRUISE IN THE ELYAWAY. 
" There has been a gentleman here to see 
you," said Mrs. Duncan, when Paul went to the 
house. 
"Who wa-s he?" 
" He left his name and residence on a piece of 
paper, and wants you to call and see him this 
evening," replied Mrs. Duncan, handing him the 
address of the gentleman. 
" Charles Morrison, Chestnut Street, third house 
from the depot," said Paul, reading the paper. 
"What does he want?" 
" He said something about hiring your boat 
next week." , 
"What, the Fawn?' 
" I suppose so ; but he wants to see you, at 
any rate." 
 
" Does he want me to go with her ? " 
"I'm sure I don't know." 
After supper Paul went to see Mr. Morrison, and 
found that he wanted the Fawn for the whole of 
the following week, and that he did not want a 
skipper. He was going down to Bleakport to 
spend a week, and he wanted a good boat, which 
he could not procure at the place. He offered to 
pay fifteen dollars for the use of her, and to re- 
store her in as good condition as when he took 
her. 
This was certainly a good offer, and Paul con- 
cluded that he could not do better; but he was not 
prepared to give a decided answer, and promised 
to see the gentleman again the next evening. 
On his return home he found Henry Littleton 
and Thomas Nettle waiting for him. The arrange- 
ments in regard to the excursion in the Flyaway 
had been completed, and the two boys had come 
to urge Paul to join them. 
"When do you sail?" asked Paul. 
"Next Friday." 
 
" And how long shall you bo gone ? " 
" About eight or ten days," replied Henry Lit- 
tleton. " My father is going with us." 
" I have got a good offer for the use of my 
boat next week," answered Paul, musing, " and 
I don't know but I will go." 
" That's right, Paul ; we must have you with 
us, at all events." 
'' Father says we ought to have you with us," 
said Henry. 
" I will talk with my mother about it, and if 
she is willing, I think I will go." 
" We have talked with your mother already, and 
she is perfectly willing you should go." 
" I will let you know to-morrow." 
The boys left him, saying he must certainly go 
with them, and Paul went into the house to talk 
over the matter with his mother. 
'' Do you think I can go, mother ? " 
" To be sure you can go," interposed John. 
" What is the use of talking about it ? " 
'' I did'nt ask you, John," said Paul, with a smile. 
 
"I don't see why you can't go," replied Mrs. 
Duncan. " I suppose there is no more danger of 
your getting drowned than there would be if you 
staid at home." 
" He will certainly be drowned, mother," added 
John. 
'' We shall be safe enough." 
"Then you had better go." 
'' I have got a chance to let the Fawn for 
fifteen dollars ; and that would be about as much 
as I should make if I staid." 
" And if you let her, I shall go skipper. Shan't 
I ? " demanded John. 
"I think not; Mr. Morrison will be his own 
skipper." 
"Then I won't agree to it. I am part owner 
of the Fawn," said the first mate, pouting like a 
school girl. 
"You agreed to let me manage the Fawn at 
the beginning," added Paul. " You can't do any 
thing with her alone, except run her on the rocks." 
" I don't want you to manage me out of' her in 
 
that manner," growled John. " I have as good a 
right in her as you have, and I don't mean to 
stay on shore here a whole week, sucking my 
fingers, when there is fun to be had." 
While they were discussing this important ques- 
tion, which even threatened a rupture in the 
partnership between the young fishermen, Captain 
Littleton was admitted by Mrs. Duncan. 
" What's the matter, boys ? You are not quar- 
relling, I hope," said Captain Littleton, as he 
entered the room, for he had heard a portion of 
one of John's excited speeches while at the door. 
" O, no, sir," replied Paul. '' I have got a 
chance to let the Fawn for a week, and John is 
opposed to my doing so." 
" Is he ? I am sorry for that. Mr. Morrison 
spoke to me about a boat for the week, and I 
recommended him to you. I had a motive for 
doing so, for I want you to join the excursion in 
the Flyaway. I thought you would like to go, if 
you could do so without any loss." 
'' Thank you, sir. I should like to go very 
 
much ; and when I got this chance to let the 
Fawn, I about made up my mind to go." 
" Then it is all right; but I am sorry John will 
not consent to the arrangement." 
" I don't want to stay on shore a whole week," 
pouted the first mate of the Fawn. " If they 
would only take me as skipper, I should like it 
first rate. What shall I do with myself for a 
whole week on shore ? " 
" I don't see as I can go, then," added Paul. 
" Well, I don't want to keep you from going, 
Paul ; " and a better feeling seemed to be roused 
in John's bosom. 
" I can't afford to let the Fawn lie idle for a 
week, in the busy season," continued Paul. 
" Can't I go a-fishing in her while you are 
gone? " 
" Certainly not ; you can't have my share to 
smash up on the rocks," said Paul, a little tartly. 
" You know you ran the boat on the rocks this 
very afternoon." 
John felt a little lame here, and he did not 
 
venture a reply. He had sacrificed liis reputation 
as a navigator by carelessly attempting to run too 
near the reef, and he felt that his brother's con- 
clusions were correct. 
" Well, at any rate, I won't keep you from 
going in the Flyaway, whatever I do. I will 
agree to let her to Mr. Morrison." 
" That's generous, John. You have got the 
right kind of a heart beneath your jacket, though 
you have an odd way of showing it sometimes," 
said Captain Littleton. 
'' John means right, sir," added Paul. 
" I like to have a little fun myself, as well as 
the rest of the fellows," continued John, " but I 
am willing to stay at home for Paul's sake." 
" That's the right feeling, my boy," replied 
Captain Littleton ; " and if your mother is willing, 
you may go in the Flyaway." 
" Hoo-ray ! " shouted John, jumping out of his 
chair, and performing some gymnastic feats, that 
astonished the visitor and the family. " I may 
go — mayn't I, mother." 
 
'' I have no objection, if Captain Littleton thinks 
it is safe." 
'' He will be as safe as my own son, Mrs. 
Duncan," added the captain. 
" Hoo-ray ! " shouted John again. 
" Come, my son, behave yourself, or they won't 
want such an unmannerly fellow in the company." 
" I will be as polite as a French dancing master." 
John was in luck again, and for the following 
three days he talked of nothing but the cruise of 
the Flyaway. Even sailing in the Fawn seemed 
tame to the idea of going off one or two hundred 
miles, and visiting towns and cities he had never 
seen, and had never before expected to see. He 
could hardly sleep nights, and when he did sleep, 
it was only to dream of being out of sight of land, 
or of occupying a berth in the cabin of the yacht. 
Paul concluded his bargain with Mr. Morrison, 
and made all his preparations for an absence of a 
week or ten days — a longer time than he had 
ever been away from home before. He cleaned 
up the Fawn for Mr, Morrison, and split wood 
 
enougli to last his mother a fortnight. It had 
already been decided that the yacht should go to 
the eastward, and visit Gloucester, the Isles of 
Shoals, Portsmouth, and Portland ; and to be pre- 
pared for the excursion, he carefully studied all 
the maps and books he could procure, which gave 
any information in regard to these places. 
The Flyaway was to sail on Friday at high 
water. For more than a fortnight, Captain Gor- 
don had been training the boys of the Tenean 
Club to serve as  able seamen" on board the 
yacht. There were twelve of them, including 
Paul, who were to join the party. More than 
half of them were sixteen or seventeen years old ; 
so that they were strong enough to do all the 
work required in the management of the vessel. 
They were all well trained, and every one of 
them knew his duty on board. 
Besides Captain Gordon, who was to command 
the yacht, there was Captain Briskett, who Jiad 
for many years been the master of a coasting 
vessel, and knew every rock and shoal between 
Boston and Eastport. Dick, the colored steward, 
was to retain liis place during the cruise. Captain 
Littleton was to go as a passenger. John Dun- 
can was nominally appointed cabin boy. 
Friday came, and the officers and crew of the 
Flyaway were all on board. The anchor had been 
hove short, and the mainsail hoisted ; the hour 
for sailing had arrived, and she only waited the 
coming of Captain Littleton. He had gone to 
Boston that morning, and his return was mo- 
mentarily expected. 
When the amateur crew had grown very impa- 
tient at his non-arrival, he appeared ; but only to 
inform them that he had just received a tele- 
graphic despatch from New York, which would 
compel him to start for that city in the afternoon. 
"Now, boys, what is to be done?" asked he. 
" Will you postpone the trip for a week ? " 
" I suppose we must," replied Henry ; but the 
faces of the whole crew were wofully elongated. 
" I must give it up altogether, then," added 
Paul, bitterly disappointed ; and John was ready 
to howl at the idea of not going. 
 
".I will see what can be done," continued Cap- 
tain Littleton, as he called Captain Gordon aside. 
For a few moments they were engaged in ear- 
nest conversation together, and the boys waited 
with anxious interest for the result of the con- 
ference. 
" Captain Gordon thinks he can take care of 
you, and I have concluded to let you go with- 
out me." 
" Hurrah ! " shouted several of the boys. 
" But, boys, I must put you on honor to be- 
have well during the cruise. Will you do it?" 
"We will." 
" And obey the orders of Captain Gordon in 
all things, whether you are on board or on shore ? " 
"We will," replied all the boys at once. 
" Very well ; I shall trust you. If I return 
soon enough to join you at Portsmouth, I shall 
do so. Good by, now, and a pleasant cruise to 
you ; " and Captain Littleton went over the side. 
" Good by, sir," replied the crew. 
"That's first rate — isn't it?" whispered Tom 
 
Nettle, as the captain departed. " I am glad he 
isn't going." 
" So am I," replied Frank Thompson. 
" We shall not have him watching ns all the 
time. Let me tell you, there is fun ahead now," 
added Thomas. 
Captain Briskett, who was to be first officer of 
the Flyaway, as well as pilot, summoned them io 
the windlass to heave up the anchor ; and in a 
few minutes the yacht was standing down the 
harbor under all sail. The Teneans gave three 
rousing cheers, and then distributed themselves in 
various parts of the deck to enjoy the exciting 
scene. 
'' All hands aft," said Captain Gordon, when 
the yacht had reached the open bay. 
"Ay, ay, sir," replied several, as the crew took 
their places in the standing room. 
" Now, boys, we must make our arrangements. 
When a ship goes to sea, it is customary to 
divide the crew into two watches. I shall take 
the starboard watch, and Captain Briskett the lar- 
 
board. Each of us will choose a man in his turn 
till all are taken." 
"Go on," said Captain Briskett. 
" Henry Littleton," replied the skipper- 
"Paul Duncan," added the pilot. 
And so they proceeded till all the boys were 
chosen, except John, who resented the slight thus 
put upon him. To satisfy him, therefore, he was 
taken into the captain's watch. 
" There are only eight berths in the cabin, 
boys, and you must draw lots for them," contin- 
ued the master; "but they are all wide enough 
to hold two each. Now, if you want to pair off, 
you can do so." 
Lots were drawn, and Paul and Henry were to 
occupy the same berth. Again John found him- 
self thrown out of the calculation ; but the captain 
said he would make a bed for him on a locker, 
and he was satisfied. The boys then went below 
to see their berths, which had all been numbered 
for the occasion. 
 
CHAPTER XVI. 
PAUL WITNESSES A MUTINY. 
« When the Flyaway had passed Farm Island, 
and reached the fishing ground, she lay to, for 
the purpose of enabling the crew to catch a few 
cod and haddock, for the chowder and fry. But 
cod and haddock are singularly obstinate at times, 
and persistently refuse to appreciate the angler's 
endeavors in their behalf They were so on the 
present occasion, and it was two hours before the 
chief of the culinary department could say there 
were enough to satisfy the ravenous appetites of 
the sixteen persons on board. Some of the boys 
had actually decided that fishing was a nuisance, 
but they were just as fond of chowder as those 
who enjoyed the fun even of catching only one 
fish per hour. 
As fast as they were caught, Dick aressed them 
 
and prepared them for the chowder pot or the 
frying pan. There were some queer fish caught, 
including quite a number of sculpins, " a wolfer 
eel," — so Captain Briskett called him, — and a 
large catfish. The latter was an ugly monster, 
having dangerous-looking teeth, with which he 
laid hold of every thing that came in his way. 
There was also in the collection a large scate, or 
ray, which called forth some rather large fish 
stories from the two experienced skippers on 
board. 
As the culinary department was How supplied, 
the yacht stood away for Gloucester, which was 
to be her first port. They had a fine wind, and 
before the chowder was ready, the Flyaway was 
in sight of the Reef of Norman's Woe. 
" Dinner is ready," said Dick, at last, for the 
stomachs of the boys had been in a state of re- 
bellion for two hours. 
There was a grand rush for the cabin ; but, to 
the astonishment of the hungry crew, Captain 
Gordon placed himself at the companion way, and 
would not permit a single one of them to go 
below, 
" That's not the way to do on board ship," 
said he. " Are you all going below at once ? " 
"Why not?" asked Tom Nettle. 
" Suppose we should have occasion to tack, or 
to take in sail in a hurry ? Have we got to wait 
for you to finish your plate of chowder ? " 
"We are all as hungry as bears, Captain Gor- 
don," added Frank Thompson. " We can't stand 
it any longer." 
" Part of you must stand it half an hour 
longer. Captain Briskctt has the helm, and the 
larboard watch will remain on deck, the starboard 
watch go below." 
The captain's watch tumbled down the com- 
panion way, ranged themselves round the table, 
and went to work as though they had not eaten 
any thing for a month. As they are doing very 
well, we will return to the deck, and listen a 
few moments to the remarks of the mate's watch. 
Paul had seated himself by the side of the 
 
helmsman, and was asking questions in regard to 
the reef, the depth of water in the harbor, and 
other questions of interest only to nautical per- 
sons. The rest of the watch had gathered in a 
group on the forecastle. It was unfortunate that 
so many of the refractory spirits had been chosen 
into the same watch; but there were Tom Nettle, 
Frank Thompson, and Samuel Nason, all three of 
whom had once been expelled from the club for 
misconduct, and only been readmitted on their 
solemn promise to mend their manners, and be- 
have like gentlemen in future. 
'' I don't like it," said Tom ; " and if the rest of 
the fellows will back me up, I will go below and 
have dinner with the crowd." 
" I will back you up, for one," said Frank. 
" And I, for another," added Samuel. 
'' But Captain Gordon gave a good reason why 
some of us should remain on deck," suggested 
one of the boys. 
"No, he didn't. What is there to do? We 
shan't have to touch a sail this hour — see if we 
do," retorted Tom. 
 
" But we might hsxxe occasion to do so, and 
for one, I am willing to observe the discipline of 
the vessel," said Charles Lawrence. 
'' I don't like the idea of having old Gordon 
domineering over us for a week," added Frank. 
" I don't care so much about the dinner as I do 
the spirit the old fellow exhibited. He placed 
himself before the companion way, just as though 
he had been the captain of a ship, and we were 
all common sailors." 
" We will cure him of that before we have 
been with him many days," added Tom. 
" I'll bet we will," answered Frank ; " and I 
think the present is the best time to begin. How 
many of you will make a grand rush into the 
cabin?" 
There were only four of them who were willing 
to take this rash step. 
" Come on, then," said Tom, " I will go if 
there is only one fellow to back me up." 
"We will follow you," added Frank. "Go 
ahead, Tom!" 
 
"You had better count the cost before you 
go any farther," interposed Charles Lawrence. 
" You know we all promised to obey Captain 
Gordon in every thing he directed, whether on 
shore or on board." 
" We didn't expect he was going to treat us 
like servants — like dogs." 
" Captain Littleton wouldn't let him domineer 
over us in that style if he were here. Come on, 
boys," said Tom, as he led the way aft. 
" Where are you going, boys ? " demanded Cap- 
tain Briskett, as the rebellious watch appeared in 
the standing room. 
" Going below to get our dinner." 
" Not yet ; you must wait till the watch is 
relieved. You heard the captain's orders." 
" We don't care for the captain's orders. We 
are not going to be treated like dogs." 
" But it is necessary that one watch should be 
on deck all the time." 
" Can you tell me why it was necessary to have 
the starboard watch go to dinner first ? " 
 
'' I cannot ; it is the captain's business to or- 
der, and mine to obey," replied the mate. 
'' It isn't our business to obey any such orders 
as that," said Tom. " Come, Paul, let us all go 
below, and have our dinner." . 
" I shall obey orders," replied Paul, decidedly. 
" On deck, there ! What's the matter ? " called 
Captain Gordon, from, the cabin. 
" There is a mutiny in the larboard watch," re- 
plied the mate, with a smile. 
Tom and Frank did not wait for any more 
explanations, and began to descend the ladder 
into the cabin. 
"Stop, boys! what does this mean?" demanded 
Captain Gordon, rising from the table. 
" It means that we are going to have our din- 
ners; that is all," replied Tom, who had by this 
time reached the cabin floor. 
" But my orders were, that the larboard watch 
should remain on deck." 
"We don't care for that." 
"You don't, eh?" And Captain Gordon was 
 
evidently very mucli surprised, for whatever lie 
had expected, he certainly had not anticipated a 
mutiny the first day out. 
"Wasn't my order a reasonable one?" he con- 
tinued. 
" No, sir ! It was not." 
" It is necessary that one watch should be on 
deck while the vessel . is under sail." 
" That may be ; but it wasn't necessary that 
your watch should go to dinner fii'st," replied 
Tom. 
" Will you return to your duty, or not ? '' 
"No, sir!'' 
" You had better consider well what you are 
doing, Tom, before you go any farther. Captain 
Littleton placed me in command of the yacht, and 
expressly directed me to do every thing I have 
done, so far; and especially to keep one watch 
on deck all the time, while we are under sail. 
Now, those of you who are willing to return to 
your duty and obey orders, as you promised Cap- 
tain Littleton, go on deck again." 
Not one of the four boys accepted this polite 
invitation. 
" Then I am to settle this question with these 
four," added the captain. 
" There's no settling about it ; we are going to 
have our dinner; that's all," said Tom, pushing 
forward towards the table ; but Captain Gordon 
placed himself before him, and prevented his far- 
ther progress. 
" I have asked you to return to your duty ; 
now I order you to do so ; and I am going to be 
obeyed, even if there are some broken heads to 
bind up afterwards," replied the captain. " Bris- 
kett, let Paul take the helm and come below." 
" Stand back, and let me pass," cried Tom, his 
face flushed with anger. 
But instead of standing back. Captain Gordon 
seized him by the collar and threw him down. 
This was the signal for Frank to step in, and do 
battle for his friend. He was a stout fellow, and 
there was, for a moment, a prospect of a smart 
little battle ; but the brawny pilot suddenly de- 
 
stroyed this prospect by laying both hands on the 
second mutineer, and dragging him on deck. Cap- 
tain Gordon followed him with Tom, the two 
. other refractory spirits not deeming it prudent to 
keep the promises they had made on deck only a 
few moments before. 
Captain Gordon tied Tom's hands behind hijn, 
and Frank was presently reduced to the same igno- 
minious condition. The other two were ordered 
to take their places by the side of the prisoners, 
and they deemed it prudent to obey. 
"All hands on deck!" shouted the captain, 
as he took the helm from Paul. " Ready to go 
about ! " 
All the boys wondered what was to be done 
next ; but the orders were promptly obeyed, and 
they took their stations as they had been instructed 
to do when the yacht was to go about. In a few 
moments the Flyaway, which had by this time 
passed the reef, and was standing up the harbor, 
was put about, and headed towards the open sea. 
No one ventured to ask any questions ; but as soon 
 
as the mate had been restored to the helm, he fas- 
tened the prisoners to the rail, and gave the star- 
board watch orders to finish their dinners, and 
led the wslj to the cabin. 
" He will have to pay dearly for this," growled 
Tom, when the captain had gone below. " My 
father is half owner of the Flyaway, and if he 
doesn't get turned off, it won't be his fault." 
But-Frank did not make any reply. His father 
did not own half the yacht, and he began to think 
he had " barked up the wrong tree," as he after- 
wards expressed it. He did not exactly know what 
to make of things, and couldn't understand why 
the yacht had been put about, and headed towards 
home. It was rather ominous, and he wished him- 
self out of the scrape, or rather that he had not 
embarked in such a stupid enterprise. 
Captain ijordon finished his dinner in silence, 
and as his brow looked as stormy as a thunder- 
cloud, not one of the boys in his watch cared to 
question him in regard to his future course. 
When the starboard watch had finished their 
dinner, they went on deck ; and the captain ordered 
Dick to carry some of the chowder up for the re- 
bellious portion of the other watch, while the 
mate, and those of his party who " stuck by the 
ship," went below. 
When dinner was over, and all hands had re- 
turned to the deck, Captain Gordon announced his 
intention to return to Bayville at once. 
" We haven't been gone a week yet," said-Henry 
Littleton. 
" Your father told me, if any serious difficulty 
occurred on board, to return home without delay. 
These fellows have chosen to disobey orders the 
first day out ; and I think that is a serious matter." 
" Do you hear that, Tom ? " said Frank, in a 
whisper, to his fellow-prisoner. 
'' I don't care ; the sooner he goes home the 
sooner will he be discharged." 
" But we shall lose all our fun, any way." 
"Can't help it; I won't be treated like a ser- 
vant by my father's servant," replied Tom, loud 
enough to be heard by the captain. 
"Your father can do what he thinks best when 
 
I get home, but while I command a vessel all 
hands obey orders." 
" Come, Tom, don't let us spoil all the fun. We 
will pay him off at another time. Don't let us 
break up the cruise," whispered Frank. " He's 
got us where the hair is short, and we can't help 
