into the world with such brilliant prospects.”

“You have all that your heart can desire, so far as Delia is concerned,
Mrs. Floyd.”

“You are the envy of mothers.”

And so I heard the changes rung on all sides of me, and from the lips of
people who might have looked deeper if they had taken the trouble to use
their eyes.

To me, the wedding was full of sad suggestions. It was one of those
social self-sacrifices, as common now as then, in which the victim
goes self-impelled to the altar, and lays upon its consuming fires the
richest dower of womanhood.

I listened to the vows that were made on this occasion, and felt a low
thrill of repulsion as words of such solemn import trembled on the air,
for too well I knew that a union of souls in a true marriage, such as
Delia Floyd might consummate, was impossible here. Could she be happy
in this marriage? I gave to my own question an emphatic “No!” She might
have a gay, brilliant, exciting life; but to that deep peace which is
given to loving hearts, and which, in hours of isolation and loneliness,
she would desire with an irrepressible longing, she must forever be a
stranger.

I looked into her beautiful young face as she stood receiving the
congratulations of friends, and felt as I had never felt before on such
an occasion. Instinctively my thought ran questioning along the future.
But no hopeful answer was returned. How was she to advance in that
inner-life development through which the true woman is perfected? I
pushed the question aside. It was too painful. Had she been one of
the great company of almost soulless women--if I may use such strong
language--who pass, yearly, through legal forms into the mere semblance
of a marriage, I might have looked on with indifference, for then, the
realization would, in all probability, be equal to the promise. But
Delia Floyd was of a different spiritual organization. She had higher
capabilities and nobler aspirations; and if the one found no true sphere
of development, while the other was doomed to beat its wings vainly
amid the lower atmospheres of life, was happiness in the case even a
possibility?

Among the guests was Wallingford. It was six months, almost to a day,
since the dearest hope in life he had ever cherished went suddenly out,
and left him, for a season, in the darkness of despair. I did not expect
to see him on this occasion; and there was another, I think, who as
little anticipated his presence--I mean the bride. But he had shared in
the invitations, and came up to witness the sacrifice. To see, what a
few months before was to him the most precious thing in life, pass into
the full possession of another. Had not the fine gold grown dim in his
eyes? It had--dim with the tarnish that better natures receive when they
consent to dwell with inferior spirits, and breathe in an atmosphere
loaded with earthly exhalations. It would have been the highest delight
of his life to have ascended with her into the pure regions, where
thought builds tabernacles and establishes its dwelling-places. To have
walked onward, side by side, in a dear life companionship, towards the
goal of eternal spiritual oneness. But she had willed it otherwise; and
now he had come, resolutely, to bear the pain of a final sundering of
all bonds, that his soul might free itself from her soul completely and
forever.

I first noticed him as the bridal party entered the room, and took their
places in front of the clergyman who was to officiate on the occasion.
He occupied a position that gave him a clear view of Delia’s face, while
he was removed from general observation. Almost from the commencement to
the ending of the ceremony his gaze rested on her countenance. His head
was thrown a little forward, his brows slightly contracted, his lips
firmly set, and his eyes fixed as if the object upon which he was gazing
held him by an irresistible fascination. I was so much interested in him
that I scarcely looked at the bride during the ceremony. At last, the
minister, in conclusion, announced the twain to be husband and wife.
I saw Wallingford give a slight start as if a tensely strung chord of
feeling had been jarred. A moment more and the spell was broken!
Every lineament of his countenance showed this. The stern aspect gave
way--light trembled over the softening features--the body stood more
erect as if a great pressure had been removed.

I noticed that he did not hold back in the excitement of congratulation
that followed the ceremony. I was near him when he took the hand of
Delia, and heard him say--not--“I congratulate you”--but “May your life
be a happy one.” The tone was earnest and feeling, such as a brother
might use to a beloved sister. I held that tone long afterwards in my
memory, studying its signification. It had in it nothing of regret, or
pain, or sadness, as if he were losing something, but simply expressed
the regard and tender interest of a sincere well wisher. And so that
great trial was at an end for him. He had struggled manfully with a
great enemy to his peace, and this was his hour of triumph.

With the bride’s state of mind, as read in external signs, I was far
from being satisfied. Marriage, in any case, to one who thinks and
feels, is a thing of serious import; and even the habitually thoughtless
can hardly take its solemn vows upon their lips without falling into a
sober mood. We are, therefore, not surprised to see emotion put on signs
of pain--like April showers that weep away into sunshine. But in Delia’s
face I saw something that went deeper than all this.

“There is no one here,” said I, taking her hand, and holding it tightly
in mine, “who wishes you well in the future more sincerely than I do.”

“I know it, Doctor,” she answered, returning the warm grasp I gave her.
Her eyes rested steadily in mine, and saw a shadow in them.

“We are sorry to lose you from S----. Indeed we cannot afford to lose
you.”

“She is wanted,” spoke up her young husband a little proudly, “to grace
a wider and more brilliant sphere of life.”

“It is not the brilliant sphere that is always the happiest,” said I.
“Life’s truest pleasures come oftener to quiet home circles even among
the lowly, than to gilded palaces where fortune’s favorites reside.”

“It is not to external condition,” the bride remarked, “that we are to
look for happiness.” I thought her voice had in it a pensive tone, as if
she were not wholly satisfied with the brilliant promise that lay before
her. “You know, Doctor, we have talked that over more than once in our
lives.”

“Yes, Delia; and it is a truth which we ought never to forget--one that
I trust you and your husband will lay up in your hearts.”

I turned to the young man desiring my admonition to reach him also.

“Perhaps I might differ something from this sage conclusion,” he
answered a little flippantly. “As far as I can see, the external
condition has a great deal to do with our happiness. I am very sure,
that if I were situated as some people are whom I know, I would be
miserable. So you see, Doctor, I have my doubts touching this theory of
yours and Delia’s.”

“Time, I think, will demonstrate its truth,” I said, in a graver tone,
and turned from them to give place to those who could talk in a lighter
strain than was possible for me on the occasion.

During the evening I saw Wallingford more than once in conversation with
the bride; but only when she happened to be a little separated from her
husband, towards whom his manner was coldly polite. The two young men,
after the scene in Judge Bigelow’s office, only kept up, for the sake of
others, the shadow of acquaintanceship. Between them there was a strong
mutual repulsion which neither sought to overcome.

As I remarked I saw Wallingford more than once in conversation with the
bride. But nothing in his manner indicated any sentiment beyond that of
friendship. He was polite, cheerful, and at his ease. But it was
different with her. She was not at her ease in his company, and yet,
I could see that his attention was grateful--even pleasant.

The augury was not good. As I read the signs, Delia Floyd, when she
passed from maidenhood to wifehood, departed from the path that led
to happiness in this world. And I said to myself as I pondered her
future--“May the disappointments and sorrows that are almost sure to
come, turn her feet aside into the right way at last!”



CHAPTER XII.



On the day following, the young husband bore his bride away to grace
the prouder home that awaited her in New York; and affairs in our town
settled themselves down into the old routine.

During the few months that have passed since the opening of our story,
the only matter that has occurred, of any interest to the reader, at
the Allen House, is the fact that Judge Bigelow has undertaken the
management of Mrs. Montgomery’s affairs, and the establishment of her
claim to the possession, as only heir, of the whole of Captain Allen’s
property. Some legal difficulties, bearing upon her identification as
his sister, were in the way; and in the effort to remove these, there
had been considerable correspondence with persons in England.

The first fact to be clearly proved was the solemnization of a marriage
between Mrs. Montgomery’s mother and the elder Captain Allen. Next, the
identity of Mrs. Montgomery as her child. No marriage certificate, nor
any record of the fact, as to the exact time and place, were known to
be in existence; and without them, or evidence of a very conclusive
character, the title of Mrs. Montgomery could not be clearly
established.

This, Judge Bigelow stated to her in the beginning; but, up to this
time, no such evidence had been found.

Mrs. Montgomery’s health was not good, and as she required occasional
medical aid, my visits to the Allen House were continued. The more
intimately I came to know this lady, the higher did she rise in my
esteem. She united strength of mind with clearness of perception: and
decision of character with prudence and justice. She had, likewise, a
depth and tenderness of feeling that often exhibited itself in beautiful
incidents. The dignity of manner, which at first seemed touched with
hauteur, now only gave grace to her fine proportions.

She had, from the beginning, spoken to me without reserve of her
affairs, in which I naturally took deep interest. One day she said:--

“Doctor, I wish to get your opinion in regard to an individual whom
Judge Bigelow proposes to send out to England for me on important
business. He is a young man, associated with him, as I understand it,
professionally.

“Mr. Wallingford, you mean?”

“Yes, that is the name, I believe. Do you know him?”

“Very well.”

“Is he prudent, intelligent, and reliable?”

“I think so.”

“You only think so, Doctor?”

“I can speak in stronger terms. As far as one can know another, I am
ready to say that he is prudent, intelligent, and reliable. If I had
important business to transact at a distant point, and needed a trusty
agent, I would select him before any other man in S----.”

“I wish no better testimony, Doctor, and am glad to know that I can
procure an agent so well qualified.”

“Have you seen him?” I inquired.

“No. But Judge Bigelow is to bring him here today, in order that I may
see and converse with him.”

“You will find him,” said I, “a young man of few words and unobtrusive
manners--but solid as a rock. I have seen him under circumstances
calculated to test the character of any man.”

“What are the circumstances, if you are free to speak of them?” asked
Mrs. Montgomery. “We get always a truer estimate of a man, when we
see him in some great battle of life; for then, his real qualities and
resources become apparent.”

I thought for a little while before answering. It did not seem just
right to draw aside the veil that strangers’ eyes might look upon a
life-passage such as was written in Wallingford’s Book of Memory. The
brief but fierce struggle was over with him; and he was moving steadily
onward, sadder, no doubt, for the experience, and wiser, no doubt.
But the secret was his own, and I felt that no one ought to meddle
therewith. Still, a relation of the fact, showing how deeply the man
could feel, and how strong he was in self-mastery, could not but raise
him in the estimation of Mrs. Montgomery, and increase her confidence.

“It is hardly fair,” said I, “to bring up the circumstances of a man’s
life over which he has drawn a veil; and which are sacred to himself
alone. In this case, however, with the end of enabling you more fully to
know the person you think of sending abroad on an important service,
I will relate an occurrence that cannot fail to awaken in your mind an
interest for the young man, such as we always feel for those who have
passed through deep suffering.”

Blanche was sitting by her mother. Indeed, the two were almost
inseparable companions. It was a rare thing to find them apart. I saw
her face kindle with an earnest curiosity.

“Judge Bigelow’s nephew was married, recently,” I said.

“So the Judge informed me. He spoke very warmly of his nephew, who is a
merchant in New York, I think he said.”

“He is a partner in a mercantile firm there. The bride was Squire
Floyd’s daughter; a very superior girl--lovely in character, attractive
in person, and, mentally, well cultivated. I have always regarded her as
the flower of our town.”

“The young man had good taste, it seems,” Mrs. Montgomery remarked.

“Better than the young lady showed in taking him for a husband,” said I.

“Ah? Then your opinion of him is not so favorable.”

“He was not worthy of her, if I possess any skill in reading character.
But there was one worthy of her, and deeply attached to her at the same
time.”

“This young Wallingford, of whom we were speaking?”

“The same.”

“But she didn’t fancy him?”

“She did fancy him. But--”

“Was not able to resist the attractions of a New York merchant, when put
in opposition to those of a humble country lawyer?”

“The truth lies about there. She took the showy effigy of a man, in
place of the real man.”

“A sad mistake. But it is made every day,” said Mrs. Montgomery, “and
will continue to be made. Alas for the blindness and folly that lead so
many into paths that terminate in barren deserts, or wildernesses where
the soul is lost! And so our young friend has been crossed in love.”

“The experience is deeper than usual,” said I. Then I related, with some
particularity, the facts in the case, already known to the reader.
Both the mother and daughter listened with deep attention. After I had
finished my story, Mrs. Montgomery said,

“He possesses will and strength of character, that is plain; but I can’t
say that I just like the deliberate process of unloving, if I may use
the word, which you have described. There is something too cold-blooded
about it for me. Like the oak, bent under the pressure of a fierce
storm, he comes up erect too soon.”

I smiled at her view of the case, and answered,

“You look upon it as a woman, I as a man. To me, there is a certain
moral grandeur in the way he has disenthralled himself from fetters that
could not remain, without a life-long disability.”

“Oh, no doubt it was the wisest course,” said Mrs. Montgomery.

“And may we not look among the wisest men, for the best and most
reliable?” I queried.

“Among those who are truly wise,” she said, her voice giving emphasis to
the word truly.

“What is it to be truly wise?”

“All true wisdom,” she answered, “as it appertains to the affairs of
this life, has its foundation in a just regard for others; for, in the
degree that we are just to others, are we just to ourselves.”

“And is not the converse of your proposition true also? In the degree
that we are just to ourselves, are we not just to others?”

“Undoubtedly. Each individual bears to common society, the same relation
that a member, organ, or fibre, does to the human body, of which it
makes a part. And as no member, organ, or fibre of the body, can injure
itself without injuring the whole man; so no individual can do wrong
to himself, without a consequent wrong to others. Each has duties
to perform for the good of common society, and any self-inflicted or
self-permitted disabilities that hinder the right performance of these
duties, involve a moral wrong.”

“Then the case is very clear for my friend Wallingford,” said I. “He is
a wise man in your sense of the word--wise, in resolutely putting away
from his mind the image of one who, if she had been worthy of him, would
have taken her place proudly by his side; but, proving herself unworthy,
could never afterward be to him more than a friend or stringer. He could
not hold her image in his heart, and fondly regard it, without sin; for
was she not to be the bride of another? Nor without suffering loss of
mental power, and life-purpose, and thus injuring others trough neglect
of duty. It was acting wisely, then, for him to come up, manfully, to
the work of drawing back his misplaced affections, and getting them
again fully into his own possession. And he has done the work, if I read
the signs aright. All honor to his manhood!”

“He has, I see, a warm advocate in you, Doctor,” said Mrs. Montgomery,
again smiling. “Still, in an affair of the heart, where so much was
involved, as seemed to be in his case, we can hardly fancy such a
matter-of-fact, business-like proceeding as you have described. He might
well have been forgiven, if he had shown more weakness of character, and
acted even a little unreasonably. I will yield to no one in my regard
for manly firmness and self-control, for bravery and endurance; and
I have seen these qualities put to some of the severest tests. But
in matters of the heart, I must own that I like to see a man show his
weakness. Your Mr. Wallingford is too cool and calculating for me. But
this is irrelevant to our consideration of his qualities as a business
agent. For this purpose, I am satisfied that he is fitted in all things
essential.”

“And that is quite as far as we need go,” said I.

“The business in hand,” said Mrs. Montgomery, resuming the conversation
after a pause, “is of great importance to me, and may require not only
a visit to England, but also to the West Indies. Unless evidence of my
mother’s marriage can be found, there will be, as you know, considerable
difficulty in establishing my full right to inherit my brother’s
property. And my identity as the sister of the late Captain Allen must
also be proved. By the will of my father, which is on record, he
left all of his property to my brother. He, as far as is known, died
intestate. As next of kin, I am the legal heir; but the proof is yet
wanting. My mother’s cousin, a Colonel Willoughby, of whom we have
before spoken, came over from England, on the strength of some vague
rumors that reached the family from Jamaica, and was successful in
discovering the only survivor of his uncle’s family. She saw it best to
abandon her husband, as you know. My purpose in sending an agent, versed
in legal matters, and used to weighing evidence, is to have such papers
of Colonel Willoughby’s as the family possess and will submit for
examination, carefully searched, in the hope that some record may be
found in his hand-writing, sufficiently clear to establish the fact that
my mother was the wife of the elder Captain Allen. So important an event
as that of searching out my mother, and inducing her to flee from her
husband, could hardly have taken place, it seems to me, without evidence
of the fact being preserved. And my hope is, that this evidence, if it
can be found, will prove of great value. So you see, Doctor, that I have
good reasons for wishing to know well the agent who goes abroad with a
matter so vital as this in his hands.”

I admitted the importance of a thoroughly reliable man to go upon this
mission, and repeated my faith in Wallingford.



CHAPTER XIII.



I saw Mrs. Montgomery a few days afterwards, and inquired if she
had seen the young associate of Judge Bigelow. She replied in the
affirmative.

“How does he impress you?” I asked.

“Favorably, upon the whole; though,” she added with one of her meaning
smiles, “I can’t help thinking all the time about the cool, calculating,
resolute way in which he went about disentangling himself from an
unfortunate love affair. I look at his calm face, over which you rarely
see a ripple of feeling go, and ask myself, sometimes, if a heart really
beats within his bosom.”

“There does; a true, large, manly heart, full of deep feeling; you may
be sure of this, madam,” I answered, with some warmth.

“I will not gainsay your words, Doctor. I trust for his sake that it may
be so.”

“Leaving out the heart matter, and regarding him only as to his fitness
for the work in hand, you are favorably impressed?”

“Quite so. I find him quick of apprehension, intelligent, and of
sufficient gravity of deportment to ensure a respectful attention
wherever he may go. He made one suggestion that ought to have occurred
to me, and upon which I am acting. As no will has been found, it has
been assumed that Captain Allen died intestate. Mr. Wallingford suggests
that a will may have been executed; and that a thorough search be made
in order to discover if one exists. In consequence of this suggestion,
Blanche and I have been hard at work for two days, prying into drawers,
examining old papers, and looking into all conceivable, and I had almost
said inconceivable places.”

“And if you were to find a will?” said I, looking into her earnest face.

“The question would be that much nearer to a solution.”

“Is it at all probable that it would be in your favor?”

I saw her start at the query, while her brows closed slightly, as if
from a sudden pain. She looked at me steadily for a few moments, without
speaking; then, after a long inspiration, she said:

“Whether in my favor or not, any disposition that he has made of his
property, in law and right, must, of course, stand good.”

“You might contest such a will, if not in your favor.”

She shook her head, compressed her lips firmly, and said:

“No. I should not contest the will. My belief was, when I came here,
that he died without making a bequest of any kind, and that his property
would go, in consequence, to the heir-at-law. This was the information
that I received. If it should prove otherwise, I shall make no
opposition.”

“Do you intend, under this view, continuing the search for a will?”

Something in the tone of voice touched her unpleasantly. I saw the light
in her eyes glow intenser, and her lips arch.

“Why not?” she asked, looking at me steadily. I could have given another
meaning to my question from the one I intended to convey, had it so
pleased me, and thus avoided a probable offence. But I wished to see a
little deeper into the quality of her mind, and so used the probe that
was in my hand.

“If you find a will, devising the property out of your line, all your
present prospects are at an end,” said I.

“I know it.”

Her voice was firm as well as emphatic.

“Then why not take the other horn of this dilemma? Give up searching for
a will that can hardly be in your favor, and go on to prove your title
through consanguinity.”

“And thus shut my eyes to the probable rights of others, in order to
secure a personal advantage? Do you think I would do this, Doctor? If
so, you have mistaken me.”

There was a tone of regret in her voice.

“Pardon me,” I replied. “The suggestion was natural under the
circumstances, and I gave it utterance.”

“Were you in my place, would you give up the search here?”

She fixed on me a penetrating look.

The probe had changed hands.

“It is difficult,” I answered, “for us to say what we would do if we
were to change places with another. In my experience, it is easy to see
what is right for our neighbor, but very difficult to see the right way
for ourselves, when under the allurement of some personal advantage.”

“Would it be right in me to give up the search?”

“I think not.”

My answer was without hesitation.

“And I will not,” she said, firmly. “If my brother has devised his
property, I have only to know the terms of his will. If it is against
me, well. I shall not oppose its operation.”

“It sometimes happens,” I suggested, “that a testator is manifestly
out of his right mind as to the direction given to his property, and
bequeaths it in a manner so evidently unwise and improper, that both
justice and humanity are served in the act of setting aside the will.
And it might prove so in this case.”

“I know not how that may be,” Mrs. Montgomery answered, soberly, yet
firmly. “But this I do know”--she spoke resolutely--“God helping me, I
will not stain my hands with gold that, in any legal right, belongs to
another. What is clearly mine, I will take and use as it is my right
and duty. But I must be certain that it is mine. If there is no will, I
am clear as to who is the owner of this estate; if there is a will, and
I and mine are not included in its provisions, I will step aside. First,
however, the obligation to search for a will is imperative; and I shall
continue it until clearly satisfied that no such document exists.”

What a womanly dignity there was in Mrs. Montgomery as she said this,
drawing her tall form up to its full height in speaking--not proudly,
but with conscious integrity!

“What is right is always best.” I made the remark as well approvingly as
in expression of an immutable truth.

“Always, always,” she replied, with earnestness. “There is no blinder
folly than that of grasping a present worldly good, at the expense of
violated justice. Whoever does so, comes out that far wrong in the end.
There is only one way that leads to peace of mind: the way of honor and
right. All other ways, no matter into what rich harvest fields they may
lead in the beginning, terminate in wretchedness. There never has been,
and never will be, any exception to this rule. We see its operation
daily, turn our eyes whatsoever way we choose. And God forbid that I
should deliberately enter the way that leads to ultimate unhappiness!
Self-denial in the present is better than gnawing regret in the future.
The good things of this world prove to be curses instead of blessings,
unless the mind be rightly adjusted for their enjoyment. And such a
right adjustment is impossible where the very fact of their possession
involves a moral wrong. I see this so clearly, Doctor, that I shudder
inwardly at the bare imagination of committing such a wrong.”

“It is by trial that God proves us,” said I, “and may He bring you out
of this one, should the trial come, as gold from the refiner’s furnace!”

“Amen!” was her solemnly uttered response; “if it should come, may I be
found strong enough to do the right!”

For over a week this search for a will was continued, until it was
clear to all concerned that no such document was in existence. Then
preparation was made for the visit to England, in search of evidence
bearing upon the identity of Mrs. Montgomery as the sister of Captain
Allen. Two or three months elapsed, however, before Mr. Wallingford
could so arrange his business as to be absent for the length of time
it might take to complete his mission. He sailed for England in June,
between three and four months after the marriage of Delia Floyd. He
called to see me on the day before leaving, and I had a brief but
pleasant talk with him. He was in good health and good spirits, and
anticipated a successful visit.

“I shall gain,” he remarked, “in two ways by this trip. Professionally
and intellectually. I have had many a dream of that land of our
forefathers--England--now to be realized. I shall see London, walk its
streets, and linger amid its historic places. Don’t smile at this
almost boyish enthusiasm, Doctor. London has always been the Mecca of my
desires.”

I had never seen him so animated. A higher life seemed flowing in his
veins. His countenance had a brighter aspect than usual, and his head
an erecter carriage. There was a depth of meaning in his eyes never
observed before--a look as if some new born hope were lending its
inspiration to his soul. Altogether manlier was his aspect and bearing
than I had ever seen it.

“God speed your mission,” said I, as I shook hands with him in parting.

“If it depends on human agency, directed with earnestness, patience, and
will, my mission will have a prosperous result,” he replied. “It is to
be my first entirely self-reliant experience, and I think the discipline
of mind it will involve must strengthen me for higher professional work
than any in which I have yet been engaged. You are aware, Doctor, that
my heart is in my profession.”

“So I have seen from the beginning.”

“I will not deny,” he added, “that I have ambition. That I wish to be
distinguished at the bar.”

“An honorable ambition,” said I.

“Nor that, sometimes--in moments of weakness, perhaps--my dreams
have gone higher. But I am a very young man, and youth is ardent and
imaginative,” he added.

“And you have this great advantage,” I replied, “that, with every year
added to your life, you may, if you will, grow wiser and stronger. You
stand, as all young minds, at the bottom of a ladder. The height to
which you climb will depend upon your strength and endurance.”

“If we both live long enough, Doctor, you may see me on the topmost
rundle, for I shall climb with unwearying effort.”

He spoke with a fine enthusiasm, that lent a manly beauty to his face.

“Climb on,” I answered, “and you will rise high above the great mass,
who are aimless and indolent. But you will have competitors, few, but
vigorous and tireless. In the contest for position that you must wage
with these, all your powers will be taxed; and if you reach the
topmost rundle to which you aspire, success will be, indeed, a proud
achievement.”

“I have the will, the ambition, the courage, and the endurance, Doctor,”
 was his reply. “So, if I fail, the fault will lie here,” and he touched,
significantly, his forehead.

“For lack of brains?” said I, smiling.

“Yes. The defect will lie there,” he answered, smiling in return.

“Brains are remarkable for latent capacity. If stimulated, they develop
new powers, and this almost without limit. All they want is to be well
supplied with the right kind of food, and well worked at the same time.”

“I believe that, Doctor, and find vast encouragement in the thought,”
 and Wallingford laughed pleasantly.

Our parting words were growing voluminous. So we shook hands again,
repeated our mutual good wishes, and separated. In the afternoon he
started for Boston, from whence he sailed, on the next day, for England.

This was towards the latter end of June. He was to write to Mrs.
Montgomery immediately on his arrival out, and again as soon as he had
obtained an interview with the Willoughby family. Early in August,
she received his first letter, which was brief, simply announcing his
arrival at Liverpool.

About three weeks after the coming of this letter, I received a note
from Mrs. Montgomery asking me to call. On meeting her, I noticed
something in her manner that struck me as unusual. She did not smile, as
was her wont, when we met, her countenance retaining its usual serious
expression. I thought she looked paler, and just a little troubled.

“Thank you for calling so promptly, Doctor,” she said. “I am afraid you
will think me troublesome. But you have always shown a kindly interest
in me, though a stranger; and have proved, in all cases, a sound
adviser.”

I bowed, and she continued:

“I have a second letter from Mr. Wallingford. He has, he writes,
been well received by my relatives, who had placed in his hands,
for examination, a large quantity of papers that belonged to Colonel
Willoughby.”

“If they contain any evidence in the right direction, he will be sure to
find it,” said I.

“No doubt of that. But”--I thought her voice faltered a little--“the
question is solved, and he may return.”

“Solved! How?” I asked quickly.

“I have found the will.”

“What?”

“I have found the will,” she repeated, in a steady tone, “and that
solves the question.”

“Is it in your favor?” I asked, and then held my breath for a reply. It
came in a firmly uttered--

“No.”

We looked steadily into each other’s face for several moments.

“In whose favor?”

“In favor of Theresa Garcia his wife,” she replied.

“But she is dead,” I answered quickly.

“True--but I am not his heir.”

She said this resolutely.

“She died childless,” said I, “and will not the descent stop with
her?--the property reverting to you, as next of kin to Captain Allen?”

“She may have relatives--a brother or sister,” said Mrs. Montgomery.

“That is scarcely probable,” I objected.

“It is possible; and in order to ascertain the fact, all right means
ought to, and must be, taken.”

“Where did you find the will?” I inquired.

“Blanche was examining a small drawer in an old secretary, when she
accidentally pressed her hand against one side, which yielded. She
pressed harder, lad it continued to yield, until it was pushed back
several inches. On withdrawing this pressure, the side returned to its
place. She then tried to see how far it could be forced in. As soon
as it had passed a certain point, a secret drawer, set in vertically,
sprung up, and from the side, which fell open, the will dropped out.”

“It is singular,” said I, “that it should come to light just at this
time.”

“It is Providential, no doubt,” Mrs. Montgomery remarked.

“What course will you pursue?” I inquired.

“My first step will be to recall Mr. Wallingford.”

“I must take the liberty of a friend, and object to that,” said I.

“On what ground?”

“This will may be worth the paper on which it is written, and no more.
If the legatee have no relatives, you stand just where you stood before,
and will require the evidence as to identity for which Mr. Wallingford
is now in search. Oh, no, Mrs. Montgomery; he must not be recalled.”

The lady mused for a little while, and then said--

“Perhaps you are right, Doctor.”

“I am sure of it,” I replied, speaking earnestly. “This will, if we
find it, on examination, to be an instrument executed according to
legal forms, puts your rights in jeopardy, though by no means sets them
aside.”

“You take the correct view, no doubt,” was her reply to this. Her voice
was not so firm as in the beginning. As the probabilities began to show
themselves again in her favor, she lost a degree of self-possession.

“Let Mr. Wallingford complete his work,” said I, “and find, if possible,
the evidence you require, in case you prove to be the legal heir, as I
trust you will. And until his return, the existence of this important
document had better remain a secret.”

“Shall I not submit it to Judge Bigelow?”

I reflected for some moments, and then replied--

“Yes. He is your legal adviser, and one in whom the highest confidence
may be reposed. The will should be at once placed in his hands for
examination.”

“And go upon record?”

“Better leave all to his superior legal judgment. But,” as the thought
occurred to me, “who are named as the executors of this will?”

“I did not examine as to that, being too much interested in the
provisions of the writing,” she replied.

“May I see the document?”

“Blanche, dear, you will find it in the right-hand drawer of the
secretary, in our room;” and Mrs. Montgomery handed a key to her
daughter, who left the apartment in which we were sitting. She came back
in a few minutes, and handed me a paper, which, on examination, I found
to be written throughout, and evidently by the hand of Captain Allen. It
was dated San Juan de Porto Rico, January 10, 1820, and was witnessed by
two signatures--the names Spanish. The executors were Judge Bigelow and
Squire Floyd. There was an important sentence at the conclusion of the
will. It was in these words:--“In case my wife, in dying, should leave
no relatives, then every thing shall revert to my own right heirs,
should any be living.”

All this gave the affair, in my mind, a more serious aspect. Before
mentioning the executors’ names, I said--

“Do you know where Theresa Garcia resided, before her marriage with
Captain Allen?”

“In Porto Rico, as I have learned from old ‘Aunty,’ and also from
letters found in searching for the will.”

“Which I find was executed at San Juan De Porto Rico, the principal town
on the island. Judge Bigelow and Squire Floyd are the executors.”

I saw her start slightly, and grow a little pale as I said this.

“Judge Bigelow, and Squire Floyd! That is extraordinary!” She was more
disturbed than I had yet seen her in reference to this matter.

“It is remarkable, certainly, that Judge Bigelow, your legal adviser,
should be one of the executors of a will, which determines your
brother’s estate out of the line of consanguinity.”

