
"Thank you, ma'am--he said he was more comfortable when I came away."
And with an almost imperceptible glance round the room he was in,
Reuben turned and bounded lightly up the staircase. But all was dark
there and in Mr. Linden's room. Reuben could not execute his commission
so; and was turning to come down stairs again, when he encountered in
the dim entry-way a white figure.

"How is Mr. Linden, Reuben?" said a voice which he knew, though it
was in a very low key.

"Miss Faith!" Reuben said with a little start--"O I am so glad to find
you!"--Then repeated gravely his former answer--"He said he was more
comfortable when I came away, ma'am."

"Is he much hurt?"

Reuben hesitated.

"I don't rightly know, Miss Faith," he said, so low that she could
scarce catch the words. "He says he's not--and Dr. Harrison says
not,--I suppose I'm easy frightened."

"What makes you frightened, then?" she said quickly.

"I was frightened--" Reuben said, drawing a long breath, and with a
sort of awe-stricken voice, as if the fright was upon him yet;--"and it
takes a while to get over it. Maybe that's all. He wrote that, Miss
Faith--" and Reuben laid a tiny folded paper in her hand. "And may I
have a light, ma'am, to get some things from his room?" He spoke
eagerly now, as if he grudged the moments.

Faith directed him to the kitchen, and when Reuben came up, followed
him into the room and stood waiting while he sought what he wanted.
Then suddenly remembered that her paper might contain a request for
something else, and bent over the candle to read it. It contained more
than one.

"Miss Faith," it said, "if any of my scholars are anxious about me,
tell them, from me, that there is no cause. Bid them take
rest--without 'waiting for it.'--I am sorry that exercise must
wait!--but I shall hope to see two on Monday. J. E. L."

Faith's head was bent a long while over the candle.

"Have you got what you wanted, Reuben?" she asked at last.

Reuben had heard her voice often, but he had never heard it like
that--nor any one else. What had passed through it, clearing it so? it
was like the chiming of silver bells. He came at her word, bag in hand;
and--with the freedom a mutual sorrow gives,--held out his other hand
to her. Then ran quick and softly down the stairs.

"Hollo, sir!" said the doctor, as Reuben passed the open doorway. "A
word with you." Reuben paused, then came back a step.

"So you are Mr. Linden's friend, are you?" said the doctor in a
careless manner.

"Did you want anything of me, sir?" Reuben said.

"Why yes--I commonly want an answer to a question."

"I don't just know what you mean by a friend, Dr. Harrison," said
Reuben respectfully. "I might answer wrong."

"So rather than do that--You like to be on the safe side. Suppose you
ask Mr. Linden to teach you definitions, among other things? And look
here--keep him quiet and don't let anybody talk him out of his sleep to
night. That's all." And the doctor followed Reuben immediately.

With a feeling of satisfaction certainly, Mrs. Derrick at last locked
and bolted the front door, shutting out the driving mist and all that
might hide within it; and then went to look after the only treasure the
house contained. She wasn't far to seek, for as the locking and bolting
sounded through the house, Faith came down and went with her mother
into the sitting-room.

"Have you had nothing to eat yet, mother!" she exclaimed as her eye
fell on the orderly tea-tray.

"No child--nor sha'n't want it, till I see you have something."

Faith smiled a little, came and put her arms round her and kissed her;
and then set about the whole work of getting tea over again. It was
with a very pale face yet; only the silver ring of her voice told the
change of the mental atmosphere. Her mother looked at her--but was
perhaps afraid to ask any questions to disturb the quiet.

"Reuben's a good boy!" she said, feeling that remark to be perfectly
safe.

"I'm glad he's there," Faith answered gravely. "I heard all Dr.
Harrison said, mother."

"Yes child," said her mother--as if she knew that before,--"I thought
you'd see Reuben too."

"Reuben said the same, mother. And Mr. Linden himself sent word there
was no cause to be anxious."

Faith did not say he had written that word to her. Perhaps her own
consciousness might have made her shy of the subject--or perhaps what
she judged to be people's false reports had left a sore spot in her
heart and she was afraid of touching that. But she did not speak of
the little note which had come to her. She was preparing her mother's
tea with all speed, while Mrs. Derrick on her part peeped into the
sugar-bowl to see if it wanted filling, and began to cut the bread.

"I'm glad to hear it, child," she said. "Dr. Harrison's too smart for
me--I can't get a bit of good out of him. My, Faith! I suppose Mr.
Linden can manage him, but if I had that man buzzing round me, I
shouldn't know whether I was sick or well. When is he coming back,
child?"

"I don't know, mother."--Then with the invincible instinct of truth,
she added, "He wants my work to be ready for him Monday."

"Reuben's got a great deal of gumption!" said Mrs. Derrick, her heart
quite expanding with the pleasure of hearing Faith talk once more. "Now
half the boys in town would have blurted that right out to me and Dr.
Harrison together,--and I wouldn't trust him for not asking
questions. But I'm sure I'm glad, child--it seems as if he'd been gone
a month. Do you think he'll come to morrow? Maybe he meant you should
send your work down to him."

"I sha'n't do that," said Faith, as she gave her mother at last a cup
of tea that was to be drunk. But she had poured out none for herself.
She sat before the tea-tray, still and pale. Her mother looked at her.

"You must take some, child."

"I don't want it, mother."--And she brought everything that was on the
table round her mother's plate.

"You must--" Mrs Derrick repeated. "I sha'n't, if you don't,--or else
I'll get you a glass of wine. Why child," she said, with a half sober,
half smiling look, which Faith for once did not read,--"he's better.
You ought to eat and be thankful."

"I am thankful,"--Faith said, her head sinking for a moment.

Mrs Derrick deliberately got up, went to the pantry, and fetching
thence a tiny cup and plate set them before Faith.

"Eat, pretty child!" she said. "You know I'm right. If you don't look
out, Mr. Linden 'll be worse scared when he comes home than he's been
to-day, I guess."

Faith gave her a look, both grateful and appealing, and very innocent
of belief in her statement;--and did honour the little cup so far as to
fill it with tea which she swallowed. But the plate she left clean.

"I can't to-night, mother," she said in answer to Mrs. Derrick's look.
"I'll eat breakfast."



CHAPTER XIX.



It cannot be said that sleep came to Faith's eyes unbidden,--yet once
come, sleep rested there sweetly, even beyond her usual time; and the
first disturbing sound, in that misty Sunday morning, was the stopping
of a wagon at the front door. But if Faith ran to the window with any
special expectations, they were disappointed,--there was nothing at the
door but Crab, his companion the little wagon, and Mrs. Derrick
composedly getting out of the same. Which was at least surprising
enough. The good lady's next appearance was a very noiseless one in
Faith's room.

"Dear mother! where have you been?"

"Why I've been trying to get ahead of Dr. Harrison," said her mother
sitting down; "and I did it too. I should have been home before if I
hadn't been afraid of meeting him--so I had to take a cross road." Mrs.
Derrick seemed tired.

"You needn't look at me so, child," she said, taking off her bonnet.
"It's enough to see one pale face in a morning. I did see him, Faith,
though I didn't speak to him."

"How did he look, mother?"

"I don't suppose he really looked bad--considering," said Mrs. Derrick,
with the tired look on her own face; "but I am not used to seeing him
pulled down. It sort of upset me to see him lie there and those two
boys keeping watch of him. I declare, Faith! I wouldn't like to be the
one to touch him with them sitting by!"

"But how is he, mother? who did you see?"

"I didn't see anybody but them--Mr. Simlins wasn't up. They said he
seemed better, dear--and that if I'd seen him last night I'd think he
had quite a colour now: so I suppose he is better. Only I haven't got
the heart of a kitten sometimes--" and a little motion of the lips
warned Faith that if her mother was sparing of details it was because
she could scarce give them.

"But isn't he as well as the doctor said? He would look pale, you
know"--

"I shouldn't have known from what the doctor said, that he'd anything
more than a scratch on the tip end of his little finger!" said Mrs.
Derrick,--"so I believe I didn't expect even to see him look pale. And
all the while, the doctor was staring at the pantry doors--I didn't
know but he'd get up and open 'em and look in."

"You said two boys were there? who beside Reuben Taylor?"

"O Sam Stoutenburgh was 'tother side," said Mrs. Derrick, "and wanted
to know how you were. I'd a great mind to tell him it was none of his
business. I suppose he thinks his heart is as large as he is, and can
hold everything at once."

A shadow of something seemed to cross Faith at the mention of Sam's
name. She turned away and began dressing herself.

"Don't stir again, mother," she said. "I'll come down and see about
breakfast."

"It'll rest me to go with you, child,--I told Reuben I'd come again and
stay if Mr. Linden would let me, and Reuben will send me word. So I
want to see you in the mean time. But I don't think they'll send."

The breakfast was a quiet meal, though Faith but poorly performed her
promise of eating. How Faith spent the hour after breakfast her mother
could but guess; then she came out with her bonnet on and kissed her
before setting off to Sunday school. The thick mist yet filled the air,
growing yellow now with the struggling sunbeams. She walked quick and
met nobody.

Till she came to her place, and there she found not Charles twelfth
alone, but the two other little additions to her charge that had been
promised her. For though it was by no means 'cold weather'--the warm
sunny days lingering yet and this Sunday promising to be a good
specimen,--it happened that Johnny and his companion had received a
special injunction to come, as Faith found out, and were there
accordingly.

And if Johnny regretted his old place in another class, it was not for
the reason his new teacher had feared. Faith's face was very
pale,--that of itself touched the children; and her words this day came
in a tone that won all the recesses of their hearts. She had forgot
about other teachers or children being in her neighbourhood; on those
three her stores of love and tenderness poured themselves out. She told
them with warm lips, of Christ and his love and his leading,--of the
safety and joy of his sheep,--of her wish that her little charge should
be lambs in that flock, and what sort of lambs they must be. Faith
spoke to her children very much as if she had been a child herself.
They knew instinctively, with very sure knowledge, that she belonged to
the fold of which she was joyously telling them.

The children, on their part, met her variously. Johnny--with his clear
childish eyes, the flower-like unfolding of his little heart to that
warm sunshine--gave her more help than trouble,--she understood the
liking to teach him for her own sake. If his thoughts sometimes
wandered a little from her words, the downcast look, the slight quiver
of his childish lips, told Faith where they had gone; and she could
forgive him. But though at such times Robbie Waters always remembered
to look grave too, yet he displaced Faith's gravity once by whispering
to her (in the midst of her earnest admonitions to Charles twelfth)
that 'she knew she was pretty'; and was in general in an easy, docile
state of mind, and much interested and amazed at the 'deportment' of
his little neighbour, Charles twelfth. When Faith came out of the
school, she saw that all the seats of Mr. Linden's class were vacant;
and with that little reminding touch, went to her own place in the
church.

It was between nine and ten o'clock, while Faith was yet lost in her
little charge, while Mrs. Derrick at home was thinking of her, and Mr.
Simlins was taking his late breakfast, that Dr. Harrison's curricle
reached the farmer's gate. All was quiet without the house, but when
Jenny Lowndes admitted the doctor into the hall, the array of hats and
caps upon the table might have startled a less professional man; might
have even suggested the idea that Mr. Simlins was giving a breakfast
party.

"Let me see Mr. Linden," said the doctor.

Jenny hesitated--then her fear of Dr. Harrison overcoming her scruples,
she walked softly to the door and opened it. But if the doctor wanted
to see his patient, he was obliged to wait a little; for the group of
boys--some standing, some kneeling--around the bed, hid everything
else. The room was very still, very earnest; even Dr. Harrison could
feel that; the sound of words, very low-spoken, was all he could hear.
The closing door made itself heard, however,--several boys turned
round, and at once stepped aside; and the doctor saw his patient, not
dressed but lying as he had left him the night before. Mr. Linden
smiled--and saying some words to his class held out his hand towards
the doctor; but this was fastened upon at once by so many, that the
doctor again had to wait his turn; and it was not until everyone else
had touched that hand, some even with their lips, that he was left
alone with his patient.

"What are you doing?" said he, in a sort of grave tone which did not
however mean gravity. "Holding a levee?--and do you receive your
courtiers at different hours according to their ages? in that case. I
have come at the wrong time."

"No, you shall have the time all to yourself."

"I see I have it! Are the juvenile members of society in Pattaquasset
accustomed to pay their respects to you at this hour in the morning?"

"Not always. Once a week we meet to talk over pleasant things."

"Have I interrupted the pleasant things now?"

"No, I could not talk very long this morning. The boys were just going."

"I wish I had come a little sooner," said Dr. Harrison. "I'm not a boy,
to be sure, but I don't know that they are privileged to monopolize all
pleasant things. If they are, I am against monopolies. However, if you
can't talk, you mustn't talk. How do you do?"

"I do well--if a man can be doing well when he's doing nothing. I will
talk as long as you please--about pleasant things."

The doctor however diverged to the state of his patient's health, nor
would talk of anything else till his investigations on that point were
made. The result of them seemed to be satisfactory.

"Now Linden," he said, in atone that indicated they were free to ask
and answer,--"who was that fellow last night? have you any idea?"

"It is difficult to identify a man when you are only within gunshot of
him--and after sundown," said Mr. Linden smiling.

"Difficult--yes, it may be,--but you gathered something?"

"I gathered a run."

"That is," said the doctor looking at him, "you have an opinion on
the subject and are not willing to risk it?"

"No," said Mr. Linden, "I have had risk enough for one night."

"You are mistaken, Linden. A hint might be quite enough to bring out
the certainty. My father is very eager about the matter, and is only
waiting for you to empower him to act."

"I shall give you no hint," said Mr. Linden. "I might be willing to
risk my own opinion, but not another man's character."

The doctor looked at him keenly and curiously.

"What possible motive!"--he said. "For it is evident that the shot was
fired of intent, and evident that you yourself think so. It is
unheard-of!"

"Were you bred to the bar, that you sum up evidence before it is
given?" said Mr. Linden, with a good-humoured raising of his brows at
the doctor.

"But the man ran!"

"So did I--he could hardly think I was much hurt."

"I don't want to have such a fellow abroad in Pattaquasset," said the
doctor. "But suppose we go back to the pleasant things. You must start
the subject, Linden. Rousseau says a man can best describe the sweets
of liberty from the inside of a prison--so, I suppose, you being shot
at and laid on your back, can have no lack of theme."

Mr. Linden smiled--the smile of a most unfettered spirit.

"Liberty!" he said. "Yes, I have realized since I have lain here, that--

   'My soul is free, as ambient air,'--

My sense of liberty comes from the possession--not the want."

"Prospective possession,"--said the doctor. "Unless indeed," he went on
with a humorous play of the lips--"you mean that my orders to you to
lie still, merely gave zest to your triumphant knowledge that you could
get up if you had a mind. A riotous degree of self-will that I believe
I do not possess. Was that what good Mrs. Derrick meant when she said
she wondered how I had hindered you?"

"No," said Mr. Linden smiling--"she meant that she did not think you
had."

"She didn't mean a thing of the kind! She spoke in pure wonder, and
made me begin to wonder in my turn."

Which wonder Mr. Linden did not inquire into.

"I am very sorry I wasn't a boy this morning!" said Dr. Harrison, after
standing and looking down at him a little.

"Can't you sit down and say why?"

"I should have heard so much!--which now I am not to hear. For if I had
been a boy, I should certainly not have been missing at your levee."

"O you deceive yourself,--if you were a boy nothing short of my
authority would bring you, in the first place."

"I have not the slightest doubt the power would have been found equal
to the resistance," said the doctor bowing.

"Neither have I."

"Well!--" said the doctor laughing a little peculiarly,--"in that case
I should have been here. Now I have a fancy to know what you call
pleasant things, Linden. You speak with a mouth full--as if there were
plenty of them."

"Yes, there are plenty," Mr. Linden said, moving a little and resting
his face on his hand as if he felt tired; "but we were talking of only
two this morning,--heaven, and the way thither."

Dr. Harrison looked at him steadily.

"You are tired," he said gently. "You shall not talk any more to me
now, and I shall forbid your holding any more levees to-day. After
which," he added, the humourous expression coming back, "I shall expect
to hear a proclamation going through Pattaquasset, that, like the
knights of old, you are ready for all comers!--Well--I'll come and see
you to-morrow; and as long as you'll let me, as a friend; for the
pleasure of talking. You can have it all your own way, with a few more
days' strength. Will you have a levee to-morrow at the same hour?"

A little play of the lips came with the answer--

"Will that suit you?--I'll send you word." Then looking up at the
doctor with a different expression, he added, "What do you think of my
pleasant things?"

"Hardly in my line--" said the doctor with a carelessness which was
somewhat dubious in its character. "It is very well for those who find
the subject pleasant. I confess I have never studied it much."

"Then you have but half learned your profession." But the words were so
spoken that they could not give offence.

Neither did the doctor seem disposed to take offence.

"I'll ask you what you mean by that to-morrow," he said very
pleasantly. "I thought I had learned my profession. Have you learned
yours?" The last words were with a keen eye to the answer.

"Some people dignify my present business with that name," Mr. Linden
said.

"Well, you shall discourse to me more at length to-morrow," said the
doctor. "Shall I come later?"

"I don't expect to be in school to-morrow, so you may name your own
time," Mr. Linden said with a pleasant look. "But remember,--a
physician who has no skill to feel the pulse of the mind, no remedies
that can reach its fever or its chills,--is but half a physician. If I
had never studied the subject,--one word about heaven and the way
thither would be worth more to me than all the science of medicine ever
discovered! It is now--" he said in a low tone, as the flush passed
away. And then holding out his hand to Dr. Harrison, Mr. Linden added,
"I fully appreciate your skill and kindness--you need not doubt it."

The hand was taken, and grasped, cordially but in silence.

Whether the doctor went straight from Mr. Simlins' house to
church--where he was not a very constant attendant--it does not appear.
What is certain about the matter, is, that he was outside of the church
door after service just at the time that Faith Derrick found herself
there, and that he assumed a place at her side and walked with her
towards her mother's house instead of taking the other direction
towards his own. Faith was alone, Mrs. Derrick having chosen to stay at
home in case she should be sent for. The mist had cleared off
completely, and the sunny warm air invited to lingering in it. Faith
would not have lingered, but the doctor walked slowly, and she could
not leave him.

"I have been wanting to see you, ever since my inopportune proposal
yesterday," said he in a low tone,--"to make my peace with you."

"It is made, sir," said Faith, giving him a smile.

"How do you do to-day?"

"Very well!" she told him.

The doctor listened to the sound of her voice, and thought with himself
that as regarded the moral part of her nature the words were certainly
true.

"Let me have the pleasure of relieving you of that,"--he said, taking
Faith's little Bible gently away from her. "I am going your way. Miss
Derrick--you spoke yesterday of particular work to be done on Sunday.
Have you any objection to tell me what you meant by it? I confess to
you, your words are somewhat dark to me. That is my fault, of course.
Will you give me light?" It was a gentle, grave, quiet tone of
questioning.

"Others might do it far better, sir," said Faith.

"I would far rather hear it from you!"

The colour came a little into Faith's cheeks, but her words were given
with great simplicity.

"The other days are taken up very much with the work of this
world--Sunday is meant more particularly for the work that belongs to
the other world."

"And what is that? if you do not object to tell me. I confess, as I
tell you, I am ignorant."

She forgot herself now, and looked steadily at him.

"To learn to know God--with whom we have so much to do, here and
there;--to learn to know his will and to do it, and to bring others to
do it too, if we can.--And if we know and love him already, to enjoy it
and take the good of it,"--she added a little lower, and with a
softening of expression.

Dr. Harrison read her look fixedly, till she turned it away from him.

"And are these what you call pleasant things?" said he somewhat
curiously.

But Faith's answer rang out from her heart.

"Oh yes!"--

She stopped there, but evidently not for want of what to say.

"You are a happy thing," said the doctor, but not in a way to make his
words other than graceful. "I wish you would make me as good as you
are."

She looked at him, and answered very much as if she had been speaking
to a child.

"God will make you much better, Dr. Harrison, if you ask him."

He was silent a minute after that, without looking at her. When he
spoke again, it was with a change of tone.

"You are of a different world from that in which I live; and the
flowers that are sweet to you, belong, I am afraid, to a Flora that I
have no knowledge of. What, for instance, would you call pleasant
things to talk about--if you were choosing a subject of conversation?"

Faith looked a little surprised.

"A great many things are pleasant to me," she said smiling.

"I am sure of that! But indulge me--what would you name as supremely
such, to talk about?"

"If they are talked about right," said Faith gently, "I don't know
anything so pleasant as those things I was speaking of--what God will
have us do in this world, and what he will do for us in the next."

"'Heaven and the way thither'--" said Dr. Harrison to himself.

"What, sir?" said Faith.

"I should like to have you answer me that; but I am sorry, I see Mrs.
Derrick's house not far beyond us.--I saw our friend Mr. Linden this
morning."

"Is he better?" said Faith simply.

"He's doing very well. I told him he'd be a terribly famous man after
this. And it's begun. I found near all the boys in Pattaquasset
assembled there this morning."

"His Bible class--" said Faith, with a feeling which did not however
come into her face or voice, and Dr. Harrison watched both.

"Here is your Bible," he said as they stopped at the little gate. "Do
you always look so pale on Sundays?" he added with a look and tone of
half professional half friendly freedom.

"Not always," Faith said; but there came at the same time a little
tinge into the cheeks,--that Dr. Harrison wished away.

"May I come and earn your forgiveness for yesterday's stupidity?"

"Certainly!" Faith said,--"but there needs no forgiveness--from me, Dr.
Harrison."

He left her with a graceful, reverential obeisance; and Faith went in.



CHAPTER XX.



Dr. Harrison had but little left Mr. Linden that morning, when Mr.
Simlins came in. He had hardly seen his guest yet that day, except,
like Mrs. Derrick, when he was asleep. For having watched himself the
greater part of the night, for the pure pleasure of it, Mr. Simlins'
late rest had brought him almost to the hour when the boys came to what
the doctor called Mr. Linden's levee.

"Well how do you find yourself?" said the farmer, standing at the foot
of the bed and looking at its occupant with a kind of grim satisfaction.

"I find myself tired, sir--and at the same time intending to get up.
Mr. Simlins, are you going down to church this afternoon?"

"Well, no," said the farmer. "I think it's as good church as I can do,
to look arter you."

"You can have both," said Mr. Linden smiling,--"I should go with you."

"You aint fit," said the farmer regretfully.

"Fit enough--I'll come back and stay with you another day, when I am
well, if you'll let me."

"Will you?" said the farmer. "I'll bottle that 'ere promise and cork it
up; and if it aint good when I pull the cork--then I'll never play
Syrian again, for no one. But s'pose I ain't goin' to church?"

"Then I shall have to take Reuben."

"You sha'n't take no one but me," growled Mr. Simlins. "I'd rather see
you out of my house than not--if I can't see you in it."

The bells were ringing out for the early afternoon service when they
set forth; not ringing against each other, as which should give the
loudest call for its own particular church, but with alternate strokes
speaking the same thing--the one stepping in when the other was out of
broath. The warm sunshine rested upon all--"the evil and the good," and
spoke its own message though not so noisily. Along the road Mr.
Simlins' little covered wagon (chosen for various reasons) went at an
easy pace; with one to drive, and one to bear the motion as best he
might; and a third who would almost have agreed to be a pillow or a
cushion for the rest of his life, if he could have been one for that
day. What there were of that sort in the wagon, or indeed in the house,
were to Reuben's eyes far too thin and ineffectual. A little
excitement, a very earnest desire to get home once more, did partially
supply the need; and by the time the houses were empty and the churches
full, the wagon stopped at Mrs. Derrick's gate.

"I guess nobody's home," said Mr. Simlins as he with great tenderness
helped Mr. Linden to alight--"but anyway, here's the house all
standin'. Reuben, you go ahead and see if we can get in."

But before Reuben touched the door, Mrs. Derrick had opened it from the
inside, and stood there--her usually quiet manner quite subdued into
silence. Not into inaction however, for her woman's hands soon made
their superior powers known, and Mr. Simlins could only wonder why this
and that had not occurred to him before. Quick and still and
thoughtful, she had done half a dozen little things to make Mr. Linden
comfortable before he had been in the house as many minutes, and
assured the two others very confidently that "he shouldn't faint again,
if he wanted to ever so much!"

"Well, I was sorry to let him go," said Mr. Simlins, "and now I'm glad
of it. It takes a woman! Where's some-somebody else?"

"There's nobody else in the house," said Mrs. Derrick. "Faith's gone to
meeting, and Cindy too, for all I know."

"I'll send Dr. Harrison word in the morning where I am," said Mr.
Linden,--which Mr. Simlins rightly understood to mean that the fact
need not be published to-night. He took gentle leave of this lost guest
and went to church; excusing himself for it afterwards by saying he
felt lonely.

If Faith had seen him there, she might have jumped at conclusions
again; but she did not; and after the service walked home, slowly
again, though nobody was with her. A little wearied by this time with
the night and the day's work, wearied in body and mind perhaps, she
paced homewards along the broad street or road, on which the yellow
leaves of the trees were floating lazily down, and which was all filled
from sky and wayside with golden light. It brought to mind her walk of
last Sunday afternoon--and evening;--the hymn, and those other lines
Mr. Linden had repeated and which had run in her head fifty times
since. And Faith's step grew rather slower and less lightsome as she
neared home, and when she got home she went straight up to her room
without turning to the right or the left. Her mother was just then in
the kitchen and heard her not, and shielded by her bonnet Faith saw not
even that Mr. Linden's door stood open; but when she came out again a
while after, the full stream of sunlight that came thence into the
passage drew her eyes that way. And Faith did not wonder then that her
mother had been startled, and unprepared by the doctor's words for the
sight of what she now saw. The chintz-covered couch was drawn before
the window, in the full radiance of the sunlight, and Mr. Linden lay
there looking out; but the sunlight found no glow in his face, unless
one as etherial as itself. The habitual sweet pure look was there--a
look that reminded Faith of the one Johnny had worn in the morning; but
the face was perfectly colourless. The bandaged arm was supported only
by a sling, upon the other hand his cheek rested wearily. Faith looked,
hesitated, then stepped lightly into the room and stood before him;
with a face not indeed quite so pale as his own, but that only the
sunlight hindered his seeing was utterly without its usual colour. She
found nothing to say, apparently: for she did not speak, only held out
her hand. He had turned at the first sound of her step and watched
her--at first smiling, then grave--as she came near; and taking her
hand as silently as it was given, Mr. Linden looked up at her
face,--perhaps to see whether his instructions had been obeyed.

"I have had men's hands about me so long," he said, "that yours feels
like--" he did not specify what, but held it a minute as if he were
trying to find out. "Miss Faith, you want to be rocked to sleep."

Could he see that her lips trembled? He could feel how her hand did;
but her look was as frank as ever.

"Are you less well to-day?"--she said at last, in a voice that was
little above a whisper, and stopped short of his name.

"Less well than yesterday at this time--not less well than this
morning. A little more tired, perhaps." He spoke very quietly,
answering her words and letting his hand and eye do the rest. "Has Mrs.
Derrick a cradle in the house that would hold you?"

Perhaps Faith hardly heard the question, for she did not acknowledge it
by so much as a smile. She wished to ask the further question, whether
the assurance of last night was still true; but his appearance had
driven such fear to her heart that she dared not ask it. She stood
quite still a minute, but when she spoke her words were in the utmost
clear sweetness of a woman's voice.

"Can I do something for you, Mr. Linden?"

"You are doing something for me now--it is so pleasant to see you. But
Miss Faith, I shall have to reclaim some of your scholars; you have
been teaching too much to-day."

"No--" she said,--"I have had no chance."

"No chance to teach too much? And why?"

"Why," she said--"I had only the usual hour this morning. I could do no
more."

"You look as if you had been teaching all day--or taught, which is but
another branch. What did my boys say to you?"

"I think they thought they were saying to you, Mr. Linden,--they
behaved so well."

He smiled.

"I don't believe even your conjuring powers could bring about such a
hallucination, Miss Faith.--What a day it has been! Look at that
sunlight and think of the city that hath 'no need of the sun'!"

She looked where he bade her, but the contrast was a little too strong
just then with the earth that had so much 'need' of it! Only the
extreme gravity of her face however indicated anything of the struggle
going on. Her eye did not move,--nor eyelid.


"That is the only rest we must wait 'for,'" Mr. Linden said. "That
'remaineth.'"

Faith answered nothing. But after a little while the shadow of that
sunlight passed away from her face, and she turned to the couch again
and asked with her former gentle expression,

"Will you have tea up here, Mr. Linden?"

"I'm afraid I must," he said, looking up at her with eyes that rather
questioned than answered.

"Does mother know what you would like to have?"

"Miss Faith--I wish you would tell me just what is troubling you."

The question flushed her a little, and for a moment her face was a
quick play of light and shade; then she said,

"It troubled me not to see you looking better."

He took the force of her words, though he answered lightly.

"I suppose I do look rather frightful! But Miss Faith, I hope to get
over that in a few days--you must try and brace up your nerves, because
if you cannot bear the sight of me I shall have to deny myself the
sight of you."

"Don't do that," she said, the light coming into her eye and voice as
if by an actual sunbeam. "Then it is true, what you wrote me last
night, Mr. Linden?"

"Well!" he said--"I am not much in the habit of maintaining my own
words,--however, in this case I am willing to admit them true. If it
will be any relief to your mind, Miss Faith, I will promise to remain
in seclusion until you say I am fit to be seen down stairs."

The answer to that was only a rosy little smile, like the sunlight
promise of fair weather on the last clouds that float over the horizon.
But perhaps his words had brought her mind back to the question of
supper for she asked again,

"What are you to have for tea to-night, Mr. Linden?"

"May I take a great liberty?" he said with a look as grave as before.

"I don't know how you can,"--she said and with eyes somewhat surprised,
