Again it affords me pleasure to acknowledge my indebtedness to my young
friends for the kind reception given to my books. I trust that this,
the twentieth volume of my "Stories for Young People," will not
disappoint their hopes, or fail to improve their minds and hearts.



RICHARD GRANT AND FRIEND GET INTO AN AWFUL SCRAPE.


"Now, steady as she is," said Sandy Brimblecom, who lay upon the
half-deck of the Greyhound, endeavoring to peer through the darkness of
a cloudy night, which had settled deep and dense upon the Hudson, and
obscured every object on the shore. "Steady as she is, Dick, and we
shall go in all right."

"Ay, ay; steady it is," replied Richard Grant, who was at the helm.

"Port a little! Port a little!" added Sandy, a few moments after, as he
discovered the entrance of a little inlet, which was the destination of
the Greyhound.

"Shut up your head, Sandy!" replied Richard, in a low but energetic
tone. "You might as well publish our plan in the newspaper as speak as
loud as that."

"Port a little more," said the lookout forward.

"What's the use of hallooing port?" answered Richard, impatiently.
"Don't you see the mainsail shakes now?"

"You will be on the rocks in half a minute more."

"Let her go about, then, and we will get a little farther to windward
before we try to run in."

The Greyhound came over on the other tack, and stood away from the
shore a considerable distance. The wind was very light, and the current
was against them; so the progress of the boat was necessarily very
slow.

"Now, Sandy Brimblecom," said Richard, when the boat had made a third
of the distance to the opposite shore, "we might as well go back to
Woodville, and go to bed, as to attempt to carry this thing through, if
you are going to bellow and yell like a mad bull."

"I didn't think I spoke very loud," replied Sandy.

"Didn't think so!" sneered Richard. "Any one might have heard you clear
across the river."

"O, no, Dick; not so bad as that."

"You spoke too loud, at any rate, and you might as well go up and tell
'Old Batterbones' what we are about as talk half so loud as you did."

"Come, Dick, you have said enough," replied Sandy, who did not relish
all the reflections that were cast upon his conduct.

"You are as stupid as an owl; I thought you had some common sense."

"That'll do, Dick; I don't want any more of that kind of blarney; and
if you don't shut up, you or I will get a black eye."

Richard did not seem to have much doubt which of them would obtain this
ornamental tinting of the physiognomy, for he immediately changed his
tone, and did not venture to apply any more unpleasant epithets to his
companion. Sandy had obtained some reputation as a fighting character,
and was virtually the champion of the ring among the boys in the
vicinity of Whitestone.

"Now be more careful, this time, Sandy," said Richard, as he put the
boat about upon the other tack.

"Don't give me any more lip, Dick, and I will do any thing you want,"
replied Sandy, mollified by the altered tones of his friend.

"Don't get mad; we have no time to quarrel, if we mean to put this
thing through to-night."

"I am ready to put it through, but I have no notion of being treated
like a slave or a fool," said Sandy, as he lay down upon the half-deck,
and began to gaze into the gloom ahead of the boat. "Luff a little," he
added, as he discovered the dim outline of the shore.

"Luff, it is."

This time, both boys spoke in a low tone, and the want of harmony which
a few moments before had threatened to break up the enterprise, and end
in a game of rough and tumble, was removed. The Greyhound, under the
skilful management of Richard,--for there was not a better sailor of
his years on the Hudson,--was thrown into the inlet without touching
the rocks which lay at the entrance.

Sandy, with the painter in his hand, jumped ashore, and made fast to a
small tree on the bank. Neither of the boys spoke a loud word, and
Richard carefully brailed up the sails, so that their flapping should
not attract the attention of any person who might be in the vicinity.

"Now, Dick, if you will follow me, I will lead you up to Old
Batterbones' garden," whispered Sandy, when the sail boat had been
properly secured.

"I will follow you. Have you got the bag?"

"Yes--all right."

Richard followed his companion up the steep bank of the river, across a
field, till they came to a fence, where they paused to reconnoitre.

"Now be careful, Sandy," whispered Richard, nervously, "for I wouldn't
be caught in this scrape for the best hundred dollars that ever was."

"I don't want to be caught any more than you do," replied Sandy.

"Well, it won't make so much difference with you as it will with me."

"Won't it! Don't you think my neck is worth as much to me as yours is
to you?"

"I don't mean that, of course. Your father is a carpenter, and people
won't think half so much of it if you are caught, as they would in my
case."

"My father never was in the Tombs if he is a carpenter," growled Sandy.

"That's mean," said Richard. "You know he was put there for nothing at
all."

"It isn't half so mean as what you said. If you think you are so much
better than I am, what did you ask me to come with you for?"

"I don't think I am any better than you are."

"Yes, you do; and you may go ahead with the game; I won't go any
farther."

"Don't back out, Sandy. Have you got scared?"

"I'm not scared; you are too big for your boots."

"No, no, Sandy, I didn't mean any thing of the sort."

"Didn't you say it wouldn't make as much difference with me as with
you, if we got caught?"

"I only meant that people would talk more about me than they would
about you."

"Perhaps they would, and perhaps they wouldn't. In my opinion, I'm as
good as you are, any day."

"Of course you are; I never doubted it. Come, Sandy, we've run together
too long to fall out now."

"I don't want to fall out, or back out; but I don't want to be snubbed,
every ten minutes, about my father's being a carpenter."

"I won't say another word, Sandy. I didn't mean any thing."

"All right, my boy. I don't live in a big house, and my father isn't
rich; but I'm just as good as any other fellow, for all that. If you
didn't mean any thing, I'm satisfied."

"If I thought you were not as good as I am, of course I shouldn't go
with you."

This conversation was carried on in a very low tone, while the boys
were seated by the fence. When Sandy's injured honor was healed, and
the son of the rich broker of Woodville had acknowledged that the other
was his equal, they were again ready to proceed with the business of
the enterprise. Richard was not content with the homage which his
companions could render without any sacrifice of self-respect, but he
exacted the right not only to command them, but also to be indulged in
the use of opprobrious epithets.

Sandy, as the "bully" of his circle, could not quietly submit to the
domineering style of the rich man's son. He was willing, for the sake
of sharing in the "loaves and fishes," which Richard had to distribute,
to compromise far enough to be ordered in a gentlemanly way; but he
would not tolerate any invidious comparisons. Richard had a fine boat,
and Sandy was very fond of sailing, which made him sacrifice some
portion of his dignity as the champion of the ring. Richard was usually
well supplied with money, which was a scarce article with the son of
the journeyman carpenter, and boys bow down to the Mammon of this
world, as well as men.

Richard patronized Sandy because his hard fist and abundant muscle
rendered him a powerful and influential person. It was easier to buy
the champion than it was to whip him, and the broker's son had
conquered the bully by paying for the oysters at Bob Bleeker's saloon
in Whitestone, and by permitting him to use the Greyhound when he
wished. Richard had a great respect for muscle. If Sandy Brimblecom's
father had chosen to pursue his peaceful avocation in any other
locality than Whitestone, Richard Grant might have been the champion of
the "P.R." The advent of Sandy had produced a fight, in which Richard,
though he behaved to the satisfaction of all his friends and
supporters, was severely punished. His friends called it a drawn
battle; but Richard did not think it advisable to have the question
definitely settled, and Sandy was acknowledged as the champion.

Richard respected the boy he could not whip, and they had become
friends, or, at least, associates. It is scarcely necessary to inform
the intelligent young readers of this book, that the moral standard of
both boys was very low; for those who can fight simply to find out
which is "the better man," have a very inadequate conception of what
constitutes true dignity and nobility of character. "Muscle" and
"backbone"--fighting ability and courage--in a good cause, are to be
respected, and men and boys will always pay them due homage; but
fighting for its own sake is mean, low-lived business--the most vicious
of vices.

Sandy was satisfied with the explanation of his patron, and rising from
his seat under the fence, he looked over into the garden, and listened
for any sounds which might indicate an obstacle in the way of the
enterprise; but not a sound could be heard except the chirping of the
crickets and the piping of the frogs. With a great deal of care, he
climbed to the top of the fence, and then listened again.

"Does he keep a dog?" whispered Richard.

"I don't know; I don't care, either," replied Sandy, as he dropped from
the fence into the garden.

Richard climbed over with the same caution which his companion had
used, and after following him for some distance, reached a patch of
watermelons, which appeared to be the destination of this night
expedition.

"Get down on the ground!" whispered Sandy, who had already prostrated
himself. "You will blow the whole thing if you stand up there."

"Open the bag, and let's fill it up quick!" replied Richard, as he
picked a large melon from the vines, and handed it to the other.

"What's the use of picking such a melon in that?" snarled Sandy. "It
isn't ripe. Can't you tell the ripe ones by the feeling?"

"No; I can't."

"Stick your thumb nail into them. Here, you take the bag, and I will
pick them. We don't want to lug off melons that are good for nothing."

Richard took the bag, and placed the fruit in it as fast as Sandy
gathered it. In a few moments the bag was full, and the young marauders
commenced their retreat with all the haste which a proper caution would
permit. The bag was large and heavy, and it required their united
strength to carry it.

The garden proved to be something like an eel trap--it was easy enough
to get into it, but very difficult to get out. Near the melon patch
there was a piece of corn, by the side of which lay their path out of
the enclosure. They had gone but a short distance when they heard a
rustling in the corn behind them, and before they could make out the
cause of the noise, a strong hand grasped the collar of each of them.

"We've caught you, my lads!" exclaimed one of the men, who had seized
Richard.

It was an awful scrape: so thought the broker's son; and Sandy,
notwithstanding the difference in their social standing, was of the
same opinion.




CHAPTER II.

RICHARD JUMPS OUT OF THE FRYING-PAN INTO THE FIRE.


Richard Grant was the son of a rich man, but he was neither any better
nor any worse for this circumstance. He had been in a great many sad
scrapes before the one in which the reader now finds him. It was not
the first time he had taken that which did not belong to him.

In his father's garden there was an abundance of watermelons, and he
had always been plentifully supplied with all the fruits in their
season. He had, therefore, no excuse for stealing melons. There could
be no excuse, under any circumstances, for stealing. He did not need
them; he did not even want them.

But Richard was fond of exciting adventures, and it was simply the love
of fun which had prompted him to visit the garden of Mr. Batterman. I
hope none of my young friends will think this even palliated his
offence. If he did not have the motive which actuates the common thief,
he was certainly more to blame than if he had needed or wanted the
product of his theft. Stealing for fun cannot be any better than
stealing from the love of gain, or to provide for one's necessities.

Richard Grant is the hero of this volume; but I shall not wink at any
of his vices or inconsistencies on this account. That he may not be
utterly despised, however, I may say of him that he had a great many
redeeming qualities. He was generous to a fault, and his impulses were
generally worthy and noble. He was ready to give to the needy, and to
fight for the oppressed. He was kind-hearted, and nothing but the love
of sport could induce him to violate the rights, or injure the
feelings, of others. He lived upon excitement, and was not always very
choice of the means which he used to procure it.

Richard's father had not been able to bestow that care upon his moral
education which his temperament required. He needed discipline, and the
want of it was seen in his daily life. Mr. Grant was conscious of the
boy's needs, and he frequently talked to him about his vicious course;
but words did not supply the want; he required a more active treatment.

Sandy Brimblecom was as little disturbed by his conscience as his more
wealthy companion. As long as he could stand upon an equality with an
heir of Woodville, he was satisfied to let all moral questions take
care of themselves. The two boys who sailed in the Greyhound on the
eventful night of their introduction to the reader, were well mated in
every respect. Either was ready to follow the lead of the other,
without asking whether he was doing right or wrong. If there was any
fun to be had out of the enterprise, both were ready to engage in it.

They had got into a bad scrape this time, for Mr. Batterman had the
reputation of being a very hard man. He had suffered a great deal from
the depredations of fruit thieves. He carried on a large business in
raising fruit and vegetables for the New York market. It was not
pastime to him, but bread and butter--the means by which he supported
his family and accumulated his property. Those who stole fruit from his
gardens robbed him of so much of his income; and he was not in the
humor to submit to these exactions.

In several instances he had taken these petty marauders before the
courts, and caused them to be fined; but as this course did not remove
the evil, he had taken the law in his own hands, and severely punished
some of the juvenile offenders. For this reason, among the boys he was
called "Old Batterbones," which was only a slight corruption of his
real name.

Of course Richard and Sandy had no idea of being caught when they
embarked in this plundering expedition. They had taken extraordinary
precautions to prevent such a catastrophe; but the farmer was
constantly on the watch, and they had fallen into the trap which he had
set not specially for them, but for any who might invade his grounds
with malicious intent.



The person who held Richard by the collar, and whose finger nails had
already left their marks upon his neck, was no less a person than "Old
Batterbones" himself; and from the manner in which he shook his
prisoner, he seemed determined to make good his title to the sobriquet
the boys had given him. The person who held Sandy in his grasp was the
farmer's foreman, who fully sympathized with his employer in his views
of discipline.

Richard struggled, and Sandy struggled; but they might as well have
attempted to escape from the grip of an iron vise. The farmer and his
man held them fast; and the more their prisoners squirmed, the more
they shook them, and the more they seemed to enjoy the satisfaction of
shaking and choking them.

"We've caught you, my lads," said Mr. Batterman several times.

"Let go of me," growled Richard, his anger fully aroused by the rough
treatment he was receiving.

"I'll let go, you young villain, when I've done with you, but not
before. I'll teach you to steal my melons; and then you can go home and
tell your father how it is done," replied the farmer, as he twisted the
cravat of the poor boy till he could hardly breathe.

Sandy, finding that any violent resistance was hopeless, submitted to
his fate with the best grace he could command; but he only waited his
chance for something to turn up that would afford him an opportunity to
escape. He intended to use his wits, rather than his muscle, on this
occasion; and his prudence saved him from some portion of the hard
usage that was bestowed upon his companion in misery.

"Keep cool, Dick," said he, in a low tone, when he saw that his friend
was wasting his strength and adding to his discomfort by useless
resistance to the fiat of destiny.

Richard profited by this hint; and when he became calm and reasonable,
the farmer relaxed his grasp, and permitted him to breathe with more
freedom.

"Who are they, Bates?" asked the farmer of his foreman.

"I don't know them; it is so dark I can't make them out," replied
Bates.

"We'll take them up to the barn, and see what they look like."

"They have been here before, I think," added the foreman. "I am pretty
sure I saw them the other night."

"No, you didn't," said Richard, testily. "I never was here before."

"Perhaps you never was, my boys; but when chaps like you go far enough
to steal, you don't stand about a lie or two to cover it up. Now, boys,
you may take up that bag, and carry it to the barn."

"I won't carry it," said Richard, promptly.

"Won't you?" And the farmer again applied the twisting process to his
cravat, till the boy's strength was almost gone from the choking
sensation.

"Let go of me! You'll choke me to death!" gasped Richard, who had never
before been so roughly handled.

"Will you carry the bag up to the barn, then?" demanded Mr. Batterman,
as he eased off the pressure upon the prisoner's throat.

"No, I won't!" replied Richard.

"Now, I think you will," said the farmer, as he resumed the torture.

"Come, Dick, we may as well do it. It is no use to kick; we are in for
it, and you had better make the best of it," interposed Sandy, who was
disposed to get off as cheaply as he could.

"I won't touch the bag! I'll die first!" gasped Richard, whose rage had
now reached the boiling point, and there was no more reason in him than
in a mad dog.

"He's a hard one," suggested Bates.

"But he shall come to it, or I'll break every bone in his body,"
answered the farmer.

Richard, insane with passion, and choking with rage as well as from the
discipline of Mr. Batterman, commenced a tremendous struggle for
freedom and self-preservation. He sprang towards his captor in an
ineffectual attempt to hit him, or to scratch out his eyes with his
finger nails. Failing in his efforts in this direction, he began to use
his heels as vigorously as a three-year old colt, and succeeded in
planting two or three hard kicks upon the shins of the farmer.

Mr. Batterman was a large and powerful man, and the efforts of Richard
were as puny as those of a lamb in the fangs of the lion. He foamed and
struggled till his strength was exhausted, and his conqueror permitted
him to drop upon the ground.

"You've killed him," said Sandy, very much alarmed at the apparent fate
of his friend.

"If I have, that's his business, not mine," answered the farmer,
without betraying any remorse at what he had done.

But Richard was not killed, or even very badly injured. The choking had
deprived him of all his strength; but a few minutes' respite from
persecution restored him in a great measure, and he attempted to get
up, when he was promptly seized by the farmer again.

"Will you carry the bag up to the barn, or will you try some more of
the same sort?" asked Mr. Batterman, in a tone which fully indicated
his intention to resume his harsh treatment.

"I can't carry it," replied Richard, in an altered tone, which was, at
least, suggestive of a "caving in" of his obdurate will.

"You carried it very well before you were caught, and perhaps you can
again," sneered the farmer.

"Come, Dick, take hold of the bag," said Sandy. "It's no use."

"I wasn't brought up to do that kind of work," replied Richard, whose
pride, quite as much as his self-will, prompted him to refuse to do the
degrading office.

"Take your choice, and be quick," said Mr. Batterman, preparing to
apply his disciplinary powers again. "Take hold of the bag at once, or
I'll shake the life out of you."

Richard could not stand another dose of the farmer's exhausting
medicine, and he sullenly seized the bag, while Sandy took hold of the
other side. Bates and the farmer kept close to them, so that there was
no chance to break away. After changing hands several times, they
reached the barn, and placed the melons in the position designated by
their tormentors.

"Now, who are you?" asked the farmer, when they had disposed of the
bag.

"None of your business," answered Richard, in a low, sullen tone.

"You haven't got enough of it yet. Bates, bring the lantern, and fetch
a cowhide with you, while you are about it."

Richard did not like the sound of this last order. It was ominous of a
painful and degrading operation, a process of discipline to which he
had never before been subjected. The idea of being whipped was almost
as terrible as that of being shot through the head or heart.

"Will you tell me your name, young man?" demanded the farmer, when the
foreman had gone. "Let me inform you in the beginning, that I am in no
humor to be trifled with. You can answer me or not, just as you think
best."

"I would rather not tell my name," replied Richard, in a subdued tone.

The son of the rich broker of Woodville had conscientious scruples on
this point; for though he did not scruple to commit the theft, he was
fully alive to the disgrace of being exposed. The good name, the
worldly reputation of his family, seemed to be of more value than a
conscience void of offence before Him who readeth all hearts. To speak
of the sin of the act was but to utter trite and commonplace words,
which could be found in any cheap catechism; but to mention the
disgrace attending the exposure of that sin, was to touch him where he
was keenly sensitive.

"You must tell me your name," said Mr. Batterman, firmly. "What is your
name?" he added, turning to Sandy, whom he now held with one hand.

"Sanderson Brimblecom," answered he, for he had no family reputation to
guard.

"Now, yours?" said he to Richard.

The broker's son made no reply. He had now too much respect for Mr.
Batterman to irritate him with words, and too much respect for the name
he bore to connect it with the theft he had committed. He waited in
silence till Bates came with the lantern.




CHAPTER III.

RICHARD FINDS THAT NO CHASTENING SEEMETH TO BE JOYOUS.


"Tell him who you are, Dick," said Sandy, when Bates appeared with the
lantern. "What's the use of trying to cover up your name, when the
light will blow the whole thing?"

"Well, Dick," added the farmer, adopting the name Sandy had used, "if
you don't tell me who you are, I shall see what virtue there is in that
cowhide."

"My name is Richard Grant," replied the broker's son, sullenly, and
with the feeling that he had sacrificed all his manhood by giving up
the point.

"Ah, then you are the son of Mr. Grant, of Woodville!" sneered Mr.
Batterman. "I don't wonder you didn't want to tell your name, for
stealing melons isn't a very respectable business."

"I am willing to pay for the melons, and let the matter drop where it
is," said Richard, who was so far humbled as to be willing to
compromise with the owner of the stolen fruit.

"I am not exactly willing to let the matter drop where it is. You are
the son of a rich and respectable man, and you ought to know better
than to steal; and I am going to give you a lesson which I hope you
will profit by."

"I will pay double price for all the melons, if you will let me go."

"I wouldn't let you go if you would pay ten times the value of the
melons. I want to teach you better than to steal; and when I've done
with you, I don't believe you will want to steal any more of my fruit."

"What are you going to do?" demanded Richard, very much disturbed by
the decided tones of the farmer.

"I'm going to give you a sound thrashing."

"No, you are not," said Richard, who would rather have died on the spot
than submit to the humiliation of a flogging.

"You will see whether I am or not. It's no kind of use for me to take a
rich man's son like you before the court. Your father would pay your
fine, and you would laugh in your sleeve, and call it a good joke."

"You have no right to flog me," protested Richard.

"Perhaps I haven't; but I'm going to do it, if I have to suffer myself
for it. I am going to have the satisfaction of curing you of stealing
my melons."

Bates had taken hold of Sandy again, and Mr. Batterman prepared to make
good his promise. By the light of the lantern Richard saw the hard face
of the farmer. It was stern and forbidding, and he felt that he meant
all he had said. How could the son of the owner of Woodville submit to
the disgrace of being whipped? At home he was treated with respect and
consideration. The servants took off their hats to him. His father, in
his sternest moments, had never hinted such a thing as corporal
punishment.

It seemed absolutely impossible for him to submit to the farmer's
terrible remedy, but there was no way to avoid it. He had offered to
compromise, but nothing would satisfy his relentless captor. The
punishment was to be inflicted in the spirit of revenge rather than
from a sense of duty, which made it all the more intolerable to think
of. He was not to be whipped for his own or the public good, but to
satisfy the malice and revenge of "Old Batterbones."

He decided not to submit to the infliction; but he might as well have
decided not to let the sun rise on the following morning, or to stop
the Hudson in its majestic flow to the sea. His own experience, so
dearly bought in the garden, had shown him that he was utterly
incapable of any successful resistance. He looked around him for the
means of escape, and racked his brain for some expedient that would
enable him to checkmate his unwieldy opponent; but he looked in vain,
and thought in vain. There was nothing upon which to hang even the
faintest hope of resistance or escape.

The farmer held him by the collar, and the terrible instrument of
torture was raised over his head. It fell, and Richard writhed with the
pain, not of the body alone, for the blow seemed to penetrate to his
soul. It lacerated his pride, his self-respect, more than it did his
legs. He trembled like an aspen leaf, as much from intense emotion as
from the smart of the stroke.

Richard was no coward, but he would have begged off, if he could have
done so with any prospect of success; but he might as well have pleaded
with the ocean to hold back its destructive waves, as with Mr.
Batterman to stay his hand, before his revenge was satisfied. Another
and another blow fell. The pain was so severe that the culprit could
not endure it, and the quick-falling strokes soon kindled a fire in his
soul which neither prudence nor policy could check. It burst out in a
raging flame of passion, which caused him to roar like a mad bull, and
to kick, bite, and struggle like an imprisoned tiger.

All this resistance only added to the spite of his persecutor and he
laid on the blows till his own strength failed him. In vain Sandy
remonstrated with Richard upon the folly of his course, and begged him
to keep cool, as though a severe flogging was one of the light
afflictions of this world, that may be endured with patience by a
philosophical temperament.

"Old Batterbones" had exhausted himself in the struggle. His "wind" was
gone; and he gave up because he could do no more, rather than because
he was satisfied with the extent of the punishment.

"There, Mr. Richard Grant, of Woodville, when you want to steal any
more melons of mine, think of that," said the farmer, as he cast the
culprit from him.

"You'll have to pay for this," groaned Richard, who felt as though he
had endured all the tortures of the Inquisition.

"Perhaps I shall," puffed Mr. Batterman; "but if you have got enough to
make you a wiser and a better boy, I shall be perfectly satisfied."

"I'll be revenged on you for this, if it costs me my life," exclaimed
Richard, whose soul smarted even more than his body.

"Shut up, now!" said the farmer, angrily, "or I'll give you some more."

Richard did shut up, for the incident had developed a grain of
discretion in his composition, if nothing better--though nothing better
could be expected from a flogging inflicted in the spirit of malice.

"Now, my boy," said the farmer, turning to Sandy, when he had in some
measure recovered his breath, "we will see what we can do for you. You
are not a fool like the other fellow, and your wisdom will serve you a
good turn."

Sandy made no remark in reply to this speech of Mr. Batterman. He had
made up his mind to submit with all the philosophy he could bring to
his aid. He had been flogged before. It was not a new institution to
him, as it had been to his companion in iniquity. He looked upon a
flogging as one of the necessary evils to which a fast boy must submit;
and though he did not think it was all for the best, he was disposed to
make the best of it. The thrashing was the gate by which he was to
escape from a bad scrape.

The farmer bore less malice towards him than towards his friend. He had
offered no resistance, and been measurably humble under the discipline
of misfortune. The blows were lighter and less in number, and when a
dozen strokes had been administered, Mr. Batterman was satisfied, and
so expressed himself. At the same time he volunteered an opinion that
Richard was the real sinner, and had led the other into the mischief--a
position which Sandy took no pains to controvert.

But Sandy, though he was a philosopher, and an embryo man of the world,
did not submit to his punishment in silence. He was not a Stoic, and
every blow extorted from him a cry of pain, which was as politic as it
was necessary. He labored to convince the farmer that he was suffering
severely from the castigation, so that he might be the sooner satisfied
with what had been done. Compared with that which Richard had received,
his whipping was light. When it was finished, he was surprised that he
had got off with so little; and he congratulated himself upon the
strategy which had so sensibly diminished his portion.

"Now, boys, you can go. If you are satisfied, I am; and when you want
to steal any more of my fruit, just remember my treatment of fruit
thieves," said the farmer.

"You haven't seen the end of this yet," replied Richard, as he moved
off, his skin and his proud spirit smarting in unison.

"You haven't seen the end of it either, if you don't keep a civil
tongue in your head."

Richard was tempted to enter immediately upon the work of revenging
himself for what he had suffered, and when the farmer spoke, he picked
up a couple of stones, with the intention of throwing them at his
tormentor; but Sandy, cool and self-possessed in the hour of
tribulation, dissuaded him from this insane course.

"No use, Dick; drop the stones, and we will pay him off at another
time, when we can do so without danger."

Richard listened to this prudent advice, and concluded to adopt it,
though he was impatient to be revenged upon the farmer. He was not
satisfied with Sandy. He had not been sustained in his resistance to
the barbarous conduct of their captor. He thought his companion had
been tame and mean-spirited, he had submitted so quietly to his
punishment; and when they had got out of the hearing of Mr. Batterman,
he roundly reproached him for his pusillanimous demeanor.

"I don't want to call you any hard names, Dick, but in my humble
opinion, you were a downright fool," replied Sandy. "It's no sort of
use to pound a stone wall with your naked fist. You don't hurt the wall
any."

"I like to see a fellow show some spirit," growled Richard. "I thought
you had some spunk; but you caved in, and took your flogging as meekly
as though you had been one of the saints in Fox's Book of Martyrs."

"I don't know any thing about your martyrs, but I hadn't any notion of
getting a double licking, as you did. You got four times as much as I
did, just because you were fool enough to resist. If there had been any
use in fighting, I would have fought as big as you did."

"I like to see a fellow stand by another when he gets into a scrape,"
whined Richard.

"Do you mean to say I didn't stand by you? Did I run away from you?"
demanded Sandy, indignantly.

"You couldn't run away. The man held you fast, or you would have done
so."

"It's very easy for you to talk. I did all I could to make you act like
a reasonable fellow; but you were bound to be a fool, and you got all
you bargained for."

Richard made no reply to his companion's taunts, for his philosophy was
beginning to commend itself to his common sense, as he thought of the
difference in the two floggings, and realized that it was all owing to
his own stupidity. They walked along in silence, till they reached the
Greyhound, but still with "thoughts too big for utterance."

"A pretty condition I am in to go home," said Richard, as he took his
place at the helm.

"You will be all right in a day or two," replied Sandy, consolingly.

"What will my father say?"

"If you are fool enough to let him know about it, I don't care what he
says."

"How can I help it? The blood is running down my legs now. My skin is
all cut up."

"Wash off the blood, and don't let any body see your legs."

"I could kill Old Batterbones," added Richard, grating his teeth.

"We'll pay him off."

"I'll have my revenge, if I die for it."

"I'm with you there, Dick."

It was midnight when the Greyhound reached the pier at Woodville.




CHAPTER IV.

RICHARD MAKES A TREMENDOUS SENSATION AT WOODVILLE.


The mansion at Woodville was dark and silent when Richard stole
cautiously up the walk which led from the pier to the house. Of course
his father and the other members of the family supposed he was asleep
in his chamber, where he had gone at an early hour to retire. He had
locked his door as usual, and to make the deception more complete, he
had pretended that he was not very well.

His chamber window opened upon the one-story addition which had been
erected to afford room for a conservatory. On one end of the structure
there was a trellis for the support of a grape vine. After he had
locked his door, Richard had opened the window, crawled out upon the
roof of the conservatory, and descended to the ground by the aid of the
trellis.

He intended to return to his room by the same route, but it was now a
more difficult matter than it had been when the family were all in the
sitting room. Mr. Presby's room was next to his own, and the old
gentleman was not a very sound sleeper. The difficulty of gaining
access to his room was so great that he was tempted to sleep in the
boat house, and not take the risk of being discovered; but the
condition of his legs, still smarting severely from the chastisement he
had received, would not permit him to do so. His wounds needed
attention, and though he was no surgeon, he knew that a good washing in
cold water, with the application of a simple remedy he had in his
chamber, might ease the pain, and perhaps save him from serious
consequences.
