turf, already sprouting under the genial skies ; and warm 
breezes of the past week ; there were birds twittering in 
the naked branches above their heads ; and as they drew to 
gether in the centre of the grass-plot, for conference upon 
the next best step to be taken, a hare, the most timid of 
forest-bred creatures, scudded by on her way to her not 
distant form. 

" We must make the arrest without additional evidence, 




gentlemen !" decided Mr. Reverdy, the magistrate. "Colonel Floyd's possession of the watch and bonds must be accounted for, and the matter of the supposed forgery cleared 
up, before we can lawfully or conscientiously abandon the 
task we have undertaken." 

" It will be a bad business for us all if he gets clear, after 
we; have brought so serious a charge," demurred one of the 
quartette a nervous, cautious man, and a near neighbor of 
the Floyds. "The colonel is a troublesome customer to 
manage, when his blood is up. I shouldn't relish being at 
enmity with him, if he is to go at large. He never forgives 
an affront." 

"Then, Mr. Dickson, you had better not accompany us !" 
rejoined Mr. Reverdy, in calm contempt. "For my own 
part, I shall probe this affair to the bottom, at any and every 
cost to myself. If no one else will go with us, Mr. Lay and 
myself will serve the warrant. Shall we return to our 
horses ?" 

Murmuring something to the effect that he had been 
"misunderstood," and that he was as " little afraid as any 
other man," Mr. Dickson walked back with the rest. 

" Lay ! this is certainly very singular !" said the foremost 
of them, going up to Hero and laying his hand upon his 
neck. 

The poor beast was covered with sweat, and shook in 
every joint. He responded to the friendly touch by another 
frightened neigh, wild and piercing as the former; and 
when Aleck took him by the head to lead him on again, 
struck his hoofs deep into the earth and pulled back with 
all his might. They all gathered about him, in wonder 
ment and inquiry. Aleck was the first to remark that the 
creature paid no attention to their movements ; that his eyes 
were fixed upon a cluster of saplings not four feet off. This 
they had examined more than once in their fruitless quest, 




but the change in his features now directed the attention of 
the others to the place. 

" There are no pine-trees near ! Those are hickory sap 
lings ! Why should the ground under them be covered 
with pine-needles !" 

The exclamation acted like an electric shock. All sprang 
forward to the work of clearing away the thick brown covering. It was several inches in depth, and looked as if 
swine had been bedded there during the cold weather an 
illusion that had completely imposed upon the search-party, 
until they observed that the leaves could not have fallen 
from the trees above ; and the improbability that they had 
been brought from a distance for such a purpose, when the 
herd could as well have been littered under the pines them 
selves, presented itself to every mind. A hoe, spade, and 
pickaxe were hastily produced from a bag which was lashed 
to the front of Hero's saddle, and while three used these to 
rake off the matted needles, the fourth scraped it aside with 
his bare hands. 

It was removed in less time than it has taken to describe 
the process, and there remained exposed a considerable area 
of lighter color than the black, rich soil around it, as if the 
earth had been carefully spread over a wide space, to avoid 
the appearance of elevation in any one spot. Near the 
middle of this was plainly visible a sunken spot, long and 
narrow, and perfectly regular in outline. Not a word was 
uttered, of command or remark, as each of the three men 
bent to his work, and dug as if his own life or death depended upon his diligence. 

Of the three ! The spade had fallen from the nerveless 
hand of the fourth, and his next neighbor, he who had 
labored with his fingers only, caught it ere it touched the 
ground, and struck it boldly into the soil. Sick with horror, 
Aleck leaned against a tree, and watched the rapidly 





deepening chasm at his feet ; noted the signs of a former 
excavation, in the leaves and sticks mingled with the earth 
they cast np. Would they have to dig far down ? and if 
so, would his strength and reason endure this racking suspense until they reached it ? 

The pit was already two feet deep, and the dirt lay compact as ever, settled by the snows and rains of two long 
winter months. Three feet ! they worked well ! Four ! 
they must be nearing it. 

Ha ! how carelessly that man plunged the pick-axe up to 
the helve ! Had he no thought of what he might strike 
into what substance the keen, cruel point might sink at any 
moment ! Again he swung the implement in the air and 
Aleck seized his arm convulsively when he would have 
brought it down. 

" For heaven's sake, Dickson ! be careful ! you cannot be 
far from it now!" he cried, harshly. 

None of the excited laborers had realized their exact 
position before ; but they eyed the dimensions of the pit 
now with careful, wondering attention, and the man who 
wielded the pick stepped one side and laid down the dangerous instrument. The others kept on with their task 
but delved warily, more slowly scraping instead of dig 
ging. The tedious process, necessary as he felt it to be 
their expression of watchfulness as each spadeful was're 
moved were more horrible than ah  that had gone be 
fore. 

" This is dying by inches !" he whispered to Dickson, who 
stood at his side ; and he put up his hand to wipe away the 
cold beads that, dripping from his forehead, were literally 
blinding him. 

"My God!" 

The low cry broke from one of the workmen, and at the 
same instant Dickson clutched Aleck's shoulder, dragged 




him some paces before he could recover from his surprise at 
the movement. 

" You must not see this, Lay ! indeed you must not !" remonstrated the neighbor, withstanding, with friendly 
violence, Aleck's struggles to escape from his hold. " Sit 
here !" He pushed him down upon the trunk of a fallen 
tree " Sit here, until I go and see whether it is best for 
you to be there !" 

Misled by the apparent obedience of his charge, he ran 
back to the grave. 

A grave, in truth, it was, and within it a figure, from 
whose features gentle hands were that moment withdrawing 
the only shield between it and the earth a coarse, gray 
blanket spread over the body, after the manner of a pall. 
Unchanged, save by the pallor of death, he slept there 
peacefully, as if loving, and not bloody hands had laid him 
down to his long rest ; as if a costly coffin had sheltered his 
mortal frame from the contaminating touch of his mother 
earth, and costly marble sought to immortalize his name and 
memory. 

A hollow groan caused the beholders to look up, and 
Aleck Lay's white face was seen leaning forward beside Mr. 
Dickson's, turned for one second to the blue, smiling heavens, 
and his arms were tossed aloft, none doubted, in agonized in 
vocation of Divine vengeance upon the murderer ; then, he 
spoke in accents more stern than sad 

" Lift him out ! Mr. Dickson, your house is nearest ; will 
you ride over and send some conveyance in which the body 
can be carried to Maple Hill ? Frank ! you will stay here 
until he returns, then gallop ahead, and prepare my wife for 
what she must see that is, if I am not at home myself by 
that time. I will exchange horses with you ; I think that mine 
will follow him. Mr. Reverdy, if you are ready, we will 
go direct to Belleview." 



They left the corpse upon a bed, hurriedly made of dry 
leaves a cloak wrapped about it and concealing it, save 
where one curl of fair hair, escaping from the folds, caught 
the reflection of the afternoon sun Frank Travis, a cousin 
of the Lays, and Robert's bosom friend, and the faithful 
Hero, its only guards. 

NOTE. It may interest the reader to know that nearly 
every incident relative to Robert Lay's murder had its 
counterpart in a case which came within range of the au 
thor's personal observation. The most important variations 
in the history, as here narrated, are the needful changes of 
dates, names, and locality. No portion of the story is more 
authentic than the phenomenon of Hero's behavior when 
in the vicinage of the hidden grave, and the discovery of 
the body as a direct sequence of the horse's remarkable 
conduct. 




CHAPTER XVII. 

COLONEL FLOYD S horse and buggy were at the door that 
morning at an unusually early hour. He had business to 
transact with a man who lived ten or twelve miles off, and 
he grumbled loudly at his wife's negligence, and cursed the 
cook's laziness in not having breakfast precisely at half-past 
seven, according to the mandate he had issued over night. 

" Lily, my love, you are eating nothing !" said Mrs. Floyd, 
solicitously, as she witnessed her niece's want of application 
to the tempting repast. 

" I am doing very well, thank you, mamma !" and the 
girl made a feint of using her knife arid fork. 

" Colonel ! I wish you would call at Dr. Bryan's as you 
are passing through the village, and ask him to drop in to 
see her," pursued the aunt. 

" What's the matter with you ?" snarled the master of 
the household, addressing Lily. 

" Nothing, sir. I feel quite well the warm weather 
makes me a little languid that is all !" she answered. 

But the slight agitation occasioned by his harsh, abrupt 
query, brought a tremor to her lips and tears into the large 
eyes, now sadly sunken and unnaturally bright. 

Her uncle scrutinized her sneeringly. 

" Which means that you are lovesick, and have the 
vapors ! Vastly pretty and interesting these look to younger men, but I don't believe that Dr. Bryan will admire 
them any more than I do. I sha n't be home to dinner, 




Mrs. Floyd," and having made these affectionate adieux, he 
stalked out. 

" Nine o'clock ! What is that confoundedly slow fellow 
lagging about now, I wonder ?" he uttered, stamping upon 
the front steps. " Dick !" he hailed a boy in the kitchen 
door. " Tell Booker I am waiting for him. Make haste, 
you rascal ! Do you hear ?" 

" Yes, sar !" 

The colonel waited, nevertheless, for a quarter of an hour 
more, when the dilatory factotum emerged from his dwelling, at one side of the yard, and came towards his irate 
master. 

" Come, Booker !" called the latter, in a milder tone than 
he would have employed towards any other person guilty 
of the heinous offence of delaying a departure he designed 
should have been immediate upon the termination of his 
morning meal. 

Booker drove him everywhere, now-a-days. Since his 
apoplectic attack in December, Colonel Floyd seemed 
distrustful of his continued physical vigor or mental sound 
ness. Booker had accompanied him during a week's ab 
sence in January a journey whose direction and intent were 
not revealed to his own wife which, Aleck had accident 
ally discovered, extended as far as Baltimore. The negro 
was not remiss in the improvement of the privileges accruing to him from his superior's partiality or conscious weak 
ness. He lorded it with a high, hard hand over his subjects 
nominal and real upon the estate, beginning, some were 
bold enough to. whisper, at the haughty proprietor of the 
manor. 

" It is half-past nine, Booker ! and we have a long jaunt 
before us." 

" Yes, sir ; but I should like to have a word with you 
first," replied the man, coolly, motioning his master further 



away from the porch to a position upon the lawn, where 
nothing they said could be overheard by the inmates of the 
house. 

Colonel Floyd followed, submissive as a child. 

" If you take my advice, sir, you will get ready for a 
very long jaunt," said the confidant, meaningly. " If I 
ain't mightily mistaken, there's mischief in the wind and 
a deal of it !" 

" Mischief! of what kind ?" 

" The worst that could come pon you, sir ; I'd better not 
mention it, even though there's nobody near enough to hear. 
Jeff Martin was here betimes this mornin , to say as how 
Mr. Aleck Lay stopped at his house yesterday, on his way 
back from Baltimore, and scared Jeff's wife he was from 
home himself into confessin that I had left a strange horse 
thar, Christmas day. The woman wouldn't allow to Jeff 
that she had told any thing, but one of the children was 
listenin , and let on to his father w T hat a fine gentleman she 
had had for a visitor. Jeff gave her a proper lesson how to 
hold her tongue hereafter, you may be sure, but that didn't 
undo what was done." 

"Well?" 

Colonel Floyd his complexion purple-gray was biting 
his nails, and grinding his heel into the turf, in a frenzy of 
anxiety. 

Booker's tone and look were dull to stolidity. 

" That's one item, sir. Another that I've just picked up 
is, that Mr. Aleck Lay overtook that bpy of mine, Gabriel, 
on the road, about an hour, or may-be an hour and a half 
ago, rid him down, and flogged him within an inch of his 
life, till the young fool was obliged to tell him that the letter 
he carried to Greenfield before breakfast, Christmas morning, wasn't the same Mr. Lay's wife that is now Miss Hel 
en that was had given him. The boy swears this was all 




that he got out of .h;m, and considerin that I've been thrash- 
in him for half an hour, off and on, to find out the truth, it 
may be as he says. Now, sir, I think you'll gree with me 
when I say that, in my pinion, Mr. Lay has struck a dangerous scent one that'll most likely bring him this way before 
night, and you'd better not be found too easy. Eight miles 
ride will take you to the ferry, and by going six miles on 
the other side of the river, you will strike the railroad. I've 
got no more advice to give, cept that you'd better have a 
few clothes and a plenty of money along. It's lucky you're 
not short of cash just now and oh ! before I forget it, col 
onel you'd as well leave me a hundred or so, for family ex 
penses, while you're gone." 

The unsurpassed effrontery of this address in the mouth 
of a menial the fellow's bold, insolent visage, and disregard 
of all the forms of respect he had hitherto affected to ob 
serve in his master's presence, passed unobserved by his 
horror-stricken auditor. Filled with one overwhelming 
conviction ; to wit, that his sin had found him out, and that 
his one chance of safety lay in precipitate flight a disordered recollection of his conversation with Aleck Lay upon the 
preceding day, combining with Booker's revelations, to 
heighten his dismay, he ran up to his room, his so-called 
servitor at his heels , with his assistance, packed a valise 
with clothing ; took from his secretary bank-notes and gold 

to a large amount how obtained, the cashier of the 

bank, Baltimore, could have told secreted these about his 
person ; in blind, obedient haste, placed in Booker's hands 
the sum he required, and they were back again upon the 
piazza, in the buggy, and driving off ere any member of the 
family discovered that they had not set out at the hour 
originally appointed. 

" Colonel !" screamed Mrs. Floyd, hastening out from the 
dining-room. 





Booker reined up, and the meek spouse bustled down the 
steps to the side of the vehicle. 

" My love, Lily would like to go to the court-house this 
forenoon, just for the ride, you know, and I think the air 
and exercise will do her good. Can she have the carriage 
and Simon ?" 

"She and you can go to perdition, if you like!" foamed 
her husband. " Stand back ! Drive on, Booker !"" 

The whip was not spared during the earlier stages of 
the journey, nor was there much conversation between 
the travellers so long as they were in their own proper 
neighborhood, regarded by them as peculiarly perilous. 
They were within sight of the river, when Colonel Floyd 
inquired : 

" What do you intend doing, Booker ?" 

" I shall go back home, sir," with a flourish of the lash 
about the horse's ears. 

" Won't that be unsafe ?" 

" For me, do you mean, sir ?" 

"Certainly. You may be taken up as an accomplice. 
Had you not better stay with me ?" 

" No, sir, " returned the man, impudently. " That would 
be the unsafest course for us both ! Why, it would double 
the chances of being caught ! Twould be the easiest thing 
in creation to track a gentleman travellin with a body- 
servant. I shall go home, as I said, may-be hide for a day 
or two, until I find out what is really in the wind, and if I 
must clear out, I sha n't run in the same direction you've 
done. If I'm took, that's the worst thing that can happen, 
you know, sir. There's no proof, sech as inconvenient papers and the like, against me" 

Colonel Floyd writhed in his seat. 

" You will not turn informer, Booker ? That would be a 
bad day for you, my man !" 


The negro half laughed at the impotent menace; the 
ludicrous pretence of the power of revenge from one so 
completely in his power. The sneer made that moment the 
most humiliating save one of Colonel Floyd's existence, 
yet he could not resent the insult. 

" As to the matter of that, Colonel Floyd, we won't argue 
who would be worst hurt by what I could tell. But make 
yourself easy, sir. My evidence could not hang you " 

"Hush!" 

The other started at the word, and looked around to be 
sure no one was within hearing distance. 

" Could not injure you very badly, I mean, sir I am a 
colored slave you a free white man" with a scornful 
emphasis. " They wouldn't swear me in a court of justice, 
sir." 

It was pitch dark when Booker re-entered the outer gate 
of the Belle view plantation. He had contrived his journey 
so as to arrive at home under the shadow of night. The 
sky was cloudy ; the air misty. Better opportunity of con 
cealing his approach could not have been desired ; and 
congratulating himself upon these, he drove carefully down 
the middle of the road, eyes and ears on the qui vive for 
any suspicious appearance or noise. There were lights in 
the windows of the dining-room, and Mrs. Floyd's chamber, 
and from the open kitchen-door issued a stream of reddish 
light, darkened occasionally by a moving figure within. A 
slave in name alone, he had long cherished ambitious dreams 
unknown by others, divined least of all by him whom he 
styled "master." By dint of peculation and undisguised 
extortion, he had amassed a larger sum than was possessed 
by any other bondman in the country ; treasured it secretly 
against such time as he should see the way clear for the 
prosecution of his darling scheme viz : the acquisition of 
his freedom , without expending one cent of his money in 



 

its purchase. Now, he said exultingly to himself, was the 
propitious season ! His master a fugitive under the ban of 
the law, the hue and cry of the neighborhood directed after 
him himself the owner, or what, in his ethics, amounted to 
the same thing the possessor of an additional sum, sufficient 
to carry him to Canada, if he wished to go so far what 
remained to be done but to secure his hoard, and such valua 
bles as he could lay his hands upon, and flee under the cover 
of the favoring darkness ? 

" Whoa there !" said a deep voice at his very ear, and 
betwixt him and the kitchen door he saw the dark outline 
of a horseman ; before he could realize the fact of the ap 
parition, he felt the reins snatched from him on the other 
side ; heard the trampling of hoofs and men's feet in every 
direction, while murmurs of inquiry and consultation were 
defined into a simultaneous exclamation as a lantern was 
unceremoniously flashed into his face. 

" We've caught one of them, at all events." 

He had not expected the indulgence of sleep that night, 
but neither had he anticipated lodgings in the county jail. 

It was not often that Lily was allowed the privilege of 
a ride without the attendance of her aunt or one of her 
cousins, but this morning she had avowed frankly to Mrs. 
Floyd her desire to visit Helen Lay, and asked for the car 
riage and driver, that she might carry her plan into ex 
ecution in her uncle's absence. 

" He would not consent to it, mamma, and you disap 
prove of it, I know, but I must see Helen ! I feel sometimes as if I must die unless I learn something which she 
only can tell me. I am not so strong as I used to be, and 
things worry oppress me more than they did when I was 
well." 

Mrs. Floyd's heart melted. 

" My dear child ! I would do any thing in my power to 




make you happy but I really thought that you and Helen 
had had some quarrel about the time she was married, and 
not been on good terms since." 

" I behaved foolishly, and, I believe, was altogether in 
the wrong," answered Lily, sadly. "Helen used to be very 
kind to me. I think she cared for me then. Nobody loves 
me very long!" 

This pathetic petition it was that emboldened Mrs. Floyd 
to stay her husband's departure for the space of a whole 
minute and a quarter, and Lily decided to avail herself of 
the uncivil permission that responded to the request. 

Pitying affection was Helen's predominant feeling for the 
erring, cruelly deceived child, yet she had rather, on this 
particular day, have seen a basilisk creep into her sunny 
parlor than Lily's wasted figure glide up to the window 
where she and Aunt Ruth sat at work ; the younger lady 
pensive and abstracted, yet trying to appear as usual ; the 
elder mild and sedate, quite content with the world since 
she had witnessed the affectionate parting of her adopted 
children after their early breakfast, and learned that it was 
Helen's headache that made her so pale and her eyes heavy 
not inward disquiet or disappointed love. 

"Yes!" ejaculated the dear old creature, dropping her 
spectacles upon the floor, Lily's entrance having occurred 
at the moment when she was resetting them for some superlatively fine stitching upon a collar for her nephew. 

Lily understood the " particle" as well as Aleck or Robert 
could have done. " It is I, Aunt Ruth not my ghost !" 

" Lily !" said Helen, rising to embrace her, " dear child ! 
how long it is since we have seen you !" 

" I know it, Nelly, but it has not been easy for me to get 
here until now. I have longed for you lately." 

Helen seated her in a lounging-chair, removed her mufflings, and smoothed the pale gold hair, gazing on the altered 



lineaments of the lately happy, thoughtless girl, with an 
unspoken heart-ache. 

Aunt Ruth picked up the key-basket and trotted out. 

" Helen," said Lily, catching both her hands, and speak 
ing with feverish energy " now that we are by ourselves, 
tell me have you heard any news of him of Robert ?" 

Helen shook her head mournfully. 

" Have you no idea where he is ? What does your husband think has become of him ?" 

" He has a variety of surmises, Lily dear. It would do 
no good to repeat them they are all so uncertain, as yet. 
We are both much distressed at his continued absence. It 
seems unaccountable, and he was not apt to do unreasonable 
things," rejoined Helen, commanding her looks and language 
to the best of her power. 

" Why do you say was ? He is as good now as he ever 
was. I have faith in him, although all the world may blame 
him faith to believe that he would do nothing dishonorable 
or unkind. Yet his silence is breaking my heart breaking 
my heart !" 

She bowed her face in her hands with a sobbing, plaintive 
cry that sounded indeed like very heart-break. 

Helen took her in her arms as she would have done a 
child. 

" Dear Lily ! my sweet little sister ! there is some cause 
for the silence that we cannot now understand but it will 
be explained in time. I have all confidence in Robert's 
excellence and honor and so has Aleck." 

"Then you don't blame him ?" Lily smiled faintly through 
her tears. 

" We do not consider that he was in fault in any particu 
lar. The trouble was, according to our belief, that he 
trusted unwisely and was betrayed " 

" Not by me !" cried Lily, in alarm. " My great sin was 




loving him too well and envying you because of that love. 
I did wrong you often in thought, Helen ! There were 
seasons when I was tempted to do it ; indeed, of many little 
acts of spite I was guilty ; but I never committed any overt 
deed against your peace until the day you were married. 
Then I received his letter and, dizzy with the hopes it 
opened up to me, I forgot honor, truth, every thing except 
him and the blessed assurance that he loved me. I would 
have gone to him, but my uncle overtook me on the way." 

" I know !" said Helen, gently, for the girl's bright eyes 
and rapid incoherence of speech made her uneasy. " You 
need not enter upon a vindication of yourself, dear. Let bygones be bygones. If I have any thing to forgive, it is for 
given, provided you forget the heart-burnings and misun 
derstandings of that unhappy time. Let us keep up hope 
ful hearts for the future, and if sorrow should come, help 
one another to bear it." 

" Only a glass of milk punch, dear !" cooed Aunt Ruth at 
Lily's right ear, " with an egg beaten up in it to make it 
nourishing ! You ought to drink one every morning of your 
life at this season. These warm days are debilitating." 

She set down a salver, containing, besides the glass of 
punch, a plate of light cakes, and a saucer of calves -foot 
jelly with cream poured over it. "To make it more 
strengthening," she represented. 

"Ah! Aunt Ruth! you were always a sad child-spoiler!" 
said Lily, with a flash of her old archness. She sipped the 
creamy foam mantling the cordial. "It is the genuine 
old receipt, isn't it ? Do you remember how often you came 
over to Belleview to make it for me, when I was recovering 
from the measles ? and how, after I had that tedious spell 
of fever, you carried me off by main force to Greenfield, 
and kept me there for a week, cosseting me with all manner of good things ? I couldn't have been more than eight 




years old then, and was such a wee thing that Robert used 
to draw me about in his go-cart, as if I were a baby. Aunty, 
it would have been a happy thing for me if I had died of 
that fever don't you think so ?" 

Aunt Ruth looked thunderstruck at this, according to 
her principles, impious observation. 

" Why, my love," she commenced, when Helen spoke up 
cheerily. 

" Nonsense, little one ! you will change your mind when 
you have finished your luncheon. You need something to 
make your blood rich and warm, and then you will feel no 
proneness to misanthropy." 

" It is very nice to be here !" murmured Lily, gratefully, 
obeying the injunction to refresh herself with the delicacies 
provided. 

" And here you shall stay for one while !" said Aunt Ruth, 
energetically. " After you have drunk the punch, you must 
come with me to my room, and lie down until dinner-time." 

"Oh ! I dare not keep the horses so long !" objected Lily. 
" Uncle is to be away until night, it is true, but he would be 
angry if he heard that Simon had lost a whole day's work." 

" If that is the trouble, we will send him home, and Helen 
or I will ride over with you this afternoon in our carriage," 
persisted Miss Ruth, never doubting Helen's cordial acquiescence in the arrangement, and bent upon affording " the 
poor baby," as she pityingly termed Lily, a holiday and 
trying the effect of an abundance of " nourishing" food 
upon the wan face and attenuated frame. 

Lily was evidently strongly tempted. " Would it do, 
Helen?" she asked. 

" You are the proper judge of that, dear," said Helen, 
very kindly. 

She dreaded lest any display of her opposition to the 
plan should be attributed by Aunt Ruth or Lily to an indisposition to entertain her cousin in her own house yet 
trembled at the thought of the tidings which the next hour 
might bring. 

Lily took in the manner, more than the matter of the 
reply, and deliberated a moment. 

u I will stay," she said. " It may be an age before I have 
another such chance of happiness." 

" Yes !" said Aunt Ruth, triumphantly, without in the 
remotest degree assenting to the sentiment of the last clause 
of her pet-child's remark. " Now when you have given 
Simon his orders, you shall go and see what a beautiful room 
Aleck and Helen have given me. There is a nice, soft 
lounge, where you shall lie, and I will tuck you up snugly for 
a fine nap. The punch will make you drowsy, pretty soon. 
That's the good of it." 

" A clear case of involuntary intoxication !" laughed Lily. 
" Then I suppose I had better use my limbs while I have 
any control over them hadn't I ?" and she went to confer 
with Simon. 

The lounge justified Aunt Ruth's recommendation, and so 
did the punch. For awhile, Lily lay enveloped in the soft 
shawls Miss Ruth had tucked about her shoulders, and 
watching the placid, motherly countenance, whose eyes, 
ever and anon, strayed from her work to herself, in tender 
solicitude. There was a clear little fire upon the hearth, 
and by Aunt Ruth's footstool, a gray cat, sleek and sleepy ; 
the clock ticked as if it too were drowsy. Lily wondered 
whether this were owing to some peculiar knack which Aunt 
Ruth had in winding it, and, amused at the conceit, sank 
into a slumber. 

She seemed to have slept but a few minutes when she 
awoke, and saw that she was alone in the chamber. The 
clock said that her " fine nap" had lasted two hours. 

" Aunt Ruth has gone to see about dinner, I suppose !" 


she thought. " I am glad she didn't stay here on my ac 
count. Her lounge must be stuffed with poppies. I only 
wish I had one like it at home !" 

She sighed at the recollection of the many sleepless nights 
that had been her portion for weeks past ; drew back a curtain that she might have more light for her toilette ; brushed 
her hair ; replaced her collar, and was ready to rejoin her 
friends. There was an empty chair just outside the door 
and, lying upon the seat, an unfinished piece of knitting- 
work a coarse blue worsted stocking. 

" Isn't that like Aunt Ruth ? She stationed one of her 
maids as a sentinel to prevent my slumbers from being dis 
turbed, and the poor girl grew weary with waiting for me 
to release her. No wonder !" 

She went down a flight of stairs and through a side-passage, without encountering a single person. In her igno 
rance of the topography of the house, she had taken a private 
way, one seldom used except by the servants in carrying 
wood, water, etc., to the several rooms. Then she reached 
a porch enclosed on three sides by the wings and central 
building, and on the fourth by Venetian blinds ; and amused 
at her mistake, resolved to go on until she found some in 
habited region, unclosed the door at the other end of this 
recess, and found herself in a small, dark entry, another 
door just ahead of her. 

This series of contre-temps Aunt Ruth and Helen had 
done every thing that seemed necessary to prevent. The 
maid posted at the chamber door had strict orders to remain 
there until Miss Calvert awoke, and then to conduct her 
to Mrs. Lay's own room, there to await that lady's coming. 
But the girl, who had her share, and possibly more, of Eve's 
foible, had been seduced into a short absence. To do her 
justice, it was very brief, for while Lily was wandering in 
the by-ways of the rambling old house, her janitor, ignorant 


of the prisoner's flight, was sitting in the chair without 
Miss Ruth's apartment, knitting and listening dutifully for 
any sound from within. The parlor and main hall were 
peopled with gentlemen who would inevitably have arrested 
Lily's progress, but by her blunder perhaps we should say 
through the design of an inscrutable and higher Will than 
that of short-sighted mortals she had avoided all these 
hindrances, and now stood at the outer entrance of the 
library, Mr. Lay's especial study. 

Still smiling at her adventure, Lily laid her hand upon 
the lock, and went in. Her motion was very fairy-like and 
noiseless, and her approach was unheard by the occupants 
of the room. A solemn group was collected there. Aleck 
Lay, his features settled into stern anguish, stood with one 
arm upholding the drooping form of his wife, who wept 
upon his shoulder, at the back of a sofa which was wheeled 
into the middle of the apartment. In front of it knelt Aunt 
Ruth, hands clasped as if in prayer, her furrowed cheeks 
bathed in tears, and eyes steadfastly bent upon the visage 
of him who was stretched upon the couch. A black cloak 
the same that had been thrown over him when first disinterred, hid the earth-stained garments only the face and 
bright hair were exposed, and these, Lily's second step for 
ward revealed to her horrified vision. 






CHAPTER XVIII. 

ANOTHER Christmas Eve, frosty and starry, was upon the 
earth and through the fading light shed from the lately 
crimsoned West, Aleck Lay rode slowly up the winding 
avenue leading to his home. Greenfield was his now, also, 
but he preferred a continued residence in the house to which 
he had brought his bride, one year before. There were 
associations connected with the paternal mansion, that both 
he and Helen felt would rest, a perpetual moveless shadow, 
upon the brightness of their hearth-stone. Very rosy and 
cheerful looked the radiance from this now, through the 
windows of the old place, and as the smile of cheer and 
welcome caught his musing eye, he quickened his horse's 
gait. 
