little at perceiving that her mother was not in the room; and this
action was far from reassuring. She would rather Mr. Carlisle had been
angry. He was far more difficult to meet in this mood.
Meanwhile Mr. Carlisle brought her chair into more convenient
neighbourhood to the table, and set a plate before her on which he went
on to place whatever he thought fit. "I know what you are wanting," he
said;--"but you shall not have a cup of tea unless I see you eat." And
Eleanor eat, feeling the need of it, and the necessity of doing
something likewise.
Mr. Carlisle poured himself out a glass of wine and slowly drank it,
watching her. Midway set it down; and himself made and poured out and
sugared and creamed a cup of tea which he set beside Eleanor. It was
done in the nicest way possible, with a manner that any woman would
like to have wait on her. Eleanor tasted, and could not hold her tongue
any more.
"I did not know this was one of your accomplishments,"--she said
without raising her eyes.
"For you"--said Mr. Carlisle. "I believe it will never be exercised for
anybody else."
He slowly finished his wine while he watched her. He eat nothing
himself, though Eleanor asked him, till she turned from her plate, and
did what she had not done till then but could no longer withhold; let
her eyes meet his.
"Now," said he throwing himself into an opposite chair,--"I will take a
cup of tea, if you will make it for me."
Eleanor blushed--what made her?--as she set about performing this
office. The tea was cold; she had to make fresh, and wait till it was
ready; and she stood by the table watching and preparing it, while Mr.
Carlisle sat in his chair observing her. Eleanor's cheeks flushed more
and more. There was something about this little piece of domesticity,
and her becoming the servitor in her turn, that brought up things she
did not wish to think of. But her neighbour liked what she did not
like, for he sat as quiet as a mouse until Eleanor's trembling hand
offered him the cup. She had to take a step or two for it, but he never
stirred to abridge them. Eleanor sat down again, and Mr. Carlisle
sipped his tea with an appearance of gratification.
"That is a young man of uncommon abilities"--he remarked
composedly,--"whom we heard this evening. Do you know who he is,
Eleanor?"
Eleanor felt as if the sky was falling. "It is Mr. Rhys--Alfred's old
tutor--" she answered, in a voice which she felt was dry and
embarrassed to the quick ears that heard her. "You have seen him."
"I thought I had, somewhere. But that man has power. It is a pity he
could not be induced to come into the Church--he would draw better
houses than Dr. Cairnes. Do you think we could win him over, Eleanor?"
"I believe--I have heard"--said Eleanor, "that he is going away from
England. He is going a missionary to some very far away region." She
was quite willing Mr. Carlisle should understand this.
"Just as well," he answered. "If he would not come into his right
place, such a man would only work to draw other persons out of theirs.
There is a sort of popular power of speech which wins with the common
and uneducated mind. I saw it won upon you, Nellie; how was that?"
The light tone, in which a smile seemed but half concealed,
disconcerted Eleanor. She was not ashamed, she thought she was not, but
she did not know how to answer.
"You are a little tête-montée," he said. "If I had been a little
nearer to you to-night, I would have saved you from taking one step;
but I did not fancy that you could be so suddenly wrought upon. Pray
how happened you to be in that place to-night?'
"I told you," said Eleanor after some hesitation, "that I had an
unsatisfied wish of heart which made me uneasy--and you would not
believe me."
"If you knew how this man could speak, I do not wonder at your wanting
to hear him. Did you ever hear him before?"
"Yes," said Eleanor, feeling that she was getting in a wrong position
before her questioner. "I have heard him once--I wanted to hear him
again."
"Why did you not tell me your wish, that you might gratify it safely,
Eleanor?"
"I supposed--if I did--I should lose my chance of gratifying it at all."
"You are a real tête-montée," he said, standing now before her and
taking hold lightly and caressingly of Eleanor's chin as he spoke. "It
was well nobody saw you to-night but me. Does my little wife think she
can safely gratify many of her wishes without her husband's knowledge?"
Eleanor coloured brightly and drew herself back. "That is the very
thing," she said; "now you are coming to the point. I told you I had
wishes with which yours would not agree, and it was better for you to
know it before it was too late."
"Too late for what?"
"To remedy a great evil."
"There is generally a remedy for everything," said Mr. Carlisle coolly;
"and this sort of imaginative fervour which is upon you is sure to find
a cold bath of its own in good time. My purpose is simply in future,
whenever you wish to hear another specimen of the kind of oratory we
have listened to this evening, to be with you that I may protect you."
"Protect me from what?"
"From going too far, further than you know, in your present exaltée
state. The Lady of Rythdale must not do anything unworthy of herself,
or of me."
"What do you mean, Mr. Carlisle?" Eleanor exclaimed with burning
cheeks. But he stood before her quite cool, his arms folded, looking
down at her.
"Do you wish me to speak?"
"Certainly! I do."
"I will tell you then. It would not accord with my wishes to have my
wife grant whispered consultations in public to any man; especially a
young man and one of insinuating talents, which this one well may be. I
could have shot that man, as he was talking to you to-night, Eleanor."
Eleanor put up her hands to her face to hide its colour for a moment.
Shame and anger and confusion struggled together. Had she done
anything unworthy of her? Others did the same, but they belonged to a
different class of persons; had she been where Eleanor Powle, or even
Eleanor Carlisle, would be out of place? And then there was the
contrasted consciousness, how very pleasant and precious that whispered
"consultation" had been to her. Mr. Carlisle stooped and took away her
hands from her face, holding them in his own.
"Eleanor--had that young man anything to do with those unmanageable
wishes you expressed to me?"
"So far as his words and example set me upon thinking," said Eleanor.
"But there was nothing in what was said to-night that all the world
might not hear." She rose, for it was an uncomfortable position in
which her hands were held.
"All the world did not hear it, you will remember. Eleanor, you are
honest, and I am jealous--will you tell me that you have no regard for
this young man more than my wife ought to have?"
"Mr. Carlisle, I have never asked myself the question!" exclaimed
Eleanor with indignant eyes. "If you doubt me, you cannot wish to have
anything more to do with me."
"Call me Macintosh," said he drawing her within his arm.
Eleanor would not. She would have freed herself, but she could not
without exerting too much force. She stood silent.
"Will you tell me," he said in a gentle changed tone, "what words did
pass between you and that young man,--that you said all the world might
hear?"
Eleanor hesitated. Her head was almost on Mr. Carlisle's shoulder; his
lips were almost at her downcast brow; the brilliant hazel eyes were
looking with their powerful light into her face. And she was his
affianced wife. Was Eleanor free? Had this man, who loved her, no
rights? Along with all other feelings, a keen sense of self-reproach
stole in again.
"Macintosh," she said droopingly, "it was entirely about religious
matters--that you would laugh at, but would not understand."
"Indulge me--and try me--" he said pressing his lips first on Eleanor's
cheek and then on her mouth. She answered in the same tone as before,
drooping in his arms as a weary child.
"He asked me--as I suppose he asked others--what the difficulties in my
mind were,--religious difficulties; and I told him my mind was in
confusion and I did not see clearly before me. He advised me to do
nothing in the dark, but when I saw duty clear, then to do it. That was
what passed."
"What did all these difficulties and rules of action refer to?"
"Everything, I suppose," said Eleanor drooping more and more inwardly.
"And you do not see, my love, what all this tended to?"
"I do not see what you mean."
"This is artful proselytism, Eleanor. In your brave honesty, in your
beautiful enthusiasm, you did not know that the purpose of all this has
been, to make a Methodist of Eleanor Powle, and as a necessary
preliminary or condition, to break off her promised marriage with me.
If that fellow had succeeded, he should have been made to feel my
indignation--as it is, I shall let him go."
"You are entirely mistaken,--" began Eleanor.
"Am I? Have you not been led to doubt whether you could live a right
life, and live it with me?"
"But would you be willing in everything to let me do as I think right?"
"Would I let you? You shall do what you will, my darling, except go to
whispering conventicles. Assuredly I will not let you do that. But when
you tell me seriously that you think a thing is wrong, I will never put
my will in the way of your conscience. Did you think me a Mahometan?
Hey?"
"No--but--"
"But what?"
Eleanor only sighed.
"I think I have something to forgive to-night, Eleanor,--but it is easy
to forgive you." And wrapping both arms round her now, he pressed on
brow and lip and cheek kisses that were abundantly reconciled.
"My presence just saved you to night. Eleanor--will you promise not to
be naughty any more?--Eleanor?--"
"I will try," burst out Eleanor,--"O I will try to do what is right! I
will try to do what is right!"
And in bitter uncertainty what that might be, she gave way under the
strain of so many feelings, and the sense of being conquered which
oppressed her, and burst into tears. Still held fast, the only
hiding-place for her eyes was Mr. Carlisle's breast, and they flowed
there bitterly though restrained as much as possible. He hardly wished
to restrain them; he would have been willing to stand all night with
that soft brown head resting like a child's on him. Nevertheless he
called her to order with words and kisses.
"Do you know, it is late," he said,--"and you are tired. I must send
you off. Eleanor! look up. Look up and kiss me."
Eleanor overcame the passion of tears as soon as possible, yet not till
a few minutes had passed; and looked up; at least raised her head from
its resting-place. Mr. Carlisle whispered, "Kiss me!"
How could Eleanor refuse? what could she do? though it was sealing
allegiance over again. She was utterly humbled and conquered. But there
was a touch of pride to be satisfied first. Laying one hand on Mr.
Carlisle's shoulder, so as to push herself a little back where she
could look him in the face, with eyes glittering yet, she confronted
him; and asked, "Do you doubt me now?"
Holding her in both arms, at just that distance, he looked down at her,
a smile as calm as brilliant playing all over his face, which spoke
perfect content as well as secure possession. But the trust in his eyes
was as clear.
"No more than I doubt myself," he answered.
Pride was laid asleep; and yielding to what seemed her fate, Eleanor
gave the required token of fealty--or subjugation--for so it seemed to
her. Standing quite still, with bent head and moveless attitude, the
slightest smile in the world upon the lips, Mr. Carlisle's whole air
said silently that it was not enough. Eleanor yielded again, and once
more touched her lips to those of her master. He let her go then; lit
her candle and attended her to the foot of the staircase and dismissed
her with all care.
"I wonder if he is going to stay here himself to-night, and meet me in
the morning," thought Eleanor as she went up the stairs. "It does not
matter--I will go to sleep and forget everything, for a while."
Would she? There was no sleep for Eleanor that night, and she knew it
as soon as she reached her room. She set down her candle and then
herself in blank despair.
What had she done? Nothing at all, The stand she had meant to take at
the beginning of the evening, she had been unable even to set foot
upon. The bold step by which she had thought to set herself free from
Mr. Carlisle, had only laid her more completely at his feet. Eleanor
got up and walked the room in agony.
What had she done? She was this man's promised wife; she had made her
own bonds; it was her own doing; he had a right to her, he had claims
upon her, he had given his affection to her. Had she any rights now,
inconsistent with his? Must she not fulfil this marriage? And yet,
could she do so, feeling as she did? would that be right? For no
sooner was Eleanor alone than the subdued cry of her heart broke out
again, that it could not be. And that cry grew desperate. Yet this
evening's opportunity had all come to nothing. Worse than nothing, for
it had laid an additional difficulty in her way. By her window, looking
out into the dark night, Eleanor stopped and looked at this difficulty.
She drew from its lurking-place in the darkness of her heart the
question Mr. Carlisle had suggested, and confronted it steadily.
Had "that young man," the preacher of this evening, Eleanor's really
best friend, had he anything to do with her "unmanageable wishes?"
Had she any regard for him that influenced her mind in this
struggle--or that raised the struggle? With fiercely throbbing heart
Eleanor looked this question for the first time in the face. "No!" she
said to herself,--"no! I have not. I have no such regard for him. How
debasing to have such a doubt raised! But I might have--I think that
is true--if circumstances put me in the way of it. And I think, seeing
him and knowing his superior beauty of character--how superior!--has
wakened me up to the consciousness of what I do like, and what I like
best; and made me conscious too that I do not love Mr. Carlisle as well
as I ought, to be his wife--not as he loves me. That I see now,--too
late. Oh, mother, mother! why were you in such a hurry to seal this
marriage--when I told you, I told you, I was not ready. But then I did
not know any more than that. And now I cannot marry him--and yet I
shall--and I do not know but I ought. And yet I cannot."
Eleanor walked her floor or stood by her window that live-long night.
It was a night of great agony and distracted searching for relief.
Where should relief come from? To tell Mr. Carlisle frankly that she
did not bear the right kind of love towards him, she knew would be the
vainest of expedients. "He can make me do anything--he would say he can
make me love him; and so, perhaps, he could--I believe he would--if I
had not seen this other man." And then Eleanor drew the contrast
between one person and the other; the high, pure, spiritual nobleness
of the one, and the social and personal graces and intellectual power
of the other, all used for selfish ends. It was a very unprofitable
speculation for Eleanor; it left her further than ever from the
conclusion, and distressed her bitterly. From her mother she knew sadly
there was no help to be had. No consideration, of duty or pleasure,
would outweigh with her the loss of a splendid alliance and the scandal
of breaking off the preparations for it. The Sphynx would not look out
more calmly over the desert waste of all things, than Mrs. Powle's fair
face would overview a moral desolation more hopeless and more
cheerless, if but the pyramid of her ambition were firmly planted
there. And Eleanor's worst trouble after all was her doubt about duty.
If Mr. Carlisle had not loved her--but he did love her truly and
tenderly, and she, however misled, had given him permission. Could she
now withdraw it? Could she do anything but, at whatever risk, go on and
meet the obligations she had brought upon herself? Nature cried out
strongly that it must not be; but conscience and remorse, aided by
circumstances, withstood nature, and said it must be no other way.
Eleanor must marry Mr. Carlisle and be as good to him as she could. And
Eleanor's whole soul began to rise up stronger and stronger in protest
against it, and cry that she never would marry him.
The weary long night seemed but as one thought of pain; and when the
morning broke, Eleanor felt that she had grown old.
CHAPTER XIII.
IN DOUBT.
  "We will have rings, and things, and fine array;
  And kiss me, Kate, we will be married o' Sunday."
Eleanor was too sick to go down even to a late breakfast; and a raging
headache kept off any inquiries or remonstrances that Mrs. Powle might
have made to her if she had been well. Later in the day her little
sister Julia came dancing in.
"Aren't you going to get up, Eleanor? What's the matter? I am going to
open your window. You are all shut up here."
Back went the curtain and up went the window; a breath of fresh mild
air came sweetly in, and Julia danced back to the bedside. There
suddenly sobered herself.
"Eleanor, aren't you better? Can't you get up? It is so nice to-day."
Julia's fresh, innocent, gay manner, the very light play of her waving
hair, not lighter than the childlike heart, were almost too much for
her sister. They made Eleanor's heart ache.
"Where is everybody?"
"Nowhere," said Julia. "I am all the house. Mr. Carlisle went home
after breakfast; and mamma and Alfred are gone in the carriage to
Brompton; and papa is out somewhere. Are you better, Nellie?"
"I shall never be better!" said Eleanor. She turned and hid her face.
"Oh why, Eleanor? What makes you say that? What is the matter? I knew
yesterday you were not happy."
"I am never going to be happy. I hope you will."
"I am happy," said Julia. "And you will be. I told Mr. Rhys you were
not happy,--and he said you would be by and by."
"Julia!" said Eleanor raising herself on her elbow and with a colour
spreading all over her face,--"don't talk to Mr. Rhys about me or my
concerns! What makes you do such a thing?"
"Why I haven't anybody else to talk to," said Julia. "Give me your
foot, and I'll put on your stocking. Come! you are going to get up. And
besides, he thinks a great deal of you, and we pray for you every day."
"Who?"
"He does, and I. Come!--give me your foot."
"He, and you!" said Eleanor.
"Yes," said Julia looking up. "We pray for you every day. What's the
matter, Eleanor?"
Her hand was laid sorrowfully and tenderly on the shoulder of the
sister whose face was again hid from her. But at the touch Eleanor
raised her head.
"You seem a different child, Julia, from what you used to be."
"What's the matter, Nellie?"--very tenderly.
"I wish I was different too," said Eleanor, springing out of bed; "and
I want time to go away by myself and think it out and battle it out,
until I know just what is right and am ready to do it; and instead of
that, mamma and Mr. Carlisle have arranged--"
"Stop and sit down," said Julia taking hold of her; "you look white and
black and all colours. Wait and rest, Eleanor."
But Eleanor would not till she had tried the refreshment of cold water,
and had put her beautiful hair in order; then she sat down in her
dressing-gown. Julia had watched and now stood anxiously beside her.
"Oh, what is the matter, Eleanor?"
"I don't know, Julia. I do not know what is right."
"Have you asked God to make you know?"
"No," said Eleanor, drooping.
"That's what Mr. Rhys always does, so he is never troubled. I will tell
you what he says--he says, 'What time I am afraid, I will trust in
thee.' Then he feels safe, you know."
"It is a pity you cannot go to the South Seas with Mr. Rhys. You talk
of nothing but him."
"I would like to go with him," said Julia simply. "But I have learned
how to feel safe too, for I trust in Jesus too; and I know he will
teach me right. So he will teach you, Eleanor."
Eleanor bowed her head on her hands, and wept and wept; but while she
wept, resolutions were taking form in her mind. Mr. Rhys's words came
back to her--"Go no way, till you see clear." The renewed thought of
that helmet of salvation, and of that heavenly guidance, that she
needed and longed for; so supremely, so much above everything else;
gradually gained her strength to resolve that she would have them at
all hazards. She must have time to seek them and to be sure of her
duty; and then, she would do it. She determined she would not see Mr.
Carlisle; he would conquer her; she would manage the matter with her
mother. Eleanor thought it all over, the opposition and the
difficulties, and resolved with the strength of desperation. She had
grown old during this night. She had a long interval of quiet before
her mother came.
"Well, Eleanor! in your dressing-gown yet, and only your hair done!
When do you expect to be down stairs? Somebody will be here presently
and expect to see you."
"Somebody will be disappointed. My head is splitting, mamma."
"I should think it would! after yesterday's gambade, What did Mr.
Carlisle say to you, I should like to know? I thought you would have
offended him past forgiveness. I was relieved beyond all expression
this morning, at breakfast, when I saw all was right again. But he told
me not to scold you, and I will not talk about it."
"Mamma, if you will take off your bonnet and sit down--I will talk to
you about something else."
Mrs. Powle sat down, took her bonnet in her lap, and pushed her fair
curls into place. They were rarely out of place; it was more a form
than anything else. Yet Mrs. Powle looked anxious; and her anxiety
found natural expression as she said,
"I wish the twenty-first was to-morrow!"
"That is the thing I wish to speak about. Mamma, that day, the day for
my marriage, has been appointed too early--I feel hurried, and not
ready. I want to study my own mind and know exactly what I am doing. I
am going to ask you to have it put off."
"Put it off!--" cried Mrs. Powle. Language contained no other words of
equal importance to be spoken in the same breath with those three.
"Yes. I want it put off."
"Till when, if you please. It might as well be doomsday at once."
"Till doomsday, if necessary; but I want it put off. I do not stipulate
for so long a time as that," said Eleanor putting her hand to her head.
"What day would you name, in lieu of the twenty-first? I should like to
know how far your arrangements extend."
"I want time to collect my thoughts and be ready for so great a change.
I want time to study, and think,--and pray. I shall ask for at least
three months."
"Three months! Till April! And pray, what has ailed your ladyship not
to study and think and pray if you like, all these months that have
passed?"
"I have no chance. My time is all taken up. I can do nothing, but go
round in a whirl--till my head is spinning."
"And what will you do in these three months to come? I should like to
know all you propose."
"I propose to go away from home--somewhere that I can be quiet and
alone. Then, if there is no reason against it, I promise to come back
and fulfil my engagement with Mr. Carlisle."
"Eleanor, you are a fool!" burst out her mother. "You are a fool, or
worse. How dare you talk such stuff to me? I can hardly believe you
serious, only for your face. Do you suppose I will think for one moment
of such a thing as putting off the day?--and if I would, have you any
idea that Mr. Carlisle would give his assent to it?!"
"If you do not, both you and he, I shall break off the marriage
altogether."
"I dare you to do it!" said Mrs. Powle. "With the wedding-dresses made,
and almost the wedding-cake--every preparation--the whole world to be
scandalized and talking at any delay--your family disgraced, and
yourself ruined for ever;--and Mr. Carlisle--Eleanor, I think you are
crazy! only you sit there with such a wicked face!--"
"It is in danger of being wicked," said Eleanor, drawing both her hands
over it;--"for I warn you, mother, I am determined. I have been hurried
on. I will be hurried no further. I will take poison, before I will be
married on the twenty-first! As well lose my soul one way as another.
You and Mr. Carlisle must give me time--or I will break the match
altogether. I will bear the consequences."
"Have you spoken to him of this precious arrangement?"
"No," said Eleanor, her manner failing a little.--"You must do it."
"I thought so!" said Mrs. Powle. "He knows how to manage you, my young
lady! which I never did yet. I will just bring him up here to you--and
you will be like a whipped child in three minutes. O you know it. I see
it in your face. Eleanor, I am ashamed of you!"
"I will not see him up here, mamma."
"You will, if you cannot help it. Eleanor I wouldn't try him too far.
He is very fond of you--but he will be your husband in a few days; and
he is not the sort of man I should like to have displeased with me, if
I were you."
"He never will, mamma, unless he waits three months for it."
"Now I will tell you one thing," said Mrs. Powle rising in great
anger--"I can put down my foot too. I am tired of this sort of thing,
and I cannot manage you, and I will give you over to one who can.
To-day is Tuesday--the twenty-first is exactly one fortnight off. Well
my young lady, I will change the day. Next Monday I will give you to
Mr. Carlisle, and he will be your master; and I fancy he is not at all
afraid to assume the responsibility. He may take you to as quiet a
place as he likes; and you may think at your leisure, and more properly
than in the way you propose. So, Eleanor, you shall be married o'
Monday."
Mrs. Powle flourished out with her bonnet in her hand. Eleanor's first
movement was to go after her and turn the key in the door securely;
then she threw up the window and flung herself on her face on the bed.
Her mother was quite capable of doing as she had said, for her fair
features covered a not very tender heart. Mr. Carlisle would second
her, no doubt, all the more eagerly for the last night's adventures.
Could Eleanor make head against those two? And between Tuesday and
Monday was very little time to mature plans or organize resistance. Her
head felt like splitting now indeed, for very confusion.
"Eleanor," said Julia's voice gravely and anxiously, "you will take
cold--mayn't I shut the window?"
"There's no danger. I am in a fever."
"Is your head no better?"
"I hardly think I have a head. There is nothing there but pain and
snapping."
"Poor Eleanor!" said her little sister, standing by the bedside like a
powerless guardian angel. "Mr. Carlisle isn't good, if he wouldn't do
what you want him."
"Do not open the door, Julia, if anybody knocks!"
"No. But wouldn't he, Eleanor, if you were to ask him?"
Eleanor made no answer. She knew, it needed but a glance at last
night's experience to remind her, that she could not make head against
Mr. Carlisle. If he came to talk to her about her proposed scheme, all
was lost. Suddenly Eleanor threw herself off the bed, and began to
dress with precipitation.
"Why, are you better, Eleanor?" Julia asked in surprise.
"No--but I must go down stairs. Bring me my blue dress, Julia;--and go
and get me some geranium leaves--some strong-scented ones. Here--go
down the back way."
No matter for head-splitting. Eleanor dressed in haste, but with
delicate care; in a dress that Mr. Carlisle liked. Its colour suited
her, and its simple make shewed her beauty; better than a more
furbelowed one. The aromatic geranium leaves were for her head--but
with them Julia had brought some of the brilliant red flowers; and
fastened on her breast where Eleanor could feel their sweetness, they
at the same time made a bright touch of adornment to her figure. She
was obliged to sit down then and rest; but as soon as she could she
went to the drawing-room.
There were as usual several people there besides the family; Dr.
Cairnes and Miss Broadus and her sister making part. Entering with a
slow quiet movement, most unlike the real hurry of her spirits, Eleanor
had time to observe how different persons were placed and to choose her
own plan of action. It was to slip silently into a large chair which
stood empty at Mr. Carlisle's side, and which favoured her by
presenting itself as the nearest attackable point of the circle. It was
done with such graceful noiselessness that many did not at the moment
notice her; but two persons were quick of vision where she was
concerned. Mr. Carlisle bent over her with delight, and though Mrs.
Powle's fair curls were not disturbed by any sudden motion of her head,
her grey eyes dilated with wonder and curiosity as she listened to a
story of Miss Broadus which was fitted to excite neither. Eleanor was
beyond her, but she concluded that Mr. Carlisle held the key of this
extraordinary docility.
Eleanor sat very quiet in her chair, looking lovely, and by degrees
using up her geranium leaves; with which she went through a variety of
manipulations. They were picked to pieces and rubbed to pieces and
their aromatic essence crushed out of them with every kind of
formality. Mr. Carlisle finding that she had a headache did not trouble
her to talk, and relieved her from attention; any further than his arm
or hand mounting guard on her chair constantly gave. For it gathered
the broken geranium leaves out of her way and picked them up from her
feet. At last his hand came after hers and made it a prisoner.
"You have a mood of destructiveness upon you," said he. "See there--you
have done to death all the green of your bouquet."
"The geranium leaves are good to my head," said Eleanor. "I want some
more. Will you go with me to get them?"
It gave her heart a shiver, the hold in which her hand lay. Though
taken in play, the hold was so very cool and firm. Her hand lay there
still, for Mr. Carlisle sat a moment after she spoke, looking at her.
"I will go with you--wherever you please," he said; and putting
Eleanor's hand on his arm they walked off towards the conservatory.
This was at some distance, and opened out of the breakfast room. It was
no great matter of a conservatory, only pretty and sweet. Eleanor began
slowly to pull geranium leaves.
"You are suffering, Eleanor,"--said Mr. Carlisle.
"I do not think of it--you need not. Macintosh, I want to ask a favour
of you."
She turned to him, without raising her eyes, but made the appeal of her
whole pretty presence. He drew his arm round her and suspended the
business of geranium leaves.
"What is it, my darling?"
"You know," said Eleanor, "that when the twenty-first of December was
fixed upon--for what you wished--it was a more hurried day than I would
have chosen, if the choice had been left to me. I wanted more time--but
you and my mother said that day, and I agreed to it. Now, my mother has
taken a notion to make it still earlier--she wants to cut off a whole
week from me--she wants to make it next Monday. Don't join with her!
Let me have all the time that was promised me!"
Eleanor could not raise her eyes; she enforced her appeal by laying her
hand on Mr. Carlisle's arm. He drew her close up to him, held her fast,
stooped his head to hers.
"What for, Eleanor? Laces and plums can be ready as well Monday as
Monday s'ennight."
"For myself, Macintosh."
"Don't you think of me?"
"No!" said Eleanor, "I do not. It is quite enough that you should have
your wish after Monday s'ennight--I ought to have it before."
He laughed and kissed her. He always liked any shew of spirit in
Eleanor.
"My darling, what difference does a week make?"
"Just the difference of a week; and more than that in my mind. I want
it. Grant me this favour, Mackintosh! I ask it of you."
Mr. Carlisle seemed to find it amazingly pleasant to have Eleanor
sueing to him for favours; for he answered her as much with caresses as
with words; both very satisfied.
"You try me beyond my strength, Eleanor. Your mother offers to give you
to me Monday--Do you think I care so little about this possession that
I will not take it a week earlier than I had hoped to have it?"
"But the week is mine--it is due to me, Macintosh. No one has a right
to take it from me. You may have the power; and I ask you not to use
it."
"Eleanor, you break my heart. My love, do you know that I have business
calling for me in London?--it is calling for me now, urgently. I must
carry you up to London at once; and this week that you plead for, I do
not know how to give. If I can go the fifteenth instead of the
twenty-second, I must. Do you see, Nellie?" he asked very tenderly.
Eleanor hardly saw anything; the world and all in it seemed to be in a
swimming state before her eyes. Only Mr. Carlisle's "can's" and
"must's" obeyed him, she felt sure, as well as everything else. She
felt stunned. Holding her on one arm, Mr. Carlisle began to pluck
flowers and myrtle sprays and to adorn her hair with them. It was a
labour of love; he liked the business and played with it. The beautiful
brown masses of hair invited and rewarded attention.
"Then my mother has spoken to you?" she said at length.
"Yes,"--he said, arranging a spray of heath with white blossoms. "Do
you blame me?" Eleanor sought to withdraw herself from his arm, but he
detained her.
"Where are you going?"
"Up stairs--to my room."
"Do you forgive me, Eleanor?" he said, looking down at her.
"No,--I think I do not."
He laughed a little, kissing her downcast face.
"I will make you my wife, Monday, Eleanor; and after that I will make
you forgive me; and then--my wife shall ask me nothing that she shall
not have."
Keeping her on his arm, he led her slowly from the conservatory,
through the rooms, and up the staircase, to the door of her own
apartment.
Eleanor tore out the flowers as soon as she was alone, locked her door,
meaning at least not to see her mother that night; took off her dress
and lay down. Refuge failed her. She was in despair. What could she
arrange between Tuesday night and Monday?--short of taking poison, or
absconding privately from the house, and so disgracing both herself and
her family. Yet Eleanor was in such desperation of feeling that both
those expedients occurred to her in the course of the night, although
only to be rejected. Worn-out nature must have some rest however; and
towards morning she slept.
It was late when she opened her eyes. They fell first upon Julia,
standing at her bedside.
"Are you awake, Eleanor?"
"Yes. I wish I could sleep on."
"There's news."
"News! What sort of news?" said Eleanor, feeling that none concerned
her.
"It's bad news--and yet--for you--it is good news."
"What is it, child? Speak."
"Lady Rythdale--she is dead."
Eleanor raised herself on her elbow and stared at Julia. "How do you
know? how do you know?" she said.
"A messenger came to tell us--she died last night. The man came a good
while ago, but--"
She never finished her sentence; for Eleanor threw herself out of bed,
exclaiming, "I am saved! I am saved!"--and went down on her knees by
the bedside. It was hardly to pray, for Eleanor scarce knew how to
pray; yet that position seemed an embodiment of thanks she could not
speak. She kept it a good while, still as death. Julia stood
motionless, looking on.
"Don't think me wicked," said Eleanor getting up at last. "I am not
glad of anything but my own deliverance. Oh, Julia!"
"Poor Eleanor!" said her little sister wonderingly. "Then you don't
want to be married and go to Rythdale?"
"Not Monday!" said Eleanor. "And now I shall not. It is not possible
that a wedding and a funeral should be in one house on the same day. I
know which they would put off if they could, but they have got to put
off the other. O Julia, it is the saving of me!"
She caught the little one in her arms and sat with her so, their two
heads nestling together, Eleanor's bowed upon her sister's neck.
"But Eleanor, will you not marry Mr. Carlisle after all?"
"I cannot,--for a good while, child."
"But then?"
"I shall never be married in a hurry. I have got breathing time--time
to think. And I'll use it."
"And, O Eleanor! won't you do something else?"
"What?"
"Won't you be a servant of the Lord?"
"I will--if I can find out how," Eleanor answered low.
It poured with rain. Eleanor liked it that day, though generally she
was no lover of weather that kept her within. A spell of soothing had
descended upon her. Life was no longer the rough thing it had seemed to
her yesterday. A constant drop of thankfulness at her heart kept all
her words and manner sweet with its secret perfume. Eleanor's temper
was always as sound as a nut; but there was now a peculiar grace of
gentleness and softness in all she did. She was able to go faultlessly
through all the scenes of that day and the following days; through her
mother's open discomfiture and half expressed disappointment, and Mr.
Carlisle's suppressed impatience. His manner was perfect too; his
impatience was by no word or look made known; grave, quiet,
self-contained, he only allowed his affectionateness towards Eleanor to
have full play, and the expression of that was changed. He did not
appeal to her for sympathy which perhaps he had a secret knowledge she
could not give; but with lofty good breeding and his invariable tact he
took it for granted. Eleanor's part was an easy one through those days
which passed before Mr. Carlisle's going up to London. He went
immediately after the funeral.
It was understood, however, between him and Mrs. Powle, that the
marriage should be delayed no longer than till some time in the spring.
Then, Mr. Carlisle declared, he should carry into effect his original
plan of going abroad, and take Eleanor with him. Eleanor heard them
talk, and kept silence; letting them arrange it their own way.
"For a little while, Eleanor!" were the parting words which Mr.
Carlisle's lips left upon hers. And Eleanor turned then to look at what
was before her.
CHAPTER XIV.
AT THE RECTORY.
  "The earth has lost its power to drag me downward;
  Its spell is gone;
  My course is now right upward, and right onward,
  To yonder throne."
She had three months of quiet time. Not more; and they would quickly
speed away. What she had to do, she could not do too soon. Eleanor knew
it. The soothed feeling of the first few days gave place to a restless
mood almost as soon as Mr. Carlisle was gone. Three years seemed more
like what she wanted than three months. She felt ignorant, dark, and
unhappy; how was she to clear up this moral mist and see how the plan
of life lay, without any hand to lead her or help her? There was only
one she knew in the world that could; and from any application to him,
or even any chance contact with him, Eleanor consciously shrank. That
would never do; that must never be heard of her. With all this, she
began to dread the disturbing and confusing effects of Mr. Carlisle's
visits to the country. He would come; he had said so; and Mrs. Powle
kept reminding her of it upon every occasion.
Eleanor had been forbidden to ride alone. She did not dare; she took to
long lonely walks. It was only out of doors that she felt quite free;
in her own room at home, though never so private, her mother would at
any time come with distracting subjects of conversation. Eleanor fled
to the moor and to the wilds; walked, and rested on the stones, and
thought; till she found thinking degenerate into musing; then she
started up and went on. She tired herself. She did not find rest.
One day she took her course purposely to the ruined priory. It was a
long walk; but Eleanor courted long walks. And when she got there,
musing, it must be confessed, had a good time. She stepped slowly down
the grass-grown nave of the old church, recalling with much bitterness
the day of her betrothal there; blaming herself, and blaming her mother
more. Yet at any rate that day she had set seal to her own fate; would
she be able, and had she a right,--that was the worst question,--to
break it now? She wandered on, out of the church, away from the
beautiful old ivied tower, which seemed to look down on her with grave
reproach from the staidness of years and wisdom; wound about over and
among the piles of shapeless ruin and the bits of lichened and
moss-grown walls, yet standing here and there; not saying to herself
exactly where she was going, but trying if she could find out the way;
till she saw a thicket of thorn and holly bushes that she remembered.
Yes, the latches too, and the young growth of beech trees. Eleanor
plunged through this thicket, as well as she could; it was not easy;
and there before her was the clear spot of grass, the angle of the
thick old wall, and the deep window that she wanted to see again. All
still and lonely and wild. Eleanor went across and took a seat in the
window as she had done once before, to rest and think.
And then what she thought of, was not the old monks, nor the exquisite
fair view out of the window that had belonged to them; though it was a
soft December day, and the light was as winning fair on house and hill
and tree-top as if it had been a different season of the year. No cloud
in the sky, and no dark shadows upon the earth. But Eleanor's thoughts
went back to the thunderstorm, and her need then first felt of an
inward sunshine that would last in cloudy times. She recalled the talk
about the Christian's helmet; with a weary, sorrowful, keen renewal of
regret at her own want of it. The words Mr. Rhys had spoken about it at
that time she could not very well remember; but well she remembered the
impression of them, and the noble, clear calmness of his face and
manner. Very unlike all other calmness and nobleness that she had seen.
The nobleness of one whose head was covered by that royal basnet; the
fearlessness of one whose brows were consciously shaded by it. The
simplicity that had nothing to feign or conceal; the poise of manner
that came from an established heart and conscience. Eleanor presently
caught herself up. What was she thinking about Mr. Rhys for? True, the
thought of him was very near the thought of his teaching; nevertheless
the one thing concerned her, the other did not. Did it not? Eleanor
sighed, and wished she could have a little of his wise guidance; for
notwithstanding all she had heard him say, she felt in the dark.
In the midst of all this, Eleanor heard somebody humming a scrap of a
tune on the other side of the holly bushes. Another instant told her it
was a tune she had heard never but once before, and that once in Mr.
Brooks's barn. There was besides a little rustling of the thorn bushes.
Eleanor could think of but one person coming to that spot of the ruins;
and in sudden terror she sprang from the window and rushed round the
other corner of the wall. The tune ceased; Eleanor heard no more; but
she dared not falter or look back. She was in a thicket on this side
too, and in a mass of decayed ruins and rubbish which almost stopped
her way. By determination and perseverance, with some knocks and
scratches, she at last got free and stopped to breathe and think. Why
was she so frightened? Mr. Carlisle. But what should she do now?
Suppose she set off to walk home; she might be joined by the person she
wished to shun; it was impossible to foresee that he would sit an hour
meditating in the old window. Over against Eleanor, a little distance
off, only plantations of shrubbery and soft turf between, was the
Rector's house. Best go there and take refuge, and then be guided by
circumstances. She went accordingly, feeling sorrowful that she should
have to run away from the very person whose counsel of all others she
most needed.
The door was opened to Eleanor by the Rector himself.
"Ha! my dear Miss Powle," said the good doctor,--"this is an honour to
me. I don't know what you will do now, for my sister is away at
Brompton--will you come in and see an old bachelor like myself?"
"If you will let me, sir."
"I shall be delighted, my dear Miss Eleanor! You were always welcome,
ever since you were so high; and now that you are going to occupy so
important a position here, I do not know a lady in the neighbourhood
that deserves so much consideration as yourself. Come in--come in! How
did you get here?"
"Taking a long walk, sir. Perhaps you will give me some refreshments."
"I shall be delighted. Come in here, and we will have luncheon together
in my study--which was never so honoured before; but I think it is the
pleasantest place in the house. The other rooms my sister fills with
gimcracks, till I cannot turn round there without fear of breaking
something, Now my old folios and octavos have tried a fall many a
time--and many a one has tried a fall with them--ha! ha!--and no harm
to anybody. Sit down there now, Miss Eleanor, and rest. That's what I
call a pretty window. You see I am in no danger of forgetting my friend
Mr. Carlisle here."
Eleanor looked out of the window very steadily; yet she was not
refreshing her remembrance of Mr. Carlisle neither. There were glimpses
of a tall, alert figure, passing leisurely in and out among the trees
and the ruins; finally coming out into full view and walking with brisk
step over the greensward till he was out of sight. Eleanor knew it very
well, the figure and the quick step; the energy and life in every
movement. She heard no more of Dr. Cairnes for some time; though
doubtless he was talking, for he had ordered luncheon and now it was
served, and he was pressing her to partake of it. Dr. Cairnes' cheese
was excellent; his hung beef was of prime quality; and the ale was of a
superior brand, and the wine which he poured out for Eleanor was, he
assured her, as its sparkling drops fell into the glass, of a purity
and flavour "that even his friend Mr. Carlisle would not refuse to
close his lips upon." Eleanor felt faint and weary, and she knew Mr.
Carlisle's critical accuracy; but she recollected at the same time Mr.
Rhys's cool abstinence, and she put the glass of wine away.
"Not?" said the doctor. "You would prefer a cup of chocolate. Bad
taste, Miss Eleanor--wine is better for you, too. Ladies will sup
chocolate, I believe; I wonder what they find in it. The thing is, my
sister being away to-day, I don't know--"
Eleanor begged he would not mind that, nor her; however the chocolate
was ordered and in due time brought.
"Now that will make you dull," said the doctor,--"sleepy. It does not
have, even on you, the reviving, brilliant effect of this beverage."
And he put the bright glass of wine to his lips. It was not the first
filled.
"Before I get dull, dear doctor, I want to talk to you."
"Aye?" said the doctor, looking at her over the wine. "You do? What
about? Say on, Miss Eleanor. I am yours doubly now, by the past and the
future. You may command me."
"It is about the present, I wish to talk," said Eleanor.
"What is it?"
"My mind is not at rest," said Eleanor, laying her hands in her lap,
and looking off again towards the ruins with their green and grey
silent reminders,--"about religious subjects."
"Ah?" said Dr. Cairnes. "How is that, Miss Eleanor? Be a little more
explicit with me, will you not."
"I will. Dr. Cairnes, I am young now, but by and by decay must come to
me, as it has come to that old pile yonder--as it comes to everything.
I want security for my head and heart when earthly security fails."
Eleanor spoke slowly, looking out as she spoke all the while.
"Security!" said the doctor. "But my dear Miss Eleanor, you know the
articles of our holy religion?"
"Yes,--" she said without stirring her position.
"Security is given by them, most amply and abundantly, to every sincere
applicant. Your life has been a sheltered one, Miss Eleanor, and a kind
one; you can have no very grievous sins to charge yourself with."
"I would like to get rid of such as I have," answered Eleanor without
moving.
"You were baptized in infancy?"
"Yes, sir."
"You have never been confirmed?"
"No, sir."
