nothing but the truth."

"But you didn't set it afire, and you didn't mean to do any such thing."

"That may be; but you wouldn't have done it if it hadn't been for me. It
was more my fault than it was yours; and I want you to leave the thing
just where it is now."

"But it would be mean for me to stand still, and see you bear all the
blame."

"It would be enough sight meaner for you to say anything about it."

"I don't think so."

"I do; for don't you see it is a good deal worse for me to put you up to
such a thing than it was for me to do it myself? Your father would
forgive me for setting the fire sooner than they would for making you do
it. I'm bad enough already, and they know it; but if they think I make
you as bad as I am myself, they would put me in a worse place than a
tinker's shop."

Noddy's argument was too much for the feminine mind of Miss Fanny, and
again she abandoned the purpose she had fully resolved upon, and decided
not to confess her guilt. We must do her the justice to say, that she
came to this conclusion, not from any fear of personal consequences, but
in order to save Noddy from the terrible reproach which would be cast
upon him if she did confess. Already, in her heart and before God, she
had acknowledged her error, and was sorrowfully repenting her
misconduct. But she could not expose Noddy to any penalty which he did
not deserve. She knew that he did not mean to set the fire; that his
words were idle, petulant ones, which had no real meaning; and it would
be wrong to let her father and Bertha suppose that Noddy had instigated
her to the criminal act.

Fanny had not yet learned that it is best to cleave unto the truth, and
let the consequences take care of themselves.

She yielded her own convictions to those of another, which no person
should ever do in questions of right and wrong.

She sacrificed her own faith in the simple truth, to another's faith in
policy, expediency.

The question was settled for the present, and Fanny crept back to her
chamber, no easier in mind, no better satisfied with herself, than
before. Noddy went to sleep again; but the only cloud he saw was the
displeasure of Bertha. He was simply conscious that he had got into a
scrape. He had not burned the boat-house, and he did not feel guilty.
He had not intended to induce Fanny to do the deed, and he did not feel
guilty of that. He was so generous that he wished to save her from the
consequences of her error, and the deception he used did not weigh very
heavily on his conscience.

He regarded his situation as merely a "scrape" into which he had
accidentally fallen, and his only business was to get out of it. These
thoughts filled his mind when he awoke in the morning. He was too
restless to remain a quiet prisoner for any great length of time; and
when he had dressed himself, he began to look about him for the means of
mitigating his imprisonment, or bringing it to a conclusion, as the case
might require. The window would be available at night, but it was in
full view of the gardeners in the daytime, who would be likely to report
any movement on his part. The door looked more hopeful.

One of the men brought his breakfast, and retired, locking the door
behind him. While he was eating it,--and his appetite did not seem to be
at all impaired by the situation to which he had been reduced,--he saw
Mr. Grant on the lawn, talking with a stranger. His interest was at once
excited, and a closer examination assured him that the visitor was
Squire Wriggs, of Whitestone. The discovery almost spoiled Noddy's
appetite, for he knew that the squire was a lawyer, and had often been
mixed up with cases of house-breaking, horse-stealing, robbery, and
murder; and he at once concluded that the legal gentleman's business
related to him.

His ideas of lawyers were rather confused and indistinct. He knew they
had a great deal to do in the court-house, when men were sent to the
penitentiary and the house of correction for various crimes. He watched
the squire and Mr. Grant, and he was fully satisfied in his own mind
what they were talking about when the latter pointed to the window of
his chamber. He had eaten only half his breakfast, but he found it
impossible to take another mouthful, after he realized that he was the
subject of the conversation between Mr. Grant and the lawyer.

It seemed just as though all his friends, even Miss Bertha, had suddenly
deserted him. That conference on the lawn was simply a plot to take him
to the court-house, and then send him to the penitentiary, the house of
correction, or some other abominable place, even if it were no worse
than a tinker's shop. He was absolutely terrified at the prospect.
After all his high hopes, and all his confidence in his supple limbs,
the judges, the lawyers, and the constables might fetter his muscles so
that he could not get away--so that he could not even run away to sea,
which was his ultimate intention, whenever he could make up his mind to
leave Miss Bertha.

Noddy watched the two gentlemen on the lawn, and his breast was filled
with a storm of emotions. He pictured the horrors of the prison to which
they were about to send him, and his fancy made the prospect far worse
than the reality could possibly have been. Mr. Grant led the way towards
the building occupied by the servants. Noddy was desperate. Squire
Wriggs was the visible manifestation of jails, courts, constables, and
other abominations, which were the sum of all that was terrible. He
decided at once not to wait for a visit from the awful personage, who
was evidently coming into the house to see him.

He raised the window a little, intending to throw it wide open, and leap
down upon the lawn, when his persecutor entered the door. There was not
a man or boy at Woodville who could catch him when he had the use of
his legs, and the world would then be open to him. But the gentlemen
paused at the door, and Noddy listened as a criminal would wait to hear
his sentence from the stern judge.

"Thirty thousand dollars is a great deal of money for a boy like him,"
said Mr. Grant. "Of course he must have a guardian."

"And you are the best person in the world for that position," added
Squire Wriggs.

"But he is a young reprobate, and something must be done with him."

"Certainly; he must be taken care of at once."

"I'm afraid he will burn my house down, as he did the boat-house. My
daughter is interested in him; if it wasn't for her, I would send him to
the house of correction before I slept again."

"When you are his guardian, you can do what you think best for him."

"That will be no easy matter."

"We will take the boy over to the court now, and then--"

Noddy did not hear any more, for the two gentlemen entered the house,
and he heard their step on the stairs. But he did not want to know
anything more. Squire Wriggs had distinctly said they would take him
over to the court, and that was enough to satisfy him that his worst
fears were to be realized. The talk about thirty thousand dollars, and
the guardian, was as unintelligible to him as though it had been in
ancient Greek, and he did not bestow a second thought upon it. The "boy
like him," to whom thirty thousand dollars would be a great deal of
money, meant some other person than himself. The court was Noddy's
peculiar abomination; and when he heard the words, he clutched the sash
of the window with convulsive energy.

Mr. Grant and Squire Wriggs passed into the house, and Noddy Newman
passed out. To a gymnast of his wiry experience, the feat was not
impossible, or even very difficult. Swinging out of the window, he
placed his feet on the window-cap below, and then, stooping down, he got
hold with his hands, and slipped down from his perch with about the same
ease with which a well-trained monkey would have accomplished the
descent.

He was on the solid earth now, and with the feeling that the court-house
and a whole regiment of constables were behind him, he took to his
heels. A stiff-kneed gardener, who had observed his exit from the
house, attempted to follow him; but he might as well have chased a
northwest gale. Noddy reached the Glen, and no sound of pursuers could
be heard. The phantom court-house had been beaten in the race.




CHAPTER VI.

NODDY'S ENGAGEMENT.


When Noddy reached the Glen, he had time to stop and think; and the
consequences of the sudden step he had taken came to his mind with
tremendous force. He had fled from Miss Bertha, and all the comforts and
luxuries which had surrounded him at Woodville. He was a vagabond again.

It was a great deal better to be a vagabond than it was to be an inmate
of a prison, or even of a tinker's shop. He had committed no crime; the
worst that could be said of him was, that he was a victim of
circumstances. It was unfortunate for him that he had used those
petulant words, that he wished the boat-house was burned down, for they
had put the idea into Fanny's head. He did not mean to kindle the fire,
but he believed that he had been the cause of it, and that it was hardly
fair to let the young lady suffer for what he had virtually done.

He was sorry to leave Woodville, and above all, sorry to be banished
from the presence of Miss Bertha. But that had already been agreed upon,
and he was only anticipating the event by taking himself off as he did.
He would rather have gone in a more honorable manner than running away
like a hunted dog; but he could not help that, and the very thought of
the horrible court-house was enough to drive him from the best home in
the world.

He walked up to a retired part of the Glen, where he could continue his
retreat without being intercepted, if it became necessary, and sat down
on a rock to think of the future. He had no more idea what he should do
with himself, than he had when he was a wanderer before in these
regions. Undoubtedly his ultimate purpose was to go to sea; but he was
not quite ready to depart. He cherished a hope that he might contrive to
meet Bertha in some of her walks, and say good-bye to her before he
committed himself to his fortunes on the stormy ocean.

While he was deliberating upon his prospects, a happy thought, as he
regarded it, came to his mind. He could turn somersets, and cut more
capers than any man in the circus company which he had seen on the
preceding day. With a little practice, he was satisfied that he could
learn to stand up on the back of a horse. A field of glory suddenly
opened to his vision, and he could win the applause of admiring
thousands by his daring feats. He had performed all sorts of gyrations
for the amusement of the idlers about Woodville, and he might now turn
his accomplishments to a useful purpose--indeed, make them pay for his
food and clothing.

Noddy had no idea that circus performances were not entirely
respectable; and it seemed to him that his early training had exactly
fitted him to shine in this peculiar sphere. It might not be decent
business for Mr. Grant and Bertha, but it was just the thing for him.
Whitestone was a very large town, and the circus was still there. He had
not a moment to lose; and, under the impulse of his new resolution, he
left the Glen, intending to walk up the river to the ferry, a couple of
miles distant.

Noddy went over the river, and reached the great tent of the circus
company about one o'clock. He was rather disturbed by the fear that he
might meet Squire Wriggs, or some of the constables; but all his hopes
were now centred on the circus, and he could not avoid the risk of
exposing himself. He boldly inquired for the "head man" of the
establishment; but this distinguished functionary was not on the
premises at that time; he would be there in the course of half an hour.

He walked down to a shop, and having a small sum of money in his pocket,
he obtained something to eat. On his return to the tent, the head man
was pointed out to him. Noddy, as a general rule, was not troubled with
bashfulness; and he walked resolutely up to the manager, and intimated
to him that he should like to be engaged as a performer.

"What do you want, my boy?" demanded the head man, who was quite
confident that he had mistaken the applicant's meaning, for it was
hardly possible that a youth like him could be a circus performer.

"I want a place to perform, sir," repeated Noddy, who was entirely
ignorant of the technical terms belonging to the profession.

"To perform!" laughed the manager, measuring him from head to foot with
his eye.

"Yes, sir."

"What kind of business can you do, my boy?"

"Almost anything, sir."

"Do you ride?"

"No, sir; I'm not much used to standing up on a horse, but I think I
could go it, after doing it a little while."

"Do you, indeed!" sneered the man. "Well, we don't want anybody that can
do almost any kind of business."

"I'm used to this thing, sir," pleaded Noddy.

"Used to it! I suppose you want a place as a bill-sticker, or to take
care of the horses."

"No, sir; I want to perform. If you will give me a chance to show what I
can do, I think you'll have me," persisted Noddy, not at all pleased
with the decided refusal he had received.

"Well, come in here," laughed the head man, who had no doubt that the
applicant would soon be brought to grief.

It was almost time for the doors to be opened for the afternoon
performance, and the man conducted Noddy to the ring, where he saw a
number of the riders and gymnasts, all dressed in their silks and
spangles to appear before the public.

"Here, Whippleby, is a young man that wants an engagement," said the
manager to the man who had acted as ring-master when Noddy was present.

"What can he do?"

"Almost everything; but he isn't much used to riding."

Whippleby laughed, and the manager laughed; and it was quite evident,
even to the aspirant for circus honors, that all present intended to
amuse themselves at his expense. But Noddy felt able to outdo most of
the circus people at their own profession, and he confidently expected
to turn the laugh upon them before the game was ended.

"A versatile genius," said Whippleby.

"Just try him, and see what he can do," added the manager,
significantly.

"Well, my little man, what do you say to a little ground and lofty
tumbling," said Whippleby, winking at the performers, who stood in a
circle around them.

"I'm at home in that," replied Noddy, throwing off his jacket.

"Good! You have got pluck enough, at any rate. Here, Nesmond, do
something," said the ring-master to a wiry young man of the group.

Nesmond did what Noddy had seen him do the day before; he whirled over
and over across the ring, like a hoop, striking his hands and feet
alternately on the ground.

"There, youngster, do you see that?" said Whippleby.

"Yes, sir, I see it," replied Noddy, unabashed by the work which was
expected of him.

"Now, let us see you do it."

Noddy did it, and if anything, more rapidly and gracefully than the
professional man. The men applauded, and Nesmond--"the great American
vaulter and tumbler"--looked exceedingly disconcerted when he saw his
wonderful act so easily imitated.

"Try it again, Nesmond," said Whippleby.

The distinguished athlete went on for half an hour, performing his
antics; and Noddy repeated them, though he had never before attempted
some of them. Nesmond gave it up.

"Well, young man, you can do almost everything, but you are as clumsy
and ungraceful as a bear about it. You need a little training on your
positions, and you will make a first-class tumbler," said the manager.

The men had ceased to laugh, and even looked admiringly on the prodigy
who had so suddenly developed himself. Noddy felt that his fortune was
already made, and he was almost ready to snap his fingers at the
court-house. Here was a chance for him to "work and win," and it was
entirely to his taste.

The manager then questioned him in regard to his family connections; but
as Noddy had none, his answers were very brief. He had no father nor
mother, and he had no home; he was no runaway, for there was no one
living who had any claim upon him. These answers were entirely
satisfactory to the head man.

"What salary do you expect?" asked the manager, when he had assured
himself there was no one to interfere with any arrangement he might
make.

"What do you give?" asked Noddy.

"Well, we give different salaries, depending on the men."

"You have seen what I can do--what will you give me? Talk right up, or I
shall have nothing to do with it," added Noddy, borrowing an expression
from a highly respectable horse jockey, who had a language of his own.

"I'll give you your board and clothes, and your dresses for the first
season."

"Nothing of that sort for me," replied Noddy, promptly. "I want to know
how much I am to have in hard cash."

"Very well; I'll give you five dollars a week, and you find yourself."

Five dollars a week looked like a large salary to Noddy, though it was
not one-fourth of what the distinguished Mr. Nesmond received, and he
immediately closed the bargain.

"I'll put you on the bills for the next town we visit. What's your
name?"

"Noddy Newman."

"What?"

The embryo performer repeated his name.

"That won't do; you must have a better name than that. Arthur De
Forrest--how will that suit you?"

"First rate," replied Noddy, who was very accommodating in minor
matters.

"We show in Disbury to-morrow night, and you must be ready to do your
business then, Mr. De Forrest," added the manager. "After the
performance this afternoon Mr. Whippleby will give you a few lessons."

"But where shall I get a dress?"

"I will furnish you one, and take it out of your salary. You had better
put it on when you practice, so as to get used to it."

Noddy was highly pleased with all these arrangements, and could not help
congratulating himself on the happy thought which had induced him to
join the circus. It was true, and he could not help noticing it, that
the men around him were not such people as Mr. Grant, and others whom he
had been in the habit of seeing at Woodville. All of them swore
terribly; their breath smelt of liquor, and they talked the language of
a depravity to which Noddy, with all his waywardness, was a stranger.
There were boys no older than himself in the company, but they did not
seem a whit less depraved than the older ones.

Though the novice was not a young man of high aims and purposes, he was
not much pleased with his companions. He was what they termed "green,"
and it was quite plain to him that there would be a fight before many
days had passed by, for he was too high-spirited to submit tamely to the
insults which were heaped upon him.

During the afternoon performance, he stood at the gates of the ring,
where the horses enter; and Mr. Whippleby sent him before the public for
the first time, to bring out a whip which had been left there.

"Noddy Newman!" shouted a boy among the spectators.

The young athlete heard his name, and too late he remembered that he had
exposed himself to the gaze of the constables, who might by this time be
in search of him. During the rest of the afternoon he kept himself out
of sight; but the mischief had already been done.




CHAPTER VII.

THE RING-MASTER.


When the performance was over, Noddy, with the assistance of one of his
companions, dressed himself in "trunk and tights," and appeared in the
ring to take his first lesson in graceful movements. He could turn the
somersets, and go through with the other evolutions; but there was a
certain polish needed--so the ring-master said--to make them pass off
well. He was to assume a graceful position at the beginning and end of
each act; he must recover himself without clumsiness; he must bow, and
make a flourish with his hands, when he had done a brilliant thing.

Noddy had not much taste for this branch of the profession. He did not
like the bowing and the flourishing. If the feat itself did not please
the people, he could not win them by smirking. He was much pleased with
his costume, and this kept him good-natured, under the severe training
of the ring-master, for a time. Mr. Whippleby was coarse and rough in
his manners. During the show he had been all grace and elegance, and did
not use any big words, but now he was as rough as a bear, and swore like
a pirate. He was just like a cat's paw,--he kept the sharp claws down
while the dear people were present; but now he thrust them out.

Noddy found the "business" was no joke. Mr. Whippleby did not so regard
it, now that the training had commenced; and the novice found that he
had placed himself under a very tyrannical master. He made his bows and
flourished his arms, with all the grace he could command for a time; but
he did not come up to his severe teacher's standard.

"Do that again," said Mr. Whippleby, with savage emphasis. "Don't hurry
it."

Noddy did it again, as slowly as he could; but he was apparently just as
far from perfection as before.

"If you don't do better than that, I'll put the whip around your legs!"
shouted the impatient ring-master. "One of the mules could do it
better."

"I did it as well as I could," replied Noddy, rather tartly.

"You will do it better than that, or your legs will smart. Now do it
again."

Noddy obeyed. He did not think the ring-master really intended to strike
him with the long whip he held in his hand, but supposed he was so much
in the habit of threatening the clown with the lash, that he did it now
from the force of habit. His last attempt did not satisfy Mr. Whippleby,
who stormed at him more furiously than before.

"Do you think I have nothing better to do than waste my time over a
blockhead like you? I haven't had my bitters yet. Now do it again; and
if you fail this time you will catch it."

Noddy turned his somerset; but he had hardly recovered himself before he
received a smart cut from the whip in the tenderest part of his leg.
There was a young lion in the novice, and a blow from any man was more
than he could endure. He expressed his mind in regard to the outrage
with such freedom, that Mr. Whippleby lost his temper, if he ever had
any to lose, and he began to lash the unfortunate youth in the most
brutal manner.

Noddy, finding there was no satisfaction to be obtained by facing the
ring-master, fled from the spot, leaping up on the seats where the
spectators sat. He was maddened to fury by the harsh treatment he had
received; and thirsting for vengeance, he seized whatever missiles he
could find, and hurled them at his persecutor. His legs seemed to be on
fire from the effects of the blows he had received. He rubbed them for a
moment, while he hurled the most bitter denunciations at the
ring-master.

"Now, come down, and try again," called Mr. Whippleby, who did not seem
to be much disconcerted by what had taken place, when he had in some
measure recovered his equanimity.

"No, I won't!" replied Noddy.

"Have you got enough, Mr. Arthur De Forrest?"

"I will give you enough before you get through."

While this colloquy was going on, the manager appeared in the ring.
Whippleby laughingly told him what had happened, and he seemed to be
much amused by it; but the ring-master had certainly changed his tone at
the appearance of the "head man."

"Come, my boy, come down, and let me see how well you do your business,"
said the manager.

"I've had enough of it," replied Noddy, as he returned to the ring.
"I'm not a horse, and I'm not going to be treated like one."

"That's your initiation, my boy," said Whippleby. "We always try new
beginners in that way, to find out what they are made of."

"You will find out what I'm made of, if you hit me again with that
whip."

"I know now. You won't need any more, if you try to do what you are
told."

"I'm not going to be whipped, whether I try or not," added Noddy,
doggedly.

"You shall not be whipped, my boy," said the manager. "Now show me your
ground act."

The novice was about to comply,--for he had already come to the
conclusion that the "head man" would protect him,--when he saw two men
enter the tent. They did not belong to the company, and Noddy was quite
sure he had often seen them in Whitestone.

"We don't allow visitors in here now," said the manager.

"We come on business. There is a boy here that we want to find," replied
one of the men.

"You must leave the tent," said the manager, rather sharply.

"I am a constable, and there is a boy about here that I want."

"What's his name?"

"They call him Noddy Newman."

"What do you want of him?"

"That's my business," answered the constable, rudely. "The boy came into
the ring this afternoon during the show, and I suppose he belongs to the
company."

"That's the fellow!" exclaimed the other constable, pointing to Noddy,
who was trying to take himself off without being noticed.

"That's Arthur De Forrest," interposed the manager.

"No, it isn't; I've known him this five years," said the man who had
recognized the culprit.

Both of them walked towards Noddy, with the intention, apparently, of
laying violent hands on him; but the young gentleman in "trunk and
tights" was not prepared to yield up his personal liberty, and he
retreated.

The officers were in a position where they could stop him from leaving
the tent by either of the two entrances; and Noddy, finding his exit
prevented, seized a rope which was hanging down by the centre-pole, and
climbed up out of the reach of his pursuers.

"What do you want of me?" demanded the young athlete, as he perched
himself in a comfortable position on the "slack-rope," which was
suspended to the pole.

"We shall not do you any harm, my boy," said one of the officers.

"What do you want of me?"

"There is good news for you; and you are wanted over at Squire Wriggs's
office."

"I know ye! You want to take me to the court-house. You can't humbug
me," said Noddy, fully confirmed in his suspicions by the conduct of the
men.

"We won't hurt you."

"You want to take me up."

"No, we don't; we only want to take you up to Squire Wriggs's office.
It's all for your good."

"No, you don't," replied Noddy. "You can't cheat me."

"We don't want to cheat you. We are only sent to find you. We will not
arrest you."

"I know better. You can't fool me. I heard Squire Wriggs say he wanted
to take me up to the court-house; and you don't catch me near no
court-house. I know what you mean."

"You are mistaken, my boy. Come down, and I will tell you all about it."

"When I do, you let me know," replied Noddy, who felt so secure from
arrest in his present quarters that he expressed his mind with perfect
freedom.

"We promise not to arrest you," persisted the constable who did the
talking. "We have been looking for you all day."

"You may look another day, if you like," added the defiant refugee. "You
want me for setting fire to the boat-house; but I am not to blame, if I
did do it."

"We don't know anything about the boat-house; Squire Wriggs has a lot of
money for you."

"You can't catch an old bird in any such trap as that," answered Noddy,
shaking his head significantly.

The officers used all their powers of persuasion to induce him to come
down; but Noddy, satisfied that they had been sent by Squire Wriggs, was
fully persuaded that they were trying to deceive him. The story about a
"lot of money" for a poor boy like him, who had not a friend in the
world, was too absurd, in his estimation, to be entertained for a
moment. He had heard the squire speak to Mr. Grant about thirty thousand
dollars; but such a sum was beyond his comprehension. He did not believe
any man, not even the owner of Woodville, had so much money; and of
course it was nothing to him.

The constables got out of patience at last; and though they showed no
signs of anger or malice, they exhibited an intention to catch him,
which was much worse. One of them commenced the ascent of the pole in
the centre of the tent. The circus people, who seemed to be in full
sympathy with Noddy, remained neutral, for the intruders were officers
of the law, and it was not prudent to oppose them.

Noddy perceived the object of his pursuers, and grasping one of the
tent-ropes, he scrambled up to the very apex of the canvas structure,
and crawled through the aperture around the pole. From this point he
slid down to the short poles, and then dropped upon the ground, before
the man in the ring could pass round to the outside of the tent. Dodging
under the curtains, he reached the place which served as a
dressing-room. Removing his "trunks," he hurried on his clothes, and
rushed out into the open air again.

His persecutors were not in sight, and he did not lose a moment in
putting a safe distance between himself and them. Precisely as a
well-educated duck or other water-fowl would have done, he hastened to
the river, as his most natural element. He had made a complete circuit
of the town in his flight. He did not dare to show himself to a living
being; for it seemed to him just as though the whole country was after
him. When he reached the river, he sat down on the bank, exhausted by
his efforts and by the excitement of the afternoon.

"I reckon I've got about circus enough," said he to himself,--for there
was no one else to whom he could say it. "That Whippleby is worse than a
heathen. I don't like any of them."

He rubbed his legs, which were not yet done smarting; and the pain
seemed to be an emphatic protest against circuses in general, and the
"Great Olympian Circus" in particular. But whether he liked the circus
or not, it was no longer safe for him to remain with the company. He had
taken "French leave" of the manager, and had cheated him out of the
tights which enveloped his body from neck to heels. This thought
reminded him that they did not feel at all comfortable, and he wished
the manager had his own again.

Having abandoned the circus profession in disgust, he wondered what he
should do next. It was useless for him to stay in the vicinity of
Woodville; and the only safe plan for him to adopt was, to go away to
some other part of the country, or go to sea at once. He could not
tolerate the idea of leaving without letting Bertha know where he was.
The officers were on his track, and he could not hope always to escape
them. The court-house was terrible, and prompt action was necessary.

He must have a sight of Bertha, even if he did not speak to her; and at
the risk of being captured, he determined to stay in the neighborhood of
Woodville till the next morning. Near the place where he sat there was a
skiff moored to the bank. He hauled it in, and took up the oars. He did
not mean to steal it, only to borrow it till the next morning. With this
comfortable reflection he cast off the painter, and pulled over to the
other side of the river.

It was now quite late in the evening. He had not eaten any supper, and,
like other boys, he was always hungry at meal times. He wanted something
to eat; and it occurred to him that there were generally some crackers
and cheese in the locker of the Greyhound, and he rowed down to her
moorings. He found what he wanted there, and made a hearty supper. He
was satisfied then, and soon went to sleep in the stern-sheets of the
sail-boat.

Fortunately for him he waked up about daylight, and was not seen by any
of the early risers at Woodville. Appropriating the rest of the crackers
and cheese for his breakfast, he got into the skiff and rowed up to the
Glen, where he hoped, in the course of the forenoon, to see Bertha.




CHAPTER VIII.

GOOD-BYE TO WOODVILLE.


Bertha often walked to the Glen before breakfast, and Noddy expected to
find her there on the present occasion. As she did not appear, he
followed the path toward Woodville, and actually reached the lawn which
surrounded the mansion before he thought of the danger he incurred. But
it was breakfast time in the servants' quarters, and he was not seen.

Keeping on the outskirts of the lawn, where he could make good his
retreat in case of necessity, he walked nearly around to the pier, and
was so fortunate as to discover Bertha at the turn of a winding path,
near his route. The sight of her filled him with emotion, and brought to
his mind the remembrance of the many happy days he had spent in her
presence. He could hardly restrain the tears which the thought of
leaving the place brought to his eyes, though Noddy was not given to
the feminine custom of weeping.

"Miss Bertha," said he, as she approached the spot where he stood.

She started back with alarm; but he stepped forward from the concealment
of the bushes, and with a smile of pleasure she recognized him.

"Why, Noddy, is that you?" said she, walking towards the spot where he
stood.

"It's me, Miss Bertha; but I suppose you don't want to see me now."

"I am very glad to see you. What did you go away for?"

"Because they were going to put me in the court-house."

"In the court-house!" exclaimed Bertha, who was better acquainted with
legal affairs than her pupil.

"Yes, for setting the boat-house afire."

"I don't think they intended to take you to the court-house."

"O, I know they did. I have had two constables after me; but I got away
from them. Besides, I heard Squire Wriggs say they were going to take me
to the court-house. I heard him say so myself."

"Perhaps it is so," said Bertha, musing. "Squire Wriggs came to see
father yesterday morning. They went out together, and were speaking of
you as they left the house."

"I'm glad you didn't have anything to do with it," said Noddy, delighted
to find that Bertha was not one of his persecutors.

Then, with the utmost simplicity, and apparently with the feeling that
he was a persecuted youth, he told her everything that had occurred from
the time he first saw Mr. Grant and Squire Wriggs on the lawn.

"I don't know what my father's plans are," said Bertha, sadly; "but he
thinks it is no longer safe to permit you to roam about the place. He is
afraid you will set the house on fire, or do some other terrible thing."

"But I wouldn't, Miss Bertha," protested Noddy.

"Why did you do such a wicked thing?"

"I couldn't help it."

"Yes, you could, Noddy. That's only making a bad matter worse. Of course
you could help setting a building on fire."

"It wasn't my fault, Miss Bertha," stammered he; "I can't explain it
now--perhaps some time I may; and when you understand it, you won't
think so bad of me."

"If there is anything about it I don't know, why don't you tell me?"
added Bertha, mystified by his strange remark.

"I can't say anything now. Please don't ask me anything about it, Miss
Bertha. I'm not half so much to blame as you think I am; but I set the
fire, and they are after me for it. They have used all sorts of tricks
to catch me; but I'm not going into any court-house, or any tinker's
shop."

"What tricks do you mean?"

"They said they had a lot of money for me, and that Squire Wriggs
wouldn't do me any harm."

"Well, I don't know anything about that. Father went over to Whitestone
with Squire Wriggs, after you ran away. He went over again last night,
after he came from the city, and I haven't seen him for more than a
moment since."

"He is going to send me to the court-house," said Noddy, fully satisfied
that Bertha knew nothing about the proceedings of her father. "I am
going to sea, now."

"To sea, Noddy?"

"Yes, I'm going to work and win, as you told me, and when I come back I
shall be respectable."

Bertha had her doubts on this point. She had almost lost all hope of her
protégé, and she did not think that a voyage in the forecastle of a
ship would be likely to improve his manners or his morals.
