"Anybody'd think we were three mummies in a museum."

"I don't think you're very perlite," put in Winnie, with a virtuous
frown; "if you don't let me be a dummy, too, I'll tell mother, and that
would make four."

This broke the ice, and Sarah and Delia began to talk very fast about
Monday's grammar lesson, and Miss Cardrew, and how Agnes Gaylord put a
green snake in Phœbe Hunt's lunch-basket, and had to stay after school
for it, and how it was confidently reported in mysterious whispers, at
recess, that George Castles told Mr. Guernsey he was a regular old fogy,
and Mr. Guernsey had sent home a letter to his father—not Mr.
Guernsey's father, but George's; he had now, true's you live.

Now, to Joy, of course, none of this was very interesting, for she had
not been into the schoolroom yet, and didn't know George Castles and
Agnes Gaylord from Adam; and somehow or other it never occurred to Gypsy
to introduce some subject in which they could all take part; and so
somehow it came about that Joy fell behind with Winnie, and the three
girls went on together all the way to Mr. Jones's grove.

"Isn't it splendid?" called Gypsy, turning around. "I'm having a real
nice time."

"Ye—es," said Joy, dolefully; "I guess I shall like it better when we
get to the chestnuts."

Nothing particular happened on the way, except that when they were
crossing Mr. Jonathan's plowed field, Winnie stuck in the mud tight, and
when he was pulled out he left his shoes behind him; that he repeated
this pleasing little incident six consecutive times within five minutes,
varying it by lifting up his voice to weep, in Winnie's own accomplished
style; and that Joy ended by carrying him in her arms the whole way.

Be it here recorded that Joy's ideal of "cherubic childhood," Winnie
standing as representative cherub, underwent then and there several
modifications.

"Here we are!" cried Gypsy at last, clearing a low fence with a bound.
"Just see the leaves and the sky. Isn't it just—oh!"

It was, indeed "just," and there it stopped; there didn't seem to be any
more words to say about it. The chestnut-trees were clustered on a
small, rocky knoll, their golden-brown leaves fluttering in the
sunlight, their great, rich, bursting green burs bending down the boughs
and dropping to the ground. Around them and among them a belt of maples
stood up like blazing torches sharp against the sky—yellow, scarlet,
russet, maroon, and crimson veined with blood, all netted and laced
together, and floating down upon the wind like shattered jewels. Beyond,
the purple mountains, and the creamy haze, and the silent sky.

It was a sight to make younger and older than these four girls stand
still with deepening eyes. For about a half minute nobody spoke, and I
venture to say the four different kinds of thoughts they had just then
would make a pretty bit of a poem.

Whatever they were, a fearfully unromantic and utterly indescribable
howl from Winnie put an unceremonious end to them.

"O-oh! ugh! ah! Gypsy! Joy! I've got catched onto my buttons. My head's
tippin' over the wrong way. Boo-hoo-hoo! Gypsy!"

The girls turned, and stood transfixed, and screamed till they lost
their breath, and laughed till they cried.

Winnie, not being of a sentimental turn of mind, had regarded unmoved
the flaming glories of the maple-leaves, and being influenced by the
more earthly attractions of the chestnuts, had conceived the idea of
seizing advantage of the girls' unpractical rapture to be the first on
the field, and take entire and lawful possession thereof. Therefore had
he made all manner of haste to crawl through the fence, and there had he
stuck fast between two bars, balanced like a see-saw, his head going up
and his feet going down, his feet going up and his head going down.

Gypsy pulled him out as well as she could between her spasms of
laughter.

"I don't see anythin' to laugh at," said Winnie, severely. "If you don't
stop laughin' I'll go way off into the woods and be a Injun and never
come home any more, and build me a house with a chimney to it, 'n' have
baked beans for supper 'n' lots of chestnots, and a gun and a pistol,
and I won't give you any! Goin' to stop laughin'?"

It did not take long to pick up the nuts that the wind and the frost had
already strewn upon the ground, and everybody enjoyed it but Joy. She
pricked her unaccustomed fingers on the sharp burs, and didn't like the
nuts when she had tasted of them.

"They're not the kind of chestnuts we have in Boston," she said; "ours
are soft like potatoes."

"Oh dear, oh dear, she thought they grew boiled!" and there was a
great laugh. Joy colored, and did not relish it very much. Gypsy was too
busy pulling off her burs to notice this. Presently the ground was quite
cleared.

"Now we must climb," said Gypsy. Gypsy was always the leader in their
plays; always made all their plans. Sarah Rowe was her particular
friend, and thought everything Gypsy did about right, and seldom opposed
her. Delia never opposed anybody.

"Oh, I don't know how to climb," said Joy, shrinking and shocked.

"But I'll show you. This isn't anything; these branches are just as
low as they can be. Here, I'll go first and help you, and Sarah can come
next."

So up went Gypsy, nimble as a squirrel, over the low-hanging boughs that
swayed with her weight.

"Come, Joy! I can't wait."

Joy trembled and screamed, and came. She crawled a little ways up the
lowest of the branches, and stopped, frightened by the motion.

"Catch hold of the upper bough and stand up; then you can walk it,"
called Gypsy, half out of sight now among the thick leaves.

Joy did as she was told—her feet slipped, the lower branch swung away
from under her, and there she hung by both hands in mid-air. She was not
more than four feet from the ground, and could have jumped down without
the slightest difficulty, but that she was altogether too frightened to
do. So she swung back and forth like a lantern, screaming as loud as she
could scream.

Gypsy was peculiarly sensitive to anything funny, and she quite forgot
that Joy was really frightened; indeed, used as she was to the science
of tree-climbing all her life, that a girl could hang within four feet
of the ground, and not know enough to jump, seemed to her perfectly
incomprehensible.

"Jump, Joy, jump!" she called, between her shouts of laughter.

"No, no, don't, you might break your arm," cried Delia Guest, who hadn't
the slightest scruple about telling a falsehood if she were going to
have something to laugh at by the means. Poor Joy was between Scylla and
Charybdis. (If you don't know what that means, go and ask your big
brothers; make them leave their chess and their newspapers on the spot,
and read you what Mr. Virgil has to say about it.) If she hung on she
would wrench her arms; if she jumped, she should break them. She hung,
screaming, as long as she could, and dropped when she could hang no
longer, looking about in an astonishment that was irresistibly funny, at
finding herself alive and unhurt on the soft moss.

The girls were still laughing too hard to talk. Joy stood up with a very
red face and began to walk slowly away without a word.

"Where are you goin?" called Gypsy from the branches.

"Home," said Joy.

"Oh, don't; come, we won't laugh any mote. Come back, and you needn't
climb. You can stay underneath and pick up while we throw down."

"No; I've had enough of it. I don't like chestnutting, and I don't like
to be laughed at, either. I shan't stay any longer."

"I'm real sorry," said Gypsy. "I couldn't help laughing at you, you did
look so terribly funny. Oh, dear, you ought to have seen yourself! I
wish you wouldn't go. If you do, you can find the way alone, I suppose."

"I suppose so," said Joy, doubtfully.

"Well, you'd better take Winnie; you know you brought him, and I can't
keep him here. It would spoil everything. Why, where is the child?"

He was nowhere to be seen.

"Winnie! Win—nie!"

There was a great splash somewhere, and a curious bubbling sound, but
where it came from nobody could tell. All at once Delia broke into
something between a laugh and a scream.

"O—oh, I see! Look there—down in that ditch beyond the
elder-bushes—quick!"

Rising up into the air out of the muddy ground, without any visible
support whatever, were a pair of feet—Winnie's feet, unmistakably,
because of their copper toes and tagless shoestrings—and kicking
frantically back and forth. "Only that and nothing more."

"Why, where's the—rest of him?" said Joy, blankly. At this instant
Gypsy darted past her with a sudden movement, flew down the knoll, and
began to pull at the mysterious feet as if for dear life.

"Why, what is she doing?" cried all the girls in a breath. As they
spoke, up came Winnie entire into the air, head down, dripping,
drenched, black with mud, gasping, nearly drowned.

Gypsy shook him and pounded him on the back till his breath came, and
when she found there was no harm done, she set him down on a stone,
wiped the mud off from his face, and threw herself down on the grass as
if she couldn't stand up another minute.

"Crying? Why, no; she's laughing. Did you ever?"

And down ran the girls to see what was the matter. At the foot of the
knoll was a ditch of black mud. In the middle of this ditch was a round
hole two feet deep, which had been dug at some time to collect water for
the cattle pasturing in the field to drink. Into this hole, Winnie, in
the course of some scientific investigations as to the depth of the
water, had fallen, unfortunately, the wrong end foremost, and there he
certainly would have drowned if Gypsy had not seen him just when she
did.

But he was not drowned; on the contrary, except for the mud, "as good as
new;" and what might have been a tragedy, and a very sad one, had
become, as Gypsy said, "too funny for anything." Winnie, however,
"didn't see it," and began to cry lustily to go home.

"It's fortunate you were just going," said Gypsy. "I'll just fill my
pail, and then I'll come along and very likely overtake you."

Probably Joy didn't fancy this arrangement any too well, but she
remembered that it was her own plan to take the child; therefore she
said nothing, and she and Winnie started off forlornly enough.

About five o'clock Gypsy walked slowly up the yard with her pail full of
nuts, her hat in her hand, and a gay wreath of maple-leaves on her head.
With her bright cheeks and twinkling eyes, and the broad leaves casting
their gorgeous shadows of crimson and gold upon her forehead, she made a
pretty picture—almost too pretty to scold.

Tom met her at the door. Tom was very proud of Gypsy, and you could see
in his eyes just then what he thought of her.

"What a little——" he began, all ready for a frolic, and stopped, and
grew suddenly grave.

"Where are Joy and Winnie?"

"Haven't they come?"

"No."




CHAPTER V

GYPSY MAKES A DISCOVERY


Gypsy turned very pale.

"Where are they?" persisted Tom. And just then her mother came out from
the parlor.

"Why, Gypsy, where are the children?"

"I'm afraid Joy didn't know the way," said Gypsy, slowly.

"Did you let her come home alone?"

"Yes'm. She was tired of the chestnuts, and Winnie fell into the ditch.
Oh, mother!"

Mrs. Breynton did not say one word. She began to put on her things very
fast, and Tom hurried up to the store for his father. They hunted
everywhere, through the fields and in the village; they inquired of
every shop-keeper and every passer, but no one had seen a girl in black,
with a little boy. There were plenty of girls, and an abundance of
little boys to be found at a great variety of places, but most of the
girls wore green-checked dresses, and the boys were in ragged jackets.
Gypsy retraced every step of the way carefully from the roadside to the
chestnut-trees. Mr. Jonathan Jones, delighted that he had actually
caught somebody on his plowed land, came running down with a terrible
scolding on his lips. But when he saw Gypsy's utterly wretched face and
heard her story, he helped her instead to search the chestnut grove and
the surrounding fields all over. But there was not a flutter of Joy's
black dress, not an echo of Winnie's cry. The sunset was fading fast in
the west, long shadows were slanting down the valley, and the blaze of
the maples was growing faint. On the mountains it was quite blotted out
by the gathering darkness.

"What shall I do?" cried Gypsy, thinking, with a great sinking at her
heart, how cold the nights were now, and how early it grew quite dark.

"Hev you been 'long that ere cross-road 't opens aout through the woods
onto the three-mile square?" asked Mr. Jonathan. "I've been a thinkin'
on't as heow the young uns might ha took that ere ef they was flustered
beout knowin' the way neow mos' likely."

"Oh, what a splendid, good man you are!" said Gypsy, jumping up and
down, and clapping her hands with delight. "Nobody thought of that, and
I'll never run over your plowed-up land again as long as ever I live,
and I'm going right to tell father, and you see if I do!"

Her father wondered that they had not thought of it, and old Billy was
harnessed in a hurry, and they started for the three-mile cross-roads.
Gypsy went with them. Nobody spoke to her except to ask questions now
and then as to the precise direction the children took, and the time
they started for home. Gypsy leaned back in the carriage, peering out
into the gloom on either side, calling Joy's name now and then, or
Winnie's, and busy with her own wretched thoughts. Whatever they were,
she did not very soon forget them.

It was very dark now, and very cold; the crisp frost glistened on the
grass, and an ugly-looking red moon peered over the mountain. It seemed
to Gypsy like a great, glaring eye, that was singling her out and
following her, and asking, "Where are Joy and Winnie?" over and over.
"Gypsy Breynton, Gypsy Breynton, where are Joy and Winnie?" She turned
around with her back to it, so as not to see it.

Once they passed an old woman on the road hobbling along with a stick.
Mr. Breynton reined up and asked if she had seen anything of two
children.

"Haow?" said the old woman.

"Have you seen anything of two children along here?"

"Chilblains? No, I don't have none this time o' year, an' I don't know
what business it is o' yourn, nuther."

"Children!" shouted Mr. Breynton; "two children, a boy and a girl."

"Speak a little louder, can't you? I'm deaf," said the old woman.

"Have you—seen anything—of—two—children—a little boy, and a
girl in black?"

"Chickens? black chickens?" said the old woman, with an angry shake of
the head; "no, I hain't got no chickens for yer. My pullet's white, and
I set a heap on't an' wouldn't sell it to nobody as come askin' oncivil
questions of a lone, lorn widdy. Besides, the cat eat it up las' week,
feathers 'n' all."

Mr. Breynton concluded there was not much information to be had in that
quarter, and drove on.

A little way farther they came across a small boy turning somersets in
the ditch. Mr. Breynton stopped again and repeated his questions.

"How many of 'em?" asked the boy, with a thoughtful look.

"Two, a boy and a girl."

"Two?"

"Yes."

"A boy and a girl?"

"Yes."

"You said one was a boy and t'other was a girl?" repeated the small boy,
looking very bright.

"Yes. The boy was quite small, and the girl wore a black dress. They're
lost, and we're trying to find them."

"Be you, now, really!" said the small boy, apparently struck with sudden
and overwhelming admiration. "That is terribly good in you. Seems to me
now I reckon I see two young uns 'long here somewhars, didn't I? Le' me
see."

"Oh, where, where?" cried Gypsy. "Oh, I'm so glad! Did the little boy
have on a plaid jacket and brown coat?"

"Waal, now, seems as ef 'twas somethin' like that."

"And the girl wore a hat and a long veil?" pursued Gypsy, eagerly.

"Was she about the height of this girl here, and whereabouts did you see
her?" asked Tom.

"Waal, couldn't tell exactly; somewhars between here an' the village, I
reckon. Seems to me she did have a veil or suthin'."

"And she was real pale?" cried Gypsy, "and the boy was dreadfully
muddy?"

"Couldn't say as to that"—the small boy began to hesitate and look
very wise—"don't seem to remember the mud, and on the whole, I ain't
partiklar sure 'bout the veil. Oh, come to think on't, it wasn't a gal;
it was a deaf old woman, an' there warn't no boy noways."

Well was it for the small boy that, as the carriage rattled on, he took
good care to be out of the reach of Tom's whip-lash.

It grew darker and colder, and the red moon rode on silently in the sky.
They had come now to the opening of the cross-road, but there were no
signs of the children—only the still road and the shadows under the
trees.

"Hark! what's that?" said Mr. Breynton, suddenly. He stopped the
carriage, and they all listened. A faint, sobbing sound broke the
silence. Gypsy leaned over the side of the carriage, peering in among
the trees where the shadow was blackest.

"Father, may I get out a minute?"

She sprang over the wheel, ran into the cross-road, into a clump of
bushes, pushed them aside, screamed for joy.

"Here they are, here they are—quick, quick! Oh, Winnie Breynton, do
just wake up and let me look at you! Oh, Joy, I am so glad!"

And there on the ground, true enough, sat Joy, exhausted and frightened
and sobbing, with Winnie sound asleep in her lap.

"I didn't know the way, and Winnie kept telling me wrong, and, oh, I was
so tired, and I sat down to rest, and it is so dark, and—and oh, I
thought nobody'd ever come!"

And poor Joy sprang into her uncle's arms, and cried as hard as she
could cry.

Joy was thoroughly tired and chilled; it seemed that she had had to
carry Winnie in her arms a large part of the way, and the child was by
no means a light weight. Evidently, Master Winnie had taken matters
pretty comfortably throughout, having had, Joy said, the utmost
confidence in his own piloting, declaring "it was just the next house,
right around the corner, Joy; how stupid in her not to know! he knew all
the whole of it just as well as anything," and was none the worse for
the adventure. Gypsy tried to wake him up, but he doubled up both fists
in his dream, and greeted her with the characteristic reply, "Naughty!"
and that was all that was to be had from him. So he was rolled up warmly
on the carriage floor; they drove home as fast as Billy would go, and
the two children, after a hot supper and a great many kisses, were put
snugly to bed.

After Joy was asleep, Mrs. Breynton said she would like to see Gypsy a
few moments downstairs.

"Yes'm," said Gypsy, and came slowly down. They sat down in the
dining-room alone. Mrs. Breynton drew up her rocking-chair by the fire,
and Gypsy took the cricket.

There was a silence. Gypsy had an uncomfortable feeling that her mother
was waiting for her to speak first. She kicked off her slipper, and put
it on; she rattled the tongs, and pounded the hearth with the poker; she
smoothed her hair out of her eyes, and folded up her handkerchief six
times; she looked up sideways at her mother; then she began to cough. At
last she broke out—

"I suppose you want me to say I'm sorry. Well, I am. But I don't see why
I'm to blame, I'm sure."

"I haven't said you were to blame," said her mother, quietly. "You know
I have had no time yet to hear what happened this afternoon, and I
thought you would like to tell me."

"Well," said Gypsy, "I'd just as lief;" and Gypsy looked a little, a
very little, as if she hadn't just as lief at all. "You see, 'in the
first place and commencing,' as Winnie says, Joy wanted to take him.
Now, she doesn't know anything about that child, not a thing, and if
she'd taken him to places as much as I have, and had to lug him home
screaming all the way, I guess she would have stopped wanting to, pretty
quick, and I always take Winnie when I can, you know now, mother; and
then Joy wouldn't talk going over, either."

"Whom did she walk with?" interrupted Mrs. Breynton.

"Why, with Winnie, I believe. Of course she might have come on with
Sarah and Delia and me if she'd wanted to, but—I don't know——"

"Very well," said Mrs. Breynton, "go on."

"Then, you see, Joy didn't like chestnuts, and couldn't climb, and—oh,
Winnie kept losing his shoes, and got stuck in the fence, and you never
saw anything so funny! And then Joy couldn't climb, and she just hung
there swinging; and now, mother, I couldn't help laughing to save me, it
was so exactly like a great pendulum with hoops on. Well, Joy was mad
'cause we laughed and all, and so she said she'd go home. Then—let me
see—oh, it was after that, Winnie tumbled into the ditch, splash in!
with his feet up in the air, and I thought I should go off to see
him."

"But what about Joy?"

"Oh, well, Joy took Winnie—he was so funny and muddy, you don't
know—'cause she brought him, you know, and so they came home, and I
thought she knew the way as much as could be, and I guess that's all."

"Well," said her mother, after a pause, "what do you think about it?"

"About what?"

"Do you think you have done just right, Gypsy?"

"I don't see why not," said Gypsy, uneasily. "It was perfectly fair Joy
should take Winnie, and of course I wasn't bound to give up my nutting
party and come home, just for her."

"I'm not speaking of what is fair, Gypsy. Strictly speaking, Joy had
her rights, and you had yours, and the arrangement might have been
called fair enough. But what do you think honestly, Gypsy—were you a
little selfish?"

Gypsy opened her eyes wide. Honestly she might have said she didn't
know. She was by nature a generous child, and the charge of selfishness
was seldom brought against her. Plenty of faults she had, but they were
faults of quick temper and carelessness. Of deliberate selfishness it
had scarcely ever occurred to her that anybody could think her capable.
So she echoed—

"Selfish!" in simple surprise.

"Just look at it," said her mother, gently; "Joy was your visitor, a
stranger, feeling awkward and unhappy, most probably, with the girls
whom you knew so well, and not knowing anything about the matters which
you talked over. You might, might you not, have by a little effort made
her soon feel at home and happy? Instead of that, you went off with the
girls, and let her fall behind, with nobody but Winnie to talk to."

Gypsy's face turned to a sudden crimson.

"Then, a nutting party was a new thing to Joy, and with the care of
Winnie and all, it is no wonder she did not find it very pleasant, and
she had never climbed a tree in her life. This was her first Saturday
afternoon in Yorkbury, and she was, no doubt, feeling lonely and
homesick, and it made her none the happier to be laughed at for not
doing something she had not the slightest idea how to do. Was it quite
generous to let her start off alone, over a strange road, with the care
of a crying——"

"And muddy," put in Gypsy, with twinkling eyes, "from head to foot,
black as a shoe."

"And muddy child?" finished Mrs. Breynton, smiling in spite of herself.

"But Joy wanted to take him, and I told her so. It was her own bargain."



"I know that. But we are not speaking of bargains, Gypsy; we are
speaking of what is kind and generous. Now, how does it strike you?"

"It strikes me," said Gypsy, in her honest way, after a moment's
pause—"it strikes me that I'm a horrid selfish old thing, and I've
lived twelve years and just found it out; there now!"

Just as Gypsy was going to bed she turned around with the lamp in her
hand, her great eyes dreaming away in the brownest of brown studies.

"Mother, is it selfish to have upper drawers, and front sides, and
things?"

"What are you talking about, Gypsy?"

"Why, don't my upper drawers, and the front side of the bed, and all
that, belong to me, and must I give them up to Joy?"

"It is not necessary," said her mother, laughing. But Gypsy fancied
there was a slight emphasis on the last word.

Joy was sound asleep, and dreaming that Winnie was a rattlesnake and
Gypsy a prairie-dog, when somebody gave her a little pinch and woke her
up.

"Oh—why—what's the matter?" said Joy.

"Look here, you might just as well have the upper bureau drawers, you
know, and I don't care anything about the front side of the bed.
Besides, I wish I hadn't let you come home alone this afternoon."

"Well, you are the funniest!" said Joy.




CHAPTER VI

WHO PUT IT IN?


On Monday Joy went to school. Gypsy had been somewhat astonished, a
little hurt, and a little angry, at hearing her say, one day, that she
"didn't think it was a fit place for her to go—a high school where all
the poor people went."

But, fit or not, it was the only school to be had, and Joy must go.
Perhaps, on some accounts, Mrs. Breynton would have preferred sending
the children to a private school; but the only one in town, and the one
which Gypsy had attended until this term, was broken up by the marriage
of the teacher, so she had no choice in the matter. The boys at the high
school were, some of them, rude, but the girls for the most part were
quiet, well-behaved, and lady-like, and the instruction was undoubtedly
vastly superior to that of a smaller school. As Gypsy said, "you had to
put into it and study like everything, or else she gave you a horrid old
black mark, and then you felt nice when it was read aloud at
examination, didn't you?"

"I wouldn't care," said Joy.

"Why, Joyce Miranda Breynton!" said Gypsy. But Joy declared she
wouldn't, and it was very soon evident that she didn't. She had not the
slightest fancy for her studies; neither had Gypsy, for that matter; but
Gypsy had been brought up to believe it was a disgrace to get bad marks.
Joy had not. She hurried through her lessons in the quickest possible
fashion, anyhow, so as to get through, and out to play; and limped
through her recitations as well as she could. Once Gypsy saw—and she
was thoroughly shocked to see—Joy peep into the leaves of her grammar
when Miss Cardrew's eyes were turned the other way.

Altogether, matters did not go on very comfortably. Joy's faults were
for the most part those from which Gypsy was entirely free, and to which
she had a special and inborn aversion. On the other hand, many of
Gypsy's failings were not natural to Joy. Gypsy was always forgetting
things she ought to remember. Joy seldom did. Gypsy was thoughtless,
impulsive, always into mischief, out of it, sorry for it, and in again.
Joy did wrong deliberately, as she did everything else, and did not
become penitent in a hurry. Gypsy's temper was like a flash of
lightning, hot and fierce and melting right away in the softest of
summer rains. When Joy was angry she sulked. Joy was precise and neat
about everything. Gypsy was not. Then Joy kept still, and Gypsy talked;
Joy told parts of stories, Gypsy told the whole; Joy had some foolish
notions about money and dresses and jewelry, on which Gypsy looked with
the most supreme contempt—not on the dresses, but the notions.
Therefore there was plenty of material for rubs and jars, and of all sad
things to creep into a happy house, these rubs and jars are the saddest.

One day both the girls woke full of mischief. It was a bracing November
day, cool as an ice-cream and clear as a whistle. The air sparkled like
a fountain of golden sands, and was as full of oxygen as it could hold;
and oxygen, you must know, is at the bottom of a great deal of the
happiness and misery, goodness and badness, of this world.



"I tell you if I don't feel like cutting up!" said Gypsy, on the way
to school. Gypsy didn't look unlike "cutting up" either, walking along
there with her satchel swung over her left shoulder, her turban set all
askew on her bright, black hair, her cheeks flushed from the jumping of
fences and running of races that had been going on since she left the
house, and that saucy twinkle in her eyes. Joy was always somewhat more
demure, but she looked, too, that morning, as if she were quite as ready
to have a good time as any other girl.

"Do you know," said Gypsy, confidentially, as they went up the
schoolhouse steps, "I feel precisely as if I should make Miss Cardrew a
great deal of trouble to-day; don't you?"

"What does she do to you if you do?"

"Oh, sometimes she keeps you after school, and then again she tells Mr.
Guernsey, and then there are the bad marks. Miss Melville—she's my old
teacher that married Mr. Hallam, she was just silly enough!—well, she
used to just look at you, and never open her lips, and I guess you
wished you hadn't pretty quick."

It was very early yet, but quite a crowd was gathered in the
schoolhouse, as was the fashion on cool mornings. The boys were stamping
noisily over the desks, and grouped about the stove in No. 1. No. 1. was
the large room where the whole school gathered for prayer. A few of the
girls were there—girls who laughed rudely and talked loudly, none of
them Gypsy's friends. Tom never liked to have Gypsy linger about in No.
1, before or after school hours; he said it was not the place for her,
and Tom was there that morning, knotting his handsome brows up into a
very decided frown, when he saw her in the doorway, with Joy peeping
over her shoulder. So Gypsy—somewhat reluctantly, it must be
confessed, for the boys seemed to be having a good time, and with boys'
good times she had a most unconquerable sympathy—went up with Joy into
Miss Cardrew's recitation room. Nobody was there. A great, empty
schoolroom, with its rows of silent seats and closed desks, with power
to roam whithersoever you will, and do whatsoever you choose, is a great
temptation. The girls ran over the desks, and looked into the desks,
jumped over the settees, and knocked down the settees, put out the fire
and built it up again, from the pure luxury of doing what they wanted
to, in a place where they usually had to do what they didn't want to.
They sat in Miss Cardrew's chair, and peeped into her desk; they ate
apples and snapped peanut shells on the very platform where sat the
spectacled and ogre-eyed committee on examination days; they drew all
manner of pictures of funny old women without any head, and old men
without any feet, on the awful blackboard, and played "tag" round the
globes. Then they stopped for want of breath.

"I wish there were something to do," sighed Gypsy; "something real
splendid and funny."

"I knew a girl once, and she drew a picture of the teacher on the board
in green chalk," suggested Joy; "only she lost her recess for a whole
week after it."

"That wouldn't do. Besides, pictures are too common; everybody does
those. Boys put pins in the seats, and cut off the legs of the teacher's
chair, and all that. I don't know as I care to tumble Miss Cardrew
over—wouldn't she look funny, though!—'cause mother wouldn't like
it. Couldn't we make the stove smoke, or put pepper in the desks,
or—let me see."

"Dress up something somehow," said Joy; "there's the poker."

Gypsy shook her head.

"Delia Guest did that last term, 'n' the old thing—I mean the poker,
not Delia—went flat down in the corner behind the stove—flat, just
as Miss Melville was coming in, and lay there in the wood-pile, and
nobody knew there was a single sign of a thing going on. I guess you
better believe Delia felt cheap!—hark! what's that?"

It was a faint miaow down in the yard. The girls ran to the window and
looked out.

"A kitten!"

"The very thing!"

"I'm going right down to get her."

Down they ran, both of them, in a great hurry, and brought the creature
up. The poor thing was chilled, and hungry, and frightened. They took
her up to the stove, and Gypsy warmed her in her apron, and Joy fed her
with cookies from her lunch-basket, till she curled her head under her
paws with a merry purr, all ready for a nap, and evidently without the
slightest suspicion that Gypsy's lap was not foreordained, and created
for her especial habitation as long as she might choose to remain there.

"Joy," said Gypsy, suddenly, "I've thought of something."

"So have I."

"To dress her——"

"Up in a handkerchief."

"And things."

"I know it."

"And put her——"

"Yes! into Miss Cardrew's desk!"

"Won't it be just——"

"Splendid! Hurry up!"

They "hurried up" in good earnest, choking down their laughter so that
nobody downstairs might hear it. Joy took her pretty, purple-bordered
handkerchief and tied it over the poor kitten's head like a nightcap, so
tight that, pull and scratch as she might, pussy could not get it off.
Gypsy's black silk apron was tied about her, like a long baby-dress, a
pair of mittens were fastened on her arms, and a pink silk scarf around
her throat. When all was done, Gypsy held her up, and trotted her on her
knee. Anybody who has ever dressed up a cat like a baby, knows how
indescribably funny a sight it is. It seemed as if the girls could never
stop laughing—it does not take much to make girls laugh. At last there
was a commotion in the entry below.

"It's the girls!—quick, quick!"

Gypsy, trying to get up, tripped on her dress and fell, and away flew
the kitten, all tangled in the apron, making for the door as fast as an
energetic kitten could go.

"She'll be downstairs, and maybe Miss Cardrew's there! Oh!"

Joy sprang after the creature, caught her by the very tip end of her
tail just as she was preparing to pounce down the stairs, and ran with
her to Miss Cardrew's desk.

"Put her in—quick, quick!"

"O-oh, she won't lie still!"

"Where's the lunch-basket? Give me some biscuit—there! I hear them on
the stairs!"

The kitten began to mew piteously, struggling to get out with all her
might. Down went the desk-cover on her paws.

"There now, lie still! Oh, hear her mew! What shall we do?"

Quick footsteps were on the stairs—halfway up; merry laughter, and a
dozen voices.

"Here's the biscuit. Here, kitty, kitty, poor kit-ty, do please to
lie still and eat it! Oh, Joy Breynton, did you ever?"

"There, she's eating!"

"Shut the desk—hurry!"

When the girls came in, Joy and Gypsy were in their seats, looking over
the arithmetic lesson. Joy's book was upside down, and Gypsy was
intensely interested in the preface.

Miss Cardrew came in shortly after, and stood warming her fingers at the
stove, nodding and smiling at the girls. All was still so far in the
desk. Miss Cardrew went up and laid down her gloves and pushed back her
chair. Joy coughed under her breath, and Gypsy looked up out of the
corners of her eyes.

"Mr. Guernsey is not well to-day," began Miss Cardrew, standing by the
desk, "and we shall not be able to meet as usual in No. 1 for prayers.
It has been thought best that each department should attend devotions in
its own room. You can get out your Bibles."

Gypsy looked at Joy, and Joy looked at Gypsy.

Miss Cardrew sat down. It was very still. A muffled scratching sound
broke into the pause. Miss Cardrew looked up carelessly, as if to see
where it came from; it stopped.

"She'll open her desk now," whispered Joy, stooping to pick up a book.

