soon followed by a yearning for some hope akin to the one 
he had lost. He would have been too proud to throw him- 
self upon any woman's sympathy, even if distrust and really 
superior penetration had not rendered him a little suspicious. 
But all through his acquaintance with Lily, he had admired 
Daisy, and given her a high regard. The confidence, on that 
unfortunate evening at Catskill, established a still stronger 
tie between them. And now the desire of having some one 
to care for him when he would be far away in his new home, 
operated powerfully upon his feelings. In his present state 
her regard seemed to promise rest and peace, and it was 
worth an effort. 
" I have offended you," he said, at length, seeing she did 
not speak. 
" No, not offended." She motioned him to a seat beside 
her. Then, clasping her hands in her lap, she went on, with 
sad earnestness : " But I am sorry you said it. I could be 
your friend always, yet I cannot love you as you desire. I 
believe you have made a great mistake. I think you still 
love Lily that she still loves you:" 
Her fearless manner startled him. Yet he made a little 
gesture of contempt as he returned, bitterly, 
" Even if you are right, what would it avail ? I cannot sue 
to Lily. I may have been wrong in many things, hasty at 
times, but Grod knows how patient I strove to be. I have 
no word to take back. Since she gave the offence and tri- 
umphed in it, does it seem likely to you that she will repent ? 
Humility is not one of her characteristics. And the terms 
on which we stood were simply unendurable. It would make 
aie wretched to accept them again. So you see a renewal 
of the engagement, without a radical change in one or both, 
would only bring misery. Do not think of it, Daisy ; it can 
never be." 
" Let us wait," she said, with a little sigh. 
" I am willing to wait. Do not think I ask for your love 
 
now. I only want some hope to take with me, so that the 
world will not be quite a desert. When time heals all wounds, 
and makes the tangled paths straight, I hope to prove myself 
worthy of you. For the present we will correspond, and you 
will see I can be both generous and patient. Daisy, love 
has been bitter to me in the past ; but I firmly believe you 
can make my future bright. I know you will not fail me ; 
and in time to come I will answer for myself." 
It was a cruel strait for Daisy. Her unwillingness to give 
pain, her deep sympathy, the thought that by refusing her 
friendship she effectually broke the tie between him and 
Lily, filled her heart with anxious and troubled emotions. 
More than this, she saw the great risk she ran of being mis- 
understood. She felt how impossible it was to love him. 
But she could give no satisfactory reason. It was rather 
one of those inevitable conclusions which force themselves 
upon the mind, and flash out of being all logical deductions. 
He took her unresisting hand, and went on pleading his 
case eloquently. 
" O, please don't ! " she said, in a voice of pitiful entreaty. 
" I will be your friend ; I will write, if you desire it ; but 
more than this I cannot promise. I am sorry to give you 
pain, but better pain now, than disappointment in the end." 
" I am content to leave the case to the future. Friend- 
ship is all I ask at present. And now shall I tell you some- 
thing about my appointment ? " 
She caught at the change eagerly, yet unwittingly she 
gave him .--, great advantage. 
Still she was troubled about the promise she had given, 
and, after he left her, waited some time for Richard. She 
fancied at the moment that she had sufficient courage to ask 
bis opinion and advice. 
 
CHAPTER XXXI. 
How bitter a thing it is to look into happiness through another man's eyes ! 
As You LIKE IT. 
I cannot but remember such things were, 
That were most precious to me. 
MACBETH. 
IP Daisy could have looked into Richard's heart, her light 
slumber would have been still more disturbed. 
He had returned quite early, and not finding her in the 
house, sought her in the garden, as it was still light. These 
quiet hours with her had become an intense delight to him. 
Not dreaming of a visitor, he hastened down the path. A 
row of syringas screened the bench on which she and Mr. 
Auchester sat ; so he caught the sound of their voices before 
he saw them. He could not mistake the import. Clear 
and decisive the words rang through his brain : "I know 
you will not fail me, and in time to come I will answer for 
myself." He waited in almost deathly silence for her to 
speak. Above the murmurous voice of the wind, above the 
rustle of the trees, he heard the beating of his own heart. 
What was her answer? Basses, caresses, and whispered 
words ? He turned away sick and faint, and lost what might 
have comforted him. 
Retracing his steps mechanically, he passed through the 
hall, the little court-yard, and into the street, hardly noticing 
whither he went, so long as the place was unfrequented. 
He wanted to look his future in the face, for he saw clearly 
how it was with himself. His soul was unveiled. Instead 
of having buried hope and desire in the .grave of a first dis- 
 
appointment, he found them here in their eternal freshness, 
their entire strength. He loved Daisy. How or when thip 
latter passion had dawned upon him in all the solemn surety 
of truth, broader, deeper, richer than the other, and com- 
prehending every want of his life, he could never tell. All 
minor dreams and affections had been overswept by this. 
Leaving behind youthful crudeness and evanescent feelings 
that he had once fancied must be permanent, his heart had 
reached the point where manhood's love caused it to throb 
with a pure and steady faith. This had come upon him so 
gradually that no struggle had occurred, no scruples had 
disturbed him. Sailing blindly over the summer sea of life, 
the deep, swift, rushing waters of a " too late " cut him off 
from the main land, and sent him drifting down a darker 
stream. Another had garnered the sweet flower he had 
transplanted from its ungenial soil, and caused to blossom 
in rare beauty. Another, who had all the world to choose 
from! 
He was a man, and at first felt wronged, outraged. Jeal- 
ousy gave a fierce tug at his heart. A certain strength and 
sense of power lured him on to the resolve of contesting the 
prize with Mr. Auchester. Surely he had a right to be 
heard. He could not give her up his all, his second life. 
Every moment she grew dearer. He had never dreamed of 
loving in this intense manner, and every pulse quivered with 
the power of his emotion. 
But what if Daisy loved Mr. Auchester ? He remem- 
bered how from the very first she had admired and approved 
of him. He was eminently attractive. And Richard allowed 
that he had proved himself not unwise by choosing her. If 
he could win her back, if from any sense of obligation, any 
thought of gratitude, she gave him her regard, would it 
Hatisfy him? No, no. He spurned the thought. Love, 
spontaneous, above all doubt or question, must be his. 
This only could he place upon the throne in his heart. 
And the future ? He shrank from it with a pain so deep, 
that, strong man as he was, he could hardly refrain from 
crying out that his burden was greater than he could bear. 
Wherein had he failed, that to him should continually be 
given solitary places to walk through, when his heart yearned 
for home joys, home faces, and tenderest tones ? Every 
hope was swept away with this, every sweet dream that had 
unconsciously rendered life so bright. For when he came 
to disentangle the rosy web that had floated over him for 
months past, he found every thread was intimately con- 
nected with Daisy. How cold and gray it looked without 
her ! 
He rambled on in a vague, purposeless mood, until he 
heard the city clocks strike the hour of midnight. He could 
have prayed for the night and darkness to be eternal. Since 
the sweetest day of life had passed for him, what comfort 
could a new sunrise bring ? The glory of all time had faded 
utterly out of his pathway. 
He had said so once before, and proved what? That 
a new affection could blossom over the ashes of the old. 
Would it be so again ? Was this faculty of transferring 
feelings something inherent in a man's nature ? 
Not with such a love as this. He had come to manhood's 
full tide. Daisy met every want of his nature. The pas- 
sion was the more absorbing, perhaps, because daily he 
gathered sweetness and strength from her in some subtle, 
indescribable manner. She gave continually out of her 
overflowing heart. She was peace, serenity. This was 
what he longed for now. Contrasting the two, his first love 
seemed only to have touched the surface ; this penetrated 
the holy of holies, and became, as I have said, a part of his 
very life. 
He came back at last to the shadow of home the home 
that might have been so happy. How still and desolate ! 
As if every leafy tree had a presentiment, as if the shadows 
lying so thickly around robed themselves in a deeper gloom. 
And going down the empty-handed years, there would at 
 
length be no happy voice to bid him welcome no tendei 
eyes to smile upon him. Already the chill of loneliness 
made itself felt in every nerve. It seemed as if a fair dead 
corse was lying there to confront him evermore. 
Richard wrestled till daybreak. It might be that he, too, 
refused to let the angel go until he blessed him. At all 
events, he was calm, and his face had a high, saintly look, 
his voice an inflection of rarest sadness that startled Daisy. 
In order to strengthen himself, he delicately put a slight, 
nameless distance between them, resolved to be just to her 
if every step crushed his own heart. 
Daisy tried to talk a little. She thought she had a great 
deal to say about Mr. Auchester's proposed departure, but 
she did not get beyond a few incidents connected with the 
fact. Drawing a long and desperate breath, she ventured to 
ask, timidly, 
" How do you suppose Lily will take it ? " 
" Do not distress yourself, lie can never again be any- 
thing to Lily, you know," he answered, decisively. 
Why should she suddenly thrill with her old fear of Rich- 
ard ? The solid ground seemed slipping from beneath her 
feet. Those past days of pain and desolation flashed over 
her days when she felt he might justly be angry with her. 
Since then, how deep a tenderness she had discovered in 
that grave face ! What made it cold, even to sternness, 
now ? She wanted to grasp him, cling to him ; yet some 
strong barrier interposed. She was pained to the heart, 
when at length he rose, and went out silently. 
It was a long, wearisome day. No tangible grievance 
only when she heard him enter the house, and then leave it 
without seeking her, she sat still and cold, as if stunned by 
some unforeseen blow. The day before she would have run 
down for a kiss. He noticed the omission, and fancied 
there was only one cause to which it could be ascribed. 
This gave him courage to proceed with his resolve. . 
Daisy made an effort to appear cheerful at dinner, and he 
 
ably assisted her. Tessy's unclouded mood was a relief to 
both. Afterwards, when she took her sewing, and sat on 
the balcony, he brought an unfinished book, and read aloud. 
Once he fancied she was inattentive, and said, 
" Does this weary you ? " 
" O, no." Then she colored, and looked embarrassed. 
He kissed both girls good night before going out, and 
Daisy, who had been counting on a few moments alone with 
him, felt sadly disappointed. 
Yet she was enabled to explain all this satisfactorily to 
herself the next day, and terrible as the reality was, experi- 
enced a sense of relief. Richard had been called out quite 
early in the morning, and breakfast passed without him. A 
feeling of apprehension almost stifled Daisy. What had she 
done to offend him ? or was it possible that, in thinking 
over their relative positions, his heart shrank from giving 
her so much trust, so much love, and he was about to estab- 
lish a new order of things ? 
She went to market with Mrs. Hall, and lingered in the 
stores buying some pretty trifles for Tessy. During her 
absence Richard had come and gone. Then she tried to 
interest herself in preparations for dinner ; but everything 
seemed hard work. 
" What an odd-looking note, to be sure," said Ann, inter- 
cepting her in the hall. 
Daisy glanced at it. " Why, it is a telegram for the doc- 
tor. Some one at a distance must be ill," was her exclama- 
tion. 
Hearing Richard at the door, she advanced to meet him. 
He smiled, but did not kiss her. 
" This came for you a moment ago," she said, handing 
him the missive. 
He took it with an absent air, broke the seal, and at the 
first glance a deep groan escaped him. 
" What is it ? " asked Daisy, in alarm. 
He held it before her without a word. She read, 
 
" ROTHELAN, October 10. 
" Lily has been thrown from her horse, and brought home 
insensible. Come immediately. We fear the worst." 
It seemed so natural then that he should draw Daisy ten- 
derly to his heart, forget his resolves, and all that he had 
seen and heard ! She was so glad to pillow her head on its 
old resting-place, though she trembled violently ! 
" God help us all to bear it," he said, solemnly, after 
many minutes of silence. " It pains me to leave you alone 
in such anxiety, but it must be done. I will send you word 
at every opportunity. Our dear, bright, beautiful Lily ! O, 
I pray fervently it may not be as Philip expects ! " Then 
looking at his watch, he continued : " I have scarcely another 
second to lose." 
He did not release her, however, but walked into the 
office with his arm over her shoulder. As for her, she 
seemed to realize, in some indistinct way, that the storm 
brooding over them had at length broken. It may be that 
she hardly understood Lily's imminent danger. And yet 
hers was no selfish sentiment. It only seemed as if for the 
last twenty-four hours they had expected some terrible 
event to occur, and its coming had brought a positive relief. 
The shock restored Richard to his former self, and that was 
all she could ask at present. His farewell was necessarily 
brief, and though sad, its tenderness comforted her inex- 
pressibly. 
When she came to explain the matter to Tessy, she felt it 
much more keenly. Her voice was choked with sobs. The 
dinner, the dessert of cream that she had taken so much 
pains with, passed almost untasted. Tessy clung to her in 
wildest apprehension, and the two mingled their tears to- 
gether. 
" Mr. Auchester ! " Ann announced, on her return from 
answering the door bell. 
Daisy bathed her face and added a few feminine touches 
 
to her dress, kissed Tessy foiidly, and taking the telegram 
in her hand, crossed to the parlor. 
Mr. Auchester rose to greet her with a cordial smile. 
" What has occurred ? " he asked suddenly, remarking her 
paleness and agitation. 
She could not trust her voice, and merely handed him 
the note. Neither did she look up to watch the effect it 
produced. 
There was first one of those almost deathly silences. 
Then he uttered a despairing cry, whose wild pathos un- 
nerved her. 
" My Grod ! Lily dying ! dead, perhaps ! Never, never 
again to see her in this life ! " 
A sickening agony, a constriction of throat, of muscles, 
of very heart, seemed strangling him, and obeying a vehe- 
ment impulse, he paced the floor hurriedly. Daisy saw that 
he was moved by the strongest emotion that could possess 
and conquer a man. It had conquered him. He had met 
the truth face to face in his path, and he was far too hon- 
orable to thrust it aside. The mortification it might cause 
did not now disturb him. It was the most passionate, ten- 
derefit regret, akin to that of Mary when she said, " Lord, 
if thou hadst been here, my brother had not died." If he 
had been there, if he had not relinquished the right of 
watching over Lily, of guiding in some degree her pleasures, 
her varying, impetuous moods, there would now remain the 
kindred right of going to her. Instead, he was barred out. 
His only privilege would be gazing on her cold, waxen face, 
when the sweet lips had passed the shore of speech. He 
knew now how beyond everything he had loved her. 
He came back to Daisy presently, his face rigid and ashy 
pale. " I don't know what to say," he began, in a husky 
tone ; " indeed, there is nothing I can say in extenuation of 
my conduct. For the last fortnight I have been wilfully, 
perversely blind. And yet, although I have forfeited your 
respect, I ask, as a favor, that you will believe it was from 
 
. ) petty spite or pique that I sought to forget iny attachment 
Lily in another. For the time, I honestly believed I had 
eased to care for her. Only some sudden blow like this 
:ould have startled me into the truth. I have been worse 
than weak wicked." 
" No, no," she interrupted ; " I absolve you from all wrong 
intention. I read you better than you knew yourself, and 
am now, and for all time, your friend." 
" Daisy, you are an angel ! All that is true, and noble, 
and pure in womanhood, centres in you. I, who have hith- 
erto been so proud of my strength, my resolves, my cool 
judgment, stand humbled and rebuked before you. O, how 
can I ever atone ? " 
" No atonement is needed," she said, simply. " It was a 
mistake." 
" I thank God, from the depth of my heart, that you did 
not give me your love when I pleaded for it. If to the rest 
was added a consciousness that I had betrayed your kind 
heart, my burden would be bitter indeed. This exhibition 
of irrepressible feeling cannot have surprised you more than 
it surprises myself." 
He took both hands in his, and looked directly into her 
eyes calm, pitying, not the eyes of love or disappoint- 
ment. His face crimsoned from a sense of shame. She 
ended his embarrassment by saying, frankly, 
" I shall not go back from my promise, neither can I 
allow you. Whatever may be the issue in Lily's case, our 
friendship remains a fact." 
He shivered with dread at the terrible vision haunting 
him. When he could command his voice, he answered, 
" Thank you. I do not deserve this consideration at your 
hands, but how deeply I appreciate it no words of mine can 
explain. I have suffered much in the past month, and there 
may be a keener pang in store for me. To think of Lily 
bright and happy without me, can be borne; but to know 
she is lying in the cold grave, shut away from the home and 
 
friends she delighted in, mouldering in unconsciousness, 
while the whole earth is beautiful and joyous, is terrible." 
" G-od may deal tenderly with us," she returned, a confi- 
dent faith lingering in her tones. She could not believe 
Lily would die. Whether it was because of the suddenness 
of the event, so difficult for the mind to take in, or a higher 
and more triumphant faith, she scarcely knew. As Mr. 
Auchester listened, he felt comforted, strengthened. His 
regard for her grew into reverence. 
Another day passed, and another. Lily was still alive, 
but unconscious. A third with the same dreadful suspense, 
the same agonizing fear. O, what prayers went up to 
heaven for the dear girl, so precious to them all, in spite 
of her waywardness. Mr. Auchester came every day to 
hear. Still, he did not indulge in any fallacious hope in 
regard to Lily. In truth, if he could have at that moment 
knelt beside her, and asked back her love, it may be that he 
would not have done it. Forgiveness, tenderness, sympathy, 
these would have been his offerings ; but love once outraged 
and trampled upon, held its own way with a kind of royal 
pride. 
At length came a gleam of hope. The daily telegrams 
had been necessarily brief; so a letter was quite a luxury to 
Daisy. There had been, in the first hours of restored con- 
sciousness, imminent danger of fever ; but, this happily avert- 
ed, Richard spoke hopefully of the case. Mabel was quite 
worn down with anxiety ; and as he expected to return the 
next day, he asked Daisy to come up in the morning, and re- 
main, until some further improvement took place, with Lily. 
Mrs. Hall or Martin would accompany her to New York. 
Lily had been riding with Mr. Joslyn on the morning of 
the accident. Her horse, usually gentle enough, had started 
suddenly, reared, and thrown her at the instant. The smooth 
surface of the rock on which her head had struck pro- 
duced outwardly a severe bruise, and internally an injury, 
from which the gravest consequences were at first appre- 
 
bended. As Richard spoke of the hopeless days and nights 
they had all endured, when Lily's life seemed hanging on the 
slenderest thread, Daisy's heart throbbed with the deepest 
emotion. 
The tidings were grateful to Mr. Auchester. During his 
evening call, Daisy gave him the letter to read, and deli- 
cately busied herself with some trifle, that she might not 
observe how it afiected him. 
" If you will allow me the pleasure of escorting you in 
the morning, I shall be most happy," he said, when he had 
finished. 
Daisy signified her willingness. 
" Poor Lily ! " and he sighed. " May she be wiser and 
happier in time to come. I suppose you have no idea how 
long you may remain at Rothelan ? " 
" Some weeks, doubtless. You see Dr. Bertrand does not 
anticipate a very rapid recovery." 
" Will you write to me occasionally, Daisy ? I have no 
other mode of hearing." 
" With pleasure ; " and Daisy's face brightened. 
He remarked it. " Don't misunderstand me, please," he 
began, gravely. " While I confess to you that I cannot at 
present dismiss all interest in Lily, do not care to, in fact, 
you must accept the situation as it is. I shall go to Europe 
shortly. Thus sundered by the ocean as well as our own 
wills, it is hardly likely that we shall ever meet again. It 
must be my continual study to forget. I am glad human 
nature is so constituted." 
" Ulric ! " she exclaimed, almost the first time she 
had used his Christian name, " you tempt me to make my 
favor conditional. Why should you and Lily, who could 
be so happy together, shadow each other's lives in this 
fashion ? " 
" I am not convinced that we could render each other 
happy," he returned, coldly. 
" And yet you love Lily ? " 
" The time has passed when I could den} such a thing to 
you, my sweet questioner. But my love is not all that is 
needed for complete happiness." 
" And if Lily repented, regretted that painful past, loved 
you what then ? " 
His eyes drooped under her fearless gaze. 
" Daisy, you are wild ! " he said, vehemently. " Your 
love for us both leads you astray." 
" No, it is rather your blindness. If one word from Lily 
can restore peace, will you not grant her another opportu- 
nity ? O, I beseech you, for her sake, for your own ! " 
He was deeply moved by her earnestness. 
"Lily will not say even that one word. Forgive me, 
Daisy, if I cannot bring my mind to sue where I have been 
trifled with, not once, but many times." 
" I shall never ask you to sue to her. She gave the 
offence, and unless she repents truly, I have no desire to see 
you take up the old life. But in the days that are to come, 
when Lily will have long hours for remembrance, her heart 
may soften. She may discover how much she did love, how 
much she still loves you. She may be ready to make any 
concession." 
" Well ? " 
" May I send for you then, if she wishes it ? " 
" Daisy ! " His voice had a quivering sound, as if it came 
over a sob. - 
" You will grant me this," she pleaded. " Your happiness 
is so dear to me that I think you may trust me not to ship- 
wreck it. I shall have better opportunities than any one 
else of learning the state of Lily's heart. I ask you only to 
accept your own happiness." 
" O, child," he said, "you hardly know what you are un- 
dertaking. I cannot believe. It will never, never be." 
" But if it should come ! If in those hours of solitude 
Lily's heart should send up a yearning prayer for what she 
has so heedlessly cast away, you will be pitiful, you will 
answer ! " 
There was a long silence. His breath came rapidly. His 
whole frame trembled in the powerful contest. The clinched 
fingers, white and almost bloodless, indented deeply into his 
hand ; yet he felt no pain. 
" Daisy," he said, at length, in a slow, faltering voice, 
" you have conquered. I put my heart, my very life in your 
keeping. I dare not hope, but I will wait. Yet remember, 
it must be Lily's desire solely. 'No influence must be brought 
to bear upon her. If of her own free will she expresses sor- 
row, regrets the past, and can so far put aside pride as to 
acknowledge this to me, I will come. If not, do not grieve 
unnecessarily for me. I shall bear all the rest with the cour- 
age of a man, and never again pain you by an unworthy 
weakness. O, my darling friend, how much you have been 
to me ! " 
They clasped hands silently at their parting. And on the 
morrow his deferential tenderness had in it the highest 
respect, the most perfect confidence. Daisy little guessed, 
when she left him at the New York depot, how long he stood 
watching after the cars were in motion. 
CHAPTER XXXII. 
There are inscriptions on our hearts which are never to be seen except it 
dead low tide. BULWER. 
I thought I held in my hot hand my life crushed up : I could have tost 
The crumpled riddle from me, and laughed loud to think what I had lost. 
A bitter strength was in my mind ; like Samson, when she scorned him blind. 
OWEN MEREDITH. 
IT was a lovely autumn day, and Daisy found no incident 
to disturb her journey. She had hardly risen from her seat 
when they arrived at the station, before she caught sight of 
Richard's face, as it passed the car window. And then she 
was welcomed with a smile that said so much. 
" You asked Martin to bring you to the depot, I hope ? " 
he said, as he was handing her into the carriage. 
" No, for a better attendant offered. How is Lily ? " 
'' Very comfortable. If fever doesn't set in, she will do 
nicely. But the anxiety has told a good deal upon. Bel, 
though I suppose baby made it worse for her. Alice has 
thriven beautifully. I am so glad you could come." 
" You have all been so kind to me that it is a pleasure to 
find myself useful." 
It was gratitude that spoke then, he thought, and a desire 
to render favor for favor. Then they talked of the accident, 
and how it had fared with Lily. Richard was pleased to see 
her looking so bright and well, and though the old pang 
smote his heart, he put it resolutely away, and was cheerful. 
She, glad to find him so like the Richard she best loved, and 
not being pained by coldness, forgot the brief hours that had 
been so terrible to her. 
 
Mabel's welcome was fond and sisterly. Baby Alice had 
grown almost out of recollection, but soon made friends. The 
change in Lily was greater than Daisy had dreamed of. At 
the first glance she did indeed seem dead. Besides the gray 
pallor, her face had a wan, pinched look ; the lips, always so 
brilliant and laughing, were rigid and ashen-hued ; and every 
feature contracted, as if with intense suffering. 
There would not be much to do.' To sit and watch that no 
change might take place without due observation, give her a 
little nourishment or medicine, keep the room dark and 
quiet, were all the instructions Daisy received. Except that 
for herself she was to spend two hours out of doors every 
day, and be occasionally relieved by Mabel, so the confine- 
ment should not become tiresome. 
She could not decide at first whether Lily recognized her 
or not. The poor child slept almost continually, or looked 
about with vacant, staring eyes, and seldom uttered a word. 
Daisy was, if possible, more shocked than by the announce- 
ment of the accident. Richard left them that afternoon, 
promising to be up in a few days, or if any change for the 
worse occurred, he was to be sent for immediately. 
For a week there was not much perceptible improvement 
in Lily. Yet nature was silently and powerfully awakening 
the dormant strength and energy. She began to talk a lit- 
tle, evince a desire for certain dishes of food, and show her 
pleasure when any one entered the room. Richard made 
them all joyful by pronouncing her recovery certain. Daisy, 
watchful and tranquil, kept her place without a sign of fa- 
tigue. Once in three or four days she wrote to Mr. Auches- 
ter; but the subject so near both hearts was never touched 
upon. 
When her amendment became positive, Lily's youth and 
good constitution made it rapid. They were astonished to 
see how she gained daily. The deathly paleness vanished ; 
her eyes grew lustrous ; the old dazzling smile came back ; 
and little petulances, so like Lily, announced a return of 
her proper self. 
 
Mr. Jostyn was most devoted. Choice fruits were sent 
over, such as could only have been obtained by a journey to 
the city, Daisy well knew. Rarest flowers, calls, not only 
from him, but from his mother and sisters, who evinced the 
warmest interest in Lily. It gave Daisy a strange, painful 
presentiment. She learned from Mabel that he had been 
Lily's constant attendant since her return from the Catskills. 
" It has troubled me much," Mabel said ; " but Philip 
judged wisely, that thwarting her would only make her the 
more resolute, and perhaps lead her to accept Mr. Joslyn. 
He insists that she really loves Mr. Auchester." 
Daisy experienced a sudden impulse to confide her secret 
to Mabel. But she knew that under some circumstances it 
ought never to pass her lips, and refrained. 
And then one day an unaccountable change came over 
Lily. She appeared well as usual in the morning, but by 
noon had grown strangely restless. Daisy questioned her 
gently, but received most unsatisfactory replies, and for the 
remainder of the day, Lily bestowed the merest monosyllables 
upon her attendant. There was, withal, a visible impatience, 
mixed with a sort of sullen resolve to bear alone whatever 
oppressed her. It pained Daisy, and gave her no little un- 
easiness, when she found that Lily had a fever for several 
hours, and not the slightest desire for her supper. 
" If you would try some of these grapes," suggested 
Daisy; "or a piece of the pine-apple, which is a great rarity 
at this season." 
" I wish you would take it all away," said Lily, fretfully. 
" I'm -not worth that trouble to any one. And if you'll stay 
down stairs, and let me be quiet, I think I can go to sleep." 
Poor Daisy ! For the last two hours she had been read- 
ing, and scarcely stirred, lest Lily might feel herself watched. 
But in spite of the quiet, even at nine in the evening, Lily's 
voice had a wakeful sound, and her eyes were heavy, with 
purple shadows underneath. Something had gone wrong. 
Daisy vainly tried to find a cause for oftence. 
Richard came up the next morning. After asking Lily a 
few questions, he sought Daisy. 
"Were there any visitors in yesterday to see Lily ?" he 
inquired. 
" No." 
" She sat up too long, or talked too much. I find her 
feverish, and in a very irritable state." 
" Not from either of those causes," replied Daisy. " She 
only sat up once yesterday, hardly an hour, and was un- 
usually quiet. Yet I noticed she had some fever." 
" Strange ! " was Richard's grave remark. " She has the 
appearance of being strongly excited or annoyed. Has she 
worried about anything ? " 
" Not outwardly. I tried to learn the cause of her dis- 
quietude, but in vain." 
'' See if you can win it from her. I am afraid it will re- 
tard her recovery." 
Then their eyes met, and both colored with a conscious 
knowledge, though each was wrong as to the cause in the 
other. 
" Never mind," he continued, hurriedly. " Don't distress 
yourself. If Lily will indulge in unreasonable moods without 
the slightest cause, she ought to bear the penalty alone. I 
am sorry for her, but the fault is not in the slightest degree 
yours. Have Bel and the baby up here frequently, and don't 
seem to notice her." 
Even if Daisy had been so minded, she could have learned 
nothing from Lily, who was, if possible, more reticent, and 
certainly more miserable, every hour. Her fever increased. 
Late on the following day Mr. Joslyn brought a beautiful 
bouquet. He kept Daisy for some time in the hall, talking to 
her. As soon as released, she ran up stairs. 
" Are they not lovely ? " and she held them before Lily. 
"A Cape jasmine, and some orange blossoms. Will the 
odor be too strong if I leave them in here a while ? " 
" I don't want them ! Take them away ! And I wish 
 
Mr. Joslyn wouldn't bring any more," said Lily, with flushed 
face and contracted brow. 
" Well," was Daisy's quiet rejoinder. Placing them in 
the adjoining apartment, she lingered a while. When she 
returned Lily was in tears. 
"Have I distressed you?" she asked, in a tender tone. 
"No." 
Lily winked away the tears resolutely, and crowded down 
a great sob, that seemed like a ball of fire in her throat. 
Then she suddenly turned her face, and said, in a half- 
smothered, passionate manner, 
" O, I don't know what to do ! I am so wretched ! Why 
couldn't I have died in that fearful time ! They had no hope 
for me, and I shouldn't have suffered any pang of separation. 
But to live this dreary, dreary life ! " 
" Why should it be dreary, Lily ? " 
" I can't reason ; I never could. I only know it is." 
" When you are well enough to go out, you will feel dif- 
ferently about it." 
" I don't want to go out. If I could stay here forever, 
and see no one but you, and Bel, and Richard, it wouldn't be 
so hard ! " 
" Dear Lily, God has seen fit to bring you through a great 
peril, and surely He will send nothing that will not be for 
your good." 
" Do you believe He sends everything ? Doesn't it seem 
rather as if He sometimes let people go plunging into all 
sorts of wrong and trouble, until ' they stick fast in the mire, 
where no ground is'? And then everything becomes so 
dreary, so dreary ! " 
" They cried unto the Lord, in the days of the Psalmist." 
" If that was all, I could find it in my heart to cry con- 
tinually. But I don't know how to turn in this world. 
Everywhere a face meets me. I cannot hide away from it. 
And because I have been so wrong, and find myself all tan- 
gled up in such a web, if I could go out of life quietly " 
 
Daisy's heart beat with high hope. She made an effort to 
steady her voice, and said, slowly, 
" God has some work for you still to do some happiness 
for you yet to enjoy. With Him all things are possible." 
" But I can't undo anything. I was so wild, so utterly 
thoughtless ! I don't know what possessed me, unless it was 
an evil spirit. But I did not mean " and her voice failed 
through weeping. 
Daisy kissed her tenderly. 
" Has Mr. Joslyn been here every day ? " she asked, at 
length. 
" Yes." 
Daisy hesitated a little, not feeling quite sure of her 
ground. 
" He sent the flowers. I heard him talking to you. And 
he has sent many things. O, I wish I had never seen him!". 
Daisy scarcely knew what comment to make. 
" What has he said about the accident ? " 
" He feels sadly distressed. He told me, one morning, he 
knew the blame ought all to rest upon him. No one rejoices 
more at your recovery." 
" He is so good ! But it wasn't his fault. May I tell you, 
Daisy ? Perhaps I shall feel better after I have talked it 
over. I don't know how I came to tell him that the affair 
with with Mr. Auchester was ended. Instead of keeping 
him away, I let him come. I thought I could prevent his 
caring very much about me. But I suspect that had begun 
long before. I did stop him several times from saying any- 
thing pointed, and tried to act so that he would see the inti- 
macy, on my part, was for mere pleasure. The morning of 
' our ride he was real serious. I evaded him carelessly ; but 
presently he laid his hand on my horse's neck, and said, de- 
terminedly, ' Miss Lily, I won't be put off in this fashion 
any longer ! You shall tell me ' I knew what was com- 
ing, and hit Bess a hard cut with the whip. She started 
violently. I thought I had the reins in my hand I don't 
 
know how it ever came, but it was a fragment of iny dress 
instead. I tried to grasp the bridle, but Bess threw me like 
a flash. I suppose she was as much frightened as I. If 
the rock had not been there, I might have escaped seri- 
ous injury. As it is, I have made you all a great deal of 
trouble." 
" And you do not love Mr. Joslyn," Daisy said, greatly 
relieved. 
" Love him ? O, no ! I sometimes wish I did. He is 
so generous, so warm-hearted ! He hasn't a mean or selfish 
thought, and his wife would reign a very queen. I am 
afraid they all like me too well. I did resolve, a few days 
ago, to  please him, but I cannot ; " and Lily shivered 
violently. 
" Why ? " Daisy was observing her narrowly. 
" Because I cannot make myself love him. Is it not 
curious that the heart should decide against a person who 
is in every respect worthy, who would take pleasure in 
devoting to one his whole life ? Why not love one good 
man as well as another ? Yet I know I should make him 
wretched." 
" O, it would be wrong, wicked, to hold out hope to him," 
Daisy exclaimed, vehemently. 
" I know it. For even if I promised, I don't think I ever 
could marry him. But to disappoint him so bitterly ! And 
yet I suppose I must get wefl, and go through with it all 
tell him how little I meant, how selfish and heartless I have 
been. It seems as if good and honorable people will despise 
me henceforth. I hate myself! It is all 'blackness of 
darkness.' " 
" ' So when they cried unto the Lord in their trouble, he 
delivered them out of their distress,' " repeated Daisy. 
" What a comfort you are ! After all, it is best to meet 
the result of one's wrong-doing fairly and without evasion. 
And I have been very wrong." 
" Dear Lily, when we have confessed this, God will give 
us strength for the rest, and peace, and happiness." 
 
" No ; I shall never be happy again. I don't mean on 
account of any one particular event," and Lily colored 
violently, " but life changes so much. Every bright thing 
fades away, and leaves you only a cold, gray shadow. May- 
be it is the autumn and the mournful winds that make me 
feel so dreary ; but I know there can never be another spring 
to my life." 
" There is a ripe and glowing summer yet to come. One 
shadow can never stretch through all time." 
" I think I must be content to sit in the shade, without 
spring or sunshine. Forgive me, darling, for all the trouble 
I have caused you. I will try and be a better girl." 
Lily turned away her face, and Daisy felt it -would be 
unwise to continue the conversation. Although she ex- 
pressed no special regret for the lost love, Daisy gathered 
that it was still strong upon her. She had little fear of the 
final result. And now that the ice had been broken, she 
could gradually lead Lily to a better state of mind. There 
was a visible improvement in her on the following morning. 
She went out to the sitting-room, admired Mr. Joslyn's 
flowers, and seemed resolved to be rarely good-humored 
with everything. But though she discussed the gentleman 
freely, and regretted her behavior towards him with sincere 
earnestness, she seemed resolutely resolved to date her un- 
happiness no farther back than that. She did not shun any 
mention of their stay at the Catskills, but refrained from 
alluding to the relation that had existed between herself 
and Mr. Auchester. In vain Daisy tried to lead the con- 
versation to this point. She fully understood the delicacy 
of her position, that while attempting to mediate between 
them, she must in no wise compromise Mr. Auchester's sen- 
sitive pride. 
Accident brought about the result at last. Lily was gain- 
ing rapidly again. Richard desired her to be very careful, 
for the least over-exertion brought on a most distressing 
headache and a recurrence of the fever. Lily was really 
glad to be excused from visitors ; in her present mood she 
wanted no one but Daisy. She walked about her two rooms, 
but had not yet ventured down stairs at the commencement 
of the fourth week. 
She was dressed in a pretty wrapper, and lying on the 
lounge in the sitting-room, still pale and somewhat thin, but 
not, as she expressed it, " altogether frightful." Daisy had 
curled her hair, which Philip declared the greatest improve- 
ment that could have been made. After reading aloud to 
her the psalms for the day, Daisy took up a little dress she 
was embroidering for Alice, and to please Lily, sang some 
old ballads. This morning it was " Lord Jamie Douglas." 
She noted the scornful yet approving smile that crossed 
Lily's face at the verse, 
" I whispered in at my lord's window, 
Yet never a word would lie answer me. 
Fare ye well, then, Jamie Douglas ; 
I care as little as ye care for me." 
But at the last, where true love triumphs over all, Lily 
turned away her face, and presently fell into a light slumber. 
Daisy bethought herself of a letter to Mr. Auchester that 
she had been prevented from writing the day before. Open- 
ing her desk that stood on the table, she went rapidly over 
two pages. Then she began to wonder whether she should 
ever be able to send him the fruit of her faith in Lily. All 
