queen she was. The churning was done, Prissy, by shaking 
a goat-skin filled with milk. The skin was suspended to 
three stakes, and two women took it between them ; and you 
may be pretty sure that Abraham's butter was made in the 
self-same way. Always from sheep's or goat's milk, never 
from camel's milk, in the desert Abraham no doubt had 
milch-kine." 

" Does not the goat-skin give it a bad taste ? " said my 
grandmother. 

" Well, no, I think not. I have eaten it very good. Now 
let us go on with Abraham and the three strangers. Ho 
ran to meet them — it is sometunes almost a matter of 
quarrel now amongst the families of different tents, which 
shall have the guest ; — he bowed himself before them, and 
begged that the travellers, as he thought they were, would 
not pass by his tent, but would stop and rest, wash their feet, 
and break bread, before they went on their way. 'For therefore are ye come to your servant,' he said. You must know, 
that in an encampment the sheikh's tent is so pitched as to 
be probably the first to see either guests or enemies ; it is 





put on tliat side from which either may be expected to arrive. 
And a traveller must not pass by one tent to go into another ; 
it would be a deep affront. If he wishes not to be a guest 
at the tent first in his way, he must make a circuit, so as to 
come up to the one he seeks without passing by any other 
of the encampment. The first tent he comes to has a right 
to him" 

" But Abraham's tent was not in an encampment, I suppose," said Dan. 

"I suppose it was, my boy; and a pretty large encampment, too. He had over three hundred men servants, able 
to carry arms ; they must have had families ; and reckoning 
the usual proportions, there would have been some thirteen 
hundred or more people, young and old, in Abraham's following. Less than a hundred tents would not serve for so 
many. The sheikh's tent is easily known, as I told you. 
Among the Syrian Arabs it is always pitched on the western 
side, for that is the quarter from whence both friends and 
enemies may be looked for ; it would be thought disgraceful 
there for a rich man to have his tent on the eastern side of 
the encampment." 

" There is something very beautiful in that Eastern virtue 
of hospitality," said my grandmother ; "and it is a beauty 
that civilised people are apt to lose." 

" There is some reason for that," replied my uncle. " The 
towns and villages of civilised regions have regular places of 
entertainment for strangers, who would often be too many 
for the natives to take care of. In the desert, hospitality is 
a necessity of the way of life. Still it is beautiful A poor 
Arab's chief ambition is to be able to kill a lamb for every 
worthy guest that may come to his tent ; he does not like 
to be behind others in that honour and pleasure ; and though 
he be poor, yet if he acts up to his means, can kill a lamb for 
the traveller, give coffee to all who come to see hitp or to 
share in the feast — if he keeps his tobacco at the service of 
his friends, and divides his gains with his poor relations— he 
is greatly more honoured than the wealthiest man in the 
tribe who is hard to his relations and cold to his visitors. A 



generous Arab will give his last penny in hospitality and 
charity. A rich one will make good to his guest any losses 
he may have suffered while inhabiting his tent ; and betraying a guest— among the genuine Arabs— is impossible ; nobody even remembers when such a thing happened. life 
and property are safe, once confided to their care." 

" People don't do like that in this country," Daniel remarked 

"Not half enough," said my uncle. "We are tolerably 
ready to entertain rich friends ; but the spirit of the gospel, 
my boy, acted out, would make us revolutionise our whole 
system. ' Use hospitality one to another without grudging.' 
' When thou makest a feast, call the poor, the maimed, the 
lame, the blind, and thou shalt be blessed ; for they cannot 
recompense thee.' " 

" But, uncle," said Priscilla, " ought we not to have anybody but poor people come to see us ? " 

"I said nothing about that. I spoke only our Lord's 
words about making a feast." 

" Isn't it right to make a feast sometimes for rich people, 
sir?"- 

"I don't know. Prissy. But this I know. One feast for 
the rich would famish forth a hundred feasts for the poor. 
And I am ready to tremble sometimes when I think of those 
other words, — ' I was an hungered, and ye gave me no meat : 
I was thirsty, and ye gave me no drink : I was a stranger, 
and ye took me not in : naked, and ye clothed me not : sick, 
and in prison, and ye visited me not.' " 

Prissy looked very cloudy; Dan very intent. liph remarked that we got on very slowly about Abraham. 

" We have done with his entertainment," said my uncle. 
"It began with washing of feet; which you know is the 
greatest refreshment in a hot country, where people go bare- 
foot or wear only sandals. Then there was the rest under 
the great oak ; and the meal of freshly prepared victuals, 
and Abraham's respectful attendance on his guests. And 
then Abraham found, that in receiving strangers, he had 
entertained not merely angels, but the Lord of angels Himself. 





And oh, children, it is not different now. In that day Jesns 
will say, — ' Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the 
least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me.'  

There was again silence amongst us. 

" Abraham did not know, until the Lord of angels pro- 
mised Sarah a son, what honour had been put upon him. 
That is clear, I think. And then followed another honour 

'The Lord said, Shall I hide from Abraham that thing which 
I dol . . . . For I know him, that he will command his 
children and his household after him, and they shall keep 
the way of the Lord.' And then Abraham was told about 
the sin of Sodom, and the inquisition of judgment about to 
be made." 

" As Jesus said in another place," remarked my grand- 
mother : " I have called you friends ; for all things that I 
have heard of my Father I have made known unto you.' 
And ' Ye are my friends, if ye do whatsoever I command 
you.'" 

"Uncle Sam," said I, "if it was the Lord, why did He 
say, I will go down and see whether they have done so  — 
Don't He see everything, always ? " 

" Every where— always," said my uncle. " It is just a way, 
Tiny, of expressing the close, perfect looking into things 
which the eye of the Lord gives. In another place the Lord 
said once, He would ' search Jerusalem with candles.' 

'There is no darkness nor shadow of death, where the 
workers of iniquity may hide themselves.' Already the two 
angels were gone forth to Sodom, and Abraham stood yet 
before the Lord. Stood, as a subject desiring a petition of 
his king. And the Lord graciously gave him leave to present it." 

"That prayer is one of the most beautiful things we are 
told of about Abraham," said my grandmother. " You do 
not see it, children ] Think whom it was for. No friends 
of Abraham — no good people even, but wicked people; 
and Abraham knew it ; people of the Canaanitish race, 
too, whom his own descendants were to turn out of the 
land; yet Abraham pleaded that the good few in the 



 

city might save the city. It was a most loving, Christian 
prayer. 

" Why, grandmother," said liph, " it seems to me that he 
prayed only for the good people. ' Wilt thou destroy the 
righteous with the wicked ? ' he said." 

" Yes, but his prayer was that the place might be spared ; 
he argued for that. He did not ask to have the good ones 
taken out in safety, but that the place might be spared for 
their sakes. He knew how wicked it was. And if ten good 
men had been in it, the city would have been spared. You 
can see that the righteous are ' the salt of the earth' " 

" How, grandmamma ? " 

" Don't you know how salt keeps things ? " 

"You can see another thing," said my uncle. "What 
prayer is, and what it does. A heart at peace with God, 
coming to Him with the boldness of a child's love and trust, 
and making request with an eai'nestness that can scarce be 
denied, and that expects no denial ; that is the ' effectual 
prayer of a righteous man.' " 

"That expects no denial, uncle ?" said- Dan. 

" All things whatsoever ye shall ask in prayer, believing, 
ye shall receive.' That is the premise of Him to whom 
Abraham prayed. But the promise is only to the obedient 
heart, — ' Whatsoever we ask, we receive of him, because we 
keep his commandments, and do those things that are 
pleasing in his sight,' the apostle John says." 

"But Abraham did not get what he asked for," Liph 
said. 

"Did he not, my boyi You read differently from me. 
Every one of his six petitions was granted ; and more. Let 
us follow the story. There came two angels to Sodom that 
evening. Lot sat in the gate of the city, and received them 
as Abraham had done at his tent door. He begged them to 
come in and rest, and wash their feet, and lodge, that so they 
might go on fresh in the morning ; and he made them a 
feast and had unleavened bread baked for them, just as it 
had been before Abraham's tent, and as it is done now. 
Then they warned him that they were sent to destroy the 





city. Lot tried in vain to warn others; the night passed 
away and nothing was done. And when the morning was 
dawning, and Lot still lingered, unwilling very likely to 
leave his married daughters whose husbands would not listen 
to him, the angels told him he must hasten and get away 
with those that were left. It was hard to go after all ; and 
the angels took hold of him and led him out of the city, 
'the Lord being merciful to him;', and then they bade him 
escape to the mountain. 

" Do you remember, children, where the five wicked cities 
stood ? you must look on this map of Palestine. They were 
in the plain of the Jordan ; that low, warm valley through 
which the river runs ; and it would seem that they stood 
near the southern end of this valley, where the vale of Sid- 
dim spread itself out, and abundant streams from the hills 
watered the whole ground. There is no more abundant 
supply of water anywhere in Palestine ; and that, with the 
close heat of the place, made it like a sort of hot-house — the 
whole plain — and full of plants too. It was early, early in 
the morning. Into the damp close air, heavy with the 
exhalations from green leaves, and into the dim uncertain 
light, the angels brought forth Lot and his family from the 
still sleeping city. The dawn was only just breaking in the 
sky over the mountains of Moab, when they stood in the 
plain. Here the plain was some six or seven miles wide ; 
and you can imagine the dark, high line of those eastern 
mountains, two thousand feet up above the plain in the 
eastern sky ; and imagine the air hot and heavy with the 
moist vegetation ; very hot and very still ; and the angels 
pointing the bewildered family to that dark eastern line, and 
saying, 'Escape for thy life ; look not behind thee, neither 
stay thou in all the plain ; escape to the mountab, lest thou 
be consumed.' Lot was dismayed." 

" Why, uncle Sam ? I should have thought he would like 
to get away as far as he could." 

" He knew better than you do, what sort of a mountain 
it looked like. Lot never chose a difficult place, you know. 
That wall of cliffs, twelve hundred or two thousand feet 



 

high, bare and stem and rugged, was not inviting as seen 
from the plain. In fact, they are so difficult, those mountains, that travellers almost never visit them, and we ourselves know little about them. They rise up in great barren 
terraces one over another, with no break of the desolation, 
except where here and there a spring bursts out or a mountain torrent comes down through a ravine ; and the water 
makes a line or a spot of green, where reeds and thorn 
bushes or palms and acacias grow. All the rest is stem 
precipices of red and yellow or brown sandstone. It did not 
look to be a promising place of refuge.  Oh not so, my 
Lord,' was Lot's petition. ' I cannot escape to the mountain, lest some evil take me and I die." 

" Well, I am sure it was very natural," said Liph. 

" But it wasn't like Abraham," said L.

" He had got spoiled, living in Sodom," said Dan. 

" Perhaps he had," said uncle Sam. " So he begged to go 
to a little city which stood at the edge of the plain ; and the 
angel waited, till he had time enough to cross the plain and 
get there. The sun was risen upon the earth by that time. 
Over upon the gray and white hills at the west the sunbeams 
were breaking ; the green thickets around the fountain of 
En-gedi were shining in the light ; the plain lay in its rich 
beauty and stillness; when Lot entered into Zoar. Then 
came a change. ' The Lord rained upon Sodom and upon 
Gomorrah brimstone and fire from the Lord out of heaven ; 
and he overthrew those cities, and all the plain, and all the 
inhabitants of the cities, and that which grew upon the 
ground.' " 

"Were those people the worst people that ever lived?" 
said Priscilla. 

" No. The people that hear the message of Jesus and refuse it, are worse." 

" Worse, uncle Sam ! " Dan exclaimed. 

" It is not my judgment," said my uncle. " 'Verily I say 
unto you. It shall be more tolerable for the land of Sodom 
and Gomorrah in the day of judgment than for that city.' " 

" Then why are they not punished so too ?" said liph.





" In the day of judgment '—the Lord said. He did not 
say here, and now." 

"Was it a storm of lightning and thunder?" Priscilla 
asked. 

"Not like any we ever saw. Brimstone and fire were 
rained from heaven. I cannot tell, Prissy. The vale of 
Siddim, we know, was full of slime pits. There may have 
been a great quantity of the dried bitumen about, as well as 
that which was fresh flowing ; lightning, when it was like 
fire rained down, may have kindled all this combustible 
matter, and an earthquake may have dislodged more of it. 
We cannot know; but we do know that there was a terrible 
burning. That morning when Abraham away off in Hebron 
went up to the place where the day before he had stood and 
prayed for the city, and looked across to the hills of En-gedi ; 
out of the hollow between them and the high line of the 
Moab mountains, he saw the smoke of the country going up, 
thick and black, like the smoke of a furnace. Sodom was 
overthrown, he knew. Perhaps for a moment he wondered 
whether his prayer had altogether failed. But I want you 
to notice, that when God overthrew the cities of the plain, 
'he remembered Abraham ;' and Lot was saved. It seems 
it was just in answer to that earnest, childlike prayer, that 
the one good man found in Sodom did not share the con- 
sequences of living in such a place. There are many such 
instances of answers to prayer. We shall come to them by 
and by." 

" Whereabouts are the ruins of Sodom ?" 

" Nobody has ever found them. The vale of Siddim, we 
are told, is the Salt Sea ; probably it lay in this southern 
portion of it, below the queer little peninsula. Above the 
peninsula the lake is very deep ; this bay below it is very 
shallow ; twelve feet deep only in the middle ; and the old 
slime pits or springs appear to be in activity still somewhere 
beneath its bottom. Every now and then, after an earth- 
quake, the bitumen is dislodged and comes up. There was 
an earthquake thirty years ago; following which such 
masses of bitumen were cast up on the south-western shore 



 

hills ; breaking their way out through overhanging rocks of 
the dark red sandstone ; the rocky sides of the ravines are 
60 deep and steep, that no sunlight can get down into the 
cleft. Where these streams come out, and wherever lesser 
rivulets are met with along the shore between, there is 
beautiful vegetation; nowhere else. As you stand at the 
north end of the lake and look down, those eastern mountains stretch off in a long, straight line, away into the dim 
distance. On the west side the hills are not so high ; they 
are not more than fifteen hundred feet; and a projecting 
cape stands out and hinders the view. Over the sea there is 
always the rising mist, steaming up from its surface." 

" Birds don't fly over it, do they, sir ? " 

" Certainly. There is nothing to hinder. I never heard 
the woods fuller of birds than the thickets were around the 
spring of Ain-jidy ; that was, En-gedi ; and they flew where 
they had a mind. Among the cane brakes on the shore, 
where other springs run, there are partridges and quail and 
ducks and snipe, and more besides. I have seen the ducks 
swimming and diving on the lake. No, my boy, there is no 
death nor barrenness there, but what the salt and sulphur 
make ; that is enough. Once, no doubt, before the destruction of the cities of the plain, the lake was just a nice fresh- 
water lake, fed by the river Jordan and by all those streams 
and fountains that pour down occasionally along its shores. 
The valley of the cities probably lay at the south, occupying 
all the tract of this lower portion of the lake, which in 
autumn now is but three feet under water. It would be 
overflowed then as now, and even much farther south ; because the area of the lake being less, the evaporation would 
not keep down the waters to so low a level ; but as it is said 
this plain was well watered, like the land of Egypt, before the 
Lord destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah so the people could 
have very easily raised a low embankment to keep out the 
flood of the waters except at one season of the year, when 
the plain would have been all covered with them ; and indeed the water could have been let on and off at pleasure ; 
And 80 the growth and fertility of harvests and vegetation 





generally would have been just like that in the valley of the 
Nile. Now, the salt and sulphur which are the fruit of that 
convulsion — whatever it was — in which Sodom was over- 
thrown, I suppose have just turned the fertilising overflow 
into a source of death." 

" Is it a sad-looking place, uncle Sam ? " 

" Being so barren and so hot, yes ; not for any other reason, except that one remembers what was once and what 
was the cause of the change. No, it is beautiful At early 
morning and evening, when the glorious Syrian sun brings 
out the warm or the blue tints of the mountains cast and 
west, and the lake lies as still as a looking-glass, with wonderful reflections of the colour along its shores — the scene is 
lovely. At other times it is grand. The everlasting mist 
rising from the water is always there, sending up a thin haze 
even over the tops of the mountains." 

" What makes that mist, always there ? " 

"The continual evaporation. Think; this lake of water 
is low down in a deep, deep hollow of the rocks — thirteen 
hundred feet lower than the Mediterranean Sea— and with 
those two walls of rocky hills, fifteen hundred to two thousand feet above it on both sides. It is a steaming bowl of 
water, on a very large scale. AH the flood that the Jordan 
pours into it constantly, with all the springs on the shores 
below, and all the torrents that come down the wadys in 
winter, only keep the bowl just about so full. The hot sun 
evaporates the water as fast as it is supplied. After the 
winter torrents the lake is some feet higher ; and after the 
summer sun has had time to do its work, the level of the 
water is brought down again so many feet lower. In winter 
the shallow south end of the lake has thirteen feet depth of 
water ; late in the autumn it has only three." 

" You were going to tell us about Zoar, uncle Sam." 

" Was I ? Hardly, Tiny, for I have not much to tell But 
we know that it was on the eastern side of the plain, and we 
know that it was not so far off but that Lot could get to it 
between the dawn and the sunrising. It is supposed to 
have been here,— as I told you,— just east of where this odd 




tongue-shaped peninsula stretches out into the lake, at the . 
opening of a ravine which runs up back into the mountains. 
Zoar must have been in such a situation, to be out of the 
way of the destruction which overwhelmed the plain." 

"They must have got the smoke there, though," said 
Priscilla. 

" The smoke, and the heat of the fire. The smoke of the 
country was like the smoke of a furnace ; Zoar must have 
been as it were at the furnace mouth. It is no very great 
wonder that Lot feared to dwell in Zoar, and went up into 
the mountain, where the angel had bidden him to go at first. 
The Lord's counsel is always the safest for us to take. Up 
the wild, beautiful glen that leads back from the ruins of 
Zoar, I suppose Lot and his daughters may have taken their 
flight, even that very morning. In about four hours and a 
half of travel, a little town is reached now, which sits three 
thousand feet above the level of the old plain ; the town of 
Kerak, called in the Bible Kir Moab, Kavines and mountains all around it shut it in, except where this glen goes 
down to the shore of the Dead Sea. But Kerak was not 
there then. Lot and his family took up their dwelling 
somewhere in the mountains, and abode there; and so it 
came to pass that his two sons, Moab and Ammon, or their 
children, possessed that land ; and it is called after the name 
of one of them to this day." 

" Why did the angel say, ' Look not behind thee ? ' " 

"  Whatsoever things were written aforetime were written 
for our learning.' There are lessons for us, Prissy, all through 
these old histories ; and they were meant so. The Dead Sea 
is a type of the destruction to which this world is hastening, 
even as the river of Jordan hurries and pours into an abyss 
that is never full, and from which there is no outlet ; and 
we are warned as Lot was — ' Escape for thy life.' Lot's vnf e 
looked longingly back, and shared the fate of the place 
where her heart was. We must not look back. No, we 
must quit it, and 'stay not in all the plain.' " 

"But we cannot go out of the world," said liph. 





" Yes, we can !— with our hearts. ' He that loveth his life 
shall lose it/ our Lord said ; 'and he that hateth his life in 
this world shall keep it unto life eternal.' ' Come out from 
among them, and be ye separate, and touch not the unclean 
thing ; and I will receive you.' Lot's case is ours ; and like 
him we are apt to plead for some stopping-place as near the 
plain as possible. But the plain is a place of death. With 
all its fine scenery, the Dead Sea is well named ; no fish can 
live in it. Its shores are burned up with heat and salt 
There is no life nor freshness, except where some blessed 
little spring pours out its fresh waters, and heals the barrenness of the place. Like the work done in this dead world, 
wherever one Christian or body of Christians carries the 
water of life to those around. Otherwise it is a barren shore, 
with a line of driftwood marking the high-water level all 
round its borders ; driftwood brought down by the Jordan, 
piled together and sticking up through the sand ; charred 
and blanched and filled with salt, very desolate indeed to 
look at. It is like the ruins of past generations." 

"But the waters shall be healed," said my grandmother. 

"That is a wonderful word ? " said uncle Sam. 

" What is it, sir ? " Dan asked 

"The prophet Ezekiel had shown to him in a vision a 
wonderful temple, to be in a future day ; it perhaps means 
the spiritual temple which is built of living stones ; but 
however that be, the prophet saw coming out by the side of 
the altar in the court of it, the waters of a fountain. The 
waters flowed into the court and issued by the east gate, 
which, in the court of the real temple, would let them out 
into the deep valley of Jehoshaphat, which lies on that side 
of Jerusalem. At first the waters were a little stream, only 
up to the ankles : but when they were some distance down 
the valley, the stream had risen to be knee deep. Farther 
on, it was half the height of a man ; and after that, it grew 
to a river that could not be passed over ;' waters to swim 
in.' And it was told to the prophet, in the vision,  These 
waters issue out towards the east country, and go down into 




 

the plain ' — the word means the Jordan valley, translated 
 desert' here — 'and go into the sea; which being brought 
forth into the sea, the waters shall be healed.' " 

" What does that mean, uncle ? " 

Uncle Sam just went on. " ' And it shall come to pass, 
that everything that liveth, which moveth, whithersoever the 
rivers shall come, shall live ; and there shall be a very great 
multitude of fish, because these waters shall come thither : 
for they shall be healed ; and everything shall live whither 
the river cometh.' " 

" What does that mean, uncle Sam ? " 

"It meant, that there should be ' a fountain opened to the 
house of David, and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, for sin 
and for uncleanness ;' and that a cry should be, ' Ho, every 
one that thirsteth, come ye to the waters.' Don't you know 
who said, ' If. any man thirst, let him come unto me and 
drink. He that drinketh of the water that I shall give 
him, shall never thirst]' But Jesus died to give us that 
living water ; and so these rivers came forth from the temple 
of God and by the altar, to flow out to the world. The tree 
of life grows upon the banks of that river ; 'the fruit thereof 
shall be for meat, and the leaf thereof for medicine.' " 

" Then the river is the gospel, going into the Dead Sea of 
the world ! " said Dan. 

" Or the work of the Holy Spirit in the hearts of men, by 
means of the gospel ' And it shall come to pass, that the 
fishers shall stand upon it ' — that is, upon the shore of these 
waters — ' from En-gedi even unto En-eglaim.' You remember I told you of En-gedi, on the shore of the Dead Sea; 
En-eglaim is another spring ; but at present the salt waters 
of the sea kill all fish. Then, ' the fishers shall stand upon 
it, from En-gedi even unto En-eglaim ; they shall be a place 
to spread forth nets ; their fish shall be according to their 
kinds, as the fish of the great sea, exceeding many.' You 
know that Jesus told Peter and Andrew, He would make 
them  fisher of men.' But ' they have not all obeyed the 
gospel' For the miry places thereof and the marshes 
thereof shall not be healed; they shall be given to salt' " 





" Uncle Sam," said liph, " sometimes you say river, and 
sometimes you say rivers."

" Ay ; I cannot be wiser than the Bible. I suppose this 
is it, Liph — ' it shall be in that day that living waters shall 
go out from Jerusalem : half of them toward the former sea 
and half of them toward the hinder sea ; ' the rivers shall be 
for east and west and all the world. ' Whosoever will, let 
him take of the water of life freely.' But in that day the 
Lord shall be king of all the earth.' I do not think the 
waters have reached yet more than to the ankles." 



 



Sept. 17.— THE WILD MAN. 

Something, we do not know what, broke up Abraham's 
dwelling at Hebron. Soon after the day when he saw that 
terriblie smoke rising out of the valley between En-gedi and 
the mountains of Moab, he quitted the oaks of Mamre ; 
struck his tents, which had been sheltered there for so many 
years, and went off down towards the south country." 

"Perhaps that was a better country." 

"No, it was not, in any respect ; unless in that it was a 
boundless tract of wild pasture land, where Abraham's flocks 
and herds could have plenty of space to spread themselves. 
Between Kadesh and Shur he dwelt ; those are two points, 
eastern and western, marking the limits of the country over 
which his flocks roamed. We are not sure now of the exact 
points, but we know the sort of country that lay between. 
Where the hills of Judah begin to sink down towards the 
lower level of the desert, the land begins to be less rich and 
fertile ; and still farther down, before the barrenness of the 
desert appears, there is a middle tract ; a wide, undulating 
plain, with no trees, but with abundance of good pasture- 
ground ; and where the hand of cultivation comes; at certain 
seasons, it is all grass and com and flowers." 

" Flowers, uncle Sam ?" 

"Lilies, and hyacinths, and crocuses, and red poppies or 
anemones ; not here and there one, but miles of them. Towards the desert the lilies and hyacinths, different sorts, 
grow alone ; farther north they have grass and shrubs mixed 
with them. Some of these lilies grow two feet high, with 
such strong stalks that we used them for camel whips ; 
those had beautiful lilac flowers. But what Abraham caxed 
for was the fine pasture lands and fields for com. It is 





pleasant, quiet, peaceful country, with clear skies and sweet 
air ; and no cities or settled dwellers in it. So it is now, 
and so it was then. Between Palestine and the border of 
Egypt, the wilderness was occupied by roving tribes of the 
Anialekites ; but it seems Abraham was strong enough not 
to fear anything from them. Then towards the west was the 
region of the Philistines ; at that time another nation of 
shepherd roving people, feeding their flocks all along the rich 
maritime plain. And among them, in Gerar, Abraham fixed 
his headquarters." 

"Then where is Gerar, uncle Sam ? that is the next thing. 
It is not down on the map, is it ? " 

"No, for few travellers go that way, and its place has not 
been certainly made out. It was somewhere in the country 
of the Philistine's, lying south of Gaza. And this is a different country from that I have been describing. Look here 
--on the western shore of Palestine, from as high up as 
Ekron down, there is a level plain of corn-flelds ; and this 
melts off into the pastures of the wilderness with no break 
or interruption. It is something like the finest parts of our 
own western country ; it is as lovely and as rich as the 
Mississippi valley; but indeed it is more rich. The most 
superb crops are gathered there year after year, with no 
manure put on the land, and with the most miserable sort 
of culture; and this is what has been going on for four 
thousand years. Our land would wear out long before that 
time." 

"Why, our land will not stand a single year without 
manuring," said Liph. " Not and bear good crops.'' 

"Here, at the East. The soil is richer in the Mississippi 
valley ; but the Shephelah, the corn plain of the Philistines, 
is richer than all It is the granary of Palestine, which 
indeed was named from its name of Philistia. This plain 
melts off gradually to the south into the sandy desert ; and 
eastward merges itself in that wide pasturing country, below 
the hills of Judah, of which I have spoken. In this plain, 
in the richest of the land, the Philistines had taken possession." 



 

"But I thought they were wicked people, and the enemies 
of the Jews," said Daniel " The Jews were for ever fighting 
the Philistines." ' 

"Afterwards. The Jews were not in existence yet ; and 
the Philistines had not long been in the land. They were 
not natives, but 'emigrants' — 'strangers;' so their name 
means ; and the Bible says they came out from Caphtor, in 
the regions of Upper Egypt. ' Have not I brought up the 
Philistines from Caphtor ? ' the Lord said by the prophet 
Amos. And in Deuteronomy it is said, 'The wims which 
dwelt in Hazerim,' (Hazerim means nomad dwellings, or 
dwellings of wandering people) — ' The whims which dwelt in 
Hazerim, even unto Azzah' — or Gaza— 'the Caphtorima, 
which came forth out of Caphtor, destroyed them, and dwelt 
in their stead.' In the same sort of Hazerim, or transient 
abodes, it seems they also dwelt ; pasturing their herds 
hither and thither. But the Philistines were a warlike 
people, even then; for their king had a 'captain of the 
host' for one of his servants ; and had the manners of a despotic and powerful prince too ; as it appears by his taking 
Sarah into his family. That was a high-handed measure, 
often enough adopted in those times, and sometimes in 
these times ; but it bespeaks power in the aggressor. It is 
a way of showing power, that I have known sheikhs and 
emirs in that country to use; taking distinguished ladies 
for their wives, even when killing the ladies' husbands was 
a necessary consequence. So that Abraham had worldly 
reason enough for the request he had made to Sarah, — 
' This is thy kindness which thou shalt show unto me ; at 
every place whither we shall come, say of me, He is my 
brother.'" 

"It didn't do him much good, uncle Sam." 

"Lies never do anybody much good. Tiny. 

" But was this a lie, sir ? He was her brother." 

"Not after he became her husband. No; to ail intents 
and purposes it was a lie; meant to mislead." 

" But Abraham was a good man, sir." 

" ' A just man f alleth seven times, and riseth up iigain.' It 





is much better that he should not fall But Abraham was a 
good man, and the Lord took care of him. He gained no- 
I thing by his falsehood. He might as well have trusted the 
Lord at first. In a dream, Abimelech was warned that the 
man whom he had wronged was under the particular care of 
Heaven ; and that it would be at the peril of his life if he did 
not undo all the wrong he had done." 

"And then Abimelech gave him presents," said Priscilla; 
" ' sheep and oxen, and men-servants, and women-servants ; ' 
just aa> Pharaoh had done. He grew great every way." 

"How was Abraham a prophet, uncle Sam? The Bible 
says he was a prophet ; what did he tell ? " 

"Nothing of future events. Tiny. The first meaning of 
prophet was not a foreteller, but an interpreter. One who 
made known the ways of God to men ; that is what it meant, 
and means still 

" Now Abraham had full leave to dwell in the land of the 
Philistines, wherever he pleased; and in the rich country 
south of Gaza I suppose he made his home, at Gerar ; and 
there, it is likely, the next year Isaac was born. The fulfilment of part of God's promise to Abraham, and a pledge 
of the rest." 

"A pledge of what, uncle Sam?" 

" Of all good things. Tiny. In this way. Isaac was the 
promised seed, you know. God had told Abraham he should 
have a son in his old age ; and besides, had told him that 
in this son the blessing should come. With him God would 
establish the covenant He had made with Abraham ; and that 
covenant was, you remember, that He would be a God to 
him and to his seed after him ; that He would give them 
the land of Canaan ; and that all the nations of the earth 
should be blessed in him. Abraham knew what that meant ; 
that the promised Deliverer should come by and by in the 
line of Isaac's children. And so Sarah understood it ; for 
she said, ' God hath made me to laugh, so that all that hear 
will laugh with me.' It was not a joy for her alone. One 
was coming, some tinie, among the descendants of Isaac's 
family, who would be the Desire of all nations. And so. 



 

when at last the birth of Jesus was promised to Mary, she 
said, ' He hath holpen His servant Israel, in remembrance 
of His mercy ; as He spake to ourfathersy to Abraham, and to 
his seed for ever.' ' To perform the mercy promised to our 
fathers, and to remember His holy covenant ; the oath which 
He sware to our father Abraham.' Isaac was well named. 
His name is daughter/" 

"There were so many people bom, in whose family the 
Lord Jesus was to come," I said. " I cannot remember them 
all." 

"First there was Seth," said uncle Sam. "He was the 
appointed one of all Adam's sons." 

" And among the sons of Seth, Noah was the one," said 
Daniel. " And Shem was chosen among Noah's three sons." 

