strain to a lady with a beautiful arid expressive face, 
who sat beside her. 

These two persons were Ida and her governess. 
The latter was looking better than when she was intro- 
duced to the reader. SuiTOunded by comforts and 
luxuries, and above all relieved from her most pressing 
anxiety by the letter which she had received from- 
Charlie, her cheeks had recovered their wonted fullness 
and bloom, and the rare beauty for which she had been 
distinguished in her youth. 

Randall could scarcely believe his eyes. This was 
the woman whom he had pictured to himself as slang- 




gling amid the deepest poverty to obtain a scanty sub- 
sistence, worn out by harrowing anxiety for the loss of 
her only son. What a contrast to his anticipations was 
the reality! He saw her tastefully dressed — the pic- 
ture of health and happiness — with the same beauty 
that had dazzled him in times past, surrounded by evi- 
dences of prosperity and luxury. 

"What can it mean?" he thought in bewilderment. 
"Is it possible that my eyes are deceived by an acci- 
dental resemblance ? " 

The carriage had already passed 'him,  but as it was 
obliged to proceed slowly on account of a press of car- 
riages, he had- no difficulty, by quickening his pace a 
little, in- overtaking it, and again scanning the face 
whose presence there had filled him with so much sur- 
prise. 

The first explanation which suggested itself to him as 
possible was, that Mrs. Codman had attracted the 
attention of some wealthy gentleman, who forgetting 
the distance which circumstances had established be- 
tween them, had laid himself and his fortune at 
her feet. But even then how could she appear so 
light-hearted and happy unless Charlie had returned? 
There was another supposition that old Peter Hanson 
had died, and on his death-bed, repenting his past 
wickedness and injustice, had repaired tlie wrong of 
which he had been guilty, as far as he could, by leaving 
all his possessions to Mrs. Codman. This was to Ran- 
dall the most disagreeable supposition of the two, for 
it would efiectually stand in the way of the designs 
which he cherished against the same property. 

Determined not to lose sight of Mrs. Codman, he 

 



 

with considerable difficulty kept pace with the carriage' 
It chanced that Bert and her governess were just return- 
ing from a drive, otherwise they might have led Randall 
a long chase. At present they were not very far from 
home. 

From the opposite side of the street Randall watched 
them descend the steps of the caiTiage, and outer the 
house. He paused long enough afterwards to cross the 
street, note down the name of Bowman together with 
the number, that he might be able to identify it here- 
after. He then examined the house itself with some 
curiosity. The appearance of the house indicated 
clearly enough the wealth of the owner. 

" I wish I knew,'' muttered the mate, " on what foot- 
ing Mrs. Codman resides here. She must cither be the 
wife of the proprietor or his house-keeper, one or the 
other. 

At this moment an infirm old woman limped out of 
the side-gate, with a basket slung on her arm. 

Pressing forward, he accosted her. 

" You seem heavily laden, my good woman." 

" Yes," said she, " thanks to the good lady who lives 
in the house." 

" What is her name? " 

" It's Mrs. Codman. Do you know her, sir? " 

'' I am not sure. I once knew some one of ihe name. 
But there is a different name on the door — Bowman.'' 

" Yes, he is the gentleman of the house." 

"And Mrs. Codman?" 

'' She is the young lady's governess." 

" How long has she been there? " 

"I don't know, sir." 



 



 

" Never mind. It doesn't matter much." 

'' I wish I could tell you, sir." 

' It's of no consequence at all, and you needn't men- 
tion that any questions have been asked you. But I am 
afraid I have been detaining you. Here is something 
to pay you for your trouble." 

So saying he slipped half a dollar into her hand and, 
avoiding her profuse thanks, walked hastily away. 

'  Now, for a visit to the miser,'' he said to himself. 





There was but little variety in the monotonous life 
of Peter Manson. His life was one struggle for gold, 
his thoughts were continually upon gold ; gold seemed 
to be the end and aim of his existence. But what did 
he propose to do with it all? He was not an old man 
yet, but all the infirmities of age were upon him. 

Peter had not forgotten nor ceased to lament the 
heavy draft which had been made upon him by Eandall. 
The thousands which he had left could not compensate 
to him for the one he had lost. So, in the hope of mak- 
ing it up, he strove to live even more economically than 
before, if, indeed, that were possible. The additional 
privations to which he subjected himself began to' tell 
upon the old man's constitution. He grew thinner and 
weaker and more shrivelled than before, and all this to 
save a penny or two additional each day. 

As Peter was crawling feebly along towards his gloomy 
den one afternoon, clad iu the invariable blue cloak, he 
was startled by hearing a hoarse voice behind him, calling out, " Peter Manson — Peter, I say I " 

"Who calls?" asked Peter, in a quavering voices 
slowly turning round. 


" Don't you remember me ? " asked Randall, for it was 
he. 

Peter muttered something unintelligible as he cast a 
terrified glance at the mate, and quickened his pace. 

" You're not very polite, Peter," said the other, 
quickly overtaking and joining the old man. " Is 
this the way to greet an old friend, whdm you have 
not seen for nearly a year? " 

Peter looked anxious and alarmed, and glanced 
askance at his companion. 

By this time they had reached the miser's quarters, 
and Peter, taking out a key, opened the door. 

He opened it just sufficiently to admit himself, and 
was then about to close it when Randall, unceremo- 
niously pushing him aside, entered also. 

" By your leave, Peter, I will spend a short time' with 
you." 

" r have no fire," said Peter Hanson, hastily. 

" I dare say not," said Randall, carelessly, " but you 
can easily kindle one." 

" I— I have no fuel." 

"NoneataU?" 

"Why, a little — a yery little,'' stammered Peter, 
uneasily. 

" I thought so. Come, lead the way. I won't trouble 
you to light the fire. FU do it myself." 

With something that sounded like a groan, the old 
man led the way, and ushered his unwelcome guest into 
the room described in one of the earlier chapters. 

Randall used as much wood in kindling a fire as would 
have lasted Peter a whole day. 

" You will ruin me," he said, in dismay. 

 


" Then you'll be ruined in a good cause," said Ran- 
dall. "But I say, Peter, don't you remember what we 
talked about when I visited you last? " 

The old man groaned, thinking of the thousand dol- 
lars. 

" Seems to me it has not left a very agreeable im- 
pression upon your mind," remarked his companion. 
"Don't you want me to tell you of the boy that I 
spirited away?" 

" Is he dead? " asked Peter, eagerly. 

" No ; curse him, he escaped from me." 

"'You —  you didn't let him know about the money?'' 

"Which you feloniously kept from him? Was that 
what you mean ? '' 

" Ye— yes." 

" No, I didn't." 

Peter looked relieved. 

" Where is he now ? " 

"Heaven knows! I don't. He deserted from the 
ship at Rio Janeiro. But let me ask you, in turn, Peter, 
what has become of the mother, whom each of us has 
so much reason to hate? " 

"I don't know." 

" Then she is no longer a tenant of yours? " 

"She moved in less than a month after you went 
away." 

" Couldn't pay her rent, ha ! " 

" Yes ; she paid it as long as she stayed. I have not 
seen or heard anything of her since." 

" I have," said the mate, significantly. 

" You I " exclaimed Peter, eagerly. 

" I saw her to-day." 

"How — where?" 

 




" In a carriage." 

" A carriage ! " echoed Peter, in surprise. 

" Yes ; looking as bright and handsome as when she 
rejected you with scorn." 

The miser frowned. 

" Where did you meet her? " 

"On Washington Street. I was walking there when 
I chanced to look into a gay carriage that was driving 
by, and saw her." . 

" Are you sure you are nqt mistaken? " 

" No, I followed her to her place of residence." 

"Where is it?" 

« No. Mt. Vernon Street." 

" She must bs rich, then." 

" No ; she is a governess there, though enjoying, I 
should think, unusual privileges, and is, no doubt,  
happy." 

Peter made no reply, but seemed occupied by other 
thoughts. 

" And now, Peter, have you any idea what I came 
for?" 

" To tell me this." 

" I am not fool enough to take all this trouble." 

" Then I don't know." 
. " I want money, Peter." 

Peter could not be said to change color, but he grew 
more ghastly than before, at this demand. 

" I have nothing to give you," he said. 

" Tell that to the marines. You must give me another 
thousand dollars." 

" Another thousand dollars ! " exclaimed the old man. 
" Where do you think I should get it? Did I not im- 



poTerish myself in satisfying your last demand, and 
have I not been obliged to live on bread and water 
since ?'.' 

Randall shrugged his shoulders. 

" I dare say you have lived on bread and water, but 
 as to being obliged to, that is nonsense. I ask you 
again, to give me a thousand dollars. You will have 
thousands left." 

   I shall be a beggar," said the old man, passion- 
ately. 

" A beggar ! " returned Randall, laughing scornfully: 

"Yes," said Peter, with energy. "You promised, 
when I gave you a thousand dollars," — his voice faltered as he recalled the sacrifice, — "that you would 
ask no more. Now, you come back for another sum as 
large, and it is not yet a year. You shall not have it I " 
he exclaimed, passionately ; " not if I had it fifty times 
over." 

" Bethink you what you are saying, old man," said 
Randall, menacingly. "Do you know that I can go to 
Mrs. Codman and denounce you?" 

" You will not," said Peter, trembling. 
. "But I will, unless you comply with my demand. 
Now what do you say? Better be reasonable, and con- 
sent, before I compel you." 

" Never ! " exclaimed th$ miser, desperately. 

" I will denounce you to the police. Shall I have the 
money?" 

But Peter was no longer to be moved, even by his 
fears. His love of money overcame every other consid- 
eration, and again he exclaimed, " Never ! " with all the 
energy of which he was capable. 




" Is this your final answer? ' 
"It is." 



"Then I will help myself," said Randall, coolly, 
leaving his chair, and beginning to lift up the trap- 
door, beneath which was the miser's box of treasure. 

As soon as Peter fairly comprehended his design, and, 
saw the gold coins in the grasp of the purloiner, unable 
to restrain himself, he threw himself upon the mate with 
a cry as of a lioness deprived of her young, and grasped 
the strong man by the throat with fingers, which, though 
naturally Weak, despair and rage made strong. At all 
events, it was not particularly comfortable, and pro- 
voked Bandall, who seized the old man in his strong 
arms, and, with a muttered curse, hurled him to the 
floor, where he lay pale and senseless. 

" Confusion I " muttered Randall, in dismay, for Peter 
bad uttered a shrill scream as he fell. " I am afraid 
I  hall get into an ugly scrape."   

He was not altogether Tfrong.  

The scream had been heard by twp, at least, who were 
passing. The. door was burst open, and in rushed Bill 
Sturdy and Charlie, our young hero, who had just re- 
turned tp Boston, and were passing on their way up from 
the wharf at which the vessel was lying. 

" Mr. Randall ! " exclaimed Charlie, in surprised rec- 
ognition. 

Randall strove to escape thi'ough the opened door, 
but Sturdy, seizing him in his powerful grasp, cried, 
" Not so fast, my hearty I .You've been up to some 
mischief, and if I don't see justice done you, may I 
never see salt water againJ " 



Probably there were, no two persons then living 
whom Randall at that moment cared less about seeing 
than Bill Sturdy and our hero. Though astonished 
beyond expression to see them there, his position was 
too critical to allow him to waste time in giving expres- 
sion to his surprise. 

'' Let me go, you scoundrel I " he exclaimed, making 
a desperate effort to elude Bill's grasp. 

He might as well have striven to tear himself from the 
grasp of a lion. 

" Not so fast, Mr. Randall," said Bill Sturdy. 

'' You mutinous scoundrel ! " hissed the mate. 

" You forget," said his captor, coolly, " that we are 
not now on the quarter-deck. Here I am your equal, 
Mr. Randall, and perhaps you may find me a little 
ahead." 

" Let me go, if you know what is best for yourself,'' 
ejaculated Randall, almost foaming at the mouth. 

" If you know what is best for yourself," said Bill' 
composedly, " I would advise you to be quiet." 

  And now' he continued, tightening his grasp a 



little, "just let me know what mischief you have been 
up to?" 

" I am not responsible to you," said Randall haughtily. 

" Responsible or not, you must give an account of 
yourself." 

'' If you will let me go, I will make it worth your 
while." 

 ' Do you think I am mean enough to accept a 
bribe? " exclaimed Sturdy, with honest indignation, 
" Let me know what you have been doing." 

" This old man ! " said Randall, curbing his stride, 
"foolishly thought I meant to rob him, and shrieked for 
assistance." 

'''Is that all ! " asked Bill, keenly glancing at the box 
of gold. " Things look as if you were going to rob him 
in reality." 

'' I am not in the habit of thieving," said Randall, 
haughtily. 

At this moment the miser, who had been insensible, 
began to show signs of returning consciousness. 

" Go and get some water, Charlie," said Bill. " The 
old man looks as if he might come to with a little help." 

There was a pail half full of water standing near by, 
Charlie sprinkled Peter's face, and a moment after he 
gasped and opened his eyes. He cast a frightened 
glance from face to face till his eyes rested on Randall, 
when he shuddered, and cried feebly, " Take him away, 
take him away ! He will rob me." 

" Not while I am here to prevent Kim," returned Bill, 
in a tone of assiirance. 

" Tou are friends, then? " said the miser, anxiously' 




'  Of course we are. Did this man attempt to rob 
you' 

   Take care not to make any false accusations, old 
man," said Randall, menacingly. 

   Speak the truth without fear," said Bill Sturdy ; 
'' ril bear you out in it. He can't do you any harm." 

>  He demanded a thousand dollars from me," said 
the old man, " and when I would not give it to him he 
was going to help himself." 

   What do you say to that, Mr. Randall ?" asked 
Sturdy. 

   I say this," said the mate, turning a malignant 
glance upon the miser,    that it was a regular bargain 
— a matter of business. This man owed me the money 
— he knows best what for, and refused to pay it." 

'' I did not," said Peter, hastily, " he had already been 
paid in full." 
. " Take care, Peter, or I may tell what it was for." 

" I defy you," said the miser in a quavering tone of. 
defiance. " You are a bad man." 

"Perhaps you don't know who this boy is?" said 
Randall. 

" Who is he ? " asked Peter, doubtfiilly. ' 

"He rs one who has reason to consider you his 
enemy," said Rand&U, " even more than myself." 

At this unexpected statement Bill Sturdy and Charlie 
looked at each other in surprise. 

" Do you know this old man, then, Charlie?" asked 
Sturdy, at length. 

" Yes," said our hero ; "it is jBir. Manson, of whom 
my mother used to hire a room." 

"The landlord?" 




''Yes." 

" And what harm has he ever done to you ? '' 

"I don't know," said Charlie, shaking his head, 
" unless," and an anxious look came over his face, 
" he has distressed her for rent since I have been gone." 

" Is that so? " demanded the sailor, sternly. 

"No, no!" said Peter Mansoii, hastily. "She left 
my tenement a good many months ago.'' 

" And where is she now?" asked Charlie, eagerly — 
for, having just landed, he knew nothing of his mother's 
whereabouts. 

" Then you have 'not seen her ? " asked Randall, with 
the sudden thought that he might make better terms for 
himself by selling his knowledge on the subject. 

" No," said Charlie. " Is she well? TeU me, I entreat you, if you know." 

" I do know," said Randall, composedly, " both where 
she is and how she has fared.'' 

" Tell me quick." 

"That depends upon circumstances. While I am 
held in custody I have little inducement to do you a 
favor." 

"Sturdy will release you, won't you, Sturd3  Only 
tell me where my mother is, that I may go to her at 
once." 

" Why," said Bill, cautiously, " I don't know, exactly. 
He may be trying a game, and giving us information 
won't be worth anything." 

" You can keep me here till you have sent to ascertain if I have told you the truth." 

"No, no," said Peter Manson, terrified at the prospect, " don't let him stay here. He would rob me." 

 


" Rob yon," sneered Randall ; "it looks well in you 
whose money has been dishonestly gained, to charge me 
with theft." « 

"He — you won't mind what he says, gentleman," 
said Peter Manson, trembling. "He only says it to 
spite me." 

" To spite you I Yes, you old hunks, I will spite you, 
and that with a vengeance ! Hark you, Sturdy, I have 
kept this old man's secret long enough, and though I 
hate you, and that boy there, I believe I hate him 
worse. If I will reveal to this boy a secret which will 
insure to him a property of froin twenty to thirty 
thousand dollars, will you agree to let me go, and give 
me a thousand dollars ? " 

" Can you do it ? " demanded Sturdy, in surprise. 

"lean." 

" Well it ain't for me to say, but if I were Charlie 
here I would close with your terms." 

" Don't you believe him," said Peter, terrified. " Ho 
is only making a fool of you. He can't do what he 
says." 

Charlie was not a little astonished at the tuiii affairs 
had taken. 

" I shouldn't wonder," said Bill, " if there might be 
something in this, as long as the old man seems so 
afraid the secret will be let out." 

" You will find that I have told you. the truth," said 
Randall ; "tell me quickly yes or no. If you decline, 
you will lose more than I shall." 

" Then," said Charlie, ' 
far as I am concerned." 


 

" And FU bear witness to it," said Bill, '' if you will 
caxry out your part of the agreement." 

" That I will do to yoiir satisfaction. The first thing 
to be explained is, that in carrying this boy to sea I 
was only acting as the agent of another." ' 

"And that other?" 

'' Was Peter Manson — the man you see before you." 

" It is false," said the miser, turning ghastly pale, 

" Moreover," said Eandall, '' I was well paid for the 
service. I received a thousand dollara." 

" Oh, oh ! " cried the old man, swaying backward 
and forward — " a thousand dollars in bright gold, and 
I so poor." 

" You see he admits it," said Randall. 

" And what did he want Charlie carried away for? " 

" Reason enough for that. He feared the boy might 
learn that it was hid wealth which he has been hoarding 
up. 

" Mine ! " exclaimed Charlie, in unbounded surprise. 

" Did you never hear your mother speak of a certain 
Peter Thornton, who by purloining and making off with 
twenty thousand dollars caused your grandfather to 
fail?" 

"Yes, often." 

" Thit man is Peter Thornton!" said Randall, point- 
ing with his finger to the miser." 

The latter half rose from his seat, and then, as if he 
had received a mortal wound sank to the floor. 

" You require no other confirmation of my words," 
said the mate. 

"Why my lad, you will be a rich man," said Bill 
Sturdy, his face beaming with satisfaction. ' 

 


" How glad mother will be ! " exclaimed Charlie. 
'  Where is she, Mr. Randall? I want so much- to see 
her." 

The mate gave Charlie briefly the information he 
required, and added, "You will probably need my 
assistance to establish your claim to the property of 
which yonder old, man has so long deprived you. I 
shall hold myself at your service, trusting to your honor 
to pay me the thousand dollars agreed upon." 

"You shall not trust in vain, Mr. Randall," said 
Charlie, promptly. " Place me in possession of what is 
rightfully mine, and you shall have no. reason to com- 
plam." 

" Very well, I shall stop at the Tremont House for 
the present. There, you or your lawyer will find me. I 
advise you to employ legal assistance." 

" I Yfill do so, and thank you for the suggestion. As 
soon as I have seen my mother I shall proceed to 
business." 

Randall withdrew, but was quickly followed by 
Charlie aiid his friend. 

'' Where are you going, my lad? " asked the sailor. 

'' You needn't ask. Bill, — to see my best friend, my 
mother. It is for her sake that I welcome this fortune. 
She shall never want aily more while I have money. 
We will have a nice little home, where you shall bo 
welcome. Bill, always and all the time." 

Bill pressed the hand of our young hero in his own 
rough palm, and there was a suspicious moisture about 
his eyes, but he said nothing. 


Mrs. Codman was sitting in a little room opening out 
from the breakfast-room, which had been appropriated 
as a sort of study by Bert and herself. 

Topsy, the kitten, who had not yet attained the so- 
briety and demureness of old cat-hood, was running 
round after her tail. 

" Oh, dear," sighed Bert, who was puzzling- over a 
lesson in geography, " I can't study any to-day." 

" Why not?" asked Mrs. Codman. 

" Oh, I feel so restless." 

"That isn't very unusual, is it?" asked" her gov- 
erness, with a smile. 

" I feel more so than usual. Something is going to 
happen, I know." 

" Something does happen every day, doesn't there? " 

" Well, you know what I mean ; something out of the 
way. I shouldn't wonder if Charlie got home to-day." 

" Heaven grant he may I " exclaimed his mother, fervently. 

By a strange coincidence — and coincidences do some- 
times happen in real life, though not quite so often, per- 



 

hi s, as in stbries, — Mrs. Codman had hardly given 
utterance to her wish when the bell rang. 

Bert jumped from her seat, 

'' It is he, I know it is ! " she exclaimed. ' Do let 
me go to the door.'' 

'' You are very fanciful to-day, Bert,'' said Mrs. Codman. But she did not forbid her going. Bert's earnestness had given birth to a wild hope on her part, that it 
might be as she had fancied. 

Before the loitering servant had a chance to reach the 
door, Bert had already opened it. 

Bill Sturdy and Charlie stood on the steps, Charlie 
looking handsome and manly, with an eager look on his 
bright face. Sturdy, it must be owned, looked and felt 
a little awkward, not being accustomed to call as a visitor at houses as elegant as Mr. Bowman's. 

" Oh ! this is Charlie, isn't it? " exclaimed Bert, with 
childish delight, instinctively putting out her hand. 

'  What, do you know me ? " asked Chaiiie,  pleased 
with this cordial reception, but astonished at being rec- 
ognized. 

" Oh, yes." 

" Is my mother here? '' 

" Yes ; I will go and call her. But won't you come 
in?" 

" I would rather you would call her," said Charlie, 
bashfully. 

Bert danced back into the little study. 

" I was right, Mrs. Codman,'' said she, triumphantly. 
