produced the most abundant crops. The settlement was located on one of
those beautiful lakes for which Minnesota is distinguished, whose
bright, clear waters abound in fish. The lake was eight miles in
length, with an average width of about three miles. From it flowed a
small stream, and after receiving other tributaries, discharged its
waters into the Watonwan, which in its turn entered the Minnesota.
John Grant was one of the most important persons at the settlement. He
had cleared up a large farm on the border of the lake, and, with more
means at the beginning than most of his neighbors, had realized a high
degree of prosperity. As he had no children of his own, he was glad to
have Fanny as a member of his family, especially since he had learned
of the improvement in her conduct.
About one third of the population of the settlement were children, and
a school had been established for their benefit. The instructor, Mr.
Osborne, a young man, brother of one of the settlers, had lost his
right leg and his left arm by a terrible railroad accident. He was a
graduate of an Ohio college, and had been engaged in preparing himself
for the ministry when the calamity occurred which rendered him unfit
for the active duties of life. From choice rather than from necessity,
he remained with his brother at the settlement, being both teacher and
preacher.
Fanny immediately entered his school, and devoted herself with great
earnestness to her studies. She soon became a favorite of Mr. Osborne,
who had learned a portion of her history, and felt a strong interest in
her welfare. She was a good scholar, and her progress was entirely
satisfactory to her teacher.
In the home of her uncle, Fanny found, on her arrival, a boy of her own
age. His name was Ethan French; and he had come from Illinois with Mr.
Grant to work on the farm. He had no parents living, and was expected
to remain with his employer till he was twenty-one. He was an uncouth
fellow, and though he could read, write, and cipher, he seemed to be as
uncultivated and bearish as the wild Indians that roamed through the
country. Fanny tried to be his friend, and never neglected an
opportunity to do him a kindness; but the more she tried to serve him,
the more the distance between them seemed to be increased.
"I don't want nothin' to do with gals," was a favorite maxim with
Ethan; and Fanny found it impossible to be very sociable with him. He
did not repel or resent her well-meant advances; but he edged off, and
got out of the way as fast as he could.
Fanny had made up her mind, before she came to her uncle's home, to be
contented and happy there; and she was surprised to find that she liked
her new residence very much. Her aunt was by no means the person her
former experience had taught her to believe she was. Fanny was docile
and obedient, and Mrs. Grant was no longer unjust and tyrannical. They
agreed together remarkably well, and during the short period they were
permitted to be together, no hard thoughts existed, and no harsh words
passed between them.
Though Fanny had not been accustomed to work at Woodville, she readily
adapted herself to her new station. There were no servants at the
settlement; people did their own work; and Fanny, true to the good
principles she had chosen, did all she could to assist her aunt.
Let it not be supposed that Fanny had no temptations; that the new life
upon which she had entered was free from peril and struggles. She was
tempted from within and without; tempted to be unjust, unkind, wilful,
and disobedient. We cannot even say that she did not sometimes yield to
those temptations; but she prayed for strength to resist them. She
labored to be true to her high purpose. The anchor which she always
wore on her breast frequently reminded her of her short-comings--frequently
recalled the memories of the dying angel who had spoken peace to her
troubled soul.
"HOPE AND HAVE," she often said to herself; and the words were
a talisman to keep her in the path of duty. Continually she kept before
her what she hoped to be, and continually she labored to attain the
high and beautiful ideal of a true life.
She was happy in her new home, and her friends were happy in her
presence there; but not long was this happiness to continue, for even
then was gathering in the distance the storm which was to overwhelm
them with woe and desolation. An experience of the most awful and
trying character was in store for Fanny, for which her growth in grace
and goodness was the best, and indeed the only preparation.
By treaty and purchase the United States government had obtained vast
tracts of the lands of the various sub-tribes of the Sioux and Dakotah
Indians. By the original treaty the natives had reserved for their own
use the country on both sides of the Minnesota River, including a tract
one hundred and fifty miles in length by twenty in breadth. When the
Senate of the United States came to act upon the treaty, it was made a
condition of the approval that this reservation should also be ceded to
the whites. The Indians assented to the condition, but no lands being
appropriated for their use, as agreed, they had moved upon the
reservation, and their right to it was recognized.
A portion of this reservation was subsequently acquired by purchase,
but the Indians continued to occupy the rest of it. By the various
treaties, the Indians were paid certain sums of money every year, and
supplied with quantities of goods, such as blankets, clothing, tools,
and arms. But the money was not paid, nor the goods delivered, when
due. The Indians were cheated by traders, and the debts due the latter
were taken from the money to be paid the former. The neglect of the
government,--fully occupied in suppressing the rebellion at the
South,--and the immense frauds practised upon the simple natives,
roused their indignation, and stirred up a hatred which culminated in
the most terrible Indian massacre recorded in the annals of our
country.
CHAPTER XIII.
THE INDIAN MASSACRE.
Though there were no Indians residing very near the Lake Settlement,
they frequently visited the place, and the settlers were on familiar
terms with them. At the house of John Grant they were always treated
with kindness and a generous hospitality. Among those who sometimes
came was a chief called Lean Bear. Fanny was much interested in these
denizens of the forest, and she exerted herself to please them, and
particularly the chief of the Red Irons, as his tribe was called. She
sang to him, brought him milk and bread, and treated him like a great
man. He was a brawny fellow, morose and savage, and though he smiled
slightly, he did not seem to appreciate her kindness.
About the 15th of August, when Fanny had been at the settlement less
than two months, Mr. Grant started for one of the Indian Agencies, on
the Minnesota River, for the purpose of procuring supplies of the
traders in that vicinity. He went with a wagon and a span of horses,
intending to be absent ten days.
One morning, when he had been gone a week, Mrs. Grant was milking the
cows, of which they kept twenty. Ethan was helping her, and Fanny, not
yet a proficient in the art, was doing what she could to assist.
Doubtless she was rather bungling in the operation, for the cow was not
as patient as usual.
"Seems like you gals from the east don't know much," laughed Ethan.
"You are on the wrong side of the creetur."
"So I am! I thought there was something wrong, for the cow don't stand
quiet," replied Fanny.
"No wonder; cows allers wants things did accordin' to rule," added
Ethan.
"I didn't mind that I was on the wrong side."
"What do the gals do out east that they don't know how to milk?"
"They don't milk there."
"They don't do nothin'--do they?"
"Not much; at least, they didn't at Woodville."
"Well, gals isn't good for much, nohow," said Ethan, philosophically,
as he commenced milking another cow.
"They can do some things as well as boys."
"Perhaps they kin; but you couldn't milk a cow till you kim out hyer."
"I could not."
"Hokee!" suddenly exclaimed Ethan. "What's all that mean?"
"What, Ethan?"
"Don't you see all them hosses up to the house? Hokee! Them's Injins,
as sure's you live!"
Fanny looked, and saw about twenty Indians ride up to the house and
dismount. The sight did not alarm her, though it was rather early in
the morning for such a visit.
"D'ye see all them Injins, Miss Grant?" said Ethan to his mistress.
"Dear me! What can they want at this time in the morning? I must go
into the house, and see to them, for they'll steal like all possessed."
Mrs. Grant put her milk-pail in a safe place, and hastened to the
house, which she reached before any of the savages had secured their
horses. Five or six of the visitors entered by the front door, and the
rest assembled in a group, a short distance from the dwelling.
"I wonder what them redskins wants here so airly in the mornin'," mused
Ethan, when Mrs. Grant had gone. "I wonder ef they know there ain't no
one to home but women folks and boys."
"Suppose they do know,--what then?" asked Fanny.
"Nothin'; only I reckon they kim to steal sunthin'."
"They wouldn't steal from aunt Grant."
"Wouldn't they, though!" exclaimed Ethan, incredulously.
"She has been very kind to them."
"They'd steal from their own mothers," added Ethan, as he finished
milking another cow, and moved towards a third.
As he crossed the yard he stopped to look at the horses, and to see
what had become of the riders.
"Hokee!" cried he, using his favorite expression when excited.
"What's the matter, Ethan?" asked Fanny.
"As true as you live, one of them hosses is 'Whiteskin,'" replied he,
alluding to one of Mr. Grant's animals.
"One of the Indian horses?"
"Yes; as true as you live! I kin see the old scar on his flank."
"Where could the Indians get him?"
"That's what I want to know," continued Ethan, now so much excited that
he could not think of his milking. "Creation hokee!" he added--his
usual expression when extraordinarily excited.
"What is it?"
"Creation hokee!" repeated Ethan.
"What do you see, Ethan?" demanded Fanny, who was now so much
interested that she abandoned her occupation.
"There's the t'other hoss!" replied Ethan. "They've got both on 'em."
"Where could they get them?" said Fanny, who regarded the fact
indicated by her companion as sufficiently ominous to excite her alarm.
"That's what I'd like to hev some 'un tell me. Fanny, I tell you
sunthin' hes happened."
At this moment a shrill and terrible scream was heard in the direction
of the house, followed by the sharp crack of a rifle. Ethan and Fanny,
appalled by the sounds, looked towards the house. They saw Mrs. Grant
rush from the back door, and then fall upon the ground. Two or three
Indians followed her, in one of whom Fanny recognized Lean Bear, the
stalwart chief she had endeavored to conciliate. He bent over the
prostrate form of the woman, was seen to strike several blows with his
tomahawk, and then to use his terrible scalping-knife.
At the sound of the rifle, which seemed to be a signal for the purpose,
the savages who had grouped together outside of the house rushed in,
yelling and hooting like demons.
"Creation hokee!" gasped Ethan, his face as nearly white as its
sun-browned hue would permit.
Fanny's blood was chilled in her veins; she could not speak, and her
limbs seemed to be paralyzed. And now in the distance harsh and
discordant sounds rose on the still morning air. They came from the
direction of the other portions of the settlement. The shrill screams
of women, the hoarse cries of men, and the unearthly yells of the
savages, mingled in horrible confusion. It was evident to the appalled
listeners that a fearful Indian massacre had commenced. They had seen
Mrs. Grant fall; had seen the fierce Lean Bear tomahawk and scalp her.
It was madness to stand still in the midst of so much peril, but both
Ethan and Fanny seemed to be chained to the spot where they stood,
fascinated, as it were, by the anguished cries of agony and death that
were borne to their revolting senses by the airs of that summer
morning. The savages were at that moment busy in ransacking and
plundering the house, but Fanny realized that she might be the next
victim; that the tomahawk of the terrible Lean Bear might be glaring
above her head in a few moments more. She trembled like an aspen leaf
in the extremity of her terror, as she heard the terrific cries uttered
by the mangled, mutilated, dying men, women, and children, far enough
off to be but faintly heard, yet near enough to be horribly distinct.
"It's time sunthin' was did," said Ethan, with quivering lips.
"What can we do?" asked Fanny, in a husky whisper.
"We must git out of sight fust. Come along with me, Fanny," added
Ethan, as he led the way into the barn.
"They will find us here," said Fanny.
"P'rhaps they will; but there ain't nowhere else to go to."
"Why not run away as fast as we can?"
"We kin run, but I reckon bullets will travel faster 'n we kin."
Ethan went up a ladder to the top of the hay-mow, and Fanny followed
him. He carried up with him a small hay-fork, with which he went
vigorously to work in burrowing out a hole in the hay. Fanny assisted
him with her hands, and in a few moments they had made an aperture deep
enough to accommodate them. This hiding-place had been made in the back
part of the mow, next to the side of the barn, where there were wide
cracks between the boards, through which they could receive air enough
to prevent them from being stifled.
"Now, you get in, Fanny, and I'll fix the hay so I kin tumble it all
down on top on us, and bury us up."
"Suppose they should set the barn afire," suggested Fanny.
"Then they will; we must take our chances, such as they be. We hain't
got much chance nohow."
Fanny stepped down into the hole; Ethan followed her, and pulled the
mass of hay over so that it fell upon them. They were four or five feet
below the surface of the hay.
"I would rather be killed by a bullet than burned to death in the
fire," said Fanny, with a shudder, when her companion had adjusted the
hay so as to afford them the best possible means of concealment.
"P'rhaps they wouldn't kill you with a bullet. Them redskins is awful
creeturs. They might hack you all to pieces with their knives and
tomahawks," whispered Ethan.
"It's horrible!" added Fanny, quivering with emotion.
"I've hearn tell that there was some trouble with the redskins up on to
the reserves; and I knowed sunthin' had happened when I see them two
hosses. I was kind o' skeery when the varmints rid up to the house."
"Do you suppose they have killed my uncle?" asked Fanny, sick at heart.
"I s'pose they hev," answered Ethan, gloomily. "I reckon we'd better
keep still, and not say nothin'. Some o' the redskins may be lookin'
for us. They're pesky cunnin'."
This was good advice, and Fanny needed no persuasion to induce her to
follow it. Through the cracks in the side of the barn she could see a
few houses of the settlement; and through these apertures came also the
hideous sounds which denoted the progress of the massacre. Great piles
of curling smoke were rising from the burning buildings of the devoted
settlers, and the work of murder and pillage still continued, as the
relentless savages passed from place to place in the execution of their
diabolical mission.
The greater part of the detachment which had halted at the house of Mr.
Grant had now departed, though the sounds which came from the dwelling
indicated that the rest were still there. Lean Bear knew the members of
Mr. Grant's household. With his own hand he had slain the woman who had
so often fed him, and ministered to his necessities, thus belying the
traditional character of his race; and it was not probable that he
would abandon his object without a diligent search for the missing
members of the family.
Fanny was safe for the present moment, but the next instant might doom
her to a violent death, to cruel torture, or to a captivity more to be
dreaded than either death or torture. She trembled with mortal fear,
and dreaded the revelations of each new second of time with an
intensity of horror which cannot be understood or described.
"They are comin' out of the house," said Ethan, in a tremulous whisper.
"There's seven on 'em."
"Are they coming this way?"
"No; they are lookin' round arter us. They are going down to the lake."
"I hope they won't come here."
"But they will kim here, as sure as you live."
"Do you ever pray, Ethan?" asked Fanny, impressively.
"Not much," replied he, evasively.
"Let us pray to God. He can help us, and He will, if we ask Him in the
right spirit."
"I dunno how," added Ethan.
"I will pray for both of us. The Indians can't hear us now, but God
can."
Fanny, in a whisper, uttered a brief and heart-felt prayer for
protection and safety from the savage monsters who were thirsting for
their blood. She prayed earnestly, and never before had her
supplications come so directly from her heart. She pleaded for herself
and for her companion, and the good Father seemed to be very near to
her as she poured forth her simple petition.
"Thy will, not ours, be done," she murmured, as she thought that it
might not be the purpose of "Him who doeth all things well" to save
them from the tomahawk of the Indians. If it was not His will that they
should pass in safety through this ordeal of blood, she asked that they
might be happy in death, or submissive to whatever fate was in store
for them.
Ethan listened to the prayer, and seemed to join earnestly in the
petitions it contained. With his more devout companion, he felt that
God was able to save them, to blunt the edges of the weapons raised to
destroy them, or to transform their savage and bitter foes into the
warmest and truest of friends.
"I feel better," said Fanny, after a moment of silence at the
conclusion of the prayer.
"So do I," replied Ethan, whose altered look and more resolute tones
confirmed his words. "I feel like I could fight some o' them Injins."
"We can do nothing by resistance."
"I dunno; if they don't burn the house, I reckon I know whar to find
some shootin' fixin's."
"Where?"
"Mr. Grant sort o' hid his rifle and things, for fear some un might
steal 'em, I s'pose. I know where they be; and I reckon them redskins
won't find 'em."
"Let us not think of resistance. There must be hundreds of Indians at
the settlement."
"'Sh!" said Ethan, impressively. "They're comin'."
The light step of the moccasoned feet of the savages was now distinctly
heard in the barn. Their guttural jargon grated harshly on the ears of
the fugitives in their concealment, as they tremblingly waited the
issue.
CHAPTER XIV.
THE INDIAN BOY.
Above the voices of the other savages, the harsh and heavy tones of
Lean Bear were prominent. He spoke in the Indian dialect, and of course
the anxious fugitives could not understand what he said; but he seemed
to be angry and impatient, disappointed and chagrined; and Ethan and
Fanny readily inferred that, as he was searching for them, he was the
more ferocious because he could not find them. They lay silent and
motionless in their hiding-place, hardly daring to breathe, lest a
sound should reach the quick ears of their relentless foes.
The Indians searched in every nook and cranny of the barn where a human
being could possibly be concealed. They climbed to the top of the mow,
pulled over the hay, jumped upon it, and thrust their knives deep down.
The fugitives felt the weight of the pursuers pressing heavily down
upon them; they realized that the points of the bloody knives were
within a short distance of their vital organs; but, breathless and
silent, they lay in the most agonizing suspense, expecting to be
dragged from their retreat, and subjected to atrocities which it froze
their blood to think of.
The remorseless miscreants howled with disappointed rage as the search
was abandoned. Fanny and Ethan drew a long sigh of relief when they
heard their foes on the floor beneath them. The good Father to whom
they prayed so earnestly had dimmed the eyes of the savages so that
they could not see, and the danger of that terrible moment passed by
them. Fanny breathed her thanks to God for her safety--she did not dare
to speak them.
The savages consulted together, using brief, sharp, and exciting
sentences. Their words were not understood, and no clew to their future
purposes could be obtained. Lean Bear spoke in tones even more savage
than he had used before, and the steps of the Indians were heard as
they left the barn.
"Hev they gone?" asked Ethan, in a convulsive whisper.
"Yes, I think they have," replied Fanny, in a tone not less agitated.
"Let us thank God that we are still safe."
"Don't whistle till you get out o' the woods," added Ethan, who
referred, not to the thanks, but to the exultation which his companion
appeared to feel at their apparent safety.
"We must be thankful and submissive, Ethan. We have been saved this
time, whatever may happen next."
"I am thankful."
"I know you are. We must trust in our Father in heaven if we expect him
to hear our prayer."
"'Sh!" interposed Ethan, as he became silent and motionless again.
The voices of the Indians were heard near the barn again, and other
moments of agonizing suspense were in store for the fugitives. The
gruff tones of Lean Bear rose above those of his companions, and it was
evident that they had not yet given up the search.
"Ho, ho, ho! He, he, he!" yelled the monsters, which cries were to them
expressions of satisfaction.
It was painfully clear to Ethan and Fanny that the Indians had made
some important discovery, or done some act which would accomplish their
purpose. More agonizing than the thought came the reality, a few
moments afterwards, while the wretches outside of the barn were still
shouting their hideous yells. A smell of smoke, accompanied by a sharp,
crackling sound, assured the waiting, trembling couple in the hay-mow
that their worst fears were realized. The Indians had set fire to the
barn.
"We are lost!" exclaimed Fanny. "They have set fire to the barn!"
"'Sh! Don't say a word," interposed Ethan.
"We shall be burned to death!"
"Don't give up; keep still."
"Keep still?" repeated Fanny, amazed at the self-possession of her
companion. "We shall be burned to death in a few minutes."
"Don't say nothin', Fanny."
It was not easy to keep still in that terrible moment of peril, but
Ethan seemed to know what he was about, and his coolness and courage
acted as inspiration upon his terrified companion. Fanny prayed again,
in a hardly audible whisper; but this time, Ethan, though perhaps his
heart was with her, was thinking of something else. She felt more calm
after her prayer, though the dense smoke and the snapping flames
admonished her that death was close at hand. The rough prairie boy
looked resolute, and seemed to have conquered his fears. She wondered
whether he had discovered any possible avenue of escape, for nothing
but the promptings of a strong hope, whether real or delusive, could
have produced such a change in his bearing.
"Better be burned up, than butchered by the redskins," said he, at
last.
Was this the explanation of his new-born courage? It was a terrible
alternative, but Fanny was forced to believe that what he said was
true.
"Is there no escape for us?"
"Don'no; whar's the Injins now?"
"I don't hear them," replied Fanny.
"Nuther do I. We must stay here jest as long as we kin."
"But the barn is on fire! If we are going to get out at all, we must do
so at once."
"Don't hurry. The fire's all out to t'other end o' the barn. It won't
hurt us jest yit," said Ethan, with wonderful coolness. "I s'pose the
Injins is in a hurry, and they won't stop no longer'n they want to.
Jest as soon as they move off we'll git out."
"How shall we get out after the barn is all in a blaze?"
"That's easy enough. I ain't a bit afeered of the fire, but I am pesky
skeered of the Injins."
The confidence of Ethan increased the courage of Fanny. She had more to
dread from the Indians than he had, and if he preferred to die by the
flames, she ought to be willing to share his fate. She commended her
soul and that of her companion to God, and tried to be calm and
resolute, and she succeeded to an extent which astonished herself.
The fire was rapidly leaping upward, and the barn was soon enveloped in
flames. The Indians could not now be seen through the cracks, nor could
their voices be heard, and the fire-besieged fugitives supposed they
had gone to new fields of blood and rapine.
"We can't stand it much longer--kin we?" said Ethan, as they heard the
crash of some falling timbers at the other end of the building.
"We are not burned yet, but I am nearly suffocated by the smoke,"
replied Fanny. "Do you suppose the Indians are gone?"
"I reckon they be; but they hain't gone fur yit," added Ethan, as he
applied his shoulder to one of the boards on the side of the barn.
"Let me help you," said Fanny.
"You ain't nothin' but a gal, and you can't do much," replied Ethan.
He was a stout boy, and the board, only slightly nailed, gave way
before the pressure he applied to it; but it required a great deal of
labor to detach it from the timbers above and below. He had not begun
this work a moment too soon, for the flames were sweeping over the
surface of the mow, and the roof was falling in upon them. The barn was
stored full of new hay, which, being partially green, did not burn very
readily, especially the solid masses of it. The heat was intense, and
nothing but a greater peril without could have forced them to remain so
long in the building.
The first board was removed, and then a second, leaving an opening wide
enough for them to get out. They were about fifteen feet above the
level of the ground, but there was no difficulty, even to Fanny, in the
descent, though some young ladies might have regarded this minor
obstacle as one of some importance. Ethan thrust his head out at the
aperture, and looked in every direction his position commanded a view
of, in search of the Indians, but none of them were in sight.
"Be quick, Ethan, or the fire will be upon us," said Fanny, who began
to feel the near approach of the flames above her.
"Where shall we go when we get out? We must understand matters a leetle
grain aforehand."
"I think we had better go down to the lake. We can take the boat and go
over to the island."
"That's fust rate," replied Ethan, with enthusiasm. "The Injins hain't
got no boats, and can't foller us. Now we'll go down; but be keerful.
It would be miser'ble to break your neck here, arter gittin' clear of
the fire and the Injins both."
Ethan descended, holding on at each side of the aperture with his
hands, and thrusting his feet into the solid mass of hay in the mow.
Fanny, adopting the same method, also reached the ground in safety.
"'Sh!" said Ethan, as he took her arm. "Run for them bushes!" and he
pointed to a little thicket near the barn.
Fanny ran with all her speed to the bushes, and concealed herself
behind them. She was immediately followed by Ethan. The barn was now
nearly consumed; the portion of the roof which had not before fallen
in, now sunk down with a crash upon the masses of burning hay. The lake
was beyond the house, which they were obliged to pass in order to reach
their destination.
"I s'pose the sooner we start, the sooner we'll git there," said Ethan,
after he had carefully surveyed the ground to ascertain if any savages
were near.
"I am ready, Ethan. I will do whatever you say."
"We'll go now, then. Foller me, Fanny."
Ethan led the way, but they had hardly emerged from the bushes before
they were appalled to find that they were discovered by their savage
foes.
"Ho, ho, ho!" yelled the Indians from behind them.
It appeared that Lean Bear and his companions had waited in the
vicinity until the burning barn was so far consumed that it was not
deemed possible for a human being to remain concealed in it, and then
moved off towards another part of the settlement. With watchful eyes
behind as well as before them, they had discovered the young fugitives
when they left the clump of bushes.
"Ho, ho, ho!" shouted the painted wretches, as they gave chase to Fanny
and Ethan.
"Run for the house!" cried Ethan.
"Why not for the lake?" asked Fanny, in an agony of despair.
"They'll ketch you afore you git half way there. Run for the house!"
They were both running with all their might; and Fanny, though against
her judgment, directed her steps to the house. As they approached the
back door, an Indian boy and a squaw came out of the building, where
they had probably been searching for such valuables as might have
escaped the hasty observation of the party who had sacked the premises.
The boy was apparently about ten years old, and the woman appeared to
be his mother.
Fanny, not suspecting any harm from a woman and so young a boy, still
ran towards the door, being in advance of Ethan, who was chivalrous
enough to place himself in position to cover the retreat of his
companion in case of need. To the surprise of Fanny, the squaw placed
herself in her path, and attempted to seize her, uttering yells hardly
less savage than those of her male companions. The terrified girl
paused in her rapid flight till Ethan came up. The resolute fellow had
already picked up a heavy cart stake, and when he saw the new and
unexpected peril which menaced Fanny, he rushed forward, and though the
squaw drew a long knife and stood her ground, he dealt her a heavy blow
on the head, which felled her to the ground.
"Run into the house as fast as you kin, Fanny," said Ethan.
She obeyed, and, in doing so, passed the scalped and mutilated form of
her aunt, which lay near the door. The sight made her sick at heart,
and she had almost fainted under the horror induced by a single glance
at the ghastly spectacle. Such might, and probably would be her own
fate, for it was hoping against hope to expect any other issue.
She reached the door, and clung to the post for support. Then she saw
that Ethan, instead of following her, was pursuing the Indian boy. It
was but a short chase, for he immediately overtook the youth, and in
spite of his yells, dragged him into the house with him. Ethan seemed
then to have a savage spirit, for he handled the boy without mercy,
dragging him by the hair of the head, and kicking him to accelerate his
movements.
The capture of the young Indian had been witnessed by the whole of the
pursuing party, who yelled with renewed vigor when they saw him borne
into the house. When they reached the place where the squaw had fallen,
they paused. The tall form of Lean Bear was seen bending over her, and
it was plain that there was confusion in the counsels of the savages.
"Hold this boy, Fanny," said Ethan, out of breath with the violence of
his exertions, as he took from the belt of the little prisoner a small
scalping-knife, and offered it to Fanny. "Don't let him go, no-how;
stick him ef he don't keep still."
"I can hold him; I don't want the knife," replied she, as she grasped
the boy by the arms, bending them back behind him.
Taking her handkerchief, she tied his arms behind him, so that he was
powerless to do her any mischief. She then cut off a portion of the
clothes line, which hung up in the kitchen, and tied his feet together.
In this condition, he was secured to a door. The boy looked cool and
savage; he did not cry, and ceased to struggle only when the bonds
prevented him from doing so.
"Now we are ready for sunthin'," said Ethan, as he appeared with two
guns and a revolver, which he had taken from their place of concealment
behind the oven.
CHAPTER XV.
THE CONFERENCE.
Mr. Grant, like all settlers and backwoodsmen, had a profound respect
and veneration for his weapons. They were absolutely necessary for
purposes of defence in a new country, and upon their skilful use often
depended the supplies in the family larder. More coveted than any other
property by the Indians, trappers and strollers of the prairies, he was
obliged to secure them carefully, so that they should not be stolen;
and Mr. Grant, in building his house, had provided the place behind the
oven for their reception.
One of the guns was a fowling-piece, and the other a rifle. The
appropriate ammunition for each was kept in the secret closet with the
weapon. For the revolver there was a plentiful supply of patent
cartridges. Mr. Grant owned two of these arms, but the other he had
taken with him.
Like all western boys, Ethan French was accustomed to the use of the
rifle and the fowling-piece, though he had never particularly
distinguished himself as a marksman. It was a bold idea on his part to
think of defending Fanny and himself from the attacks of the savages;
but, desperate as was the thought, it was his only hope, for the
Indians were murdering all who fell into their hands. There was a
slight chance for him, which he was disposed to improve.
Ethan evidently had some other purpose in view than that of merely
defending himself and his companion from the savages--a purpose
indicated by his capture of the Indian boy, though he had not had time
to explain it to Fanny. He was firm and resolute, exhibiting a courage
which no one would have supposed he possessed; indeed, we can hardly
know what is in any person until he is tried in the fiery furnace.
Fanny, too, had ceased to tremble. The firmness and determination of
Ethan had inspired her with courage, and without stopping to consider
the odds against him, she ventured to hope that his efforts would be
crowned with some measure of success. The occupation of the last few
moments was calculated to increase her courage, for "something to do"
is always the best antidote for fear. She had bound the young savage,
and secured him to the door, when Ethan appeared with the weapons; and
now she anxiously waited the development of his next movement.
"What are you going to do, Ethan?" she asked, as her companion walked
to the door.
"I don't know jest exactly what I'm go'n to do; but I'm go'n to do
sunthin', as sure as you're alive. I reckon I've done sunthin' already,
for them Injins hes come to a dead halt."
"Can you see them?"
"Yes, I kin. They look kinder anxious."
The group of savages had gathered around the prostrate form of the
squaw. She could not have been killed, or even very badly injured, by
the blow she had received. Two of the party appeared to be at work over
her, while the others, among whom Lean Bear was prominent, were holding
a consultation near the spot.
"I reckon I got 'em whar the har 's short," added Ethan, with something
like a chuckle at his own cleverness.
"What do you mean, Ethan?" asked Fanny, not yet able to comprehend the
situation.
"D'ye see that little Injin?" replied he, pointing at the prisoner.
"Yes; and I wondered what you dragged him into the house for."
"Don't you see his fine fixin's--his necklaces and his moccasons? I
reckon that boy belongs to the big Injin."
"You mean Lean Bear."
"Yes, if that's his name. He looks enough like him to be his son.
Gittin' him 's what made 'em stop short jist whar they was. I tell you
we've got 'em whar the har 's short."
"What are you going to do with him?"
"Don't ye see?" replied Ethan, as he finished loading the last of the
weapons. "I'm go'n to shoot some of them Injins; and ef they don't keep
off I'm go'n to shoot the boy."
"You wouldn't do that, Ethan."
"You bet!" replied he, firmly, using more western slang than was
necessary, though he was dependent upon such expressions for the force
of his language.
"But it would be wicked to kill the poor boy."
"What's them Injins doin' to all the white folks?"
"That is no reason why you should kill a harmless boy."
"I don't want to kill him; it would make me feel bad to do any sech
thing. Ef any of them Injins come near us, I'm go'n to show 'em what I
kin do. Keep still now; one on 'em is comin' up this way."
Ethan placed himself at one of the open windows, and cocked the rifle.
One of the party was moving towards the house, apparently sent thither
by Lean Bear, who appeared suddenly to have become very quiet and
harmless.
"See hyer, Fanny," said Ethan, still keeping his eye fixed on the
approaching foe.
"What shall I do?" asked Fanny.
"Did you tie that little Injin's hands strong?"
"As well as I could with my handkerchief."
"Better do it better with the clothes line. Then undo his feet, and put
a rope round his neck."
"Around his neck!" exclaimed Fanny, horrified at the suggestion.
"Jest to lead him by. We may want to quit this house reyther suddin."
Fanny obeyed, satisfied that Ethan did not intend to hang the boy. The
Indian, approaching the house, moved very slowly and cautiously,
frequently stopping, and examining the house with great care. Ethan was
on one of his knees, pointing the rifle at the single Indian, resting
it on the sill of the window. When Lean Bear's messenger saw him, he
came to a halt, and began to make earnest gestures, pointing to his
belt, and throwing out his arms to indicate that he had no weapons.
"What does that creetur want?" mused Ethan.
"He wants to talk with you," replied Fanny, correctly interpreting his
gestures.
"I can't talk Injin--kin you?"
"No; but some of the Indians talk English."
"What ye want?" shouted Ethan, satisfied that the man's intentions were
peaceful.
"Talk! talk!" replied the messenger.
"Kim along, then," replied Ethan. "That's jest what I want, too," he
added, to Fanny. "I want to tell them Injins that this hyer boy will
ketch fits if they don't let us be."
The Indian, still gesticulating, continued to approach the house with
cautious step. Ethan put aside the rifle, and took the revolver, which
he was careful that the messenger should see.
"Stop thyer!" said he, when the Indian had come within twenty feet of
the house; and, at the same time, he elevated his pistol to enforce
obedience to his order.
"Me talk," said the messenger.
"Well! what ye got to say?" asked Ethan.
"You got Wahena--little Wahena."
"Yes, sir!" replied Ethan, with emphasis. "I've got him, and I mean to
keep him."
"No keep! We want Wahena," continued the messenger.
"No git him," added Ethan, who was inclined to be facetious at times,
especially when the advantage was on his side.
"Lean Bear's son. Big Lean Bear--little Wahena."
"You can't hev him, nohow," said Ethan, decidedly.
"Me get Wahena--you go 'way--no kill, no hurt."
"You can't fool me."
"No kill, no hurt."
"No, yer don't!"
"Give Wahena--no kill, no hurt," repeated the messenger, impressively.
"You git out!"
"No give Wahena, Lean Bear kill!"
"Two kin play at that game," added Ethan, shaking his head. "Ef you
don't quit, I'll kill the boy."
"No kill Wahena!" cried the savage, evidently horrified at the threat.
"Yes, I will, old boy, ef you don't all go off, and quit right away. I
know what's what, 'n you can't fool me, nohow."
"Why not give up the boy, if they will let us go?" asked Fanny.
"You can't trust one o' them Injin creeturs no more'n you kin trust a
rattlesnake, nohow. Jest fetch the boy here, and I'll show 'em what I
mean."
Fanny had fastened Wahena's hands more securely behind him, and
attached one end of the line to his neck. She had removed the cord from
his ankles, so that he could walk, while by the rope at his neck he
could be kept under perfect control. Ethan took the line, and led the
boy out at the door, where he was placed in full view of the savages.
His captor still held the leaded pistol in his hand.
"No kill Wahena!" shouted the messenger, fiercely.
"I won't hurt him ef you all go off--go 'way--clear out--quit the
ranch."
"No hurt?" asked the Indian.
"All go 'way," answered Ethan, pointing to the west with the revolver.
"Give Wahena--all go."
"No, sir!"
"No give Wahena?"
"I'll kill him ef them creeturs come hyer," said Ethan, sternly, as he
pointed the pistol at the boy's head.
"No kill Wahena!" shouted the messenger.
"Tell 'em to keep back, then."
This demonstration on the part of Ethan had been caused by the sudden
movement of the savages towards the house. Their spokesman fortunately
understood his meaning, and turning round, he shouted out a few words
in the Indian dialect, accompanying them with violent gestures, which
had the effect to stop the nearer approach of the band. As they moved
back, Ethan lowered his weapon. Wahena did not flinch, nor exhibit any
signs of terror while he was menaced with the pistol, though he looked
stern and resolute, as he had probably been taught to be by his savage
father.
Ethan, finding that he had the power all in his own hands, walked a few
paces nearer to the messenger, dragging his prisoner after him. It was
not an easy matter to carry on a conversation with the savage, whose
knowledge of the English language was limited to a few words; but after
a long time, and a great deal of effort, he succeeded in making the
Indian spokesman understand his intention. He refused to give up
Wahena, but he promised that the boy should not be injured if the
Indians would retire, and not attempt to molest Fanny or himself. He
assured the messenger that he would kill the boy if the savages
followed, or fired upon himself or his companion.
It was a long and trying conference, and when the parties came to an
understanding, the Indian withdrew to communicate the result to his
chief. Ethan returned to the house with his prisoner, and from the
window watched the movements of the foe, while he related to Fanny what
had passed between himself and the messenger during the interview.
"I reckon they'll do it, Fanny," said Ethan.
"I hope they will."
"When we are safe, they kin hev the Injin boy; I don't want him. I
reckon it was a smart idee o' mine, ketchin' the young cub."
"I think it was a very good idea. They would certainly have butchered
us before this time if it hadn't been for him."
"I reckon they would; but ef I knows myself, some on 'em would hev gone
down fust."
"I suppose the Indians have murdered a great many people."
"I reckon they hev."
"It's awful!" exclaimed Fanny, shuddering, as she glanced at the place
where poor Mrs. Grant lay cold and still in death.
"So 'tis, but 'tain't no use to think on't now; it makes a feller feel
kind o' weak and sickly. We must figur' it out now."
"Thanks to your good management, we may yet escape."
"I reckon we will. Did you ever fire a pistil, Fanny?"
"No, but I'm not afraid to do so."
"Better take this, then, and I'll use the guns. I reckon it may be of
use to you," added he, handing her the weapon. "Hokee!" suddenly
exclaimed he, as he glanced out of the window.
"What is it, Ethan?"
"Them Injins is go'n off!"
"So they are."
"Mebbe they're comin' round to try us on t'other side of the house. Ef
they be, I'm thar. You hold on to the little Injin, and I'll watch
'em."
Ethan went to a window on the front of the house, and soon returned
with the gratifying intelligence that the redskins were actually moving
off in the direction of the burning buildings to the west of them.
"How thankful we ought to be that we have been saved!" said Fanny. "Let
us thank God with all our hearts, Ethan."
"We can't stop to do no more prayin' now, Fanny. Besides, we ain't out
o' the woods yet."
"We need not stop to pray," replied Fanny, devoutly. "If the prayer is
in our hearts, God will understand it."
"I'm thankful, I'm sure, as a body kin be. Now, you git together
everything you kin find to eat, and I'll git a wheelbarrer to fetch 'em
down to the lake. Ef we kin only git on the island, I don't keer for
all the redskins this side o' sundown."
Wahena was tied up in such a way that he could not escape, and Fanny
hurriedly collected everything in the shape of provisions which had
escaped the depredations of the Indians. Ethan brought from the
chambers an armful of blankets and bed-quilts, and the wheelbarrow was
loaded with all it would contain. A bushel of potatoes, a leg of bacon,
a bucket of corn-meal, a small supply of groceries, and a few cooking
utensils, constituted the stock upon which they were mainly to depend
for sustenance during their banishment from civilized life for they
knew not how long a time. But both of the exiles were hopeful, though
very sad, when they thought of the death and desolation they were
leaving behind them.
CHAPTER XVI.
THE YOUNG EXILES.
Wahena, with his hands still tied behind him, was led by Fanny, while
Ethan trundled the wheelbarrow, across the handles of which lay the two
guns, ready for use if occasion should require. The Indians had halted
on one of the little eminences of the prairie, and appeared to be
watching the departure of the fugitives from their once happy home.
Lean Bear was evidently very fond of his little son, who was a boy of
bright promise, measured by the Indian standard. He had exhibited no
concern for the mother while she lay senseless upon the ground, but he
seemed to be willing to make any sacrifice, even to the curbing of his
ferocious nature, for Wahena's sake.
The party of Indians on the knoll appeared to be impressed with the
misfortune of their leader in the loss of his favorite son. Though the
work of rapine and death was still going on in the settlement, they did
not heed it. The messenger had probably represented to Lean Bear that
Wahena would certainly be killed if he attempted to molest the little
party, and the chief had withdrawn far enough to remove all temptation
on the part of Ethan to execute his threat.
The wheelbarrow was heavily loaded, and it was hard work for the
prairie boy to move it along over the soft soil. On a hill, just before
the descent to the lake commenced, he paused to rest for a moment. He
was in excellent spirits, and was proud of the success which had thus
far attended his stratagem. He was confident that he should reach the
island in safety, where, having the only boat on the lake in his
possession, he was satisfied that he should be able to defend himself
and his companion, especially with Wahena as a guaranty for the good
behavior of the Indians.
Ethan was entirely satisfied with himself, and he was about to resume
the march towards the lake, when his attention was attracted by a noise
in the direction opposite to that in which Lean Bear and his party had
retreated.
"Creation hokee!" shouted Ethan.
"What's the matter?" asked Fanny.
"Don't you see the Injins comin' out of the woods?" replied he, as he
grasped the rifle, and raised it to his shoulder.
"Ho, ho, ho! He, he, he!" yelled the band of savages, as they rushed
out of the covert of the trees, and ran towards the spot where Ethan
stood.
