uncle's voice, as well as Tom's. My diversion had worked well, for both
had gone in pursuit of me, and I was delighted with the result.
As fast as my legs would carry me, I hastened back to the cottage. A
light was burning in the library. I was almost choking with anxiety, for
I had a purpose to accomplish. I climbed up to the bay window, pulled
the sash down, and leaped into my uncle's "sanctum sanctorum." With
trembling hand I raised the cushion of the arm-chair. I could hardly
repress a shout of joy, as I saw the key, just where my uncle had put
it. Eagerly I seized it and opened the safe door. I grasped the huge
document that lay on the bottom of the safe, and opened it. I read,--
"'In the name of God, amen! I, Ezra Thornton, being feeble in body, but
of sound and disposing mind--"
"It is my father's will!" I exclaimed, without pausing to read any more.
My heart was in my mouth. I glanced at other papers; but I did not
understand them, and it seemed to me then that the will was all I
wanted. I thrust that into my pocket, and was about to close the safe
door when my eye rested upon a thick pile of bank bills. I wanted money.
Would it be stealing to take some of these bills? No! All that my uncle
had was mine, according to his own statement. There were thousands of
dollars in the pile. I could not think or reason in the excitement of
the moment. I took about one fourth of the bills, thrust them into my
pocket, closed the door of the safe, locked it, and put the key under
the cushion in the chair.
I got out of the window, and placed the sash as I had found it. When I
reached the ground, the cold sweat stood on my brow, so violent were my
emotions. I entered the front door of the cottage, passing old Jerry on
the way, and went to my chamber, the key being on the outside, where Tom
had left it. I prayed that God would forgive me if I had done wrong, for
I could not determine whether I had or not.
As the will and the money would not be safe in my pocket, I wrapped them
up in a piece of newspaper, and concealed them in the closet. By this
time it was daylight. I sat for half an hour in a chair, thinking what I
should do. At sunrise Tom and his father returned. I suppose old Jerry
told them he had seen me, for both came up stairs immediately.
"Now, you young villain!" yelled Tom, as he rushed towards me, beside
himself with passion.
I retreated towards the chimney, and pulled out my bat.
"What are you going to do with that?" demanded he.
"I am going to defend myself," I replied, as firmly as I could; but I
was terribly agitated.
"We'll see if you are;" and he sprang towards me.
"Gently, Thomas; don't be rash," interposed my uncle.
"Keep your distance, or I'll smash your head!" I added, making a few
vigorous passes with the bat.
He was prudent enough to heed this warning, and left the room, but only
to return with the club he had selected before.
CHAPTER IX.
IN WHICH ERNEST, AFTER A SUCCESSFUL RETREAT, FALLS INTO A TRAP.
TOM THORNTON was the maddest man I ever saw when he returned to my
chamber armed with the club. His father had followed him down stairs,
evidently for the purpose of pacifying him; and when they returned he
was still trying to dissuade him from any act of violence.
"Don't be rash, Thomas," pleaded my uncle, as they were coming up the
stairs.
"Don't talk to me, governor. I will bring the young cub to his senses!"
roared Tom, violently.
"Control your temper, and listen to reason. You will ruin yourself and
me by your rashness."
"I'll take care of that," replied Tom, as he rushed into the room.
Uncle Amos caught him by the shoulder when he reached the door and
attempted to detain him; but Tom was in such a fury that nothing could
check him. He shook off his father, and advanced towards me, apparently
with the intention of making an end of me. I raised the heavy bat, and
looked him steadfastly in the eye. I was the cooler of the two, and the
experience I had had in a hand-to-hand fight with Mr. Parasyte gave me
both courage and skill for such a conflict.
He came upon me with reckless vehemence, aiming a blow at my head; but I
struck at and hit his club with such force that it was knocked out of
his hands, and flew over into one corner of the room. Quick to take
advantage of this favorable circumstance, I ran to the spot, and put my
foot on the stick, in order to hold the weapon I had captured.
Tom rushed forward to recover his club at any hazard, but I laid about
me, right and left, with all my might, so that the bat whizzed through
the air. To have come within the circle of the flying bat would have
insured him a broken head, and he paused a moment. My uncle stepped
forward, and taking him by the shoulder, drew him back from such
dangerous proximity to my weapon.
"One of you will certainly be killed!" gasped my uncle. "Stop, Ernest!"
"I am ready to stop when he is," I replied, panting with my exertions.
"What have you done with my horse, you villain?" roared Tom.
"I'll tell you when you have cooled off," I answered. "I want you to
understand now that I am not to be trifled with."
"I'll bring you to your senses, yet," said Tom, with an awful scowl, as
he turned and rushed out of the room again, followed by my uncle.
It was plain that he had gone after another weapon, and perhaps this
time he would bring something more dangerous than a stick from the
wood-pile. Fighting was not at all to my taste, and I was not quite
willing to risk my prowess against such an insane assailant. I realized
that he would just as lief kill me as not, and I might not again be as
fortunate as I had been during the first onslaught. Discretion was
certainly the better part of valor in such an encounter, for there were
no laurels to be won in the battle; and I determined to make my escape
before the return of my savage foe. I did not mean to come back, for my
mission was in the great world until I had developed the mystery of my
own wrongs.
I approached the closet, after I had opened the window, for the purpose
of obtaining the will and the money I had concealed there. I was on the
point of opening the closet, when I heard a step on the stairs, and then
my uncle appeared at the door.
"Ernest, if you have any regard for me, or any gratitude for what I have
done for you, don't incense him any more," said he, in pleading tones.
"What shall I do?--let him kill me?" I replied.
"What have you done with the horse and chaise?"
"They are in Welch's Lane."
"Don't resist Thomas any more."
"I shall resist him to the death, if he don't let me alone," I answered,
firmly. "I didn't begin it."
"Yes, you did, Ernest. You carried the girl off, and he is acting for
her mother."
"The girl has been abused. If she hadn't been, she wouldn't have jumped
overboard."
"There! Thomas is coming!" exclaimed he, greatly alarmed at the prospect
of a renewal of hostilities. "Tell him where the girl is, for my sake,
if not for your own."
"I will not," I replied, as I heard Tom's step on the stairs.
The window was open, and while there was yet time, I leaped out upon the
roof of the library, with the bat still in my hand. Throwing the weapon
down, I stepped on the bay window, and from that dropped to the ground.
Picking up the bat, I retreated to the grove which bordered the lake
beyond the house. I had left the valuables in the closet, and was
therefore not prepared to take my final departure.
I had advanced but a few steps before Tom and his father appeared at the
window. My furious foe staid there only long enough to obtain a sight of
me. A moment afterwards he rushed out at the front door, and started in
pursuit of me. I doubted just then whether I had gained any advantage by
transferring the battle-ground to the open air, for Tom's legs were
longer than mine, though probably he had not practised running so much
as I had. Taking the path near the bank of the lake, I ran with all my
speed, till I came to the brook which flowed round the hill in the rear
of the cottage and discharged itself into the lake. For some distance
above the outlet the stream was from ten to fifteen feet wide. There was
a rude foot-bridge, consisting of a single wide plank, across it, for my
uncle's domain extended a short distance beyond it.
I crossed this bridge. Tom was only a few rods behind me, and a
brilliant strategic idea flashed into my mind as I stepped upon the
plank. As it is considered good policy for a retreating army to destroy
the bridges behind it, I adopted the suggestion, and as soon as I had
reached the other side of the brook, I lifted the end of the plank, and
pulled it over after me. Tom rushed up to the other side just as I had
completed the job. The stream was a good ten feet wide, and its banks
were rather soft and slippery.
From the movements he made, I thought, at first, that he intended to
leap over the brook; and I placed myself in such a position as to insure
his falling into the water, if he attempted such a piece of gymnastics.
Tom wore nice clothes, and he did not run the risk of soiling them by a
possible accident. He paused on the brink of the stream, and feared to
cross the Rubicon.
"How are you, Tom Thornton?" I exclaimed, after he had looked about him
for the means of bettering his situation, and of continuing the chase.
The exertions he had made to catch me had evidently cooled him off in
some measure. He was out of breath, and was apparently becoming
"demoralized." He looked at me, and scowled most unamiably.
"Follow the brook up to the road, and you can get across there," I
added, as he again looked about him for the means of overcoming his
difficulty.
"None of your impudence, you puppy!" replied he; but his invective was
tame compared with what it had been.
"If I am a puppy, Tom Thornton, perhaps you would like my bark to cross
the brook with," I answered.
"The time to settle up all this business will soon come," said he,
shaking his head.
"Mr. Tom Thornton, if you think you can scare me with any bugbears, you
are mistaken. I know you better than you think I do."
"What do you know?" demanded he, surprised out of his malignity by my
remark.
"What I know I keep to myself. When you go back to Mrs. Loraine, I wish
you would tell her from me that it won't sound well when it is told she
kept that poor girl shut up in her room for a week or ten days, with the
blinds nailed so that she could not open them, just because she took
long stitches, or trod on a flower. If I were in your place I shouldn't
like to marry a woman like that."
Tom looked uneasy, and played with his watch chain. I thought he wanted
to say something conciliatory; that he desired to extend to me the olive
branch of peace, the better to get me into his power. I was quite
willing to listen to any overtures of this kind, for I wanted to return
to the cottage, obtain the will and the money, and then bid a final
adieu to Parkville until I had solved the problem of my existence. I was
fearfully anxious lest my uncle should discover the loss of the
valuable document I had taken, and it should be found where I had
concealed it.
"Ernest, you are getting yourself into trouble," said Tom, after a
while, in milder tones than he had yet used.
"For which, no doubt, you are very sorry," I added.
"I'm sure I don't want to quarrel with you."
"You have been very mild and gentle to me."
"Well, I was mad, Ernest," said he, with something like a smile. "If you
will tell me where my horse is, we will call it all square."
"I told uncle Amos where he is. I left him down in Welch's Lane."
"Where is that?"
"Your father knows where it is. His horse is harnessed, and he will
drive you down there," I replied, hoping they would adopt my plan, and
thus enable me to enter my chamber and reclaim the valuables I had left
there.
"Very well; I will do so. I will help you put the plank across the brook
before I go," he replied.
"No, I thank you. I can put it across myself when I get ready to do so,"
I answered, cautiously.
"What are you afraid of?"
"I'm not afraid of anything; but I'm not going to put my head in the
wildcat's mouth."
"I won't touch you."
"I don't intend you shall. Go and get your horse, and I will take care
of myself."
"Well, I will."
He turned, and walked up the path towards the cottage. Of course I had
no faith in his word, and I determined to keep at a respectful distance
from him. When he had disappeared in the grove beyond the brook, I
raised the plank on one end, and then dropped it across the stream,
restoring the bridge to its original position. I crossed the brook, and
walked towards the house. When I came in sight of it, the buggy was
leaving the yard. I concluded Tom and his father had really adopted my
suggestion, and were going to Welch's Lane for the horse and chaise. But
I was too wary to advance without reconnoitring the ground.
"Your breakfast is all ready, Ernest," said old Betsey, the housekeeper,
as I approached the back door.
"Where are my uncle and the gentleman?" I asked.
"They told me they were going down to Parkville, and I need not wait
breakfast for them."
I went into the dining-room and sat down at the table, as much for the
purpose of getting something for Kate as to eat myself. I was scarcely
seated, when I was thrown over backwards, chair and all, and found
myself lying on the floor, held down by Tom Thornton.
CHAPTER X.
IN WHICH ERNEST STRIKES A HEAVY BLOW FOR LIBERTY.
"DEAR me! Good gracious! Why!" screamed Betsey, when Tom Thornton threw
me upon the floor. "I thought you'd gone off with Mr. Thornton. What in
the world are you going to do? Let the poor boy alone!"
Betsey did not think I was having fair play, and old and stiff as she
was, she rushed up to Tom, apparently with the intention of interfering.
"Out of the way, old woman!" growled Tom. "Go and get me a rope."
"A rope! I won't get you any rope! And if you don't let the poor boy
alone, I'll go out and call the neighbors," replied Betsey, bustling
about the room as though she intended to do some desperate thing.
For my own part, I felt that it would be useless for me to resist. Tom
was strong, and I was wholly in his power--taken by surprise, and at a
disadvantage which I could not overcome. I lay still, therefore, and
thus saved some hard knocks.
"What are you going to do with the poor boy? He shan't be treated so!"
persisted Betsey, who had not talked so much before for ten years.
"Be still, old woman! He's a bad boy. He stole my horse, and ran away
with a little girl. I shall not hurt him if he behaves himself," replied
Tom, who appeared to be afraid she would call in some person to take my
part.
"You act like a brute. You treat him worse than an ox," continued
Betsey.
"Now get up, sir," said Tom to me, still retaining his hold upon my coat
collar.
He helped me to my feet. Being vanquished, I had nothing to say, and I
uttered no complaint. When I rose, he tied my hands behind me with his
handkerchief. I submitted because it would have been folly for me to
resist; but I intended to watch my opportunity, and submit no longer
than necessity compelled me to do so. My brutal conqueror took me by
the collar, led me into the hall, and thence into the cellar. In one
corner there was a kind of closet partitioned off with brick walls,
which had been built for a milk-room; but as my uncle kept but one cow,
it was seldom used. There was no window in it, and a more damp, dark,
and disagreeable dungeon it would be difficult for a boy of sixteen to
imagine. It had a heavy wooden door, and altogether the place looked as
hopeless as it was gloomy.
Tom led me up to the door and thrust me in, with my hands still tied
behind me. The only ray of hope I could obtain was derived from the fact
that there was no lock on the door.
"Now, Mr. Ernest Thornton, it is my turn," said Tom, as he partially
closed the door of my cell, and gazed in upon me. "You are a smart boy,
but you have rather overdone it this time. I told you in the beginning
that I was not to be trifled with. You begin to believe what I said by
this time. Have you anything to say before I close the door?"
"No," I replied.
"A couple of days in this place will bring you to your senses," added
Tom, malignantly.
I made no reply. I did not feel like talking. I was busy thinking how I
should recover the ground I had lost. I saw that the cellar wall was not
laid in mortar, except two or three feet at the top and above the
ground. I had already made up my mind that this wall would begin to come
down as soon as I was left alone.
While I was looking at the situation, old Betsey--whom I had never
suspected of having the least interest in me--tottered down the cellar
stairs, and protested that I should not be confined in such a place. Tom
told her it was her employer's orders, and drove her out of the cellar.
I was satisfied that the old housekeeper was not a party to the deceit
by which I had been lured into the trap. My uncle told her that he and
Tom were going to Parkville after the horse, as Betsey explained to me
afterwards, bidding her call me to breakfast, that I might not be late
to school. This was Tom's plan to insnare me, and during this time he
was in the cellar, preparing the dungeon for my reception. My uncle and
old Jerry had gone in the buggy after Tom's horse and chaise.
"Ernest, I am willing to make terms with you now," said Tom, after he
had got rid of Betsey. "I came over here after that girl. You say you
know where she is. If you will tell me where I can find her, I will not
shut you up. Will you do it?"
"No!" I answered, as decidedly as I could speak the word.
"Think well of it. If I can't find her with your help, I shall find her
without it."
"Perhaps you will."
"The Hale boy was with you. I shall have him arrested at once by the
sheriff."
"Bob Hale don't know where the girl is. If he did, he wouldn't tell.
When you arrest him, he can tell a good story about Mrs. Loraine's
motherly care of Kate."
Tom bit his lips; he had no more idea of arresting Bob than he had of
arresting me.
"Once more, before I shut you up, will you tell me where the girl is, or
not?"
"I will not! I will rot in this hole before I will tell a word about the
girl."
He slammed the door upon me, and I was in utter darkness. I heard him
putting props against the door, and pounding them down so as to make it
secure. Then all was still outside, and I concluded that he had gone up
stairs. I had a faint hope that old Betsey would come down and release
me; but I immediately went to work upon the handkerchief which confined
my hands.
My captor had crossed my wrists and tied them together in this position.
I twisted and wrenched till I stretched the linen of the handkerchief,
and strained the knot enough to permit me to pull my hands through my
bonds, and free them. The darkness was gloomy and oppressive, even after
I had been only half an hour in the dungeon. I felt that, for Kate's
sake, as well as my own, I must get out. For the present she was safe,
for Tom had destroyed the skiff, so that he could not go out to the
Splash; but the poor girl would suffer agonies of terror if I did not go
to her in the course of the day.
I was almost furious when I thought of my situation; of Kate in the
cuddy of the boat, and of the will and money in the closet. I was afraid
my uncle would discover his loss before I could escape. I could hardly
keep from weeping with vexation as I thought of my misfortune. But it
was not my style to groan long over my mishaps, when there was a chance,
however desperate, of retrieving them. I was determined either to break
my way out of my prison, or convince my jailer it was not strong enough
to hold me.
I felt of the stones that formed the wall, and pulled out as many of the
small ones as were loose enough to permit their removal. I then used my
strength on a dozen of the larger ones, till I found one which could be
taken out. How I wished then for an iron bar! With such an implement I
felt that I could soon let in the daylight. But I had no bar, and after
removing one stone about the size of my head, I was utterly unable to
start another around it.
I was perplexed. I felt in my pockets for something to help me. I don't
know but I had a faint hope of finding an iron bar; but certainly there
was none there, or anything else with which I could operate on the
obdurate stone wall. In my perplexity, I "fished my pockets" thoroughly.
In the usual assortment a boy carries with him, I had a quantity of
matches. I was not a smoker, but I always found it convenient to have a
match when I happened to be out after dark in the Splash, to light my
cabin lantern.
These matches were suggestive, for the door of my prison was made of
wood, and fire would consume and destroy it. There were several shelves
across the end of my dungeon, one of which I pulled down, and with my
knife proceeded to whittle off the shavings for a fire. While I was thus
engaged, I heard a vehicle drive up to the door. It was immediately
followed by another, and I concluded that my uncle had returned. I had
made a large pile of shavings. I then went to work on the lower part of
the door, cutting into it, and roughening the boards, so that the fire
could be readily communicated to it.
Having completed my preparations, I lighted a match, and set fire to the
shavings. They were rather damp, and it was some time before I could get
up a free fire. I moved the combustibles against the door; but the wood
was saturated with moisture, and I was almost suffocated by the smoke,
while the door appeared to be only charred by the heat of the fire.
While I was busily engaged in this effort, the props were removed, and
the door thrown open. My uncle rushed forward and stamped out the fire I
had kindled.
"What are you doing, Ernest?" gasped my uncle.
"Working my way out of this hole," I replied.
"There, Thomas, you can see what the boy is," groaned my uncle. "But he
shall not be kept in such a place as this."
"Very well, governor," said Tom, who had followed his father. "Put him
into his chamber."
My captor came forward, and taking me by the collar, led me out of my
dungeon. He had a club in his hand, and assured me if I made any
resistance, he would hit me on the head with it. Deeming it prudent to
be submissive, I permitted him to conduct me to my chamber. The blinds
were closed, and I saw that the room had been prepared for my reception.
It afterwards came to my knowledge that my uncle positively refused to
permit me to be confined in the cellar; and they had nailed up the
windows and the blinds before they removed me to my new prison. I was
locked in, after old Betsey had placed on the table food enough for my
breakfast and dinner.
My uncle was human. After all the wrongs he and his graceless son had
inflicted on me, he was not willing that I should be injured. I had
always thought he hated me, but compared with Tom, his feelings were
tender and fatherly. The first thing I did when I was left alone was to
assure myself that the valuables in the closet were safe. They were just
where I had left them, for my uncle had been too busy to open his strong
box.
I ate my breakfast, and then dressed myself in my best clothes, ready
for my final departure, for a window-sash and a pair of blinds could not
keep me. I marvelled that my jailers expected to confine me in my
chamber; but I concluded that they were on the watch below ready to
check any movement I might make. I examined the windows, and found they
were nailed down on the outside. My fowling-piece, fishing-rods, and
other articles which could be used as offensive weapons, were removed
from the room.
It was necessary that I should strike and run within the same moment. I
wanted a battering-ram, with which to smash the window and the blind.
With the bed-key, which was in the closet, I took down the bedstead as
quietly as I could. Reserving one side piece for use, I placed the rest
against the door, so that it could not be opened. I then put the will
and the money into my pocket, and filled a napkin with food for Kate. A
few quick and vigorous blows with the side piece of the bedstead reduced
the window and the blinds to a wreck, and I leaped out upon the roof of
the library, just as I heard my persecutors at the door of the chamber.
CHAPTER XI.
IN WHICH ERNEST MAKES GOOD HIS RETREAT FROM THE COTTAGE.
WITHOUT remorse, I glanced behind me at the wreck I had made of the
window. I did not regard myself as responsible for any damage I had
caused in breaking away from my persecutors. Not only Tom, but my uncle,
was engaged in a conspiracy against me, in which they had been concerned
from my early childhood. Indeed, I had already come to the conclusion
that the cottage and grounds had been purchased with money which
rightfully belonged to me.
Judging from the conversations to which I had listened, detached and
indefinite as they were, I was satisfied that my uncle and his son
intended to cheat me out of my birthright, and out of the inheritance my
father had left for me. But this was nothing compared with the
statement of my uncle that my mother was insane, and the fact that I was
not permitted to know even where she was. I began to doubt whether she
was insane, or had ever been. It was possible that my uncle, to obtain
his brother's property, had confined her in a lunatic asylum on a mere
pretence. My blood boiled with indignation as I thought of these things,
and I did not wonder that my uncle could not sleep nights, that he was a
misanthrope, and hated the sound of his own and of other people's
voices.
With such provocation I could have justified myself in smashing all the
windows in the cottage, or even in burning the house to the ground. I
thanked God that I had escaped, when I stood upon the roof; and without
the loss of a moment, I made my way to the ground. I caught one glance
of Tom's face as he came to the window before my descent. But he was
active and resolute, and almost as soon as I reached the ground, he had
descended the stairs, and passed out upon the lawn in front of the
house.
There was nothing more at the cottage for me, and now all I wanted was
to get on board of the Splash. My skiff was destroyed, and my pursuer
would not permit me to build a raft. I could have swum off to her; but
the water might injure, if not ruin, the priceless document in my
pocket. Tom was at my heels, and all I could do was to run.
"Stop!" shouted Tom.
I ran all the faster when the sound of his voice assured me how near he
was.
"Stop! If you don't stop, I'll shoot you!" cried he.
I glanced over my shoulder, and saw that he had my fowling-piece in his
hand; at least there was no other gun about the place. But I was not
much alarmed by the threat, for the gun had not been used for months,
and I did not believe it was in condition to go off. The wretch expected
to frighten me by this demonstration; but if he had had a twenty-four
pounder, loaded with grape, it would not have stopped me till the shot
struck me.
Tom slackened his pace and raised the gun to his shoulder, threatening
again to shoot me if I did not stop. The trick only gave me the
advantage, for I gained several rods while he was making the feint with
the gun. I reached the foot-bridge over the brook, and, profiting by my
former experience, I adopted the same course again. I had just time to
drag the plank over the stream when my pursuer reached the opposite
bank. I felt that I was safe now; and, out of breath with my exertions,
I did not hurry myself.
"Will you stop, or shall I send a bullet after you?" shouted Tom; and I
could easily imagine the chagrin with which he again found his progress
checked.
I made no reply, but continued on my way down the path. I did not lose
any time, for it was possible that he might, in his desperation, wade
across the stream, and follow up the pursuit. Some distance behind him,
I saw my uncle hastening to the spot with what speed he could command. I
was satisfied with myself. I had fought a hard battle with my enemy, but
I had won the victory.
A little way beyond the brook I came to the fence that divided my
uncle's estate from that of his nearest neighbor. I leaped over, and
continued my walk till I came to the house of Mr. Van Wort. He was a
farmer, and had two grown-up sons, one of whom kept a small flat-boat
for fishing and gunning purposes. I saw the owner of the boat hoeing in
the garden. Though I was hardly acquainted with him, I went to him and
asked if he would lend me his boat for half an hour. I found he was a
crabbed fellow, and was not disposed to oblige me. I told him that I was
in a great hurry, that my own skiff was broken, and if he would lend me
his I would give him a dollar for the use of her. The dollar opened his
eyes and his heart, if he had any. He consented to the bargain, and I
paid him in advance, telling him I would push the skiff ashore when I
was done with her, for I could not land in the Splash. He promised to be
on the lookout for her, brought the oars from the barn, and I pushed
off.
I had pulled but a short distance when I discovered Tom and my uncle
walking along the path by the side of the lake. They had crossed the
brook, Tom having probably waded over, and restored the plank for his
father to go over upon. I paid no attention to them, though Tom
repeatedly shouted to me. They retraced their steps as I rowed along the
shore; but they were powerless to injure me while the deep waters of the
lake lay between us. I reached the Splash, and went on board of her.
"Good morning, Miss Loraine. How do you do?" I said, going to the cuddy.
"Nicely, I thank you," replied Kate.
"Have you been comfortable in your cabin?"
"Very; as nice as a bug in a rug. But I was afraid something had
happened, as you did not come off as soon as I expected."
"Something has happened; but you are safe, at any rate," I added. "We
will talk about that by and by. Will you hand me the tiller, if you
please?"
"I don't know what it is," said she, laughing; and everything appeared
to be sunshine with her. "Here is the key; you can open the door."
She handed it to me through one of the ventilators, and I unlocked the
door.
"Don't show yourself, Kate; for we are closely watched," I added, as I
took the tiller from the cuddy. "Tom Thornton is on the shore with my
uncle. Don't let him see you."
"Mercy!" exclaimed she, crouching down in the berth, as if afraid he
would look through the side of the boat.
"Don't be alarmed. There is no danger. The wind is fresh, and he could
not catch us, even if he had a boat. Here is some breakfast for you," I
continued, handing her a napkin in which I had enclosed the provision
sent up for my dinner in my chamber.
I hoisted the fore and main sails of the boat, and slipping the mooring,
ran up the jib. I stood over to the Van Wort place, and after going as
near the shore as the depth of water would permit, I headed the skiff to
the bank, and gave it a smart push, which drove it far enough upon the
beach to hold it, just as the owner of it came to receive it. Trimming
the sails, I went down the lake close-hauled.
Kate was eating her breakfast, and I was glad to be alone with my own
thoughts for a time. My uncle and Tom still stood on the shore in front
of the cottage, watching me. I wanted to mature my plans. I intended to
go to New York with Kate, and help her find her uncle. There was a
railroad station at Cannondale, and another at the head of Adieno Creek.
It would be safer for us to take the train at the latter station. Tom
Thornton would do something. He would not stay another hour at the
cottage. He had money enough and energy enough to cause me a great deal
of trouble. I had no doubt that he would procure a whole fleet of boats
to pursue me. He would even charter the Champion steamer, if he could
get her.
I had already studied the railroad time tables, and as it was now after
ten in the forenoon, there would be no train along the south shore till
between three and four in the afternoon; and Tom would have abundance of
time to carry out any plan he might devise. I did not wish to leave
Parkville without seeing Bob Hale. He had been my friend and confidant,
and I might not see him again for weeks, or even months. I might meet
him at recess at the Institute, and I concluded to do so.
Just then it occurred to me that if I went off with Kate, I should leave
Bob a legacy of trouble and confusion. When I disappeared, Tom would go
to my friend, and harass him, perhaps cause his arrest. I was not
willing to allow this if it could possibly be avoided. It would be
better and fairer for me to settle all this business with Tom before I
left. He still stood on the shore with his father, and I supposed he was
watching to see where I went, hoping that my movements would give him a
clew to the hiding-place of Kate. I put the Splash about, and headed her
towards the cottage.
"Kate," I called to her, "you may come out now, if you like."
"Is it safe to do so? If it isn't, I had just as lief stay in here," she
replied.
"Perhaps you will think I am crazy, Kate; but I wish to have Tom
Thornton see you;" and I proceeded to explain the difficulty under which
poor Bob would labor after our departure.
"I shall do just what you tell me, Ernest Thornton, if it is to jump
overboard" replied she, coming out of the cabin, and taking a seat on
the weather side of the boat.
With the wind nearly aft, the Splash dashed forward on her course. I ran
her up within twenty yards of the shore, where Tom and my uncle stood,
and then threw her up into the wind.
"Mr. Tom Thornton," I shouted, "I want you to understand that Miss
Loraine has been on board of my boat all night."
It must have been a great satisfaction to him to know that he had been
within a stone's throw of her ever since his arrival at the cottage.
"Bring her ashore, you villain!" cried he, stamping his feet with rage
and vexation.
"You smashed my skiff so that I can't land here," I replied.
"Ernest, will you hear me?" called uncle Amos, as the Splash filled away
again.
"I came up here to let you know that Bob Hale hasn't anything to do with
this business," I shouted.
The boat was receding from the shore, and nothing more could be said. I
saw that both Tom's and my uncle's horses were harnessed, and standing
at the front door of the house. I watched them closely, and presently
they got into their respective vehicles, and drove off.
CHAPTER XII.
IN WHICH ERNEST OBTAINS SOME VALUABLE LETTERS.
"WHAT will they do?" asked Kate, trembling with fear, when I told her my
uncle and Tom had driven off.
"I don't know; that is what I would like to ascertain," I replied,
considering the circumstances which presented themselves. "If they were
going to the same place, they would have taken the same vehicle. It is
about fifteen miles round by the road to Cannondale. I think one of them
must have gone that way. About two miles below, the road lies near the
lake, and I will run down where I can see which of them goes in that
direction."
"I am terribly frightened, Ernest Thornton," said my fair passenger,
after I had headed the Splash in the direction indicated.
"I cannot deny, Kate, that we are both in great danger of being
captured; but I shall do the best I can, and we can only hope that it
will come out right in the end. Tom Thornton will do everything that
mortal man can do to catch us."
"I'm afraid you are doing too much for me, Ernest Thornton. You will get
yourself into trouble," she added, anxiously.
"Don't worry about me, Kate. I think Tom Thornton has a stronger desire
to capture me now than he has you. We are both in the same boat in a
double sense. I will tell you all about it by and by. I must keep my
eyes wide open now. Of course Tom knows you have an uncle in New York."
"I suppose he does."
"Then he will readily understand that you intend to reach him if you
can."
"Mrs. Loraine would think so, I know, for she burned the letter I wrote
to my uncle."
"There goes Tom Thornton's chaise," said I, pointing to the vehicle, as
we reached a part of the lake which commanded a view of the road. "He
has stopped to watch the boat. I know where he is going now, and that's
enough."
"What will you do?" asked Kate, fixing the gaze of her deep-blue eyes
upon me.
"I hardly know. I confess that my plans are not arranged yet, and
everything depends upon circumstances. I am going up to the Institute
now to find Bob Hale, if I can."
"Will that be safe?"
"I think it will. No boat on the lake can catch the Splash in this
breeze; and Bob may be able to help me."
In half an hour we were off the Institute pier; but the recess was over,
and the students were all in the school-room. It was not safe for me to
remain long in this vicinity, for my uncle had by this time reached
Parkville, and had probably employed some one to pursue me. I wrote a
note to Bob with pencil, on a slip of paper I had in my pocket, and
running the Splash up to the pier, sent it to the school-room by one of
the men who was at work in the garden. My friend appeared immediately.
"Come on board, Bob. I have a great deal to say to you, and only a
little time to say it in."
"But it is school time," replied Bob.
"I must not stop here a moment. I am going off, Bob, and may never see
you again, at least not for some time."
"Why, what's up, Ernest?" he asked, as he stepped on board, his scruples
removed by the announcement I had made.
"A great deal has happened since we parted last night," I replied,
pushing off the Splash from the pier.
"How do you do, Miss Loraine?" continued Bob. "I am glad to see you are
still safe."
"I am very well, thanks to Ernest Thornton," she replied.
I headed the boat up the lake towards the cottage again, and proceeded
to tell Bob all that had happened since midnight. He listened in
amazement to my story. I showed him my father's will, which I had not
yet read, and we went through it together.
"It is very plain that they mean to cheat you out of the property your
father left for you," said he.
"That is clear enough. My uncle told me nearly a year ago that my father
left nothing for me."
"It seems that your father died in England," added Bob.
"Yes; in London. This will names my mother as my guardian, and my uncle
Amos as the trustee, to take care of the property, which, it seems, was
all in stocks and bonds. But my uncle says my mother is in an insane
asylum; but whether in England or the United States, I don't know," I
continued, folding up the will.
"I don't see how your uncle did it. It is the most infernal, mean
business I ever heard of," said Bob, indignantly. "But what are you
going to do?"
"I am going to find my mother!"
"How will you find her? Where will you look for her?"
"I don't know," I answered, feeling for the first time that my
information was very insufficient.
"Were there no other papers in the safe?"
"Plenty of them; but I was so agitated I could not examine them."
"But what are you going to do, Ernest?"
"I am going to New York, first; then to Philadelphia, perhaps, where
Tom Thornton lives when he is at home. I may find out something there."
"But how will you get to New York?"
"My plan was to run up the creek, and take the train at the Adieno
station; but Tom Thornton has gone over that way, and I am afraid he
will have somebody stationed there and at Cannondale to stop us. If you
could help me, Bob--"
"Help you! certainly I'll help you!" interposed he, warmly. "What shall
I do?"
"If you could get a team and drive us over to Romer, which is about ten
miles, we could take the train there without danger."
"I'll do it."
"And, Bob, you may tell your father the whole story, and then he won't
blame you," I added, not wishing to get him into a scrape.
"My father is away; but don't worry about me. You are clearly in the
right, and I will do all I can for you, whatever happens to me."
"Thank you, Bob. The time will come when I shall stand on my feet, and
then it will be all right with you."
I ran the Splash up a small creek on the edge of the town, and landed
Bob. He was to procure a horse and covered wagon, and take Kate and
myself at the cottage; for, now that Tom and my uncle were away, it
seemed to be the safest place to land. Besides, I had another object in
view in choosing this locality.
For an hour I cruised about the upper end of the lake, until I saw Bob
wave his handkerchief from the wagon, near the cottage. I ran the Splash
into the mouth of the brook, which was the only place where the water
was deep enough to permit our landing. I lowered the sails, and fastened
the painter to a tree. I directed Kate to run through the grove to the
road, where she would find the wagon, and promised to join her in a few
moments. Trembling with fear, she ran up the hill, and I hastened to the
cottage. My uncle was away, and I was determined to look at the papers
in the safe again, for I was convinced that I could not find my mother
without more information than I possessed.
I went directly to the bay window where I had entered the library
before, and effected an entrance without any difficulty. I found the
key of the safe under the cushion, where I had left it, and opened the
door. Eagerly I seized the pile of papers I had seen before, and began
to examine them. Most of them were unintelligible to me, and apparently
had no connection with my father's affairs; but there were several
letters dated at London, which I thrust into my pocket. I could find
nothing else which promised to be of service to me, and I was about to
close the door, when I discovered a sealed letter lying in a pigeon hole
by itself. I took it from its place, and read the direction: "Robert G.
Bunyard, 47 Old Jewry, Chambers, London."
This letter, I was convinced, would afford me some information; indeed,
the address would give me a clew to what I wanted. I was kneeling on one
knee, with this letter in my hand, when the door of the library suddenly
opened, and my uncle stepped into the room.
"Ernest Thornton!" cried he, in tones so full of terror that they
pierced my soul.
He sprang towards me; but I stepped out of his way, though I was nearly
paralyzed by this unexpected interruption. I thrust the letter into my
pocket, and stood at bay near the window by which I had entered.
"What have you done?" gasped uncle Amos, as he staggered towards me, his
face pale as a sheet, and his limbs trembling in every fibre. "What
papers have you taken?"
"My father's will for one," I replied, almost as much disturbed as he
was.
"O Heaven!" groaned he.
"Uncle Amos, will you tell me now where my mother is?"
"O, Ernest! I am ruined!" exclaimed he, sinking into a chair.
"Will you tell me where my mother is?" I repeated, with all the
earnestness I could command.
"Is this the return you make to me for all my kindness to you?" he
added, in a choking voice. "I have given you all you wanted--boats,
money, everything. Have pity on me, Ernest. I--I shall--I shall go mad!"
"I should think you would," I replied, having in some degree recovered
my self-possession. "You told me my father left nothing for me; that my
mother was in an insane asylum."
"She is, Ernest--she is," said he.
"Where?" I demanded, in a loud, fierce tone.
"I cannot tell you. Where is Thomas? Send for him, and he will make it
all right. You shall have every dollar that belongs to you, Ernest. I am
a miserable wretch; but I did not do this deed for my own sake. Send for
Thomas."
"I have had enough of Thomas. He would cut my throat as readily as he
would turn his hand. Will you tell me where my mother is, or shall I
find her myself?"
"You cannot find her, Ernest. Be calm, and you shall have all. Send for
Thomas."
"I will not send for him. I don't care so much for the money as I do for
my mother. Tell me where she is, or send for her."
"She could not come."
"Then I can go to her."
"Sit down, Ernest, and be calm."
"I'm calm enough. I could forgive you for anything you have done to me.
If you will not tell me where she is, I shall find her myself."
"You cannot find her."
"I can apply to Mr. Robert G. Bunyard--and--"
My uncle sprang to his feet, uttered a cry of agony, and attempted to
stagger towards me; but his legs yielded beneath him, and he sank upon
the floor. He had either fainted or fallen in a fit. I called old
Betsey, and she and I placed him on a sofa. She said he had only
fainted, and wanted to know what had happened. I replied that my uncle
would tell her if he thought best. We bathed his head and rubbed his
temples till he opened his eyes.
"Send for Thomas," said he, feebly.
I was satisfied that he would recover, and being perfectly willing Tom
should be sent for, I told Jerry where he could probably be found. I
then left the house by the front door. My uncle's horse stood at the
hitching-post. He had probably employed some one to follow up the
Splash, and then returned to the house. As I went out, I saw a large
sail-boat standing up the lake, which I concluded was in pursuit of me.
Hastening up the hill, I found Bob greatly alarmed at my long absence.
"I was afraid something had happened to you," said he.
"Drive on, and I will tell you about it," I replied, as I seated myself
in the wagon.
CHAPTER XIII.
IN WHICH ERNEST LEAVES PARKVILLE, AND TAKES THE TRAIN FOR THE EASTWARD.
"WHAT kept you so long?" asked Bob, when I was seated. "I was sure
something had gone wrong with you."
"I don't know whether it has gone right or wrong. I went into the
library, and opened the safe again. While I was looking at the papers,
my uncle came in."
"Whew!" whistled Bob. "There was a storm in the library about that
time--wasn't there?"
"Not much of a storm. I pity my uncle from the bottom of my heart. He is
suffering more than you can imagine or I can describe, and he has been a
sufferer for years," I replied.
"Well, what did he say to you?" asked Bob, who did not seem to be in the
humor, at that moment, for moralizing.
I described the scene which had occurred in the library as minutely as I
could,--and Kate and Bob were thrilled by the narrative. For my own part
I had not yet recovered from the shock it had given me. The expression
of agony on my uncle's face haunted my imagination. I could still see
his pale face and his quivering lip, and his piteous pleading lingered
in my ears. Most terrible are the sufferings of the evil-doer, and I
resolved anew that I would always be true to God and principle. What
were mines of wealth to a man tortured with the pangs of remorse?
"Do you think there is any danger that we shall be pursued?" asked Bob.
"Not the least," I replied. "I don't think any one will suspect that we
have left town. I believe my uncle engaged a boatman to pursue the
Splash. I saw a schooner, which I think was the Alert, standing up the
lake, after we had landed. They will find the Splash in the brook where
I left her. Old Jerry was going over after Tom Thornton, and very likely
he will reach the cottage some time this afternoon. As it is almost a
matter of life and death with him, no doubt he will follow; but he will
be a day behind us. Now, Bob, I want to look over these papers, so as to
determine what I am to do."
I read my father's will again. It appeared from this document that he
belonged to the city of Philadelphia, but was temporarily residing in
London. How long he lived there, or for what purpose, I had no means of
knowing. His property, consisting of stocks, bonds, and other
securities, amounted to over one hundred and fifty thousand dollars, the
income of one third of which, after paying legacies, was placed in trust
for the use of my mother during her lifetime, and two thirds in trust
for his son during his minority. Five thousand dollars was given to his
brother, who was appointed his sole executor and trustee, with an
annuity of fifteen hundred dollars, payable from the income of the trust
funds, during the minority of his son Ernest; and of five hundred
dollars during the life of his wife, if she survived the son's maturity.
In the event of his wife's decease, her third was to be held in trust
