conscious of my presence, after I began to relate my story. The look
that accompanied the nod was anything but a pleasant one. There was
something like malignant satisfaction in the glance that he bestowed
upon me.
"Then you did request Mr. Parasyte to reduce me to subjection, as he
expressed it?"
"I did," replied he, decidedly, as he again uncovered his face, and
nodded to emphasize his reply.
This was hopeful, for I had at least got an answer out of him, though
the reply was cold-blooded and cruel.
"Did you request him to flog me?" I demanded, a little excited by the
fact that my uncle was likely to prove as malignant as the
schoolmaster.
"I did," he added; and his eyes seemed to glow like two coals of fire.
It was not difficult now for me to understand the situation. My uncle
hated me,--why I knew not. I could not reconcile such a feeling with
the indulgence he had always extended to me. I could not see why, if
he hated me, as that fierce glare of his eyes indicated, he had always
allowed me to have my own way, had always given me money without
stint, and had permitted me to go and come when and as I pleased, and
rove at will over the broad and dangerous lake.
I have since learned that this indulgence was perfectly consistent
with hatred, and that the judicious parent, who truly loves his son,
would deprive him of such unhealthy and dangerous indulgences. As he
hated me, so he let me have my own way. Had he loved me, he would have
restrained me; he would have inquired into my conduct when away from
home; and above all, he would not have allowed me to risk my life upon
the stormy lake as I did.
"You did request him to flog me, and without understanding the
merits of the case!" I replied, indignantly.
He nodded again.
"Uncle Amos, I have tried to do my duty faithfully at school, and to
be respectful and obedient to my teachers. This is the first time I
have had any trouble. I say, most solemnly, I was not to blame."
"You were," said my uncle.
"Will you hear the evidence in my favor?"
"No."
"You will not?"
"No."
"What would you have me do?"
"Obey your teacher."
"Mr. Parasyte ordered me to apologize to Poodles."
"Do it then."
"But Poodles confesses that I was not to blame."
"No matter."
"I cannot do it, uncle."
"The master must make you do it," added my uncle, with a sneer.
"He attempted to do so. He began to flog me, and I knocked him down,"
I replied, quietly, but sullenly.
My uncle sprang to his feet, and stared at me with an intensity which
would have made me quail if I had been guilty.
"You struck him!" exclaimed he, trembling with emotion.
"When he attempted a second time to flog me, I hit him on the head
with a heavy ruler, and he fell insensible upon the floor."
My stern guardian rushed furiously across the room, foaming with
passion.
"You villain!" gasped he, pausing before me. "You struck the master?"
"I knocked him down, as I would any other man who insulted me with a
blow," I replied, firmly; for I intended to have my uncle understand
exactly how I felt.
"You are an obstinate whelp!" ejaculated my guardian, who had
certainly found a tongue now.
"All the students think I am right."
"The students! What do I care what they think?"
"They understand the case."
"Humph!" sneered my uncle.
"I see, sir, that I have nothing to expect from you," I continued.
"No!"
"I have only to say that Mr. Parasyte can't flog me. If I were guilty,
I would not resist; but I will fight as long as I have a breath left
against such injustice."
"Very pretty! May I ask what you are going to do with yourself?"
"I don't know yet; only, if I am not wanted here, I won't stay here. I
think I can take care of myself."
"Do you consider this a proper return for all I have done for you?"
asked he, more calmly.
"I don't know what you have done for me. I asked you once something
about my father and mother, and you did not answer me."
"You have no father and mother," he replied, with visible emotion.
"You need not ask any questions, for I will not answer them."
"Did they leave any property for me?" I asked, mildly; and I had
already concluded that they did, or my uncle would not have been so
lavish of his money upon me.
"Property! What put that idea into your head?" demanded he; and he was
more agitated than the circumstances seemed to warrant.
"I have no idea anything about it. I only asked the question."
"It is enough for you to know that I am willing to take care of you,
and pay your expenses, however extravagant they may be, as long as you
behave properly."
"I have always done so."
"No, you haven't! You have resisted your teacher, knocked him down,
killed him for aught I know. You are a bad boy."
It seemed just as though my uncle intended to drive me to desperation,
and compel me to commit some rash act. I could not see why he should
refuse to tell me anything about my father and mother.
"I asked you whether my parents left any property for me. You did not
answer me," I continued.
"I will answer no questions," replied he.
"If they did, it is right that I should know it," I persisted.
"If they did, you will know it when you are of age to receive it."
"I would like to know whether you are supporting me out of your own
property or with my own."
"It doesn't concern you to know, so long as you are supported."
"Yes, it does, and I insist upon knowing."
"I shall answer no questions," replied he, more troubled now than
angry.
"If there is nothing belonging to me, I am very willing to go to work
and support myself. I don't wish to be a burden upon one who cares so
little for me as you do."
"I did not say you were a burden. I have given you all you asked for,
and am willing to do so still."
"I don't wish to have you do so, if what you give me does not belong
to me."
"You are a foolish boy!" said he, impatiently.
"You have hardly spoken to me before for a year; and you never said as
much to me as you have to-night before in all my lifetime."
"It was not necessary to do so."
"Uncle Amos, I am old enough now to be able to think for myself," I
continued, earnestly. "It is time for me to know who and what I am,
and I am going to find out if it is possible for me to do so."
"It is not possible," said he, greatly agitated, though he struggled
to be calm. "What do you wish to know?"
"About my parents."
He walked the room for a moment with compressed lips, as if
considering whether he should tell me what I wanted to know.
"If I have concealed anything from you, it was for your own good,"
replied he, with a desperate effort. "Your father is dead; he died
eleven years ago."
"And my mother?" I asked, eagerly.
"She is a raving maniac in an insane asylum."
This information came like a shock upon me, and I wept great tears of
grief.
"I thank you, uncle Amos, for telling me so much, sad as it is. One
more question and I am satisfied. Did my father leave any property?"
"No," said he.
I fancied that this single word cost him a mightier effort than all he
had said before, though I could not see why it should.
"Where is my mother now?" I asked.
"You were to ask no more questions; and it is not best for you to know
where she is," he answered. "Now, Ernest, I wish you to make your
peace with Mr. Parasyte."
"How make my peace with him?"
"Do what he requires of you."
"I cannot do that; and I will not."
"If you persist you will ruin me," said my uncle, bitterly.
"I don't understand you, uncle Amos."
"Mr. Parasyte owes me a large sum of money."
Here was the hole in that millstone!
"His Institute is mortgaged to me. If there is trouble there, the
property will depreciate in value, and I shall be the loser."
My uncle seemed to be ashamed of himself for having said so much, and
told me to go to bed. I retired from his presence with the feeling
that I must sacrifice myself or my guardian.
CHAPTER XI.
IN WHICH ERNEST IS DISOWNED AND CAST OUT.
I was so nervous and excited after the stirring events of the day,
that I could not sleep when I went to bed, tired and almost exhausted
as I was. I had enough to think of, and that night has always seemed
to me like a new era in my existence. My father was dead; and my
mother, somewhere in the wide world, was an occupant of an insane
asylum. My uncle had told me I had no property, which was equivalent
to informing me that I must soon begin to earn my daily bread, unless
he chose to support me.
I would not even then have objected to earning my own living; indeed,
there was something pleasurable and exciting in the idea of depending
upon myself for my food and raiment; but I was not satisfied with my
uncle's statements. I could see no reason why he should not tell me
where my father had lived and died, and where my mother was confined
as a lunatic. I meant to know all about these things in due time, for
it was my right to know.
I could not help weeping when I thought of my mother, with her
darkened mind, shut out from the world and from me. What a joy she
would have been to me! What a comfort I might have been to her! My
father was dead, and she had no one to care for her. Was she in a
proper place? Was she kindly treated while overshadowed by her
terrible infirmity? I shuddered when I thought of her, for fear that
she might be in the hands of cruel persons.
It seemed very strange to me that my uncle should spend money so
freely upon me if I had no expectations. Why should he wish to conceal
anything that related to my father and mother from me? Who was the
person that came to the cottage and quarrelled with him? I had reached
the years of discretion, and was able to think for myself. What my
uncle told me, and what he refused to tell me, taken in connection
with his conduct, his mode of life, and his misanthropic habits,
convinced me that there was something wrong. I intended to ascertain
what it was; and I was fully resolved, whether it was right or wrong,
to explore the library in search of any letters, legal documents, or
other papers which would throw some light on the mystery, now becoming
painfully oppressive to me. It was my duty, as a son, to assure myself
that my mother, in her helplessness, was kindly cared for.
I went to sleep at last; and I did not wake the next morning till nine
o'clock, which was my uncle's usual breakfast hour. I took my morning
meal with him; but he did not speak a single word. After breakfast I
went down to the boat-house. I missed the Splash very much indeed; for
I wanted to take her, and sail away to some remote part of the lake,
and consider what I should do. Then it occurred to me that my
sail-boat might be raised and repaired; and I was getting into the
row-boat, with the intention of pulling out and finding the place
where the Splash had gone down, when my uncle made his appearance.
"Ernest, have you considered what you mean to do?" said he. "Do you
intend to go to school?"
"No, sir, I do not," I replied, promptly and decidedly.
"Then I disown you, and cast you out," he added, turning on his heel
and walking back to the house.
Was I becoming obstinate and self-willed? Was I refusing a reasonable
service? I sat down in the boat to think over it. It was not right
that I should apologize to Poodles, after he had confessed that the
evidence on which I had been condemned was a lie; and it was of no use
for me to return to the academy unless I could do so.
Mr. Parasyte owed my uncle a large sum of money, secured by the estate
and good-will of the Institute. If I was driven from the school, a
majority of the boys would petition their parents to be taken from it
also, and the establishment would be seriously injured. There was
plainly an understanding between Mr. Parasyte and my uncle, or the
tyrant would not have made war upon me as he did. Should I sacrifice
myself in order to save my uncle's money, or to prevent the debt from
being imperilled?
No! I could not; but I hoped my uncle would not lose his money, though
it would not be my fault if he did. I had just been "disowned and cast
out." The sentence hardly produced an impression upon me. I was not
banished from a happy home, where I had been folded in a mother's
love, and had lived in the light of a father's smile; only from the
home of coldness and silence; only from shelter and food, which I
could easily find elsewhere.
I took the oars and pulled towards the bluff off which the Splash had
sunk. It seemed to me just then that I was breaking away from all my
early associations, from my home and my school, and pushing out on the
great ocean of life, as my boat was upon the lake. I must go out into
the world, and make for myself a name and a fortune. There was
something solemn and impressive in the thought, and I rested upon my
oars to follow out the idea. Breaking away! To me it was not going
away, it was breaking away. There was no near and dear friend to bid
me God speed on my journey of life. As for my uncle, he would not
have cared if I had, at that moment, been forever buried beneath the
deep waters of the lake.
I was awed and solemnized by the thought that I was alone in the
world. And looking up to the clear blue sky, I prayed that God would
help me to keep in the path of truth and duty. I really hoped that, if
I had done wrong, or was then doing wrong, I might be convicted of my
error. I prayed for light. I was afraid that I had been wilful and
wayward; but as I knew that I was right so far as Poodles was
concerned, I could not accuse myself of obstinacy in refusing to
apologize. On the whole, I was satisfied with myself, though willing
to acknowledge that in some things I had rather overdone the matter.
Resuming the oars, I pulled towards the bluff. My course lay near the
shore until I had passed the northerly point of Parkville, where the
steamboat wharf extends a hundred feet out to the deep water of the
lake. Continuing beyond this long pier, I came in sight of the
Parkville Liberal Institute. As it was then the middle of the
forenoon, I did not expect to see any of the students; but, to my
surprise, I discovered large numbers of them on the grounds between
the buildings and the lake. They did not seem to be engaged in the
usual sports, but were gathered in groups on various parts of the
premises. Everything looked as though some important event had
transpired, which the boys were busily engaged in discussing.
I was tempted to pull up towards the Institute, and ascertain what had
occurred, and why the students were not in the school-room, attending
to their studies; but I was fearful that my presence might do
mischief, and I reluctantly continued on my way to the bluff. As
nearly as I could interpret the signs, the boys were in a state of
rebellion, though it was possible that Mr. Parasyte was too ill to
attend to his duties, and in the present excited state of the school,
had deemed it best to give the boys a holiday.
The bearings of the spot where the Splash sank had been carefully
noted, after my capture, by the principal and his men, and without
much difficulty I found the place. The bed of this part of the lake
was composed of gravel, washed down by the continual wearing away of
the bluff; and as the water was clear, I could see the bottom. The
Splash lay in about twenty-five feet of water--as I found by measuring
with a fish-line. She sat nearly upright on her keel, and the tops of
her masts were not more than a foot below the surface.
How could I coax her to the top of the water? The Splash had been
father and mother to me, and I loved her. In my loneliness I wanted
her companionship. It did not look like an easy task to raise her; and
yet the most difficult things become easy when we hit upon the right
method of doing them. The Splash was ballasted with ten fifty-sixes,
each with a ring for lifting it. They were deposited on the bottom of
the boat, where I could remove a portion of them when I had a large
party to take out. I made up my mind, that with a long pole, having a
hook on the end of it, I could fasten to the rings of the fifty-sixes,
and raise them, one by one, to the surface; and when the ballast was
removed, the boat would rise of herself.
Satisfied that this idea was a practical one, I started for Parkville
to procure the pole. As I took the oars, I discovered that one of the
Institute boats, which I had not before noticed, was pulling towards
me. At first I was startled, fearful that it might contain some of my
tyrant's minions, sent out to capture me, and carry me back to the
school. As the boat came nearer, however, I saw that it was filled
with my friends, prominent among whom were Bob Hale and Tom Rush; and
I lay upon my oars to await her coming.
"Good morning, Ernest; I'm glad to see you," said Bob, as the
Institute boat ranged up alongside of mine.
"What is the matter at the Institute? Don't school keep to-day?" I
asked, when I had returned the salutations of my friend.
"There's big news there, Ernest, you'd better believe," replied Bob,
in an excited tone.
"What is it? What has happened?"
"There has been an awful row between Mr. Parasyte and Mr. Hardy, and
Mr. Hardy has been discharged--that's the first thing; and the fellows
won't stand it, anyhow."
"What was it about?"
"We don't know. Mr. Hardy opened the school as usual at nine o'clock;
but he didn't say a word to us about the troubles. A little after
nine, Mr. Parasyte came in, with a black eye and a broken head. He and
Mr. Hardy talked together a little while, and we saw that Parasyte was
as mad as a hop. They went into the recitation-room to have it out;
but in two or three minutes they returned, and Mr. Hardy said he was
going to leave; but he didn't tell the reason--just bade us good by.
If we had only known what the trouble was, we would have pitched
Parasyte out of the window."
"Then Mr. Hardy has gone," I added.
"Left, and at once. Then Mr. Parasyte made a speech, in which he told
us the school was in a state of rebellion; that Thornton had assaulted
him, and struck him on the head with a heavy ruler, and that he
intended to flog him till he apologized to Poodles, as his uncle
wished him to do. We didn't wait to hear any more. We gave a yell, and
rushed out of the school-room."
CHAPTER XII.
IN WHICH ERNEST RAISES THE SPLASH, AND THERE IS A GENERAL BREAKING
AWAY AMONG THE STUDENTS.
I listened, with astonishment and dismay, to the tale which Bob Hale
told me. I could not help asking myself to what extent I was
responsible for the troubles which overwhelmed the Parkville Liberal
Institute. I told Bob how I felt, and he ridiculed the idea of my
shouldering any portion of the blame.
"Even the parson says you are not to blame, and that you have behaved
like a gentleman from the beginning," said he, alluding to Henry
Vallington, who, on account of his intended profession, often went by
the name of the "parson."
"Can you imagine why Mr. Hardy was discharged?" I asked.
"We don't know; but it is easy enough to see that he blamed Mr.
Parasyte, though he never said a word to the fellows. The idea of
staying at the Institute after Mr. Hardy goes is not to be thought
of," replied Bob, who, like myself, was a day scholar at the school.
"What did Parasyte mean when he said your uncle wished him to flog you
into subjection?"
"He meant that; my uncle told him to do so," I replied, with shame and
mortification, not for myself, but for him who should have been my
guardian and protector.
"Did he, though? Well, that was amiable of him," added Tom Rush. "He
and Parasyte will do to go together."
"They do go together. I find that Mr. Parasyte owes my uncle a large
sum of money. I had no idea that they were even acquainted with each
other before," I continued.
"Then I wonder that Parasyte made a row with you, if he owed your
uncle so much money."
"I don't understand it; but I think Mr. Parasyte didn't expect any
trouble. He judged hastily between Poodles and me, and when he had
given his decision, he was too proud and too obstinate to alter it. I
suppose he was a little afraid after what he had done, and went to see
my uncle and ask for instructions."
"But it was cold-blooded for your uncle to say what he did."
"Probably Parasyte told his own story," I replied, willing to shield
my uncle as much as possible.
"What did your uncle say to you when you went home?" asked Bob Hale,
full of interest and sympathy.
"We had some words, and he disowned and cast me out--to use his own
expression."
"Turned you out of house and home!" exclaimed Tom Rush.
"That was what he meant."
"Don't mind it, Ernest," interposed Bob. "You shall come to my house."
"I can take care of myself, I think," was my reply, rather proudly
spoken.
"Of course you can; but you shall have half my bed and half my dinner
as long as I have any."
"Thank you, Bob."
"We will talk that over another time, Ernest; for at present we have a
big job on our hands."
"What is that?"
"We'll tell you by and by. Parasyte says you assaulted him, and hit
him over the head with a big ruler. How was that, Ernest?"
I told them what had occurred after we left the school-room, and gave
them all the particulars of my battle with the principal.
"Served him right," was the verdict of the boys. "He didn't tell us
that he attempted to flog you; only that you pitched into him,
apparently without any cause or reason," added Tom Rush.
"You all ran out of school," said I. "What is Mr. Parasyte going to do
about it?"
"We don't know, and we don't care. He is a tyrant, and a toady; and
all but about a dozen of the fellows are going to quit the school."
"But where are you going?" I asked, surprised at this decided step.
"We have it all arranged, and are going to break away in a bunch. We
are getting things ready; but we want you, Ernest."
"Why me?"
"Because you are a good sailor, and know all about boats?"
That was highly complimentary in a direction where I was peculiarly
weak--my love of boats and boating. Bob Hale then informed me that the
students were going into camp on their own hook this year. This was an
annual institution at the academy. Belonging to the Institute were
seven tents, large enough to accommodate all the boys and all the
teachers; and in the month of July the whole school camped out for one
or two weeks. This custom did more for the popularity of the Institute
than anything else, and without it, it was doubtful if the school
could have been kept together; for it was an offset to the dislike
with which a large majority of the boys regarded the principal.
The students had begun to talk about camping out as soon as the spring
opened, and when the rebellion broke out, it immediately ran into this
channel. The camp during the preceding year had been in a piece of
woods ten miles east of Parkville; but the rebels had already decided
to establish it, at the present time, on Cleaver Island, two miles
north-west of the steamboat pier, and including an area of about
twenty acres, well covered with wood.
I could not say that I approved of this scheme; but Bob Hale and Tom
Rush said the students had unanimously agreed to it. I was not in
favor of insubordination and rebellion. But the moral sense of the
boys had been outraged; Mr. Parasyte had resorted to the grossest
injustice, and they were determined to "break away" from him. Rather
reluctantly I consented to join the insurrection. I ought not to have
done so; but smarting as I then was under the injustice of my uncle
and the principal, I found an argument to satisfy myself with my
conduct.
The Splash seemed to be necessary, in my estimation, for the success
of the enterprise, and my friends volunteered to assist me in raising
her. I went to Parkville, and procured a long spruce pole, to which
the blacksmith attached a hook. Without much difficulty the ballast
was hoisted out of the sunken craft, and obedient to the law of
gravitation, she came to the surface. We towed her to a bank of the
lake in the town, near the shop of a wheelwright, who promised to
have her repaired in a few hours. One of the ribs was snapped off, and
six of the "streaks" stove in. We hauled her up on the shore, and got
the water out of her; and the wheelwright went to work upon her at
once, assisted by his journeyman.
I had regarded the Splash as a lost boat; and I was delighted with my
success in raising her, and with the prospect of having her again as
good as new; for the wheelwright assured me she was not materially
injured in her timbers. The result of this enterprise rather inflated
my spirits, and not without good reason; for, as I was now to take
care of myself, it had already occurred to me that I could make money
enough to support me by boating--for there were always residents and
strangers enough in the town who wanted to sail to afford me a good
business for at least three months in the year.
"Now, Ernest," said Bob Hale, who had embarked with me in my row-boat,
"how shall we get the crowd, the tents, and the provisions over to
Cleaver Island?"
"I don't think it is a very big job," I replied.
"I do. Of course Parasyte will prevent us from going if he can," said
he.
"Too many cooks will spoil the broth," I added. "You want a leader, or
captain, who shall manage the affair."
"We will choose you."
"No; I decline at the outset. I don't want the credit of being the
ringleader in this scrape after what has happened."
"What do you say to the parson?" asked he.
"Capital!"
We consulted the students in the other boat, and they agreed to this
selection. Both boats then pulled to the pier at the Institute. As we
approached, all the rebels gathered around us. Bob Hale immediately
called them to order, and made a brief statement of the necessity of
the hour, and then nominated Henry Vallington as leader of the
enterprise. He was unanimously elected, and somewhat to my surprise he
accepted.
"Fellow-students," said the parson, in accepting the position, "if I
didn't feel that every decent fellow in the Institute had been
outraged and insulted by the conduct of the principal, I wouldn't
have anything to do with such an affair as this. I want you all to
understand that I, for one, am going into this thing for a purpose,
and on principle."
"So say we all of us!" shouted the boys.
"Now, you must obey orders, and have no rioting or rows. We shall do
this thing in order."
The boys were excited; but the parson told them to keep cool, and,
when the orders came, to execute them promptly, which they promised
with one voice to do. By this time I had a scheme arranged in my mind
for the conveyance of the forces to Cleaver Island, and the leader did
me the honor to appoint me master of transportation. I stated my plan
to Vallington and two or three of the more influential of the boys. It
was cordially approved.
At half past twelve the dinner bell of the Institute rang, as usual;
and the boys, who had no idea of being deprived of their rations,
marched in to dinner in order; and I went home with Bob Hale, who had
invited me to dine with him. On our return, we learned that Mr.
Parasyte had made a stirring appeal to the students, in the
dining-room, to support the discipline of the school, and had
intimated that he intended to prosecute Thornton in the courts for the
assault upon him. I was rather startled at this intelligence, for a
court was an appalling affair to me.
The boys heard in silence what the principal had to say, and left the
dining-room in as good order as usual. At quarter before two the
school-bell rang; but only about twenty obeyed the summons. I was on
the pier at this time, and shortly after I saw Mr. Parasyte coming
down to see the students. Deeming it best to keep out of his way, I
pulled over to the wheelwright's, to look after the Splash. An hour
later, Bob Hale, Henry Vallington, and Tom Rush joined me, saying that
Mr. Parasyte had been very gentle with the boys, and had used only
mild persuasions. Having failed in all, he had taken his horse and
gone away. This was favorable to our operations, and I advised the
parson to hasten back, and do the job at once.
At four o'clock the Splash was finished, and a coat of paint put on
the new streaks. I got under way at once in her, taking my tender in
tow. Near the Institute lived a man who owned a large flat-boat, or
scow, used for bringing wood down the lake. Tom Rush had hired this
clumsy craft for a week. The three row-boats belonging to the
Institute had been manned by the boys, and were towing this scow down
to the pier, according to the plan I had suggested to the parson. When
the flat was near the pier, a signal was given, and the boys on shore
all rushed to the building in which the tents were stored. There were
enough of them to carry all the canvas, poles, and other materials at
one load, and the students rushed down to the pier with them at a
rapid pace, so that the work was accomplished before any of the
assistant teachers or laborers could interfere.
The tents were tumbled into the scow, and all the boys not needed in
the row-boats embarked with the camp material.
"All ready!" shouted Henry Vallington.
"Give way!" I added to the oarsmen.
The long painter of the scow had been extended over, and fastened to,
the three boats. As the wind was fresh, I went to the head of this
line, attached a rope to the painter, and the procession of boats
straightened out and moved off, dragging the scow after them.
CHAPTER XIII.
IN WHICH ERNEST IS CHOSEN COMMODORE OF THE FLEET.
The procession of boats went off in good style, after the line was
straightened; but the flat-boat was large and heavy, and it required a
hard pull to put her in motion. The boys rowed well, and the wind was
fresh enough to enable the Splash to do her full share of the work.
The distance from the Institute to the island was two miles and a
half, and at the rate we moved, I calculated that it would take nearly
two hours to accomplish the voyage.
The movements of the students had been so sudden and so well arranged,
that if any one saw them, there was not time to interfere before the
boats were off. When the scow was fairly in motion, I saw Mr. Gaule,
one of the teachers, and the two laborers on the estate, rushing down
to the pier, apparently intent upon doing something.
"Come back, boys!" shouted Mr. Gaule.
No one made any reply, or took any notice of him.
"Come back, I say!" he cried again, but with no better result than
before.
I was very glad that none of the boys made any insulting replies. They
were as silent and dignified as so many judges. We all knew very well
that Mr. Gaule had not force enough to attempt anything, and we did
not expect to be molested until the return of Mr. Parasyte.
In something less than the two hours I had allowed for the passage,
the procession of boats reached Cleaver Island. I was perfectly
familiar with every foot of the shore, and I decided that the landing
should be effected on the western side, at a point of land which
extended out a short distance into the lake. The rowers landed and
carried the painter of the scow on shore, by which they pulled the
clumsy craft up to the bank.
The tents, cooking utensils, and other camp furniture, were landed and
conveyed to the high ground in the southerly portion of the island. As
soon as this work was done, Henry Vallington intimated that he wished
all the boys to assemble near the point, for a "powwow," to consult
upon the state of affairs. The word was passed from mouth to mouth,
till all the rebels had gathered at the appointed place.
"Now, fellows, we want to make arrangements for doing this business in
good order. When Mr. Parasyte gets back to the Institute, and finds
that we are gone, he will not be likely to take it as quietly as he
has all day. Our breaking away has really broken up the Parkville
Liberal Institute, and I shouldn't be surprised if its principal took
some decided steps. I haven't any idea what he will do, but in my
opinion he will do something."
"What can he do?" asked Tom Rush.
"He can do a great many things, and especially a great many foolish
things. I suppose, when we come down to the niceties of the matter, we
hadn't any right to take the boats or the tents. In fact, Mr. Parasyte
stands in loco parentis to us."
"In what?" asked one of the boys who did not study Latin.
"In the place of our parents; and therefore has authority to do
anything which parents might do. I can't help saying that I have no
respect for Mr. Parasyte; that I despise him from the bottom of my
heart. He knows, just as well as we do, that Bill Poodles made the
trouble yesterday, and he persists in punishing Thornton for it. For
such a man I can have no respect."
"So say we all!" shouted the boys.
"There is no safety for any of us, if we permit such injustice. He may
take a miff at any of us any time. I hope that something good will
come out of this scrape; and I think that something will."
I learned then, for the first time, that Vallington had drawn up a
paper, setting forth the grievances of the students, in which several
instances of Mr. Parasyte's injustice and partiality were related, and
concluding with a full history of the affair between Poodles and
myself. This paper had been signed by eighty-one of the students, and
the publisher of the Parkville Standard had engaged to print it on a
letter sheet, to be sent to the parents of the rebel scholars.
"Mr. Hardy has been discharged. He was the best man in the
Institute--just and fair. I don't know anything about it; but I am
satisfied that he was sent away because he condemned Mr. Parasyte's
treatment of Thornton."
"That was the reason," added Bob Hale. "Mr. Hardy saw Ernest last
night, after the row in the office."
"I think we have the right of the case," continued Vallington, "though
I suppose we are wrong in breaking away; but, for one, I won't see a
fellow like Ernest Thornton browbeaten, and flogged, and ground down.
If Mr. Parasyte wants to grind down one, he must grind down the
whole."
"I am very much obliged to you," I interposed; "but I want you to
understand that I don't ask any one to get himself into a scrape for
me."
"When we protect you, Thornton, we protect ourselves. Your cause is
our own. We won't say anything more about that matter. We are here now
in a state of rebellion, and we must make the best of our situation.
When Mr. Parasyte will give us fair play, we will return to the
Institute."
"We will," replied some of the boys; but I am free to say that they
hoped he would not give them fair play until they had spent a week or
more in camp.
"Now, fellows, we will see how we stand, and make arrangements for the
future. We have boats and tents, and these are about all we have. We
have provisions enough for supper and breakfast. We must get a supply
of eatables to-night or in the morning. It will require money, but I
suppose all of you have some; at any rate, I told you to bring your
money with you, if you had any."
Most of the boys had some funds, which had been saved from their
pocket money for a Fourth of July Celebration, planned months before.
"We need some officers, and as I don't believe in one-man power, I
shall ask you to elect them. Please to nominate a treasurer."
"George Weston!" shouted one of the students.
"George Weston is nominated. All in favor of his election will
manifest it by raising the right hand."
It was a unanimous vote, and the nominee was declared elected.
"Now we want to raise the money, we need to buy provisions, fairly. If
any one will make a motion, it will be in order," added the chairman.
The Parkville Debating Society, an association connected with the
Institute, had fully educated the students in parliamentary forms, and
they were entirely "at home" in the business before them.
"I move you, Mr. Chairman, that each fellow be assessed fifty cents
for expenses," said one of the students.
The motion was put and carried; and after Fred Mason had been elected
clerk, the treasurer was instructed to collect the assessments
forthwith. The next business was the selection of a commissary, and
Tom Rush was chosen to this important office.
"Mr. Chairman, I nominate Ernest Thornton for commodore of our
squadron," said Bob Hale; and, though the nomination created some
merriment, on account of the high-sounding title of the officer, the
vote was unanimous.
"I accept, Mr. Chairman; but I should prefer to be called simply the
boatman," I replied.
"That won't do!" exclaimed Bob. "Ernest is to have charge of all the
boats, including the scow, and I am in favor of calling him
commodore."
"We won't dispute about titles," laughed Vallington; "but the boats
are all under Thornton's charge. I advise the commissary to consult
with the commodore, immediately, in regard to procuring a supply of
provisions for the company."
The rest of the business was soon completed. As an indication of the
spirit of the boys, it was voted that the place should be called "Camp
Fair Play." Vallington announced that six boys should be chosen each
day to do the cooking and serve out the provision; that a watch should
be kept around the camp night and day, to prevent a surprise from Mr.
Parasyte and his forces; and that all work should be fairly divided
among the students, with the exception of those who had been elected
to offices. The boys then separated; and those who had been detailed
to pitch the tents commenced their work.
"Commodore," said Tom Rush, laughing at the title.
"Mr. Commissary," I replied.
"Good! We are even, except that you are a bigger officer than I am."
"What can I do for you?"
"About the provisions--how shall we get them?"
"In the boats, of course," I replied.
"Do you think it will be quite safe for us to go back to Parkville?"
"We won't go there. It is only about six miles to Cannondale, on the
other side of the lake. I think we had better go to-night, for we
don't know what will happen to-morrow."
"That's a capital idea! I was thinking how awkward it would be to
answer the questions that would be asked of us in Parkville. To-night
it is. How many of us shall go?"
"Only you and I. The Splash will carry a good load. What are you going
to buy?"
"We must live cheap," replied the commissary.
"I think we will bring off hams, potatoes, and bread or crackers."
"Those will be good feed. I advise you to make out a list of what you
will want."
"I will do so."
"But we need not buy everything we want. The lake is full of fish, and
I know just where to catch them."
"That's first rate," added Tom, with enthusiasm. "But it will take a
heap of fish to feed all the fellows."
"I have caught a boat-load of lake bass and salmon trout in a day. I
will agree to catch fish enough to feed the crowd for a week. But the
fellows will want something besides fish to eat. Potatoes are cheap,
and so are pork and bacon."
"When shall we start?"
"The sooner we go the better. We have no time to spare. There is a
good wind now, and we may not have it much longer. I will land you at
Cannondale in an hour; and if the breeze holds, we shall return by
nine o'clock."
Tom Rush went to the treasurer to procure the funds he had collected,
and hastened down to the Splash; but before the commissary joined me,
a messenger came from Vallington to inform me that the lookouts on the
bluff at the southerly end of the island had discovered a boat pulling
towards the camp. I had a small spy-glass in one of the lockers of the
Splash, with which I repaired to the bluff, to ascertain who the
intended visitors could be.
"I suppose that boat bodes trouble to the camp," said the leader.
"I think it does, for it contains Mr. Parasyte and Deputy Sheriff
Greene," I replied, after examining the boat through the glass.
CHAPTER XIV.
IN WHICH ERNEST IS WAITED UPON BY A DEPUTY SHERIFF.
We had no means of knowing the object of Mr. Parasyte's visit to Camp
Fair Play--whether he was coming to make a treaty of peace, or to
declare and carry on the war. The boat in which he was approaching was
a hired one, rowed by the two men who worked for him. His force was
sufficient to do us a great deal of mischief; and the questions as to
what he would, and what he could do, were full of interest to us. Four
men are a formidable force to any number of boys; and the fact that
Sheriff Greene was one of the party added to the seriousness of the
visitation.
"What can they do?" asked Vallington. "We can at least prepare for
possibilities."
"They can take the boats from us," answered Bob Hale, "and leave us
here to be starved into submission."
"It would be awkward to be obliged to return to the academy like
whipped puppies; but I suppose we could be starved into it."
"We will look out for that," I added.
"How can you help it?"
"Leave that to me," I replied, as I hastened down to the
landing-place, where I summoned my boatmen for service.
We took the three row-boats out of the water, and carried them some
distance from the shore, hiding them in the bushes. The Splash was too
large to be carried far; but we took her out of the water, and put her
high and dry on the island. A force of twenty students had been placed
under my command, and with a little engineering we made easy work even
of these heavy jobs. The rudder of the sail-boat was unshipped, and
concealed, so that she would be useless to the invaders, if they
attempted to carry her off. There was no fear that they would try to
tow the scow back to Parkville; for in doing this their punishment
would be too severe.
Having accomplished my work, I returned to the headland where
Vallington had his headquarters, just as Mr. Parasyte's boat touched
the shore below.
"We are all right now," I remarked to the leader.
"The boats are secure--are they?"
"They are."
"Very well; then we are ready to receive our visitors. I will appoint
a committee of three to wait upon them and invite them to our
headquarters."
Three students were detailed for this duty, and they descended the
bluff. Mr. Parasyte and the deputy sheriff followed them up the bank,
where Vallington was ready to receive them in state, supported by his
officers. The parson had instructed the rebels to treat our visitors
with the utmost politeness, and enjoined them not to insult or annoy
Mr. Parasyte. This was good advice, for some of the boys would have
been glad to duck him in the lake, or to subject him to other
indignities, now that they had the power to do so.
The principal of the Parkville Liberal Institute had doubtless been
very angry when he returned to the school, and found that a "breaking
away" had taken place; but he had cooled off during his passage over
the lake, and now he looked troubled and anxious, rather than angry.
As he walked towards the spot where the officers of the camp stood, he
gazed curiously around him; but he said nothing.
"Vallington, I am very much surprised to find you with this party,"
were the first words he spoke, as he discovered our leader, standing
on his dignity, a little in advance of his supporters.
"Considering the circumstances, Mr. Parasyte, I am not at all
surprised to find myself here," replied the parson. "If it were a mere
frolic for the love of mischief, I should not be here. I presume you
come on business, sir."
"On business!" exclaimed the principal, apparently taken aback by the
remarks of Vallington. "I did come on business."
"You will oblige me by stating it, sir. I have been chosen the leader
of this company, and I represent the students here assembled."
"My business is to order you back to the Institute," continued Mr.
Parasyte, becoming a little excited by the independent manner of our
leader.
"In behalf of those whom I represent, I must decline to obey the
order--at least for the present."
The eye of the deputy sheriff twinkled as he listened to these
speeches. He seemed to regard the affair as a big joke, and to
appreciate it accordingly. Though none of us had ever had any official
relations with him, we knew him as what all the people called "a good
fellow," witty, jovial, and never severe even in the discharge of his
duties. It is more than probable that he knew Mr. Parasyte as the boys
knew him, and despised him accordingly. At any rate, we judged from
the expression on his round face, that he was at heart on our side,
however his official position might compel him to act.
"I am sorry, boys, that you have engaged in this rebellion, for it
will not be pleasant for me to compel obedience," continued Mr.
Parasyte, struggling to repress his anger.
"I am sorry, also, that we have been compelled to take this unpleasant
stand," replied Vallington, with dignity. "If you are willing to hear
it, sir, I should like to state the position of the boys in this
matter. Perhaps the difficulty can be arranged; if it can, we will at
once return to the Institute."
"If there are any real abuses, I am willing to correct them. I will
hear what you have to say."
Vallington briefly rehearsed the grievances of the boys, and demanded
that Thornton should be restored to all his privileges, without
punishment, and that Mr. Hardy should be reëngaged.
Mr. Parasyte turned red in the face, and bit his lips with anger and
vexation.
"Are you the principal of the Parkville Liberal Institute, or am I?"
said he, when the parson had finished.
"Neither of us, I think, as the matter now stands, sir."
"I see that you are determined to defy me," added Mr. Parasyte. "You
ask me to restore Thornton without punishment of any kind. Are you
aware that he assaulted me with a deadly weapon?"
"We are aware that he defended himself when assaulted."
"Assaulted!" gasped Mr. Parasyte, astounded to hear his own act
called by such a name. "Are you aware of the powers which the law
lodges in the hands of the teacher?"
"I am."
"Thornton refused to obey me; and, at his uncle's request, I intended
to enforce obedience. It was my duty to do so."
"May I inquire, Mr. Parasyte, in what Thornton refused to obey you?"
asked Vallington, in the gentlest of tones.
"I required him to apologize to Poodles privately, and to me publicly.
He refused to do so."
"I told Mr. Parasyte that I would apologize to him," I interposed,
addressing our leader.
"That wasn't enough," replied the principal.
"At the time, sir, you knew Poodles had confessed that he alone was to
