
" There were ten broken in all, by Diana ! " says 
this lady's sister. 

" Presence of the Devil ! " says her husband ; and 

" Body of Bacchus ! " her young brother, puffing 
his cigar. 

" And you, sir," said the lady, turning to a hand- 
some young fellow in civil dress, near her, " how did 
you pass this horrible night ? " 

" Oh ! " says the young man, twirling his heavy 
blond mustache, " mighty well, mighty well ! " 

" Oh mercy of God ! You were not sick ? " 

" I, signora, am never sea-sick. I am of the navy." 

At which they all cry oh, and ah, and declare they 
are glad of it, though why they should have been I 
don't know to this day. 

" I have often wished," added the young man 
meditatively, and in a serious tone, as if he had 
indeed given the subject much thought, " that it 
might please God to let me be sea-sick once, if only 
that I might know how it feels. But no ! " He 
turned the conversation, as if his disappointment were 
too sore to dwell upon ; and hearing our English, he 
made out to let us know that he had been at New 
York, and could spik our language, which he pro- 
ceeded to do, to the great pride of his countrymen, 
and our own astonishment at the remarkable forms 
of English speech to which he gave utterance. 



 



V. 

WE set out from Porto Longone that night at eight 
o'clock, and next evening, driving through much- 
abated storm southward into calm waters and clear 
skies, reached Naples. At noon, Monte Circeo, 
where Circe led her disreputable life, was a majestic 
rock against blue heaven and broken clouds ; after 
nightfall, and under the risen moon, Vesuvius crept 
softly up from the sea, and stood a graceful steep, 
with wreaths of lightest cloud upon its crest, and the 
city lamps circling far round its bay. 



VII. 

CERTAIN THINGS IN NAPLES. 



I. 

PERHAPS some reader of mine who visited Naples 
under the old disorder of things, when the Bourbon 
and the Camorra reigned, will like to hear that the 
pitched battle which travellers formerly fought, in 
landing from their steamer, is now gone out of fashion. 
Less truculent boatmen I never saw than those who 
rowed us ashore at Naples ; they were so quiet and 
peaceful that they harmonized perfectly with that 
tranquil scene of drowsy-twinkling city lights, slum- 
brous mountains, and calm sea, and, as they dipped 
softly toward us in the glare of the steamer's lamps, 
I could only think of Tennyson's description : 

" And round about the keel with faces pale, 
Dark faces pale against the rosy flame, 
The mild-eyed melancholy lotus-eaters came." 

The mystery of this placidity had been already solved 
by our captain, whom I had asked what price I 
should bargain to pay from the steamer to 'the shore. 
" There is a tariff," said he, " and the boatmen keep 
to it. The Neapolitans are good people, (buona gente,) 
and only needed justice to make them obedient to 
the laws." I must say that I found this to be true. 





The fares of all public conveyances are now fixed, 
and the attempts which drivers occasionally make to 
cheat you, seem to be rather the involuntary impulses 
of old habit than deliberate intentions to do you 
wrong. You pay what is due, and as your man 
merely rumbles internally when you turn away, you 
must be a very timid signorina indeed, if you buy his 
content with any thing more. I fancy that all these 
things are now much better managed in Italy than 
in America, only we grumble at them there and 
stand them in silence at home. Every one can recall 
frightful instances of plunder, in which he was the 
victim, at New York in which the robbery had 
none of the neatness of an operation, as it often has 
in Italy, but was a brutal mutilation. And then as 
regards civility from the same kind of people in the 
two countries, there is no comparison that holds in 
favor of us. All questions are readily and politely 
answered in Italian travel, and the servants of com- 
panies are required to be courteous to the public ; 
whereas, one is only too glad to receive a silent snub 
from such people at home. 




THE first sun that rose after our arrival in Naples 
was mild*and warm as a May sun, though we were 
quite in the heart of November. We early strolled 
out under it into the crowded ways of the city, and 
drew near as we might to that restless, thronging, 
gossiping southern life, in contrast with which all 




northern existence seems only a sort of hibernation. 
The long Toledo, on which the magnificence of mod- 
ern Naples is threaded, is the most brilliant and joy- 
ous street in the world ; but I think there is less of 
the quaintness of Italian civilization to be seen in its 
vivacious crowds than anywhere else in Italy. One 
easily understands how, with its superb length and 
straightness, and its fine, respectable, commonplace- 
looking houses, it should be the pride of a people 
fond of show ; but after Venice and Genoa it has no 
picturesque charm ; nay, even busy Milan seems less 
modern and more picturesque. The lines of the 
lofty palaces on the Toledo are seldom broken by 
the facade of a church or other public edifice ; and 
when this does happen, the building is sure to be 
coldly classic or frantically baroque. 

You weary of the Toledo's perfect repair, of its 
monotonous iron balconies, its monotonous lofty win- 
dows ; and it would be insufferable if you could not 
turn out from it at intervals into one of those won- 
drous little streets which branch up on one hand and 
down on the other, rising and falling with flights of 
steps between the high, many-balconied walls. They 
ring all day with the motley est life of fishermen, 
fruit-venders, chestnut-roasters, and idlers of every 
age and sex; and there is nothing so full of local 
color, unless it be the little up-and-down-hill streets 
in Genoa. Like those, the by-streets of Naples are 
only meant for foot-passengers, and a carriage never 
enters them ; but sometimes, if you are so blest, you 
may -see a mule climbing the long stairways, moving 



 

solemnly under a stack of straw, or tinkling gayly 
down- stairs, bestridden by a swarthy, handsome peas- 
ant all glittering teeth and eyes and flaming 
Phrygian cap. The rider exchanges lively saluta- 
tions and sarcasms with the by-stariders in his way, 
and perhaps brushes against the bagpipers who bray 
constantly in those hilly defiles. They are in Neapol- 
itan costume, these pifferari, and have their legs in- 
comprehensibly tied up in the stockings and garters 
affected by the peasantry of the provinces, and wear 
brave red sashes about their waists. They are sim- 
ple, harmless-looking people, and would no doubt rob 
and kill in the most amiable manner, if brigandage 
came into fashion in their neighborhood. 

Sometimes the student of men may witness a Nea- 
politan quarrel in these streets, and may pick up use- 
ful ideas of invective from the remarks of the fat old 
women who always take part in the contests. But, 
though we were ten days in Naples, I only saw one 
quarrel, and I could have heard much finer violence 
of language among the gondoliers at any ferry in 
Venice than I heard in this altercation. 

The Neapolitans are, of course, furious in traffic. 
They sell a great deal, and very boisterously, the 
fruit of the cactus, which is about as large as an egg, 
and which they peel to a very bloody pulp, and lay 
out, a sanguinary presence, on boards for purchase. 
It is not good to the uncultivated taste ; but the 
stranger may stop and drink, with relish and refresh- 
ment, the orangeade and lemonade mixed with snow, 
and sold at the little booths on the street-corners. 




These stands looks much like the shrines of the Ma- 
donna in other Italian cities, and a friend of ours was 
led, before looking carefully into their office, to argue 
immense Neapolitan piety from the frequency of their 
ecclesiastical architecture. They are, indeed, the 
shrines of a god much worshiped during the long 
Neapolitan summers ; and it was the profound theory 
of the Bourbon kings of Naples, that, if they kept 
their subjects well supplied with snow to cool their 
drink, there was no fear of revolution. It shows 
how liable statesmen are to err, that, after all, the 
Neapolitans rose, drove out the Bourbons, and wel- 
comed Garibaldi. 

The only part of the picturesque life of the side 
streets which seems ever to issue from them into the 
Toledo is the goatherd with his flock of milch-goats, 
which mingle with the passers in the avenues as fa- 
miliarly as with those of the alley, and thrust aside 
silk-hidden hoops, and brush against dandies' legs, in 
their course, but keep on perfect terms with every 
body. The goatherd leads the eldest of the flock, 
and the rest follow in docile order and stop as he 
stops to ask at the doors if milk is wanted. When 
he happens to have an order, one of the goats is 
haled, much against her will, into the entry of a 
house, and there milked, while the others wait out- 
side alone, nibbling and smelling thoughtfully about 
the masonry. It is noticeable that none of the good- 
natured passers seem to think these goats a great 
nuisance in the crowded street ; but all make way 
for them as if they were there by perfect right, and 
were no inconvenience. 



 

On the Toledo people keep upon the narrow side- 
walks, or strike out into the carriage-way, with an 
indifference to hoofs and wheels which one, after long 
residence in tranquil Venice, cannot acquire, in view 
of the furious Neapolitan driving. That old compre- 
hensive gig of Naples, with which many pens and 
pencils have familiarized the reader, is nearly as hard 
to find there now as the lazzaroni, who have gone out 
altogether. You may still see it in the remoter quar- 
ters of the city, with its complement of twelve pas- 
sengers to one horse, distributed, two on each thill, 
four on the top seats, one at each side, and two be- 
hind ; but in the Toledo it has given place to much 
finer vehicles. Slight buggies, which take you any- 
where for half a franc, are the favorite means of 
public conveyance, and the private turn-outs are of 
eveiy description and degree. Indeed, all the Nea- 
politans take to carriages, and the Strand in London 
at six o'clock in the evening is not a greater jam of 
wheels than the Toledo in the afternoon. Shopping 
feels the expansive influence of the out-of-doors life, 
and ladies do most of it as they sit in their open car- 
riages at the shop-doors, ministered to by the neat- 
handed shopmen. They are very languid ladies, as 
they recline upon their carriage cushions ; they are 
all black-eyed, and of an olive pallor, and have 
gloomy rings about their fine eyes, like the dark- 
faced dandies who bow to them. This Neapolitan 
look is very curious, and I have not seen it elsewhere 
in Italy ; it is a look of peculiar pensiveness, and 
comes, no doubt, from the peculiarly heavy growth 




of lashes which fringes the lower eyelid. Then there 
is the weariness in it of all peoples whose summers 
are fierce and long. 

As the Italians usually dress beyond their means, 
the dandies of Naples are very gorgeous. If it is 
now, say, four o'clock in the afternoon, they are all 
coming down the Toledo with the streams of car- 
riages bound for the long drive around the bay. But 
our foot-passers go to walk in the beautiful Villa 
Reale, between this course and the sea. The Villa 
is a slender strip of Paradise, a mile long ; it is rapt- 
ure to walk in it, and it comes, in description, to 
be a garden-grove, with feathery palms, Greekish 
temples, musical fountains, white statues of the gods, 
and groups of fair girls in spring silks. If I remem- 
ber aright, the sun is always setting on the bay, 
and you cannot tell whether this sunset is cooled 
by the water or the water is warmed by the golden 
light upon it, and upon the city, and upon all the 
soft mountain-heights around. 





WALKING westward through the whole length of 
the Villa Reale, and keeping with the crescent shore 
of the bay, you come, after a while, to the Grot of 
Posilippo, which is not a grotto but a tunnel cut for 
a carriage-way under the hill. It serves, however, 
the purpose of a grotto, if a grotto has any, and is 
of great length and dimness, and is all a-twinkle 
night and day with numberless lamps. Overlooking 



 

the street which passes into it is the tomb of Virgil, 
and it is this you have come to see. To reach it, 
you knock first at the door of a blacksmith, who 
calls a species of, custodian, and, when this latter has 
opened a gate in a wall, you follow him up-stairs into 
a market-garden. 

In one corner, and standing in a leafy and grassy 
shelter somewhat away from the vegetables, is the 
poet's tomb, which has a kind of claim to genuine- 
ness by virtue of its improbable appearance. It looks 
more like a bake-oven than even the Pompeian tombs ; 
the masonry is antique, and is at least in skillful imi- 
tation of the fine Roman work. The interior is a 
small chamber with vaulted or wagon-roof ceiling, 
under which a man may stand upright, and at the 
end next the street is a little stone commemorating 
the place as Virgil's tomb, which was placed there 
by the Queen of France in 1840, and said by the 
custodian (a singularly dull ass) to be an exact copy 
of the original, whatever the original may have been. 
This guide could tell us nothing more about it, and 
was too stupidly honest to pretend to know more. 
The laurel planted by Petrarch at the door of the 
tomb, and renewed in later times by Casimir Dela- 
vigne, has been succeeded by a third laurel. The 
present twig was so slender, and looked so friendless 
and unprotected, that even enthusiasm for the mem- 
ory of two poets could not be brought to rob it of 
one of its few leaves ; and we contented ourselves 
with plucking some of the grass and weeds that grew 
abundantly on the roof of the tomb. 




There was a dusty quiet within the tomb, and a 
grassy quiet without, that pleased exceedingly ; but 
though the memories of the place were so high and 
epic, it only suggested bucolic associations, and, sunken 
into that nook of hill-side verdure, made me think of a 
spring-house on some far-away Ohio farm ; a thought 
that, perhaps, would not have offended the poet, who 
loved and sang of humble country things, and, draw- 
ing wearily to his rest here, no doubt turned and 
remembered tenderly the rustic days before the ex- 
cellent veterans of Augustus came to exile him from 
his father's farm at Mantua, and banish him to mere 
glory. But I believe most travellers have much 
nobler sensations in Virgil's tomb, and there is a 
great deal of testimony borne to their lofty sentiments 
on every scribbleable inch of its walls. Valery re- 
minded me that Boccaccio, standing near it of old, 
first felt his fate decided for literature. Did he come 
there, I wonder, with poor Fiammetta, and enter the 
tomb with her tender hand in his, before ever he 
thought of that cruel absence she tells of? "O 
donne pietose ! " I hope so, and that this pilgrimage, 
half of love and half of letters, took place, " nel 
tempo nel quale la rivestita terra piu che tutto Faltro 
anno si mostra bella." 

If you ascend from the tomb and turn Naples- 
ward from the crest of the hill, you have the loveli- 
est view in the world of the sea and of the crescent 
beach, mightily jeweled at its further horn with the 
black Castel delP Ovo. Fishermen's children are 
playing all along the foamy border of the sea, and 



 

boats are darting out into the surf. The present 
humble muse is not above saying also that the linen 
which the laundresses hang to dry upon lines along 
the beach takes the sun like a dazzling flight of white 
birds, and gives a breezy life to the scene which it 
could not spare. 



IV. 

THERE was a little church on our way back from 
Posilippo, into which we lounged a moment, pausing 
at the altar of some very successful saint near the 
door. Here there were great numbers of the usual 
offerings from the sick whom the saint had eased of 
their various ills, waxen legs and arms from people 
who had been in peril of losing their limbs, as well 
as eyes, noses, fingers, and feet, and the crutches of 
those cured of lameness ; but we were most amused 
with the waxen effigies of several entire babies hung 
up about the altar, which the poor souls who had 
been near losing the originals had brought there in 
gratitude to the saint. 

Generally, however, the churches of Naples are 
not very interesting, and one who came away with- 
out seeing them would have little to regret. The 
pictures are seldom good, and though there are mag- 
nificent chapels in St. Januarius, and fine Gothic 
tombs at Santa Chiara, the architecture is usually 
rococo. I fancy that Naples has felt the damage 
of Spanish taste in such things as well as Spanish 
tyranny in others. Indeed, I saw much there which 




reminded me of what I had read about Spain rather 
than what I had seen in Italy ; and all Italian writ- 
ers are agreed in attributing the depravation of Na- 
ples to the long Spanish dominion. It is well known 
how the Spaniards rule their provinces, and their 
gloomy despotism was probably never more cruelly 
felt than in Italy, where the people were least able 
to bear it. I had a heart-felt exultation in walking 
through the quarter of the city where the tumults 
of Massaniello had raged, and, if only for a few days, 
struck mortal terror to the brutal pride of the vice- 
roy ; but I think I had a better sense of the immense 
retribution which has overtaken all memory of Span- 
ish rule in Naples as we passed through the palace 
of Capo di Monte. This was the most splendid seat 
of the Spanish Bourbon, whose family, inheriting its 
power from the violence of other times, held it with 
violence in these ; and in one of the chief saloons 
of the palace, which is now Victor Ernanuel's, were 
pictures representing scenes of the revolution of 
1860, while the statuette of a Garibaldino, in his 
red shirt and all his heroic rudeness, was defiantly 
conspicuous on one of the tables. 





THERE was nothing else that pleased me as well in 
the palace, or in the grounds about it. These are all 
laid out in pleasant successions of grove, tangled wil- 
derness, and pasture-land, and were thronged, the 
Saturday afternoon of our visit, with all ranks of 



 

people, who strolled through the beautiful walks and 
enjoyed themselves in the peculiarly peaceful Italian 
way. Valery says that the Villa Reale in the Bour- 
bon time was closed, except for a single day in the 
year, to all but the nobles ; and that on this occasion 
it was filled with pretty peasant women, who made it 
a condition of their marriage bargains that their hus- 
bands should bring them to the Villa Reale on St. 
Mary's Day. It is now free to all on every day of 
the year, and the grounds of the Palace Capo di 
Monte are opened every Saturday. I liked the 
pleasant way in which sylvan Nature and Art had 
made friends in these beautiful grounds, in which 
Nature had consented to overlook even the foolish 
vanity of the long aisles of lime, cut and trimmed 
in formal and fantastic shapes, according to the taste 
of the silly times of bagwigs and patches. On every 
side wild birds fluttered through these absurd trees, 
and in the thickets lurked innumerable pheasants, 
which occasionally issued forth and stalked in stately, 
fearless groups over the sunset-crimsoned lawns. 
There was a brown gamekeeper for nearly every 
head of game, wearing a pheasant's wing in his hat 
and carrying a short, heavy sword ; and our driver 
told us, with an awful solemnity in his bated breath, 
that no one might kill this game but the king, under 
penalty of the galleys. 





VI. 

WE went one evening to the opera at San Carlo. 
It is one of the three theatres San Carlo of Na- 
ples, La Scala of Milan, and Fenice of Venice 
on which the Italians pride themselves ; and it is 
certainly very large and imposing. The interior has 
a bel colpo d'occhio, which is what many Italians 
chiefly value in morals, manners, and architecture ; 
but after this comes great shabbiness of detail. The 
boxes, even of the first order, are paved with brick 
tiles, and the red velvet border of the box which the 
people see from the pit is not supported in style by 
the seats within, which are merely covered with red 
oil-cloth. The opera we saw was also second-rate, 
and was to the splendor of the scenic arrangements 
what the oil-cloth was to the velvet. The house was 
full of people, but the dress of the audience was not 
so fine as we had expected in Naples. The evening 
dress is not de rigueur at Italian theatres, and people 
seemed to have come to San Carlo in any pleasant 
carelessness of costume. 



VII. 

THE Italians are simple and natural folks, pleased 
through all their show of conventionality with little 
things, and as easy and unconscious as children in 
their ways. There happened to be a new caffe* 
opened in Naples while we were there, and we had 



 

the pleasure of seeing all ranks of people affected by 
its magnificence. Artless throngs blocked the side- 
walk day and night before its windows, gazing upon 
its mirrors, fountains, and frescos, and regarding the 
persons over their coffee within as beings lifted by 
sudden magic out of the common orbit of life and set 
dazzling in a higher sphere. All the waiters were 
uniformed and brass-buttoned to blinding effect, and 
the head waiter was a majestic creature in a long 
blue coat reaching to his feet, and armed with a 
mighty silver-headed staff. This gorgeous apparition 
did nothing but walk up and down, and occasionally 
advance toward the door, as if to disperse the crowds. 
At such times, however, before executing his pur- 
pose, he would glance round on the splendors they 
were admiring, and, as if smitten with a sense of the 
enormous cruelty he had meditated in thinking to 
deprive them of the sight, would falter and turn 
away, leaving his intent unfulfilled. 



VIII. 

A DAY IN POMPEII. 



ON the second morning after our arrival in Na- 
ples, we took the seven o'clock train, which leaves 
the Nineteenth Century for the first cycle of the 
Christian Era, and, skirting the waters of the Nea- 
politan bay almost the whole length of our journey, 
reached the railway station of Pompeii in an hour. 
As we rode along by that bluest sea, we saw the 
fishing-boats go out, and the foamy waves (which it 
would be an insolent violence to call breakers) come 
in ; we saw the mountains slope their tawny and 
golden manes caressingly downward to the waters, 
where the islands were dozing yet ; and landward, 
on the left, we saw Vesuvius, with his brown mantle 
of ashes drawn close about his throat, reclining on 
the plain, and smoking a bland and thoughtful morn- 
ing pipe, of which the silver fumes curled lightly, 
lightly upward in the sunrise. 

We dismounted at the station, walked a few rods 
eastward through a little cotton-field, and found 
ourselves at the door of Hotel Diomed, where we 
took breakfast for a number of sesterces which I am 
sure it would have made an ancient Pompeian stir 



 

in Ins urn to think of paying. But in Italy one 
learns the chief Italian virtue, patience, and we paid 
our account with the utmost good nature. There 
was compensation in store for us, and the guide 
whom we found at the gate leading up the little hill 
to Pompeii inclined the disturbed balance in favor of 
our happiness. He was a Roman, spoke Italian that 
Beatrice might have addressed to Dante, and was 
numbered Twenty-six. I suppose it is known that 
the present Italian Government forbids people to be 
pillaged in any way on its premises, and that the 
property of the State is no longer the traffic of cus- 
todians and their pitiless race. At Pompeii each 
person pays two francs for admission, and is rigorously 
forbidden by recurrent sign-boards to offer money to 
the guides. Ventisei (as we shall call him) himself 
pointed out one of these notices in English, and did 
his duty faithfully without asking or receiving fees in 
money. He was a soldier, like all the other guides, 
and was a most intelligent, obliging fellow, with a 
self-respect and dignity worthy of one of our own 
volunteer soldiers. 

Ventisei took us up the winding slope, and led us 
out of this living world through the Sea-gate of 
Pompeii back into the dead past the past which, 
with all its sensuous beauty and grace, and all its 
intellectual power, I am not sorry to have dead, and, 
for the most part, buried. Our feet had hardly 
trodden the lava flagging of the narrow streets when 
we came in sight of the laborers who were exhuming 
the inanimate city. They were few in number, not 



 

perhaps a score, and they worked .tediously, with 
baskets to carry away the earth from the excavation, 
boys and girls carrying the baskets, and several ath- 
letic old women plying picks, while an overseer sat 
in a chair near by, and smoked, and directed their 
exertions. 

They dig down about eight or ten feet, uncovering 
the walls and pillars of the houses, and the mason, 
who is at hand, places little iron rivets in the stucco 
to prevent its fall where it is weak, while an artist 
attends to wash and clean the frescos as fast as they 
are exposed. The soil through which the excavation 
first passes is not of great depth ; the ashes which 
fell damp with scalding rain, in the second eruption, 
are perhaps five feet thick; the rest is of that porous 
stone which descended in small fragments during the 
first eruption. A depth of at least two feet in this 
stone is always left untouched by the laborers till the 
day when the chief superintendent of the work comes 
out from Naples to see the last layers removed ; and 
it is then that the beautiful mosaic pavements of the 
houses are uncovered, and the interesting and valu- 
able objects are nearly always found. 

The wonder was, seeing how slowly the work pro- 
ceeded, not that two thirds of Pompeii were yet 
buried, but that one third had been exhumed. We 
left these hopeless toilers, and went down-town into 
the Forum, stepping aside on the way to look into 
one of the Pompeian Courts of Common Pleas. 



 



II. 

Now Pompeii is, in truth, so fall of marvel and 
surprise, that it would be unreasonable to express 
disappointment with Pompeii in fiction. And yet I
cannot help it. An exuberant carelessness of phrase 
in most writers and talkers who describe it had led 
me to expect much more than it was possible to find 
there. In my Pompeii I confess that the houses had 
no roofs in fact, the rafters which sustained the 
tiles being burnt, how could the roofs help falling in ? 
But otherwise my Pompeii was a very complete 
affair : the walls all rose to their full height ; door- 
ways and arches were perfect ; the columns were all 
unbroken and upright ; putting roofs on my Pompeii, 
you might have lived in it very comfortably. The 
real Pompeii is different. It is seldom that any wall 
is unbroken ; most columns are fragmentary ; and 
though the ground-plans are always distinct, very few 
rooms in the city are perfect in form, and the whole 
is much more ruinous than I thought. 

But this ruin once granted, and the idle disappoint- 
ment at its greatness overcome, there is endless ma- 
terial for study, instruction, and delight. It is the 
revelation of another life, and the utterance of the 
past is here more perfect than anywhere else in the 
world. Indeed, I think that the true friend of Pom- 
peii should make it a matter of conscience, on enter- 
ing the enchanted city, to cast out of his knowledge 
all the rubbish that has fallen into it from novels and 



 

travels, and to keep merely the facts of the town's 
luxurious life and agonizing death, with such inci- 
dents of the eruption as he can remember from the 
description of Pliny. These are the spells to which 
the sorcery yields, and with these in your thought 
you can rehabilitate the city until Ventisei seems to 
be a valet de place of the fiirst century, and your- 
selves a set of blond barbarians to whom he is show- 
ing off the splendors of one of the most brilliant 
towns of the empire of Titus. Those sad furrows 
in the pavement become vocal with the joyous rattle 
of chariot-wheels on a sudden, and you prudently 
step up on the narrow sidewalks and rub along by 
the little shops of wine, and grain, and oil, with 
which the thrifty voluptuaries of Pompeii flanked 
their street-doors. The counters of these shops run 
across their fronts, and are pierced with round holes 
on the top, through which you see dark depths of 
oil in the jars below, and not sullen lumps of ashes ; 
those stately amphorae behind are full of wine, and in 
the corners are bags of wheat. 

" This house, with a shop on either side, whose is 
it, XXVI. ? " 

" It is the house of the great Sallust, my masters. 
"Would you like his autograph ? I know one of his 
slaves who would sell it." 

You are a good deal stared at, naturally, as you 
pass by, for people in Pompeii have not much to do, 
and, besides, a Briton is not an every- day sight there, 
as he will be one of these centuries. The skins of 
wild beasts are little worn in Pompeii ; and those 



 

bold-eyed Roman women think it rather odd that we 
should like to powder our shaggy heads with brick- 
dust. However, these are matters of taste. We, 
for our part, cannot repress a feeling of disgust at 
the loungers in the street, who, XXVI. tells us, are 
all going to soak themselves half the day in the 
baths yonder ; for, if there is in Pompeii one thing 
more offensive than another to our savage sense of 
propriety, it is the personal cleanliness of the inhab- 
itants. We little know what a change for the better 
will be wrought in these people with the lapse of 
time, and that they will yet come to wash themselves 
but once a year, as we do. 

(The reader may go on doing this sort of thing 
at some length for himself; and may imagine, if he 
pleases, a boastful conversation among the Pompeians 
at the baths, in which the barbarians hear how Agric- 
ola has broken the backbone of a rebellion in Brit- 
ain ; and in which all the speakers begin their ob- 
servations with " Ho ! my Lepidus ! " and " Ha ! 
my Diomed ! " In the mean time we return to the 
present day, and step down the Street of Plenty 
along with Ventisei.) 



in. 

IT is proper, after seeing the sites of some of the 
principal temples in Pompeii (such as those of Jupi- 
ter and Venus), to cross the fields that cover a great 
breadth of the buried citv, and look into the amphi- 
theatre, where, as every body knows, the lions had 



 

no stomach for Glaucus on the morning of the fatal 
eruption. The fields are now planted with cotton, 
and of course we thought those commonplaces about 
the wonder the Pompeians would feel could they 
come back to see that New- World plant growing 
above their buried homes. We might have told 
them, the day of our visit, that this cruel plant, so 
long watered with the tears of slaves, and fed with 
the blood of men, was now an exile from its native 
fields, where war was plowing with sword and shot 
the guilty land, and rooting up the subtlest fibres of 
the oppression in which cotton had grown king. And 
the ghosts of wicked old Pompeii, remembering the 
manifold sins that called the fires of hell to devour 
her, and thinking on this exiled plant, the latest wit- 
ness of God's unforgetting justice, might well have 
shuddered, through all their shadow, to feel how 
terribly He destroys the enemies of Nature and man. 
But the only Pompeian presences which haunted 
our passage of the cotton-field were certain small 
