down from the city to witness the trial. All the morn- 
ing they had been deeply engrossed with it ; but alter 
a good dinner and rich wines they felt less energetic. 
So they had invited the ladies over, for Mrs. Ven- 
nard nearly always had a friend or two staying with 
her. Hope accompanied them. 

Stephen always remembered her as she looked on 
this day. Dressed purely in white, her curls fluttering 
like a changeful sea. So winsome, so radiant. And 
while the others talked, she stole to the open door 
through which she had caught a glimpse of Stephen. 

" May I come in ? " 




Stephen stood by a vice, filing some article that re- 
quired careful manipulations. 

" Yes," he answered, with a smile. 

She came and stood by him, plied him with a child's 
numerous and inconsequent questions, all of which he 
was delighted to answer, watching the lids droop over 
the eyes, the color come and go in her sweet face, and 
the curves of the small, scarlet mouth like a cleft 
strawberry, and as rich in fragrance. Could any thing 
so lovely belong to Thomas Vennard? He was think- 
ing of this when a harsh voice made them both start as 
if guilty of some sin. . ^ 

" Hope ! " 

The child's face turned a little pale. Vennard was 
a tyrant by nature. Even here he could not forego 
his authority always dear to him. 

"Dane, haven't you any more sense than to let a 
child bother round in that fashion? Hope, go to your 
mother." 

" She did not interrupt me," said Dane, in a sort of 
defiant apology. 

" Don't tell me ! A man's mind isn't on his work 
when he's fooling with anything. You've filed that 
too far." 

"It's just right." And Dane fitted it to the cog. 
He would have been more than human not to enjoy his 
triumph. 

Mr. Vennard was angry, and for .once helpless, as 




 

he could not think of a fitting retort. So he turned on 
his heel with a threatening frown. 

Adams came to Stephen's side, after they were all 
gone. 

"Vennard is bitterly disappointed at his non-suc- 
cess," he said, in a low tone. "I didn't know he 
counted so much on it. He wouldn't let any one put 
in a word, for he meant to claim the improvement." 

" What was wrong ? " 

" There was just no advantage at all. What he saved 
in steam he lost in revolutions. Misplaced economy, 
which, will not do for a steam-engine. You can starve 
a man better, eh, Dane?" 

"For a while, at least," returned Dane, grimly. 

" \iennard is making haste to be rich. If I had his 
chance, I'd take matters comfortably. He will have 
all old Ellicott's money. W T hat a fairy of a child that 
is ! She came in here ? " 

"Yes." Laconically. He did not want to hear any 
talk about Hope Vennard. 

"I think that can be done;" and Adams nodded 
his head towards the next room. " Will you look at it 
after six? Why, it would make a man's fortune ! " 

"Yes," Dane said, the words ringing through his 
ears. Not that he would ever make a fortune. But 
if he had a little money to start with, he and Adams, 
for instance, time to study and try experiments 
No, it could never be done ; and he sighed. 





The worst of life is to feel one's self wasted. And 
this sensation was growing up in Stephen Dane. Why 
didn't he have the chance other young men passed by 
with such indifference? A subtile flame was creeping 
through his brain, smouldering almost for want of 
proper nourishment, yet now and then bursting out into 
a fierce ray ; every time gaining a little, to be sure, but 
seeing no real escape. Ground down with poverty, 
ignorance, and yes, a sort of caste. Adams might 
see something worthier in him ; but then the man was 
almost as poor as himself, saving a little money, and 
trying experiments that failed continually. If Mr. 
Vennard would take one in hand ; and a cynical sneer 
for it was too bitter for a smile crossed Dane's face. 
Mr. Vennard believed common workmen had no busi- 
ness with ideas. Rude, brutish strength was all they 
needed. 

They did not dare linger very long over the engine. 
Neither would have confessed it, but both knew this 
sort of fraternizing did not meet Mr. Vennard's ap- 
proval. And every one had a fear of him, even if it 
was but half admitted in some secret corner of the brain. 

"Will Vennard try again, think?" Dane asked. 

"O, you may be sure of that, if some one doesn't 
come out first with an improvement. Dane," sharply, 
" if you have any revelations on the subject, sell 'em 
at a high figure. Don't let 'em be stolen. That thing is 
done too often." 



 

Neither of them had any ideas just then. They 
examined the steam-chest, the valves, the cut-off, 
and looking at each other with perplexed eyes, said, as 
many another had, 

" If it could be done ! " 

Stephen Dane made a sort of dogged mental vow 
that life should not all be wasted over yonder, at the 
forge. 

He passed out first. Adams paused to talk with the 
gate-keeper. But Dane's steps were arrested, ere he 
had gone thirty yards, by a group of men. 

" I say it's a cursed shame ! " and the speaker, purple 
with anger, was gesticulating savagely. " If Vennard 
stays here, Tregony 'll be turned into a pauper's den. 
What kin we do, I'd like to know? I've got an old 
bed-ridden mother, and five little cubs, one on 'em blind, 
and a month back at the store. What am I goin' to 
do? Where'll I get work? An' he brings in new 
men every day, an' if a man dares to stan' up for his 
rights, off he goes. 'Twan't so in Reardon's time, and 
old Ellicott never ground the soul out of a man in that 
way. I say everybody oughter rise and drum Yennard 
out of the place. It's that, or starvin' for us an' our 
children ! " 

" What's the row with Forbes? " asked Dane. 

" Bin discharged ; four on 'em." 

Thomas Vennard's anger had s'pent itself here, when 
it might have been vented on him. Perhaps better. 





From the bottom of his heart he pitied Forbes, think- 
ing of the home where want must soon stare them in 
the face, unless charity fed them. 

Forbes had commenced again. He was spokesman 
for the party, and ill-judged as his harangue was, it 
contained a certain amount of truth and rugged elo- 
quence, interspersed with now and then a vengeful oath. 

Some one touched Dane's shoulder. Turning, he 
beheld Adams. 

" Come along," said the latter, almost crossly. 

Stephen looked fairly at him, with an expression that 
said, proudly enough, 

"My sympathies are here." 

"I know it," the other answered, as if the look had 
been words : " but what good do you do, listening to 
an angry man's denunciation of something he doesn't 
understand ? " 

" He seems to understand that he and his children 
may starve." 

"When you want to demolish a solid stone wall, it's 
best not to take your fist. Forbes and Benner have 
carried their point a little too far. Mr. Vennard 
doesn't allow of but one master. They knew it. 
They had seen it tried before." 

He was leading Stephen away. 

" We don't look at these things in the same light," 
said Dane, in a resolute tone. "You don't like Ven- 
nard, yet you always stand up for him." 



 

"From a principle you would call cowardly and 
selfish, I suppose. I think it is best that the workmen 
should learn that he is to be obeyed. If you want the 
employment, you must take it on his terms. There's 
no other large iron works around here. He can dictate, 
and he means to. It's fighting against the stone wall, 
as I said." 

" And a man's to give up all his independence, all 
his spirit, his sense of what is right and just " 

w Dane, you are a little too far on one side. Ven- 
nard is a hard master in some respects, I grant, but he 
pays the men as well as they have ever been paid 
before, " 

" And works them twice as hard ! " was the bitter 
interruption. 

"I think they had fallen into very idle, disorderly 
habits. It takes pretty hard discipline to bring such 
men around straight. Vennard's had a sharp way of 
doing it, I grant you, but he hasn't asked for any more 
than his own. When he went down and found Forbes 
and some of the others playing ' seven up,' he dis- 
charged them on the spot. That they had only been 
playing a few moments, while there was nothing for 
them to do, was no excuse whatever in his eyes. It was 
his time they were using for their own gratification. 
And in trying to justify themselves, they made him 
still more angry. He wasn't in the best of humor, you 
know." 





K It was a mean shame ! And Forbes is a good, 
honest \v irkman. He doesn't pull off his apron with 
the first stroke of the bell. I've seen him stop minutes 
to finish something." 

"Mr. Vennard doesn't ask that. He wouldn't take 
a favor fron a workman. When he gets what he 
has paid for, he is satisfied, but he wants every inch 
of that. You were right when you said I didn't like 
him. I might brave him to-morrow, and the next day 
find a new place. I've no family to keep me here, or 
to starve, if I was out of work u while. But since 
I've taken the position, and know pretty well what 
he wants, I'll satisfy him if it's in my power. I 
think I can do it without losing my independence, 
except just so much as I knowingly relinquished 
when I made my bargain. A person in an inferior 
position has to yield something. Why not do it with 
a good grace ? " 

Stephen Dane walked along moodily. Presently 
a savage glow shot out of his eye. 

" It's always the way ! These men with money and 
power are tyrants." 

w Yes, you find it so pretty often." 
. " And is the world to go on so forever ? Are the 
rich always to grind the souls of the poor ? " 

" The world's a big place, Dane. And there are 
many noble exceptions, I am glad to admit. We 
have fallen upon one of the hard problems. Ven- 



 

nard has a narrow mind, and cannot see consequences. 
He thinks his system is perfect. But ther ; is such 
a thing as crowding on too much steam. Whether he 
will be able to find men to fill these places five years 
hence, is a question ! " 

" Then he'll shut up the place. I can't fancy Ven- 
nard giving in. But as Forbes said, he will make 
Tregony a pauper's den." 

"Yes. These men can never. see, after all. When 
you teach a workman to respect himself, to be prov- 
ident, to educate hi children, to lay up a little money 
if possible, you have made a good citizen for the state, 
a man whose honor you can depend on. You will not 
.have to be taxed for his support in the poorhouse. 
But Vennard looks only at to-day. He wants the 
work done so he can see the immediate profits. I don't 
know that heaven or earth could convert him to any 
other way of thinking. So the men must study self- 
interest. Since it is necessary for them to have employ- 
ment, they must abide by his laws. They are in no 
position to dictate." 

"It's a burning, bitter shame," broke in Dane, with 
the scornful indignation of a generous man. 

" But one must take the world as he finds it ; " and 
Adams shrugged his shoulders. He had many good 
impulses, but he would never have made a philan- 
thropist. 

They halted at the corner, where their paths diverged. 





" Leave these men to settle their squabbles, Dane, and 
think of the engine. There's a fortune for some one in 
that," Adams said, as a parting rejoinder. 

But Stephen Dane was in no mood for such thought. 
He felt angry and sick at heart, with a sense of black 
injustice all around him. Why did power and wealth 
ever come to such men as Thomas Vennard? Was 
there a God who kept watch of these matters, checking 
them off when they reached a certain point ? 

He had been to church the Sunday before with Joe, 
in all the glory of her new bonnet. A little Episcopa- 
lian Chapel, and in their reading of the Psalter these 
words had stirred him strangely : 

" I myself have seen the ungodly in great power, 
and flourishing like a green bay tree. 

" I went by, and lo, he was gone." 

Thomas Vennard, so strongly intrenched, could not 
be easily removed. Dane little knew how he was 
destined to think of this again. 



 



IV. 

BY THE KlVER. 

IF Joe failed to understand Stephen, and misinter- 
preted his desire for her improvement, she was not 
ignorant of fi keener sensation of happiness than any 
she had hitherto known ; and at the same moment a 
new capability for pain dawned upon her. Stephen 
came so near to her in some matters, was so widely 
sundered in others. And whatever took him from her. 

the tavern, the garden-plot he cultivated this sum- 
mer, his books, or a call at intervals from Mr. Adams 

were all regarded with a vague, dull jealousy. He 
was better-tempered than in his first essay after knowl- 
edge. His heart had grown broader, his patience of a 
finer quality. His first impulse had been to leave 
Tregony, and carve out a new life for himself, distinct 
from her's and his father's. Some subtile tie held him 
back. Naturally, I think, the man had a very affec- 
tionate heart. 

So he staid, and tried to raise them out of this slough 
he meaut to leave behind. It was hard work. Archy 





Dane found more comfort in the tavern than in his son's 
society. Joe was prouder of her new finery than any 
mental improvement. She had no ambition, but all a 
woman's tender, longing desire foolish also, if you 
will to be loved. And when Stephen was tender, it 
seemed as if the blessing was not so far distant. More 
than that she did not understand in him. That he 
might be rich some day never entered her head. That 
he might gain some higher station was equally improb- 
able to her. In fact, why should he want it? Were 
not these common-place people around them happy 
enough? They were all she cared to know about. 

Not so with Stephen Dane. His brain had been 
fired with new "thoughts; and, though only half com- 
prehended, he meant to work them up into something 
higher than this dogging on year after year. He wanted 
something sharp, incisive. Pain, even, and failure, 
were better than stagnation. And, somewhere in the 
distance, life looked noble and chivalric, the vulgarities 
cleared off, the meannesses drowned out by an overflow 
of soul. For a man had something within him, call it 
instinct, or even ambition. 

It was hard work. No one that would understand 
these daring thoughts, even if he had the courage to 
confess them. Not even Adams. He could see how 
Dane might like to invent, or improve on a machine. 
So much steel, and iron, and steam was a child to him. 
He gave it the love of husband and father. He would 



 

spend his life for it. It was a mania with the man ; 
and though he occasionally ran foul of some "ism," he 
was not sufficiently interested in it to spend much time 
or thought combating it. The greatest elevation the 
world wanted, in his eyes, was in machinery. As to 
morals and virtues, it always had done well enough, and 
always would. So there was a point where contact 
between the two men ceased. 

Perhaps the grace, beauty, and culture of a lost gen- 
eration woke to existence in Stephen Dane. Some whim 
of blood, having long lain dormant, was exerting itself. 
He saw a possibility in the steam-engine ; but beyond 
it, a broader and grander one, a sphere of refinement, 
an ease, a certain elegance, such as little Hope Vennard 
shook out of every fold of her dress. Her father was 
narrow and hard, but it did not cling to her. And 
when he had won a place in the world, when he had 
acquired the ease, the education, he meant to have, the 
home with its books, and pictures, and fascinating re- 
pose, this was what he could not tell ; this was 
what made the great gulf between him and Joe. 

He went on with sturdy courage. He had too much 
hard work on hand to stick fast in the tangled depths 
where John Gilbert floundered. And though his soul 
was vexed with the selfishness, injustice, and crime that 
stalked about rampant, he knew his beginning must be 
small : Joe, his father, and himself. After that, a wider 





They studied the engine daily, he and Adams. He 
had much natural quickness of understanding, penetra- 
tion, and that subtile knowledge connecting cause with 
effect. Here Adams was slower. Yet they both seemed 
as far from the discovery as Mr. Vennard. 

The affair with Forbes had created quite an excite- 
ment. When the man's anger had cooled somewhat, 
and stern necessity stared him blankly in the face, he 
had humbled himself sufficiently to solicit back his old 
place. Mr. Vennard was immovable. No entreaties 
could soften him. It was a rule he had never broken, 
and never would. The men knew one discharge was 
final. And so Forbes, with the passion of desperation, 
joined the disaffected, drank bad rum, and made threat- 
ening speeches. Thomas Vennard did not care. Quiet 
Tregony would have dreamed of the judgment-day as 
soon as of a murderer lying in wait ; so the threats 
were treated as idle bravado, and remembered at a 
later day, when they proved well nigh fatal. 

One July afternoon Stephen Dane went into the 
engine-room for some particular screws he wanted. It 
was used as a sort of general receptacle rather than a 
work-room. Here lay prostrate fly-wheels of- different 
sizes, walking-beams for fast river-boats, cross-heads 
and piston-rods, lighter machinery for manufacturing 
purposes, waiting for some hand to put them together 
in their proper order, and the breath of steam to endow 
them with life. A dim atmosphere, smoky and dusty, 



C 

yet bronzed to a certain beauty by the broad sheets of 
sunlight that flowed in at the windows, grimy a'nd cob- 
webbed as they were. It always appeared so strangely 
still in here to Stephen ; and yet he could hear the roar 
of the fires below, the clang of hammers, the continu- 
ous rattle of bars and chains in transit. Here was the 
engine that had defied Thomas Vennard., If it had 
been human and Stephen Dane gave a sort of grim 
smile. Being iron, it was not susceptible to the master's 
frowns, neither could it be discharged. 

He leaned his elbow on the eccentric-rod, and peered 
down into its black depths. What secret did it hold? 
These wheels and valves, this burnished steel, and sil- 
very-gray iron. What power was mighty enough to 
extort a confession? Was there a fortune in it, as 
Adams had said? He needed the fortune sorely. 
Money would do so much for him give him leisure 
and cultivation, time and material for experiments. 
What torture could he apply to this great dumb thing? 
And unconsciously he ground his teeth and clenched his 
hands. How many times he and Adams had inspected 
it ! There was a drawing in his pocket he had brought 
to show the foreman, who was absent to-day from sud- 
den illness. He took it out, and went over it with his 
pencil, comparing, computing. He had hit upon some- 
thing at length, a slight difference; but it might be of 
momentous import to them. If Adams were but here I

He did not see the cool, keen eye that glanced in 





upon him, the compressed lips and significant nod, as 
the paper and pencil became visible. A sort of evil, 
tyrannical look, that meant to be doubly paid for this 
patience. No, for a sudden moment of inspiration came 
to Stephen Dane. I think Thomas Vennard understood 
as much, watching the working of the face. The dull, 
earthy look faded out of it. The eyes grew luminous. 
The fingers could hardly keep pace with the thoughts. 

Whenever Stephen Dane lived over this period, it 
seemed to him like a flash, a breath. Five minutes, at 
the utmost, he would have said, from the time he en- 
tered the room, intent upon the screws, until a slow, 
metallic voice startled him. 

"I'll take that now, Dane, if you are through 
with it." 

The hot blood rushed to Stephen Dane's face as he 
beheld Mr. Vennard. He was utterly speechless. 

"Do you hear me?" sternly, and thrusting out his 
hand until the bony fingers almost settled themselves 
upon the paper. 

Dane drew back, all the man within him roused. He 
knew he had come to an issue with the master, the very 
thing he had hitherto tried to avoid. But now it must 
be met. 

"I wanted some screws," he began, in a wandering, 
uncertain manner, as if but half awake. 

" And I want that paper. Give it to me, and we'll call 
it square. An hour of my time. It belongs to me." 



 

Both men glanced at it. The eager light in Ven- 
nard's eyes startled Stephen Dane. If that little plan 
was worth anything, it was of value to him. 

" An hour ! " he said. " I have not been here an hour." 

" Do you mean to tell me that I lie ? I passed that 
door one hour ago, and you were here." 

Vennard's overreaching defeated itself by violence. 
Every fibre of independence in Stephen Dane's nature 
was roused. 

"No, Mr. Vennard," he said, with a cool spirit that 
exasperated the other. I had no such thought. It 
seems the briefest moment to me, and yet you may be 
right. I am willing to lose the time." 

It was to be a hand-to-hand fight. Bullying would 
gain nothing here. 

The two men eyed each other closely. Dane saw 
that his race in the Ellicott Works was run ; Vennard 
read that he had a powerful adversary. 

"I want that paper. Dane, if you have a grain of com- 
mon honesty, honor we don't expect from such men, 
you will see that I had a right to the time. And 
this improvement is mine. You have no business with 
anything pertaining to it." 

He overshot the mark widely that time. How easily 
a little passion leads a man astray ! 

"Except what my own brains give me." 

"I say you have wo -right. Try one experiment, if 
you dare, and I will restrain you by an injunction." 





" Some proof may be required for your priority. 
And some men" there was a peculiar emphasis on 
this that stung the master " might see a point of 
honor and right where you did not." 

Vennai'd's face turned livid with rage. The man- 
hood in Stephen Dane asserted itself proudly. He 
stood erect and strong. 

" This comes of familiarity ; " and Vennard ground his 
heel into the floor with a savage force. "I've seen you 
and Adams conniving together, and all I have to tell 
him is, that he won't interfere with any more men in 
this place ! I want every man to mind his own busi- 
ness here. And if I can't be master " 

"Not of souls, nor brains." 

" Brains ! A workman has no business with 'em ! 
Who wants him to think or to order? I can do that. 
All that is required of you is to work. That's what I 
hire you for. You've no right to come in here and 
make drawings. It's just as much robbery as if you 
put your hand in my pocket ! " 

A swarthy flush of passion crept over. Stephen Dane's 
face. 

"A man has a right to his own thoughts. You dis- 
dain to hire his brains, I believe." 

"I tell you, when he comes into this place, he's mine. 
My money buys every moment of his time and. energy. 
His thoughts should be on my work ; and if they are 
not, I say he defrauds me that he is a thief." 




 

The two men glared at each other. 

" Very well," Dane said, slowly. " My time ended 
this noon. An hour or two extra I will throw in, lest 
I may have unwittingly defrauded you some time. 
Now we are quits. The world' is wide, and there are 
more places in it than Tregony." 

Thomas Vennard caught his breath in utter amaze- 
ment. He had heard men bluster and swear ; he had 
seen them cower in sullen rage ; but this one did 
neither. Those fearless eyes why, if he should look 
long enough, they might even master him. And dis- 
charging himself! Taking the very words out of his 
mouth I 

He opened his pocket-book, and, snatching a bill 
therefrom, handed it to Stephen Dane. 

" There's your wages until to-night. Give me that 
paper." 

Instead Dane handed him a dollar in change. 

W I want no more than belongs to me," he said, 
proudly. " I have not robbed you of anything. There 
is your engine you have the means and the time to 
perfect it. Do it, if you can. And if some other man 
is before you, the law will protect him." 

"Dane, you shall rue this to the latest day of your 
life. If your improvement had been worth anything, 
I might have done something for you. As it is, I am 
your enemy." He hissed it through his dull, purple 
lips. "You'll find out what that means. No one ever 





yet thwarted me who didn't smart for it. I have 
money, and that gives a man a long arm. I can reach 
you in other places than Tregony. You'll see, blind, 
ignorant fool that you are ! " 

Stephen Dane gained a victory over himself when he 
made no reply. Recriminations were useless, and the 
threat seemed idle. He had a morbid antipathy to 
brawls and quarrels. He looked Mr. Vennard steadily 
in the eye a moment. That hard, narrow, sordid face ! 
Then he turned, and went down. 

Not into the large shop, but by a worn side stairway, 
that took him to the very spot where he had once stood 
with little Hope Vennard in his arms where she had 
kissed him. Would she ever know the bitterness of 
her father's tyranny? If she should love where he 
hated ! Ah, and a quick shiver passed over Stephen. 

He marched through the yard, hardly realizing the 
events of the last ten minutes. How strange the world 
looked ! 

An hour ago he was wild for leisure. Now there 
was plenty of it. He had nothing more to do in 
Tregony. 

And then he asked himself where there was anything 
for him to do. Leisure was a rich man's luxury, and 
he why, this ten dollars was about all he had in the 
world. He had always brought his money home, and 
put it in a little tin box in the cupboard. Every one 
went to it. The household expenses, the clothing, and 



 



his father's rum, came out of it. Frequently it was 
all gone before Saturday night. For the last month 
or two, he had meant to institute a new system ; but 
Joe had grown sulky when he undertook to explain 
economy. 

" If you know so well, why don't you manage your- 
self?" she had retorted, crossly. "May be you think 
I'm not honest." 

W O, no, Joe! " he had answered, with sudden pain. 
He had a great, tender, womanish heart, and pitied this 
poor girl strangely now. And so the subject had been 
dropped. 

He went out of the Foundery yard, as I have said. 
A magnificent summer day, a sky of royal beauty, an 
air of fragrance. Leaving the smoke and din behind, 
he struck off for the woods, a tnile, perhaps, below the 
Foundery. He wanted to be all alone, to think, to 
look the problem straight in the face. 

O, the heavenly rest and quiet, of those dense trees ! 
O, the coolness, the tenderness, with which they 
stretched out their long green arms. Soft mosses 
under foot, or the path cushioned with the fallen leaves 
of many autumns, so steeped in summer moisture that 
they gave no rustle to the tread. Long wreaths of wild 
vines hanging from tree to tree with clusters of pale 
green berries. Here a gnarled old trunk was covered 
with a glossy-leaved parasite ; there its gray bark was 
moss-grown, or fallen into phosphorescent decay. It 





was so still on this day, broken occasionally by the song 
of a bird, but that not frequently. The place of all 
others for a man to be alone with God and his own 
soul. 

He wandered slowly through it to a little point that 
jutted out into the river. Seating himself on a rock, 
he glanced over at the other shore. A golden shimmer 
in the air brooded tenderly on the opposite hills. 
Vistas of light and shade, mown meadows like a smooth 
sea, and clumps of trees stretching out indefinitely until 
they joined the blue horizon. The river flowing 
placidly .with its murmurous rustle, trembling in the 
soft dun haze, the liquid light filling the midsummer 
air, lulled him into peaceful repose. O, if one could 
be Nature's child, take root in this soft mould, and grow 
up into a vigorous tree, with no blights or gnarls, no 
shocks to warp or stunt. Drinking in summer dews 
and showers, warming with baths of golden sunlight, 
spreading out green branches above, and tough, sinewy 
roots below, until one came to be a giant, and braved 
any blast. No thought for the morrow. No care for 
to-day. Yes, tree and shrub, and rock and river, knew 
