Mr. Northrup found affairs in the wildest confusion. 
The first reports were but too true. 

" It is not worth while to wony Stuart with it," Mrs. 



 

Lawrence said. " He will be home soon, and then his 
hearing cannot mend matters. He will regret the unfor- 
tunate occurrence deeply." 

I hardly knew how I felt about Mr. St. John. Pride 
and delicacy revolted from making the slightest appeal to 
him. All the little tendernesses- I had planned, and the 
ready compliance I was to show, looked too much like 
interest. He could make my path very smooth in the 
manner pointed out by Mrs. Lawrence, The thought 
gave me an uncomfortable shiver. 

To please her I had gone on as usual. We had received 
an invitation to a birthnight party of a young lady, one 
of our neighbors, and a person I really admired. When I 
found that she expected me to accompany her, I made no 
demur; indeed, I anticipated much pleasure. Mrs. Darrell, 
the girl's mother, had been extremely sympathetic and 
cordial to me ; and I felt that no loss of fortune would 
ever change her regard for one she liked. 

The preparations roused me a little, brought me back 
to a more human state, I resolved to enjoy the gayeties 
with as much of the old zest as possible. 

"How bright and lovely you look!" Mrs. Lawrence 
said ; and I felt pleased with her commendation. 

It was indeed a gala scene; the lawn hung with.colored 
lanterns, and everywhere a profusion of fragrant flowers. 
Great wreaths of roses swaying in the soft June air> and 
the walks lined with blossoming shrubs of every variety, 
the porches covered, and the rooms decorated. How 
lovely it appeared ! and to make the enchantment more 
complete, musicians had been stationed in different parts 
of the ground, and sweet melodies went wandering through 
many a woodland path.. 

I felt my spirits rising. I knew I looked well. Why 
should I be shut out of enjoyment through a loss brought 
 



 

about by no fault of my own ? Was I not the same ? and 
did I not possess capabilities that had been mine a month 
ago ? My fortune had taken away no integral part of 
myself. 

They danced, chatted, laughed, and made themselves 
merry. The evening was half spent, perhaps, when I 
sauntered down a path, attracted by a strain of sweet 
melody the flutes and French horns were blowing out in 
tremulous summer gales. Then a voice near me said, 

" So Miss Adriance has lost her fortune. What will she do?" 

" Mrs. Lawrence is very fond of her. I suppose she will 
remain at Laurelwood, as she has no relatives," a voice that 
I recognized made answer. 

" And marry Mr. St. John." The sentence ended with 
a laugh. 

"Mr. St. John isn't considered a marrying man." 

" O, she will manage it. Beauty in tears is irresistible. 
Of course she will go to him for comfort and advice, and 
he being her guardian will feel moved in her behalf. You 
may count upon her being mistress of Laurelwood in six 
months." 

And then followed another mocking laugh that was like 
a stab to me. I had heard enough. Blinded by a sudden 
rush of emotion I could hardly find my way back to the 
brilliant lawn and the dancers. 

I had endured some petty slights before, but this stung 
me to the very heart. If I should marry Mr. St. John, how 
many would believe me actuated by purest affection, as 
I should be ? I was hurt, angry, and my enjoyment of the 
evening came to a sudden end. 

The next day I wrote to Mrs. Otis. Already she had 
shown me that I had one steadfest friend, at least, and 
invited me to visit her; indeed, she wished now that I 
would consider her home as my own. I should always be 



 

a most welcome guest. I had thanked her for this kind- 
ness when I was too deeply agitated to form any plans for 
the future. Indeed, I did not know as I had any right. 
But now some wild motive urged me on. I said frankly 
that henceforth I should be compelled to earn my own 
livelihood. There was but one avenue open to me at 
present teaching school. My musical abilities were of a 
high order, and I believed that I could take care of myself- 
Since the effort must be made some time, it would be as 
well, I thought, to start about it at once. But I seemed 
quite at loss to know to whom an application might better 
be made. If she could hear and advise me immediately, 
it would be of great assistance. 

I would show Mr. St. John and his sister that I dared 
brave the evils of poverty. He should not find me help- 
less, or positively in want of aught that he could give. I 
would not even make an indirect appeal for counsel. 
Whether it was pride that swayed me, or a just self- 
respect, I would not stop to consider. To be armed was 
all I cared for just now. 

Probably no reverse of fortune was ever pleasant. 
During these weeks I was in a measure shielded from 
gossip, because a large portion of the community had 
already started on the,ir phantom chase for summer pleas- 
ures. But now and then a sentence fell upon some bare, 
shrinking nerve, and gave me a momentary torture. I 
really did not dare to propose leaving Laurelwood, yet the 
days had lost all brightness and beauty. I grew morbidly 
sensitive, and longed to reach my true level, for I knew 
that in losing my fortune I had lost caste. 

Anne enclosed three advertisements in her reply two 
for a school, and one for a governess in one of the eastern 
counties of Maryland, where music was made a special 
requirement. This one attracted my fancy strongly, and I 



 

answered it immediately, telling as much of my story as 
was necessary, in order to account for my temerity in seek- 
ing a situation without reference, though I sent the name 
of Madame W., my former preceptress. What a flood 
of emotion this brought over me ! I remembered the 
day on which I had waited for Mr. St. John to come, the 
strange journey, the welcome here. Could I go away? 
Why, it would be like leaving my soul behind. 

I need not. I felt certain that Mr. St. John would con- 
sider himself bound by those few words spoken the night 
before his departure. What I wanted was not sympathy 
or sense of obligation, but love. Unless he could give me 
all that I desired, I would take nothing at his hands. If I 
must hunger, it should be in a desert, not in a land of 
plenty. 

By one of those odd circumstances that occasionally 
decide a fate, my application met with a fortunate recep- 
tion. Mrs. Ingalls had been pleased with it consulted 
her husband, who advised her to accept. There were two 
girls nearly grown and five younger children. The salary 
was very fair, although it seemed a pitifully small sum to 
me. My duties would commence on the first of September. 
That I might decline hardly appeared to enter the mind 
of Mrs. Ingalls. 

I was not prepared for so rapid a termination, and felt 
rather startled at my own haste and assurance. On the 
same morning a letter came from Mr. St. John, announcing 
that he should start in the next steamer. Then he would 
soon be home ! I owed him some duty, certainly. I had 
not a perfect right to dispose of myself without a slight 
consultation at least. He was my guardian, if no more. 

I decided to wait until I saw him before I took any 
positive step. The ease with which I had found this situa- 
tion gave me courage to believe that if it failed, I should 



 

be nble to secure something else without much difficulty. 
I i'elt armed, as it were, to fight any battle now. 

Such interminable days as these were! I was very quiet 
outwardly, but within reigned chaos resolves, prejudices, 
and events vibrating and influencing one another, until I 
felt strangely irresolute. Even the thought of love ceased 
to charm. 

The breach between Mrs. Lawrence and myself widened * 
perceptibly. There was nothing tangible in her demeanor; 
indeed, she sometimes appeared more solicitous ; but I had 
a consciousness that these phases were not real, and that 
she assumed them from a sense of duty. Disliking the 
senior Mrs. Channing, she could not approve Aylmer's mar- 
riage cordially, and held me in some degree answerable for 
it. Besides this, she experienced a pang of secret mortifi- 
cation that, with my many advantages, I was not married. 

The weather was growing intensely warm. A great 
cloud appeared to envelop me, full of slumbrous magnetic 
influences, not sufficiently charged for a crisis. I had a 
sensation of being cut off from the rest of the world. The 
very air about me grew stifling, and I drew my breath 
with great gasps of apprehension. And in this mood I 
counted up the days, until one morning, when I heard a 
stir among the servants. 

The master of Laurehvood had come! 

There were joyous greetings in the hall, the sweet voice 
of Mrs. Lawrence murmuring a pleasant welcome. Had I 
any part or lot in the matter? Should I thrust myself 
upon his attention in this first moment of his return ? 
Pride held me back. If he was very desirous of my pres- 
ence, he might signify it. But I waited in vain for any 
summons. What little events change the purposes of our 
lives! Any time dui ing that morning I could have been 
convinced by a word or a look of the great fact of his love j 



 

when the bell rang for luncheon, the hour of grace had 
passed. I felt calm, but bitter and cold. 

I hurried down, hoping to enter the dining-room first. 
He intercepted me in the hall. Somehow, I shall always 
remember the picture he made. The voyage had com- 
pleted the work of the tropical sun, and left him almost 
swarthy. His hair had been cut quite closely, displaying 
his broad forehead, and leaving a few stray curls at the 
temple. His eyes had a set look, that was fairly stern, 
while the flowing beard, with its peculiar bronze glitter, 
gave him a weird, foreign appearance. 

He flushed deeply in spite of the olive hue, and appeared 
at the first moment absolutely disconcerted. 

" You seem in no haste to welcome me," he said, rather 
sharply. " I had been counting on that, at least." 

" Your sister had the first right, I am sure," I answered, 
gravely. 

"And you none?" This was uttered in a tone of in- 
quiry. 

" None," I repeated. 

" At least you might ask if I were well ; " and he laughed 
rather nervously. 

" The fact is apparent. Allow me to congratulate you 
upon your safe return." 

At this juncture Mrs. Lawrence joined us. She looked 
somewhat discomposed, and glanced curiously at me. My 
sensitive pride took alarm at once. Did she fear that her 
brother would foolishly rush to the rescue, and marry me? 

Each one made an effort, and the meal passed most 
pleasantly, though the conversation was all upon Mr. St. 
John's journey. He was really delighted to be at home 
again ; that I could plainly see. We lingered over our 
dessert of fruit a long while, and as we rose he said, turn- 
ing to me, 



 

"May I see you in the library, Miss Adrinnce?" 

I crossed the hall with him, and then went over to the 
window. Just here we discussed my foolish engagement 
with such bitterness. How vividly it all carne back ! 

"Miss Adriance," he began presently, "my sister has 
informed me of your misfortune. I am most sorry that I 
should be absent at such a time; but I doubt if it is as bad. 
as she thinks. You are not quite disheartened." 

" I have sufficient courage to bear a reverse of fortune," 
I said, proudly. 

" You have both been looking at the darkest side. Such 
things alarm Isabelle a good deal. She knows so little 
about business." 

Then, after a pause, seeing that I made no reply, 

"I think I understand the matter perfectly, and can as- 
sure you that your fortune is not all gone. Have you no 
faith in my assertion, that you look so incredulous?" 

" Besides the lawyer's statement, I have heard from my 
friends at Baltimore, who were anxious to soften the blow 
as much as possible. There maybe a few thousands saved, 
but even that is doubtful." 

" Half at least," he said-, walking down the room, his face 
turned partly from me. 

I imagined his motive in an instant, and though it gave 
me a quick thrill, I could not endure to be the recipient 
of his generosity. 

"Mr. St. John," I said, trying to keep the touch of ex- 
citement out of my voice, "I can understand that you con- 
sider yourself in some manner answerable for this misfor- 
tune ; but I do not hold you so. It was Mr. Anthon's 
investment, and one cannot always guard against losses. 
I am satisfied that it is nearly all gone, and have made 
some arrangements for the future." 

He paused suddenly. " What arrangements ? " he asked, 
in a sharp tone. 



 

u I have already obtained a situation ns governess. It 
is necessary that I should depend upon my own exertions, 
and this offer came to me with a very litt'e trouble." 

"Governess!" He accompanied the word with such a 
disdainful gesture that it angered me. 

'You are in haste, I think, Miss Adriance. "It is pay- 
ing a poor compliment to your friends," he went on, with 
a scornful inflection. 

"I do not propose to test friendship that far," I said, 
haughtily. "Dependence would not be pleasant for me." 

"O, you arc strong-minded. It will not harm you to 
nir your theories occasionally; but you have forgotten one 
important fact. I am still your guardian." 

'There is no longer a necessity for supervision. When 
people are at work, they seldom fall into mischief." 

"It is still tin/ duty to provide you a home, and yours 
to remain there," he said, not attempting to disguise the 
power in his tone. 

"You can insist upon this for some time longer," I re- 
turned, coldly; "but it would not be an agreeable experi- 
ment. I question if a young lady with no fortune would 
be considered a valuable acquisition to Laurel wood society." 

"That is pure pride." 

"I am proud; I confess it." 

"And willing to make everything bow to this demon !" 

His tone was bitter, unjust, I thought. 

"The demon, as you style it, will not have many wor- 
ship] ers. There is nothing to be rendered subservient." 

"Nothing!" 

lie strode up and down the room, his face clouded, his 
lips compressed, and his eyes coming to points of flame. 
Had I gone too far? At all events, I could not be a sup- 
pliant for his love, and, truth to tell, he seemed in no haste 
to offer it. 



 

"This governessing is an absurd idea," he flung' out 
angrily. 

" I see nothing so absurd in a woman having courage to 
meet any exigency, and a desire not to become a burden 
to her friends." 

" I believe friends never were very weighty considera- 
tions with you." 

The taunt was too bitter. A scarlet heat flamed up in 
my face. 

"I have consulted some friends, in whom I have confi- 
dence," and my breath as well as my words came slowly, 
for I knew this was a cruel thrust. 

As if it had not touched him at all, he came nearer. 
"Can nothing induce you to give up this wild idea? You 
will find the routine very different from your fancy con- 
cerning it." 

"I do not expect a path of roses. I have some sense, at 
least," I returned, with warmth and passion. 

" And fortitude equal to any emergency," he retorted, 
with caustic dryness. 

Could this man ever have loved me? Love was kind 
and tender, shielding its object from every chilling blast, 
but he was more bitter and cutting than storm itself. I 
felt sick at heart. 

" It is not necessary to discuss the matter any farther," 
I said, rising. 

" I shall make a strict examination into this unfortunate 
business, and until then " 

He paused. I was so near that our hands almost clasped 
of their own accord. What invisible barrier kept us 
apart ? 

He made a sudden gesture, then he let me go without 
another word. 

I went directly to my room and answered Mrs. Ingalls's 



letter, promising to be at my post at the appointed time. 
It had been folly to delay it. What sweet, wild dreams I 
had indulged in for a brief space ! Gone, to the faintest 
shadow. I had always idealized Mr. St. John. He was 
not as grand and tender as the hero of my imagination, 
nny, he had never loved me as I wished to be loved. At 
times he had swayed me by his immense personal power, 
but the woman who won him must be a slave, and content 
to yield every atom of her own individuality. This did 
not quite satisfy me. 

I despatched my note at once. Passing through the 
hall, Mrs. Lawrence called me to ask about some trifle, 
but with more real kindliness in her manner than had been 
apparent of late. 

"Stuart told you, I suppose, that he believes the loss 
involved in the failure has been exaggerated. I am really 
glad for your sake. It's delightful to have some one in- 
spire us with a little courage." 

"I think he is mistaken," I answered, gravely. 

"At all events we can hope for the best. I've been a 
poor comforter, but bad news of any kind always has a 
depressing effect upon my nerves;" and she ended with 
a faint, sweet smile, 

I had learned my lesson to some purpose, and was not 
to be beguiled by this small display of graciousness. Per- 
haps I was hard and faithless, but my wound was bitter 
also. 

That night I found a note on my dressing-table. I 
recognized the writing instantly. What could Mr. St. 
John wish to say to me in this manner? Some neighbors 
had been in to spend the evening, and Mr. St. John had 
proved most entertaining. 

I broke the seal with no little trepidation, and then, 
drawing up the nearest chair, sat down to read. 



 

It was not the passionate declaration of love one 
might expect from such a man, but a rather stately offer 
of his hand, fortune, Laurel wood, the place I had professed 
to hold in such high regard. It was kind and exquisitely 
worded, but the heart seemed left out, as if he were more 
desirous of saving me from hardship and making my outer 
life luxurious and pleasant, than aiming to reach any true 
and high soul existence. For a long while I sat in deep 
thought. The world would believe that I considered this 
the best means of retrieving my fallen fortunes, but what 
would he think? He had not made one appeal to my 
regard for himself. Did he really hold that women were 
always swayed by mercenary considerations, and that to 
satisfy these was the royal road to their hearts? 

To live with him and not be allowed the fullest liberty 
to love, and to express it, would be simply torture. With 
me the regard must soon become a passion, and repression 
would be harder to endure than total loss and absence. 

I will not deny that pride was strongly concerned. I 
thought he had not treated me fairly, justly. I had a right 
to expect something better at his hands. 

I had somewhere read of a little boat floating over the 
sea, holding a slumbering lady, whose stiing of pearls had 
become unfastened, and the gems were slowly dropping 
into the water. She woke and grasped it, terrified at see- 
ing her precious pearls slip away. I had been a traveller 
drifting down a sunny stream, gathering priceless pearls 
human hearts. Now they began to drop away. Should 
I reach out my hand to save any ? 

Mr. St. John was calm and inscrutable at breakfast the 
next morning. No look or gesture on his part betrayed 
the slightest concern. I believe his very self-possession 
roused all the angry strength of my soul. I should never 
be able to decide whether he loved me, and must take my 
step in the darkness of unbelief. 



 

I intended to answer him in his own fashion, and yet 
dreaded to say the fatal words, to cut myself off from hope. 
So I rambled about the grounds, lingering in shady nooks 
that I loved so well. It would be hard to go. 

I came suddenly upon him at a turn in the path. For a 
moment we faced each other. 

" Miss Adriauce," he said, in a strange, husky tone, yet 
with a touch of fierce impatience, "you must have read my 
note. Answer me now I cannot wait." 

The old imperious manner. There was no instinct of 
serfdom in me. I would not be forced into fetters. Every 
drop of blood in my veins revolted. 

" It is easily said. No man's gold can buy my heart." 

"Easily!" 

It was an ill-chosen word. One bitter lightning glance, 
that seemed to scorch the very springs of life, and he 
turned was lost to me. Should I utter a cry of agony, 
and bring him back ? 

When I could rouse myself from this stupor, I con- 
tinued my walk. An interposing fate had settled all my 
perplexity. I was quite free to go. But Eve's wail of 
desolation seemed borne to me on every breath of the 
summer air. It would be rending body and soul asunder. 



 



CHAPTER XVII. 

" I see thecurse on gestures proud and cold, 
And looks of proud defiance and calm bate, 
And such despair as mocks itself with smiles." 

SHELLET. 

A QUICK step crossed the wide balcony, and a cheery 
voice fell upon ray ear. I turned to behold Philip Wes- 
tervelt. 

" What a ghostly face ! " he exclaimed. " Isn't St. John 
home ? I saw his name amongst the arrivals, and flew 
down from Washington to have a look at our travelled 
hero. Don't disappoint me by any evil tidings." 

" Mr. St. John came home yesterday, and is very well," 
I returned ; and in another instant the master's voice 
sounded from ^he library. 

Philip vaulted into the open window. I ran away to 
my room, and took one glimpse of myself in the long mirror 
that had told me so many flattering tales. I fancied that 
I could see suffering already written in my face. 

" This will never do," I said to myself. " It is cowardly 
to take the marks of the first evil blow fate gives." 

So I summoned my resolution, and sought to bury the 
dead hopes out of my sight. One dream too bright, too 
perfect for earthly realization. There are many trials and 
crosses before one enters the promised land. I might have 
known that so fair a prospect was but a mirage, and that 
my life could be no more perfect than any other human 
lot. Yet had I not bereft it of all hope ? Would it ever 
blossom with the promise of golden fruitage ? 



 

I resigned myself to fate. Struggling was vain and 
futile. I would not ask what the future held, but go on, 
no matter how thorny the path might prove. 

Philip's arrival was certainly well timed, though the 
accident of a sudden whim. When we all met at luncheon, 
Mr. St. John was quite in his usual mood, and met me 
without the slightest awkwardness. Indeed, so serene 
and gracious seemed he, that I wondered if the man had 
any soul that could be touched. Philip was in the gayest 
of spirits, but somehow his happiness jarred upon me. 
Was it because my own desolation became the more 
apparent ? 

I had been resolving in my own mind that I would pro- 
pose a visit to Mrs. Otis as the easiest way of leaving 
Laurel WOOL!. I had an opportunity of announcing this at 
the dinner-table, and felt that I was safely over one diffi- 
cult step. 

Quite late in the evening, when I was meditating a 
retreat to my own room, Philip asked me to walk a little 
while with him. It was a glorious night,,with the moon 
nearly at its full. The wandering air brought faint voices 
from the distant groves a tender, suggestive sound that 
touched the heart. 

"How can you leave this?" Philip asked, suddenly. 
"Sydnie, how much soul have you? I seem to have gone 
widely astray in my estimate of you." 

" Your estimate may have been wrong. I don't know 
as I am answerable to all my friends." 

Why do you go ? " 

" Because I do not choose to stay and be dependent." 

" St. John said you were going out as a governess." 

"I find some kind of employment necessary. You seem 
to forget that I am no longer an heiress." 

" St. John thinks something can be saved from the wreck." 



 

This is folly," I said, half vexed at Mr. St. John's 
pertinacity. "He is generous enough to replace a part of 
it; but I would not accept such a favor from any man, 
least of all him." 

"Don't intrench yourself so strongly in your own might. 
Do you think so lightly of friends that you can discard 
them with ease?" 

" We are hardly friends when it comes to that," I said, 
with a scornful inflection. 

" And you might have been so much more ! O, Sydnie, 
are women born blind and wilful, that they should thus 
throw away the great prizes of life ? I felt so sure that 
you would end by loving Stuart. I do not see how a 
woman could fail to be won by his strength, that is like a 
resistless tide, and his sweetness that can find a way to any 
but the most obdurate heart. It amazes me to think that 
you have been insensible to all the finer traits iahis char- 
acter, and most of all, his love." 

" Did he send you to plead his cause ? " 

Sydnie ! " 

I felt the involuntary movement of his arm, almost as if 
he would have spurned me. 

"We shall never agree about Mr. St. John," I returned. 
" To you he has been one' of the dearest and tenderest 
friends, while with me it has proved widely different. 
Your romance about us has misled you. We are not con- 
genial in scarcely any sense. He does not understand my 
most ordinary moods; and I confess he has always been a 
puzzle to me." 

"You are proud and impatient. Forgive the truth, 
and believe that no sister could have a larger share in a 
brother's heart than you have in mine. If you will accept 
of our sympathy and love, our home shall be yours, freely 
proffered by Ellen as well as myself, and any word of dis- 



 

satisfaction that I utter comes from a heart sore and 
pained because* I am grieved to see one dear friend suffer 
who might be made happy by love." 

" You may set your heart at rest. Mr. St. John does 
not love me as you imagine." 

" It is your pride that blinds you. O, pause and con- 
sider ere you throw away the sweetest gift of life, and 
wreck your own soul." 

" Convincing you would be a hopeless task. But I see 
my way clearly, and there are no thorns that a resolute 
step cannot crush." 

"You are too strong and cruel for a woman. Look 
down the futue, and see if the path is fair! Are there no 
places marked by tears ? no shrine where hope despoiled 
still clings to some stray fragment of what it once might 
have held with a tender clasp ? no day of loneliness, regret, 
or despajf ? " 

I would not own to any. 

" I used to think you, of all others, would be keenly sus- 
ceptible to love. I fancied it would be no light passion, 
but a perfect, overwhelming tide that would regenerate 
you into new being. How have you thrust out that low- 
voiced angel?" 

Ah, he little guessed how madly I had loved, how my 
heart throbbed now in its torturing throes of anguish! 
That both these men should deem me cold and heartless 
was bitter indeed. But I could never make them see me 
as I truly was. Therefore I vouchsafed no answer. 

Presently Philip said, " You are quite resolved, then ? " 

" I shall not shrink from the duties that I see be- 
fore me." 

He faced me suddenly ; but I was prepared. I felt that 
not a feature would betray me, and perhaps exulted a little 
in my strength. 



 

" How beautiful you are," he went on ; " like this idea 
of Milton's 

What though the field be lost all is not lost ; 
The unconquerable will 



and courage never to submit 



Or yield; and what is else not to be overcome ' " 

" I feel like it," I replied. I could have found it in my 
heart to repeat the rest. 

"But the fiercest flames burn out, and then the ashes 
of desolation ! Will you never weary on this great high- 
way, and long for shade where none may ever come ?" 

" Whether it be shade or sun, I am content." 

"And this is the result of a life that promised so much. 
O, Sydnie!" 

His tone seemed to strike a knell in my heart. 

"We all dream dreams in youth," I said, and then we 
returned to the house in silence. 

He left us the next morning. After that I made prepa- 
rations for my visit. No one opposed me, or suggested 
any change. Mr. St. John and his sister were very kind. 
It really seemed as if nothing had occurred, and that 
presently I would return and resume the old life. I could 
not bring myself to believe that this was to be the last ; 
and my heart smote me for cowardly concealing my 
resolve. 

Mrs. Lawrence parted with me most cordially. She had 
a faith, or affected it, that her brother could manage to 
restore part of my fortune, and began to plan gayeties for 
the winter. Mr. St. John drove me to the station. We 
.exchanged a lingering good by. Was there any latent word 
that might still be spoken, any glance capable of changing 
the current of our lives? . 

Alone in the car I dropped my travelling veil, although 
the day was warm. I felt weak and nervous now, and 
 
