
"Your name is--"

"Hunter."

The bank-clerk went to a large folio volume, containing the names of
depositors, and began to turn over the leaves. While he was doing
this, he managed to send out a young man connected with the bank for
a policeman. Travis did not perceive this, or did not suspect that
it had anything to do with himself. Not being used to savings banks,
he supposed the delay only what was usual. After a search, which was
only intended to gain time that a policeman might be summoned, the
cashier came back, and, sliding out a piece of paper to Travis,
said, "It will be necessary for you to write an order for the money."

Travis took a pen, which he found on the ledge outside, and wrote
the order, signing his name "Dick Hunter," having observed that name
on the outside of the book.

"Your name is Dick Hunter, then?" said the cashier, taking the
paper, and looking at the thief over his spectacles.

"Yes," said Travis, promptly.

"But," continued the cashier, "I find Hunter's age is put down on
the bank-book as fourteen. Surely you must be more than that."

Travis would gladly have declared that he was only fourteen; but,
being in reality twenty-three, and possessing a luxuriant pair of
whiskers, this was not to be thought of. He began to feel uneasy.

"Dick Hunter's my younger brother," he said. "I'm getting out the
money for him."

"I thought you said your own name was Dick Hunter," said the cashier.

"I said my name was Hunter," said Travis, ingeniously. "I didn't
understand you."

"But you've signed the name of Dick Hunter to this order. How is
that?" questioned the troublesome cashier.

Travis saw that he was getting himself into a tight place; but his
self-possession did not desert him.

"I thought I must give my brother's name," he answered.

"What is your own name?"

"Henry Hunter."

"Can you bring any one to testify that the statement you are
making is correct?"

"Yes, a dozen if you like," said Travis, boldly. "Give me the book,
and I'll come back this afternoon. I didn't think there'd be such a
fuss about getting out a little money."

"Wait a moment. Why don't your brother come himself?"

"Because he's sick. He's down with the measles," said Travis.

Here the cashier signed to Dick to rise and show himself. Our hero
accordingly did so.

"You will be glad to find that he has recovered," said the cashier,
pointing to Dick.

With an exclamation of anger and dismay, Travis, who saw the game
was up, started for the door, feeling that safety made such a course
prudent. But he was too late. He found himself confronted by a burly
policeman, who seized him by the arm, saying, "Not so fast, my man.
I want you."

"Let me go," exclaimed Travis, struggling to free himself.

"I'm sorry I can't oblige you," said the officer. "You'd better not
make a fuss, or I may have to hurt you a little."

Travis sullenly resigned himself to his fate, darting a look of rage
at Dick, whom he considered the author of his present misfortune.

"This is your book," said the cashier, handing back his rightful
property to our hero. "Do you wish to draw out any money?"

"Two dollars," said Dick.

"Very well. Write an order for the amount."

Before doing so, Dick, who now that he saw Travis in the power of
the law began to pity him, went up to the officer, and said,--

"Won't you let him go? I've got my bank-book back, and I don't want
anything done to him."

"Sorry I can't oblige you," said the officer; "but I'm not allowed
to do it. He'll have to stand his trial."

"I'm sorry for you, Travis," said Dick. "I didn't want you arrested.
I only wanted my bank-book back."

"Curse you!" said Travis, scowling vindictively. "Wait till I get
free. See if I don't fix you."

"You needn't pity him too much," said the officer. "I know him now.
He's been to the Island before."

"It's a lie," said Travis, violently.

"Don't be too noisy, my friend," said the officer. "If you've got no
more business here, we'll be going."

He withdrew with the prisoner in charge, and Dick, having drawn his
two dollars, left the bank. Notwithstanding the violent words the
prisoner had used towards himself, and his attempted robbery, he
could not help feeling sorry that he had been instrumental in
causing his arrest.

"I'll keep my book a little safer hereafter," thought Dick. "Now I
must go and see Tom Wilkins."

Before dismissing the subject of Travis and his theft, it may be
remarked that he was duly tried, and, his guilt being clear, was
sent to Blackwell's Island for nine months. At the end of that time,
on his release, he got a chance to work his passage on a ship to
San Francisco, where he probably arrived in due time. At any rate,
nothing more has been heard of him, and probably his threat of
vengence against Dick will never be carried into effect.

Returning to the City Hall Park, Dick soon fell in with Tom Wilkins.

"How are you, Tom?" he said. "How's your mother?"

"She's better, Dick, thank you. She felt worried about bein' turned
out into the street; but I gave her that money from you, and now she
feels a good deal easier."

"I've got some more for you, Tom," said Dick, producing a two-dollar
bill from his pocket.

"I ought not to take it from you, Dick."

"Oh, it's all right, Tom. Don't be afraid."

"But you may need it yourself."

"There's plenty more where that came from."

"Any way, one dollar will be enough. With that we can pay the rent."

"You'll want the other to buy something to eat."

"You're very kind, Dick."

"I'd ought to be. I've only got myself to take care of."

"Well, I'll take it for my mother's sake. When you want anything
done just call on Tom Wilkins."

"All right. Next week, if your mother doesn't get better, I'll give
you some more."

Tom thanked our hero very gratefully, and Dick walked away,
feeling the self-approval which always accompanies a generous and
disinterested action. He was generous by nature, and, before
the period at which he is introduced to the reader's notice, he
frequently treated his friends to cigars and oyster-stews. Sometimes
he invited them to accompany him to the theatre at his expense. But
he never derived from these acts of liberality the same degree of
satisfaction as from this timely gift to Tom Wilkins. He felt that
his money was well bestowed, and would save an entire family from
privation and discomfort. Five dollars would, to be sure, make
something of a difference in the mount of his savings. It was more
than he was able to save up in a week. But Dick felt fully repaid
for what he had done, and he felt prepared to give as much more,
if Tom's mother should continue to be sick, and should appear to
him to need it.

Besides all this, Dick felt a justifiable pride in his financial
ability to afford so handsome a gift. A year before, however much
he might have desired to give, it would have been quite out of his
power to give five dollars. His cash balance never reached that
amount. It was seldom, indeed, that it equalled one dollar. In
more ways than one Dick was beginning to reap the advantage of his
self-denial and judicious economy.

It will be remembered that when Mr. Whitney at parting with Dick
presented him with five dollars, he told him that he might repay it
to some other boy who was struggling upward. Dick thought of this,
and it occurred to him that after all he was only paying up an old
debt.

When Fosdick came home in the evening, Dick announced his success
in recovering his lost money, and described the manner it had been
brought about.

"You're in luck," said Fosdick. "I guess we'd better not trust the
bureau-drawer again."

"I mean to carry my book round with me," said Dick.

"So shall I, as long as we stay at Mrs. Mooney's. I wish we were in
a better place."

"I must go down and tell her she needn't expect Travis back. Poor
chap, I pity him!"

Travis was never more seen in Mrs. Mooney's establishment. He was
owing that lady for a fortnight's rent of his room, which prevented
her feeling much compassion for him. The room was soon after let to
a more creditable tenant who proved a less troublesome neighbor than
his predecessor.



CHAPTER XXIV

DICK RECEIVES A LETTER


It was about a week after Dick's recovery of his bank-book, that
Fosdick brought home with him in the evening a copy of the "Daily
Sun."

"Would you like to see your name in print, Dick?" he asked.

"Yes," said Dick, who was busy at the wash-stand, endeavoring to
efface the marks which his day's work had left upon his hands. "They
haven't put me up for mayor, have they? 'Cause if they have, I
shan't accept. It would interfere too much with my private business."

"No," said Fosdick, "they haven't put you up for office yet, though
that may happen sometime. But if you want to see your name in print,
here it is."

Dick was rather incredulous, but, having dried his hands on the
towel, took the paper, and following the directions of Fosdick's
finger, observed in the list of advertised letters the name of
"RAGGED DICK."

"By gracious, so it is," said he. "Do you s'pose it means me?"

"I don't know of any other Ragged Dick,--do you?"

"No," said Dick, reflectively; "it must be me. But I don't know of
anybody that would be likely to write to me."

"Perhaps it is Frank Whitney," suggested Fosdick, after a little
reflection. "Didn't he promise to write to you?"

"Yes," said Dick, "and he wanted me to write to him."

"Where is he now?"

"He was going to a boarding-school in Connecticut, he said. The name
of the town was Barnton."

"Very likely the letter is from him."

"I hope it is. Frank was a tip-top boy, and he was the first that
made me ashamed of bein' so ignorant and dirty."

"You had better go to the post-office to-morrow morning, and ask for
the letter."

"P'r'aps they won't give it to me."

"Suppose you wear the old clothes you used to a year ago, when Frank
first saw you? They won't have any doubt of your being Ragged Dick
then."

"I guess I will. I'll be sort of ashamed to be seen in 'em though,"
said Dick, who had considerable more pride in a neat personal
appearance than when we were first introduced to him.

"It will be only for one day, or one morning," said Fosdick.

"I'd do more'n that for the sake of gettin' a letter from Frank. I'd
like to see him."

The next morning, in accordance with the suggestion of Fosdick, Dick
arrayed himself in the long disused Washington coat and Napoleon
pants, which he had carefully preserved, for what reason he could
hardly explain.

When fairly equipped, Dick surveyed himself in the mirror,--if the
little seven-by-nine-inch looking-glass, with which the room was
furnished, deserved the name. The result of the survey was not on
the whole a pleasing one. To tell the truth, Dick was quite ashamed
of his appearance, and, on opening the chamber-door, looked around
to see that the coast was clear, not being willing to have any of
his fellow-boarders see him in his present attire.

He managed to slip out into the street unobserved, and, after
attending to two or three regular customers who came down-town
early in the morning, he made his way down Nassau Street to the
post-office. He passed along until he came to a compartment on
which he read ADVERTISED LETTERS, and, stepping up to the little
window, said,--

"There's a letter for me. I saw it advertised in the 'Sun'
yesterday."

"What name?" demanded the clerk.

"Ragged Dick," answered our hero.

"That's a queer name," said the clerk, surveying him a little
curiously. "Are you Ragged Dick?"

"If you don't believe me, look at my clo'es," said Dick.

"That's pretty good proof, certainly," said the clerk, laughing. "If
that isn't your name, it deserves to be."

"I believe in dressin' up to your name," said Dick.

"Do you know any one in Barnton, Connecticut?" asked the clerk, who
had by this time found the letter.

"Yes," said Dick. "I know a chap that's at boardin'-school there."

"It appears to be in a boy's hand. I think it must be yours."

The letter was handed to Dick through the window. He received it
eagerly, and drawing back so as not to be in the way of the throng
who were constantly applying for letters, or slipping them into the
boxes provided for them, hastily opened it, and began to read. As
the reader may be interested in the contents of the letter as well
as Dick, we transcribe it below.

It was dated Barnton, Conn., and commenced thus,--


"DEAR DICK,--You must excuse my addressing this letter to 'Ragged
Dick'; but the fact is, I don't know what your last name is, nor
where you live. I am afraid there is not much chance of your getting
this letter; but I hope you will. I have thought of you very often,
and wondered how you were getting along, and I should have written
to you before if I had known where to direct.

"Let me tell you a little about myself. Barnton is a very
pretty country town, only about six miles from Hartford. The
boarding-school which I attend is under the charge of Ezekiel
Munroe, A.M. He is a man of about fifty, a graduate of Yale College,
and has always been a teacher. It is a large two-story house, with
an addition containing a good many small bed-chambers for the boys.
There are about twenty of us, and there is one assistant teacher who
teaches the English branches. Mr. Munroe, or Old Zeke, as we call
him behind his back, teaches Latin and Greek. I am studying both
these languages, because father wants me to go to college.

"But you won't be interested in hearing about our studies. I will
tell you how we amuse ourselves. There are about fifty acres of land
belonging to Mr. Munroe; so that we have plenty of room for play.
About a quarter of a mile from the house there is a good-sized pond.
There is a large, round-bottomed boat, which is stout and strong.
Every Wednesday and Saturday afternoon, when the weather is good, we
go out rowing on the pond. Mr. Barton, the assistant teacher, goes
with us, to look after us. In the summer we are allowed to go in
bathing. In the winter there is splendid skating on the pond.

"Besides this, we play ball a good deal, and we have various other
plays. So we have a pretty good time, although we study pretty hard
too. I am getting on very well in my studies. Father has not decided
yet where he will send me to college.

"I wish you were here, Dick. I should enjoy your company, and
besides I should like to feel that you were getting an education. I
think you are naturally a pretty smart boy; but I suppose, as you
have to earn your own living, you don't get much chance to learn. I
only wish I had a few hundred dollars of my own. I would have you
come up here, and attend school with us. If I ever have a chance to
help you in any way, you may be sure that I will.

"I shall have to wind up my letter now, as I have to hand in a
composition to-morrow, on the life and character of Washington. I
might say that I have a friend who wears a coat that once belonged
to the general. But I suppose that coat must be worn out by this
time. I don't much like writing compositions. I would a good deal
rather write letters.

"I have written a longer letter than I meant to. I hope you will get
it, though I am afraid not. If you do, you must be sure to answer
it, as soon as possible. You needn't mind if your writing does look
like 'hens-tracks,' as you told me once.

"Good-by, Dick. You must always think of me, as your very true
friend,

"FRANK WHITNEY."


Dick read this letter with much satisfaction. It is always pleasant
to be remembered, and Dick had so few friends that it was more to
him than to boys who are better provided. Again, he felt a new sense
of importance in having a letter addressed to him. It was the first
letter he had ever received. If it had been sent to him a year
before, he would not have been able to read it. But now, thanks to
Fosdick's instructions, he could not only read writing, but he could
write a very good hand himself.

There was one passage in the letter which pleased Dick. It was where
Frank said that if he had the money he would pay for his education
himself.

"He's a tip-top feller," said Dick. "I wish I could see him ag'in."

There were two reasons why Dick would like to have seen Frank. One
was, the natural pleasure he would have in meeting a friend; but he
felt also that he would like to have Frank witness the improvement
he had made in his studies and mode of life.

"He'd find me a little more 'spectable than when he first saw me,"
thought Dick.

Dick had by this time got up to Printing House Square. Standing on
Spruce Street, near the "Tribune" office, was his old enemy, Micky
Maguire.

It has already been said that Micky felt a natural enmity towards
those in his own condition in life who wore better clothes than
himself. For the last nine months, Dick's neat appearance had
excited the ire of the young Philistine. To appear in neat attire
and with a clean face Micky felt was a piece of presumption, and an
assumption of superiority on the part of our hero, and he termed it
"tryin' to be a swell."

Now his astonished eyes rested on Dick in his ancient attire, which
was very similar to his own. It was a moment of triumph to him. He
felt that "pride had had a fall," and he could not forbear reminding
Dick of it.

"Them's nice clo'es you've got on," said he, sarcastically, as Dick
came up.

"Yes," said Dick, promptly. "I've been employin' your tailor. If my
face was only dirty we'd be taken for twin brothers."

"So you've give up tryin' to be a swell?"

"Only for this partic'lar occasion," said Dick. "I wanted to make a
fashionable call, so I put on my regimentals."

"I don't b'lieve you've got any better clo'es," said Micky.

"All right," said Dick, "I won't charge you nothin' for what you
believe."

Here a customer presented himself for Micky, and Dick went back to
his room to change his clothes, before resuming business.



CHAPTER XXV

DICK WRITES HIS FIRST LETTER


When Fosdick reached home in the evening, Dick displayed his letter
with some pride.

"It's a nice letter," said Fosdick, after reading it. "I should like
to know Frank."

"I'll bet you would," said Dick. "He's a trump."

"When are you going to answer it?"

"I don't know," said Dick, dubiously. "I never writ a letter."

"That's no reason why you shouldn't. There's always a first time,
you know."

"I don't know what to say," said Dick.

"Get some paper and sit down to it, and you'll find enough to say.
You can do that this evening instead of studying."

"If you'll look it over afterwards, and shine it up a little."

"Yes, if it needs it; but I rather think Frank would like it best
just as you wrote it."

Dick decided to adopt Fosdick's suggestion. He had very serious
doubts as to his ability to write a letter. Like a good many other
boys, he looked upon it as a very serious job, not reflecting that,
after all, letter-writing is nothing but talking upon paper. Still,
in spite of his misgivings, he felt that the letter ought to be
answered, and he wished Frank to hear from him. After various
preparations, he at last got settled down to his task, and, before
the evening was over, a letter was written. As the first letter
which Dick had ever produced, and because it was characteristic
of him, my readers may like to read it.

Here it is,--


"DEAR FRANK,--I got your letter this mornin', and was very glad to
hear you hadn't forgotten Ragged Dick. I aint so ragged as I was.
Openwork coats and trowsers has gone out of fashion. I put on the
Washington coat and Napoleon pants to go to the post-office, for
fear they wouldn't think I was the boy that was meant. On my way
back I received the congratulations of my intimate friend, Micky
Maguire, on my improved appearance.

"I've give up sleepin' in boxes, and old wagons, findin' it didn't
agree with my constitution. I've hired a room in Mott Street, and
have got a private tooter, who rooms with me and looks after my
studies in the evenin'. Mott Street aint very fashionable; but my
manshun on Fifth Avenoo isn't finished yet, and I'm afraid it won't
be till I'm a gray-haired veteran. I've got a hundred dollars
towards it, which I've saved up from my earnin's. I haven't forgot
what you and your uncle said to me, and I'm tryin' to grow up
'spectable. I haven't been to Tony Pastor's, or the Old Bowery, for
ever so long. I'd rather save up my money to support me in my old
age. When my hair gets gray, I'm goin' to knock off blackin' boots,
and go into some light, genteel employment, such as keepin' an
apple-stand, or disseminatin' pea-nuts among the people.

"I've got so as to read pretty well, so my tooter says. I've been
studyin' geography and grammar also. I've made such astonishin'
progress that I can tell a noun from a conjunction as far away as
I can see 'em. Tell Mr. Munroe that if he wants an accomplished
teacher in his school, he can send for me, and I'll come on by the
very next train. Or, if he wants to sell out for a hundred dollars,
I'll buy the whole concern, and agree to teach the scholars all I
know myself in less than six months. Is teachin' as good business,
generally speakin', as blackin' boots? My private tooter combines
both, and is makin' a fortun' with great rapidity. He'll be as rich
as Astor some time, if he only lives long enough.

"I should think you'd have a bully time at your school. I should
like to go out in the boat, or play ball with you. When are you
comin' to the city? I wish you'd write and let me know when you do,
and I'll call and see you. I'll leave my business in the hands of my
numerous clerks, and go round with you. There's lots of things you
didn't see when you was here before. They're getting on fast at the
Central Park. It looks better than it did a year ago.

"I aint much used to writin' letters. As this is the first one I
ever wrote, I hope you'll excuse the mistakes. I hope you'll write
to me again soon. I can't write so good a letter as you; but, I'll
do my best, as the man said when he was asked if he could swim over
to Brooklyn backwards. Good-by, Frank. Thank you for all your
kindness. Direct your next letter to No. -- Mott Street.

  "Your true friend,
  "DICK HUNTER."


When Dick had written the last word, he leaned back in his chair,
and surveyed the letter with much satisfaction.

"I didn't think I could have wrote such a long letter, Fosdick,"
said he.

"Written would be more grammatical, Dick," suggested his friend.

"I guess there's plenty of mistakes in it," said Dick. "Just look at
it, and see."

Fosdick took the letter, and read it over carefully.

"Yes, there are some mistakes," he said; "but it sounds so much like
you that I think it would be better to let it go just as it is. It
will be more likely to remind Frank of what you were when he first
saw you."

"Is it good enough to send?" asked Dick, anxiously.

"Yes; it seems to me to be quite a good letter. It is written just
as you talk. Nobody but you could have written such a letter, Dick.
I think Frank will be amused at your proposal to come up there as
teacher."

"P'r'aps it would be a good idea for us to open a seleck school here
in Mott Street," said Dick, humorously. "We could call it 'Professor
Fosdick and Hunter's Mott Street Seminary.' Boot-blackin' taught by
Professor Hunter."

The evening was so far advanced that Dick decided to postpone
copying his letter till the next evening. By this time he had come
to have a very fair handwriting, so that when the letter was
complete it really looked quite creditable, and no one would have
suspected that it was Dick's first attempt in this line. Our hero
surveyed it with no little complacency. In fact, he felt rather
proud of it, since it reminded him of the great progress he had
made. He carried it down to the post-office, and deposited it with
his own hands in the proper box. Just on the steps of the building,
as he was coming out, he met Johnny Nolan, who had been sent on an
errand to Wall Street by some gentleman, and was just returning.

"What are you doin' down here, Dick?" asked Johnny.

"I've been mailin' a letter."

"Who sent you?"

"Nobody."

"I mean, who writ the letter?"

"I wrote it myself."

"Can you write letters?" asked Johnny, in amazement.

"Why shouldn't I?"

"I didn't know you could write. I can't."

"Then you ought to learn."

"I went to school once; but it was too hard work, so I give it up."

"You're lazy, Johnny,--that's what's the matter. How'd you ever
expect to know anything, if you don't try?"

"I can't learn."

"You can, if you want to."

Johnny Nolan was evidently of a different opinion. He was a
good-natured boy, large of his age, with nothing particularly bad
about him, but utterly lacking in that energy, ambition, and natural
sharpness, for which Dick was distinguished. He was not adapted to
succeed in the life which circumstances had forced upon him; for in
the street-life of the metropolis a boy needs to be on the alert,
and have all his wits about him, or he will find himself wholly
distanced by his more enterprising competitors for popular favor. To
succeed in his profession, humble as it is, a boot-black must depend
upon the same qualities which gain success in higher walks in
life. It was easy to see that Johnny, unless very much favored by
circumstances, would never rise much above his present level. For
Dick, we cannot help hoping much better things.



CHAPTER XXVI

AN EXCITING ADVENTURE


Dick now began to look about for a position in a store or
counting-room. Until he should obtain one he determined to devote
half the day to blacking boots, not being willing to break in upon
his small capital. He found that he could earn enough in half a day
to pay all his necessary expenses, including the entire rent of the
room. Fosdick desired to pay his half; but Dick steadily refused,
insisting upon paying so much as compensation for his friend's
services as instructor.

It should be added that Dick's peculiar way of speaking and use of
slang terms had been somewhat modified by his education and his
intimacy with Henry Fosdick. Still he continued to indulge in them
to some extent, especially when he felt like joking, and it was
natural to Dick to joke, as my readers have probably found out by
this time. Still his manners were considerably improved, so that he
was more likely to obtain a situation than when first introduced
to our notice.

Just now, however, business was very dull, and merchants, instead of
hiring new assistants, were disposed to part with those already in
their employ. After making several ineffectual applications, Dick
began to think he should be obliged to stick to his profession until
the next season. But about this time something occurred which
considerably improved his chances of preferment.

This is the way it happened.

As Dick, with a balance of more than a hundred dollars in the
savings bank, might fairly consider himself a young man of property,
he thought himself justified in occasionally taking a half holiday
from business, and going on an excursion. On Wednesday afternoon
Henry Fosdick was sent by his employer on an errand to that part of
Brooklyn near Greenwood Cemetery. Dick hastily dressed himself in
his best, and determined to accompany him.

The two boys walked down to the South Ferry, and, paying their two
cents each, entered the ferry boat. They remained at the stern, and
stood by the railing, watching the great city, with its crowded
wharves, receding from view. Beside them was a gentleman with two
children,--a girl of eight and a little boy of six. The children
were talking gayly to their father. While he was pointing out some
object of interest to the little girl, the boy managed to creep,
unobserved, beneath the chain that extends across the boat, for the
protection of passengers, and, stepping incautiously to the edge
of the boat, fell over into the foaming water.

At the child's scream, the father looked up, and, with a cry of
horror, sprang to the edge of the boat. He would have plunged in,
but, being unable to swim, would only have endangered his own life,
without being able to save his child.

"My child!" he exclaimed in anguish,--"who will save my child? A
thousand--ten thousand dollars to any one who will save him!"

There chanced to be but few passengers on board at the time, and
nearly all these were either in the cabins or standing forward.
Among the few who saw the child fall was our hero.

Now Dick was an expert swimmer. It was an accomplishment which he
had possessed for years, and he no sooner saw the boy fall than he
resolved to rescue him. His determination was formed before he heard
the liberal offer made by the boy's father. Indeed, I must do Dick
the justice to say that, in the excitement of the moment, he did not
hear it at all, nor would it have stimulated the alacrity with which
he sprang to the rescue of the little boy.

Little Johnny had already risen once, and gone under for the second
time, when our hero plunged in. He was obliged to strike out for
the boy, and this took time. He reached him none too soon. Just as
he was sinking for the third and last time, he caught him by the
jacket. Dick was stout and strong, but Johnny clung to him so
tightly, that it was with great difficulty he was able to sustain
himself.

"Put your arms round my neck," said Dick.

The little boy mechanically obeyed, and clung with a grasp
strengthened by his terror. In this position Dick could bear his
weight better. But the ferry-boat was receding fast. It was quite
impossible to reach it. The father, his face pale with terror and
anguish, and his hands clasped in suspense, saw the brave boy's
struggles, and prayed with agonizing fervor that he might be
successful. But it is probable, for they were now midway of the
river, that both Dick and the little boy whom he had bravely
undertaken to rescue would have been drowned, had not a row-boat
been fortunately near. The two men who were in it witnessed the
accident, and hastened to the rescue of our hero.

"Keep up a little longer," they shouted, bending to their oars,
"and we will save you."

Dick heard the shout, and it put fresh strength into him. He battled
manfully with the treacherous sea, his eyes fixed longingly upon the
approaching boat.

"Hold on tight, little boy," he said. "There's a boat coming."

The little boy did not see the boat. His eyes were closed to shut
out the fearful water, but he clung the closer to his young
preserver. Six long, steady strokes, and the boat dashed along side.
Strong hands seized Dick and his youthful burden, and drew them into
the boat, both dripping with water.

"God be thanked!" exclaimed the father, as from the steamer he saw
the child's rescue. "That brave boy shall be rewarded, if I
sacrifice my whole fortune to compass it."

"You've had a pretty narrow escape, young chap," said one of the
boatmen to Dick. "It was a pretty tough job you undertook."

"Yes," said Dick. "That's what I thought when I was in the water. If
it hadn't been for you, I don't know what would have 'come of us."

"Anyhow you're a plucky boy, or you wouldn't have dared to jump into
the water after this little chap. It was a risky thing to do."

"I'm used to the water," said Dick, modestly. "I didn't stop to
think of the danger, but I wasn't going to see that little fellow
drown without tryin' to save him."

The boat at once headed for the ferry wharf on the Brooklyn side.
The captain of the ferry-boat, seeing the rescue, did not think
it necessary to stop his boat, but kept on his way. The whole
occurrence took place in less time than I have occupied in
telling it.

The father was waiting on the wharf to receive his little boy, with
what feelings of gratitude and joy can be easily understood. With a
burst of happy tears he clasped him to his arms. Dick was about to
withdraw modestly, but the gentleman perceived the movement, and,
putting down the child, came forward, and, clasping his hand, said
with emotion, "My brave boy, I owe you a debt I can never repay.
But for your timely service I should now be plunged into an anguish
which I cannot think of without a shudder."

Our hero was ready enough to speak on most occasions, but always
felt awkward when he was praised.

"It wasn't any trouble," he said, modestly. "I can swim like a top."

"But not many boys would have risked their lives for a stranger,"
said the gentleman. "But," he added with a sudden thought, as his
glance rested on Dick's dripping garments, "both you and my little
boy will take cold in wet clothes. Fortunately I have a friend
living close at hand, at whose house you will have an opportunity
of taking off your clothes, and having them dried."

Dick protested that he never took cold; but Fosdick, who had now
joined them, and who, it is needless to say, had been greatly
alarmed at Dick's danger, joined in urging compliance with the
gentleman's proposal, and in the end our hero had to yield. His
new friend secured a hack, the driver of which agreed for extra
recompense to receive the dripping boys into his carriage, and they
were whirled rapidly to a pleasant house in a side street, where
matters were quickly explained, and both boys were put to bed.

"I aint used to goin' to bed quite so early," thought Dick. "This is
