her aching heart. Perhaps it was cowardly in me, but I could not help
it. I stood at the door and listened.

"Your brother has come. I heard his voice," said Emily, in a tone
convulsed with emotion.

"He has come, dear," replied Flora; and I heard her kiss the
grief-stricken maiden.

"You have no good news to tell me. I know you haven't," wailed the
sufferer. "I did not expect any. I knew she was--"

And then I heard her sob. She was calmer than I had anticipated, and I
ventured to go into the room. My heart was in my throat as I gazed upon
her pale face and hollow eyes. She wept bitterly, as I confirmed her
worst fears; and Flora, with her arm twined around the poor girl's neck,
wept with her, and frequently kissed her. As gently and tenderly as I
could I told her the sad truth, and assured her that kind friends had
taken charge of her mother's remains.

I left her with Flora then, for she was the best comforter. As I put on
my working clothes in the adjoining room, I heard my sweet sister
speaking to her the tenderest of pious consolations. She breathed the
name of Jesus in her ear, and pointed her to the Rock of Ages for hope,
for the joy which this world cannot give and cannot take away. Great
rough fellow as I was, I wept with them; for never had my heart been so
deeply touched before.

On the platform I found Sim, still employed in examining the skiff I had
purchased, apparently filled with astonishment that a little thing like
that had borne me safely down the river for ten miles. He wanted to ask
more questions about it; but I told him to cast off the fasts, and in a
few moments we were again borne on by the current of the Father of
Waters. The day was bright and pleasant, and a fresh wind from the
north-west was blowing. I hoisted the sail and trimmed it, and taking
my place at the steering oar, I brooded over the bitter lot of my
passenger. I pitied her, and loved her for her misfortunes.

As the raft continued on its way, I began to consider what should be
done with her. She was quite sick, and the rough house on the raft was
not a suitable place for her. But she had no friends nearer than New
Orleans. I asked myself whether I ought not to abandon the raft, and
take passage in a steamboat; but I had not money enough to pay the
passages of the party, and I was obliged to answer the question in the
negative. But I could pay Emily's fare, and place her in charge of the
officers of some boat. I concluded to adopt this course at the first
large town we reached, where a steamer would be likely to make a
landing.

The poor girl was unable to sit up during the day; indeed, she was so
ill that I began to be alarmed about her. After dinner, I insisted that
Flora should lie down on my bed, and obtain the rest she so much needed,
while I sat with the patient. My poor sister was all worn out, and she
slept till dark. Thanks to the gentle ministrations of Flora, Emily was
quite calm, but she could not sleep. She talked to me of her mother all
the time, and I became almost a woman myself in my efforts to console
her.

I told her that I proposed to send her to New Orleans by the first
steamer I could find which was bound there. To my surprise, she strongly
objected, declaring that Flora was an angel, and she would not leave
her. She said she was very comfortable on the raft, and that she was
much happier there than she should be in a steamboat; and she trembled
when she uttered the word. I told her that her father would be very
anxious about her, and she finally decided to write a letter to him,
informing him that she was in the hands of good friends, on her way
home.

Flora was much refreshed by the sleep she had obtained, and sat up till
midnight with Emily. I made a bed for her on the floor by the side of
her patient, and in the morning I found that both of them had rested
well during the latter part of the night. Sim and I kept the raft going
all night, as usual. The next day I mailed Emily's letter to her
father. The physical condition of the poor sufferer did not yet begin
to improve, and Flora was unremitting in her efforts to help her. I was
very much surprised to find that the devoted nurse did not sink under
her exertions. But the patient slept tolerably well at night, and I
relieved my sister during part of the day.

On the third day after the disaster, we passed Memphis; and I again
urged Emily to take a steamer for her destination. She consented; but I
found that she did so in order to save us the trouble she gave. When I
assured her that we had no desire to get rid of her, she insisted upon
completing the voyage on the raft. She could not bear to part with
Flora, who had been both nurse and comforter to her in her affliction.

I made a landing at Memphis, and procured everything I could think of
that would add to the comfort of Emily. She was very grateful to me, as
well as to Flora, and I am free to say that I found my greatest
happiness in caring for her and my sister; and all the more because they
were so devoted to each other.

Day after day went by; and our course continued past Vicksburg, Natchez,
Grand Gulf, Baton Rouge, till, on the thirteenth day from Cairo, and on
the twenty-third from Torrentville, we came in sight of the spires of
New Orleans.

The sun was just setting as we came abreast of the dense piles of
houses. When we reached a place favorable for landing, I ran the raft up
to the levee, and made it fast to a post.




CHAPTER XXII.

THE END OF THE VOYAGE.


For the week preceding the arrival of the raft, Emily Goodridge had been
improving in health, though she was still quite feeble. She sat up part
of the day, and spent an hour or two in the forenoon in the open air. As
we approached the city, the excitement of being so near home buoyed her
up, and seemed to give her an unnatural strength.

For my own part, I was in a whirl of excitement. The end of the voyage
was a tremendous event in itself; but, as I thought of the astonishment
of my brother when he should see Flora and me, and of the meeting
between Mr. Goodridge and his daughter, I could hardly contain myself.
The sights along the river, too, were sufficiently wonderful to keep my
eyes wide open, and my heart leaping. For the first time in my life I
saw a ship--hundreds of them, whose forest of masts and spars was as
strange to me as though I had been transported to the centre of the
Celestial Empire.

It seemed to me an age since I had left Torrentville; since, with
bounding bosom, I had guided the raft down the creek to the Wisconsin.
The events which had preceded our departure appeared to have occurred
years ago, and to be dwarfed into littleness by the lapse of time.
Captain Fishley, his wife, and Ham seemed almost like myths, so far
removed were they from me by distance and time. I had almost forgotten
that I had been charged with a base crime, and that I had fled to escape
unpleasant consequences.

There was the great city of New Orleans spread out before me; and there,
somewhere in the midst of its vast mass of heaving life, was my brother,
and Flora's brother. I knew not where to look for him. But my first duty
was to the poor girl, sick in body and sick at heart, who had voyaged
down the river with us; who had made us feel enough of Christ's spirit
to know that "it is more blessed to give than to receive."

Emily was in the chamber with Flora when Sim and I fastened the raft to
the post. My fellow-laborer had already indulged in unnumbered
"Hookies," and his eyes were set wide open by the wonders that
surrounded us. I left him to stare, and to be stared at by the idlers on
shore, and went into the house.

"Our journey is ended!" I exclaimed.

"And I am close to my father's house," added Emily, with convulsive
emotion.

As I looked into her pale face, I could not help fearing that she was
close to her Father's house in a higher sense than she meant the
words--close to that "house of many mansions, eternal in the heavens;"
for she seemed to have, in her weakness, but little hold upon this life.

"Where does your father live, Emily?" I asked.

"In Claiborne Street," she replied. "If you could get a carriage, I
would like to go there at once."

"Do you feel able to ride in the carriage?"

"O, yes--to go home."

I went ashore, and soon found a carriage. I need hardly say that Emily's
clothing was in very bad condition, though Flora had done what she
could to improve it. Fortunately, it was nearly dark, and her appearance
did not excite much attention. I could not permit her to go alone, and
she insisted that Flora should accompany her. I left Sim in charge of
the raft, with the promise to return soon. The carriage conveyed us to
the number in Claiborne Street indicated by Emily. It was an elegant
mansion, and I was abashed by the splendors that were presented to my
view as I entered.

The coming of Emily created a sensation among the servants; but her
father was not at home, though he was momentarily expected. Flora and I
were conducted to a magnificent parlor, whose splendors exceeded
anything of which I had ever dreamed. Emily went up stairs, to clothe
herself properly before her father came. The poor girl wept bitterly as
she entered the house which she had left three weeks before with her
mother. The torrent of grief was renewed as she gazed again upon the
familiar scenes which had always been so closely associated with the
dear one who was gone.

A mulatto servant-man came into the room where Flora and I were. He had
just greeted his young mistress, and his eyes were still filled with
tears.

"We have been expecting Miss Emily for several days," said he. "Her
father has suffered everything on her account."

"I am sorry she was delayed, but she would not leave my sister," I
replied.

"But how did she come? It was a very slow steamer," he added.

"It was not a steamer. Didn't she write to her father?"

"Yes; but she didn't say what she was coming in; only that she was with
very good friends, and should be home in a week or ten days."

"She came on a raft."

"On a raft!" exclaimed the man. "Miss Emily?"

"It was her own choice. I tried to have her take a steamer; but she
would not. But there was a house on the raft, and she had a good bed."

"Of course her father has felt very bad, and since the funeral he has
fretted a great deal about her."

"Since what funeral?" I asked.

"Her mother's. Poor Mrs. Goodridge was brought down from Cairo, packed
in ice, and the funeral was a week ago yesterday."

One of the many steamers which passed us on our way down the river had
brought the remains of Emily's mother, and they had already been
committed to their last resting-place.

The ringing of the door-bell called the servant from us. We heard the
heavy step of a man, as he went up stairs; but we did not witness the
first interview between Emily and her father. They had much to say, and
we did not see them for half an hour. When they entered the parlor
together, both of them were tolerably calm; but the traces of tears were
still visible in their eyes.

"Young man," said Mr. Goodridge, taking me by the hand, after Emily had
introduced Flora and me by name, "I am indebted to you for the life of
my child."

He wept, and could not utter what he evidently intended to say. My cheek
burned, for in my sympathy for the poor girl and her father I had quite
forgotten my hard swim after the disaster. I stammered some reply, and
did not even then know what I was saying.

"Under God, you saved her; and I shall bless you as long as I live for
the noble deed. It was hard to lose her who is gone; it would have been
doubly hard to lose both of them."

"O, I don't think anything of what I did," I replied. "My poor little
sister here has done a good deal more than I have for her."

Mr. Goodridge took the hand of Flora, and thanked her as he had thanked
me. I told him the story of our voyage down the river after Emily joined
us, as briefly as I could, giving my poor sister the credit for all her
careful and devoted nursing of the invalid.

"I must go now, sir," I added, when the narrative was finished.

"Indeed, you must not," said the grateful father, decidedly.

"I left Sim Gwynn on the raft. He is rather simple, and I am afraid
something will happen to him."

"Can't he leave the raft?"

"Not yet; my sister's clothes and other things are in the house."

He called the servant and ordered a carriage, saying he would go with me
himself to the raft, and employ a man to take charge of it. We drove to
the levee, where Mr. Goodridge sent for one of the porters in his
warehouse, who was ordered to sleep on board, and see that nothing was
stolen. Sim was directed to get into the carriage with us, and we went
back to the house of the merchant.

"Hookie!" almost screamed Sim, as we entered the elegant mansion.

"Shut up, Sim! Don't open your mouth again!" I whispered to him.

"Hookie!" replied he, in a suppressed tone.

"Well, Buckland," said our host, when we were seated in the parlor,--Sim
with his mouth open almost as wide as his eyes,--"I should like to know
something more about you. You have only told me what occurred after you
saved Emily. How happened you to be floating down the river on a raft?"

I told my story, from the day my father died, keeping back nothing
except the matter relating to Squire Fishley's infirmity.

"And your brother is here in New Orleans?" said he.

"Yes, sir. He has gone into business here."

"What is his name?"

"Clarence Bradford."

"Bradford! I thought your name was Buckland."

"John Buckland Bradford, sir."

"I know your brother very well. He is the junior partner in the firm of
Bent, La Motte, & Co. Their house is doing a fine business, too. I don't
think we can find your brother to-night, but we will in the morning."

"He will be very much astonished to see us here."

"No doubt of it; but your coming was a blessing to me. I have three
sons, but Emily is my only daughter, and the youngest child. She is my
pet. She is in delicate health, and I tremble at the thought of losing
her. You cannot understand what a service you have rendered me."

He was silent for several minutes, and I saw the tears starting in his
eyes again. He was thinking of her who was lost, or her who was
saved--of both, more likely.

"Shall you return to Torrentville again?" he asked, after walking across
the room two or three times, apparently to quiet his emotions.

"No, sir, I think not."

"Wherever you go, young man, I shall be your friend, with my money and
my influence."

"Thank you, sir."

"I will consult with your brother, to-morrow, in regard to what I can do
to serve you best; but my gratitude shall have a substantial
expression."

"O, sir, I don't ask anything for what I have done," I protested.

"You do not ask it; but that does not absolve me from doing something.
But, to change the subject, I do not quite like to have you accused of
robbing the mail."

"I didn't do it, sir."

"The gentleman who gave you the money ought to come forward and explain.
If you didn't open the letter, you should not suffer a day for it. I
will see your brother about that, too. It must be made right."

"I should be very glad to have it made right; but I can't tell who the
man was that gave me the money."

He insisted, in very complimentary terms, that one who had done what I
had could not be guilty of a crime, and that I must be cleared even from
the suspicion of evil.

Sim and I slept on beds of down that night. The next morning Mr.
Goodridge undertook to find Clarence. About the middle of the forenoon,
while our raft party were all gathered in the parlor with the
housekeeper, he was shown into the room. Not a word had been said to him
as to the nature of the business upon which he was called, and his eyes
opened almost as wide as Sim's when he saw Flora and me.




CHAPTER XXIII.

CLARENCE BRADFORD.


"My dear little Flora!" exclaimed Clarence, as he glanced from me to
her, after he entered the room.

He sprang to her chair, and embraced and kissed her. I perceived that he
was winking rapidly, as though an unmanly weakness was getting
possession of him.

"Buck!" he added, extending his hand to me, "what does all this mean? I
supposed you were both in Torrentville."

"We are not. We couldn't stand it any longer," I replied.

"Stand what?" he demanded, sternly.

"The way that Captain Fishley's folks treated us."

"You don't mean to say they abused you!"

"That's just what I mean to say. I thought I spoke plain enough in my
letters for you to understand me."

"I had no idea that you were actually abused. Boys are always grumbling
and complaining, and some of them think their lot is a great deal harder
than it is. Flora didn't say anything in her letters; she didn't
complain."

"She wouldn't have said anything if they had killed her," I replied. "I
am not one of the grumbling sort, and I didn't say anything till they
picked upon me so that I couldn't stand it. I was kept at home from
school half the time to work; and then I was the old man's servant, the
old woman's servant, and Ham's servant. I was kept on the jump by some
of them all the time."

"But you were only to take care of the horse, and go for the mail every
evening; and I thought you rather liked that," he added; and he wore a
look of astonishment and indignation.

"I did like it; but I had to work in the garden, feed the pigs, make the
fires, do chores about the house, run of errands, and work in the store.
I was kept busy from morning till night."

"That wasn't the bargain I made with them."

"I wouldn't have made any row about the work, if they hadn't treated me
so meanly. Ham used me like a dog, and ordered me around as though I had
been his nigger servant. It was 'Buck, do this,' and 'Buck, do that, and
be quick about it.' It was 'Buck, black my boots,' in surly tones."

"Black his boots!" exclaimed Clarence.

"Yes, black his boots; and I was fool enough to do it until I found I
only got kicked for minding. Mrs. Fishley used to snarl at me from
morning till night. I never did anything right, and was never in the
place where I ought to be. But, Clarence, I should have staid there, I
suppose, till the time you named, if they had not abused Flora."

"Flora!" said he, knitting his brow, as he glanced at her.

I told him that our female tyrant had actually shaken her several times,
to say nothing of the constant scolding to which she was subjected. He
was indignant, and assured me, if he had supposed the case was half as
bad as I had represented, he should have hastened to Torrentville and
removed us at once. He thought my complaints were simply boyish
dissatisfaction, and the situation nothing more than simply unpleasant.

"But you haven't told the worst of the story," interposed Mr. Goodridge.

"I will tell that now, for it was the final cause of our leaving," I
continued. "A certain gentleman, whose name I cannot mention, gave me
one hundred dollars for something I did for him."

"Who was he?" asked Clarence.

"I can't tell you, or anybody, who he was. About this time Ham Fishley
robbed a letter of forty dollars, and when the money was missed, he laid
it to me."

"How do you know he did it?" demanded Clarence.

"I saw him do it. I saw him break the seal, take out the money, and burn
the letter;" and I explained fully the circumstances. "Ham saw me
counting my money, and his father wanted me to tell where I got it. I
couldn't do that. They sent for a constable; but I took to the swamp.
Now, I had either to tell where I got the money,--which I couldn't
do,--or go to jail. Instead of doing either, I took Flora on the raft
with me, and came down the river."

"This is a very strange story, Buck; and I don't much blame Captain
Fishley for not believing it," said Clarence. "Somebody gave you a
hundred dollars, and you would not tell who, even to save yourself from
going to jail. I can't blame him."

"Nor I either, so far as that was concerned; but I do blame Ham, for he
knew very well that I did not rob the mail."

"But why can't you tell who gave you the money?"

"Because I promised not to do so, and because my telling would do an
injury to the person who gave it to me."

"I don't like the looks of this thing, Buck," added Clarence, shaking
his head.

"I know it don't look very well," I replied, rather sheepishly, for I
realized that my brother had his suspicions.

"Why should a man give you a hundred dollars?"

"Because I saved his life," I answered, desperately.

"If you did, he ought to be the first one to give you the credit for the
noble deed."

"There's the hitch."

"So I think," said my brother, shaking his head.

"Clarence, I know Buckland is honest and true," interposed Flora. "He is
the best brother that ever was, and you mustn't think hard of him."

"Perhaps you know more about it than I do, Flora; but it looks bad for
him. Why a man should give him a hundred dollars for saving his life,
and then not be willing that he should mention his name, passes my
comprehension."

"The gentleman had been drinking a little too much, and that was what
made him fall into the water," I added, goaded on to reveal thus much by
the doubts and suspicions of my brother.

"Well, that makes it a little more plausible," replied Clarence. "Was
there no one present when the man fell overboard?"

"I shall not say any more about it, whether you believe it or not," I
answered, rather indignantly. "I made a promise, and I intend to keep
it."

"I am satisfied the young man is honest, Mr. Bradford," said the
merchant.

"I know he is," added Emily, with an enthusiasm which was worth the
testimony of all the others.

"After the noble deed he has done, after risking his life to save that
of an entire stranger, as he did for my daughter, I know he is not
capable of robbing the mail," continued Mr. Goodridge.

"Saved your daughter?" asked Clarence, with an inquiring look at Emily
and her father.

Flora volunteered to tell the story of the events following the
steamboat explosion, and my modesty will not permit me to set down the
pleasant speeches which Emily added to the narrative.

"Well, Buck, I am willing to grant that you are a hero," said Clarence,
good-naturedly; "and you have done things for which I should have been
slow to give you the credit, if the facts were not fully attested by all
these witnesses. So you have made a voyage from Torrentville to New
Orleans on a raft?"

"I have, and brought Flora with me."

"You have proved yourself to be a smart boy, and I only wish you had
left a better reputation behind you at Torrentville."

I thought this remark was a little harsh. I do not wish to say anything
against my brother, but I was very much disappointed in the view which
he took of the robbery question. I know that he valued reputation as the
apple of his eye, and keenly felt that it was cowardice for an innocent
person to run away from the appearance of evil. I know that he was very
indignant at the treatment which the Fishleys had bestowed upon Flora
and me; but he seemed to believe that I had exaggerated it, and that I
had fled from Torrentville solely to escape the consequences of robbing
the mail.

He was not satisfied with my conduct, and declared that my character
must be cleared from all suspicion. The name he bore must not be tainted
even by the appearance of a crime. He had been an honest man; his father
had been an honest man; and he would rather have his brother sunk in the
deepest depths of the Mississippi than that the stigma of a crime
should be fastened upon him. I was awed and abashed by the dignity of
his bearing and his speech.

"Buck, dare you go back to Torrentville?" he asked.

"I should only be thrown into jail if I went."

"No matter for that. Dare you trust to your own integrity for the final
result?"

"I can't bring the gentleman into court to say that he gave me the
money, which is the only thing against me."

"Have you told the person how you are situated, and of the charge
against you?"

"No, I haven't seen him. He lives a hundred miles from Torrentville."

"I suppose so. Such witnesses are always a great way off when they are
wanted," added my brother, with an ill-concealed sneer.

"I see that you think I am guilty, Clarence," I replied, wounded beyond
measure at his severe conclusions.

"I confess that the affair looks to me like a trumped-up story."

"No, no, Clarence," interposed poor Flora, her eyes filled with tears,
as she came to my chair and put her arm lovingly around my neck. "Dear
Buckland, I know you are innocent!"

"So do I," exclaimed Emily.

"Hookie!" ejaculated Sim Gwynn, who had been sitting in silence, with
his eyes and mouth wide open, but rather nervous when the battle seemed
to be going against me.

I wanted to cry myself, for I felt that my brother was very hard upon
me. While the others were reaching conclusions through their feelings
alone, he was taking the common-sense view of the case. The facts were
stubborn, as I had been obliged to acknowledge before; and all I could
bring to attest my innocence was my simple word. But the conference was
interrupted by the coming of the family physician, who had been sent for
to see Emily. She and her father left the room.

Clarence went over the history of the robbery again; and the more he
considered, the more dissatisfied he became with me. Dear Flora pleaded
for a more gentle judgment, and told him how ill Ham and Mrs. Fishley
treated me.

"I don't blame you for leaving the Fishleys," he added. "I blame myself
for permitting you to remain there, after you complained of them; but I
had just been taken into partnership with my employers, and I could not
well be absent. But I do blame you for leaving them with a stain upon
your character. Something must be done immediately. I will not permit
them to think you are guilty, unless you are so. If you are guilty, you
are no brother of mine."

"I am not guilty," I protested.

"Then you must prove it."

"I can't prove it."

"Are you willing to take your oath before God, in court, that you saw
Ham Fishley take the money and burn the letter?"

"I am."

"Very well. Then you shall go to Torrentville, and face your accusers."

"I am willing to do what you think is best."

"I can't believe you are guilty of this crime; but you were foolish to
run away from it."

"I will write to the person who gave me the money, and he may do as he
pleases about helping me out of the scrape."

"My business is nothing compared with this matter, and I will go with
you. Now, where is this raft?"

He wished to see it, and Sim and I went with him to the levee.




CHAPTER XXIV.

UP THE RIVER.


Clarence called a dray, and had all Flora's things conveyed to the house
he was fitting up as his residence. The raft and its apparatus he sold,
and he gave me the money. This was the end of the craft which had
brought us on our voyage of seventeen hundred and fifty miles. We
returned to the house of Mr. Goodridge in the afternoon.

The physician had only repeated his advice that Emily must have a change
of climate. Her father had already decided to accompany her to the North
himself. Clarence declared that Flora must not stay in the city during
the sickly season. He had been married a month before, and if we had
remained in Torrentville, the letter he wrote to us just before the
happy event would doubtless have reached us. It had been his plan to
start for New York early in August, and to return to New Orleans by the
way of the West in October, taking Flora and me with him. Our unexpected
arrival changed his purpose. In the course of a week it was arranged
that we should go to Torrentville at once, and Mr. Goodridge and his
daughter were to accompany us.

Flora and I remained at the house of the merchant during our stay in the
city, though we frequently saw my brother's wife. She soon became much
attached to Flora; the gentle invalid was so patient and loving that she
could not help it. If there had been no cloud hanging over me, I should
have been very happy in the bright prospect before me; but I hoped, when
we arrived at Torrentville, that Squire Fishley would find a way to
extricate me from my dilemma.

"Buck," said Clarence to me, on the day before we started, "you begin
life under brighter auspices than I did. Mr. Goodridge has just paid
over to me the sum of ten thousand dollars, to be invested for you, and
to be paid over to you when you are of age."

"Ten thousand dollars!" I exclaimed, amazed at the magnitude of the sum.

"And the same sum for Flora. Well, twenty thousand dollars is not much
for him. He is a very rich man, and Emily is his pet. He has three sons;
but all of them are bad boys, and all his hope in this world rests in
his daughter. You are a lucky fellow, Buck."

"I didn't think of anything of this kind," I added, filled with wonder
at my good fortune.

"I don't say you didn't deserve it; for, according to all accounts, you
behaved well, and the girl would certainly have been drowned if you had
not saved her. I am proud of you, Buck; but I wish you were well out of
this Torrentville scrape."

That worried him; and, indeed, it worried me, after I had heard so much
said about it. If I had understood the matter as well in the time of it
as I did afterwards, doubtless I should not have trusted to flight for
safety, but faced my accusers. My sudden departure could not have failed
to confirm the suspicions of Captain Fishley, and probably Ham had made
the best use of the circumstances.

The next day we went on board of a fine steamer bound to St. Louis.
State-rooms had been engaged for the whole party, and I should be glad
to tell the story of the journey if space would permit. We enjoyed it
very much, and on the way I pointed out to my companions the various
objects of interest connected with the slower voyage of the raft. At
first Emily was timid on board of the steamer; but her father introduced
the captain to her, and he assured her that the boilers were new, and
that he never raced with other boats under any circumstances. She
acquired confidence. Her health had improved a great deal, and she was
able to sit up all day.

At St. Louis we took another steamer, and from that were transferred to
a third, which went up the Wisconsin River. When we arrived at
Riverport, I felt as though I was at home, though I dreaded to appear
again in Torrentville. At St. Louis I had written a long letter to
Squire Fishley, narrating all the facts of the robbery of the mail, and
the charge against me. I assured him I should keep the promise I had
made to him, if I had to die in jail for doing so, and that he might do
as he pleased about assisting me. I told him our party would be in
Riverport by the 10th of June, and wished him to write me there,
advising me what to do.

On my arrival at Riverport I went to the post-office, and obtained the
letter which was waiting for me. The senator wrote that he would meet me
in Riverport as soon after the 10th of June as his business would
permit. He thanked me very warmly for keeping his secret so well, and
assured me I should not suffer for my fidelity to him.

This letter made me happy. I told Clarence that the gentleman who had
given me the money was coming to my relief, and would be in Riverport
within a few days. As the party were pleasantly situated at the hotel,
it was decided to remain until the "mysterious personage," as Clarence
called him, made his appearance. Then the awkward fact that when he did
come he would be recognized, by my friends, as the tippler who had
fallen overboard, would be disclosed; and I blamed myself for what I had
said to them. I stated my dilemma to Clarence, and he placed the whole
party under the seal of secrecy.

I had promised not to tell who had given me the money. I had not done
so; but I had said enough to enable my friends to know who he was when
the squire came. It was awkward, but I could not help it, though I
blamed myself for saying even as much as I did.

Emily and I had become fast friends. Before we started from New Orleans,
Clarence had dressed me up in a new suit of black clothes, and I
flattered myself that I was not a bad-looking fellow. I was satisfied
that Emily did not think I was an ill-favored young man. We had some
pleasant walks at the places where we stopped.

I was very impatient for the arrival of Squire Fishley. I expected him
the day after we reached Riverport; but he did not come. In the evening
I went to the vicinity of the post-office, and had a view of Darky and
the wagon; but it was driven by a strange boy, who had been employed to
take my place. I did not care to be recognized by any one from
Torrentville; but as this boy did not know me, I ventured to go up and
pat my friend the black horse on the neck. The old fellow seemed to
know me, and whether he enjoyed the interview or not, I am sure I did.
While I was caressing the horse, the new boy came out of the office with
the mail-bag in his hand. He looked curiously at me, and seemed to
wonder how I happened to be on such good terms with his horse.

"What's the news up to Torrentville?" I asked.

"Nothing particular, as I know of," he replied, looking hard at me.

"Is Captain Fishley there now?"

"Yes."

"How's Ham?"

"First rate."

"How long have you driven the mail team?"

"Going on three weeks. You see the feller that drove it before robbed
the mail, and had to run away."

"Did he? What became of him?"

"That's what puzzles 'em. They can't git no clew to him. He cleared
about two months ago, and they hain't seen hide nor hair on him sence.
Do you know him?"

"Know whom?" I asked, startled by this direct question.

"Buck Bradford, the feller that robbed the mail and run away."

"Why do you ask?"

"O, nothin'; only the postmaster here told me to tell Captain Fishley
that a letter came here for Buck Bradford, and that a young feller took
it out. You haven't seen nothin' on him--have you?"

I did not choose to answer this question, and I edged off, without
making any reply. It appeared that I was generally known in Torrentville
as the mail robber, who had run away to escape the consequences of his
crime. The reflection galled me; but the day of redemption was at hand.
I did not quite like it that the postmaster had sent word of my presence
in Riverport to my tyrants; for I did not wish to be taken up before the
arrival of my most important witness. I deemed it prudent, therefore, to
keep out of sight to some extent, though I did not put myself out much
about it.

Squire Fishley did not come on the second day after our arrival, to my
very great disappointment, for I began to fear that I should be snapped
up by some greedy constable. The keeper of the hotel, who did not
recognize me in the trim suit I wore, had a very handsome keel boat,
prettily painted, which he kept for the use of the pleasure travel
frequenting his house. Sim and I had rowed our friends up and down the
river in this boat, and I engaged it for the third day, as soon as I
found that the senator was not a passenger on the down-river steamer. I
intended to make a long excursion in her, as much to keep myself out of
the way, as for the fun of it. I invited Emily and Flora to go, and they
gladly accepted the invitation.



After breakfast we embarked, with a plentiful supply of luncheon on
board, for we did not mean to return till the middle of the afternoon. I
