"Let him up," said my father, in a tone so earnest that I could not
disregard it.
Lynch sprang to his feet, and began to brush the dirt from his clothes.
"What's the trouble?" repeated the two strangers.
"No trouble," replied Lynch. "Come, we will go up to Forstellar's and
settle the matter."
Without waiting to have the matter discussed, Lynch started at a
rapid pace, and my father and I followed him. The two strangers, who
manifested a strong interest in the proceedings, again demanded an
explanation; and as they received none, they came up the street after
us.
"I'm not going to any gambling-house to settle the matter," said I,
placing myself at the side of Lynch.
"Where will you go?" demanded he, impatiently.
"Come to my boarding-house."
"No; I am not going to be led into any trap."
"There is no trap about it. You will see no one but a woman."
"I don't care about going to a private house."
"And I don't care about going to a gambling-saloon."
"You have all my money. Do you mean to keep the whole of it?"
"If I should it would be serving you right; but I don't intend to take
any more than belongs to me. Will you go to the Planters' Hotel?" I
asked.
"Why not go to Forstellar's? It is nearer, and I am in a hurry."
"I won't go into such a place if I can help it."
"You need not go up stairs--only into the bar-room."
"No; I won't go where you can call in the aid of your friends."
"Very well; I will go to the Planters' Hotel," he replied.
As we were walking up the street we passed a policeman. I had come
to feel a peculiar interest in this class of men; and from the fact
that I had met two of them in the same evening, I concluded that the
traditions stored up against them were false. It is not quite possible
for a police officer to be everywhere at the same instant; and, as
there are a thousand places within his beat where he cannot be, to the
one where he is, the chances are altogether against his being always
where he happens to be wanted. I say that, having seen two policemen in
the same evening, I felt a renewed respect and regard for the order,
and I naturally looked behind me as I passed the second one, in order
to obtain a good view of the man.
I was not exactly pleased to notice that the two men who had followed
us from Front Street stopped him, or rather induced him to join them;
and the three followed us. I had no doubt the inquisitive strangers
made our little party the subject of a familiar conversation with the
policeman, as they walked up the street. However, I did not feel much
concerned about the circumstance; for, having been brought up beyond
the practicable reach of the law, I had no suspicion that I had done
anything wrong; and a new mishap was necessary in order to convince me
of the error of taking the law into my own hands.
I mentioned the fact to Lynch that a policeman was following us. He did
not take the matter so coolly as I did, and I am not sure he did not
regret that he had taken the trouble to relieve me of my shot-bag. I
was very well pleased with myself, and thought I had managed my case
remarkably well. I had full security for the money I had lost, and
ten minutes in the hotel would enable me to recover possession of my
funds. The next day was Saturday, and I intended to purchase some new
clothes, so that I could go to Sunday school, to church, and to the
prayer-meeting on the evening of the holy day. All these things were
new to me, and the anticipation of them was very pleasant. I meant,
with my money, to put my wardrobe in a condition that would satisfy
Mrs. Greenough, who had promised to go with me to the Sunday school,
and to all the meetings.
  [Illustration: PHIL GETS LYNCH AT A DISADVANTAGE. Page 147.]
"Come, hurry up," said Lynch, while I was passing these pleasant
reflections through my mind. "That policeman will make trouble for us."
"I'm not afraid of him."
"But I am," replied my companion, sharply. "If you get me into a
scrape, it will go harder with you than with me."
I did not see how that could be, but I was willing to meet the views
of Lynch as long as no treachery was apparent in his conduct. If he
wished to leave us, he could do so, for we had all his money. We
reached the Planters' Hotel, closely followed by the policeman and the
two strangers. When we were about to enter the bar-room, the officer
stepped in front of us, and stopped our further progress.
"I learn that an assault was committed, under suspicious circumstances,
near the levee," said the officer. "I should like to know about it."
"I was robbed of my purse and pocket-book," replied Lynch, promptly.
"Who did it?" demanded the officer, with energy.
"This man and this boy," answered Lynch.
"It is no such thing!" I protested, startled at the charge of my
unprincipled companion.
"But that young fellow was holding him down," interposed one of the
strangers. "He let him up just as Gray and I came out of Plum Street."
"That's so," added Lynch, in the tone and manner of a martyr. "They
took from me all my money, and were going to take my watch when they
were interrupted."
"It is a false and groundless accusation," said Mr. Farringford,
vehemently.
"Ah, Farringford, are you in the scrape?" exclaimed Mr. Gray.
"I am not in the scrape. There is no scrape," replied my father, very
much agitated, for he probably realized better than I did the nature of
our proceedings.
"I will conduct you all to the police office, and we will look into the
matter," said the official, as he took me upon one arm, and my father
upon the other.
Lynch walked with the two gentlemen, one of whom, it appeared, was
connected with the Metropolitan Police Department, which explained
his interest in the affair. I heard him telling his story to them,
and I had no doubt they were greatly edified by it. We arrived at the
station, and were presented to a sergeant of police, who imposed upon
himself the task of investigating the affair. Mr. Gray stated that he
had found me holding Lynch upon the ground, while Farringford was
looking into a pocket-book under the street lamp.
"What have you to say?" said the sergeant to Lynch.
"I was going across the levee to a steamboat, when this man and boy
sprang upon me and knocked me down before I knew what they were about,"
replied Lynch. "They took from me my pocket-book, which contains over
two hundred dollars, and my purse, with fifty or sixty dollars in it,
mostly in gold."
"Do you know either of these parties?" asked the sergeant.
"I know Farringford--everybody knows him," replied Lynch. "I don't know
the boy."
"I am sorry to see that Farringford has been reduced to anything of
this sort," added Mr. Gray, glancing at the trembling inebriate.
"Gentlemen, I am willing to wait till this transaction can be
investigated for the vindication of my character," replied Farringford,
straightening himself up as much as his tottering limbs would permit.
"Give me your name, if you please," said the sergeant to Lynch.
"My name is Lynch."
"Full name, if you please."
"Samuel Lynch."
"Alias Leonidas Lynchpinne," I added; "the name he called himself by
when I first saw him."
"Your business, if you please?" continued the official, as he wrote
down the name.
"I have no regular business at the present time."
"That's so!" exclaimed Farringford. "His business is very irregular. In
other words, he is a blackleg, at Forstellar's or on the river."
"No matter what he is; you can't knock him down and rob him in the
streets of St. Louis," said the sergeant. "Have you either the
pocket-book or the purse, Farringford?"
"I have the pocket-book," replied my father, producing it.
"Did you take this from Mr. Lynch?" asked the officer, as the
pocket-book was handed to him.
"I did not."
"His son did," said Lynch, with a sneer.
"What do you mean by his son?" demanded Mr. Gray, with a smile.
"He told me the boy was his son."
"When did he tell you so?" asked the sergeant, quietly.
"After he had knocked me down," replied Lynch, wincing under the
question, which was evidently put for a purpose.
"Then you talked over their relationship while the boy held you on the
ground?" suggested Mr. Gray.
"No; Farringford only called the boy his son."
"What did he say to him?"
"He called him his son, and told him to hold me fast."
"Before he took your pocket-book from you?"
"No; afterwards, while he was looking to see what was in it."
"This is not the way robberies are usually committed," added the
sergeant. "I never heard of one robber holding a man down while the
other looked to see what the pocket-book contained."
"Did Farringford call you his son?" asked Mr. Gray, turning to me.
"Yes, sir, he did; but not while I held Lynch down. It was while we
were in Plum Street," I replied.
"What trick were you engaged in?" demanded Mr. Gray, rather sternly.
"Why did he call you his son?"
"I am his son. He is my father," I answered.
Farringford looked at me with an expression of disapproval, as if to
reproach me for the falsehood he believed I had uttered.
  CHAPTER XIV.
  IN WHICH PHIL RECOVERS HIS MONEY.
"You don't mean to say that Farringford here, whom everybody in St.
Louis knows, is your father--do you?" continued Mr. Gray, apparently
amazed at the absurdity of the proposition, while his friend and the
sergeant laughed heartily.
"That is precisely what I mean to say," I replied, in the most
determined tone.
Farringford shook his head, and was apparently sorry that I had turned
out to be such an abominable liar.
"What is your name?" inquired the sergeant.
"Philip Farringford."
I had taken especial pains not to give my full name to my father when
he questioned me, and he doubtless supposed that I had invented the
name for the occasion. He looked at me, and shook his head. Very
likely, by this time, he was willing to believe I had deceived him, and
that I had lost no money, for if I could lie about one thing I could
about another.
"Do you justify this young man in calling you his father, Farringford?"
said Mr. Gray.
"I am sorry to say I cannot. Gentlemen, I have endeavored to act in
good faith," replied my father. "I have always found that the truth
would serve me better than falsehood."
"Did you call him your son?"
"I did, but used the expression as a kind of harmless fib to carry my
purpose with this Lynch, who had robbed the boy of nearly a hundred
dollars."
"It is false!" exclaimed Lynch.
"Keep cool, if you please, sir," interposed the sergeant. "We have
heard your story, and now we will hear the other side."
"Philip may have deceived me, but I believed that he had been robbed,
and I did the best I could to get his money back, after he had pointed
out to me the man who took it from him. Certainly he is not my son.
I never saw him till yesterday; and I am sorry he has thought it
necessary to repeat my fib, or falsehood, if you please," continued
Farringford.
"Nevertheless, I hope I shall be able to prove in due time that he is
my father," I added.
"But, my lad, everybody knows that Farringford has no children," said
Mr. Gray.
"Never mind that now. I want to know whether any robbery has been
committed," interposed the sergeant, impatiently.
"Let the boy tell his own story," replied Mr. Gray.
"Here is Lynch's purse," I began, handing it to the sergeant.
"Then you did take these things from him?"
"I did; but he told me to put my hand in his pocket and take out the
pocket-book and the purse."
"Very probable!" sneered Lynch.
"It's all true," said Farringford.
"Well, go on, young man."
"I was coming down the Missouri River in the steamer Fawn--"
"She arrived last Tuesday morning," interposed Mr. Lamar, the gentleman
with Mr. Gray.
"Yes, sir. I was with Mr. Gracewood and his family."
"What Gracewood?"
"Henry."
"Is he a brother of Robert Gracewood of Glencoe?"
"I don't know. He had a brother in St. Louis," said Mr. Lamar, who was
an elderly gentleman, and appeared to know everybody and everything.
"He bought a place at Glencoe a year ago."
"His wife's brother was a Mr. Sparkley."
"It's the same man. But he separated from his wife years ago, cleared
out, and has not been heard from since."
I explained that the family had been reunited, and were on their way
to St. Louis. I had endeavored to find Mr. Gracewood's brother, but
without success, in order to inform him of what had occurred up the
river. The fact that he had moved from the city explained why I had not
found his name in the Directory. I continued my story, with frequent
interruptions, much to the disgust of the sergeant, who was interested
only in the criminal aspect of the case. I told how Lynch had robbed
me at Leavenworth, how I had identified him in St. Louis, and followed
him and Farringford from Forstellar's to Front Street.
"Every word of that story is true so far as it relates to me," said
Farringford.
"I watched Lynch and Farringford, the former trying to get rid of the
latter all the time, until at last he laid violent hands upon him," I
continued. "I couldn't stand it any longer; I went up behind Lynch,
threw my hands around his neck, and stuck my knees into his back till
he went down. He begged me to let him up, and promised to restore my
money if I would. Then, when I was not willing to let him up without
some security, he told me to take his pocket-book and purse. That was
just what was going on when these gentlemen came out of Plum Street."
"Then you did not knock him down till he laid hands upon Farringford?"
added the sergeant.
"No, sir; I did not till he took hold of my father."
"Your father!" exclaimed Mr. Gray. "The rest of your story is so
straightforward that I hoped you would abandon that fiction."
"It is no fiction."
"It matters not to me whether it is fact or fiction," interposed
the sergeant. "I only wish to know whether or not a crime has been
committed in St. Louis. If the boy knocked this Lynch down in order to
save Farringford from injury, it is no crime, whether father or not."
"I cried, 'Police!' as loud as I could, as soon as we struck the
ground," I added.
"Can you identify your money?" asked the sergeant.
"Not every piece of it; but there was a five-dollar gold coin, with a
hole through the middle, dated 1850. The clerk of the Fawn would not
take it for my passage for five dollars."
The officer poured the gold from the purse upon the table, and
instantly picked out the coin I had described, which Lynch had perhaps
found it as difficult to pass as I had. He looked at the date, and
declared it was 1850.
"That is very good evidence, my boy," said the officer, bestowing a
smile of approval upon me. "Can you give me any more."
"If you can find Captain Davis, of the Fawn, he will say that I left
the boat with Lynch."
"Where is he?"
"He has gone up to Alton with the Fawn. When Mr. Gracewood comes, he
will tell you the same thing."
"Your witnesses are not at hand. In what boat did you come down the
river."
"In the Fawn."
"And you, Mr. Lynch?"
"In the Daylight."
"Where from?"
"St. Joe."
The sergeant continued to question and cross-question Lynch for half an
hour. His statements were confused and contradictory, and being based
upon falsehoods, they could not well be otherwise. It appeared that
the Daylight, in which he had arrived, came down the river immediately
after the Fawn, which made my story the more probable.
"I do not see that any crime has been committed in St. Louis," said the
officer, after his long and patient investigation.
"Then you don't call it a crime to knock a man down, and take his
purse and pocket-book from him?" added Lynch, in deep disgust.
"I believe the young man's story," replied the officer. "If your money
had been taken from you by force, you would not have walked quietly
through the streets with those who robbed you, passing an officer on
your way without hinting at what had happened. The young man's story
is straightforward and consistent, except as to his relations with
Farringford, which is not material. I am of the opinion that you
commenced the assault upon Farringford."
"Not so."
"Both Farringford and the young man agree in all essential points."
Lynch growled and protested, but finally declared that he was satisfied
to let the matter drop where it was. He had recovered his money, and he
could not complain.
"But I have not recovered mine, and I am not satisfied," I added,
feeling that the discharge of Lynch was total defeat to me.
"You were robbed in the territory of Kansas, and not in the city of St.
Louis," replied the officer.
"Must I lose my money for that reason?"
"Certainly not; but the complaint against Lynch must be made at
Leavenworth, and a requisition from the governor of the territory must
be sent here."
The case was full of difficulties, and Lynch, in charge of a policeman,
was sent out of the room to enable us to consider the best means of
proceeding. I could not go back to Leavenworth very conveniently, and
it would cost me more than the amount of money I had lost. We decided
to let the matter rest till the next day, and Lynch was called in again.
"I propose to detain you till to-morrow, when Farringford will complain
of you for an assault," said the officer.
"I would rather give a hundred dollars than be detained," said Lynch.
"We don't settle cases in that way. Of course we intend to reach the
robbery matter in some manner."
"I will give the boy the money he claims to have lost," added the
culprit.
"If you wish to restore the money, you can," replied the sergeant.
"I do not admit the truth of his story."
"Then you shall not give him any money. You shall not be swindled here."
"If I admit the--"
"Don't commit yourself unless you choose to do so. Whatever you say may
be used as evidence to convict you."
"You put me in a tight place," said Lynch. "If I commit myself, you
will prosecute me. If I don't commit myself, I cannot give the boy the
money."
"I did not say I should prosecute you. The crime, if any, was committed
beyond the limits of this state. I cannot enter a complaint. The young
man may do so if he thinks best."
"Can I make Phil a present of a hundred dollars?" demanded Lynch,
desperately.
"You can do as you please with your own money," answered the officer.
The robber counted a hundred dollars from his pocket-book, and handed
it to Mr. Lamar, who declared that the amount was right, and the bills
were good. It was passed to me; but I declined to receive any more than
I had lost, and changing a bill, I returned two dollars and a half.
"I will make no complaint for assault now," said Farringford.
"Then I cannot detain him. If the young man chooses to complain of
Lynch in Leavenworth, he is still liable to prosecution."
"I will risk that," said Lynch, more cheerfully.
"You can leave," added the officer.
The rascal promptly availed himself of this permission, and left the
office.
"I am sorry to have a case settled in that manner. I know that man as a
notorious blackleg," continued the officer.
"I don't see that it could be settled in any other way now," replied
Mr. Gray. "We have done nothing to prejudice the interests of justice.
The young man can prosecute now."
"I can't afford to go to Kansas to do so," I replied.
"We will keep watch of him," said the sergeant.
We all left the office together. The two gentlemen who had manifested
so much interest in the affair were unwilling to part with Farringford
and me. Mr. Gray asked me what had induced me to say that Farringford
was my father.
"It's a long story, gentlemen; and I have to convince him as well as
you of the truth of what I say. If you will go to my boarding-house I
will do so."
I told them where it was, and they consented to accompany me. When we
reached the house, Mrs. Greenough was astonished at the number of my
visitors, but I conducted them all to my chamber.
  CHAPTER XV.
  IN WHICH PHIL PRODUCES THE RELICS OF HIS CHILDHOOD.
Having seated my party in my chamber, I told the last part of my story
first. I began by saying that I had been brought up on the upper
Missouri, by Matt Rockwood, relating all my experience down to the
present moment, including the history of the Gracewoods.
"That's all very well, Phil; but where were you born?" asked Mr. Gray.
"You left that part out, and told us everything except that which we
wished to know."
"I don't know where I was born. You must ask my father?"
"Do you still persist in saying that Farringford is your father?"
"I still persist."
"But he has no children."
"I had one child," interposed Farringford, trembling with emotion, as
well as from the effects of inebriation.
"I remember," said Mr. Lamar. "You lost that child when the
Farringford was burned."
"Yes," replied my father, with a shudder.
"Will you state precisely how that child was lost, sir?" I continued.
"I would not ask you to do so if it were not necessary, for I know the
narrative is painful."
"I suppose you claim to be this child, which, if I remember rightly,
was a girl," added Mr. Lamar.
"No; it was a boy," responded Mr. Farringford.
"Gentlemen, I shall leave you to draw your own conclusions, after you
have heard the rest of the story."
"Can it be possible that you are my lost child, Philip?" said my father.
"Let us see the evidence before we decide," I replied. "Now, how was
the child lost?"
"My wife's brother, Lieutenant Collingsby, was stationed at a fort on
the upper Missouri. My wife was anxious to see him, and we started
in one of the steamers I owned then, with our little boy two years
old," Mr. Farringford began. "The boat had our family name, and was
the finest one I owned. We enjoyed the trip very much. I didn't drink
very hard at that time, gentlemen, though I occasionally took too much
in the evening, or on a festive occasion. On the night the steamer was
burned, we were within thirty miles of the fort to which we were going,
and where we intended to remain till the Farringford returned from her
trip to the mouth of the Yellowstone. I know my wife did not undress
the child, because we hoped to reach the fort, and spend the night at
the barracks.
"Expecting to part with the passengers that evening, we had a merry
time; and I drank till I was, in a word, intoxicated. I supplied
whiskey and champagne for everybody on board, not excepting the
officers, crew, and firemen, who would drink them. Even the two or
three ladies who were on board partook of the sparkling beverage.
Wishing to reach the fort as early as possible, I told the firemen and
engineers to hurry up when I gave them their whiskey. They obeyed me to
the letter, and the furnaces were heated red hot. I do not know to this
day how the boat took fire; but I do know that a barrel of camphene,
belonging to some army stores on board, was stove, and its contents ran
all over the forward deck.
"All hands worked hard to save the boat; but they worked in vain. The
pilot finally ran her ashore. I pulled down a door, and carried it
to the main deck aft, while my wife conveyed the child to the same
point. The fire was forward, so that we could not leave the boat by
the bow, which had been run on shore. I placed my little one upon the
door, wrapped in a shawl, with a pillow on each side to keep it from
rolling into the water. The captain was to help my wife, while I swam
behind the door, holding it with my hands. In this position, partially
supported by the raft, I expected to be able to propel it to the shore.
My plan was good, and would have been successful, without a doubt, if I
had not been intoxicated.
"When I was about to drop into the water, the stern of the boat
suddenly swung around, and I lost my hold upon the raft. I had been
lying upon the edge of the deck, with my leg around a stanchion, my
head hanging over the water; and I think my position, in addition to
the fumes of the liquor I had drank, made me dizzy. I lost the door,
and I think I partially lost my senses at the same time. The steamer,
as she swung around, slipped from the abrupt shore which held her. This
movement created a tremendous excitement, amounting to almost despair,
among the passengers and crew. The door was carried away from the
steamer, and I lost sight of it. When I was able again to realize my
situation, I tried to discover the door, but in vain. I threw a box,
which the captain had prepared to support my wife, into the water, and
leaped in myself.
"The current swept the steamer down the river. I paddled my box to the
shore, and landed."
"On which side did you land?" I asked.
"On the north side. I ran on the bank of the river, looking for my
child. The glare from the burning steamer lighted up the water, but I
could see nothing floating on the surface. I was the only person who
had left the boat so far, and I followed her till, two or three miles
below the point where I had landed, one of her boilers exploded, and
she became a wreck. About one half of the passengers and crew were
saved on boxes, barrels, and doors. By the aid of the captain my wife
was brought to the shore. I shall never forget her agony when I told
her that our child was lost. She sank senseless upon the ground; but
she came to herself after a time. I wished that I had perished in the
flood when I realized the anguish of losing my only child. I could not
comfort her; I needed comfort myself. I spent the long night in walking
up and down the banks of the river, looking for my lost little boy.
Below the place where most of the passengers landed I found many doors
and other parts of the boat; but I could not find my child.
"I reasoned that the current would carry the raft which bore up my
child to the same points where other floating articles were found,
and I was forced to the conclusion that my darling had rolled from
the door and perished in the cold waters. I shuddered to think of it.
Before daylight in the morning another steamer appeared, coming down
the river. We hailed her, and were taken on board. She proved to be
one of my boats, and I caused the most diligent search to be made for
my lost little one. About a mile below the point where the Farringford
had been run ashore we found a door, with one pillow upon it, aground
on the upper end of an island. This discovery was the knell of my last
hope. Of course the child had rolled from the door and perished. I wept
bitterly, and my wife fainted, though we only realized what seemed
inevitable from the first. We discovered this door about daylight, and
it was useless to prolong the search. The evidence that my child was
lost was too painfully conclusive.
"My wife wished to return home. We were going on a pleasure excursion,
but it had terminated in a burden of woe which can never be lifted from
my wife or from me. I drank whiskey to drown my misery. I was seldom
sober after this, and I lost all my property in reckless speculations.
I became what I am now. My wife never would taste even champagne after
that terrible night. She in some measure recovered her spirits, though
she can never be what she was before. After I had lost everything, and
could no longer provide a home for her, she returned to her father.
I have not seen her for five years; but I do not blame her. She was a
beautiful woman, and worthy of a better husband than I was. You know
the whole story now, Philip. These gentlemen knew it before."
"Not all of it," added Mr. Lamar. "And now we can pity and sympathize
with you as we could not before."
"No; I deserve neither pity nor sympathy," groaned my poor father,
trembling violently. "If I had not been drunk I should have saved my
child."
"Perhaps it is all for the best, since the child was saved," said I.
"It is impossible!" exclaimed Farringford. "I cannot believe it. There
was no one in that lonely region; and, if my child had reached the
shore, it must have perished more miserably of starvation than in the
water."
"You say your wife did not undress the child, because you expected to
reach the fort that evening," I continued. "Do you know what clothes it
had on?"
"I ought to know, for I have tearfully recalled the occasion when I
last pressed it to my heart, after supper that awful night. It wore a
little white cambric dress, with bracelets of coral on the shoulders."
"Anything on the neck?"
"Yes; a coral necklace, to which was attached a locket containing a
miniature of my wife."
"In what kind of a shawl was it wrapped when you placed it on the
door?" I asked, as I unlocked the bureau drawer in which I had placed
the precious relics of my childhood.
While he was describing it I took the shawl from the drawer.
"Is this it?"
Farringford trembled in every fibre of his frame as he glanced at the
article.
"It looks like it. I do not know whether it is the same one or not."
I trembled almost as much as the poor inebriate in the excitement of
the moment.
"I should hardly consider that sufficient evidence," said Mr. Gray.
"There are thousands of shawls just like that."
"I intend to furnish more evidence," I replied, producing the stained
and mildewed dress I had brought from the settlement. "Do you know
that dress, Mr. Farringford?"
"It certainly looks like the one my child wore."
It was examined by the gentlemen; but they thought the evidence was not
yet conclusive, and I took the bracelets from the drawer.
"Did you ever see these before?" I asked, handing them to the palsied
drunkard. "You will see the initials P.F. on the clasps."
"I have seen these, and I know them well. They were given to my child
by my brother Philip," replied he, with increasing emotion.
"There may be some mistake," suggested Mr. Lamar. "Hundreds and
thousands of just such trinkets have been sold in St. Louis."
"But these have the initials of my child upon them."
"P.F. may stand for Peter Fungus, or a dozen other names," replied
Mr. Gray. "The evidence is certainly good as far as it goes, but not
conclusive."
"What should you regard as conclusive, sir?" I asked, rather annoyed at
his scepticism, which I regarded as slightly unreasonable.
"Evidence, to be entirely conclusive, must be susceptible of only one
meaning," added Mr. Lamar. "The articles you have produced may have
belonged to some other person, though it is not probable."
"I don't know that I shall be able to satisfy you, but I will try once
more," I replied, taking the locket from the drawer.
I handed the locket to Farringford. He grasped it with his shaking
hands, and turned it over and over. He examined the necklace with great
care, and then tried to open the locket. He trembled so that he could
not succeed, and I opened it for him. He glanced at the beautiful face
upon which I had so often gazed by the hour together.
"My wife!" exclaimed he, sinking into his chair, and covering his face
with his hands, sobbing convulsively like a child. "You are my son!"
"Perhaps not," interposed Mr. Lamar, very much to my disgust.
But my poor father was satisfied, and sprang forward to embrace me.
The excitement was too much for his shattered nerves, and he dropped
fainting into my arms. We placed him upon the bed, and I went for Mrs.
Greenough.
  CHAPTER XVI.
  IN WHICH PHIL STRUGGLES EARNESTLY TO REFORM HIS FATHER.
The skilful ministrations of Mrs. Greenough soon restored my father to
himself. He had probably eaten nothing since he took his breakfast with
me early in the morning, and his frame was not in condition to bear the
pressure of the strong emotions which had agitated him.
"My son!" exclaimed he, as the incidents which had just transpired came
back to his mind.
"My father!" I replied.
He extended his trembling hand to me, and I took it. It would have been
a blessed moment to me if I could have forgotten what he was, or if
I could have lifted him up from the abyss of disgrace and shame into
which he had sunk. I hoped, with the blessing of God, that I should be
able to do this in some measure. I determined to labor without ceasing,
with zeal and prayer, to accomplish this end.
"I pity you, my son," said my father, covering his eyes with his hands.
It can be no joy to you to find such a father."
"I should not be sincere, father, if I did not say I wished you were
different."
"Philip,--if that is really your name,--I will reform, or I will die,"
said he, with new emotion. "I have something to hope for now. The good
God, who, I believed, had deserted me years ago, has been kinder to me
than I deserved."
"He is that to all of us, father."
"Where did you get this locket, young man?" asked Mr. Lamar, who
evidently believed there was still a possibility that a mistake had
been made.
I replied that I had found it in the chest of Matt Rockwood, who had
taken me from the door in the river; and I repeated that part of my
narrative which I had omitted before.
"You need not cavil, gentlemen," interposed my father. "I am satisfied.
I can distinguish the features of my lost son. If you knew my wife,
you can see that he resembles her. Look at the portrait, and then look
at him."
"I have seen Mrs. Farringford, but I do not exactly remember her
looks," added Mr. Lamar.
"Matt Rockwood is dead; but there is a living witness who saw the child
he found only a day or two after it was picked up," I continued.
"Who is he?"
"Kit Cruncher; he is at the settlement now, and has known me for eleven
years. Mr. Gracewood, whom I expect in St. Louis soon, has known me for
six years, and has heard Matt Rockwood tell the story of finding the
child."
"If I am satisfied, no one else need complain," said my father. "There
are no estates, no property, nor a dollar left, to which any claim is
to be established. I am a beggar and a wretch, and an inheritance of
shame and misery is all I have for him."
"But you forget that your wife is still living, Farringford," added Mr.
Lamar. "Her father is a wealthy man, and his large property, at no very
distant day, will be divided among his three children."
"Very true; I did not think of that. I have so long been accustomed
to regard her as lost to me that I did not think my boy still had a
mother," answered my father, bitterly. "But when she sees him, she will
not ask that any one should swear to his identity. She will know him,
though eleven years have elapsed since she saw him."
"But where is she?" I asked, anxiously.
"I do not know, Philip."
"When did you see her last?"
"It is four or five years since we met."
"But haven't you heard from her?"
"Once, and only once. After she left me, and went back to her father, I
tried to see her occasionally, for I have never lost my affection and
respect for her. I annoyed Mr. Collingsby, her father, trying to obtain
money of him. Three years ago the family moved away from St. Louis,
partly, if not wholly, I know, to avoid me, and to take my wife away
from the scene of all her misery."
"Where did they go?"
"To Chicago, where Mr. Collingsby was largely interested in railroad
enterprises."
"Is the family still there?"
"I do not know."
"They are," added Mr. Gray.
"But my wife is not there," said my father. "Some one told me, a year
ago, he had met her in Europe, where she intended to travel for three
years with her brother and his wife. Really, Philip, I know nothing
more about her. I wish I could lead you to her."
I was indeed very sad when I thought that years might elapse before I
could see her who had given me being.
"I will make some inquiries, Phil, in regard to the Collingsbys," said
Mr. Lamar.
"Are you satisfied, sir, that I am what I say I am?" I asked.
"I have no doubt you are, though perhaps your case is not absolutely
beyond cavil. The old man who died might have found the body of the
child, and taken the clothes and trinkets from it; but that is not
probable."
"But I can produce a man who has known me from my childhood," I replied.
"You can, but you have not," added he, with a smile.
"I will produce him if necessary. I hope you will see Mr. Gracewood
when he arrives."
"I will, if possible. But, Farringford, was there no mark or scar of
any kind on the child which will enable you to identify him?"
"I know of none. Perhaps his mother does," answered my father. "But I
tell you I am satisfied. I ask for no proof. I know his face now. It
all comes back to me like a forgotten dream."
"Very well; but, Farringford, you have something to live for now,"
added Mr. Lamar.
"I have, indeed," replied the trembling sufferer, as he glanced fondly
at me. "I will try to do better."
"When you feel able to do anything, we shall be glad to help you to a
situation where you can do something to support your boy," said Mr.
Gray.
"I can take care of myself, gentlemen. I am getting three dollars a
week now, and I hope soon to obtain more," I interposed.
"Three dollars a week will hardly support you."
"I shall be able to get along upon that sum for the present. Mrs.
Greenough is very kind to me."
The two gentleman said all they could to inspire my poor father with
hope and strength, and then departed. I was very much obliged to them
for the interest and sympathy they had manifested, and promised to call
upon them when I needed any assistance.
"I am amazed, Philip," said my father, when our friends had gone.
"I knew that you were my father when we met in the evening at the
Planters' Hotel," I replied. "You remember that you told me you had
lost a child on the upper Missouri."
"I did; I was thinking then what a terrible curse whiskey had been to
me. You looked like a bright, active boy, and I desired to warn you, by
my own sad experience, never to follow in the path I had trodden. I did
not suspect that I was talking to my own son; but all the more would I
warn you now."
"You thrilled my very soul, father, with your words, and I shall never
forget them. I shall pray to God to save both you and me from the
horrors of intemperance."
"Philip, I have resolved most solemnly, a hundred times, to drink no
more; but I did not keep my promise even twenty-four hours."
"Is your mind so weak as that?"
"Mind! I have no mind, my son. I haven't a particle of strength, either
of body or mind."
"You must look to God for strength," said Mrs. Greenough, who had
listened in silence to our conversation.
"I have, madam; but he does not hear the prayer of such a wretch as I
am."
"You wrong him, Mr. Farringford," replied the widow, solemnly. "He
hears the prayers of the weakest and the humblest. You have no strength
of your own; seek strength of him. My husband was reduced as low as you
are. For ten years of his life he was a miserable drunkard; but he was
always kind to me. Hundreds of times he promised to drink no more, but
as often broke his promise. I became interested in religion, and then
I understood why he had always failed. I prayed with my husband, and
for him. He was moved, and wept like a child. Then he prayed with me,
and the strength of purpose he needed came from God. He was saved, but
he never ceased to pray. He redeemed himself, and never drank another
drop. Before he died, he had paid for this house, besides supporting us
very handsomely for ten years."
"That is hopeful, madam; but I am afraid I am too far gone. I have no
wife to pray with me," said my father, gloomily.
"I will pray with you."
Throwing herself upon her knees before a chair, she poured forth her
petition for the salvation of the drunkard with an unction that moved
both him and me. I heard my father sob, in his weakness and imbecility.
He was as a little child, and was moved and influenced like one.
"You must pray yourself, Mr. Farringford," said she, when she had
finished. "You must feel the need of help, and then seek it earnestly
and devoutly."
"I thank you, madam, for all your kindness. I will try to do better.
I will try to pray," said he. "Could you give me some more of the
medicine I took last night and this morning? It helped me very much."
"Certainly I can. I will do everything in the world for you, if you
will only stay here and try to get well."
She left the room, and went into the kitchen to prepare the soothing
drinks which the excited nerves of the patient demanded.
"I will reform, Philip. I will follow this good lady's advice. Give me
your hand, my son," said my father.
"O, if you only would, father! This world would be full of happiness
for us then. We could find my mother, and be reunited forever."
"God helping me, I will never drink another drop of liquor," said he,
solemnly lifting up his eyes, as I held his trembling hand.
Mrs. Greenough opportunely returned with the medicines, and with a
folded paper in her hand. As my father took his potion, she opened the
paper, which was a temperance pledge, on which was subscribed the name
of "Amos Greenough."
"This is the pledge my husband signed, with trembling hand, ten years
before his death. It was salvation to him here--and hereafter. Will you
add your name to it, Mr. Farringford?" said Mrs. Greenough.
"I will."
"Not unless you are solemnly resolved, with the help of God, to keep
your promise," she added. "Not unless you are willing to work, and
struggle, and pray for your own salvation."
  [Illustration: PHILS FATHER SIGNS THE PLEDGE. Page 193.]
"I am willing; and I feel a hope, even now, madam, that God has heard
your prayer for a poor wretch like me."
"Sign, then; and God bless you, and enable you to keep this solemn
covenant with him."
She took the writing materials from the bureau, and my father, with
trembling hand, wrote his name upon the pledge.
"May God enable me to keep it!" said he, fervently, as he completed the
flourish beneath the signature.
"Amen!" ejaculated Mrs. Greenough. "May you be as faithful as he was
whose name is on the paper with you."
"Stimulated by his example, and by your kindness, I trust I shall be,"
said my father.
Mrs. Greenough then provided a light supper for him, of which he
partook, and very soon retired. I told my kind landlady that I had
recovered my money, and should now be able to pay my father's board for
a time. She had not thought of that matter, and would be glad to take
care of him for nothing if she could only save him. As I went to bed I
could not but congratulate myself upon finding such a kind and devoted
friend as she had proved to be.
  CHAPTER XVII.
  IN WHICH PHIL MEETS THE LAST OF THE ROCKWOODS.
The next day my father was quite sick; but Mrs. Greenough was an angel
at his bedside, and I went to my work as usual. I was filled with hope
that the wanderer might yet be reclaimed. Though I longed intensely
to see my mother, I think if I had known she was in the city I should
not have sought to find her, for I desired to carry to her the joyful
news of the salvation of my father. When I could say that he was no
longer a drunkard, I should be glad to meet her with this intelligence
upon my lips. But she was wandering in distant lands. Plenty and
luxury surrounded her, while I was struggling to earn my daily bread,
and to take care of my father. The fact that she was in affluence was
consoling to me, and I was the more willing to cling to my father in
his infirmities.
When I went to work that morning I was introduced to a plane and a
plank--to test my ability, I supposed, for the men had not yet finished
shingling the roof. A plank partition was to be put up in order to make
a counting-room in one corner of the storehouse. I had never in my life
seen a plane till I came to St. Louis; but I had carefully observed the
instrument and its uses. Conant told me how to handle it with ease and
effect, and instructed me in setting the iron, so as to make it cut
more or less deeply, according to the work to be done.
It was hard work, harder than boarding or shingling; but I made it
unnecessarily severe for the first hour, and though it was a cool day,
the sweat poured off me in big drops. I had not yet got the hang of the
thing; but when Conant came from the roof for a bundle of shingles,
he looked in to see how I succeeded. A little more instruction from
him put me on the right track, and I worked much easier; in a word,
I learned to use the plane. After removing the rough side from the
plank, it was a relief to handle the smoothing-plane, and I polished
off the wood to my own satisfaction and that of my employer.
In the afternoon I was sent upon the roof again to lay shingles, and
we finished that part of the job before night. At six o'clock all the
hands were paid off for their week's work. I felt considerable interest
in this performance. I had worked three days, and at the price agreed
upon I was entitled to a dollar and a half.
"I shall not want you any longer, Blair," said Mr. Clinch to the young
fellow of whom Conant had spoken so disparagingly to me. "I owe you six
dollars; here is the amount."
"You don't want me any longer?" replied Blair, as he took his wages.
"No."
"Why not?"
"You don't suit me. I can't afford to pay you six dollars a week for
what you do," answered the employer, bluntly. "You don't understand the
business, and you don't try to learn it. That boy there does twice as
much work in a day as you do."
I did not think it right to hear any more of this conversation, and
moved away. Though I was pleased with the compliment, I was sorry to
have it bestowed upon me at the expense or to the disparagement of
another. I walked around the building, but I was soon sent for to
receive my wages.
"Phil, you have done remarkably well," said Mr. Clinch; "and I want to
use you well. You handle a plane well for one who never saw one before,
and I think you were born to be a carpenter."
"Thank you, sir," I replied. "You give me all the credit I deserve."
"And I give you a dollar a day for your work, for you have done twice
as much as I expected of you," he added, handing me three dollars.
"I supposed you would be in the way at first, and I only took you to
oblige Captain Davis."
