glad I went. And, Kathie, I shall not want the 
paints, at least not for pay.” 

“ You can have them to paint your boat,” she re- 
joined, yielding of her own free will a point that she 
had refused him several times. 


 


“ You ’re a darling ! ” exclaimed Kob, boy fashion. 

She took a long look at the star before she went 
to bed. Did it never get tired shining steadily on 
and on ? Didn’t it want to go to some other place 
or do something else, — become a sun or moon, for 
instance, as any little boy or girl would in its place ? 
God wanted it just to shine, and it did its duty. And 
he wanted her to be a helpful little girl, or else he 
would have given her a beautiful house, plenty of 
money, and nothing to do. There were princesses in 
the fairy stories who had everything they called for, 
but the real fairies ran to and fro, did as they were 
bidden, never complaining of hard work. A little 
while ago she was wishing to be a fairy, one of the 
working kind it must be. 

So she said her prayers reverently and crept into 
her little bed, thinking of the many things she wanted 
to do, and most of all to make life a little easier for 
dear, sweet mamma. There was no way of getting 
rich, so they must always toil. Wishing for purses 
of gold and mines of jewels wouldn’t bring about any 
result, but being cheerful and industrious might. 

“ I ’ll try and be a fairy,” she thought as she fell 
asleep. 


 


CHAPTER II. 

FINDING A GIANT. 

“ Mother, did you mend my mittens ? These are 
all in holes now ” ; and Rob held up his hands. 

“ I was so busy yesterday, and then going out in 
the evening — ” 

“ Here they are,” said Kathie ; “ I did it last night.” 

“ Tall darning ” ; and Rob laughed incredulously. 

“ Aunt Ruth showed me.” 

“ Why, mother, look ; she did it splendidly, — as 
nice and thick as yours. I hate thin darning ; it 
comes out right away.” Rob gave her a boisterous 
hug and kiss. 

“ Mamma, have you seen my basket ? I can’t find 
it anywhere ” ; and Kathie looked disconsolate. 

“ Didn’t you put it on the shelf ? ” 

“ It isn’t there,” was Kathie’s reply. 

“ Think what you did do with it then. You came 
directly home from school, didn’t you ? ” 

“Yes, mamma.” 


 


“ Well, I don’t see it anywhere; I hope you have 
not lost it.” 

Kathie looked sober. “ I believe I did leave it at 
school, mamma,” she said, at length. “ I ran out to 
speak to Mary Cox, and then I forgot all about it.” 

Kathie’s eyes met Aunt Ruth’s. “ There ’s one 
of the giants,” she thought. “ There ’s a battle to 
fight, just as I did last night, when I went back to 
the baker’s. I ’ll try to remember. That must be 
my first work.” 

Mrs. Alston put Kathie’s lunch in a napkin. She 
hurried to school, and was going straight to her desk, 
when she saw her basket hung on a high nail. That 
was a sign that it had been left out of place the pre- 
ceding evening. Miss Moore would mark her now 
for having been careless. 

Kathie took her seat very soberly. There were 
giants all around, it seemed ; for she felt rather cross 
with Miss Moore when it was plainly her own fault. 
How could she forget that she had put it somewhere 
around, and then not come after it ! And she had 
resolved not to have one bad mark this quarter ! 

Sophie Dorrance rushed in and deposited her books 
on her desk. 


 


“ O Kathie, they re beginning a snow-house ! 
Come out ; it ’ll be such fun.” 

“ No,” said Kathie, quietly ; “ I cannot just now” 

“ Why, are you sick ? ” 

“ No.” 

“ Why, then, are you angry with any one ? ” 

“ I was very careless ; so I ’m going to sit here for 
a punishment, to make me remember another time.” 

“ Who told you to ? ” 

“No one ; I am doing it myself. I forget so easily 
that I must do something to cure myself.” 

“ What an odd girl you are ! What did you 
forget ? ” 

“ My basket, yesterday ; and I left it out of place.” 
“ Oh, I wouldn’t mind,” said Sophie. “ Come.” 

But Kathie would not yield. She was sorely 
tempted to when she heard the ringing laughs 
outside. Never were ten minut > so long. Then 
Miss Moore entered and spoke very pleasantly. 

“ How industrious you are, Kathie ! ” she said, with 
an approving smile ; for Kathie had her book open. 

Kathie colored a little. Her honesty and love of 
truth would not admit of her receiving praise when 

she had done nothing to merit it. 




 


“ It wasn’t that, Miss Moore. I was careless about 
my basket yesterday, and I thought if I deprived 
myself of some pleasure I should be more likely to 
remember it.” 

Miss Moore sat down beside her. “ What made 
you think of this, Kathie ? ” 

Kathie colored a little. “ I was talking to Aunt 
Kuth last night about fairies and giants, and she said 
our faults were like giants, and that we must fight 
them.” 

“ And so you have begun ? ” 

“ I wish I could remember better ; I forget so 
easily.” 

“ There is no way but by taking pains. I think 
you will succeed.” Then she gave her another sweet 
smile, and rang the bell. 

At recess she enjoyed the snow-house wonderfully. 
The boys were making square blocks of snow, pressed 
together as hard and solid as they could get it. They 
had quite a number piled up. The girls helped, 
laughing as merrily as the boys. Eecess seemed 

much shorter than Kathie’s moments of penance 

in the morning. 

The snow-house progressed rapidly. All through 


 


the noon intermission the children worked, and then 
remained a little while after school. But presently 
Kathie said softly to Rob, “ I think we ought to go 
home now. Mamma doesn’t like to have us stay 
very long after school.” 

“ Fudge ! ” exclaimed Rob. “ We don’t build snow- 
houses every day. There ’s nothing to do at home. I 
shall go right off and play again.” 

Kathie wished she was a boy. She could think of 
ever so much work to do, but boys certainly did have 
more time to play. They couldn’t sew, nor put the 
house in order, nor set the table. Suppose she stayed 
just this afternoon ! 

“ There ’s another giant,” she said to herself. “ And 
the prince who will come out to kill it is Obedience. 
Yes, I ’ll go right away.” 

“ Good by, girls,” she called out with a cheerful 
voice ; “ I must run home.” 

“ Oh Kathie, that ’s real mean not to stay and work 
on the snow-house,” exclaimed one of the girls. 

“ Mamma needs me at home,” she began, bravely, 
though she longed to stay. 

“ Nonsense ! she can stay just as well as not,"
Rob exclaimed, a little vexed. 


 


“ No, I can’t,” said Kathie, “ but I ’m sorry, and I ’d 
like to work on the snow-house.” 

“We won’t let her go in it to-morrow then,” said 
the first speaker, — for children can sometimes be very 
ungenerous with one another. 

Kathie winked away a tear, but was resolute. Eob 
told her to go off and not make a fool of herself. So 
Kathie ran as fast as she could to keep from feeling 
badly, and perhaps repenting. 

“ Mamma, isn’t there something I could do for 
you ? ” she said as soon as she had entered the room 
and hung up her bonnet and shawl. 

“ I ’m glad you came home so soon. Where are 
the boys ? ” 

Kathie explained that they were staying to work 
on the snow- house. Then her mother gave her some 
hemming to do, and Kathie found her thimble and 
sewed for nearly an hour. 

“ I wish the boys would come home,” Mrs. Alston 
said at length. “Freddy will be half frozen. Eob 
ought to know better. And there ’s kindling-wood to 
split to-night. I ’m glad you have some consideration, 
Kathie.” 

The little girl glanced up and met her mother’s 


 


fond smile. That was reward enough. She was 
quite satisfied now that she had missed the play, 
since she had been useful. 

Eob didn’t seem to feel very good-natured when 
lie came home, and Freddy was so tired that he fell 
asleep in his chair before he could pull off his wet 
boots. His mother roused him, and he began to cry. 

“ I ’m so hungry,” he sobbed out at length, his eyes 
still half closed. 

“ Freddy,” his mother said, "if you stay so late at 
school another night I shall have to punish you. I 
have told you a good many tunes that you must come, 
home earlier, and I shall not speak of it again. Why 
didn’t you come with Kathie ? ” 

“ Mamma, I don’t think I asked him,” Kathie 
rejoined, quickly. " It is one of the things I forgot 
again, but I am trying hard to remember.” 

Her mother kissed her and smiled by way of en- 
couragement, then told her to give Freddy a bowl 
of bread and milk and put him to bed. 

He considered this very hard at first, but Kathie 
fed him in such a merry fashion that he soon became 
quite good-natured. 

" Tell me another story,” he begged, after she had 
tucked him snugly in bed. 


 


“ I can’t to-night, Freddy. I must go and set the 
supper-table.” 

“ Just a teeny little one, — so long,” measuring a 
little space with his fat hands. 

“ No, dear, I have not time ; so good night.” 

“ You ’re a cross old thing ! You never will do 
anything nice for me ! ” he returned, crossly. 

Kathie thought this very unkind when she had 
been trying so hard to be patient, then she remem- 
bered that Freddy was only a little boy, and very 
sleepy at that. Sometimes she had fancied mamma 
and Aunt Butli cross when they refused her anything, 
and like a Hash she understood how that occasionally 
compliance might be quite impossible and yet not 
unkind. It was strange how, when one began to 
think, one could see so much. So she made no reply, 
but, smiling softly to herself, shut the door. After the 
dishes were washed she glanced up with a bright face. 
“ Is there anything else that I can do, mamma ? ” 

“ The beans are to be picked over and put in 
water to soak for to-morrow.” 

“ Baked beans ! Won’t that be gay and festive ! ” 
exclaimed Bob, who was trying to cut a ball-cover 
from the red lining of an old boot-leg. 


 


Ivatliie always thought this very "poky” work, 
hut somehow to-night it went very well. Then she 
looked over the dried cherries, and finally mixed 
the cakes for breakfast. 

Rob, worn out with his arduous labors, dropped 
asleep upon the lounge, and Kathie quietly picked 
up his numerous “ traps,” — for he had a boy’s fashion 
of leaving everything around. 

“ You have been a kind, helpful little girl,” Mrs. 
Alston said with her good-night kiss. “ I am very 
thankful, for I was not feeling very well.” 

"Mamma,” said Kathie, "must you always work 
so hard, — you and Aunt Ruth ? ” 

"We are poor, Kathie, and so we cannot afford to 
indulge in idleness, however pleasant it might be some- 
times. But when my children are grown up and can 
work for me, I hope life will be a little easier.” 

Kathie sighed. If fairy godmothers only would 
come at one’s wish ! Well, she must be a fairy her- 
self. 

When Kathie went to school the next morning she 
was surprised to find a palace sparkling in the sun. 
It had a grand turret at one cornei which the boys 
had deluged with water, and from every projection 


 


hung icicles that glittered like diamonds. How very 
beautiful it was ! Kathie stood in astonishment for 
a moment, then she entered the arched doorway. 
There was a table in the centre, and square masses 
of snow around the sides to represent chairs. 

“ Isn’t it a beauty ? ” asked Rob, exultantly. “ We 
worked like Trojans last night, I tell you. That ’s 
the handsomest snow-house that was ever made in 
this town, I know.” 

Rob did not remember the many hundred school- 
boys there had been before his time, and the snow- 
houses they had all made. 

There were a few finishing touches to be added at 
recess, and then the children decided to eat their din- 
ner in it. This arrangement was hailed with a shout 
of delight, and they settled themselves at once. 

“ Kathie Alston can’t,” said Lottie Thorne. “ She 
ran off home, and wouldn’t help work.” 

Several of the children turned towards Kathie, 
whose face reddened at this sudden onslaught. For 
a moment she stood quite still ; then she walked 
away a few steps without a word. 

“ That ’s mean of you, Lottie,” exclaimed one of 
the larger boys. “ Kathie did work awhile.” 


 


“ I knew mother needed me,” Kathie replied at 
length in a subdued voice. “ It was right to go home.” 
More than one felt the force of Kathie’s remark. 
“Well, she can have all the fun, then, without 
doing the work,” said Lottie, rather sulkily. “ I 
don’t think I ’ll help build another snow-house and 
have my hands half frozen.” 

At this instant the bell rang, which brought the 
dissension to an end. 

“ Kathie,” Bob began, giving his elbow a thrust in 
her side to enforce his words, “ I think you were a 
little fool ! I wouldn’t have let Lottie Thorne talk 
to me in that way ; and you stood and never said a 
word. What made you ? ” 

“ I was killing a giant,” said Kathie, soberly. 

“ A giant ! ” Kob opened his mouth as well as his 
eyes. 

“ Yes. I felt real angry at first, because I didn’t 
go from laziness. I ’d like to have stayed, but I was 
glad to think of mamma in time. Aunt Butli told 
me that our bad tempers were like giants, and that 
Jack in the fairy-book wasn’t the only one who set 
out to kill them. I want to remember, and I don’t 

want to get angry. That ’s two.” 




“ Humph ! ” said Rob, rather disdainfully. 

The children took their seats and went to work. 
The last hour was devoted to arithmetic. Kathie 
ciphered away industriously. One after another the 
children read their answers. 

Miss Moore called the names of those who were 
wrong. They would have to stay in and do their 
sums over. Lottie Thorne’s was amongst them. 

Kathie passed her in going out and felt real sorry 
as she caught a glimpse of the disappointed face. 
She paused half a moment beside her. 

Lottie was rather selfish, and was glad to have any 
one assist her. Kathie did occasionally, but she 
felt quite awkward about it now. She summoned 
courage presently, and said, “ Can ’t you find your 
mistake, Lottie ? These long - division sums are 
real bothering.” 

“ It ’s too bad ! I ’ve been all over it once. Hear ! 
when any one is in a hurry — ” And Lottie’s blue 
eyes seemed to indicate a shower. 

“ Let ’s look again,” said the cheery voice. “ Why, 
here, in the very beginning, you didn’t carry, you 
see.” 

“ And it ’s all to do over, — this great long sum ! ” 


 


Lottie’s tone was despairing, and slie surveyed it in 
utter dismay. 

“ That won’t get it done,” said Katliie, with a 
bright smile ; so at it they went in good earnest. 

“ That ’s right,” exclaimed Miss Moore, glancing it 
over. 

“ Katliie, you are the best girl I know ” ; and Lottie 
gave her a fond squeeze. “ If any one had been as 
cross to me as I was to you this morning, I would 
n’t have spoken to her. I ’m real sorry.” 

“ Never mind,” said Kathie, hunting up her hood. 
“ Only it was hard to go home yesterday, but I 
knew mamma needed me.” 

So the two girls went out to the snow-house. - “ It 
was better to be pleasant,” Kathie thought, and she 
determined to make war upon her giants whenever 
they dared to show themselves. 

The children had a delightful play, only it was so 
short. 

“ If we could all come to-morrow,” exclaimed 
Charlie Darrell. “ Wouldn’t it be fun to stay the 
whole afternoon and have a regular good time ? 
Who ’ll be here ? ” 

“I! I ! ” shouted a chorus of voices, Kob’s loudest 
amongst them. 


 


Katliie was silent ; should she promise or not ? 
Saturday was always such a busy time. But how 
delightful it would be to come ! 

“ You ’ll be sure to ? ” Charlie Darrell said to 
Katliie, lingering a little behind. 

“ I can ’t tell for certain.” 

“ What’s the matter ? You wouldn’t ride on my 
sled the other night, and you don ’t want to play very 
much. What makes you so queer ? ” 

Queer ! When she was trying so hard to be 
good and thoughtful, and from Charlie Darrell too ! 
Kathie’s heart was up in her throat. 

" Am I very queer ? ” There was the least little 
tremble in her voice. 

“ You ’ve alwavs been so good-natured and full of 
fun, and now you seem so sober.” 

“ I want to be just as good-natured and pleasanter 
than ever before.” 

Charlie looked at her as if he was afraid she had 
lost her wits, then he said, “ Why, Katliie ? ” 

“ Because,” very slowly and with an effort, “ I am 
trying to be better.” 

“ You always were good enough.” 

Not quite ” ; and Katlie gave a faint smile. 




“ But do you think it wrong to play ? ” and Charlie 
looked alarmed. 

“ No, indeed, only mamma wants me a good deal 
of the time, and I am trying to think of her. It ’s 
about all I can do to make her happy.” 

Charlie was grave enough. “ You ’re better than 
the rest of us, Katliie,” he said, with much gentle- 
ness. “ Only I hope you can come to-morrow.” 
Katliie hoped so too as much as anybody. “ I ’ll 
try,” she answered, cheerily. 

Then she hunted up Freddy, who didn’t want to 
go home a hit, and felt sure he was a big boy and 
could do as he liked. 

“ Remember what mamma said,” Katliie whispered, 
and he walked reluctantly by her side, casting long- 
ing looks backward. 

“ Just wait till I ’m as large as Rob,” he said, half 
crying. “ You won’t make me mind then.” 

“ Oh Freddy, it isn’t for me at all,” she said in a 
low, half-disheartened tone. “ And I ’d be happier if 
you were a grown-up man.” 

The child’s fancy caught at the idea, and he began 
to make plans for the coming manhood. 


 


CHAPTER III. 

AN ENCHANTED PALACE. 

“ Mamma,” Kathie said on Saturday morning, “ do 
you think I could go and play with the children this 
afternoon ? They mean to have a great time in the 
snow-house.” 

“ I shall have to indulge you, I suppose. You 
have been very industrious for several days.” 

“ But will you need me very much ? ” 

“You can get all your work done this morning, 
and there is no particular sewing.” 

That made Kathie exceedingly light-hearted. She 
was as brisk as a bee, making beds, sweeping, and 
dusting, while her mother attended to the baking and 
the extra cooking for Sunday. Rob was very good- 
natured, and did the errands. The time passed so 
rapidly that it was noon before Kathie thought. 

“ What a short morning ! ” 

Aunt Ruth answered her bright smile. “ You 
don’t need to look very far for fairies now,” she said. 


 


f< It ’s so odd, Aunt Ruth ; nothing has bothered 
me this whole morning. Everything fitted into some 
little space of time ; and it seems to me that on some 
days, do my best, all goes wrong.” 

“ Is it your best ? ” 

“ I don’t believe it is. Aunt Ruth ” ; and Kathie 
gave a little laugh. “ Do you know I ’ve been think- 
ing a good fairy must attend you, and that her name 
is Patience ? It is hard to sit here day after day and 
sew and knit. Wouldn’t you like to go out ? ” 

“ Certainly I should ; but, as you said the other 
night, I can’t walk, and there ’s no one to take me in 
a carriage.” 

“When Rob grows up, I hope he will be a rich 
man.” 

“And have a generous heart.” 

“ But you played when you were a little girl ? ” 

“ Yes, my dear. We had a happy home and many 
comforts.” 

Aunt Ruth sighed softly. It had been a hard 
struggle not to repine. She had striven very ear- 
nestly for a meek and quiet spirit. 

“ I wish you could go out, and the snow is so 
splendid now. Aunt Ruth, I wonder why rich 


 


people never think of the pleasure they might give 
poorer ones. If I was rich and had a sleigh — ” 

Kathie went off into a somewhat lengthy vision. 
When she roused herself from it, she said, slowly, 
“ Playing fairy isn’t quite so good as the real 
thing.” 

“ But rich people have their own business and 
their own pleasures, and many demands upon them ; 
they cannot think of everybody,” Aunt Ruth re- 
joined. “ And when we do the best we can, that 
is all that is required of us. So if you are a fairy in 
an humble sphere you must do what you can, and be 
content.” 

Kathie thought of the star, shining on and on ; 
that was it. 

After dinner Kathie helped wash the dishes, and 
then dressed herself. She was a pretty little girl, 
with golden ringlets and cheeks that brightened with 
a word. Her eyes were soft and dark, neither blue 
nor hazel, but like shady lakes ; and they always had 
such a tender expression that any one would guess at 
once that she had an affectionate heart. She looked 
very sweet in her gray cloak and dainty scarlet hood 
edged with white, that Aunt Ruth had made her for 



Christmas. Rob, all impatience, had started on 
before. 

“ Freddy must be a good boy and mind sister,” 
was Mrs. Alston’s parting command. 

They ran off to the school-house eagerly. Quite a 
number were already assembled and discussing what 
the play should be. The boys wanted war. The 
party must be divided into two factions, and the snow- 
house should be a camp or castle, — it didn’t matter 
which, — and one should try to take it from the other. 

“ But then you ’ll have to batter it down,” said 
Harry Cox, “ and that would be a shame. Why, we 
might play in it ever so long.” 

“ O, that ’s all the fun ! Can’t we build another ? ” 

Rob, like the hero of old, was for war. The voices 
rose high and eager. 

“ But then the girls can’t play,” exclaimed Charlie 
Darrell ; “ snowballing is too hard for them. When 
the house begins to look old and rusty we can do 
that.” 

“ Yes,” said Kathie, “ we would all like to play.” 

Then a diversion was created by the appearance 
of Sophie Dorrance, followed by their fat, jolly-look^ 
ing black woman, who was carrying a huge basket 


 


“ Oh Sophie ! ” was the general chorus. 

“ I begged mother to give us something to eat, and 
Chloe made such lots of cookies ! We re going to 
have real fun. What are you doing?” 

“ Nothing. We can’t make up our minds what 
to play. The boys wanted war and prisoners.” 

“Just like boys,” said Sophie, with a twinkle in 
her eye. 

“ Well, what then ? ” asked Rob. 

“ Something nice, where there \s a princess and lots 
of servants. Kathie Alston, let ’s have a fairy play. 
You ’re so capital at that. And we have a snow- 
palace.” 

“ Fudge ! ” returned Rob, disdainfully. “ Who cares 
for such tilings ? ” 

“ We ought to play something to please the girls,” 
said Charlie Darrell, in his manly fashion. “We can 
have a good row and racket by ourselves some time, 
so let ’s take the fairy play. A little girl must be 
stolen from her father’s palace and changed into — 
what, Kathie ? — and we ’ll all go search for her. 
There must be a good fairy and a wicked fairy.” 

“ First-rate, Charlie ” ; and Sophie laughed. “ Why, 
you ’re almost as good as Kathie. There must be 


 


soldiers — and — Oh yes, boys, you can have your 
battle — and by and by the princess gets safely home. 
There must be a prince too, and I ’ll choose him, — 
Charlie Darrell ! ” 

“ Hurrah ! ” shouted half a dozen voices. 

“ And the boys must choose the princess.” 

For a few moments there was a good deal of merry 
confusion, and then the voices assumed a definite 
sound, — “ Kathie Alston ! ” 

“ Oh no,” said Kathie, in her sweet, timid fashion. 
“ If I am anything, I think I had better be the fairy 
godmother. And little Rose Gordon will make such 
a sweet princess.” 

Sure enough. Rose had long golden curls as well 
as Kathie, but she was wrapped in a snowy hood and 
cloak so nearly white that she looked almost like a 
veritable fairy child. 

Rob declared noisily for Rose. By degrees the 
boys fell into the line, but Charlie Darrell was last. 

“ I wish it had been you,” he whispered softly to 
Kathie. 

“ But you must be a good prince,” was her low 
reply. 

