is only setting up for a judge." 
" She would do it as well as that, if she 
would try," said her mother. " I wish you 
would love your studies, Matilda. You could 
do so well if you pleased." 
" Clarissa Candy will make you both 
ashamed," said Anne. " She has learned 
everything, and is terribly smart ; ' going 
on to learn everything else,' her mother 
" Mamma," said Maria, " I have only my 
green silk and my blue delaine for nice dresses ; 
and the silk is old-fashioned, you know, and 
the delaine is too short ; and I want my merino 
finished." 
Finish it, then." 
Maria pouted. 
" I cannot afford every indulgence to you, 
as your aunt can to Clarissa ; you must make 
it up by your own industry." 
" But can I, mamma ? " 
" Can you what ? " 
 
" If I am very smart, can you give me 
things, if I make them up, that I can be as 
well dressed as Clarissa Candy ? " 
" Let us see the merino made first," said 
her mother. 
CHAPTER III. 
HERE was great interest now at Shady- 
walk, at least in one house, to know 
when the Liverpool steamer, " City of Pride," 
would be in. Conjectures proving unsatisfactory and uncertain, the whole family took 
to studying the marine lists in the daily papers ; and when everybody else had looked 
them over, the last one of the family did it 
again with extra care ; lest by some singular 
coincidence the letters forming the " City of 
Pride " might have escaped the eyes so keen 
set to find them. The paper grew better 
than a novel. It furnished a great deal of 
matter for conversation, besides; for all the 
steamers which had got in were talked over, 
with their dates of sailing, and number of 
days on the passage; with each of which 
the times, certain and probable, of the " City 
of Pride" were compared. Then there was 
the question, whether Aunt Candy might 
have changed her mind at the last minute, 
and waited for another steamer ; and the 
reports of the weather lately experienced at 
sea were anxiously read, and put alongside 
of the weather lately experienced at Shady- 
walk. 
Preparations in the house went on diligently; whatever might help it to make a 
better impression, or afford greater comfort 
to the expected guests, was carefully done. 
Mrs. Englefield even talked of getting a new 
stair-carpet; but contented herself with having the old one taken up and put down 
again, the stairs washed, and the stair-rods 
brightened ; the spare room, the large corner 
chamber looking to the north and west, was 
scrupulously swept and dusted ; furniture 
rubbed ; little white knitted mats laid on the 
dressing-table; the chintz curtains taken 
down and put up again; a new nice cham- 
 
her set of white china was bought, for the 
pitcher of the old set had an ugly nick in it 
and looked shabby; the towel rack was filled 
with white napery ; the handsomest Mar- 
seilles quilt was spread on the bed ; the stove 
was blackened and polished. It looked " very 
respectable," Anne said, when all was done. 
What private preparations went on be- 
sides, on the part of the girts, it would be 
hard to say. Maria worked hard at her 
braiding, that was open to anybody's observation ; but there were less obvious flutings and ironings down in the kitchen, and 
adjusting of ribbons and flowers in secret 
consultations upstairs. And one piece of 
care was made public by Maria, who announced that Letty had trimmed her old 
bonnet three times over before she would 
be suited. 
"Very well," said Letty contentedly. "I 
should like to know who would wear an old 
thing when he could have a new ; and mine 
is like new now." 
 
" Things can't be new always," said Matilda. 
"What then?" her sisters asked laughing. 
" Then it must be respectable for them to 
be old, sometimes." 
" Respectable ! Not very pleasant, when 
they are to be set alongside of things as 
new and nice as they can be. I like to be 
as good as anybody, for my part." 
" Mamma," said Matilda, " do you know 
there is a great hole in the door mat ? " 
" It is worn out a great deal too soon," 
said Mrs. Englefield. I shall tell Mr. Hard 
that his goods do not last; to be sure, you 
children do kick it to pieces with the snow." 
" But, mamma, I should think you might 
get another, and let that one go to the 
kitchen." 
" And then, wouldn't you like me to buy 
a new hall cloth ? there is very nearly a hole 
in that." 
" O, yes, mamma ! " 
" I cannot do it, children. I am not as 
rich as your Aunt Candy. You must be 
contented to let things be as they are." 
The girls seemed to take it as a grave fact, 
to judge by their faces. 
" And I think all this is very foolish talking 
and feeling. People are not any better for 
being rich." 
" But they are a great deal happier," said 
Letitia. 
" I don't know, I am sure. I never was 
tried. I think you had better put the thought 
out of your heads. I should be sorry if you 
were not as happy as your cousin, and with 
as much reason." 
" Mamma's being sorry doesn't help the 
matter," said Letitia softly. " I know I 
should be happier if I had what I want. It 
is just nonsense to say I should not. And 
mamma would, herself." 
That evening, the end of the week it was, 
the newspaper rewarded the first eyes that 
looked at its columns, with the intelligence 
 
that the " City of Pride " had been telegraphed. She would be in that night. 
And the list of passengers duly shewed the 
names of Mrs. Candy and daughter. The 
family could hardly wait over Sunday now. 
Monday morning's train, they settled it, 
would bring the travellers. Sunday was 
spent in a flutter. But however, that Monday, as well as that Sunday, was a lost day. 
The washing was put off, and a special dinner cooked, in vain. The children staid at 
home and did not go to school, and did nothing. Nobody did any thing, to speak of. To 
be sure, there was a great deal of running up 
and down stairs ; setting and clearing tables ; 
going to and from the post office ; but when 
night came, the house and everything in it 
was just where the morning had found them ; 
only, all the humanity in it was tired with 
looking out of windows. 
" That's the worst of expecting people ' " 
Mrs. Englefield observed, as she wearily put 
herself in an arm chair, and Letitia drew the 
window curtains. " You never know what 
to do, and the thing you do is sure to be the 
wrong thing. Here Judith might as well 
have done her washing as not ; and now it's 
to do to-morrow, when we don't want it in the 
way, and it will be in the way." 
" Don't you think they will come to-night, 
mamma ? " said Matilda. 
" I don't know, I am sure. I know no 
more than you do. How can I tell ? Only 
don't ask rne any more questions." 
" Would you have tea yet, mamma ? " said 
Letitia. 
" There's a question, now ! I tell you, don't 
ask me. Just when you like." 
" There's no train due for a good while, 
mamma ; they couldn't come for two or three 
hours. I think we had better have tea." 
So she went off to prepare it, just as Matilda, who had put her face outside of the 
window curtain, proclaimed that somebody 
was coming to the door. 
" Only one person though, mamma. Mamma! it's Miss Redwood Mr. Richmond's 
Miss Redwood." 
" It wanted but that ! " Mrs. Englefield exclaimed with a sort of resigned despair. 
" Let her in, Matilda. I locked the door." 
The person who followed Matilda to the 
sitting room was a slim woman, in black costume, neither new nor fashionable. Indeed 
it had no such pretensions; for the fashion 
at that time was for small bonnets, but Miss 
Redwood's shadowed her face with a remi- 
niscence of the coal-scuttle shapes, once worn 
many years before. The face under the bonnet was thin and sharp-featured ; yet a certain delicate softness of skin saved it from 
being harsh; there was even a little peachy 
bloom on the cheeks. The eyes were soft 
and keen at once ; at least there was no want 
of benevolence in them, while their glance 
was swift and shrewd enough, and full of 
business activity. 
" Miss Redwood, how do you do ? I am 
glad to see you. Do sit down," was Mrs. 
 
Englefield's salutation, made without rising. 
" How do you do, Mis' Englefield ? Why 
seems as if you was expectin' folks 
here?" 
" Just what we are doing ; and it is some 
of the hardest work one can do." 
" Depends on who you expect, seems to me. 
And I guess 'tain't harder work than what 
I've been doing to-day. I've been makin' 
soap. Got it done, too. And 'tain't to do 
agin till this time next year comes round." 
" Can you make enough at once for the 
whole year ? I cannot." 
" 'Spects you use a passel, don't ye ? " 
" Of course in so large a family. But 
you're a great hand for soap, Miss Redwood, 
if folks say true." 
" Cellar ain't never out of it," said Miss 
Redwood shaking her head. " It's strong, 
mine is ; that's where it is. You see I've my 
own leach sot up, and there's lots o' ashes ; 
the minister, he likes to burn wood, and I 
 
like it, for it gives me my ley ; and I don't 
have no trouble with it ; the minister, he saws 
it and splits it and chops it, and then when all's 
done he brings it in, and he puts it on. All I 
have to do is to get my ashes. I did think, 
when I first come, and the minister he told 
me he calculated to burn wood in his room, I 
did think I should give up. ' Why sir,' says 
I, ' it'll take a load o' wood a day, to fill that 
ere chimney; and I hate to see a chimney 
standin' empty with two or three sticks a 
makin' believe have a fire in the bottom of it. 
Besides,' says I, ' stoves is a sight cleaner and 
nicer, Mr. Richmond, and they don't smoke 
nor nothin', and they're always ready.' ' I'll 
take care of the fire,' says he, ' if you'll take 
care of the ashes.' Well, it had to be ; but I 
declare I thought I should have enough to do 
to take care of the ashes ; a-flyin' over everything in the world as they would, and nobody 
but my two hands to dust with ; but I do believe the minister's wood burns quieter than 
other folks', and somehow it don't fly nor 
 smoke nor nothin', and the room keeps decent." 
" Your whole house is as neat as a pin. 
But you have no children there to put it out 
of order, Miss Redwood." 
" Guess we do," said the minister's house- 
keeper quietly ; " there ain't any sort o' thing 
in the village but the minister has it in there 
by turns. There ain't any sort o' shoes as 
walks, not to speak of boots, that don't go 
over my carpets and floors ; little and big, and 
brushed and unbrushed. I tell you, Mis' 
Englefield, they're goin' in between them two 
doors all the week long." 
" I don't know how you manage then, I'm 
sure." 
" Well I don't," said the housekeeper. The 
back is fitted to the burden, they say ; and I 
always did pray that if I had work to do, I 
might be able to do it; and I always was, 
somehow. And it's a first-rate place to go 
and warm your feet, when the minister is out," 
she added after a pause. 
 
< What ? " said Mrs. Englefield laughing. 
" The minister's fire, to be sure, that I was 
talkin' about. Of course, I have to go in to 
see it's safe, when he ain't there ; and sometimes I think it's cheaper to sit down and 
watch it than to be always runnin'." 
" Mr. Richmond was a lucky man when he 
got you for a housekeeper," said Mrs. Englefield. 
Well I don't know " said Miss Red- 
wood contemplatively, with rather a sweet 
look on her old face. " I 'spose I might as 
well say I was a lucky woman when I got his 
house to keep. It come all by chance, too, 
you may say " 
" Mamma, tea is ready," Maria here interrupted. 
" Miss Redwood, will you come down and 
have tea with us ? " 
" No ; but what I come to ask was some- 
thin' different. I was so taken up with my 
soap-kettle all day, I just forgot somethin' 
more important, and didn't make no new 
risin' ; and I hain't got none to-night for the 
minister's bread. I know you're one of the 
folks that likes sweet bread, Mis' Englefield, 
and has it ; and I've come to beg a cup of 
your risin'." 
One of the girls was sent for the article, and 
Mrs. Englefield went on. 
" The minister's an easy man to live with, 
I suppose ; isn't he ? " 
" What sort do you mean by that, Mrs. 
Englefield?" 
" Why ! I mean he is easily suited, and 
don't give more trouble than can be helped, 
and don't take it hard when things go wrong. 
"Things don't go wrong, fur's I know," 
said Miss Redwood. " Not with him, nor with 
me." 
"Easily pleased, isn't he?" 
" When folks do just what they'd ought to 
do, he is," said the housekeeper with some 
energy. " I have no sort of patience, for my 
part, with the folks that are pleased when 
they hadn't ought to be pleased." 
 
" But isn't that what Mr. Richmond preaches 
to us all the time ? that we ought to be pleased 
with everybody ? " 
" Why, no, mamma ! " said Matilda. 
I thought he did." 
" I take it t'other way," Miss Redwood observed. " It comes close, it does, some of the 
minister's talk ; but I always think, if I had a 
right to be better pleased with myself maybe 
other folks  onesidedness wouldn't worry me. 
I'll do as much for you, next time, Miss Letty," 
she said rising to take what that young lady 
had brought her. And therewith away she 
went. 
" Well, we have got off with our lives this 
time," said Mrs. Englefield. " Now, girls, let 
us have tea." 
" Mamma, I believe here they are this 
minute," said Matilda. " The omnibus is 
stopping." 
It was declared to be impossible ; but nevertheless found true. The omnibus was cer 
tainly at the door, backing down upon the 
 
sidewalk ; and two figures did get out of it 
and came through the little courtyard to the 
house. And then all doubts were resolved; 
Mrs. Candy was in the arms of her sister, and 
the cousins were looking at each other. 
That is, as soon as people could get their
wrappings off. Letty and Maria were assiduous in their endeavours to relieve Miss Clarissa 
of her hood and furs and the cloakings and 
mufflings which a night ride had rendered 
necessary ; while Anne waited upon her 
aunt; and impressions were forming and 
opinions taking ground, under all the confused chatter about the journey, the train, the 
omnibus, and the " City of Pride;" opinions 
and impressions which were likely enough 
to get turned topsy-turvy in another day 
or two; but for the present nobody knew 
that. 
" And here is somebody who says nothing ! " 
Mrs. Candy remarked, stooping down to touch 
Matilda's hair with a light finger. 
"Tilly does the thinking for the family," 
 
said Mrs. Englefield. " Now do come down 
and have some tea." 
"Down? Where are we going?" said 
Mrs. Candy. " Your house stands on the 
ground level, I noticed." 
" O, we have a very nice basement; and 
just for eating, you know, it does not make 
much difference where you are, and it'is so 
much more convenient, being near the 
kitchen." 
" In Germany we used to take our meals 
in the open air a great deal," Mrs. Candy went 
on, as the party filed down the narrow stairs. 
" In the open air ! Not at this season ? " 
" Well, not with the thermometer at zero," 
said Mrs. Candy laughing a little. " Nor at 
quite so high a temperature as you have 
here!" 
The room downstairs was bright enough, 
and looked cheerful, with its well spread table 
and tea urn ; but it was low, and full of close 
stove heat. The travellers got as far from the 
source of this as the limits of the table would 
 
let them, and presently begged for an open 
door. But Mrs. Englefield's tea was good ; 
and very soon the family talk began to move 
naturally. Mrs. Candy pleased her nieces. 
A fine looking and also a kind looking woman, 
with a good figure, well clothed in a handsome travelling dress ; a gold watch and chain ; 
and an easy, good humoured, and at the same 
time sensible air and way of talking. It was 
not difficult to get acquainted with her ; she 
met all advances more than half way; and 
her talk even that first evening was full of 
amusement and novelty for the young people. 
It was less easy to know what to think of 
Clarissa. Her cousins held a consultation 
about her that night before going to sleep. 
" She looks as old as Letty." 
" But she isn't. O, she don't, either." 
" She's well looking ; don't you think so ? " 
I'll tell you what I think," said Matilda. 
She's beau-ti-ful." 
I don't think so," said Letty ; " but she's 
an uncommon looking girl." 
How old is she?" 
" She is sixteen." 
" Well ! Maria's only half a year younger 
than that." 
" She hasn't said three words yet ; so 
I cannot tell what shte is," Anne remarked. 
" She didn't like going down into the basement," said Letty. 
" How do you know ? " 
" I know she didn't ! " 
" I should like to know where she would 
go ; there is no other place," said Maria. 
" I suppose that is just what she didn't 
like," said Letitia. 
" There might be, though," Matilda began 
again. " If mamma would open the back room 
behind the parlour, and move the table and 
things up there, I think it would be a great 
deal pleasanter." 
"That's like Matilda!" the other girls ex- 
claimed in chorus. 
" Well, I don't think that basement room is 
pleasant," said the girl. " I never did. I am 
always glad to get out of it." 
" And now, I suppose, you will be taking all 
Clarissa's dainty ways, in addition to your 
own ! " said Letitia. " I wonder what will 
become of the rest of us." 
" What dainty ways has Clarissa ? " Matilda 
inquired. 
" You can see for yourself. She doesn't 
like the heat of a stove! and she must 
look at her watch to see what time it 
is, though the clock was right opposite to 
her." 
" I am sure I would look at a watch, if I had 
it," Matilda added. 
" And did you see what travelling gloves 
she wore ? " 
" Why not?" said Matilda. 
" Why not, of course ! you will have no 
eyes for any one shortly but Clarissa Candy ; 
I can see it. But she is a member of the 
church, isn't she ? " 
What if she is ? " said Matilda. " Mamma 
read that in one of Aunt Candy's letters, I 
remember." 
" We'll see what Mr. Richmond will say to 
her. Maria reports that he does not like red 
flowers ; I wonder what he will think of some 
other things." 
" That is only Maria's nonsense," Matilda 
insisted. " I know Mr. Richmond likes red 
flowers ; he has got a red lily in his room." 
" In his room oh yes ! but not in people's 
bonnets, you know ; nor in their heads ; if they 
are Christians." 
" I can't imagine what people's being Christians has to do with red flowers," said Matilda. 
" Besides, Clarissa hadn't any flowers about 
her at all. I don't know what you are talking 
of." 
" Didn't you see her gold chain, though, 
that hung round her neck ? " 
" Her watch was on that. Mayn't Christians wear gold chains? What nonsense you 
do talk, Letitia!" 
" I shouldn't want to be a Christian if I 
thought I couldn't wear anything," Maria remarked. 
" Nor would I," said Letitia. " So I advise 
you, my dears, to be a little careful how you 
join Bands and such things. You may find 
that Mr. Richmond is not just the sort of 
Christian you want to be." 
The conclave broke up, having reached 
a termination of general dissatisfaction common to such conclaves. Maria went to 
bed grumbling. Matilda was as usual silent. 
The next day, however, found all the family 
as bright as itself. It was a cold day in January ; snow on the ground; a clear sharp sun- 
shine glittering from white roofs and fence tops 
and the banks of snow heaped against the 
fences, and shining on twigs and branches 
of the bare trees ; coming into houses with its 
cheery and keen look at everything it found, 
as if bidding the dark sides of things, and the 
dusty corners, to change their characters and 
be light and fair. In the basement the family 
 
gathered for breakfast in happy mood, ready 
to be pleased with each other ; so pleasure was 
the order of the day. Pleasure had a good 
deal to feed on, too ; for after the long breakfast was over and the conversation had 
adjourned to the parlour, there came the 
bestowing of presents which Clarissa had 
brought for her friends. And they were so 
many and so satisfactory, that the criticisms 
of the past night were certainly for the present 
forgotten ; Letitia forgave her cousin her 
daintiness, and Maria overlooked the gold 
watch. Matilda as usual said little, beyond 
the civil needful words, which that little girl 
always spoke gracefully. 
" You are a character, my dear, I see," her 
aunt observed, drawing Matilda to her side 
caressingly. 
" What is that, Aunt Candy ? " 
" Well, I don't know, my dear," her aunt 
answered laughing; "you put me to define 
and prove my words and you bring me into 
difficulty. I think, however, I shall be safe in 
saying, that a ' character ' is a person who has 
his own thoughts." 
" But doesn't everybody ? " 
" Have his own thoughts ? No, my dear ; 
the majority have the thoughts of other 
people." 
" How can they, Aunt Candy ? " 
"Just by not thinking for themselves. It 
saves a great deal of trouble." 
" But we all think for ourselves," said Matilda. 
" Do we ? Reflect a little. Don't some of 
you think like other people ? about ways of 
doing, and acting, and dressing, for instance ? " 
" O yes. But Aunt Candy if people 
think for themselves, must they do unlike other 
people ? " 
" If they follow out their thoughts, they 
must, child." 
" That suits Matilda then," said her sister 
Anne. 
" Well, it is very nice for a family to have 
one character in it," said Mrs. Candy. 
" But, Aunt Candy, isn't Clarissa a character too ? " 
"I don't know, Tilly; I really have not 
found it out, if she is. Up to this time she 
always thinks as I think. Now she has given 
you the tokens of remembrance she has 
brought home for you ; what do you think 
I have got ? " 
" O aunt, nothing more!" exclaimed Anne. 
" Clarissa and I are two people, if neither 
of us is a character however," said Mrs. 
Candy. " Her gifts are not my gifts. But 
mine shall be different from hers. And if 
there is more than one character among us, I 
should like to find it out; and this will do it." 
So saying, she fetched out her purse and 
presented to each of her sister's children a 
bank-note for twenty five dollars. 
Mrs. Englefield exclaimed and protested. 
But Mrs. Candy laid her hand on her sister's 
mouth and declared she must please herself 
in her own way. 
" What do you want us to do with this 
 
Aunt Candy ? " Matilda inquired in a sort of 
contemplative wonder. 
" Just whatever will please you, will please 
each of you, best. Only that. That is my 
condition, girls, if I may call it so. You are 
not to spend that money for any claims of 
duty or conscience but simply in that 
way which will afford you the highest pleasure." 
Thanks were warm and gratification very 
high ; and in the best mood in the world the 
new relations sat down to talk to each other 
and study each other for the remainder of the 
day. Clarissa pleased her cousins. She was 
undoubtedly extremely pretty, with big brown 
honest eyes, that gave a good full look into 
the face she was speaking to ; beautiful hair 
a little lighter in colour, and great sweetness 
of outline and feature. Yet she was reserved ; 
very quiet ; very self-possessed ; to a degree 
that almost carried an air of superiority in 
the minds of her cousins. Those large brown 
eyes of hers would be lifted swiftly to the face 
of some one speaking, and then go down 
again, with no sign of agreeing or disagreeing, indeed with no sign of her thought at 
all ; but she had thoughts of course ; why 
should she not show them, as her cousins did ? 
It was almost supercilious, to the fancy of 
Anne and Letitia ; Matilda and Maria were 
fascinated. Then her hands were more deli- 
cate than those of Mrs. Englefield's children ; 
and there were one or two costly rings on 
them. Anne and Letty did not understand 
their value, but nevertheless even they could 
guess that they belonged to a superior description of jewellery from that which was 
displayed beneath the glass cases of Mr. 
Kurtz, the watchmaker of Shadywalk. Then 
Clarissa's dress was of fine quality, and made 
beautifully, and her little gold watch with its 
chain " put a finish upon it," Anne said. A 
little hair necklace with a gold clasp was 
round her neck besides ; and her comb was 
real tortoise-shell. Clarissa was dainty, there 
was no doubt; but her sweet mouth was 
grave and modest ; her words were few ; her 
manners were very kindly and proper; and 
her cousins on the whole were obliged to 
approve her. 
CHAPTER IV. 
" THAT is all this hurry about? " Clarissa 
inquired one evening, as they were 
going downstairs in answer to the tea-bell , 
" why are we earlier than usual ? Anne saya 
we are." 
" O, because it is prayer meeting night 
no, not prayer meeting, it isn't either, but our
Band meeting ; and we have to be early for 
that, you know. O, you don't know anything about our Band ; but you will, to-night. 
You'll join it, won't you, Clarissa ? " 
" I know something about Bands," said 
Clarissa ; " but I never belonged to one. Is 
it the custom here for ladies to do such 
things ? " 
" What things? And do you know about 
Bands? like ours?" 
" I dare say I shall find I have something to 
learn," said Clarissa. 
" There is a great deal to learn from Mr. 
Richmond, I can tell you," said Maria. " O, 
you don't know Mr. Richmond, you haven't 
seen him, because Sunday was so stormy. 
Well, you'll see him to-night." 
" Aunt Englefield," said Clarissa when they 
were seated at the tea-table, "is your Mr. 
Richmond Band-master as well as clergy- 
man?" 
" Bands are a mystery to me, Clarissa," 
said Mrs. Englefield ; " I do not understand 
Maria when she gets upon that subject. I 
hope you will be able to enlighten me some 
time. Are you going to-night ? well, then, 
I shall hope to be wiser when you return." 
Tea was hurried through, cloaks and furs 
and hoods and all sorts of wrappings were 
put on ; and the party set forth ; Anne and 
Letitia this time going along. It was pleasanter out than in. White streets and clear 
starlight, and still, cold, fine air. About the 
 
corner a few men and boys were congregated, 
as usual ; after passing them and turning into 
the other street, few passengers were to be 
seen. Here and there one, or a group, making for the lecture-room ; here and there somebody seeking a friend's house for pleasure ; 
nobody was out on business at Shadywalk in 
the evening, and no wagons or sleighs got 
belated in the darkness. It would have been, 
very dark, but for the snow and the stars. 
There were no shop windows illuminated, and 
no lamps along the street and no gas any- 
where. Past the shut-up houses and stores, 
in the dim snowy street, the little cluster of 
girls went swiftly on. 
" You are in a great hurry," said Clarissa. 
" O, we want to get there before any- 
thing begins," Maria said. " And it's cold, 
besides!" 
" What church is this we are passing ? " 
" O, this is our church. You haven't seen 
it. It is real nice inside." 
"Not outside?" said Clarissa. "Well, I 
 
cannot see it in this light. And is that next 
place the one we are going to ? " 
" Yes, that's our lecture-room. That's very 
nice." 
So it was. Pleasant light from withinside 
streamed warm through the hanging window- 
blinds of the long windows, and promised welcome before they got in. At the door, under 
the projecting hood, a lamp shone bright upon 
the entrance steps. People were flocking in. 
The opening door let them into a cheerful 
room, not large, with long rows of seats on 
either hand of a wide matted aisle ; the view 
closed by a little desk at the further end on a 
raised platform. Right and left of the desk, 
two small transepts did somewhat to enlarge 
the accommodations of the place ; which had 
a cozy, home look, comfortable and bright. 
Where do those doors lead to ? " Clarissa 
whispered ; " behind the desk ? " 
" O, those open to the infant class room. 
Isn't it nice ? " Maria answered. 
" It is small," said Clarissa. 
 
" It is large enough, though. We shall not 
fill it to-night." 
And they did not. There was only a little 
company gathered, of various ages. Some 
quite grown people ; many who were younger. 
They had drawn towards the upper end of 
the room, and clustered near the platform. 
" There is Mr. Richmond," Maria whis- 
pered presently ; " do you see him ? he is up 
there near the desk talking to Mr. Barker, 
Mr. Barker is one of our teachers, but he haa 
got nothing to do with the Band. That is 
Mrs. Trembleton, isn't she pretty ? sitting 
down there in front; she always sits just 
there, if she can, and I have seen her ever so 
put out if she couldn't when somebody else 
had got it, you know. And there " 
" But, Maria," whispered Clarissa gravely, 
" do you think it is quite proper to whisper so 
in church ? " 
This isn't church ! " Maria replied with 
great readiness. 
" What then ? " 
" Why, it is only our Sunday school room 
and this is a Band meeting." 
"It looks very like church to me," said 
Clarissa. " Hush ! don't whisper any more." 
For the minister now took his stand at the 
little desk before mentioned ; and even Maria 
was quiet enough during the prayer with 
which he began the proceedings. But then 
Mr. Richmond came in front of the desk, and 
began to speak, seriously indeed, but with an 
easy simplicity which Clarissa thought was 
" not like church." 
" It may not be known to everybody pres- 
ent," Mr. Richmond began, " exactly what 
was done at our last meeting here Thursday 
night. I wish it to be very well understood, 
that every one may join with us in the action 
we took, intelligently ; or keep away from 
it, intelligently. I wish it to be thoroughly 
understood. We simply pledged ourselves, 
some of us who were here Thursday night, to 
live and work for Christ to the best and the 
utmost of our ability, as He would give us 
 
grace to do. We pledged ourselves to each 
other and to our Master ; to the end that we 
might the better help each other, being so 
pledged; and that we might enter into some 
system and plan of work by which we might 
accomplish much more than we could hope to 
do without plan or system. I have a list in 
my hand, of various kinds of work which it 
may be well for us to attempt ; some kinds 
will suit some people and other kinds will suit 
other people ; but before we go into a consideration of these, I will read something else to 
you. We must do this thing we must 
enter into this pledge to God and each other, 
those of us who enter into it, knowing exactly what we do, and if possible, why we do 
it. I have drawn up in a few words what we 
mean, or what we ought to mean, in giving 
this pledge ; and now I am going to read it 
to you ; and after I have read it I shall ask all 
of you who have heard it and agreed to it, to 
rise up, without any regard to the question 
whether you were among those who rose last 
 
Thursday or not. I wish no one to stand 
who does not fully and intelligently agree to 
every word of this covenant ; but I hope 
that will be the case with every one of you 
all. The children can understand it as 
well as the grown people. This is the covenant. 
" ' We are the servants of Christ. 
" ' And as he died for all, that they which 
live should not live unto themselves but unto 
him so we do not count ourselves to belong 
to ourselves. We are the Lord's. 
" ' We want to do all we can do, that would 
please him and honour him, whether it be in 
our own hearts or in the world. 
" ' So we stand ready to do his will ; in telling the good news to others ; in shewing how 
precious we hold it ; in carrying help of every 
sort to our neighbour, upon every opportunity ; 
walking as children of the Light; if by any 
means we may advance our Lord's kingdom 
and glory. 
" ' And all this we will try to do, by his 
help, trusting in his grace and resting in 
his promises, whose word cannot fail.' " 
" Now," said Mr. Richmond when he had 
read this, which he read very slowly and deliberately, as if he wished that every one 
should weigh every word, " I am going to ask 
you to rise and so declare your agreement 
with this covenant all of you who have 
heard and understood it, and who are ready 
to pledge yourselves to its responsibilities. 
Every one whose own mind and wish this 
covenant expresses will please rise." 
The little stir which this request occasioned 
through the room, left few of the assembly in 
their seats. Maria, as soon as she was upon 
her feet, looked to see how it was with her 
companions. To her great satisfaction, 
Clarissa was standing beside her; but Anne 
and Letitia were sitting in their places, and 
so was Matilda in hers beyond them. Maria 
frowned and nodded at her; but Mr. Richmond had desired the people to sit down 
again before these signs could take any effect, 
" It is as I hoped," Mr. Richmond said in a 
satisfied voice. " I have no alteration to 
make in my lists, beyond the addition of one 
or two new names ; and that sort of alteration 
J shall be glad to make whenever people will 
let me. I will receive new names at any time, 
of those who wish to join our Band our 
Working Band. I do not know what we 
shall call ourselves ; but one thing is certain, 
we mean to be a working people. Now suppose we see what kinds of work we are 
prepared to undertake each one of us in particular. Of course, we are all to do all we 
can and of all kinds ; but there are some kinds 
of work that each one can do better than he 
