home in fine spirits. The first thing that met his 
eye as he entered Aunt Euth's room was Freddy 
sitting quietly in an arm-chair, his hand bandaged 
and in a sling. Uncle Eobert was reading to him. 
" Why, what 's the matter ? " asked Eob. 
" Oh, I sawed my hand off ! " and with that Fred 
began to cry. 
" It doesn't hurt much now," said his uncle, " and 
you know you were to be a brave boy." 
" Freddy, you didn't go meddling with my tools, 
did you ? " asked Eob, rather sharply. 
Freddy whined and began to make excuses. "I 
was only trying to saw a little stick." 
"And so he disobeyed orders and marched into 
forbidden territory, and you, Eobert, were very care- 
less to leave your tools scattered around. I was 
quite surprised at the disorder." 
" I was in a great hurry," said Eob, apologetically. 
"Then you might have locked the door. I was 
very strongly inclined to do it and keep the key." 
Eob felt that he should have gone back, and he 
 
could not plead forgetfulness, so he was silent for 
a moment, then he asked soberly if Fred's hand was 
seriously hurt. 
" Quite a severe flesh wound. I hope, Bob, that 
I "shall not have to ask you to be careful for the next 
three months at least." 
" I 'in sure you won't/' returned the boy, confi- 
dently. 
Then his mother talked to him a little about being 
so careless, and Eob's temper was sadly ruffled. He 
thought he ought to have some credit for amusing 
Freddy all the morning, but no one ever seemed 
to appreciate the good things he did, and a great fuss 
was always made over the accidents. 
Poor Rob didn't enjoy his evening very much, and 
w T as glad to go to bed. These two days had been 
failures. 
The next morning he resolved that he would be 
extra good. His conscience still troubled him a little 
about Harry, and now it seemed so hard to tell. 
He put his tools in order, made the room nice and 
tidy, then pulled some weeds out of his flower-bed 
and tied up his dahlias. Afterward he took his boat 
down to the lake to sail it, and Freddy wanted to go 
with him. At first he felt tempted to refuse, but on 
second thoughts he acquiesced. 
Eob, with his uncle's assistance, had made a very 
pretty little ship, painted tastefully, and named " The 
Jessie." Freddy was always delighted to watch it 
as it floated gracefully along the shore, its sails gently 
filling with wind. He found a stick and was extremely 
anxious to give it a little assistance, which Rob 
forbade. Then he picked up some dry leaves and set 
them floating, beating the water to make waves and 
foam. 
" Don't ! ' said Eob a time or two, and then he 
went farther down to escape the annoyance. 
There was a tiny cove with a very shallow shore 
edge half filled with large stones. Fred had watched 
Eob and Kathie jump from one to another, but he 
had been forbidden to do it alone. He saw Eob going 
slowly down, half hidden by the cedars, so he resolved 
to venture. He succeeded bravely and found it great 
fun. If he could only get on the big rock and be 
Eobinson Crusoe ! His feet were quite wet by the 
exploit, but he was enjoying himself hugely, when 
Eob called " Freddy ! ' : Now if he could only 
scamper back in time ! 
 
Alas ! With his first bound he soused into the 
water. Eob heard the splash, but did not suppose it 
anything more than a stone. A scream followed it 
very soon, and he ran to see what was the matter. 
There was Fred floundering about, his nose, eyes, and 
ears full of water. As he was in no danger of drown- 
ing, Eob stopped to pull off his shoes and roll up his 
trousers. 
" you torment ! " he exclaimed, giving him a jerk. 
Fred's wounded hand had been hurt by the fall, 
and he was crying with pain and fright. Eob 
dragged him to the shore rather ungently. 
" I have a good mind to send you home alone. 
You ought to have a whipping ! " 
" Oh, my hand ! Don't run so fast, Eob ! dear ! 
dear ! " 
" Mother," exclaimed Eob, as they came in sight 
of the kitchen, " Fred 's been climbing over the stones 
and has fallen in the water. He 's the worst and 
most troublesome boy that I ever saw. He ought to 
have a whipping and be sent to bed." 
" Why did you let him climb over the stones ? ' 
Mrs. Alston asked, in mild reproach. 
' He went off to sail his boat," sobbed Fred. " He 
never watched me at all, and I wanted to play Rob- 
inson Crusoe. I had a big stick for Friday. And if 
he hadn't hollered I wouldn't ha' tumbled into the 
water. My hand hurts so dear ! " 
"Robert, I think you might take better care of 
Freddy, and, Freddy, you will have to be punished 
for disobeying. Come up stairs and get on some dry 
clothes." 
Rob thought of his boat and flung himself out of 
the room. He ran down to the lake as fast as pos- 
sible, but there was his boat half-way across. If he 
only had stopped to take it out of the water ! He 
stamped his feet in anger and despair, and then he 
gave way to some passionate tears. Everything 
would go wrong. There never was such an unlucky 
boy in the world. He was always blamed for other 
people's faults, and if he had something particularly 
nice, it was sure to meet with an accident. Dick 
Grayson never had any trouble, nor Charlie Darrellj 
but everything did happen to him ! 
Then he espied Uncle Robert in the road below, 
and he ran down to him with a woe-begone face. 
" Why, Rob, what now ? ' asked his uncle, in as- 
tonishment. 
 
So Eob related his misadventure about the boat, 
and this had to take in Fred's graver complication. 
" I guess it hasn't been a very funny week," 
said his uncle, with a quiet smile that meant a 
good deal. 
" Funny ! " 
" Yes. You set out to have a good deal of fun in 
this your last week, you know." 
" And it 's all been trouble ! How can we get the 
boat ? " 
" You see the wind is blowing it over to the oppo- 
site shore. I cannot think of any better way than 
to walk round." 
He turned as if to go, and Eob was pleased with 
the idea of having company. 
" Eob/' he said presently, in a grave tone, " I want 
a little talk with you. I have just been to see 
Harry Cox." 
Eob stood still in the path. He gave his uncle 
one glance, then his eyes drooped and his face was 
scarlet. 
" I can't tell you how pained and hurt I felt when 
I heard of the accident this morning. And you 
have not even been to inquire about him." 
Eob lelt so thoroughly ashamed that he almost 
wished the ground would open and swallow 
him. 
" Were you afraid to speak of it ? " 
" I didn't want to worry mamma/' said Eob, hesi- 
tatingly. " She 's so afraid of fire-arms." 
"That excuse would not apply to me." 
There was a great struggle going on within Eob's 
heart and conscience. After his late mishaps he 
was sore and disposed to be resentful, and yet he 
had a dim suspicion that he was not altogether in 
the right. 
" Eob, my dear boy," said his uncle, gravely, " I 
want you to believe that I love you and to have 
confidence in my regard. I have undertaken to fill 
the place of a father to you, but .as I have not a 
father's authority I depend upon you to make the 
task easier for me by showing that you do trust me. 
I should like most of all to be your dearest friend, 
and have you feel free to come to me in doubt or 
trouble or difficulty of any kind. And when I fail 
I feel very, very sorry." 
Something in the tone touched Eob deeply. There 
was in the depths of his heart a peculiar nobility, and 
 
such an appeal roused him when harsher means 
would have driven him to sulky silence. 
"Uncle Robert," he said, huskily, turning and 
placing his hand on his uncle's shoulders, and look- 
ing at him with honest tears in his eyes, " I did mean 
to tell you, but so many things came in my way. I 
was so sorry about it too, but it was partly Harry's 
fault. And I 've been frightened and worried all the 
time. Is Harry very angry with me ? " 
" Will you tell me frankly how it happened ? ' ; 
asked his uncle, not answering his question. 
Eob thought a moment. He knew his uncle would 
not want to hear him justify himself. He was rather 
apt to shirk the truth and make weak excuses. 
" I 'll try," he said, quite humbly for him. " Har- 
ry's cousin, Jim Fields, has a gun, and he taught us 
both to use it. Mr. Cox didn't object any, but - 
I was afraid to ask on mamma's account. You 
know she said so much against my having a gun. 
They go hunting nearly every day, and I had been 
once before with them. Jim said Harry and I should 
take turns, and so we did the first time. Well, on 
Tuesday Harry would hardly let me try at all, but 
after he had fired a good many times, I spied a 
 
squirrel and took the gun, when he said I couldn't 
shoot it and that he would. So we both had hold of 
it, pulling, and it went off." 
It was a great effort for Bob to tell the story as 
fairly as he did. His uncle knew this from the little 
breaks that came in his voice. 
" Thank you, Bob," he said, " for being brave enough 
to tell just the truth. Harry told me the story this 
morning also, and very generously took all the blame." 
" Then he isn't - ' and Bob drew a long breath of 
relief, feeling very much as if he wanted to cry. 
" He feels a good deal hurt that you have not been 
over to see him. And I can't tell you, Bob, how it 
pained me to think that he had more true courage 
than my boy." 
" But he acted like a great baby when it hap- 
pened." 
" He admitted that he was very much frightened/* 
" Uncle Bobert," the boy said, " I hate cowards and 
sneaks, and I don't mean to be one. I suppose it was 
because I had been doing something that mamma and 
you would not approve of that I had not the courage 
to tell. And yet I don't see what harm there is in a 
boy's having a gun." 
 
" I do not think there is any particular harm in it, 
or in learning to shoot. It leads to one evil that I 
deprecate sincerely, - - the practice of boys shooting at 
every little bird, which is wanton cruelty. If you are 
just exercising your skill, any mark will do as well. 
I should have bought you a gun if your mother had 
not objected so strongly. I resolved then that some 
time we would go on a little tour, camping out, and I 
would give you some instructions." 
" Uncle Eobert ! " he exclaimed, gratefully. 
" I am trying to win your love, and to deserve 
it as well," was the rejoinder. 
Eob clasped his arms around his uncle's neck. He 
was not a bit ashamed to cry then. " Oh, please do 
trust me again," he sobbed ; " please help me to be 
good. I do, try sometimes, but it seems such hard 
work, and everything goes against me." 
" I do not believe it is ever very easy. You have 
some grave faults that I should like to see you cor- 
rect. You rarely think how anything will affect 
another person, and you are always so strongly 
intent upon your own pleasure or wishes. Men 
of this stamp are careless and apt to become hard 
and unscrupulous. I want to see you grow up into a 
noble and useful man, and you must lay the founda- 
tion in "boyhood." 
Rob felt very grave and tender at heart. "I 
believe I am selfish now," he said, presently. 
"And I want you to cultivate that true moral 
courage that does not shrink from facing any diffi- 
culty that one may be betrayed into by a thoughtless 
act. You will learn by experience that all such 
secrets grow to be an immense burden, and you will 
feel very miserable in carrying them about. Now I 
wish you to go and see Harry. I am sorry that you 
have been so unfriendly." 
" And what about mamma ? ' : 
" Had you rather tell her, or have her learn it 
from some other person? It came to me quite by 
accident." 
" I 'll tell her/' Eob said, slowly and yet with 
earnestness. 
By this time they had reached the opposite side of 
the lake, and the boat was drifting in. Uncle Eobert 
cut a slender branch, with a crook at the end, and 
towed it to the shore. They walked quietly home- 
ward, Eob revolving manv things in his mind. He 
**-J v O 
remembered that after he had been sick he had 
 
turned over a new leaf, and for a while events had 
gone smoothly ; but with prosperity had come a good 
deal of carelessness. 
" Mother," he said, finding her alone in the dining- 
room arranging the table, " I think it was partly my 
fault that Freddy fell in ; I wasn't watching him." 
" Fred must learn to obey and do just as he is told. 
He is growing too thoughtless." 
So Freddy had a dinner of bread and water up in 
his room, and no one was allowed to share his con- 
finement. Eob felt really sorry about it ; but in the 
afternoon he went over to see Harry Cox, and the 
boys had a long, pleasant talk. Harry possessed a 
genial, forgiving nature, and he had always been 
great friends with Eob. 
There had not been very much fun in the week, he 
concluded. Was it because he had thought of him- 
self first, and all the time ? It did look rather mean 
and selfish to care simply for one's own gratification 
and let others be pleased as best they might. 
"I will try," he said softly to himself, after his 
evening prayer. 
CHAPTEE III. 
WHAT STRAYED INTO THE POUND. 
" I DON'T see what has become of all my gimlets," 
said Bob, after his first day's school. " I had three, 
and they have all disappeared. I used the last one 
the day I was making Fred's rabbit-house. You did 
n't carry it away ? " to Freddy, who was entertaining 
himself with a procession of animals from Noah's Ark. 
" No, I 'm sure I did n't. And I can't find Noah 
or the elephant. Kathie, have you had them ? " 
They all laughed at this. Fred was rather non- 
plussed. A quizzical look came in Uncle Eobert's 
eyes. 
" Well, what have you lost, Kathie ? " he asked. 
" Fred ! you know Uncle Eobert was going to 
have a pound. I can't think whether anything of 
mine has strayed into it or not," she said, with an 
arch and amused expression. 
" Three gimlets," declared Eob, with a mirthful 
twist of his lip. " How much is the fine ? ' : 
 
" I have been quietly confiscating articles for about 
a month, so you see that I did not begin immedi- 
ately." 
" Uncle Robert, let us have an auction or a 
redemption," begged Katliie. 
" Well, I think I will, only I do not know what 
fine to attach. I have such a store on hand that I 
should be glad to dispose of them." 
Eob looked grave. Perhaps there were more than 
three gimlets in duress. 
" Five cents for each article," exclaimed Ivathie. 
" Wouldn't that come rather hard on Fred ? " asked 
Aunt Ruth. 
" Well, then, a penny for Fred, and five cents for 
Eob and me." 
" How about that, Rob ? " 
Rob looked rather dubious, it must be confessed. 
On the first of every week his uncle gave him some 
pocket-money, and he hated to lay out a great deal 
of it in the beginning for such a purpose, as now, 
when he came to think of it, he had missed a good 
many things during the past month. 
" I am afraid it will break me," he said, laughingly. 
"We will say a cent apiece. Do you hear that, 
Freddy ? Every one who has an article in my 
pound must pay a cent to redeem it." 
" Aunt Euthie 's keeping my money." 
" We 'll bring on the elephant then " ; and Uncle 
Eobert left the room, returning with a covered 
basket. Inside were several packages wrapped in 
paper. 
"I put them together once a week," said their 
uncle. " We will take the first week in August. A 
child's history found in the summer-house." 
" Eob's ! " 
Eob reached out his hand. " We had better do the 
paying in a lump," he said. 
"A gimlet picked up on the kitchen table, an 
odd glove found on the library table, three fish-hooks 
and a lead on the veranda, a partially made gutta- 
percha ring from the sideboard, two boat sails " 
" There, I never could imagine where they went," 
interrupted Eob. " I was sure I hunted high and 
low for them ' " 
Hannah gave them to me. They were left in the 
kitchen, or rather on the kitchen window-sill, and 
a whiff of wind blew them into the bread she was 
mixing." 
 
There was a general laugh at this. 
" We will say six articles, then, for the first week. 
Now, a partly finished sketch of the boat-house and 
lake." 
" Mine," declared Kathie, with a smile. " Where 
did I leave it, I wonder ? ' 
" In -the library. And a handkerchief picked up 
from the lawn." 
" Well, my list isn't so very large/' said Kathie, 
with comforting gayety. 
But Freddy's list outswelled Eob's. He was quits 
delighted to regain his lost treasures, some of whicl? 
had been found in most unheard-of places. 
The second week Eob showed a decided improve- 
ment. Three articles only had gone astray, while 
Kathie numbered as many, but the third week he in- 
creased to seven, and Kathie had none. For the 
month his amount w r as twenty, Kathie's five, and one 
would think that Freddy had lost the whole contents 
of his play-house. 
" So you see, even at the low fine of a penny, I 
have fifty-two cents. Fred is the greatest sufferer. 
I am afraid it will make him bankrupt." 
" I think we ought to help him out," said Kathie. 
" I 'll pay ten cents." 
Rob looked grave. It would be rather mean 
not to offer ten also, but he had only a stipulated 
sum per month, while Kathie was not restricted. 
Uncle Robert took Freddy up on his knee. " My 
little man," he said, "let the playthings alone a 
moment, for I want to talk to you. Through your 
carelessness you have left all these around in the 
wrong places, and you see they litter up the rooms 
considerably. If some had remained out of doors, 
they would have been ruined. Now I want to teach 
you carefulness. You will have to pay a penny for 
every one, which will make twenty-seven pennies. 
As you have but fifty in all, you see it makes quite 
a hole in your fortune." 
Freddy sniffed a little, and began to pick some tears 
out of the corner of his eyes. 
" Oh, that 's no way. You must learn to remember ; 
a boy of eight is large enough, I am sure." 
" But I cant" he replied, despairingly. 
" Well, you can try. You do not forget to come 
to your meals, or if you are promised any indulgence 
that never slips out of your mind. I do not like the 
habit of children laying their books or playthings 
about anywhere, and even if you make a little im- 
 
provement every month, it is so much gained. Now 
Kathie has very kindly offered to pay ten cents of 
your fine, but I shall not allow her to do it next 
month." 
"And I suppose I ought to pay ten," said Bob, 
slowly. 
While his uncle had been talking he had studied 
Eob's face as well, and saw the struggle. 
" Bob," he said, pleasantly, " you are not compelled 
to pay anything, and you ought to have the courage 
to give just the sum you think you can afford. If 
it was a starving child the case would be different. 
Now think again and tell us just how you feel 
about it." 
Bob's face flushed, and his first impulse was to say, 
magnanimously, " Ten cents " ; but when he saw the 
kind and appreciative look in his uncle's eyes he 
reconsidered. " I'll tell you the truth, Uncle Bobert. 
I 'd rather give the ten cents than to have you think 
me mean ; but it seems to me that I can only afford 
five ; that will take my spending-money for this 
week." 
'* And that is about right, I fancy. Kathie has 
the most money, and so she is really not any guide 
for you ; besides, I want you to learn to decide such 
matters according to your own judgment, and not 
take any other person for your standard. It depends 
altogether upon the motive whether one is mean or 
not. JSTow, Freddy, I think they have been very 
kind to you. You will only have to pay twelve 
cents. Get your money." 
So they all handed over the fifty-two cents, in- 
wardly resolving that the sum should not be as much 
the next month. Freddy took nearly a basketful of 
redeemed property up to his play-house, and they 
saw nothing of him until supper was ready. 
" How did school go to-day ? ' asked Uncle 
Robert. 
" O, I suppose I shall like it. Mr. Barlow was so 
easy, only once in a while when the boys made him 
real mad, and for the most part you could do about 
as you liked ; but Mr. Crittenden and Mr. Deane are 
pretty sharp, I 'm going to begin with Latin. Char- 
lie Darrell is put in the same classes." 
It made the Academy much better for Eob after 
Mr. Darrell concluded to send Charlie. 
" And Charlie is almost a year younger than you," 
said Kathie. 
 
" O, he lias the knack of learning ; it comes natural 
to him." 
" Then the boys to whom it does not come natural 
must make the greater effort," replied his uncle. 
Eob got on very well, though. In a week's time 
he had made troops of friends, and by dint of hard 
studying and some help kept his place ; but he did 
love to play, and the confinement after so royal a 
vacation was doubly irksome. 
In the mean while Kathie and her mamma 
were making preparations for Aunt Ruth's journey. 
Kathie was to be housekeeper during their absence. 
She was to look after Fred and keep him in order, 
see that Rob did not transgress the bounds of pro- 
priety, write every other day to New York, and in 
any difficulty ask advice. 
"After all, it will be real hard to have you go," 
said Kathie, caressing Aunt Ruth. 
" You will be lonesome, but Uncle Robert may be 
able to return in a few days." 
" Not that altogether ; I was thinking of you 
and what you will have to suffer. I wonder if it 
will be very painful." 
" I am to take ether for the worst, you know 
The getting well will be quite tedious, I sup- 
pose." 
" You don't feel afraid, Aunt Kuth, that - - any- 
thing will happen ? ' : 
Kathie's bright face was shaded very sorrowfully, 
and her clear voice trembled a little. 
" My darling, do you mean dying ? Dr. Markham 
thinks there is comparatively no danger. And then 
one has to trust God always. You know our lives 
are in his hand." 
" Aunt Euth, are you sorry that I wished it ? I 
never thought of the pain and suffering that night 
when we were all so happy, only that if you could be 
well again and walk about." 
" My dear child, I shall always be glad that one of 
your first desires in prosperity was for my welfare. 
And it will give me better courage to bear the pain, 
as I think of the comfort that we shall take together 
afterward " ; and Aunt Eutli kissed the tender face. 
" When will Dr. Markham let you come back io 
Cedarwood ? ' 
" He thought in about three months." 
" By Christmas ! How delightful that will be ! 
We will have a Christmas feast. And if you should 
 
be well But, Aunt Ruth, sometimes doctors 
fail, do they not ? ' 
Aunt Eutli smiled. " Kathie," she said, " I 'm not 
going to have you conjuring up giants. So far as 
human eyes can see, the affair promises well. When 
I am gone you must not worry about the thousand 
things that may happen. I 'll leave you a text to 
meditate upon at such times : ' Commit thy ways 
unto the Lord, and he will bring it to pass.' 
" Yes, that is the best," returned Kathie, cheerily. 
Mrs. Alston felt quite anxious about leaving the 
children, but Hannah was so trustworthy, and Uncle 
Robert expected to be going backwards and forwards, 
so she thought that nothing very alarming could 
happen without their hearing of it soon. Still she 
gave Kathie many charges, and begged Eob to be 
as careful as he could, and not increase Kathie's 
cares. * 
Then the packing commenced. There was an 
abundance of easy wrappers, and a good warm double- 
gown, a pair of slippers that Kathie had embroidered, 
and rolls of old linen for bandages. Freddy was very 
anxious that she should take something of his, and 
even generously proposed his locomotive and his 
small music-box that regaled one with Hail Columbia 
and Yankee Doodle. 
" I am very much obliged," Aunt Euth replied, 
"but you know that I shall have to keep very quiet, 
so you had better enjoy these things yourself. And 
if you will be a good boy while I am away ! ' 
" I 'll be just as good as I can hold," said Freddy, 
swelling up and turning red in the face with his re- 
solve. 
The trunk was strapped and taken out on the 
porch. Mrs. Alston was dressed in a pretty brown 
travelling suit, and Uncle Eobert was up in Aunt 
Euth's room, ready to assist her down stairs. 
Kathie couldn't help thinking how lonesome it 
would be in this pleasant place after they were gone, 
and most of all in the evening, the time of quiet, 
comforting talks. She tried hard to wink away the 
tearg that would come, and keep her voice steady. 
" I shall be back on Saturday," Uncle Eobert, an- 
nounced, in his cheery fashion, "and I shall expect you 
to have a grand supper for me. Now, Aunt Euth, 
think how frisky you will be this time next year. 
Why, we shall have you dancing out on the lawn ! ' 
Kathie smiled at that, though, after all, no one 
 
beside the ponies seemed in very gay spirits. Mrs. 
Alston kissed the children silently, but Aunt Euth 
realized the most truly what the parting was to 
Kathie. Ever since she could remember, Aunt Euth 
had been such a dear friend. 
Uncle Eobert deposited her in the carriage : then 
mamma was put in. 
" Hurrah ! " shouted Eob. " Three wishes for suc- 
cess ! Here, we ought to have a slipper to throw 
for good luck ! " 
" Take mine " ; and Hannah pulled off hers. 
Eob threw it ahead of the carriage. " Better 
than we expect," he declared, running after it. 
Aunt Euth leaned out and smiled. That made 
Kathie quite light-hearted. 
" And now we must hurry off to school," said 
Eob to Freddy, who was sitting on the door-step, 
hardly knowing whether to cry or not. 
CHAPTER IV. 
KATHIE'S HOUSEKEEPING. 
KATHIE found the morning unusually long, it 
must "be confessed. She took care of the articles 
that had been left around in the hurry of depart- 
ure, put her own room in order, and looked out 
her books, as she meant to study her lessons just 
the same. But somehow she found it dull music, 
and her thoughts would wander to the travellers. 
So presently she took up her drawing. She was 
making a copy of a picture for Lucy Gardiner's 
birthday. 
The sun shone very brightly, and the air was so 
warm that she had her window open. Now and 
then a bird twittered on a tree near by, and she 
glanced up, her eyes lingering long over the lovely 
landscape. If she were only a bird! 
" This will never do," she said at length, and 
went to work in good earnest. The factory bell 
in the village rang for twelve. In a little more than 
 
two hours Bob would be home. Freddy took his 
lunch to school, as he did not return until three. 
But Kathie grew tired and went down to the 
kitchen. Hannah was canning some tomatoes, and 
this interested her a good deal. 
" I should think it would be lonesome for you, 
Miss Kathie," said Hannah. "I don't know how 
in the world we shall get along without your 
mamma." 
Kathie sighed. There was a ring at the door-bell, 
and Hannali was holding a ladleful of tomato in 
one hand, and a can in the other. 
" I'll go," the child said. 
To her great surprise as she opened the door, there 
stood Miss Jessie. 
" Oh," she exclaimed, " I am so glad to see you ! 
I was so lonesome that I had to go down to the 
kitchen. Will you come to my room and take off 
your hat ? " 
" Yes, I came to stay awhile. I promised your 
mamma that I would look in upon you. What 
have you been doing, drawing ? ' : 
" I was trying, but I didn't get along very well." 
" Your foliage is rather stiff, but otherwise I think 
it quite fair. I did not know that you had such a 
taste for drawing." 
"Uncle Eobert has been giving me lessons." 
" Well, suppose I give you one ? ' 
" Oh, if you will, Miss Jessie." 
Kathie took her seat and Miss Jessie overlooked 
her, making a suggestion pleasantly, here a little 
deeper shading, there more graceful and flowing lines, 
and soft touches that were such an improvement that 
Kathie was delighted. She was going on bravely 
when Eob came home. 
" What a short hour ! " she said, with a smile ; " and 
the rest have been so long." 
"And what a house without mother and Aunt 
Euth ! " Eob exclaimed. " As you have Miss Jessie, 
I think I 'll go off to the woods with the boys. Dun- 
can set a squirrel-trap this morning." 
" Eob, I hope they will not catch any. Don't 
you think it cruel, Miss Jessie ? " 
Eob laughed and called her chicken-hearted. It 
didn't hurt the squirrels a bit. 
" Boys seem to be very fond of the amusement," 
Miss Jessie replied. f " Charlie's pet squirrel was 
caught in the woods." 
 
" I don't see how he ever became so tame." 
"He was very shy and wild at first, but we all 
petted him a good deal. And yet it never appeared 
quite right to me to shut up such things in a cage." 
" But you let Dick run all over ! " 
" We do now. I hardly believe he would stay in 
the woods. He starts when he hears any of our 
voices." 
" I think I should like to have a pet," said Kathie, 
slowly. " Freddy's rabbits are very nice, but I have 
n't even a kitten." 
" How would you like a canary-bird ? ' 
" If one could tame him and teach him tricks, it 
would be charming. Your little Cherry is so cun- 
ning ! " 
" One of the young birds, Gypsy, is very wise 
and amusing. If you think you would like to have 
him, I will give him to you. But he will need at- 
tention every day." 
" I believe I should, Miss Jessie." 
Fred came thumping up the stairs. " dear ! " 
he said, " I 'm half starved ! " and with that his books 
went down on Kathie's table, spilling the water out 
of a vase of flowers. 
 
Kathie tried to check him, but it was too late. 
She wiped the water up with a towel, and gently re- 
minded Freddy that this was not the place for his 
books. 
" But I 'm so hungry ! " 
" And this is not the kitchen. Hannah will give 
you something to eat. Take your books with you 
and put them on the closet shelf." 
Freddy was gone about ten minutes. Then he 
wondered if they couldn't go to drive ? He was 
sure Eob wouldn't want the horses. 
" Will you, Miss Jessie ? " 
" Yes ; " it would be very pleasant, she fancied. 
So Kathie sent Fred to order the horses. She put 
away her drawing and made herself ready, but they 
waited moment after moment, and no Fred and no 
carriage. 
" If you don't mind I 'll go and see what has hap- 
pened " ; and Kathie ran down stairs. 
There seemed to be no stir of any kind around the 
carriage-house, so Kathie tied on her broad-brimmed 
sea-side and hurried to the Lodge, as she descried 
two small figures under a shady tree. 
" Oh," exclaimed Freddy, as she approached, " look 
at our windmills ! Hooray !  - with a long emphasis 
of enjoyment. 
The two children had some paper stars pinned 
loosely on a stick, so that when they ran against the 
wind the stars whirled round in a delightfully enter- 
taining fashion. Grandmother Morrison had made 
them for Jamie. 
Fred, did you do your errand ? ' ; 
Oh, I didn't want to go riding ; I 'd rather stay 
and play with windmills," returned Freddy, with 
supreme indifference. 
Kathie felt as if she could give him a good shak- 
ing. "She restrained her impulse of vexation, how- 
ever, and said, quietly, " Don't you want to go ? ' 
" No, don't be bothering me ! " with boyish loftiness, 
and with that he took a good race across the green- 
sward. 
Kathie ran down to the evergreens, where Mr. 
Morrison was busy, and preferred her request. In a 
few moments the carriage was ready, and she and 
Miss Jessie stepped in and drove quite rapidly down 
the avenue. They had a very pleasant time, and 
on coming back Miss Jessie asked to be left at her 
own house. 
" I thought you were going to take tea with me," 
said Kathie, rather disappointed at this proposal. 
" I should have to go home immediately afterward, 
as I have an engagement for the evening ; but if you 
would like to have me come to tea to-morrow I will 
do that." 
" Yes, I should," said Kathie. 
As she was going to the house she found Fred on 
the porch crying. " You were real mean to go out 
without me " ; and his voice broke into rather unmu- 
sical "boo-hoo." "I never can go anywhere ! Uncle 
Eobert said you might take me out." 
" But you told me that you did not want to go," 
Kathie replied, quite firmly. 
" I did want to go afterward, and you might ha' 
waited." 
"Freddy, I could n't. You had your choice, and 
now you must not cry." 
"And Hannah won't give me any supper!" which 
was followed by another prolonged wail. Fred had 
played himself tired, and was rather sleepy and cross 
" Where 's Eob ? " 
" I don't know ; I guess the bears have eat him up, 
or he 's been drownded." 
 Kathie laughed, as much, at the lugubrious accents 
as the melancholy supposition. 
The supper was on the table, but they waited a 
long while for Eob, and then sat down without 
him. When they were about half through he made 
his appearance. 
" Why, what made you stay so long ? ' : asked 
Kathie. 
" We went farther than I expected/' he replied, 
briefly. He did not think it necessary to tell her 
that they had been down to the woods, from thence 
to the river, and taken a long row. 
After supper Kathie put Fred to bed, and Eob 
tried to study his lessons, but he was too tired and 
sleepy, so he thought lie would take a little nap 
upon the lounge. The result was that he slept 
until after nine, and Kathie had hard work to wake 
him up, and get him off to his own room. 
" dear ! " she said to Hannah, with a sigh, 
children are a bother and trouble, aren't they ? " 
" If they trouble you too much, miss, turn them 
over to me. Your uncle won't like you to be worried 
with them," was Hannah's rejoinder, and the good 
creature meant it to be a comfort. 
Kathie felt very dreary and forlorn as she laid 
her head upon the pillow. "What would it be never 
to have a mamma or an Aunt Euth again ? There 
were many little girls in the world who had neither, 
and she prayed softly that God would spare them 
both for long, long years. 
On the whole Kathie's second day was rather 
better. It was not a particularly bright one to 
Eob. He missed one lesson, and his exercise was 
so full of mistakes that he had to stay in after 
hours and rewrite it. He found Kathie commencing 
her letter to mamma. 
"You needn't blab about last night," he said. " It 
was an accident. I didn't mean to stay out so 
late, and I shall not do it again." 
Kathie's account was very pleasant in the main, 
but she confessed that she should be real glad to 
have Uncle Eobert home again. 
On Friday they had a delightful letter from the 
travellers. They were domesticated very comfort- 
ably indeed, and found Dr. Markham a refined and 
courteous gentleman. Aunt Euth put in a long 
postscript. Nothing was said about the operation, 
however, and Kathie resolved that it would not be 
until the next week. 
Uncle Eobert started by an early train, and was 
home at one on Saturday. The children were all 
delighted. Even Kob, who thought it a grand thing 
to have his liberty the first few days, began to 
feel almost as lonesome as Eobinson Crusoe on his 
island. 
Kathie brought some lunch in the dining-room, 
Hannah being very busy. She poured the tea and 
