 
Janet McRae looked up at Doctor Trewartha in the most 
beatific triumph. 
"You are rabid Father Matthew crusaders," he said, with a 
short laugh. "I wish you would come over to the Cedars 
and take a bottle of wine with me. I have some choice, I 
assure you." 
"I have undertaken no crusade against you strong-brained 
people, who have plenty of money to spend, purchase the best 
always, and can afford to sleep all the morning when you have 
held an orgie over-night. It is for the poor wretches who 
starve their wives and children that they may buy vile, poison 
ous stuff that transforms them into something worse than brute 
beasts. If I cannot have the Cragness community sober, I'll 
close the workshops and nail up the cottage-doors. " 
It was her hobby to map out the duties and privileges of 
those who were in any manner subordinate, and Doctor Tre 
wartha confessed inwardly that the plan had not worked ill. 
There were a great many people in the world incapable of 
leading even themselves. 
In the course of a few days the matter was arranged satis 
factorily. Victor felt quite elated. 
" I am glad we came," he said to his mother. "There will 
be an opportunity to make something above our bare living. 
Mrs. McRae was very generous ; for after I had accepted it 
for half the profit, she was afraid that would not be enough ; 
but I am not willing to subject myself to any obligation that 
may gall me by-and-by. I want to remain quite unfettered." 
"Yes ;" with a little sigh. If it had been different. 
"We are to take the cottage. I thought you would like 
better to have a home of your own again. It is a pretty, quiet 
little place ; and here there will be guests coming and going 
continually." 
"It is much better." 
She spoke the simple truth. Indeed, there had been times 
when she felt almost stifled with the luxury for which she 
 
could make no return ; and the sense of supervision that clung 
about her like a shadow. 
As for Victor, he threw himself, heart and soul, into the 
new life. He was not likely to stint ambition or energy in an 
interest which promised as much as this. 
He found in Doctor Trewartha a staunch and peculiar 
friend. His experience in this respect had been rather limited ; 
and the secret in the depths of his soul disposed him to the 
cautiousness one hardly expects of youth. But this man was 
wonderfully fascinating, with his rich, varying moods, his vigor, 
when he chose to call it to the surface, his brilliancy; and the 
half-cynical, half-tender vein perplexed and pleased, lured 
onward, and yet never satisfied. 
By the middle of May they were settled in their new home. 
Ruth had supervised it with her housewifely instincts. Mrs. 
Hurst had drawn quite near to the girl during the past month. 
There was a restful quality in her grave nature, very grateful 
indeed to the woman who had been so long tried with sharp, 
irritable nerves and restless brains, and haunted by a tragic 
under-current. For Ruth had a broad, calm surface, like a 
fair lake, with no hint of storms. It is true that many of these 
women go through life without ever having been roused to one 
magnificent emotion. 
She took a warm interest in the Hursts, partly, perhaps, 
because she had been bidden so to do ; but there was some 
thing in the sad matron's gentleness, the hopeless invalidism 
of the husband, and the energy of the son, that attracted her 
more strongly than anything hitherto in her uneventful life : 
quite a new element at Cragness. Somehow she began to 
feel the burden of the swathing-bands wrapped around her by 
kind hands of friendship, and there were moments when she 
longed to tear them off if she but knew where to begin. A 
new soul was moving upon the face of the waters, troubling it. 
CHAPTER XX. 
THEY were so much engrossed at Cragness, Sylvia Redmond 
thought, that she was fast dropping out of sight or mind. She 
had too much vanity to take neglect complacently ; and then 
the days at cousin Braisted's were monotonous. Even Doctor 
Trewartha was busy, and Black Dick used to traverse the road 
with his long, sweeping gallop, just giving his master time to 
touch his hat to her as he passed. 
And then Victor Hurst was winning golden opinions, becom 
ing quite a hero. Even Ruth was moved from her self-poise, 
and admired with an interest quite new to her. The quarry 
was in successful operation, and a possible fortune hidden in 
its gray depths. 
This lovely golden June afternoon Sylvia had managed to 
get away by herself. She came down stairs in her pretty 
riding costume and her dainty chip hat, with its long white 
plume, sent a week before with a box full of elegant attire, 
part of her mother's purchases in New York. 
"I am going to Cragness," she announced to invalid Re 
becca, who sat placidly knitting. 
Rebecca had a message for friend Janet. Sylvia listened, 
flicking her pearl-handle whip. Somehow she was not in her 
usual delightful humor. 
Indeed, she felt cross. Her mother's letter fretted her. 
She had been sorry to come to this dull little place ; but it 
was that or school, which she disliked still more. For the 
frivolous fashionable woman, a faded beauty, yet a favorite 
with society, had no mind to be troubled with a pretty, wilful 
girl, until she saw some advantages for her. She wanted hei 
glories and her ease quite to herselC 
 
But now, when she was not of the slightest account to any 
one, she told herself that she did not want to go. Every tree 
suddenly took on a peculiar nearness. Yet there was the sen 
tence. In about ten days Mrs. Redmond expected to come 
for her, and promised her a gay summer. Among other gos 
sip, she wrote "Eustace Gilliat returned in March." 
Six months ago it would have proved unfeigned pleasure. 
She was no more used to analyzing or reasoning than Ruth 
Gamier, though her internal processes were so much more 
rapid. But of late it seemed as if she had not been happy, 
and was every day drifting farther and farther away. 
Madame McRae and Ruth were out. So then Sylvia felt 
quite at liberty to ramble about at her own sweet will ; and she 
turned her pony's head villageward. She would doubtless meet 
them there. 
She found herself, after a brisk canter, in the vicinity of the 
quarry ; and though the intervening trees hid the excavation, 
she heard the steady, monotonous drilling. Obeying the first 
impulse that swayed her, she bent her course toward the moun 
tain-side, and wandered slowly round the little ledge, until 
startled by a sight that brought the quick blood to her 
cheeks. 
Just at her feet, it seemed, was a curious, half-hidden nook, 
embowered by a thicket of dwarfed pines, and carpeted by 
rank mosses. A large flat stone was spread out like a desk or 
table, and before it sat Victor Hurst, his hair thrown back from 
his wide white brow, and his eyes intent upon something before 
him a drawing done in crayon, and a block of the gray 
quarry-stone, at which he was hammering with mallet and 
chisel. 
Her quick brain took it in at once, and her heart gave an 
exultant bound. The pony's feet crackled the dry branches, 
breaking the student's solitude, and he glanced up. She nod 
ded, with her gay little laugh, elfin and mischievous. 
He scrambled the few articles hurriedly together, and with 
 
two or three swinging bounds reached the level where she stood, 
flushed, and somewhat confused, saying "Miss Redmond," in 
his first breath, and then lapsing into an almost ungracious 
silence. 
He had vexed, tormented, and puzzled her; and with a girl's 
coquettish instincts, she determined to be even with him. 
"Well, are you not going to invite me to your studio, or can 
no one enter who does not climb up and down like a deer?" 
"My studio, Miss Redmond?" 
'* I was not aware that we had an artist among us," she went 
on, with her tormenting coolness, when she saw how it annoyed 
him. 
He flushed and frowned, biting his firm lips to keep down 
the sudden passion. 
"You are mistaken, I believe. A man may indulge in 
some whims, and yet never dream of position." 
"You will have that. You can afford to indulge in 
whims." 
"I shall have the result of my labor, whatever that 
may be." 
His steady manner of ignoring all advantages fretted her. 
Why should he continually abase himself? 
"You will have Cragness," in a clear, sharp tone, glancing 
keenly at him. 
He stood unmoved, the color in his face not even wavering. 
" You have given your opinion prematurely. I have 
other plans and but small right. Miss Gamier is better en 
titled to it." 
" Mrs. McRae carries her intentions plainly, and you are the 
last of the family." 
"She knows my plans, however." 
Sylvia Redmond paused in her wordy war. Why did they 
always happen to jar when they met ? Then she said in a softer 
tone, ' ' I am going away." 
"Going?" 
He checked himself abruptly. What was it to him whether 
she went or stayed ? Why could not all these people let him 
work in his own fashion, and not burrow into the secret he was 
trying to keep out of sight. 
As they stood there facing one another, there was a sharp, 
ringing report ; a sullen echo among the trees, and a splinter 
of the rock came crashing through the foliage at their very feet. 
Miss Redmond's pony gave an alarmed snort, reared, and 
in another instant would have plunged over theledge ; but a 
firm hand caught the bridle. 
' ' Thank you. " There was a little tremble in her voice. 
"I might have gone down there uninvited, after all," smiling 
faintly. " I suppose I was rude to you ; but I did not mean to 
be. Don't remember all these naughty things against me 
when I am gone." 
Her voice was very sweet. When she was gone ! Far apart 
as they had been for three months, these months when they had 
seen each other every few days, still he had fallen into the 
habit of watching her as one does a rare beautiful picture. 
Her absence would make a blank. The old unreasoning heat 
and anger vanished. 
"I shall not be likely to remember what you would wish 
me to forget ;" in a grave, courteous tone, thinking of the 
past, as she too thought of it at that moment. 
A sound of high words caught his ear. "If you will 
excuse me a moment," he said, and bounding over the gray 
ledges, he took a short cut to the quarry. Fifteen or twenty 
men were examining the fissure made in the side of the rock. 
"Who lighted that?" he asked, as the voices subsided. 
"I did," was the dogged answer of a short, square-built 
man nearest him. 
' ' I told you on Monday, Jarvis, that I was to be here ;" in 
an authoritative tone. 
"But you weren't. I set 'em off last summer;" rather 
sullenly. 
 
"That was my order. A shout or a whistle would have 
summoned me. I was waiting for you to get ready." 
"Well, it's all done," returned Jarvis, crossly. "I blasted 
rocks while you were a youngster. I guess I know my own 
business. " 
"And I mine," in a clear, ringing tone. 
The men began to gather their tools from safe distance and 
survey the fragments strewn around. Jarvis made no further 
answer, but sitting down, carelessly chipped at a block. 
"Them chaps think they know so much," Jarvis flung out, 
angrily, when the last footsteps had died away. " Because he's 
kin of that cranky old woman, he carries himself like a lord. 
I'd like to teach him a lesson or two." 
Jarvis had been one of the last summer's hands, and clothed 
with a little authority. At that time there had been no regular 
rule, and the roughest of the men secretly objected to the new 
order of things, going so far in one instance as to threaten 
defection. 
"Very well," Victor Hurst had said. In his heart he 
hoped Jarvis would keep his word. He had learned consider 
able about managing men, young as he was. Unfortunately, 
youth was the crime in their eyes. 
He strode back to Sylvia, in a less amiable mood. 
"They were blasting," she said. "Did any accident 
happen." 
"No." Then, as it was rather awkward standing there, he 
asked if she would like to see what they had done. 
She turned her horse and led him slowly down the narrow 
path to the road, where they soon came to the debris. She 
looked at the rent, perforated here and there by the slender holes 
drilled for the fuse, the masses of rock, the great, cavernous 
entrance. It was like hewing away a mountain. 
While the talk flowed on pleasantly, he was thinking of the 
secret she held. A laughing word to Trewartha, a careless 
one to Mrs. McRae, would bring his hidden plans to light. If 
 
he failed here as he had in the painting and a flush of morti 
fication overspread his brow better that these friends should 
know nothing of it. But how to insure her silence? 
They came back presently. When she saw the path he was 
taking, she stopped. 
"You need not go;" with a little gasp. "I am ashamed 
of my impertinence, and I have no foolish curiosity. Your 
plans are your own, as you have said. I think you capable of 
working them through, whatever they may be." 
Her clear, serious words were so different from Miss Lown- 
des ? extravagant praise, that it gave him courage. 
Perhaps she was a little disappointed when he turned. 
There really was no use in betraying that crude work, he 
thought. The time to surprise her had not come. 
"Well," he said, "I am obliged for your faith in me, 
though I may never do anything to deserve it." 
" I believe you will. But why not take the help that is 
proffered ?" 
"Because I had rather work my way. Will you stop at 
the cottage?" he asked, suddenly changing his tone. "My 
mother was wondering yesterday why you did not come. And 
if you are going away I am at liberty now to escort you ;" 
smiling. 
The shimmering radiance of the late sun fluttered in great 
hazy waves over the swaying meadows and fields of grain. 
The still air was fragrant with summer smells distant honey 
suckle, and wild grape, and the spice of growing woodlands. 
But she was in no mood to note the beauty or mysterious ten 
derness of nature. 
She was going away. There would be a fair field for Ruth 
Gamier, backed by these broad lands, and Mrs. McRae's in 
fluence. Of course it would be so. She could see the end 
from the beginning, and they had all made it plain enough. 
To be sure, he was proud ; but then the current we uld prove 
too strong, and in the end he would yield. She strangled a little 
sigh in her throat with a bitter, bitter pang. For she seemed 
to be drifting into utter loneliness. 
Ruth Gamier sat on the porch in her flowing white irobes, 
with a deep red rose at her throat, making the white neck 
whiter. Mr. Hurst's chair had been wheeled out of doors, 
and she was beside it, talking in her calm, pleasant fashion. 
So they had given her a daughter's place already. 
Mrs. Hurst came out to welcome Sylvia. The lips she 
kissed were cold, for all their summer redness. Ruth nodded 
cordially, but remained to finish her sentence. The girl's 
quick eyes took in Mr. Hurst's fatherly smile, and a pang tore 
her soul. 
"You are such a rare visitor," Mrs. Hurst was saying. 
"The night will be fine, so you can hardly refuse to take a 
social cup of tea with us. And Ruth being here, too " 
With that she glanced at Victor. 
" I will see that she reaches her cousin's in safety," he made 
answer, bowing. 
No one cared very much about her staying. They were all 
happy enough without her. How miserably lonely she was in 
this wide, dreary world. 
" I am not quite in visiting costume," with a short, unmusical 
laugh, that caused Victor to turn and study her for a moment. 
"Oh, that will make no difference. You are always a little 
picture in anything," and Mrs. Hurst's sweet, cordial smile 
went to her heart. 
He went round to the other side, pretending to examine a 
buckle. " Are you still offended with me ?" he asked. 
" Miss Gamier, come and persuade Sylvia, "said Mrs. Hurst, 
taking a step farther away, and Sylvia seeing the advantage, 
bent her head to reply. 
"Why should I be ?" 
" I don't know. If the confidence is worth giving, if it was 
anything beyond a crude idea and yet you have my 
secret." 
  
She did not know how to translate the hesitation, the voice 
that seemed to waver between friendliness and stem self-control. 
"Since I surprised it, Mr. Hurst, it can hardly be called a 
pleasant or honorable knowledge. It will be like the things 
that are not, to me." 
After all, she really did not care. It was but a girlish tri 
umph. And yet, studying the child's face, he found a deeper 
meaning in it, a strange sympathetic soul, if one might be sure 
of the right key. 
Ruth came and kissed her, and the two voices were joined 
in pleading. She was frightened at herself, when she found 
she was actually drifting into a dull dislike of her friend whom 
she had loved only a brief while ago. And then Trewartha's 
strong, stirring voice broke up the reign of womanly softness 
Mrs. McRae determined that her stubborn heir-elect should 
not lose caste with high or low if she could prevent it. The 
cottage had been furnished to her own fancy, and she had 
parted with one of her best servants bribed her to go indeed. 
But the Hursts lived in their own quiet fashion for all that. 
They made Sylvia dismount and remain to supper. Trewar- 
tha having Black Dick, was Sylvia's escort afterward ; but he 
found the poor child strangely dull. He could not rouse her 
into sharp, petulant answers. Victor drove Ruth home in the 
carriage which Mrs. McRae had insisted should be at Mr. 
Hurst's disposal whenever he was able to be taken out. She 
smiled benignantly at the success of these small schemes that 
she fancied no one read. 
The days flew rapidly to Sylvia Redmond. For the follow 
ing week she had no opportunity to steal even one solitary 
ramble ; and then her mother came down in state, making 
quite a stir in the simple Quaker home. 
A faded beauty, as I said, irritable in temper, and with the 
nerves that are some women's continual boast. You could always 
tell her by her fan, and handkerchiefs, and scent-bottles, with 
which she filled every table or stand within her reach. Sylvia 
 
thought her a good deal changed. There was a restless light 
in her pale eyes, a flutter of apprehension about her, as if she 
were on the continual look-out for some impending danger. 
Or was it because she had become so used to these healthy- 
toned people, who were a mental tonic in themselves ? 
"Our plans have been altered somewhat," she announced 
to Sylvia, depositing herself carefully upon her daughter's bed 
in lieu of a sofa, and fanning languidly. "Mrs. Gilliat is 
much worse. The Doctor has ordered perfect quiet and 
mountain air. They have come to try St. Albans." 
"St. Albans! Why it is only " and Sylvia's heart beat 
guiltily with a thrill of pleasure. 
"A resort for invalids. I know that well enough ;" in a 
querulous tone. "I need something more exciting, but it was 
my dear friend, and I consented. Eustace is with his 
mother ;" eyeing her daughter sharply. 
But Sylvia was thinking of the distance only, or rather the 
nearness. Why, she could almost see the little nest in the range 
of mountains yonder. Years ago some one had built a great 
roomy hotel, thinking to make it a famous resort for health- 
seekers; but it had rather languished and become a rendezvous 
for tourists, travelling artists, and the like. There was a spring 
of remarkable mineral water, and the pure bracing air was 
enough of itself to restore the most hopeless invalid. And 
then she would not be altogether deprived of her old friends. 
Doctor Trewartha and Ruth would surely come. 
" I promised to bring you back with me this week. Get out 
your clothes, Sylvia, and see if you have anything to wear. I 
suppose there is no one here who could even tie a sash fit to 
be seen. We shall have to depend upon Stella." 
Sylvia obeyed dutifully. "I am sure there is enough to last 
me seven years, mamma," she said. 
"Seven years!" pettishly. "Little you know about it, 
child." I have some beautiful lawns and grenadines yet uncut, 
but I don't know what I'm to do if Stella sews all the time 
 
Those white dresses look beautifully. What a laundress cousin 
Rachel must have. And after all I believe young girls look 
as well in white as in anything else. Sylvia, hand me that 
bottle on the dressing-table. My poor head ! It aches fear 
fully." 
Sylvia poured a little of the perfumed water on a handker 
chief, and would have bathed her mother's face, but that lady's 
complexion was too sacred a thing to be tampered with. 
" Don't be so officious, child ! I certainly do not care to be 
deluged. You have no regard whatever for my nerves. When 
you have gone through with as much as I have, you will learn 
to be more delicate, I hope. If I had known when I was at 
your age that a woman's whole life depends upon the kind of 
marriage she makes " 
Sylvia colored a trifle at the scrutiny. 
"Yes, marriage is a matter of great importance. Eustace 
asked me if I had kept his little wife safe for him, Sylvia." 
" Mamma, that was nonsense, childish nonsense," and a 
scarlet heat flushed the young girl's face. 
" Nonsense for a man to remember ? You are very ungrate 
ful, Sylvia ;" and the mother sighed. 
She made no reply. There had been a time when Eustace 
Gilliat was a sort of hero to her, though it was more the 
family prestige and her admiration for his father than any real 
fancy for the boy. 
" Has there been any society here this winter?" Mrs. Red 
mond asked, sharply. 
"I thought it quite dull at first ; then I found Doctor Tre- 
wartha entertaining." 
" He is old enough to be your father." 
Mrs. Redmond silently studied her daughter. A fair, 
sweet girl, with beauty enough for almost any man's fancy. 
She had resolved to have her marry well ; if possible, to be 
come Mrs. Gilliat. She had a longing to queen it in that old 
house herself, in a position different from that of a guest. She 
 
had skilfully fanned Eustace's weak liking into quite a desire. 
There were no rivals at St. Albans, and if he would only stay. 
But she must lose no time in presenting Sylvia, for already 
the child began to have some opinions of her own. 
With the aid of Stella, her maid, Mrs. Redmond summoned 
sufficient energy to get her daughter ready in the course of the 
next two days. Doctor Trewartha made a friendly call, but 
his manner was most fatherly and unexceptionable. Mrs. 
McRae and Ruth paid their respects to Sylvia's mother, also. 
"That terrible woman !" and Mrs. Redmond fanned as if 
to clear the air. "So loud-voiced and man-like, and in such 
absolutely coarse health. A person of her age, too ; but it is 
in the blood, I suppose, in the blood." 
Sylvia started. Somehow it seemed as if the whole current 
of her life and belief had changed. How had she learned 
to look deeper than the surface ; to send down quick, earnest 
glances that challenged the souls she met ; to discern the 
weak, false, and meretricious, from the brave and true? A 
man or woman who worked out life in noble actions, like 
Mrs. McRae, or any other brave, fearless soul, was nobler, 
after all, than any puny being, backed by a long line of ances 
try. Had a taint of radicalism crept into her brain ? 
"Poor child, poor Sylvia," exclaimed Mrs. McRae, "she 
has outgrown her foolish mother, and that is a hard thing 
when one would fain reverence. I felt like taking her in my 
arms and bringing her to Cragness for all time. But I sup 
pose her happy childhood will come to an end shortly. Thank 
God that I have no daughters to sacrifice to Dagon." 
If Sylvia had indulged in a frantic hope of a reprieve at 
ihe last moment, she was doomed to disappointment. The 
day was cloudless, the dresses in order, the carriage not a 
moment behindhand. 
They passed down the road by the quarry. Victor Hurst 
and Trewartha stood talking, and both bowed. 
"Who is that young man, Sylvia?" her mother asked. 
 
"A connection of Mrs. McRae's. He has taken charge of 
the quarry, and " 
"That is enough," decisively. "That woman's blood 
would taint anything for me." 
A chill crept over Sylvia as she relapsed into silence. 
She had no keener eyes to-day for the beautiful road than 
her mother. Winding around the lofty hills bathed in pur 
ple splendor, passing narrow defiles where the wind swept 
through with the sad undertone of the sea, masses of rock 
tumbled together in great crags, veined with what seemed both 
silver and gold, and now and then a glimpse of the river, 
blue in its shaded depths as the sky above. But she did not 
see these grand shifting pictures ; and all she could think of 
was some poor wretch going to a dreaded fate : something 
which turned her cold and sick. 
It was almost dusk when they entered St. Albans, a tiny, 
quaint old town, perched on a level plateau between two 
mountains, while a host of smaller hills seemed to lie sleeping 
at its feet. For the last hour Mrs. Redmond had been exceed 
ingly irritable ; and Sylvia was glad to hear a pleasant voice. 
"So you have brought her back our little Sylvia;" and 
she felt her hand taken in a gracious clasp. 
"Oh, Mr. Gilliat!" 
" We are glad to see you again, my child, very glad ;" and 
yet it appeared to Sylvia there was a touch of pain and weari 
ness in the tone that she had never discerned there before. 
For all her complaints and fatigue, Mrs. Redmond under 
went a somewhat elaborate dressing at the hands of her tire 
woman. Mrs. Gilliat's prestige had gathered a number of 
notabilities at St. Albans, and this weak, foolish creature wished 
to shine among them it would always be the ambition of her 
vapid, narrow life. And now was added to it the zest of marry 
ing her daughter. 
Eustace Gilliat was lounging in the spacious parlor as they 
entered. To Sylvia he looked weaker and more effeminate 
 
than ever before, and something else that she discerned but 
could not reduce to words. The faded eyes were vicious, the 
mouth cruel and sensual, the drawling tone seemed to rasp 
every nerve. And when she contrasted him with such men as 
Trewartha and Victor Hurst, a shiver of disgust ran over 
her. 
Not a son to be proud of, was Eustace Gilliat. He appeared 
to have set at defiance all the laws and salient peculiarkies of 
his long line of ancestry. The strength, manliness, and beauty 
which had been a distinctive feature in them for generations, 
failed to catch the subtile trick here. Perhaps the blood was 
effete, worn out, or in some mysterious manner the father had 
failed to give the son his own physical vitality, as well as mental 
power. Or going still farther back, there might be some hid 
den but avenging curse. 
He had been recently expelled from a German university ; 
and his father had paid his gambling debts, that were a serious 
matter even to the Gilliat income. It could not be said that 
fate had exactly prospered him. True, he had held positions 
of trust and honor, his wife had won admiration abroad and at 
home ; but now she was suffering from a hopeless and incur 
able disease, and his son disappointed him at every turn. He 
had grown sensitive to a point of irritability ; and though he 
strove to be the light-hearted, gracious gentleman of past days, 
in his soul he knew every step was a wretched failure. 
CHAPTER XXI. 
" IN one light the case is hopeless. It is organic disease of 
long standing. You asked me for the truth, Mr. Gilliat, and 
under such circumstances, I always give a man or a woman a 
truthful answer." 
"But she is so much improved. Your skill has worked 
wonders. I wish we had known you before, Doctor Tre- 
wartha." 
Trewartha gave a short, rather incredulous laugh. 
"If we doctors could do everything, the laws that govern 
the universe would be set aside. And if we could rule our 
patients' habits, thoughts, emotions, and temper, we might add 
fifty years to their lives ; perhaps a hundred, who knows?" 
The genial ring Sylvia loved so well coming back to his voice. 
"The air and quiet are wonderfully in Mrs. Gilliat's favor. I 
should think she had been deeply worried and perplexed be 
fore the last attack ; and she was just in a situation to rally 
when I came, so I will not take undue credit. She may live 
years, but she must keep her mind tranquil, use no violent 
physical exertion, and above all things, not to be thwarted or 
opposed. The person who rouses her to any strong excite 
ment would be guilty of her murder." 
Doctor Trewartha uttered the last sentence strongly and 
clearly. 
"We shall all take the best of care of her," in a tremulous 
voice. 
"She needs that, and cheerful companionship. Many peo 
ple now-a-days hold their lives in their hands; it has become 
something more serious than a figure of speech. But by ob 
serving these rules, it is possible for her to live years longer." 
 
Sylvia Redmond* was pacing the long balcony outside, and 
the sound came through the open windows, though the voices 
were not raised. One sentence rang in her ears like the sound 
of a booming gun at sea when a ship is in danger. So she 
waited for the agile step, and strong, heartsome figure, whose 
very words were fraught with life and death, and filled her with 
a strange awe. 
"Ha, Midge!" and he put out his hand; surveying her 
with critical eyes. 
' ' Is it true what you said about Mrs. Gilliat that a person 
who roused her would be guilty of her murder?" 
Her lips were white and tremulous. 
" True as death itself, which never fails us, but is sure to 
come sooner or later. But there is nothing in it that need 
concern you, child. I gave the advice for others. She has 
been a magnificent woman, and her day has hardly declined. 
It vexes me to see men and women living out only half of 
their appointed time." 
Sylvia was silent. If she dared to tell him how this con 
cerned her. to ask him what she must do with all this weight 
of misery crushing her to the earth. 
" How you have changed, Midge. I can hardly realize that 
this is the wild, petulant little girl of three months ago. Why, 
you are a stylish, fashionable woman." 
He guessed it from the hard lines he mis-read in her face, 
from the almost haughty carriage of the head and the certain 
aplomb society gives to those who are easily trained. Her 
tight-fitting mauve silk made her look older, and the set, firm 
expression heightened the peculiar grace surrounding her. 
"Yes, I am a fashionable woman. I seem to have left 
girlhood a long way behind." 
" More's the pity, Midge; but young things like you never 
know how sacred it is." 
He was watching her with a half pity, very hard to take 
from him. 
 
" We come to other knowledge so soon. They are all well 
at Cragness?" 
" Miserably healthy," with a laugh. "It is worth nearing 
seventy to be such a woman as Mrs. McRae." 
" A pattern to which I cannot hope to attain," sharply. 
" There is none of it in our blood, I think." 
He saw the vision of her fretful, faded mother the rich 
blood converted into prickly, restless nerves ; yet, when she was 
young she might have been another blooming Sylvia. 
"I wish I could take you over to Cragness," he said, dis 
satisfied with the haunting look in her eyes. 
"But you cannot. I have new duties. All my life has 
changed, I think." 
Mrs. Redmond came down the balcony with her languishing 
air, fan and scent-bottle in hand. 
"My darling Sylvia, Mrs. Gilliat has been asking for you. 
If Doctor Trewartha will excuse you. How wonderfully our 
dear invalid has improved, Doctor." 
Sylvia Redmond turned without glancing up. He fancied 
he knew women so well that he hardly thought this one was 
going to any doom, while in her soul she heard the crunch of 
the keel on the ragged black rocks, but uttered no cry. Was 
it worth while to struggle ? Was not life itself a mocking, 
blind mischance a sea on which the poor puppets were 
hurried hither and thither? 
Mrs. Gilliat, in an elegant morning robe, sat on the sofa, a 
few books, papers, and a handful of flowers scattered on the 
one side, while at the other a vacant space, to which she 
motioned Sylvia, studying her intently. The child certainly 
had grace and beauty, and a bright, cheerful disposition, unlike 
her mother's, yet not strong. A tender, sweet, pliable nature. 
She had always liked her, though in the old days Eustace's 
term of "little wife" had not been altogether sweet to her 
ears. But whatever ambitious dreams she might have had for 
her son were at an end now. 
 
"Sit down, my dear;" in the caressing tone rarely used by 
her, but which was full of subtile fascination. " I am so much 
better this morning that I thought I might indulge in a long 
talk with you. Let me pin this cluster of heliotrope on your 
bosom. There, I like its pungent odor so much, and its 
dark beauty. You are a little too pale, Sylvia." 
"I went to walk " flushing a trifle. 
"That is better. Sylvia, during the past fortnight I have 
envied your mother. I wish I had a daughter." 
Her arm stole softly around Sylvia's waist, while the young 
girl tried hard to steady every shrinking nerve. 
"And I think I might have. Sylvia, your mother can spare 
you better than I. Eustace has confessed to me his wishes " 
" Oh, Mrs. Gilliat !" with a little cry, burying her face on 
the other's bosom. 
" My darling, I am so glad. I told Eustace it was only a 
girl's natural shyness. Sylvia, you have his whole life in your 
hands. He has been a little wild and extravagant, but it is 
like young men. You can charm him with your winsome 
graces, and wean him from careless habits. To me you will 
be very dear. " 
Sylvia Redmond gave a great gasp. 
"Oh, Mrs. Gilliat, hear me ! I do not love Eustace as a 
wife should. I am afraid " 
"That is quite natural, child. The old playful friendship 
has been outgrown, and this new regard taking its place is a 
little strange. But Eustace is very much in earnest. I tremble 
to have him disappointed. Think, Sylvia, a word might send 
him back into the old reckless courses. He is so much to 
me, so much. I would do anything to save him. It seems 
now as if it was all in your hands." 
She began to tremble violently. She ha.l but spoken the 
truth when she said her son was dear to h^r. With all his 
faults and vices, and the fatal deficiencies in his nature, he was 
the one thing she had bequeathed to Rothermel, all that would 
 
be left of her when she lay in the grave. If he and his chil 
dren could reign there when Kirke Gilliat had forgotten her ! 
The words rang in Sylvia's ears like the stern sentence of a 
judge "guilty of murder !" Her tortured self-consciousness 
exaggerated the power she might exert, and like some poor 
goaded animal she turned hither and thither for an avenue of' 
escape, finding them all closed. 
" Only give me time," she cried. 
"Yes, dear," in a voice so gentle that Beatrice Gilliat hardly 
recognized herself. "Only, Sylvia, it was not because but 
you dont love Doctor Trewartha, child ?" hysterically. 
"No, no;" beginning to chafe the cold hands, through 
which, now and then, ran a shiver of flame, and watching the 
blue lines that crept slowly about the tremulous mouth. 
"There has been no one else " her eyes distending with 
nervous excitement. 
" I do not love any one in that way, I think," with slow, pain 
ful reflection, meaning to tell the exact truth and believing that 
she had. For Victor Hurst had never smiled into her eyes 
with any longing, or held her hand with soft, fond clasp. No, 
they were nothing to each other. 
"I don't see any difficulty, then, child ;" with a weak, hollow 
laugh. "You only want time to become accustomed to the 
new idea. It is a curse for a woman to love first that is a 
man's place ; and when she usurps or falls into it unwarily, 
she pays the price in bitterness of soul. I tell you this ;" her 
voice growing thin and shrill with some old remembrance. 
"You are both young and have a pleasant life before you. 
Sylvia, wher I am gone you will be mistress of Rothermel. It 
is a grand old place." 
But Sylvia shuddered. "Do not talk of that," she said, 
hoarsely. 
" I was thinking of it through the night I sleep so little 
now. How you and Eustace would be there, and your chil 
dren. I wish there had been others besides him. One is the 
 
Gilliat heritage or curse. I fancy the years will improve him 
it generally does men, my dear, who find a good, sweet, 
patient wife. You will be that, I know." 
"Be tranquil, dear Mrs. Gilliat," entreated Sylvia, for now 
the pulses were bounding like fiery steeds. 
"Oh, my heart!" She threw her head back with a gasp, 
and her face wore the waxen whiteness of death. 
Sylvia's first impulse was to scream for help, but she stifled 
the cry that rose to her lips. 
"What can I do?" chafing the cold face with her soft 
hands. 
"That little vial five drops a wine-glass of water." 
Sylvia was but an instant in preparing it, and held it to the 
chattering lips. 
" How quick and quiet you are, little nurse," with a faint, 
returning smile. "Promise me, child; it may not be for 
long." 
' ' Yes, " in a hoarse whisper, as if it were better to murder 
her own soul than this woman's body. 
' ' Bring me that pillow, please. I was foolish to be so weak 
when the Doctor warned me. 'No excitement/ he said. But 
it was so much to me." 
"Perhaps I had better call the nurse," Sylvia exclaimed, 
trembling in every limb. 
"No, let us keep our little secret;" with a wan smile. 
"Your Doctor Trewartha would scold me soundly if he 
knew it. What a bear he is at times ! Here, hold my hand. 
I like to have you near me." 
She seemed to drowse after that. Madelon coming in, 
smiled and nodded her head over her mistress's tranquillity. 
Sylvia sat like a stone. Fate had girt her in on every side. 
But when they would have congratulated her, she said 
"Give me a month of freedom that I may the better know my 
own mind." 
"Sylvia, you are a weak fool !" her mother replied, angrily. 
 
"Any other girl would jump at the chance of being mistress 
at Rothermel. And Mrs. Gilliat is so fond of you." 
But Mr. Gilliat only folded his hands over her fair head, and 
murmured, "My little girl: my little girl : God bless you !" 
When Eustace Gilliat's debts had been paid, and himself 
forgiven through his mother's intervention, who resolutely 
believed him no worse than other young men, he had come 
to St. Albans because he could not see his way clear to go 
anywhere else. He brought his beautiful trotters and his 
choice wines, that had cost him a small fortune abroad; installed 
himself in two rooms on the farther side of the spacious 
hotel, and grumbled to his man, a keen, profligate French 
valet. Miss Redmond he voted a bore. 
"A silly little fool!" he said. "But since there's such a 
scarcity of women here, she will be better than none." 
For he considered himself an excellent judge of horses, 
wines, and women, young as he was ; and, to do him justice, 
he had had considerable experience with all three. The fine 
wrinkles in his colorless face, and the blase look in his eyes, 
told their own story of dissipation. 
So he prepared himself for a desperate flirtation with "little 
Sylvia." Nearly two years had elapsed since their last meet 
ing. But he found her so different from the child of his chance 
dreams, the Sylvia who had run wild about Rothermel, admir 
ing everything and everybody, and listening with interest to 
his wonderful exploits. 
He was no hero in her eyes now ; she had seen manlier 
men. And this little exquisite, with pale, perfumed locks, 
faded face, drawling voice, and expensive diamonds, did not 
in the least captivate her fancy. From the very first she 
shrank from him in disgust, as if he carried some vile taint 
about with him. Yet older ladies admired and petted, ap 
plauded his feeble witticisms, rode behind his elegant grays ; 
and young men pronounced him a "good fellow," since he 
was lavish with his wines and cigars. 
 
In Kirke Gilliat's heart of hearts there was loathing and 
contempt for this weak, foolish, dissolute son of his. He had 
an utter abhorrence of those vices, and almost a hatred for the 
shallow, vapid nature. The boy had never been strong, and 
childish indulgence had laid the foundation of some of the 
evils, while others must have rooted themselves in radical in 
herent wickedness. He had never been able to stimulate him 
to the least ambitious effort. His sensuous nature grasped at 
every pleasure, no matter how widely he might scatter throes 
of pain. His virtues were puny and feeble, his vices very 
giants ; indolence and selfishness were his ruling passions. 
That he was lavish, was due to no generous emotion ; he pos 
sessed a weak pride which was gratified in spending money like 
a prince. 
Had God cursed him in this son ? Sometimes he thought so. 
His mother clung to him as a certain kind of women only 
can. She had a vein of slow, devouring jealousy in her tem 
perament. If Eustace had grown into a fine, manly fellow, 
in whom his father's love and pride could have centred, she 
would have experienced a dull, grudging hatred. She must 
always stand first. Perhaps it was because she did not feel 
so very secure of her empire, though from the day on which 
Kirke Gilliat had married her, up to the present, she had no 
cause for complaint. 
But now, in her failing health, her son's destiny appalled 
her a little. It was possible, in the event of her death, for her 
husband to marry again, and in the happiness of a new love, 
make his eldest-born an outcast. Rothermel would forget 
them both, as if they had never existed. 
This is why she had so favored Sylvia Redmond. It was 
best that Eustace should marry speedily, before some new ex 
travagance angered his father beyond forgiveness. 
Eustace Gilliat missed of his "steep flirtation." Sylvia's 
