illustration. The people we met coming out of this pavilion were lovers,
and they had been here sentimentalizing on this superb cataract, as you
call it, with which my heroic Patch is not worthy to be named. No doubt
they had been quoting Uhland or some other of their romantic poets,
perhaps singing some of their tender German love-songs,--the tenderest,
unearthliest love-songs in the world. At the same time they did not
disdain the matter-of-fact corporeity in which their sentiment was
enshrined; they fed it heartily and abundantly with the banquet whose
relics we see here.”

On a table before them stood a pair of beer-glasses, in the bottoms
of which lurked scarce the foam of the generous liquor lately brimming
them; some shreds of sausage, some rinds of Swiss cheese, bits of cold
ham, crusts of bread, and the ashes of a pipe.

Isabel shuddered at the spectacle, but made no comment, and Basil went
on: “Do you suppose they scorned the idea of Sam Patch as they gazed
upon the falls? On the contrary, I’ve no doubt that he recalled to her
the ballad which a poet of their language made about him. It used to go
the rounds of the German newspapers, and I translated it, a long while
ago, when I thought that I too was in ‘Arkadien geboren’.

       ‘In the Bierhauagarten I linger
        By the Falls of the Geneses:
        From the Table-Rock in the middle
        Leaps a figure bold and free.

        Aloof in the air it rises
        O’er the rush, the plunge, the death;
        On the thronging banks of the river
        There is neither pulse nor breath.

        Forever it hovers and poises
        Aloof in the moonlit air;
        As light as mist from the rapids,
        As heavy as nightmare.

        In anguish I cry to the people,
        The long-since vanished hosts;
        I see them stretch forth in answer,
        The helpless hands of ghosts.’”

“I once met the poet who wrote this. He drank too much beer.”

“I don’t see that he got in the name of Sam Patch, after all,” said
Isabel.

“O yes; he did; but I had to yield to our taste, and where he said, I
‘Springt der Sam Patsch kuhn and frei’,’ I made it ‘Leaps a figure bold
and free.’”

As they passed through the house on their way out, they saw the youth
and maiden they had met at the pavilion door. They were seated at a
table; two glasses of beer towered before them; on their plates were
odorous crumbs of Limburger cheese. They both wore a pensive air.

The next morning the illusion that had wrapt the whole earth was gone
with the moonlight. By nine o’clock, when the wedding-journeyers resumed
their way toward Niagara, the heat had already set in with the effect of
ordinary midsummer’s heat at high noon. The car into which they got
had come the past night from Albany, and had an air of almost conscious
shabbiness, griminess, and over-use. The seats were covered with
cinders, which also crackled under foot. Dust was on everything,
especially the persons of the crumpled and weary passengers of
overnight. Those who came aboard at Rochester failed to lighten
the spiritual gloom, and presently they sank into the common bodily
wretchedness. The train was somewhat belated, and as it drew nearer
Buffalo they knew the conductor to have abandoned himself to that
blackest of the arts, making time. The long irregular jolt of the
ordinary progress was reduced to an incessant shudder and a quick
lateral motion. The air within the cars was deadly; if a window was
raised, a storm of dust and cinders blew in and quick gusts caught away
the breath. So they sat with closed windows, sweltering and stifling,
and all the faces on which a lively horror was not painted were dull and
damp with apathetic misery.

The incidents were in harmony with the abject physical tone of the
company. There was a quarrel between a thin, shrill-voiced, highly
dressed, much-bedizened Jewess, on the one side, and a fat, greedy old
woman, half asleep, and a boy with large pink transparent ears that
stood out from his head like the handles of a jar, on the other side,
about a seat which the Hebrew wanted, and which the others had kept
filled with packages on the pretense that it was engaged. It was a loud
and fierce quarrel enough, but it won no sort of favor; and when the
Jewess had given a final opinion that the greedy old woman was no
lady, and the boy, who disputed in an ironical temper, replied, “Highly
complimentary, I must say,” there was no sign of relief or other
acknowledgment in any of the spectators, that there had been a quarrel.

There was a little more interest taken in the misfortune of an old
purblind German and his son, who were found by the conductor to be a few
hundred miles out of the direct course to their destination, and were
with some trouble and the aid of an Americanized fellow-countryman made
aware of the fact. The old man then fell back in the prevailing apathy,
and the child naturally cared nothing. By and by came the unsparing
train-boy on his rounds, bestrewing the passengers successively with
papers, magazines, fine-cut tobacco, and packages of candy. He gave the
old man a package of candy, and passed on. The German took it as the
bounty of the American people, oddly manifested in a situation where he
could otherwise have had little proof of their care. He opened it
and was sharing it with his son when the train-boy came back, and
metallically, like a part of the machinery, demanded, “Ten cents!” The
German stared helplessly, and the boy repeated, “Ten cents! ten cents!”
 with tiresome patience, while the other passengers smiled. When it had
passed through the alien’s head that he was to pay for this national
gift and he took with his tremulous fingers from the recesses of his
pocket-book a ten-cent note and handed it to his tormentor, some of
the people laughed. Among the rest, Basil and Isabel laughed, and then
looked at each other with eyes of mutual reproach.

“Well, upon my word, my dear,” he said, “I think we’ve fallen pretty
low. I’ve never felt such a poor, shabby ruffian before. Good heavens!
To think of our immortal souls being moved to mirth by such a thing
as this,--so stupid, so barren of all reason of laughter. And then the
cruelty of it! What ferocious imbeciles we are! Whom have I married? A
woman with neither heart nor brain!”

“O Basil, dear, pay him back the money--do.”

“I can’t. That’s the worst of it. He’s money enough, and might justly
take offense. What breaks my heart is that we could have the depravity
to smile at the mistake of a friendless stranger, who supposed he had at
last met with an act of pure kindness. It’s a thing to weep over. Look
at these grinning wretches! What a fiendish effect their smiles have,
through their cinders and sweat! O, it’s the terrible weather; the
despotism of the dust and heat; the wickedness of the infernal air. What
a squalid and loathsome company!”

At Buffalo, where they arrived late, they found themselves with several
hours’ time on their hands before the train started for Niagara, and in
the first moments of tedium, Isabel forgot herself into saying, “Don’t
you think we’d have done better to go directly from Rochester to the
Falls, instead of coming this way?”

“Why certainly. I didn’t propose coming this way.”

“I know it, dear. I was only asking,” said Isabel, meekly. “But I should
think you’d have generosity enough to take a little of the blame, when I
wanted to come out of a romantic feeling for you.”

This romantic feeling referred to the fact that, many years before, when
Basil made his first visit to Niagara, he had approached from the west
by way of Buffalo; and Isabel, who tenderly begrudged his having existed
before she knew him, and longed to ally herself retrospectively with his
past, was resolved to draw near the great cataract by no other route.

She fetched a little sigh which might mean the weather or his
hard-heartedness. The sigh touched him, and he suggested a carriage-ride
through the city; she assented with eagerness, for it was what she had
been thinking of. She had never seen a lakeside city before, and she
was taken by surprise. “If ever we leave Boston,” she said, “we will not
live at Rochester, as I thought last night; we’ll come to Buffalo.” She
found that the place had all the picturesqueness of a sea-port, without
the ugliness that attends the rising and falling tides. A delicious
freshness breathed from the lake, which lying so smooth, faded into
the sky at last, with no line between sharper than that which divides
drowsing from dreaming. But the color was the most charming thing,
that delicate blue of the lake, without the depth of the sea-blue, but
infinitely softer and lovelier. The nearer expanses rippled with dainty
waves, silver and lucent; the further levels made, with the sun-dimmed
summer sky, a vague horizon of turquoise and amethyst, lit by the white
sails of ships, and stained by the smoke of steamers.

“Take me away now,” said Isabel, when her eyes had feasted upon all
this, “and don’t let me see another thing till I get to Niagara. Nothing
less sublime is worthy the eyes that have beheld such beauty.”

However, on the way to Niagara she consented to glimpses of the river
which carries the waters of the lake for their mighty plunge, and
which shows itself very nobly from time to time as you draw toward the
cataract, with wooded or cultivated islands, and rich farms along its
low shores, and at last flashes upon the eye the shining white of the
rapids,--a hint, no more, of the splendor and awfulness to be revealed.




VI. NIAGARA.

As the train stopped, Isabel’s heart beat with a child-like exultation,
as I believe every one’s heart must who is worthy to arrive at Niagara.
She had been trying to fancy, from time to time, that she heard the roar
of the cataract, and now, when she alighted from the car, she was sure
she should have heard it but for the vulgar little noises that attend
the arrival of trains at Niagara as well as everywhere else. “Never
mind, dearest; you shall be stunned with it before you leave,” promised
her husband; and, not wholly disconsolate, she rode through the
quaint streets of the village, where it remains a question whether the
lowliness of the shops and private houses makes the hotels look so vast,
or the bigness of the hotels dwarfs all the other buildings. The immense
caravansaries swelling up from among the little bazaars (where they
sell feather fans, and miniature bark canoes, and jars and vases and
bracelets and brooches carved out of the local rocks), made our
friends with their trunks very conscious of their disproportion to the
accommodations of the smallest. They were the sole occupants of the
omnibus, and they were embarrassed to be received at their hotel with
a burst of minstrelsy from a whole band of music. Isabel felt that a
single stringed instrument of some timid note would have been enough;
and Basil was going to express his own modest preference for a
jew’s-harp, when the music ceased with a sudden clash of the cymbals.
But the next moment it burst out with fresh sweetness, and in alighting
they perceived that another omnibus had turned the corner and was
drawing up to the pillared portico of the hotel. A small family
dismounted, and the feet of the last had hardly touched the pavement
when the music again ended as abruptly as those flourishes of trumpets
that usher player-kings upon the stage. Isabel could not help laughing
at this melodious parsimony. “I hope they don’t let on the cataract and
shut it off in this frugal style; do they, Basil?” she asked, and passed
jesting through a pomp of unoccupied porters and tallboys. Apparently
there were not many people stopping at this hotel, or else they were
all out looking at the Falls or confined to their rooms. However, our
travellers took in the almost weird emptiness of the place with their
usual gratitude to fortune for all queerness in life, and followed to
the pleasant quarters assigned them. There was time before supper for a
glance at the cataract, and after a brief toilet they sallied out again
upon the holiday street, with its parade of gay little shops, and thence
passed into the grove beside the Falls, enjoying at every instant their
feeling of arrival at a sublime destination.

In this sense Niagara deserves almost to rank with Rome, the metropolis
of history and religion; with Venice, the chief city of sentiment and
fantasy. In either you are at once made at home by a perception of its
greatness, in which there is no quality of aggression, as there always
seems to be in minor places as well as in minor men, and you gratefully
accept its sublimity as a fact in no way contrasting with your own
insignificance.

Our friends were beset of course by many carriage-drivers, whom they
repelled with the kindly firmness of experienced travel. Isabel even
felt a compassion for these poor fellows who had seen Niagara so much as
to have forgotten that the first time one must see it alone or only with
the next of friendship. She was voluble in her pity of Basil that it
was not as new to him as to her, till between the trees they saw a white
cloud of spray, shot through and through with sunset, rising, rising,
and she felt her voice softly and steadily beaten down by the diapason
of the cataract.

I am not sure but the first emotion on viewing Niagara is that of
familiarity. Ever after, its strangeness increases; but in that earliest
moment when you stand by the side of the American fall, and take in so
much of the whole as your glance can compass, an impression of having
seen it often before is certainly very vivid. This may be an effect of
that grandeur which puts you at your ease in its presence; but it
also undoubtedly results in part from lifelong acquaintance with every
variety of futile picture of the scene. You have its outward form
clearly in your memory; the shores, the rapids, the islands, the curve
of the Falls, and the stout rainbow with one end resting on their top
and the other lost in the mists that rise from the gulf beneath. On
the whole I do not account this sort of familiarity a misfortune. The
surprise is none the less a surprise because it is kept till the last,
and the marvel, making itself finally felt in every nerve, and not at
once through a single sense, all the more fully possesses you. It is as
if Niagara reserved her magnificence, and preferred to win your heart
with her beauty; and so Isabel, who was instinctively prepared for the
reverse, suffered a vague disappointment, for a little instant, as she
looked along the verge from the water that caressed the shore at her
feet before it flung itself down, to the wooded point that divides the
American from the Canadian Fall, beyond which showed dimly through
its veil of golden and silver mists the emerald wall of the great
Horse-Shoe. “How still it is!” she said, amidst the roar that shook the
ground under their feet and made the leaves tremble overhead, and “How
lonesome!” amidst the people lounging and sauntering about in every
direction among the trees. In fact that prodigious presence does make
a solitude and silence round every spirit worthy to perceive it, and
it gives a kind of dignity to all its belongings, so that the rocks and
pebbles in the water’s edge, and the weeds and grasses that nod above
it, have a value far beyond that of such common things elsewhere. In all
the aspects of Niagara there seems a grave simplicity, which is perhaps
a reflection of the spectator’s soul for once utterly dismantled of
affectation and convention. In the vulgar reaction from this, you are of
course as trivial, if you like, at Niagara, as anywhere.

Slowly Isabel became aware that the sacred grove beside the fall was
profaned by some very common presences indeed, that tossed bits of stone
and sticks into the consecrated waters, and struggled for handkerchiefs
and fans, and here and there put their arms about each other’s waists,
and made a show of laughing and joking. They were a picnic party of
rude, silly folks of the neighborhood, and she stood pondering them in
sad wonder if anything could be worse, when she heard a voice saying to
Basil, “Take you next, Sir? Plenty of light yet, and the wind’s down
the river, so the spray won’t interfere. Make a capital picture of you;
falls in the background.” It was the local photographer urging them to
succeed the young couple he had just posed at the brink: the gentleman
was sitting down, with his legs crossed and his hands elegantly
disposed; the lady was standing at his side, with one arm thrown lightly
across his shoulder, while with the other hand she thrust his cane into
the ground; you could see it was going to be a splendid photograph.

Basil thanked the artist, and Isabel said, trusting as usual to his
sympathy for perception of her train of thought, “Well, I’ll never try
to be high-strung again. But shouldn’t you have thought, dearest, that I
might expect to be high-strung with success at Niagara if anywhere?” She
passively followed him into the long, queer, downward-sloping edifice on
the border of the grove, unflinchingly mounted the car that stood ready,
and descended the incline. Emerging into the light again, she found
herself at the foot of the fall by whose top she had just stood. At
first she was glad there were other people down there, as if she and
Basil were not enough to bear it alone, and she could almost have spoken
to the two hopelessly pretty brides, with parasols and impertinent
little boots, whom their attendant husbands were helping over the sharp
and slippery rocks, so bare beyond the spray, so green and mossy within
the fall of mist. But in another breath she forgot them; as she looked
on that dizzied sea, hurling itself from the high summit in huge white
knots, and breaks and masses, and plunging into the gulf beside her,
while it sent continually up a strong voice of lamentation, and crawled
away in vast eddies, with somehow a look of human terror, bewilderment,
and pain. It was bathed in snowy vapor to its crest, but now and then
heavy currents of air drew this aside, and they saw the outline of the
Falls almost as far as the Canada side. They remembered afterwards how
they were able to make use of but one sense at a time, and how when they
strove to take in the forms of the descending flood, they ceased to hear
it; but as soon as they released their eyes from this service, every
fibre in them vibrated to the sound, and the spectacle dissolved away in
it. They were aware, too, of a strange capriciousness in their senses,
and of a tendency of each to palter with the things perceived. The
eye could no longer take truthful note of quality, and now beheld the
tumbling deluge as a Gothic wall of careen marble, white, motionless,
and now as a fall of lightest snow, with movement in all its atoms,
and scarce so much cohesion as would hold them together; and again
they could not discern if this course were from above or from beneath,
whether the water rose from the abyss or dropped from the height. The
ear could give the brain no assurance of the sound that felled it,
and whether it were great or little; the prevailing softness of the
cataract’s tone seemed so much opposed to ideas of prodigious force or
of prodigious volume. It was only when the sight, so idle in its own
behalf, came to the aid of the other sense, and showed them the mute
movement of each other’s lips, that they dimly appreciated the depth of
sound that involved them.

“I think you might have been high-strung there, for a second or two,”
 said Basil, when, ascending the incline; he could make himself heard.
“We will try the bridge next.”

Over the river, so still with its oily eddies and delicate wreaths of
foam, just below the Falls they have in late years woven a web of wire
high in air, and hung a bridge from precipice to precipice. Of all the
bridges made with hands it seems the lightest, most ethereal; it is
ideally graceful, and droops from its slight towers like a garland. It
is worthy to command, as it does, the whole grandeur of Niagara, and
to show the traveller the vast spectacle, from the beginning of the
American Fall to the farthest limit of the Horse-Shoe, with all the
awful pomp of the rapids, the solemn darkness of the wooded islands, the
mystery of the vaporous gulf, the indomitable wildness of the shores, as
far as the eye can reach up or down the fatal stream.

To this bridge our friends now repaired, by a path that led through
another of those groves which keep the village back from the shores
of the river on the American side, and greatly help the sight-seer’s
pleasure in the place. The exquisite structure, which sways so
tremulously from its towers, and seems to lay so slight a hold on earth
where its cables sink into the ground, is to other bridges what the
blood horse is to the common breed of roadsters; and now they felt its
sensitive nerves quiver under them and sympathetically through them
as they advanced farther and farther toward the centre. Perhaps their
sympathy with the bridge’s trepidation was too great for unalloyed
delight, and yet the thrill was a glorious one, to be known only there;
and afterwards, at least, they would not have had their airy path seem
more secure.

The last hues of sunset lingered in the mists that sprung from the base
of the Falls with a mournful, tremulous grace, and a movement weird
as the play of the northern lights. They were touched with the most
delicate purples and crimsons, that darkened to deep red, and then faded
from them at a second look, and they flew upward, swiftly upward, like
troops of pale, transparent ghosts; while a perfectly clear radiance,
better than any other for local color, dwelt upon the scene. Far under
the bridge the river smoothly swam, the undercurrents forever unfolding
themselves upon the surface with a vast rose-like evolution, edged all
round with faint lines of white, where the air that filled the water
freed itself in foam. What had been clear green on the face of the
cataract was here more like rich verd-antique, and had a look of
firmness almost like that of the stone itself. So it showed beneath
the bridge, and down the river till the curving shores hid it. These,
springing abruptly from the water’s brink, and shagged with pine and
cedar, displayed the tender verdure of grass and bushes intermingled
with the dark evergreens that comb from ledge to ledge, till they point
their speary tops above the crest of bluffs. In front, where tumbled
rocks and expanses of caked clay varied the gloomier and gayer green,
sprung those spectral mists; and through them loomed out, in its
manifold majesty, Niagara, with the seemingly immovable white Gothic
screen of the American Fall, and the green massive curve of the
Horseshoe, solid and simple and calm as an Egyptian wall; while behind
this, with their white and black expanses broken by dark foliaged little
isles, the steep Canadian rapids billowed down between their heavily
wooded shores.

The wedding-journeyers hung, they knew not how long, in rapture on the
sight; and then, looking back from the shore to the spot where they had
stood, they felt relieved that unreality should possess itself of all,
and that the bridge should swing there in mid-air like a filmy web,
scarce more passable than the rainbow that flings its arch above the
mists.

On the portico of the hotel they found half a score of gentlemen
smoking, and creating together that collective silence which passes for
sociality on our continent. Some carriages stood before the door, and
within, around the base of a pillar, sat a circle of idle call-boys.
There were a few trunks heaped together in one place, with a porter
standing guard over them; a solitary guest was buying a cigar at the
newspaper stand in one corner; another friendless creature was writing a
letter in the reading-room; the clerk, in a seersucker coat and a lavish
shirt-bosom, tried to give the whole an effect of watering-place gayety
and bustle, as he provided a newly arrived guest with a room.

Our pair took in these traits of solitude and repose with indifference.
If the hotel had been thronged with brilliant company, they would have
been no more and no less pleased; and when, after supper, they came into
the grand parlor, and found nothing there but a marble-topped centre-table,
with a silver-plated ice-pitcher and a small company of goblets,
they sat down perfectly content in a secluded window-seat. They were
not seen by the three people who entered soon after, and halted in the
centre of the room.

“Why, Kitty!” said one of the two ladies who must be in any
travelling-party of three, “this is more inappropriate to your gorgeous
array than the supper-room, even.”

She who was called Kitty was armed, as for social conquest, in some kind
of airy evening-dress, and was looking round with bewilderment upon that
forlorn waste of carpeting and upholstery. She owned, with a smile, that
she had not seen so much of the world yet as she had been promised; but
she liked Niagara very much, and perhaps they should find the world at
breakfast.

“No,” said the other lady, who was as unquiet as Kitty was calm, and who
seemed resolved to make the most of the worst, “it isn’t probable that
the hotel will fill up overnight; and I feel personally responsible for
this state of things. Who would ever have supposed that Niagara would be
so empty? I thought the place was thronged the whole summer long. How do
you account for it, Richard?”

The gentleman looked fatigued, as from a long-continued discussion
elsewhere of the matter in hand, and he said that he had not been trying
to account for it.

“Then you don’t care for Kitty’s pleasure at all, and you don’t want her
to enjoy herself. Why don’t you take some interest in the matter?”

“Why, if I accounted for the emptiness of Niagara in the most
satisfactory way, it wouldn’t add a soul to the floating population.
Under the circumstances I prefer to leave it unexplained.”

“Do you think it’s because it’s such a hot summer? Do you suppose
it’s not exactly the season? Didn’t you expect there’d be more people?
Perhaps Niagara isn’t as fashionable as it used to be.”

“It looks something like that.”

“Well, what under the sun do you think is the reason?”

“I don’t know.”

“Perhaps,” interposed Kitty, placidly, “most of the visitors go to the
other hotel, now.”

“It’s altogether likely,” said the other lady, eagerly. “There are just
such caprices.”

“Well,” said Richard, “I wanted you to go there.”

“But you said that you always heard this was the a most fashionable.”

“I know it. I didn’t want to come here for that reason. But fortune
favors the brave.”

“Well, it’s too bad! Here we’ve asked Kitty to come to Niagara with us,
just to give her a little peep into the world, and you’ve brought us to
a hotel where we’re--”

“Monarchs of all we survey,” suggested Kitty.

“Yes, and start at the sound of our own,” added the other lady,
helplessly.

“Come now, Fanny,” said the gentleman, who was but too clearly the
husband of the last speaker. “You know you insisted, against all I could
say or do, upon coming to this house; I implored you to go to the other,
and now you blame me for bringing you here.”

“So I do. If you’d let me have my own way without opposition about
coming here, I dare say I should have gone to the other place. But never
mind. Kitty knows whom to blame, I hope. She ‘s your cousin.”

Kitty was sitting with her hands quiescently folded in her lap. She now
rose and said that she did not know anything about the other hotel, and
perhaps it was just as empty as this.

“It can’t be. There can’t be two hotels so empty,” said Fanny. “It don’t
stand to reason.”

“If you wish Kitty to see the world so much,” said the gentleman, “why
don’t you take her on to Quebec, with us?”

Kitty had left her seat beside Fanny, and was moving with a listless
content about the parlor.

“I wonder you ask, Richard, when you know she’s only come for the night,
and has nothing with her but a few cuffs and collars! I certainly never
heard of anything so absurd before!”

The absurdity of the idea then seemed to cast its charm upon her, for,
after a silence, “I could lend her some things,” she said musingly. “But
don’t speak of it to-night, please. It’s too ridiculous. Kitty!” she
called out, and, as the young lady drew near, she continued, “How would
you like to go to Quebec, with us?”

“O Fanny!” cried Kitty, with rapture; and then, with dismay, “How can
I?”

“Why, very well, I think. You’ve got this dress, and your
travelling-suit; and I can lend you whatever you want. Come!” she added
joyously, “let’s go up to your room, and talk it over!”

The two ladies vanished upon this impulse, and the gentleman followed.
To their own relief the guiltless eaves-droppers, who found no moment
favorable for revealing themselves after the comedy began, issued from
their retiracy.

“What a remarkable little lady!” said Basil, eagerly turning to Isabel
for sympathy in his enjoyment of her inconsequence.

“Yes, poor thing!” returned his wife; “it’s no light matter to invite
a young lady to take a journey with you, and promise her all sorts of
gayety, and perhaps beaux and flirtations, and then find her on your
hands in a desolation like this. It’s dreadful, I think.”

Basil stared. “O, certainly,” he said. “But what an amusingly illogical
little body!”

“I don’t understand what you mean, Basil. It was the only thing that
she could do, to invite the young lady to go on with them. I wonder her
husband had the sense to think of it first. Of course she’ll have to
lend her things.”

“And you didn’t observe anything peculiar in her way of reaching her
conclusions?”

“Peculiar? What do you mean?”

“Why, her blaming her husband for letting her have her own way about
the hotel; and her telling him not to mention his proposal to Kitty,
and then doing it herself, just--after she’d pronounced it absurd and
impossible.” He spoke with heat at being forced to make what he thought
a needless explanation.

“O!” said Isabel, after a moment’s reflection. “That! Did you think it
so very odd?”

Her husband looked at her with the gravity a man must feel when he
begins to perceive that he has married the whole mystifying world of
womankind in the woman of his choice, and made no answer. But to his own
soul he said: “I supposed I had the pleasure of my wife’s acquaintance.
It seems I have been flattering myself.”

The next morning they went out as they had planned, for an exploration
of Goat Island, after an early breakfast. As they sauntered through
the village’s contrasts of pigmy and colossal in architecture, they
praisefully took in the unalloyed holiday character of the place,
enjoying equally the lounging tourists at the hotel doors, the drivers
and their carriages to let, and the little shops, with nothing but
mementos of Niagara, and Indian beadwork, and other trumpery, to sell.
Shops so useless, they agreed, could not be found outside the Palms
Royale, or the Square of St. Mark, or anywhere else in the world
but here. They felt themselves once more a part of the tide of mere
sight-seeing pleasure-travel, on which they had drifted in other days,
and in an eddy of which their love itself had opened its white blossom,
and lily-like dreamed upon the wave.

They were now also part of the great circle of newly wedded bliss,
which, involving the whole land during the season of bridal-tours, may
be said to show richest and fairest at Niagara, like the costly jewel
of a precious ring. The place is, in fact, almost abandoned to bridal
couples, and any one out of his honey-moon is in some degree an alien
there, and must discern a certain immodesty in him intrusion. Is it for
his profane eyes to look upon all that blushing and trembling joy? A man
of any sensibility must desire to veil his face, and, bowing his excuses
to the collective rapture, take the first train for the wicked outside
world to which he belongs. Everywhere, he sees brides and brides. Three
or four with the benediction still on them, come down in the same car
with him; he hands her travelling-shawl after one as she springs from
the omnibus into her husband’s arms; there are two or three walking back
and forth with their new lords upon the porch of the hotel; at supper
they are on every side of him, and he feels himself suffused, as it
were, by a roseate atmosphere of youth and love and hope. At breakfast
it is the same, and then, in his wanderings about the place he
constantly meets them. They are of all manners of beauty, fair and dark,
slender and plump, tall and short; but they are all beautiful with the
radiance of loving and being loved. Now, if ever in their lives, they
are charmingly dressed, and ravishing toilets take the willing eye from
the objects of interest. How high the heels of the pretty boots, how
small the tender-tinted gloves, how electrical the flutter of the snowy
skirts! What is Niagara to these things?

Isabel was not willing to own her bridal sisterhood to these blessed
souls; but she secretly rejoiced in it, even while she joined Basil in
noting their number and smiling at their innocent abandon. She dropped
his arm at encounter of the first couple, and walked carelessly at his
side; she made a solemn vow never to take hold of his watch-chain in
speaking to him; she trusted that she might be preserved from putting
her face very close to his at dinner in studying the bill of fare;
getting out of carriages, she forbade him ever to take her by the waist.
All ascetic resolutions are modified by experiment; but if Isabel did
not rigorously keep these, she is not the less to be praised for having
formed them.

Just before they reached the bridge to Goat Island, they passed a
little group of the Indians still lingering about Niagara, who make the
barbaric wares in which the shops abound, and, like the woods and the
wild faces of the cliffs and precipices, help to keep the cataract
remote, and to invest it with the charm of primeval loneliness. This
group were women, and they sat motionless on the ground, smiling
sphinx-like over their laps full of bead-work, and turning their dark
liquid eyes of invitation upon the passers. They wore bright kirtles,
and red shawls fell from their heads over their plump brown cheeks and
down their comfortable persons. A little girl with them was attired in
like gayety of color. “What is her name?” asked Isabel, paying for a
bead pincushion. “Daisy Smith,” said her mother, in distressingly good
English. “But her Indian name?” “She has none,” answered the woman, who
told Basil that her village numbered five hundred people, and that they
were Protestants. While they talked they were joined by an Indian, whom
the women saluted musically in their native tongue. This was somewhat
consoling; but he wore trousers and a waistcoat, and it could have been
wished that he had not a silk hat on.

“Still,” said Isabel, as they turned away, “I’m glad he hasn’t
Lisle-thread gloves, like that chieftain we saw putting his forest
queen on board the train at Oneida. But how shocking that they should be
Christians, and Protestants! It would have been bad enough to have them
Catholics. And that woman said that they were increasing. They ought to
be fading away.”

On the bridge, they paused and looked up and down the rapids rushing
down the slope in all their wild variety, with the white crests of
breaking surf, the dark massiveness of heavy-climbing waves, the fleet,
smooth sweep of currents over broad shelves of sunken rock, the dizzy
swirl and suck of whirlpools.

Spell-bound, the journeyers pored upon the deathful course beneath
their feet, gave a shudder to the horror of being cast upon it, and then
hurried over the bridge to the island, in the shadow of whose wildness
they sought refuge from the sight and sound.

There had been rain in the night; the air war full of forest fragrance,
and the low, sweet voice of twittering birds. Presently they came to a
bench set in a corner of the path, and commanding a pleasant vista of
sunlit foliage, with a mere gleam of the foaming river beyond. As they
sat down here loverwise, Basil, as in the early days of their courtship,
began to recite a poem. It was one which had been haunting him since his
first sight of the rapids, one of many that he used to learn by heart
in his youth--the rhyme of some poor newspaper poet, whom the third or
fourth editor copying his verses consigned to oblivion by carelessly
clipping his name from the bottom. It had always lingered in Basil’s
memory, rather from the interest of the awful fact it recorded, than
from any merit of its own; and now he recalled it with a distinctness
that surprised him.

                   AVERY.

                    I.
  All night long they heard in the houses beside the shore, Heard, or
  seemed to hear, through the multitudinous roar, Out of the hell of the
  rapids as ‘twere a lost soul’s cries Heard and could not believe; and
  the morning mocked their eyes, Showing where wildest and fiercest the
  waters leaped up and ran Raving round him and past, the visage of a man
  Clinging, or seeming to cling, to the trunk of a tree that, caught Fast
  in the rocks below, scarce out of the surges raught. Was it a life,
  could it be, to yon slender hope that clung Shrill, above all the tumult
  the answering terror rang.

                    II.
  Under the weltering rapids a boat from the bridge is drowned, Over the
  rocks the lines of another are tangled and wound, And the long, fateful
  hours of the morning have wasted soon, As it had been in some blessed
  trance, and now it is noon. Hurry, now with the raft! But O, build it
  strong and stanch, And to the lines and the treacherous rocks look well
  as you launch Over the foamy tops of the waves, and their foam-sprent
  sides, Over the hidden reefs, and through the embattled tides, Onward
  rushes the raft, with many a lurch and leap,--Lord! if it strike him
  loose from the hold he scarce can keep! No! through all peril unharmed,
  it reaches him harmless at least, And to its proven strength he lashes
  his weakness fast. Now, for the shore! But steady, steady, my men, and
  slow; Taut, now, the quivering lines; now slack; and so, let her go!
  Thronging the shores around stands the pitying multitude; Wan as his
  own are their looks, and a nightmare seems to brood Heavy upon them,
  and heavy the silence hangs on all, Save for the rapids’ plunge, and the
  thunder of the fall. But on a sudden thrills from the people still
  and pale, Chorussing his unheard despair, a desperate wail Caught on a
  lurking point of rock it sways and swings, Sport of the pitiless waters,
  the raft to which he clings.

                    III.
  All the long afternoon it idly swings and sways; And on the shore the
  crowd lifts up its hands and prays: Lifts to heaven and wrings the hands
  so helpless to save, Prays for the mercy of God on him whom the rock and
  the ways Battle for, fettered betwixt them, and who amidst their strife
  Straggles to help his helpers, and fights so hard for his life, Tugging
  at rope and at reef, while men weep and women swoon. Priceless second by
  second, so wastes the afternoon. And it is sunset now; and another boat
  and the last Down to him from the bridge through the rapids has safely
  passed.

                    IV.
  Wild through the crowd comes flying a man that nothing can stay
  Maddening against the gate that is locked athwart his way. “No! we keep
  the bridge for them that can help him. You, Tell us, who are you?” “His
  brother!” “God help you both! Pass through.” Wild, with wide arms of
  imploring he calls aloud to him, Unto the face of his brother, scarce
  seen in the distance dim; But in the roar of the rapids his fluttering
  words are lost As in a wind of autumn the leaves of autumn are tossed.
  And from the bridge he sees his brother sever the rope Holding him
  to the raft, and rise secure in his hope; Sees all as in a dream the
  terrible pageantry, Populous shores, the woods, the sky, the birds
  flying free; Sees, then, the form--that, spent with effort and fasting
  and fear, Flings itself feebly and fails of the boat that is lying so
  near, Caught in the long-baffled clutch of the rapids, and rolled and
  hurled Headlong on to the cataract’s brink, and out of the world.


“O Basil!” said Isabel, with a long sigh breaking the hush that best
praised the unknown poet’s skill, “it isn’t true, is it?”

“Every word, almost, even to the brother’s coming at the last moment.
It’s a very well-known incident,” he added, and I am sure the reader
whose memory runs back twenty years cannot have forgotten it.

Niagara, indeed, is an awful homicide; nearly every point of interest
about the place has killed its man, and there might well be a deeper
stain of crimson than it ever wears in that pretty bow overarching the
falls. Its beauty is relieved against an historical background as gloomy
as the lightest-hearted tourist could desire. The abominable savages,
revering the cataract as a kind of august devil, and leading a life of
demoniacal misery and wickedness, whom the first Jesuits found here two
hundred years ago; the ferocious Iroquois bloodily driving out these
squalid devil-worshippers; the French planting the fort that yet guards
the mouth of the river, and therewith the seeds of war that fruited
afterwards in murderous strifes throughout the whole Niagara country;
the struggle for the military posts on the river, during the wars of
France and England; the awful scene in the conspiracy of Pontiac,
where a detachment of English troops was driven by the Indians over the
precipice near the great Whirlpool; the sorrow and havoc visited upon
the American settlements in the Revolution by the savages who prepared
their attacks in the shadow of Fort Niagara; the battles of Chippewa and
of Lundy’s Lane, that mixed the roar of their cannon with that of
the fall; the savage forays with tomahawk and scalping-knife, and the
blazing villages on either shore in the War of 1812,--these are the
memories of the place, the links in a chain of tragical interest
scarcely broken before our time since the white man first beheld the
mist-veiled face of Niagara. The facts lost nothing of their due effect
as Basil, in the ramble across Goat Island, touched them with the
reflected light of Mr. Parkman’s histories,--those precious books that
make our meagre past wear something of the rich romance of old European
days, and illumine its savage solitudes with the splendor of mediaeval
chivalry, and the glory of mediaeval martyrdom,--and then, lacking this
light, turned upon them the feeble glimmer of the guide-books. He and
Isabel enjoyed the lurid picture with all the zest of sentimentalists
dwelling upon the troubles of other times from the shelter of the safe
and peaceful present. They were both poets in their quality of bridal
couple, and so long as their own nerves were unshaken they could
transmute all facts to entertaining fables. They pleasantly exercised
their sympathies upon those who every year perish at Niagara in the
tradition of its awful power; only they refused their cheap and selfish
compassion to the Hermit of Goat Island, who dwelt so many years in its
conspicuous seclusion, and was finally carried over the cataract. This
public character they suspected of design in his death as in his life,
and they would not be moved by his memory; though they gave a sigh to
that dream, half pathetic, half ludicrous, yet not ignoble, of Mordecai
Noah, who thought to assemble all the Jews of the world, and all the
Indians, as remnants of the lost tribes, upon Grand Island, there to
rebuild Jerusalem, and who actually laid the corner-stone of the new
temple there.

Goat Island is marvelously wild for a place visited by so many thousands
every year. The shrubbery and undergrowth remain unravaged, and form a
deceitful privacy, in which, even at that early hour of the day, they
met many other pairs. It seemed incredible that the village and the
hotels should be so full, and that the wilderness should also abound in
them; yet on every embowered seat, and going to and from all points of
interest and danger, were these new-wedded lovers with their interlacing
arms and their fond attitudes, in which each seemed to support and lean
upon the other. Such a pair stood prominent before them when Basil and
Isabel emerged at last from the cover of the woods at the head of the
island, and glanced up the broad swift stream to the point where it ran
smooth before breaking into the rapids; and as a soft pastoral feature
in the foreground of that magnificent landscape, they found them far
from unpleasing. Some such pair is in the foreground of every famous
American landscape; and when I think of the amount of public love-making
in the season of pleasure-travel, from Mount Desert to the Yosemite,
and from the parks of Colorado to the Keys of Florida, I feel that our
continent is but a larger Arcady, that the middle of the nineteenth
century is the golden age, and that we want very little of being a
nation of shepherds and shepherdesses.

Our friends returned by the shore of the Canadian rapids, having
traversed the island by a path through the heart of the woods, and now
drew slowly near the Falls again. All parts of the prodigious pageant
have an eternal novelty, and they beheld the ever-varying effect of that
constant sublimity with the sense of discoverers, or rather of people
whose great fortune it is to see the marvel in its beginning, and new
from the creating hand. The morning hour lent its sunny charm to this
illusion, while in the cavernous precipices of the shores, dark with
