happened that the best and most reliable students have attained the
highest places; though I must acknowledge that it may not always happen
so. For a change, I am willing to try your plan."
A demonstration of applause greeted this announcement, but it came
mainly from the officers.
"But I wish to say, that though I have considered substantially the
same plan several times, I should not now introduce it if you had not
asked for it. The present is certainly the fairest plan, for it places
all upon an absolute equality, and under it every officer is indebted
entirely to his own merit for his position, and not at all to the favor
of his instructors or his friends among the ship's company. A change,
therefore, is more properly inaugurated by you than by me.
"I am informed by the committee that the vote was not unanimous,
and one member of the committee did not choose to appear with the
delegation."
"He was notified of the meeting of the committee," said De Forrest.
"I was notified," replied Scott; "but the meeting of the committee was
held in the after cabin, which I am not permitted to enter."
The opposition applauded till the snap of the bell silenced them.
"This does not look exactly like fair play, especially as Scott is
supposed to represent the opposition to the change."
"He was notified of the time when the committee would wait upon you,
sir, in the main cabin, but he declined to attend," answered De Forrest.
"If there was a preliminary meeting of the committee, he ought not to
have been excluded from it," added Mr. Lowington. "Your proceedings
must be revised, and the opposition must be heard."
"Mr. Lowington, as a member of the committee, I withdraw all
opposition," interposed Scott.
"I do not know that you are authorized to do so," replied the
principal; "but I am very glad to see this spirit of accommodation on
your part."
"I don't think the new plan is so fair as the old one; but I wish to
have a fair trial of it. The new method was got up by the nobs in the
cabin--"
"The what?" inquired the principal, with a smile.
"The nobs, sir."
"If by an accident, or by any extra exertion on your part, you were
elected to an office in the cabin, would you be a nob?"
"Yes, sir."
"Though you do not seem to use the word in an offensive sense, I prefer
some other form of expression. You say that the plan was devised by the
cabin officers."
"Yes, sir."
"But we consulted the seamen, and they agreed to the plan before the
meeting. It would have been a unanimous vote if Scott had not got up
an opposition just for the sake of a joke," said De Forrest, rather
bitterly.
"I opposed the thing in my own way, and I never agreed to it; but we
all consent to it now."
"Does any one object to it?" asked Mr. Lowington.
Cantwell looked at Scott, but the latter shook his head.
"If there is any objection, I desire to hear it now."
No one offered any objection.
"There being no opposition, with the understanding on my part that
unanimous consent is given to the plan, I will adopt it--"
Violent applause on the part of the officers and others interrupted the
principal, which was silenced by a stroke of the bell.
"I will adopt it with an amendment," added Mr. Lowington. "I will
explain the amendment. By the new plan, the offices of commodore,
captain, and lieutenant are made elective within certain limits. The
commodore must be elected from the three captains; the captain must
be chosen from the cabin officers of the vessel to which he belongs.
Now suppose, for example, that one of the lieutenants for next month,
relying upon his popularity among his shipmates for his position the
following month, neglects his studies; what check have we upon him?"
There was no answer, for this case has not occurred to the agitators.
"Suppose the captain of this ship--but I grant in the beginning that
this is not a supposable case--should utterly fail in his duty so far
as study is concerned; you elect him captain or commodore, while the
present rule would send him back into the steerage. The amendment I
propose will correct this defect in your plan. It consists of two
sections," continued the principal, as he proceeded to read from a
paper in his hand. "1. No captain shall be eligible to the office of
commodore whose merit-rank is below No. 6 in the Young America, or
below No. 5 in the Josephine, or Tritonia. 2. No officer shall be
eligible to the office of captain or lieutenant whose merit-rank is
below No. 16 in the ship, or below No. 9 in the other vessels. Are you
satisfied with the amendment?"
"We are," replied the students.
"Then the merit-roll will be read and the elections take place
to-morrow, on the first day of the month," continued the principal. "We
will now go up to Åbo."
The students applauded, and left the steerage. The boatswains piped all
hands into the boats, and in half an hour the squadron of barges and
cutters were pulling in single file up the narrow river.
CHAPTER IV.
TWO HOURS A IN ÅBO, AND THE BANGWHANGERS.
In the captain's gig was Dr. Winstock, with whom Captain Lincoln always
delighted to walk or ride on shore, and whom he always invited to
take a seat in the stern-sheets of his boat. The doctor had inherited
a considerable fortune, which placed him above the necessity of
practising in his profession, and he had travelled all over Europe.
He had not been an idle wanderer abroad, going from place to place in
search of mere amusement; but he had been a diligent inquirer into the
system of government, the history, the agricultural and manufacturing
interest, and the manners and customs of the countries he visited.
He was, therefore, as he was often called, a walking encyclopædia of
information; and for this reason Lincoln sought his company.
"Of course you have been in Finland before, Dr. Winstock," said
Lincoln, as soon as the gig took her place in the line.
"I have," replied the surgeon. "Several years ago I went from
Copenhagen to Christiania, rode across the country in a cariole to
Bergen, and from there made the trip by steamer to the North Cape,
where I saw the sun at midnight. I came by steamer along the coast to
Frederiksværn, and from there to Gottenburg, and through Sweden. At
Stockholm I embarked in the steamer Aura, which starts at two o'clock
in the morning now, as she did then."
"I went on board of a steamer of the same line in Stockholm--I forget
her name."
"Perhaps the Grefve Berg, which is the best one. The other two are
the Dagmar and the Wyborg. The trip in one of these vessels to St.
Petersburg is a very delightful one. She arrives at this place the
first day, and spends the night here; the second day she goes to
Helsingfors, and the third to Wyborg, arriving at St. Petersburg in the
forenoon of the fourth day. Nearly the whole voyage is made among the
islands, which, almost without an exception, are as silent and still as
those we have visited. She stays long enough at these Finnish towns to
enable one to see them. The steamers are Finnish, the captains of them
speak English, and the table on board is very good. The fare is twenty
rubles--meals extra."
"Did you go into the interior?"
"Yes; I went as far as the group of lakes in the centre of the country,
and had some capital fishing there. I rode in a cariole, like those in
use in Norway. But some people use a kabitka, which is a cart, very
long and narrow, with a leather covering over about one half of its
length. In the bottom of the vehicle, which has no springs, there is
a quantity of hay or straw, or a feather bed, on which the traveller
stretches himself; but it is very hard riding, for the roads are rough,
and the hills are full of sharp pitches. All expenses are about six
cents a verst."
"How much is a verst?" asked the captain.
"Two thirds of a mile; or, more exactly, .6626 of a mile. Three versts
are two miles. Travelling in Finland is rather exciting at times, for
the horses rush at full gallop down the hills and over sharp pitches.
But the roads are pretty good, and an average speed of ten miles an
hour may be attained."
"How could you get along without the language?"
"I picked, up a few words, which I have forgotten, and had no trouble
at all. I went to Tavastehus, which is on one of the vast chain of
lakes in the interior of Finland. Small steamers ply upon them; and a
trip by water in this region is very pleasant. There is now a railroad
from this town to Helsingfors."
"There seems to be some business even in this out-of-the-way part of
the world," said Lincoln, as the squadron of boats passed a series of
buildings.
"Those are government works--founderies and machine shops."
The river rapidly diminished in size, until at the town it was a small
stream, over which was a bridge, connecting the two parts of the place.
The boats went up to the quay just below this bridge, and the students
landed. Dividing into parties, they went where they pleased. Some
crossed the bridge, and others went in the direction of the cathedral,
which is on the left bank of the river. Dr. Winstock and Lincoln were
of the latter.
"They have wide streets here," said the young captain.
"Yes; land is cheap, and they can have them as wide as they please. In
all modern-built Russian cities you will find broad avenues."
"The buildings are all but one story high."
"Nearly all; and the houses are very much scattered, so that the people
do not appear to be very neighborly. Large as the town seems to be, it
contains only thirteen thousand inhabitants."
"The houses look very neat and nice."
"Only a few of them can be very old, for in 1827 nearly the whole city
was destroyed by fire, including the university with its library, and
many other public edifices. When the town was rebuilt, the people
placed the houses at a considerable distance from each other, and built
them but one story, because they had not the means to erect larger
ones."
Passing along the street next to the river, the tourists reached an
extensive square, in which there was a statue of Professor Porthan, a
learned Finlander. Just beyond it was the cathedral, which is of brick,
and far from elegant or imposing in its external appearance.
"This is the cradle of Christianity in Finland," said the doctor.
"As Mr. Mapps told you, this town was founded by Eric of Sweden, who
introduced Christianity into this region. The first bishop was located
here; and in this church, for centuries, the first families were
buried; and you will not only see their tombs, but also some of their
bodies, if you desire."
"I should not think that would be permitted," replied Lincoln.
"Nor I; but it is. The great fire burned out the interior of this
church, destroying the altar and organ, and even melting the bells. The
building was repaired by subscription. A baker, who had accumulated
about twelve thousand dollars in his business, having no near
relatives, gave his little fortune for the purchase of another organ,
and his wishes were carried out after his death."
A man with a bundle of keys presented himself at this time, bowed, and
solemnly opened the door of the cathedral. As the visitors ascended the
steps, the man pointed to a rusty ring.
"What's that?" asked Lincoln.
"In ancient times offenders used to be fastened to that ring, and were
compelled to do penance there," replied the doctor.
"There's nothing very fine about this," said the captain, as they
entered the church.
"Certainly not. I hope you did not expect to find a cathedral like St.
Peter's, or those at Antwerp and Cologne. This structure has been built
upon, increased in size, and improved, several times. There is the
organ which the baker gave. It has five thousand pipes--for a dollar
would buy more organ pipes years ago than now. Whatever there is here
in the way of ornament, including the frescoes, is the work of native
artists," continued the doctor, as they walked up to the altar. "In the
crypt under this altar lie the remains of Queen Christina of Sweden."
"Mr. Mapps said she was buried in St. Peter's, at Rome," interposed the
captain.
"Not the celebrated Queen Christina, but the wife of St. Eric, whose
remains are intombed in the cathedral of Upsala. Here is an epitaph to
Katrina Mänsdotter," said the doctor, as they passed to the side of the
church.
"I never heard of her before, which is not very strange," replied
Lincoln.
"Do you remember who was the son and successor of Gustavus Vasa?"
"Eric XIV. He was deposed by the Swedish parliament, kept a prisoner
nine years, and then poisoned."
"Good! That is more than I could have told about him. Eric's father
proposed to marry him to Queen Elizabeth of England; and Eric, while
the negotiations were still pending, proposed to Mary, Queen of Scots,
and to two other princesses. He was actually flirting with four ladies
of royal blood at the same time. The accepting of either, he felt,
would make trouble; and he relieved himself of any difficulty by
marrying Miss Mänsdotter. She was a very pretty girl, the daughter of
a petty officer of the Guards, who had attracted his attention while
she was selling fruit in the market of Stockholm. She was sincerely
attached to him, tyrant and oppressor as he was, and clung to him
through his misfortunes. After his imprisonment she retired to Finland,
and passed the remainder of her days in obscurity."
"That's a good story for a novelist to work upon," suggested Lincoln.
"Very likely the incidents of the career of Katrina have been used by
the Swedish novelists; but I am not as familiar as I intend to be with
them. I see that the works of Madame Schwartz, a celebrated Swedish
writer, are now in process of translation in the United States. Several
volumes have been published, and they are having a large circulation.
This lady locates some of her stories, or parts of them, in Finland."
Many of the tombs in which the Finland worthies were buried are half
above and half below the pavement of the church. The conductor of the
little party opened the door of one of them, and the captain looked
into the gloomy space. Within it several coffins were crumbling to
decay. The man raised one of them, exhibiting the body of the occupant.
The features of the face were well preserved, though the person had
been dead three hundred years. They were of a brownish color, not
unlike guano. Following the example of the conductor, the visitors
touched the face, which was hard and rather spongy.
"I should think this body would decay," said the captain.
"No; there is something in the atmosphere which has changed it to
adipocere. Sometimes bodies buried in the ground are petrified, or
turned into stone. In Italy, and in some other countries, you will see
the bodies of saints in the churches, though I remember none as perfect
as this, for they are very black, and much shrivelled. In the vaults at
Palermo vast numbers of the dead are preserved by the conditions of the
vault in which they are buried."
Other monuments were examined, and the party left the church, giving
the solemn man--who had not yet spoken a single word--a mark for his
services, at which he solemnly bowed as he put the money in his pocket.
Crossing the river, Dr. Winstock and Lincoln walked over the rest of
the town, which, however, contained nothing worthy of note. There was
nothing in the costume of the people to distinguish them, and the shops
and houses were hardly different from those in England or America. The
streets are paved with cobble stones, and a few droskies may be seen;
but the people, who are more intensely Swedish than in the eastern
provinces of Finland, do not take kindly to Russian customs and
institutions. After the destruction of the university by fire, it was
removed to Helsingfors, and the hostility of the province to their new
ruler caused the transfer of the seat of government to the same place.
The town wears an aspect of desolation in its streets, for very few
people are seen in them; and, except on the wharf at the arrival of a
steamer there, nothing of the bustle of business is seen. The place has
lost much of its former importance.
The students wandered idly through the deserted streets, and it
was noticeable that but few of them paid any attention to their
surroundings. A group of the seamen sat on the quay above the bridge,
apparently engaged in an animated discussion. Though the Finnish women
were pulling about in boats on the narrow river, the boys were not
interested in their movements. Their conversation did not relate to
Finland or the Finns. Scott, the joker, was in the centre of the ring,
and did the greater part of the talking, and of course the subject was
that which had been introduced at the picnic on the island. Without
having any distinct plan in the beginning, Scott had become a leader
among the democratic element of the ship. His crude ideas, which had
formed themselves into objections to the De Forrest scheme, were now
seeking recognition as a plan. He had been laboring very earnestly to
defeat the wishes of the cabin "nobs," as he persisted in calling them.
"We can't go for such a fellow as Cantwell," said one of the students.
"He is a conceited and overbearing fellow."
"I don't care a fig for Cantwell, personally," replied Scott. "It
is the principle of the thing that I'm looking after. I know that
Cantwell is unpopular in the steerage as well as in the cabin. But
there's a conspiracy against him. Just as soon as he had earned his
rank, the fellows in the cabin put their heads together to cheat him
out of it. I was appointed on the committee, and they called a meeting
in the cabin, where I was not allowed to go, to prevent me from
attending. Was that fair?"
"No, no!" responded the seamen.
"Right! Besides, I want those swells in the cabin to know that we are a
power."
"But they came to us before the meeting on the island," suggested one
of the group.
"Yes; just so. But what did they come for? To know if we approved the
plan? Not a bit of it. The plan was cooked up in the cabin. They came
to us just as the politicians go to the dear people--for votes. They
argued, talked, and begged for our votes at the meeting. By and by
they will get up a plan by which no fellow shall be promoted from the
steerage to the cabin. Cantwell and Victory! That's my motto."
"I say, Scott, don't you think it is absurd for us to vote for the most
unpopular fellow in the ship?" asked Wainwright.
"No, I don't. He's the only fellow in the cabin that is not in the
ring, and therefore the only one we can vote for. Don't you see it?"
"I don't want to vote against Captain Lincoln," another objected. "He
is a first-rate fellow, and a good sailor."
"But Lincoln went in for this plan, was present at the meeting, and
voted in favor of it," replied Scott. "I like Lincoln as well as any
fellow, but I don't like this trying to keep any one out of the place
he has fairly earned."
"That's so," said a dozen of the boys.
This was only a specimen of the electioneering which was going on in
a dozen different places in Åbo at the same time. Only a few of the
students entered the cathedral, and not many of them could tell, when
they returned to the squadron, whether the streets of the town were
broad or narrow, or whether the houses were one or two stories high.
While the seamen were at work for Cantwell, the officers were speaking
a good word for Captain Lincoln, whom they desired to reëlect to his
present position.
At six o'clock most of the students were in the vicinity of the bridge,
ready to repair to the boats when the boatswains gave the signal. Dr.
Winstock and Lincoln were at the hotel on the quay called the Society's
House, which is said to be the most northern one in the world. Students
were arriving in the droskies, which many of them had employed for the
sake of a ride; and when they came to pay their fare there were many
amusing scenes, for neither party understood a word of the language of
the other. Most of the students, too, had changed their Swedish money
into Russian in Stockholm, and were unprovided with Finnish currency,
for they supposed that Russian money was current in Finland. The
drivers would not take the rubles and copecks, and some very cheerful
rows ensued. But the principal, with Professor Badois--who spoke
Swedish--at his elbow, interfered, and paid the fares. The students
embarked, the line of boats was formed, and the squadron moved down the
river, with half of Åbo on the quay, gazing in solemn silence at the
departure of the strange visitors, for as such they certainly regarded
them. In less than an hour the boats were alongside the vessels to
which they belonged, and were soon hoisted up to the davits.
The signal for sailing was shown on board of the Young America, and a
lively scene followed. Anchors were hove short, sails shaken out, and
the Finnish pilots were at their stations. As the breeze was fresh
and fair, the principal desired to take advantage of it; and, after
a stay of only five hours at Åbo, the squadron was under way again,
threading its course through the channels among the numerous islands.
In the watch on deck, and that below, the business of electioneering
was continued with the utmost vigor. Scott and his friends were busy
everywhere, and even the stale expedient of a secret society among the
"anti-De Forresters" was proposed, and enthusiastically adopted. Scott
and Jones were intrusted with the task of furnishing a constitution,
and inventing the necessary dark-lantern machinery for the organization.
Boys have a decided taste for secret associations, though, as the
experience of the present time shows, not more than adults, male
and female. The number of these "orders" among full-grown men is on
the increase, and the boys, in all parts of the United States, have
manifested a strong desire to keep up with the times, and follow the
example of their elders. Secret societies had several times been
formed on board of the Young America, but generally for purposes of
mischief, such as running away, or capturing one of the vessels. The
present association appeared to be for political purposes--to influence
the election of officers. Scott was, in the main, a very sensible
fellow; and his only idea of a secret society was to make some fun out
of it, though he was quite willing to have it used for accomplishing
his purpose, which, in its turn, was little more than a gigantic joke,
so far as he was concerned.
The wind, which had been fresh all day, diminished in force after
the squadron sailed, and at half past eight, while the sun was still
above the horizon, there was a dead calm, and the vessels were obliged
to anchor for the night, for the pilots declined to run during the
darkness in the intricate navigation of these seas. The squadron
anchored near a rocky island, the top of which was covered with trees.
The same "eternal silence" seemed to pervade the region as among the
Aland Islands. When everything was made snug on board, a portion of the
students asked permission to go on shore, which was readily granted to
all who desired to do so. This number was found to include the entire
crew of the ship.
"The Bangwhangers will meet at the farther side of the island,"
whispered Scott. "Pass it along."
"The what?" asked Laybold.
"The Bangwhangers. Don't you belong to the night-bloomers?"
"I don't understand you," replied Laybold.
"You don't? Well, your head is thicker than a quart of molasses.
Didn't you fellows ask me to get up a secret society?"
"Yes."
"Well, I have done it; but you popsquizzles don't seem to know your own
chickens. The new institution is to be called the Bangwhangers, of whom
you are which. Now, don't tell any one who isn't a Bangwhanger anything
at all about it."
"I see."
"I should think you might, if your ears were only half as long as a
donkey's."
The students tumbled into the boats; and, as most of the officers were
busy preparing ballots for the election on the following day, none of
them went on shore, the boats being in charge of the several coxswains.
Ordinarily the seamen would not have been permitted to visit the shore
without at least one officer in each boat; but as it did not seem
possible that any mischief could be done on this uninhabited island,
the rule was waived. The students landed; and in a few moments several
boats from the Josephine and Tritonia brought a majority of the crews
of these vessels. Scott and several of his most intimate friends went
to the highest part of the island.
"Every Cantwell man may join our society; no one else," said Scott,
after he had told them the name.
"All right."
"And we will give them the first degree at once."
"What's that?"
"The first degree is next to nothing; only to get the fellows together
to organize," said Scott, as he leaped upon a rock. "Come up here,
Jones; I'll give you the first degree."
Jones joined the joker on the rock.
"Do you agree to vote for Cantwell, to say nothing to nobody, and never
to eat soup with a darning-needle?" asked Scott, in a low tone.
"Of course I do," laughed Jones.
"Answer in these words:--
  "To all these three
  I do agree."
Jones repeated the words in due form.
"All right. I appoint you R. P. F. pro tem."
"R. P. F.! What does that mean?"
"I can't tell you till you have taken your second degree; only remember
the letters. Now, bring the fellows to me, one at a time."
Wainwright was the next one, who was obligated in the same manner, and
Jones was instructed to tell the candidates what to say in token of
their assent.
  "To all these three,
  I do agree,"
replied Wainwright.
"I declare you a Bangwhanger, and appoint you L. P. F."
"What does that mean?" demanded the initiate.
"We can't tell you till you take your second degree," replied Jones.
In half an hour fifty had joined the association. The third one was
appointed I. L. M., and the fourth; O. L. M. Thus far only those who
were known to be ready to vote for Cantwell were invited to join;
and those who were admitted formed a ring to keep the outsiders at a
reasonable distance.
But there were plenty of applicants, and the number increased as those
outside of the circle heard the laughter of those on the rock. If Scott
was at the bottom of the affair, it was fun. One after another the R.
P. F. and the L. P. F. continued to bring in the candidates.
"Do you agree to vote for Cantwell, to--"
"No; I don't agree to that," interposed one of them.
"Turn him out!" added Scott. "R. P. F., do your duty."
This duty was a very simple one, and consisted only in leading the
refractory applicant outside of the ring. A dozen more that followed,
and had before refused to commit themselves, promptly agreed to all the
conditions. All on the island had joined except about twenty, who had
been turned out; but so great was the curiosity of some of these, that
they promised to accept the conditions, if admitted.
"Bangwhangers, I congratulate you on your admission to this honorable
and most respectable order," said Scott, when all who wished to join
had been admitted. "But there may be some black sheep among you, and
the obligation will be repeated;" and he repeated again, loud enough
for all to hear him, "All that agree will repeat the couplet in due
form, and sit down on the ground. Officers, turn out every fellow that
don't sit down."
"All down!" shouted the students, and all of them suited the action to
the word.
"All good men and true; but you must prove yourselves to be such. Do as
I do;" and the joker put the forefinger of his right hand on the end of
his nose.
All the members did the same.
"When I meet a Bangwhanger, I put my finger to my nose, and say,
'Bang.' In reply, he puts his finger to his nose, and answers,
'Whang.' Now I will do it with the R. P. F. Bang!"
"Whang!" replied Jones: putting his finger to his nose.
"Right. You can try it on with the brother nearest to you."
While the fraternity were practising this important part of the work,
Scott instructed Jones still further in the mysterious art. When the R.
P. F. fully understood his part, the joker called the members to order
again, and told them to learn the dialogue which he would rehearse with
Jones, for it was the form by which a Bangwhanger was to know a brother
of the order.
"Bang!" said Scott, putting his finger to his nose.
"Whang!" replied Jones, doing the same.
"Who knows?"
"Eye, nose," answered Jones, drawing his finger over his right eye, and
then placing it on the end of his nose, as he mentioned the name of
each organ.
"Who knows?"
"Eighty noes."
"Right, Brother Bangwhanger; come to my arms," added Scott. "But the
number is to be modified so as always to show the exact strength of
this honorable and most respectable order."
The joker and his companion went through the dialogue several times,
till every member was familiar with it, and then they practised it
among themselves, amid peals of laughter.
"Now, Brother Bangwhangers, we are to elect officers. The first and
highest is the C. B.," continued Scott.
"What does it mean?" asked half a dozen or more.
"I can't tell you till you take the second degree," replied the joker.
"Please to nominate."
"Scott!" shouted the members.
"Brother R. P. F., spare my modesty, and put the question," said the
joker.
Jones put the question, and of course Scott was unanimously elected.
"The next office, is the D. C. B. Please to nominate."
"Wainwright."
He was elected.
"Now for the Q. D."
"Hobbs." And he was chosen.
"The Y. D. K."
"Edson." And no one objected.
"The I. L. M."
"Merrill." And the vote was unanimous.
"The O. L. M."
"Hall." And he went in.
"The R. P. F."
"Jones." And the nomination was confirmed.
"The L. P. F."
"Brown." And he was the choice of the members.
"Eight officers, and they are all chosen. They will constitute the
original second degree men, and, after they have been instructed, we
shall be ready to admit you all to that enviable distinction. Now, the
Q. D. and the Y. D. K. will count the members."
The number reported was eighty-two, which was nearly a majority of the
students in the squadron.
"Who knows?" called the C. B.
"Eighty-two knows," replied several.
"That's enough to put a veto on the De Forresters. Now, remember the
solemn pledge you have taken, to vote for Cantwell, to say nothing to
nobody, and never to eat soup with a darning-needle."
  "To all these three
  I do agree,"
responded the members, laughing.
"Although the last is the most important, the first is not to be
neglected; and any member who knows, and don't do, shall be headed up
in a mackerel kit and thrown overboard by the R. P. F., before he takes
the second degree, in which the sublime mysteries of the order will be
fully elucidated. Who knows?"
Scott coined jokes and puns for a few moments, to the intense enjoyment
of the members; and by this time four of the outsiders desired to
become members. They were immediately admitted.
"Who knows?"
"Eighty-six noes."
"Good! All hands to the boats."
The coxswains called their crews, and the students returned to their
vessels.
CHAPTER V.
AN EXCITING ELECTION.
It was the last day of the month, and the instructors in the three
vessels of the squadron were very busy in adding the merit-rolls on
the record books. It was necessary that all this work should be very
carefully done, for a mistake of a single mark might send a cabin
officer into the steerage, or a seaman from the steerage into the
cabin. Every addition was verified, therefore, by a second person. The
students had abundant opportunities to canvass and electioneer, as all
the instructors were at work in the main cabin. While the seamen were
on shore, the officers had been using the Novelty presses and the types
in printing the ballots for the next day. And they had just as much
difficulty in "making up the slate" as a ring of older politicians.
While few of the officers were willing to stand as candidates for
positions lower in rank than those they held at the time, some
desired to go a little higher. There were no little compromising and
"log-rolling" but it ought to be said that Commodore Cumberland and
Captain Lincoln, while they were willing to place themselves "in the
hands of their friends," refrained entirely from pressing their claims.
On the other hand, De Forrest and Beckwith had used their influence
to better their own condition. The former was afraid his merit-rank
would be lower than his present position, and he agreed with the latter
to make him second lieutenant, if Beckwith would work to nominate
and elect him as first. The nominations were full of difficulty. De
Forrest, as the originator of the plan which had been adopted, felt
that he had some claims to consideration. Of course, as Judson and
Norwood were to be displaced if De Forrest and Beckwith were advanced,
it was necessary for the latter aspirants to work privately and
carefully. But the secret could not long be kept, and when the first
and second lieutenants learned that there was a movement on foot to
displace them, they were very angry and indignant, and protested with
all their might against the injustice. The De Forrest plan was already
at a discount with a considerable portion of the cabin officers.
The discussion in the after cabin was becoming violent and noisy;
and at the suggestion of Captain Lincoln, it was voted to appoint a
committee, who should retire to a state-room and prepare a ticket. The
commodore, the captain, and Sheridan, the first midshipman, constituted
this committee; and after an absence of an hour, they reported that
the several officers should be nominated in the order of their present
rank. This report, if accepted, would defeat the aspirations of
Beckwith, and he refused to assent to it. De Forrest, who felt that
his claims were not recognized by the report, was not satisfied with
it. As each of these aspirants had several friends, the compromise was
not agreeable. The name of Cantwell had not been mentioned for any
position. He sat in a corner of the cabin, a silent but interested
listener, until the vote on the report of the committee was about to be
taken.
"Mr. Chairman," said he, addressing Ryder, the fourth lieutenant, who
had been chosen to this position, "it strikes me that these proceedings
are slightly insular. Who are expected to vote this ticket when it is
made up?"
"All who are willing to do so, of course," answered Ryder.
"Then you are selecting candidates for the crew to vote for, as well as
the officers?"
"Certainly."
"It seems to me, then, that the seamen ought to be represented in
a meeting of this kind. They are to cast four fifths of the votes,
but are not permitted to say a word in regard to the nominations,"
continued Cantwell, in a very quiet tone, in strong contrast with the
one he had usually adopted, showing that Scott's lesson on Sunday had
done him some good.
"How can we hold a caucus of the whole ship's company?" inquired De
Forrest.
"It can be done on deck without the least difficulty."
"It don't seem practicable to me," added Beckwith.
"I suppose the ticket nominated here is not binding upon any one,"
suggested Captain Lincoln. "For my part, I quite agree that the crew
ought to be consulted. Mr. Chairman, I move that this report be laid
upon the table. If my motion prevails, I shall offer another, looking
to a caucus of the whole ship's company."
"I second the motion," added Cantwell.
"Mr. Chairman, I don't see the use--"
"The motion to lay on the table is not debatable," interposed Ryder.
"It is moved and seconded that the report of the committee be laid on
the table."
The motion was rejected, only half a dozen of the officers voting
in favor of it. The report of the committee was accepted by a bare
majority.
"As I said before, I suppose the action of this meeting is not binding
upon any one," continued Lincoln, "but is simply an arrangement among
ourselves."
"I think it is binding upon all who are present at this meeting,"
replied the chairman, who was decidedly in favor of the report, for
he foresaw that, if De Forrest and Beckwith were advanced, Judson and
Norwood would be crowded down, and he would not be a candidate for
either of the five highest places in the ship.
"I certainly do not consider myself bound by it," said Cantwell.
"Nor I," added De Forrest.
"Nor I," repeated Beckwith.
But the business was finished, though nothing had really been done.
One Novelty press was immediately set at work in printing what Ryder,
Judson, and Norwood called the regular ticket, while De Forrest and
Beckwith seized upon the other to print their own ticket, in which
Ryder was utterly ignored. By the time the seamen returned from the
island, three hundred of each of these tickets had been printed.
Scott had carefully instructed the members of the new order to "say
nothing to nobody" in regard to the strength of the organization, or
anything else relating to it. Of course those who had been to the
island, but refused to join the order, knew something about the matter.
They were aware that the members were all pledged to vote for Cantwell;
but they had not estimated the number who had accepted the obligation.
As soon as the boats had been hoisted up, the friends of the two
tickets which had been made up in the cabin went to work upon the
seamen. De Forrest and Beckwith had made all sorts of promises to
various officers to support them at the election following that of the
next day, if they would go for the "independent ticket," as they styled
their own, at the present time. When the advocates of the "regular
ticket" understood what the "bolters" were doing, they crossed out
De Forrest's and Beckwith's names, and substituted that of Ryder for
third lieutenant, and that of Murray, the second master, for fourth.
The young gentlemen were having a foretaste of the complications of
politics, and a great deal of ill feeling was aroused. It was evident
enough to the fair-minded, unselfish ones in the cabin, that the new
plan was not working well, and they were very much disgusted at the
conduct of De Forrest and Beckwith in particular. It was nothing but
a scramble for office, without much regard for fitness among the
candidates. The only redeeming feature of the business was the fact
that Lincoln's name was on both of the cabin tickets; but then he was
so popular, and so thoroughly competent for the captaincy, that neither
of the factions dared to think of displacing him.
"I say, Longwood, I want you to go for the independent ticket," said De
Forrest, addressing one of the students who had declined to join the
Bangwhangers.
"The opposition have just formed a secret society, and all its members
are pledged to vote for Cantwell," replied Longwood.
"Cantwell! nonsense! He can't be elected to any office."
"No use; the fellows know him too well. We had a meeting in the cabin,
and there will be two tickets. This will be the winning one;" and the
third lieutenant handed Longwood one of the printed ballots.
"What's the other ticket?"
"The present officers; but I have just found out that they are taking
my name off the ticket, and putting on Murray's. What do you think of
that? Is it fair play?"
"Well, I don't know; but if you are working against the regular ticket,
you can't expect its friends to go for you," replied Longwood.
"But they want to shove me down, and I hope my friends won't let them
do it. I got up this plan, you know, but the fellows don't seem to give
me any credit for it. Vote this ticket--won't you?"
"I'll see," answered the voter, as the candidate passed on to another.
The first lieutenant, Judson, knowing the influence of Scott among the
crew, went to him the moment he came on board, to present the claims of
the regular ticket.
"I'm a Cantwell man," replied Scott.
"It's no use to go for him; he can't be elected," said Judson.
"Who knows?" added Scott.
"We have had a meeting in the cabin, and have regularly nominated a
ticket."
"Probably it didn't occur to you that the crew had any right to meddle
with the matter."
"Yes; we considered the subject; but we hadn't time to call a meeting
of the whole ship's company."
"Time is short," laughed Scott.
"If the fellows in the steerage wish it, perhaps we can put Cantwell on
the regular ticket as fourth lieutenant, instead of Murray."
"I am not authorized to speak for our fellows; and I don't know that
they would vote your ticket even if you put Cantwell's name on it."
"Cantwell's name wouldn't strengthen our ticket at all."
"Perhaps not."
Scott took one of the ballots, but would not even promise to consider
it.
"The officers have had a caucus in the cabin, Scott," said Cantwell.
"So Mr. Judson informs me; and they haven't put your name on the
ticket?"
"No; of course I didn't expect them to do it. I told them the crew
ought to be consulted, and Captain Lincoln tried to make a motion to
that effect, but they wouldn't do it."
"Never mind what they do; none of their tickets will be elected."
"I don't know about that. They have two tickets, and every fellow
in the cabin except me, is at work for one or the other of them.
Whichever one is elected, I shall be thrown overboard."
"Perhaps not--who knows?" said Scott. "You may be elected captain,
after all--who knows?"
"Impossible! I should be satisfied if I were fourth lieutenant, and I
am sure my merit-rank would give me that place. But it's no use; I'm
counted out."
"Not yet; wait till after election before you give it up. The fellows
like fair play; and if you hadn't put on airs before this plan came up,
they would make you commodore, just because the cabin nobs are trying
to count you out. That's what's the matter. They like your cause a good
deal better than they like you. As it is, they mean to see that you
have fair play to-morrow. If you should happen to be elected to any
office to-morrow, I hope you will try to be a good fellow."
"I certainly shall," replied Cantwell.
De Forrest was waiting for a chance to speak to Scott, and the C. B.
passed on, leaving Cantwell in a very desponding state of mind. The
situation had taken the conceit out of him. Conscious of his ability to
win even the highest position, he had taken no pains to conciliate his
associates, and he was reaping the legitimate harvest of his selfish
conduct and his overbearing manner. Certainly the De Forrest plan had
already done him a great good. His manners were changed, for he had
learned that he was not of half so much consequence as he supposed;
and his present depression of spirits did not permit him to put on
airs, he had learned that, in all communities, every individual owes
something of respect, kindness, and consideration to every other
individual, even the superior to the inferior. It was a lesson which
he would have been compelled to learn a few years later, if the
circumstances had not obliged him to accept it at the present time. It
is certainly true that young men are older and wiser at eighteen than
at any subsequent period of their lives, and in Cantwell's case this
self-importance was considerably exaggerated above the average. Most
young men have to be "taken down," and the rough circumstances of life
generally do it in the course of a few years, without any earthquake or
other violent commotion.
Scott's party did no electioneering. Knowing what the next day was to
bring forth, they were particularly jolly, and listened good-naturedly
to all the cabin politicians had to say. They were remarkably cautious
and prudent, and though the fact of the secret organization was known
throughout the ship, the officers did not suspect that it numbered
members enough to control the election. The canvass was lively till the
anchor watch was stationed on deck, and all hands were compelled to
turn in.
The next morning a dense fog hid even the nearest island from
view. The Finnish pilots declined to take the vessels through the
intricate channels among the islands, except under the most favorable
circumstances. After breakfast the principal sent a note to each of
the vice-principals. Scott pulled an oar in the boat which delivered
them. While the messenger was in the cabin, he went on the deck of the
Josephine, and walking about among the crew with the forefinger of his
right hand on his nose, he soon discovered half a dozen making the sign.
"Bang!" said he, selecting one of them.
"Whang," laughed the seaman.
"Who knows?"
"Eye, nose," answered the other, making the proper signs.
"Who knows?"
"Eighty-six noses."
"Right, Brother Bangwhanger; come to my arms. Vote for Lincoln for
commodore," said Scott; "and pass it along to every member."
After repeating this direction in due form to several others, the C. B.
returned to the boat, and did the same thing on board of the Tritonia.
In each of the two consorts, the members of the order were to nominate
a ticket to suit themselves; and so far as they were concerned, the
pledge to vote for Cantwell was meaningless. When the boat returned,
all hands were piped to muster, and the principal, with the merit-roll
in his hand, mounted the rostrum over the main hatch.
"Young gentlemen, in accordance with the change in the method of
appointing the officers, announced at Åbo yesterday, the election of
commodore of the squadron will take place at ten o'clock to-day," said
Mr. Lowington. "The result of the balloting in the consorts will be
transmitted without delay to the ship. The election of captain will
immediately follow, and then of the four lieutenants, each in the order
of rank, and on separate ballots."
"We have printed ballots containing the names of all the candidates,"
said De Forrest.
"I think it best to elect only one officer at a ballot."
"I hope the election will be postponed till eleven o'clock then, in
order to give us time to prepare the separate ballots."
"Very well; I consent to the change of time; and the consorts shall be
notified at once," replied the principal, who went to the cabin, wrote
two notes, and sent them to the vice-principals by the adult forward
officers.
"Now, let us understand the method of proceeding thoroughly," continued
Mr. Lowington, as he returned to his position on the hatch. "Only
a captain is eligible to the office of commodore, or the present
incumbent may be reëlected. Only the present cabin officers can be
candidates for the five highest offices in the ship; and agreeably to
the proviso relating to the ship, no officer who falls below the rank
of No. 16 is eligible to any office, but must return to the steerage.
Are these rules fully understood?"
"Yes, sir," responded the crowd.
"Further, if any student who is now the commodore, the captain, or a
lieutenant, should not be elected to one of these positions, what would
his rank be for next month?"
"Just the same as it would have been, if the new plan had not been
adopted," replied De Forrest.
"I am glad you understand it," added the principal, with a significant
look at the third lieutenant. "I will now read the merit-roll, in order
