little.
"Certainly. Why not. Dr. Blandford likes a good glass of wine as well
as any one, and knows how to drink it. He likes a good dinner too."
"What do you mean, Norton? Anybody knows how to drink a glass of wine."
"Everybody don't know how to drink half a dozen glasses, though," said
Norton. "A wine may be out of place; and it is not good out of place."
"You take it at dinner," said Matilda.
"Yes, but different wines at different times of the dinner," said
Norton. "Everything in its place, as much as everything in its own
glass, and much more. For instance, you take light wines with the soup;
Hock, or Sauterne, or grandmamma's favorite Greek wine. Then champagne
with the dinner. Port goes with the cheese. Then claret is good with
the fruit; and sherry and madeira with the dessert, or any time. And
Dr. Blandford likes a bowl of whiskey punch to finish off with."
"Is he your minister?"
"Dr. Blandford? yes. That is, he's grand-mamma's."
"Do you think he is as good as Mr. Richmond?"
"He's better, for a dinner party," said Norton. "He knows what's what,
as well as anybody. Now Pink, jump out; here we are."
The stately brown-fronted store struck Matilda with a certain sense of
awe. Dr. Blandford was forgotten for the present. She followed Norton
in, and stood still to take breath.
"Now," said Norton, "what shall we look at first? What do you want? How
many things have you got to get, anyhow, Pink?"
"You know how many people there are at home. Then there are two or
three others I have to think of."
"Hm!--seven or eight, I declare," said Norton. "Well, let us walk round
and see everything generally."
There were a good many people who seemed to be doing just that; besides
a crowd who were undoubtedly purchasers. Slowly Norton and Matilda
began their round of the counters. Very slowly they went; for the loads
of rich plate were a great marvel to the unused eyes of the little
girl. She had to beg a great deal of explanation from Norton as to the
use and meaning of different articles. Pitchers and tureens and forks
and spoons she could understand; but what could possibly be the purpose
of a vast round vase, with doves sitting opposite each other on the lip
of it? doves with frosted wings, most beautiful to behold.
"That?" said Norton. "That's a punch bowl."
"A punch bowl! And how much would that cost, Norton?"
"Do you want it? Too much for your purse, Pink. That is marked two
hundred and fifty dollars."
"For a punch bowl!" said Matilda.
"Yes, why not?"
But Matilda did not say why not. What must be the rest of the dinner,
when the punch bowl was two hundred and fifty dollars?
"And here's an épergne," said Norton. "That is to stand in the centre
of the dinner table--for ornament. That's seven hundred and fifty."
"What's inside of the punch bowl, Norton? it is yellow."
"Gold," said Norton. "It is lined with gold--gold washed, that is. Gold
don't tarnish, you know."
They went on. It was a progress of wonders, to Matilda. She was
delighted with some wood carvings. Then highly amused with a show of
seals; Norton wished to buy one, and it took him some time to be
suited. Then Norton made her notice a great variety of useful articles
in morocco and leather and wood; satchels and portemonnaies, and
dressing boxes, and portfolios and card cases; and chains and rings and
watches. Bronzes and jewellery held them finally a very long time. The
crowd was great in the store; people were passing in and passing out
constantly; the little boys the door-openers were busy opening and
shutting all the time. At last they let out Matilda and Norton.
"Now, Pink," said the latter, well pleased, "do you know what you want?
Have you seen anything you want?"
"O yes, Norton; a great many things; but it is all confusion in my head
till I think about it at home."
"We have got other places to go to," said Norton. "Don't decide
anything till you have seen more. We can't go anywhere else to-day
though. We've got to go home to dinner."
Matilda's head was in a whirl of pleasure. For amidst so many beautiful
things she was sure she could do Christmas work charmingly; and at any
rate it was delightful only to look at them. She tried to get her
thoughts a little in order. For Norton, she would make the watch guard;
that was one thing fixed. A delicate bronze paperweight, a beautiful
obelisk, had greatly taken her fancy, and Norton had been describing to
her the use of its originals in old Egypt; it was not very costly, and
Matilda thought she would like to give that to Mrs. Laval. But she
would not decide till she saw more; and for her sisters, and for
everybody else indeed, she was quite uncertain yet what to choose. She
thought about it so hard all the evening that she was able to throw off
the gloom of David and Judy's darkened looks.
Next day, however, she had too much time to think. It was Sunday.
Matilda was up in good time, as usual, and came down for breakfast; but
there was no breakfast and nobody to eat it, till the clock shewed the
half hour before ten. Bells had been ringing long ago for Sunday
school, and had long ago stopped. Matilda was so hungry, that breakfast
when it came made some amends for other losses; but then it was church
time. And to her dismay she found that nobody was going to church. The
long morning had to be spent as it could, with reading and thinking.
Matilda persuaded Norton to take her to church in the afternoon, that
she might know the way.
"It don't pay, Pink," said Norton; "however, I'll go with you, and you
can see for yourself."
Matilda went and saw. A rich, splendid, luxuriously furnished church; a
warm close atmosphere which almost put her to sleep; and a
smooth-tongued speaker in the pulpit, every one of whose easy going
sentences seemed to pull her eyelids down. Matilda struggled, sat
upright, pinched her fingers, looked at the gay colours and intricate
patterns of a painted window near her, and after all had as much as she
could do to keep from nodding. She was very glad to feel the fresh air
outside again.
"Well," said Norton. "Do you feel better?"
"Is that Dr. Blandford?"
"That is he. A jolly parson, ain't he?"
"The church was so warm," said Matilda.
"He keeps cool," said Norton. "That's one thing about Dr. Blandford.
You always know where to have him."
"I wish Mr. Richmond was here," said Matilda.
The wish must have been strong; for that very evening, when she went to
her room, earlier than usual because everybody was ready to go to bed
Sunday night, she wrote a letter to her minister at Shady walk.
"BLESSINGTON AVENUE, Dec. 6, 18--
"DEAR MR. RICHMOND,--I am here, you see, and I am very happy; but I am
very much troubled about some things. Everything is very different from
what it was at Shadywalk, and it is very difficult to know what is
right to do. So I think I had better ask you. Only there are so many
things I want to ask about, that I am afraid my letter will be too
long. Sometimes I do not know whether the trouble is in myself or in
the things; I think it is extremely difficult to tell. Perhaps you will
know; and I will try to explain what I mean as clearly as I can.
"One thing that puzzles me is this. Is it wrong to wish to be
fashionable? and how can one tell just how much it is wrong, or right.
Mrs. Laval is having some beautiful clothes made for me; ever so many;
silks and other dresses; they will be made and trimmed as fashionable
people have them; and I cannot help liking to have them so. I am
afraid, perhaps, I like it too much. But how can I tell, Mr. Richmond?
There is another little girl in the house here, Mrs. Laval's niece;
about as old as I am, or not much older; and she has all her things
made in these beautiful ways. Is it wrong for me to wish to have mine
as handsome as hers? because I do; and one reason why I am so glad of
mine is, that I shall be as fashionable as she is. She calls people who
are not fashionable, 'country people.'
"There is another thing. Having things made in this way costs a great
deal of money. I don't know about that. The other day I paid two
dollars more than I need, just to have the toes of my boots right. You
would not understand that; but the fashion is to have them narrow and
rounded, and last year they were square and wide. And it is so of other
things. I buy my own boots and gloves; and I could save a good deal if
I would buy the shapes and colours that are not fashionable. What ought
I to do? and how can I tell? It troubles me very much.
"I think that is the most of what troubles me, that and spending my
money; but that is part of it. I don't want to be unlike other people.
Is that wrong, or is it pride? I didn't know but it was pride, partly;
and then I thought I would ask you.
"Another thing is, ought I to speak to people about what they do that
is not right? I don't mean grown up people, of course; but the boys and
Judy. I don't like to do it; but yet I thought I must, as I had
promised to do all I could in the cause of temperance; and I did, and
some of them were very much offended. They drink wine a great deal
here, and I did not like to see Norton do it. So I spoke, and I don't
think it did any good.
"My letter is getting very long, but there is one other thing I want to
ask about. There are a great many poor children in the streets; boys
and girls; so dirty that you cannot imagine it; they sweep the street
crossings. What can I do for them? Ought I not to give pennies always?
all I can?
"I believe that is all. O and I wish you could tell me what to do
Sundays. The people here do not care about going to church; and I have
been once and I don't wonder. I could hardly keep my eyes open. I miss
the Sunday school and you very much. I wish I could see you. Give my
love to Miss Redwood. Your affectionate
"MATILDA ENGLEFIELD.
"It will be Matilda Laval after this, but I thought I would sign my own
old name once.
This letter was duly posted the next day. And almost as soon as the
mails up and down made it possible, Matilda received her answer.
"SHADYWALK PARSONAGE, Dec. 8, 18--.
"MY DEAR LITTLE TILLY,--I appreciate your difficulties to the full.
They are difficulties, enough to puzzle an older head than yours. Yet
I think there is a simple way out of them, not through your head
however so much as your heart. Keep that right, and I think we can get
at the answer to your questions.
"The answer to them all is, Live by your motto. 'Whatsoever ye do, in
word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus.' Try everything by
this rule. In spending your money, in deciding between boot-tips and
dollars, in the question of reproving wrong in others, in the matter of
kindness to the street-sweepers, put your motto before you; and ask
yourself, how would the Lord Jesus do if he were here in person and had
the same point to decide? The answer to that will tell you how, doing
in his name, you ought to act yourself. Pray for direction; and whether
you dress or speak or spend money, take care that it is Christ you are
trying to please--not yourself, nor yet Miss Judy; but indeed let it be
your best pleasure to please Him.
"Now as to your Sundays. If your people do not go to church regularly,
you can probably do what you like on Sunday afternoons. Go up your
avenue two blocks, turn down then to your right for two blocks more,
and you will come to a plain looking brick building, not exactly like a
church, nor like a common house. There is Mr. Rush's Sunday school. Go
in there, and you will find work and pleasure. And then write again to
"Your very affectionate friend,
"F. RICHMOND."
It would be hazardous to say how many times Matilda read this letter. I
am afraid some tears were shed over it. For to tell truth, difficulties
rather thickened upon the little girl this week. In the first place,
Norton was away at school almost all day. David and he came home to
luncheon, which now became the dinner time of the young ones; but even
so, he was full of his studies and his mates, and his new skates, and
the merits of different styles of those instruments, and Matilda could
hardly get anything out of him. David talked little; but he was always
more self-absorbed. And with Judy, this week, Matilda had nothing to
do. That young lady ignored her. Matilda went out shopping a good deal
with Mrs. Laval; that was her best resource. The shops were an
unfailing amusement and occupation; for everywhere she had her
Christmas work to think of, and everywhere accordingly she kept her
eyes open and studied what was before her; weighed the merits and noted
the prices even of stuffs and ribbands; and left nothing unexamined
that eyes could examine in the fancy stores. And when she got home,
Matilda went to her room and made notes of the things she had seen and
liked that she thought might be good for a present to one or another of
the friends she had to reckon for. The obelisk held its place in her
favour for Mrs. Laval; but with respect to the other people a crowd of
images filled her imagination. Japanese paperweights, and little
tea-pots; so pretty, Matilda thought she must buy one; ivory and
Scotch plaid and carved wood paper knives, and one with a deer's foot
handle. Little Shaker work-baskets, elegantly fitted up; scent-bottles;
a carved wood letter-holder at Goupil's; a bronze standish representing
a country well with pole and bucket. At Goupil's, where Mrs. Laval had
business to attend to, Matilda's happy eyes were full of treasure. She
wandered round the room gazing at the pictures, in a dream of delight;
finding soon some special favourites which she was sure to revisit with
fresh interest every time she had a chance; and Mrs. Laval took her
there several times. Once Mrs. Laval, having finished what she came to
do, was at a loss where to find Matilda; and only after going half
round the long gallery, discovered her, wrapt in contemplation,
standing before a large engraving which hung high above her on the
wall. Matilda's head was thrown back, gazing; her two little hands were
carelessly crossed at her back; she was a sort of picture herself. Mrs.
Laval came up softly.
"What are you looking at, my darling?"
Matilda started. "Have you got through, mamma? did you want me?"
"I have got through; but I do not want you unless you are ready. What
have you found that pleases you?"
"Look, mamma. That one--the woman holding a lamp--don't you see?"
It was Holman Hunt's figure of the woman searching for the lost piece
of money.
"What is it?" said Mrs. Laval.
"Don't you remember, mamma? the story of the woman who had ten pieces
of silver and lost one of them? how she swept the house, and looked
until she found it?"
"If I had nine left, I should not take so much trouble," said Mrs.
Laval.
"Ah, but, mamma, you know the Lord Jesus does not think so."
"The Lord! What are you talking of, my child?"
"O you do not remember, mamma! It is a parable. The Lord Jesus means us
to know how He cares for the lost ones."
Mrs. Laval looked from Matilda to the picture and back again.
"Do you like it so very much?" she said.
"O I do, mamma! it's beautiful. What an odd lamp she has."
"That is the shape lamps used to be," said Mrs. Laval. "Not so good as
ours."
"Prettier," said Matilda. "And it seems to give a good light. No, it
don't, though; it shines only on a little place. But it's pretty."
"You do love pretty things," said Mrs. Laval laughing. "We will come
and look at it again."
Matilda, it shewed how enterprising she was getting to be, had already
privately inquired the price of the picture. It was fifteen dollars
without a frame. Far up over her little head indeed. She drew a long
breath, and came away.
The latter part of the week another engrossment appeared, in the shape
of her new dresses from Mme. Fournissons. Mrs. Laval tried them all on;
and Matilda's head had almost more than it could stand. So many, so
handsome, so elegantly made and trimmed, so very becoming they were; it
was like a fairy tale. To these dresses Mrs. Laval had been all the
week adding riches of under-clothing; a supply so abundant that Matilda
had never dreamed of the like, and so elegant and fine in material and
make as she had never until then even seen. Now Matilda had a natural
liking for extreme neatness and particularity in all that concerned her
little person; and to have such plenty of things to wear, so nice of
their kind, and full liberty to put them on clean and fresh as often as
she pleased, fulfilled her utmost notions of what was desirable. Her
mental confusion arose from the articles furnished by Mme. Fournissons.
The lustre of the silk, the colour of the blue, the richness of the
green, the ruffles, the costly buttons, the tasteful trimmings, the
stylish make, all raised a whirl in Matilda's mind. She was a little
intoxicated. Nobody saw it; she was very demure about it all; made no
show of what she felt; all the same she felt it. She could not help a
deep satisfaction at being dressed to the full as well as Judy; a
feeling that was not lessened by a certain sense that the satisfaction
was on her part alone. Of the two, that is. Mrs. Laval openly expressed
hers. Mrs. Lloyd nodded her dignified head and remarked, "That child
will do you no discredit, Zara." Mrs. Bartholomew looked at her, which
was much; and Norton declared that from a pink she had bloomed out into
a carnation. All these things Matilda felt; and unconsciously in all
that concerned dress and equipment she began to set a new standard for
herself. One thing must match with another. "Of course, I must have
round-toed boots," she said to herself now. She began to doubt whether
she must not get at least one pair of gloves more elegant than any she
found at Shadywalk, to go with her silk dresses and her new coat. She
hesitated still, for the price was a dollar and a quarter.
Upon all this came Mr. Richmond's letter; and Matilda found it did not
exactly fit her mood of mind. She was confused already, and this made
the confusion worse. Then Saturday came; and Norton was free; and he
and Matilda made another round of shop-going. The matter was growing
imminent now; Christmas would be in a fortnight. But the difficulty of
deciding upon the choice of presents seemed as great as ever. Seeing
more things to choose from, only increased the difficulty. They went
this morning to Stewart's, to find out what might be displayed upon the
variety counter; they went to a place where Swiss carvings were shewn;
finally they went to Anthony's; and they could not get away from this
last place.
"It's long past one o'clock, Pink," said Norton as they were going down
the stairs.
"What shall we do, Norton? I'm very hungry."
"So am I. One can always do something in New York. We'll go and have
dinner."
"At home?"
"No indeed. Short of home. We'll jump into an omnibus and be at the
place in a minute."
It did not seem much more, and they went into a restaurant and took
their places at a little marble table, and Norton ordered what they
both liked; oyster pie and coffee.
"But mamma does not like me to drink coffee," said Matilda suddenly.
"No harm, just for once," said Norton. "She would let you, if she was
here, I know."
"But she isn't here, and I don't like to do it, Norton."
"I have ordered it. You'll have to take it," said Norton. "Judy takes
it every night, and her mother does not wish her to have any."
"What then?" said Matilda.
"Nothing; only that you two are not much alike."
"David don't look at me any more, since last week," said Matilda. "Do
you suppose he never will again?"
"No hurt if he don't," said Norton. "He has my leave. Well, Pink,
what are you going to get?"
"I don't know a bit, Norton--except one or two things. I am certain of
nothing else but just one or two."
"I am going to get that ring for mamma; that's fixed. The one with that
pale malachite. Grandmamma is disposed of. Then for aunt Judy a box of
French bon-bons. I think I'll give Davy a standish--I haven't picked it
out yet; but I don't know about Judy. It's hard to please her, I never
did but once."
"Then I shall not," said Matilda.
"And it doesn't matter, either. Here's your coffee, Pink; and here's
mine."
But after a little struggle with herself, Matilda pushed her cup as far
away as she could, and drew the glass of ice-water up to her plate
instead. The dinner was good enough, even so; and Norton called for
ice-cream and fruit afterward. And all the time they consulted over
their Christmas work, which made it wonderfully relishing. It was
curious to see how other people too were evidently thinking of
Christmas. Here there was a brown paper parcel; there somebody had an
armful; crowds came to get their luncheon or dinner, as Norton and
Matilda were doing; stowed their packages on the chair or sofa beside
them and refitted themselves for more shop-going. All sorts of
people,--and all sorts of lunches! Some had soup and steak and
tartlets; some had coffee and muffins; some had oysters and ale; some
took cups of tea and an omelet. It was as good to see what was going
on, as to take her own part in it, almost, to Matilda; and yet her own
part was very satisfactory. They went home only to order the horses and
go to drive in the Park; Norton and she alone. It was a long afternoon
of enchantment. The place, and the people, and the horses and the
equipages; and the strange animals; and the lake and its boats;
everything was a delight, and Norton had as much pleasure as he
expected in seeing Matilda's enjoyment and answering her questions.
"Norton," said the little girl at length, "I don't believe anybody here
is having such a good time as we are."
"Why?" said Norton.
"They don't look so."
"You can't tell about people from their looks."
"Can't you? But I am sure you can, Norton, partly. People don't look
stupid when they feel bright, do they?"
Norton laughed a good deal at this. "But then, Pink," he remarked, "you
must remember people are used to it. You have never seen it before, you
know, and it's all fresh and new. It's an old story to them."
"Does everything grow to be an old story?" said Matilda rather
thoughtfully.
"I suppose so," said Norton. "That makes people always hunting up new
things."
Matilda wondered silently whether it was indeed so with everything.
Would her new dresses come to be an old story too, and she lose her
pleasure in them? Could the Park? could the flowers?
"Norton," she broke out, "there are some things that never grow to be
an old story. Flowers don't."
"Flowers--no, they don't," said Norton; "that's a fact. But then,
they're always new, Pink. They don't last. They are always coming up
new; that's the beauty of them."
"I do not think that is the beauty of them," Matilda answered slowly.
"Well, you'd get tired of them if they didn't," said Norton.
"Do people get tired of coming here?" Matilda asked again, as her eye
roved over the gay procession of carriages which just then they could
trace along several turns in the road before them.
"I suppose so," said Norton. "Why not?"
"I do not see how they ever could. Why it's beautiful, Norton! And the
air is so sweet."
"I never know how the air is."
"Don't you! But then you lose a great deal that I don't lose. I am
smelling it all the while. Are there any flowers here in summer time?"
"Lots."
"It must be lovely then. Norton, it must be nice to come here and walk."
"Walking is stupid," said Norton. "I can't see any use in walking,
except to get to a place."
"Norton, do you see a boy yonder, coming towards us, on a black pony?"
"I see him."
"It looks so like David Bartholomew."
"You'll see why, in another minute. It's himself."
"I didn't know he rode in the Park too," said Matilda, as David passed
them with a bow.
"Everybody rides in the Park--or drives."
"That is what we are doing?"
"Exactly."
"I should think it was pleasant to ride on horseback."
"This is better," said Norton.
"I wonder whether David will ever look pleasant at me again."
"It don't signify, so far as I see," said Norton. "David Bartholomew
has his own way of looking at every thing; the Park and all. He likes
to take that all alone by himself, and so he does other things. He
paddles his own canoe at school, in class and out of class; he don't
want help and he don't give it."
"Don't he play either, in any of your school games?"
"Yes--sometimes; but he keeps himself to himself through it all."
"Norton, do the other boys dislike him because he is a Jew?"
"No!" said Norton vehemently. "He dislikes them because they are not
Jews; that is a nearer account of the matter. Pink, you and I are going
to have lessons together."
"Does mamma say so?"
"Yes; at last; because if you went to school you would be broken off
half way when we go home to Shadywalk. So mamma says we may try, and if
I teach well and you learn well, she will let it stand so. How do you
like it?"
"O very much, Norton! But when will you have time?"
"I'll find the time. Now Pink, how much do you know?"
"O Norton, you know I don't know any thing."
"That's all in the air," said Norton. "You can read, I suppose, and
write?"
"Yes, I can read and write. But then I haven't been to school in ever
so long."
"Never mind that. If we go nine miles an hour, how far shall we have
gone if we are out three hours and a half?"
Matilda answered this and several more puzzling questions with pretty
prompt correctness.
"You'll do," said Norton. "I knew you were sharp. You can always tell
whether a person has a head, by the way he takes hold of numbers." A
partial judgment, perhaps; for Norton himself was very quick at them.
"Can you read any thing except English, Pink?" he went on.
"No, Norton."
"Never tried?"
"No, Norton. How could I try without being taught?"
"Of course," said Norton. "There's a jolly dog cart--isn't it? Mamma
wants you to read a lot of things besides English, I can tell you."
"How many can you read, Norton?"
"Latin, and Greek, and German, and French, I am boring at now."
"Don't you like it? Is it boring?"
"I like figures better. David is great on languages. Well, Pink, you
shan't have 'em all at once. Now I want to ask you another question.
What do you think was the greatest battle that was ever fought in the
world?"
"Battle? O I don't know any thing about battles, Norton."
"Well, who was the greatest hero, then; the greatest man?"
Matilda pondered, and Norton watched her slyly in the intervals of
attending to his ponies.
"I think, Norton, the greatest man I ever heard about, was Moses."
Norton's face quivered with amusement, but he kept it a little turned
away from Matilda and asked why she thought so?
"I never heard of anybody who did such great things; nor who had such
great things?"
"Had? What did he have?" said Norton. "I never knew he had any thing
particular."
"Don't you remember? the Lord spoke with him face to face, as we speak
to each other; and once he had a sight of that wonderful glory. It must
have been something so wonderful, Norton, for it made Moses' face
itself shine with light."
"That's a figure of speech, Pink."
"What is a figure of speech?"
"I mean, that isn't to be taken for real and earnest, you know."
"Yes it is, Norton, for the people were frightened when they saw him,
and ran away."
"Pink, Pink, Pink!" exclaimed Norton, and stopped.
"What?" said Matilda.
"Nothing. And so Moses is your greatest man! That is all you know!"
"Why, who do you know that is greater?" said Matilda.
"You never read any history but the Bible?"
"Not much. Who do you know that is greater, Norton?"
"Whom do I know. Well, Pink, if I were to tell you, you wouldn't
understand, till you have read about them. Why you have got all to read
about. I guess you'll have to begin back with Romulus and Remus."
"How far back were they?"
"How far back? Ages; almost before history."
"Before Moses?"
"Before Moses! No, I suppose not. I declare I don't know when that old
fellow was about."
"But there is history before Moses, Norton?"
"Not Roman history," said Norton; "and that is what we are talking
about."
"Were they great, Norton?"
"Who?"
"Those two men you spoke of."
"Romulus and Remus? O!--Well, Romulus founded Rome."
"And when was that?"
"Well, I don't know, that's a fact. I believe, somewhere about eight or
nine centuries before our era."
"I would like to read about it," said Matilda meekly.
"And you shall," said Norton, firing up; "and there's Grecian history
too, Pink; and French and English history; and German."
"And American history too?" ventured Matilda.
"Well, yes; but you see we haven't a great deal of history yet, Pink;
because we are a young people."
"A young people?" said Matilda, puzzled. "What do you mean by that?"
"Why yes; it was only in 1776 that we set up for ourselves."
"Seventeen seventy six," repeated Matilda. "And now it is eighteen"--
"Near a hundred years; that is all."
Matilda pondered a little.
"Where must I begin, Norton?"
"O with Romulus and Remus, I guess. And then there's grammar, Pink; did
you ever study grammar?"
"A little. I didn't like it."
"No, and I don't like it; but you have to learn it, for all that. And
geography, Pink?"
"O I was drawing maps, Norton; but then I had to come away from school,
and I was busy at aunt Candy's, and I have forgot nearly all I knew, I
am afraid."
"Never mind," said Norton delightedly; "we'll find it again, and a
great deal more. I'll get you some nice sheets of paper for your maps,
and a box of colours; so that you can make a pretty affair of them. I
declare! I don't know whether we can begin, though, before Christmas."
"O yes, Norton. I have more time than I know what to do with. I would
like to begin about Romus"--
"Romulus. Yes, you shall. And now, if we turn round here we shall not
have too much time to get home, I'm thinking."
CHAPTER X.
Matilda hardly knew whether to welcome Sunday. Her mind was in such a
whirl, she was half afraid to have leisure to think. There was little
chance however for that in the morning; late breakfast and dressing
disposed of the time nicely. The whole family went to church to-day,
David alone excepted; and Matilda was divided between delight in her
new cloak and rich dress, and a certain troubled feeling that all the
sweetness which used to belong to her Sundays in church at Shadywalk
was here missing. Nothing in the service gave her any help. Her dress,
to be sure, was merged in a crowd of just such dresses; silks and laces
and velvets and feathers and bright colours were on every side of her
and other brilliant colours streamed down from the painted windows of
the church. They were altogether distracting. It was impossible not to
notice the dash of golden light which lay across her own green silk
dress and glorified it, so far; or to help watching the effect of a
stream of crimson rays on Judy's blue. What a purple it made! The
colouring was not any more splendid or delicious indeed than one may
see in a summer sunset sky many a day; but somehow the effect on the
feelings was different. And when Matilda looked up again at the
minister and tried to get at the thread of what he was saying, she
found she had lost the connection; and began instead to marvel how he
would look, if the streak of blue which bathed his forehead were to
fall a little lower and lie across his mouth and chin. Altogether, when
the service was ended and the party walked home, Matilda did not feel
as if she had got any good or refreshment out of Sunday yet; more than
out of a kaleidoscope.
"I'll go to Mr. Rush's Sunday school this afternoon"--she determined,
as she was laying off her cloak.
There was no hindrance to this determination; but as Matilda crossed
the lower hall, ready to go out, she was met by Norton.
"Hollo," said he. "What's up now?"
"Nothing is up, Norton."
"Where are you going?"
So Matilda told him.
"Nothing else'll do, hey," said Norton. "Well,--hold on, till I get
into my coat."
"Why, are you going?"
"Looks like it," said Norton. "Why Pink, you are not fit to be trusted
in New York streets alone."
"I know where to go, Norton. But I am very glad you will go too."
"To take care of you," said Norton. "Why Pink, New York is a big trap;
and you would find yourself at the wrong end of a puzzle before you
knew it."
"I have only got two blocks more to go, Norton. I could hardly be
puzzled. Here, we turn down here."
It was no church, nor near a church, the building before which the two
paused. They went up a few steps and entered a little hare vestibule.
The doors giving further entrance were closed; a boy stood there as if
to guard them; and a placard with a few words on it was hung up on one
of them. The words were these
"And the door was shut."
"What sort of a place is this?" said Norton.
"This is the Sunday school," said Matilda. "They are singing; don't you
hear them? We are late."
"It seems a queer Sunday school," said Norton. "Don't they let folks in
here?"
"In ten minutes"--said the boy who stood by the door.
"Ten minutes!" echoed Norton. "It's quite an idea, to shut the door in
people's faces and then hang out a sign to tell them it is shut!"
"O no, Norton;--that door isn't this door."
"That isn't this?" said Norton. "What do you mean, Pink? Of course I
know so much; but it seems to me this is this."
"No, Norton; it means the door spoken of in the Bible--in the New
Testament;--don't you know? don't you remember?"
"Not a bit," said Norton. "I can't say, Pink, but it seems to me this
is not just exactly the place for you to come to Sunday school. Don't
look like it."
"Mr. Richmond told me to come here, you know, Norton."
But Norton looked with a disapproving eye upon what he could see of the
neighbourhood; and it is true that nobody would have guessed it was
near such a region as Blessington avenue. The houses were uncomely and
the people were poor; and more than that. There was a look of positive
want of respectability. But the little boy who was keeping the door was
decent enough; and presently now he opened the door and stood by to let
Norton and Matilda pass in.
There they found a large plain room, airy and roomy and light, filled
with children and teachers all in a great breeze of business. Everybody
seemed to be quite engrossed with something or other; and Norton and
Matilda slowly went up one of the long aisles between rows of classes,
waiting and looking for somebody to speak to them. The children seemed
to have no eyes to give to strangers; the teachers seemed to have no
time. Suddenly a young man stood in front of Norton and greeted the two
very cordially.
"Are you coming to join us?" he asked with a keen glance at them. And
as they did not deny it, though Norton hardly made an intelligible
answer, he led them up the room and at the very top introduced them to
a gentleman.
"Mr. Wharncliffe, will you take charge of these new comers? For to-day,
perhaps it will be the best thing."
So Norton and Matilda found themselves at one end of a circular seat
which was filled with the boys and girls of a large class. Very
different from themselves these boys and girls were; belonging to
another stratum of what is called society. If their dress was decent,
it was as much as could be said of it; no elegance or style was within
the aim of any of them; a faded frock was in one place, and a patched
pair of trowsers in another place, and not one of the little company
but shewed all over poverty of means and ignorance of fashion. Yet the
faces testified to no poverty of wits; intelligence and interest were
manifest on every one, along with the somewhat spare and pinched look
of ill supplied appetites. Norton read the signs, and thought himself
much out of place. Matilda read them; and shrank a little from the
association. However, she reflected that this was the first day of her
being in the school; doubtless when the people saw who and what she was
they would put her into a class more suited to her station. Then she
looked at the teacher; and she forgot her companions. He was a young
man, with a very calm face and very quiet manner, whose least word and
motion however was watched by the children, and his least look and
gesture obeyed. He sent one of the boys to fetch a couple of Bibles for
Matilda and Norton, and then bade them all open their books at the
first chapter of Daniel.
The first questions were about Nebuchadnezzar and his kingdom of
Babylon. Unknown subjects to most of the members of the class; Mr.
Wharncliffe had to tell a great deal about ancient history and
geography. He had a map, and he had a clear head of his own, for he
made the talk very interesting and very easy to understand; Matilda
found herself listening with much enjoyment. A question at last came to
her; why the Lord gave Jehoiakim, king of Judah, into the hands of the
king of Babylon? Matilda did not know. She was told to find the 25th
chapter of Jeremiah and read aloud nine verses.
"Now why was it?" said the teacher.
"Because the people would not mind the Lord's words."
The next question came to Norton. "Could the king of Babylon have taken
Jerusalem, if the Lord had not given it into his hands?"
Norton hesitated. "I don't know, sir," he said at length.
"What do you think?"
"I think he could."
"I should like to know why you think so."
"Because the king of Babylon was a strong king, and had plenty of
soldiers and everything; and Jehoiakim had only a little kingdom
anyhow."
"The Bible says 'there is no king saved by the multitude of an host.'
How do you account for the fact that when strong kings and great armies
came against Jerusalem at times that she was serving and trusting God,
they never could do anything, but were miserably beaten?"
"I did not know it, sir," said Norton flushing a little.
"I thought you probably did not know it," said Mr. Wharncliffe quietly.
"You did not know that many a time, when the people of the Jews were
following God, one man of them could chase a thousand?"
"No, sir."
"Who remembers such a case?"
Norton pricked up his ears and listened; for the members of the class
spoke out and gave instance after instance, till the teacher stopped
them for want of time to hear more. The lesson went on. The carrying
away of Daniel and his companions was told of, and "the learning and
the tongue of the Chaldeans" was explained. Gradually the question came
round to Matilda again. Why Daniel and the other three noble young Jews
would not eat of the king's meat?
Matilda could not guess.
"You remember that the Jews, as the Lord's people, were required to
keep themselves ceremonially clean, as it was called. If they eat
certain things or touched certain other things, they were not allowed
to go into the temple to worship, until at least that day was ended and
they had washed themselves and changed their clothes. Sometimes many
more days than one must pass before they could be 'clean' again, in
that sense. This was ceremony, but it served to teach and remind them
of something that was not ceremony, but deep inward truth. What?"
Mr. Wharncliffe abruptly stopped with the question, and a tall boy at
one end of the class answered him.
"People must keep themselves from what is not good."
"The people of God must keep themselves from every thing that is not
pure, in word, thought, and deed. And how if they fail sometimes,
Joanna, and get soiled by falling into some temptation? what must they
do?"
"Get washed."
"What shall they wash in, when it is the heart and conscience that must
be made clean?"
"The blood of Christ."
"How will that make us clean?"
There was hesitation in the class; then as Mr. Wharncliffe's eye came
to her and rested slightly, Matilda could not help speaking.
"Because it was shed for our sins, and it takes them all away."
"How shall we wash in it then?" the teacher asked, still looking at
Matilda.
"If we trust him?"--she began.
"To do what?"
"To forgive,--and to take away our wrong feelings."
"For his blood's sake!" said the teacher. "'They have washed their
robes, and made them white in the blood of the Lamb.' And as the
sacrifices of old time were a sort of picture and token of the pouring
out of that blood; so the outward cleanness about which the Jews had to
be so particular was a sort of sign and token of the pure
heart-cleanness which every one must have who follows the Lord Jesus.
"And so we come back to Daniel. If he eat the food sent from the king's
table he would be certain to touch and eat now and then something which
would be, for him, ceremonially unclean. More than that. Often the
king's meat was prepared from part of an animal which had been
sacrificed to an idol; to eat of the sacrifice was part of the worship
of the idol; and so Daniel and his fellows might have been thought to
share in that worship."
"But it wouldn't have been true," said a boy in the class.
"What would not have been true?"
"He would not have been worshipping the idol. He didn't mean it."
"So you think he might just as well have eaten the idol's meat? not
meaning any thing."
"It wouldn't have been service of the idol."
"What would it have been?"
"Why, nothing at all. I don't see as he would have done no harm."
"What harm would it have been, or what harm would it have done, if
Daniel had really joined in the worship of Nebuchadnezzar's idol?"
"He would have displeased God," said one.
"I guess God would have punished him," said another.
"He would not have been God's child any longer," said Matilda.
"All true. But is no other harm done when a child of God forgets his
Father's commands?"
"He helps others to do wrong," said Matilda softly.
"He makes them think 'tain't no odds about the commands," a girl
remarked.
"How's they to know what the commands is?" a second boy asked, "if he
don't shew 'em?"
"Very true, Robert," said Mr. Wharncliffe. "I have heard it said, that
Christians are the only Bible some folks ever read."
"'Cause they hain't got none?" asked one of the class.
"Perhaps. Or if they have got one, they do not study it. But a true,
beautiful life they cannot help reading; and it tells them what they
ought to be."
"Daniel gave a good example," said the slim lad at the end of the class.
"That we can all do, if we have a mind, Peter. But in that case we must
not seem to do what we ought not to do really. We help the devil that
way. Now read the 9th and 10th verses. What was Daniel's friend afraid
of?"
"Afraid the king would not like it."
"If Daniel and his friends did not eat like the others. Do our friends
sometimes object to our doing right, on the ground that we shall not
be like other people if we do?"
There was a general chorus of assent.
"Well, we don't want to be unlike other people, do we?"
Some said yes, and some said no; conflicting opinions.
"You say no, Heath; give us your reasons."
"They make fun of you"--said the boy, a little under breath.
"They fight you"--said another more boldly.
"They don't want to have nothing to do with you," a girl said.
"Laugh, and quarrel, and separate you from their company," repeated the
teacher. "Not very pleasant things. But some of you said yes. Give us
your reasons, if you please."
"We can't be like Christ and like the world," Peter answered.
"'Ye are not of the world, even as I am not of the world,'" said Mr.
Wharncliffe. "Most true! And some of us do want to be like our Master.
Well? who else has a reason?"
"I think it is very hard," said Matilda, "to do right and not be unlike
other people."
"So hard, my dear, that it is impossible," said the teacher, looking
somewhat steadily at his new scholar. "And are you one of those who
want to do right?"
Matilda answered; but as she did so something made her voice tremble
and her eyes fill.
"For the sake of doing right, then, and for the sake of being like
Jesus, some of us are willing to be unlike other people; though the
consequences of that are not always pleasant. Is there nothing more to
be said on the subject?"
"The people that have the Lord's name in their foreheads, will be with
him by and by," remarked a girl who had not yet spoken.
"And he is with them now," said Mr. Wharncliffe. "Yes, Sarah."
"And then there will be a great gulf between," said a boy.
"Well, I think we have got reason enough," said Mr. Wharncliffe. "To be
on the right side of the dividing gulf then, we must be content to be
on the same side of it now. Daniel judged so, it is clear. On the
whole, did he lose anything?"
The teacher's eyes were looking at Norton, and he was constrained to
answer no.
"What did he gain?"
Norton was still the one looked at, and he fidgeted. Mr. Wharncliffe
waited.
"I suppose, God gave him learning and wisdom."
"In consequence of his learning and wisdom, which were very remarkable,
what then?"
"The king's favour," said Norton.
"Just what the friends of the young Jews had been afraid they would
lose. They 'stood before the king;' that means they were appointed to
be king's officers; they served him, not any meaner man. Now how does
this all come home to us? How are we tempted, as Daniel and his fellows
were tempted?"
Norton, at whom Mr. Wharncliffe glanced, replied that he did not know.
Matilda also was silent, though longing to utter her confession. The
questioning eyes passed on.
"The fellows think you must do as they does," said a lad who sat next
Matilda.
"In what?"
That boy hesitated; the next spoke up, and said, "Lying, and lifting."
"And swearing," added a third.
"How if you do not follow their ways?"
"Some thinks you won't never get along, nohow."
"What is your opinion, Lawrence?"
The boy shifted his position a little uneasily. "They say you won't,
teacher."
"So Daniel's friend was afraid he would not get along, if he did not
