" I'm ready for almost anything," I replied, " ex 
cept stealing." 
" How much can you raise?" asked my companion. 
" Toward setting up a grog-shop ?" I could not 
help betraying in my voice something of the con 
tempt I felt for the thing I named. 
" Yes, a grog-shop, if you will ; I am not particular 
as to what you call it. How much can you raise ?" 
" Haven t a dollar ahead," said I. 
Lloyd shrugged his shoulders and looked dis 
appointed. 
" Can t you borrow a hundred dollars ?" he asked. 
" Will a hundred dollars be enough ?" I queried. 
"I don 't  believe John Glum had twenty. But 
then we couldn 't afford to begin on a keg of beer 
and a quart of whisky, as he did. I have six 
mouths to feed, you know. If we go into the busi 
ness, it must be in a larger way." 
" How many saloons and whisky-shops do you 
think there are in this city ?" I asked. 
" I have heard it set down as from five to six 
thousand," he replied. 
" Great guns ! Can that be really so ?" 
" I wouldn 't wonder. You find them everywhere." 
" I'm afraid there 's no room for another. Where 
is our custom to come from ?" I said, with an invol 
untary depression of voice that betrayed the interest 
I was taking in the new scheme for bettering our 
fortunes. 
" I was just thinking of that," Lloyd replied. 
" Well ? What are your thoughts worth ?" 
" A great deal. You get the money to start with, 
and I 'll find the custom." 
"Where?" 
" There are from fifty to sixty men and boys, all 
told, in our bindery and printing-office, and there is 
not a respectable saloon within a block of the build 
ing. More than half the men take from two to 
three glasses a day now, some going out for it, as we 
do, and some sending the boys to bring them lager 
or ale on the sly. Now, if we can find a house close 
to the building closer than anything else and fit 
it up nicely, we will have two advantages a nearer 
and more attractive place and the good-will of all 
the men." 
" Capital ! you 've hit the nail !" I responded, quite 
lifted up by this view of the case. " We ought to 
sell two or three hundred glasses a day to the bindery 
and printing-office alone." 
" And two or three hundred more every evening 
to the printers who are on at night, and to our friends 
in the bindery who would drop in to pass away time, 
to say nothing of transient custom. There never 
was a better opening than this." 
"Splendid!" I rejoined, entering warmly into the 
scheme. "And we 'll do it." 
" You can get the money ?" 
"That isn 't so clear; and besides, a hundred 
dollars won t be enough. It will cost more than 
that for counters, shelves, signs, furniture and the 
like, to say nothing of the stock of liquors. But 
where there 's a will there 's a way. " 
CHAPTER IV. 
WE had arrived by this time at Lloyd 's house. 
I went in and stayed to tea, as I often did 
on Sunday evenings. 
There were four children in the family. The old 
est was a daughter named Maggy, then just turned 
of seventeen. She was a fair-haired, blue-eyed girl, 
and very pretty, but peculiar. I say peculiar, mean 
ing that she was unlike the ordinary run of girls in 
her station. Her manners were reserved and quiet. 
She talked but little, and you never heard her say a 
weak or foolish thing. Always when she spoke 
you saw just a little mounting of the blood to her 
face, and sometimes a flashing change in her eyes. 
She had entered the normal school a year before, 
and was perfecting herself for a teacher. 
Thomas, a very fine boy a little over fourteen, came 
next. He had just gone into the bindery as an 
apprentice, and was earning three dollars a week, 
which was a great help. Harvey and Willy, the two 
younger children, were aged respectively eight and 
five. 
There was a visitor at Lloyd 's whom I had never 
seen there before a well-dressed, clean, bright-look- 
ing young  man, who had called to see Maggy. I 
saw her color rise and her eyes quiver and brighten 
as sne introduced the young man to her father as 
Mr. Watson. Lloyd met him with a coldness of 
manner that I scarcely understood, and I could see 
that Maggy was hurt and disappointed. The young 
man felt the coldness, and showed a little embarrass 
ment. He did not stay long after we came in. Mag 
gy went to the door with him, and stood talking on 
the step for several minutes. On her return her 
father said, a little roughly, at which I was surprised, 
for he was usually very tender and considerate in his 
way of speaking to Maggy, 
" Who is that fellow ?" 
A deep color came into Maggy 's face, and her 
eyes filled with tears. She answered with a stifled 
tremor in her voice, 
" He 's one of the teachers in our school." 
" Indeed !" Lloyd did not conceal the surprise 
this gave him. " One of your teachers, ha ?" 
"Yes, sir." 
" He 's a young-looking chap to be a teacher." 
No reply was made to this, and we all sat silent 
for some time. I was looking at Lloyd, and saw a 
shadow creeping over his face, and I don 't  think 
I was wrong in my guess at the cause. If so respect 
able a person as a teacher in the normal school 
should take a fancy to Maggy, there would come 
trouble in the household about the new business, 
should Lloyd conclude to go into it. Maggy would 
 
feel it to be a disgrace, and the young man, if he 
were really taking a fancy to her, would hardly con 
tinue his attentions after it became known that her 
father kept a drinking-house. 
Maggy and her mother soon went out of the little 
front room or parlor, as they called it sometimes, to 
look after the supper, and Lloyd and I drew together 
to talk in undertones about the matter uppermost in 
both of our minds. Thomas, the oldest boy, was 
reading in a Sunday-school library book brought 
home that day, and we talked low, so that he might 
not be attracted to what we were saying. 
" I'm in dead earnest about this thing," said Lloyd 
as soon as we were enough alone to be able to talk 
freely. There was a kind of relief in his voice, as if 
he had been restraining himself. I noticed a hard 
ness in his face not usual in its expression, and a 
fierce, halt-defiant look in his eye a sort of eager, 
awaking cruelty that was altogether new to me. 
" The more I think of it, the more it grows on me," 
he added. 
" Just the way I am feeling about it," was my 
reply. 
" Do you know what a glass of ale or a drink of 
spirits costs ?" he asked. 
I did not, but I was very sure the profit was 
large. 
" It 's nearly all profit, or I'm mistaken," said 
Lloyd. " Let 's see. How shall we find out? Ah ! 
It 's just come to me. There 's Perry Flint. He kept 
bar once." 
" Who is Perry Flint ?" I asked. 
" Don 't you know old Perry ? He 's been a hard 
case in his time. Used to drink like a fish. He was 
in a good business down on the wharf some years 
ago, I'm told, and right well off, but got broken up 
somehow, and was never able to get on his feet 
again. He works around, doing most anything. 
Everybody knows Old Perry. " 
" Where does he live ?" I inquired. 
" Round in Bell 's court." 
" Very well. Let 's hunt him up." 
So round to Perry Flint 's we went as soon as tea 
was over. He was a gray- haired old man, with a 
worn-down look, such as you see in persons who 
take no care of themselves. His face bore the marks 
of long dissipation, and his voice was deep and 
husky, as though he were suffering from a cold. 
Any one who has heard that peculiar voice knows 
it as the sure sign of a hard drinker. 
"Why, bless us, Mr. Lloyd, is that you?" he 
exclaimed as we entered the poor-looking room in 
which he lived. 
" Yes, it 's me, Perry, and this is my friend Jones. 
We work in the same place," returned Lloyd. 
" Oh ! ah ! At the bindery round in Harvey 
street ?" 
" Yes, at the bindery. Where 's the old lady ?" 
" Gone into one of the neighbor s. Here, take 
 
seats, gentlemen. Not much of a place for company, 
but it 's the best I have ;" and the old man bustled 
round, handing us each a chair. 
"We 've called to have a talk with you, Perry," 
said Lloyd, coming at once to the subject of our 
visit. 
The old man 's eyes brightened, and a pleased ex 
pression drifted into his face. 
"At your service, gentlemen," he replied, and then 
waited for Lloyd to open his mind. 
" You 've kept bar ?" Lloyd was in no mood to 
beat around the bush, and so put direct the question 
he wished answered. 
" Yes, a little in my time," answered Flint. 
" So I thought. How long did you keep bar ?" 
" Off and on, a good while." 
"In the city?" 
" Yes ; I kept bar at the Eagle Hotel more than a 
year." 
"Then you re our man," said Lloyd, "and we 
want to have a good talk. But this is not just the 
place, you see ; the old lady might drop in upon us." 
" It wouldn 't do to say bar if she were around," 
answered Flint, giving his shoulders a shrug. 
Just as this was said a hand pushed the outside 
door open gently, and an old woman entered. She 
was small and had a thin, pale face, mild, almost 
tender, gray eyes, and a sad, sweet mouth. I had 
seen such faces in pictures, but never before just 
such a living face. Her dress was a rusty black 
bombazine or alpaca, I don 't  know which, but it 
was clean and fitted her neatly. A white handker 
chief, folded corner-wise, was drawn around her 
neck, and she wore a plain white cap. Poor and old 
and humble as she was, you felt that she was a lady 
and out of her place. 
A look of surprise came into her face when she 
saw us surprise mingled with uneasiness. 
" Mr. Lloyd and Mr. Jones, Mrs. Flint," said the 
old man, introducing us. 
" Good-evening, gentlemen." She spoke in a low, 
soft voice and with a grace of manner such as you 
do not often meet. But I could see a questioning 
disquiet in her eyes, that were reading Lloyd 's face 
and mine with a penetrating scrutiny. I began to 
feel embarrassed and ill at ease. 
" A pleasant evening," I remarked. 
" Pleasant, but warm," she replied. What a sweet 
old voice it was ! The tender gray eyes looked at 
me with a steadiness that I could not endure. I had 
to drop my own to the floor ; when I lifted them 
again, I found that she was still reading my counte 
nance, and the shadow that was stealing over hers 
told me that she was not satisfied with what she 
found there. 
We did not remain long after Mrs. Flint came in, 
nor ventured, while we stayed, to make even the 
remotest allusion to the purport of our visit. When 
we left, Flint, without putting on his hat, walked 
with us to the end of the court. 
 
" Come round to the Shades " said Lloyd as we 
parted. 
" This evening ?" queried Flint. 
"Yes; you 'll find us there." 
" All right ; I 'll soon be on hand." 
We waited at the " Shades," a tavern close by, for 
over fifteen minutes before the old man came in. 
His step was slow and his face grave. A change 
had passed over him. 
" I'm here, gentlemen, as I promised," he said. 
" Perry Flint always keeps his word," 
" Why, what 's the matter, old boy ? You look as 
sober as if you 'd just come out of a prayer-meeting;" 
and Lloyd put his hand familiarly on Flint 's shoulder. 
" Maybe I have," was the response, made without 
a change of countenance. 
"Oh!" returned Lloyd, with a covert sneer; "the 
old lady" 
"Take care now!" A fire seemed to blaze out 
of the old man 's eyes. " Keep your hands off of 
her." 
I saw Lloyd 's mistake, and tried to correct it. 
" Yes," I broke in warmly, " keep your hands off 
of her. A dearer old lady than your wife, Mr. 
Flint, I have never seen. I don 't  wonder that you 
say, * Keep your hands off of her. " 
" You are right, my boy," Flint responded, turn 
ing to me with a look of pleasure in his marred face. 
" She is a dear old lady yes, a lady ! and too good 
for me. Oh dear ! the trouble I 've brought on her !" 
There was genuine regret in the deep, rattling 
voice of the old man, that sunk and trembled as he 
spoke. 
" Come," said Lloyd, taking hold of Flint 's arm ; 
" let 's go over to that corner, where we can be more 
alone." 
Flint went passively, and we took our places at a 
table. 
"Three glasses of ale," Lloyd said to a waiter 
who came up as we sat down. 
"No, thank you ; none for me," said Flint, with an 
upward side motion of the hand, like one trying to 
ward off something. I looked at him, and saw a 
struggle in his face. 
" Nonsense ! Three glasses, waiter," spoke out 
Lloyd. 
And the waiter left us to fill the order. 
" I tell you, Mr. Lloyd, I don 't  want anything," 
said the old man ; " I didn 't come here to drink. I 
said I wouldn 't touch a drop, and I won t. So there, 
now !" 
His manner was nervous. 
" Oh, well, never mind." I spoke soothingly. " You 
needn 't take anything if you don 't  want to. This is 
a free country, you know." 
" Of course it is. I haven t taken a drop for nigh 
on to three weeks. You see, I 've sworn off." 
"Haven t taken the pledge?" There was just 
enough of a sneer in Lloyd 's voice to be annoying. 
" No, but I most wish I had." 
 
I was struck by the tone in which this was uttered. 
It was that of one who felt himself in danger. 
Three foaming glasses of ale were set down upon 
the table. The old man turned his face away. I 
took up one of them, and Lloyd another. After we 
had each of us taken a deep drink, Lloyd, as he 
removed the glass from his lips, said, 
"That 's splendid liquor; don 't  know when I 've 
tasted so fine a glass of ale." 
Flint sat very still, with his eyes turned away from 
the glass, which had been placed right before him on 
the table. I saw that a struggle was going on be 
tween appetite and resolution, and I had little doubt 
as to which would conquer. I could not but feel 
pity for the poor old man, and regret for having 
brought him into temptation. 
" Don 't let that glass of good liquor spoil," said 
Lloyd. " See, the bead is going off*. Take it, man, 
quick, or it will be as flat as dish-water." 
The smell of hops and malt was in the old man 's 
nostrils. His morbid thirst, irrepressible in its crav 
ing, was too strong for one so weak in moral force. 
There was a pause, a silence, a waiting. I don 't  
know why I felt as I did, but there came a heavy 
pressure on my breast ; I could hardly draw in air 
enough in breathing, it was so heavy. Then I saw 
the weak old man reach out and take the glass. He 
raised it to his lips slowly, but drank with the full 
draughts of a man long athirst. I was sorry for 
him; I could not help it. But I have seen sad- 
der things than that since then without a touch of 
pity. 
" I thought you 'd come to it," said Lloyd, with a 
low, ill-sounding laugh, as Flint set down the glass, 
which he had emptied before taking it from his lips, 
" Good liquor, that !" 
The old man did not reply, but sat very still, as if 
in a maze. I watched his face, as I had done before. 
It was half a puzzle to me. 
" Yes," he said, like one coming out of a dream 
"yes, it is good liquor." 
" And you pretended you didn 't want it. But I 
knew better." 
" Well, gentlemen, it 's done, and can t be helped. 
And now, what can I do for you ? What is in the 
wind ?" His manner changed entirely. The ale had 
worked a revolution. 
" How much do you suppose that glass of ale cost 
the landlord?" asked Lloyd. 
" About two cents and a half maybe three cents," 
replied Flint. 
" I guessed as much," was returned. " Three 
cents, and the landlord gets ten." 
"Yes; they make money hand over fist, these 
chaps," said Flint 
"Seven cents a glass will do, Hiram." Lloyd 
spoke with a chuckle of satisfaction in his voice. 
" A hundred glasses, seven dollars. That isn 't bad, 
is it?" 
" Oh, they make that easy," spoke out Flint, his 
 
hoarse, deep, rattling voice sounding out into the 
bar-room. 
" Hu-s-h !" and Lloyd put his finger to his lips. 
"Tisn 't none of their business what we re talking 
about." 
" Beg pardon," said Flint ; " didn 't mean to talk 
so loud, but my old shaky voice runs off with me 
sometimes." 
" Do they make as much on spirits ?" now asked 
Lloyd. 
" That 's according to how they do it. Some of 
em make a good deal more. We used to sell, at 
the Eagle, a tip-top brandy at fifteen cents a glass 
that didn 't cost much, if anything, over three or 
four." 
" You don 't  say so !" exclaimed Lloyd. 
" Fact ! We made it ourselves." 
"Made it?" 
" Certain. You can make any kind gin, brandy, 
rum or just what you please. We had a book at 
the Eagle that told all about it." 
" How did you make the brandy you sold at fif 
teen cents a glass ?" I inquired. 
" Well, you see, we got four gallons of sweet 
liquor " 
" What is sweet liquor ?" I asked. 
"Sweet liquor? It 's what they call rectified 
spirits, I believe." 
"Well, goon." 
" We took four gallons of sweet liquor that cost 
us a dollar and three-quarters a gallon. That is 
seven dollars. Then we bought a gallon of brandy 
for eight dollars, and mixed them all together, add 
ing something to make the color rich and bring out 
the flavor. So we had five gallons of liquor that 
few men could tell from genuine cognac, and all for 
about fifteen dollars." 
" I see, I see !" returned Lloyd, a pleased interest 
in his face. "And now can you tell how many 
drinks there are in a gallon ?" 
" Somewhere from sixty to seventy. We always 
called it sixty, so as to be on the safe side." 
I took out an old stump of a pencil that happened 
to be in my pocket and began figuring on the mar 
gin of a newspaper which lay on the table, talking 
aloud as I did so : 
" Five times sixty are three hundred. Three 
hundred drinks at fifteen cents. Three times five 
are fifteen ; three times one are three, and one makes 
four. Forty-five dollars for fifteen. That 's how 
much on each glass ? Three into fifteen goes five 
times. Just five cents a glass, which gives ten cents 
profit." 
" Splendid !" ejaculated Lloyd. " No wonder they 
pile up money." 
" Most of the taverns charge twenty-five cents a 
glass for brandy, and at some of the tip-top places 
they charge fifty cents for liquor just like ours. We 
hadn 't a great run of brandy customers at the Eagle, 
and so only charged fifteen, to draw em on. We 
 
 got the same for all other spirits, and none of them 
cost us any more than the brandy. According to 
your figures, we made ten cents a glass on the brandy, 
but it was nearer eleven or twelve, I guess. There 
was always some doctoring done that I didn 't see, 
and, whatever it was, you may be sure it didn 't add 
anything to the cost." 
As the old man talked, his eyes growing brighter 
and his manner more free, I noticed his hand reach 
out for the empty glass in a mechanical sort of way. 
He took it up, as if not conscious of what he was 
doing, turned it found and round in both of his 
hands, and then, while still talking, raised it to his 
mouth and sipped the few drops that had collected 
at the bottom. Seeing this, Lloyd made a sign to 
one of the waiters, wfrb took our glasses and filled 
them again. 
There was no hesitation on the part of Flint 
when the second foaming glass of ale was set before 
him. He lifted it from the table in a pleased kind 
of way, and holding it up, said, as he examined it 
with a knowing look, 
" They 've got the knack of it, I see." 
"The knack of what?" I asked. 
" They know how to draw a glass of beer high up 
and low down, as we used to say at the Eagle. 
There 's a great deal in it. A chap that understands 
his business can get ten or twenty glasses more out 
of a keg than a greenhorn." 
" Possible ?" 
" Yes, sir. You must know how to put a good 
strong froth on the top that will last. Just like this." 
He could wait no longer, but raised the glass to 
his lips, and poured down most of the contents before 
removing it. 
"There wasn 't much over two-thirds of solid 
liquor in that glass," he said, smacking his mouth. 
" All the rest was froth. They know just how to do 
it here. I 've watched em many a time. It 's high 
up and low down," lifting his glass and then drawing 
it steadily down a distance of several inches. 
"You have the knack of doing it, I suppose?" 
said Lloyd. 
" Me ? You 'd better say so ! I can draw a glass 
of beer just right, and that is more than ten in a 
hundred can do just right for the profit, I mean, 
and not too low down to spoil your customers. 
They won t stand too much froth, you know." 
" What will it cost to fit up a pretty fair sort of a 
place ? not so large as this say half as large ? 
Have you any idea ?" 
I put the question to Flint. 
" That 's according to how you do it, gentlemen. 
The nicer the better, you know. And so this is 
what you are driving at? I kind of guessed as 
much ;" and his watery eyes twinkled. " But take 
Perry Flint 's advice, and don 't  do it. Stick to 
honest work. Bookbinding is a great deal more 
respectable than rumselling, and pays better in the 
end." 
 
"Thank you for your advice, daddy," replied 
Lloyd, a little impatiently. 
" No thanks required, sir. I'm an old man, and 
have seen a good deal of the world in my time, and 
a good many ups and downs among all sorts of 
people, and I say to you now, gentlemen, what I 've 
said a hundred times before, and it 's this : I never 
knew a man who got better off by selling liquor 
better off in the end, I mean. Somehow, a curse 
always goes with it. I could count you a dozen 
names on my fingers to-night of men who got tired 
of honest work, and went into the liquor business, 
and there is not one of them that has not rued the 
day he did it. They all made money for a while. 
Some made a good deal, and kept it. But, oh dear ! 
all the money in the world wouldn 't buy what most 
of them lost." 
" There ! there ! That will do, my friend," said I, 
breaking in upon his untimely speech. " We don 't  
care about a temperance lecture to-night." 
Lloyd rose to his feet suddenly ; there was a 
heavy frown on his face. 
"All right, gentlemen, all right!" muttered the 
old man. " I 've said my say. Perry Flint hasn 't 
lived sixty-five years for nothing. Go ahead ! But 
it won t come out right. It never does." 
" Oh, shut up !" exclaimed Lloyd, unable to re 
strain himself. 
" Never did that in my life at any man 's word," 
answered Flint, growing angry, " and don 't  mean to 
do it now. You tell me to shut up !" His voice was 
full of contempt for the man he addressed. " And 
who are you, I wonder ?" 
The weak, almost tottering, old man drew him 
self up into a firm, dignified attitude, and fixed his 
eyes in scorn and rebuke on Lloyd. 
" Come," said the latter, addressing me. I went 
out with him, leaving Flint in the tavern. 
We walked nearly half a square before either of 
us spoke. Lloyd was the first to break silence. 
" It 's well I got out as quickly as I did," he said, 
speaking like one from whose feelings some great 
pressure was but half removed. " I don 't  know 
what devil got into me, but it was as much as I 
could do to keep my hands off of that cursed old 
wretch." 
" Why, Tom Lloyd!" I exclaimed, not concealing 
the surprise I felt. " The poor old man didn 't mean 
any harm ; he wanted to do us a service." 
" Yes, I suppose he did, and I was a fool to let it 
anger me so. But I couldn 't help it ; my mind was 
setting all one way, you see, and when that is the 
case, anything like opposition ruffles me." 
We did not return to Lloyd 's house, but went into 
another saloon, that we might sit together and talk 
further on what was uppermost in both of our minds, 
and also to take note of what went on therein. We 
had seen and heard and thought enough on that Sun 
day afternoon and evening to satisfy us that the dif 
ference between bookbinding and liquor-selling was 
the difference between hard work and poor pay and 
ease and competence. 
During the hour that we sat there thirty-two 
glasses of ale and beer and sixteen of spirits in one 
form or another were drank, and we counted the 
profit on an hour 's business at not less than four 
dollars. 
Before separating we had agreed, if it were pos 
sible to raise enough money to furnish and stock a 
small saloon, to open one as near the bindery as it 
was possible to get, for it was from the bindery and 
printing-office that we counted on getting the chief 
part of our custom. 
" What will Mrs. Lloyd say ?" I asked as we sat 
together. 
The question sent a dark shadow over my com 
panion 's face. 
"There 'll be trouble," he answered, fretfully. 
"She 'll set herself against it like a rock." 
"What will you do?" 
"Go ahead!" He shut his teeth, looking hard 
and resolute. " It will be all plain sailing with you, 
Hiram, but I shall have the devil to pay," he added, 
in a troubled voice. " Between Maggy and her 
mother, I expect to have a lively time. But I shall 
do it ; you may count on that. It may be uphill 
work for a while, but when the silk dresses and fine 
ribbons come, everything will run as easy and 
smooth as oil. Money works wonders, you know, 
Hiram, and we re going to make money like dirt." 
CHAPTER V. 
ON the next morning, while on my way to the 
bindery I was an hour late I saw a crowd 
around Bell 's court,, and stopped to see what was 
the matter. 
" There 's been a murder," I heard some one say. 
"Who is it?" I asked. 
"Don 't know," was replied. "They say a man 
has killed his wife." 
I passed through the crowd that blocked up the 
entrance to the court, and threaded the narrow way 
packed with people, until I came in front of one of 
the small houses. The crowd stood a little back 
from the half-open door. I felt a strange suspense, 
a half-defined terror. I knew that Flint lived in the 
court, but having been there only once, I could not 
recognize his house. 
In a blind, desperate sort of way I pushed open the 
door and went in, closing it behind me. There were, 
maybe, a dozen persons in the room, two of them 
police officers. But I saw them only obscurely. 
One object instantly fixed my gaze. It was the 
white face of Mrs. Flint. She was lying on a settee 
that stood opposite the door. There was no mistak 
ing what was written on that finely-cut, peaceful, 
sweet old face. It was death ! Lying on the floor, 
just in front of the settee, face down, was Flint, mo 
tionless as the dead form above him, his white, abun 
dant hair shining like silver in the few rays of sun 
shine that came in through a corner of the window 
where the shade was broken, and fell just where his 
head was resting. 
I lost my breath for several moments, my head 
swam, I felt as if about to fall from some great 
height. As I stood thus spellbound I saw the 
still form on the floor stir. Then a strong shiver 
ran through it, and then slowly and heavily the 
prostrate old man rose upon one elbow and looked 
at the face of his dead wife. 
" God help me !" he groaned, falling back upon 
the floor with a heavy thud. The sorrow and de 
spair in his voice were terrible. 
One of the policemen now bent over him, and 
grasping his arm, said, not roughly, but almost 
tenderly, 
" Come." He did not move. 
" Come !" The policeman repeated his command, 
pulling on his arm as he did so, and raising him 
partly up by main force. At this, Flint seemed to 
comprehend what was meant, and yielded passively 
when another of the policemen took hold of him. 
As he stood erect I saw his face for the first time. 
It was so haggard and pinched and awfully wretched 
that I scarcely knew it. 
The policeman drew the miserable old man toward 
"Slowly and heavily, the prostrate old man rose and looked at the fact 
of his dead wife." 
the door. He held back, turning his head all the 
while and looking at the form of his dead wife. At 
the door he stood still in partial resistance. 
" Come on, sir !" cried one of the men, with some 
impatience. 
"Let me go back just for a minute," pleaded 
Flint, with a tone and manner that were irresistible. 
The policeman released him. He returned slowly 
to the settee, and sunk forward on his knees and 
bent down over the quiet, dead face, looking at it, 
oh so lovingly and so sorrowfully. Then he laid 
his lips softly on the white forehead, and then his 
old heart broke. Such a wail of agony as rung out 
from his lips I hope never to hear again. He fell 
forward, then slipped heavily to the floor. When 
we lifted him, he was dead. 
I went to my work in the bindery like one in a 
dream. I spoke to no person of the dreadful tragedy 
I had witnessed, not even to Lloyd. How could I, 
with the stain of murder on my own garments ? I 
say here squarely what I felt, but would not acknow 
ledge then. Yes, the conviction that at my door 
and Lloyd 's was the guilt of this fearful work 
haunted me like a ghost. But I kept it all in my 
own heart. 
"What 's come over you, man?" asked Lloyd, 
who worked beside me. He had tried in vain to 
get me to talk, but could only draw " Yes " and 
" No " out of me. 
" Nothing," I replied, evasively. 
 
" You needn 't say that. What 's gone wrong ?" 
"Nothing;" and that was all he could get from 
me. So we worked on in silence for most of the 
day, standing side by side. 
I was anxious to see an afternoon paper, and got 
one as soon as issued. It contained an account of 
the scene I had witnessed in the morning, under 
the head of "A DOUBLE TRAGEDY MORE 
OF RUM S DOINGS," and ran thus : 
"A fearful tragedy took place at No. 6 Bell 's 
court some time early this morning. An old man 
named Perry Flint killed his wife in a drunken fit, 
and then, in horror at the deed, fell dead as the po 
liceman laid hands on him. Many of our citizens 
remember Flint very well. His .father was Aubrey 
Flint, a highly-respected merchant in this city, who 
accumulated considerable property, all of which 
was left to Perry, who was his only child. The son 
carried on the business for several years, but fell into 
habits of dissipation, and at last became bankrupt. 
His wife was widely known in her younger days as 
a woman of rare culture. 
" After Flint 's failure in business he became very 
poor, and his accomplished wife was no longer seen 
in fashionable circles. They had two or three chil 
dren, but all died when they were young. In his 
poverty and degradation Flint 's wife, it is said, 
steadily clung to him, doing all in her power to hold 
him back from dissipation, and to make his hard, self- 
imposed lot as comfortable as possible. Flint, like 
most drunkards, often tried to reform, and some 
times kept away from drink for weeks at a time. 
But there is little or no hope for poor wretches like 
him when every block has its one or a dozen taverns. 
" For a longer period than usual Flint had been 
abstaining from drink, and things were beginning to 
look more comfortable in his poor little home, and 
the pale, thin face of his patient, long-suffering wife 
to wear a more hopeful aspect, when, it is said, two 
men called to see him on Sunday evening and 
tempted him away to a tavern. Some of the neigh 
bors heard him coming home about midnight. He 
was noisy, as was apt to be the case when he had 
been drinking. 
"About seven o clock this morning the people 
living up stairs heard voices in the old couple 's 
room. Flint cried out angrily several times, and 
they could hear his wife trying to coax him, as they 
thought, not to go out. But he did go, staying 
away perhaps half an hour. Oh, Perry, Perry ! his 
poor wife was heard to exclaim as he came in at the 
end of that time. Then he cursed her, using fearful 
oaths. There was silence for a little while. His 
wife 's voice was again heard. In a moment after, a 
savage imprecation broke from his lips, and then a 
heavy fall was heard. A death-like silence followed, 
broken in a few moments by a cry of terror from 
the old man. He had struck his wife in his blind 
fury, and had killed her. 
" He was found lying on the floor beside her as 
 
she had fallen. The blow had been given by his 
clenched fist just under the right ear, and death had 
been instant. There was no wound, but a dark and 
wide discoloration. 
" The deadly effect of the fearful blow dealt in his 
drunken frenzy sobered the unhappy man. The 
scene that followed was touching in the extreme. 
When they lifted the dead woman from the floor 
and turned her face upward, no eye could look upon 
it without tears. It is long since we have seen a 
face in death so calm and soft and beautiful, thin and 
white and marked by the death-angel as it was. 
All the fear and pain, if they had marred it when 
the mad blow was given, had faded out, leaving 
only the signs of a spiritual beauty which a long- 
tried, patient and religious soul had cut thereon. 
" But the tragedy was not over. That blow had 
a fatal rebound, killing twice." 
I folded the paper quietly, slipped it into my 
pocket and went on with my work. 
"Heaven and earth!" exclaimed a journeyman 
near me, in a startled voice. " More doings of the 
rum fiend. Old Perry Flint has killed his wife." 
"What?" eagerly inquired many voices, and a 
little group came round the journeyman, who read 
aloud the account I have just given. 
I watched Lloyd stealthily. He did not once raise 
his eyes from the .floor, nor, when the reading was 
over, make any comment. As for myself, I had no 
heart to say a word. 
" You are not one of the men who called for old 
Perry yesterday ?" said a journeyman near me, speak 
ing in banter to another. 
" No, thank God !" was the quick reply. " I 'd 
about as soon be in the hangman 's shoes." 
" You 'd deserve to be in the other man 's shoes." 
" What other man ? Oh, the one to be hung, you 
mean ?" 
" Exactly." 
"Just my sentiments. No punishment is too 
severe for a man who would draw a poor old 
wretch, making a feeble effort to save himself, back 
into the horrible pit of drunkenness from which he 
had escaped. It 's a pity the names of the two men 
had not been given." 
" A great pity. Maybe the inquest has or will 
put the public in possession of their names." 
I felt a shiver of alarm pass through me. Various 
comments were made by the men, none of which 
were very pleasant to hear. Several times I was on 
the eve of joining in, lest my steady silence should 
attract attention, but I was afraid to trust my voice. 
It might betray the uneasiness I felt. 
" Bad business, that," said I to Lloyd as we came 
out of the bindery together that evening. 
" Oh, well, it 's done and can t be helped," he re 
plied, with more indifference of manner than I had 
expected. " I'm sorry we had any hand in it, but 
how did we know the old sot was going to make a 
beast of himself and kill his wife ? When a man gets 
 
so far gone that he can t take a glass of beer without 
getting drunk, it 's time he was dead." 
I did not feel so very greatly shocked at this. In 
deed, Lloyd 's view of the case acted as a kind of 
relief to my feelings, and my spirits began to return. 
Harvey street, in which our bindery and printing- 
office were, was a narrow street running between two 
of the larger ones in our city. Another narrow 
street crossed it at the distance of only two or three 
houses from our establishment. In these streets 
were a great many small houses occupied by poor 
families. There were, as is always the case in such 
localities, a number of drinking-shops, but none at 
all respectable or attractive in appearance. 
As Lloyd and I walked away from the bindery 
that evening we noticed a bill on one of the houses 
only a little way off. It stood three or four doors 
from the corner of the two narrow streets, and en 
