bakery, a woman ran out and begged me to come in and help 
her. She said her husband had a fit. I went in, and judged 
she was right — he appeared to have a hundred of them, com- 
pressed into one. Two Germans were there, trying to hold 
him, and not making much of a success of it. I ran up the 
street half a block or so and routed out a sleeping doctor, 
brought him down half dressed, and we four wrestled with 
the maniac, and doctored, drenched and bled him, for more 
than an hour, and the poor German woman did the crying. 
He grew quiet, now, and the doctor and I withdrew and left 
Mm to his friends. 

It was a little after one o'clock. As I entered the cabin 
door, tired but jolly, the dingy light of a tallow candle revealed 
Higbie, sitting by the pine table gazing stupidly at my note, 
which he held in his fingers, and looking pale, old, and hag- 
gard. I halted, and 
looked at him. He 
looked at me, stol- 



idly. I said : 

"Higbie, what — 
what is it ? " 

"We're ruined — 
we didn't do the work THE BLIND 
lead's relocated ! " 
It was enough. I sat grieved 
down sick, broken- hearted, indeed. A minute before,
I was rich and brimful of 
vanity ; I was a pauper now, and very 
meek. "We sat still 
an hour, busy with 
thought, busy with vain and useless self-upbrai dings, busy with 
" why didn't I do this, and why difhi't I do that," but neither 
spoke a word. Tlien we dropped into mutual explanations, and 
the mystery was cleared away. It came out that Higbie had 
depended on me, as I had on him, and as both of us had on 
the foreman. The folly of it ! It was the first time that ever 
staid and steadfast Higbie had left an in)portant matter to 
chance or tailed to be true to his full share of a responsibility. 


But he had never seen my note till this moment, and this 
moment was the first time he had been in the cabin 
since the day he had seen me last. He, also, had left a note 
for me, on that same fatal afternoon — had ridden up on horse- 
back, and looked through the window, and being in a hurry 
and not seeing me, had tossed the note into the cabin through 
a broken pane. Here it was, on the floor, where it had re- 
mained undisturbed for nine days: 

" Don't fail to do the work before the ten days expire. W. Las passed 
through and given me notice. I am to join him at Mono Lake, and we shall 
go on from there to-night. He says he will find it this time, sure. Cal." 

"W." meant Whiteman, of course. That thrice accursed 
' cement ! " 

That was the way of it. An old miner, like Higbie, could 
no more withstand the fascination of a mysterious mining 
excitement like this " cement" foolishness, than he could re- 
frain from eating when he was famishing. Higbie had been 
dreaming about the marvelous cement for months ; and now, 
against his better judgment, he had gone ofi* and " taken the 
chances " on my keeping secure a mine worth a million undis- 
covered cement veins. They had not been followed this time. 
His riding out of town in broad daylight was such a common- 
place thing to do that it had not attracted any attention. He 
said they prosecuted their search in the fastnesses of the 
mountains during nine days, without success ; they could not 
find the cement. Then a ghastly fear came over him that 
something might have happened to prevent the doing of the 
necessary work to hold the blind lead (though indeed he 
thought such a thing hardly possible), and forthwith he started 
home with all speed. He would have reached Esmeralda in 
time, but his horse broke down and he had to walk a great 
part of the distance. And so it happened that as he came 
into Esmeralda by one road, I entered it by another. His 
was the superior energy, however, for he went straight to the 
Wide West, instead of turning aside as I had done — and he 
arrived there about five or ten minutes too late ! The " notice " 


was already up, the "relocation" of our mine completed be- 
yond recall, and the crowd rapidly disperping. lie learn 3d 
some facts before he left the ground. The foreman had not 
been seen about the streets since the night we had located the 
mine — a telegram had called him to California on a matter of 
life and death, it was said. At any rate he had done no work 
and the watchful eyes of the community were taking note of 
the fact. At midnight of this woful tenth day, the ledge 
would be "relocatable," and by eleven o'clock the hill was 
black with men prepared to do the relocating. That was the 
crowd I had seen when I fancied a new "strike" had ben 




made — idiot that I was. 
[We three had the same 
right to relocate the lead 
that other people had 
provided we were quick 
enough.] As midniglit 
was announced, fourteen 
men, duly armed and ready 
to back their proceedings, 
put up their "notice" and proclaimed their ownership of the 
blind lead, under the new lunne of the " Johnson." But A. 
D. Allen our partner (the foreman) put in a sudden appearance 
about that time, with a cocked revolver in his hand, and said 
his name must be added to the list, or he would "thin out the 
Johnson company some." He was a manly, splendid, determined 
fellow, and known to be as good as his word, and 
therefore a compromise was effected. They put in his name 
for a hundred feet, reserving to themselves the customary two 
hundred feet each. Such was the history of the night's 
events, as Higbie gathered from a friend on the way home. 

Higbie and I cleared out on a new mining excitement the 
next morning, glad to get away from the scene of our sufieii 
ings, and after a month or two of hardship and disappoint- 
ment, returned to Esmeralda once more. Then we learned 
that the Wide West and the Johnson companies had consoli- 
dated ; that the stock, thus united, comprised five thousand 
feet, or shares ; that the foreman, apprehending tiresome liti- 
gation, and considering such a huge concern unwieldy, had 
sold his hundred feet for ninety thousand dollars in gold and 
gone home to the States to enjoy it. , If the stock was worth 
such a gallant figure, with five tliousand shares in the corpora- 
tion, it makes me dizzy to think what it would have been 
worth with only our original six hundred in it. It was the 
diflEerence between six hundred men owning a house and five 
thousand owning it. We would have been millionaires if we 
had only worked with pick and spade one little day on our 
property and so secured our ownership ! 

It reads like a wild fancy sketch, but the evidence of many 
witnesses, and likewise that of the official records of Esmeralda 
District, is easily obtainable in proof that it is a true history. 
I can always have it to say that I was absolutely and unquestionably 
worth a million dollars, once, for ten days. 
A year ago my esteemed and in every way estimable old
millionaire partner, Higbie, wrote me from an obscure little 
mining camp in California that after nine or ten years of buf- 
fetings and hard striving, he was at last in a position where 
he could command twenty-five hundred dollai-s, and said he 
meant to go into the fruit business in a modest way. How 
such a thought would have insulted him the night we lay in 
our cabin planning European trips and brown stone houses on 
Russian Hill ! 



CHAPTER XLII. 

"THAT to do next ? 

It was a momentous question. I had gon«* out into 
the world to shift for myself, at the age of thirteen (for my 
father had endorsed for friends ; and although he left us a 
sumptuous legacy of pride in his fine Yirginian stock and its 
national distinction, I presently found that I could not live on 
that alone without occasional bread to wash it down with). I 
had gained a livelihood in various vocations, but had not 
dazzled anybody with my successes ; still the list was before me, 
and the amplest liberty in the matter of choosing, provided I 
wanted to work — which I did not, after being so wealthy. I 
had once been a grocery clerk, for one day, but had cons«.med 
so much sugar in that time that I was relieved from further 
duty by the proprietor ; said he wanted me outside, so that he 
could have my custom. I had studied law an entire week, 
and then given it up because it was so prosy and tiresome. I 
had engaged briefly in the study of blacksmithing, but wasted 
so much time trying to fix the bellows so that it would blow 
itself, that the master turned me adrift in disgrace, and told 
me I would come to no good. I had been a bookseller's clerk 
for awhile, but the customers bothered me so much I could 
not read with any comfort, and so the proprietor gave me a 
furlough and forgot to put a limit to it. I had clerked in a 
drug store part of a summer, but my prescriptions were un- 
lucky, and we appeared to sell more stomach pumps than soda 
water. So I had to go. I had made of myself a tolerable 
printer, under the impression that I would be another Frauklin 
some day, but somehow had missed the connection thus far. 
There was no berth open in the Esmeralda Union, and besides 
I had always been 
such a slow compositor that I looked 
with envy upon the 
achievements of apprentices of two 
years' standing ; and 
when I took a 
"take," foremen 
were in the haljit of suggesting that 
it would be granted 
" some time during 
the year." I was a 
good average St. 
Louis and New 
Orleans pilot and by 
no means ashamed of my abilities in that line ; wages were 
two hundred and fifty dollars a month and no board to pay, 
and I did long to stand behind a wheel again and never roam 
any more — but I had been making such an ass of myself lately 
in grandiloquent letters home about my blind lead and my 
European excursitjn that I did what many and many a poor 
disappointed miner had done before ; said " It is all over with 
me now, and I will never go back home to be pitied — and 
snubbed." I had been a private secretary, a silver miner and 
a silver mill operative, and amounted to less than nothing in 
each, and now — 

What to do next ? 

I yielded to Higbie's appeals and consented to try the 
mining once more. We climbed far up on the mountain side 
and went to work on a little rubbishy claim of ours that had a 
shaft on it eight feet deep. Higbie descended into it and 
worked bravely with his pick till he had loosened up a deal 
of rock and dirt and then I went down with a long-handled 


shovel (the most awkward invention yet contrived by man) to 
throw it out. You must brace the shovel forward with the 
side of your knee till it is full, and then, with a skilful toss, 
throw it backward over your left shoulder. I made the toss, 
and landed the mess just on the edge of the shaft and it all 
came back on my head and down the back of my neck, I 

never said a word, but 
climbed out and walked 
home. I inwardly resolved 
that I would starve before I 
would make a target ol my- 
self and shoot rubbish at it 
with a long-handled shovel, 
I sat down, in the cabin, 
and gave myself up to solid 
misery — so to speak. Now 
in pleasanter days I had 
amused myself with writing 
letters to the chief paper of 
the Territory, the Yirginia 
Daily Territorial Enterprise, and had always been 
surprised when they ap- 
peared in print. My good 
opinion oT the editors had 
steadily declined ; for it 
seemed to me that they might have found something better to 
fill up with than my literature. I had found a letter in the 
post office as I came home from the hill side, and finally I 
opened it. Eureka ! [I never did know what Eureka meant, 
but it seems to be as proper a word to heave in as any M'hen 
n(5 other that sounds pretty offers,] It was a deliberate offer 
to me of Twenty-Five Dollars a week to come up to Yirginia 
and be city editor of the Enterprise. 

I would have challenged the publisher in the " blind lead " 
days— I wanted to fall down and worship him, now. Twenty- 
Five Dollars a week— it looked like bloated luxury— a fortune 
a sinful and lavish waste of money. But my transforts 


cooled when I thought of my inexperience and consequent 
unfitness for the position — and straightway, on top of this, my 
long array of failures rose up before me. Yet if I refused 
this place I must presently become dependent upon somebody 
for my bread, a thing necessarily distasteful to a man who had 
never experienced such a humiliation since he was thirteen 
years old. Not much to be proud of, since it is so conimon 
— but then it was all I had to he proud of. So I was scared 
into being a city editor. I would have declined, otherwise. 
Necessity is the mother of " taking chances." I do not doubt 
that if, at that time, I had been oifered a salary to translate 
the Talmud from the original Hebrew, I would have accepted 
— albeit with diffidence and some misgivings — and thrown as 
much variety into it as I could for the money. 

I went up to Virginia and entered upon my new vocation. 
I was a rusty looking city editor, I am free to confess — coat- 
less, slouch hat, blue woolen shirt, pantaloons stuft'ed into 
boot-tops, whiskered half 
down to the waist, and the 
universal navy revolver slung 
to my belt. But I secured a 
more Christian costume and 
discarded the revolver. I had 
never had occasion to kill 
anybody, nor ever felt a 
desire to do so, but had worn 
the thing in deference to 
popular sentiment, and in 
order that I might not, by its 
absence, be offensively con- 
spicuous, and a subject of 
remark. But the other editors, and all the printers, 
carried revolvers. I asked 
the chief editor and proprietor (Mr. Goodman, I will call him, 
since it 'describes him as well as any name could do) for some 
instructions with regard to my duties, and he told me to go all 

over town and ask all sorts of people all sorts of questions, 
make notes of the information gained, and write them out for 
publication. And he added : 

" Never say ' We learn ' so-and-so, or ' It is reported, or ' It 
is rumored,' or 'We understand' so-and-so, but go to head- 
quarters and get the absolute facts, and then speak out and say 
' It is so-and-so.' Otherwise, people will not put confidence in 
your news. Unassailable certainty is the thing that gives a 
newspaper the firmest and most valuable reputation." 

It was the whole thing in a nut-shell ; and to this day 
when I find a reporter commencing his article with "We 
understand," I gather a suspicion that he has not taken as 
much pains to inform himself as he ouglit to have done. I 
moralize well, but I did not always practise well when I was a 
city editor ; I let fancy get the upper hand of fact too often 
when tliere was a dearth of news. I can never forget my first 
day's experience as a reporter. I wandered about town 
questioning everybody, boring everybody, and finding out that 
nobody knew anything. At the end of five hours my note- 
book was still barren. I spoke to Mr. Goodman. He said : 

" Dan used to make a good thing out of the hay wagons in 
a dry time wlien there were no fires or inquests. Are there 
no hay wagons in from the Truckee ? If there are, you might 

speak of the renewed activity and 
all that sort of thing, 
in the hay business, 
you know. It isn't 
sensational or exciting, but it fills up 
and looks business like." 

I canvassed the city again and found 

one wretched old hay truck dragging in from the country. I made affluent 

use of it. I multiplied it by sixteen, brought it into town 

from sixteen different directions, made sixteen separate items 
out of it, and got up such another sweat about hay as Virginia 
City had never seen in the world before. 

This was encouraging. Two nonpareil columns had to be 
filled, and I was getting along. Presently, when things began 
to look dismal again, a desperado killed a man in a saloon and 
joy returned once more. I never was sc glad over any mere 
trifle before in my life. I said to the murderer : 

"Sir, jou are a stranger to me, but you have done me a 
kindness this day which I can never forget. If whole years 
of gratitude can be to you any slight compensation, they shall 
be yours. I was in trouble and you have relieved me nobly 
and at a time when all 
seemed dark and drear. 
Count me your friend from 
this time forth, for I am 
not a man to forget a favor." 

If I did not really say 
that to him I at least felt a 
sort of itching desire to do 
it. I wrote up the murder 
with a hungry attention to 
details, and when it was 
finished experienced but one 
regret — namely, that they 
had not hanged my benefactor on the spot, so that 
I could work him up too. 

Next I discovered some 
emigrant wagons going into 
camp on the plaza and found 
that they had lately come 
through the hostile Indian country and had fared rather 
roughly. I made the best of the item that the circumstances 
permitted, and felt that if I were not confined within rigid 
limits by the presence of the reporters of the other papers I 
could add particulars that would make the article much more 
interesting. However, I found one wagon that was going on 
to California, and made some judicious inquiries of the pro- 
prietor. When I learned, through his short and surly answers 
to my cross-questioning, that he was certainly going on and 
would not be in the city next day to make trouble, I got 
ahead of the other papers, for I took down his list of names 
and added his party to the killed and wounded. Having 
more scope here, I put this wagon through an Indian fight 
that to this day has no parallel in history. 

My two columns were filled. When I read them over in 
the morning I felt that I had found my legitimate occupation 
at last. I reasoned within myself that news, and stirring news, 
too, was what a paper needed, and I felt that I was peculiarly 
endowed with the ability to furnish it. Mr. Goodman said 
that I was as good a reporter as Dan. I desired no higher 
commendation. With encouragement like that, I felt that I 
could take my pen and murder all the immigrants on the 
plains if need be and the interests of the paper demanded it. 




CHAPTEE XLIII. 

HOWEVER, as I grew better acquainted with the business 
and learned the run of the sources of information I 
ceased to require the aid of fancy to any large extent, and 
became able to fill ray columns without diverging noticeably 
from the domain of fact. 

I struck up friendships with the reporters of the other 
journals, and we swapped " regulars " with each other and 
thus economized work. " Regulars " are permanent sources of 
news, like courts, bullion returns, " clean-ups " at the quartz 
mills, and inquests. Inasmuch as everybody went armed, we 
had an inquest about every day, and o this de|>artment 
was naturally set down among the " regulars." We had 
lively papers in those days. My great competitor among the 
reporters was Boggs of the Union. He was an excellent 
reporter. Once in three or four months he would get a little 
intoxicated, but as a general thing he was a wary and cautious 
drinker although always ready to tamper a little with the enemy. 
He had the advantage of me in one thing ; he could get the 
monthly public school report and I could not, because the 
principal hated the Enterprise. One snowy night when the 
report was due, I started out sadly wondering how I was going 
to get it. Presently, a few steps up the almost deserted street 
I stumbled on Boggs and asked him where he was going. 

" After the school report." 

" I'll go along with you." 

" No, sir. I'll excuse you." 

" Just as you say." 

A saloon-keeper's boy passed by with a steaming pitcher 
of hot punch, and Boggs snuffed the fragrance gratefully. He 
gazed fondly after the boy and saw him start up the Enter- 
prise stairs. I said : 

" I wish you could help me get that school business, but 
since you can't, I must run up to the Union office and see if I 
can get them to let me have a proof of it after they have set it 
up, though I don't begin to suppose they will. Good night." 

" Hold on a minute. I don't mind getting the report and 
sitting around with the boys a little, while you copy it, if you're 
willing to drop down to the principal's with me." 

" Now you talk like a rational being. Come along." 

We plowed a couple of blocks through the snow, got the 
report and returned to our office. It was a short document and 
soon copied. Meantime Boggs helped himself to the punch. 
I gave the manuscript back to him and we started out to get 
an inquest, for we heard pistol shots near by. We got the par- 
ticulai's with little loss of time, for it was only an inferior.sort of 
bar-room murder, and of little interest to the public, and then 
we separated. Away at three o'clock in the morning, when 
we had gone to press and were having a relaxing concert as 
usual — for some of the printers were good singers and others 
good performers on the guitar and on that atrocity the accor- 
deon — the proprietor of the Union strode in and desired to 
know if anybody had heard anything of Boggs or the school 
report. We stated the case, and all turned out to help hunt 
for the delinquent. We found him standing on a table in 
a saloon, with an old tin lantern in one hand and the 
school report in the other, haranguing a gang of intoxicated 
Cornish miners on the iniquity of squandering the public 
moneys on education " when hundreds and hundreds of honest 
hard-working men are literally starving for whiskey." [Riotous 
applause.] He had been assisting in a regal spree with those 
parties for hours. We dragged him away and put him to bed. 

Of course there was no school report in the Union, and 
Boggs held me accountable, though I was innocent of any in- 
tention or desire to compass its absence from that paper and 
was as sorry as any one that the misfortune had occurred. 

But we were perfectly friendly. The day that the school 
report was next due, the proprietor of the "Genessee" mine 

furnished us a buggy and asked us to go down and write some- 
thing about the property — a very common request and one 
alwas gladly acceded to when people furnished buggies, for 
we were as fond of pleasure excursions as other people. In due 
time we arrived at the "mine" — nothing but a hole in the 
ground ninety feet deep, and no waj- of getting down into it 
but by holding on to a rope and being lowered with a windlass. 
The workmen had just gone off somewhere to dinner, I was 
not strong enough to lower Boggs's bulk ; so I took an un- 
lighted candle in my teeth, made a loop for my foot in the 
end of the rope, implored Boggs not to go to sleep or let the 
windlass get the start of him, and then swung out over the 
shaft. I reached the bottom muddy and bruised about the 
elbows, but safe. I lit the candle, made an examination of 
the rock, selected some specimens and shouted to Boggs to 


"Iioist away. No answer. Presently a liead appeared in the 
circle of daylight away aloft, and a voice came down : 

" Are you all set ? " 
" All set — hoist away.'* 
" Are you comforta- 
ble?" 

" Perfectly." 
" Could you wait a lit- 
tle?" 

" Oh certainl y — no 
particular hurry." 
" AVell— good by." 
"Why? Where are you going ?" 



"After the school report ! " 

And he did. I staid 
down there an hour, and 
surprised the workmen 
when they hauled up and 
found a man on the rope 
instead of a bucket of rock. 
I walked home, too — five 
miles — up hill. We had 
no school report next morning ; but the Union had. 

Six months after my 
entry into journalism the 
errand "flush times" of 
Silverland began, and the; 
continued with imabated 
splendor for three years. All difficulty about filling up the 
" local department " ceased, and the only trouble now was how 
to make the lengthened columns hold the world of incidents 
and happenings that came to our literary net every day. Vir- 
ginia had grown to be the " livest " town, for its age and popu- 
lation, that America had ever produced. The sidewalks 
swarmed with people — to such an extent, indeed, that it was 
generally no easy matter to stem the human tide. The streets 
themselves were just as crowded with quartz wagons, freight 
teams and other vehicles. The procession was endless. Sa 
great was the pack, that buggies frequently had to wait half 
an hour for an opportunity to cross the principal street. Joy 
sat on every countenance, and there was a glad, almost fierce, 
intensity in every eye, that told of the money-getting schemes 
that were seething in every brain and the high hope that held 
sway in every heart. Money was as plenty as dust.; every 
individual considered himself wealthy, and a melancholy coun- 
tenance was nowhere to be seen. There were military com- 
panies, fire companies, brass bands, banks, hotels, theatres, 
" hurdy-gurdy houses," wide-open gambling palaces, political 
pow-wows, civic processions, street fights, murders, inquests 
riots, a whiskey mill every fifteen steps, a Board of Aldermen, 
a Mayor, a City Surveyor, a City Engineer, a Chief of the 
Fire Department, with First, Second and Third Assistants, 
a Chief of Police, City Marshal and a large police force, two 
Boards of Mining Brokers, a dozen breweries and half a 
dozen jails and station-houses in full operation, and some talk 
of building a church. The "flush times" were in magnificent 
flower! Large fire-proof brick buildings were going up in 
the principal streets, and the wooden suburbs were spreading 
out in all directions. Town lots soared up to prices that were 
amazing. 

The great " Comstock lode " stretched its opulent length 
straight through the town from north to south, and every mine 
on it was in diligent process of development. One of these 
mines alone employed six hundred and seventy-five men, and 
in the matter of elections the adage was, "as the 'Gould and 
Curry ' goes, so goes the city." Laboring men's wages were 
four and six dollars a day, and they worked in three " shifts " 
or gangs, and the blasting and picking and shoveling went on 
without ceasing, night and day. 

The " city " of Virginia roosted royally midway up the 
steep side of Mount Davidson, seven thousand two hundred 
feet above the level 
of the sea, and in the 
clear Nevada atmo- 
sphere Mas visible 
from a distance of fifty miles! It 
claimed a population of fifteen thousand 
to eighteen thousand, and all day long half 
of this little army swarmed the streets 
like bees and the other half swarmed 
among; the drifts and tunnels of the " Com- 
stock," hundreds of feet down in the 
earth directly under those same streets. 
Often we felt our chairs jar, and heard 
the faint boom of a 
blast down in the 
bowels of the earth 
under the office. 

The mountain 
side was so steep that 
the entire town had a 
slant to it like a roof. 
Each street was a terrace, and from each 
to the next street below the descent was 
forty or fifty feet. 
The fronts of the 
houses were level with the street they 

faced, but their rear first floors were propped on lofty stilts ; a 
man could stand at a rear first floor window of a C street 
house and look down the chimneys of the row of houses 
below him facing D street. It was a laborious climb, in that 
thin atmosphere, to ascend from D to A street, and you were 
panting and out of breath when you got there ; but you could 
turn around and go down again like a house a-fire — so to 
speak. The atmosphere was so rarified, on account of the 
great altitude, that one's blood lay near the surface always, 
and the scratch of a pin was a disaster worth worrying about, 
for the chances were that a grievous erysipelas would ensue. 
But to oft'set this, the thin atmosphere seemed to carry heal- 
ing to gunshot wounds, and therefore, to simply shoot your 
adversary through both lungs was a thing not likely to aflbrd 
you any permanent satisfaction, for he would be nearly certain 
to be around looking for you within the month, and not with 
an opera glass, either. 

From Virginia's airy situation one could look over a vast, 
far-reaching panorama of mountain ranges and deserts ; and 
whether the day was bright or overcast, whether the sun was 
rising or setting, or flaming in the zenith, or whether night and 
the moon held sway, the spectacle was always impressive and 
beautiful. Over your head Mount Davidson lifted its gray 
dome, and before and below you a rugged canyon clove the 
battlemented hills, making a sombre gateway through which a 
soft-tinted desert was glimpsed, with the silver thread of a river 
winding through it, bordered with trees which many miles of 
distance diminished to a delicate fringe ; and still further away 
the snowy mountains rose up and stretched their long barrier 
to the filmy horizon — far enough beyond a lake that burned 
in the desert like a fallen sun, though that, itself, lay fifty 
miles removed. Look from your window where you would, 
there was fascination in the picture. At rare intervals — but 
very rare — there were clouds in our skies, and then the setting 
sun would gild and flush and glorify this mighty expanse of 
scenery with a bewildering pomp of color that held the eye 
like a spell and moved the spirit like music. 

CHAPTER XLIY. 

MY salary was increased to forty dollars a week. But I 
seldom drew it. I had plenty of other resources, and 
what were two broad twenty-dollar gold pieces to a man who 
had his pockets full of such and a cumbersome abundance of 
bright half dollars besides ? [Paper money has never come 
into use on the Pacific coast.] Reporting was lucrative, and 
every man in the town was lavish with his money and his 
" feet." The city and all the great mountain side were riddled 
with mining shafts. There were more mines than miners- 
True, not ten of these mines were yielding rock worth hauling 
to a mill, but everybody said, " Wait till the shaft gets down 
where the ledge comes in solid, and then you will see ! " So 
nobody was discouraged. These were nearly all " wild cat " 
mines, and wholly worthless, but nobody believed it then. The 
" Ophir," the " Gould & Curry," the " Mexican," and other 
great mines on the Comstock lead in Virginia and Gold Hill 
were turning out huge piles of rich rock every day, and every 
man believed that his little wild cat claim was as good as any 
on the " main lead " and would infallibly be worth a thousand 
dollars a foot when he " got down where it came in solid." 
Poor fellow, he was blessedly blind to the fact that he never 
would see that day. So the thousand wild cat shafts burrowed 
deeper and deeper into the earth day by day, and all men 
were beside themselves with hope and happiness. How they 
labored, prophesied, exulted ! Surely nothing like it was ever 
seen before since the world began. Every one of these wild 
cat mines — not mines, but holes in the ground over imaginary 
mines — was incoi-porated and had handsomely engraved 
"stock" and the stock was salable, too. It was bought and 
sold with a feverish avidity in the boards every day. You 
could go up on the mountain side, scratch around and find a 
ledge (there was no lack of them), put up a " notice " with a 
grandiloquent name in it, start a shaft, get your stock printed, 
and with nothing whatever to prove that your mine was 
worth a straw, you 
could put your stock 
on the market and 
sell out for hundred 
and even thousands 
of dollars. To make 
money, and make it 
fast, was as easy as 
it was to eat your 
dinner. Every man 
owned "feet" in 
fifty different wild 
cat mines and con- 
sidered his fortune 
made. Think of a 
city with not one 
solitary poor man in it ! One would suppose that when month 
after month went by and still not a wild cat mine [by wild cat 
I mean, in general terms, any claim not located on the mother 
vein, i. e., the " Comstock") yielded a ton of rock worth 
crushing, the people would begin to wonder if they were not 
putting too much faith in their prospective riches ; but there 
was not a thought of such a thing. They burrowed away, 
bought and sold, and were happy. 

New claims were taken up daily, and it was the friendly 
custom to run straight to the newspaper offices, give the reporter
forty or fifty " feet," and get tliem to go and examine 
the mine and publish a notice of it. They did not care a fig 
what you said about the property so you said something. 
Consequently we generally said a word or two to the efi'ect 
that the " indications " were good, or that the ledge was " six 
feet wide," or that the rock '* resembled the Comstock " (and 
80 it did — but as a general thing the resemblance was not 
startling enough to knock you down). If the rock was moder- 
ately promising, we followed the custom of the country, used 
strong adjectives and frothed at the mouth as if a very marvel 
in silver discoveries had transpired. If the mine was a " developed" 
one, and had no pay ore to show (and of course it 
hadn't), we praised the tunnel ; said it was one of the most 
infatuating tunnels in the land ; driveled and driveled about 
the tunnel till we ran entirely out of ecstasies — but never said 
a word about the rock. We would squander half a column of 
adulation on a shaft, or a new wire rope, or a dressed pine 
windlass, or a fascinating force pump, and close with a burst of 
admiration of the " gentlemanly and efficient Superintendent " 
of the mine — but never utter a whisper about the rock. And 
those people were always pleased, always satisfied. Occasion- 
ally we patched up and varnished our rejDutation for discrimi- 
nation and stern, undeviating accuracy, by giving some old 
abandoned claim a blast that ought to have made its dry bones 
rattle — and then somebody would seize it and sell it on the 
fleeting notoriety thus conferred upon it. 

There was nothing in the shape of a mining claim that was 
not salable. We received presents of "feet" every day. If 
we needed a hundred dollars or so, we sold some; if not, we 
hoarded it away, satisfied that it would ultimately be worth 
a thousand dollars a foot. I had a trunk about lialf full of 
" stock." When a claim made a stir in the market and went 
up to a high figure, I searched through my pile to see if I had 
any of its stock — and generally found it. 

The prices rose and fell constantly ; but still a fall disturbed 
us little, because a thousand dollars a foot was our figure, and 
we were content to let it fluctuate as much as it pleased till it 
reached it. My pile of stock was not all given to me by people 
who wished their claims " noticed." At least half of it was 
given me by persons who had no thought of such a thing, and 
looked for nothing more than a simple verbal " thank you ; " and 
you were not even obliged by law to furnish that. If you are 
coming up the street with a couple 
of baskets of apples in your hands, 
and you meet a friend, you natu- 
rally invite him to take a few. 
That describes the condition of 
things in Virginia in the "flush 
times." Every man had his pockets' full of stock, and it was the 
actual custom of the country to 
part with small quantities of it to 
friends without the asking. Very 
often it was a good idea to close the 
transaction instantly, when a man 
offered a stock present to a friend, 
for the offer was only good and 
. brnding at that moment, and if 
the price went to a high figure 
shortly afterward the procrastination was a thing to be regretted. 
Mr. Stewart (Senator, now, from 
Nevada) one day told me he 

would give me twenty feet of " Justis" stock if I would walk 
over to his oflice. It was worth five or ten dollars a foot. I 
asked him to make the offer good for next day, as I was just 
going to dinner. He said he would not be in town ; so I 
risked it and took my dinner instead of the stock. Within 
the week the price went up to seventy dollars and afterward 
to a hundred and fifty, but nothing could make that man yield. 
I suppose he sold that stock of mine and placed the guilty 
proceeds in his own pocket. [My revenge will be found in 
the accompanying portrait.] I met three friends one after- 
noon, who said they had been buying " Overman " stock at 
auction at eight dollars a foot. One said if I would come up 
to his office he would give me fifteen feet ; another said he 
would add fifteen ; the thu'd said he would do the same. But 

I was going after an inquest 
and could not stop. A few 
weeks afterward they sold all 
