too weak for destiny." 

a It seems to me Uiose heroic souls who have laid theii 
lives on their country's altar are to be envied," Philip said, 
a little regretfully. " They have given the best, and all 
they had. And now the country, in her deathly strait, 
calls for more." 

They all knew then what was in Philip's calm, resolute 
face. Throughout the struggle the fires of youth and 
patriotism had burned brightly in his soul, but his duty 
had been here. 

" I am glad we have come to this subject," he began in 
a slow, peculiar tone. "It has haunted me for weeks. 
Two paths seem open before me. In legitimate business 



there is no chance. Everything is in the deptts of depres- 
sion and there are only speculation and the battle-field. I
have been tempted to enter the first arena. I cannot tell 
you how the prospect of winning back Home Nook has 
lured me on to make a gambler's desperate throw. There 
is honor in many transactions, and principle and right also, 
but it does harden men's hearts in the end. Could I keep 
my hands clean if I dipped them in this foul, seething 
tide?" 

" I relinquished it in all honor," answered Mr. Ashbur- 
ton, "and I would not have it redeemed in dishonor. 
That it has been a sore trial to me I will confess ; that I 
have stumbled over thorns and gone astray, trying to find 
some easier path than that marked out by God, I humbly 
acknowledge. But better poverty and loss of all than to 
have one's soul dragged down to perdition in this unholy 
strife for wealth. Philip, my son, I honor your scruples. 
Whether God prosper us or not, we will do his will." 

"Thank you," Philip said in a voice of deep emotion. 
" I have sometimes wondered if this subject had not taken 
a morbid tinge in rny brain. But to look upon wrecks of 
truth, and manliness, and self-respect, and to see the dan- 
gers that beset the slippery path, must needs warn like a 
beacon-light. And when ft man has once been face to 
face with death " 

" Yes," Mr. Ashburton returned, slowly, " there is a 
life beyond this ; and * what will it profit a man if he gain 
the whole world and lose his own soul ? ' We too often 
forget this." 

" Then the other path " 

Philip's voice trembled perceptibly. 

" I " and Madge knelt beside him with a passionate 
cry. " Not that, Philip ! Not absence, and danger, and 
death itself! The country has no claim upon you." 

" She has a claim upon every man in her pangs of mor- 
tal anguish. I want to say now, that if we had been 



 

happy and prosperous, I should have gone at first. Ah, 
I can never tell you how my pulses used to throb and 
thrill at the thought ! But God made a path of duty for 
me here, and I was fortunate enough to have my place 
filled. Now everything has changed, and while it would 
wrench my heart with keenest agony to leave you, if I 
stay I too may become a burden. There is so little doing 
that it is almost impossible to find employment on remu- 
nerative terms. Bounties, on the other hand, are high." 

" But to go for money ! " 

There was a flash of scorn in Madge's eyes, a touch of it 
in her tone. 

"My darling, it seems as if God in this wise opened the 
way for me. I should not leave you utterly dependent 
upon Clement or yourself." 

" As if the money would not be the price of blood ! " 
and Madge sprang to her feet, her face flushing, and her 
sensitive nostrils quivering with subtile pain. 

" That is the youthful and enthusiastic view ; " and Philip 
smiled gravely. " It once seemed to me that patriotism 
could not be bought, that I should spurn anything but the 
purest and most heroic sacrifice ; yet I have come to look 
upon matters in a different light. Are not wives and 
little ones dear to these men who know not what hour 
they may be called upon to lay down their lives ? Will 
it make them fight better, think you, to know that these 
precious ones may be starving ? " 

Madge was silent. 

"There is always some divine justice in the law cf com- 
pensation. We do not often penetrate its intricacies in 
the heats of youth, and it seems to me but right that the 
men who stay at home should help to make it easier 
for those who go. You know that was what Clement 
thought." 

" But since you have a substitute " 

This was Jessie's soft, pleading, regretful voice. 





"One comes to see things in a different light, my dar- 
ling. I am young and strong, and have my country's best 
interest at heart. If I enlist in her cause, I shall do it 
with my whole soul, keeping nothing back. And if she 
bridges over the path whereon I might falter, if she pro- 
vides me with the means of caring for you, so that my 
burdens are lightened, shall I march with less willing feet, 
do you think ? " 

M You place the subject of bounties in a romantic light," 
Madge answered, still unconvinced. 

" And in a practical light also. I shall take no hasty 
step, but I want you to help me to decide wisely." 

They all glanced at him silently for a moment, under- 
standing in a dim fashion how much of uncomprehended 
heroism went into every-day living when it was true, and 
not bound hand and foot by shams. With God between 
the human soul and its own thought, the meretricious 
glitter of high-sounding terms fell away it was the real 
thing the bread to strengthen fainting bodies the red 
wine of another Agony infusing into the soul its own mys- 
terious rapture of pain, of struggle, and ultimate victory. 

Jessie wiped away a few tears. " If we could only see 
the end ! " she said. " And yet God must be in it all, 
bridging over the floods that rage and swell. We cannot 
go outside of his plans when we take the work he gives us 
to do." 

" That is it," returned Philip, gravely. " And it seems 
now as if all other avenues were closed to me, as if this 
one path was left for me to walk in honorably. And if we 
Lave faith in him " 

" I am afraid I have not," sobbed Madge. * The hurt 
and pain, the stumbling over stones and thorns " 

" But we are to build with the stones that takes them 
out of our way, you see. And when the vines are trained 
the thorns are beyond their power to wound." 

He came and clasped her tenderly in his arms, kissing 




away the fast-falling tears. O, how could they do wnh- 
out him ? Yet she felt the brave resolve in every limb, 
saw it in every feature, and most of all in the clear, un- 
shrinking eyes. Another thought wafted a breath of 
comfort to her. 

" If you could go out as an officer ! " 

" No, Madge ; if I go at all, it will be as a private, to 
serve my country in her desperate need. And if I accept 
the bounty, it will only be like receiving back what we 
once paid away. Think of it as Clement's money. One 
thing is certain. I cannot stay here in idleness. That 
would shame my manhood too much." 

Mr. Ashburton folded his hands over his son's head. 

"God be with thee," he said, "wherever thou mayest 
go ! I give thee into his hands." 

They knew then that their father would make no ob- 
jection. Mrs. Ashburton's heart was filled with tremulous 
emotion, and Jessie wiped away some sad tears. 

Now that the ice was broken, the subject was discussed 
almost hourly. Madge opposed it with the unreason of 
youthful passion and pain, but Jessie came to view it with 
Philip's broader vision. 

" After all," she said, " it is the spirit of self-sacrifice 
that hallows it, and renders it really nobler than if Philip 
had gone at first." 

A new fire lay hidden in the depths of Philip's grave 
eyes, indicating a soul that could grasp its purposes keen- 
ly, and yet look at itself as well as the things without, 
growing into the dim and silent spaces where God had a 
work for it to do, no matter how small, how far removed 
from human vision. For he had learned to look beyond 
this perplexing life for rewards. The work was to be 
done here, the fruit garnered hereafter. 

Yet, in spite of the heat and love, the tender shrinking 
from new pangs, the courage that seemed to wax and 
wane, tlj.ey were all slowly drifting to one conclusion 
the saddest of all, it appeared to them. 







CHAPTER XV. 

A MISSING LINK. 

MADGE, returning home from school one June day, tired 
and languid, stopped the street car and entered. There 
were not many passengers, and being in no curious or 
speculative mood, she scarcely observed them ; for all day 
she had been under the influence of a strange, terrible 
spell, battling with doubts and desires, questioning even 
God's goodness and mercy. 

A gentleman from the opposite side changed his seat to 
one near her. She was too utterly crushed to consider 
whether it were an impertinence, and turned her face 
away. 

" Miss Ashburton," a voice said presently. 

She started then, and a wave of dim memory swept 
over her. Somewhere she had heard the voice, seen the 
face where had it been ? Yet she was in no frame of 
mind to be gracious to one so nearly a stranger. 

" Then you have forgotten me ?" 

There was a slight touch of reproach in the tone. 

She gave another quick glance, and seemed to study a 
moment. 

" Mr. Graham, I believe ; " rather hesitatingly. 

" Yes ; " with a pleasant smile. " I am glad to meet 
you, although I had so nearly passed out of your mind." 

She made no answer, and was fain to return to her own 
sad thoughts. 

" Not very courteous," he mused ; and then he fancied 
the face held in its graver lines a deep trouble. 

" Your brother is well I hope " he ventured again 



 

" Yes ; " briefly, and with a rather cold intonation. 

The car halted for a passenger. In the momentary 
pause he ask^d, even at the risk of appearing rude, 

" Is he in ,ne city ? " 

The quick tears sprang to her eyes, and her lip quivered 
with pain. 

" Pardon me." 

He uttered the two words in such a kind, gentlemanly 
tone, that they went to her heart. Still she made no re- 
ply ; she could not have trusted her voice. 

He studied the face partially turned away. Pale and 
rather thin, with a small, firm mouth, and beautifully 
rounded chin, the long bronze lashes that he remembered 
so well, and the eyes in a lustre of tears. What great sor- 
row burdened her thus in the outset of life ? Aught con- 
nected with her brother? 

She made a signal at the well-known corner. Mr. Gra- 
ham assisted her out and led her to the pavement. There 
both paused involuntarily. 

" Even at the risk of being considered intrusive," he 
said, "I must ask you another question. You are in some 
trouble is it about your brother ? " 

Madge gave a great gasp, swallowing something more 
bitter than tears. 

" O, Mr. Graham ! he was to enlist to-day ! " 

She looked so white and wan that it seemed as if she 
would faint. He drew her arm through his for support. 



" There is nothing else to do," she almost sobbed. 

Mr. Graham watched her in great perplexity. They 
took several steps in silence, he thinking whether it would 
be possible to continue the conversation so inauspiciously 
bsgun. If her brother had been at fault, and there was 
no other resource? He sympathized profoundly with 
her agitation. Dare he venture another question, this time 
to the point ? 





When the first strangeness of the rencounter subsided, 
a host of old recollections rushed over her. She paused 
abruptly. 

"Mr. Graham," she began, " what happened last winter? 
Was it any mistake ? Philip could have set that right 
It was the commencement of fresh misfortunes for us." 

" I wish he had set it right, as you say. I hoped he 
would make some explanation " 

Madge looked at him with a face full of terror. Faint 
blue lines settled about the mouth, and she trembled as if 
in an ague. 

"Was there anything? But you said it was all 
right " in a wandering manner, for it seemed as if she 
could hardly remember what she wanted to utter. 

" Because you were in distress, and I hoped he would 
explain some unfinished business." 

With all his courage and strict sense of right, Ward 
Graham hesitated to accuse another unfairly. 

" He went down to the store once after his recovery. 
He was politely discharged, you know ;" and there was a 
touch of bitterness in her voice. 

"Did he imagine there might be a reason ? How 
much are you all in his confidence? If there was any 
trouble or wrong," hesitating at the word, "would he 
be likely to admit it at home ? " 

Madge was bewildered. Her quick eyes questioned the 
grave face bent upon her ; then her straightforward nature 
cut the gordian knot at once. 

" Mr. Graham, if there is anything wrong, it is a fatal 
mistake. For Philip would not, could not, do one act that 
might be questioned. He is as true and honest as as 
the best and highest soul you will meet with in this world. 
Corne and see him. For there has been some terrible mis- 
understanding, I begin to believe." 

They walked on in silence until they reached the cot> 
tage, that looked oddly enough set in among the rows of 



 

more pretentious houses. She let herself in with the 
'atch key, and opening the parlor door, invited him to 
snter. 

The shutters were partly closed, making a pleasant 
twilight within, and there was a fragrance of rose and 
geranium. She left him there to wonder how he had 
stumbled upon this half-explanation, and whether he could 
go on without wounding them irremediably. For some- 
how he had not felt quite satisfied with the termination of 
this affair. He had expected better things from Philip 
Ashburton. Surely this young face was honor and no- 
bility itself. But then women never knew the temptations 
that encompassed their sons and brothers on every hand, 
the plausible schemes that were like a swift undertow in 
the tide. 

Philip had been home half an hour. Madge knew with- 
out asking a question that his name was enrolled. 

" Mr. Graham is here," she said. " Philip, I wonder if 
you remember, when you were first ill, of begging me to 
go to Mr. Graham with a message. Indeed, I think you 
do not, for I referred to it once afterwards, and you took 
no notice, though I fancied it might be because you did 
not wish to talk of it. There has been some mistake, I 
am sure, and he wishes it explained." 

Madge had uttered this in a rapid breath. Philip hard- 
ly comprehended at first. 

" I sent you to Mr. Graham ? " 

"Yes; on the second morning of your illness. Some- 
thing about your books that you did not want overlooked, 
and a secret connected with a person by the name of 
Howard I scarcely remember myself, except that Mr. 
Graham did appear to understand it yet I am afraid it 
was all a terrible mistake " 

Philip looked at her in the utmost astonishment. 

When I was ill ?" 

" Come and see Mr. Graham," she said, breathless with 
excitement and perplexity. k ' Only Philip " her 





voice sinking to a whisper and her face deathly pale, "you 
never did a wrong or dishonorable action, you never " 

He kissed the throbbing lips for answer, and twining his 
arm around her, led her through the room. 

"There is a mistake ; " in a husky tone. " I think I can 
guess " 

They both returned to the parlor. Mr. Graham rose 
from his seat, and extended his hand, grasping Philip's cor- 
dially ; but surprise kept the young man silent. 

"I ought to apologize for this intrusion," he began in 
his low, finely-modulated voice, "but circumstances seem 
to have hurried me into it, and a belief that we might 
have something of importance to say to one another " 

" Mr. Graham, " filling the pause the other made, 
"when my books were examined, were they found 
correct?" 

Philip stood there bravely conscious of his own inno- 
cence, every feature in his face proud and calm. Not any 
guilt or deceit, not any subterfuge or underhand dealing 
would be found there. 

Mr. Graham colored and hesitated, half wishing that 
Madge were not present. 

"I desire to know just the truth." 

" There was a deficit," Mr. Graham replied almost under 
his breath. 

How much ? " 

" Two thousand dollars." 

Philip started as if he had been stung ; Madge uttered 
a sharp cry of anguish. 

"I will tell my story first," Mr. Graham resumed. 
" You went home ill one afternoon I believe I was not 
there. But the next day, Howard, who took charge of 
your books, discovered some false entries and this defi- 
ciency. Mr. Bromley went over it again, and attested the 
truth. Howard, it appears, had given in his resignation 
that morning, though he had told Bromley nearly a week 
before that he had been offered a better situation. My 



 

father asked him to come the next day, but he failed to 
make his appearance. I was on the eve of a business 
tour to Europe, as you will remember, and very much 
engrossed ; so we did nothing all that day except to send 
for a private detective, who came too late for an interview 
with my father. I had just placed the matter in his 
hands, subject to some instructions the next morning, 
when your sister called. I believe I suspected Howard 
somewhat " 

" And you thought that I meant to plead for Philip ! "* 
Madge exclaimed, almost angrily, as he paused. 

" I felt that if he were sick, we ought to defer any harsh 
measures. Pardon me if I was tempted to comfort you. 
Your youth, your agitation, your unbounded faith in your 
brother, moved me strongly; and that evening I met Dr. 
Conway, with whom I was slightly acquainted. He men- 
tioned your family, and I heard some of your misfortunes, 
becoming convinced in my own mind that you were not 
the criminal. Before I left the next morning I made 
good the missing amount, and begged my father to keep 
the whole affair a secret. I felt certain that some expla- 
nation would be made upon your recovery." 

Philip's countenance had gone through scarlet flushes of 
indignation and white heats of keenest pain, every feature 
being roused to play its part. 

" The whole thing was false ! " Madge said, haughtily. 
" Worse than that cruel, unjust " 

"Hush, my darling. It is bitter enough, God knows, 
I have only to say, Mr. Graham, that I am no thiefj 
though I cannot prove it now by anything beyond my 
simple word." 

But Philip's clear, untrembling tone was suflicient guar- 
antee to Mr. Graham. 

"Had you any cause for distrusting Howard ?" 

"He had been dabbling a little in gold, through a 
friend, and was rather fortunate than otherwise, I fancied ; 





but on the morning of my last day at the store, Le came 
to me in great distress, admitting that he had been un- 
lucky, and had used some funds of the firm, but he was 
quite sure they were invested in a manner that would pay 
handsomely. But as his account was to be examined the 
next day, he begged me to let him have a thousand for a 
few hours, that it might look right at the time, and he 
would be sure to hand it back to me. I know that I had 
been struggling for several days against the approach of 
illness, and had hard work to decide between the strict 
right and the fear of being unjustly rigorous. I urged 
him to tell Mr. Graham, senior, offering to take that much 
upon myself if he desired it ; but he had a hope of fight- 
ing it out, or if that failed, he spoke of an opportunity of 
going to Europe, which he should accept at once." 

"And you let him have the money I see now; but it 
was a false step on your part." 

" No, I did not then," answered Philip. " It was hard 
to refuse, and I might not have made a firm stand. I 
went home early that day, thinking that I would consider 
the subject. I have no distinct recollection after that." 

" And Howard is the real criminal ? I cannot tell how 
it was, but I dare say he offered to take charge of your 
books it would be very natural, in his place. He had 
all the next day " 

Philip buried his face in his hands. To have one's good 
name tarnished in a moment, and by one whom he would 
have befriended, appeared unspeakably bitter ! It is 
harder, perhaps, to suffer for well-doing, for in the first 
keen pang the consciousness of innocence is overwhelmed 
by anguish. It is afterwards, when resignation steps in, 
that one bares his head to the storm. 

a My dear young friend, no one can regret this more 
than I. Yet we shall come out to the truth, and it is not 
too late for reparation. You must have had some sus- 
picion, however?" 



 

"As I said, I remember coming home that day with a 
blinding headache, and nothing seems clear for weeks 
afterwards. I can hardly imagine my sending Madge on 
such an errand ! In my senses I should have requested a 
visit from some one in authority." 

" If I had not gone ! " Madge exclaimed, with vehement 
sorrow. 

"Perhaps it was best," Mr. Graham answered. "But 
for that the law might have taken its course, and there 
would have been more or less publicity, even if we had 
come to the truth sooner." 

"My illness would have shielded Howard in any 
event," Philip said, gravely. " And since it was only my 
word against the books " 

He shuddered, for he seemed even yet on the brink of a 
frightful gulf. 

" Bromley would hear nothing against Howard, and his 
opinion had some influence with my father, I think. I 
wonder if he could have meant to shield him?" 

" How could he ! O, Philip ! how cruel and unjust the 
world really is ! And that God should let us go astray 
with all these misunderstandings, that were no fault of 
ours, and the explanation come too late, too late ! " 

She was sobbing piteously in her brother's arms, hei 
bright hair a tumbled mass of curls about her shoulders. 

" It is not too late, I trust ; " and rising, Mr. Graham 
placed his hand within Philip's. " I, for one, am convinced 
of your innocence, and shall labor hard to establish it. I 
have been home but a fortnight." 

" Thank you," the young man answered, brokenly. 

" I did not feel satisfied about the termination. I had 
laid to myself, ' If Mr. Ashburton is the man I take him 
to be, he will come to my father and express some grati- 
tude for his forbearance, or else his air of innocence will 
make itself felt Or, if he dies, I shall always be glad that 
nothing was said.' * 





" Perhaps you are aware, Mr. Graham, that my month's 
salary was sent for December, and a discharge at least 
I was informed that it would be necessary to fill my place, 
which I could hardly dispute in a business point of view. 
I was down one day last March, and saw Mr. Bromley. 
Trade was very dull, as I well knew, and receiving not the 
slightest encouragement from him, I did not go again. I 
knew of no reason why I was expected to see your father. 
I questioned one of the clerks about Howard, and found 
that he had left with a fair reputation. I could only sup- 
pose that he had been fortunate enough in his venture to 
cover all deficiencies." 

"It is a sad affair, that might have been explained with 
a few words, if any one had suspected the true state of 
the case. I do not wonder that you feel warmly, Miss 
Ashburton, and I can hardly blame your indignation. But 
in a large business like ours, the routine seldom stops for 
sentiment. Knowing what I did that evening, I was truly 
desirous of not adding to your pain. I saw that you 
placed implicit faith in your brother." 

" And he was worthy of it," she answered, proudly. 

" Will you not pardon my mistake ? I shall do all in 
my power to make amends." 

He held out his hand. Madge took it reluctantly. She 
had to crush down the bitterness of her soul. If this had 
come yesterday, before the fatal step ! It was so hard to 
have faith, to believe in a possible good being evolved 
from this injustice. 

"I cannot tell you how truly I regret the sorrow and 
trouble that have unwittingly been brought upon you by 
my clumsy endeavor. I must beg that some allowance 
be made for my father. When you come to have thirty or 
forty years of experience in business, you will naturally 
grow suspicious, and chary of believing the first story you 
hear. Young men are led astray in so many different 
ways, and the hope of replacing a little money looks so 



 

fair to one in necessity! Some years ago we had quite a 
serious affiiir, and my father said then that he never would 
forgive the slightest dereliction from honesty. Since then 
I have interfered in two cases. The first one I shall never 
regret." 

" But I do not see how Philip came to be suspected of 
all, and this Howard to be believed so implicitly," ex- 
claimed Madge, still indignant. 

" Because the error was in your brother's account, and 
not in his. Howard had charge of his books that day, 
and must have altered figures to suit himself. He took it 
at once to Mr. Bromley, and we three were all who knew of 
the fact. Ami although utterly surprised, I own that I did 
not suspect Howard in the slightest until after he had left. 
There was not a shadow of proof against him." 

" I have still nothing but my word," said Philip, proudly. 

" And if I tell you that I trust it implicitly, and ask you 
to come down to-morrow morning for further conference 
with my father, will you refuse me ? " 

Ward Graham's voice was full of earnest and manly 
pleading. He held out his hand to Philip. 

"How sorry I am I can never tell you !" 

Philip could not resist the cordial manner. 

" I will be there at ten," he said. " At twelve I must 
report." 

A strong shiver passed over Madge. 

" You have enlisted, then ? " Mr. Graham asked. 

"Business was so dull. There seemed so little chance 
of anything else. Yet I believe I have had a fancy for it 
all along." 

Philip's voice trembled a little in spite of his strong 
effort to be calm. 

"And he had a substitute," exclaimed Madge. 

" Then it is doubly heroic in him," returned Mr. Graham. 
"I do not believe any brave or honorable impulse is ever 
quite barren of fruit, though it may be delayed." 
 





It seemed to Madge that she took a survey of him then 
for the first time. A rather grave but not unhandsome 
face, indicating refinement and culture, with a subtile, un 
deriving strength. The eyes were a deep, soft gray, but 
the hair and beard nearly black. There was something 
honorable and tender in the expression, and she trusted in 
spite of her wounded pride and sore heart. 

" To-morrow, then," he said, lingering in the doorway, 
taking a careless glance at the parlor, that looked so pretty 
and cosy. 

Madge and Philip ran up stairs again to Mrs. Ashbnr- 
ton's room, and there the story was told over in such a 
tumultuous fashion that it was some time before the listen- 
ers could make beginning or end of it. 

" It is a mystery to me yet," declared Philip, " that I 
should have sent Madge upon such an errand, and then 
forgotten it completely. I do not remember even being 
troubled about Howard during the first of my illness. It 
is all a blank to me, after my return earlier than usual one 
day with an excruciating headache." 

" And yet we thought you better the next morning, and 
you were rational," said Jessie, much perplexed. 

"I wonder how Madge came to keep the secret." 

" I believe it is the only one I ever did keep," replied 
Madge, tearfully. " The thought and terror of your dying 
took possession of us all, to the exclusion of everything 
else ; and if it recurred at all, it was only as a wandering 
fancy of your brain, especially when Dr. Con way said the 
disease had been lurking in your system for weeks. 

" But I wonder that you did not speak of it afterwards." 

"I did just refer to it once, but I saw that you had no 
recollection of it, and I was afraid that you would be sorry 
you had sent me on a foolish and useless errand. We had 
BO much to bear that I did not want to add a straw's 
weight. But if I never had gone " 

* No," returned Jessie ; " I think the going was very 



 

fortunate. Suppose, in addition to the illness, this terrible 
suspicion had fallen upon us! Weeks must have elapsed 
before Philip could have disproved it." 

"If ever. And a good name is not so easily regained." 

"But it doesn't take the pain out of the hardest and 
bitterest," sobbed Madge afresh. "O, Philip ! if you only 
had waited ! if you had not enlisted to-day ! Why does 
God let all these things happen ? " 

" My darling, hush," said her mother, softly. 

" But it is so hard to believe these events are for the best 
when one suffers from them ! " 

Very true ; and perhaps the eyes of nineteen are not so 
clear and comprehensive. 

Yet there was very substantial cause for gratitude, and 
no one felt it more keenly than Mr. Ashburton. That 
Philip should have rested for months under this suspicion 
was bitter indeed, but it might have gone on for a life- 
