refuse in the corn-field where he relieved his 
feelings by burrowing wildly in twenty different 
places. 

" There come the B. B.'s ! " exclaimed Gem, 
interrupting Tom in a search for artichokes; 
" eight of them, as sure as you live ! " 

" What an expression, " said Tom, imitating 
his sister's voice ; " you girls are so common ! " 
But the approach of the visitors made a truce a 
matter of necessity, and soon the project of the 
tree-house engrossed the entire attention. 
Boards were brought from the little tool-house, 
saws were in demand, and Gem was deputed to 
confiscate all the hammers and nails in the house 
for the use of the builders ; the work went 
bravely on, and b^noon the walls of the fortifi- 
cation were up, and the roof well advanced 
towards completion. A ladder brought from 
the barn, took the workmen half-way up the 
trunk ; but the old tree was lofty, and a long 



 

space intervened between the end of the ladder 
avid the lowest branches, which must of necessity- 
be ascended in that squirming manner peculiar 
to boys, wherein they delight to bark their shins, 
tear their trowsers, and blister their hands in the 
pursuit of glory. Gem, of course, could not 
hope to emulate the B. B.'s in this mode of pro- 
gression towards the fortification, but she brought 
nails and carried boards with great energy. 
When there was no call for her services, she 
watched with intense interest the B. B. who 
happened to be squirming up. If there was no 
B. B. squirming up, there was sure to be one 
squirming down, for a principal part of the time 
seemed to be devoted to journeys below and aloft, 
besides elaborate contrivances for slinging boards 
and tools to the climbers' backs ; indeed, to a 
looker-on, this seemed to be the chief interest of 
the fortification. 

At last it was done, all but the floor ; Tom 
said it did not matter about that, as the boys 
could easily stand on the branches. Word was 




given to ascend, and, one by one, all the B. B.'s 
squirmed up the tree and took their places in- 
side ; nothing was to be seen but their feet, 
huddled together on the branches. It took ten 
minutes for all the band to assemble on hi^h, 
but in less than two, down they squirmed again. 
" What is the matter ? " said Gem in astonish- 
ment ; she had not expected to see the B. B.'s 
for hours, absorbed as they would be in their 
leafy abode. 

" We're going to take up the dogs," said Tom, 
who came first; " we're going to sling 'em up in 
a basket. It will be such fun, and they'll like 
it first-rate." 

" Oh, don't, Tom ! " exclaimed Gem ; " Turk 
is too big, Grip will be sure to fall out, and it 
will make Pete Trone seasick." 

But no attention was paid to her remonstrances, 
and the- B. B.'s inspired to new exertions, made 
numerous journeys up and down, rigging a 
pulley and making various preparations for the 
aerial voyage. W'heu all was ready there was a 



 

discussion as to which dog should go. Turk was 
too big, no basket would hold him ; and Grip, 
Tom said, had "no common sense," and would 
not appreciate the situation. Pete Trone was 
evidently the man for the place, and he jumped 
gayly into the basket at Tom's command, with- 
out any suspicion of danger ; and when he found 
himself hanging in mid-air, he did not flinch, but 
settled down resolutely on his haunches, looking 
over the side with one eye as much as to say, 
" Who's afraid ? " 

" Didn't I tell you? " said Tom enthusiastically. 
" I knew Pete would come out strong. It will 
take a good while to get him up there. I say, 
boys, let's sing ' Up in a Balloon.' It will be 
appropriate to the occasion." 

So all the B. B.'s joined in the chorus with so 
much power that Aunt Faith came to the back 
door to listen. 

" Tom ! Tom ! " she called, when the song was 
finished ; " what are you doing ? " 

"It's only the B. B.'s, Aunt Faith. We're 




hoisting Pete Trone up into the tree," shouted 
Tom. 

" Dinner will be ready in a few moments ; 
you had better come in and rest. You must be 
very warm," said Aunt Faith from the shaded 
piazza. 

When the basket reached the air-shanty, the 
B. B.'s who were there to receive it, suddenly 
remembered that there was no floor, and Pete, 
although a dog of varied accomplishments, could 
hardly be expected to keep his footing on the 
branches. So there was nothing to be done but 
let him down again, which was accordingly 
effected with great care, Pete sitting composedly 
in the 'basket without moving a muscle, and 
jumping out w T hen he reached the ground with 
conscious importance wagging in his tail. It 
was one o'clock, and the B. B.'s, after promising 
to return, adjourned for dinner ; Tom and Gem 
bathed their burning faces, and joined the family 
circle in the cool dining-room. 

"You are as bad as a fire-ball, Tom," said 



 

Hugh, looking at his red face ; "what have you 
been doing ? " 

" Splendid fun ! "We've been building a house 
in a tree." And forthwith Tom launched into a 
full description of the fortification. 

" ' Oh for a lodge in some vast wilderness, some 
boundless contiguity of shade ! ' That was the 
motive which actuated the Band of Brothers, I 
suppose," said Hugh. 

" The B. B.'s don't know anything about 
poetry," said Tom, with scorn ; " they've got 
other things to attend to, I can tell you." 

" They're coming again this afternoon," said 
Gem, " to talk over what we shall do on Fourth 
of July." 

" To be sure ; the Birthday of Freedom is 
close upon us," said Hugh ; 4t whatever you do, 
my countrymen, let it be worthy of the occasion." 

" We've got two or three plans," began Gem, 
but Tom interrupted her ; " Don't breathe a word. 
It will spoil all, Gem." 

" I hope it is not dangerous," said patient 



Aunt Faith, who associated the Birthday of In- 
dependence with visions of boys disfigured for 
life with gunpowder, and girls running madly 
towards the house with their muslin dresses 
blazing. 

"None of the plans are dangerous, Aunt 
Faith," said Tom ; " but we don't want anybody 
to know anything about them beforehand ; 
especially Hugh." 

" I smell a rat, — I see him floating in the 
air, — but I shall yet be able to nip him in the 
bud," quoted Hugh, with pointed emphasis. 

" Now don't, Hugh ! just promise that you 
won't cross the back terrace until after the 
Fourth," pleaded Gem. " It will be twice the 
fun for you, too, if you don't know anything 
about it beforehand." After some delay the two 
conspirators wrenched the required promise from 
their cousin, who pretended to be deeply curious 
about the plot, and heroically unselfish in aban- 
doning his designs upon it. 

At three o'clock the meeting was held under 



 

the elm-tree on the terrace ; the B. B.'s reinforced 
to the number of twelve were there, and Tom 
and Gem did the honors with cordial hospitality. 
Many plans were brought forward for the consid- 
eration of the patriots, but objections were found 
to one and all ; at length Gem disappeared and 
after a long delay, returned carrying some books 
under her arm. " I have thought of something," 
she said, taking a seat under the tree ; " we will 
have the battle of Bunker Hill and the life of 
General Israel Putnam." The word " battle " 
stimulated the B. B.'s, who were lying about on 
the grass, worn out with their efforts to arrange 
a programme. *' Bunker Hill forever ! " said one, 
tossing up his hat. Tom said nothing ; he was 
not going to be carried away by any of Gem's 
nonsense, not he ! " My plan is this," began 
Gem, encouraged by the general attention ; we 
will have a real battle, — we've got torpedoes, 
fire-crackers, and Tom's cannon, you know, — and 
we'll make a big monument of boards for Bun- 
kers' Hill ; I've been there and know just how it 
looks." 




" It wasn't there when the battle was fought, 
Goosey," said Tom. 

" How do you know ? " retorted Gem ; " you 
were not there, I guess. And as to history, who 
got ten imperfect marks in one week ? " 

The B. B.'s not being strong in history, did 
not take sides in this contest, and Gem went on 
triumphantly. " Jim Morse can be General 
Putnam, because his uncle's name is Putnam ; 
you see, I thought of that," said Gem, with con- 
scious pride. 

" Hurrah for Jim ! " said the enthusiastic B. B. 
before mentioned. 

" Then there will be the wolf-scene," continued 
Gem. " You remember how Putnam went down 
in a cave when everybody else was afraid, and 
shot a great wolf there. They had a rope 
around his legs, and when he pulled it they jerked 
it up, and out he came holding the wolf by the 
ears. Now that will do splendidly for us, for we 
can have the underground shanty for the cave, 
and Turk will just; do for the wolf." 



 

This last idea was received with applause, and 
the discussion became general, even Tom forget- 
ting his scorn in the interest of the occasion, and 
actually taking some importance upon himself 
because his sister was the originator of so much 
brilliancy. Books were consulted, suggestions 
and changes made, and the whole plot of the 
drama altered again and again. Each B. B. felt 
himself called upon to be a general, and they 
had all selected the names of revolutionary 
heroes, when some one suggested that an army 
composed entirely of generals would be difficult 
to manage. Then, there was the question of 
time, also. Should they confine themselves to 
Bunker Hill, or give an abstract of the whole 
war? Tom was for the whole war; but that 
was because he had already announced himself 
as George Washington, and naturally wished for 
as many battles as possible. He intended, also, 
to throw in the episode of the hatchet; " it will 
be real easy," he said, advocating his plan, " I 
know it all, out of the reader, and besides, we've 
got a cherry-tree." 




But another boy maintained that more than 
one battle would spoil the effect ; a number of 
the forces must of course be left dead and 
wounded upon the field, and it would not look 
well for them to come to life over and over 
again, right before everybody. 

It was finally decided to adopt a circuitous 
course, steering between the impossibilities, yet 
bringing in all the desired effects. The drama 
was to open with the wolf-hunt. Then the 
scene was to change ; Putnam, peacefully en- 
gaged in ploughing, was to hear the glorious 
news and depart instantly for Bunker Hill. The 
battle was to rage fiercely on the terrace slope, 
and in the vegetable garden, while a masked 
battery did terrible execution in the asparagus 
bed, and whole ranks of the enemy were to be 
mowed down in the cornfield conveniently out 
of sight. As Tom said, "something must be 
left to the imagination." The third scene was 
to bring in the hanging of the spy, Nathan 
Palmer, in order that Putnam might read his 



 

famous letter on the subject ; but as Gem ob- 
jected to the tragical end, it was decided to 
alter history a little, and let Nathan escape by 
night, which change would also give a fine 
chance for dark-lanterns, masks, and a muffled 
drum. The whole was to close with a tableau, 
and the singing of the " Star-Spangled Banner," 
in which the audience were to be especially 
requested to join. 

The outline of the performance was now ar- 
ranged and nothing remained but to fill in the 
details ; the whole afternoon was consumed in 
this labor, and still the work was not completed. 
For several days the B. B.'s studied severely ; 
United States histories were in great demand, and 
the pages of Shakespeare were turned over for 
inspiration. Each boy was to compile his own 
speeches, and many hurried consultations were 
held over back fences, and in haylofts ; one boy, 
who represented General Stark, selected Ham- 
let's ' to be or not to be.' A companion objected 
to the lines as inappropriate, but General Stark 



 

replied, " Well, I know the piece because I've 
spoken it in school, and I aint going to learn 
another, I can tell you ! I don't see why it won't 
do as well as anything else." 

Fourth of July came, and with it, great ex- 
citement in the vicinity of the old stone house. 
The B. B.'s belonged to the neighboring families, 
and their fathers, mothers and sisters were to com- 
pose the audience for whom benches had already 
been placed on the terrace under the trees. The 
day was warm, but enthusiasm was warmer, and 
although there was some foreboding of suffering 
among the audience as they looked out from 
their cool parlors into the vivid sunshine, there 
was no flinching among the actors. 

There had, however, been great difficulty with 
the cows who were to represent General Put- 
nam's oxen, for the horses' harness did not fit 
them very well, and they objected to dragging 
the plough as well-regulated oxen should have 
done ; so at the last moment it was decided to 

give up the idea of a moving scene, and simply 


attempt a tableau ; General Putnam at his 
plough in the field, reading the Declaration of 
Independence. A sheet could be held up until 
the cows were in position, then it was to be 
dropped and the tableau revealed to the audi- 
ence. " The effect would be grand," Tom said. 
At ten o'clock the actors were all in the vege- 
table garden, and the audience under cover of 
straw hats and parasols were slowly assembling 
on the benches above. The cannon was loaded 
at the top of an earthwork commanding the as- 
paragus-bed, torpedo ammunition was stored in a 
box half way down the hill, and fire-crackers 
were everywhere, provided by the combatants 
who had clubbed their spending-money for the 
purpose. A hole had been made in the roof of the 
underground shanty through which Putnam was 
to be let down by a rope, and Turk, as the wolf, 
had been imprisoned there since early morning, 
with Grip to keep him company. At last all 
was ready, and the orchestra opened the enter- 
tainment with " Hail Columbia 'Vbn the violin, 



 

by Tom, accompanied by the jews-haip, 
tambourine and triangle, and a flute which could 
only play two notes, but made up in power 
what it lacked in variety. Tom had tried hard 
to learn " Hail Columbia " for this occasion. He 
thought he knew it, and the family thought so too, 
from the amount of practising they had heard. 
But the excitement confused the performer, and 
the violin, after careering around among " Inde- 
pendence be your boast," ended in the well- 
known " Nelly Bly," Tom's chef-d'oeuvre. Fort- 
unately the change made no difference to the 
rest of the orchestra, their accompaniment was 
the same to all tunes, and " Nelly Bly " was fin- 
ished in triumph, and received with applause by 
the good-natured audience and calls for " first- 
violin." 

But the orchestra had already dispersed to aid 
iu the grand opening scene, the wolf-hunt, an 
"historical incident in the life of General Israel 
Putnam of glorious memory," as the written 
programme designated it. First appeared one 



 

of the B. B.'s attired as the " Classic Muse," 
with a wreath of laurel around his brow. He 
recited the following lines taken from the " Put- 
nam Memorial : — " 
" Hail ! Hero of Bunker's Hill. 
Thy presence now my soul doth thrill ! 
This is a sacred and heavenly spot 
Where thou, Putnam, didst thy body drop ; 
May future generations be blest 
With the patriotic spirit thou possessed I 
Thy memory is like a sweet balm, 
That will bless and do no harm." 

This remarkable ode concluded, the Muse re- 
tired, and Putnam himself appeared, dressed in 
full uniform with a sword by his side, and a ma- 
jestic feather in his hat. ' The general made a 
bow to the audience and repeated the following 
verse, also extracted from the " Memorial." 

" I am Israel Putnam the brave, 
Who in Pomfret shot the wolf in the cave ; 
And by her ears did draw her out, — 
I am no coward, but rash and stout ! " 



 

Having thus announced his character, General 
Putnam walked towards the shanty and bran- 
dished his sword. " Ha ! " he said, snorting 
fiercely, " there is a wolf here I I shall descend 
and slay him ! " 

" Nay, nay ! " shouted the B. B.'s in a chorus, 
as they rushed from the currant-bushes where 
they had remained hidden to give full effect to 
the scene. " Putnam, descend not ; the wolf is 
wild ! " cried one. " Putnam, descend not ; 
remember thy child ! " said another. (This was 
considered highly poetical by the B. B.'s). But 
Putnam was not to be persuaded, and the rope 
was therefore carefully secured to his belt. He 
took leave of all his friends, shaking them all by 
the hand, and then, feather and all, he was 
lowered into the cave, i. e. underground shanty. 
It was intended that there should be no delay in 
this part of the scene ; Turk had been through 
his portion of the programme many times, and 
had allowed himself to be hauled up and down 
with his usual good-nature. As it was expected, 



 

therefore, that Putnam would vanquish the wolf 
in no time, no dialogue had been provided for 
the friends and neighbors waiting outside, and as 
time passed and no signal to "draw up," came, 
they grew somewhat embarrassed. Tom, urged 
by necessity, spoke impromptu : " He fighteth the 
wolf ! " he cried ; " he fighteth fiercely ! " Then, 
in an undertone to his next neighbor, " say some- 
thing, Will ; anything will do." But Will could 
think of nothing but " He fighteth the wolf ! " 
also ; so he said it to Dick and kicked him on the 
shin as a signal to proceed. " Doth he ? " said 
Dick after a long pause ; then, at his wits' end 
as he received another and fiercer kick, he varied 
the phrase and stammered out, " Doth he ? " in a 
despairing voice, at which all the audience 
laughed uproariously. Still there was no signal 
from below, and Tom grew desperate. Stooping 
down he called through the aperture, " I say, 
Putnam, why don't you jerk out that wolf? " 
But no answer came from the den. " Sing some- 
thing," said Tom to the B. B.'s in an undertone, 



 

"  Battle Cry of Freedom ' will do ; while I run 
down and see what is the matter." So all the 
friends and neighbors joined in singing a song, 
probably to intimidate the wolf, while Tom 
hurried down to the door at the bottom of the 
hill. 

" What is the matter, Jim ? " he cried, burst- 
ing in to the underground shanty ; you've almost 
spoilt the whole thing! Why don't you hurry 
up ? " 

" It's all very well to say ' hurry up,' " said 
General Putnam, indignantly, " but Turk won't 
let me come near him. He's worse than a wolf 
any day." 

" I suppose he's tired ; he's been shut up here 
since daylight," said Tom looking at the angry 
old dog. " Well, I suppose you'll have to take 
Grip, then. Hurry, — they're at the last verse." 

So the signal was given, and the friends and 
neighbors, rejoiced that their embarrassment was 
over, began to pull with such a will that Tom 
had hardly time to run back and repeat his pre- 



 

pared speech. " He is safe ! Our noble Putnam 
is safe ! " cried Tom, with enthusiasm. " He 
bringeth out the wolf, the great, the dreadful 
wolf ! " At this instant the General hove into 
view, his feathered hat knocked over his eyes, 
the rope girding his chest with alarming tight- 
ness, and wee little Grip suspended by the nape 
of his neck as the wolf, " the great, the dreadful 
wolf ! " A burst of irrepressible laughter from 
the audience greeted this tableau, and Putnam's 
mother cried out in great anxiety, " Jimmy, 
Jimmy, take off that rope directly ; it will hurt 
your chest ! " 

The first part over, the scene was supposed to 
be changed. Half of the B. B.'s were required 
to brino^ the two cows from the cow-house where 
they were standing already harnessed, and the 
others put the plough in position and held up the 
sheet. But the cows were obstinate and would 
not walk together, so that gradually the whole 
force was summoned, and Gem was left to hold 
up the curtain with the assistance of a small 



 

boy, -the brother of General Stark. At length, 
after severe labor, the cows were brought up be- 
hind the sheet and attached to the plough, but 
before Putnam could take his position, one of 
them, a frisky animal, put down her head and 
shook her horns so threateningly that Gem 
abandoned her corner of the sheet and fled in 
terror, leaving the mortified patriots to the full 
blaze of public ridicule. Tom was furious, but 
he reserved his rage for another time. " Bring 
those cows together by main force and hold 'em 
still, boys," he said in a concentrated tone as he 
picked up the corner of the sheet. " Take hold 
of the plough, Jim. Now, Dick, say your 
piece." The Classic Muse advancing before the 
curtain obeyed, in the following language : 
" Behold the peaceful Putnam tilling the soil. 
His gentle oxen feed among the clover. But 
the noble Declaration of Independence rouseth 
his manly heart. He leave th his team in the 
furrow and goeth to Bunker Hill ! " declaimed 
the Muse at the top of his voice as the sheet was 



 

dropped disclosing the spectacle of ten boys 
fiercely holding the two cows in position while 
Putnam, in full uniform as usual, peacefully 
read a huge paper document apparently all un- 
mindful of the struggles of his team. 

The effect of this tableau was, like the first, 
far greater than anticipated. The audience 
laughed till they cried ; and not the least part 
of the amusement was the retreat of the " peace- 
ful oxen," wildly careering back to the pasture, 
their harness fluttering behind their frightened 
heels. 

After a short pause the Battle of Bunker Hill 
began in earnest, and was esteemed a great suc- 
cess. The cannon raked the asparagus-bed very 
effectively, and the musketry of torpedoes and 
fire-crackers, was really deafening; the British 
flag was ignominiously hauled down from the 
Bunker Hill Monument, and the Stars and Stripes 
raised in its place ; every now and then, also, 
the shneks and groans of the wounded, were 
heard from the corn-patch, which added, of 



 

course, the pathetic element to the scene. At 
last, when all the ammunition was exhausted, 
peace was declared, and the American forces 
assembling around the monument, listened to 
General Stark, as he vehemently burst forth into 
" To be, or not to be," pointing aloft, at inter- 
vals, to the Banner of Freedom, and closing 
with, — 

" The Flag of our Union ! At Lexington first 
Through clouds of oppression its radiance burst; 
But at brave Bunker Hill rolled back the last crest. 
And, a bright constellation, it blazed in the West. 
Division ! No, never I The Union forever I 
And cursed be the hand that our country would sever! " 

as a highly appropriate termination, giving a 

local and military coloring to Hamlet's celebrated 

soliloquy. 

The battle well over, and generous applause 

bestowed upon the army, the episode of the spy 

was introduced, and Gem retrieved her character 

by patiently holding up her end of the sheet 

while the tent was constructed out of some ( poles 

and colored blankets, — a real camp-fixe alongside 
being relied upon to give a life-like resem- 
blance to " Valley Forge." The sheet removed, 
General Putnam was discovered seated within 
his tent, writing a letter. Enter, from the 
potato-patch, an orderly, who reported in a 
deep voice, " General Try on demands Nathan 
Palmer." 

" Ha ! Doth he so ! British miscreant ! thus 
will I fell him! " exclaimed Putnam, brandishing 
his sword with so much ferocity that the whole 
tent fell to the ground, covering him with blan- 
kets and confusion. Rescued from the wreck by 
the orderly, the general stammered out his next 
sentence: "Behold what I have written to 
Try on ! Take the letter and read it to the 
army!" he said sternly, and retired — to what 
was once his tent. The enemy filed in from the 
chicken-yard, presented arms, and stood motion- 
less while the orderly read as follows : — 

" March 8th, 1777. 

" Tbyon, — Sir : 

" Nathan Palmer, a lieutenant in your king's 



 

service, was taken in my camp as a spy, He was 

tried as a spy ; he was condemned as a spy ; and 

he shall be hanged as a spy. 

" Putnam. 

" P. S. — Night. He is hanged." 

This celebrated letter having been read, Put- 
nam's part was over, and he retired backwards 
to the corn-patch to slow music from the orchestra 
hidden behind the currant-bushes, while the 
array marched away in the opposite direction, — 
the two effects having been contrived by Tom to 
imitate a dissolving view. This pantomime was 
received hy the merry audience with great ap- 
plause 

The next scene exhibited, after long prepara- 
tion, the body of the unfortunate Paimer hanging 
from a tree, suspended by his hands, with a 
rope conspicuously coiled around his neck. The 
Classic Muse again appeared, and took his posir- 
tion near by, while the American army in 
masks, with dark-lanterns and muffled drums, 
filed in softly, and formed a circle around the 



 

tree. "Friends!" said one of the band stepping 
forward, " I am Ethan Allen, and I cannot leave 
this man, although a British subject, suspended 
to this tree. We will bury him, friends, * darkly, 
at dead of night, by the struggling moonbeams' 
misty light, and our lanterns dimly burning.' " 

The army agreed to these sentiments, and, 
deputing two of their number to act as bearers, 
marched away to the sound of the muffled drums. 
But the body, which had conveniently dropped 
to the ground in the meantime, proved too heav}*" 
for the bearers. John Chase, who had been 
thoughtlessly allowed to take the part of the 
Spy, was a particularly heavy boy, and the 
bearers pulled and tugged in vain. The army, 
absorbed in the muffled drums (each boy had 
one), was already at some distance, and the final 
tableau, in which the body took a part, was still 
to be enacted ; the bearers made another effort, 
the perspiration rolled down their faces, but all 
in vain. There was nothing to be done but 
signal to the Classic Muse to come forward and 




help. He hastily tucked up his robes and took 
hold. With his aid the spy was hurried after 
the retreating army, reaching it just in time to 
spring to his feet under the flag-staff where 
floated the Star-Spangled Banner, Red, White, 
and Blue, and exclaim fervently, " Fellow- 
citizens, I am not dead ! Behold me a changed 
man ! From this moment I am a true and loyal 
patriot. Long live the Sword of Bunker Hill! " 
As the resuscitated spy uttered these words, the 
army formed an effective tableau around him, 
and the Classic Muse, still breathless from his 
late exertions, waved his laurel-wreath in the 
foreground, and struck up the " Star-Spangled 
Banner," in which the audience joined with 
enthusiasm. 

The patriotic drama being over, great applause 
ensued, and then the army was invited in to 
lunch in Aunt Faith's cool dining-room ; here ice- 
cream, cakes, and other camp-dishes were pro- 
vided in great abundance, the soldiers stacked 
arms, and seemed to enjoy themselves as easily as 

private citizens. The numerous young sisters 
of the B. B.'s gradually forgot their shyness, arid 
the afternoon was spent in games and merri- 
merit, — t'i -3 Old Stone House being entirely 
given up to the young folks early in the evening, 
when the weary warriors departed. 

" It's been a splendid Fourth ! " said Tom, 
throwing himself into a chair when the last 
guests had taken their departure ; " I wish we 
could have such fun every day ! ) 

" If you had it every day you would soon be 
tired of it," said Aunt Faith smiling. 

About midnight, when all was still, Aunt 
Faith, who had not been asleep, thought she 
heard a slight sound ; she listened, and distin- 
guished faint sobs coming from Gem's room, as 
though the child had her head buried in the 
pillows. Throwing on a wrapper, she hurried 
thither, and found her little niece with flushed 
cheeks and tearful eyes, tossing uneasily on her 
