
"I know I could," said Donald, earnestly. "If I had time enough I could
build her all alone."

"We want her as soon as we can get her."

"She shall be finished as quick as my father could have done her."

"I will see my father about it to-night, Don John, and let you know
to-morrow. I came down to see about the model."

Samuel Rodman left the shop and walked down the beach to the sail-boat
in which he had come. Donald was almost inspired by the idea which had
taken possession of him. If he could only carry on his father's
business, he could make money enough to support the family; and knowing
every stick in the hull of a vessel, he felt competent to do so. Full of
enthusiasm, he hastened into the cottage to unfold his brilliant scheme
to his mother. He stated his plan to her, but at first she shook her
head.

"Do you think you could build a yacht, Donald?" she asked.

"I am certain I could. Didn't you hear father say that my brig contained
every timber and plank that belongs to a vessel?"

"Yes, and that the work was done as well as he could do it himself; but
that does not prove that you can carry on the business."

"I want one or two men, if we build the Maud, because it would take too
long for me to do all the work alone."

"The Maud?"

"That was the yacht that father was to build next. I asked Sam Rodman to
give me the job, and he is going to talk with his father about it
to-night."

Mrs. Ramsay was rather startled at this announcement, which indicated
that her son really meant business in earnest.

"Do you think he will let you do it?" she asked.

"I hope he will."

"Are you sure you can make anything if you build the yacht?"

"Father made over three hundred dollars on the Sea Foam, besides his day
wages."

"That is no reason why you can do it."

"All his models, moulds, and draughts are in the shop. I know where they
are, and just what to do with them. I hope you will let me try it,
mother."

"Suppose you don't make out?"

"But I shall make out."

"If Mr. Rodman refuses to accept the yacht after the job is done, what
will you do?"

"I shall have her myself then, and I can make lots of money taking out
parties in her."

"Your father was paid for the Sea Foam as the work progressed. He had
received eight hundred dollars on her when she was finished."

"I know it; and Captain Patterdale owes four hundred more. If you let me
use some of the money to buy stock and pay the men till I get payment on
the job, I shall do very well."

"We must have something to live on. After I have paid the funeral
expenses and other bills, this money that Captain Patterdale owes will
be all I have."

"But Mr. Rodman will pay me something on the job, when he is satisfied
that the work will be done."

The widow was not very clear about the business; but she concluded, at
last, that if Mr. Rodman would give him the job, she would allow him to
undertake it. Donald was satisfied, and went back to the shop. He opened
his father's chest and took out his account book. Turning to a page
which was headed "Sea Foam," he found every item of labor and
expenditure charged to her. Every day's work, every foot of stock, every
pound of nails, every article of brass or hardware, and the cost of
sails and cordage, were carefully entered on the account. From this he
could learn the price of everything used in the construction of the
yacht, for his guidance in the great undertaking before him. But he was
quite familiar before with the cost of everything used in building a
boat. On a piece of smooth board, he figured up the probable cost, and
assured himself he could make a good job of the building of the Maud.

The next day was Saturday--two weeks after the organization of the yacht
club. There had been a grand review a week before, which Donald did not
attend. The yachtmen had taken their mothers, sisters, and other friends
on an excursion down the bay, and given them a collation at Turtle Head.
On the Saturday in question, a meeting of the club at the Head had been
called to complete the arrangements for a regatta, and the Committee on
Regattas were to make their report. Donald had been requested to attend
in order to measure the yachts. He did not feel much like taking part in
the sports of the club, but he decided to perform the duty required of
him. He expected to see Samuel Rodman on this occasion, and to learn the
decision of his father in regard to the building of the Maud.

After breakfast he embarked in the sail-boat which had belonged to his
father, and with a fresh breeze stood over to Turtle Head. He had dug
some clams early in the morning, and told his mother he should bring
home some fish which he intended to catch after the meeting of the club.
As the boat sped on her way, he thought of his grand scheme to carry on
his father's business, and everything seemed to depend upon Mr. Rodman's
decision. He hoped for the best, but he trembled for the result. When he
reached his destination, he found another boat at the Head, and soon
discovered Laud Cavendish on the bluff.

"Hallo, Don John!" shouted the swell, as Donald stepped on shore.

"How are you, Laud? You are out early."

"Not very; I came ashore here to see if I couldn't find some clams,"
added Laud, as he held up a clam-digger he carried in his hand--a kind
of trowel fixed in a shovel-handle.

"You can't find any clams here," said Donald, wondering that even such a
swell should expect to find them there.

"I am going down to Camden to stay over Sunday, and I thought I might
fish a little on the way."

"You will find some farther down the shore, where there is a soft beach.
Do you get off every Saturday now, Laud?"

"Get off? Yes; I get off every day. I'm out of a job."

"I thought you were at Miller's store."

"I was there; but I'm not now. Miller shoved me out. Do you know of any
fellow that has a good boat to sell?"

"What kind of a boat?"

"Well, one like the Skylark and the Sea Foam."

"No; I don't know of any one around here. Do you want to buy one?"

"Yes; I thought I would buy one, if I could get her about right. She
must be cheap."

"How cheap do you expect to buy a boat like the Sea Foam?" asked Donald,
wondering what a young man out of business could be thinking about when
he talked of buying a yacht.

"Four or five hundred dollars."

"The Sea Foam cost twelve hundred."

"That's a fancy price. The Skylark didn't cost but five hundred."

"Do you want to give five hundred for a boat?"

"Not for myself, Don John. I was going to buy one for another man. I
must be going now," added Laud, as he went down to his boat.

Hoisting his sail, he shoved off, and stood over towards Searsport.
Donald walked up the slope to the Head, from which he could see the
yacht club fleet as soon as it sailed from the city.




CHAPTER V.

CAPTAIN SHIVERNOCK.


Donald seated himself on a rock, with his gaze directed towards Belfast.
His particular desire just then was to see Samuel Rodman, in order to
learn whether he was to have the job of building the Maud. He felt able
to do it, and even then, as he thought of the work, he had in his mind
the symmetrical lines of the new yacht, as they were to be after the
change in the model which his father had explained to him. He recalled a
suggestion of a small increase in the size of the mainsail, which had
occurred to him when he sailed the Sea Foam. His first aspiration was
only to build a yacht; his second was to build one that would beat
anything of her inches in the fleet. If he could realize this last
ambition, he would have all the business he could do.

The yacht fleet did not appear up the bay; but it was only nine o'clock
in the morning, and possibly the meeting of the club would not take
place till afternoon. If any one had told him the hour, he had forgotten
it, but the former meeting had been in the forenoon. He was too nervous
to sit still a great while, and, rising, he walked about, musing upon
his grand scheme. The place was an elevated platform of rock, a portion
of it covered with soil to the depth of several feet, on which the grass
grew. It was not far above the water even at high tide, nor were the
bluffs very bold. The plateau was on a peninsula, extending to the north
from the island, which was not unlike the head of a turtle, and the
shape had given it a name. Donald walked back and forth on the headland,
watching for the fleet.

"I wonder if Laud Cavendish was digging for clams up here," thought he,
as he observed a spot where the earth appeared to have been disturbed.

The marks of Laud's clam-digger were plainly to be seen in the loam, a
small quantity of which remained on the sod. Certainly the swell had
been digging there; but it could not have been for clams; and Donald was
trying to imagine what it was for, when he heard footsteps near him.
Coming towards him, he discovered Captain Shivernock, of the city; and
he had two problems to solve instead of one; not very important ones, it
is true, but just such as are suggested to everybody at times. Perhaps
it did not make the least difference to the young man whether or not he
ascertained why Laud Cavendish had been digging on the Head, or why
Captain Shivernock happened to be on the island, apparently without any
boat, at that time in the morning. I do not think Donald would have
given a nickel five-cent piece to have been informed correctly upon
either point, though he did propose the question to himself in each
case. Probably Laud had no particular object in view in digging--the
ground did not look as though he had; and Captain Shivernock was odd
enough to do anything, or to be anywhere, at the most unseasonable
hours.

"How are you, Don John?" shouted the captain, as he came within hailing
distance of Donald.

"How do you do, Captain Shivernock," replied the young man, rather
coldly, for he had no regard, and certainly no admiration, for the man.

"You are just the man I wanted to see," added the captain.

Donald could not reciprocate the sentiment, and, not being a hypocrite,
he made no reply. The captain seemed to be somewhat fatigued and out of
breath, and immediately seated himself on the flat rock which the young
man had occupied. He was not more than five feet and a half high, but
was tolerably stout. The top of his head was as bald as a winter squash;
but extending around the back of his head from ear to ear was a heavy
fringe of red hair. His whiskers were of the same color; but, as age
began to bleach them out under the chin, he shaved this portion of his
figure-head, while his side whiskers and mustache were very long. He was
dressed in a complete suit of gray, and wore a coarse braided straw hat.

Captain Shivernock, as I have more than once hinted, was an eccentric
man. He had been a shipmaster in the earlier years of his life, and had
made a fortune by some lucky speculations during the War of the
Rebellion, in which he took counsel of his interest rather than his
patriotism. He had a strong will, a violent temper, and an implacable
hatred to any man who had done him an injury, either actually or
constructively. It was said that he was as faithful and devoted in his
friendships as he was bitter and relentless in his hatreds; but no one
in the city, where he was a very unpopular man, had any particular
experience of the soft side of his character. He was a native of
Lincolnville, near Belfast, though he had left his home in his youth. He
had a fine house in the city, and lived in good style. He was said to be
a widower, and had no children. The husband of his housekeeper was the
man of all work about his place, and both of them had come with their
employer from New York.

He seldom did anything like other people. He never went to church, would
never put his name upon a subscription paper, however worthy the object,
though he had been known to give a poor man an extravagant reward for a
slight service. He would not pay his taxes till the fangs of the law
worried the money out of him, but would give fifty dollars for the first
salmon or the first dish of peaches of the season for his table. He was
as full of contradictions as he was of oddities, and no one knew how to
take him. One moment he seemed to be hoarding his money like a miser,
and the next scattering it with insane prodigality.

"I'm tired out, Don John," added Captain Shivernock, as he seated
himself, fanning his red face with his hat.

"Have you walked far, sir?" asked Donald, who was well acquainted with
the captain; for his father had worked on his boat, and he was often in
the shop.

"I believe I have hoofed it about ten miles this morning," replied
Captain Shivernock with an oath; and he had a wicked habit of
ornamenting every sentence he used with a profane expletive, which I
shall invariably omit.

"Then you have walked nearly the whole length of the island."

"Do you mean to tell me I lie?" demanded the captain.

"Certainly not, sir," protested Donald.

"My boat got aground down here. I started early this morning to go down
to Vinal Haven; but I'm dished now, and can't go," continued Captain
Shivernock, so interlarding with oaths this simple statement that it
looks like another thing divested of them.

"Where did you get aground?" asked Donald.

"Down by Seal Harbor."

"About three miles from here."

"Do you think I lied to you?"

"By no means, sir."

Donald could not divine how the captain had got aground near Seal
Harbor, if he was bound from Belfast to Vinal Haven, though it was
possible that the wind had been more to the southward early in the
morning, compelling him to beat down the bay; but it was not prudent to
question anything the captain said.

"I ran in shore pretty well, and took the ground. I tried for half an
hour to get the Juno off, but I was soon left high and dry on the beach.
I anchored her where she was, and I'm sorry now I didn't set her afire,"
explained the captain.

"Set her afire!" exclaimed Donald.

"That's what I said. She shall never play me such a trick again,"
growled the strange man.

"Why, it wasn't the fault of the boat."

"Do you mean to say it was my fault?" demanded the captain, ripping out
a string of oaths that made Donald shiver.

"It was an accident which might happen to any one."

"Do you think I didn't know what I was about?"

"I suppose you did, sir; but any boat may get aground."

"Not with me! if she did I'd burn her or sell her for old junk. I never
will sail in her again after I get home. I know what I'm about."

"Of course you do, sir."

"Got a boat here?" suddenly demanded the eccentric.

"Yes, sir; I have our sail-boat."

"Take me down to Seal Harbor in her," added the captain, rising from his
seat.

"I don't think I can go, sir."

"Don't you? What's the reason you can't?" asked the captain, with a
sneer on his lips.

"I have to meet the yacht club here."

Captain Shivernock cursed the yacht club with decided unction, and
insisted that Donald should convey him in his boat to the place where
the Juno was at anchor.

"I have to measure the yachts when they come, sir."

"Measure--" but the place the captain suggested was not capable of
measurement. "I'll pay you well for going."

"I should not ask any pay if I could go," added Donald, glancing up the
bay to see if the fleet was under way.

"I say I will pay you well, and you will be a fool if you don't go with
me."

"The yachts haven't started yet, and perhaps I shall have time to get
back before they arrive."

"I don't care whether you get back or not; I want you to go."

"I will go, sir, and run the risk," replied Donald, as he led the way
down to the boat.

Shoving her off, he helped the captain into her, and hoisted the sail.

"What boat's that over there?" demanded Captain Shivernock, as he
pointed at the craft sailed by Laud Cavendish, which was still standing
on towards Searsport.

Donald told him who was in her.

"Don't go near her," said he, sternly. "I always want a good mile
between me and that puppy."

"He is bound to Camden, and won't get there for a week at that rate,"
added Donald.

"Don't care if he don't," growled the passenger.

"I don't know that I do, either," added the skipper. "Laud wants to buy
a boat, and perhaps you can sell him yours, if you are tired of her."

"Shut up!"

Donald did "shut up," and decided not to make any more talk with the
captain, only to give him civil answers. Ordinarily he would as soon
have thought of wrestling with a Bengal tiger as of carrying on a
conversation with such a porcupine as his passenger, who scrupled not to
insult man or boy without the slightest provocation. In a few moments
the skipper tacked, having weathered the Head, and stood into the little
bay west of it.

"Don John," said Captain Shivernock, sharply, fixing his gaze upon the
skipper.

"Sir?"

The captain took his wallet from his pocket. It was well filled with
greenbacks, from which he took several ten-dollar bills--five or six of
them, at least.

"I will pay you," said he.

"I don't ask any pay for this, sir. I am willing to do you a favor for
nothing."

"Hold your tongue, you fool! A favor?" sneered the eccentric. "Do you
think I would ask a little monkey like you to do me a favor?"

"I won't call it a favor, sir."

"Better not. There! take that," and Captain Shivernock shoved the bills
he had taken from his wallet into Donald's hand.

"No, sir! I can't take all that, if I do anything," protested the
skipper, amazed at the generosity of his passenger. The captain, with a
sudden spring, grasped a short boat-hook which lay between the rail and
the wash-board.

"Put that money into your pocket, or I'll smash your head; and you won't
be the first man I've killed, either," said the violent passenger.

Donald did not find the money hard to take on its own merits, and he
considerately obeyed the savage order. His pride, which revolted at the
idea of being paid for a slight service rendered to a neighbor, was
effectually conquered. He put the money in his pocket; but as soon as
the captain laid down the boat-hook, he took it out to count it, and
found there was fifty dollars. He deposited it carefully in his wallet.

"You don't mean to pay me all that money for this little job?" said he.

"Do you think I don't know what I mean?" snarled the passenger.

"I suppose you do, sir."

"You suppose I do!" sneered the cynic. "You know I do."

"Fifty dollars is a great deal of money for such a little job."

"That's none of your business. Don John, you've got a tongue in your
head!" said Captain Shivernock, pointing his finger at the skipper, and
glowering upon him as though he was charging him with some heinous
crime.

"I am aware of it, sir," replied Donald.

"Do you know what a tongue is for?" demanded the captain.

"It is of great assistance to one in talking."

"Don't equivocate, you sick monkey. Do you know what a tongue is for?"

"Yes, sir."

"What's a tongue for?"

"To talk with, and--"

"That's enough! I thought you would say so. You are an ignorant whelp."

"Isn't the tongue to talk with?"

"No!" roared the passenger.

"What is it for, then?" asked Donald, who did not know whether to be
alarmed or amused at the manner of his violent companion.

"It's to keep still with, you canting little monkey! And that's what I
want you to do with your tongue," replied Captain Shivernock.

"I don't think I understand you, sir."

"I don't think you do. How could you, when I haven't told you what I
mean. Listen to me." The eccentric paused, and fixed his gaze earnestly
upon the skipper.

"Have you seen me this morning?" demanded he.

"Of course I have."

"No, you haven't!"

"I really thought I had."

"Thought's a fool, and you're another! You haven't seen me. If anybody
in Belfast asks you if you have seen me, tell 'em you haven't."

"If the tongue isn't to talk with, it isn't to tell a lie with," added
Donald.

"Ha, ha, ha!" laughed the captain; "you've got me there."

He produced his wallet again, and took a ten-dollar bill from the roll
it contained, which he tendered to Donald.

"What's that for?" asked the skipper.

"Put it in your pocket, or I'll mash your empty skull!"

Donald placed it with the other bills in his wallet, more than ever
amazed at the conduct of his singular passenger.

"I never allow anyone to get ahead of me without paying for my own
stupidity. Do you go to Sunday School, and church, and missionary
meetings?" asked the captain, with a sneer.

"I do, sir."

"I thought so. You are a sick monkey. You don't let your tongue tell a
lie."

"No, sir; I don't mean to tell a lie, if I can help it, and I generally
can."

"You walk in the strait and narrow way which leads to the meeting-house.
I don't. All right! Broad is the way! But one thing is certain, Don
John, you haven't seen me to-day."

"But I have," persisted Donald.

"I say you have not; don't contradict me, if you want to take that head
of yours home with you. Nobody will ask whether you have seen me or not;
so that if a lie is likely to choke you, keep still with your tongue."

"I am not to say that I have seen you on the island?" queried Donald.

"You are not," replied the captain, with an echoing expletive.

"Why not, sir?"

"None of your business! Do as you are told, and spend the money I gave
you for gingerbread and fast horses."

"But when my mother sees this money she will want to know where I got
it."

"If you tell her or anybody else, I'll hammer your head till it isn't
thicker than a piece of sheet-iron. Don't let her see the money. Hire a
fast horse, and go to ride next Sunday."

"I don't go to ride on Sunday."

"I suppose not. Give it to the missionaries to buy red flannel shirts
for little niggers in the West Indies, if you like. I don't care what
you do with it."

"You don't wish anybody to know you have been on the island this
morning--is that the idea, Captain Shivernock?" asked Donald, not a
little alarmed at the position in which his companion was placing him.

"That's the idea, Don John."

"I don't see why--"

"You are not to see why," interrupted the captain, fiercely. "That's my
business, not yours. Will you do as I tell you?"

"If there is any trouble--"

"There isn't any trouble. Do you think I've killed somebody?--No. Do you
think I've robbed somebody?--No. Do you think I've set somebody's house
on fire?--No. Do you think I've stolen somebody's chickens?--No. Nothing
of the sort. I want to know whether you can keep your tongue still. Let
us see. There's the Juno."

"Somebody will see your boat, and know that you have been here--"

"That's my business, not yours. Don't bother your head with what don't
concern you," growled the passenger.

The Juno was afloat, but she could not have been so many minutes, when
Donald came alongside of her. It was now about half tide on the flood,
and she must have grounded at about half tide on the ebb. This fact
indicated that Captain Shivernock had left her at four o'clock in the
morning. The owner of the Juno stepped into her, and Donald hoisted the
sail for him. The boat was cat-rigged, and about twenty-four feet long.
She was a fine craft, with a small cabin forward, furnished with every
convenience the limited space would permit. The captain seated himself
in the standing-room, and began to heap maledictions upon the boat.

"I never will sail in her again," said he. "I will burn her, and get a
centre-board boat."

"What will you take for her, sir?" asked Donald.

"Do you want her, Don John?" demanded the captain.

"I couldn't afford to keep her; but I will sell her for you."

"Sell--" it is no matter what; but Captain Shivernock suddenly leaped
back into Donald's boat, and her skipper wondered what he intended to do
next. "She is yours, Don John!" he exclaimed.

"To sell for you?"

"No! Sell her, if you like, but put the money in your own pocket. I will
sail up in your boat, and you may go to Jerusalem in the Juno, if you
like. I will never get into her again," added the captain, spitefully.

"But, Captain Shivernock, you surely don't mean to give me this boat."

"Do you think I don't know what I mean?" roared the strange man, after a
long string of expletives. "She is yours, now; not mine. I'll give you a
bill of sale as soon as I go ashore. Not another word, or I'll pound
your head. Don't tell anybody I gave her to you, or that you have seen
me. If you do there will be a job for a coffin-maker."

The captain shoved off the boat, and laid her course across the bay,
evidently to avoid Laud Cavendish, whose craft was a mile distant; for
he had probably put in at Searsport. Donald weighed the anchor of the
Juno, and sailed for Turtle Head, hardly knowing whether he was himself
or somebody else, so amazed was he at the strange conduct of his late
passenger. He could not begin to comprehend it, and he did not have to
strain his logic very much in coming to the conclusion that the captain
was insane.




CHAPTER VI.

DONALD GETS THE JOB.


Whether Captain Shivernock was sane or insane, Donald Ramsay was in
possession of the Juno. Of course he did not consider himself the
proprietor of the craft, if he did of the sixty dollars he had in his
pocket. She had the wind over her port quarter, and the boat tore
through the water as if she intended to show her new skipper what she
could do. But Donald paid little attention to the speed of the Juno, for
his attention was wholly absorbed by the remarkable events of the
morning. Captain Shivernock had given him sixty dollars in payment
nominally for the slight service rendered him. But then, the strange man
had given a poor laborer a hundred dollars for stopping his horse, when
the animal leisurely walked towards home from the store where the owner
had left him. Again, he had given a negro sailor a fifty-dollar bill
for sculling him across the river. He had rewarded a small boy with a
ten-dollar bill for bringing him a despatch from the telegraph office.
When the woman who went to his house to do the washing was taken sick,
and was not able to work for three months, he regularly called at her
rooms every Monday morning and gave her ten dollars, which was three
times as much as she ever earned in the same time.

Remembering these instances of the captain's bounty, Donald had no doubt
about the ownership of the sixty dollars in his pocket. The money was
his own; but how had he earned it? Was he paid to keep his tongue still,
or simply for the service performed? If for his silence, what had the
captain done which made him desire to conceal the fact that he had been
to the island? The strange man had explicitly denied having killed,
robbed, or stolen from anybody. All the skipper could make of it was,
that his desire for silence was only a whim of the captain, and he was
entirely willing to accommodate him. If there had been any mischief done
on the island, he should hear of it; and in that event he would take
counsel of some one older and wiser than himself. Then he tried to
satisfy himself as to why the captain had walked at least three miles to
Turtle Head, instead of waiting till the tide floated the Juno. This
appeared to be also a whim of the strange man. People in the city used
to say it was no use to ask the reason for anything that Captain
Shivernock did. His motive in giving Donald sixty dollars and his boat,
which would sell readily for three hundred dollars, and had cost over
five hundred, was utterly unaccountable.

Donald was determined not to do anything wrong, and if the captain had
committed any evil deed, he fully intended to expose him; but he meant
to keep still until he learned that the evil deed had been done. The
money in his pocket, and that for which the Juno could be sold, would be
capital enough to enable him to carry on the business of boat-building.
But he was determined to see Captain Shivernock that very day in regard
to the boat. Perhaps the strange man would give him a job to build a
centre-board yacht, for he wanted one.

"Hallo! Juno, ahoy!" shouted Laud Cavendish.

Donald threw the boat up into the wind, under the stern of Laud's craft.

"I thought you were going down to Camden," said he. "You won't get there
to-day at this rate."

"I forgot some things I wanted, and ran up to Searsport after them. But
what are you doing in the Juno, Don John?"

"She's going to be sold, Laud," replied Donald, dodging the direct
question. "Didn't you say you wanted to buy a boat?"

"I said so; and I want to buy one badly. I'm going to spend my summer on
the water. What does the captain ask for her?"

"I don't know what the price is, but I'll let you know on Monday," added
Donald, as he filled away again, for the yacht fleet was now in sight.

"Hold on a minute, Don John; I want to talk with you about her."

"I can't stop now. I have to go up to the Head and measure the yachts."

"Don't say a word to anybody about my buying her," added Laud.

He was soon out of hearing of Laud's voice. He wondered if the swell
really wished to buy such a boat as the Juno, and could pay three
hundred dollars for her. His father was not a rich man, and he was out
of business himself. And he wanted Donald to keep still too. What motive
had he for wishing his proposition to be kept in the dark? His object
was not apparent, and Donald was obliged to give up the conundrum,
though he had some painful doubts on the subject. As he thought of the
matter, he turned to observe the position of the two boats to the
southward of him. Directly ahead of Laud's craft was an island which he
could not weather, and he was obliged to tack. He could not lay his
course, and he had to take a short and then a long stretch, and he was
now standing across the bay on the short leg. Captain Shivernock had run
over towards the Northport shore, and Donald thought they could not well
avoid coming within hailing distance of each other. But the Juno passed
beyond the north-west point of the island, and he could no longer see
them. He concluded, however, that the captain would not let Laud, or any
one else, see him afloat that day. He was a very strange man.

Donald ran the Juno around the point, and anchored her under the lee of
Turtle Head. The fleet was still a couple of miles distant, and after he
had lowered and secured the mainsail, he had nothing to do but examine
the fine craft which had so strangely come into his possession. He went
into the cuddy forward, and overhauled everything there, till he was
fully qualified to set forth the merits of her accommodations to a
purchaser. The survey was calculated to kindle his own enthusiasm, for
Donald was as fond of boating as any young man in the club. The idea of
keeping the Juno for his own use occurred to him, but he resisted the
temptation, and determined not even to think of such an extravagant
plan.

The yacht fleet was now approaching, the Skylark gallantly leading the
way, and the Christabel, with a reef in her mainsail, bringing up the
rear. The Sea Foam did not seem to hold her own with the Skylark, as she
had done before, but she was the second to drop her anchor under the lee
of Turtle Head.

"I cam glad to see you, Don John," said Commodore Montague, as he
discovered Donald in the Juno. "I was afraid you were not coming, and I
went up to the shop to look for you. But how came you in that boat?"

"She is for sale," replied Donald, as the tender of the Skylark came
alongside the Juno, and he stepped into it. "Do you know of anybody that
wants to buy her?"

"I know three or four who want boats, but I am not sure the Juno would
suit either of them," replied the commodore.

The boat pulled to the shore, and no one asked any more questions about
the Juno, or her late owner. The members of the club on board of the
several yachts landed, and Donald was soon in earnest conversation with
Samuel Rodman.

"What does your father say?" he asked.

"He wants to see you," replied Samuel.

"Does he think I can't do the job?"

"He did not think so at first, but when I told him you would employ one
or two regular ship carpenters, he was satisfied, and I think he will
give you the job."

"I hope he will, and I am sure I can give him as good work as he can get
anywhere."

"I haven't any doubt of it, Don John. But the Sea Foam isn't doing so
well as she did the first day you had her out. The Skylark beats her
every time they sail."

"Ned Patterdale hasn't got the hang of her yet."

"Perhaps not."

"I should like to have Bob Montague sail her, and Ned the Skylark; I
think it would make a difference," added Donald. "Ned does very well,
but a skipper must get used to his boat; and he hasn't had much
experience in yachts as large as the Sea Foam. I spoke to you of a
change in the model for the Maud; and if I'm not greatly mistaken, she
will beat both the Sea Foam and the Skylark."

"I would give all my spending-money for a year, over and above the cost,
if she would do that," replied Rodman, with a snap of the eye.

"Of course I can't promise that she will do it, but I expect she will,"
said Donald.

The club assembled under the trees, and the members were called to order
by the commodore. The first business was to hear the report of the
Regatta Committee, which proved to be a very interesting document to the
yachtmen. The race was to take place the next Saturday, and was open to
all yachts exceeding twenty feet in length, duly entered before the
time. All were to sail in the same class; the first prize was a silver
vase, and the second a marine glass. The course was to be from the
judge's boat, in Belfast harbor, by Turtle Head, around the buoy on
Stubb's Point Ledge, leaving it on the port hand, and back to the
starting-point. The sailing regulations already adopted by the club were
to be in full force. The report was accepted, and the members looked
forward with eager anticipation to what they regarded as the greatest
event of the season. Other business was transacted, and Donald, who had
