freights up a few cents, and explained to the farmers 
along the river the necessity of it, by calling their atten- 
tion to the burdensome rate of wages about to be estab- 
lished. It was a rather slender argument, but the 
farmers did not seem to detect it. It looked reasonable 
to them that to add five cents freight on a bushel of 
corn was justifiable under the circumstances, overlook- 
ing the fact that this advance on a cargo of forty
thousand sacks was a good deal more than necessary to 
cover the new wages. 

So, straightway the captains and owners got up an 
association of their own, and proposed to put captains* 
wages up to five hundred dollars, too, and move for 
another advance in freights. It was a novel idea, but 
of course an effect which had been produced once could 
be produced again. The new association decreed (for 
this was before all the outsiders had been taken into the 
pilots’ association) that if any captain employed a non- 
association pilot, he should be forced to discharge him, 
and also pay a fine of five hundred dollars. Several of 
these heavy fines were paid before the captains* organ- 
ization grew strong enough to exercise full authority 
over its membership; but all that ceased, presently. 
The captains tried to get the pilots to decree that no 
member of their corporation should serve under a non- 
association captain; but this proposition was declined. 
The pilots saw that they would be backed up by the 
captains and the underwriters anyhow, and so they 
wisely refrained from entering into entangling alliances. 

As I have remarked, the pilots’ association was now 
the compactest monopoly in the world, perhaps, and 
seemed simply indestructible. And yet the days of its 
glory were numbered. First, the new railroad, stretch- 
ing up through Mississippi, Tennessee, and Kentucky, 
to Northern railway centers, began to divert the 
passenger travel from the steamboats; next the war 
came and almost entirely annihilated the steamboating 
industry during several years, leaving most of the 
pilots idle and the cost of living advancing all the time ; 
then the treasurer of the St. Louis association put his 
hand into the till and walked off with every dollar of 
the ample fund ; and finally, the railroads intruding 
everywhere, there was little for steamers to do, when 
the war was over, but carry freights ; so straightway 
some genius from the Atlantic coast introduced the 
plan of towing a dozen steamer cargoes down to New 
Orleans at the tail of a vulgar little tug-boat ; and be- 
hold, in the twinkling of an eye, as it were, the associa- 
tion and the noble science of piloting were things of 
the dead and pathetic past ! 



CHAPTER XVI. 

RACING DAYS 

IT was always the custom for the boats to leave New 
Orleans between four and five o’clock in the after- 
noon. From three o’clock onward they would be 
burning rosin and pitch-pine (the sign of preparation) , 
and so one had the picturesque spectacle of a rank, 
some two or three miles long, of tall, ascending col- 
umns of coal-black smoke ; a colonnade which sup- 
ported a sable roof of the same smoke blended together 
and spreading abroad over the city. Every outward- 
bound boat had its flag flying at the jack-staff, and 
sometimes a duplicate on the verge- staff astern. Two 
or three miles of mates were commanding and swear- 
ing with more than usual emphasis : countless proces- 
sions of freight barrels and boxes were spinning athwart 
the levee and flying aboard the stage-planks ; belated pas- 
sengers were dodging and skipping among these frantic 
things, hoping to reach the forecastle companion-way 
alive, but having their doubts about it; women with 
reticules and bandboxes were trying to keep up with 
husbands freighted with carpet-sacks and crying babies, 
and making a failure of it by losing their heads in the 
whirl and roar and general distraction ; drays and 
baggage-vans were clattering hither and thither in a 
wild hurry, every now and then getting blocked and 
jammed together, and then during ten seconds one 
could not see them for the profanity, except vaguely 
and dimly ; every windlass connected with every fore- 
hatch, from one end of that long array of steamboats to 
the other, was keeping up a deafening whiz and whir, 
lowering freight into the hold, and the half-naked crews 
of perspiring negroes that worked them were roaring 
such songs as “ De Las’ Sack! De Las’ Sack!” — 
inspired to unimaginable exaltation by the chaos of 
turmoil and racket that was driving everybody else 
mad. By this time the hurricane and boiler decks of 
the steamers would be packed black with passengers. 
The “last bells” would begin to clang, all down the 
line, and then the powwow seemed to double ; in a mo- 
ment or two the final warning came — a simultaneous 
din of Chinese gongs, with the cry, “All dat ain’t 
goin’, please to git asho’ !” — and behold the powwow 
quadrupled ! People came swarming ashore, overturn- 
ing excited stragglers that were trying to swarm 
aboard. One more moment later a long array of 
stage-planks was being hauled in, each with its cus- 
tomary latest passenger clinging to the end of it with 
teeth, mails, and everything else, and the customary 
latest procrastinator making a wild spring shoreward 
over his head. 

Now a number of the boats slide backward into the 
stream, leaving wide gaps in the serried rank of steam- 
ers. Citizens crowd the decks of boats that are not to 
go, in order to see the sight. Steamer after steamer 
straightens herself up, gathers all her strength, and 
presently comes swinging by, under a tremendous head 
of steam, with flag flying, black smoke rolling, and 
her entire crew of firemen and deck-hands (usually 
swarthy negroes) massed together on the forecastle, 
the best “voice” in the lot towering from the midst 
(being mounted on the capstan), waving his hat or a 
flag, and all roaring a mighty chorus, while the parting 
cannons boom and the multitudinous spectators wave 
their hats and huzza ! Steamer after steamer falls into 
line, and the stately procession goes winging its flight 
up the river. 

In the old times, whenever two fast boats started out 
on a race, with a big crowd of people looking on, it 
was inspiring to hear the crews sing, especially if the 
time were nightfall, and the forecastle lit up with the 
red glare of the torch-baskets. Racing was royal fun. 
The public always had an idea that racing was dangerous 
; whereas the opposite was the case — that is, after 
the laws were passed which restricted each boat to just 
so many pounds of steam to the square inch. No 
engineer was ever sleepy or careless when his heart was 
in a race. He was constantly on the alert, trying gauge- 
cocks and watching things. The dangerous place was 
on slow, plodding boats, where the engineers drowsed 
around and allowed chips to get into the “doctor 
and shut off the water-supply from the boilers. 

In the “flush times’ ’ of steamboating, a race be- 
tween two notoriously fleet steamers was an event of 
vast importance. The date was set for it several weeks 
in advance, and from that time forward the whole Mis- 
sissippi Valley was in a state of consuming excitement. 
Politics and the weather were dropped, and people 
talked only of the coming race. As the time ap- 
proached, the two steamers “ stripped “ and got ready. 
Every incumbrance that added weight, or exposed a 
resisting surface to wind or water, was removed, if the 
boat could possibly do without it. The “ spars  * and 
sometimes even their supporting derricks, were sent 
ashore, and no means left to set the boat afloat in case 
she got aground. When the Eclipse and the A. L. 
Shotwell ran their great race many years ago, it was 
said that pains were taken to scrape the gilding off the 
fanciful device which hung between the Eclipse’s 
chimneys, and that for that one trip the captain left off 
his kid gloves and had his head shaved. But I always 
doubted these things. 

If the boat was known to make her best speed when 
drawing five and a half feet forward and five feet aft, 
she carefully loaded to that exact figure — she wouldn’t 
enter a dose of homoeopathic pills on her manifest after 
that. Hardly any passengers were taken, because they 
not only add weight but they never will ” trim boat.” 
They always run to the side when there is anything to 
see, whereas a conscientious and experienced steam- 
boatman would stick to the center of the boat and part 
his hair in the middle with a spirit level. 

No way-freights and no way-passengers were allowed, 
for the racers would stop only at the largest towns, and 
then it would be only ‘‘touch and go.” Coal-flats 
and wood-flats were contracted for beforehand, and 
these were kept ready to hitch on to the flying steamers 
at a moment’s warning. Double crews were carried, 
so that all work could be quickly done. 

The chosen date being come, and all things in readi- 
ness, the two great steamers back into the stream, and 
lie there jockeying a moment, apparently watching 
each other’s slightest movement, like sentient creatures ; 
flags drooping, the pent steam shrieking through 
safety-valves, the black smoke rolling and tumbling 
from the chimneys and darkening all the air. People, 
people everywhere; the shores, the house-tops, the 
steamboats, the ships, are packed with them, and you 
know that the borders of the broad Mississippi are 
going to be fringed with humanity thence northward 
twelve hundred miles, to welcome these racers. 

Presently tall columns of steam burst from the 
’scape-pipes of both steamers, two guns boom a good- 
by, two red-shirted heroes mounted on capstans wave 
their small flags above the massed crews on the fore- 
castles, two plaintive solos linger on the air a 
few waiting seconds, two mighty choruses burst forth — and 
here they come! Brass bands bray “ Hail Columbia, ” 
huzza after huzza thunders from the shores, and the 
stately creatures go whistling by like the wind. 

Those boats will never halt a moment between New 
Orleans and St. Louis, except for a second or two at 
large towns, or to hitch thirty-cord wood-boats along- 
side. You should be on board when they take a 
couple of those wood-boats in tow and turn a swarm 
of men into each ; by the time you have wiped your 
glasses and put them on, you will be wondering what 
has become of that wood. 

Two nicely-matched steamers will stay in sight of 
each other day after day. They might even stay side 
by side, but for the fact that pilots are not all alike, 
and the smartest pilots will win the race. If one of 
the boats has a “lightning” pilot, whose “partner” 
is a trifle his inferior, you can tell which one is on 
watch by noting whether that boat has gained ground 
or lost some during each four-hour stretch. The 
shrewdest pilot can delay a boat if he has not a fine 
genius for steering. Steering is a very high art. One 
must not keep a rudder dragging across a boat’s stern 
if he wants to get up the river fast. 

There is a great difference in boats, of course. For 
a long time I was on a boat that was so slow we used 
to forget what year it was we left port in. But of 
course this was at rare intervals. Ferry-boats used to 
lose valuable trips because their passengers grew old 
and died, waiting for us to get by. This was at still 
rarer intervals. I had the documents for these occur- 
rences, but through carelessness they have been mis- 
laid. This boat, the John J. Roe , was so slow that 
when she finally sunk in Madrid Bend it was five years 
before the owners heard of it. That was always a 
confusing fact to me, but it is according to the record, 
anyway. She was dismally slow; still, we often had 
pretty exciting times racing with islands, and rafts, and 
such things. One trip, however, we did rather well. 
We went to St. Louis in sixteen days. But even at 
this rattling gait I think we changed watches three 
times in Fort Adams reach, which is five miles long. 
A 14 reach*  is a piece of straight river, and of course 
the current drives through such a place in a pretty 
lively way. 

That trip we went to Grand Gulf, from New Orleans, 
in four days (three hundred and forty miles) ; the 
Eclipse and Shotwell did it in one. We were nine 
days out, in the chute of 63 (seven hundred miles) ; 
the Eclipse and Shotwell went there in two days. 
Something over a generation ago, a boat called the 
J. M. White went from New Orleans to Cairo in three 
days, six hours, and forty-four minutes. In 1853 the 
Eclipse made the same trip in. three days, three hours, 
and twenty minutes.* In 1870 the R . E . Lee did it in 
three days and one hour. This last is called the fastest 
trip on record. I will try to show that it was not. 
For this reason: the distance between New Orleans 
and Cairo, when the J . M. White ran it, was about 
eleven hundred and six miles ; consequently her aver- 
age speed was a trifle over fourteen miles per hour. 
In the Eclipse' $ day the distance between the two ports 
had become reduced to one thousand and eighty miles ; 
consequently her average speed was a shade under 
fourteen and three-eighths miles per hour. In the 
R* E. Lee's time the distance had diminished to about 
one thousand and thirty miles ; consequently her aver- 
age was about fourteen and one-eighth miles per hour. 
Therefore the Eclipse' s was conspicuously the fastest 
time that has ever been made. 

Time disputed. Some authorities add 1 hour and 16 minutes to this. 

THE RECORD OF SOME FAMOUS TRIPS, 

[From Commodore Rolling-pin's Almanac .] 

FAST TIME ON THE WESTERN WATERS. 
FROM NEW ORLEANS TO NATCHEZ — 268 MILES 


MISCELLANEOUS RUNS. 

In June, 1859, the St. Louis and Keokuk Packet, City of Louisiana, made the run 
from St. Louis to Keokuk (214 miles) in 16 hours and 20 minutes, the best time on 
record. 

In 1868 the steamer Hawkeye State, of the Northern Line Packet Company, 
made the run from St. Louis to St. Paul (800 miles) in 2 days and 20 hours. Never 
was beaten. 

In 1853 the steamer Polar Star made the run from St. Louis to St. Joseph, on the 
Missouri River, in 64 hours. In July, 1856, the steamer Jas. H. Lucas, Andy Wine- 
land, Master, made the same run in 60 hours and 57 minutes. The distance between 
the ports is 600 miles, and when the difficulties of navigating the turbulent Missouri 
are taken into consideration, the performance of the Lucas deserves especial men- 
tion. 

THE RUN OF THE ROBERT E. LEE. 


The time made by the R. E. Lee from New Orleans to St. Louis in 1870, in her 
famous race with the Natchez, is the best on record, and, inasmuch as the race 
created a national interest, we give below her time-table from port to port. 

Left New Orleans, Thursday, June 30, 1870, at 4 o’clock and 55 minutes, p. m.: 
reached 


. The Lee landed at St. Louis at 11.25 a.m., on July 4, 1870 — six hours and thirty- 
six minutes ahead of the Natchez. The officers of the Natchez claimed seven hours 
and one minute stoppage on account of fog and repairing machinery. The R. E. 
Lee was commanded by Captafci John W. Cannon, and the Natchez was in charge 
of that veteran Southern boatman, Captain Thomas P. Leathers. 

CHAPTER XVII. 

CUT-OFFS AND STEPHEN 

THESE dry details are of importance in one particu- 
lar. They give me an opportunity of introducing 
one of the Mississippi's oddest peculiarities — that of 
shortening its length from time to time. If you will 
throw a long, pliant apple-paring over your shoulder, 
it will pretty fairly shape itself into an average section 
of the Mississippi River; that is, the nine or ten hun- 
dred miles stretching from Cairo, 111., southward to 
New Orleans, the same being wonderfully crooked, 
with a brief straight bit here and there at wide inter- 
vals. The two-hundred-mile stretch from Cairo north- 
ward to St. Louis is by no means so crooked, that 
being a rocky country which the river cannot cut much 
The water cuts the alluvial banks of the  ‘ lower '  
river into deep horseshoe curves; so deep, indeed, 
that in some places if you were to get ashore at one 
extremity of the horseshoe and walk across the neck, 
half or three-quarters of a mile, you could sit down 
and rest a couple of hours while your steamer wan- 
coming around the long elbow at a speed of ten miles 
an hour to take you on board again. When the river 
is rising fast, some scoundrel whose plantation is back 
in the country, and therefore of inferior value, has 
only to watch his chance, cut a little gutter across the 
narrow neck of land some dark night, and turn the 
water into it, and in a wonderfully short time a miracle 
has happened : to wit, the whole Mississippi has taken 
possession of that little ditch, and placed the countryman’s 
plantation on its bank (quadrupling its value), 
and that other party’s formerly valuable plantation 
finds itself away out yonder on a big island ; the old 
watercourse around it will soon shoal up, boats cannot 
approach within ten miles of it, and down goes its 
value to a fourth of its former worth. Watches are 
kept on those narrow necks at needful times, and if a 
man happens to be caught cutting a ditch across them, 
the chances are all against his ever having another op- 
portunity to cut a ditch. 

Pray observe some of the effects of this ditching 
business. Once there was a neck opposite Port Hud- 
son, La., which was only half a mile across in its 
narrowest place. You could walk across there in 
fifteen minutes ; but if you made the journey around 
the cape on a raft, you traveled thirty-five miles to 
accomplish the same thing. In 1722 the river darted 
through that neck, deserted its old bed, and thus 
shortened itself thirty-five miles. In the same way it 
shortened itself twenty-five miles at Black Hawk Point 
in 1699. Below Red River Landing, Raccourci cut-off 
was made (forty or fifty years ago, I think). This 
shortened the river twenty-eight miles. In our day, if 
you travel by river from the southernmost of these 
three cut-offs to the northernmost, you go only seventy 
miles. To do the same thing a hundred and seventy- 
six years ago, one had to go a hundred and fifty-eight 
miles — a shortening of eighty-eight miles in that 
trifling distance. At some forgotten time in the past, 
cut-offs were made above Vidalia, La., at Island 92, 
at Island 84, and at Hale’s Point. These shortened 
the river, in the aggregate, seventy-seven miles. 

Since my own day on the Mississippi, cut-offs have 
been made at Hurricane Island, at Island ioo, at 
Napoleon, Ark., at Walnut Bend, and at Council 
Bend. These shortened the river, in the aggregate, 
sixty-seven miles. In my own time a cut-off was made 
at American Bend, which shortened the river ten miles 
or more. 

Therefore the Mississippi between Cairo and New 
Orleans was twelve hundred and fifteen miles long one 
hundred and seventy-six years ago. It was eleven 
hundred and eighty after the cut-off of 1722. It was 
one thousand and forty after the American Bend cut- 
off. It has lost sixty-seven miles since. Consequently, 
its length is only nine hundred and seventy-three miles 
at present. 

Now, if I wanted to be one of those ponderous 
scientific people, and “let on” to prove what had 
occurred in the remote past by what had occurred in a 
given time in the recent past, or what will occur in the 
far future by what has occurred in late years, what an 
opportunity is here! Geology never had such a 
chance, nor such exact data to argue from ! Nor 
“development of species,’ ’ either! Glacial epochs are 
great things, but they are vague — vague. Please 
observe : 

In the space of one hundred and seventy-six years 
the Lower Mississippi has shortened itself two hundred 
and forty-two miles. That is an average of a trifle over 
one mile and a third per year. Therefore, any calm 
person, who is not blind or idiotic, can see that in the 
Old Oolitic Silurian Period, just a million years ago 
next November, the Lower Mississippi River was up- 
ward of one million three hundred thousand miles 
long, and stuck out over the Gulf of Mexico like a 
fishing-rod. And by the same token any person can 
see that seven hundred and forty-two years from now 
the Lower Mississippi will be only a mile and three- 
quarters long, and Cairo and New Orleans will have 
joined their streets together, and be plodding comfort- 
ably along under a single mayor and a mutual board of 
aldermen. There is something fascinating about 
science. One gets such wholesale returns of conjec- 
ture out of such a trifling investment of fact. 

When the water begins to flow through one of those 
ditches I have been speaking of, it is time for the peo- 
ple thereabouts to move. The water cleaves the banks 
away like a knife. By the time the ditch has become 
twelve or fifteen feet wide, the calamity is as good as 
accomplished, for no power on earth can stop it now. 
When the width has reached a hundred yards, the 
banks begin to peel off in slices half an acre wide. 
The current flowing around the bend traveled formerly 
only five miles an hour ; now it is tremendously in- 
creased by the shortening of the distance. I was on 
board the first boat that tried to go through the cut-off 
at American Bend, but we did not get through. It 
was toward midnight, and a wild night it was — 
thunder, lightning, and torrents of rain. It was esti- 
mated that the current in the cut-off was making about 
fifteen or twenty miles an hour ; twelve or thirteen was 
the best our boat could do, even in tolerably slack 
water, therefore perhaps we were foolish to try the 
cut-off. However, Mr. Brown was ambitious, and he 
kept on trying. The eddy running up the bank, under 
the “ point,” was about as swift as the current out in 
the middle ; so we would go flying up the shore like a 
lightning express train, get on a big head of steam, 
and “ stand by for a surge ” when we struck the cur- 
rent that was whirling by the point. But all our 
preparations were useless. The instant the current 
hit us it spun us around like a top, the water deluged 
the forecastle, and the boat careened so far over that 
one could hardly keep his feet. The next instant we 
were away down the river, clawing with might and 
main to keep out of the woods. We tried the experi- 
ment four times. I stood on the forecastle companion- 
way to see. It was astonishing to observe how sud- 
denly the boat would spin around and turn tail the 
moment she emerged from the eddy and the current 
struck her nose. The sounding concussion and the 
quivering would have been about the same if she had 
come full speed against a sand-bank. Under the 
lightning flashes one could see the plantation cabins 
and the goodly acres tumble into the river, and the 
crash they made was not a bad effort at thunder. 
Once, when we spun around, we only missed a house 
about twenty feet that had a light burning in the 
window, and in the same instant that house went over- 
board. Nobody could stay on our forecastle; the 
water swept across it in a torrent every time we 
plunged athwart the current. At the end of our 
fourth effort we brought up in the woods two miles 
below the cut-off; all the country there was over- 
flowed, of course. A day or two later the cut-off was 
three quarters of a mile wide, and boats passed up 
through it without much difficulty, and so saved ten 
miles. 

The old Raccourci cut-off reduced the river’s length 
twenty-eight miles. There used to be a tradition 
connected with it. It was said that a boat came along 
there in the night and went around the enormous 
elbow the usual way, the pilots not knowing that the 
cut-off had been made. It was a grisly, hideous 
night, and all shapes were vague and distorted. The 
old bend had already begun to fill up, and the boat 
got to running away from mysterious reefs, and occa- 
sionally hitting one. The perplexed pilots fell to 
swearing, and finally uttered the entirely unnecessary 
wish that they might never get out of that place. As 
always happens in such cases, that particular prayer was 
answered, and the others neglected. So to this day 
that phantom steamer is still butting around in that 
deserted river, trying to find her way out. More than 
one grave watchman has sworn to me that on drizzly,' 
dismal nights, he has glanced fearfully down that for- 
gotten river as he passed the head of the island, and 
seen the faint glow of the specter steamer’s lights drift- 
ing through the distant gloom, and heard the muffled 
cough of her ’scape-pipes and the plaintive cry of her 
leadsmen. 

In the absence of further statistics, I beg to close 
this chapter with one more reminiscence of “ Stephen.” 

Most of the captains and pilots held Stephen’s note 
for borrowed sums, ranging from two hundred and fifty 
dollars upward. Stephen never paid one of these 
notes, but. he was very prompt and very zealous about 
renewing them every twelve months. 

Of course there came a time, at last, when Stephen 
could no longer borrow of his ancient creditors ; so he 
was obliged to lie in wait for new men who did not 
know him. Such a victim was good-hearted, simple- 
natured Young Yates (I use a fictitious name, but 
the real name began, as this one does, with a Y). 
Young Yates graduated as a pilot, got a berth, and 
when the month was ended and he stepped up to the 
clerk’s office and received his two hundred and fifty 
dollars in crisp new bills, Stephen was there! His 
silvery tongue began to wag, and in a very little while 
Yates’ two hundred and fifty dollars had changed 
hands. The fact was soon known at pilot headquarters, 
and the amusement and satisfaction of the old creditors 
were large and generous. But innocent Yates never 
suspected that Stephen’s promise to pay promptly at 
the end of the week was a worthless one. Yates 
called for his money at the stipulated time; Stephen 
sweetened him up and put him off a week. He called 
then, according to agreement, and came away sugar- 
coated again, but suffering under another postpone- 
ment. So the thing went on. Yates haunted Stephen 
week after week, to no purpose, and at last gave it up. 
And then straightway Stephen began to haunt Yates! 
Wherever Yates appeared, there was the inevitable 
Stephen. And not only there, but beaming with affec- 
tion and gushing with apologies for not being able to 
pay. By and by, whenever poor Yates saw him com- 
ing, he would turn and fly, and drag his company with 
him, if he had company; but it was of no use; his 
debtor would run him down and corner him. Panting 
and red-faced, Stephen would come, with outstretched 
hands and eager eyes, invade the conversation, shake 
both of Yates’ arms loose in their sockets, and begin : 

“ My, what a race I’ve had ! I saw you didn’t see 
me, and so I clapped on all steam for fear I’d miss 
you entirely. And here you are ! there, just stand 
so, and let me look at you ! Just the same old noble 
countenance. [To Yates’ friend :] Just look at him ! 
Look at him ! Ain’t it just good to look at him ! 
Ain't it now? Ain't he just a picture! Some call 
him a picture; I call him a panorama! That’s what 
he is — an entire panorama. And now I’m reminded ! 
How I do wish I could have seen you an hour earlier ! 
For twenty-four hours I’ve been saving up that two 
hundred and fifty dollars for you ; been looking for 
you everywhere. I waited at the Planter’s from six 
yesterday evening till two o’clock this morning, with- 
out rest or food. My wife says, ‘Where have you 
been all night?’ I said, ‘ This debt lies heavy on my 
mind.’ She says, * In all my days I never saw a man 
take a debt to heart the way you do.’ I said, ‘It’s 
my nature; how can  change it?’ She says, ‘Well, 
do go to bed and get some rest.’ I said, ‘ Not till 
that poor, noble young man has got his money.
I set up all night, and this morning out I shot, and 
the first man I struck told me you had shipped on the 
Grand Turk and gone to New Orleans. Well, sir, I 
had to lean up against a building and cry. So help 
me goodness, I couldn’t help it. The man that owned 
the place come out cleaning up with a rag, and said he 
didn’t like to have people cry against his building, and 
then it seemed to me that the whole world had turned 
against me, and it wasn’t any use to live any more; 
and coming along an hour ago, suffering no man knows 
what agony, I met Jim Wilson and paid him the two 
hundred and fifty dollars on account; and to think 
that here you are, now, and I haven’t got a cent! 
But as sure as I am standing here on this ground on 
this particular brick, — there, I’ve scratched a mark on 
the brick to remember it by, — I’ll borrow that money 
and pay it over to you at twelve o’clock sharp, to- 
morrow! Now, stand so; let me look at you just 
once more.” 

And so on. Yates* life became a burden to him. 
He could not escape his debtor and his debtor’s awful 
sufferings on account of not being able to pay. He 
dreaded to show himself in the street, lest he should 
find Stephen lying in wait for him at the corner. 

Bogart’s billiard saloon was a great resort for pilots 
in those days. They met there about as much to ex- 
change river news as to play. One morning Yates was 
there; Stephen was there, too, but kept out of sight. 
But by and by, when about all the pilots had arrived 
who were in town, Stephen suddenly appeared in the 
midst, and rushed for Yates as for a long-lost brother. 

“ Oh , I am so glad to see you! Oh my soul, the 
sight of you is such a comfort to my eyes ! Gentle- 
men, I owe all of you money; among you I owe 
probably forty thousand dollars. I want to pay it; I 
intend to pay it — every last cent of it. You all know, 
without my telling you, what sorrow it has cost me to 
remain so long under such deep obligations to such 
patient and generous friends ; but the sharpest pang I 
suffer — by far the sharpest — is from the debt I owe 
to this noble young man here ; and I have come to 
this place this morning especially to make the an- 
nouncement that I have at last found a method where- 
by I can pay off all my debts ! And most especially I 
wanted him to be here when I announced it. Yes, my 
faithful friend, my benefactor, I’ve found the method! 
I’ve found the method to pay off all my debts, and 
you’ll get your money!’’ Hope dawned in Yates’ 
eye; then Stephen, beaming benignantly, and placing 
his hand upon Yates’ head, added, “I am going to 
pay them off in alphabetical order!” 

Then he turned and disappeared. The full signifi- 
cance of Stephen’s ” method ” did not dawn upon the 
perplexed and musing crowd for some two minutes; 
and then Yates murmured with a sigh : 

“Well, the Y’s stand a gaudy chance. He won’t 
get any further than the C’s in this world, and I 
reckon that after a good deal of eternity has wasted 
away in the next one, I’ll still be referred to up there 
as ‘ that poor, ragged pilot that came here from St. 
Louis in the early days ! ’ ” 



CHAPTER XVIII. 


I TAKE A FEW EXTRA LESSONS 

DURING the two or two and a half years of my 
apprenticeship I served under many pilots, and 
had experience of many kinds of steamboatmen and 
many varieties of steamboats; for it was not always 
convenient for Mr. Bixby to have me with him, and in 
such cases he sent me with somebody else. I am to 
this day profiting somewhat by that experience ; for in 
that brief, sharp schooling, I got personally and 
familiarly acquainted with about all the different types 
of human nature that are to be found in fiction, 
biography, or history. The fact is daily borne in 
upon me that the average shore-employment requires 
as much as forty years to equip a man with this sort 
of an education. When I say I am still profiting by 
this thing, I do not mean that it has constituted me a 
judge of men — no, it has not done that, for judges of 
men are born, not made. My profit is various in kind 
and degree, but the feature of it which I value most is 
the zest which that early experience has given to my 
later reading. When I find a well-drawn character in 
fiction or biography I generally take a warm personal 
interest in him, for the reason that I have known him 
before — met him on the river. 

The figure that comes before me oftenest, out of the 
shadows of that vanished time, is that of Brown, of the 
steamer Pennsylvania — the man referred to in a 
former chapter, whose memory was so good and tire- 
some. He was a middle-aged, long, slim, bony, 
smooth-shaven, horse-faced, ignorant, stingy, mali- 
cious, snarling, fault-hunting, mote-magnifying tyrant. 
I early got the habit of coming on watch with dread 
at my heart. No matter how good a time I might 
have been having with the off-watch below, and no 
matter how high my spirits might be when I started 
aloft, my soul became lead in my body the moment I 
approached the pilot-house. 

I still remember the first time I ever entered the 
presence of that man. The boat had backed out from 
St. Louis and was “ straightening down.” I ascended 
to the pilot-house in high feather, and very proud to 
be semi-officially a member of the executive family of 
so fast and famous a boat. Brown was at the wheel. 
I paused in the middle of the room, all fixed to make 
my bow, but Brown did not look around. I thought 
he took a furtive glance at me out of the corner of his 
eye, but as not even this notice was repeated, I judged 
I had been mistaken. By this time he was picking his 
way among some dangerous “breaks” abreast the 
wood-yards ; therefore it would not be' proper to inter- 
rupt him ; so I stepped softly to the high bench and 
took a seat. 

There was silence for ten minutes; then my new 
boss turned and inspected me deliberately and pains- 
takingly from head to heel for about — as it seemed to 
me — a quarter of an hour. After which he removed 
his countenance and I saw it no more for some 
seconds; then it came around once more, and this 
question greeted me : 

“Are you Horace Bigsby’s cub ? '' 

“Yes, sir” 

After this there was a pause and another inspection. 
-Then; 

" What's your name?" 

I told him. He repeated it after me. It was 
probably the only thing he ever forgot ; for although 
I was with him many months he never addressed him- 
self to me in any other way than " Here!" and then 
his command followed. 

“ Where was you born?" 

‘ In Florida, Missouri." 

A pause. Then : 

“ Dern sight better stayed there !" 

By means of a dozen or so of pretty direct ques- 
tions, he pumped my family history out of me. 

The leads were going now in the first crossing. This 
interrupted the inquest. When the leads had been laid 
in he resumed : 

" How long you been on the river?" 

I told him. After a pause: 

" Where’ d you get them shoes?" 

I gave him the information. 

" Hold up your foot!" 

I did so. He stepped back, examined the shoe 
minutely and contemptuously, scratching his head 
thoughtfully, tilting his high sugar-loaf hat well for- 
ward to facilitate the operation, then ejaculated, 
"Well, I’ll be dod derned!" and returned to his 
wheel. 

What occasion there was to be dod derned about it 
is a thing which is still as much of a mystery to me 
now as it was then. It must have been all of fifteen 
minutes — fifteen minutes of dull, homesick silence — 
before that long horse-face swung round upon me 
again — and then what . a change ! It was as red as 
fire, and every muscle in it was working. Now came 
this shriek: 

" Here ! You going to set there all day?" 

I lit in the middle of the floor, shot there by the 
electric suddenness of the surprise. As soon as I 
could get my voice I said apologetically: “ I have had 
no orders, sir." 

“ You’ve had no orders ! My, what a fine bird we 
are ! We must have orders ! Our father was a gentle - 
man — owned slaves — and we've been to school . Yes, 
we are a gentleman, too y and got to have orders! 
ORDERS, is it? ORDERS is what you want! Dod 
dern my skin, 77 learn you to swell yourself up and 
blow around here about your dod-derned orders ! 
G’way from the wheel !” (I had approached it with- 
out knowing it.) 

I moved back a step or two and stood as in a dream, 
all my senses stupefied by this frantic assault. 

“What you standing there for? Take that ice- 
pitcher down to the texas-tender ! Come, move, along, 
and don’t you be all day about it!” 

The moment I got back to the pilot-house Brown 
said : 

“ Here! What was you doing down there all this 
time?” 

“I couldn’t find the texas-tender; I had to go all 
the way to the pantry.” 
