city?"
"No; but I am staying with some friends on Fourteenth Street."
"Not far from Cooper Institute, then."
"No, I can easily find it."
They said good-by; and Charlie threaded her way up to City Hall with a
heart as light as thistle-down, quite forgetting that she had missed
her dinner. Then, by car, she went up to Cooper Institute.
And now what was she to do? I told you that Charlie had a great deal of
courage and perseverance. And then she was so earnest in this quest!
She inquired in a china-store, and was directed up stairs.
It was very odd indeed. First she stumbled into a reading-room, and was
guided from thence to the art-gallery by a boy. The pictures amused
and interested her for quite a while. One lady and two gentlemen were
making copies.
By and by she summoned courage to ask the lady which was the school, or
study-room.
"School of Design?"
"Yes," timidly.
"It is closed."
Charlie's countenance fell.
"When will it be open?"
"About the first of October."
The child gave a great sigh of disappointment.
"Were you thinking of entering?"
"I wanted to see--if I could."
"Have you painted any?"
"No: but I have been drawing a little."
"You are rather young, I think."
Then the lady went on with her work. Charlie turned away with tears in
her eyes. A whole month to wait!
Mrs. Wilcox plied her with questions on her return, but Charlie was not
communicative.
After a night's rest she felt quite courageous again. She would see
what could be done about engraving.
Poor Charlie! There were no bright spots in this day. Everybody seemed
cross and in a hurry. One man said coarsely,--
"You needn't tell me you did them things by yourself. You took 'em from
some picturs."
So she came home tired and dispirited. Mary Jane had a crowd of gay
company in the evening, and Charlie slipped off to bed. Oh, if she
could only give Dot a good hug, and kiss Hal's pale face, and hear
Granny's cracked voice! Even the horrible tuning of Kit's fiddle would
sound sweet. But to be here,--among strangers,--and not be able to make
her plans work.
Charlie turned her face over on the pillow, and had a good cry. After
all, there never could be anybody in this world half so sweet as "The
old woman who lived in a shoe!"
On Wednesday it rained. Charlie was positively glad to have a good
excuse for staying within doors. She helped Mrs. Wilcox with her
sewing, and told her every thing she could remember about the people at
Madison.
"How strange it must look,--and a railroad through the middle of it!
There wa'n't no mills in my time, either. And rows of houses, Mary Jane
said. She'd never 'a' known the place if it hadn't been for the folks.
Dear, dear!"
Mary Jane came home in high feather that night.
"I found they were taking on some girls to-day, Charlie; and I spoke
a good word for you. You can come next Monday. I don't believe you'll
make out much with the pictures."
"You were very good;" but Charlie's lip quivered a little.
"It will be ever so nice to have company up and down! and you'll like
it, I'm sure."
Mary Jane, being of a particularly discursive nature, was delighted to
have a constant listener.
"Well, that was better than nothing," Charlie thought. She might work
a while, and perhaps learn something more definite about the School of
Design.
"For I'll never give it up, never!" and Charlie set her resolute red
lips together, while her eyes glanced into the future.
The following morning was so lovely, that she felt as if she must have
a walk. She put on her white dress and sacque, and looked as fresh as
a rose. She would go over on Broadway, where every thing was clean and
lovely, and have a delightful time looking at the shop-windows and the
beautiful ladies.
It was foolish to take her pictures along, and yet she did it. They
really appeared a part of her life. On and on she sauntered, enjoying
every thing with the keenest relish. The mellow sun, the refreshing
air that had in it a crisp flavor, the cloudless sky overhead, and the
bright faces around, made her almost dance with gladness.
She stood for a long while viewing some chromos in a window,--two or
three of children, which were very piquant and amusing, and appealed
to her love of fun. Obeying her impulse she entered, and stole timidly
around. Two gentlemen were talking, and one of the faces pleased her
exceedingly. A large, fair, fresh-complexioned man, with curly brown
hair, and a patriarchal beard, snowy white, though he did not appear
old.
A young fellow came to her presently, and asked if there was any thing
he could show her.
"I should like to see the gentleman--when he is--disengaged."
That speech would have done credit to Florence.
The youth carried the message, and the proprietor glanced around. Not
the one with the beautiful beard, and Charlie felt rather disappointed.
They talked a while longer, then he came forward.
"You wished to see me?"
Charlie turned scarlet to the tips of her fingers, and stammered
something in an absurdly incoherent fashion.
"Oh! you did not interrupt me--particularly," and he smiled kindly.
"What can I do for you?"
"Will you tell me--who made the first design--for--those pictures in
the window,--the children, I mean?"
"Different artists. Two, I think, are by ladies."
"And how did they get to do it? I mean, after they made the sketch, who
painted it?"
"Those are from the original paintings. The artist had the thought, and
embodied it in a sketch."
"But suppose no one wanted to buy it?"
"That has happened;" and he smiled again. "Why? Have you been trying
your hand at pictures?"
"Yes," answered Charlie in great doubt and perplexity. "Only mine are
done in pencil. If you would look at them."
Charlie's eyes were so beseeching, that he could not resist.
She opened her small portfolio,--Hal's handiwork. The gentleman glanced
over two or three.
"Did you do these yourself?"
"Yes;" and Charlie wondered that she should be asked the question so
frequently.
"Who taught you?"
"My brother, a little; but I think it comes natural," said Charlie in
her earnestness, knowing no reason why she should not tell the truth.
"Darol, here is a genius for you!" he exclaimed, going back to his
friend.
Charlie watched them with throbbing heart and bated breath. She was
growing very sensitive.
"That child!" "Come here, little girl, will you?" said Mr. Darol,
beckoning her towards them.
"Who put the faces in these?"
"I did;" and the downcast lids trembled perceptibly.
"How long have you been studying?"
"Oh! I could always do that," answered Charlie. "I used to in school.
And some of them are just what did happen."
"This,--Mr. Kettleman's troubles?" and he scrutinized her earnestly.
"There was a man working in the mill whose name was Kettleman, and he
always carried a dinner-kettle. But I thought up the adventures myself."
Charlie uttered this very modestly, and yet in a quiet, straightforward
manner, that bore the impress of sincerity.
The first picture was Mr. Kettleman purchasing his kettle. A scene
in a tin-shop; the seller a round, jolly fellow, about the shape of
a beer-cask; and Mr. Kettleman tall and thin, with a long nose, long
fingers, and long legs. He was saying, "Will it hold enough?" The faces
were capital.
In the second Mrs. Kettleman was putting up her husband's dinner. There
were piles and piles of goodies; and his cadaverous face was bent over
the mass, the lips slightly parted, the nose longer than ever, and
asking solemnly, "Can you get it all in, Becky?"
The third showed a group of laughing men round a small table, which was
spread with different articles. One fellow held the pail up-side-down,
saying, "The last crumb." The head of Mr. Kettleman was just in sight,
ascending the stairs.
Lastly the kettle tied to a dog's tail. Mr. Kettleman in the distance,
taller, thinner, and exceedingly woebegone, watching his beloved but
unfortunate kettle as it thumped over the stones.
There were many irregularities and defects, but the faces were
remarkable for expression. Mr. Darol laughed heartily.
"How old are you?" asked Mr. Wentworth, glancing curiously at the
slender slip of a girl.
"Fifteen."
"You don't look that."
"You have a wonderful gift," said Mr. Darol thoughtfully.
"Oh, that is real!" exclaimed Charlie eagerly, as they turned to
another. "My brother was in a store once, and sold some pepper for
allspice. The woman put it in her pie."
"So I should judge from her husband's face;" and they both laughed
again, and praised Charlie to her heart's content.
By degrees Mr. Darol drew Charlie's history from her. She did not
conceal her poverty nor her ambition; and her love for her one talent
spoke eloquently in every line of her face.
"My child, you have a remarkable genius for designing. The school at
Cooper Institute will be just the place for you. Wentworth, I think I
shall take her over to Miss Charteris. What is your name, little one?"
"Charlie Kenneth."
"Charlie?" in amaze.
"It was Charlotte, but I've always been called Charlie."
"Just the name for you! Miss Charlie, you have a world of energy
and spirit. I know you will succeed. And now it would give me great
pleasure to take you to the studio of an artist friend."
The tears came into Charlie's eyes: she couldn't help it, though she
tried to smile.
"Oh!" with a tremulous sob, "it's just like a dream. And you are so
good! I'd go with one meal a day if I could only draw pictures!"
And Charlie was lovely again, with her face full of smiles, tears,
and blushes. Earnest, piquant, and irregular, she was like a picture
herself.
It seemed to Charlie that in five minutes they reached Miss Charteris's
studio; and she stood in awe and trembling, scarcely daring to breathe.
For up to this date she had hardly been able to believe that any woman
in the world besides Rosa Bonheur had actually painted pictures.
"I have brought you a new study, Miss Charteris. A romance and a small
young woman."
"Well, Paul Darol! I don't believe there is your equal in the world
for picking up the lame and the halt and the blind, and the waifs and
strays. What now?" and Miss Charteris laughed with such a musical
ripple that Charlie turned and answered her with a smile.
"First look at these, and then let me tell you a story."
"Very fair and vigorous sketches;" and Miss Charteris glanced
curiously at Charlie.
Then Mr. Darol began with the story, telling his part first, and
calling in Charlie to add sundry helps to the other.
"And so, you see, I ventured to try your good temper once more, and
bring her to you."
"What shall I do,--paint her? She might sit for a gypsy girl now, but
in ten years she will be a handsome woman. What an odd, trustful child!
This promises better than some of your discoveries."
"Well, help me to get her into the School of Design, and make a
successful genius of her. She is too plucky for any one to refuse her a
helping hand."
Miss Charteris began to question Charlie. She had a vein of drollery in
her own nature; and in half an hour Charlie was laughing and talking
as if she had known her all her lifetime. What pleased Mr. Darol most
was her honesty and unflinching truth. She told of their poverty and
struggles, of the love and the fun they had shared together; but there
was a little tremor in her voice as she said, "We had one sister who
was adopted by a rich lady."
The matter was soon settled, being in the right hands. Charlie was
registered as a pupil at the school; and Miss Charteris taught her to
re-touch photographs, and found her an opportunity to do a little work.
It was something of a hardship to go on boarding with Mrs. Wilcox;
but they were so fond of her, and so proud of what they could not
understand!
So you do not wonder, I fancy, that Charlie's letter should be such a
jubilate. Ah, if she could only earn a little money to take back with
her!
She saw Miss Charteris and Mr. Darol quite often. He was like a father,
but sweeter and dearer than any one's father she had ever known. When
she went home, she meant to coax Hal to return with her, just for the
pleasure of meeting such splendid people; "for he is the best of all of
us," she used to say to Miss Charteris.
Ah, Charlie, if you dreamed of what was happening in the Old Shoe!
CHAPTER XVII.
  LOST AT SEA.
The autumn was unusually warm and pleasant, without any frost to injure
the flowers until the middle of October. Hal enlarged his green-house
arrangements, and had a fine stock of tuberoses. He had learned a good
deal by his experiments of the past year.
He had been careful not to overwork; since he was improving, and took
every thing moderately. But at last it was all finished,--the cold
frames arranged for spring, the plants housed, the place tidy and in
order.
The loss of the school had been a severe disappointment to Hal. He was
casting about now for some employment whereby he might earn a little.
If Mr. Sherman would only give him a few days' work, now and then,
they could get along nicely; for Granny was a most economical manager,
and, besides, there was eighty dollars in the bank, and a very small
family,--only three of them.
Hal came home one day, and found Granny sitting over a handful of fire,
bundled in a great shawl. Her eyes had a frightened look, and there
was a blue line about her mouth.
"Why. Granny dear, what is the matter?" he asked in alarm, stooping
over to kiss the cold wrinkled cheek.
"I d-d-don't know," the teeth chattering in the attempt to speak. "I
b-b-lieve I've got a chill!"
"Oh, so you have, poor dear child!" and Hal was as motherly as the old
gray hen outside. "You must go to bed at once. Perhaps you had better
bathe your feet, and have a bowl of hot tea."
"And my head aches so! I'm not used to having headache, Hal."
She said this piteously, as if she fancied Hal, who could do every
thing in her opinion, might exorcise the pain.
"I'm very sorry, dear," stroking the wrinkled face as if she had been a
baby. "Now I'll put some water on to heat."
"O Hal, I'm so cold! 'Pears to me I never shall be warm again."
"Yes, when I get you snug in the bed, and make you some nice tea. What
shall it be,--pennyroyal?"
"And a little feverfew."
Hal kissed the cold, trembling lips, and went about his preparations.
The water was soon hot; and he put a little mustard in the pail with
it, carrying it to the bedside in the other room, and leading poor
Granny thither.
The place was steaming presently with the fragrance of pennyroyal. Hal
poured it off into a cool bowl, and gave Granny a good drink, then
tucked her in the bed, and spread the shawl over her; but still she
cried in her pitiful voice,--
"I'm so cold, Hal!"
After the rigor of the chill began to abate, a raging fever set in, and
Granny's mind wandered a little. Then Hal was rather alarmed. Granny
had never been down sick a day in her life, although she was not so
very robust.
"Dot, darling, you must run for Dr. Meade," Hal said, as the child came
home from school. "Granny is very ill, I am afraid."
Dr. Meade was away, and did not come until eight in the evening.
"I fear it is going to be a run of fever, Hal," he began gravely.
"At her time of life too! But we'll do the best we can. There is
considerable fever about."
Hal drew a long breath of pain.
"You will be the best nurse in the world, Hal;" and the doctor smiled,
placing his hand on the boy's shoulder re-assuringly.
Hal winked away some tears. They lay quite too close to the surface for
a man's nature.
"I'll leave her some drops, and be in again in the morning. Don't
worry, my dear boy."
Granny could hardly bear to have Hal out of sight, and wanted to keep
hold of his hand all the time. Dot prepared the supper, but they could
taste nothing beyond a cup of tea.
"Dot," he said, "you must go up stairs and sleep in my bed to-night. I
shall stay here to watch Granny."
"But it will be so--lonesome!" with her baby entreaty.
"It is best, my darling."
So Dot kissed him many times, lingering until after the clock struck
ten, when Hal said,--
"My birdie's eyes will be heavy to-morrow."
Granny was worse the next day. Indeed, for the ensuing fortnight her
life seemed vibrating in the balance. Everybody was very kind, but she
could bear no one besides Hal. Just a little delirious occasionally,
and going back to the time when they were all babies, and her own dear
Joe lay dying.
"I've done my best for 'em, Joe," she would murmur. "I've never minded
heat nor cold, nor hard work. They've been a great blessing,--they
always were good children."
For Granny forgot all Charlie's badness, Joe's mischief, and Dot's
crossness. Transfigured by her devotion, they were without a fault. Ah,
how one tender love makes beautiful the world! Whatever others might
think, God had a crown of gold up in heaven, waiting for the poor
tired brow; and the one angel would have flown through starry skies for
her, taking her to rest on his bosom, but the other pleaded,--
"A little longer, for the children's sake."
At last the fever was conquered. Granny was weak as a baby, and had
grown fearfully thin; but it was a comfort to have her in her right
mind. Still Hal remarked that the doctor's face had an anxious look,
and that he watched him with a kind of pitying air. So much so, that
one day he said,--
"You think she will get well, doctor?"
"There is nothing to prevent it if we can only keep up her appetite."
"I always feed her," returned Hal with a smile, "whether she is willing
to eat or not."
"You are a born nurse, as good as a woman. Give her a little of the
port wine every day."
Then the doctor turned to the window, and seemed to glance over towards
the woods.
"Quite winterish, isn't it? When have you heard from Joe?"
"Not in a long time. Letters do not come so regularly as they used. I
think we have not had one since August. But he writes whenever he can,
dear Joe. The last time we received three."
"Yes," in a kind of absent way.
When Dr. Meade started to go, he kept his hand for several minutes on
the door-latch, giving some unimportant directions.
"God bless you, Hal!" he said in a strained, husky tone, "and give you
grace to bear all the trials of this life. Heaven knows, there are
enough of them!"
What did the doctor mean? Hal wondered eagerly.
That evening Mr. and Mrs. Terry dropped in for a friendly call.
"When did you hear from Joe last?" asked Mr. Terry.
"In August."
"Wasn't expecting him home, I suppose?"
"Not until next summer. Has any one heard?" and there was a quiver in
Hal's voice.
"I don't know of any one who has had a letter;" and Mr. Terry appeared
to be measuring his words. "Joe was a nice bright lad, just as full of
fun as an egg is full of meat. Cousin Burton took a wonderful fancy to
him; though I suppose he'd have gone off to sea, any way. If it had not
been Burton, it would have been some one else."
"Yes. Joe always had his heart set upon it."
"Father and Joe used to get along so nicely. We never had a boy we
liked better. He was a brave, honest fellow."
It seemed almost as if Mrs. Terry wiped a tear from her eye. But Granny
wanted to be raised in the bed, and some way Hal couldn't think until
after they were gone.
He was thankful to see the doctor come in the next morning.
"Oh!" he exclaimed in a low tone, "you were talking of Joe yesterday:
has anybody heard from him, or about him?"
The hand that clasped the doctor's arm trembled violently.
"Hal, be calm," entreated the doctor.
"I cannot! Oh, you do know,--and it's bad news!"
"My dear boy--O Hal!" and he was folded in the doctor's arms.
"Tell me, tell me!" in a yearning, impatient tone, that seemed to crowd
its way over sobs.
"God knows it could not have hurt me more if it had been one of my own!
But he was a hero--to the last. There isn't a braver young soul up in
heaven, I'll answer for that. Here--it's in the paper. I've carried it
about with me three days, old coward that I've been, and not dared to
tell you. But it's all over the village. Hush,--for Granny's sake. She
must not know."
Hal dropped on the lounge that he and Granny had manufactured with so
much pride. He was stunned,--dead to every thing but pain, and that was
torturing. The doctor placed the paper in his hands, and went into the
other room to his patient.
Yes, there it was! The words blurred before his eyes; and still he
read, by some kind of intuition. "The Argemone" had met with a terrific
storm in the Indian Ocean; and, though she had battled bravely, winds
and waves had proved too strong. All one night the men had labored
heroically, but in vain; and when she began to go down, just at dawn,
the life-boats were filled, too few, alas! even if there were safety in
them. Nothing could exceed the bravery and coolness of the young second
mate. The captain lay sick below; the first mate and the engineer were
panic-stricken; but this strong, earnest voice had inspired every one
through the fearful night. When it was found that some must be left
behind, he decided to stay, and assisted the others with a courage and
presence of mind that was beyond all praise. The smile that illuminated
his face when he refused to step into the already overladen boat was
like the smile of an angel. They who saw it in the light of the gray
dawn would never forget. One boat drifted in to Sumatra, the other
was picked up by a passing vessel. But the few who remained must have
perished in any case, and among them no name so deserving of honor as
that of Joseph Kenneth.
Hal read it again and again. Joseph Kenneth! Was that dear, laughing
Joe, with his merry eyes, and the sauciest trick of winking in the
corner of one; little Joe who had stood on his head, played circus,
and, with the aid of a few old shawls, been lion, tiger, elephant,
and camel; dear Joe, who had cuddled up in bed cold winter nights and
almost smothered him,--Hal; who had made ghosts out of the bolster, and
frightened Kit half to death! Why did he think of these foolish things
now? Oh, this brave Joseph Kenneth never could be their little Joe! God
surely would not give Granny this pain and anguish to bear at the last!
A hand was laid on Hal's shoulder.
"Oh! it can't be true"--
"There's just one chance out of a thousand. Hal, it seems to me
the saddest thing I ever heard, and yet so grand. You see what the
passengers said of him. Ah, I think he did not need to knock long at
St. Peter's gate!"
The doctor wiped his eyes.
"But--never to have him--come back"--
"He has drifted into a better port, my dear boy: that must be our
comfort. We shall all cross the river by and by; and it is never so
hard for the one who goes, as for those who stay and bear the pain and
loneliness. And some time it will be sweet to remember that he gave his
brave young life for others."
Hal's eyes were tearless, and there was a hard, strained look in his
face.
"Don't tell Granny now. She couldn't bear it."
"No;" and Hal's voice was full of pathetic grief.
"And oh, Hal, be comforted a little! I know there is an overwhelming
anguish in it; but for the sake of those still left"--
"Yes." Hal's ashen lips quivered.
The doctor brushed away the soft hair tumbled about his forehead, and
held the cold hand in his.
"God has some balm for every ache, my boy."
Hal sat there until Granny called for something, every moment growing
more incredulous. But a heavy weight hung about his heart, even though
he refused to believe. It seemed as if there could not be despairing
certainty before to-morrow.
When Kit came home on Saturday night, and just threw his arms around
Hal's neck, sobbing as if his heart had broken, it gave a strange
reality to the grief and sorrow.
"I heard it on Monday,--the loss of 'The Argemone.' How proud Joe was
of her! And my heart's been aching for you every day. The cruel thing
of it all is, never to have him come home again."
Dot had to be taken into confidence then; but she was a discreet little
thing, and quite to be trusted. She did not suffer so deeply, for Joe
was only a pleasant dream to her; and she tried to comfort Hal with her
sweet, winsome ways.
Granny did improve slowly. She began to sit up in the rocking-chair,
walk to the window and look out, and occasionally smile, in her faint,
wan fashion. They would never hear the merry chirruping laugh again,
Hal thought.
But all the details of life had to be gone through with, as usual.
There was the poultry to be prepared for market; for this source of
their income could not be overlooked. In fact, Hal and Dot were not
quite as economical managers as Granny; and then every thing was very
high. They required more luxuries in sickness, and Hal would not stint.
But, when this was gone, there would be the money for the flowers, and
their little hoard in the bank still remained unbroken.
It was not any fear of want that troubled Hal. The old dreams and
ambitions seemed to be slipping away. Sometimes even the idea of
attaining to a green-house failed to charm; though he still loved his
flowers passionately, and they comforted him as nothing else could have
done.
One day Granny thought of Joe.
"Have we had a letter since my illness?" she asked.
"No," answered Hal faintly.
"Not since--let me see,--it was August."
Hal made no reply.
"Why--it's strange! He never did such a thing before! Hasn't any one
heard?"
"I believe not." Hal turned his head, and went on with some writing.
"Seems to me you take it pretty easy," said Granny, a little vexed.
"Joe never was the one to forget his home folks. Hal, something's
happened: mark my words!"
Poor Hal brushed away a tear.
Then Granny gave Dot a mysterious confidence, and asked her to inquire
of Mr. Terry.
"He always wrote to them, and they must know."
Dot said, in return, that they had not received a letter.
Granny then began to worry in desperate earnest, and besieged every
visitor with questions and surmises. Hal was in a sore strait. Of
course she must know sometime.
She made herself so nearly sick, that Dr. Meade saw the danger and
harm, and felt that she had better know the truth.
"Will you tell her?" faltered Hal.
He undertook the sorrowful office. Tenderly, kindly, and yet it was a
cruel wound.
"Oh, it cannot be!" she cried. "God wouldn't take him from me now that
I'm old and sick and helpless! Let me see the paper."
They complied with her request, but the doctor had to read it. Her old
eyes could not see a word.
"Oh, oh! Drowned in the sea! And I never wanted him to go! My poor
darling! who was always so bright, so happy, and who loved his poor
old Granny so well! Let me go back to bed now: I don't want to live.
They're all up in heaven,--my Joe, and little Joe, and poor Dora.
There is no use of staying here."
Hal soothed her with fondest love and caresses; but nothing could
change the longing in her heart, the weary look in the eyes that seemed
to be discerning the shore beyond, and the sad voice with its one
refrain, "Poor, dear Joe!"
After that she failed rapidly. Hal scarcely left her. She used to ask
him to read all the old letters over again, from the first boyish pride
that so exulted in the trip to Albany. And she would recall some act of
tenderness, or a gay prank at which they all had laughed.
One evening Hal felt unusually weary. There had been a warm rain for
two days, with most un-December-like weather. A fire felt absolutely
uncomfortable. He generally slept down on the lounge now, to be near
if Granny wanted any thing. Before retiring he paid his flower-room a
visit. Every thing was doing splendidly. So far business had not been
very brisk; but that morning he had received an order for the next
week,--Christmastide,--for all the flowers he could cut.
"Dear sweet children," he said, talking softly to himself. "If I could
only have put some in his coffin, and on his grave! but to think of
him lying in the sea, with the endless music over his head, and the
shells tangled in his hair. O Joe! it doesn't seem a bit true, and I
never can make it so."
Yet he knew in his heart that it was; and he tried to remember that
Joe was up in heaven, past all pain and care, ready to welcome them as
they came, one by one,--Granny first. It would be easier to give her
up, because she was going to be with darling Joe.
He left the door against the hall open, it was so warm; then he took
a last look at Granny, and dropped on his couch. It was a long while
before he fell asleep, and then he slumbered soundly. Once he awoke
with a shiver, and reached out for the blanket he had thrown off
earlier in the night.
The light in the window roused him at length. How oddly it looked,
and oh, how cold! Why, the panes were frosted with a thousand fairy
devices! And then Hal sprang up, hurried into his clothes, and ran
to the flower-room. The windows were white with frost, and the thick
papers rolled to the top. Worst of all, the fire had gone out!
For a moment Hal stood in blank despair. His beautiful buds that were
to be out in a few days, his tender, delicate plants! How had it
happened? There must have been more ashes in the bottom of the stove
than he thought; and the fire, being weak, had not kindled at all. He
tore it out with eager hands. Not a spark remained. The stove was as
cold as a stone.
But there was no time to waste in grief. Hal kindled his fire, and then
began to drench his plants. Something might be saved.
Presently Dot's little feet pattered up the stairs.
"How we all slept!" she said. "And oh, dear! its as cold as Greenland,
after the beautiful summer weather. But Hal, dear, what is the matter?"
"My fire went out."
"Will it hurt the plants?"
"Some of them;" and his voice had a great tremble in it.
"Oh, it is too bad, Hal! doesn't every thing seem to happen to us?" and
tears sprang to the fond eyes.
Hal gave a long, pained sigh.
"Can't you save any of them?"
"Yes: some, I think. It might have been worse."
Dot kissed him tenderly,--it was all she could do. Then she ran down,
and began to prepare breakfast.
The sun was rising; and Hal dropped the papers to keep it dark for the
present, and allowed his fire to come on gradually. At first he began
to take hope, for the flowers held up their heads crisply.
Alas! by noon they showed signs of drooping; and before night the buds
of the tuberoses began to be slightly discolored. Poor Hal could have
cried out of pure sorrow. He loved them all so dearly, and it almost
seemed to him as if they suffered as well.
But the next day the ruin was plainly established. He went about with
his scissors, clipping here and there. The heliotrope displayed a mass
of blackened clusters; but it could be trimmed for new blossoming.
Many of the more forward, choice rosebuds were ruined but the plants
were not deeply injured. The bouvardias were quite spoiled; but the
mignonette and alyssum were unharmed.
Hal cut a few the day before Christmas, and sent them over to Mr.
Thomas. It was such a sore loss and disappointment, that it hung around
him like a heavy burden. They had been counting on the money with so
much pleasure.
"Never mind," exclaimed Dot cheerfully. "We will not have any extra
Christmas. Granny will not be able to sit up, and there'll be no one
home but Kit."
Hal brushed away a tear. To tell the truth, he felt miserably lonesome,
and sick at heart. Every day the sense of loss grew upon him. He had
given up hope for Granny; though she was no worse, and perhaps had
improved a little in appetite. But then she did not care to get well.
And the faces lost out of the home group made such a sad break.
They had received two more hopeful little notes from Charlie; but, if
she was happy and prosperous, would she not be weaned away, like the
one other. Joe, in his deep sea-grave, had always been tender and true.
"Christmas isn't much to us now," Hal answered, recalling the old
gayety. "Yet it is too bad to put such black shadows in your life, my
darling."
"The sun has never been so bright for me, you know," Dot said, in her
sweet, soft voice, in which there was not a touch of complaint. "It
seems as if the path had grown shady before I came to it, so I don't
miss the gayety. And, while I can have you and Granny, I'll be quite
satisfied."
"You are a comfort and a treasure. I'm so glad to have you, Dot,
though you were a wee baby and always sick. Now and then a neighbor
used to say,--'What a blessing it would be if that child should die!'
But Granny never thought so."
Dot nestled closer.
The morning had been cloudy, and about ten o'clock it commenced
snowing. They did their housework, and prepared their simple dinner.
"I had resolved to go to town to-day, and buy some Christmas," said
Hal. "I believe we never were quite so blue before."
"I don't suppose Kit will be able to get home this evening," Dot said
slowly.
"No."
"Then we'll keep it by ourselves, Hal. It will not be so very bad."
"But to have no little gifts,--and Granny sick in bed"--
"It will not be a merry Christmas for us, dear; but there may be
something pleasant in it."
Hal sighed sorrowfully. Oh, for the sweet, lost childhood!
CHAPTER XVIII.
  A SONG IN THE NIGHT.
It snowed steadily all day; and evening closed around them in the midst
of this soft, noiseless storm. The roads were beginning to be blocked
up, the houses were hooded in ermine, and no one passed by the windows.
Not a soul had been in that day. So, after the lamp was lighted, they
drew closer together. Hal read a while from a book of poems that Mrs.
Howard had lent him.
"It is nearly bed-time," he said at length.
"I don't feel a bit sleepy."
"Hal," began Granny, stretching out her thin hand, "don't leave me. I
feel so strange."
"Worse, my own dear?"
"Not in pain, but sort of restful, as if I'd come to something--no,
I'm not afraid, Hal. I've been praying all along that I might die, and
maybe it's coming. I'm a poor old body, not worth much,--and Joe's
there, you know."
She gave her head a feeble nod. Hal swallowed over a great sob.
"When will it be Christmas?"
"To-morrow."
"Maybe I'll be up among the angels,--a poor, ignorant, foolish old
body like me! It's wonderful to think of! But Joe'll be there, to take
his dear Granny by the hand, and keep her from stumbling, and making
mistakes, and doing all the things that would shame or vex any one. And
Christ loved us all, you know. He died for us. I think I've understood
it better since Joe stood there on the ship, refusing to get into
the boat lest he might swamp it. He died for some one: not in that
fashion, for he didn't have any sins to bear, and wasn't reviled and
wounded; but still he gave his sweet life,--his dear life that was so
much to me."
Dot crept up to the bed.
"After I'm gone you and Dot'll love each other. It will be sad for a
little while, but God will remember you, and bring you comfort. I've
cried to him a' many times, when it's been dark all round; and, when
all other friends fail, you'll find him true and strong. I've done the
best I could. It's been poor enough; but then I never had learnin'
and all that to help me. I took you when you were all little chaps,
motherless and fatherless, and I've tried to keep you together. But
they've strayed off, Hal. There's only you and Dot to give Granny a
last kiss."
Dot was sobbing on Granny's pillow.
"Don't, deary, don't," in her quivering, entreating voice. "We must
all die some time. God knows when it's best. And I ain't of any use
now, my work's all done. I'd like to see 'em all again, Hal,--dear
little things; only I never can believe they are all men and women.
And, if Flossy comes back, give her my love. She was so pretty, with
her long golden curls! I don't wonder the grand lady liked her. And
Charlie,--Charlie was such a good girl all last summer, working like a
woman! Yes--if I could only see 'em once more!"
Hal wiped away his fast falling tears. It seemed too hard that Granny's
unselfish life should not be crowned at the last. To die here, almost
alone!
"You remember the old Christmas, Hal? The last time we were all
together! Ah, how sweet it was! And the presents, and the old shoe
full!"
Granny's voice sunk to a tremble of delight.
"It was so happy, so merry! All of 'em laughing and talking, and their
bright pretty faces full of fun. But--maybe--I'll see 'em all in
heaven. Don't cry, Dot."
Hal drew her to his breast, and soothed her with tender kisses. Then he
sat down in the old rocker, and took her on his knee.
"There never was such a Christmas, never! I was so glad to have you
all, so proud of you! And I've done my best"--
"Yes, Granny, God, who watches over all things, will bear witness to
that. You were mother and father to us. And how you have toiled and
worried and made sacrifices, how you have loved us, will all be written
in the Great Book. I'm glad you are going to have a reward there."
"I shall see Joe."
Then she was quiet for a long while.
"I can't remember any thing about the Christmas," said Dot with much
perplexity.
"Tell her, Hal. I'll listen; and it will seem all fresh again," pleaded
Granny in a faint, far-off voice.
"You were such a weeny little thing, and couldn't talk plain; but then
you had always been sick."
"And cross," Kit says.
"You did use to cry--sometimes; and then at others you were like a
little lamb. All children cry occasionally."
Dot felt, somehow, as if she had not outgrown the trick yet; but the
tears fell close to Hal's heart.
"But about the Christmas?"
"Oh, yes!"
Then Hal began. The preparations beforehand, the secrecy and plotting,
the stockings stuffed to overflowing, and the wildest of merriment the
next morning. It appeared to Dot that she could see it like a picture.
"And O Hal, that we should be so lonely now! Hasn't God let us slip out
of his mind for a little while?"
"I think not, my darling."
"But how can you always believe? Why did God let Joe die, when we
wanted him so much; and Flossy go away? And all the other things,--the
sweet pretty flowers that were frozen?"
"My dear child, we cannot answer the questions. Trials always appear
very hard to those who have them to bear; but maybe God gives us one to
save us from some other that would be a great deal harder. And with it
there is grace to endure."
"As when you were hurt. I wonder that you could be so patient, Hal!"
and the little arms crept up around his neck.
"It was part my nature, you know. I used to be sorry at school, that I
wasn't like the other boys; for, somehow, I never was: but, when God
knew what I would have to bear, he made me patient, and almost girlish,
loving to stay in the house, and all that. If I'd been like Joe, I
should have fretted sorely when I found I should never be able to go to
sea. He was so full of life and energy, you know, so ambitious, that it
would almost have killed him. It was best to have it happen to me."
Dot sighed, her small brain being greatly puzzled.
"But I don't see why every one cannot be happy and prosperous. Isn't
there enough to go round to all?"
"God knows best. And, when it troubles me sorely, I think of the
little Christ-child, who was born eighteen hundred years ago, all
goodness and sweetness and meekness, and of the trials he had to bear
for our sakes. All the lowly life, the reviling, the unbelief, the
persecution, the being homeless, and sometimes almost friendless,
and at the last the shameful death. We shall never have all that, my
darling; and so we ought to bear our lesser sorrows patiently."
Dot made no answer.
"My darling," said Hal, glancing at the clock, "ought you not to go to
bed? It is almost midnight."
"And you?" reaching up to kiss the dear face.
"I am going to stay here by Granny."
Dot looked into his face with great awe.
"Hal, I've never seen any one die; but I want to stay too. There's only
just you and I; and she'll want us to kiss her for the last time, when
the angels come."
Hal pressed the little face in his trembling hands, but could not deny
the wistful eyes.
Then he rose, and looked at Granny. She had fallen into a peaceful
slumber. It did not seem as if she could die just then; and yet, at
this hour of rejoicing, some souls were slipping out of the world.
He came back to his seat, and to his little sister. Dot's head was
pillowed on his knee, and presently she began to drowse. Poor little
bairn!
So he kept his vigil by himself, thinking over the old days, when they
were all here. Oh, if Granny could have seen them once more! If the
brave and lovely men and women could come back to the old home-nest,
all outgrown,--and he smiled sadly to himself,--just to clasp each
other's hands, and glance into each other's eyes, to speak some word
of comfort and blessing, to smooth the path of the dear heart yonder,
who had given herself for them without stint or grudging, a holier
sacrifice than even a mother's love.
His mind was sorely troubled when he thought of Florence. Since
childhood she had "lain in the roses and lilies of life." They had
borne the burden and sorrow, the trials, the deprivations, days of
toil, nights of anxious care about the future. And it seemed as if none
of them had been especially prospered. She had gone to luxury at a
bound. Where was she to-night? Did any remembrance of them ever cross
her soul, amid her wealth and pleasure?
Poor Joe again! It was the sad refrain to which his life would be
forever set, like a strain of minor music. He loved Joe so dearly!
There was such a soreness, such an aching and longing in his heart,
that it sometimes seemed as if he could stretch out his arms, and
search among the tangled seaweed until he found Joe, and lift him out
of his cold bed. One bright dream broken off in the middle.
There had been so much to take up his attention this winter, that he
had hardly felt anxious for Charlie. Her cheerful little notes were
like stray sunbeams, and she had promised to come back. Ah, if it
could only be in time to say good-by to Granny!
Now and then he shut his eyes, and breathed a tender prayer,--that God
would keep them all; that, no matter how far they strayed from each
other, they might never stray from him.
The lamp burned dimly in the room beyond. Granny still slept
peacefully, and Dot's baby hand was fast clasped in his. All was still
to awesomeness. Even the storm without must have ceased.
"Hal," called the dear voice.
Gently as he laid Dot down, the movement woke her.
"Give me a little drink, Hal, please," Granny asked.
He brought her some wine.
"I wonder if there is any thing that I could eat?"
"I left some chicken-broth on the stove to keep warm, and there is a
little jelly."
"I've had such a nice sleep, Hal! I feel so rested! It was almost like
being in heaven, for Joe seemed to have his arms around my neck. Is it
morning?"
"Almost."
"Oh!" exclaimed Dot, "it is clear and beautiful, with hosts of stars! I
wonder if any shepherd watches them and thinks"--
"'In Bethlehem of Judea,'" said Granny in a chanting tone. "'Unto you
is born a Saviour, which is Christ the Lord.'"
"How strange it seems! Christmas morning!"
Hal brought the chicken and the jelly. Granny ate remarkably for her.
Then he placed his fingers on her pulse. It certainly was stronger.
"I do think she is better," he said to Dot, who had followed him to the
kitchen.
"O Hal! maybe she won't die. I never saw anybody"--
"She was nervous last night, thinking so much of Joe," rejoined Hal
softly in the pause that Dot did not finish.
"I'm so glad to have her better!"
"Children," Granny said when they came back, "it is Christmas morning,
and you ought to sing. Everybody keeps Christmas."
Dot glanced up in tearful surprise. What was she thinking of,--angels
in heaven?
"They sang on the plains of Judea, you know."
An awesome chill crept over Hal. Was this the change that sometimes
preceded the last step over the narrow river? Had Granny received that
solemn call?
"Sing," she said again. "Some of the bright Christmas hymns."
Hal's heart was throbbing up to his throat. He did not know whether he
could trust his voice.
"What shall it be, Dot?"
She thought a moment. "'Wonderful Night,'" she answered. "But, oh! I
feel more like crying. I can't help it."
The two voices rose tremblingly in the beautiful carol.
          "Wonderful night,
          Wonderful night!
    Angels and shining immortals,
    Thronging the heavenly portals,
      Fling out their banner of light.
