night began to draw their solemn curtains across the sky the
mother's heart failed again, and a wild storm of fear and anguish
swept over it. Neither policemen nor friends had been able to
discover a trace of the missing young man, and advertisements were
given out for the papers next morning offering a large reward for
his restoration to his friends if living or for the recovery of his
body if dead.
The true cause of Archie's disappearance began to be feared by many
of his friends. It did not seem possible that he could have dropped
so completely out of sight unless on the theory that he had lost his
way in the storm and fallen into the river. This suggestion as soon
as it came to Mrs. Voss settled into a conviction. Her imagination
brooded over the idea and brought the reality before her mind with
such a cruel vividness that she almost saw the tragedy enacted, and
heard again that cry of "Mother!" which had seemed to mingle with
the wild shrieks of the tempest, but which came only to her inner
sense.
She dreamed that night a dream which, though it confirmed all this,
tranquilized and comforted her. In a vision her boy stood by her
bedside and smiled upon her with his old loving smile. He bent over
and kissed her with his wonted tenderness; he laid his hand on her
forehead with a soft pressure, and she felt the touch thrilling to
her heart in sweet and tender impulses.
"It is all well with me," he said; "I shall wait for you, mother."
And then he bent over and kissed her again, the pressure of his lips
bringing an unspeakable joy to her heart. With this joy filling and
pervading it, she awoke. From that hour Mrs. Voss never doubted for
a single moment that her son was dead, nor that he had come to her
in a vision of the night. As a Christian woman with whom faith was
no mere ideal thing or vague uncertainty, she accepted her great
affliction as within the sphere and permission of a good and wise
Providence, and submitted herself to the sad dispensation with a
patience that surprised her friends.
Months passed, and yet the mystery was unsolved. The large reward
offered by Mr. Voss for the recovery of his son's remains kept
hundreds of fishermen and others who frequented the river banks and
shores of the bay leading down to the ocean on the alert. As the
spring opened and the ice began to give way and float, these men
examined every inlet, cove and bar where the tide in its ebb and
flow might possibly have left the body for which they were in
search; and one day, late in the month of March, they found it,
three miles away from the city, where it had drifted by the current.
The long-accepted theory of the young man's death was proved by this
recovery of his body. No violence was found upon it. The diamond pin
had not been taken from his shirt-bosom, nor the gold watch from his
pocket. On the dial of his watch the hands, stopping their movement
as the chill of the icy water struck the delicate machinery, had
recorded the hour of his death--ten minutes to one o'clock.
It was not possible, under the strain of such an affliction and the
wear of a suspense that no human heart was able to endure without
waste of life, for one in feeble health like Mrs. Voss to hold her
own. Friends read in her patient face and quiet mouth, and eyes that
had a far-away look, the signs of a coming change that could not be
very far off.
After the sad certainty came and the looking and longing and waiting
were over, after the solemn services of the church had been said and
the cast-off earthly garments of her precious boy hidden away from
sight for ever, the mother's hold upon life grew feebler every day.
She was slowly drifting out from the shores of time, and no hand was
strong enough to hold her back. A sweet patience smoothed away the
lines of suffering which months of sorrow and uncertainty had cut in
her brow, the grieving curves of her pale lips were softened by
tender submission, the far-off look was still in her eyes, but it
was no longer fixed and dreary. Her thought went away from herself
to others. The heavenly sphere into which she had come through
submission to her Father's will and a humble looking to God for help
and comfort began to pervade her soul and fill it with that divine
self-forgetting which all who come spiritually near to him must
feel.
She could not go out and do strong and widely-felt work for
humanity, could not lift up the fallen, nor help the weak, nor visit
the sick, nor comfort the prisoner, though often her heart yearned
to help and strengthen the suffering and the distressed. But few if
any could come into the chamber where most of her days were spent
without feeling the sphere of her higher and purer life, and many,
influenced thereby, went out to do the good works to which she so
longed to put her hands. So from the narrow bounds of her chamber
went daily a power for good, and many who knew her not were helped
or comforted or lifted into purer and better lives because of her
patient submission to God and reception of his love into her soul.
It is not surprising that one thought took a deep hold upon her. The
real cause of Archie's death was the wine he had taken in the house
of her friend. But for that he could never have lost his way in the
streets of his native city, never have stepped from solid ground
into the engulfing water.
The lesson of this disaster was clear, and as Mrs. Voss brooded over
it, the folly, the wrong--nay, the crime--of those who pour out wine
like water for their guests in social entertainments magnified
themselves in her thought, and thought found utterance in speech.
Few came into her chamber upon whom she did not press a
consideration of this great evil, the magnitude of which became
greater as her mind dwelt upon it, and very few of these went away
without being disturbed by questions not easily answered.
One day one of her attentive friends who had called on her said:
"I heard a sorrowful story yesterday, and can't get it out of my
mind."
Before Mrs. Voss could reply a servant came in with a card.
"Oh, Mrs. Birtwell. Ask her to come up."
The visitor saw a slight shadow creep over her face, and knew its
meaning. How could she ever hear the name or look into the face of
Mrs. Birtwell without thinking of that dreadful night when her boy
passed, almost at a single step, from the light and warmth of her
beautiful home into the dark and frozen river? It had cost her a
hard and painful struggle to so put down and hold in check her
feelings as to be able to meet this friend, who had always been very
near and dear to her. For a time, and while her distress of mind was
so great as almost to endanger reason, she had refused to see Mrs.
Birtwell; but as that lady never failed to call at least once a week
to ask after her, always sending up her card and waiting for a
reply, Mrs. Voss at last yielded, and the friends met again. Mrs.
Birtwell would have thrown her arms about her and clasped her in a
passion of tears to her heart, but something stronger than a visible
barrier held her off, and she felt that she could never get as near
to this beloved friend as of old. The interview was tender though
reserved, neither making any reference to the sad event that was
never a moment absent from their thoughts.
After this Mrs. Birtwell came often, and a measure of the old
feeling returned to Mrs. Voss. Still, the card of Mrs. Birtwell
whenever it was placed in her hand by a servant never failed to
bring a shadow and sometimes a chill to her heart.
In a few moments Mrs. Birtwell entered the room; and after the usual
greetings and some passing remarks, Mrs. Voss said, speaking to the
lady with whom she had been conversing:
"What were you going to say--about some sorrowful story, I mean?"
The pleasant light which had come into the lady's face on meeting
Mrs. Birtwell, faded out. She did not answer immediately, and showed
some signs of embarrassment. But Mrs. Voss, not particularly
noticing this, pressed her for the story. After a slight pause she
said:
"In visiting a friend yesterday I observed a young girl whom I had
never seen at the house before. She was about fifteen or sixteen
years of age, and had a face of great refinement and much beauty.
But I noticed that it had a sad, shy expression. My friend did not
introduce her, but said, turning to the girl a few moments after I
came in:
"'Go up to the nursery, Ethel, and wait until I am disengaged!'
"As the girl left the room I asked, 'Who is that young lady?'
remarking at the same time that there was something peculiarly
interesting about her.
"'It's a sad case, remarked my friend, her voice falling to a tone
of regret and sympathy. 'And I wish I knew just what to do about
it.'
"'Who is the young girl?' I asked repeating my question.
"'The daughter of a Mr. Ridley,' she replied."
Mrs. Birtwell gave a little start, while an expression of pain
crossed her face. The lady did not look at her, but she felt the
change her mention of Mr. Ridley had produced.
"'What of him?' I asked; not having heard the name before.
"'Oh, I thought you knew about him. He's a lawyer, formerly a member
of Congress, and a man of brilliant talents. He distinguished
himself at Washington, and for a time attracted much attention there
for his ability as well as for his fine personal qualities. But
unhappily he became intemperate, and at the end of his second term
had fallen so low that his party abandoned him and sent another in
his place. After that he reformed and came to this city, bringing
his family with him. He had two children, a boy and a girl. His wife
was a cultivated and very superior woman. Here he commenced the
practice of law, and soon by his talents and devotion to business
acquired a good practice and regained the social position he had
lost.
"'Unhappily, his return to society was his return to the sphere of
danger. If invited to dine with a respectable citizen, he had to
encounter temptation in one of its most enticing forms. Good wine
was poured for him, and both appetite and pride urged him to accept
the fatal proffer. If he went to a public or private entertainment,
the same perils compassed him about. From all these he is said to
have held himself aloof for over a year, but his reputation at the
bar and connection with important cases brought him more and more
into notice, and he was finally drawn within the circle of danger.
Mrs. Ridley's personal accomplishments and relationship with one or
two families in the State of high social position brought her calls
and invitations, and almost forced her back again into society, much
as she would have preferred to remain secluded.
"'Mr. Ridley, it is said, felt his danger, and I am told never
escorted any lady but his wife to the supper-room at a ball or
party, and there you would always see them close together, he not
touching wine. But it happened last winter that invitations came,
for one of the largest parties of the season, and it happened also
that only a few nights before the party a little daughter had been
born to Mrs. Ridley. Mr. Ridley went alone. It was a cold and stormy
night. The wind blew fiercely, wailing about the roofs and chimneys
and dashing the fast-falling snow in its wild passion against the
windows of the room in which his sick wife lay. Rest of body and
mind was impossible, freedom from anxiety impossible. There was
everything to fear, everything to lose. The peril of a soldier going
into the hottest of the battle was not greater than the peril that
her husband would encounter on that night; and if he fell! The
thought chilled her blood, as well it might, and sent a shiver to
her heart.
"'She was in no condition to bear any shock or strain, much less the
shock and strain of a fear like this. As best she could she held her
restless anxiety in check, though fever had crept into her blood and
an enemy to her life was assaulting its very citadel. But as the
hour at which her husband had promised to return passed by and he
came not, anxiety gave place to terror. The fever in her blood
increased, and sent delirium to her brain. Hours passed, but her
husband did not return. Not until the cold dawn of the next
sorrowful morning did he make his appearance, and then in such a
wretched plight that it was well for his unhappy wife that she could
not recognize his condition. He came too late--came from one of the
police stations, it is said, having been found in the street too
much intoxicated to find his way home, and in danger of perishing in
the snow--came to find his wife, dying, and before the sun went down
on that day of darkness she was cold and still as marble. Happily
for the babe, it went the way its mother had taken, following a few
days afterward.
"'That was months ago. Alas for the wretched man! He has never risen
from that terrible fall, never even made an effort, it is said, to
struggle to his feet again. He gave up in despair.
"'His eldest child, Ethel, the young lady you saw just now, was away
from home at school when her mother died. Think of what a coming
back was hers! My heart grows sick in trying to imagine it. Poor
child! she has my deepest sympathy.
"'Ethel did not return to school. She was needed at home now. The
death of her mother and the unhappy fall of her father brought her
face to face with new duties and untried conditions. She had a
little brother only six years old to whom she must be a mother as
well as sister. Responsibilities from which women of matured years
and long experience might well shrink were now at the feet of this
tender girl, and there was no escape for her. She must stoop, and
with fragile form and hands scarce stronger than a child's lift and
bear them up from the ground. Love gave her strength and courage.
The woman hidden in the child came forth, and with a self-denial and
self-devotion that touches me to tears when I think of it took up
the new life and new burdens, and has borne them ever since with a
patience that is truly heroic.
"'But new duties are now laid upon her. Since her father's fall his
practice has been neglected, and few indeed have been willing to
entrust him with business. The little he had accumulated is all
gone. One article of furniture after another has been sold to buy
food and clothing, until scarcely anything is left. And now they
occupy three small rooms in an out-of-the-way neighborhood, and
Ethel, poor child! is brought face to face with the question of
bread.'"
CHAPTER XX.
THE voice of the speaker broke as she uttered the last sentence. A
deep silence fell upon the little company. Mrs. Birtwell had turned
her face, so that it could not be seen, and tears that she was
unable to keep back were falling over it. She was first to speak.
"What," she asked, "was this young lady doing at the house of your
friend?"
"She had applied for the situation of day-governess. My friend
advertised, and Ethel Ridley, not knowing that the lady had any
knowledge of her or her family came and offered herself for the
place. Not being able to decide what was best to be done, she
requested Ethel to call again on the next day, and I came in while
she was there."
"Did your friend engage her?" asked Mrs. Birtwell.
"She had not done so when I saw her yesterday. The question of
fitness for the position was one that she had not been able to
determine. Ethel is young and inexperienced. But she will do all for
her that lies in her power."
"What is your friend's name?" asked Mrs. Birtwell.
"The lady I refer to is Mrs. Sandford. You know her, I believe?"
"Mrs. Sandford? Yes; I know her very well."
By a mutual and tacit consent the subject was here dropped, and soon
after Mrs. Birtwell retired. On gaining the street she stood with an
air of indetermination for a little while, and then walked slowly
away. Once or twice before reaching the end of the block she paused
and went back a few steps, turned and moved on again, but still in
an undecided manner. At the corner she stopped for several moments,
then, as if her mind was made up, walked forward rapidly. By the
firm set of her mouth and the contraction of her brows it was
evident that some strong purpose was taking shape in her thoughts.
As she was passing a handsome residence before which a carriage was
standing a lady came out. She had been making a call. On seeing her
Mrs. Birtwell stopped, and reaching out her hand, said:
"Mrs. Sandford! Oh, I'm glad to see you. I was just going to your
house."
The lady took her hand, and grasping it warmly, responded:
"And I'm right glad to see you, Mrs. Birtwell. I've been thinking
about you all day. Step into the carriage. I shall drive directly
home."
Mrs. Birtwell accepted the invitation. As the carriage moved away
she said:
"I heard something to-day that troubles me. I am told that Mr.
Ridley, since the death of his wife, has become very intemperate,
and that his family are destitute--so much so, indeed, that his
daughter has applied to you for the situation of day-governess in
order to earn something for their support."
"It is too true," replied Mrs. Sandford. "The poor child came to see
me in answer to an advertisement."
"Have you engaged her?"
"No. She is too young and inexperienced for the place. But something
must be done for her."
"What? Have you thought out anything? You may count on my sympathy
and co-operation."
"The first thing to be done," replied Mrs. Sandford, "is to lift her
out of her present wretched condition. She must not be left where
she is, burdened with the support of her drunken and debased father.
She is too weak for that--too young and beautiful and innocent to be
left amid the temptations and sorrows of a life such as she must
lead if no one comes to her rescue."
"But what will become of her father if you remove his child from
him?" asked Mrs. Birtwell.
Her voice betrayed concern. The carriage stopped at the residence of
Mrs. Sandford, and the two ladies went in.
"What will become of her wretched father?"
Mrs. Birtwell repeated her question as they entered the parlors.
"He is beyond our reach," was answered. "When a man falls so low,
the case is hopeless. He is the slave of an appetite that never
gives up its victims. It is a sad and a sorrowful thing, I know, to
abandon all efforts to save a human soul, to see it go drafting off
into the rapids with the sound of the cataract in your ears, and it
is still more sad and sorrowful to be obliged to hold back the
loving ones who could only perish in their vain attempts at rescue.
So I view the case. Ethel must not be permitted to sacrifice herself
for her father."
Mrs. Birtwell sat for a long time without replying. Her eyes were
bent upon the floor.
"Hopeless!" she murmured, at length, in a low voice that betrayed
the pain she felt. "Surely that cannot be so. While there is life
there must be hope. God is not dead."
She uttered the last sentence with a strong rising inflection in her
tones.
"But the drunkard seems dead to all the saving influences that God
or man can bring to bear upon him," replied Mrs. Sandford.
"No, no, no! I will not believe it," said Mrs. Birtwell, speaking
now with great decision of manner. "God can and does save to the
uttermost all who come unto him."
"Yes, all who come unto him. But men like Mr. Ridley seem to have
lost the power of going to God."
"Then is it not our duty to help them to go? A man with a broken leg
cannot walk to the home where love and care await him, but his Good
Samaritan neighbor who finds him by the way can help him thither.
The traveler benumbed with cold lies helpless in the road, and will
perish if some merciful hand does not lift him up and bear him to a
place of safety. Even so these unhappy men who, as you say, seem to
have lost the power of returning to God, can be lifted up, I am
sure, and set down, as it were, in his very presence, there to feel
his saving, comforting and renewing power."
"Perhaps so. Nothing is impossible," said Mrs. Sandford, with but
little assent in her voice. "But who is to lift them up and where
will you take them? Let us instance Mr. Ridley for the sake of
illustration. What will you do with him? How will you go about the
work of rescue? Tell me."
Mrs. Birtwell had nothing to propose. She only felt an intense
yearning to save this man, and in her yearning an undefined
confidence had been born. There must be away to save even the
most wretched and abandoned of human beings, if we could but find
that way, and so she would not give up her hope of Mr. Ridley--nay,
her hope grew stronger every moment; and to all the suggestions of
Mrs. Sanford looking to help for the daughter she supplemented
something that included the father, and so pressed her views that
the other became half impatient and exclaimed:
"I will have nothing to do with the miserable wretch!"
Mrs. Birtwell went away with a heavy heart after leaving a small sum
of money for Mrs. Sandford to use as her judgment might dictate,
saying that she would call and see her again in a few days.
The Rev. Mr. Brantly Elliott was sitting in his pleasant study,
engaged in writing, when a servant opened the door and said:
"A gentleman wishes to see you, sir."
"What name?" asked the clergyman.
"He did not give me his name. I asked him, but he said it wasn't any
matter. I think he's been drinking, sir."
"Ask him to send his name," said Mr. Elliott, a slight shade of
displeasure settling over his pleasant face.
The servant came back with information that the visitor's name was
Ridley. At mention of this name the expression on Mr. Elliott's
countenance changed:
"Did you say he was in liquor?"
"Yes, sir. Shall I tell him that you cannot see him, sir?"
"No. Is he very much the worse for drink?"
"He's pretty bad, I should say, sir."
Mr. Elliott reflected for a little while, and then said:
"I will see him."
The servant retired. In a few minutes he came back, and opening the
door, let the visitor pass in. He stood for a few moments, with his
hand on the door, as if unwilling to leave Mr. Elliott alone with
the miserable-looking creature he had brought to the study.
Observing him hesitate, Mr. Elliott said:
"That will do, Richard."
The servant shut the door, and he was alone with Mr. Ridley. Of the
man's sad story he was not altogether ignorant. His fall from the
high position to which he had risen in two years and utter
abandonment of himself to drink were matters of too much notoriety
to have escaped his knowledge. But that he was in the slightest
degree responsible for this wreck of a human soul was so far from
his imagination as that of his responsibility for the last notorious
murder or bank-robbery.
The man who now stood before him was a pitiable-looking object
indeed. Not that he was ragged or filthy in attire or person. Though
all his garments were poor and threadbare, they were not soiled nor
in disorder. Either a natural instinct of personal cleanliness yet
remained or a loving hand had cared for him. But he was pitiable in
the signs of a wrecked and fallen manhood that were visible
everywhere about him. You saw it most in his face, once so full of
strength and intelligence, now so weak and dull and disfigured. The
mouth so mobile and strong only a few short months before was now
drooping and weak, its fine chiseling all obliterated or overlaid
with fever crusts. His eyes, once steady and clear as eagles', were
now bloodshotten and restless.
He stood looking fixedly at Mr. Elliott, and with a gleam in his
eyes that gave the latter a strange feeling of discomfort, if not
uneasiness.
"Mr. Ridley" said the clergyman, advancing to his visitor and
extending his hand. He spoke kindly, yet with a reserve that could
not be laid aside. "What can I do for you?"
A chair was offered, and Mr. Ridley sat down. He had come with a
purpose; that was plain from his manner.
"I am sorry to see you in this condition, Mr. Ridley," said the
clergyman, who felt it to be his duty to speak a word of reproof.
"In what condition, sir?" demanded the visitor, drawing himself up
with an air of offended dignity. "I don't understand you."
"You have been drinking," said Mr. Elliott, in a tone of severity.
"No, sir. I deny it, sir!" and the eyes of Mr. Ridley flashed.
"Before Heaven, sir, not a drop has passed my lips to-day!"
His breath, loaded with the fumes of a recent glass of whisky, was
filling the clergyman's nostrils. Mr. Elliott was confounded by this
denial. What was to be done with such a man?
"Not a drop, sir," repeated Mr. Ridley. "The vile stuff is killing
me. I must give it up."
"It is your only hope," said the clergyman. "You must give up the
vile stuff, as you call it, or it will indeed kill you."
"That's just why I've come to you, Mr. Elliott. You understand this
matter better than most people. I've heard you talk."
"Heard me talk?"
"Yes, sir. It's pure wine that the people want. My sentiments
exactly. If we had pure wine, we'd have no drunkenness. You know
that as well as I do. I've heard you talk, Mr. Elliott, and you talk
right--yes, right, sir."
"When did you hear me talk?" asked Mr. Elliott, who was beginning to
feel worried.
Oh, at a party last winter. I was there and heard you."
"What did I say?"
"Just these words, and they took right hold of me. You said that
'pure wine could hurt no one, unless indeed his appetite were
vitiated by the use of alcohol, and even then you believed that the
moderate use of strictly pure wine would restore the normal taste
and free a man from the tyranny of an enslaving vice.' That set me
to thinking. It sounded just right. And then you were a clergyman,
you see, and had studied out these things and so your opinion was
worth something. There's no reason in your cold-water men; they
don't believe in anything but their patent cut-off. In their eyes
wine is an abomination, the mother of all evil, though the Bible
doesn't say so, Mr. Elliott, does it?"
At this reference to the Bible in connection with wine, the
clergyman's memory supplied a few passages that were not at the
moment pleasant to recall. Such as, "Wine is a mocker;" "Look not
upon the wine when it is red;" "Who hath woe? who hath sorrow? ...
They that tarry long at the wine;" "At last it biteth like a
serpent, and stingeth like an adder."
"The Bible speaks often of the misuse of wine," he answered, "and
strongly condemns drunkenness."
"Of course it does, and gluttony as well. But against the moderate
use of good wine not a word is said. Isn't that so, sir?"
"Six months ago you were a sober man, Mr. Ridley, and a useful and
eminent citizen. Why did you not remain so?"
Mr. Elliott almost held his breath for the answer. He had waived the
discussion into which his visitor was drifting, and put his question
almost desperately.
"Because your remedy failed." Mr. Ridley spoke in a repressed voice,
but with a deliberate utterance. There was a glitter in his eyes,
out of which looked an evil triumph.
"My remedy? What remedy?"
"The good wine remedy. I tried it at Mr. Birtwell's one night last
winter. But it didn't work. And here I am!"
Mr. Elliott made no reply. A blow from the arm of a strong man could
not have hurt or stunned him more.
"You needn't feel so dreadfully about it," said Mr. Ridley seeing
the effect produced on the clergy man. "It wasn't any fault of
yours. The prescription was all right, but, you see, the wine wasn't
good. If it had been pure, the kind you drink, all would have been
well. I should have gained strength instead of having the props
knocked from under me."
But Mr. Elliott did not answer. The magnitude of the evil wrought
through his unguarded speech appalled him. He had learned, in his
profession, to estimate the value of a human soul, or rather to
consider it as of priceless value. And here was a human soul cast by
his hand into a river whose swift waters were hurrying it on to
destruction. The sudden anguish that he felt sent beads of sweat to
his forehead and drew his flexible lips into rigid lines.
"Now, don't be troubled about it," urged Mr. Ridley. "You were all
right. It was Mr. Birtwell's bad wine that did the mischief."
Then his manner changed, and his voice falling to a tone of
solicitation, he said:
"And now, Mr. Elliott, you know good wine--you don't have anything
else. I believe in your theory as much as I believe in my existence.
It stands to reason. I'm all broken up and run down. Not much left
of me, you see. Bad liquor is killing me, and I can't stop. If I do,
I shall die.' God help me!"
His voice shook now, and the muscles of his face quivered.
"Some good wine--some pure wine, Mr. Elliott!" he went on, his voice
rising and his manner becoming more excited. "It's all over with me
unless I can get pure wine. Save me, Mr. Elliott, save me, for God's
sake!"
The miserable man held out his hands imploringly. There was wild
look in his face. He was trembling from head to foot.
"One glass of pure wine, Mr. Elliott--just one glass." Thus he kept
on pleading for the stimulant his insatiable appetite was craving.
"I'm a drowning man. The floods are about me. I am sinking in dark
waters. And you can save me if you will!"
Seeing denial still on the clergyman's face, Mr. Ridley's manner
changed, becoming angry and violent.
"You will not?" he cried, starting from the chair in which he had
been sitting and advancing toward Mr. Elliott.
"I cannot. I dare not. You have been drinking too much already,"
replied the clergyman, stepping back as Mr. Ridley came forward
until he reached the bell-rope, which he jerked violently. The door
of his study opened instantly. His servant, not, liking the
visitor's appearance, had remained in the hall outside and came in
the moment he heard the bell. On seeing him enter, Mr. Ridley turned
from the clergyman and stood like one at bay. His eyes had a fiery
gleam; there was anger on his brow and defiance in the hard lines of
his mouth. He scowled at the servant threateningly. The latter, a
strong and resolute man, only waited for an order to remove the
visitor, which he would have done in a very summary way, but Mr.
Elliott wanted no violence.
The group formed a striking tableau, and to any spectator who could
have viewed it one of intense interest. For a little while Mr.
Ridley and the servant stood scowling at each other. Then came a
sudden change. A start, a look of alarm, followed by a low cry of
fear, and Mr. Ridley sprang toward the door, and was out of the room
and hurrying down stairs before a movement could be made to
intercept him, even if there had been on the part of the other two
men any wish to do so.
Mr. Elliott stood listening to the sound of his departing feet until
the heavy jar of the outer door resounded through the passages and
all became still. A motion of his hand caused the servant to retire,
As he went out Mr. Elliott sank into a chair. His face had become
pale and distressed. He was sick at heart and sorely troubled. What
did all this mean? Had his unconsidered words brought forth fruit
like this? Was he indeed responsible for the fall of a weak brother
and all the sad and sorrowful consequences which had followed? He
was overwhelmed, crushed down, agonized by the thought, It was the
bitterest moment in all his life.
CHAPTER XXI.
MR. ELLIOTT still sat in a kind of helpless maze when his servant
came in with the card of Mrs. Spencer Birtwell. He read the name
almost with a start. Nothing, it seemed to him, could have been more
inopportune, for now he remembered with painful distinctness that it
was at the party given by Mr. and Mrs. Birtwell that Ridley had
yielded to temptation and fallen, never, he feared, to rise again.
Mrs. Birtwell met him with a very serious aspect.
"I am in trouble," was the first sentence that passed her lips as
she took the clergyman's hand and looked into his sober countenance.
"About what?" asked Mr. Elliott.
They sat down, regarding each other earnestly.
"Mr. Elliott," said the lady, with solemn impressiveness, "it is an
awful thing to feel that through your act a soul may be lost."
Mrs. Birtwell saw the light go out of her minister's face and a look
of pain sweep over it.
"An awful thing indeed," he returned, in a voice that betrayed the
agitation from which he was still suffering.
"I want to talk with you about a matter that distresses me deeply,"
said Mrs. Birtwell, wondering as she spoke at Mr. Elliott's singular
betrayal of feeling.
"If I can help you, I shall do so gladly," replied the clergyman.
"What is the ground of your trouble?"
"You remember Mr. Ridley?"
Mrs. Birtwell saw the clergyman start and the spasm of pain sweep
over his face once more."
"Yes," he replied, in a husky whisper. But he rallied himself with
an effort and asked, "What of him?" in a clear and steady voice.
"Mr. Ridley had been intemperate before coming to the city, but
after settling here he kept himself free from his old bad habits,
and was fast regaining the high position he had lost. I met his wife
a number of times. She was a very superior woman; and the more I saw
of her, the more I was drawn to her. We sent them cards for our
party last winter. Mrs. Ridley was sick and could not come. Mr.
Ridley came, and--and--" Mrs. Birtwell lost her voice for a moment,
then added: "You know what I would say. We put the cup to his lips,
we tempted him with wine, and he fell."
Mrs. Birtwell covered her face with her hands. A few strong sobs
shook her frame.
"He fell," she added as soon as she could recover herself," and
still lies, prostrate and helpless, in the grasp of a cruel enemy
into whose power we betrayed him."
"But you did it ignorantly," said Mr. Elliott.
"There was no intention on your part to betray him. You did not know
that your friend was his deadly foe."
"My friend?" queried Mrs. Birtwell. She did not take his meaning.
"The wine, I mean. While to you and me it may be only a pleasant and
cheery friend, to one like Mr. Ridley it may be the deadliest of
enemies."
"An enemy to most people, I fear," returned Mrs. Birtwell, "and the
more dangerous because a hidden foe. In the end it biteth like a
serpent and stingeth like an adder."
Her closing sentence cut like a knife, and Mr. Elliott felt the
sharp edge.
"He fell," resumed Mrs. Birtwell, "but the hurt was not with him
alone. His wife died on the next day, and it has been said that the
condition in which he came home from our house gave her a shock that
killed her."
Mrs. Birtwell shivered.
"People say a great many things," returned Mr. Elliott, "and this, I
doubt not is greatly exaggerated. Have you asked Doctor Hillhouse in
regard to the facts in the case? He attended Mrs. Ridley, I think."
"No. I've been afraid to ask him."
"It might relieve your mind."
"Do you think I would feel any better if he said yea instead of nay?
No, Mr. Elliott. I am afraid to question him."
"It's a sad affair," remarked the clergyman, gloomily, "and I don't
see what is to be done about a it. When a man falls as low as Mr.
Ridley has fallen, the case seems hopeless."
"Don't say hopeless, Mr. Elliott." responded Mrs. Birtwell, her
voice still more troubled. "Until a man is dead he is not wholly
lost. The hand of God is not stayed, and he can save to the
uttermost."
"All who come unto him," added the clergyman, in a depressed voice
that had in it the knell of a human soul. But these besotted men
will not go to him. I am helpless and in despair of salvation, when
I stand face to face with a confirmed drunkard. All one's care and
thought and effort seem wasted, You lift them up to-day, and they
fall to-morrow. Good resolutions, solemn promises, written pledges,
go for nothing. They seem to have fallen below the sphere in which
God's saving power operates."
"No, no, no, Mr. Elliott. I cannot, I will not, believe it," was the
strongly-uttered reply of Mrs. Birtwell. "I do not believe that any
man can fall below this potent sphere."
A deep, sigh came from the clergyman's lips, a dreary expression
crept into his face. There was a heavy weight upon his heart, and he
felt weak and depressed.
"Something must be done." There was the impulse of a strong resolve
in Mrs. Birtwell's tones.
"God works by human agencies. If we hold back and let our hands lie
idle, he cannot make us his instruments. If we say that this poor
fallen fellow-creature cannot be lifted out of his degradation and
turn away that he may perish, God is powerless to help him through
us. Oh, sir, I cannot do this and be conscience clear. I helped him
to fall, and, God giving me strength, I will help him to rise
again."
Her closing sentence fell with rebuking force upon the clergyman. He
too was oppressed by a heavy weight of responsibility. If the sin of
this man's fall was upon the garments of Mrs. Birtwell, his were not
stainless. Their condemnation was equal, their duty one.
"Ah!" he said, in tones of deep solicitude, "if we but knew how to
reach and influence him!"
"We can do nothing if we stand afar off, Mr. Elliott," replied Mrs.
Birtwell. "We must try to get near him. He must see our outstretched
hands and hear our voices calling to him to come back. Oh, sir, my
heart tells me that all is not lost. God's loving care is as much
over him as it is over you and me, and his providence as active for
his salvation."
"How are we to get near him, Mrs. Birtwell? This is our great
impediment."
God will show us the way if we desire it. Nay, he is showing us the
way, though we sought it not," replied Mrs. Birtwell, her manner
becoming more confident.
"How? I cannot see it," answered the clergyman.
"There has come a crisis in his life," said Mrs. Birtwell. "In his
downward course he has reached a point where, unless he can be held
back and rescued, he will, I fear, drift far out from the reach of
human hands. And it has so happened that I am brought to a knowledge
of this crisis and the great peril it involves. Is not this God's
providence? I verily believe so, Mr. Elliott. In the very depths of
my soul I seem to hear a cry urging me to the rescue. And, God
giving me strength, I mean to heed the admonition. This is why I
have called today. I want your help, and counsel."
"It shall be given," was the clergyman's answer, made in no
half-hearted way. "And now tell me all you know about this sad case.
What is the nature of the crisis that has come in the life of this
unhappy man?"
"I called on Mrs. Sandford this morning," replied Mrs. Birtwell,
"and learned that his daughter, who is little more than a child, had
applied for the situation of day-governess to her children. From
Ethel she ascertained their condition, which is deplorable enough.
They have been selling or pawning furniture and clothing in order to
get food until but little remains, and the daughter, brought face to
face with want, now steps forward to take the position of
bread-winner."
"Has Mrs. Sandford engaged her?"
"No."
"Why not?"
"Ethel is scarcely more than a child. Deeply as Mrs. Sandford feels
for her, she cannot give her a place of so much responsibility. And
besides, she does not think it right to let her remain where she is.
The influence upon her life and character cannot be good, to say
nothing of the tax and burden far beyond her strength that she will
have to bear."
"Does she propose anything?"
"Yes. To save the children and let the father go to destruction."
"She would take them away from him?"
"Yes, thus cutting the last strand of the cord that held him away
from utter ruin."
A groan that could not be repressed broke from Mr. Elliott's lips.
This must not be--at least not now," added Mrs. Birtwell, in a firm
voice. "It may be possible to save him through his home and
children. But if separated from them and cast wholly adrift, what
hope is left?"
"None, I fear," replied Mr. Elliott.
"Then on this last hope will I build my faith and work for his
rescue," said Mrs. Birtwell, with a solemn determination; "and may I
count on your help?"
"To the uttermost in my power." There was nothing half-hearted in
Mr. Elliott's reply. He meant to do all that his answer involved.
"Ah!" remarked Mrs. Birtwell as they talked still farther about the
unhappy case, "how much easier is prevention than cure! How much
easier to keep a stumbling-block out of another's way than to set
him on his feet after he has fallen! Oh, this curse of drink!"
"A fearful one indeed," said Mr. Elliott, "and one that is
desolating thousands of homes all over the land."
"And yet," replied Mrs. Birtwell, with a bitterness of tone she
could not repress, "you and I and some of our best citizens and
church people, instead of trying to free the land from this dreadful
curse, strike hands with those who are engaged in spreading
broadcast through society its baleful infection."
Mr. Elliott dropped his eyes to the floor like one who felt the
truth of a stinging accusation, and remained silent. His mind was in
great confusion. Never before had his own responsibility for this
great evil looked him in the face with such a stern aspect and with
such rebuking eyes.
"By example and invitation--nay, by almost irresistible
enticements," continued Mrs. Birtwell--"we tempt the weak and lure
the unwary and break down the lines of moderation that prudence sets
up to limit appetite. I need not describe to you some of our social
saturnalias. I use strong language, for I cannot help it. We are all
too apt to look on their pleasant side, on the gayety, good cheer
and bright reunions by which they are attended, and to excuse the
excesses that too often manifest themselves. We do not see as we
should beyond the present, and ask ourselves what in natural result
is going to be the outcome of all this. We actually shut our eyes
and turn ourselves away from the warning signs and stern admonitions
that are uplifted before us.
"Is it any matter of surprise, Mr. Elliott, that we should be
confronted now and then with some of the dreadful consequences that
flow inevitably from the causes to which I refer? or that as
individual participants in these things we should find ourselves
involved in such direct personal responsibility as to make us
actually shudder?"
Mrs. Birtwell did not know how keen an edge these sentences had for
Mr. Elliott, nor how, deeply they cut. As for the clergyman, he kept
his own counsel.
"What can we do in this sad case?" he asked, after a few assenting
remarks on the dangers of social drinking. This is the great
question now. I confess to being entirely at a loss. I never felt so
helpless in the presence of any duty before."
"I suppose," replied Mrs. Birtwell, "that the way to a knowledge of
our whole duty in any came is to begin to do the first thing that we
see to be right."
"Granted; and what then? Do you see the first right thing to be
done?"
"I believe so."
"What is it?"
"If, as seems plain, the separation of Mr. Ridley from his home and
children is to cut the last strand of the cord that holds him away
from destruction, then our first work, if we would save him, is to
help his daughter to maintain that home."
"Then you would sacrifice the child for the sake of the father?"
"No; I would help the child to save her father. I would help her to
keep their little home as pleasant and attractive as possible, and
see that in doing so she did not work beyond her strength. This
first."
"And what next?" asked Mr. Elliott.
"After I have done so much, I will trust God to show me what next.
The path of duty is plain so far. If I enter it in faith and trust
and walk whither it leads, I am sure that other ways, leading higher
and to regions of safety, will open for my willing feet."
"God grant that it may be so," exclaimed Mr. Elliott, with a fervor
that showed how deeply he was interested. "I believe you are right.
The slender mooring that holds this wretched man to the shore must
not be cut or broken. Sever that, and he is swept, I fear, to
hopeless ruin. You will see his daughter?"
"Yes. It is all plain now. I will go to her at once. I will be her
fast friend. I will let my heart go out to her as if she were my own
child. I will help her to keep the home her tender and loving heart
is trying to maintain."
Mrs. Birtwell now spoke with an eager enthusiasm that sent the warm
color to her cheeks and made her eyes, so heavy and sorrowful a
little while before, bright and full of hope.
On rising to go, Mr. Elliott urged her to do all in her power to
save the wretched man who had fallen over the stumbling-block their
hands had laid in his way, promising on his part all possible
co-operation.
CHAPTER XXII.
AS Mrs. Birtwell left the house of Mr. Elliott a slender girl,
thinly clad, passed from the beautiful residence of Mrs. Sandford.
She had gone in only a little while before with hope in her pale
young face; now it had almost a frightened look. Her eyes were wet,
and her lips had the curve of one who grieves helplessly and in
silence. Her steps, as she moved down the street, were slow and
unsteady, like the steps of one who bore a heavy burden or of one
weakened by long illness. In her ears was ringing a sentence that
had struck upon them like the doom of hope. It was this--and it had
fallen from the lips of Mrs. Sandford, spoken with a cold severity
that was more assumed than real--
"If you will do as I suggest, I will see that you have a good home;
but if you will not, I can do nothing for you."
There was no reply on the part of the young girl, and no sign of
doubt or hesitation. All the light--it had been fading slowly as the
brief conference between her and Mrs. Sandford had progressed--died
out of her face. She shrunk a little in her chair, her head dropping
forward. For the space of half a minute she sat with eyes cast down.
Both were silent, Mrs. Sandford waiting to see the effect of what
she had said, and hoping it would work a change in the girl's
purpose. But she was disappointed. After sitting in a stunned kind
of way for a short time, she rose, and without trusting herself to
speak bowed slightly and left the room. Mrs. Sandford did not call
after the girl, but suffered her to go down stairs and leave the
house without an effort to detain her.
"She must gang her ain gait," said the lady, fretfully and with a
measure of hardness in her voice.
On reaching the street, Ethel Ridley--the reader has guessed her
name--walked away with slow, unsteady steps. She felt helpless and
friendless. Mrs. Sandford had offered to find her a home if she
would abandon her father and little brother. The latter, as Mrs.
Sandford urged, could be sent to his mother's relatives, where he
would be much better off than now.
Not for a single instant did Ethel debate the proposition. Heart and
soul turned from it. She might die in her effort to keep a home for
