Saucepans and kettles of every kind are made in the same ware by this
firm.
FRITTERS.
Not even so-called pastry is more ruthlessly murdered in the mixing and
baking than that class of desserts the generic name of which stands
at the head of this bake. Heavy, sour, sticky and oleaginous beyond
civilized comparison, it is no marvel that the compound popularly known
and eaten as “fritter” has become a doubtful dainty in the esteem of
many, the object of positive loathing to some.
I do not recommend my fritters to dyspeptics and babies, nor as a
standing dish to anybody. But that they can be made toothsome, spongy
and harmless, as well as pleasant to those blessed with healthy
appetites and unimpaired digestions, I hold firmly and intelligently.
Two or three conditions are requisite to this end. The fritters must be
quickly made, thoroughly beaten, of right consistency,—and they must
not lie in the fat the fraction of a minute after they are done. Take
them up with a perforated spoon, or egg-beater, and lay on a hot sieve
or cullender to drain before serving on the dish that is to take them
to the table. Moreover, the fat must be hissing hot when the batter
goes in if you would not have them grease-soaked to the very heart.
Line the dish in which they are served with tissue-paper fringed at the
ends, or a clean napkin to absorb any lingering drops of lard.
BELL FRITTERS. +
2 cups of milk.
2 cups of prepared flour.
3 table-spoonfuls sugar.
4 eggs, very well beaten.
A little salt.
½ tea-spoonful of cinnamon.
Beat the sugar into the yolks; add the milk, salt and seasoning, the
flour and whites alternately. Beat hard for three minutes.
Have ready plenty of lard in a deep frying-pan or Scotch kettle; make
very hot; drop in the batter in table-spoonfuls, and fry to a good
brown. Be careful not to scorch the lard, or the fritters will be
ruined in taste and color.
Throw upon a warm sieve or cullender as fast as they are fried, and
sift powdered sugar over them.
Eat hot with lemon sauce.
RUSK FRITTERS. +
12 stale rusks.
5 eggs.
4 table-spoonfuls white sugar.
2 glasses best sherry.
Pare all the crust from the rusk, and cut each into two pieces if
small—into three if large. The slices should be nearly an inch thick.
Pour the wine over them; leave them in it two or three minutes, then
lay on a sieve to drain. Beat the sugar into the yolks (which should
first be whipped and strained), then the whites. Dip each slice into
this mixture and fry in boiling lard to a light golden brown.
Drain well; sprinkle with powdered sugar mingled with cinnamon, and
serve hot, with or without sauce.
LIGHT FRITTERS.
3 cups stale bread-crumbs.
1 quart of milk.
4 eggs.
Salt and nutmeg to taste.
3 table-spoonfuls prepared flour.
Scald the milk and pour it over the crumbs. Stir to a smooth, soft
batter, add the yolks, whipped and strained, the seasoning, the
flour—then, the whites whisked very stiff. Mix well, and fry, by the
table-spoonful, in boiling lard. Drain; serve hot and eat with sweet
sauce.
CURRANT FRITTERS. (Very nice.)
2 cups dry, fine bread-crumbs.
2 table-spoonfuls prepared flour.
2 cups of milk.
½ pound currants, washed and well dried.
5 eggs whipped very light, and the yolks strained.
½ cup powdered sugar.
1 table-spoonful butter.
½ teaspoonful mixed cinnamon and nutmeg.
Boil the milk and pour over the bread. Mix and put in the butter. Let
it get cold. Beat in, next, the yolks and sugar, the seasoning, flour
and stiff whites; finally, the currants dredged whitely with flour. The
batter should be thick.
Drop in great spoonfuls into the hot lard and fry. Drain them and send
hot to table.
Eat with a mixture of wine and powdered sugar.
LEMON FRITTERS. +
2 heaping cups of prepared flour.
5 eggs—beaten stiff. Strain the yolks.
½ cup cream.
Grated peel of half a lemon.
½ cup powdered sugar.
1 teaspoonful mingled nutmeg and cinnamon.
A little salt.
Beat up the whipped and strained yolks with the sugar; add the
seasoning and cream; the whites, at last the flour, worked in quickly
and lightly. It should be a soft paste, just stiff enough to roll
out. Pass the rolling-pin once or twice over it until it is about
three-quarters of an inch thick. Cut into small, circular cakes with a
tumbler or cake-cutter; drop into the hot lard and fry. They ought to
puff up like crullers. Drain on clean, hot paper. Eat warm with a sauce
made of—
Juice of 2 lemons.
Grated peel of one.
1 cup of powdered sugar.
1 glass wine.
Whites of 2 eggs beaten stiff.
APPLE FRITTERS.
8 or 10 fine pippins or greenings.
Juice of 1 lemon.
3 cups prepared flour.
6 eggs.
3 cups milk.
Some powdered sugar.
Cinnamon and nutmeg.
A little salt.
Pare and core the apples neatly, leaving a hole in the centre of each.
Cut crosswise into slices half an inch thick. Spread these on a dish
and sprinkle with lemon-juice and powdered sugar.
Beat the eggs light, straining the yolks, and add to the latter the
milk and salt, the whites and the flour, by turns. Dip the slices of
apple into the batter, turning them until they are thoroughly coated,
and fry, a few at a time, in hot lard. Throw upon a warm sieve as fast
as you take them out, and sift powdered sugar, cinnamon and nutmeg over
them.
These fritters require dexterous handling, but if properly made and
cooked, are delicious.
Eat with wine sauce.
RICE FRITTERS. +
2 cups of milk.
Nearly a cup raw rice.
3 table-spoonfuls sugar.
¼ pound raisins.
3 eggs.
1 table-spoonful butter.
1 table-spoonful flour.
Nutmeg and salt.
Soak the rice three hours in enough warm water to cover it well. At the
end of this time, put it into a farina-kettle, set in an outer vessel
of hot water, and simmer until dry. Add the milk and cook until it is
all absorbed. Stir in the butter and take from the fire. Beat the eggs
very light with the sugar, and when the rice has cooled, stir these in
with the flour and seasoning. Flour your hands well and make this into
flat cakes. Place in the middle of each two or three raisins which have
been “plumped” in boiling water. Roll the cake into a ball enclosing
the raisins, flour well and fry in plenty of hot lard.
Serve on a napkin, with sugar and cinnamon sifted over them. Eat with
sweetened cream, hot or cold.
CORN-MEAL FRITTERS.
3 cups milk.
2 cups best Indian meal.
½ cup flour.
4 eggs.
½ teaspoonful soda, dissolved in hot water.
1 teaspoonful cream of tartar, sifted in flour.
1 table-spoonful sugar.
1 table-spoonful melted butter.
1 teaspoonful salt.
Beat and strain the yolks; add sugar, butter, milk and salt, the
soda-water, and then stir in the Indian meal. Beat five minutes hard
before adding the whites. The flour, containing the cream of tartar,
should go in last. Again, beat up vigorously. The batter should be just
thick enough to drop readily from the spoon. Put into boiling lard by
the spoonful. One or two experiments as to the quantity to be dropped
for one fritter will teach you to regulate size and shape.
Drain very well and serve at once. Eat with a sauce made of butter
and sugar, seasoned with cinnamon.
Some persons like a suspicion of ginger mixed in the fritters, or in
the sauce. You can add or withhold it as you please.
PEACH FRITTERS. (With Yeast.)
1 quart of flour.
1 cup of milk.
½ cup of yeast.
2 table-spoonfuls sugar.
4 eggs.
2 table-spoonfuls of butter.
A little salt.
Some fine, ripe freestone peaches, pared and stoned.
Sift the flour into a bowl; work in milk and yeast, and set it in a
tolerably warm place to rise. This will take five or six hours. Then
beat the eggs very light with sugar, butter and salt. Mix this with
the risen dough, and beat with a stout wooden spoon until all the
ingredients are thoroughly incorporated. Knead vigorously with your
hands; pull off bits about the size of an egg; flatten each and put in
the centre a peach, from which the stone has been taken through a slit
in the side. Close the dough upon it, make into a round roll and set
in order upon a floured pan for the second rising. The balls must not
touch one another. They should be light in an hour. Have ready a large
round-bottomed Scotch kettle or saucepan, with plenty of lard—boiling
hot. Drop in your peach-pellets and fry more slowly than you would
fritters made in the usual way. Drain on hot white paper; sift powdered
sugar over them and eat hot with brandy sauce.
You can make these of canned peaches or apricots wiped dry from the
syrup.
POTATO FRITTERS.
6 table-spoonfuls mashed potato—very fine.
½ cup good cream.
5 eggs—the yolks light and strained—the whites whisked very stiff.
2 table-spoonfuls powdered sugar.
2 table-spoonfuls prepared flour.
Juice of 1 lemon. Half the grated peel.
½ teaspoonful nutmeg.
Work the cream into the potato; beat up light and rub through a sieve,
or very fine cullender. Add to this the beaten yolks and sugar. Whip to
a creamy froth; put in the lemon, flour, nutmeg, and beat five minutes
longer before the whites are stirred in. Have your lard ready and hot
in the frying-pan. Drop in the batter by the spoonful and fry to a
light brown. Drain on clean paper, and serve at once.
Eat with wine sauce.
CREAM FRITTERS. (Very nice.)
1 cup cream.
5 eggs—the whites only.
2 full cups prepared flour.
1 saltspoonful nutmeg.
A pinch of salt.
Stir the whites into the cream in turn with the flour, put in nutmeg
and salt, beat all up hard for two minutes. The batter should be rather
thick. Fry in plenty of hot sweet lard, a spoonful of batter for each
fritter. Drain and serve upon a hot, clean napkin.
Eat with jelly sauce. Pull, not cut them open.
ROLL FRITTERS, OR IMITATION DOUGHNUTS. +
8 small round rolls, stale and light.
1 cup rich milk.
2 table-spoonfuls sugar.
1 teaspoonful mixed nutmeg and cinnamon.
Beaten yolks of 3 eggs.
1 cupful powdered crackers.
Pare every bit of the crust from the rolls with a keen knife, and
trim them into round balls. Sweeten the milk with the sugar, put in
the spice; lay the rolls upon a soup-plate, and pour the milk over
them. Turn them over and over, until they soak it all up. Drain for a
few minutes on a sieve; dip in the beaten yolks, roll in the powdered
cracker, and fry in plenty of lard.
Drain and serve hot with lemon-sauce.
They are very good.
SPONGE-CAKE FRITTERS.
6 or 8 square (penny) sponge-cakes.
1 cup cream, boiling hot, with a pinch of soda stirred in.
4 eggs, whipped light.
1 table-spoonful corn-starch, wet up in cold milk.
¼ pound currants, washed and dried.
Pound the cakes fine, and pour the cream over them. Stir in the
corn-starch. Cover for half an hour, then beat until cold. Add the
yolks—light and strained, the whipped whites, then the currants thickly
dredged with flour. Beat all hard together. Drop in spoonfuls into the
boiling lard; fry quickly; drain upon a warmed sieve, and send to table
hot.
The syrup of brandied fruit makes an excellent sauce for these.
CURD FRITTERS.
1 quart sweet milk.
2 glasses white wine.
1 teaspoonful liquid rennet.
5 eggs, whipped light.
4 table-spoonfuls prepared flour.
2 table-spoonfuls powdered sugar.
Nutmeg to taste.
Scald the milk, and pour in the wine and rennet. Take from the fire,
cover, and let it stand until curd and whey are well separated. Drain
off every drop of the latter, and dry the curd by laying for a few
minutes upon a soft, clean cloth. Beat yolks and sugar together, whip
in the curd until fully mixed; then the flour, nutmeg and whites. The
batter should be smooth, and rather thick.
Have ready some butter in a small frying-pan; drop in the fritters a
few at a time, and fry quickly. Drain upon a warm sieve, lay within a
dish lined with white paper, or a clean napkin; sift powdered sugar
over them, and eat with jelly sauce.
Odd as the receipt may seem in the reading, the fritters are most
palatable. In the country, where milk is plenty, they may be made of
cream—unless, as is too often the case, the good wife will save all
the cream for butter.
CONCERNING ALLOWANCES.
(CONFIDENTIAL—WITH JOHN.)
I do not like that word “allowance.” It savors too much of a stipend
granted by a lordling to a serf; a government pension to a beneficiary;
the dole of the rich to the poor. But since it has crept into general
use as descriptive of that portion of the wife’s earnings which she is
permitted to disburse more or less at her discretion, we must take it
as we find it.
Marriage is to a woman one of two things—licensed, and therefore
honorable beggary, or, a copartnership with her husband upon fair
and distinctly specified terms. When I spoke of the wife’s earnings
just now, it was not with reference to moneys accumulated by work or
investments outside of the home which she occupies with you and your
children. We will set aside, if you please, the legal and religious
fiction that you have endowed her with all—or half your worldly goods,
and put still further from our consideration the sounding oaths with
which you protested in the days of your wooing, that you cared nothing
for pelf and lucre—Cupid’s terms for stocks, bonds and mortgages,
houses and lands—except that you might cast them at her feet. If
you recollect such figures of speech at all, it is with a laugh,
good-humored, or shame-faced, and the plea that everybody talks in
the same way in like circumstances; that pledges thus given are in no
wise to be regarded as promissory notes. Hymen’s is a general court
of bankruptcy so far as such obligations go. Your wife is a sensible
woman, and never expected to take you at your word—at least, such hot
and hasty words as those, in which you declared yourself to be the
most abject of her slaves, and herself the empress of your universe,
including the aforementioned stocks, mortgages, houses and lands, real
and personal estate—all assets in esse and in posse.
Having cleared away, by a stroke of common sense, this gossamer, that
like other cobwebs, is pretty while the dew of early morning impearls
it, and only an annoyance afterward; particularly odious when it
entangles itself about the lips and eyes of him who lately admired
it—we will look at the question of the wife’s work and wages from a
business point of view—pencil and paper in hand.
First, we will determine what should be the salary of a competent
housekeeper; one who makes her employer’s interests her own; who rises
up early and lies down late, and eats the bread of carefulness; who is
not to be coaxed away by higher wages, and is never in danger of giving
warning if her “feelings are hurt;” if the servants are insubordinate,
or the master is given to fault-finding, and not always respectful to
herself. It would be to your interest, were you a widower, you confess,
to give this treasure two dollars a day—as women’s wages go. “And,” you
add in a burst of manly confidence, “she would be cheap at that.” But
we will put down her salary in round numbers, at $700 per annum.
Now comes the seamstress’ pay. Again, a “competent person,” one who
is ever in her place; whose work-hours number fourteen out of the
twenty-four, if her services are required by you or the children;
whose needle is always threaded, her eye ever vigilant; with whom
slighting and botching are things unknown by practice; who takes pride
in seeing each of the household trig and tidy; who “seeketh wool and
flax, and worketh willingly with her hands;” who is an adept in fine
needlework as in plain sewing, and not a novice in dress-making; who,
perchance, can “manage” boys’ clothes as well as girls—who will do it,
of a certainty, if you explain that you cannot afford tailors’ bills
for urchins under ten years of age; finally, who possesses that most
valuable of arts for a poor man’s wife,
  “To gar auld claes look a’maist as weel as new.”
Shall we allow to this nonpareil the wages of an ordinary seamstress
who “cannot undertake cutting and fitting,”—one dollar a day? Or, is
she entitled to the pay of a dressmaker’s assistant—half a dollar more?
I do not want to be hard with you. We will set her down for $450 a
year. And, again, we conclude that you have made a good bargain.
Next, the nursery-governess, and perhaps the most important functionary
in the household. She must, you stipulate, have charge of the children,
by day and night; guard morals, health and manners, besides teaching
the youngerlings the rudiments of reading and writing; must superintend
the preparation of the elder ones’ lessons for school-recitations,
and look to it that catechism and Bible-lesson are ready for
Sabbath-school; that musical exercises are duly practised; that
home is made so attractive to the boys that they shall not be drawn
thence by the questionable hilarity of engine-house and oyster-cellar.
A lady she must be, else how would your girls be trained to modest
and graceful behavior, and your friends be entertained as you deem
is due to you and to them, in your house? A responsible, judicious
person is indispensable to the comfort and health of you and yours;
one who does not regard the care of a young baby as “too confining;”
nor sleepless nights on account of it, a valid reason for “bettering
herself;” nor a brisk succession of measles, mumps and chicken-pox
cogent cause for informing you that she “didn’t engage for this sort of
work, and would you be suiting yourself with a lady as has a stronger
constitution—immediate, for her trunk is packed.”
Would a thousand dollars per annum provide you with such a hireling? I
knew a wealthy man who offered just that sum for a nursery-governess
during the protracted illness of his wife. She must be intelligent and
ladylike, he stated, qualified to undertake the education of the three
younger children. There were six in all, but there was a tutor for the
boys. The governess’ bed-room adjoined that of the little girls, the
door of which must stand open all night. The baby’s crib was to be by
her bed, and a child, three years old, was also to share her chamber.
She would be treated respectfully and kindly, and every enjoyment of
the luxurious establishment, compatible with the proper discharge of
the duties appointed, would be hers.
He could get no one to take the place.
This is simple fact, and it is pregnant with meaning.
Nevertheless, what if we put down the wages of your nursery-governess
at the same sum you are willing to give your housekeeper—$700? Oblige
me by adding up the short row of figures under your hand.
    $700
     450
     700
  ——————
  $1,850
This you will please consider as the amount of your wife’s salary, due
from you for services rendered, exclusive of board and lodgings, which
are always the portion of resident employees in your house. There is
no charge for “extras,” you observe. We have said nothing about the
bill for nursing you through that four weeks’ spell of inflammatory
rheumatism last winter, or the longer siege of fever, three years ago,
when this servant-of-all-work sat up with you fourteen weary nights,
and would entrust the care of you to no one else. By her skillful
ministrations, the miracle of her patience, love and prayers, you were
rescued, say the doctors, from the close clutch of death. You cannot
see the figures very distinctly while you think of it, but we agreed,
at the outset, to keep feeling in the background.
You “have tried to be a kind, affectionate husband,” you say, in a very
unbusiness-like way.
I believe you, and so does the blessed little woman whom I have shut
out from this conference, lest her foolish fondness should spoil the
effect of our matter-of-fact talk. I would have you and all husbands
be just, no less than loving. Let us return to our figures. The
estimate is for a man of moderate means and modest home, one of
the middle class which is everywhere the bone and muscle of the
community—the class that makes national character, the world over. If
you are wealthy, and put the care of a large and elegant establishment
upon your manager, the remuneration should be in proportion. For a
fancy article you have to pay a fancy price. You misunderstand your
wife and me, if you imagine that we would inaugurate in your household
a debit and credit system and quarter-day settlements. She would be the
first to shrink from such an interpretation of your mutual relations. I
should, of all your friends and well-wishers, be the last to recommend
it.
But I have studied this matter long and seriously, and I offer you as
the result of my observation in various walks of life, and careful
calculation of labor and expense, the bold assertion that every
wife who performs her part, even tolerably well, in whatever rank
of society, more than earns her living, and that this should be an
acknowledged fact with both parties to the marriage contract. The
idea of her dependence upon her husband is essentially false and
mischievous, and should be done away with, at once and forever. It
has crushed self-respect out of thousands of women; it has scourged
thousands from the marriage-altar to the tomb, with a whip of
scorpions; it has driven many to desperation and crime.
“Every dollar is a lash!” I once overheard a wife say, in bitter
soliloquy, as her husband left her presence after placing in her hand
the money for which she had timidly asked him, to pay the weekly
household bills.
Then, still supposing herself unseen, she threw the roll of bank-notes
upon the floor and trampled it under foot, in a transport of impotent,
and, to my way of thinking, righteous wrath.
“An exceptional case?” I beg your pardon! I wish it were. Her husband
meant to be kind and affectionate as honestly as do you. When money was
“easy,” he would give it to her freely and cheerfully, provided his
mood was propitious at the time of her application. He had expended
large sums in the purchase of jewelry and handsome clothing for her,
and exulted in seeing her arrayed in them. He loved her truly, and
was proud of her. His mistake was in ignoring the fact that he owed
her anything in actual dollars and cents; that she worked for her
livelihood as faithfully as did he, and that his debt to her was, in
the highest degree, a “confidential” one. If put into the confessional,
he would have admitted that he thought of himself as the only
bread-winner of the family, and was, sometimes, tartly intolerant of
the domestic demands upon his earnings. He made a yet grosser mistake
in feeling and behaving as if the money deposited in her hands for the
current expenses of the establishment, were a gift to her personally.
This is a masculine blunder that poisons the happiness of more women
than I like to think of, or you would be willing to believe. Be
kindly-affectioned as you will, your wife cannot respect you thoroughly
if she sees that you are habitually unreasonable and unjust. And it
is neither just nor rational to speak and act as if all the butter,
flour, sugar, meat and sundries which she saves you the trouble of
buying, and of which, nine times out of ten, she is the more judicious
purchaser, were to be consumed by her, and her alone.
“You never thought of such a thing!” you protest betwixt laughter and
vexation.
Then, do not act as if it were your settled conviction.
Set aside from your income what you adjudge to be a reasonable and
liberal sum for the maintenance of your family in the style suitable
for people of your means and position. Determine what purchases you
will yourself make, and what shall be intrusted to your wife, and put
the money needed for her proportion into her care as frankly as you
take charge of your share. Try the experiment of talking to her as if
she were a business partner. Let her understand what you can afford to
do, and what you cannot. If in this explanation you can say, “we,” and
“ours,” you will gain a decided moral advantage, although it may be at
the cost of masculine prejudice and pride of power. Impress upon her
mind that a certain sum, made over to her apart from the rest, is hers
absolutely. Not a present from you, but her honest earnings, and that
you would not be honest were you to withhold it. And do not ask her
“if that will do?” any more than you would address the question to any
other workwoman. (With what cordial detestation wives regard that brief
query, which drops, like a sentence of the creed, from husbandly lips,
I leave your spouse to tell you. Also, if she ever heard of a woman who
answered anything but “yes.”)
Advise her, for her own satisfaction, and because it is “business
like,” to keep an account of her receipts and expenditures, but apprise
her distinctly that you do not expect her to exhibit this to you,
unless she should need your assistance or advice in balancing her
books, or in some perplexed question of “profit and loss.” She will
be ready to appreciate that the one sum deposited with her is a trust
fund to be used to the best advantage for the general good, and the
proud consciousness that she is the actual proprietor of the other, and
irresponsible, save to her conscience, for the manner in which it is
spent, will make her the more careful not to use it amiss. As to the
housekeeping money—the weekly or monthly “allowance”—you may be very
sure that you and the children will get the benefit of every cent.
However economically she may handle her private store, the bulk of it
will not be increased by surreptitious pinchings from the family supply
of daily bread.
I have known women whose sole perquisites were what they could save
from their not large allowances, who, in the absence of their husbands
from home, would keep themselves and families of hungry, growing
children,—with the consent and co-operation of the latter—upon the most
meagre fare consistent with the bare satisfaction of the cravings of
nature, that the few dollars thus spared might go toward the purchase
of some coveted article of dress for one of the girls; a set of tools
or books for a boy, or a piece of furniture desired by all. Which
bit of economy (!) being reported to the paterfamilias when the
dearly-bought thing was exhibited, was pronounced by him, his hand
complacently finding its way to the plethoric wallet in his pocket, to
be worthy of his august approval. How many husbands have heard their
wives remark how cheaply the family lived when “papa was away?” and how
many have asked themselves seriously why and how this was done?
Other women, and more to be pitied, I am acquainted with, who make
false entries in the account-books, which are showed weekly to their
lords as explanatory of “the way the money goes.” It is easier and less
likely “to make a fuss,” to record that seven pounds of butter have
been bought and used, his lordship having helped in the consumption
thereof, when by sharp management, five have sufficed; to write down
“new shoes for Bobby, $4,00,” when, in reality, the cost of mending his
old ones that they might last a month longer, was only $1,50,—than to
confess to the practical critic who does not overlook a single item,
that the money “made” by these expedients was spent, partly in paying
up a yearly subscription to the Charitable Society; partly for an
innocent luncheon during a day’s shopping in the city.
“Unjustifiable deception?” Have I pretended to excuse it? But I look
back of the timid woman—the pauper, bedecked in silks, laces and
gems,—for most men like to see their wives dressed as well as their
neighbors—the moral coward, who has lied from the natural desire to
handle a little money for herself without being cross-examined about
it—and ask—“by what stress of humiliating tyranny was she brought to
this?”
All women do not manage monetary affairs well, you remind me, gently.
Some are unprincipled in their extravagance, reckless of everything
save their own whims and unconscionable desires. Must a man beggar
himself and those dependent upon him, lest such an one should accuse
him of parsimony? By yielding to demands he knows to be exorbitant, he
proves himself to be weaker even than she.
I have said nowhere that a woman is the best judge of what her husband
ought to appropriate from his gains or fortune for the support of his
family. But he stands convicted of a grave error of judgment, if he has
chosen from the whole world as the keeper of his honor and happiness, a
woman whom he cannot trust to touch his purse-strings.
Let us be patient as well as reasonable. So long as a babe is kept in
long clothes, and carried in arms, it will not learn to walk alone.
The majority of women have been swathed in conventionalities and
borne above the practicalities of business by mistaken tenderness or
misapprehension of their powers, for so long, that, however quick may
be their intuitions, time and practice are necessary to make them
adepts in financiering. The best way to render them trustworthy is
not by taking it for granted, and letting them see that you do, that
they have sinister designs upon your pockets. They are not pirates by
nature, nor are they, even with such schooling as many get from their
legal proprietors, always on the alert to wheedle or extort a few
dollars for their own sty and selfish ends. After all, is there not a
spice of truth in the would-be satire of the old distich?
  “What are wives made of—made of?
   Everything good, if they’re but understood!”
If you chance to be painfully conscious of the mental inferiority and
warped conscience of your partner in the solemn dance of life; if there
is more “worse” than “better” in the everyday wear of the matrimonial
bond; if sloth and waste mark her administration of household affairs,
instead of the industrious thrift you would recommend, and which you
see others practise; if the rent in the bottom of the pouch carries off
the money faster than you can drop it in, you are to be pitied almost
as much as your bachelor neighbor, who sews on his own buttons, and
depends upon boarding-houses for his daily food. Still, my friend, is
there any reason why you should accept the consequences of this one
mistake on your part, with less philosophy; bring to the bearing of it
a smaller modicum of Christian resignation than you summon to support
you under any other? Women have been as grievously misled by fancy or
affection, before now, and have borne the burden of disappointment to
the grave without murmur or reproach.
Then, there is always the chance that your wife is not “understood,”
or that, well-meant as your attempts to “manage” her have been, you
have not selected the most judicious methods of doing this. In this
enlightened and liberal age, nobody, unless he be bigot or fool,
habitually thinks and speaks of women as a lower order of intelligent
beings. But even in your breast, my ill-mated friend, there may lurk a
touch of the ancient leaven of uncharitableness, and in your treatment
of her “whom the Lord hath given to be with you,” there may be a spice
of arrogance, the exponent of which, were you Turk or Kaffir, would be
brute force.
“I do not object to your proposal, my love. You always have your own
way in household affairs,” said a very “kind and affectionate” man to
his wife, with the air of a potentate amiably relinquishing his sceptre
for love’s sake.
“Will you tell me, my dear husband, why, if I conduct ‘household
affairs’ wisely and pleasantly (and you have often acknowledged that I
do!) I should not have my own way?” was the unexpected reply, uttered
in perfect temper—no less sweetly for being an argument. “For twenty
years I have made domestic economy a constant and practical study. Is
it reasonable to suppose that, after all this expenditure of time and
thought, I am not a better judge of ways and means in my profession
than are you, whose life has been spent in other pursuits? For all your
indulgent affection to me, as displayed in a thousand ways since our
marriage-day, I love and thank you. But excuse me for saying that I am
not grateful that you have, as you are rather fond of saying, ‘made it
a point to give me my head’ in all pertaining to housekeeping. That you
do this shows that you are just and honorable. It is no more a favor
done to me than is my non-interference with your clerks and purchases,
your shipments and warehouses, a matter for which you should thank me.”
The husband stroked his beard thoughtfully. He was a sensible man, and
magnanimous enough to recognize the truth that his wife was a sensible
woman.
“Upon my word,” he said, presently, with a frank laugh, “that is a view
of the case I never took before. I believe you are right.”
One more hint, which may be of service to those who are not so ready to
acknowledge the superiority—in any case—of feminine reasoning, or to
such as are not blessed with sensible consorts—the best friends of
these ladies being judges.
“Drive him with an easy rein!” said my John in trusting me for the
first time to manage his favorite horse. “His mouth is tender as a
woman’s. You cannot deal with a thoroughbred as with a cold-blooded
roadster.”
“What will happen if I hold him in hard?” inquired I, eyeing the
pointed ears and arched neck with as much apprehension as admiration.
I commend the laconic answer to your consideration, as altogether
pertinent to the subject we have been discussing.
“A rear-up, and a run backward, instead of forward!”
RIPE FRUIT.
THE sight of the fruit-dish or basket upon the breakfast table has
become so common of late years that its absence, rather than its
presence, in the season of ripe fruits would be remarked, and felt
even painfully by some. It is fashionable, and therefore considered
a wise sanitary measure, to eat oranges as a prelude to the regular
business of the morning meal. Grapes are eaten so long as they can be
conveniently obtained. It may be because my own taste and digestion
revolt at the practice of forcing crude acids upon an empty, and often
faint stomach, that I am disposed to doubt the healthfulness of the
innovation upon the long-established rule that sets fruit always in the
place of dessert. I have an actual antipathy to the pungent odor of raw
orange-peel, and have been driven from the breakfast-table at a hotel
more than once by the overpowering effect of the piles of yellow rind
at my left, right, and opposite to me. A cluster of grapes taken before
breakfast would put me, and others whom I know, hors de combat for
the day with severe headache. In the consciousness of this, I can be
courageous in declining the “first course” of an à la mode breakfast,
and at my own table, withholding the fruit until the stomach has
regained its normal tone under the judicious application of substantial
viands. Then, it is pleasant to linger over the vinous globes of
crimson, purple, and pale-green; to dip ripe strawberries in powdered
sugar with lazy gusto; to pare rosy rareripes and golden Bartletts
while discussing the day’s news and plans, in the serene belief that
the healthful, delicious juices are assimilating whatever incongruous
elements have preceded them in the alimentary canal.
I write this, not to guide the practice of other households, but to
enforce a remark I see an opportunity for bringing in here. Be a
slavish follower of no custom whatsoever. It is sensible and expedient
to act in uniformity with your neighbors when you can do so without
moral or physical injury. Conformity to a foolish or hurtful fashion is
always weak, if not positively wicked.
Serve your fruit, then, as the first or last course at your family
breakfast as may seem right to yourself, but, by all means, have it
whenever you can procure it comfortably and without much expense.
In warm weather, you had better banish meat from the morning bill
of fare, three days in the week, than have the children go without
berries and other fresh fruits. Make a pretty glass dish, or silver or
wicker basket of peaches, pears or plums, an institution of the summer
breakfast. In autumn, you can have grapes until after frost; then,
oranges and bananas if you desire. These, being expensive luxuries,
are not absolutely enjoined by nature or common sense. Let the “basket
of summer fruit,” however, be a comely and agreeable reality while
solstitial suns beget bile, and miasma walks, a living, almost visible
presence, through the land.
Fruits, each in its season, are the cheapest, most elegant and
wholesome dessert you can offer your family or friends, at luncheon
or tea. Pastry and plum-pudding should be prohibited by law, from the
beginning of June until the end of September. And in winter, a dish of
apples and oranges flanked by one of boiled chestnuts, and another of
picked walnut or hickory-nut kernels, will often please John and the
bairns better than the rich dessert that cost you a hot hour over the
kitchen-range, when Bridget was called away to a cousin’s funeral, or
Daphne was laid up with “a misery in her head.”
Among the creams, jellies and “forms” of a state-dinner dessert, fruit
is indispensable, and the arrangement and preparation of the choicer
varieties is a matter for the taste and skill of the mistress, or her
refined daughters, as are the floral decorations of the feast.
FROSTED PEACHES.
12 large rich peaches—freestones.
Whites of three eggs, whisked to a standing froth.
2 table-spoonfuls water.
1 cup powdered sugar.
Put water and beaten whites together; dip in each peach when you have
rubbed off the fur with a clean cloth, and then roll in powdered sugar.
Set up carefully, on the stem end, upon a sheet of white paper, laid
on a waiter in a sunny window. When half dry, roll again in the sugar.
Expose to the sun and breeze until perfectly dry, then, put in a cool,
dry place until you are ready to arrange them in the glass dish for
table.
Garnish with green leaves.
FROSTED AND GLACÉ ORANGES.
6 sweet, large oranges.
  Whites of two eggs, whisked stiff,  }
  1 table-spoonful water,             } for frosting.
  1 cup powdered sugar.               }
  Cochineal.                          }
  1 cup sugar,                 }
  1 ounce gum arabic,          } for glazing.
  2 table-spoonfuls hot water, }
Pare the oranges, squeezing them as little as you can, remove every
particle of the inner white skin, and divide them into lobes, taking
care not to break the skin. Take half of the sugar meant for frosting,
and stir it up with a few drops of liquid cochineal. Spread on a dish
in the sun to dry, and if it lump, roll or pound again to powder. Put
the white sugar in another dish. Add the water to the stiffened whites;
dip in one-third of the orange lobes and roll in the white sugar;
another third, first in the eggs and water, then in the red sugar. Lay
them upon a sheet of paper to dry.
Put the gum arabic and hot water together over the fire, and when the
gum is melted, add the cup of sugar. Stir until it is a clear, thick
glue. Set in a pan of hot water and dip the remaining pieces of orange
in it. Lay a stick lengthwise on a flat dish, and lean the lobes
against it on both sides, to dry.
Heap red, white, and yellow together in a glass dish, and garnish with
leaves—orange or lemon leaves if you can get them.
This is a delicate, but not difficult, bit of work, and the effect is
very pretty.
TROPICAL SNOW. +
10 sweet oranges.
1 grated cocoanut.
2 glasses pale sherry.
1 cup powdered sugar.
6 red bananas.
Peel the oranges; divide into lobes and cut these across three times,
making small pieces, from which the seeds must be taken. Put a layer of
these in the bottom of a glass bowl, and pour a little wine over them.
Strew thickly with white sugar. The cocoanut should have been pared and
thrown into cold water before it was grated. Spread some of it over the
sugared oranges; cut the bananas into very thin round slices, and put a
layer of the fruit close together, all over the cocoanut. More oranges,
wine, sugar and cocoanut, and when the dish is full, heap high with the
cocoanut. Sprinkle sugar on this, and ornament with rings of sliced
banana. Eat very soon, or the oranges will grow tough in the wine.
Oranges cut up in the way I have described are more easily managed with
a spoon, and less juice is wasted, than when they are sliced in the
usual manner.
This is a handsome and delightful dessert.
COCOANUT FROST ON CUSTARD. +
2 cups rich milk.
½ pound sweet almonds, blanched and pounded.
4 eggs, beaten light.
½ cup powdered sugar.
Rose-water.
1 cocoanut, pared, thrown into cold water and grated.
Scald the milk and sweeten. Stir into it the almonds pounded to a
paste, with a little rose-water. Boil three minutes, and pour gradually
upon the beaten eggs, stirring all the time. Return to the fire and
boil until well thickened. When cold turn into a glass bowl, and heap
high with the grated cocoanut. Sift a little powdered sugar over all.
STEWED APPLES. +
Core the fruit without paring it, and put it into a glass or stoneware
jar, with a cover. Set in a pot of cold water and bring to a slow boil.
Leave it at the back of the range for seven or eight hours, boiling
gently all the time. Let the apples get perfectly cold before you open
the jar.
Eat with plenty of sugar and cream.
Only sweet apples are good cooked in this manner, and they are very
good.
BAKED PEARS. +
Cut ripe pears in half, without peeling or removing the stems. Pack
in layers in a stoneware or glass jar. Strew a little sugar over each
layer. Put a small cupful of water in the bottom of the jar to prevent
burning; fit on a close cover, and set in a moderate oven. Bake three
hours, and let the jar stand unopened in the oven all night.
APPLES AND JELLY. +
Fill a baking-dish with pippins, or other tender juicy apples, pared
and cored, but not sliced. Make a syrup of one cup of water, and half
as much sugar; stir until the sugar is dissolved, and pour over the
apples. Cover closely, and bake slowly until tender. Draw from the
oven, and let the apples cool without uncovering. Pour off the syrup,
and fill the hollowed centres with some bright fruit jelly.
Boil down the syrup fast, until quite thick, and, just before sending
the apples to table, stir into it some rich cream sweetened very
abundantly. Pass with the apples.
BOILED CHESTNUTS.
Put into warm (not hot) water, slightly salted, bring to a boil, and
cook fast fifteen minutes. Turn off the water through a cullender; stir
a good piece of butter into the hot chestnuts, tossing them over and
over until they are glossy and dry.
Serve upon a hot napkin in a deep dish.
WALNUTS AND HICKORY NUTS.
Crack and pick from the shells; sprinkle salt lightly over them, and
serve mixed in the same dish.
Black walnuts are much more wholesome when eaten with salt. Indeed,
they are not wholesome at all without it.
MELONS.
Wipe watermelons clean when they are taken from the ice. They should
lie on, or in ice, for at least four hours before they are eaten. Carve
at table by slicing off each end, then cutting the middle in sharp,
long points, letting the knife go half way through the melon at every
stroke. Pull the halves apart, and you will have a dentated crown.
Wash nutmeg and muskmelons; wipe dry; cut in two, scrape out the seeds,
and put a lump of ice in each half.
Eat with sugar, or with mixed pepper and salt.
CAKES OF ALL KINDS.
NELLIE’S CUP CAKE. +
5 cups of flour.
5 eggs, whites and yolks separated—the latter strained.
1 cup of butter, }
3 cups of sugar, } well creamed together.
1 cup of sweet milk.
1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved in hot water.
2 teaspoonfuls of cream tartar, sifted with flour.
1 teaspoonful of vanilla.
If prepared flour be used in this or any other cake, there is no need
of soda and cream of tartar.
Hecker’s flour I have found invaluable in cake-making. Indeed, I have
never achieved anything short of triumphant success when I have used it.
CAROLINA CAKE (WITHOUT EGGS.) +
1 coffee-cup of sugar—powdered.
2 large table-spoonfuls butter, rubbed into the sugar.
1½ cups of flour.
½ cup sweet cream.
½ teaspoonful of soda.
Bake quickly in small tins, and eat while fresh and warm.
WHITE CAKE. +
1 cup of butter, }
2 cups of sugar, } rubbed to a light cream.
1 cup of sweet milk.
6 eggs, the whites only—beaten stiff.
½ teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in boiling water.
1 teaspoonful of cream tartar, sifted with flour.
4 cups of flour, or enough for tolerably thick batter.
Juice of 1 lemon, and half the grated peel.
CHOCOLATE CAKE. +
2 cups of sugar.
4 table-spoonfuls butter, rubbed in with the sugar.
