spirit, Nelly's pretty adornment of a sprig of purple helio 
trope in her waving, silvery hair, and saying, " Thank you, 
my dear ! I would have gone twice as far for a bit of 
heliotrope." Then, when she brought her work over by 
Mrs. Kinnard, the old lady could not help thawing out a 
little; for Mrs. Woodbury belonged to one of the "old 
families," and her son was a representative at Washington. 
Then Nelly coaxed Mrs. Irwin into their circle, and left 
them chatting amiably. And so she moved from one to 
another, introducing some shy-looking girls, bringing 
groups together, and drawing out the social element. 
Others kept dropping in, and adding a stir and gentle 
confusion. "How much the "rooms were improved!" 
"What a pretty conservatory!" "And how did Mrs. 
Kinnard manage to have so many flowers in bloom during 
the transition season ? " " And who ever thought of hav 
ing such lovely pansies in the fall ! quite as large as hot 
house pansies." Of course she had been to Colden's 
Rock for ferns ; and wasn't Kelly's Falls a beautiful spot? 
And then had she read this or that? and did she know 
how this apron was to be put together? 
 
"I declare," Mrs. Woodbury said with a cordial, 
motherly smile, " you might be a minister's wife ! I am 
almost sorry that Mr. Dudley did not get the start of 
our good doctor. Why, I never saw a sewing-society 
managed so admirably ; and still the people come." 
It was getting dusk now. Dr. Kinnard hurried through 
with the last of his patients, and was home early, as Nelly 
had begged of him. Mrs. Daly was arranging the table 
quietly, without the rattling of spoons and knives and 
forks, Jane's usual accompaniment. Some of the elder 
gentlemen came to tea, and talked over church-matters 
and business-matters. The coffee and tea were fragrant, 
the bread and biscuit delightful, the cake plain, and great 
dishes of grapes afterward. When the long dining-table 
had been filled, Nelly brought out some cosey little tables, 
and seated two or four at them. The younger people 
stood up, or rambled around, with a plate in their hands, 
laughing and chatting. Dr. Kinnard did himself more 
than justice. He added life and zest, told two or three 
capital stories, and made everybody admire him more 
than ever. 
They lingered over the table as if loath to break up the 
sociality ; and at last Nelly begged her husband to take 
the crowd around him into the parlor. Miss Grove had 
condescended to come down to tea, and brought Maud, 
dressed like a fashion-plate. 
" I suppose j T ou hardly lay claim to your little daughter 
yet," Mrs. Woodbury said in a low aside, when she 
found herself in a recess with Nelly. ' ' Miss Grove 
is an admirable woman in some respects ; but it doesn't 
seem to me that she understands childhood at all. She 
acts as if it were something to be ashamed of, and laid 
aside as soon as possible. Now, I think true, pretty- 
behaved children are as much addition to a house as a 
beautiful picture, just in appearance merely ; and then, 
when we think of them as our future men and women, we 
long to have their lives complete and harmonious, with a 
springtime to them. And that poor little thing looks to 
me as if she never ran and played, or laughed freely. 
And she is dressed as if for a ball." 
" Her aunt takes entire charge of her," Nelly said 
slowly. 
"Yes. But I can't help wishing Providence would 
place her in your hands. Your own childhood is not so 
far back, but that you remember it." 
There was a little shyness among the young folks about 
playing. If Mrs. Kinnard would only give them some 
thing first. So Mrs. Kinnard played a very spirited quick 
step, and, at Mr. Dudley's desire, sang that sweet little 
home-song, "Don't be sorrowful, darling." Twenty 
years from this, would she sing with a still sweet voice? 
" We have had our May, my darling, 
And our roses long ago ; 
And the time of the year, is coming, my dear, 
For the silent night and the snow." 
The only trouble with the evening was its brevity. 
Everybody was glad they had come, and sorry for those 
who had staid away. Mrs. Woodbury proposed to have 
the society next time at her house. 
"But yon will surely come," she entreated of Mrs. 
Kinnard. "And, my dear, I want to see more of you. 
I am an old lady, to be sure ; but I still enjoy youth and 
brightness. And the doctor has always been such a favo 
rite of ours. Come over and take tea with me in an in 
formal way, and then ask me to spend the day with you. 
I get quite lonesome at times. My children are all 
married, and away ; and my grandchildren can only come 
during vacations. Now remember. I do not ask favors 
very often ; ' ' and she kissed the fair face with motherly 
warmth. 
The elder Mrs. Kinnard stood at a little distance, and 
saw not only that, but some other very cordial partings 
She understood, too, how very proud her son hsd been of 
his wife all the evening. Hardly another girl or woman 
in the room was as pretty ; and yet she had no self-con 
sciousness about it, cordial, winsome, with a peculiar 
dignity that did not detach her from her husband, but 
made the years between less apparent. And to-night 
Miss Grove looked undeniably old. Whether it was her 
sage-green siik, which was very unbecoming, but had the 
merit of being a new color, or her supercilious air, Mrs. 
Kinnard could not decide. She had a misgiving, how 
ever, that ' ' dear Adelaide ' ' could never have made these 
people so enjoy themselves, or have won such golden 
opinicms, or even brought the proud and happy look to 
 my son's face." She had not been called upon to 
love- her first daughter-in-law. Mary Grove was not 
given to sentiment ; and then, too, she had many other 
interests to life at that time. She seemed to feel a little 
jealous now of Mrs. "Woodbury's fondness. There are 
natures in this world that never can appreciate any thing 
until the verdict of others settles the claim ; and Mrs. 
Kinnard's was of this stamp. She might always consider 
her son foolish because he chose a poor wife when he 
might have had a rich one : but to-night she felt how 
sweet youth and beauty were to him ; how he basked in 
it, as if it were sunshine. And even Mr. Dudley had 
studied curiously this bright, entertaining woman, with 
her exquisite social tact, her charming variety and 
adaptiveness, that infused a broad and generous charm 
outside of herself. The wedding-party, under Miss 
Grove's management, had been stiff and lifeless in com 
parison with this. 
And when they had all gone with merry good-nights 
and warm invitations, Dr. Kinnard took a long glance out 
into the frosty air and starry sky, while his wife and 
mother stood there together. 
 
" Did yon think it was pleasant?" Nelly asked timidly, 
remarking the softened lines about the other's face. 
"Why yes," with some hesitation. "I had no 
idea as many good families went to St. Mark's. They 
used to go to Grace. And you've done very well to 
night, better than I thought you could, without Jane." 
The doctor shut the door at that moment. " To tell 
the truth," he said laughingly, " Jane has been a sort of 
* family ogre to us. I am glad she has gone. Mat says 
the kitchen is like paradise : so we will put up with a 
few mishaps and blunders for a while, hoping to end 
happily with a new servant who is not a scold." 
" Mrs. Mercer told me of a woman that I am going to 
see .to-morrow, a German woman, whose husband was 
killed in a mill some months ago. She has one little 
child, a girl, and has gone out washing ; but the girl at 
Mrs. Mercer's said she wanted a service place for the 
winter." 
"Be sure to learn what her cooking capabilities are. 
I can't have you in the kitchen all the time, getting your 
face burned. What was her name? " 
" Mary Berkman ; and she lives in Allen's Row." 
"Berkman yes, I do remember was caught in the 
machinery, poor fellow ! Do you know that it is almost 
midnight, Mrs. Kinnard? #nd those society people were 
to go home at ten o'clock." 
"They did begin at that -time," returned Nelly laugh 
ingly. 
" Dudley's delighted. He told me privately that they 
had taken in twenty- three dollars, and that he is quite 
sure no one could have made it such a success as you 
did. I really thought it very enjoyable ; and I'm not 
much used to such things." 
Nelly Kinnard laid a tired head upon her pillow ; and 
yet she could not go to sleep. There were so many 
ideas floating through her brain worlds to conquer ; and 
Mother Kinnard had actually praised her. 
"If it wasn't for Aunt Adelaide, I am quite confident 
that I could make her love me," the yornig wife thought. 
" And she ought to love Barton ever so much better. 
Why is there not more real, vital love in the world that 
is not afraid to speak or to act for itself? " 
CHAPTER 
" A creature not too bright or good 
For human nature's daily food, 
For transient sorrows, simple wiles, 
Praise, blame, love, kisses, tears, and smiles." 
WOBDSWOBTH. 
"THEY'LL be glad enough to take me back again," 
Jane had said to her sister the day she left the Kin- 
nards'. " I've been through this before, and don't feel 
at all alarmed. I know how to get along with those 
women ; and not another girl in this town could manage 
either one of them. Mrs. Kinnard thinks she's wonder 
fully smart ; but she'll see ! " 
And she did see. She found Mary Berkman the next 
morning, a somewhat stout, rosy, good-natured looking 
woman, who could wash and iron with any one, and do 
plain cooking. " She could learn other things," she 
said with a cheerful smile. But she must take her little 
girl. She would go for less wages, if she could have her ; 
and the child was very handy and quiet, and quick to 
mind. So Nelly proposed she should come a month on 
trial. Her cottage she could rent ; and thus the bargain 
was concluded. 
Mrs. Daly remained until Mary made her appearance. 
Mother Kinnard fretted about the child ; but Nelly 
smoothed the matter by saying, that, if she proved a 
trouble, it was only for a month. So Mary took her 
place in the kitchen ; and with a pleasant mistress to 
induct her, and explain the ways of the family, she 
soon felt at home. Little Katy was very shy and quiet, 
and ready enough to do errands out of school. 
Nelly astonished both her husband and his mother by 
her housewifely ways. Never was revolution in Dr. 
Kinnard's house more quietly effected. Not that they 
came to clear sailing at once. Miss Grove had some 
fault to find, and Jane's cooking appeared now to be her 
ideal. 
"I must say, Adelaide, I do not observe any wonder 
ful difference, except the variety in desserts ; " and he 
glanced mischievously at his wife. "And the house is 
quieter. It must be acknowledged that Jane was that 
bad thing in woman, a scold. I, for one, do not 
feel inclined to regret her, or to have her memory 
embalmed in my household." 
Mother Kinnard ventured to make herself again at 
home in the kitchen. Nelly managed that she should 
not annoy Marj^, and often consulted her upon some 
point that rendered her quite happy. Ve^ slow work it 
was ; but the young wife felt that she did gain a little in 
the esteem of the elder woman. A few times Mrs. Kin 
nard had said " Nelly" in speaking to her, which made 
her heart beat with unwonted emotion. Generally she 
evaded any name. 
And Christmas came presently ; for the last two months 
had gone very rapidly. It had never been made of much 
account in the doctor's famity, a rather formal presen 
tation of gifts in the morning, but with no genial holiday 
aspect after that. It fell on Monday : so Nellie resolved, 
if her husband did not object, to spend three or four days 
at home, and keep the festival in the olden manner. 
" I couldn't go with you, could I?" said Bertie wist 
fully. " And there's no school for a fortnight, either." 
" Would you like to go? There are no little boys to 
play with ;" and Nelly hesitated, thinking whether she 
wanted the bother on her holiday. 
" I wouldn't mind. Couldn't I ride down on my sled? 
I might take it, you. know." 
u Herbert ! " exclaimed a sharp voice, as Aunt Adelaide 
passed through the hall : it was late twilight, though the 
lamps were not lighted, "Herbert, I am ashamed of 
you! Mrs. Kinnard, do not, I pray, fill the child's 
head with any such foily. Children's visiting is a thing I 
should never allow, except at the home of a near relative, 
and I think I have some rights with my sister's children. 
I shall beg }*our father not to let you, even if he is weak 
enough to listen to such a preposterous idea." 
Bertie began to whine. 
" Never mind," said his mamma softly. " Let me tell 
you a Christmas story." 
For once Aunt Adelaide took the start of them, and 
gained her point. The doctor coincided with her, that it 
would be quite absurd. Nelly said no more ; and yet, 
from her heart, she pitied any children condemned to 
such a dreary holiday. Once she had half a mind to 
stay at home. 
" Nonsense ! " said the doctor peremptorily. 
She went on Saturday, and had a lovely Christmas 
Sunday, a preparation for the higher feast. How good 
it was to enjoy herself with the dear home-circle once 
more ! Then, when they returned from the Christmas 
morning services, they found Dr. Kinnard ready to take 
dinner with them. 
" But I must go back this evening," he said. " I have 
two quite critical cases on hand. However, it shall not 
spoil your holidays. You deserve a good long one, little 
woman, though Mary gave me private instructions to 
bring you home with me." 
Nelly only smiled then ; but some curious presentiment 
decided her to return. They had the tree just at dusk ; 
and no one was more delighted with his remembrances 
than the doctor, who kissed his rosy sisters-in-law all 
round, and declared that they were enough to spoil any 
man. 
Nelly came down presently, warmly wrapped in her 
furs. 
" But you are not going ! " he cried in astonishment. 
" Don't you want me? " she asked saucily. 
"It is too bad!-" said Gertrude. "Can't you make 
her stay, doctor?" 
" Why, yes, I could, because, you see, she has promised 
to obey me. But then she looks so pretty, all muffled up 
to the tip of the nose, that really I cannot resist. I am 
afraid I do want to take her." 
"I should go to-morrow anyhow," said Nelly with a 
shower of kisses. " And }x>u are all to come and keep 
New Year's with me, remember." 
So they gave each other a fond good-by. Dr. Kinnard 
drew his wife tenderly under his wing ; and they walked 
briskly toward the station. 
"It was so generous of you to come! " he said once, 
as, making a slight misstep, he took occasion to draw her 
nearer. " You might have staid all the week, you know. 
I had promised not to grumble ; though I must admit that 
I am always a little jealous of the circle at the rectory." 
" And unjustly too," she answered with a gay laugh. 
" They are girls, to be sure. Well, when I have had 
you twenty years, I may begin to feel quite assured of your 
regard." 
"Twenty years!" she exclaimed. "Why, think how 
old I shall be !" 
" And think how old I shall be ! hobbling round with 
a cane, no doubt; " and there was a sound of humorous 
complaint in his tone. 
"We shall have had a glad, sweet summer, I trust," 
she made answer. 
It seemed to him that he had just touched the bounda 
ries of spring, mid- winter though it might be around. 
 
And so they journeyed on until the familiar station came 
in sight with Mat awaiting them. 
" Mat," said the doctor, " I wish you would drive right 
over to the Rltchies'. They are a good deal alarmed 
about their little girl ; and I promised to drop in this 
evening. I feel anxious myself. Such a pretty little 
thing ! you never saw her, Nelly, and their only 
child." 
They flew like the wind. It was realty exhilarating to 
Nelly. And now the moon was coming up, glinting 
every point of snow and ice with a thousand fairy spar 
kles. 
"I think the symptoms are more favorable," said the 
doctor as he emerged from the Rltchies'. " I changed 
the remedies this morning, and I do believe now that I 
shall raise her. Did you get chilly, waiting? " 
" No," returned Nelly. 
" Why, Mat, you are in a hurry to-night," was his next 
comment. " Are you longing for your snug corner, with 
no Jane to scold ? Nelly, that was a masterstroke of 
yours ; ' ' and the doctor laughed gayly. 
Mat made no reply until they reached the broad avenue. 
Then he loosed the reins, and, leaning over a little, said 
hesitatingly, 
"There's been an accident, doctor. Bertie had a fall, 
and broke his arm." 
" Bertie ! broken his arm ! When ? " 
" About three this afternoon. He was playing in the 
barn. He was pretty bad at first " 
"Is it set? What did you do?" and Dr. Kinnard 
sprang out of the sleigh. 
' ' I went for Dr. Searles straight off ; and he set it. 
But he kept fainting so often." 
" Oh ! " and Nelly uttered a little cry. " I am so glad 
I came with you ! ' ' 
They entered the hall. The office-door was wide open. 
 
Bertie lay on the couch, with Maud and Aunt Adelaide for 
attendants. The doctor marched over, and took his little 
son's limp hand. 
"Bad business, Bertie," he said, but in a rather cheery 
tone. " Does it hurt much? " 
" Has mamma come? Did you bring her? " 
" Bad business indeed ! " exclaimed Miss Grove, rising 
directly in Nelly's way. "Yet I must saj*, Barton, the 
child is justly punished. I hope it will be a lesson to him 
in the future. A more disobedient child I never saw. 
He has been completely ruined by foolish indulgence. 
He is no more the boy he was a year ago than a noxious 
weed is like a trained garden-plant. I look upon this as 
a direct interposition of Providence to call you all to your 
senses." 
' ' What is all this about ? ' ' asked the doctor sharply, 
turning to his sister-in-law. " Can any one give me a 
coherent account ? ' ' 
" I am trying to, if } r ou will onty have a little patience. 
How different you have grown of late ! ' ' and she cast an 
indignant glance upon him. "This morning Herbert 
was very impertinent ; and I told him that he should keep 
Ms room the whole afternoon. I am sorry I did not lock 
the door ; for he has come to have no sense of honor what 
ever. I went down stairs for a few moments ; and, coward 
that he was, he took that opportunity to escape. So I say 
he deserved severe enough punishment to make him re 
member it one while. You had better take him up to bed 
now." 
u No, don't!" almost screamed Bertie. " I want to 
stay just here. It hurts me to stir. Mamma, keep me 
licre^ ' ' and he stretched out his well arm imploringly. 
' ' You see the display of temper ; ' ' and Miss Grove 
raised her head majesticalty. ' ' Barton, do you mean 
that the child shall be ruined, body and soul? He always 
did need a strong hand. I'm sure I do not see where he 
inherited his temper, not from our side. Maud is like 
her own dear mother. I never have any trouble with her. 
And Bertie was quite manageable until " 
" That will do, Adelaide. I have yet to learn where 
and how the child fell, and how much he is injured. 
There, hush, Bertie ; " for he had begun an hysterical 
crying. 
" Why, he ran out to the barn to hide himself, and fell 
from some of the rafters, and broke his arm," said Miss 
Grove with spiteful impatience, which she called just 
indignation. " Dr. Searles said it was a simple fracture, 
and, with care, would be well in a month. As if no one 
had ever broken a bone before ! " 
" Are you hurt in any other place, Bertie? " his father 
asked in a calm, tranquillizing tone. 
" I am hurt all over. Oh, don't touch me, papa ! " and 
he shrunk away. 
"You and Maud maybe dismissed," the doctor said 
briefly to his sister-in-law. " I want to make a slight 
examination ; and I think he had better stay here for this 
night." 
" It surprises me to see you indulge that child so 
ruinously. If his poor mother had lived " 
"That will do." 
" Very well. I wash my hands of the whole matter. I 
would have devoted my life to my ' poor dead sister's ' 
children ; but, if you will interfere, take the risk yourself. 
If the child grows up a trouble to you and everybody else, 
remember that I warned you. Come, Maud." 
The doctor dropped into a chair. How many such 
scenes of angry persistence he had gone through in the 
past was known only to himself and God. Nothing can 
be more wearing and wearisome than people who are 
always in the right, and always ready to dispute to the 
last straw. 
Nelly, meanwhile, had been taking off her hat, and 
 
warm fur sack. Now she knelt by Bertie's couch. Suf 
fering appealed to her strongly ; and she knew by the 
sunken eyes, the pinched and tense lines, and ashen 
pallor, that the pain had not all proceeded from a child's 
irrational terror. She kissed the hand that lay there so 
limp and white. 
"O mamma! don't go away and leave me! I like 
you better than any one else in the wide world, only Tom 
Lester at school. But you don't care for that, do you? 
He has such a splendid lot of things, and a real workshop ; 
and his father is going to give him a pony next summer. 
He promised me a ride on it. But I'd rather live with 
you, if Aunt Adelaide wasn't here. Oh ! " 
A sudden spasm seemed to shake the child. His eyes 
rolled wildly ; and his lips were thin and blue. Nelly 
chafed the cold palm, and watched the face that had been 
so rosy an hour or two ago. Bertie drew a long, shudder 
ing breath, and lay very quiet. 
"It is something more than a broken arm," she said 
in a tremulous tone. 
Dr. Kinnard started, came to the couch, and bent over 
his boy, over Nelly kneeling there, as he had never 
seen any woman kneeling in his house beside a child. 
Some peculiar emotion touched him deeply, a vision of 
motherhood glorified with her tenderness, a lovely 
mother and a lovely child. He had seen it ; but it had 
never been his. 
"Bertie, my child, where was the pain?" But Bertie 
only moaned ; and his father felt quite helpless. 
"Nelly, you are making me chicken-hearted," he said 
with a little tremble in his tone. "I think I had better 
send you away as well." 
" The child ought to be undressed. Will you keep 
him down here all night?" 
" Bertie," and his father's hand was laid on his shoul 
der, tenderly now as any woman's, " my son, you must 
be a brave little fellow, and let me see if you are injured 
elsewhere than in the arm. Yes, if you could get his 
wrapper, Nelly." 
Nelly ran up stairs ; and Miss Grove handed it out 
with a severely indignant sniff. Then she brought down 
one of her own pretty cologne-bottles that Bertie admired 
so much. Dr. Kinnard had been coaxing him gently, and 
now lifted up his shoulder ; but, uttering an excruciating 
cry, the child fainted quite away. 
" Quick, Nelly, take off his clothes. There is some 
thing very serious, I fear." 
With deft and rapid fingers, she disrobed him, and, 
with the doctor's assistance, put on the wrapper. Con 
sciousness being restored, he began a brief examination. 
There was an internal injury ; but whether it was merely 
the jar of the fall, or something more critical, could not 
as yet be told. 
Bertie cried, and shrank from the handling, gentle as it 
was ; but Nelly's sweet voice comforted and re-assured 
with a bravery not above the child's comprehension. 
She kissed him, too, with a soothing tenderness that 
quite magnetized him. 
" I think I will go out, and question Mat a moment. 
You seem to be doing very well with him." 
But Mat could throw no further light upon the subject. 
Bertie had climbed to the loft, and must have made a mis 
step, as there was no floor laid there. Mat had found 
him lying on his side, insensible, brought him into the 
house, and gone imrnediatety for Dr. Searles, who thought 
there was no damage done beside the fractured arm and 
a few bruises. He had not complained much until 
within an hour, though he had refused utterly to be taken 
up stairs. 
" I must wait a day or two before I decide," the doctor 
said as he returned to Nelly, who was holding the child's 
hand. " And now, my dear girl, had you not better 
make some preparation for retiring? It is nearly eleven. 
I shall roll the other lounge in here, though I do not 
think I will have to watch absolutely." 
" Oh, let me stay with you ! " she pleaded. 
" There is no need ; and I would rather have you get a 
good night's sleep." 
" I am so glad I came ! " 
"Why, you must have had a presentiment. Thank 
heaven you are here!" he said fervently, kissing the 
bright cheek. 
But Bertie would not so easily relinquish his hold. 
Scarlet flushes were succeeding the deadty pallor ; and he 
moved his head uneasily, crying out now and then with 
pain, and insisting on Nelly's keeping close beside him. 
"Don't let her take me away!" he would exclaim 
vehemently. 
" I had better stay for a while," she said in a quiet 
tone. Then she hushed him, singing some childish hymn 
in her low soothing voice. The fever was coming on 
rapidly, and with it delirium. Dr. Kinnard sat grave 
and thoughtful. He had never seen his own children 
seriously ill. To a man of his theorizing and speculative 
turn of mind, Nelly presented an entertaining study as 
she lingered there in the dim light, watching the child, a 
bit of faded flower in her dark hair, that Gertrude had 
placed in it before dinner, the ruff of soft, wraith-like 
illusion around her shapely neck, the fair and slender 
hands, untiring it seemed to him. How different women 
were ! He had seen many mothers, fond, tender, indul 
gent ; wise and foolish mothers, careless and indifferent 
ones, and others who seemed to take their children as a 
special grievance. He remembered well one who had 
done so. From their birth, they had been banished to the 
nursery. He generally found them crying or asleep in his 
brief visits. And he had never been, made very welcome 
there. She could not endure to have him bestow any 
attention on the children ; indeed, she took every courtesy 
proffered to any one else as a personal affront. Yet 
people outside had often found her very charming. 
True, he might have grown fond of them afterward ; 
but well, he had not cared. It brought a flush to his 
cheek as he remembered it. Aunt Adelaide was peculiar 
too. Authority was the one thing she did not desire to 
share. She had her own ideas, her own plans, her own 
waj's, matured, she fancied, after much thought and ex 
perience. But how much of the vaunted experience of this 
life is simply a determination to carry out one's will, to 
have one's own way, and bend others to it ! And so she 
wanted people to be good and happy after her set plan. 
No bed of Procrustes was ever more rigid. She lopped 
off mercilessly. She compressed, flattened, stretched 
out, when there was really nothing to stretch. With 
Maud she had succeeded very well. The child was 
ladylike and high bred, as she considered high breeding. 
She knew more than most girls of her age : she had no 
foolish passion for dolls, or fairy-stories, or rude boisterous 
plays. Already she was a miniature woman, could de 
tect imitation laces from real, and was quite a judge of 
silks and velvets, and very free to criticise the attire of 
any one in which there was any make-believe. But what 
of the poor starved little soul that never even knew the 
divine hungering for love? 
Dr. Kinnard had not been blind to all this, it was 
true. Still he had a great respect for Aunt Adelaide's 
love. He had seen the working of stepmothers in 
more than one family ; and his mind had in it the breadth 
of patience that can respect another's prejudices. He 
would not hurry her faith in Nelly's capacities ; neither 
would he burthen Nelly with so much in the beginning. 
There was a little selfishness in that. He wanted her 
time, her attention, and sweetness for the present. No 
one had ever ministered to him in this delightful fashion. 
Ah, Nelly ! you never guessed how miser like he treasured 
up every smile, every caress, and called himself an old 
idiot for so doing. 
But, as he. watched her there, he did not grudge the 
kisses. Something seemed awakening within him, tardi 
ly, as if after a long sleep. Had he ever felt the rapture 
over his children that he had seen men indulge in ? And 
why? He would suffer physical pain for them, hunger, 
cold, labor, if need were. He would gladly take Bertie's 
place, and endure courageously the few weeks' suffering : 
why not that deep, exquisite emotion, that thrill of 
fatherhood? And Nelly there was playing at imaginary 
motherhood. He could see the soft flushes rise in her 
face, the struggle of girlish bashfulness, the fear of taking 
too much of another woman's child. If her own were 
in her arms, her own as entrancingly lovely as that 
cherub of Mrs. Duncan's. 
He rose to give Bertie some fever-drops. " Don't take 
me away! " the child screamed, clinging to her: so she 
held the spoon, and persuaded him. 
Somewhere toward morning the stupor gained ground ; 
and though Bertie moaned, and cried out occasionally, he 
could no longer distinguish between them. 
"Now you must go to bed, Nelly," the doctor said, 
taking her in his arms, and kissing the tired face fondly. 
"There will be nursing enough after to-night; for I am 
afraid the poor little chap is not to get off so easily. If 
he is very restless, I promise to call you. Can you not 
trust him to me? " 
Something in his voice caused her to glance up. Was 
there a new tenderness in his shady eyes? He flushed at 
her unspoken question. 
"Yes," he said, "I may have been too well satisfied 
to have them crowded out. How did your heart fill with 
this tender, bounteous love, my darling ? You shower it 
broadcast, as if there never could be any lack." 
"There cannot be, since it is of God, who giveth 
liberally." 
They stood in silence for many minutes, then she 
kissed him good-night softly, and went away. 
Like a dim dream, some sentence heard in an idle hour 
floated back to him, "A new creature in Christ Jesus." 
What was this abounding faith of Nelly's? 
 
CHAPTER XIV. 
" Life counts not hours by joys or pangs, 
But just by duties done." 
DR. KINNARD'S words proved too sadly true. There 
was nursing enough in store for Nelly. By the next 
morning the fever had gained rapid headway. Dr. 
Searles came over, and found there had been not a little 
congestion from the force of the fall. That there was 
something besides, was painfully evident. Even at the 
height of delirium and apparent unconsciousness, he 
would scream if moved from certain positions. 
The "den" was speedily turned into a sick-room. It 
made less going up and down stairs, and was a very 
quiet place at this season of the year ; there being fewer 
office-callers for pleasure. Nelly had the kitchen at her 
command, and chance visitors also ; and the doctor found 
it more convenient than an upstairs room. 
Thus passed a fortnight in anxious suspense. Aunt 
Adelaide affected to disbelieve in the danger, and felt still 
more offended when piano practice was interdicted. 
Under other circumstances, no doubt but that she would 
have compelled the house to bow down to the illness of 
one of my " poor sister's children ; " but now her injured 
dignity was paramount. 
Mother Kinnard was quite frightened. Deaths and 
funerals filled her with nervous apprehension and dread. 
Something in Nelly's devotion touched her ; and, in her 
secret heart, she admitted the child's own mother would 
not so have spent herself. 
 
"Why should she not?" said Aunt Adelaide tartly. 
" Before she came in the house, Herbert never thought of 
disobeying me. It was the result of her foolish indul 
gence ; and she ought to suffer for it." 
"Stepmothers haven't the name of being indulgent 
usualy," returned Mrs. Kinnard rather dryly. 
" Any one can see that it is done for effect. When 
she comes to have children, ' my dear Bertie ' will be 
pushed aside quickly enough," was the scornful re 
joinder. 
" Barton," she said one morning, stopping her brother- 
in-law in the hall, " there is one subject on which I want 
to speak. If Herbert should die, I believe you are his 
natural heir ; but I think his portion ought to go to 
Maud. It was my ' poor dear sister's ' money." 
" Hang the money !" he flung out angrily. "Do you 
suppose I would touch a penny of it if I was starving ? 
I wish there had never been a dollar ! Never mention 
it to me again." 
But Bertie did not die. He seemed to go to the very 
verge of the grave. There was one night when his father 
sat by him, administering stimulants, and counting the 
faint pulsation. His child ! How strange it seemed ! 
He inherited his father's constitution ; and the freedom 
of the j'ear, with active exercise, had strengthened it 
greatly, for it had been somewhat injured by an injudi 
cious childhood. So he came feebly back to life, lay wan 
and white for many days, dependent as a baby on Nelly's 
motherly care. She fed him, she bathed the shrunken 
limbs, read to him, or sang, watching every change in 
the pale face, so little now, so spiritualized, until she 
began to think him absolutely prett} r : at least, he had 
his father's fine eyes, all the more noticeable now that the 
stupid look had gone out of them. There came into 
Nelly's heart an earnest sympathy, a tender love, a desire 
to fill a mother's place truly, and train the neglected 
 
heart to better uses than the repressed and chilling years 
had known. 
And the worst had not yet been confessed. For a while 
Dr. Kinnard had feared it ; and, taking Dr. Searles into 
counsel, they had made a painful examination to find 
that the joint of the hip had been injured by striking hard 
upon it. 
"And my poor boy will be lame for life!" he ex 
claimed with passionate regret. " O Bertie ! if you had 
not been " and then he checked himself. 
That evening he confessed to Nelly the certainty. 
' ' Oh ! are you sure ? Can nothing be done ? Lame 
for life ! " 
Dr. Kinnard walked up and down the office with his 
hands clasped behind him, his brain in a chaos of unrea 
son. Why should this be sent upon him? All his life, 
so far, there had been something, a thorn in the flesh to 
wound him. 
Nelly slipped one hand within his, and leaned her head 
upon his shoulder. 
" Barton," she said softly, "it is verj^, very hard for 
you to bear, I know. And yet there is some wisdom 
in it that will be shown us after a while. I think you 
have begun to love him better ; and this very love will 
bring with it a grace." 
He took the fair face in both hands, kissed brow and 
lips, and she saw there were tears in his eyes. 
" Let me comfort you," she cried. "Perhaps God 
gave me to you for this purpose. For the next few years 
he will sorely need a mother's affection and patience ; 
and so I have found my work, my duty." 
" And j'ou welcome it? O Nelly! you have reached a 
height quite beyond me. I can only see the wearisome, 
disappointing present. Bertie was not a dull scholar ; 
Mr. Herrick said so. I thought to take a pride in him as 
he grew older, to send him to college, to give him a 
profession, or establish him in business, to make a man 
of him ; and Heaven knows there is sore enough need of 
true, strong men in- this world. How can I endure " 
"It may not be so bad. Bertie" is a child yet; and 
there is a hope of his outgrowing it." 
"Hardly, if this should be a confirmed case of hip- 
disease. And, Nelly, it is weak, wicked perhaps ; but I 
have a shrinking from all kinds of deformity and lame 
ness. I pity any one profoundly ; but I am always 
thankful that it is not mine. And now it has come to 
me. If I had listened, and let you take him home " 
Nelly had thought of it many times. It had been on 
her lips that first evening ; but it seemed too much of a 
reproach to utter. 
"You shall not blame yourself," she cried. "I am 
not quite sure that I wanted to take him. And we must 
not hurry God's meanings, or distrust them, but feel that 
there is something in this for us to study or work out for 
a new satisfaction. It is the part for to-day that concerns 
us : next year will bring its own strength. We have to 
do with Bertie's childhood now ; and the man he will 
make will be such as pleases God, I hope." 
"My darling! " 
" Perhaps it will not be so bad. Is there no more 
experienced authority to consult? " 
' ' I think I will go to the city. If any thing can be 
done ! " 
" Poor child, poor baby! for he seems that now, with 
his wan little face. What suffering it would be, and yet 
much better, I suppose, than " 
" Oh ! I can't have him lame, and to go limping about 
all his life ! Yes, I must go to New York. There are 
two physicians in whom I place great confidence. If an 
operation is possible, it shall be attended to without 
delay." 
Nelly shivered. 
 
"Little tender heart! Ah, at least I did one good 
thing, even in my own selfishness. I have given him a 
mother such as " 
Nelly placed her soft fingers over her husband's lips. 
She knew the rest of the sentence would have been, " such 
as he never had." But, in her sweet and bounteous 
nature, there was no such thing as grudging another any 
due or praise, or gaining herself by that other's dispar 
agement. And, somehow, she felt tender and pitiful to 
tho woman in her grave, knowing now how she had 
missed establishing herself in her husband's heart; ever 
plucking fruit that turned to ashes, and hewing out broken 
cisterns, when the bread and wine of love's own sacrament 
was within her reach. 
" You are right," he said humbly. 
A week afterward he went to the city, and returned 
with one of his old preceptors, now an eminent and expe 
rienced physician. If he had ever such a lingering hope 
of a mistake in his own diagnosis, it was dispelled. 
There was an exceeding faint chance of tha child's out 
growing it, with a trifling lameness. There was a later 
operation, when he had more strength and maturity ; but 
the disease would also have gained greater headway. 
There was the present operation with all its risk. 
" The most important thing will be the care afterward. 
I should advise his being sent to a hospital, like St. 
Luke's for instance. Then he would have experienced 
nursing," said Dr. Francis. 
This opinion was imparted to Nelly. 
" Could you not be as watchful of the case as the best 
nurse there? " she asked of her husband. 
" Of course. But there are a hundred and one little 
things ; and it will be a very heavy tax on you." 
" If I were the child's own mother, I hardly know how 
I should decide ; but I think then, I should keep him, 
and try my best. As the case stands, I ask you as a 
favor not to send him away. He will be nearer to us 
both, if we go with him every step of the sad way. If 
you have confidence in me ' ' 
" I would trust my own life in your hands," was his 
vehement answer. " Confidence ! " 
" Then let us keep him. I should be sorry to have the 
world, or Aunt Adelaide," and she smiled with tears in 
her eyes, "think that I was glad to escape the solemn 
duties I took upon myself. And, if any thing should go 
wrong, we will not look back upon our decision regret 
fully." 
" How generous you are, Nelly!" and he studied her 
in amaze. "Honestly, I would rather keep him under 
my own eye ; but it is a great deal to ask of one young 
as you are. It may be a year or two ; and here is your 
own life ' ' 
