Miss Hazel, decidedly. 'Besides the other advantages.'
'What will happen to all the princes who are coming after the
princess?'
'They will learn--self-control,' said Miss Hazel. 'I have been
told lately that it is a good thing.'
'Not formerly?'
'The last time made the most impression, sir. As last times
are apt to do.'
'Miss Hazel, I have a request to make to you,' Mr. Falkirk
said, after allowing a minute or two of silence to succeed the
last remark.
'What, sir? That I will not sing so loud in the little brown
room as to disturb your repose? I can promise that.'
'You have not got your horses yet.'
'No, sir. I am sure I ought to know so much,' said the girl
with a sigh.
'Rollo will see to it. You forget, my dear, we have been but a
few days here. Miss Hazel, do you remember the story of the
enchanted horse in the Arabian Nights?'
'With great clearness, sir. In everything but his appearance
it was just the horse I should like.'
'Just the horse I am afraid of. The cavalier turned a screw
and the lady was gone. I request that you will mount nobody's
steed, not even your own, without consulting me first that I
may make sure all is safe. It is still more true than it was
the other night that I require your co-operation to discharge
my trust.'
'Why, of course I should consult you, sir!' she said, with
some surprise.
'That is all, Miss Hazel. Rollo will give his oversight to the
woods. Only don't engage yourself to anybody for a ride till
you have consulted me. Do you agree to that form of
precaution-taking?'
'Certainly, sir. I am sure I referred Mr. Morton to you at
once,' said Miss Hazel, drinking her tea. And Mr. Falkirk, in
a silence that was meditative if not gloomy, lay and watched
her. It was a little book room where they were, perhaps the
largest on that floor, however; a man's room. The walls all
books and maps, with deer horns, a small telescope and pistols
for a few of its varieties. Yet it was cheerful too, and in
perfect order; and Mr. Falkirk was lying on a comfortable
chintz couch. Papers and writing materials and books had been
displaced from one end of the table for Hazel's tea. That
over, the young lady brought a foot-cushion to the side of Mr.
Falkirk's couch and established herself there, much refreshed.
'It is great fun to come to tea with you, sir! Now, may I go
on with business? or are you too tired?'
'Suppose I say I am too tired?' growled Mr. Falkirk, 'what
will you do?'
Hazel glanced up at him from under her eyelashes.
'Wait, sir. I am learning to wait, beautifully!' she answered
with great demureness. 'Then suppose I go and tell Mrs.
Saddler about my room?'
'Go along,' said Mr. Falkirk. 'Give your orders. You had
better send up to the house for some furniture. You'll make
Mrs. Saddler happy at any rate. I am not so sure about Gotham.
But Gotham has too easy a life in general.'
They had a lively time of it in the other part of the house
for the next half day. And so had Mr. Falkirk in his, for that
matter: the sweet voice and laugh and song, somehow,
penetrated to his study as grosser sounds might have failed to
do. It was towards tea-time again when Wych Hazel presented
herself in the study on the tips of her toes, and subsiding
once more to her cushion glanced up as before at Mr. Falkirk.
'Has the fatigue of yesterday gone off, sir?'
'No; but I see the business has come. Can you be comfortable
in your mousehole? Let us have the business, my dear. If it is
knotty perhaps it will make me forget my ankle.'
'Ah!' she said remorsefully, 'I was talking of fatigue, sir--
not of pain. Is the pain very bad?'
'No, my dear; but I was always inclined to the epicurian side
of philosophy, and partial to anodynes; or even counter-
irritants.'
'Whose bandage have you got on?' she said curiously.
'Whose? My own.'
'Dear sir, I do not mean as to the linen! Mr. Rollo was coming
down to teach Gotham, and I wondered which of them took a
lesson. That is all.'
'H'm! Ask Gotham,' said Mr. Falkirk.
'I wish I had been here to see,' said Wych Hazel. 'Never mind,
I will next time. By the way, sir, did you leave any orders
for me yesterday morning with anybody?'
'What do you mean, my dear?' said her guardian, rather opening
his eyes. It is to be noted that though he growled and frowned
as much as ever, there had come into Mr. Falkirk's mien an
undoubted softening of expression since yesterday.
'I merely asked, sir. But now for business. Mrs. Powder is to
have a grand explosion in the way of a dinner party next week.
And she wants me to come and help touch off the fireworks. May
I go?'
'What did you tell her?'
'That I would if you would, sir.'
'Is this the business?'
'Item the first, sir.'
'Well, my dear. Anything conditional upon my movements for
some time to come will probably have to be vetoed. But you
will have offers of a substitute.'
'The Marylands are going, sir.'
'Of course.'
'Well, Mr. Falkirk, suppose substitutes do offer,--what then?'
'Then you will follow your pleasure, Miss Hazel.'
'Thank you, sir. The next item seems to be a mild form of
this: a little evening party at Mrs. Gen. Merrick's. And Mrs.
Merrick hearing of your accident, sent a note to say that Miss
Bird would convey me to Merricksdale, safe and in good order.'
'Who is Miss Bird?'
'Don't you remember, sir? She came to see me the same morning
the Lasalle party came.'
'There are a great many Birds,' said Mr. Falkirk, grumpily,
'and they are not all pigeons.'
'But, my dear Mr. Falkirk, however important such natural
history facts may be, they do not exactly meet the case in
hand.'
'I don't know whether they meet it or no. Can't you go with
Miss Maryland?'
'Not invited, sir.'
'How would you get back?'
'Mrs. Merrick takes charge of that.'
'And didn't think it necessary to inform you how or when?'
'It is only a small party, sir. I should expect to be back
early.'
'That needs to be made certain, Miss Hazel, and stipulated
for.'
'Well, sir, you shall name the hour.'
'Name it yourself; but be home by half-past eleven. Miss
Hazel, I wish, till you have your own horses, you would not go
to such places.'
There was a shade of disappointment in her face, but she
answered steadily--
'I will not go, sir, if that is really your wish.'
'My dear, we must meet the enemy. In the progress of ladies
seeking their fortune that is always understood. What next?'
She hesitated a moment, carefully dressing the petals of a
carnation in her hand.
'The third item, sir, is--that if to-morrow afternoon I--will
consent to put--my little foot,' said Miss Hazel, evidently
mastering a laugh, 'inside the right phaeton--Mr. May will
consent to drive.'
'Mr. May! Confound his impudence!' was the by no means
doubtful utterance of Miss Hazel's guardian.
Hazel bit her lips and sat demurely waiting further
developments.
'Chickaree is in a very exposed situation, Miss Hazel!' Mr.
Falkirk remarked, with something a little like a sigh. While,
as if to give effect to his words, two well-mounted horsemen
at that moment went up the hill, exchanging greetings with the
occupants of a landau that was just then making the descent.
Wych Hazel looked and laughed.
'It is very comical!' she said. But her guardian was silent.
He knew the Enchanted ground had to be met and passed. Perhaps
he wished it were well over; but I think the present feeling
of discontent relieved itself not even so far.
'And on the whole your three answers are, sir?--' said Hazel,
after a pause.
'In your head,' Mr. Falkirk growled. 'You know what they are.'
'My dear sir! one would think they were in your foot!' But
then she was silent, and then she began to sing. One thing and
another, after her own fitful fashion, in the twilight; and
business did not come up again. Only as she went to sleep that
night, Miss Kennedy indulged in one profound reflection.
'No,' she said to herself, 'Dr. Maryland was right: Primrose
would never do. Get her in a corner, and the most she can say
is, "Duke knows." '
So drew on the night of Mrs. Merrick's party; and meantime a
rainy day or two saved Mr. Falkirk some trouble, and left the
cottage in comparative quiet. But as the night drew near, the
clouds cleared away and the sun shone out, and fairer weather
could not have been wished for, or wished away.
There had been a running fire of errands and messages between
the cottage and the house on the hill, all day. Miss Kennedy
was constantly finding out something more that she wanted for
the evening, and Dingee went back and forth with notes to Mrs.
Bywank and waterproof-covered baskets in return, till Gotham
at least lost patience.
'More duds for Miss 'Azel!' he said in displeasure, as Dingee
appeared just at nightfall with a final basket. 'It's clean
ridikerlous! One dress at a time ought to content any young
lady.'
'Now I jes' tell you what, Mas' Gotham,' said Dingee, 'you
ain't up to de situation. Pears like de whole countryside
after my young mistis!'
Gotham gave a grunt in unsuccessful imitation of his master's
growl.
'H'after'er,' he said. 'Looks more as if she was h'after them--
wanting fourteen dresses at once.'
Dingee shewed his teeth from ear to ear.
'You bery wise man, Mas' Gotham!' he said. ' 'Spect now you
can tell a feller all about dese yere.' And Dingee threw off
the white paper which covered what he carried this time, and
displayed to Gotham's astonished eyes a basket full of
bouquets.
' 'Spect now dese yere growed in Missee Hazel's own
greenhouse,' he said, tauntingly, 'seein' she ain't got none!
Shouldn't wonder if dey started up spontanous like, arter de
shower. How you tink, Mas' Gotham, hey?'
But Gotham was virtuously indignant.
'Miss 'Azel'll get her head worse turned than it h'is now,' he
said.
'Heads does turn, fact,' said Dingee, shaking his own. 'Jes'
you watch 'em when de horseback gen'lemen dey goes by, Mas'
Gotham, and you'll see de heads turn!'
But Gotham had watched enough already to know there was no
mistake about that.
'Well,' he said, 'since h'it's 'ere, h'it's 'ere, and 'll 'ave
to stay, no doubt. I'll take it to the library.'
'Cotch him first!' said Dingee, moving a little out of reach.
'Where Missee Hazel?'
'Prinking 'erself h'up,' answered Gotham severely.
'Gotham telling fibs!' said the young lady in question, coming
up behind him with her light tread. 'Perhaps he had better
take himself to the library, and report to Mr. Falkirk. What
do you want of me, Dingee? I thought everything was here.'
Dingee had adroitly covered his basket again, but now he drew
near and displayed his treasure, adding messages of a somewhat
adorned nature, while Wych Hazel read the cards attached to
the bouquets. Gotham, standing a little off, looked on
indignant as before, and frowned at the flowers and the
flushing cheeks drooped over them, as if he had been Mr.
Falkirk himself. But when Hazel caught up the basket and ran
off to her little corner room, then Gotham did betake himself
to the library, though without quite the report suggested.
'Beg pardon, sir,' he said; 'Miss 'Azel 'ave just received a
bushel of flowers, sir,--if you choose to be h'aware, sir.'
'A what, Gotham?' said the astonished Mr. Falkirk.
'No person of discretion to detain them at the 'ouse, sir, and
so of course they followed Miss 'Azel down 'ere, sir. Boukets
enough to last a h'ordinary person all summer, sir. And cards.
And ribbands,'--concluded Gotham, beginning to clear the table
for tea.
'Look here, Gotham,'--said Mr. Falkirk, from his sofa, whence
his eyes followed his serving-man about.
'Yes, sir!' said Gotham, erect and motionless.
'Do you dare to speak of Miss Hazel as an ordinary person?'
'Why, no sir! By no means! Very h'extraordinary, I thought I
said, sir--or h'indicated,' replied Gotham, going back to his
leisurely motions about the table.
'Have the goodness to remember that it is proper her flowers
should be extraordinary.'
'O, you are clearing the table,' Hazel said, flitting in;
'just what I wanted--tea early.'
'Tea never h'is late, Miss 'Azel!' said Gotham in an aggrieved
voice.
'I didn't know but it might be to-night,' said the girl
provokingly. 'But dear Mr. Falkirk, do you really like to have
your books disturbed so often, just for me?'
'My dear,' said Mr. Falkirk rather lazily, brushing one hand
over his forehead, 'you have done that for my life generally.'
'My dear Mr. Falkirk!--evidently I have just come in time to
receive a shot meant for somebody else. I wonder you allow
yourself to fire at random, sir, in that way.'
'Who has been sending you flowers, Miss Hazel?' her guardian
asked, without change of tone.
She laughed.
'Shall I leave you the cards, sir--just to pass away the time
while I am gone?'
'I'll take them now, Miss Hazel, if you please.' Mr. Falkirk
stretched out his hand.
'They are not so precious as to be carried in my pocket, sir.
Do you want them before tea?'
'If you please, Miss Hazel!'
'I don't please a bit, sir. I am in a great hurry to go to my
dressing. And you know, Mr. Falkirk, you seldom try for "the
soul of wit" on such occasions.'
'Does that mean, you refuse me the sight of them?'
'No, sir!--"By no means!"--to quote Gotham,' said Wych Hazel,
jumping up. She came back and laid the cards in his hand--quite
a packet of them. Mr. Falkirk found names that he knew and
names that he did not. He turned them over, speaking some of
the names in an inexpressive sotto voce; and then began
doubling them up, one after the other, and letting them fall
on the floor beside him.
'Have you got a copy of the Arabian Nights in your library, my
dear?' he asked. 'I wish you would send for it. I am not
posted. I have an indistinct impression of a fight between two
rival powers, in which, after a variety of transformations,
the one of them in the shape of a kernel of corn was swallowed
by the other in some appropriate shape. I should like to study
the tactics, watch my opportunity, and make an end of these
gentry.' Mr. Falkirk dropped the last card as he spoke.
'Ha! ha!' laughed Wych Hazel in her soft notes. 'You will feel
better, sir, when you have had a cup of tea.' And she began
preparing it at once. Whether or not Mr. Falkirk felt better
he did not say.
The girl went off to her dressing. And just before the hour
when Miss Bird must arrive she came silently in again and
stood before her guardian. If Mr. Falkirk thought of humming-
birds then, it could only have been of the tropical species. A
dark dress, that shimmered and glittered and fell into shadows
with every motion, first caught his eye; but then Mr. Falkirk
saw that it was looped with bouquets. Now either Miss Hazel's
admirers had differing tastes, or a different image of her, or
else each sent what he could get; for the bouquets were
extremely diverse. A bunch of heath and myrtle held up the
dress here, a cluster of crimson roses held it back there;
another cluster of gold and buff, a trailing handful of
glowing fuchsias--there is no need to go through the list. But
she had arranged them with great skill to set each other off;
tied together by their own ribbands, catching up the shimmer
of her dress.
Mr. Falkirk looked, and the fact that his face expressed
nothing at all was rather significant. One glance at the
girl's face he gave, and turned away.
'Take care, my dear,' he said.
'Of what, sir?'
'How do you know but those flowers are bewitched? You would
not be the first woman who had put on her own chains.'
She smiled--rather to herself than him--throwing her little
white cloak over her shoulders; and then, girl-like, went down
on one knee and kissed her guardian's hand.
'Good-night, sir,' she said. The carriage came, and she was
gone.
CHAPTER XXI.
MOONSHINE.
After the day of rain, and the afternoon of clearing wind and
clouds, the evening of Mrs. Merrick's party passed into one of
those strange, unearthly nights when the whole world seems
resolved into moonlight and a midsummer night's dream. So
while gas and hot-house flowers had it all their own way in
the house at Merricksdale, over the rest of the outside world
the wondrous moonlight reigned supreme. Not white and silvery,
but as it were gilded and mellowed with the summer warmth.
Step by step it invaded the opening ranks of forest trees; and
dark shadows wound noiselessly away from the close pursuit.
Not a wind whispered; not a moving thing was in sight along
the open road. Except indeed Mr. Rollo, who--not invited to
Mrs. Merrick's, and just returned from a short journey--was
getting over the ground that lay between the railway station
and home on foot. And his way took him along the highway that
stretched from Crocus to the gates of Chickaree.
Now moonlight is a very bewildering thing--and thoughts do
sometimes play the very will-o'-the-wisp with one. And when
somebody you know is at a party, there is a funny inclination
to go through the motions at least, and be up as late as
anybody else. So it was with a somewhat sudden recollection
that Mr. Rollo bethought him of what his watch might say. Just
then he was in a belt of shadow, where trees crowded out the
moon; but the next sharp turn of the road was all open and
flooded with the yellow light.
It would be quite too much to suppose that the gentleman in
question was particularly open to impressions--and it is
certain that his thoughts at that minute were well wrapped up
in their own affairs; and yet as he went round the turn,
passing out of the line of shadow into absolute moonshine
again, there came upon him a strange sense of some presence
there besides his own. But what the evidence was, whether it
had smote upon his eye or upon his ear, of that Mr. Rollo was
profoundly ignorant. Yet it is safe to say that he came out of
his musings and looked about him. Only a midsummer night's
dream still: the open road for a mile ahead in full view, the
dark line of trees on each side as motionless as if asleep.
But the utter hush was perhaps more suggestive than the stir
of a breezy night: it seemed as if everything was listening
and held its breath to hear.
The gentleman in question, however, was not one to let slip
such a suggestion to his nerves--or his senses. His nerves were
of the coolest and steadiest kind; he could depend on them for
getting up no shams to puzzle him; and his senses had had
capital training. Eye and ear were keen almost as those of
some of the wild creatures whose dependence they are; and
Rollo had the craft and skill of a practised hunter. So
instead of dismissing the fancy that had struck him, as most
men would, he fell noiselessly into the shadow again, with
eyes and ears alive on the instant to take evidence that might
be relied on. But nothing stirred. Nothing shewed. Except as
before, the yellow moonlight and the dark trees. Rollo was a
hunter, and patient. He stood still. The shadowy edges of the
stream of light changed slowly, slightly, and still the
evidence he looked for did not come. Nothing seemed to change
but those dark fringes; only now some wave of the branches as
the wind began to rise, let in the moonlight for a moment upon
a small white speck across the road. He thought so: something
whiter than a wet stone or a bleached stick,--or it might be
fancy. Noiselessly and almost invisibly, for Dane could move
like an Indian, and with such quickness, he was over the road
and at the spot. There was no mistaking the token--it was a
little glove of Wych Hazel's. Evidently dropped in haste; for
one of her well-known jewelled fastenings lay glittering in
his hand. But--Mrs. Gen. Merrick lived quite in another quarter
of the world; and in no case did the direct road from
Merricksdale lead by here.
If Rollo's senses had been alive before, which was but their
ordinary and normal condition, he was now in the frame of mind
of a Sioux on the war-path, and in corresponding alertness and
acuteness of every faculty. The little glove was swiftly put
where it would furnish a spot of light to no one else; and in
breathless readiness for action, though that is rhetorical,
for Rollo's breath was as regular and as calm as cool nerves
could make it, he subsided again into the utter inaction which
is all eye and ear. And then in a few minutes, from across the
road again, and near where he was at first, came these soft
words:
'Mr. Rollo--will you give quarter if I surrender at discretion?
Just to save you trouble--and let me get home the quicker.'
In the next instant the gentleman stood by the lady's side.
Well for him that he was a hunter, and that habit is a great
thing; for he made no exclamations and showed no disturbance,
though Wych Hazel in the woods at that time of night, was a
thing to try most people's command of words at least. Only in
the spring which brought him across the road he had spoken the
one word "Hazel!" louder than an Indian would have done. Then
he stood beside her. Wych Hazel herself--bareheaded, without
gloves, her little white evening cloak not around her
shoulders, but rolled up into the smallest possible compass,
and held down by her side. She had been standing in the
deepest depth of shadow under a low drooping hemlock, and now
came out to meet him. But she seemed to have no more words to
give. That something had happened, was very clear. Rollo's
first move was to take the girl's hand, and the second to
inquire in a low voice how she came there. The hand-touch was
not in compliment, but such a taking-possession clasp as Hazel
had felt from it before; one that carried, as a hand-clasp
can, its guaranty of protection, guidance, defence.
Hazel did not answer at first--only there went a shiver over
her from head to foot; and her hand was as cold as ice.
'I am very glad to find you, Mr. Rollo,' she said in a sort of
measured voice; he could not tell what was in it.--'Will you
walk home with me?'
Rollo's answer was not in a hurry. He first took from Wych
Hazel her little bundle of the opera cloak, shook it out, and
put it around her shoulders, drawing the fastening button at
the throat; then taking the little cold hand in his clasp
again, and with the other arm lingering lightly round her
shoulders, he asked her "what had happened?"
People are different, as has been remarked. There was nobody
in the world that could have put the question to Wych Hazel as
he put it, and afterwards she could recognize that. Mr.
Falkirk's words would have been more anxious; Dr. Maryland's
would have been more astonished; and any one of Miss Hazel's
admirers would have made speeches of surprise and sympathy and
offered service. Rollo's was a business question, albeit in
its somewhat curt accentuation there lurked a certain
readiness for action; and there was besides, though
indefinably expressed, the assumption of a right to know and a
very intimate personal concern in the answer. How his eyes
were looking at her the moonlight did not serve to shew; they
were in shadow; yet even that was not quite hid from the
object of them; and the arm that was round her was there, not
in freedom-taking, but with the unmistakeable expression of
shelter. So he stood and asked her what had happened.
'Thank you,' she said in the same measured tone. 'I am not
cold--I think. But it is safe now. Will you walk home very
fast, please? I promised Mr. Falkirk that I would be home by
eleven!'--There was an accent of real distress then.
'Do you know what o'clock it is now?' said Rollo, drawing out
his watch.
'I hoped--a while ago--it was near morning.'
He did not say what time it was. He put the little hand on his
arm, guided Hazel into the road, and began his walk homeward,
but with a measured quiet pace, not 'very fast.'
'Why did you wish it was morning?' he asked in the same way in
which he had spoken before. No haste in it; calm business and
self-possession; along with the other indications above
mentioned. It was cool, but it was the coolness of a man
intensely alive to the work in hand; the intonation towards
Wych Hazel very gentle.
'I thought I had to walk home alone,' she said simply. 'And I
wanted the time to come.'
'Please tell me the meaning of all this. You went to
Merricksdale this evening--last evening?'
'Yes.' Words did not come readily.
Rollo added no more questions then. He went steadily on,
keeping a gentle pace that Wych Hazel could easily bear, until
they came to the long grey stone house where she had once run
in from the storm. At the gate Rollo paused and opened it,
leading his companion up to the door.
'I am going to take you in here for a little while,' he said.
'We will disturb nobody--don't fear; I have a key.'
'In here?' she said, rousing up then. 'O no!--I must go home,
Mr. Rollo. Did you bring me this way--I did not notice.'
'You shall go home just as soon as possible,' he said; 'but
come in here and I will tell you my reasons for stopping.'
The door opened noiselessly. The moonlight showed the way,
shining in through the fanlights, and Rollo pushed open the
door of the library and brought his charge in there. The next
thing was to strike a match and light two candles. The room
looked very peaceful, just as it had been deserted by the
family a few hours before; Rosy's work basket with the work
overflowing it, the books and papers on the table where the
gentleman had been sitting; the chairs standing where they had
been last used. Past the chairs Rollo brought Wych Hazel to
the chintz sofa and seated her there with a cushion at her
back; drew up a foot cushion, and unfastened her opera cloak.
All this was done with quiet movements and in silence. He left
her then for a few minutes. Coming back, presented her on a
little tray a glass of milk and a plate of rusks.
'I could get nothing else,' said he, 'without rousing the
people up to give me keys. But I know the way to Prim's dairy--
and I know which are the right pans to go to. Miss Prudentia
always objected to that in me.'
'But I cannot see anybody--nor speak to anybody--nor do
anything--till I have seen Mr. Falkirk,' said Hazel, looking up
at him with her tired eyes. 'Indeed I am not hungry.'
He stood before her and bade her 'drink a little milk--it was
good.'
Her brows drew together slightly, but--if that was the quickest
way she would take that--and so half emptied the tumbler and
set it down again.
'Now let us go.'
He at down before her then.
'Is there anything in what has happened to-night which makes
you wish to keep it from the rest of the world? except of
course Mr. Falkirk and me?'
If his object was to rouse her from the mechanical way in
which she had hitherto moved and spoken, success is rarely
more perfect. Crimson and scarlet and all shades of colour
went over her face and neck at the possible implications in
his words; but she drew herself up with a world of girlish
dignity, and then the brown eyes looked straight into his.
'It is nobody's business,' she answered. 'So far.--No further.'
He smiled. 'You mistake me,' he said, very pleasantly. 'That
is my awkwardness. It is nobody's business--except Mr.
Falkirk's and mine. But you know very well that fact is no bar
to people's tongues. And sometimes one does not choose to give
them the material--and sometimes one does not care. My question
meant only, do you care in this instance? and was a practical
question.'
'What do you mean?' she said, quickly. 'Say out all that is in
your mind. How can I judge of it by inches.'
'You have not enlightened me,' he said, 'and I can judge of
nothing. Do you wish to get home without letting anybody know
you have been out? or may I call Primrose down and give you
into her hands to be taken care of? Surely you know my other
question referred not to anything but the impertinence of the
world generally.'
'O! I will go home!' she said, rising up. 'I cannot see
anybody. And Mr. Falkirk!--He might send for me!'
'Mr. Falkirk is fast asleep,' said Rollo. 'He will have
concluded that you were kept at Mrs. Merrick's. Sit down
again, and rest,' he said, gently putting her back on the
cushions, (he had risen when she rose)--'we are not ready to go
quite yet. You must take breath first. And we must not rouse
up Chickaree at this hour. If you were known to have staid
with Miss Maryland--would not that be the best way?'
'How is one to know the best, where all are bad?'--Hazel rested
her head in her hands and sat thinking.
'No,' said he quietly--'we'll try and not have that true. If
you could trust me with the story of the evening, I might be
able to judge and act better for you.'
'Did you bring me here that I might not get home at such an
hour?' she said suddenly, looking up.
'I promised to tell you my reasons. Yes, that was one of them.
The people at Chickaree must not know of your coming home in
the middle of the night, on foot. If I take you home at a fair
hour in the morning, it will be all right. Not on foot,' said
he, smiling. He was so composed and collected, that his manner
had everything in it to soothe and reassure her. Not the
composure of one who does not care, but of one who will take
care.
'And Mr. Falkirk would say the same,'--she spoke as if
reasoning the matter out with herself. 'Then I must wait. But
do not call anybody. Mayn't I sit here just quietly by
myself?'
'Suppose you take possession of one of Prim's spare rooms, and
astonish the family at breakfast? All you need say is that you
came after they were all gone to their rooms. Dr. Maryland
will never seek for a reason. And Prim will never ask for one.
But if you prefer it, I will take you home before they are
up.'
'Just as you please,' she answered wearily: indeed weariness
was fast getting the upper hand. 'You must want rest, I should
think. What were you doing there?' she asked with her former
suddenness. 'Were you looking for me? Did you know where I
was--not?'
'No,' he said, smiling again, 'I had been to Troy to look at
some horses, about which I had been in correspondence; and
wishing to be here to-morrow--that is, to-day!--it pleased me to
take a night train which set me down at Henderson; no nearer;
I was walking across country to get home. And I feel as if I
never should be "tired" again. Come--you can have some time of
rest at least; and I will carry you home before or after
breakfast, just as you please.'
Upstairs with noiseless footfalls--and Rollo reminding Wych
Hazel which was Primrose's room, indicated another close by,
within which he said he believed she would find what she
wanted. That room was always kept in order for strangers; and
no strangers were in the house now.
'Primrose will come to you in the morning,' he said, 'unless
you wish to go before that?'
Wych Hazel turned and held out her hand.
'Thank you!' she said. Then in answer to his last words--'I
shall be ready for either.'
Wherein, however, Miss Kennedy made a mistake. For having once
put herself down on the fresh white bed, sleep took undisputed
possession and held it straight on. Neither rousing bell nor
breakfast bell roused her; nor opening door--if any opened; nor
steps--if any came. Sleep so profound that she never turned nor
stirred nor raised her cheek from the hand where first she
laid it down. And the sun was getting a new view of the
western slopes of the Chickaree woods, before the young
mistress thereof sat up in her strange room and looked about
her.
'Well, you are awake at last!' cried Prim, bending to kiss
her. 'I am glad! though I was glad to have you sleep, too. How
tired you were!'
Wych Hazel passed her hands over her face; but the newt move
was to put her arms round Prim's neck and for a moment her
head on Prim's shoulder. Then she sprang up and hurriedly
shook her dress into some sort of order.
'O! I have slept a great deal too long,' she said.
'Why? No, you have slept just enough. Now you would like to
change your dress. There is a valise full of things from home
for you. And when you are ready you shall have some breakfast,
or dinner, or tea, just which you like to call it.'
Primrose could not read the look and flush that greeted the
valise; and indeed she needed an entire new dictionary for her
friend this day. When Hazel made her appearance down stairs,
hat in hand, she had more things in her face than Prim had
ever met, even in dreams. Dr. Maryland was not there; the
table was spread in the library, where the afternoon light
poured in through its green veil of branches and leaves; and
Prim gave her guest a new greeting, as glad as if she had
given her none before.
'I'm sure of having you hungry, now, Hazel,' she exclaimed. 'I
didn't know what was best to give you; but Duke said coffee
would be sure to be right.'
'I wonder if you ever suggest anything which he does not think
is "sure to be right"?' said Wych Hazel. 'I wonder if anybody
down here ever makes a mistake of any sort?'
'Mistakes? oh! plenty,' said Primrose. 'I do; and I suppose
Duke does. I don't know about papa. Now, dear Hazel, sit down.
Duke will be here directly.'
And Primrose cut bread and poured out coffee and supplied her
guest, in a sort of passion of hospitality.
To say that the guest was as hungry as she should have been
after such a fast, would be perhaps too much; last night was
still too fresh for that; but seventeen has great restorative
powers at command, and Prim's coffee was undeniably good.
Hazel grew more like herself as the meal went on, though her
eyes kept their tired look, and her manner was a trifle
abstracted. But Prim asked no questions; only hovered about
her with all sorts of affectionate words and ways, till Rollo
came in. He sat down and began to make himself generally
useful, in his wonted manner.
'Duke,' said Primrose, 'Miss Kennedy has been asking me if we
ever make mistakes in this house!'
'What did you tell her?'
'Why you know what I told her. I am not sure about papa; but
the rest of us don't boast of infallible wisdom.'
'Do you mean that he does?' said Duke, drily. At which
Primrose laughed. 'Have you been asleep, Miss Hazel?'
'Beyond reach of all earthly things. Have you?'
Rollo remarked that he never got so far as that.
'No,' said Primrose, 'I never saw such a sleeper. He'll be
sound asleep, sound and fast; not dreaming nor stirring; and
if there comes the least little sound that there oughtn't to
be, he's up and broad awake and in possession of all his
senses in a minute.'
'How do you know?' said the subject of this description.
'I know,' said Primrose. 'Thunder wouldn't waken him; and the
turning of a key in a lock would--suppose it was a time or
place when the lock ought not to be turned.'
'Very interesting details!' said Rollo. 'They may be useful in
the study of psychology--or physiology. Which is your favourite
study, Miss Hazel?'
'Whichever will throw the most light upon this; Prim, can he
also detect "the least little sound that oughtn't to be,' when
there is none at all?' said Hazel thinking of last night.
'No, he can't,' said Rollo, shaking his head. 'That's a
physiological question. But here is one in psychology: Can a
person be sensible of an unknown presence when yet there is
none?'
'Ah!' she said, drawing a long breath and growing grave all at
once, 'I wish one might! It would have been a comfort.'
'Well,' said he, 'I think I can resolve that question.'
'Duke, what are you talking of? You have got out of philosophy
into metaphysics,' said Prim.
'She is the philosopher of the family,' said Rollo, by way of
explanation to Hazel. 'But she has made a mistake. As she
confesses she does make them, I may remark that.'
'Why, you are talking of perceiving what does not exist!'
cried Prim.
'Is that what you call metaphysics? I should call it
nonsense.'
'I never supposed you were talking nonsense, Duke.'
'No,' said Duke. 'That would be a mistake. No, I was speaking,
Prim, of the detection, by no visible or intelligible means,
of what we are not aware has existence.'
'By no intelligible means,' said Prim. 'You mean, knowing a
person is coming, that you have not heard is coming--and such
things?'
'And knowing a person is near, who you had thought was very
far off.'
'Yes,' said Prim thoughtfully; 'I know. It is very curious.'
'Witches, for instance?' said Hazel, with perfect gravity.
'No,' said Prim earnestly, 'I don't mean out-of-the-way people
at all; though it is something "uncanny"--as it seems;--queer; I
have heard of instances.'
'I have felt them,' said Rollo.
Primrose went into a brown study over the question.
'But do you think,' Rollo went on gravely addressing Wych
Hazel, 'that this sort of mental action can take place except
where there are strong sympathetic--or other--relations between
the parties?'
'So that the magnet finds out the iron, when it would pass by
the lead?--is that what you mean?'
A significant, quick, keen look; and then Rollo said, very
gravely,
'But it strikes me we have got the thing reversed. Is it not
rather the iron that finds the magnet?'
'The magnet must be conscious too,' said Hazel. 'And I think
it moves--where the iron is in sufficient quantity.'
'It would be a poor rule that wouldn't work both ways,' said
Rollo, with dry simplicity.
'What are you talking about?' said Primrose. 'Do give Hazel
some more raspberries. I am inclined to think this, Duke--'
'Well?'
'I am inclined to think that in those cases you have been
speaking of, there is testimony of the person's presence, only
it is in some such little slight things as were insufficient
to draw attention to themselves, and only, by natural
association of ideas, suggested the person.'
'What do you think, Miss Hazel?'
But she shook her head.
'If you go off to people--I should say, sometimes, that could
not be.'
'So should I,' said Rollo.
'Why?' said Primrose.
'I cannot find in my consciousness, or memory, any
corroboration of your theory.'
'I think I can in mine. Sometimes, at least.'
'Those are not my times,' said Rollo.
'And I don't know but you are right, too,' said Primrose,
musing. 'I remember, that day you were coming home, I had not
the least reason to think so, and yet you were in my mind all
day.'
'What is your explanation then?' said he, smiling at her.
Prim was not ready with it; and before she was ready to speak
again, Wych Hazel was informed that her escort was at her
service.
Dr. Maryland's little old chaise was at the door. Rollo put
Miss Kennedy in it and took the reins. It was late in the
sweet Summer afternoon; the door and the road and the fields
looked exceedingly unlike the same things seen in shadow and
moonlight last night. Rollo never referred to that, however;
he was just as usual; took care that Wych Hazel was
comfortably seated, and made careless little remarks, in his
wonted manner. Various people passed them; many were the
greetings, answered for the most part very sedately by the
young lady of Chickaree. But just as they entered the
outskirts of her own domain, Rollo felt his companion shrink
towards him with a sudden start. Then instantly she sat
upright in her place. Two or three horsemen were in sight, at
different distances; one, the nearest, was a stranger to
Rollo. A remarkably handsome man, splendidly mounted,
faultlessly dressed; riding his grey with the easy grace of a
true cavalier. He uncovered before he was near enough to do
more, and then bent even to his saddle-bow before Miss
Kennedy. And to him, turning full upon him, did Miss Kennedy
administer the most complete, cool, effectual cut that Mr.
Rollo had ever seen bestowed. The rider's face turned crimson
as he passed on.
Rollo made no sort of remark; drove gently, let the old horse
come to a walk; and at last, throwing himself back into the
corner of the chaise, so as to have a better look at his
companion, he said:
'Does daylight and rest make a difference, and are you
inclined to trust me with the explanation of what happened
last night? I should be grateful.'
He could see now with what extreme effort she had done her
work of execution--lip and chin were in a tremor.
'It was no want of trust, Mr. Rollo--I meant you should know.
But--I could not tell you first,' she said rather timidly. 'I
thought, perhaps, you would take the trouble to come in and
hear me tell Mr. Falkirk.'
'Thank you,' he said, 'I am grateful.' And no more passed on
the subject until the chaise reached the cottage.
CHAPTER XXII.
A REPORT.
Just glancing round at her companion to make sure that he
followed, taking off her hat as she went, Hazel passed swiftly
into the cottage and into Mr. Falkirk's study, to the foot of
his couch--and there stood still. Very unlike the figure of
last evening,--in the simplest pale Summer dress, with no
adornment but her brown hair, and yet as Mr. Falkirk looked,
he thought he has never seen her look so lovely. She was
surely changing fast; the old girlish graces were taking to
themselves the richer and stronger graces of womanhood; and
like those evening flowers that open and unfold and gather
sweetness if you but turn aside for a moment, so she seemed to
have altered, even since her guardian's last look. The broad
gipsy hanging from her hand, her long eyelashes drooped,--so
she stood. Mr. Falkirk looked and took the effect of all this
in a glance two seconds long, during which, something held his
tongue. Then as his eye caught the figure that entered
following her, it darted towards him a look of sudden surprise
and suspicion. Than changed, however, almost as soon, and his
eyes came back to his ward. But there is no doubt Mr. Falkirk
scowled.
'So, Miss Hazel,' he began, in his usual manner, 'you found
you could not manage other people's carriages last night?'
'Not the right ones, sir. Will you ask Mr. Rollo to sit down,
Mr. Falkirk? It is due to me that he should hear all I have to
say.'
'It is not due to anybody that you should say it standing,'
said Rollo, wheeling up into convenient position the easiest
chair that the room contained. She made him a slight sign of
acknowledgement, but yielded only so far as to lay her hand on
the chair back. Probably it was pleasant to touch something.
Rollo stepped back to the mantlepiece and stood there, but not
touching it or anything.
