again. The heat of the room makes me a little dizzy, and I think I got a
chill coming out. It is cold I am frozen, I daresay though I drove like
the devil.”

“Not that bad horse of yours, I hope? I know it is dangerous, so
late and alone,” said Rose, shrinking behind the big chair as Charlie
approached the fire, carefully avoiding a footstool in his way.

“Danger is exciting that’s why I like it. No man ever called me a coward
let him try it once. I never give in and that horse shall not conquer
me. I’ll break his neck, if he breaks my spirit doing it. No I don’t
mean that never mind it’s all right,” and Charlie laughed in a way that
troubled her, because there was no mirth in it.

“Have you had a pleasant day?” asked Rose, looking at him intently as he
stood pondering over the cigar and match which he held, as if doubtful
which to strike and which to smoke.

“Day? Oh, yes, capital. About two thousand calls, and a nice little
supper at the Club. Randal can’t sing any more than a crow, but I left
him with a glass of champagne upside down, trying to give them my old
favorite:

“‘Tis better to laugh than be sighing,”

and Charlie burst forth in that bacchanalian melody at the top of his
voice, waving an allumette holder over his head to represent Randal’s
inverted wineglass.

“Hush! You’ll wake Aunty,” cried Rose in a tone so commanding that he
broke off in the middle of a roulade to stare at her with a blank look
as he said apologetically, “I was merely showing how it should be done.
Don’t be angry, dearest look at me as you did this morning, and I’ll
swear never to sing another note if you say so. I’m only a little gay we
drank your health handsomely, and they all congratulated me. Told ‘em
it wasn’t out yet. Stop, though I didn’t mean to mention that. No matter
I’m always in a scrape, but you always forgive me in the sweetest way.
Do it now, and don’t be angry, little darling.” And, dropping the vase,
he went toward her with a sudden excitement that made her shrink behind
the chair.

She was not angry, but shocked and frightened, for she knew now what the
matter was and grew so pale, he saw it and asked pardon before she could
utter a rebuke.

“We’ll talk of that tomorrow. It is very late. Go home now, please,
before Uncle comes,” she said, trying to speak naturally yet betraying
her distress by the tremor of her voice and the sad anxiety in her eyes.

“Yes, yes, I will go you are tired I’ll make it all right tomorrow.” And
as if the sound of his uncle’s name steadied him for an instant, Charlie
made for the door with an unevenness of gait which would have told the
shameful truth if his words had not already done so. Before he reached
it, however, the sound of wheels arrested him and, leaning against the
wall, he listened with a look of dismay mingled with amusement creeping
over his face. “Brutus has bolted now I am in a fix. Can’t walk home
with this horrid dizziness in my head. It’s the cold, Rose, nothing
else, I do assure you, and a chill yes, a chill. See here! Let one of
those fellows there lend me an arm no use to go after that brute. Won’t
Mother be frightened though when he gets home?” And with that empty
laugh again, he fumbled for the door handle.

“No, no don’t let them see you! Don’t let anyone know! Stay here till
Uncle comes, and he’ll take care of you. Oh, Charlie! How could you do
it! How could you when you promised?” And, forgetting fear in the sudden
sense of shame and anguish that came over her, Rose ran to him, caught
his hand from the lock, and turned the key; then, as if she could not
bear to see him standing there with that vacant smile on his lips, she
dropped into a chair and covered up her face.

The cry, the act, and, more than all, the sight of the bowed head would
have sobered poor Charlie if it had not been too late. He looked about
the room with a vague, despairing look, as if to find reason fast
slipping from his control, but heat and cold, excitement and reckless
pledging of many healths had done their work too well to make instant
sobriety possible, and owning his defeat with a groan, he turned away
and threw himself face-downward on the sofa, one of the saddest sights
the new year looked upon as it came in.

As she sat there with hidden eyes, Rose felt that something dear to her
was dead forever. The ideal, which all women cherish, look for, and too
often think they have found when love glorifies a mortal man, is hard to
give up, especially when it comes in the likeness of the first lover who
touches a young girl’s heart. Rose had just begun to feel that perhaps
this cousin, despite his faults, might yet become the hero that he
sometimes looked, and the thought that she might be his inspiration was
growing sweet to her, although she had not entertained it until
very lately. Alas, how short the tender dream had been, how rude the
awakening! How impossible it would be ever again to surround that fallen
figure with all the romance of an innocent fancy or gift it with the
high attributes beloved by a noble nature!

Breathing heavily in the sudden sleep that kindly brought a brief
oblivion of himself, he lay with flushed cheeks, disordered hair, and
at his feet the little rose that never would be fresh and fair again a
pitiful contrast now to the brave, blithe young man who went so gaily
out that morning to be so ignominiously overthrown at night.

Many girls would have made light of a trespass so readily forgiven by
the world, but Rose had not yet learned to offer temptation with a smile
and shut her eyes to the weakness that makes a man a brute. It always
grieved or disgusted her to see it in others, and now it was very
terrible to have it brought so near not in its worst form, by any means,
but bad enough to wring her heart with shame and sorrow and fill
her mind with dark forebodings for the future. So she could only sit
mourning for the Charlie that might have been while watching the Charlie
that was with an ache in her heart which found no relief till, putting
her hands there as if to ease the pain, they touched the pansies, faded
but still showing gold among the somber purple, and then two great tears
dropped on them as she sighed: “Ah, me! I do need heart’s-ease sooner
than I thought!”

Her uncle’s step made her spring up and unlock the door, showing him
such an altered face that he stopped short, ejaculating in dismay, “Good
heavens, child! What’s the matter?” adding, as she pointed to the sofa
in pathetic silence, “Is he hurt? ill? dead?”

“No, Uncle, he is--” She could not utter the ugly word but whispered
with a sob in her throat, “Be kind to him,” and fled away to her own
room, feeling as if a great disgrace had fallen on the house.




Chapter 10 THE SAD AND SOBER PART

“How will he look? What will he say? Can anything make us forget and be
happy again?” were the first questions Rose asked herself as soon as she
woke from the brief sleep which followed a long, sad vigil. It seemed
as if the whole world must be changed because a trouble darkened it for
her. She was too young yet to know how possible it is to forgive much
greater sins than this, forget far heavier disappointments, outlive
higher hopes, and bury loves compared to which hers was but a girlish
fancy. She wished it had not been so bright a day, wondered how her
birds could sing with such shrill gaiety, put no ribbon in her hair,
and said, as she looked at the reflection of her own tired face in
the glass, “Poor thing! You thought the new leaf would have something
pleasant on it. The story has been very sweet and easy to read so far,
but the sad and sober part is coming now.”

A tap at the door reminded her that, in spite of her afflictions,
breakfast must be eaten, and the sudden thought that Charlie might still
be in the house made her hurry to the door, to find Dr. Alec waiting for
her with his morning smile. She drew him in and whispered anxiously, as
if someone lay dangerously ill nearby, “Is he better, Uncle? Tell me all
about it I can bear it now.”

Some men would have smiled at her innocent distress and told her this
was only what was to be expected and endured, but Dr. Alec believed in
the pure instincts that make youth beautiful, desired to keep them true,
and hoped his girl would never learn to look unmoved by pain and pity
upon any human being vanquished by a vice, no matter how trivial it
seemed, how venial it was held. So his face grew grave, though his voice
was cheerful as he answered: “All right, I daresay, by this time, for
sleep is the best medicine in such cases. I took him home last night,
and no one knows he came but you and I.”

“No one ever shall. How did you do it, Uncle?”

“Just slipped out of the long study window and got him cannily off, for
the air and motion, after a dash of cold water, brought him around, and
he was glad to be safely landed at home. His rooms are below, you know,
so no one was disturbed, and I left him sleeping nicely.”

“Thank you so much,” sighed Rose. “And Brutus? Weren’t they frightened
when he got back alone?”

“Not at all. The sagacious beast went quietly to the stable, and the
sleepy groom asked no questions, for Charlie often sends the horse round
by himself when it is late or stormy. Rest easy, dear no eye but ours
saw the poor lad come and go, and we’ll forgive it for love’s sake.”

“Yes, but not forget it. I never can, and he will never be again to me
the Charlie I’ve been so proud and fond of all these years. Oh, Uncle,
such a pity! Such a pity!”

“Don’t break your tender heart about it, child, for it is not incurable,
thank God! I don’t make light of it, but I am sure that under better
influences Charlie will redeem himself because his impulses are good and
this his only vice. I can hardly blame him for what he is, because his
mother did the harm. I declare to you, Rose, I sometimes feel as if I
must break out against that woman and thunder in her ears that she is
ruining the immortal soul for which she is responsible to heaven!”

Dr. Alec seldom spoke in this way, and when he did it was rather awful,
for his indignation was of the righteous sort and such thunder often
rouses up a drowsy soul when sunshine has no effect. Rose liked it, and
sincerely wished Aunt Clara had been there to get the benefit of the
outbreak, for she needed just such an awakening from the self-indulgent
dream in which she lived.

“Do it, and save Charlie before it is too late!” she cried, kindling
herself as she watched him, for he looked like a roused lion as he
walked about the room with his hand clenched and a spark in his eye,
evidently in desperate earnest and ready to do almost anything.

“Will you help?” he asked, stopping suddenly with a look that made her
stand up straight and strong as she answered with an eager voice: “I
will.”

“Then don’t love him yet.”

That startled her, but she asked steadily, though her heart began to
beat and her color to come: “Why not?”

“Firstly, because no woman should give her happiness into the keeping
of a man without fixed principles; secondly, because the hope of being
worthy of you will help him more than any prayers or preaching of mine.
Thirdly, because it will need all our wit and patience to undo the work
of nearly four and twenty years. You understand what I mean?”

“Yes, sir.”

“Can you say ‘no’ when he asks you to say ‘yes’ and wait a little for
your happiness?”

“I can.”

“And will you?”

“I will.”

“Then I’m satisfied, and a great weight taken off my heart. I can’t help
seeing what goes on, or trembling when I think of you setting sail with
no better pilot than poor Charlie. Now you answer as I hoped you would,
and I am proud of my girl!”

They had been standing with the width of the room between them, Dr.
Alec looking very much like a commander issuing orders, Rose like a
well-drilled private obediently receiving them, and both wore the air
of soldiers getting ready for a battle, with the bracing of nerves and
quickening of the blood brave souls feel as they put on their armor. At
the last words he went to her, brushed back the hair, and kissed her on
the forehead with a tender sort of gravity and a look that made her
feel as if he had endowed her with the Victoria Cross for courage on the
field.

No more was said then, for Aunt Plenty called them down and the day’s
duties began. But that brief talk showed Rose what to do and fitted her
to do it, for it set her to thinking of the duty one owes one’s self in
loving as in all the other great passions or experiences which make or
mar a life.

She had plenty of time for quiet meditation that day because everyone
was resting after yesterday’s festivity, and she sat in her little room
planning out a new year so full of good works, grand successes, and
beautiful romances that if it could have been realized, the Millennium
would have begun. It was a great comfort to her, however, and lightened
the long hours haunted by a secret desire to know when Charlie would
come and a secret fear of the first meeting. She was sure he would be
bowed down with humiliation and repentance, and a struggle took place
in her mind between the pity she could not help feeling and the
disapprobation she ought to show. She decided to be gentle, but very
frank; to reprove, but also to console; and to try to improve the
softened moment by inspiring the culprit with a wish for all the virtues
which make a perfect man.

The fond delusion grew quite absorbing, and her mind was full of it as
she sat watching the sun set from her western window and admiring with
dreamy eyes the fine effect of the distant hills clear and dark against
a daffodil sky when the bang of a door made her sit suddenly erect in
her low chair and say with a catch in her breath: “He’s coming! I must
remember what I promised Uncle and be very firm.”

Usually Charlie announced his approach with music of some sort. Now he
neither whistled, hummed, nor sang, but came so quietly Rose was sure
that he dreaded this meeting as much as she did and, compassionating
his natural confusion, did not look around as the steps drew near. She
thought perhaps he would go down upon his knees, as he used to after a
boyish offense, but hoped not, for too much humility distressed her, so
she waited for the first demonstration anxiously.

It was rather a shock when it came, however, for a great nosegay dropped
into her lap and a voice, bold and gay as usual, said lightly: “Here she
is, as pretty and pensive as you please. Is the world hollow, our
doll stuffed with sawdust, and do we want to go into a nunnery today,
Cousin?”

Rose was so taken aback by this unexpected coolness that the flowers lay
unnoticed as she looked up with a face so full of surprise, reproach,
and something like shame that it was impossible to mistake its meaning.
Charlie did not, and had the grace to redden deeply, and his eyes fell
as he said quickly, though in the same light tone: “I humbly apologize
for coming so late last night. Don’t be hard upon me, Cousin. You know
America expects every man to do his duty on New Year’s Day.”

“I am tired of forgiving! You make and break promises as easily as you
did years ago, and I shall never ask you for another,” answered Rose,
putting the bouquet away, for the apology did not satisfy her and she
would not be bribed to silence.

“But, my dear girl, you are so very exacting, so peculiar in your
notions, and so angry about trifles that a poor fellow can’t please you,
try as he will,” began Charlie, ill at ease, but too proud to show half
the penitence he felt, not so much for the fault as for her discovery of
it.

“I am not angry I am grieved and disappointed, for I expect every man to
do his duty in another way and keep his word to the uttermost, as I try
to do. If that is exacting, I’m sorry, and won’t trouble you with my
old-fashioned notions anymore.”

“Bless my soul! What a rout about nothing! I own that I forgot I know I
acted like a fool and I beg pardon. What more can I do?”

“Act like a man, and never let me be so terribly ashamed of you again as
I was last night.” And Rose gave a little shiver as she thought of it.

That involuntary act hurt Charlie more than her words, and it was his
turn now to feel “terribly ashamed,” for the events of the previous
evening were very hazy in his mind and fear magnified them greatly.
Turning sharply away, he went and stood by the fire, quite at a loss how
to make his peace this time, because Rose was so unlike herself. Usually
a word of excuse sufficed, and she seemed glad to pardon and forget;
now, though very quiet, there was something almost stern about her that
surprised and daunted him, for how could he know that all the while her
pitiful heart was pleading for him and the very effort to control it
made her a little hard and cold?

As he stood there, restlessly fingering the ornaments upon the
chimneypiece, his eye brightened suddenly and, taking up the pretty
bracelet lying there, he went slowly back to her, saying in a tone that
was humble and serious enough now: “I will act like a man, and you shall
never be ashamed again. Only be kind to me. Let me put this on, and
promise afresh this time I swear I’ll keep it. Won’t you trust me,
Rose?”

It was very hard to resist the pleading voice and eyes, for this
humility was dangerous; and, but for Uncle Alec, Rose would have
answered “yes.” The blue forget-me-nots reminded her of her own promise,
and she kept it with difficulty now, to be glad always afterward.
Putting back the offered trinket with a gentle touch, she said firmly,
though she dared not look up into the anxious face bending toward her:
“No, Charlie I can’t wear it. My hands must be free if I’m to help you
as I ought. I will be kind, I will trust you, but don’t swear anything,
only try to resist temptation, and we’ll all stand by you.”

Charlie did not like that and lost the ground he had gained by saying
impetuously: “I don’t want anyone but you to stand by me, and I must be
sure you won’t desert me, else, while I’m mortifying soul and body to
please you, some stranger will come and steal your heart away from me.
I couldn’t bear that, so I give you fair warning, in such a case I’ll
break the bargain, and go straight to the devil.”

The last sentence spoiled it all, for it was both masterful and defiant.
Rose had the Campbell spirit in her, though it seldom showed; as yet she
valued her liberty more than any love offered her, and she resented the
authority he assumed too soon resented it all the more warmly because
of the effort she was making to reinstate her hero, who would insist
on being a very faulty and ungrateful man. She rose straight out of her
chair, saying with a look and tone which rather startled her hearer and
convinced him that she was no longer a tenderhearted child but a woman
with a will of her own and a spirit as proud and fiery as any of
her race: “My heart is my own, to dispose of as I please. Don’t shut
yourself out of it by presuming too much, for you have no claim on me
but that of cousinship, and you never will have unless you earn it.
Remember that, and neither threaten nor defy me anymore.”

For a minute it was doubtful whether Charlie would answer this flash
with another, and a general explosion ensue, or wisely quench the flame
with the mild answer which turneth away wrath. He chose the latter
course and made it very effective by throwing himself down before his
offended goddess, as he had often done in jest. This time it was not
acting, but serious, earnest, and there was real passion in his voice
as he caught Rose’s dress in both hands, saying eagerly: “No, no! Don’t
shut your heart against me or I shall turn desperate. I’m not half good
enough for such a saint as you, but you can do what you will with me. I
only need a motive to make a man of me, and where can I find a stronger
one than in trying to keep your love?”

“It is not yours yet,” began Rose, much moved, though all the while she
felt as if she were on a stage and had a part to play, for Charlie
had made life so like a melodrama that it was hard for him to be quite
simple even when most sincere.

“Let me earn it, then. Show me how, and I’ll do anything, for you are my
good angel, Rose, and if you cast me off, I feel as if I shouldn’t care
how soon there was an end of me,” cried Charlie, getting tragic in his
earnestness and putting both arms around her, as if his only safety lay
in clinging to this beloved fellow creature.

Behind footlights it would have been irresistible, but somehow it did
not touch the one spectator, though she had neither time nor skill to
discover why. For all their ardor the words did not ring quite true.
Despite the grace of the attitude, she would have liked him better
manfully erect upon his feet, and though the gesture was full of
tenderness, a subtle instinct made her shrink away as she said with
a composure that surprised herself even more than it did him: “Please
don’t. No, I will promise nothing yet, for I must respect the man I
love.”

That brought Charlie to his feet, pale with something deeper than anger,
for the recoil told him more plainly than the words how much he had
fallen in her regard since yesterday. The memory of the happy moment
when she gave the rose with that new softness in her eyes, the shy
color, the sweet “for my sake” came back with sudden vividness,
contrasting sharply with the now averted face, the hand outstretched to
put him back, the shrinking figure, and in that instant’s silence, poor
Charlie realized what he had lost, for a girl’s first thought of love is
as delicate a thing as the rosy morning glory, which a breath of air
can shatter. Only a hint of evil, only an hour’s debasement for him,
a moment’s glimpse for her of the coarser pleasures men know, and the
innocent heart, just opening to bless and to be blessed, closed again
like a sensitive plant and shut him out perhaps forever.

The consciousness of this turned him pale with fear, for his love was
deeper than she knew, and he proved this when he said in a tone so full
of mingled pain and patience that it touched her to the heart: “You
shall respect me if I can make you, and when I’ve earned it, may I hope
for something more?”

She looked up then, saw in his face the noble shame, the humble sort
of courage that shows repentance to be genuine and gives promise of
success, and, with a hopeful smile that was a cordial to him, answered
heartily: “You may.”

“Bless you for that! I’ll make no promises, I’ll ask for none only trust
me, Rose, and while you treat me like a cousin, remember that no matter
how many lovers you may have you’ll never be to any of them as dear as
you are to me.”

A traitorous break in his voice warned Charlie to stop there, and with
no other good-bye, he very wisely went away, leaving Rose to put the
neglected flowers into water with remorseful care and lay away the
bracelet, saying to herself: “I’ll never wear it till I feel as I did
before. Then he shall put it on and I’ll say ‘yes.’”




Chapter 11 SMALL TEMPTATIONS

“Oh, Rose, I’ve got something so exciting to tell you!” cried Kitty Van
Tassel, skipping into the carriage next morning when her friend called
for her to go shopping.

Kitty always did have some “perfectly thrilling” communication to make
and Rose had learned to take them quietly, but the next demonstration
was a new one, for, regardless alike of curious observers outside and
disordered hats within, Kitty caught Rose around the neck, exclaiming in
a rapturous whisper: “My dearest creature, I’m engaged!”

“I’m so glad! Of course it is Steve?”

“Dear fellow, he did it last night in the nicest way, and Mama is so
delighted. Now what shall I be married in?” And Kitty composed herself
with a face full of the deepest anxiety.

“How can you talk of that so soon? Why, Kit, you unromantic girl, you
ought to be thinking of your lover and not your clothes,” said Rose,
amused yet rather scandalized at such want of sentiment.

“I am thinking of my lover, for he says he will not have a long
engagement, so I must begin to think about the most important things at
once, mustn’t I?”

“Ah, he wants to be sure of you, for you are such a slippery creature
he is afraid you’ll treat him as you did poor Jackson and the rest,”
 interrupted Rose, shaking her finger at her prospective cousin, who had
tried this pastime twice before and was rather proud than otherwise of
her brief engagements.

“You needn’t scold, for I know I’m right, and when you’ve been in
society as long as I have you’ll find that the only way to really know a
man is to be engaged to him. While they want you they are all devotion,
but when they think they’ve got you, then you find out what wretches
they are,” answered Kitty with an air of worldly wisdom which contrasted
oddly with her youthful face and giddy manners.

“A sad prospect for poor Steve, unless I give him a hint to look well to
his ways.”

“Oh, my dear child, I’m sure of him, for my experience has made me very
sharp and I’m convinced I can manage him without a bit of trouble. We’ve
known each other for ages” Steve was twenty and Kitty eighteen “and
always been the best of friends. Besides, he is quite my ideal man. I
never could bear big hands and feet, and his are simply adorable. Then
he’s the best dancer I know and dresses in perfect taste. I really do
believe I fell in love with his pocket handkerchiefs first, they were so
enchanting I couldn’t resist,” laughed Kitty, pulling a large one out
of her pocket and burying her little nose in the folds, which shed a
delicious fragrance upon the air.

“Now, that looks promising, and I begin to think you have got a little
sentiment after all,” said Rose, well pleased, for the merry brown eyes
had softened suddenly and a quick color came up in Kitty’s cheek as she
answered, still half hiding her face in the beloved handkerchief: “Of
course I have, lots of it, only I’m ashamed to show it to most people,
because it’s the style to take everything in the most nonchalant way. My
gracious, Rose, you’d have thought me a romantic goose last night while
Steve proposed in the back parlor, for I actually cried, he was so
dreadfully in earnest when I pretended that I didn’t care for him, and
so very dear and nice when I told the truth. I didn’t know he had it in
him, but he came out delightfully and never cared a particle, though I
dropped tears all over his lovely shirtfront. Wasn’t that good of him?
For you know he hates his things to be mussed.”

“He’s a true Campbell, and has got a good warm heart of his own under
those fine fronts of his. Aunt Jane doesn’t believe in sentiment, so
he has been trained never to show any, but it is there, and you must
encourage him to let it out, not foolishly, but in a way to make him
more manly and serious.”

“I will if I can, for though I wouldn’t own this to everybody, I like it
in him very much and feel as if Steve and I should get on beautifully.
Here we are now, be sure not to breathe a word if we meet anyone. I want
it to be a profound secret for a week at least,” added Kitty, whisking
her handkerchief out of sight as the carriage stopped before the
fashionable store they were about to visit.

Rose promised with a smile, for Kitty’s face betrayed her without
words, so full was it of the happiness which few eyes fail to understand
whenever they see it.

“Just a glance at the silks. You ask my opinion about white ones, and
I’ll look at the colors. Mama says satin, but that is out now, and I’ve
set my heart on the heaviest corded thing I can find,” whispered Kitty
as they went rustling by the long counters strewn with all that could
delight the feminine eye and tempt the feminine pocket.

“Isn’t that opal the loveliest thing you ever saw? I’m afraid I’m too
dark to wear it, but it would just suit you. You’ll need a variety, you
know,” added Kitty in a significant aside as Rose stood among the white
silks while her companion affected great interest in the delicate hues
laid before her.

“But I have a variety now, and don’t need a new dress of any sort.”

“No matter, get it, else it will be gone. You’ve worn all yours several
times already and must have a new one whether you need it or not. Dear
me! If I had as much pocket money as you have, I’d come out in a fresh
toilet at every party I went to,” answered Kitty, casting an envious eye
upon the rainbow piles before her.

The quick-witted shopman saw that a wedding was afoot, for when two
pretty girls whisper, smile, and blush over their shopping, clerks
scent bridal finery and a transient gleam of interest brightens their
imperturbable countenances and lends a brief energy to languid voices
weary with crying, “Cash!” Gathering both silks with a practiced turn
of the hand, he held them up for inspection, detecting at a glance which
was the bride-elect and which the friend, for Kitty fell back to study
the effect of silvery white folds with an absorbing interest impossible
to mistake while Rose sat looking at the opal as if she scarcely heard a
bland voice saying, with the rustle of silk so dear to girlish ears:
“A superb thing, just opened; all the rage in Paris; very rare shade;
trying to most, as the lady says, but quite perfect for a blonde.”

Rose was not listening to those words but to others which Aunt Clara had
lately uttered, laughed at then, but thought over more than once since.

“I’m tired of hearing people wonder why Miss Campbell does not dress
more. Simplicity is all very well for schoolgirls and women who can’t
afford anything better, but you can, and you really ought. Your things
are pretty enough in their way, and I rather like you to have a style
of your own, but it looks odd and people will think you are mean if
you don’t make more show. Besides, you don’t do justice to your beauty,
which would be both peculiar and striking if you’d devote your mind to
getting up ravishing costumes.”

Much more to the same effect did her aunt say, discussing the subject
quite artistically and unconsciously appealing to several of Rose’s
ruling passions. One was a love for the delicate fabrics, colors, and
ornaments which refined tastes enjoy and whose costliness keeps them
from ever growing common; another, her strong desire to please the eyes
of those she cared for and gratify their wishes in the smallest matter
if she could. And last, but not least, the natural desire of a young and
pretty woman to enhance the beauty which she so soon discovers to be her
most potent charm for the other sex, her passport to a high place among
her maiden peers.

She had thought seriously of surprising and delighting everyone by
appearing in a costume which should do justice to the loveliness which
was so modest that it was apt to forget itself in admiring others what
girls call a “ravishing” dress, such as she could imagine and easily
procure by the magic of the Fortunatus’ purse in her pocket. She
had planned it all, the shimmer of pale silk through lace like woven
frostwork, ornaments of some classic pattern, and all the dainty
accessories as perfect as time, taste, and money could make them.

She knew that Uncle Alec’s healthful training had given her a figure
that could venture on any fashion and Nature blessed her with a
complexion that defied all hues. So it was little wonder that she felt
a strong desire to use these gifts, not for the pleasure of display, but
to seem fair in the eyes that seldom looked at her without a tender sort
of admiration, all the more winning when no words marred the involuntary
homage women love.

These thoughts were busy in Rose’s mind as she sat looking at the lovely
silk and wondering what Charlie would say if she should some night burst
upon him in a pale rosy cloud, like the Aurora to whom he often likened
her. She knew it would please him very much and she longed to do all she
honestly could to gratify the poor fellow, for her tender heart already
felt some remorseful pangs, remembering how severe she had been the
night before. She could not revoke her words, because she meant them
every one, but she might be kind and show that she did not wholly shut
him out from her regard by asking him to go with her to Kitty’s ball
and gratify his artistic taste by a lovely costume. A very girlish but
kindly plan, for that ball was to be the last of her frivolities, so
she wanted it to be a pleasant one and felt that “being friends” with
Charlie would add much to her enjoyment.

This idea made her fingers tighten on the gleaming fabric so temptingly
upheld, and she was about to take it when, “If ye please, sir, would
ye kindly tell me where I’d be finding the flannel place?” said a voice
behind her, and, glancing up, she saw a meek little Irishwoman looking
quite lost and out of place among the luxuries around her.

“Downstairs, turn to the left,” was the clerk’s hasty reply, with a
vague wave of the hand which left the inquirer more in the dark than
ever.

Rose saw the woman’s perplexity and said kindly, “I’ll show you this
way.”

“I’m ashamed to be throublin’ ye, miss, but it’s strange I am in it, and
wouldn’t be comin’ here at all, at all, barrin’ they tould me I’d get
the bit I’m wantin’ chaper in this big shop than the little ones more
becomin’ the like o’ me,” explained the little woman humbly.

Rose looked again as she led the way through a well-dressed crowd of
busy shoppers, and something in the anxious, tired face under the old
woolen hood the bare, purple hands holding fast a meager wallet and a
faded scrap of the dotted flannel little children’s frocks are so often
made of touched the generous heart that never could see want without
an impulse to relieve it. She had meant only to point the way, but,
following a new impulse, she went on, listening to the poor soul’s
motherly prattle about “me baby” and the “throuble” it was to “find
clothes for the growin’ childer when me man is out av work and the
bit and sup inconvaynient these hard times” as they descended to that
darksome lower world where necessities take refuge when luxuries crowd
them out from the gayer place above.

The presence of a lady made Mrs. Sullivan’s shopping very easy now, and
her one poor “bit” of flannel grew miraculously into yards of several
colors, since the shabby purse was no lighter when she went away, wiping
her eyes on the corner of a big, brown bundle. A very little thing, and
no one saw it but a wooden-faced clerk, who never told, yet it did Rose
good and sent her up into the light again with a sober face, thinking
self-reproachfully, “What right have I to more gay gowns when some poor
babies have none, or to spend time making myself fine while there is so
much bitter want in the world?”

Nevertheless the pretty things were just as tempting as ever, and she
yearned for the opal silk with a renewed yearning when she got back. It
is not certain that it would not have been bought in spite of her better
self if a good angel in the likeness of a stout lady with silvery curls
about the benevolent face, enshrined in a plain bonnet, had not accosted
her as she joined Kitty, still brooding over the wedding gowns.

“I waited a moment for you, my dear, because I’m in haste, and very glad
to save myself a journey or a note,” began the newcomer in a low tone as
Rose shook hands with the most affectionate respect. “You know the great
box factory was burned a day or two ago and over a hundred girls thrown
out of work. Some were hurt and are in the hospital, many have no homes
to go to, and nearly all need temporary help of some sort. We’ve had
so many calls this winter I hardly know which way to turn, for want is
pressing, and I’ve had my finger in so many purses I’m almost ashamed
to ask again. Any little contribution ah, thank you, I was sure you
wouldn’t fail me, my good child,” and Mrs. Gardener warmly pressed the
hand that went so quickly into the little porte-monnaie and came out so
generously filled.

“Let me know how else I can help, and thank you very much for allowing
me to have a share in your good works,” said Rose, forgetting all
about gay gowns as she watched the black bonnet go briskly away with an
approving smile on the fine old face inside it.

“You extravagant thing! How could you give so much?” whispered Kitty,
whose curious eye had seen three figures on the single bill which had so
rapidly changed hands.

“I believe if Mrs. Gardener asked me for my head I should give it to
her,” answered Rose lightly, then, turning to the silks, she asked,
“Which have you decided upon, the yellow white or the blue, the corded
or the striped?”

“I’ve decided nothing; except that you are to have the pink and wear it
at my ahem! ball,” said Kitty, who had made up her mind, but could not
give her orders till Mama had been consulted.

“No, I can’t afford it just yet. I never overstep my allowance, and I
shall have to if I get any more finery. Come, we ought not to waste time
here if you have all the patterns you want.” And Rose walked quickly
away, glad that it was out of her power to break through two resolutions
which hitherto had been faithfully kept one to dress simply for
example’s sake, the other not to be extravagant for charity’s sake.

As Rosamond had her day of misfortunes, so this seemed to be one of
small temptations to Rose. After she had set Kitty down at home and been
to see her new houses, she drove about doing various errands for the
aunts and, while waiting in the carriage for the execution of an order,
young Pemberton came by.

As Steve said, this gentleman had been “hard hit” and still hovered
mothlike about the forbidden light. Being the most eligible parti of the
season, his regard was considered a distinction to be proud of, and Rose
had been well scolded by Aunt Clara for refusing so honorable a mate.
The girl liked him, and he was the suitor of whom she had spoken so
respectfully to Dr. Alec because he had no need of the heiress and had
sincerely loved Rose. He had been away, and she hoped had gotten over
his disappointment as happily as the rest, but now when he saw her,
and came hurrying up so hungry for a word, she felt that he had not
forgotten and was too kind to chill him with the bow which plainly says
“Don’t stop.”

A personable youth was Pemberton, and had brought with him from the
wilds of Canada a sable-lined overcoat which was the envy of every
masculine and the admiration of every feminine friend he had, and as he
stood at her carriage window Rose knew that this luxurious garment
and its stalwart wearer were objects of interest to the passersby. It
chanced that the tide of shoppers flowed in that direction and, as she
chatted, familiar faces often passed with glances, smiles, and nods of
varying curiosity, significance, and wonder.

She could not help feeling a certain satisfaction in giving him a
moment’s pleasure, since she could do no more, but it was not that
amiable desire alone which made her ignore the neat white parcels which
the druggist’s boy deposited on the front seat and kept her lingering a
little longer to enjoy one of the small triumphs which girls often risk
more than a cold in the head to display. The sight of several snowflakes
on the broad shoulders which partially obstructed her view, as well as
the rapidly increasing animation of Pemberton’s chat, reminded her that
it was high time to go.

“I mustn’t keep you it is beginning to storm,” she said, taking up her
muff, much to old Jacob’s satisfaction, for small talk is not exciting
to a hungry man whose nose feels like an icicle.

“Is it? I thought the sun was shining.” And the absorbed gentleman
turned to the outer world with visible reluctance, for it looked very
warm and cozy in the red-lined carriage.

“Wise people say we must carry our sunshine with us,” answered Rose,
taking refuge in commonplaces, for the face at the window grew pensive
suddenly as he answered, with a longing look, “I wish I could.” Then,
smiling gratefully, he added, “Thank you for giving me a little of
yours.”

“You are very welcome.” And Rose offered him her hand while her eyes
mutely asked pardon for withholding her leave to keep it.

He pressed it silently and, shouldering the umbrella which he forgot to
open, turned away with an “up again and take another” expression, which
caused the soft eyes to follow him admiringly.

“I ought not to have kept him a minute longer than I could help, for it
wasn’t all pity; it was my foolish wish to show off and do as I liked
for a minute, to pay for being good about the gown. Oh, me! How weak
and silly I am in spite of all my trying!” And Miss Campbell fell into a
remorseful reverie, which lasted till she got home.

“Now, young man, what brought you out in this driving storm?” asked Rose
as Jamie came stamping in that same afternoon.

“Mama sent you a new book thought you’d like it. I don’t mind your
old storms!” replied the boy, wrestling his way out of his coat and
presenting a face as round and red and shiny as a well-polished Baldwin
apple.

“Much obliged it is just the day to enjoy it and I was longing for
something nice to read,” said Rose as Jamie sat down upon the lower
stair for a protracted struggle with his rubber boots.

“Here you are, then no yes I do believe I’ve forgotten it, after all!”
 cried Jamie, slapping his pockets one after the other with a dismayed
expression of countenance.

“Never mind, I’ll hunt up something else. Let me help you with those
your hands are so cold.” And Rose good-naturedly gave a tug at the boots
while Jamie clutched the banisters, murmuring somewhat incoherently
as his legs flew up and down: “I’ll go back if you want me to. I’m so
sorry! It’s very good of you, I’m sure. Getting these horrid things on
made me forget. Mother would make me wear ‘em, though I told her they’d
stick like like gumdrops,” he added, inspired by recollections of
certain dire disappointments when the above-mentioned sweetmeat melted
in his pockets and refused to come out.

“Now what shall we do?” asked Rose when he was finally extricated.
“Since I’ve nothing to read, I may as well play.”

“I’ll teach you to pitch and toss. You catch very well for a girl, but
you can’t throw worth a cent,” replied Jamie, gamboling down the hall
in his slippers and producing a ball from some of the mysterious
receptacles in which boys have the art of storing rubbish enough to fill
a peck measure.

Of course Rose agreed and cheerfully risked getting her eyes blackened
and her fingers bruised till her young receptor gratefully observed that
“it was no fun playing where you had to look out for windows and jars
and things, so I’d like that jolly book about Captain Nemo and the
Nautilus, please.”

Being gratified, he spread himself upon the couch, crossed his legs in
the air, and without another word dived Twenty Thousand Leagues
Under the Sea, where he remained for two mortal hours, to the general
satisfaction of his relatives.

Bereft both of her unexpected playfellow and the much desired book, Rose
went into the parlor, there to discover a French novel which Kitty
had taken from a library and left in the carriage among the bundles.
