Rollo made his observations for a little time; and then enquired 
gravely,

'What have you done with Mr. Falkirk?'

'His sister in England wanted him. He went to her. One ought to 
have six guardians, you perceive.'

'How do you expect to be taken care of this winter, in such a state 
of things?'

'I ought to give more trouble than ever,' said the girl, shaking her 
head,'after such an apprenticeship at taking care of myself.'

'I hope not,' said Dane demurely. 'But Hazel, it is time we began to 
talk about business. There is a great deal to be said, at least, before 
Arthur comes to fetch me. Do you know it is just a week, or little 
more, to Christmas?'

'Yes,' said Hazel. 'I know.'

'I might divide my subject categorically in two parts; how 
Christmas is to be kept in the Hollow, and how we shall keep it 
here. I want your best attention on both heads.'

'I have not thoughtI tried not to think. I wished Christmas a 
hundred miles away!'

'I am quite unable to fathom the mystery of that statement.'

'Yes, of course,' said Hazel; 'how should you know? But if you had 
been shut off here' and she gave her plate a little push, sitting 
back in her chair, as she might have done,and had donein 
many of the weary days gone by.

'Meanwhile Christmas is not a hundred miles off,' said Dane 
watching her. 'How shall we keep it?'

'I don't know. I never did keep it much.'

'First, there is the Hollow.'

'O in the Hollow!yes, certainly. They must all have a Christmas 
dinner, for one thing.'

'Well, go on. I want your help. I suppose they never kept 
Christmas much, either. What shall I do for them?'

'How many Christmas trees would reach through the Hollow?'

Dane shook his head. 'I am afraid we are hardly ready for that. And 
there is scant time. I must be content to do without the poetry, this 
year, and make everybody happy prosaically.'

'With roast beef and plum pudding,' said Hazel. 'But then I would 
rather find out real wants, and supply them. Could that be done?'

'Hardly. Not in detail. The time is too short. In general, there is 
always the want of good cheer and of joy-taking; or of anything to 
give cause for joy. How would it do, for Christmas, to send in 
supplies for a good dinner to every house? Then we can take 
breath and think about New Year's Day.'

'I suppose that could not fail. But then, to make them feel really 
like Christmas, they ought to have something they do not need.'

'I am open to suggestions,' said Dane smiling. 'As much as they are 
to the fruits of them. What shall I give them that they do not need? 
I think you are quite right, by the by; though it is not the precise 
light in which the subject is commonly viewed by the benefactors 
of their species.'

'Yes,' said Hazel. 'As if sleighing on the bare ground was good 
enough for people who generally walk. But you want them to 
forget the ground for a while, and go softly, and hear the bells.'

'What shall be the bells in this case?' said Rollo with his lips 
curling. 'Red apples? Or would pound papers of tea ring better? Or 
both make a chime?'

'With a small tinkle of sugarplums.And oh,' said Hazel eagerly, 
'do give them some little niceties to put on! Or let me. I have great 
faith in the power of fresh collars and ribbands.'

'Cannot manage anything of that sort up here,' said Dane demurely. 
'That will have to wait for New Year's Day. Three hundred and 
fifty pieces of roasting beefthree hundred and fifty pounds green 
teaditto bushels of red applesthree hundred and fifty pounds 
sugar candy? Will that meet your notions of a chime of bells for 
Christmas?'

Hazel mused over it.

'Perhaps'she said slowly. 'It is very difficult to know what will 
meet one's notions. If I could, I should like to give a littlejust a 
littlebit of a touch to every spot that wants touching. A touch of 
light to the shadow, a touch of healing to the pain; a flower for 
every barren place. And so I should not like to give them a 
Christmas which they could eat quite all up.'

Dane's lips had been giving way, and now he laughed out.

'You are as impracticable as if you were a fairy. All that takes 
time, Wych; and as I am not by nature knowing of all things, it 
takes study. One day you will accomplish it. But in the mean time, 
I should think they could not quite eat up their whole Christmas in 
a moment; and as I said, we will see what can be done for New 
Year. If you approve. At the same time, the subject is open for 
discussion.'

'But you need not think me more visionary than I am,' said Hazel 
with a shy glance and laugh. 'I did not mean anything quite silly. 
Of courseall the barren places,only God could fill them. But a 
touch to the sorrow, and a touch to the need, and a touch to the 
forlornness,that is what I meant.'

'I did not think you meant anything silly. Tell me more in 
particular. I thought I was giving a touch to the need, with the 
beef; and a touch to the pleasure, with the apples and candy; and a 
touch to the comfort, with the tea. What shall I add to the list?'

'Perhaps nothing,' said Hazel. 'But I meant You know, all those 
things are down on the same level,and I wanted to get in 
strength and exhilaration of some other sort. Though I suppose,' 
she added gravely, 'I cannot guess how much even of that may be 
in roast beef when one has never had it before. Strength and hope 
and purpose may come that way too.'

'They do,' said Dane gravely.

'Well then, you have only to go straight on. Maybe they could not 
understand some tunes yet, if the bells rang them out.'

'Straight on,' said Dane smiling. 'And that will furnish me with full 
occupation between this and Christmas. Now another thing. I feel 
for the people in the other mills,don't you?'

'O the other mills!' said Hazel. 'I feel for anybody who has any 
connection with John Charteris.'

'What can I do?'

'One would like to buy them all up! But failing that What did 
you think to do?'

'May I have your thoughts first?'

'I was only thinking,' said Hazel, 'that it would not be good taste to 
go in among the Charteris men at all as among your own. 
Anything there, I should think, must be more general and less 
personal. Or done by somebody else.'

'Whom, for instance?'

'If Josephine had married anything but diamonds'said Hazel, 'I 
might get hold of her. Or I might do it. But I suppose you would 
not like that. How could one manage?' The question put to the 
depths of her tea-cup.

'Why should I not like it?'

Wych Hazel laughed a little. 'Really,' she said, 'I do not know. 
Only you generally do dislike what I doand I am seldom so 
happy as to know why.'

'That is a statement which one may call unanswerable,' said Rollo 
with a significant line of lip. 'And how you dare say it, is more 
than I can understand. How could one manage? Nothing easier. I 
draw you a cheque, and you write me an order. Unless you prefer 
to employ another agent.'

'O I was not thinking of money,' said Hazel. 'But it would not be 
quite courteous to enact Christmas in the mills without a word to 
the ownerbad as he is. I wonder if I could get hold of Josephine 
and hide behind her?'

'No. But you can try it.What have you been doing, these two 
months?'

'Studying,in brief. I do not mean that I have done nothing else.'

'Learning what?' They had left the supper-table and stood together 
before the fire.

'Learning?that is another matter. When you study between 
fights, and fight between studies.'

'Hard learningwell learnt!' said he softly. 'Tell me more. Tell me 
results, Hazel.'

Hazel leaned her chin upon her hand, looking thoughtfully into the 
fire. 'Results?' she said. 'The result was unconditional surrender. At 
least I thought sountil'

'Until?'

'Until to-night. It is so good to have you back again!'she said 
with the same brown-study air.

Half laughing, with extreme tenderness at the same time and also 
the expression of great gladness, both his arms enfolded her, and 
they stood quite silent for a few minutes, till Dane stooped to reach 
her lips.

'You shall tell me the rest when you like,' said he. 'Do you want to 
tell me any more now?' 

'You would not like the rest. It was a very dark time, at first, when 
you failed me.'

He was quite silent again. Then drew her off to the sofa.

'I have another subject to talk about, Hazel.'

'Well, I am ready to listen.'

'You remember, I had two subjects to discuss with you.
Christmas in the Hollow we have arranged for. Now about 
Christmas here. My time is disposed of till the day is over. Then I 
must go to New York. I have a variety of business to attend to. I 
want furniture for my new coffee room, books for the school, 
furniture for the new cottages, gifts for New year. I intend to set up 
a grocery store also. For all these affairs, and for others, I must go 
to town the day after Christmas. I propose that we go together.'

'Yes, I want to go,' said Wych Hazel. 'I need a week in town, to get 
ready for the winter here.'

'Perhaps I shall be gone longer than a week,' said Dane, keeping 
his gravity.

'O wellI can easily find an escort back, if I get through first.'

'But I should not like that,' said Dane looking her in the face with 
his gray eyes very much alive. 'I want your help in my workI 
want you with me every minuteI am tired of living without you. 
Don't you understand?'

'Yes, I understand that,' said the girl. Who should, if she did not!

Dane's lips gave way. 'You do not understand much!' said he. 
'Don't you see, Hazel, I am making the audacious proposal that I 
should carry my wife with me?'

The girl gave a spring away from him which at once put the 
breadth of the fireplace between her and any such notion.

'You characterize the idea so happily,' she said, 'that I will leave it 
there. Will you come into the other room, and rest, and be 
reasonable?' And Hazel disappeared into the hall and blew a 
ringing blast on her whistle for Dingee and lights. In the little 
corner room, when Mr. Rollo arrived there, he found a grand fire, 
and two arm-chairs on extremely opposite sides of the hearthstone, 
and Dingee and his young mistress intent upon the first efforts of 
the newly lighted wax candles. The tall white candles, their heavy, 
old-fashioned silver holders; and the dark red dress, and dark 
brown hair; and the swarthy cheeks of the little attendant,were 
all aglow in the firelight. Wych Hazel's face was as far as possible 
kept out of sight. Dane stood beside the mantelpiece, resting his 
arm there and looking on; patiently, to outward seeming, so far as 
any expression of impatience was concerned.

Wych Hazel stood still for a minute after Dingee had gone, then 
with a slow, grave step went over and placed herself in one of the 
armchairs.

'Why don't you sit down?' she said. 'It is not good for you to stand.'

'People sit down to rest.'

'Well, as you are tired already, it is the only thing for you to do.'

'I have not gained my cause, and I cannot rest till I do. Bid me rest, 
Hazel! on that understanding of it.'

'Certainly not,' said Hazel. 'I cannot afford to lose my wits.'

'I am tired of living without you, Wych. Whether you have any 
sympathy with that feeling I do not ask. I only ask you to consider 
what regard it fairly deserves.'

'People do not feel apart, unless there is a barrier between,' said 
Hazel. 'As when you barred me out of Morton Hollow.'

'Inconsistent'said Dane smiling; 'and weakly delusive. Hazel, 
you must give me a Christmas gift, and you must let it be that 
thing which of all others I want the most.'

'If you put it to me what you want,' said Wych Hazel, 'I should say, 
patience, and moderation, and a little practical common sense.'

'You are not the embodiment of those things,' said he daringly,
'and yet I want you.'

'Everything that is worth having, is worth waiting for,' said Hazel 
composedly. 'You have enough of me now to criticizethat ought 
to content you.'

'Does it content you?'

Hazel started up, and went to him, just touching each arm with one 
of her little hands.

'Olaf,'she said, 'will you please to sit downand hush? You 
know what you promised when I should say that again'

He took her in his arms and kissed her very fondly, and laughed a 
little; but holding her yet, became serious again.

'I am bound!' he said. 'But the nature of the case obliges me to 
premise a question or two. Am I not to speak on this subject again 
till you bid me?'

'No. Yes. That is preposterous. What is your next question?'

'How long must I wait first?'

'Just as long as you can.'

'Till to-morrow, then. Think of it, Hazel.'

Quitting the subject then, Dane went off into talk that would not 
even remind her of it, unless by some delicate chain of association. 
He gave her the story of his two months. The sick people had been 
at the first removed to the end of the valley, in some shanties apart 
from all the rest; and there he and they had been in quarantine 
together. There the fearful disease had seized one after another of 
that little band of poor Germans last-arrived, till ten of them were 
down with it at once. Everybody fled the spot; would not come 
near enough even to receive messages; and not for love nor money 
could help be got for nursing. Only old Gyda; and she and Rollo 
had had it all to do between them; even to washing the clothes the 
sick persons wore or had on their beds. Dr. Arthur of course had 
done all he could, but he had other sick beds to attend to; it was 
out of the question that he should devote himself solely to those at 
the end of the Hollow; especially as every visit there made needful 
a careful disinfecting and purifying process before he could 
approach anybody else, sick or well. Rollo and Gyda had struggled 
on together, one watching while the other slept. And so Dane 
would go from one sick-bed to the next, till he had made the 
round, and begin again; through it all thinking of what he had left 
at Chickaree, and of Hazel's pleadings that he had been obliged to 
disallow, scarce daring to think of the possible joy of going back to 
her again when the distress should be over. For he could not tell 
that it would ever be over without first laying himself as low as 
those whom he tended. The shanties where the sick lay, little better 
than sheds, had been very good for them but very trying 
sometimes to the watchers. However, the abundance of fresh air, 
and the careful quarantine, with a blessing upon the means used, 
had availed. No outsider had caught the infection, and only two of 
the sick had died. Those two, Rollo and Arthur had buried, alone 
and by night.

Softly, slowly, as a man who felt deeply the shadow of fear under 
which he had been passing and from out of which he had come, 
Dane told Hazel all this. And as one hears the verification of some 
fearful dream, so Hazel listened. She had taken her foot-cushion 
again, and sat with varying colour and averted eyes, and now and 
then a "yes" of full intelligence. For the scanty details she had 
received from time to time, had been more than filled out by her 
imagination; and point by point she seemed to know the story 
before it was told. By and by one hand came upon the arm of 
Rollo's chair, and then she leaned her forehead down against that 
hand, and so sat when the story was finished. Once or twice a 
quick shiver went over her; otherwise she was quite still.

'I was not unhappy, Wych,' said Dane after a little pause. 'My 
latent longing for you it is impossible to tell; but I could not let it 
come to the front then. And there is a walk and a place "with Jesus 
only," which at the time is joyful, and on looking back to it seems 
to have wanted nothing.'

Her head stirred a little; presently, she answered,'I did not think 
you were unhappy. If I had, I believe it would have been a help 
sometimes.'

'Hey?a help? How?'

'You would not have seemed so far off. And I should not have 
seemed so much alone.'

'That was a mistake, Hazel.'

'I only said it seemed so. But there was a certain truth in it, too; 
because happy people never do guess exactly what goes on in the 
rest of the world.'

'Pray, do the unhappy people?'

But Hazel caught the sound of steps, and started away from her 
foot-cushion time enough to meet Dr. Arthur midway in the room.

'Rested, Dane?' said the doctor, standing before his late patient.

'That does not sound like a complicated question,' said Dane; 'but it 
means a good deal. I am ready.'

'What he wants,' said Dr. Arthur, turning gravely to Wych Hazel, 
'is a change. If your grace could persuade him to go off for a while, 
in the right company, he would come back a new man.'

'I shall have a change this week,' said Dane rising. 'Come along, 
old fellow, or I shall prescribe for you.I shall be here as early as 
I can, Hazel; before dinner.'


CHAPTER XXI.

THE LOSS OF POWER.


Wych Hazel ordered an early lunch for herself, and a fire in the red 
room, and fresh flowers for its adornment; and with these last she 
was busyhumming over them the spell of an old German 
choralwhen Rollo came in. The air was dainty with fragrance 
and sweet sounds. He smiled at it, and at Hazel; but after the first 
greeting was grave again.

'I have got news for you to-day,' he said.

'Have you?' said Hazel, intent on placing a Safrano rose. Then the 
tone caught her attention and she looked up hastily.

'Not more sickness?'

He shook his head. 'Paul Charteris has stopped work.'

'Is that all?' said Wych Hazel. 'The wonder to me is that such men 
ever go on.'

'He has not failed. He has stopped work. That is enough, of you 
knew what it means.'

'Not that all his men are turned adrift?'

'Just that. Three or four hundred families.'

'But they cannot move off and find work in the dead of winter!
What is the man thinking of?'

'Only, I suppose, of what are called the exigencies of business. 
There is not a good market, just now, for his cloths; he would be 
largely out of pocket presently if he went on paying out, with 
nothing coming in.'

'Could he do it?'

'I cannot tell.'

She bent thoughtfully over her flowers for a minute, touching them 
here and there; then looked up again.

'Have the same exigencies come near you?'

He smiled. 'No. I am sound yet.'

'ButI have heard business enough talked, if I could only 
remember it!does not such a state of things by and by touch all 
goods and mills and mill-owners?'

'Sometimes. But nothing threatens me at present. Perhaps Charteris 
is less strong than he has been supposed. Perhaps he has been 
speculating.'

Hazel finished her flowers with another touch or two, and 
gathering up the scattered rose leavescrimson and white and 
buffshowered them gently down upon the hand that rested near 
her on the table. Then she glanced up with a laugh.

'You know,' she said, 'the Charteris mills are my department.'

'Indeed! How am I to understand that statement?'

'Oyou thought Christmas was not susceptible of extensions. 
Gentlemen's ideas, being so strong, sometimes move slowly.'

'Ladies' thoughts, being so subtle, are sometimes difficult to 
pursue,' said Dane; but his brow was grave.

'I am talking nonsense,' said the girl, 'but I mean sense. There is 
money enough,and those people cannot starve, either with 
hunger or cold. And you have all your own men on your own 
hands,andI begin to understand what Dr. Arthur meant by 
"possible corners." Don't you see that the other part of the Hollow 
falls naturally to me? What is the matter? Are you afraid I will 
support them on pound-cake and sugarplums?'

Dane's eyes leapt, and darkened, and lightened; but after all, his 
answer was sober.

'That will do; but you cannot permanently support Mr. Charteris's 
mill hands on charity. The only sure method of relief would be to 
buy up the mills.'

'Then we can run them against each other!' said Wych Hazel. 
'What a splendid thought! I shall be a better neighbour that Mr. 
Charteris. I will only undersell you just a little.'

Dane smiled, but this time he said nothing. Only watched her 
continually.

'Then as Mr. Falkirk's consent might be difficult to get,he is a 
little insane upon mills just now,perhaps the purchase had better 
be made with the remains of my last winter's legacy. Over which, 
you know, nobody has any control but my own wise self.'

'How much do you suppose the purchase of those mills might 
require?'

'I have no idea. The legacy was largeand there is a good deal 
left.'

'A few hundred thousands?'

No, not so much as that. Well,then I must have another ugly talk 
with Mr. Falkirk. He would not listen to you, one minute.'

'I should not listen to you, either, Wych; and I should have to be 
taken into consultation, you know.'

'Is not your consent enough, without consultation?'

'I could not properly give it.'

'Dear me,' said the girl, 'what a word 'properly' is! I think I never 
wanted to do anything, or go anywhere, that it did not rise up 
before me like a five-barred gate. What can I 'properly' do, sir, if 
you please, in the premises?'

Looking with his mighty gray eyes into her face,soft they were 
too, and persuading, as well as mighty,he said in a sort of 
whisper,

'Go with me to New York, Wych! Then we can make it all right.'

Her face grew suddenly grave with a frightened look, as if she had 
stepped into a net, or caught herself in a trap.

'We were not talking of that,' she said hurriedly,'and there is no 
need to talk of that. And you promised.'

'There is no need to talk about it, if it is ever to be done,' said Dane 
smiling. 'If you will think about itwhich I believe you never do, 
you will perceive that unless we are to be separated all our lives, 
we must some time or other be married. And the best way with 
anything you are afraid of, is to do it, and have it over!'

He had smiled, and his accent was very winning; but he grew 
grave again, and stood with folded arms looking at Wych Hazel. 
Even then he would not use persuasions; he would not have her 
against her will; but he watched her anxiously. If she refused him 
now, it might be long before he brought up the subject again. He 
would not tell her that, either; he left her free; and waited to see 
how the delicate balances of her mind would turn. But he sighed a 
little as she hesitated, and then smiled again as he spoke; a smile 
very frank and sweet.

'Be brave, Hazel! If you are ever going to trust me, you may as 
well do it at once.'

Hazel turned away and sat down on her foot-cushion, and buried 
her face in her hands. Was she ever to be done with fights and 
perplexities? was she ever to be quietly happy, like other people? 
Last night she had been sober for very joy, at first; and now after 
all those long, bitter two months, there was no sweet sunshine to 
follow. For being married did not look at all sweet to Hazel: it was 
true, she had hardly thought of it at all. Well, she could do as she 
pleased. Yes,but she knew, without seeing, the disappointment 
to somebody else. That she did not quite understand it, did not hide 
the fact. And can a woman who loves, ever really prefer her own 
pleasure? She looked up with even a pale face, and the wet 
eyelashes that so few people had ever seen.

'You do not remember'she said. 'You do not seem to 
understand!'

'You are the shyest bird that ever flew without wings!' said Dane 
drawing another low seat to her side. 'I understand wet eyes too 
well. I remember only that I have been waiting a year and half for 
you. But if I wait all my life, Hazel, I will not have you at such 
cost as that. If your heart is not as mine,that it would be our 
happiness to be together,I will go back to my work and wait 
another six months.'

He spoke gently and gravely, and stooped as he spoke to kiss the 
wet eyes.

'Statements'said the girl, in an impatient tone which yet faltered 
and broke before it got through.

'You shall make the statements,' said Dane, getting her hand in his, 
and holding it with that gentle, firm clasp which, in some hands, 
expresses so much; soothing and steadying and sympathizing, and 
claiming too; all at once. 'What is the matter, my little Wych?'

Hazel paused, summoning her courage; enforcing quiet.

'It is no use to bring up such things,' she said, speaking very 
slowly. 'To talk of trustandliking to be togethermixing them 
up with 'if' and 'but.' Unless I have proved all that, I never can. But 
there are a great many reasons,and you would call them fudge. 
And I know they are not fudge. And if you were to knock them 
down fifty times, they would rise up, fresh and strong as ever, after 
all.'

'I shall not play at that game of ten-pins. Do you think in your 
conscience I have any reasons?'

'Something that goes by the name, I daresay,' said Hazel sedately. 
'But it is all different on your side,you wait, or you hurry, just 
which you choose; and you are free through the one and through 
the other, and after both.'

'Free? As a man whose heart is chained, and whose hands are 
fettered. Was I free to marry you a year ago? or even to speak my 
thought? Am I 'free' now, Hazel?'

She half laughed.

'How would you like to cut short the one time of your life when 
you had a little power, even to say no? AndMr. Rolloyou 
have been away two months. And October was very short.'The 
girlish voice grew low and timid: Hazel knew that her arguments 
were strong only to her.

Dane lifted to his lips the little fingers he held.

'And so you have made up your mind that your power will be at an 
end when you are married? Am I going to love you less?or will 
you love me less?'

'I did not mean power over you,' said Hazel; 'I meant independent 
power. And I have not much now, except when you happen not to 
care about using your own. As last night at tea.'

Dane could not help laughing a little again, but below that he was 
desperately serious.

'I will not have you troubled,' he said. 'Rather than that, I will go 
back and wait for you as Jacob did for Rachel; though I will not 
emulate his estimate of time, the circumstances being not similar. 
But, Hazel, there is something more to be thought of, which we 
have not touched. I cannot have you living alone here as you have 
been for the last three weeks or more.'

'Mr. Falkirk may be back. And you will be near enough to exercise 
any amount of supervision. And I will be good. If I can!'

'Mr. Falkirk writes that he may be detained indefinitely. And at 
twelve miles off, I am quite too far to be an efficient protector. 
Winter days would give me only short and late visits to Chickaree, 
except occasionally. And you know how it has been, Wych, since 
and before Mr. Falkirk went away; it is not fitting that you should 
be alone as you are; and exposed As your guardian, I cannot let 
this go on any longer.'

It fell to Dingee just then, to appear as a witness for the plaintiff. 
He came in, bearing a handful of wonderful hot-house flowers and 
a card.

'I done told him you was engageddes'pate!Miss Hazel,' said 
Dingee,'and he beg for jes' three minutes.'

'Say I cannot possibly give him three minutes!'Hazel's brows 
were as near a frown as they could come.

'Then he say, tomorrer,' pleaded Dingee. 'Any hour Miss Kennedy 
please. Three minutes, one minute. He done set out for home, Miss 
Hazel.'

'I hope he will have a short, safe passage,' said Hazel: 'say that. 
And that I cannot see him either to-night or to-morrow or any day 
before he goes. And, Dingee!not a word more or less!'She 
waited till the boy was out of sight, and then flung the flowers 
from where she sat full into the fire.

If there was not a frown on Rollo's brow, there was a quiet set of 
the lips which told as much. But he waited. Knowing well that it 
made against her cause, but knowing too that it was his right, 
Hazel turned and laid the card in his hand: it was Sir Henry 
Crofton's. The frown came then, and the card was crumpled up in 
Rollo's hand and followed the flowers.

'Well, Hazel?' he said. 'You must feel the justice of what I said just 
now. There are only two remedies that I know. One of these you 
startle at. The other, is that you should take up your abode at Dr. 
Maryland's for the winter.'

'I could not do that!' she said hastily. 'ButOlafI have tried to 
do just right all these weeks. And if you think I do not know what 
discretion means, you can ask Mrs. Bywank.'

'I do not need to ask anybody for testimony concerning you, in that 
or any other respect. It is no question of discretion; except in your 
guardians; and that forbids them to leave you so.'

'Mr. Falkirk is not Mr. Falkirk!' Hazel broke out. 'He is all 
changed.'

Rollo left this statement to take care of itself.

'What do you think we had best do?' he asked cheerfully, after a 
minute. 'I will not tease you and hurry youShall I leave the 
question to be settled by a note from you, when you have thought 
it over? If you choose to go to Dr. Maryland's, I will make the 
necessary arrangements. If you can make up your mind to go with 
me, we'll arrange that. What do you say?'

'But you said you were going next week!'

'I must. The day after Christmas. I wait to see these apples and 
pounds of tea safe home first. Then we will go and take care of 
New Year.'

Wych Hazel leaned her head down in her hands again. How easily 
he talked of it!this matter that her whole mind hardly found 
room for. Yet she knew, better than he did,better than she liked 
to tell him,that it was not the thing for her to live there alone. 
Even discretion could not hinder what Mrs. Bywank called "a 
raid," at home; nor keep her from being met and followed and 
waited on whenever she ventured out. But she could not live at Dr. 
Maryland's. To the tips of her fingers, Hazel knew that she should 
fly at the end of a week thereup the chimney, if no other way 
appeared. Prim's calm advice, and Mrs. Coles' sharp watch; even 
the good doctor's easy discussion of her and her affairs; could not 
be borne. She tried to smother the sigh that came up from the 
depths of her heart, but enough escaped to betray the trouble and 
perplexity.

'Shall I leave it?' said Dane very gently, though he on his part was 
swallowing deep mortification, not hindered by the fact that he did 
understand and feel for Wych Hazel's distress, in some measure. 
'Shall I leave it? and you will write to me?'

'What about?' said the girl quickly. 'As you put it, I have no choice. 
Because I will not go to Dr. Maryland's. Neither nownor ever
for safe keeping.'

'I do not want you to marry me just for safe keeping,' Dane said 
with a half smile. 'How would you put it, Hazel? Would you like to 
take time to think about it?'

'But there is no time to take!And thinking for ever will not make 
two alternatives out of one.'So thought Hazel to herself, but the 
words did not come out. She sat resting her cheek on her hand, 
studying this last hopeless fact; then by way of facing all her 
difficulties at once, looked up at her companion. Not meeting his 
eyes exactly,a wistful, examining gaze; trying to strengthen her 
courage with the sight of whatafter allshe loved best in all the 
world. For a second. Then hastily, as if still doubting her own 
resolution, she put out her hand and laid it timidly on his. Dane did 
not shew her the leap his heart made; and she could not see the 
flush that mounted to his brow. He made no demonstrations 
whatever, except to the hand which had come to him appealing in 
its surrender, and those were outwardly very quiet. And then, 
clasping the hand, he sat quite still; waiting to let Wych Hazel 
grow calm, if that could be, and ready for further talk.

Perhaps it was well, however (for a young lady of her wayward 
moods and tenses) that the next thing she had to do was to jump up 
and receive Dr. Arthur, who had come by appointment to dine at 
Chickaree. Dinner followed presently, and thus hostess cares and 
responsibilities for a time took the first place. But so grave a young 
hostess at the head of that table was a new thing. She did not forget 
one of her smallest gracious duties and offices; and she talkedat 
least as much as sometimes; but her face kept its soberness. The 
eyes did not flash and the lips did not curl. Dr. Arthur gave her a 
keen glance once or twice, at first; but finding a certain 
complement to all this in the face at the foot of the table, he turned 
at least his outward attention to other matters.

'Charteris takes it hard that you intend to keep running, Dane,' he 
said.

'Some other people find it hard that he don't.'

'Hard things affect people differently: they don't agree with him. 
And he announces that he will try how they agree with you.'

'I don't see what he can do to me at present.'

'Self-confidence is not one of your undeveloped graces. But I wish 
you had bought that gore at the top of the Hollow, as I bade you.'

'Powder did not care about selling it, at one time; and latterly I 
have had my hands too full. Why do you wish that just now, 
Arthur?'

'Because Powder has sold it now. And if I remember, your lease of 
the water power has not long to run.' Wych Hazel was listening, 
intently, with a sparkle in her eyes at last.

'I have no lease of water power. What I own I own. But anybody 
above me on the stream could make me trouble. To whom has 
Powder sold?'

'Just what I cannot find out,' said the doctor, 'though I went to 
himself. 'It is no matter,' he said, 'so long as the property was not in 
the market.' But of course it is Charteris. Josephine's marriage 
makes that pretty sure.'
