There’s nothing there, of course ; but he will be satisfied.” 

They went together. Mamma, Theo, and I huddled 
in each other’s arms, and drew long, frightened breaths. 

“ If it only is fever ! ” whispered Theo. 

“ And if Archie were here ! Or if little Joe had lived ! 
But other mothers have given babies to God, and sons to 
their country. O girls ! I ought to be brave.” 

“ We will be sons to you, little mother;” and Theo’s 
voice rang out clear and inspiriting. “ I think God, who 
is so tender of little Joe up in heaven, will care for us 
here.” 

Father came back with Mr. Mercer, looking exceedingly 
puzzled about not finding the box. The only solution he 
could offer was, that it had been buried. 


 


“ Now, you take things easj" here on the sofa,’ Mr. 
Mercer said, with a little side wink to mother, “ and I’ll 
go down town. I know where I can find two stout labor- 
ers ; and we will have that cement up in a jiflTy . Of course 
the box is buried there.” 

“You see, Bessie, he knows all about it,” continued 
father solemnly. Indeed, I felt as if I must laugh. 

“ I’ll run for Dr. Sheldon,” in a whisper. 

Father went on talking. His face was only slightly 
flushed, and he did not seem excited. This treasure had 
been found in the South by some negi’oes, and they had 
informed ten men at the North, of whom father was one. 
After much trouble and planning, it had been taken up, 
divided, and sent around ; but why the expressman should 
have buried it in Mr. Mercer’s cellar, he could not 
understand. 

It was about an hour before Dr. Sheldon came. The 
clock in the sitting-room struck five. 

He hstened to mother’s story. 

‘ ‘ Has he been feverish ? Have you noticed any thing 
not quite right about him ? ’ ’ 

“He has been a good deal worried, and spent several 
evenings at the store until very late. His appetite has 
not been very good ; but I did so hope ’ ’ — 

“ So did I, after winter had set in. It’s the business : 
he must give it up, and have a rest. But we will make 
another big fight now. Had you not better have a 
nurse ? ’ ’ 

“No, doctor: thinking how the nurse would get paid 
would woiTy me more than to do it myself. But oh ! are 
you sure it’s the fever? ” she asked tremulously 

“ It is a fever. There, be moderate now.” 

Then he went over to father, persuaded him to go up 
stairs and to bed. There were fever-drops and an ano- 
dyne. 

Dayhght was dawning, — a clear, bright winter morn- 





ing : every thing seemed joj’oiis too. I couldn’t get it 
out of my mind, — the strange, prophetic belief, — that 
father was to come through it all, and recover. 

“ Chris,” said Theo that night, “I mean to give up 
school. I am not specially ambitious about graduating ; 
for I couldn’t teach, I know. I am beginning to have 
those dreadful headaches again ; and mother will want 
some one right along. Then there will be spring sewing, 
and all.” 

‘ ‘ But you will not give up your music ? ’ ’ 

“ It is best not to have the noise of practising now : so 
I will put off the lessons for a while. There, now, go 
off, hke a good girl, and do not worry.” 

There were three very anxious weeks. Somehow we 
had come to look upon a fever pure and simple as quite 
a boon compared with any phase of brain-disease. It 
hardly seemed like the wildness of fever-delirium, it was 
so coherent, and the ideas were so like actual occurrences. 
Neighbors and friends were very kind ; but kindest of 
all was Horace Sargent : he dropped in every evening, 
and sat up at night. Mother said he was as good as a 
doctor. 

I did not do any nursing. Theo decided, in her busi- 
ness-like way, that I must save myself for school. 

The second week, father’s book-keeper and foreman 
came up one evening. After the ordinary matters were 
talked over, he said to mother, — 

“ I told Mr. Durant the last of December that I should 
probably go away. My brother-in-law is in Washington, 
and has been looking out for me all the fall. Last week 
he sent word : he has secured the position. It will be 
worth from two to three thousand a year to me ; and I 
have been engaged three years, waiting for a prospect 
good enough to marry on. I don’t feel that I could give 
up this, though I am sorry enough to go away while Mr. 
Dui'ant is so poorly. I must send a decisive answer 


 


to-morrow, and be in Washington by the first of Febru- 
ary.” 

“ Can you think of any one to take your place, Mr. 
Armstrong ? ’ ’ 

“ I don’t know. Let me see,” thoughtfully. ‘‘ There 
is a young man we used to have in the store, Luther 
Grover. He enlisted, but had rheumatism so severely that 
he was discharged some weeks ago. I might see him.” 
“If you would. Some one must be there.” 

Still he lingered, talking the matter over, as if he had 
not said all. 

“ Can you think of any thing else,” ventured mother. 

“ I did want to say ; but you can’t tell me, Mrs. Durant 
— and I don’t know what to do. We will just have to let 
them take their course.” 

“ Them? Who? ” cried mother in alarm. 

“ The bank. Here are two notes that must be taken 
up to-morrow, or go to protest.” 

Mother reached out her hand for them mechanically ; 
but Mr. Armstrong hesitated. 

“I tried all day yesterday and to-day. The business is 
on such a precarious footing now. Something may come 
to-morrow. I had better keep them.” 

“Oh, yes ! What is the latest moment? ” 

“ Three. The bank closes then.” 

“ Yes,” with a faint smile. “ If I can do any thing, I 
will be at the store by two. It hurts a man’s credit very 
much to have a note protested, doesn’t it? ” 

“ Oh ! one can five through it, Mrs. Durant.” 

The next morning mother went down to see uncle 
Frank. If he could accommodate her with the loan of 
six hundred and fifty dollars she would see him made 
secure. 

Uncle Frank cleared his throat two or three times, and 
began several incoherent explanations. The only money 
they had was in the bank, in aunt Hetty’s name, and 





whether sTied he willing ; for of course Bessie knew they 
lost all their first savings lending it to her uncle, and since 
then she’d been queer and particular about it. If Ste- 
phen was willing — 

Stephen Miller came in, brusque and business-like, and 
listened in his unsympathetic manner. 

No, they couldn’t. He had uses for his money daily. 
He was sorry Mr. Durant was sick again. 

“ I’ll try Hetty, and send you word,” whispered uncle 
Frank kindly. “ Bessie, I’d do it in a minute, if it was in 
my hands. Joe and I have always seemed so near ! ” 

“ If you can, be at the store by two,” said mother. 
But at heart she had no hope. 

She went down herself at that hour. Mr. Armstrong 
had hunted up Luther Grover, who walked with a cane, 
but was well enough in brain and hands. He would be 
glad to come. 

Moment after moment ; half-past two, and no uncle 
Frank. 

“Ah, Mrs. Durant ! Why, how is Mr. Durant ? " 

It was Mr. Sargent. 

“ There has been no change since last evening,” said 
mother, trying to steady her voice. 

He sat down beside her. There was some new trouble, 
he knew. Could it be want of money? 

He walked over to Mr. Armstrong, and made a few in- 
quiries, as a man can do of a man. Then he took the 
notes, and went down to the bank. 

That evening he and mother talked it over. He offered 
to look through the business, and see what he thought of 
it. 

“ Oh, how good he is ! ” said mother. “ He is one of 
the people who rest you. You feel as if you had laid down 
a burthen, or been on the top of some high mountain, 
where the air was sweet and bracing.” 

It was true enough. How, I cannot tell; but I knew 


 


the man cared for me. He was not half as free with me 
as with Theo. Men, as a general thing, liked me ; but they 
went straight to love with Theo, child as she was. I had 
thought at first that he would : now I saw their natures 
ran in parallel lines, and were not likely to touch each oth- 
er with any quick thrill of subtle knowledge. Yet he was 
friendly, not lover-like. He came at no stated times, he 
always asked us out together. I had no fear on the score 
of position. He was not the man to think work of any 
kind lowered a woman. “Not what the man did, what 
he became,” he quoted one night, in one of the talks that 
interested me so much. And I had a kind of pride in 
not hurrying matters. I liked to walk slowly along, to 
gather here and there a flower, to watch the stars come 
out one by one, knowing how the heavens would look by 
and by. 

The fever was broken. There were several days of 
almost mortal weakness, then the convalescence began. 
But years and anxiety were beginning to tell upon papa. 

“You must go away, and have an entire change,” de- 
clared Dr. Sheldon. “Six months at least, or you will 
never be good for any thing again. — How is the busi- 
ness?” to mother. 

“ It is just as bad as it can be,” said father despond- 
ingly. “And I must get up, and put on the harness, 
and try to battle through.” 

“Durant, it is just this, — rest, or a few years of 
alternate sickness, and a state too miserable to be called 
health, with death at the end. A man can’t struggle 
through every thing ; and we doctors can’t do to any ad- 
vantage, if our patient keeps undoing. A six-months’ rest 
at any sacrifice.” 

Mamma talked the business over with Mr. Sargent ; 
and then Dr. Sheldon was called into council. 

“ I should give up the business, and start a clear man. 
You may sacrifice the house now, to tide matters over, 





and another year may be as bad. That the war is draw- 
ing to a close is beyond a doubt ; but as a nation we shall 
be fearfully in debt. Every thing will have to be taxed 
to the uttermost. The nearer a man is out of debt, the 
luckier he will be. And staging here, keeping at it, is 
only slow suicide. I tell you so in all honesty.” 

It troubled father very much, kept him weak and de- 
spondent. There was no use of appealing to Frank or 
Robert. 

“ But to see the work of your lifetime go,” he said 
with a sigh. 

“ Better that than life and health,” returned mamma. 
‘‘ Though I would be willing to sell the house, if it would 
save you.” 

When papa could get about, a meeting of the creditors 
was called, and a statement laid before them. There was 
a good deal of stock on hand, but no demand for it. Two 
of the largest creditors pressed for their money. One 
was going to Europe, to remain for years. 

It was decided at last to make an assignment, and sell 
out the stock. Part of it was taken to a neighboring 
town. There was enough to meet all claims. Mr. Sar- 
gent’s kindly note was settled, and the doctor’s bill 
paid, and then we looked our future square in the face. 
There was the house, with its mortgage of two thousand 
dollars, and just five hundred beside. There was my sal- 
ary of three hundred and fifty. Father was still ver}- 
feeble. The least exertion seemed to exhaust all his 
strength. 

He wrote to uncle James, and received a very cordial 
letter, inAuting him to come. 

“You must go, and stay at least three months. And 
then you must travel around three months more. You 
have never had a good long holiday in your life. It has 
been nothing but work.” 

“What will you do, Bessie?” with a faint, yearning 
smile. 


 


‘ ‘ I’ll manage, never you fear. I ought to be a professor 
of economy by this time.” 

Father went down to New York to spend a week with 
uncle Robert. They were making great changes in their 
business, going into manufacturing and wholesale. Army 
boots and shoes were to become a specialty A new 
partner with considerable ready money had been added. 

This was about the middle of March. Theo seemed so 
languid ! Her appetite was nothing. She used to faint 
dead away with a little over-exertion ; and yet she had 
such wonderful will and spirits ! She kept bright and 
laughing, and declared it was only a touch of spring 
fever ; and didn’t we know it was a very stylish accom- 
plishment to swoon away gracefully ? She would not 
begin a new quarter of singing-lessons, but said, “Wait 
until fall.” 

One lovely moonlight evening Mr. Sargent called in. 
Theo had gone to bed with a headache. When these 
severe ones came on, there was nothing for hei but a dark, 
quiet room, and entire rest. Mother was busy in the 
kitchen, and Dell and Dick were studying lessons. 

“ You are looking pale and weary,” Mr. Sargent said 
kindly. “ Suppose we go out for a walk? These spring 
days are very trying. It is too cool without a fire, and 
too warm with one. Out of doors it is delightful.” 

I put on my hat and sack. He drew my arm gently 
through his, and we walked up the street, toward the 
country part of the town. Somewhere in the distance 
beyond, there was a frog-pond ; and to-night the echoes 
seemed to have a hopeful, spring-like sound. 

“ How quiet you are ! ” he began presently. “ There 
is no new trouble, surely? ” 

“ There is no need of new troubles. We are not done 
with the old ones,” I answered. 

“ My poor little girl, I think you have had your full 
share. I wish I could do or say something to comfort.” 





He drew me closer, with an indescribably tender motion. 
I felt so weak, depressed, and his sympathy touched the 
tenderest chord of my being, moved me to tears. I gave 
a little, half-strangled sob in my breath, before I was 
aware. 

‘ ‘ O my love ! my tired little darling ! ’ ’ 

We both stopped. There was a great open space, and 
just beyond a straggling grove of trees that had thus far 
defied the march of improvement. The city had not gone 
out so rapidly this way. 

His arms fell : nay, the hands closed in a quick, tense 
grip ; and through my tears I knew it was. not the clasp 
of happy love, or any delicious vision seen in the dis- 
tance. It struck a chill to my soul, prepared me instantly 
for what was coming. 

“ Christabel,” why is it that people always give you 
j"Our full name in the instant of trouble, anger, or pain? — 
“ Christabel, I was a coward, and worse, to utter those 
endearing words, and yet I love you, love you as I 
have no right to love any woman, save the one to whom 
my word is plighted. Yet what makes the right and 
wrong, the honor and the dishonor? I have tried not 
only to guard myself, but to guard you, as any tender 
brother might have done. I have lingered within sight of 
you, watched you when others were around, and said, 
‘ Thus far, and no farther ; ’ and now all my mortal weak- 
ness has found a voice. O Christabel ! can it ever be for- 
given, this sin against you? ’’ 

I put out my hand blindly. Since he had not deceived 
me wilfully, since he must suffer, might we not as well 
have the fellowship in our anguish ? 

“ My little darling ! A man ought to take you to his 
heart, and make paths for your poor tired feet, carry you 
over rough ways. Shall I do it? ” 

He seemed to ask the question as much of himself as 
of me. Should I, could I, go to happiness treading over 
another woman’s heart? 


 


“ No, no ! I cried, with a pang that seemed to wrench 
my very soul apart. 

“You despise me ! any good woman would.” 

“ I am not a good woman, then. I do not despise, nor 
hate, hardly blame. I see now how you have tried ; but 
it is hard — to give up all in a moment.” 

“ Let me tell you my story, and you shall be the judge. 
If you think honor binds me, and must be obeyed at any 
cost, I will bow my head humbly, and take up the frag- 
ments. If not, nothing shall induce me to sacrifice two 
souls.” 

He was deathly pale ; but his firm lips and resolute eyes 
indicated much mental strength. 

“ Tell me,” I said huskily. “ I must hear all now.” 

“ Miss Adelaide Adams and I have been neighbors 
alway's. She and my next sister are just of an age. We 
went to the same academy in our native town, studied 
together, graduated ; and then I left home for Harvard. 
Two years later I brought a friend home with me, Walter 
Heywood, some three or four years my senior. My sister 
was engaged at this time : the elder one was very well 
married. Miss Adams is rather tall and fine-looking, 
with a distinguished presence, and decidedly intellectual 
Tvithout being an original genius, but is very highly 
accomplished. I always liked her very much. 

“ Well, she and my friend Heywood became engaged. 
It was a bitter disappointment to my mother, who in her 
heart had chosen her for me. They were very happy. 
He had one of those bright, joyous, hopeful tempera- 
ments, while she was rather grave, more of the woman 
than the girl. He went to California to establish a 
branch house : he belonged to a large and rich mercan- 
tile firm. In a year or two he was to return for the mar- 
riage. The time was appointed, not the da}-, but the 
month. Heywood was taken ill with a fever, and died in 
ten days. It was an awful stroke to her, a shock to us all. 





“ Her father died shortly after. She let out her place, 
and came to make her home with my mother, though she 
had brothers married, and a very nice Income of her own. 
I went back and forth. I do not think I can recall all the 
steps of gradual regard ; but, when I came to Northwood, 
we had been engaged something over a year.’’ 

“ And she loves you! ” I cried. How could a woman 
help loving him, when she felt she had the right? “ And 
she loved the other too,” I added, after a moment’s pause. 

“ She loved Heywood — yes; I think she did truly. 
She loves my mother and me ; and she is quite an exclu- 
sive woman in her tenderest regards. Well, I came to 
Northwood to settle myself, as my uncle desired. I met 
you and your sister, and you were delightful young girls. 
Christabel, do you remember the night I rode up in the 
cars, when that Mr. Miller was with you? He loved you, 
I saw at once. I cannot tell you how I was interested. 
You seemed so delicate, dainty, and refined, and he was so 
different ! ‘ Can she love him ? can she many him ? ’ I 

kept asking myself, and have her whole life marred and 
blurred, either lowered to his ways, or else worn out in 
a few years in the vain struggle to lift him up? ” 

“ But he is going to marry Miss Taylor,” I cried. 
You see women can love him.” 

“Miss Tajdor is — well, stylish, accomplished, but not 
refined. She will laugh at his blunders ; then she is 
strong enough to mould him a little to her way of think- 
ing. She will not be in an agony of mortification over 
him, such as your sensitive soul would experience. 

“•You and your sister were so bright with the glow of 
youth and pleasure. I did not dream of any danger. 
Honestly I did not think there was any thing in my sedate, 
rather elderly manner that would attract a young girl 
strongly. I would be a brother to you, standing off when 
other pleasures were offered, coming a little nearer when I 
was needed. I liked you very much. There were times 


 


when I wanted to establish the right of a brotherly friend- 
ship ; then I was afraid there might be danger in the very 
ease and security it would afford. God knows I did not 
realize until this very night what you had become to me. 
I did not know what a rapturous thing love might ’ ’ — 

His voice, that had been so strong and passionless all 
through the confession, wavered now. He had taken my 
arm, and we were walking on and on ; but I felt the nerves 
quiver, even his step grew hesitating. He loved me ! ah, 
no after-pang could quite shut out that blissful, if not 
blessed knowledge. But love did not always mean hap- 
piness. 

“ I have said to myself many times, ‘ If I were free, I 
would compel this little girl to marry nae. I would woo 
her so ardently, tempt her with such delightsome visions 
of the future, that she could not resist. I would make 
her life one long, bright excursion ; ’ for you know on 
excursions people stop, and build fires somewhere at the 
wood’s edge, boil the kettle, and spread a table, bringing 
out of hampers and baskets the choice bits they have 
packed away for this hour. It is not all idleness. And 
now, whether it is right in God’s sight to let this pure, 
sweet dream be thrust aside, or bear with a broken 
promise ? I think you could love me when nothing stood 
between. So far, I have refrained from any word, any 
act. I have never even kissed your sweet red hps, though 
sometimes I have been tempted almost beyond endurance, 
and have had to struggle hard with the giant of desire.” 

“ She is rich,” I said quietly. 

“Yes. Do you suppose that would weigh a moment 
with me, little girl? ” 

My heart gave a great thrill. 

“ But she loves you. Hers is not merely a cold, pas- 
sive, friendly regard.” 

“ I will be honest. I think she does love me. If it 
were merely an engagement of convenience or worldly 





interest, I should not hesitate a moment. mother is 
very fond of her ; and Chrissie — can you explain this to 
nie ? — I seem to love her just as well to-night as I ever 
did ; but oh ! my love for you appears like heaven itself. 
What shall I do ? ” 

“ If you told her ” — 

“ She would relinquish me at once. She and my 
mother would live on there together.’’ 

A pang seemed to rend my very soul as I saw the 
picture in a blinding flash, like lightning. His mother 
would alway's look upon me as an interloper, a marplot : 
there would be none of that precious love and s}Tupathy 
that had hallowed mamma’s life. 

“ Chrissie, I had no right to say one word until I told 
you this. Weak I may be, disloyal perhaps, but not de- 
ceitful. And now, think for me, help me. I want you.’" 
“ Oh ! ” I cried with a great gasp, “ let me consider a 
little, a day or two — I am so bewildered ! ” 

“ Perhaps we had both better think it over. I have 
said heretofore that all such promises were sacred, to be 
kept at any cost ; yet I feel now that I would not like a 
woman to marry me from a sense of duty, while her heart 
was another’s. But it is such a solemn matter.” 

I turned around to wallt back. Oh, if I could die just 
there at his feet, if he could take me up and kiss my cold 
lips, cross my limp white hands, and bury me without 
another soul to look at me ! 

“ Have I killed you, crushed you, my poor stricken 
lamb? ” and his cry pierced me. 

I wonder what our lives would have been, if I had 
turned then and there, following out a wild impulse, and 
accepted him as my lover. Is not duty a relative thing ? 
Is not conscience swayed a good deal by conflicting emo- 
tions ? Do we not think until we are confused and mor- 
bid? 

We reached home, and said a quiet good-night on the 


 


little porch. It was Wednesday now ; next Monday even- 
ing we would settle it for weal or woe. 

I did not take my trouble to mother. I felt, sweet and 
s}Tnpathizing as she was, that she might condemn him : I 
held him guiltless. A sad mistake — was it 'that? Did 
God mean that we should come to this blessed nearness 
and sympathy, see all these things in each other, and 
then wrench out the vision? Would it make a tree 
stronger thus to tear out its best branches? He had 
never acted dishonorably lover-like. Should I then be 
ashamed of loving? 

One sentence ran through my mind : “ As ye mete out, 
it shall be meted unto you again.” If I took this woman’s 
lover from her, would a swift judgment interpose some 
time, and snatch away the thing I most desired ? 


CHAPTER XI. 


“ Are you good men and true ? ” 

Much Ado about Nothing. 

I WENT to school the next morning with a strange feel- 
ing. I seemed to have lived so long already ; and yet 
stretching out before me were years and years of school- 
teaching. These girls would grow up and marry, and 
their children might be in my class. I was so tired, so 
puzzled with the tangle, so afraid to stretch out my hand 
and take what might be forbidden fruit. How could I 
tell? 

Thursday, Friday, Saturday, with its morning of 
sweeping and dusting, and little helpful things. Father 
came home, and began to plan about his journey. Uncle 
Robert thought it such an excellent idea ! Two or three 
young friends dropped in with their girlish gossip of new 
gowns, beaux, engagements. It seemed to me that I must 
be two distinct persons ; that, after this, I should always 
live two lives, — the one that was, the other that might 
have been. I think now it was curious that I should 
take giving up Horace Sargent so for granted. 

It would be better for him to marry her, — this large, 
gracious, intellectual woman, with her position and her 
wealth, and his mother’s love. It would be a long while 
before I could help him climb any such heights. There 
would be my own family, poor, and in trouble maybe ; 
and I should want to share somewhat with them, bring my 
burthen to him, ask his kindly attention. 


 


Then it would flash over me like an electric thrill, that 
if I could only see her and judge ; if I could go to her, 
and say honestly and frankly, “I love this man too: 
let us compare our affection, and then decide who shall 
give him up.” It was absurd, of course. No two human 
beings ever would do so. 

Do you say it should have been whichever he loved the 
better? On her side was all the old friendship, the thorough 
knowledge of her character, the desire of his mother, 
so many things that were sure : on mine, the newness, the 
half fear he might be dazzled with something that was 
not pure gold. I could understand him as well as myself. 
And the dread of beginning life, and love, dishonored by 
a broken promise ! 

If he had been of the impulsive kind, and settled it all 
before that eventful Monday evening, and told me then 
and there that I must marry him, since he had given up 
every thing for me, I should have done it unhesitatingly. 
It may be that I secretly wished he would. A younger 
man might have ; a less scrupulous one would. 

I kept some children in after school. I wondered if 
this tense strain was beginning to tell on my temper. 
Theo was bright and well to-night, and hurried around 
with supper. Father and mother went put afterward to 
make a few calls. I walked quietly up stairs and lighted 
the gas, took out some pretty wool crocheting I was so 
fond of. The door-bell rang. 

Oh that awful, choking, constricted sensation ! My 
hands grew cold, my limbs numb. 

Theo’s gay laugh, and a voice that was not Horace 
Sargent’s. I had a reprieve. 

Eight o’clock. Long after, — it seemed an hour ; but 
it was only fifteen minutes, — the bell rang again. 

This time Theo comes flying up stairs. 

“ Chris, Mr. Sargent is here, and wants you to put on 
youi' hat and take a walk. He will not come in. And 
Mr. Ross is down stairs.” 





“ Yes,” I say calmly, rising, and putting away my 
work. 

Why should I stop to tie a pretty ribbon around my 
throat, and take out my fleecy white Shetland shawl? 
There is no moon ; and, in this matter of life and death, 
will he see ? 

I go down slowly. I put my hand in the one out- 
stretched. It is cold : so is mine. Then he draws me 
out. I shut the door, and we are walking up the street. 

Presently we begin in calm, dispassionate voices. We 
have both, it seems, thought so much of honor, of truth, 
of beginning life rightly, of making no wilful blot or mar 
that may rise up in after-years a grim ghost to haunt us. 
Yet he feels more than inchned to give up all for love’s 
sake. I tremble and thrill, I am so near happiness ; and 
yet I put it away reverently, as one buries the dead. 

“ Oh, I can’t, Chrissie ! ” he cries, “ I can’t ! ” Then, 
in the next breath, “ But you are right.” 

Right. It is a magical word. No man shall tell me in 
after-years that I tempted him to wrong. 

Yet I think now, after all these years, that one way 
was as right as the other. 

It is all over presently. Have I turned into stone, that 
I have no more feeling about it ? 

“ Take me home,” I say wearily. 

He is talking of some future time when we may be 
friends again. Why, we could be friends now, to-morrow, 
any time. We have tried ; and we can neither of us step 
over this wide river, named duty, that the world or pro- 
priety settles for us. 

We open the gate, step up on the little porch. His arm 
is around me then. 

“ Oh, my brave, sweet darling! ” he cries in a trans- 
port of love and grief, “kiss me just once. Heaven 
knows there can be no sin in it. It is like kissing the 
dead.” 


 


Do dead lips ever have in them such rapture ? Shall I 
clasp my arm around his neck, and tell him that I cannot 
give him up ? 

“ Good-by, my sweet, sweet little love." 

I go through the hall. Dick and Dell are having a dis- 
pute about a problem in algebra, that I decide. Then moth- 
er and father come in. The parlor-door is shut : so Theo is 
still engaged. I go up stairs, thinking how many old-maid 
school-teachers there are, and wonder if each has had her 
love-dream. I even laugh a little hysterically. 

I hurry into bed, and am safely sheltered by the pillow, 
when Theo comes flying up, two steps at a bound, and 
pants breathlessly. 
