done her work yet. 

'When's that young man comin' again?' she asked 
abruptly at the foot of the stairs, stopping to trim the 
wick of her candle, and looking into the light without 
winking. 

' I don't know ' Diana faltered. ' I don't know that 
he is ever coming again.' 

' Don't expect him either, don't you ? ' 

'I think it would be odd if he didn't,' said Diana 
bravely, after a moment's hesitation. 

'Odd? why?' 

Diana hesitated longer this time, and the words did not 
come for her waiting. 

' Why odd ? ' repeated Mrs. Starling sharply. 

'When people seem to like a place they are apt to 
come again,' said Diana, flushing a little. 

' Seem to,' said Mrs. Starling. 'Now, Diana, I have just 
this one thing to say. Don't you go and give that young 
fellow no encouragement.' 

' Encouragement ! mother,' repeated Diana. 

' Yes, encouragement. Don't you give him any. Mind 
my words. 'Cause if you do, I won't ! ' 

' But mother ! ' said Diana, ' what is there to encourage? 
I could not help going to shew the brook to him to-day.' 

'You couldn't,' said Mrs. Starling, beginning to mount 
the stairs. ' Well, it is good to practise. Suppose'n he asked 
you to let him shew you the Mississippi or the Pacific 
Ocean ; couldn't you help that ? ' 

' Mother, I am ashamed ! ' said poor Diana. ' Just 
think. He is educated, and has every advantage, and is 
an officer in the United States army now ; and what 'am I ? ' 



 

' Worth three dozen of him,' said Mrs. Starling decidedly 

' He wouldn't think so, mother, nor anybody else, but 
you.' 

'Well, I think so, mind, and that's enough. I ain't a 
goin' to give you to him, not if he was fifty officers in the 
United States army. So keep my words, Diana, and mind 
what I say. I never will give you to him, nor to any other 
man that calls himself a soldier and looks down upon folks 
that are better than he is. I won't let you marry him ; so 
don't you go and tell him you will.' 

' He won't ask me, mother. You make me ashamed ! ' 
said Diana, with her cheeks burning , 'but I am sure he 
does not look down upon me.' 

' Nobody shall marry you that sets himself up above 
me,' said Mrs. Starling as she closed her door. ' Mind ! ' 

And Diana went into her own room, and shut her door, 
and sat clown to breathe. ' Suppose he should ask you to 
let him shew you the Mississippi, or the Pacific ? ' And the 
hot flush rushed over her and she hid her face, as if even 
from herself. ' He will not. But what if he should ? ' 
Mrs. Starling had raised the question. Diana, in very 
maidenly shame tried to beat it down and stamp the life 
out of it. But that was more than she could do. 



CHAPTER VII. 

BELLES AND BLACKBERRIES. 

IN the first flush of Diana's distress that night it had 
seemed to her that the sight of Lieut. Knowlton in all time 
to come could but give her addition-al distress. How could 
she look at him ? But the clear morning light found her 
nerves quiet again, and her cheeks cool ; and a certain 
sweet self-respect in which she held herself always, forbade any such flutter of vanity or stir even of fancy, as 
could in any wise ruffle the simple dignity of this country 
girl's manner. She had no careful mother's training, or 
father's watch and safeguard ; the artificial rules of propriety were still less known to her ; but innate purity and 
modesty, and, as I said, the poise of a true New England 
self-respect, stood her in better stead. When Diana saw 
Mr. Knowlton the next time, she was conscious of no discomposure ; and he was struck with the placid elegance of 
manner, formed in no school, which was the very outgrowth of the truth within her. His own manner grew 
unconsciously deferential. It is the most flattering homage 
a man can render a woman. 

Mrs. Starling had delivered her mind, and thereafter 
she was content to be very civil to him. Further than that 
a true record cannot go. The young officer tried to negotiate himself into her good graces ; he was attentive and 
respectful and made himself entertaining. And Mrs. Starling was entertained and entertained him also on her part ; 
and Diana watched for a word of favourable comment or 
better judgment of him when he was gone. None ever 
came ; and Diana sometimes sighed when she and her 
mother had" shut the doors, as that night, upon each other. 
For to her mind the favourable comments rose unasked 
for. 

He came very often, on one pretext or andther. He 
began to be very much at home. His eye used to meet 
her's, as something he had been looking for and had just 
found ; and the lingering clasp of his hand said the touch 
was pleasant. Generally their interviews were in the parlour of Diana's home ; sometimes he contrived an occasion 
to get her to drive with him, or to walk ; and Diana never 
found that she could refuse herself the pleasure or need 
refuse it to him. The country was so thinly settled and 
their excursions had as yet been in such lonely places, 
that no village eyes or tongues had been aroused. 

So the depth of August came. The two were standing 
one moonlight night at the little front gate, lingering in 
the moonlight. Mr. Knowlton was going, and could not 

go- 

' Have you heard anything about the Bear hill party ? ' 
he asked suddenly. 

' O yes ; Miss Delamater came here a week ago to 
speak about it.' 

' Are you going ? ' 

' Mother said she would. So I suppose I shall.' 

' Where is it ? and what is it ? ' 

' The place ? Bear hill is a very wild, stony, bare hill- 

at least one side of it is bare ; the other side is covered 

with trees. And the bare side is covered with blackberry 

bushes  the largest you ever saw ; and the berries are the 





 

largest. We always go there every summer, a number of 
us out of Pleasant Valley, to get blackberries.' 

' How far is it ? ' 

'Fifteen miles.' 

'That's a good way to go a blackberrying,' said the 
young man smiling. ' People hereabouts must be very 
fond of that fruit.' 

' We want them for a great many uses, you know ; it 
isn't just to eat them. Mother makes jam and wine for 
the whole year, besides what we eat at once. And we go 
for the fun too, as well as for the berries.' 

' So it is fun, is it ? ' 

' I think so. We make a day of it ; and everybody carries provisions ; and we build a fire, and it is very pleasant.' 

' I'll go,' said Mr. Knowlton. ' I have heard something 
about it at home. They wanted me to drive them, but I 
wanted to know what I was engaging myself to. Well, I'll 
be there, and I'll take care our wagon carries its stock of 
supplies too. Thursday, is it ? ' 

' I believe so.' 

' What time shall you go ? ' 

' About eight o'clock or half-past.'

' Eight ' said the young officer. ' I shall have to revive 
Academy habits. I am grown lazy.' 

' The days are so warm, you know,' D-i-ana explained ; 
'and we have to come home early. We always have dinner 
between twelve and one.' 

'I see!' said the young man. 'I see the necessity, 
and feel the difficulty. Well, I'll be there.' 

He grasped her hand again; they had shaken hands 
before he left the house, Diana remembered ; and this time 
he held her fingers in a light clasp for some seconds after 



 

it was time to let them go. Then he turned and sprang 
upon his horse and went off at a gallop. Diana stood still 
at the gate where he had left her, looking down the road 
and listening to the diminishing sound of his horse's hoofs. 
The moonlight streamed tenderly down upon her and the 
elm trees ; it filled the empty space where Knowlton's 
figure had been ; it flickered where the elm branches stirred lightly and cast broken shadows upon the ground ; it 
poured its floods of effulgence over the meadows and 
distant hills, in still moveless peace and power of everlasting calm. It was one of the minutes of Diana's life that she 
never forgot afterwards ; a point where her life had stood 
still still as the moonlight ; and almost as sweet in its 
broad restfulness. She lingered at the gate, and came 
slowly back again into the house. 

' What are you going to take to Bear hill, mother ? ' in-quired Diana the next day. 

' I don't know ! I declare, I'm 'most tired of picnics ; 
they cost more thar they come to. If we could tackle up 
now, and go off by ourselves, early some morning, and get 
what we want there'd be some fun in that.' 

' It's a very lonely place, mother.' 

' That's what I say. I'm tired o' livin' forever in a crowd.' 

' But you said you'd go ? ' 

'Well ; I'm goin'.' 

' Then we must take something.' 

' Well ; I'm goin' to. I calculated to take something.' 

' What ? ' 

' Somethin' 'nother nobody else'll take if I could contrive what that'd be.' 

' Well, mother, I can tell you. Somebody'll be sure to 
carry cake ; and pies ; and cold ham and cheese ; and 
bread and butter ; and cold chicken. All that's sure.' 



 

' Exactly. I could have told you as much, myself, 
Diana. What I want to know is, somethin' nobody'll take. 

' Green corn to boil, mother ? ' 

' Well ! ' said Mrs. Starling musing, ' that ts an idea. 
How'd you boil it ? ' 

' Must take a pot or borrow one.' 

'Borrow! Not I, from any o' the Bear hill folks. I 
couldn't eat corn out o' their kettles. It's a sight o' trouble 
anyhow, Diana.' 

' Then, mother, suppose I make a chicken-pie ? ' 

' Do what you've a mind to, child. And there must be 
a lot o' coffee roasted. I declare, if I wasn't clean out o' 
blackberry wine, I'd cut the whole concern. There'll be 
churning just ready Thursday ; and Josiah had ought to be 
sent off to mill ; we're 'most out o' flour ; and he can't go 
to-morrow, for he's got to see to the fence round the fresh 
pasture lot. And I want to clean the kitchen this week. 
There's no sittin' still in this world, I do declare ! I haven't 
set a stitch in those gowns o' mine since last Friday, neither ; 
and Society comes here next week. And if I don't catch 
Josiah before he goes out to work in the morning and get 
the stove cleaned out the flues are all choked up it'll drive 
me out o' the house or out o' my mind, with the smoke ; and 
Bear hill won't come off then.'

Bear hill did " come off " however. Early on the morn- 
ing of Thursday, Josiah might be seen loading up the little 
green wagon with tin kettles and baskets, both empty and 
full. Ears of corn went in too, for the " idee " had struck 
Mrs. Starling favourably ; and an iron pot found its way 
into one corner. Breakfast was despatched in haste ; the 
house locked up and the key put under the door-stone for 
Josiah to find at noon ; and the two ladies mounted and 
drove away, while the morning light was yet fresh and cooi 



 

and the shadows of the trees lay long in the meadow. 
August mornings and evenings were seldom hotter than 
was agreeable in Pleasant Valley. 

For some miles the road lay through the region so 
denominated. Then it entered the hills ; and soon the 
way led over them, up and down steep ascents and pitches, 
with a green woodland on each side and often a look-out 
over some Tittle meadow valley of level fields and cultivation 
bordered and encircled by more hills. The drive was a 
silent one ; Mrs. Starling held the reins ; and perhaps they 
gave her thoughts employment enough ; Diana was musing 
about another wagonful and wondering whereabouts it 
was. Till at a turn of the road she discerned behind them, 
at some distance, a vehicle coming along, and knew with a 
jump of her heart the colour of the horse and the figure of 
the driver. Even so far off she was sure of them, and 
turned her sunbonnet to look straight forward again, hoping 
that her mother might not by any chance give a look back. 
She did not herself again ; but Diana's ears were watching 
all the while after that for the sound of hoofs or wheels 
coming near ; and her eyes served her to see nothing but 
what was out of her field of vision. The scenery grew by 
degrees rough and wild ; cultivation and civilization seemed 
as they went on to fall into the rear. A village, or hamlet, 
of miserable, dirty, uncomely houses and people, was passed 
by ; and at last, just as the morning was wakening up into 
fervour, Mrs. Starling drew rein in a desolate rough spot at 
the edge of a woodland. The regular road had been left 
some time before, since when only an uncertain wheel track 
had marked the way. Two or three farm wagons already 
stood at the place of meeting ; nobody was in them ; the 
last comer was just hitching his horse to a tree. 

' Here's Mis' Starling,' he called out. ' Good day ! 



 

good-day to 'ye. Hold on, Mis' Starling I'll fetch him up. 
Coin' to conquer all Bear Hill, ain't ye, with all them pails 
and kettles. Wall blackberries ain't ripe but once in the 
year. I've left all my business to attend upon the women 
folks. What's blackberries good for, now, when you've got 
'em ? ' 

' Don't you like a blackberry pie, Mr. Selden ? ' 

' Bless you !' said the farmer, 'I kin live without it; 
' but my folks can't live 'thout comin' once a year to Bear 
Hill. It is a wonder to me, why things warn't so ordered 
as that folks could get along 'thout eatin'. It'd save a 
sight o' trouble. Why, Mis' Starlin', we're workin' all 
the time to fill our stomachs ; come to think of it, that's 
pretty much what life is fur. Now I'll warrant you, they'll 
have a spread by and by, that'll be worth all they'll get 
here to-day.' 

' Who's come, Mr. Selden ? ' 

' Wall, they ain't all here yet, I guess ; my folks is up 
in the lot, hard to work, I s'pose. Mis' Seelye's gals is here ; 
and Bill Howe and his wife ; and the Delamaters ; that's 
all, I guess. He's safe now, Mis' Starlin'.' 

This last remark had reference to the horse, which 
farmer Selden had been taking out of the shafts and tethering, after helping the ladies down. Mrs. Starling got out 
her pails and baskets destined for the berry picking and 
gave some of them to her daughter. 

' They'll be all flocking together, up in the thickest part 
of the lot,' she whispered. ' Now, Diana, if you'll sheer off a 
little, kind o', and keep out o' sight, you'll have a ventur' ; 
and we can stand a chance to get home early after dinner. 
I'll go along ahead and keep 'em from comin' where you 
are if I can.' 

Diana heard, with tingling ears ; for she heard at the 





same time the sound of the approaching wagon behind her. 
She did not look ; she caught up her pail and basket and 
plunged into the wood path after her mother and Mr. 
Selden ; but she had not gone three yards when she heard 
her name called. 

' You are not going to desert us ? ' cried young Knowlton coming up with her. ' We don't know a step of the way, 
nor where to find blackberries or anything. I have been 
piloting myself all the way by your wagon. Come back 
and let me make you friends with my sister.' 

Blushing and hesitating, Diana had yet no choice. She 
followed Mr. Knovvlton back to the clearing, and looked 
on, feeling partly pleased and partly uncomfortable, while 
he helped from their wagon the ladies he had driven to 
the picnic. The first one dismounted was a beautiful 
vision to Diana's eyes. A trim little figure, robed in a 
dress almost white, with small crimson clusters sprinkled 
over it ; coral buckle and earrings ; a wide Leghorn hat 
with red ribbons ; and curly, luxuriant, long, floating 
waves of hair. She was so pretty, and her attire was so 
graceful, and had so jaunty a style about it, that Diana 
was struck somehow with a fresh though very undefined 
feeling of uneasiness. She turned to the other lady. Very 
pretty, she was too ; smaller even than the first one ; with 
delicate, piquant features and a ready smile. Daintily she 
also was dressed in some stuff of deep green colour, which 
set her off as its encompassing foliage does a bunch of cherries. Her face looked out almost like one, it was so bloom- 
ing, from the shadow of a green silk sunbonnet ; and her 
hands were cased in green kid gloves. Her eyes sought Diana. 

' My sister, Mrs. Reverdy, ' said young Knowlton eagerly, leading her forward. ' Miss Starling, Genevieve ; you 
know who Miss Starling is.' 



 

The little lady's answer was most gracious ; she smiled 
winningly and grasped Diana's hand, and was delighted to 
know her. ' And we are so glad to meet you ; for we are 
strangers here, you know. I never was at Bear Hill in my 
life, but they told us of wonderful blackberries here and 
such multitudes of them ; and we persuaded Evan to 
drive us ; you know we don't often have him to do anything for us ; so we came ; but I don't know what we 
should have done if we had not met you. Gertrude and I 
thought we would come and see what a picnic on Bear 
Hill meant.' And she laughed again ; smiles came very 
easily to her pretty little face. And then she introduced 
Miss Masters. Knowlton stood by, looking on at them all. 

' These elegant women ! ' thought Diana l what must 
I seem to him ? ' And truly her print gown was of homely 
quality and country wear ; she did not take into the account 
a fine figure, which health and exercise had made free and 
supple in all its movements, and which the quiet poise of 
her character made graceful, whether in motion or rest. 
For grace is no gift of a dancing master or result of the 
schools. It is the growth of the mind more than of the 
body ; the natural and almost necessary symbolization in 
outward lines of what is noble, simple, and free from 
self ; and not almost but quite necessary, if the further con- 
ditions of a well made and well jointed figure and a free and 
unconstrained habit of life, are not wanting. The conditions all met in Diana ; the harmony of development was, as 
it always is, lovely to see. 

But a shadow fell on her heart as she turned to lead the 
way through the wood to the blackberry field. For in the 
artistic elegance of the ladies beside her, she thought she 
recognized somewhat that belonged to Mr. Knowlton's 
sphere and not to her own ; something that removed her 



 

from him and drew them near; she thought he could not 
fail to find i-t so. What then ? She did not ask herself 
what then. Indeed she had no leisure for difficult analysis 
of her thoughts. 

' Dear me, how rough ! ' Mrs. Reverdy exclaimed. 
' Really, Evan, I did not know what you were bringing us 
to. Is it much further we have to go ? ' 

' It is all rough,' said Diana. ' You ought to have 
thick shoes.' 

' O, I have ! I put on horridly thick ones, look ! Isn't 
that thick enough ? But I never felt anything like these 
stones. Is the blackberry field full of them too ? Really, 
Evan,I think I cannotget along if you don't give me your arm.' 

'You have two arms, Mr. Knowlton can't I have the 
other one ? ' cried Miss Masters dolefully. 

' I have got trees on my other arm, Gatty I don't see 
where I should put you. Can't you help Miss Starling 
along, till we get out of the woods ? ' 

' Isn't it very impertinent of him to call me Gatty ? ' said 
the little beauty tossing her long locks and speaking in a 
half aside to Diana. ' Now he would like that I should re- 
turn the compliment and call him Evan ; but I won't. What 
do you do, when men call you by your Christian name ? ' 

She was trying to read Diana as she spoke, eyeing 
her with sidelong glances ; and as they went, laying her 
daintily gloved hand on Diana's arm to help herself along. 
Diana was astounded both at her confidence and at her request for council ; but as to meet the request would be to 
return the confidence, she was silent. She was thinking 
too of the elegant little boot Mrs. Reverdy had displayed, 
and contrasting it with her own coarse shoes. And how 
very familiar these two were, that he should speak to her 
by her first name so ! 




' Miss Starling ? ' cried the other lady behind her, 
' do you know we have been following your lead all the 
way we were coming this morning? ' 

' Mr. Knowlton said so,' Diana replied, half turning. 

' Aren't you very much flattered ? ' 

This time Diana turned quite, and faced the two. 

' My mother was driving, Mrs. Reverdy.' 

' Ah ? ' said the other with a very amused laugh. ' But 
you could have done it just as well, I suppose.' 

What does she mean ? thought Diana. 

' Can you do anything ? ' inquired the gay lady on her 
arm. ' I am a useless creature ; I can only fire a pistol, 
and leap a fence on horseback, and dance a polka. What 
can you do ? I dare say you are worth a great deal more 
than me. Can you make butter and bread and pudding 
and pies and sweetmeats and pickles, and all that sort ot 
thing ? I dare say you can.' 

' I can do that.' 

' And all I am good for is to eat them ! I can do that. 
Do you make cheeses too ? ' 

' I can. My mother generally makes the cheese.' 

' O but I mean you. What do people do on a farm ? 
women I mean. I know what the men do. You know all 
about it. Do you have, to milk the cows and feed everything ? chickens and pigs, you know, and all that? ' 

' The men milk,' said Diana. 

' And you have to do those other things ? Isn't it 
horrid ? ' 

' It is not horrid to feed the chickens. I never had 
anything to do with the pigs.' 

' O but Evan says you know how to harness horses.' 

Does he ? thought Diana. 

' And you can cut wood ? ' 




' Cut wood ! ' Diana repeated. ' Did anybody say I 
could do that ? ' 

' I don't know Yes, I think so. I forget. But you 
can, can't you ? ' 

' I never tried, Miss Masters.' 

' Do you know my cousin, Mr. Masters ? the minister, 
you know ? ' 

' Yes, I know him a little.' 

' Do you like him ? ' 

' I like him, yes, I don't know anything against him,' 
said Diana in great bewilderment. 

' O but I do. Don't you know he says it is wicked to 
do a great many things that we do ? he thinks everybody 
is wicked who don't do just as he does. Now I don't 
think everybody is bound to be a minister. He thinks it 
is wicked to dance ; and I don't care to live if I can't 
dance.' 

' That is being very fond of it,' said Diana. 

' Do you dance, here in the country ? ' 

' Sometimes ; not very often.' 

' Isn't it very dull here in the winter ? when you can't 
go after blackberries ? ' 

Diana smiled. ' I never found it dull,' she said. 
Nevertheless, the contrast smote her more and more, between what Mr. Knowlton was accustomed to in his world, 
and the very plain humdrum, uneventful, unadorned life 
she led in hers. And this elegant creature, whose very 
dress was a sort of revelation to Diana in its perfection 
of beauty, seemed to the poor country girl to put at an 
immense distance from Mr. Knowlton those who could 
not be charming and refined and exquisite in the like 
manner. Her gloves, one hand rested on Diana's arm, 
and pulled a little too ; what gloves they were, for colour 



 

and fit and make ! Her foot was a study. Her hat 
might have been a fairy queen's hat. And the face under 
it, pretty and gay and wilful and sweet, how could any man 
help being fascinated by it ? Diana made up her mind 
that it was impossible. 

The rambling path through the woods brought the party 
out at last upon a wild barren hillside, where stones and a 
rank growth of blackberry bushes were all that was to be 
seen. Only far off might be had the glimpse of other hills 
and of patches of cultivation on them ; the near landscape 
was all barrenness and blackberries. 

' But where are the rest of the people ? ' said Mrs. 
Reverdy with her faint laugh. ' Are we alone ? I don't see 
anybody.' 

'They are gone on they are picking,' Diana explained. 

' Hid in this scrubby forest of bushes,' said her brother. 

' Have we got to go into that forest too ? ' 

' If you want to pick berries.' 

'I think we'll sit here and let the rest do the picking,' 
said Mrs. Reverdy, looking with charming merriment at 
Gertrude. But Gertrude was not so minded. 

'No, I'm going after berries,' she said. ' Only, I don't 
see where they are. I see bushes, and that is all.' 

' Just here they have been picked,' said Diana. ' Further 
on there are plenty.' 

' Well, you lead and we'll follow,' said Mr. Knowlton. 
'You lead, Miss Starling, and we will keep close to you.' 

Diana plunged into the blackberry bushes, and striking 
off from the route she guessed the other pickers had taken, 
sought a part of the wilderness lower clown on the hill. 
There was no lack of blackberries very soon. Every bush 
hung black with them ; great, fat, juicy beauties, just ready 
to fall with ripeness. Blackberry stains spotted the whole 



 

party after they had gone a few yards, merely by the unavoidable crushing up against the bushes. Diana went to 
work upon this rich harvest, and occupied herself entirely 
with it ; bu-t berry picking never was so dreary to her. The 
very sound of the berries falling into her tin pail smote her 
with a sense of pain ; she thought of the day's work before 
her with revulsion. However, it was before her, and her 
ringers flew among the bushes, from berry to berry, gathering them with a deft skilfulness her companions could not 
emulate. Diana knew how they were getting on, without 
using her eyes to find out ; for all their experience was proclaimed aloud. How the ground was rough and the 
bushes thorny, how the berries blacked their lips and the 
prickles lacerated their fingers, and the stains of blackberry 
juice were spoiling gloves and dresses and all they had on. 

' I never imagined,' said Mrs. Reverdy with a gay laugh, 
'that picking blackberries was such a serious business. Oh 
dear ! and it's only just eleven o'clock now. And I am so 
hungry ! ' 

' Eat blackberries,' said Gertrude, who was doing it 
diligently. 

' But I want to carry some home.' 

' You can buy 'em. We came for fun,' was the cool 
answer. 

' Fun ? ' said Mrs. Reverdy with another echoing, softly 
echoing, laugh ; ' it's the fun of being torn and stained and 
scratched, and having one's hat pulled off one's hair, 
and the hair off one's head.' 

Diana heard it all, they were not far from her ; and 
she heard too Mr. Knowlton's little remarks, half gallant, 
half mocking, but very familiar she thought. No doubt; to 
his sister ; but how to Miss Masters too ? Yet they were ; 
and also, she noticed, he kept in close attendance upon 



 

the latter young lady ; picking into her basket, getting her 
out -of her numerous entanglements with the blackberry 
branches, flattering and laughing at her ; Gertrude was 
having what she would call a ' good time ; ' why not ? ' And 
why should I ? ' thought Diana to herself as she filled her 
pail. ' It is not in my line. What a goose I was, to fancy that this young man could take pleasure in being with 
me. He did; but then, he was just amusing himself ; it 
was not I ; it was the country and the fishing, and so on. 
What a goose I have been ! ' 

As fast as the blackberries dropped into the pail, so 
fell these reflections into Diana's heart ; and when the one 
was full so was the other. And as she set down her pail 
and began upon a fresh empty one, so she did with her 
thoughts ; they began all over again too. 

' Miss Starling, it is twelve o'clock,' cried Mrs. Revercly ; ' where are all the rest of the people ? Do you work 
all day without dinner ? I expected to see a great picnic 
out under the trees here.' 

' This is not the picnic place,' said Diana. ' We will go 
to it.' 

She went back first to the wagons ; put her berries in 
safe keeping and got out some of the lunch supplies. Mr. 
Knowlton loaded himself with a basket out of his wagon ; 
and the procession formed again in Indian file, everybody 
carrying something, and the two ladies grumbling and 
laughing in concert. Diana headed the line, feeling very 
much alone, and wishing sadly it were all over and she at 
home. How was she to play her part in the preparations 
at hand, where she had always been so welcome and so 
efficient ? All spring and life seemed to be taken out of 
her, for everything but the dull mechanical picking of berries. However, strength comes with necessity, she found. 



CHAPTER VIII. 

THE NEW RICHES OF THE OLD WORLD. 

THERE was quite a collection of people on Bear Hill today, as could be seen when they were all gathered together. 
The lunching place was high on the mountain, where there 
was a good outlook over the surrounding country ; and 
here in the edge of the woods the blackberry pickers were 
scattered about, lying and sitting on the ground in groups 
and pairs, chatting and watching the preparations going on 
before their eyes. Pretty and wild the preparations were. 
Under a big tree just at the border of the clearing a fire 
was kindled ; a stout spike driven into the trunk of the tree 
held a tea-kettle just over the blaze. Wreaths of blue 
and grey smoke curling up above the tea-kettle made their 
way through the tree branches into the upper air, taking 
hues and colours and irradiations from the sunlight in their 
way. The forest behind, the wilderness of blackberry 
bushes in front the wide view over the hills and vales 
without one spot of cultivation anywhere, or a trace of 
man's habitation ; the scene was wild enough. The soft curling smoke, grey and embrowned, gave a curious touch of 
homeliness to it. From two fires it went, curling up as 
comfortably as if it had been there always. The second 
fire was lit for the purpose of boiling green corn, which 
two or three people were busy getting ready, stripping the 
green husks off. Other hands were unloading baskets 



 

and distributing bread and butter and cups and unpacking 
ham and chickens. Meanwhile, till the fires should have 
done their work, most of the party were comfortably awaiting the moment of enjoyment and taking some other moments, as it seemed, by the way. Mrs. Carpenter in one 
place was surrounded by her large family of children ; all 
come to pick blackberries, all heated with work and fun and 
eager for the dinner. Miss Barry, quite tired out, was fanning herself with her sunbonnet and having a nice bit of 
chat with Miss Babbage, the schoolmaster's sister. Mrs. 
Mansfield and farmer Carpenter were happily discussing 
systems of agriculture. Mrs. Bodington was making a circle merry with her sharp speeches. Younger folks here 
and there were carrying on their own particular lines of 
skirmishing operations ; but there were not many of these ; 
the company had come for business quite as much as for 
play. Indeed Miss Gunn's array of baskets and tin pails 
suggested that she was doing business on her brother's account as much as on her own ; and that preserves and 
blackberry wine would be for sale by and by on the shelves 
of the store at the " Corner." 

The little party that came up with Diana melted away 
as it met the rest. Mrs. Reverdy glided into the group 
gathered about Mrs. Bodington, and slid as easily into the 
desultory gossip that was going on. Diana had instantly 
joined herself to the little band of workers at the camp 
fire. Only one or two had cared to take the trouble and 
responsibility of the feast ; it was just what Diana craved. 
As if cooking had been the great business of life, she 
went into it ; making coffee, watching the corn, boiling the 
potatoes ; looking at nothing else and trying to see nobody, 
and as far as possible contriving that nobody should see 
her. She hid behind the column of smoke, or sheltered 



 

herself at the further side of the great trunk of a tree ; 
from the fire, she said to herself. But her face took on a 
preternatural gravity at those times, whenever she knew 
it was safe. She thought she did not look at anybody ; 
yet she knew that Miss Masters had joined none of the 
groups under the trees, and seemed instead to prefer a 
solitary post in front of them all, where her pretty figure 
and dainty appointments were displayed in full view. Was 
