" yes. The description of it as it is now ? " 

"As it is now. But what a wonderful sort of 
a church is this we are in ! " said Meredith looking up. 

" Here, this bank, do you mean ? " 

"This bank; and these pillars of tree-stems ; and 
these wonderful Gothic windows of tree-branches, 
through which the light comes broken by transom 
and mullioii. And the incense which fills nature's 
cathedral. And the stillness. And the preaching." 

"Don't get highfaluten, Meredith," said his sister. 

"No. That would be a pity, here." 

" I never heard of silent preaching before." 



 

" The strongest of all." 

"Is it ? Well, go on and read. My work gets 
on best then." 

"It is too lovely to do anything but look, and 
breathe. The air is most delicious. And nature 
seems so wide and free. I have an odd feeling that 
I am floating with those clouds yonder, and flowing softly with the river, and hovering about gen 
erally, like those eagles. Do you see those eagles ? " 

" Highfaluten again, Meredith," said his sister. 

" Well, one good poet has been highfaluten then 
before me. Don't you remember, Maggie, something your uncle was repeating one day ? I have 
never forgotten it 

" 'My soul into the boughs does glide.' 

It is an odd feeling but it makes me very rich for 
the present. This is the loveliest place ! And now 
you shall have the Hermannsburg church. So Pas 
tor Harms writes: 

" 'It is a great thing indeed, and a beautiful 
thing, to know somewhat of the origin and of 
the history of the church in which one worships 
and serves God. When I step into our church, 
whether it be for holding divine service or that I
may pray there alone, every time, I feel my whole 
inmost soul stiued. The very walk to the church 
through the church-yard is edifying to me. The 
church at the beginning was situated upon a little 
eminence, so that it was needful to mount several 
steps to get to the church doors. Now one must 



 

go down several steps from the church-yard to reach 
the entrance of the church. How comes that! 
Since the year 972 the church-yard has been the 
place of burial. The dust of those laid within it 
has raised the ground level, till now the church 
lies lower than the church-yard. A hill has grown 
out of the dust of the dead, and over this hill I 
go into the church. Does not this walk of itself 
preach in the most impressive way: "Put thine 
house in order, man, for thou must die ! " Then 
when I step inside the church, what a new sermon 
I get ! Since 972 years after Christ, therefore since 
880 years ago, men have worshipped there the 
Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost; have sung 
in his honour the church's songs of praise; have 
thither brought their children to be baptized ; have 
heard the preaching of the divine word there, have 
eaten and drunk the emblems of the body and blood 
of the Lord there, have bowed their knees there, 
where now I bow mine ! It always seems to me 
then, as if the veil were parted which divides the 
church up yonder from the church down below. 
Where I am, here have those who are fallen asleep 
once been and worshipped; and where they are 
now, thither shall I go also. So in blessed faith I 
can cry out, " A holy Christian church ! " Not a 
place in the world is so dear to me as the church, 
my beloved church. I have no paternal mansion ; 
for I am the son of a pastor, and pastors leave no 
inheritance for their children; and yet I have a 
Father's house, the best there is in the world, my 



 

beloved church ; truly that is God's house, and God 
is my Father, and so it is justly and truly my home. 
" ' And how wonderfully God has guarded this 
house of his. What wars have raged since this 
house has been standing, and it has remained un 
injured. Since the thirty years' war, Hermannsburg 
has been four times burned down ; this house has 
remained standing. Twice lightning has struck 
the tower, and so shattered the foundations that 
only a little turret stands now upon the riven walls 
instead of the slender one-hundred-and-eighty-feet- 
high spire which was there before ; but the church 
remained untouched. The interior has been altered; the many-coloured paintings on the arched 
vault of the ceiling are gone; the many-coloured 
galleries have disappeared; in the body of the 
church itself gallery over gallery mounts up to the 
vaulted ceiling, to give accommodation for the 
hearers; but the church itself has remained unchanged. And when I think of the blessings that 
have gone forth from this house, what churches, 
chapels, and cloisters have sprung from here, in 
Bergen, in Wiezendorf, in Munster, in Muden, and 
the chronicle mentions many more; yes, when I 
remember how from the castles founded by Hermann on the Oerze and Wieze, the castellans of 
Oerze and Wiezendorf marched out, so early as with 
Duke Bernhard, to help bring the heathen people 
of Lauenburg and Mechlenburg to Christianity; 
must not then the zeal of my forefathers kindle 
my own zeal to bring the Lord's blessing, his word 



 

and his sacraments, to the heathen, to the very 
ends of the earth? And now that seems no longer 
strange to me, "which seems strange to so many, 
that we from this place should have undertaken to 
send out a peasant mission. It has not been our 
own doing; it has come from our church and our 
history. Did the peasant's son Hermann become 
duke of Saxony; was the blessing of Christianity 
carried from here into all the region round about, 
even into the countries on the other side of the 
Elbe ? why should not Hermann's peasant church 
preach among the heathen the Saviour who has 
been their own so long? May such a primeval 
blessing only make us right thankful, right humble, right kind and loving, only zealous and fer 
vent in spirit. We see well enough that the Lord 
can use little things ; therefore let nobody despise 
us because we are small, and let us have the joy 
of serving the Lord with our insignificant gifts 
and strength, as well as we can. It is written 
in the Scripture, "Destroy it not, for a blessing is 
in it!"' 

Meredith ceased reading, and there was a silent 
pause of a few minutes. Crochet needles worked 
busily; Maggie sat pondering; Meredith lay back 
on his elbow on the moss and looked down at the 
river. Here and there the soft-pointed top of a 
young cedar rose up between, not hindering, only 
as it were embellishing the view. In the silence, 
when the strokes of the wood-cutters halted, little 
sweet sounds broke in, every one of them coming 



 

like a caress or a murmur of rest; two crows slowly flying over and calling to each other, some crickets chirruping nearer by, a little gentle rustle and 
lapping of the water, then a bugle call from the 
post opposite. Clouds hardly moved ; winds were 
asleep; the air, fragrant with the breath of the 
evergreens, scarcely stirred, luxuriously warm and 
still. The colouring, too, in which all nature 
had dressed herself, gave another touch of delight 
through every object which the eye rested on. 

"What a sky!" said Meredith. "And what air! 
It's wonderful." 

"Ditto," began Maggie, "have they a mission in 
Hermannsburg ? " 

" Yes. They have a mission in Africa." 

"Why is it a 'peasant mission,' and what does 
that mean ? " 

"Why, you see, Maggie, the whole people of 
Hermannsburg are just a parcel of peasants, part 
in the village, and part I believe, farming it here 
and there on the Luneburg heath.. They are poor 
people; small farmers and the like. They have 
not much money to give; but when Pastor Harms 
had been with them a while and proposed to them 
to set about mission work, a dozen men offered 
themselves to go. They were already so filled with 
his own spirit." 

"And did they go?" 

" They had to be put to school first. They were 
too ignorant to instruct the heathen or anybody. 
So they were set to study, under Pastor Harms' 



 

brother, for three years. While they were studying, Pastor Harms undertook building a ship which 
should carry them to Africa. The ship and the men 
were ready together about the same time." 

" They could not have been a very poor people, 
I should think," said Flora. 

"They were, though; but you see, they began 
by giving themselves to the Lord; and when people do that I guess they generally find that there 
is a good deal else to give. they were poor 
enough ; but it would cost a great deal, you know, 
to pay their passage in a ship belonging to other 
people, and the freight on all the goods they must 
carry ; for they were going out not merely to preach, 
but to establish a colony and live among the hea 
then. And then, whenever new recruits for the 
mission were sent out, the expense would have to 
be incurred over again ; so they thought the cheapest way in the end would be to build their own 
ship." 

"And they did build it ? " said Maggie. 

"Certainly. The good ship 'Candace.' And everybody helped in some way. The shoemakers 
made shoes, and the tailors made clothes, to go out 
with the mission; the women knitted and sewed. 
Do you want to hear what Pastor Harms says 
about it?" 

"Oyes, Ditto, please!" 

"Yes, read on anything," said Flora. 

"Two men of the first twelve had died, and 
two others had proved false. Eight left; to whom 



 

another eight joined themselves, who would go out 
as colonists. Now I will read : 

" ' So by God's grace, everything was ready. 
And now one should have seen the busy industry, 
the lively expectation, the gleesome bustle, as the 
last hand, I may say, was put to everything. In 
the Mission house, what learning and counselling 
and arranging; in the workshops belonging to it, 
what smith-work and cabinet-work and tailoring; 
how our women and girls sewed! Our village 
shoemaker worked with his might at the foot-gear 
to be taken along; our village cooper did the same 
at the great water casks for the ship ; my brother 
went out with the mission pupils in leisure hours 
and picked berries which were to be taken along. 
Here people brought dried apples, pears and plums; 
there buckwheat and buckwheat groats ; here rye, 
flour, peas, wheat; there sides of bacon, hams, and 
sausages. Then again house-furnishing articles, 
tools, heather brooms, trumpets and horns, even 
live hogs and poultry, and even potatoes were 
hauled along and all was to go. Even a fir-tree 
with its roots was planted in a large pot filled with . 
earth, in order that on the ocean the travellers 
might light up a Christmas tree. Then again 
came packages of linen made up, and of stuff. * 
And there was a great deal that never came to 
Hermannsburg. Whatever was prepared on the 
other side of the Elbe, in Hamburg, Lubeck, Haide, 
etc., was kept in Hamburg, and we never saw it at 
all. In Hamburg alone there were handed over 



 

from female friends of the Mission, one hundred 
and twenty-eight cotton shirts, all finished and 
ready; from Haide forty striped shirts for the natives ; from Lubeck and Mechlenburg, besides beautiful under-linen, all sorts of pictures and little 
things for the heathen; from some children here 
came writing boxes, pens, and writing books for 
the heathen children. Also from here, from Osnabruck, Schaumburg, Luneburg, Bremen and neighbourhood, whole rolls of linen cloth. There was a 
stir and spring of love that moved people's hearts. 
Every one of the emigrants was to take a guri with 
him, for in East Africa there are a great many wild 
beasts, lions, elephants, serpents, etc. Scarcely had 
this become known, when guns, rifles, double-barrelled rifles, pistols and daggers came in, till we 
had enough to leave some for a future party that 
might be sent out. Then would come our harbour-master, or our captain, from Harburg, to arrange this or that; then our pupils journeyed to 
Harburg to bring money for the ship. One hardly 
knew where his head was.' " 

"Well, did they go to Africa, Ditto ? " 
"The colonists and missionaries; yes, sixteen of 
them." 

" Whereabouts in Africa ? " 

" The east coast, about Natal." 

" I haven't the least idea where Natal is." 

"You would do well to look it out on the map." 

" And are they there yet, Ditto ? " 

" They went in the year 1853. It is not likely 



 

they are all there now. But others followed them, 
Maggie, year after year, till now there are, I believe, 
between twenty and thirty stations where they are 
settled." 

"All from Hermannsburg ! Ditto, it is very 
curious! So many years ago, Hermann's castles 
sent out soldiers to bring heathen Mechlenburg to 
the Christian religion ; and now Mechlenburg gives 
shirts and pictures for Hermannsburg to send to 
other heathen in Africa." 

"What sort of heathen people are those they went 
to ? " Esther asked. 

"Quite a good sort. Here is a description of 
them, written by one of the brethren who sailed in 
that first trip of the ' Caiidace ' : 

" ' I cannot make it out, how the heathen can be 
as they are, although they are day and night before 
my eyes. They are powerful, muscular men, with 
open faces and sparkling eyes; they all go either 
quite naked or with a very slight covering. A late 
law obliges them however to put a shirt on when 
they are going into a city. They live in houses 
which resemble beehives, into which you must 
creep. The whole stock of valuables which you 
find in these huts, is an assaghai (javelin), a club, 
a mat, a bit of wood for a pillow, and a great horn 
for smoking. I have seen nothing else in them. 
The people have almost no wants. So many wives 
as a man has, so many huts has he also, one for 
each wife, and then one besides for himself. The 
women are bought ; paid for with cows and oxen ; 



 

ten or twenty oxen for a wife. These become then 
the man's slaves, and the man, when he has got a 
good many wives, hardly does any more work himself. The women must cultivate the maize and 
sweet potatoes, which is almost all the people live 
upon. Once in a while they kill an ox; and then 
so many come together to eat it that it is all dis 
posed of at one meal. Our German brethren aver 
that ten Caffres in twenty-four hours will eat up a 
whole ox, skin and entrails and all, which they 
roast at the fire ; that afterwards, however, they can 
go fasting four days at hard labour. They are fond 
of adorning themselves with coral and rings, and 
snuif-boxes are to be seen in the hands of both men 
and women. They cork up the snuff in their nos 
trils with a hollowed-out bit of wood, till the tears 
run down their cheeks. The women are so hardly 
used that a mother with a little five-days-old baby 
must go out to work in the hot sun, with the baby 
on her back, and the father does not concern himself at all about the child. Of twins, one is almost 
always killed at once. In short, they are not much 
above the beasts in their way of life ; and the worst 
of all is, they are almost inaccessible to the truth, 
and laugh at everything sacred.' " 



 



CHAPTEK VIII. 

"Well," said Maggie, as Meredith paused, "I 
should think somebody ought to go to those 
people!" 

" Hopeless work," said Flora, stitching away at 
her worsted. 

"No, it is not hopeless work," answered her 
brother. " As you would soon see, if all the churches 
had the matter at heart like Pastor Harms and his 
Hermann sburg. " 

" Everybody cannot give himself up to such business," said Flora glancing at him. 

" Everybody ought." 

" Ditto ! " cried Maggie, " do you think everybody ought to go to Africa ? " 

"Yes," said Flora; "that is just about what he 
thinks." 

" No, Maggie," said Meredith, " neither to Africa 
nor to other heathen parts; not everybody. But 
everybody can give himself up to the work of the 
kingdom, even if he stays at home. Most people 
must stay at home." 



 

" I don't understand," said Maggie with a shrug 
of her shoulders. 

"Don't you remember ' Seek ye first the king 
dom of God ; ' that's all I mean." 

" ' First ! ' " Flora echoed. 

"How 'first,' Ditto?" 

" Before everything else. The words mean that, 
if they mean anything." 

" How before everything else ? " 

" See, Maggie. Suppose you and I have " 

" Now, Ditto, stop ! " said his sister. " I do not 
want to hear any of that stuff. What is it to 
Maggie ? And Essie and I do not care about it." 

"And there comes Fenton," added Esther, springing up to go and meet him. For Fenton it was, 
bounding up the bank at their left. 

Fenton was grown a good deal since our last 
sight of him; otherwise not much changed. A 
handsome boy, with a good figure and a bright eye, 
and also the old, somewhat supercilious upper lip. 
But he was glad to get home, and greeted the 
party cordially enough. Then, however, began to 
criticise. 

"What are you all doing, loafing here?" He 
had sat down on the bank with the rest, and looked 
from one to another. 

" We do not use your elegant expression," said 
Flora ; " partly perhaps because we are not wont to 
indulge ourselves in that particular amusement." 

"What are you doing?" 

" You do not see anything to engage our attention, in what at present offers itself to yours," Mer 
edith remarked. 

" Nothing offers itself to my attention," replied 
Fenton. "I don't see anything! except our old cart. 
Anything to eat in it ? " 

"There is no pie left," said Esther, "for I gave 
the last of it to Fairbairn; and Flora drank up all 
the cream. There's some sugar in the sugar-bowl." 

Fenton went to get some lumps of sugar, and 
then stood looking down at the party : 

"Aren't you going home to dinner ? " said he. " I 
tell you, I'm raging." 

"Four o'clock," said Meredith, looking at his 
watch. "Just the pretty time of day coming 
now." 

" It'll be dinner-time, by the time you get the 
cart home, and the girls get dressed. What did 
you come out here so far for ? I haven't had a respectable dinner for six months. I am going to 
have some wine to-day, if the governor is away." 

" Governor ! " cried Esther. " What a vulgar expression ! For Fenton Candlish to use ! " 

" Wine ! " exclaimed Maggie. " You can't have 
any wine, Fenton; we don't drink wine any more 
in this house." 

" What's the matter ! " 

" The matter is, papa has emptied his wine cellar," said Esther in a rather aggrieved tone. 

" Drunk it all up ? " 

" No, no; sent it off and sold it." 

" What was the matter with it ! " 



 

"Why I tell you," said Esther; "it is thought 
improper for good people to drink wine." 

Fenton's face was rather funny to see, there was 
such a blank dismay in it. 

"And did mamma give in to that?" 

" I don't know what mamma thought," said Esther; "but papa sold the wine; and our dinner- 
'table does not have its pretty coloured glasses any 
more." 

Fen ton uttered a smothered exclamation which 
I am afraid would have shocked his sisters. 

" I don't see what you want with wine, Fenton !" 
said Maggie; "papa never let you have it." 

"Mamma did though," said Fenton. "That's the 
good of having two parents. If one is crochetty 
perhaps the other will be straight. Well, I'm not 
going to live if I can't live like a gentleman. I 
shall send to Forbes to send me some wine." 

His sisters burst out into horrified exclamations 
and expostulations. 

" Papa'll see it in the bill," said Esther, " and 
he'll be very angry." 

"Uncle Eden is coming," said Maggie, "and it 
will be no use. He'd throw it into the river." 

" Uncle Eden coming ? " 

The girls nodded. 

"If I had known that, /wouldn't have come!" 
said Fenton looking very dark. 

"I'd think better of it if I were you," remarked 
Meredith quietly. "There goes more to the making 
of a gentleman than the drinking of wine." 



 

" What do you mean ? " 

"Just that. As for instance self-control, noble 
thoughts, care for others above himself, indifference 
to low pleasures." 

"Low pleasures!" repeated Fenton. "Do you 
call wine a low pleasure ? " 

" Well it brings people into the gutter." 

" Pshaw ! not gentlemen." 

" I grant you they are not gentlemen after they 
get there." 

"What do you know about it?" said the boy not 
very politely. " Did you ever drink it yourself? " 

" I never will again. A gentleman should be a 
free man; and wine makes men slaves. I don't 
choose to be in bondage. And if it would not en 
slave me, it does other people; and I would not 
give it the help of my example." 

Fenton dropped the subject, but renewed his proposal that they should return home. So shawls and 
worsted work were stored in the cart, and the little book in Meredith's pocket; and the line of 
march was taken up. It was indeed coming now 
to the lovely time of the day. Shadows long, lights 
glowing in warm level reflections, all objects get 
ting a sunny side and a shade side and standing 
forth in new beauty in consequence; the day gath 
ering its train, as it were, to prepare for a stately 
leave-taking by and by. Meredith and Maggie, 
loath to go, lingered the last of the party; indeed 
he had the cart to draw, which was heavy, and 
needed careful guiding in places over and between 




 

the rocks; and he could not run on with the heads 
of the party. And Maggie walked beside him, 
and put her little hand upon the handle of the cart 
which she could not help to draw. How sweet it 
was ! The light every moment growing softer, not 
cooler; the colours more contrasted, as the shadows 
lengthened; the bugle notes coming over the water 
now and then. Meredith looked, and drew deep 
breaths of the delicious air; but Maggie walked 
along pondering. 

"Ditto," she began, "do you think everybody 
ought to do mission work ? " 

" The dear Lord did not give the charge to some 
of his people, did he ? " 

"But how can they do it? Everybody cannot 
go to the heathen ? " 

" He said, ' in all the world ' so that means at 
home as well as abroad, doesn't it?" 

" Preach the Gospel in all the world ? " 

" Yes." 

" How can I, Ditto ? " 

" You and I, let us say. Well, Maggie, suppose 
we ask Mr. Murray? But one thing is certain; 
those who stay at home must furnish the money for 
those that go." 

" Does it take a great deal? " 

" Not to send a few. But how long would feio 
people be, about telling the Gospel to all the world ? 
Suppose one man had as much as the whole state 
of New York, for his parish ? " 

" He'd never get through." 



 

" Exactly. And so it is nearly nineteen hundred 
years since the Lord gave the command; and the 
heathen world is the heathen world still pretty 
much." 

" But then, Ditto to send a great many people, 
it would want a great deal of money?" 

" It does. What then ? " 

"Maybe people cannot afford it." 

" Let us ask Mr. Murray about that." 

" But Ditto, what do you think ? I know you 
think something." 

" Maggie, I think we should seek first the kingdom." 

They were turning into the shrubbery grounds 
near the house, and Maggie left the discussion. 
They were all ready for dinner, as far as appetite 
went, and in a little while the five young people 
sat down at the board. 

" This is jolly," said Fenton, who took the head 
of the table. 

" Roast-beef, to wit ? " said Meredith. 

"Roast-beef is a good thing, if you are hungry 
as I am; but I did not mean that. It is uncommonly jolly to be out of the way of the governors." 

Maggie looked up astonished. 

" ' Rulers are not a terror to good works,' " said 
Meredith. 

" They're a nuisance, though." 

" Only to one portion of society. I hope you do 
not class yourself with them." 

" Do you mean," said Maggie, making big eyes, 



 

"do you mean, Fen ton, that you are glad papa and 
mamma are in California ? " 

"No. Only one of 'em. Mamma never interferes 
with me." 

" She leaves it to papa to do," said Maggie, with 
dignity and sageness. 

"I am glad she does. Shews her wisdom. I 
can tell what is good for me, as well as anybody 
else." 

"Always do it, I suppose?" 

" That's just my affair," said Fenton. " There is 
no use in putting chains round a fellow all the 
good of it is, he must just break the chains." 

" Do you call papa's commands, chains ? " said 
Maggie. 

" Don't stare, Maggie ; nothing is so vulgar." 

" I am glad Uncle Eden is coming, to make you 
behave yourself." 

" If he tries it on, I shall bolt," said Fenton. " I 
am out for some fun ; and if I can't get it at home 
I'll get it somewhere else." 

Meredith succeeded in 'turning the conversation 
to a pleasanter subject; nevertheless Fenton's de 
liverances shocked his little sister several times in 
the course of the dinner. Among other things, 
Fenton would go down to the wine-cellar, to see 
if a bottle or two might not by chance have been 
left; and though the key was not to be had and he 
came back discomfited, Maggie could not get over 
the audacity of his proposition. She was further 
and exceedingly shocked after dinner when Fenton proposed to Meredith to have a cigar. Mere 
dith declining, Fenton went out to enjoy his cigar 
alone. 

" Fenton is grown very wild ! " said Maggie. 

"Boys can't be like girls," said Esther. 

" I don't see why they can't be as respectable as 
girls," said Maggie. 

" They never are, my dear," said Flora. " Comfort yourself. They will run into what they don't 
like just to have their own way; because what 
they do like is ordered or advised by some kind 
friend." 

"Not true without exception, Maggie," said Meredith ; " but there is some truth in it. Don't worry 
about Fenton. I don't believe he means quite as 
bad as he says." 

" But smoking is so disgraceful in a boy," said 
Maggie. 

" It is not disgraceful in a man," said Esther. 

"Well, it isn't nice," returned Maggie. "I always hate to come near that Prof. Wilkins who 
always talks to me when he is here. He is kind, 
but his breath is dreadful." 

Fenton was not so fond of the company of his 
cigar but that he soon forsook it. And then his 
company indoors was hardly an acquisition. He 
talked big of doings at the school where he was 
now placed; horrified Maggie by shewing that he 
was quite as lawless as in old times, and put an 
effectual bar to any reading or talk either except 
of the sort that suited himself. 



 

"What's up?" lie asked at last. "What shall 
we do to make the time go ? " 

"Time does not need any whip with us," said 
Meredith. " He goes fast enough." 

" we are going out in the woods to dinner," 
said Maggie. 

" You were there to-day." 

" Well, we are going to-morrow and every day. 
We have a bonfire, and a nice lunch, and the girls 
work, and Ditto reads to us." 

" Jolly slow," said Fenton. " I can't stand much 
of that. I shall go a-fishing." 

" Very well," said Esther. " And come to us for 
