into a dripping-pan; pour about them a large cupful of boiling water,
and roast—basting often—one hour. Take off the pork; lay it in the
gravy, and dredge the fowls with flour. As this browns, baste well,
with butter once, three times with gravy. Take up and keep hot while
you strain; cool, skim and thicken the gravy. Have ready cooked a cup
of rice measured when raw—which has been boiled in the water used
for cooking the sweetbread and livers, then seasoned. Make a broad,
flat-topped mound of it upon a dish; lay the chickens on it, and pour a
little of the gravy over them. Serve the rest in a boat.
SUCCOTASH.
Cut the corn from eight or ten cobs; mix this with one third the
quantity of Lima beans, and cook one hour in just enough water to cover
them. Drain off most of the water; add a cupful of milk, with a pinch
of soda stirred in. When this boils, stir in a great spoonful of butter
rolled in flour; season with pepper and salt, and simmer ten minutes
longer.
SWEET POTATOES.
Select those of uniform size; parboil them, with the skins on. Peel and
lay in a baking-pan. Bake until soft to the grasp, glazing with butter
just before you take them up.
APPLE SAUCE.
Peel and slice juicy tart apples, and stew with just enough water
to keep them from burning, until broken to pieces. Stir deeply and
well, often. Beat a good lump of butter into them while hot, sweeten
abundantly, and season with nutmeg. Mash and beat all the lumps to
smoothness, or take them out.
BLACKBERRY SHORTCAKE—HOT.
2 quarts of sifted flour; 3 tablespoonfuls of butter, and 2 of lard; 2½
cups of buttermilk, or sour, thick milk; yolks of 2 eggs, beaten light;
1 teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in hot water, and the same quantity of
salt.
Rub the shortening into the salted flour. Add beaten yolks and soda to
the milk, and make out the paste quickly. Roll into two sheets—that
intended for the upper crust half an inch thick, the lower, rather
thinner. Lay the batter in a well greased baking-pan; cover thickly
with the berries; sugar them; put on the top crust, and bake about
twenty-five minutes to a nice brown. Cut into squares and eat—splitting
these open—with sugar and butter.
  First Week.      Thursday.
  ——
  Tomato Soup.
  Boiled Leg of Mutton with Caper Sauce.    Mashed Potatoes.
  Stewed Egg-plant.      Lima Beans.
  ——
  Peach Fritters.
  ——
TOMATO SOUP.
Peel and slice twelve large tomatoes, and stew twenty minutes. Rub
through a colander to a pulp; season this with pepper, salt, and
sugar. Take the fat from the top of your cold soup-stock, and put the
latter over the fire. Simmer half an hour; strain out meat and bones.
Boil and skim three minutes, and add the tomato sauce. Cook gently ten
minutes; stir in a tablespoonful (even) of corn-starch wet with cold
water. Boil up and pour out.
BOILED LEG OF MUTTON.
Cook in plenty of hot salted water, allowing twelve minutes to the
pound. Take out when done, wipe carefully; dish, and rub all over with
butter. Serve with caper sauce.
CAPER SAUCE.
Take a cupful of the liquor in which the meat has been boiled. Put on
in a saucepan; boil and skim for a moment; stir in two tablespoonfuls
of butter rubbed into a heaping teaspoonful of flour. Stir over the
fire five minutes, add the juice of a lemon, pepper, and two dozen
pickled capers—or, if you have not these, pickled nasturtium seed. Send
to table in a boat. Save the rest of the pot-liquor for soup.
MASHED POTATOES.
Prepare as usual, whipping light with a fork, and heaping upon a hot
dish.
STEWED EGG-PLANT.
Soak and stuff as directed on Thursday, Fourth Week in August, but
instead of baking it, put on in a cupful of your soup-stock, and stew,
closely covered, one hour, or until very tender. Take up and keep hot
in a deep dish. Stir a lump of butter rolled in flour into the gravy;
boil up and pour over the egg-plant.
LIMA BEANS.
Shell, and cook about forty minutes in boiling, salted water. Drain,
pepper, salt and stir in a good lump of butter when dished.
PEACH FRITTERS.
1 quart of flour; 1 cup of milk; ⅓ cup of yeast; 2 tablespoonfuls
of sugar; 4 eggs; 2 tablespoonfuls of butter; a little salt; ripe,
freestone peaches, pared and stoned.
Sift the flour into a bowl; work in milk and yeast, and let it rise
five or six hours. Then, beat eggs and sugar light with butter, salt,
and stir into the risen dough. Knead faithfully with your hands. Pull
off bits nearly as large as an egg. Flatten and put in the centre of
each a peach (pared), from which the stone has been slipped out through
a slit in one side. Close the dough over it; make into a round ball,
and lay upon a floured pan for the second rising. The balls must not
touch each other. In an hour they should be light. Fry as you would
doughnuts, but more slowly. Drain in a colander, and eat hot with
brandy-sauce.
  First Week.      Friday.
  ——
  Fish Soup.
  Mutton Batter Pudding.      Stewed Tomatoes and Corn.
  Cream Potatoes.      Picklette.
  ——
  Apple Cake with Cream.
  Iced Coffee.
  ——
FISH SOUP.
2 quarts of broth; 2 lbs. of halibut, rock, or other white fish; 2
onions; salt and cayenne; juice of half a lemon; dripping for frying.
Cut the fish into neat strips; take out the bones. Remove the fat from
the cold pot-liquor set by yesterday, put in the fish-bones, and put
on to stew down. Fry the sliced onions; drain from the fat; lay in the
bottom of your soup-pot; put the fish upon them; put in a little broth,
and simmer gently one hour. Take out the fish, dredge each piece with
flour, and return to the kettle. Cover with two quarts of the strained
stock, and cook, slowly, half an hour. Add cayenne and lemon, and pour
out.
MUTTON BATTER PUDDING.
2 cups of milk; 1 large cupful of flour; 2 eggs; neat squares of cold
mutton, freed from skin and fat; pepper and salt; some melted butter,
heated with tomato catsup.
Make a batter of the milk, eggs and flour. Lay the meat in the melted
butter, pepper and salt; butter a pudding-dish; pour in a little of the
batter; then add the meat soaked well in the butter; pour in the rest
of the batter, and bake one hour in a steady oven. Serve at once.
STEWED TOMATOES AND CORN.
Pare and slice six large tomatoes and one small onion. Cut the corn
from four cobs, mix up well together, and stew half an hour. Season
with pepper, salt and butter, stew again ten minutes, and pour out.
CREAM POTATOES.
Pare and cut the potatoes into small squares or rounds. Cook twenty
minutes in boiling water, a little salt. Turn this off; add a cupful
of milk; and when this bubbles up a tablespoonful of butter with a
teaspoonful of water wet up with cold milk, also, a little chopped
parsley. Simmer five minutes and pour out.
APPLE CAKE WITH CREAM.
2 cups of powdered sugar; 3 cups of prepared flour; ½ cup of
corn-starch, wet with a little milk; ½ cup of butter creamed with the
sugar; ½ cup of sweet milk; the whites of six eggs, whipped stiff.
Add the milk to the creamed butter and sugar; the corn-starch, then the
flour and whites alternately. Bake in jelly-cake tins.
FILLING.
3 tart, well-flavored apples, grated; yolks of 2 beaten eggs; 1 cup of
sugar; 1 lemon, juice, and half the grated rind.
Beat yolks, sugar, and lemon together. Grate the apples directly into
this mixture. Put into a custard-kettle, with boiling water outside of
it, and stir to a boil. When cold, put between the cakes. Eat fresh
with cream.
ICED COFFEE.
See Sunday of this Week.
  First Week.      Saturday.
  ——
  White Stock Soup.
  Mock Quails.      Kidney-Beans.
  Corn Fritters.      Potatoes à la Lyonnaise.
  ——
  Cabinet Pudding.
  ——
WHITE STOCK SOUP.
6 lbs. knuckle of veal; ½ lb. lean bacon; 2 tablespoonfuls of butter
rubbed in 1 of flour; 2 onions; 2 carrots; 2 turnips; 3 cloves stuck in
an onion; 1 blade of mace; bunch of herbs; 6 quarts of water; pepper
and salt; 1 cup of boiling milk.
Cut up the meat and crack the bones. Slice carrots, turnips, and one
onion, leaving that with the cloves whole. Put on with mace, and all
the herbs except the parsley, in two quarts of cold water. Bring to a
slow boil; take off the scum, as it rises, and at the end of an hour’s
stewing, add the rest of the cold water—one gallon. Cover and cook
steadily, always gently, four hours. Strain off the liquor, of which
there should be about five quarts; rub the vegetables through the
colander, and pick out bones and meat. Season these highly, and put,
as is your Saturday custom, into a wide-mouthed jar, or a large bowl.
Add to them three quarts of stock, well salted, and, when cold, keep
on ice. Cool to-day’s stock; remove the fat; season, put in chopped
parsley, and put over the fire. Heat in a saucepan a cup of milk, stir
in the floured butter; cook three minutes. When the soup has simmered
ten minutes after the last boil, and been carefully skimmed, pour into
the tureen, and stir in the hot, thickened milk.
MOCK QUAILS.
Cut slices about four inches square, and half an inch thick, from a leg
of veal; flatten with the side of a hatchet, and dip in beaten egg.
Make a force-meat of a cold boiled sweetbread, chopped fine, a little
minced fat pork or ham, a few oysters, also minced, and a seasoning
of pepper, cloves, nutmeg, and a pinch of grated lemon-peel. Wet with
oyster-liquor, and the juice of half a lemon. Spread the slices with
this, and roll each up tightly. Bind with soft thread, and lay in a
broad saucepan. Half cover with broth borrowed from your soup, cooled
and skimmed. Cover and stew slowly nearly one hour. Make the remnants
of the force-meat—adding a few bread crumbs—into small balls. Roll in
flour and set in the oven until browned. Five minutes before you take
up the meat, roll these in beaten yolk of egg, once and again, until
thickly coated. Let them stand to cool while you take up the “quails.”
Lay them upon a hot dish; clip and gently withdraw the threads. Strain
the gravy; add a little boiling water; thicken with browned flour; stir
in a spoonful of butter, and when it boils, drop in the “quail eggs.”
Simmer just one minute, and pour over the meat.
KIDNEY-BEANS.
Shell; cook in boiling salted water thirty minutes, or until tender;
drain, dish, and season with pepper, butter and salt.
CORN FRITTERS.
2 cups of grated corn; 2 eggs; 1 cup of milk; flour for thin batter; a
pinch of soda; salt; 1 tablespoonful melted butter.
Mix and fry as you would griddle-cakes.
POTATOES À LA LYONNAISE.
Parboil and chop some potatoes; heat a little good dripping or butter
in a frying-pan. Stir in half a minced onion, for every eight
potatoes, with a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. When they have cooked
one minute, add the potatoes, and stir until all are tender, but not
browned. Drain, pepper, salt and dish.
CABINET PUDDING.
2 cups of prepared flour; 3 tablespoonfuls of butter, creamed with the
sugar; 5 eggs; 1 cup of sugar; ½ lb. raisins, seeded, and cut in three
pieces each; ½ cup of milk; ½ lemon—juice and grated peel.
Add the beaten yolks to the creamed butter and sugar; then the milk and
flour, alternately with the whites. Lastly, stir in the fruit, dredged
with flour; pour into a buttered mould, and boil two hours and a half.
Eat hot with liquid sauce.
  Second Week.      Sunday.
  ——
  Tapioca Soup.
  Roast Ducks.      Stuffed Tomatoes.
  Cauliflower with Sauce Tartare.      Sweet Potatoes.
  ——
  Melons, Peaches, and Pears.
  Black Coffee, Crackers and Cheese.
  ——
TAPIOCA SOUP.
Take the fat from your soup-stock. Dip out two quarts, add one large
cup of boiling water, and strain into the soup-kettle. Heat to a slow
boil; skim carefully; add half a cup of grained tapioca, soaked two
hours in a little cold water; cook until this is clear; put in what
additional seasoning your taste demands, with a glass of wine, and a
teaspoonful of celery essence, and pour out.
ROAST DUCKS.
Put sage and onion in the stuffing for one; make that intended for the
other, of bread-crumbs, seasoned with pepper and salt, and wet up
slightly with milk. Lay the ducks in the dripping-pan; pour boiling
water over them, and roast, basting often, until tender and brown.
Dish; take the fat from the gravy; season, thicken with browned flour
and boil up. Serve in a gravy-boat.
STUFFED TOMATOES.
Choose enough large, smooth tomatoes to fill a shallow pudding-dish.
Cut a slice from the top of each, scoop out the inside. Chop the pulp
with a little cold meat, taken from your soup, a sprinkling of minced
onion, and the grated corn from two cobs. Season with pepper, salt and
butter; fill the tomatoes, put on the top slices; fill the interstices
with the force-meat, pour on a little gravy, cover and bake forty
minutes—then brown.
CAULIFLOWER WITH SAUCE TARTARE.
Boil a large cauliflower—tied in netting—in hot salted water, from
twenty-five to thirty minutes. Drain; serve in a deep dish with the
flower upwards, and pour over it a cup of drawn butter, in which has
been stirred the juice of a lemon, and a half teaspoonful of French
mustard, mixed up well with the sauce.
SWEET POTATOES.
Please see Wednesday of First Week in September.
MELONS, PEACHES, AND PEARS.
Serve the melons upon a flat dish; the other fruit in baskets, or upon
fruit-stands, garnished with leaves.
BLACK COFFEE, CRACKERS AND CHEESE.
Pass very strong hot coffee without cream, in small cups of clear
china, and fancy crackers with grated cheese.
  Second Week.      Monday.
  ——
  Vegetable Consommé.
  Stewed Lamb à la Jardinière.      French Beans, Sautés.
  Mashed Potatoes au Gratin.      Currant Jelly.
  ——
  Peaches, Cream, and Cake.
  ——
VEGETABLE CONSOMMÉ.
Cut into thin, short strips, 1 carrot, 1 turnip, and 1 onion; peel and
slice 6 fine tomatoes; corn cut from 2 cobs; ½ cup boiled rice; 3 pints
of soup-stock; 1 pint of boiling water; seasoning at discretion.
Boil the vegetables tender in a little hot salted water. Drain, butter,
and keep them hot. The tomatoes and corn should be stewed in another
vessel, twenty-five minutes, and seasoned. Add to your soup-stock a
pint of boiling water, and simmer half an hour, then strain. Return to
the fire with the cooked vegetables and the boiled rice. Stew gently
ten minutes and turn out.
STEWED LAMB À LA JARDINIÈRE.
Lay a breast of lamb, or two scrags, in a broad pot, meat downward.
Scatter over this a sliced turnip, a sliced onion, and two sliced
tomatoes, with a little pepper and salt. Add less than a cupful of
broth from your soup; cover, and cook slowly one hour. Turn the meat
then, and cook one hour longer, very slowly. When tender, but not
ragged, dish, and keep hot. Strain the gravy; thicken with browned
flour; season; boil up, and pour over the meat.
FRENCH BEANS SAUTÉS.
Cut off the fibres from both sides of the (string) beans, and clip
into short pieces. Boil tender in hot salted water; drain dry, and put
into a saucepan in which you have melted a great spoonful of butter,
seasoned with pepper, a little French mustard, and a tablespoonful of
vinegar. Toss and stir until the beans are very hot, and glazed with
the butter. Serve in a deep dish.
MASHED POTATOES AU GRATIN.
Mash in the customary manner, and heap upon a greased pie-dish. Strew
thickly with dry crumbs, and brown upon the upper grating of the oven.
Slip carefully to a hot, flat dish.
PEACHES, CREAM, AND CAKE.
See Monday of First Week in September.
  Second Week.      Tuesday.
  ——
  Beef Gravy Soup.
  Paté de Foie de Veau.      Stuffed Squash.
  Succotash.      Baked Potatoes.
  ——
  Baked Blackberry Pudding.
  ——
BEEF GRAVY SOUP.
4 lbs. of lean, coarse beef, cut into strips; 2 lbs. mutton or beef
bones, broken small; 2 onions, sliced and fried; bunch of sweet herbs;
3 carrots; 2 turnips; 5 quarts of cold water; pepper and salt; dripping.
Fry the meat and onions in the dripping to a light brown. Put on in two
quarts of water, and having cooked one hour, add the other vegetables
chopped, and the remaining three quarts of water, cold. Boil slowly
four hours, skimming often. Strain, pulping the vegetables. Put meat
and bones into the stock-pot, season well; divide the broth into two
portions; salt one, and pour into the stock-pot. When cold, set on ice
for to-morrow. Cool and skim the rest; heat and skim until quite clear.
Put dice of fried bread into the tureen.
PATÉ DE FOIE DE VEAU.
3 lbs. of calf’s liver—parboiled and cold; ½ lb. of cold cooked ham;
3 eggs; 1 tablespoonful of butter, and same of fine crumbs; 1 scant
cup of milk; a little minced onion and parsley; nutmeg, cayenne, and a
pinch of grated lemon-peel; some good pie-paste.
Mince the ham, and pound the boiled liver. Make into a sort of paste
with the butter, beaten eggs, bread-crumbs, milk, and seasoning. It
should be just soft enough to pour. Butter a bake-dish profusely; line
with a good paste, rolled out thicker than for most pies. Fill this
with the liver mixture; cover with crust, which must not overlap the
edge of the dish, but be pinched down firmly upon the lower crust; set
in a pan, containing a cupful of boiling water, just enough to keep
the bottom crust from burning, and bake one hour and a quarter in a
moderate oven. Pass a knife around the edges of the crust to detach the
paté; invert upon a deep dish. Pass with it drawn butter in which have
been beaten two raw eggs, and these thickened by two minutes’ boiling.
STUFFED SQUASH.
Pare a “turban” squash, and cut off a slice from the top. Extract the
seeds, and lay one hour in salt water. Then fill with a good stuffing
of crumbs, chopped fat salt pork, parsley, etc., wet with gravy. Put on
the top slice; set the squash in a pudding-dish. Put a few spoonfuls of
melted butter and twice as much hot water in the bottom; cover the dish
very closely, and set in the oven two hours, or until tender. Lay
within a deep dish, and pour the gravy over it.
SUCCOTASH.
See Wednesday, First Week in September.
BAKED POTATOES.
Wash, wipe, and lay in a moderate oven. Bake until soft to the grasp.
Send to table in their skins, wrapped in a napkin.
BAKED BLACKBERRY PUDDING.
1 pint of milk; 2 eggs; 1 quart flour, or enough for thick batter;
1 gill bakers’ yeast; 1 saltspoonful of salt; 1 teaspoonful of soda
dissolved in boiling water; nearly a quart of berries, dredged with
flour.
Make the batter and let it rise in a warm place four hours. When very
light, stir in the dredged fruit lightly and quickly; pour into a
buttered dish and bake one hour, covering with white paper should it
“crust” over too fast. Turn out, and eat with sweet sauce.
  Second Week.      Wednesday.
  ——
  Soup à la Bonne Femme.
  Roast Tenderloin of Beef.      Beets Sautés.
  Lima Beans.      Fried Egg-plant.
  ——
  Velvet Blanc-Mange.
  ——
SOUP À LA BONNE FEMME.
3 lbs. of lean veal; ½ lb. lean ham; 2 carrots, grated; 1 chopped
onion; thyme and parsley; 1 cup of chopped mushrooms; pepper and salt;
1 cup of milk; floured butter; 4 quarts water.
Cut the meat small and put on with herbs and vegetables in the water.
Bring to a slow boil, and keep at this, taking off the scum as it
rises, for three hours, or until the liquid is reduced one-half.
Strain, cool, skim, season and return to the fire with the chopped
mushrooms. Stew slowly half an hour; stir in a tablespoonful of butter
cut up in one of flour. Boil two minutes and pour into the tureen. Add
the boiling milk, and pour out.
ROAST TENDERLOIN OF BEEF.
See Sunday of First Week in September.
BEETS SAUTÉS.
Wash and cut off the tops, but do not touch the roots with a knife.
Boil one hour; scrape and slice them, and stew ten minutes in a little
butter, mixed with pepper, and a good spoonful of vinegar. Toss and
stir lest they should brown.
LIMA BEANS.
See Thursday, First Week in September.
FRIED EGG-PLANT.
See Sunday, First Week in September.
VELVET BLANC-MANGE.
1 pint sweet cream, whipped stiff; ½ package Cooper’s gelatine soaked
in 2 cups of cold water; 2 glasses white wine; juice of one large
lemon; bitter almond flavoring; 1 cup sugar.
Put sugar, soaked gelatine, lemon and wine into a covered vessel for
one hour. Stir well, and set the covered jar or bowl into a saucepan
of boiling water until the gelatine is dissolved. Strain and cool
before flavoring it. When it begins to congeal, beat gradually into the
whipped cream. Put into a wet mould, and bury in the ice until wanted.
Pass cake with it.
  Second Week.      Thursday.
  ——
  Egg Soup.
  Smothered Chickens with Mushrooms.
  Stewed Tomatoes.
  Scalloped Cauliflower.      Beet-root Salad.
  ——
  Peaches and Cream.
  ——
EGG SOUP.
1 quart of broth in which the feet and giblets of the chickens have
been boiled; all that you have left of yesterday’s soup, strained; 4
beaten eggs; parsley, salt and pepper; dice of stale bread.
Cool and skim the quart of water in which have been boiled for one
hour the cleaned feet and giblets of your chickens. (Salt the giblets
and put them in the refrigerator.) Set this broth over the fire, and
season. When it boils, take it off, pour it upon the beaten eggs; put
all into a jar and set in boiling water, stirring until it thickens.
Heat in another saucepan the remains of yesterday’s soup—or, if you
have none, a scant quantity of milk, thickened with floured butter;
pour into a tureen, add the egg-broth, and throw in a good handful of
stale bread-dice. Stir well and serve.
SMOTHERED CHICKENS WITH MUSHROOMS.
Split a pair of young, full-grown chickens down the back. Lay them,
breasts upward, in a dripping-pan; pour over them a great cupful of
boiling water in which have been melted two tablespoonfuls of butter.
Invert another pan over them, covering closely, and cook in a steady
oven until they are tender and of a mellow russet hue. An hour is
generally sufficient. Baste very often, twice at the last with butter.
Keep the fowls hot upon a chafing-dish while you add the rest of the
can of mushrooms opened yesterday—each mushroom sliced into thirds—to
the gravy, with browned flour and pepper. Simmer ten minutes; pour a
little upon the chickens, the rest into a boat.
SCALLOPED CAULIFLOWER.
Small, and therefore cheap, cauliflowers will do for this purpose. Boil
them in hot salted water twenty minutes. Drain, cool, and chop. Beat
into them a couple of eggs, a spoonful of melted butter, a half cup
of milk, and season. Pour into a buttered bake-dish; cover with drawn
butter, then with fine crumbs, and bake half an hour.
STEWED TOMATOES.
Loosen the skins with boiling water; peel, slice, and stew twenty
minutes. Season with sugar, pepper, salt, a good piece of butter cut up
in flour, and stew five minutes more.
BEET-ROOT SALAD.
Arrange the cold beets left from yesterday in a salad-dish. Pour a
little salad-oil over them, season with sifted sugar, salt, a little
cayenne, and vinegar at discretion.
PEACHES AND CREAM.
See Monday of First Week in September.
  Second Week.      Friday.
  ——
  Oberlin Soup.
  Cream Pickerel.      Giblet Omelette.
  Mashed Potatoes.      Boiled Corn.
  Cucumbers.
  ——
  Diplomatic Pudding.
  ——
OBERLIN SOUP.
3 onions; 3 turnips; 3 carrots; ½ cabbage; bunch of herbs; 8 tomatoes,
sliced; 3 tablespoonfuls of butter; 1 teaspoonful of corn-starch;
pepper, sugar, and salt; 1 cup of boiling milk; 3 quarts of cold water.
Chop the vegetables, and put all except the tomatoes and cabbage over
the fire, with the water. Simmer one hour. Then add the cabbage,
previously parboiled. Ten minutes later, put in the tomatoes and herbs.
Stew rather fast for half an hour. Rub through a colander; put over the
fire; stir in the butter and corn-starch. Cook five minutes; season
well. Let all stand together at the side of the range, covered, five
minutes, and pour out. Stir in the boiling milk (with a pinch of soda
in it) after the soup is in the tureen.
CREAM PICKEREL.
If you cannot get pickerel, pike, or salmon-trout, use rock-fish or
bass for this dish. Clean the fish, and, if large, score the back-bone
in several places. Bake slowly, pouring a cup of boiling water over him
at first, afterward basting often with butter and water. When done,
lay upon a hot-water dish; add to the gravy in the dripping-pan a cup
of milk (with a pinch of soda stirred in), and, when this heats, stir
in two tablespoonfuls of butter, one teaspoonful of corn-starch, wet
in water, and a little chopped parsley. Boil up once, to thicken, add
pepper and salt to taste, and pour over the fish.
GIBLET OMELETTE.
7 eggs; 2 tablespoonfuls of cream; yesterday’s giblets, chopped very
fine and seasoned; 1 good spoonful of butter.
Beat yolks and whites together; then add the cream. Heat the butter in
the frying-pan; put in the giblets; shake hard for a moment, and pour
in the eggs. Keep them free from the bottom by shaking, and loosening
with a cake-turner; and, when quite “set,” fold in the middle. Invert a
hot dish over the pan, turn out, and serve at once.
MASHED POTATOES.
Mash soft, heap upon a hot dish, and serve without browning.
BOILED CORN.
See Sunday, First Week in September.
CUCUMBERS.
Pare; lay in ice-water an hour; slice, and dish, with pounded ice
strewed over and among them. Pass condiments with them.
DIPLOMATIC PUDDING.
1 quart of milk; 4 eggs; 1 cup very fine bread-crumbs; 1
tablespoonful of corn-starch, wet with cold milk; ¼ lb. of currants,
washed, dried, and dredged; 1 cup of sugar.
Soak the bread-crumbs in the milk, setting the vessel containing them
in one of hot water, and heating milk and crumbs to scalding. Pour
upon the beaten eggs and sugar; add corn-starch; lastly, the dredged
currants. Pour into a buttered mould, and boil an hour and a quarter.
Turn out, and pour a cup of hot custard over it for sauce, flavored
with vanilla, or other essence.
  Second Week.      Saturday.
  ——
  Mutton Noodle Soup.
  Baked Sheep’s Head à la Russe.      Sweet Potatoes.
  Squash.      Tomatoes Stuffed with Corn.
  ——
  Cream Peach Pie.
  ——
MUTTON NOODLE SOUP.
1 perfectly clean sheep’s head, cleaned with the skin left on; 3 lbs.
scrag of mutton, broken to pieces; 2 onions; 2 carrots; bunch of herbs;
pepper and salt; a large handful of noodles (see Receipt, Wednesday,
First Week in August); 7 quarts water.
Slice the vegetables, put with the head and scrag into a soup-kettle,
add four quarts of water, and simmer two hours, or until the sheep’s
head is so tender that the bones will slip out. Skim well, pour in
three quarts of cold water, and after three minutes take out the head
carefully. Lay in a greased bake-dish; as carefully, pull out the bones
through the under side, and put these back into the soup-kettle. Add
the vegetables and herbs; bring again to a slow boil, and cook three
hours longer. Take out meat and bones; salt highly; put into your
stock-jar, and pour half the broth over them. Season this also, and put
by for another day. Rub the vegetables through the sieve into the broth
left for to-day. Cool, skim; season, and set over the fire. Boil and
skim for two minutes; add the noodles; simmer twenty minutes, and pour
out.
BAKED SHEEP’S HEAD À LA RUSSE.
Let the boiled and boned sheep’s head get cold in the bake-dish. Then
brush over with raw egg, and sift over it a mixture of fine crumbs, a
dust of flour and some minced parsley (dried and powdered is better),
seasoned with pepper and salt. Set in the oven; baste well with butter,
as it browns. Serve in the dish, and send with it a boat of drawn
butter, based upon a cupful of the soup and seasoned with French
mustard, the juice of half a lemon, and some onion pickle minced very
fine.
SWEET POTATOES.
See Wednesday of First Week in September.
SQUASH.
Pare, slice, cook soft in boiling salt water. Drain and mash smooth in
a hot colander. Season with butter, salt, and pepper.
TOMATOES STUFFED WITH CORN.
Set large, smooth tomatoes in a greased pudding-dish. Cut a slice
from the top of each. Scoop out the seeds, leaving the walls thickly
lined with pulp. Have ready a cupful of corn grated from the cob, and
seasoned with butter, pepper, and salt. Fill the tomatoes with this;
put on the upper slices, and pour a little gravy over all. Bake,
covered, in a moderate oven, one hour. Serve in the dish.
CREAM PEACH PIE.
Make as directed in Saturday, Fourth Week in August; but lay the upper
crust on lightly, slightly buttering the lower at the point of contact.
When the pie is done, lift the cover and pour in a cream made thus: 1
cup (small) of rich milk, heated; whites of 2 eggs, whipped and stirred
into the milk; 1 tablespoonful of sugar; ½ teaspoonful of corn-starch
wet up in milk. Boil three minutes. The cream must be cold when it goes
into the hot pie. Replace the crust, and set by to cool. Eat fresh.
  Third Week.      Sunday.
  ——
  Rice and Tomato Soup.
  Boiled Chickens and Tongue.      Breaded Egg-plant.
  Boiled Cauliflower.      Lima Beans.
  ——
  Frozen Custard and Cake.
  ——
RICE AND TOMATO SOUP.
Skim the soup in your stock-pot. Strain from the meat and bones; heat
and add a pint of tomatoes, stewed, strained, and seasoned, and a cup
of boiled rice with the cup of water in which it has been cooked.
Season to taste; simmer fifteen or twenty minutes after it begins to
boil, and turn out.
BOILED CHICKENS AND TONGUE.
Tie the stuffed and trussed chickens in netting, fitted to their shape,
and cook in plenty of boiling water, a little salt. An hour and a
quarter should suffice, if the fowls are tender. Soak a tongue over
night. In the morning, wash it well and boil eighteen minutes to the
pound. Trim and skin it. Lay in the middle of the dish, with a chicken
on each side, and pour over them drawn butter, based upon a cupful
of the liquor in which the chickens were boiled, mixed with a little
minced parsley. Save the rest of the liquor.
BREADED EGG-PLANT.
Slice, and pare each slice. Lay in salt and water one hour, with a
plate on top, to keep the slices under water. Wipe dry; salt and
pepper; dip in beaten egg, then in cracker-dust, and fry to a fine
brown in lard or dripping. Drain, and serve.
BOILED CAULIFLOWER.
Cook in boiling salted water twenty-five minutes, having tied the
cauliflower up in white netting. Drain; untie; lay in a deep dish, the
blossom upward, and deluge with a white sauce made of drawn butter,
with the juice of a lemon squeezed in.
LIMA BEANS.
See Thursday, First Week in September.
FROZEN CUSTARD AND CAKE.
Please refer to Sunday, Second Week in July.
  Third Week.      Monday.
  ——
  Chicken and Corn Soup.
  Casserole of Rice, Chicken, and Tongue.     Onions Stewed Brown.
  Baked Sweet Potatoes.      Cold Slaw.
  ——
  Corn-starch Hasty Pudding.
  Tea and Fancy Crackers.
  ——
CHICKEN AND CORN SOUP.
Skim the liquor in which the chickens were boiled yesterday. Put over
the fire, with the grated corn from twelve ears. Boil one hour; rub
through a colander; season, heat, and stir in a tablespoonful of butter
rolled in flour, a little finely cut parsley, and a teaspoonful essence
of celery. Simmer five minutes; add a cup of boiling milk, and pour out.
CASSEROLE OF RICE, WITH CHICKENS AND TONGUE.
Chop the remains of yesterday’s chickens and tongue fine, with the
giblets. Season, and put over the fire, with a cup of yesterday’s soup,
and, when almost on the boil, add two beaten eggs. Boil a cup of rice
in a little of the chicken-liquor used for your soup, until the rice
is soft, and the liquor absorbed. Beat two eggs into half a cup of
milk, in which a tablespoonful of butter has been melted. Stir and beat
this into the rice. Let it get cold, and then line a greased mould with
it—one with a cylinder in the middle will not do. Make the walls of
rice-paste an inch thick; then fill with the mince, which should not
be too soft. Cover with the rice; put the top on the mould; set in a
pot of boiling water, and cook one hour and a half. Turn out with great
care, and pour a little of the pot-liquor, thickened and seasoned, over
it.
ONIONS STEWED BROWN.
Top and tail them; skin, and dredge them with flour. Then fry to a good
brown in dripping. Put into a pot, cover with a little of the liquor
in which the tongue was boiled, and stew slowly two hours, or until
tender. Take up the onions; thicken the sauce with browned flour, add a
tablespoonful of butter, with pepper; boil up, and pour over the onions.
BAKED SWEET POTATOES.
Wash, wipe, and lay in a moderate oven. Bake until the largest is soft
between your testing fingers. Wipe off, and serve in their jackets.
COLD SLAW.
Shred the heart of a firm white cabbage. Put into a salad-bowl, and
season with sugar, salt, pepper, oil, and vinegar. Stir up and toss
thoroughly.
CORN-STARCH HASTY PUDDING.
1 quart fresh milk; 3 tablespoonfuls corn-starch, wet up in cold milk;
1 tablespoonful of butter; 1 teaspoonful of salt.
Scald and salt the milk, and stir into it the corn-starch. Boil
steadily, stirring now and then, for fifteen minutes. Add the butter;
let the pudding stand in hot water, uncovered, after you have ceased to
stir, until you are ready for it; then serve in an open, deep dish. Eat
with cream and sugar.
TEA AND FANCY BISCUITS.
If the weather be hot, have iced tea; if cool, and suggestive of early
frosts, or equinoctial storms, introduce the bright tea-pot and pretty
“cozy.”
  Third Week.      Tuesday.
  ——
  St. Rémo Broth.
  Beefsteak.      Potatoes au Naturel.
  Kidney-Beans.      Raw Tomatoes.
  ——
  Fruit Dessert.
  Coffee and Cake.
  ——
ST. RÉMO BROTH.
3 lbs. of veal—lean and cut into strips; 2 onions, sliced and fried;
3 quarts of water; 1 tablespoonful of minced parsley; ½ cupful of raw
rice; 2 tablespoonfuls of grated cheese; salt and pepper.
Fry the onions in dripping; put in the meat, and fry to a light brown.
Put into the soup-pot with the water, and boil slowly three hours, or
until brought down to two quarts. The meat should be in rags. Strain;
cool, skim, and season. Put back into the kettle with the rice, which
must have soaked one hour in a little water. This water, also, must
go into the soup. Simmer half an hour. Put the grated cheese into the
tureen, and when the rice has boiled soft, pour upon the cheese, stir
up and serve.
BEEFSTEAK.
Flatten with the broad side of a hatchet, and broil quickly upon a
greased gridiron. Ten minutes should be enough if you like it rare. Lay
upon a hot dish, turn another over it, having salted, buttered, and
peppered it, and let it stand five minutes before sending to table.
POTATOES AU NATUREL.
Cook, without paring, in boiling salted water, until a fork will enter
easily the largest. Pour off the water; set the pot, uncovered, upon
the range for a moment, to dry off the moisture; peel rapidly, and dish.
KIDNEY-BEANS.
Shell; cook in boiling water, a little salt, half an hour, or until
tender. Drain, salt, pepper, and butter, and serve in a deep dish.
RAW TOMATOES.
Pare and slice. Put into a salad-dish, and pour over them a dressing
made of two tablespoonfuls of oil rubbed with one teaspoonful of sugar,
and half as much, each, of made mustard, salt, and pepper; then with
five tablespoonfuls of vinegar, whipped in, a little at a time.
FRUIT DESSERT.
Use your own discretion and consult your own convenience in devising a
tasteful and acceptable dessert of fruits, such as should now be plenty
and cheap. Late peaches, melons, bananas, pears, and apples, are, some
or all of them, within reach of housekeepers of moderate means. Arrange
in dishes or baskets decorated with green sprays and flowers.
COFFEE AND CAKE.
Consult, also, your discretion and the weather in the question of hot
or iced coffee.
  Third Week.      Wednesday.
  ——
  Ox-Cheek Soup.
  Stewed Calf’s Hearts.      Lima Beans.
  Potatoes au Maître d’Hôtel.
  Stewed Tomatoes with Onion.
  ——
  Stewed Pears with Rice.
  ——
OX-CHEEK SOUP.
2 ox-cheeks; 3 onions; 2 carrots; 2 turnips; 12 whole black peppers; 6
cloves; salt; 5 quarts of water; ½ cup of German sago.
Break the bones of the cheeks, and wash well with salt and water.
Cover with cold water; bring to a boil, and throw off the water. Fry
the sliced onions, and put into the pot with the meat, also the sliced
carrots, onions, and spice. Cover with a gallon and a quart of water.
Bring to a slow boil, and keep this up, skimming often, for four hours.
Strain off the liquor; pick out the meat and bones; salt highly; put
into your stock-pot with nearly half the broth. Set in a cold place for
to-morrow. Pulp the vegetables into that meant for to-day; let it cool;
take off the fat, and put back over the fire. Season to your liking;
add the sago, which should have been soaking for two hours in a little
water, and simmer until it is clear.
STEWED CALF’S HEARTS.
Wash two fresh calf’s hearts; stuff with a force-meat of crumbs,
chopped salt pork, a little thyme, sage and onion. Tie up snugly in
clean mosquito-netting; put into a broad saucepan; half cover with
broth from your soup from yesterday or to-day. Cover and stew an hour
and three-quarters gently, turning several times. Take out the hearts,
and keep them hot, while you thicken the gravy with a tablespoonful
of butter cut up in flour. Boil up, add pepper, salt, a little grated
lemon-peel, and the juice of half a lemon, with a small glass of wine.
Pour over the hearts.
LIMA BEANS.
See Thursday, First Week in September.
POTATOES AU MAÎTRE D’HÔTEL.
Slice cold boiled potatoes rather thick. Have ready in a saucepan four
or five tablespoonfuls of milk, a good lump of butter, with salt,
pepper and minced parsley. Heat quickly; put in the potatoes, and stir
until almost boiling. Stir in a little flour, wet with cold milk; cook
a moment to thicken it; add the juice of half a lemon, and pour out
into a deep dish.
STEWED TOMATOES AND ONION.
Peel, slice, and stew a dozen tomatoes ten minutes. Then add a small
parboiled onion, cut up small; cook twenty minutes; stir in sugar, salt
and pepper, with a good spoonful of butter rolled in flour. Simmer five
minutes, and pour out.
STEWED PEARS WITH RICE.
Pare and halve eight large pears. Put into a saucepan with eight
tablespoonfuls of sugar and a cup of claret—or if you prefer, clear
water. Stew slowly until tender and clear. Take out the pears and boil
down the syrup to one-half, flavoring, then, with essence of bitter
almond. Have ready two cupfuls of boiled rice, cooked in milk, and
sweetened. Spread upon a flat dish; lay the pears upon it, and pour on
the syrup. Eat very cold.
  Third Week.      Thursday.
  ——
  Rissole Soup.
  Lamb Chops.      Potato Mound.
  Fried Egg-Plant.      Ladies’ Cabbage.
  ——
  Damson Tart.
  ——
RISSOLE SOUP.
Take the fat from the top of your cold stock. Pick out some of the best
pieces of meat—about a cupful—and set aside. Add a pint of boiling
water to the stock, and boil slowly, with the bones and the rest of
the meat, for nearly an hour. Chop the meat reserved from the stock;
make into force-meat with fine crumbs, seasoning with onion, parsley,
pepper, salt, nutmeg, and binding with beaten egg. Flour your hands
and make this into round balls. Roll them in flour; set in a floured
pie-dish, not touching each other, and leave in a quick oven until
crusted over. Let them cool. Strain your soup; add such seasoning as
you desire; heat to a boil; drop in the force-meat rissoles, and heat,
without boiling, three minutes.
LAMB CHOPS.
Trim off fat and skin, leaving a bare bit of bone at the end of each.
Broil quickly over a clear fire; butter, salt, and pepper each, and
stand them on the larger ends, just touching each other, around your
mound of potato.
POTATO MOUND.
Mash smooth, with butter, milk, salt, and pepper; make into a smooth
mound upon a hot dish, and arrange the chops around it.
FRIED EGG-PLANT.
See Sunday, First Week in September.
LADIES’ CABBAGE.
Boil a firm cabbage in two waters. When done, quarter it and let it
get perfectly cold. Chop fine; add two beaten eggs, a tablespoonful of
butter, pepper, salt, and three tablespoonfuls of milk. Stir all well;
pour into a buttered pudding-dish, and bake, covered, until very hot,
then brown. If your dish has been well buttered, turn the cabbage upon
a hot dish, and pour over it a cupful of drawn butter.
DAMSON TART.
Fill a pie-dish, lined with good paste, with ripe, sound damsons;
sweeten very plentifully; cover with crust and bake. Brush with beaten
egg when done, and return to the oven one moment, to glaze.
  Third Week.      Friday.
  ——
  Potato Porridge.
  Devilled Crab.      Roasted Sweetbreads.
  Potato Croquettes.      Boiled Green Corn.
  ——
  Apple Soufflé Pudding.
  ——
POTATO PORRIDGE.
12 potatoes, peeled and sliced; 1 large onion, also pared and
sliced; 2 quarts of boiling water; 1 cup of hot milk; 3 beaten eggs;
3 tablespoonfuls of butter rolled in flour; salt, pepper, and 1
teaspoonful celery essence; chopped parsley.
