"Tell ye what," said Liph Kingsley, as he stirred his third glass of
grog. "This 'ere priestcraft's got to go down. Reason's got on her
throne, and chains is fallin'. I'm a free man--I be."

"You look like it," said Hiel, who stood with his hands in his
pockets contemptuously surveying Liph, while with leering eye and
unsteady hand he stirred his drink.

"That air's what you call Reason, is't?" added Hiel. "Wal, she's got
on a pretty topplish throne, seems to me. I bet you Reason can't walk
a crack now," he said, as Liph, having taken off his glass, fell with
a helpless dump upon the settle.

"Sot down like a spoonful of apple-saas," said Hiel, looking him over
sarcastically. The laugh now turned against the poor brute, and Hiel
added: "Wal, boys, s'pose you like this 'ere sort of thing. Folks is
different; for my part I like to kinder keep up a sort o' difference
'tween me and a hog. That air's my taste; but you're welcome to
yourn," and Hiel went out to carry his observations elsewhere.

Hiel felt his own importance to the community of Poganuc Center too
much to have been out of town on this day, when its affairs needed
so much seeing to, therefore he had deputed Ned Bissel, a youth yet
wanting some two years of the voting age, to drive his team for
him while he gave his undivided attention to public interests; and
indeed, as nearly as mortal man can be omnipresent, Hiel had been
everywhere and heard everything, and, as the French say, "assisted"
generally at the political struggle. Hiel considered himself as
the provisional owner and care-taker of the town of Poganuc. It
was our town, and Dr. Cushing was our minister, and the great
meeting-house on the green was our meeting-house, and the singers'
seat therein was our singers' seat, and he was ready to bet on any
sermon, or action, or opinion of our minister. Hiel had not yet, as
he phrased it, experienced religion, nor joined the church; but he
"calculated he should some of these days." It wasn't Doctor Cushing's
fault if he wasn't converted, he was free to affirm. Hiel had been
excessively scandalized with the scurrilous attacks of the Poganuc
Banner, and felt specially called to show his colors on that day.
He had assured his mother on going out that morning that she needn't
be a mite afeared, for he was a-goin' to stand up for the minister
through thick and thin, and if any of them Democrats "saassed" him
he'd give 'em as good as they sent.

In virtue of his ardent political zeal, he felt himself to-day
on equal and speaking terms with all the Federal magnates; he
clapped Colonel Davenport on the shoulder assuringly, and talked
about "our side," and was familiar with Judge Belcher and Sheriff
Dennie--darting hither and thither, observing and reporting with
untiring zeal.

But, after all, that day the Democrats beat, and got the State of
Connecticut. Sheriff Dennie was the first to carry the news of defeat
into the parsonage at eventide.

"Well, Doctor, we're smashed. Democrats beat us all to flinders."

A general groan arose.

"Yes, yes," said the Sheriff. "Everything has voted that could stand
on its hind legs, and the hogs are too many for us. It's a bad
beat--bad beat."

That night when little Dolly came in to family prayers, she looked
around wondering. Her father and mother looked stricken and overcome.
There was the sort of heaviness in the air that even a child can feel
when deep emotions are aroused. The boys, who knew only in a general
way that their father's side had been beaten, looked a little scared
at his dejected face.

"Father, what makes you feel so bad?" said Will, with that surprised
wonder with which children approach emotions they cannot understand.

"I feel for the Church of God, my child," he said, and then he sung
for the evening psalm:

    I love thy kingdom, Lord,
    The house of thine abode;
    The Church our dear Redeemer saved
    With his own precious blood.

    For her my tears shall fall,
    For her my prayers ascend;
    To her my cares and toils be given
    Till toils and cares shall end.

In the prayer that followed he pleaded for New England with all the
Hebraistic imagery by which she was identified with God's ancient
people:

"Give ear, O Shepherd of Israel; thou that leadest Joseph like a
flock; thou that dwellest between the cherubims, shine forth. * *
Thou hast brought a vine out of Egypt; thou didst cast forth the
heathen, and plant it; thou preparedst room for it and didst cause
it to take deep root, and it filled the land. The hills were covered
with the shadow of it, and the boughs thereof were like the goodly
cedars. Why hast thou then broken down her hedges so that all that
pass by the way do pluck her? The boar out of the wood doth waste it;
the wild beast of the field doth devour it. Return, we beseech thee,
O Lord, and visit this vine and vineyard that thou has planted and
the branch that thou madest strong for thyself."

It was with a voice tremulous and choking with emotion that Dr.
Cushing thus poured forth the fears and the sorrows of his heart for
the New England of the Puritans; the ideal church and state which
they came hither to found.

Little Dolly cried from a strange childish fear, because of the
trouble in her father's voice. The pleading tones affected her, she
knew not why. The boys felt a martial determination to stand by their
father and a longing to fight for him. All felt as if something deep
and dreadful must have happened, and after prayers Dolly climbed
into her father's lap, and put both arms around his neck, and said:
"Papa, there sha'n't anything hurt you. I'll defend you." She was
somewhat abashed by the cheerful laugh which followed, but the
Doctor kissed her and said: "So you shall, dear; be sure and not let
anything catch me," and then he tossed her up in his arms gleefully,
and she felt as if the trouble, whatever it was, could not be quite
hopeless.

But Dolly marveled in her own soul as she went to bed. She heard
the boys without stint reviling the Democrats as the authors of all
mischief; and yet Bessie Lewis's father was a Democrat, and he seemed
a nice, cheery, good-natured man, who now and then gave her sticks
of candy, and there was his mother, dear old Madame Lewis, who gave
her the Christmas cookey. How could it be that such good people were
Democrats? Poor Dolly hopelessly sighed over the mystery, but dared
not ask questions.

But the Rev. Mr. Coan rejoiced in the result of the election. Not
that he was by any means friendly to the ideas of the Jacobinical
party by whose help it had been carried; but because, as he said,
it opened a future for the church--for he too had his idea of "The
Church." Meanwhile the true church, invisible to human eyes--one in
spirit, though separated by creeds--was praying and looking upward,
in the heart of Puritan and Ritualist, in the heart of old Madame
Lewis, of the new Church, and of old Mrs. Higgins, whose soul was
with the old meeting-house; of all everywhere who with humble purpose
and divine aspiration were praying: "Thy kingdom come; Thy will be
done."

That kingdom was coming even then--for its coming is in safer hands
than those on either side--and there came a time, years after, when
Parson Cushing, looking back on that election and its consequences,
could say with another distinguished Connecticut clergyman:

"I suffered more than tongue can tell for the best thing that ever
happened to old Connecticut."




CHAPTER X.

DOLLY'S PERPLEXITIES.


Dolly went to bed that night, her little soul surging and boiling
with conjecture. All day scraps of talk about the election had
reached her ears; her nerves had been set vibrating by the tones of
her father's prayer, some words of which yet rung in her ear--tones
of passionate pleading whose purport she could scarcely comprehend.
What was this dreadful thing that had happened or was going to
happen? She heard her brother Will emphatically laying off the
state of the case to Nabby in the kitchen, and declaring that "the
Democrats were going to upset the whole State, for father said so."

Exactly what this meant, Dolly could not conceive; but, coupled with
her mother's sorrowful face and her father's prayer, it must mean
something dreadful. Something of danger to them all might be at hand,
and she said her "pray God to bless my dear father and mother" with
unusual fervor.

Revolving the matter on her pillow, she had a great mind, the next
time she met General Lewis with his smiling face, to walk boldly up
to him and remonstrate, and tell him to let her papa alone and not
upset the State!

Dolly had a great store of latent heroism and felt herself quite
capable of making a courageous defense of her father--and her heart
swelled with a purpose to stand by him to the last gasp, no matter
what came.

But sleep soon came down with her downy wings, and the great blue
eyes were closed, and Dolly knew not a word more till waked by the
jingling of sleigh bells and the creaking of sleds at early sunrise.

She sprang up, dressed quickly, and ran to the window. Evidently the
State had not been upset during the night, for the morning was
clear, bright and glorious as heart could desire.

The rosy light of morning filled the air, the dreary snow wreaths lay
sparkling in graceful lines with tender hues of blue and lilac and
pink in their shadows, and merry sleigh bells were ringing and the
boys were out snow-balling each other in mere wantonness of boy life,
while Spring was barking frantically, evidently resolved to be as
frisky a boy as any of them.

[Illustration: HIEL IN HIS GLORY.

"And wasn't you running to look at him?" asked Dolly.

"Land o' Goshen, no!" said Nabby. "I jest wanted to see----well,
them horses he's got." ... "Oh" said Dolly.--p. 109.]

The fears and apprehensions of last night were all gone like a cloud,
and she hurried down into the kitchen to find Nabby stirring up her
buckwheat batter, and running to the window to see Hiel go by on
the stage, kissing his hand to her as he passed.

"I declare! the imperence of that cretur," said Nabby.

"What, Hiel?" asked Dolly.

"Yes, Hiel Jones! he's the conceitedest fellow that ever I did see.
You can't look out of a window but he thinks your running to look at
him."

"And wasn't you running to look at him?" asked Dolly.

"Land o' Goshen, no! What should I want to look at him for? I jest
wanted to see--well, them horses he's got."

"Oh," said Dolly.

Upon reflection she added,

"I thought you liked Hiel, Nabby."

"You thought I liked Hiel?" said Nabby laughing. "What a young 'un!
Why, I can't bear the sight of him," and Nabby greased her griddle
with combative energy. "He's the saassiest fellow I ever see. I cant
bear him!"

Dolly reflected on this statement gravely, while Nabby dropped on the
first griddleful of cakes; finally she said,

"If you don't like Hiel, Nabby, what made you sit up so late with him
Christmas night?"

"Who said I did?" said Nabby, beginning to turn griddle-cakes with
velocity.

"Why, Will and Tom; they both say so. They heard when Hiel went out
the kitchen door, and they counted the clock striking twelve just as
he went. Will says he kissed you, too, Nabby. Did he?"

"Well, if ever I see such young 'uns!" said Nabby, flaming carnation
color over the fire as she took off the cakes. "That Bill is saassy
enough to physic a hornbug. I never see the beat of him!"

"But did Hiel stay so late, Nabby?"

"Well, yes, to be sure he did. I thought I never should have got him
out of the house. If I hadn't let him kiss me I believe in my soul
I'd a had to set up with him till morning; he said he wouldn't go
without. I've been mad at him ever since. I told him never to show
his face here again; but I know he'll come. He does it on purpose to
plague me."

"That is dreadful!" said Dolly, meditatively. "I wouldn't let him.
I'll tell you what," she added, with animation, "I'll talk to him
and tell him he mustn't come here any more. Sha'n't I, Nabby?"

But Nabby laughed and said, "No, no; little girls mustn't talk so.
Don't you never say nothin' to Hiel about it; if you do I won't tell
you no more. Here, carry in this plate o' cakes, for they're eatin'
breakfast. I heard your pa askin' blessin' just after you came down.
You carry these in while I get on the next griddleful."

Dolly assumed her seat at table, but there again the trouble met her.
Her father and mother were talking together with sad, anxious faces.

"It is a most mysterious dispensation why this is allowed," said her
mother.

"Yes, my dear, 'clouds and darkness are round about Him,' but we must
have faith."

Here Spring varied the discourse by putting his somber black visage
over Dolly's arm and resting his nose familiarly on the table,
whereat she couldn't help giving him the half of a griddle-cake.

"How many times must I tell you, Dolly, that Spring is never to be
fed at the table?" said her mother. "I love dogs," she added, "but it
spoils them to be fed at table."

"Why, papa does it sometimes," pleaded Tom.

Mrs. Cushing was obliged to confess to the truth of this, for the
doctor when pursuing the deeper mazes of theology was sometimes so
abstracted that his soul took no note of what his body was doing,
and he had been more than once detected in giving Spring large
rations under the table while expounding some profound mysteries of
foreknowledge and free will.

Tom's remark was a home-thrust, but his mother said, reprovingly:

"Your father never means to do it; but he has so much to do and think
of that he is sometimes absent-minded."

A conscious twinkle might have been observed playing about the blue
eyes of the doctor, and a shrewd observer might have surmised that
the offense was not always strictly involuntary, for the doctor,
though a most docile and tractable husband, still retained here
and there traces of certain wild male instincts and fell at times
into singular irregularities. He had been known to upset all Mrs.
Cushing's nicely arranged yarn-baskets and stocking-baskets and
patch-baskets, pouring the contents in a heap on the floor, and
carrying them off bodily to pick up chestnuts in, when starting off
with the children on a nutting expedition. He would still persist at
intervals in going to hunt eggs in the barn with Dolly, and putting
the fruits of the search in his coat-tail pocket, though he had once
been known to sit down on a pocketful at a preparatory lecture, the
bell for which rung while he was yet on the hay-mow.

On this occasion, therefore, Spring made an opportune diversion in
the mournful turn the conversation was taking. The general tone of
remark became slightly admonitory on the part of Mrs. Cushing and
playfully defensive on the part of the doctor. In their "heart of
heart" the boys believed their father sometimes fed Spring when
he did know what he was about, and this belief caused constant
occasional lapses from strict statute law on their part.

That morning, in prayers, their father read: "God is our refuge and
strength, a very present help in time of trouble. Therefore will
we not fear, though the earth be removed; though the mountains be
carried into the midst of the sea;" and at those verses he stopped
and said: "There, my dear, there must be our comfort." And then they
sung:

    "Our God, our help in ages past,
      Our hope for years to come,
    Our shelter from the stormy blast,
      And our eternal home."

Then in prayer he plead for the Church--the Church of God, the vine
of his planting--and said:

"When the enemy cometh in like a flood, may Thy spirit lift up a
standard against them;" and again Dolly trembled and wondered. But
after prayers Bill suddenly burst back into the house.

"Oh! mamma, there is a bluebird! Spring is come!"

"A bluebird! Impossible so early in March. You must be mistaken."

"No. Come to the door; you can hear him just as plain!"

And, sure enough, on the highest top of the great button-ball tree
opposite the house sat the little blue angel singing with all his
might--a living sapphire dropped down from the walls of the beautiful
city above. A most sanguine and imprudent bluebird certainly he must
have been, though the day was so lovely and the great icicles on
the eaves of the house were actually commencing to drip. But there
undoubtedly he was--herald and harbinger of good days to come.

"It is an omen," said the doctor, as he put his arms fondly round his
wife. "The Lord liveth, and blessed be our rock!"

And the boys and Dolly ran out, shouting wildly,

"There's been a bluebird. Spring is coming--spring is coming!"




CHAPTER XI.

DOLLY AND NABBY INVITED OUT.


Yes. Spring was coming; the little blue herald was right, though he
must have chilled his beak and frozen his toes as he sat there. But
he came from the great Somewhere, where things are always bright;
where life and summer and warmth and flowers are forever going on
while we are bound down under ice and snow.

There was a thrill in the hearts of all the children that day, with
visions of coming violets, hepaticas and anemones, of green grass and
long bright sunny rambles by the side of the Poganuc river.

The boys were so premature in hope as to get out their store of
fish-hooks, and talk of trouting. The Doctor looked over his box
of garden seeds, and read the labels. "Early Lettuce," "Early
Cucumbers," "Summer Squashes"--all this was inspiring reading, and
seemed to help him to have faith that a garden was coming round
again, though the snow banks yet lay over the garden-spot deep and
high. All day long it thawed and melted; a warm south wind blew and
the icicles dripped, so that there was a continual patter.

Two circumstances of importance in Dolly's horoscope combined on this
happy day: Hiel invited Nabby to an evening sleigh-ride after supper,
and Mrs. Davenport invited her father and mother to a tea-drinking at
the same time.

Notwithstanding her stout words about Hiel, Nabby in the most brazen
and decided manner declared her intention to accept his invitation,
because (as she remarked) "Hiel had just bought a bran new sleigh,
and Almiry Smith had said publicly that she was going to have the
first ride in that air sleigh, and she would like to show Almiry that
she didn't know every thing." Nabby had inherited from her father a
fair share of combativeness, which was always bubbling and boiling
within her comely person at the very idea of imaginary wrongs; and,
as she excitedly wiped her tea-cups, she went on:

"That air Almiry Smith is a stuck-up thing; always turning up her
nose at me, and talking about my being a hired gal. What's the
difference? I live out and work, and she stays to home and works. I
work for the minister's folks and get my dollar a week, and she works
for her father and don't git nothin' but just her board and her
keep. So, I don't see why she need take airs over me--and she sha'n't
do it!"

But there was a tranquilizing influence breathing over Nabby's soul,
and she soon blew off the little stock of spleen and invited Dolly
into her bed-room to look at her new Leghorn bonnet, just home from
Miss Hinsdale's milliner-shop, which she declared was too sweet for
anything.

Now, Leghorn bonnets were a newly-imported test of station, grandeur
and gentility in Poganuc. Up to this period the belles of New England
had worn braided straw, abundantly pretty, and often braided by the
fair fingers of the wearers themselves, while they studied their
lessons or read the last novel or poem.

But this year Miss Hetty Davenport, and Miss Ellen Dennie, and the
blooming daughters of the governor, and the fair Maria Gridley had
all illuminated their respective pews in the meeting-house with
Leghorn flats--large and fine of braid, and tremulous with the
delicacy of their fiber. Similar wonders appeared on the heads of
the juvenile aristocracy of the Episcopal church; and the effect was
immediate.

Straw bonnets were "no where." To have a Leghorn was the thing;
and Miss Hinsdale imported those of many qualities and prices, to
suit customers. Nabby's was not of so fine a braid as that of the
governor's daughters; still it was a real Leghorn hat, and her soul
was satisfied. She wanted a female bosom to sympathize with her in
this joy, and Dolly was the chosen one.

Proud of this confidence, Dolly looked, exclaimed, admired, and
assisted at the toilette-trial--yet somewhat wondering at the
facility with which Nabby forgot all her stringent declarations of
the morning before.

"You don't suppose he would dare to kiss you again, Nabby?" Dolly
suggested timidly, while Nabby stood at the glass with her bonnet on,
patting her curls, shaking her head, pulling into place here a bow
and there a flower.

"Why, Dolly Cushing," said Nabby, laughing; "what a young 'un you are
to remember things! I never saw such a child!"

"But you said"----cried Dolly,--

"Oh, never mind what I said. Do you suppose I can't keep that fellow
in order? I'd just like to have him try it again--and see what he'd
get! There now, what do you think of that?" And Nabby turned round
and showed a general twinkle of nodding flowers, fluttering ribbons,
bright black eyes, and cheeks with laughing dimples which came and
went as she spoke or laughed.

"Nabby, I do declare, you are splendid," said Dolly. "Hiel said once
you was the handsomest girl in Poganuc."

"He did, did he? Well, I'll let him know a thing or two before I've
done with him; and Almiry Smith, too, with her milk-and-water face
and stringy curls."

"Did that bonnet cost a great deal?" asked Dolly.

"What do you mean, child?" asked Nabby, turning quickly and looking
at her.

"Nothing, only Mrs. Davenport said that hired girls were getting to
dress just like ladies."

Nabby flared up and grew taller, and seemed about to rise from the
floor in spontaneous combustion.

"I declare!" she said. "That's just like these 'ere stuck-up Town
Hill folks. Do they think nobody's to have silk gowns and Leg'orn
bonnets but them? Who 's a better right, I should like to know? Don't
we work for our money, and ain't it ourn? and ain't we just as
good as they be? I'll buy just such clothes as I see fit, and if
anybody don't like it why they may lump it, that's all. I've a better
right to my bonnet than Hetty Davenport has to hers, for I earned the
money to pay for it, and she just lives to do nothing, and be a bill
of expense to her folks."

Dolly cowered under this little hurricane; but, Poganuc being a windy
town, Dolly had full experience that the best way to meet a sudden
gust is to wait for it to blow itself out, as she did on the present
occasion. In a minute Nabby laughed and was herself again; it was
impossible to be long uncomfortable with a flower garden on one's
head.

"I shall be lonesome to-night without you, Nabby," said Dolly; "the
boys talk Latin to me and plague me when I want to play with them."

"Oh, I heard Mis' Cushing say she was going to take you to the
tea-party, and that'll be just as good for you."

Dolly jumped up and down for joy and ran to her mother only to have
the joyful tidings confirmed. "I shall never leave Dolly alone in the
house again, with nobody but the boys," she said, "and I shall take
her with us. It will be a lesson in good manners for her."

It may have been perceived by the intimations of these sketches
hitherto that there were in the town of Poganuc two distinct circles
of people, who mingled in public affairs as citizens and in church
affairs as communicants, but who rarely or never met on the same
social plane.

There was the haute noblesse--very affably disposed, and perfectly
willing to condescend; and there was the proud democracy, prouder
than the noblesse, who wouldn't be condescended to, and insisted on
having their way and their say, on the literal, actual standpoint of
the original equality of human beings.

The sons and daughters of farmers and mechanics would willingly
exchange labor with each other; the daughters would go to a
neighboring household where daughters were few, and help in the
family work, and the sons likewise would hire themselves out where
there was a deficiency of man-power; but they entered the family as
full equals, sharing the same table, the same amusements, the same
social freedoms, with the family they served.

It was because the Town Hill families wished to hire servants,
according to the Old-World acceptation of the term, that it became
a matter of exceeding difficulty to get any of the free democratic
citizens or citizenesses to come to them in that capacity.

Only the absolute need of money reconciled any of them to taking such
a place, and then they took it with a secret heart-burning and a
jealous care to preserve their own personal dignity.

Nabby had compromised her pride in working for "the minister," for
the minister in early New England times was the first gentleman of
the parish, and a place in his family was a different thing from one
in any other.

Nevertheless, Nabby required to be guided with a delicate hand and
governed with tact and skill. There were things that no free-born
American girl would do, and Mrs. Cushing had the grace not to expect
those things. For instance, no Yankee girl would come at the ringing
of a bell. To expect this would, as they held it, be to place them
on a level with the negroes still retained as servants in some old
families. It was useless to argue the point. Nabby's cheeks would
flush, and her eyes flash, and the string of her tongue would be
loosed, and she would pour forth torrents of declamation if one
attempted to show that calling by a bell was no worse than calling by
the voice or sending out one of the children. Mrs. Cushing did not
try to do it.

Another point was the right to enter the house by the front door.
Now, as Nabby's work lay in the kitchen and as her sleeping-room
was just above, it was manifestly an inconvenience to enter by any
other than the kitchen door. Nevertheless, she had heard the subject
discussed among other girls, and had admired the spirit shown by her
intimate friend, Maria Pratt, when Mrs. Israel Deyter pointed out to
her the propriety of entering by the back door,--"Mrs. Deyter, do you
think there will be a back and a front door to heaven?"

But Mrs. Cushing avoided the solution of this theological problem
by looking on with a smile of calm amusement when Nabby very
conspicuously and perseveringly persisted in entering by the front
door the first week of her engagement with the family. As nothing was
said and nothing done about it, Nabby gradually declined into doing
what was most convenient--went the shortest way to her work and room.
Nabby was in her way and place a person worth making concessions
to, for she was a workwoman not to be despised. Her mother, Mrs.
Higgins, was one of those almost fabulous wonders of household genius
who by early rising, order, system, neatness and dispatch reduced
the seemingly endless labors of a large family to the very minimum
of possibility. Consequently there was little occasion for the
mistress of a family to overlook or to teach Nabby. When she entered
the household she surveyed the situation with trained eyes, took an
account of all work to be done, formed her system and walked through
it daily with energetic ease, always securing to herself two or three
hours of leisure every day in which to do her own cutting, fitting
and sewing. According to the maxims in which she had been brought
up, a girl that did not "do up her work in the morning," so as to
have this interval of leisure, was not mistress of her business. On
washing days Nabby's work began somewhere in the latter part of the
night, and daylight saw her flags of victory waving on the lines in
the shape of renovated linen, and Nabby with great composure getting
breakfast as on any other day.

She took all her appointed work as a matter of course. Strong, young,
and healthy, she scarcely knew what fatigue was. She was cheerful,
obliging, and good tempered, as thoroughly healthy people generally
are. There was, to be sure, a little deposit of gunpowder in Nabby's
nature, and anybody who chose to touch a match to her self-esteem,
her sense of personal dignity or independence, was likely to see a
pretty lively display of fireworks; but it was always soon over, and
the person making the experiment did not generally care to repeat it.

But Hiel Jones found this chemical experiment irresistibly
fascinating, and apparently did not care how often he burned his
fingers with it. Hiel was somewhat blasé with easy conquests.

The female sex have had in all ages their spoiled favorites, who are
ungrateful just in proportion to the favors bestowed upon them; and
Hiel was in his circle as much courted and pursued with flattering
attentions as any spoiled tenor of the modern opera. For him did
Lucinda and Jane bake surreptitious mountains of sponge cake. Small
tributes of cream, butter, pies of various name and model, awaited
him at different stopping-places, and were handed him by fair hands
with flattering smiles. The Almira of whom Nabby discoursed with such
energetic vehemence had knit Hiel a tippet, worked his name on a
pocket-handkerchief with her hair, and even gone so far as to present
him with one of the long yellow curls which Nabby was pleased to call
"stringy." Nabby's curls certainly could not have merited any such
epithet, as every separate one of them had a will and a way of its
own, and all were to the full as mutinous as their mistress. Yet Hiel
would have given more for one of those rebellious curls than for all
Almira's smooth-brushed locks, and although a kiss from Nabby was
like a kiss from one on an electric stool, snapping and prickling at
every touch, yet somehow the perverse Hiel liked the excitement of
the shock.

Hiel's tactics for the subjugation of a female heart were in the
spirit of a poet he never heard of:

    "Pique her, and soothe in turns;
    Soon passion crowns thy hopes."

He instituted a series of regular quarrels with Nabby, varied by
flattering attentions, and delighted to provoke her to anger, sure
that she would say a vast deal more than she meant, and then, in the
reaction which is always sure to follow in the case of hot-tempered,
generous people, he should find his advantage.

So, when the stars looked out blinking and winking through a
steel-blue sky, Nabby, in the fascinating new bonnet, was handed
into the smart new sleigh, tucked in with Hiel under a profusion of
buffalo robes, and went jingling away. A supper and a dance awaited
them at a village tavern ten miles off, and other sleighs and other
swains with their ladies were on the same way, where we take our
leave of them to follow our little Dolly into the parlors of the
haute noblesse.




CHAPTER XII.

DOLLY GOES INTO COMPANY.


When Dolly found herself arrayed in her red dress and red shoes, her
hair nicely curled, she was so happy that, to speak scripturally,
she leaped for joy--flew round and round with her curls flying, like
a little mad-cap--till her mother was obliged to apply a sedative
exhortation.

"Take care, Dolly; take care. I can't take you, now, unless you are
good. If you get so wild as that I shall have to leave you at home.
Come here, and let me talk to you."

And Dolly came and stood, grave and serious, at her mother's knee,
who, while she made over and arranged some of the tumbled curls,
proceeded to fortify her mind for the coming emergency with suitable
precepts.

"It's a great thing for a little girl like you, Dolly, to be allowed
to sit up with grown people till nine o'clock, and to go out with
your mamma, and I want you to be very careful and behave as a good
little girl should. I take you, so that you may learn good manners.
Now, remember, Dolly, you mustn't speak to any of them unless you
are spoken to."

Dolly reflected on this precept gravely, and then said:

"Don't they speak to any one except when they are spoken to?"

"Yes, my dear, because they are grown-up people, and know when to
speak and what is proper to be said. Little girls do not; so they
must be silent. Little girls should be seen and not heard."

Dolly knew this maxim by heart already, and she no more questioned
the propriety of it than of any of the great laws of nature.

After an interval of serious reflection, she asked:

"But, if any of them should talk to me, then I may talk to them; may
I?"

"Yes, my dear; if any body talks to you, you must answer, but be
careful not to talk too long."

"Do you think, Mamma, that Judge Gridley will be there?"

"Yes, my dear, I presume so."

"Because I am acquainted with him," remarked Dolly gravely; "he
always talks to me. He meets me sometimes coming home from school and
talks to me. I am glad he will be there."

Mrs. Cushing smiled aside to her husband as she was tying on Dolly's
little hood, and then her father took her up in his arms and they
started.

Tea parties in the highest circles of Poganuc began at six and ended
at nine, and so when Dolly and her father and mother arrived they
found a room full of people. Col. Davenport was a tall, elegant man,
with an upright, soldierly carriage, his hair powdered white, and
tied in a queue down his back; his eyes of a clear, piercing blue,
looking out each side of a well-defined aquiline nose; his voice
deep and musical, with a sort of resonance which spoke of one used
to command. The Colonel was one of the most active members of the
church;--the one who in the absence of the pastor officiated as
lay-reader, and rendered the sermon and made the prayers, in the same
sonorous, military voice that suggested the field and the commander.
Mrs. Davenport, a lady of delicate and refined appearance, with a
certain high-bred manner toned down to a kind of motherly sweetness,
received the Doctor and Mrs. Cushing with effusion, kissed and patted
Dolly on the cheek, and remarked what a nice little girl she was
getting to be; and the Colonel stooped down and took her hand, like
an affable eagle making court to a little humming-bird, and hoped she
was quite well, to which Dolly, quite overcome with awe, answered
huskily: "Very well, I thank you, sir."

Then kind Mrs. Davenport busied herself in ordering to the front
a certain little chair that had a family history. This was duly
brought and placed for Dolly by old Cato, an ancient negro servitor
of the Colonel's, who had once served as his waiter in the army,
and had never recovered from the sense of exaltation and dignity
conferred by this experience. Dolly sat down, and began employing her
eyes about the high and dainty graces of the apartment. The walls
were hung with paper imported from France and ornamented with family
portraits by Copley. In the fire place, the high brass andirons
sustained a magnificent fire, snapping and sparkling and blazing in
a manner gorgeous to behold. Soon Cato came in with the tea on a
waiter, followed by Venus, his wife, who, with a high white turban
on her head and a clear-starched white apron in front, bore after
him a tray laden with delicate rolls, sandwiches, and multiplied and
tempting varieties of cake. Dolly spread her handkerchief in her
little lap, and comported herself as nearly as possible as she saw
the grand ladies doing, who, in satin and velvet and point lace, were
making themselves agreeable, and taking their tea with elegant ease.

The tea parties of Poganuc were not wanting in subjects for
conversation. It was in rule to discuss the current literature of the
day, which at that time came from across the water--the last articles
in the Edinburgh Review, the latest Waverley novel, the poetry of
Moore, Byron, Southey, and Wordsworth--all came under review and had
place of consideration.

In those days, when newspapers were few and scanty, when places were
isolated and travel was tedious and uncertain, the intellectual life
of cultivated people was intense. A book was an event in Poganuc. It
was heard of first across the ocean, and watched for, as one watches
for the rising of a new planet. While the English packet was slowly
laboring over, bearing it to our shores, expectation was rising, and
when the book was to be found in the city book stores an early copy
generally found its way to the élite circle of Poganuc.

Never in this day--generation of jaded and sated literary
appetite--will any one know the fresh and eager joy, the vivid
sensation of delight with which a poem like "The Lady of the Lake,"
a novel like "Ivanhoe," was received in lonely mountain towns by a
people eager for a new mental excitement. The young folks called the
rocks and glens and rivers of their romantic region by names borrowed
from Scott; they clambered among the crags of Benvenue and sailed on
the bosom of Loch Katrine.

The students in the law offices and the young ladies of the
first families had their reading circles and their literary
partialities--some being partisans of Byron, some of Scott,
etc.--and there was much innocent spouting of poetry. There were
promising youths who tied their open shirt collars with a black
ribbon, and professed disgust at the hollow state of human happiness
in general, and there were compassionate young ladies who considered
the said young men all the more interesting for this state of
mysterious desolation, and often succeeded in the work of consoling
them. It must be remarked, however, that the present gathering was a
married people's party, and the number of young men and maidens was
limited to the immediate family connections. The young people had
their parties, with the same general decorum, where the conversation
was led by them. In the elderly circles all these literary and
social topics came under discussion. Occasionally Judge Belcher, who
was an authority in literary criticism, would hold the ear of the
drawing-room while he ran a parallel between the dramatic handling
of Scott's characters as compared with those of Shakespeare, or gave
an analysis of the principles of the Lake School of Poetry. The
Judge was an admirable talker, and people in general liked to hear
him quite as well as he liked to hear himself, and so his monologues
proceeded nem. con.

On this particular evening, however, literature was forgotten in
the eagerness of politics. The news from the state elections was not
in those days spread by telegraph, it lumbered up in stages, and was
recorded at most in weekly papers; but enough had come to light to
make the Poganuc citizens aware that the State of Connecticut had
at last been revolutionized, and gone from the Federalists to the
Democrats.

Judge Belcher declaimed upon the subject in language which made the
