
She tottered a little in gaining her feet, and the 
wind drifted her slightness a step or two aside. 
" Won't you take my arm, perhaps ? " suggested 
Dunham. 

" Thank you," said Lydia, " I think I can get 
along." But after a few paces, a lurch of the ship 
flung her against Dunham's side ; he caught her 
hand, and passed it through his arm without protest 
from her. 

" Isn 't it grand ? " he asked triumphantly, as 
they stood at the prow, and rose and sank with the 
vessel's careering plunges. It was no gale, but only 
a fair wind ; the water foamed along the ship's 
sides, and, as her bows descended, shot forward in 
hissing jets of spray ; away on every hand flocked 
the white caps. " You had better keep my arm, 
here." Lydia did so, resting her disengaged hand 
on the bulwarks, as she bent over a little on that 



 

side to watch the rush of the sea. " It really seems 
as if there were more of a view here." 

" It does, somehow," admitted Lydia." 

" Look back at the ship's sails," said Dunham. 
The swell and press of the white canvas seemed 
like the clouds of heaven swooping down upon 
them from all the airy heights. The sweet wind 
beat in their faces, and they laughed in sympathy, 
as they fronted it. " Perhaps the motion is a little 
too strong for you here ? " he asked. 

" Oh, not at all ! " cried the girl. 

He had done something for her by bringing her 
here, and he hoped to do something more by taking 
her away. He was discomfited, for he was at a loss 
what other attention to offer. Just at that moment 
a sound made itself heard above the whistling of 
the cordage and the wash of the sea, which caused 
Lydia to start and look round. 

" Didn 't you think," she asked, " that you heard 
hens ? " 

" Why, yes," said Dunham. " What could it 
have been ? Let us investigate." 

He led the way back past the forecastle and the 
cook's galley, and there, in dangerous proximity to 
the pots and frying pans, they found a coop with 
some dozen querulous and meditative fowl in it. 

" I heard them this morning," said Lydia. 
" They seemed to wake me with their crowing, and 
I thought — I was at home ! " 

" I 'm very sorry," said Dunham, sympathetically. 



 

He wished Stamford were there to take shame to 
himself for denying sensibility to this girl. 

The cook, smoking a pipe at the door of his gal- 
ley, said, " Dey won't trouble you much, miss. Dey 
don't gen'ly last us long, and I 'll kill de roosters 
first." 

" Oh, come, now ! " protested Dunham. " I 
wouldn 't say that! " The cook and Lydia stared 
at him in equal surprise. 

" Well," answered the cook, "I 'll kill the hens 
first, den. It don't make any difference to me 
which I kill. I dunno but de hens is tenderer." 
He smoked in a bland indifference. 

" Oh, hold on ! " exclaimed Dunham, in repeti- 
tion of his helpless protest. 

Lydia stooped down to make closer acquaintance 
with the devoted birds. They huddled themselves 
away from her in one corner of their prison, and 
talked together in low tones of grave mistrust. 
"Poor things ! " she said. As a country girl, used 
to the practical ends of poultry, she knew as well 
as the cook that it was the fit and simple destiny of 
chickens to be eaten, sooner or later ; and it must 
have been less in commiseration of their fate than 
in self-pity and regret for the scenes they recalled 
that she sighed. The hens that burrowed yester- 
day under the lilacs in the door-yard ; the cock that 
her aunt so often drove, insulted and exclamatory, 
at the head of his harem, out of forbidden garden 
bounds ; the social groups that scratched and des- 



 

canted lazily about the wide, sunny barn doors; the 
anxious companies seeking their favorite perches, 
with alarming outcries, in the dusk of summer 
evenings ; the sentinels answering each other from 
farm to farm before winter dawns, when all the 
hills were drowned in snow, were of kindred with 
these hapless prisoners. 

Dunham was touched at Lydia's compassion. 
" Would you like — would you like to feed them ? " 
he asked by a happy inspiration. He turned to the 
cook, with his gentle politeness : " There 's no ob- 
jection to our feeding them, I suppose ? " 

" Laws, no ! " said the cook. " Fats 'em up." 
He went inside, and reappeared with a pan full of 
scraps of meat and crusts of bread. 

"Oh, I say!" cried Dunham. "Haven't you 
got some grain, you know, of some sort; some seeds, 
don't you know ? " 

" They will like this," said Lydia, while the cook 
stared in perplexity. She took the pan, and open- 
ing the little door of the coop flung the provision 
inside. But the fowls were either too depressed in 
spirit to eat anything, or they were not hungry ; 
they remained in their corner, and merely fell silent, 
as if a new suspicion had been roused in their un- 
happy breasts.. 

" Dey 'll come to it," observed the cook. 

Dunham felt far from content, and regarded the 
poultry with silent disappointment. u Are you fond 
of pets ? " he asked, after a while. 



 

" Yes, I used to have pet chickens when I was a 
little thing." 

"You ought to adopt one of these," suggested 
Dunham. " That white one is a pretty creature." 

" Yes," said Lydia. " He looks as if he were 
Leghorn. Leghorn breed," she added, in reply to 
Dunham's look of inquiry. " He 's a beauty!' 

" Let me get him out for you a moment ! " cried 
the young man, in his amiable zeal. Before Lydia 
could protest, or the cook interfere, he had opened 
the coop-door and plunged his arm into the tumult 
which his manoeuvre created within. He secured 
the cockerel, and drawing it forth was about to 
offer it to Lydia, when in its struggles to escape it 
drove one of its spurs into his hand. Dunham sud- 
denly released it ; and then ensued a wild chase 
for its recapture, up and down the ship, in which it 
had every advantage of the young man. At last it 
sprang upon the rail ; he put out his hand to seize 
it, when it rose with a desperate screech, and flew 
far out over the sea. They watched the suicide till 
it sank exhausted into a distant white-cap. 

" Dat 's gone," said the cook, philosophically. 
Dunham looked round. Half the ship's company, 
alarmed by his steeple-chase over the deck, were 
there, silently agrin. 

Lydia did not laugh. When he asked, still with 
his habitual sweetness, but entirely at random, 
" Shall we — ah — go below ? " she did not answer 
definitely, and did not go. At the same time she 



 

ceased to be so timidly intangible and aloof in man- 
ner. She began to talk to Dunham, instead of let- 
ting him talk to her ; she asked him questions, and 
listened with deference to what he said on such mat- 
ters as the probable length of the voyage and the 
sort of weather they were likely to have. She did 
not take note of his keeping his handkerchief wound 
round his hand, nor of his attempts to recur to the 
subject of his mortifying adventure. When they 
were again quite alone, the cook's respect having 
been won back through his ethnic susceptibility 
to silver, she remembered that she must go to her 
room. 

" In other words," said Staniford, after Dunham 
had reported the whole case to him, u she treated 
your hurt vanity as if you had been her pet school- 
boy. She lured you away from yourself, and got 
you to talking and thinking of other things. Lu- 
rella is deep, I tell you. What consummate tacti- 
cians the least of women are! It 's a pity that they 
have to work so often in such dull material as men ; 
they ought always to have women to operate on. 
The youngest of them has more wisdom in human 
nature than the sages of our sex. I must say, Lu- 
rella is magnanimous, too. She might have taken 
her revenge on you for pitying her yesterday when 
she sat in that warehouse door on the wharf. It 
was rather fine in Lurella not to do it. What did 
she say, Dunham? What did she talk about? Did 
she want to know ? " 

 



 

" No ! " shouted Dunham. " She talked very 
well, like any young lady." 

" Oh, all young ladies talk well, of course. But 
what did this one say ? What did she do, except 
suffer a visible pang of homesickness at the sight of 
unattainable poultry ? Come, you have represented 
the interview with Miss Blood as one of great brill- 
iancy. " 

" I have n't," said Dunham. " I have done noth- 
ing of the kind. Her talk was like any pleasant 
talk ; it was refined and simple, and — unobtru- 
sive." 

" Tiiat is, it was in no way remarkable," observed 
Stamford, with a laugh. " I expected something 
better of Lurella ; I expected something salient. 
Well, never mind. She 's behaved w^ell by you, 
seeing what a goose you had made of yourself. 
She behaved like a lady, and I 've noticed that she 
eats with her fork. It often happens in the country 
that you find the women practicing some of the arts 
of civilization, while their men folk are still sunk in 
barbaric uses. Lurella, I see, is a social creature ; 
she was born for society, as you were, and I suppose 
you w T ill be thrown a good deal together. We 're 
all likely to be associated rather familiarly, under 
the circumstances. But I wish you would note 
down in your mind some points of her conversation. 
I 'm really curious to know what a girl of her tradi- 
tions thinks about the world when she first sees it. 
Her mind must be in most respects an unbroken 



 

wilderness. She 's had schooling, of course, and she 
knows her grammar and algebra ; but she can't 
have had any cultivation. If she were of an earlier 
generation, one would expect to find something bib- 
lical in her ; but you can't count upon a Puritanic 
culture now among our country folks." 

"If you are so curious," said Dunham, "why 
don't you study her mind, yourself ? " 

" No, no, that wouldn 't do," Staniford answered. 
" The light of your innocence upon hers is inval- 
uable. I can understand her better through you. 
You must go on. I will undertake to make your 
peace with Miss Hibbard." 

The young men talked as they walked the deck 
and smoked in the starlight. They were wakeful 
after their long nap in the afternoon, and they 
walked and talked late, with the silences that old 
friends can permit themselves. Staniford recurred 
to his loss of money and his Western projects, 
which took more definite form now that he had 
placed so much distance between himself and their 
fulfillment. With half a year in Italy before him, 
he decided upon a cattle-range in Colorado. Then, 
" I should like to know," he said, after one of the 
pauses, " how two young men of our form strike 
that girl's fancy. I haven 't any personal curiosity 
about her impressions, but I should like to know, 
as an observer of the human race. If my conject- 
ures are right, she 's never met people of our sort 
before." 



 

" What sort of men has she been associated 
with ? " asked Dunham. 

" Well, I 'm not quite prepared to say. I take it 
that it isn 't exactly the hobbledehoy sort. She has 
probably looked high, — as far up as the clerk in 
the store. He has taken her to drive in a buggy 
Saturday afternoons, when he pat on his ready- 
made suit, — and looked very well in it, too ; and 
they 've been at picnics together. Or may be, as 
she 's in the school-teaching line, she 's taken some 
high-browed, hollow-cheeked high-school principal 
for her ideal. Or it is possible that she has never 
had attention from any one. That is apt to happen 
to self-respectful girls in rural communities, and their 
beauty doesn't save them. Fellows, as they call 
themselves, like girls that have what they call go, 
that make up to them. Lurella doesn 't seem of 
that kind ; and I should not be surprised if you were 
the first gentleman who had ever offered her his 
arm. I wonder what she thought of you. She 's 
acquainted by sight with the ordinary summer 
boarder of North America ; they penetrate every- 
where, now ; but I doubt if she 's talked with them 
much, if at all. She must be ignorant of our world 
beyond anything we can imagine." 

" But how do you account for her being so well 
dressed ? " 

" Oh, that 's instinct. You find it everywhere. 
In every little village there is some girl who knows 
how to out-preen all the others. I wonder," added 



 

Staniford, in a more deeply musing tone, "if she 
kept from laughing at you out of good feeling, or 
if she was merely overawed by your splendor." 

" She didn 't laugh," Dunham answered, " be- 
cause she saw that it would have added to my an- 
noyance. My splendor had nothing to do with it." 

" Oh, don't underrate your splendor, my dear 
fellow ! " cried Staniford, with a caressing ridicule 
that he often used with Dunham. " Of course, I 
know what a simple and humble fellow you are ; 
but you 've no idea how that exterior of yours 
might impose upon the agricultural imagination ; 
it has its effect upon me, in my pastoral moods." 
Dunham made a gesture of protest, and Staniford 
went on : " Country people have queer ideas of us, 
sometimes. Possibly Lurella was afraid of you. 
Think of that, Dunham, — having a woman afraid 
of you, for once in your life ! Well, hurry up your 
acquaintance with her, Dunham, or I shall wear 
myself out in mere speculative analysis. I haven't 
the aplomb for studying the sensibilities of a young 
lady, and catching chickens for her, so as to pro- 
duce a novel play of emotions. I thought this voy- 
age was going to be a season of mental quiet, but 
having a young lady on board seems to forbid that 
kind of repose. I shouldn 't mind a half dozen, 
but one is altogether too many. Poor little thing ! 
I say, Dunham! There's something rather pretty 
about having her with us, after all, isn 't there ? It 
gives a certain distinction to our voyage. We shall 



 

not degenerate. We shall shave every day, wind 
and weather permitting, and wear our best things." 
They talked of other matters, and again Staniford 
recurred to Lydia : " If she has any regrets for her 
mountain home, — though I don't see why she 
should have, — I hope they haven 't kept her awake. 
My far-away cot on the plains is not going to inter- 
fere with my slumbers." 

Staniford stepped to the ship's side, and flung the 
end of his cigarette overboard ; it struck, a red spark 
amidst the lurid phosphorescence of the bubbles that 
swept backward from the vessel's prow. 



IX. 

The weather held fine. The sun shone, and the 
friendly winds blew out of a cloudless heaven ; by- 
night the moon ruled a firmament powdered with 
stars of multitudinous splendor. The conditions 
inspired Dunham with a restless fertility of inven- 
tion in Lydia's behalf. He had heard of the game 
of shuffle-board, that blind and dumb croquet, with 
which the jaded passengers on the steamers appease 
their terrible leisure, and with the help of the ship's 
carpenter he organized this pastime, and played it 
with her hour after hour, while Stamford looked on 
and smoked in grave observance, and Hicks lurked 
at a distance, till Dunham felt it on his kind heart 
and tender conscience to invite him to a share in 
the diversion. As his nerves recovered their tone, 
Hicks showed himself a man of some qualities that 
Staniford would have liked in another man : he was 
amiable, and he was droll, though apt to turn sulky 
if Staniford addressed him, which did not often 
happen. He knew more than Dunham of shuffle- 
board, as well as of tossing rings of rope over a peg 
set up a certain space off in the deck, — a game 
which they eagerly took up in the afternoon, after 
pushing about the flat wooden disks all the morn- 
ing. Most of the talk at the table was of the vary- 



 

ing fortunes of the players; and the yarn of the 
story-teller in the forecastle remained half-spun, 
while the sailors off watch gathered to look on, and 
to bet upon Lydia's skill. It puzzled Staniford to 
make out whether she felt any strangeness in the 
situation, which she accepted with so much appar- 
ent serenity. Sometimes, in his frequently recur- 
ring talks with Dunham, he questioned whether 
their delicate precautions for saving her feelings 
were not perhaps thrown away upon a young per- 
son who played shuffle-board and ring-toss on the 
deck of the Aroostook with as much self-possession 
as she would have played croquet on her native 
turf at South Bradfield. 

" Their ideal of propriety up country is very 
different from ours," he said, beginning one of his 
long comments. " I don't say that it concerns the 
conscience more than ours does ; but they think 
evil of different things. We 're getting European- 
ized, — I don't mean you, Dunham; in spite of 
your endeavors you will always remain one of the 
most hopelessly American of our species, — and we 
have our little borrowed anxieties about the free 
association of young people. They have none 
whatever ; though they are apt to look suspiciously 
upon married people's friendships with other peo- 
ple's wives and husbands. It's quite likely that 
Lurella, with the traditions of her queer world, has 
not imagined anything anomalous in her position. 
She may realize certain inconveniences. But she 



 

must see great advantages in it. Poor girl ! How 
she must be rioting on the united devotion of cabin 
and forecastle, after the scanty gallantries of a hill 
town peopled by elderly unmarried women ! I 'm 
glad of it, for her sake. I wonder which she 
really prizes most : your ornate attentions, or the 
uncouth homage of those sailors, who are always 
running to fetch her rings and blocks when she 
makes a wild shot. I believe I don't care and 
shouldn't disapprove of her preference, whichever 
it was." Staniford frowned before he added: "But 
I object to Hicks and his drolleries. It 's impossi- 
ble for that little wretch to think reverently of a 
young girl ; it 's shocking to see her treating him 
as if he were a gentleman." Hicks's behavior 
really gave no grounds for reproach ; and it was 
only his moral mechanism, as Staniford called the 
character he constructed for him, which he could 
blame ; nevertheless, the thought of him gave an 
oblique cast to Staniford 's reflections, which he cut 
short by saying, " This sort of worship is every 
woman's due in girlhood ; but I suppose a fortnight 
of it will make her a pert and silly coquette. What 
does she say to your literature, Dunham? " 

Dunham had already begun to lend Lydia books, 
— his own and Stamford's, — in which he read 
aloud to her, and chose passages for her admiration ; 
but he was obliged to report that she had rather a 
passive taste in literature. She seemed to like what 
he said was good, but not to like it very much, 



 

or to care greatly for reading; or else she had never 
had the habit of talking books. He suggested this 
to Stamford, who at once philosophized it. 

" Why, I rather like that, you know. We all 
read in such a literary way, now ; we don't read 
simply for the joy or profit of it ; we expect to talk 
about it, and say how it is this and that ; and I 've 
no doubt that we 're sub-consciously harassed, all 
the time, with an automatic process of criticism. 
Now Lurella, I fancy, reads with the sense of the 
days when people read in private, and not in pub- 
lic, as we do. She believes that your serious books 
are all true ; and she knows that my novels are all 
lies — that 's what some excellent Christians would 
call the fiction even of George Eliot or of Haw- 
thorne ; she would be ashamed to discuss the lives 
and loves of heroes and heroines who never existed. 
I think that 's first-rate. She must wonder at your 
distempered interest in them. If one could get at 
it, I suppose the fresh wholesomeness of Lurella's 
mind would be something delicious, — a quality 
like spring water." 

He was one of those men who cannot rest in re- 
gard to people they meet till they have made some 
effort to formulate them. He liked to ticket them 
off ; but when he could not classify them, he re- 
mained content with his mere study of them. His 
habit was one that does not promote sympathy with 
one's fellow creatures. He confessed even that it 
disposed him to wish for their less acquaintance 



 

when once he had got them generalized ; they be- 
came then collected specimens. Yet, for the time 
being, his curiosity in them gave him a specious 
air of sociability. He lamented the insincerity 
which this involved, but he could not help it. The 
next novelty in character was as irresistible as the 
last ; he sat down before it till it yielded its mean- 
ing, or suggested to him some analogy by which he 
could interpret it. 

With this passion for the arrangement and dis- 
tribution of his neighbors, it was not long before he 
had placed most of the people on board in what he 
called the psychology of the ship. He did not care 
that they should fit exactly in their order. He 
rather preferred that they should have idiosyncra- 
sies which differentiated them from their species, 
and he enjoyed Lydia's being a little indifferent 
about books for this and for other reasons. " If 
she were literary, she would be like those vulgar 
little persons of genius in the magazine stories. 
She would have read all sorts of impossible things 
up in her village. She would have been discovered 
by some aesthetic summer boarder, who had hap- 
pened to identify her with the gifted Daisy Dawn, 
and she would be going out on the ^esthetic's money 
for the further expansion of her spirit in Europe. 
Somebody would be obliged to fall in love with her, 
and she would sacrifice her career for a man who 
was her inferior, as we should be subtly given to 
understand at the close. I think it 's going to be 



 

as distinguished by and by not to like books as it 
is not to write them. Lurella is a prophetic soul; 
and if there 's anything comforting about her, it 's 
her being so merely and stupidly pretty." 

" She is not merely and stupidly pretty ! " re- 
torted Dunham. " She never does herself justice 
when you are by. She can talk very well, and on 
some subjects she thinks strongly." 

u Oh, I 'm sorry for that ! " said Staniford. 
" But call me some time when she 's doing herself 
justice." 

"I don't mean that she 's like the women we 
know. She doesn 't say witty things, and she 
hasn 't their responsive quickness ; but her ideas 
are her own, no matter how old they are ; and 
what she says she seems to be saying for the first 
time, and as if it had never been thought out be- 
fore." 

" That is what I have been contending for," said 
Staniford ; " that is what I meant by spring water. 
It is that thrilling freshness which charms me in 
Lurella." He laughed. " Have you converted her 
to your spectacular faith, yet ? " Dunham blushed. 
" You have tried," continued Staniford. " Tell 
me about it ! " 

" I will not talk with you on such matters," said 
Dunham, " till you know how to treat serious 
things seriously." 

" I shall know how when I realize that they 
are serious with you. Well, I don't object to a 



 

woman's thinking strongly on religious subjects : 
it 's the only safe ground for her strong thinking, 
and even there she had better feel strongly. Did 
you succeed in convincing her that Archbishop 
Laud was a saint incompris, and the good King 
Charles a blessed martyr." 

Dunham did not answer till he had choked down 
some natural resentment. He had, several years 
earlier, forsaken the pale Unitarian worship of his 
family, because, Stamford always said, he had such 
a feeling for color, and had adopted an extreme tint 
of ritualism. It was rumored at one time, before 
his engagement to Miss Hibbard, that he was go- 
ing to unite with a celibate brotherhood ; he went 
regularly into retreat at certain seasons, to the 
vast entertainment of his friend ; and, within the 
bounds of good taste, he was a zealous propagan- 
dist of his faith, of which he had the practical vir- 
tues in high degree. " I hope," he said presently, 
" that I know how to respect convictions, even 
of those adhering to the Church in Error." 

Staniford laughed again. " I see you have not 
converted Lurella. Well, I like that in her, too. 
I wish I could have the arguments, pro and con. 
It would have been amusing. I suppose," lie pon- 
dered aloud, " that she is a Calvinist of the leepest 
dye, and would regard me as a lost spirit for being 
outside of her church. She would look down upon 
me from one height, as I look down upon her from 
another. And really, as far as personal satisfac- 



 

tion in superiority goes, she might have the ad- 
vantage of me. That 's very curious, very inter- 
esting." 

As the first week wore away, the wonted inci- 
dents of a sea voyage lent their variety to the life 
on board. One day the ship ran into a school of 
whales, which remained heavily thumping and loll- 
ing about in her course, and blowing jets of water 
into the air, like so many breaks in garden hose, 
Staniford suggested. At another time some flying- 
fish came on board. The sailors caught a dolphin, 
and they promised a shark, by and by. All these 
things were turned to account for the young girl's 
amusement, as if they had happened for her. The 
dolphin died that she might wonder and pity his 
beautiful death ; the cook fried her some of the 
flying-fish ; some one was on the lookout to detect 
even porpoises for her. A sail in the offing won 
the discoverer envy when he pointed it out to her ; 
a steamer, celebrity. The captain ran a point out 
of his course to speak to a vessel, that she might 
be able to tell what speaking a ship at sea was 
like. 

At table the stores which the young men had 
laid in for private use became common luxuries, 
and she fared sumptuously every day upon dainties 
which she supposed were supplied by the ship, — 
delicate jellies and canned meats and syruped fruits ; 
and, if she wondered at anything, she must have 
wondered at the scrupulous abstinence with which 



 

Captain Jenness, seconded by Mr. Watterson, re- 
fused the luxuries which his bounty provided them, 
and at the constancy with which Staniford declined 
some of these dishes, and Hicks declined others. 
Shortly after the latter began more distinctly to be 
tolerated, he appeared one day on deck with a 
steamer-chair in his hand, and offered it to Lyd- 
ia's use, where she sat on a stool by the bulwark. 
After that, as she reclined in this chair, wrapped 
in her red shawl, and provided with a book or 
some sort of becoming handiwork, she was even 
more picturesquely than before the centre about 
which the ship's pride and chivalrous sentiment re- 
volved. They were Americans, and they knew how 
to worship a woman. 

Staniford did not seek occasions to please and 
amuse her, as the others did. When they met, as 
they must, three times a clay, at table, he took his 
part in the talk, and now and then addressed her 
a perfunctory civility. He imagined that she dis- 
liked him, and he interested himself in imagining 
the ignorant grounds of her dislike. " A woman," 
he said, " must always dislike some one in com- 
pany ; it 's usually another woman ; as there 's none 
on board, I accept her enmity with meekness." 
Dunham wished to persuade him that he was mis- 
taken. " Don't try to comfort me, Dunham," he 
replied. " I find a pleasure in being detested which 
is inconceivable to your amiable bosom." 

Dunham turned to go below, from where they 



 

stood at the head of the cabin stairs. Staniford 
looked round, and saw Lydia, whom they had kept 
from coming up; she must have heard him. He 
took his cigar from his mouth, and caught up a 
stool, which he placed near the ship's side, where 
Lydia usually sat, and without waiting for her con- 
currence got a stool for himself, and sat down with 
her. 

"Well, Miss Blood," he said, "it's Saturday 
afternoon at last, and we 're at the end of our first 
week. Has it seemed very long to you ? " 

Lydia's color was bright with consciousness, but 
the glance she gave Staniford showed him looking 
tranquilly and honestly at her. " Yes," she said, 
" it has seemed long." 

" That 's merely the strangeness of everything. 
There 's nothing like local familiarity to make the 
time pass, — except monotony; and one gets both 
at sea. Next week will go faster than this, and 
we shall all be at Trieste before we know it. Of 
course we shall have a storm or two, and that will 
retard us in fact as well as fancy. But you would 
n't feel that you 'd been at sea if you hadn 't had a 
storm." 

He knew that his tone was patronizing, but he 
had theorized the girl so much with a certain slight 
in his mind that he was not able at once to get the 
tone which he usually took towards women. This 
might not, indeed, have pleased some women any 
better than patronage : it mocked while it caressed 



 

all their little pretenses and artificialities ; he ad- 
dressed them as if they must be in the joke of 
themselves, and did not expect to be taken seri- 
ously. At the same time he liked them greatly, 
and would not on any account have had the silliest 
of them different from what she was. He did not 
seek them as Dunham did ; their society was not a 
matter of life or death with him; but he had an 
elder-brotherly kindness for the whole sex. 

Lydia waited awhile for him to say something 
more, but he added nothing, and she observed, with 
a furtive look : " I presume you ? ve seen some very 
severe storms at sea." 

" No," Staniford answered, " I have n't. I 've 
been over several times, but I 've never seen any- 
thing alarming. I 've experienced the ordinary 
seasickening tempestuousness." 

" Have you — have you ever been in Italy?" 
asked Lydia, after another pause. 

" Yes," he said, " twice ; I 'm very fond of Italy." 
He spoke of it in a familiar tone that might well 
have been discouraging to one of her total unac- 
quaintance with it. Presently he added of his own 
motion, looking at her with his interest in her as a 
curious study, " You 're going to Venice, I think 
Mr. Dunham told me." 

" Yes," said Lydia. 

" Well, I think it 's rather a pity that you should 
n't arrive there directly, without the interposition 
of Trieste." He scanned her yet more closely, but 
