
" Don't you think it is beautiful, Rupert ? " Dolly 
pursued, curious to know what went on in his 
thoughts. 

" I've seen as handsome faces and handsomer," 
he said slowly; "and I lik^ flesh and blood a long 
sight better than a painting, anyhow." 

" Handsome ? " said Dolly. " it is not that 
it is so much more ! 

" What is it, Miss Dolly ? " said Lawrence just 
then coming up behind her. " I should like to 
hear your criticism. Do put it in words." 

"That's not easy; and it is not criticism. But 
I'll tell you how it seems to me; as the painting, not of anybody's features, but of somebody's 
nature spirit. It is a painting of the spiritual 
character." 

" Mental traits can be expressed in words, though," 
said Lawrence. "You'll go on, I hope?" 



 

" I cannot," said Dolly. " It is not the lovely 
face, Mr. Babbage; it is Thought and Feeling, 
Love, and Purity and Majesty but the majesty 
of a person who has no thought of herself." 

Dolly could not get out of that one room; she 
sat before the Raphael, and then stood fixed before 
the "Notte" or the "Magdalene" of Correggio; and 
would not come away. Eupert always attended on 
her, and Mrs. Copley as regularly made progresses 
through the rooms on Lawrence's arm, till she declared herself tired out. They were much beholden 
to Lawrence and his good offices thbse days, more 
than they knew; for it was past the season when 
the gallery was open to the public, and entrance 
was obtained solely by the influence of St. Leger's 
mediation and money ; how much of the latter they 
never knew. Lawrence was a very good escort 
also; his address was pleasant, and his knowledge of men and things sufficient for useful purposes; he knew in general what was what and 
who was who, and was never at a loss. Rupert 
followed the party like a faithful dog, ready for 
service a,nd with no opportunity to shew it; Lawrence held the post of leader and manager now, 
and filled it well. In matters of art, however, I 
am bound to say, though he could talk more he 
knew as little as Rupert himself. 

"What is to be done to-morrow?" he asked, in 
the evening of that second day. 

" We haven't got our letters yet," said Mrs. Copley. " I can't see why they don't come." 
 



 

"So the Green vaults must wait. What else 
shall we do ? " 

" 0," said Dolly, " might we not go to the gallery again ? " 

"Another day?" cried her mother. "Why you 
have been there two whole mornings, child. Ain't 
that enough?" 

" Mother, I could go two months, I think." 

"Then you'd catch your death," said Mrs. Copley. " That inner room is very chill now. For my 
part, I do not want to see another picture again 
in days and duys. My head swims with looking 
at them. I don't see what you find in the old 
things." 

Dolly could not have told. She sighed, and it 
was agreed that they would drive about the city 
and its environs next day; Lawrence assuring them 
that it was one of the pleasantest towns in Ger- 
many. But the next morning early came the letters from Mr. Copley; one to his wife and one to 
Dolly. 

Dolly read them both and pondered them ; and 
was unsatisfied. They were rather cheerful letters ; 
at the same time Mr. Copley informed his wife and 
daughter that he could not join them in Dresden ; 
nor at any rate before they got to Venice. So much 
was final; but what puzzled and annoyed Dolly 
yet more than this delay was the, amount of money 
he remitted to her. To her; for Mrs. Copley, as an 
invalid, it was agreed, should not be burdened with 
business. So the draft came in the letter to Dolly ; 



 

and it was not half large enough. Dolly kept the 
draft, gave the letter to her mother to read, and 
sat in a mazed kind of state, trying to bring her 
wits to a focus upon this condition of affairs. 

What was her father thinking of? It is one 
thing to be short of funds at home, in one's own 
country and in one's own house ; it is bad enough 
even there; what is it when one is in a strange land 
and dependent upon the shelter of other people's 
houses, for which an equivalent must be paid in 
money? and when one is obliged to travel from 
one place to another, and every mile of the way 
demands another equivalent in money ? Mr. Copley had sent a little, but Dolly knew it would by 
no means take them to Venice. What did he intend ? or what did he expect her to do ? Apply to 
Lawrence ? Never ! No, not under any pressure 
or combination that could be brought to bear. He 
would demand an equivalent too ; or worse, think 
that it was guarantied, if she made such an application. How could Mr. Copley place his child in 
such a predicament ? And then Dolly's head went 
down in her hands, for the probable answer crushed 
her. He never would, he never could, but for yielding to unworthy indulgences; becoming entangled 
in low pleasures; taken possession of by the influence of unprincipled men. Her father ! Dolly felt 
as if her heart would break or her head burst with 
its burden of pain, " a father never should let 
his child feel ashamed for him ! " was the secret 
cry down in the depths of her heart. Dolly would 



 

not speak it out ever, even to herself, but it was 
there, all the same; and it tortured her, with a 
nameless, exquisite torture, under which she mentally writhed, without being able to get the least 
relief. Every surge of the old love and reverence broke on those sharp rocks of pain more 
hopelessly. " father ! father ! " she cried silently, with a pitiful vain appeal which could never 
be heard. 

And then the practical question came back, 
taking away her breath. What was she to do? 
If they did not stay too long in Dresden they 
would have enough money to pay their lodging 
bill and go, she calculated, half the way to Venice. 
What then ? And if Mr. Copley met them in 
Venice, according to promise, who would assure 
her that he would then come provided with the 
necessary funds? and what if he failed to come? 

Dolly started up, feeling that she could not sit 
any longer thinking about it; her nerves were 
getting into a hard knot. She would not think; 
she busied herself in making her mother and her- 
self ready for their morning's excursion. And 
Lawrence came with a carriage; and they set off. 
It was a lovely day, and certainly the drive was 
all it had promised ; and Dolly barred off thought, 
and would look and enjoy and talk and make 
others enjoy; so the first part of the day passed 
very well. Dolly would make no arrangements 
for the afternoon, and Mrs. Copley was able for 
no more that day. 




But when the ea^y dinner was over, Dolly 
asked Rupert to wa|c with her. Eupert was always ready, and gav a delighted assent. 

" Are you going mt again ? and to leave me all 
alone ? " said Mrs. Oopley. 

"You will be ying down, mother dear; you 
will not want mfi and I have business on hand, 
that I must attend to." 

" I don't see what business," said Mrs. Copley 
fretfully; "aricyyou can't do anything here, in a 
strange place You'd better get Mr. St. Leger to 
do it for you.

" He cannyt do my work," said Dolly lightly. 

" But your had better wait and take him along, 
Dolly. He knows where to go." 

" So do , mother. I want Rupert this time, and 
not Mr.  Leger. You sleep, till I come back." 

Dolly had said she meant business, but at first 
going to things did not look like it. She went 
slowly And silently along the streets, not attend- 
ing mjch to what she was passing, Rupert thought ; 
till ttey arrived at an open spot from which the 
viewof the river, with the bridge and parts of the 
towi, could be enjoyed; and there Dolly sat down 
on a step, and still without speaking to Rupert, 
b#it forward leaning on her knees and seemed to 
g.ve herself up to studying the beautiful scene. 
She saw it; the river, the picturesque bridge, the 
vavy, vine-clad hills, the unfamiliar buildings of 
the city, the villas scattered about on the banks 
of the Elbe; she saw it all under a clear heaven 




and a sunny light which Iressed everything in 
hues of loveliness; and her face was fixed the while 
in lines of grave thought anc gave back no reflection of the beauty. It had teauty enough of its 
own, Eupert thought; who I mist say paid little 
heed to the landscape, and watihed his companion 
instead. The steady, intent, swept eyes, how much 
grave womanliness was in them , how delicate the 
colour was on the cheek, and how tender were the 
curves of the lips ; while the wilful,clustering curly 
hair gave an almost childish setting to the features 
whose expression was so very un-ch'ldish. For it 
was exceedingly grave. Dolly did $e the lovely 
landscape, and it made her feel alone md helpless. 
There was nothing wonted or familiar; she seemed 
to herself somehow cast away in the Saoii capital. 
And truly she was all alone. Lawrence she could 
not apply to, her mother must not even be talked 
to ; she knew nobody else. Her father had let her 
come on this journey, had sent her forth, and now 
left her unprovided even for the barest necessities. 
No doubt he meant that she should be beiolden 
to Mr. St. Leger, to whom he could retun the 
money by and by. " Or not at all," thought tolly 
bitterly, "if I would give him myself instead. 
father, could you seU me ! " Then came the thought 
of the entanglements and indulgences which had 
brought Mr. Copley to do other things so unlife 
himself; and Dolly's heart grew too full. She
could not bear it; she had borne up and foughi 
it out all the morning; now feeling and truth must 



 

have a minute for themselves ; her head went down 
on her hands and she burst into quiet sobs. 

Quiet, but deep. Eupert, looking on in dismayed 
alarm, saw that this outbreak of pain had some 
deep grounded cause; right or wrong, it came 
from Dolly's very heart and her whole nature was 
trembling. He was filled with a great awe; and 
in this awe his sympathy was silent for a time; 
but he could not leave the girl to herself too long. 

" Miss Dolly," he said in a pause of the sobs, 
" I thought you were such a Christian ? " 

Dolly started, lifted her quivering, tearful face, 
and looked straight at him. "Yes," she said, 
" what then ? " 

"I always thought religious folks had something 
to comfort them." 

"Don't think they haven't," said Dolly. But 
there she broke down again, and it was a storm of 
a rain shower that poured from her eyes this time. 
She struggled to get the better of it, and as soon 
as she could she sat up again, brushing the tears 
right and left with her hands and speaking in a 
voice still half choked. 

"Don't think they haven't! If I had not that, 
my heart would just break and be done with it. 
But being a Christian does not keep one from 
suffering sometimes." Her voice failed. 

"What is the matter? No, I don't mean that 
you should tell me that; only can't I do something ? " 

" No, thank you ; nobody can. Yes, you are doing a great deal, Rupert ; you are the greatest com- 
fort to me. I depend upon you." 

Rupert's eyes glistened. He was silent for sheer 
swelling of heart. He gulped down something 
and went on presently. 

"I was thinkin' of something my old mother 
used to say. I know I've heard her say it, lots o' 
times. I don't know what the trouble is, that's a 
fact so maybe I hadn't oughter speak; but she 
used to say that nothing could happen to Christians that would do 'em any real hurt." 

" I know," said Dolly, wondering to herself how 
it could be true; "the Bible says so." And then 
conscience rebuked her. "And it is true," she said 
lifting up her head; " everything is true that the 
Bible says, and that is true; and it says other 
things ' 

" What ? " said Rupert ; more for her sake I confess than for his own. 

" It says ' Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace, 
whose mind is staid upon thee ' ; I was reading it 
this morning. You see I must be a very poor 
Christian, or I should not have doubted a minute. 
But even a Christian, and the best, must be sorry 
sometimes for things he cannot help," said Dolly. 

"Then you were not troubled about yourself just 
now ? " said Rupert. 

"Yes, I was! I was indeed, in spite of all those 
words and a great many others. I believe I forgot 
them." 

"I should think, if God gives people promises, 



 

he would like them to be trusted," said Kupert 
"That's what ice do." 

Dolly looked at him again as if he had said 
something that struck her; and then she got up, 
and taking his arm set off this time at a business 
pace. She knew, she said, where to find what she 
wanted; however, she had gone out of her way, 
and it cost her some trouble and time to get to the 
place. It was a store of artists' materials among 
other things; and here Dolly made careful purchases of paper, colours, and camel's hair pencils. 
Rupert was reassured as to a suspicion that had 
crossed him, that part of Dolly's trouble might 
have been caused by want of means; seeing that 
she was buying articles of amusement with a free 
hand. Then Dolly went straight home. 

All the rest of that afternoon she sat drawing. 
The two next days, the weather was unfavourable 
for going out, and she sat at her work persistently, 
whenever she was not obliged to be reading to her 
mother or attending upon her. The day following 
the long-planned visit to the Green vaults was 
made. In the evening Lawrence came to see 
them. 

"Well, Mrs. Copley; tired?" he began. 

" I don't know which part of me's most tired," 
said the lady; "my eyes, or my head, cr my feet." 

" Did it pay, after all ? " 

"Pay! I wouldn't have missed it for a year's 
length of life! It went ahead of all lever thought 
of or dreamt of. It was most like Altddin's lamp 



 

or what he saw, I mean, when he went down into 
fairyland. I declare, it was just as good." 

" Only that you could not put things in your 
pockets. What would you have brought, Mrs. 
Copley, if it had been safe and allowable? The 
famous egg ? " 

"Mercy, no, Mr. St. Leger ! I shouldn't have a minute's peace of my life, for fear I should lose it again." 

" That's about how they say the first owner felt. 
They tell of him, that a lady once coaxed him to 
let her have the egg in her hand ; and she kept it 
in her hand; and the prince forgot; and she drove 
back to Dresden with it." 

" Where was he, the prince ? " 

"At some hunting castle, I believe. It was 
night before he found out his loss; and then he 
booted and spurred in hot haste and rode to Dresden in the middle of the night, to fetch the egg 
from the lady again." 

"What's the use of things that give folks so 
much trouble ? " said Rupert. 

"A matter of taste!" said Lawrence, shrugging his shoulders. "But I am glad to have 
been through those rooms myself; and I never 
should, but for you, Mrs. Copley. I suppose there 
is hardly the like to be seen anywhere else." 

" What delicious things there were in the ivory 
room," said Dolly. "Those drunken musicians, 
mother, of .Albert D'urer; and some of the vases; 
how beautiful they were ! " 

" I did not tee the musicians," said Mrs. Copley. 



 

" I don't see how drunken musicians, or drunken 
anything, could be pretty. Odd taste, I think." 

"Then perhaps you didn't like the piece with 
the fallen angels?" said Rupert. "That beat me!" 

" How could there be peace with the fallen angels?" Mrs. Copley asked scornfully. At which 
however there was a great burst of laughter. " I 
liked best of all the room where the egg was, I 
believe. But the silver room was magnificent." 

" I liked the ivory better than the silver, mother." 

" Who does it all belong to ? " Rupert asked. 

" The reigning house of Saxony," Lawrence answered. 

"The whole of it?" 

"Yes." 

" And that big picture gallery into the bargain ? " 

" Yes." 

"That's bein' grasping, for any one family to 
have so much," was Rupert's conclusion. 

"Well you see," said Lawrence, "we get the 
good of it, and they have the care." 

" I don't see how we get the good of it," said Mrs. 
Copley. " I suppose if I had one of those golden 
birds, now, with the eyes of diamonds; or one of 
those wonderfully chased silver caskets; I should 
have enough to keep me in comfort the rest of my 
life. I think things are queer, somehow. One single one of those jewels that lie heaped up there, 
and I should want for nothing more in this world. 
And there they lie, and nobody has 'em." 

"Do you want for anything now, mother dear?" 



 

asked Dolly. She was busy at a side table, arranging something in a little frame, and did not look 
up from her work. 

" I should think I did ! " was Mrs. Copley's rejoinder. "What don't I want, from breath up?" 

"Here you have had one wish fulfilled to-day 
you have seen the Green vaults and now we 
are going to Venice to fulfil another wish what 
would you have ? " 

"I don't like to think I am going away from 
here. I like Dresden best of all the places we've 
been in. And I would like to go through the 
Green vaults but why they are called so I cannot conceive about once every month. I would 
never get tired." 

" So you would like to settle in Dresden ? " said 
Lawrence. " I don't think it would be safe to let 
you go through the Green vaults often, Mi-s. Copley; you would certainly be tempted too much for 
your principles. Miss Dolly, we had better get her 
away. When do we go, by the by ? " 

Instead of answering, Dolly rose up and brought 
him something to look at; a plain little oval frame 
of black wood, within which was a head in light 
water colours. 

"Mrs. Copley ! " exclaimed Lawrence. 

"Is it like?" 

" Striking ! Capital. I'm not much of a judge 
of painting in general, but I know a friend's face 
when I see it; and this is to the life. To the life! 
Graceful, too. Where did you get it ? " 



 

" I got the paper and the paints at a little shop 
in I forget the name of the strasse; and mother 
was here to my hand. Ecco ! " 

"You don't mean you did it?" said Lawrence, 
while the others crowded near to look. 

" I used to amuse myself with that kind of thing 
when I was at school, and I had always a knack 
at catching likenesses. I am going to try you, 
Rupert, next." 

" Ah, try me ! " cried Lawrence. " Will you ? 
and we will stay in Dresden till it is done." 

"Suppose I succeed," said Dolly softly, "will 
you get me orders ? " 

"Orders?" 

"Yes. To paint likenesses, like this, in miniature. I can take ivory, but I would not waste 
ivory on this one. I'll do yours on ivory if you 
like." 

" But orders ? " said Lawrence, dumbfounded. 

"Yes," said Dolly nodding. "Orders; and for 
as high pay as you think I can properly ask. 
Hush ! say nothing to mother " 

"Is that like me?" Mrs. Copley asked, after 
studying the little picture. 

" Capitally like you ! " Lawrence cried. 

"Then I've changed more'n I thought I had, 
that's all. I don't think I care about your painting 
me any more, Dolly, if that's the best you can do." 

" Why Mrs. Copley," said Lawrence, " it's beautiful. Exactly your turn of the head, and the delicate fresh colour in your cheeks. It's perfect ! " 



 

" Is it ? " said Mrs. Copley in a modified tone. 
" So that's what you've been fussing about, Dolly, 
these two days. Well, take Mr. St. Leger next.. 
I want to see what yoii'll make of him. She 
won't natter you," the lady went on ; " that's one 
thing you may lay your account with; she won't 
natter you. But if we're going away, you won't 
have much chance; and seems to me, we had 
better settle which way we are going." 

Lawrence did not take up this hint. He sat 
gazing at the little miniature, which was in its 
way very lovely. The colours were lightly laid in, 
the whole was rather sketchy; but the grace of 
the delineation was remarkable, and the likeness 
was perfect; and Dolly had shewn a true artist's 
eye in her choice of position and point of view. 

" I did not know you had such a wonderful talent " he remarked. 

Dolly made no answer. 

" You'll do me next ? " 

" If you like my conditions." 

" I do not understand them," he said, looking up 
at her. 

" I want orders " Dolly said almost in a whisper. 

" Orders ? To paint things like this ? For money ? Nonsense, Dolly ! " 

" As you please, Mr. St. Leger ; then I will stay 
here a while and get work through Frau Wetterhahn. She wants me to paint Jier." 

" You never will ! " 



 

" I'll try." 

" As a favour, then ? " 

Dolly lifted her eyes and smiled at the young 
man; a smile that utterly and wholly bewitched 
him. Wilful ? yes, he thought it was wilful, but 
sweet and arch, and bright with hope and purpose and conscious independence; a little defiant, 
a great deal glad. 

" Paint me," said he hastily, " and I'll give you 
anything you like." 

"Dolly nodded. "Very well," said she; u tnoi 
you may talk with mother about our route." 



CHAPTER XX. 

LIMBURG. 

LAWRENCE did talk with Mrs. Copley; and 
the result of the discussion was that the 
decision and management of their movements was 
finally made over to him. Whether it happened 
by design or not, the good lady's head was quite 
confused among the different plans suggested ; she 
could understand nothing of it, she said ; and so it 
all fell into Lawrence's hand. I think that was 
what he wanted, and that he had views of his own 
to gratify; for Dolly, who had been engaged with 
other matters this time, expressed some surprise a 
day or two after they set out, at finding herself 
again in Weimar. 

"Going back the way we came?" she cried. 

" Only for a little distance a few stages," explained Lawrence ; " after that it will be all new." 

Dolly did not much care, nor know enough to 
correct him if he was going wrong; she gave herself up to hopeful enjoyment of the constantly 
vaiying new scenes and sights. Mrs. Copley on 
the contrary seemed able to enjoy nothing beyond 
the shortening of the distance between her and 



 

Venice. If she had known how much longer than 
was necessary Lawrence had made it ! 

So it happened that they were going one day 
down a pleasant road which led along a river valley, when an exclamation from Dolly roused her 
mother out of a half nap. "What is it?" she 
asked. 

" Mother, such a beautiful, beautiful old church ! 
Look see how it sits up there grandly on the 
rock." 

" Very inconvenient, I should think," said Mrs. 
Copley, giving a glance out of the carriage window. "I shouldn't think people would like to 
mount up there often." 

" I believe," said Lawrence, also looking out 
now, "that must be a famous old church isn't 
this Limburg? yes. It is the cathedral at Limburg ; a very fine specimen of its style, Miss Dolly, 
they say." 

" What is the style ? it's beautiful ! Gothic ? " 

"No, aw not exactly. I'm not learned my- 
self, really, in such matters. I hardly know a 
good thing when I see it never studied antiquities, 
you know; but this is said, I know, to be a very 
good thing."  

" How old ? It does not look antiquated." 

" it has been repaired and restored. But it is 
not Gothic, so it dates further back; what they call 
the Transition style." 

" It is very noble," said Dolly. " Is it as good 
inside as outside ? " 




 

" Dou't know, I declare ; I suppose so. We might 
go in and see ; let the horses feed and Mrs. Copley- 
take a rest." 

This proposition was received with such joy by 
Dolly that it was at once acted upon. The party 
sought out an inn, bespoke some luncheon, and 
arranged for Mrs. Copley's repose. But chancing 
to hear from Lawrence that the treasures of art 
and value in the church repositories were both 
rich and rare, she gave up the promised nap and 
joined the party who went to the dome. After 
the Dresden Green vaults, she said, she supposed 
nothing new could be found; but she would go 
and see. So they went all together. If Lawrence 
had guessed to what this chance visit would lead ! 
But that is precisely what people can never know. 

Dolly was in a condition of growing delight, 
which every step increased. Before the great 
front of the cathedral she stood still and looked 
up, while Kupert and Mrs. Copley turned their 
backs and gazed out upon the wide country view. 
Lawrence as usual when he could, attended upon 
Dolly. 

" I did not know you were so fond of this kind 
of thing," he remarked, seeing a little enviously 
her bright, interested eyes. 

" It lifts me almost off my feet ! " said Dolly. 
"My soul don't seem big enough to take it all 
in. How grand, how grand ! Whose statues are 
those ? " 

" Oh each side ? " said Lawrence, who had been 



 

collecting information. " That on the one hand is 
Heinrich von Isenburg, the founder; and the other 
is the architect, but nobody knows his name. It 
is lost. St. George is on the top there." 

" Well," said Dolly, " he is just as well off as if 
it hadn't been lost ! " 

" Who ? the architect ? How do you make that 
out ? He loses all the glory." 

" How does he lose it ? Do you think," said 
Dolly smiling, " he would care, in the other world, 
to know that you and I liked his work ? " 

" The other world ! " said St. Leger. 

" You believe in it, don't you ? " 

"Yes, certainly; but you speak as if 

"As if I believed in it!" said Dolly merrily. 
"You speak as if you didn't." 

"I do, I assure you; but what is fame then?" 

" Nothing at all " said Dolly. " Just nothing 
at all; if you mean people's admiration or applause 
given when we have gone beyond reach of it." 

" Beyond reach of it ! " said Lawrence, echoing 
her words again. " Miss Dolly, do you think it is 
no use to have one's name honoured by all the 
world for ages after we have lived ? " 

"Very good for the world," said Dolly, with a 
spice of amusement visible again. 

" And nothing to the man ? " 

"What should it be to the man?" said Dolly, 
seriously enough now. "Mr. St. Leger, when a 
man has got beyond this world with its little cares 
and interests, there will be just one question for 



 

him, whether he has done what God put him here 
to do; and there will be just one word of praise 
that he will care about, the ' Well done ! ' if he 
may have it, from those lips." 

Dolly began quietly, but her colour flushed and 
her lip trembled as she went on, and her eye 
sparkled through a sudden veil of tears. Lawrence was silenced by admiration, and almost forgot what they were talking about. 

" But don't you think," he began again, as Dolly 
moved towards the church door, "that the one 
thing I mean, the praise here, will be a sort of 
guaranty for the praise there ? " 

" No," said Dolly. " ' That which is highly esteemed among men, is abomination in the sight 
of God,' often, often." She pushed open the door 
and went in. Only a little way in ; there she stood 
still, arrested by all the glory and the beauty that 
met her eye. The nobleness of form, the wealth 
of colour, the multiplied richness of both, almost 
bewildered her at first entering. Pillars, arches, 
vaultings, niches, galleries, arcades a wilderness 
of harmonized form; and every panel and fair 
space filled with painting. She could not see details yet; she was lost in the greatness of the 
whole. 

"Whom has Mrs. Copley picked up?" asked 
Lawrence in an undertone. After all, if the architect's posthumous fame had depended on him, 
it would not have been worth much eifort. Mrs. 
Copley, it may be mentioned, had passed on while 



 

Dolly and St. Leger had stood talking outside; 
and now she was seen in the distance the centre 
of a group of lively talkers; at least there was one 
