from the fire, drain perfectly dry, and serve with melted butter, with
capers, or nasturtium seed; or, if you have neither of these, some
cucumber or gherkin-pickle stirred into it. If you wish to use the
broth for soup, put in very little salt while boiling; if not, salt
well, and boil the meat in a cloth.
MUTTON STEW. 
Cut up from three to four pounds of mutton,—the inferior portions will
do as well as any other,—crack the bones, and remove all the fat. Put
on the meat—the pieces not more than an inch and a half in length—in
a pot with enough cold water to cover well, and set it where it will
heat gradually. Add nothing else until it has stewed an hour, closely
covered; then throw in half a pound of salt pork cut into strips, a
little chopped onion, and some pepper; cover and stew an hour longer,
or until the meat is very tender. Make out a little paste, as for the
crust of a meat-pie; cut into squares, and drop in the stew. Boil ten
minutes, and season further by the addition of a little parsley and
thyme. Thicken with two spoonfuls of flour stirred into a cup of cold
milk. Boil up once, and serve in a tureen or deep covered dish.
If green corn is in season, this stew is greatly improved by adding, an
hour before it is taken from the fire, the grains of half a dozen ears,
cut from the cob.
Try it for a cheap family dinner, and you will repeat the experiment
often. Lamb is even better for your purpose than mutton.
MUTTON CHOPS.
If your butcher has not done it,—and the chances are that he has not,
unless you stood by to see it attended to,—trim off the superfluous fat
and skin, so as to give the chops a certain litheness and elegance of
shape. Dip each in beaten egg, roll in pounded cracker, and fry in hot
lard or dripping. If the fat is unsalted, sprinkle the chops with salt
before rolling in the egg. Serve up dry and hot.
Or,
You may omit the egg and cracker, and broil on a gridiron over a bright
fire. Put a little salt and pepper upon each chop, and butter them
before they go to table. Cook lamb chops in the same way.
MUTTON CUTLETS. (Baked).
Cut them from the neck, and trim neatly. Lay aside the bits of bone
and meat you cut off, to make gravy. Pour a little melted butter over
the cutlets, and let them lie in it for fifteen minutes, keeping them
just warm enough to prevent the butter from hardening; then dip each in
beaten egg, roll in cracker-crumbs, and lay them in your dripping-pan
with a very little water at the bottom. Bake quickly, and baste often
with butter and water. Put on the bones, etc., in enough cold water to
cover them; stew, and season with sweet herbs, pepper, and salt, with a
spoonful of tomato catsup. Strain when all the substance is extracted
from the meat and bones; thicken with browned flour, and pour over the
cutlets when they are served.
MUTTON HAM.
For a leg of mutton weighing 12 lbs., take—
    1 ounce of black pepper, or ½ ounce of cayenne,
    ¼ lb. brown sugar,
    1 ounce saltpetre,
    1¼ lb. salt.
The day after the sheep is killed, mix the sugar, pepper, and
saltpetre, and rub well into the meat for nearly fifteen minutes, until
the outer part of it is thoroughly impregnated with the seasoning. Put
the ham into a large earthenware vessel, and cover it with the salt.
Let it remain thus for three weeks, turning it every day and basting
it with the brine; adding to this, after the first week, a teacupful
of vinegar. When the ham is removed from the pickle, wash with cold
water, then with vinegar, and hang it up in a cool cellar for a week,
at least, before it is used.
Soak an hour in fair water before boiling.
Or if you choose to smoke it for several days after it is corned, it
can be chipped and eaten raw, like jerked venison or dried beef.
Most of the receipts above given will apply as well to lamb as to
mutton. There are several exceptions, however, which you will do well
to note. Lamb should never be boiled except in stews. It is tasteless
and sodden cooked in this manner, on account of its immaturity. But, on
the other hand, a lamb-pie, prepared like one of beef or venison, is
excellent, while mutton-pies have usually a strong, tallowy taste, that
spoils them for delicate palates.
Roast lamb should be eaten with mint sauce (if you fancy it), currant
jelly, and asparagus or green peas. Lettuce-salad is likewise a
desirable accompaniment.
MUTTON OR LAMB RÉCHAUFFÉ. 
Cut some slices of cold underdone mutton or lamb; put them in a
frying-pan with enough gravy or broth to cover them. Or, if you have
neither of them, make a gravy of butter, warm water, and catsup. Heat
to boiling, and stir in pepper and a great spoonful of currant jelly.
Send to table in a chafing-dish, with the gravy poured about the meat.
Or,
You can put a lump of the butter in the bottom of the pan, and when it
boils, lay in the slices of meat, turning them before they have time
to crisp. As soon as they are thoroughly heated take them out, lay
upon a hot dish, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and serve with a small
spoonful of jelly laid upon each.
VEAL.
Despite the prejudice, secret or expressed, which prevails in many
minds against veal,—one which the wise and witty “Country Parson”
has as surely fostered among reading people, as did Charles Lamb the
partiality for roast pig,—the excellent and attractive dishes that
own this as their base are almost beyond number. For soups it is
invaluable, and in entrees and réchauffés it plays a distinguished
part. From his head to his feet, the animal that furnishes us with
this important element of success in what should be the prime object
of cookery, to wit, to please while we nourish, has proved himself
so useful as an ally that it behooves us to lift the stigma from the
name of “calf,” provided he be not too infantine. In that case he
degenerates into an insipid mass of pulpy muscle and gelatine, and
deserves the bitterest sneers that have been flung at his kind.
ROAST VEAL.
LOIN.
Veal requires a longer time to roast than mutton or lamb. It is fair to
allow at least a quarter of an hour to each pound. Heat gradually,
baste frequently—at first with salt and water, afterward with gravy.
When the meat is nearly done, dredge lightly with flour, and baste once
with melted butter. Skim the gravy; thicken with a tablespoonful of
flour, boil up, and put into the gravy-boat.
Should the meat brown too fast, cover with white paper. The juices,
which make up the characteristic flavor of meat, are oftener dried out
of veal than any other flesh that comes to our tables.
BREAST.
Make incisions between the ribs and the meat, and fill with a
force-meat made of fine bread-crumbs, bits of pork, or ham chopped
“exceeding small,” salt, pepper, thyme, sweet marjoram, and beaten egg.
Save a little to thicken the gravy. Roast slowly, basting often, and
the verdict of the eaters will differ from theirs who pronounce this
the coarsest part of the veal. Dredge, at the last, with flour, and
baste well once with butter, as with the loin.
FILLET.
Make ready a dressing of bread-crumbs, chopped thyme and parsley; a
little nutmeg, pepper and salt, rubbed together with some melted
butter or beef suet; moisten with milk or hot water, and bind with a
beaten egg.
Take out the bone from the meat, and pin securely into a round with
skewers; then pass a stout twine several times about the fillet, or
a band of muslin. Fill the cavity from which the bone was taken with
this stuffing, and thrust between the folds of the meat, besides making
incisions with a thin, sharp knife to receive it. Once in a while slip
in a strip of fat pork or ham. Baste at first with salt and water,
afterward with gravy. At the last, dredge with flour and baste with
butter.
SHOULDER.
Stuff as above, making horizontal incisions near the bone to receive
the dressing, and roast in like manner.
VEAL CUTLETS.
Dip in beaten egg when you have sprinkled a little pepper and salt over
them; then roll in cracker-crumbs, and fry in hot dripping or lard. If
you use butter or dripping, add a little boiling water to the gravy
when the meat is dished; thicken with browned flour, boil up once,
sending to table in a boat.
Or,
You can rub the cutlets well with melted butter, pepper, and broil on a
gridiron like beef-steak, buttering very well after dishing.
VEAL CHOPS
Are more juicy and less apt to be tough and solid than cutlets. Trim
the bone as with mutton chops, and fry, dipping in beaten egg and
cracker-crumbs. Add a little parsley and a minced shallot to the gravy.
VEAL STEAK.
This should be thinner than beef-steak, and be done throughout. Few
persons are fond of rare veal. Broil upon a well-greased gridiron
over a clear fire, and turn frequently while the steaks are cooking.
Put into a saucepan four or five young onions minced fine, a great
teaspoonful of tomato catsup, or twice the quantity of stewed tomato,
a lump of butter the size of an egg, and a little thyme or parsley,
with a small teacupful of hot water. Let them stew together while the
steaks are broiling, thickening, before you turn the gravy out, with a
spoonful of browned flour. Add, if you please, a half-glass of wine.
Boil up once hard, and when the steaks are dished, with a small bit of
butter upon each, pour the mixture over and around them.
Spinach is as natural an accompaniment to veal as are green peas to
lamb.
VEAL PIES.
Let your veal be juicy and not too fat. Take out all the bone, and put
with the fat and refuse bits, such as skin or gristle, in a saucepan,
with a large teacupful of cold water to make gravy. Instead of chopping
the veal, cut in thin, even slices. Line a pudding-dish with a good
paste and put a layer of veal in the bottom; then one of hard-boiled
eggs sliced, each piece buttered and peppered before it is laid upon
the veal; cover these with sliced ham or thin strips of salt pork.
Squeeze a few drops of lemon-juice upon the ham. Then another layer of
veal, and so on until you are ready for the gravy. This should have
been stewing for half an hour or so, with the addition of pepper and a
bunch of aromatic herbs. Strain through a thin cloth and pour over the
pie. Cover with crust and bake two hours.
Or,
Butter a large bowl very thickly, and line with sliced hard-boiled
eggs. Then put in, in perpendicular layers, a lining of veal cut in
thin slices, and seasoned with pepper. Next, one of sliced ham, each
slice peppered and sprinkled with lemon-juice, more veal and more ham,
until the dish is packed to the brim. Cover with a thick paste made of
flour and hot water, just stiff enough to handle with ease. Press this
closely to the outside of the bowl, which should not be at all greasy.
Let it overlap the rim about half an inch. Some cooks substitute a
cloth well floured, but it does not keep in the essence of the meats
as well as the paste. Set the bowl in a pot of hot water, not so deep
that it will bubble over the top. It is better that it should not touch
the paste rim. Boil steadily—not hard—for at least three hours. Remove
the paste the next day, when bowl and contents are perfectly cold,
and turn out the pie into a large plate or flat dish. Cut in circular
slices—thin as a wafer—beginning at the top, keeping your carver
horizontal, and you have a delicious relish for the supper-table, or
side-dish for dinner. Set in a cool place, and in winter it will keep
several days.
This is the “weal and hammer pie” endorsed by Mr. Wegg as a good thing
“for mellering the organ,” and is a great favorite in England. It is
a good plan to butter the eggs as well as the dish, as much of the
success of the pie depends upon the manner in which it is turned out.
Also, upon the close packing of the sliced meat. The salt ham prevents
the need of other salt.
STEWED FILLET OF VEAL.
Stuff, and bind with twine as for roasting. Then cover the top and
sides with sliced ham which has been already boiled, securing with
skewers, or twine crossing the meat in all directions. Lay in a pot,
put in two large cups of boiling water, cover immediately and closely,
and stew gently—never letting it cease to boil, yet never boiling hard,
for four or five hours. A large fillet will require nearly five hours.
Remove the cover as seldom as possible, and only to ascertain whether
the water has boiled away. If it is too low, replenish from the boiling
kettle. Take off the strings when the meat is done; arrange the ham
about the fillet in the dish, and serve a bit with each slice of veal.
Strain the gravy, thicken with flour, boil up once, and send in a boat.
Serve with stewed tomatoes and spinach.
STEWED KNUCKLE OF VEAL.
Put the meat into a pot with two quarts of boiling water, half a pound
of salt pork or ham cut into strips, a carrot, two onions, a bunch
of parsley and one of summer savory—all cut fine—two dozen whole
pepper-corns, and stew, closely covered, for three hours. When done,
take the meat from the pot and lay in the dish. Strain the gravy,
thicken with rice-flour, boil up once, and pour over the meat.
VEAL SCALLOP. 
Chop some cold roast or stewed veal very fine, put a layer in the
bottom of a buttered pudding dish, and season with pepper and salt.
Next have a layer of finely powdered crackers. Strew some bits of
butter upon it and wet with a little milk; then more veal seasoned as
before, and another round of cracker-crumbs, with butter and milk.
When the dish is full, wet well with gravy or broth, diluted with warm
water. Spread over all a thick layer of cracker seasoned with salt, wet
into a paste with milk and bound with a beaten egg or two, if the dish
be large. Stick butter-bits thickly over it; invert a tin pan so as
to cover all and keep in the steam, and bake—if small, half an hour;
three-quarters will suffice for a large dish. Remove the cover ten
minutes before it is served, and brown.
This simple and economical dish should be an acquaintance with all who
are fond of veal in any shape. Children generally like it exceedingly,
and I have heard more than one gentleman of excellent judgment in
culinary affairs declare that the best thing he knew about roast veal
was that it was the harbinger of scallop on the second day.
Try it, and do not get it too dry.
VEAL PÂTÉS.
Mince the veal as above, and roll three or four crackers to powder.
Also, chop up some cold ham and mix with the veal in the proportion of
one-third ham and two-thirds veal. Then add the cracker, and wet well
with gravy and a little milk. If you have no gravy, stir into a cup of
hot milk two tablespoonfuls of butter and a beaten egg. Season well to
your taste, and bake in pâté pans lined with puff-paste. If eaten hot,
send to table in the tins. If cold, slip the pâtés out and pile upon
a plate, with sprigs of parsley between. A little oyster liquor is a
marked improvement to the gravy.
STEWED CALF’S-HEAD.
Wash the head in several waters, and taking out the brains, set them
by in a cool place. Tie the head in a floured cloth and boil it two
hours in hot water slightly salted. Wash the brains carefully, picking
out all the bits of skin and membrane, cleansing them over and over
until they are perfectly white. Then stew in just enough water to cover
them. Take them out, mash smooth with the back of a wooden spoon, and
add gradually, that it may not lump, a small teacupful of the water
in which the head is boiled. Season with chopped parsley, a pinch
of sage, pepper, salt, and powdered cloves, with a great spoonful of
butter. Set it over the fire to simmer in a saucepan until you are
ready. When the head is tender, take it up and drain very dry. Score
the top, and rub it well over with melted butter; dredge with flour and
set in the oven to brown. Or, you can use beaten egg and cracker-crumbs
in place of the butter and flour.
When you serve the head, pour the gravy over it.
Never skin a calf’s-head. Scald as you would that of a pig. A little
lye in the water will remove the hair—as will also pounded rosin,
applied before it is put into the water.
CALF’S-HEAD (Scalloped.) 
Clean the head, remove the brains, and set in a cool place. Boil the
head until the meat slips easily from the bones. Take it out and chop
fine, season with herbs, pepper, and salt; then put in layers into a
buttered pudding-dish with bits of butter between each layer. Moisten
well with the liquor in which the head was boiled. Wash the brains very
thoroughly, removing all the membrane. Beat them into a smooth paste,
season with pepper and salt, and stir in with them two eggs beaten
very light. Spread this evenly over the scallop, dredge the top with a
little flour, and bake to a delicate brown. Half an hour will be long
enough.
SWEET-BREADS (Fried.) 
Wash very carefully, and dry with a linen cloth. Lard with narrow
strips of fat salt pork, set closely together. Use for this purpose a
larding-needle. Lay the sweet-breads in a clean, hot frying-pan, which
has been well buttered or greased, and cook to a fine brown, turning
frequently until the pork is crisp.
SWEET BREADS (Broiled.) 
Parboil, rub them well with butter, and broil on a clean gridiron. Turn
frequently, and now and then roll over in a plate containing some hot
melted butter. This will prevent them from getting too dry and hard.
SWEET-BREADS (Stewed.) 
When you have washed them, and removed all bits of skin and fatty
matter, cover with cold water, and heat to a boil. Pour off the hot
water, and cover with cold until the sweet-breads are firm. If you
desire to have them very rich, lard as for frying before you put in
the second water. They are more delicate, however, if the pork be left
out. Stew in a very little water the second time. When they are tender,
add for each sweet-bread a heaping teaspoonful of butter, and a little
chopped parsley, with pepper, and salt, and a little cream. Let them
simmer in this gravy for five minutes, then take them up. Send to table
in a covered dish, with the gravy poured over them.
If you lard the sweet-breads, substitute for the cream in the gravy a
glass of good wine. In this case, take the sweet-breads out before it
is put into the gravy. Boil up once and pour over them.
SWEET-BREADS (Roasted.)
Parboil and throw into cold water, where let them stand for fifteen
minutes. Then change to more cold water for five minutes longer. Wipe
perfectly dry. Lay them in your dripping-pan, and roast, basting with
butter and water until they begin to brown. Then withdraw them for an
instant, roll in beaten egg, then in cracker-crumbs, and return to
the fire for ten minutes longer, basting meanwhile twice with melted
butter. Lay in a chafing-dish while you add to the dripping half a cup
hot water, some chopped parsley, a teaspoonful browned flour, and the
juice of half a lemon. Pour over the sweet-breads before sending to
table.
JELLIED VEAL.
Wash a knuckle of veal, and cut it into three pieces. Boil it slowly
until the meat will slip easily from the bones; take out of the liquor;
remove all the bones, and chop the meat fine. Season with salt, pepper,
two shallots chopped as fine as possible, mace and thyme, or, if you
like, sage. Put back into the liquor, and boil until it is almost dry
and can be stirred with difficulty. Turn into a mould until next day.
Set on the table cold, garnish with parsley, and cut in slices. The
juice of a lemon, stirred in just before it is taken from the fire, is
an improvement.
CALF’S-HEAD IN A MOULD.
Boil a calf’s-head until tender, the day before you wish to use it.
When perfectly cold, chop—not too small—and season to taste with
pepper, salt, mace, and the juice of a lemon. Prepare half as much cold
ham, fat and lean—also minced—as you have of the chopped calf’s-head.
Butter a mould well, and lay in the bottom a layer of the calf’s-head,
then one of ham, and so on until the shape is full, pressing each layer
hard, when you have moistened it with veal gravy or the liquor in which
the head was boiled. Pour more gravy over the top, and when it has
soaked in well, cover with a paste made of flour and water. Bake one
hour. Remove the paste when it is quite cold, and turn out carefully.
Cut perpendicularly.
This is quite as good a relish when made of cold roast or stewed veal
and ham. It will keep several days in cool weather.
VEAL OLIVES WITH OYSTERS.
Cut large, smooth slices from a fillet of veal, or veal chops will do
quite as well. Trim them into a uniform shape and size, and spread each
neatly with forced-meat made of bread-crumbs and a little chopped pork,
seasoned with pepper and salt. Over this spread some chopped oysters,
about three to a good-sized slice of veal. Roll them up carefully and
closely, and pin each with two small tin or wooden skewers. Lay them in
a dripping-pan; dash a teacupful of boiling water over them, and roast,
basting at least twice with melted butter. When they are brown, remove
to a chafing-dish, and cover, while you add a little oyster-liquor to
the gravy left in the dripping-pan. Let this simmer for three or four
minutes; thicken with a teaspoonful of browned flour, and boil up at
once. Withdraw the skewers cautiously, so as not to break the olives;
pour the gravy over and around them, and serve. If you have no skewers,
bind the olives with pack-thread, cutting it, of course, before sending
to table.
Serve with cranberry jelly.
MINCED VEAL.
Take the remains of a cold roast of veal fillet, shoulder, or breast,
and cut all the meat from the bones. Put the latter, with the outside
slices and the gristly pieces, into a saucepan, with a cup of cold
water, some sweet herbs, pepper, and salt. If you have a bit of bacon
convenient, or a ham-bone, add this and omit the salt. Stew all
together for an hour, then strain, thicken with flour, return to the
fire, and boil five minutes longer, stirring in a tablespoonful of
butter.
Meanwhile, mince the cold veal, and when the gravy is ready put
this in a little at a time. Let it almost boil, when add two
tablespoonfuls of cream, or three of milk, stirring all the while.
Lastly, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and a moment later half a
glass of Sherry or Madeira wine.
The mince-meat should be dry enough to heap into a shape in a flat dish
or chafing-dish. Lay triangles of buttered toast about the base of the
mound, and on the top a poached egg.
The remains of cold roast beef treated in this manner, substituting for
the toast balls of mashed potato, will make a neat and palatable dish.
Send around spinach or stewed tomatoes with minced veal; scraped
horseradish steeped in vinegar with the beef.
VEAL CUTLETS À LA MAINTENON.
The cutlets should be nearly three-quarters of an inch thick, and trim
in shape. Dip each in beaten egg, then into pounded cracker which has
been seasoned with powdered sweet herbs, pepper, and salt. Wrap each
cutlet in a half-sheet of note or letter paper, well buttered; lay them
upon a buttered gridiron and broil over a clear fire, turning often
and dexterously. You can secure the papers by fringing the ends, and
twisting these after the cutlets are put in. This is neater than to
pin them together. In trying this dish for the first time, have ready
a sufficient number of duplicate papers in a clean, hot dish. If your
envelopes are much soiled or darkened while the cutlets are broiling,
transfer quickly when done to the clean warm ones, twist the ends,
and serve. Cutlets prepared in this manner are sent to table in their
cloaks, ranged symmetrically upon a hot chafing-dish.
The expedient of the clean papers is a “trick of the trade,” amateur
housewives will observe with satisfaction. Epicures profess to enjoy
veal cooked in covers far more than when the flavor and juices escape
in broiling without them. Empty every drop of gravy from the soiled
papers into the clean over the cutlets.
CROQUETTES OF CALF’S BRAINS.
Wash the brains very thoroughly until they are free from membranous
matter and perfectly white. Beat them smooth; season with a pinch
of powdered sage, pepper, and salt. Add two tablespoonfuls fine
bread-crumbs moistened with milk, and a beaten egg. Roll into balls
with floured hands, dip in beaten egg, then cracker-crumbs, and fry in
butter or veal-drippings.
These make a pleasant accompaniment to boiled spinach. Heap the
vegetable in the centre of the dish, arrange the balls about it, and
give one to each person who wishes spinach.
CALF’S LIVER (Roasted.)
Soak the liver in salt and water an hour to draw out the blood. Wipe
perfectly dry, and stuff with a force-meat made of bread-crumbs, two
slices of fat salt pork, chopped small, a shallot, pepper, salt, and
nutmeg; sweet marjoram and thyme, and if you choose, a little sage.
Moisten this with butter melted in a very little hot water, and two
raw eggs, well beaten. In order to get this into the liver, make an
incision with a narrow sharp knife, and without enlarging the aperture
where the blade entered, move the point dexterously to and fro, to
enlarge the cavity inside. Stuff this full of the force-meat, sew or
skewer up the outer orifice; lard with strips of salt pork, and roast
for an hour, basting twice with butter and water, afterward with the
gravy in the dripping-pan. Pour the gravy over the liver when done.
Roasted liver is very good cold, cut into slices like tongue.
CALF’S LIVER (Fried).
Slice the liver smoothly, and lay in salt and water to draw out the
blood. Lard each slice, when you have wiped it dry, with slices of fat
salt pork, drawn through at regular distances, and projecting slightly
on each side. Lay in a clean frying-pan and fry brown. When done,
take out the slices, arrange them neatly on a hot dish, and set aside
to keep warm. Add to the gravy in the frying-pan a chopped onion, a
half-cup of hot water, pepper, the juice of a lemon, and thicken with
brown flour. Boil up well, run through a cullender to remove the onion
and the bits of crisped pork that may have been broken off in cooking,
pour over the liver, and serve hot.
Pigs’ livers can be cooked in the same way.
CALF’S LIVER (Stewed).
Slice the liver and lay in salt and water an hour. Then cut into dice
and put over the fire, with enough cold water to cover it well. Cover
and stew steadily for an hour, when add salt, pepper, a little mace,
sweet marjoram, parsley, and a teaspoonful Worcestershire sauce. Stew
again steadily, not fast, for half an hour longer, when put in a
tablespoonful of butter, two of browned flour—wet with cold water, a
teaspoonful of lemon-juice and one of currant jelly. Boil five minutes
longer, and dish. A little wine is an improvement.
Or,
Put in with the liver-dice some of salt pork—say a handful—and when you
season, a chopped onion, and omit the jelly at the last, substituting
some tomato catsup.
IMITATION PÂTÉS DE FOIE GRAS. 
Boil a calf’s liver until very tender in water that has been slightly
salted, and in another vessel a nice calf’s tongue. It is best to
do this the day before you make your pâté, as they should be not
only cold, but firm when used. Cut the liver into bits, and rub these
gradually to a smooth paste in a Wedgewood mortar, moistening, as you
go on, with melted butter. Work into this paste, which should be quite
soft, a quarter-teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, or twice the quantity of
white or black, half a grated nutmeg, a little cloves, a teaspoonful
of Worcestershire sauce, salt to taste, a full teaspoonful of made
mustard, and a tablespoonful of boiling water, in which a minced onion
has been steeped until the flavor is extracted. Work all together
thoroughly, and pack in jelly-jars with air-tight covers, or, if you
have them, in pâté-jars. They give a foreign air to the compound, and
aid imagination in deceiving the palate. Butter the inside of the jars
well, and pack the pâté very hard, inserting here and there square
and triangular bits of the tongue, which should be pared and cut up
for this purpose. These simulate the truffles imbedded in the genuine
pâtés from Strasbourg. When the jar is packed, and smooth as marble
on the surface, cover with melted butter. Let this harden, put on the
lid, and set away in a cool place. In winter it will keep for weeks,
and is very nice for luncheon or tea. Make into sandwiches, or set on
in the jars, if they are neat and ornamental.
The resemblance in taste to the real pâté de foie gras is remarkable,
and the domestic article is popular with the lovers of that delicacy.
Pigs’ livers make a very fair pâté. If you can procure the livers
of several fowls and treat as above, substituting bits of the inside
of the gizzard for truffles, you will find the result even more
satisfactory.
VEAL MARBLE.
Boil a beef-tongue the day before it is to be used, and a like
number of pounds of lean veal. Grind first one, then the other, in a
sausage-cutter, keeping them in separate vessels until you are ready to
pack. If you have no machine for this purpose, chop very fine. Season
the tongue with pepper, powdered sweet herbs, a teaspoonful of made
mustard, a little nutmeg, and cloves—just a pinch of each; the veal in
like manner, with the addition of salt. Pack in alternate spoonfuls, as
irregularly as possible, in cups, bowls, or jars, which have been well
buttered. Press very hard as you go on, smooth the top, and cover with
melted butter. When this cools, close the cans, and keep in a cool, dry
place. Turn out whole, or cut in slices for tea. It is a pretty and
savory relish, garnished with parsley or the blanched tops of celery.
You can use ground ham instead of tongue. It is hardly so good, but is
more economical.
PORK.
At the South, where, in spite of the warm climate, the consumption
of pork is double that of the North, the full-grown hog is seldom
represented by any of his parts at the table, fresh or pickled, unless
it be during killing-time, when fresh spare-ribs, chine, and steak,
with other succulent bits, are welcome upon the choicest bills of fare.
The rest of the animal—ham, shoulders, and middlings—is consigned to
the packing barrel, and ultimately to the smoke-house. But, in cool
weather, “shoat”—i. e., pig under six months of age—is abundantly
displayed in market, and highly esteemed by all classes. The meat
is fine and sweet, and, unless too fat, nearly as delicate as that
of chicken—a very different-looking and tasting dish from the gross
oleaginous joints and “chunks” offered for sale in many other regions
as “nice young pork.” Those of my readers who can command “shoat”
are to be heartily congratulated. Those whose butchers dispense only
portions of the mature porker will do well, in my opinion, if they
rarely admit him to their families before he has been salted, and been
thereby purged of many unwholesome properties. Few stomachs, save those
of out-door laborers, can digest the fresh meat of a two or three, or
even one year old hog. This is the truthful, but, to unaccustomed ears,
offensive name for him at the South and West, where his qualities and
habits are best known.
The parts of a properly dissected hog are the hams, shoulders, griskin
or chine, the loin, middlings, spare-ribs, head, feet, liver, and
haslet. The choice portions are hams, shoulders, and, for roasting,
the loin. All hogs should be kept up and well fed for three weeks,
at least, before they are killed; their styes be frequently cleaned,
and furnished with abundance of water, renewed every day. Sir Grunter
would be a more cleanly creature if he were allowed more extensive
water privileges. If it were possible—and in the country this may
sometimes be done—to build his pen on the bank of a running stream,
he would speedily redeem his character from the stain cast upon it
by the popular verdict, and the superior quality of the meat repay
the thoughtful kindness of his owner. It is a disgrace to humanity,
hardly second to the barbarities of swill-milk manufactories, this
compulsory filth of any domestic animal. Those who, like myself,
have been loathing witnesses of the pig-pens upon the premises of
well-to-do farmers—the receptacles of the vilest slops and offal, never
cleaned except during the yearly removal of manure from barnyard to
field—cannot marvel at the growing prejudice against pork in all its
varieties that pervades our best classes. We feed the hog with the
offscourings (this is literal) of house, garden, and table; bed him
in mire, and swell him with acetous fermentation, not to say active
decomposition, and then abuse him for being what we have made him.
I am persuaded—and wiser people than I declare—that hog-scrofula
and cholera, and the rest of the train of fleshly ills that are the
terror of pork-raisers, have, one and all, their root in this unseemly
inhumanity. Eschew fresh pork we may, but we cannot dispense with hams,
shoulders, and, most valuable of all to the cook, lard and pickled
pork. Real sausage, porcine and home-made, is still sweet and pleasant
to the unpampered palate; and of roast pig, the gentlest and most
genial of English essayists did not disdain to become the eulogist. In
memory of his usefulness, in belief of the healthfulness which should
be his birthright, and the safeguard of his consumers, let us treat
Bristle well—I do not say philosophically, but sensibly and kindly.
A pig should not be allowed to eat anything for twenty-four hours
before he is killed. After he is butchered, great care should be
exercised to keep the pork from tainting; it spoils more readily, when
fresh, than any other meat. Cook all kinds of pork thoroughly. When
underdone it is not only unpalatable, but exceedingly unwholesome.
ROAST LEG OF PORK.
One weighing about seven pounds is enough, even for a large family.
If the pig be young, the leg will be even smaller. Score the skin
in squares, or parallel lines running from side to side, for the
convenience of the carver. Put it down to roast with a very little
water in the pan below. Heat gradually until the fat begins to ooze
from the meat, when quicken the fire to a red, steady glow. Baste only
with its own gravy, and do this often, that the skin may not be hard or
tough. When done take it up, skim the gravy thoroughly, put in half a
cup of boiling water, thicken with brown flour, add pepper, salt, and
the juice of a lemon, and serve in a boat.
Or,
If the joint be that of a full-grown hog, rub into the top, after
scoring it deeply, a force-meat of bread-crumbs seasoned with sage and
chopped onion, wet with the juice of a lemon or a very little vinegar;
pepper and salt to taste. Rub this in hard until the cracks are filled.
With a sharp knife make incisions close to the knuckle-bone, and stuff
with the force-meat, tying a string tightly about it afterward, to
prevent the escape of the seasoning. Rub over once with butter, when
the meat is warm throughout; then baste with the fat. Skim all the fat
from the drippings that can be removed before making the gravy.
Send around tomato or apple sauce, and pickles, with roast pork.
LOIN OF PORK.
Cook as you would a leg, allowing twenty minutes to a pound in
roasting. This is a good rule for fresh pork, the flesh being coarser
and of closer grain than are more delicate meats.
A shoulder is roasted in the same way.
ROAST SPARE-RIB.
When first put down to the fire, cover with a greased paper until it is
half-done. Remove it then, and dredge with flour. A few minutes later,
baste once with butter, and afterward, every little while, with its
own gravy. This is necessary, the spare-rib being a very dry piece.
Just before you take it up, strew over the surface thickly with fine
bread-crumbs seasoned with powdered sage, pepper, and salt, and a small
onion minced into almost invisible bits. Let it cook five minutes and
baste once more with butter. Skim the gravy, add a half cupful of hot
water, thicken with brown flour, squeeze in the juice of a lemon,
strain, and pour over the meat in the dish.
Send tomato catsup around with it, or if you prefer, put a liberal
spoonful in the gravy, after it is strained.
ROAST CHINE.
A chine is treated precisely as is the spare-rib, except that the strip
of skin running along the back is scored closely. If you wish, you can
omit the bread-crumb crust, the onion and sage. In carving, cut thin
horizontal slices from the ribs. Chine is best cold. The meat next the
ribs is delicious when scraped off and made into sandwiches, or laid
upon buttered toast.
Or,
You can wash the chine over with beaten egg, dredge with
cracker-crumbs, seasoned with salt and pepper, and roast, basting with
butter and water once when the meat is heated through, afterward with
its own gravy. This is a palatable supper-dish when cold. Garnish with
cucumber pickles cut in round slices.
ROAST PIG.
A month-old pig, if it be well-grown and plump, is best for this
purpose. It is hardly possible that any lady-housekeeper will ever be
called upon to do the butcher’s work upon the bodies of full-grown
hogs, or even “shoat”—a task that requires the use of hatchet or
cleaver. It is well that she should know how to clean and dress the
baby pig, which is not larger than a Thanksgiving turkey.
As soon as it is really cold, make ready a large boiler of scalding
water. Lay the pig in cold water for fifteen minutes; then, holding it
by the hind-leg, plunge it into the boiling water, and shake it about
violently until you can pull the hair off by the handful. Take it out,
wipe it dry, and with a crash cloth or whisk broom rub the hair off,
brushing from the tail to the head, until the skin is perfectly clean.
Cut it open, take out the entrails, and wash very thoroughly with cold
water, then with soda and water, to remove any unpleasant odor; next
with salt and water. Rinse with fair water and wipe inside. Then wrap
in a wet cloth, and keep this saturated with cold water until you are
ready to stuff it. If these directions be followed implicitly, the pig
will be fair and white, as if intrusted to a professional butcher.
For stuffing, take a cupful of bread-crumbs, half a chopped onion,
two teaspoonfuls powdered sage, three tablespoonfuls melted butter, a
saltspoonful of pepper, half a grated nutmeg, half a teaspoonful of
salt, two well-beaten eggs. Mix all these ingredients, except the egg,
together, incorporating them well; beat in the eggs, and stuff the pig
into his natural size and shape. Sew him up, and bend his fore-feet
backward, his hind-feet forward, under and close to the body, and
skewering them into the proper position. Dry it well, and dredge with
flour. Put it to roast with a little hot water, slightly salted, in
the dripping-pan. Baste with butter and water three times, as the pig
gradually warms, afterward with the dripping. When it begins to smoke
or steam, rub it over every five minutes or so, with a cloth dipped in
melted butter. Do not omit this precaution if you would have the skin
tender and soft after it begins to brown. A month-old pig will require
about an hour and three-quarters or two hours—sometimes longer—to
roast, if the fire be brisk and steady.
Should you or your guests dislike onion, prepare your stuffing without
it. The following is a good receipt for rich and savory force-meat for
a pig:—
One cup of bread-crumbs, an ounce of suet, a bunch of parsley minced
fine, teaspoonful of powdered sage, pepper, salt, and nutmeg, a
little thyme, half a glass Madeira or Sherry, juice of a lemon,
two tablespoonfuls melted butter, a cup of oyster-liquor, and two
well-beaten eggs. For a Christmas pig, it is worth one’s while to take
the trouble to prepare this stuffing.
If your pig is large, you can cut off his head and split him down the
back before sending to table. Do this with a sharp knife, and lay the
backs together. But it is a pity! I have before me now the vision of
a pig I once saw served whole on the table of a friend, that forbids
me ever to mutilate him before the guests have a chance to feast their
eyes upon the goodly picture. He was done to a turn—a rich, even brown,
without a seam or crack from head to tail, and he knelt in a bed of
deep-green parsley, alternately with bunches of whitish-green celery
tops (the inner and tender leaves); a garland of the same was about his
neck, and in his mouth was a tuft of white cauliflower, surrounded by a
setting of curled parsley. Very simple, you see; but I never beheld a
more ornamental roast.
Skim your gravy well; add a little hot water, thicken with brown flour,
boil up once, strain, and, when you have added half a glass of wine and
half the juice of a lemon, serve in a tureen.
In carving the pig, cut off the head first; then split down the back,
take off hams and shoulders, and separate the ribs. Serve some of the
dressing to each person.
I have been thus minute in describing the preparation of this holiday
dish, because it is erroneously considered a difficult task. Any cook
with a moderate degree of judgment and experience can undertake it with
a reasonable expectation of success.
PORK STEAKS.
Those from the loin are best, but they can be cut from the neck. Remove
the skin and trim neatly. Broil over a clear fire, without seasoning,
adding pepper, salt, a pinch of sage, another of minced onion, and a
lump of butter after they are put into the hot dish. Then cover closely
and set in the oven for five minutes, until the aroma of the condiments
flavors the meat. Try this method. You can cook spare-rib in the same
manner.
PORK CHOPS.
Remove the skin, trim them, and dip first in beaten egg, then in
cracker-crumbs seasoned with salt, pepper, minced onion, and a little
sage. Fry in hot lard or drippings twenty or thirty minutes, turning
often. The gravy of this dish is usually too rich or fat to accompany
the meat.
Pork cutlets are cooked in like manner. Send apple-sauce to the table
with them, and season with tomato catsup.
STEWED PORK.
Take some lean slices from the leg, or bits left from trimming the
various pieces into shape. Cut into dice an inch square, put into
a pot with enough cold water to cover them, and stew gently for
three-quarters of an hour, closely covered. Meanwhile parboil half a
dozen Irish potatoes, cut in thick slices, in another vessel. When
the pork has stewed the allotted time, drain off the water from these
and add to the meat. Season with pepper, salt, a minced shallot, a
spoonful of pungent catsup, and a bunch of aromatic herbs. Cover again,
and stew twenty minutes longer, or until the meat is tender throughout.
If your meat be not too fat, this stew will be very good, especially on
a cold day.
You can stew cutlets in the same way.
PIG’S HEAD (Roasted).
Take the head of a half-grown pig; clean and split it, taking out the
brains and setting these aside in a cool place. Parboil the head in
salted water, drain off this, wipe the head dry, and wash all over with
beaten egg; dredge thickly with bread-crumbs, seasoned with pepper,
sage, and onion, and roast, basting twice with butter and water; then
with the liquor in which the head was boiled; at last with the gravy
that runs from the meat. Wash the brains in several waters until
they are white; beat to a smooth paste, add one-quarter part fine
bread-crumbs, pepper, and salt; make into balls, binding with a beaten
egg; roll in flour and fry in hot fat to a light brown. Arrange about
the head when it is dished. Skim the gravy left in the dripping-pan,
thicken with brown flour, add the juice of a lemon, and boil up once.
Pour it over the head.
PIG’S HEAD WITH LIVER AND HEART (Stewed).
Clean and split the head, taking out the brains and setting aside.
Put the head in a pot with water enough to cover it and parboil it.
Have ready another pot with the liver and heart, cut into inch-long
pieces, stewed in just enough water to keep them from scorching. When
the head is half-done, add the entire contents of the second vessel to
the first, and season with salt, pepper, a little onion, parsley, and
sage. Cover and stew until the head is very tender, when take it out
and lay it in the middle of a flat dish. With a perforated skimmer
remove the liver and heart and spread about the head, surrounding, but
not covering it. Strain the gravy and return to the pot, thicken with
brown flour, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and drop in carefully
force-meat balls of the brains, prepared according to the foregoing
receipt and fried a light brown. Boil once and pour about the head,
arranging the balls upon it, to cover the split between the two sides
of the head.
You may improve this dish, which is very savory, by boiling a couple of
pigs’ feet with the head until the meat will slip from the bones. Take
them from the liquor, cut off and chop the meat, and put into the large
pot when you add the liver, etc.
SOUSE OF PIGS’ EARS AND FEET.
Clean the ears and feet well; cover them with cold water slightly
salted, and boil until tender. Pack in stone jars while hot, and cover
while you make ready the pickle. To half a gallon of good cider vinegar
allow half a cup of white sugar, three dozen whole black peppers, a
dozen blades of mace, and a dozen cloves. Boil this one minute, taking
care that it really boils, and pour while hot over the still warm feet
and ears. It will be ready to use in two days, and will keep in a cool,
dry place two months.
If you wish it for breakfast, make a batter of one egg, one cup of
milk, salt to taste, and a teaspoonful of butter, with enough flour for
a thin muffin-batter; dip each piece in this, and fry in hot lard or
dripping. Or dip each in beaten egg, then in pounded cracker, before
frying.
Souse is also good eaten cold, especially the feet.
HEAD CHEESE. (OR SOUSE.)
This is made of the head, ears and tongue. Boil them in salted water
until very tender. Strip the meat from the bones and chop fine. Season
with salt, pepper, sage, sweet marjoram, a little powdered cloves,
and half a cup of strong vinegar. Mix all together thoroughly, taste
to see that it is flavored sufficiently, remembering that the spice
tends to keep it, and pack hard in moulds or bowls, interspersing the
layers with bits of the tongue cut in oblongs, squares and triangles
not less than an inch in length. Press down and keep the meat in shape
by putting a plate on the top of each mould (first wetting the plate)
and a weight upon this. In two days the cheese will be ready for use.
Turn out from the shapes as you wish to use it; or, should you desire
to keep it several weeks, take the cheese from the moulds and immerse
in cold vinegar in stone jars. This will preserve it admirably, and
you have only to pare away the outside, should it be too acid for your
taste.
This is generally eaten cold for tea, with vinegar and mustard; but it
is very nice cut in slices, seasoned slightly with mustard, and warmed
in a frying-pan with enough butter to prevent burning. Or, you may dip
in beaten egg, then cracker-crumbs, and fry for breakfast.
If the tongue is arranged judiciously the slices will be prettily
marbled.
PORK POT-PIE.
You can make this of lean pork cut from any part of the pig, but
the chine is best. Crack the bones well, and cut up the chine into
riblettes two inches long. Line your pot, which should be round at
the bottom and well greased, with a good light paste; put in the meat,
then a layer of parboiled potatoes, split in half, seasoning with
pepper and salt as you go on. When the pot is nearly full, pour in a
quart of cold water and put on the upper crust, cutting a small round
hole out of the middle, through which you can add hot water should the
gravy boil away too fast. Slips of paste may also be strewed among
the meat and potatoes. Put on the pot-lid, and boil from one hour and
a half to two hours. When done, remove the upper crust carefully, turn
out the meat and gravy into a bowl, that you may get at the lower. Lay
this upon a hot dish, put the meat, etc., in order upon it, pour the
gravy over it, and cover with the top crust. This can be browned with a
red-hot shovel, or oven-lid.
CHESHIRE PORK-PIE.
Cut two or three pounds of lean fresh pork into strips as long and as
wide as your middle finger. Line a buttered dish with puff-paste; put
in a layer of pork seasoned with pepper, salt, and nutmeg or mace;
next a layer of juicy apples, sliced and covered with about an ounce
of white sugar; then more pork, and so on until you are ready for the
paste cover, when pour in half a pint of sweet cider or wine, and stick
bits of butter all over the top. Cover with a thick lid of puff-paste,
cut a slit in the top, brush over with beaten egg, and bake an hour and
a half.
This is an English dish, and is famous in the region from which it
takes its name. It is much liked by those who have tried it, and is
considered by some to be equal to our mince-pie.
Yorkshire pork-pie is made in the same way, with the omission of the
apples, sugar, and nutmeg, and the addition of sage to the seasoning.
SAUSAGE (No. 1).
    6 lbs. lean fresh pork.
