clatter in the gorge was heard, a tramping sound ; men were 
running out of the mill opposite and gazing curiously up the 
road. Honor was at the window in a flash, Stephen beside 
her. The troops were returning. They had laid hands upon 
a mountain-wagon and marched upon each side of it like a 
guard of honor. Royce sat in the wagon, his face hidden in 
his hands. 
" Where is Mr. Allison ? " said Honor, and her voice was 
but a whisper. She stood back of the curtain, trembling vio 
lently. 
Royce did not look up as the procession passed the libra 
ry ; without a word Wainwright and Honor went out, locked 
the door behind them, and followed the wagon toward the 
village. Everybody did the same ; the houses were emptied 
of their dwellers. The whole village came together to see 
the body of the boy-officer lifted out and carried into the inn. 
Allison was dead. 
The buttons on his uniform gleamed as they bore him in, 
and his white hands hung lifelessly clown. He had fought 
like a tiger, they said, and had led his men on with the most 
intrepid, daring courage to the very last. It seemed that they 
had fallen into an ambuscade, and had accomplished nothing. 
Singularly enough, the young lieutenant was the only one 
killed ; Royce was sure that he had seen one of the outlaws 
deliberately single him out and fire a dark, haggard-looking 
fellow. 
Stephen took Honor up to Adelaide's parlor. Adelaide 
was there wringing her hands. She had fastened the boy's 
collar for him at two o clock the night before, when he had 
rather absurdly pretended that he could not make it stay but 
toned ; and she had tapped him on the cheek reprovingly for 
his sentimental looks. " This ball has spoiled you, foolish 
boy," she had said; "march off into the mountains and get 
rid of this nonsense." Ah, well, he was well rid of it now ! 
Honor stood as if transfixed, listening. Presently the door 
opened, and Royce came in. " Let me get somewhere where 
I am not ashamed to cry," he said ; and, sinking down, he 
 
laid his head upon his arms on the table and cried like a child. 
Honor went out of the room hastily ; she hardly noticed that 
Stephen was with her. When she reached the ravine, she, 
too, sank down on the grass, out of sight of the house, and 
sobbed as though her heart would break. Stephen looked at 
her irresolutely, then moved away some paces, and, sitting 
down on a stump, waited. Honor had danced with Allison : 
could it be but no ; it was only the sudden horror of the 
thing. 
Allison was buried in the little village churchyard ; the 
whole country-side came to the funeral. The old Episcopal 
rector read the burial-service, and his voice shook a little as 
the young head was laid low in the deep grave. Brother 
Bethuel had come down from the mountains on Marcher, and 
had asked permission to lead the singing ; he stood by the 
grave, and, with uncovered head and uplifted eyes, sang with 
marvelous sweetness and power an old Methodist hymn, in 
which all the throng soon joined. The young girls who had 
danced at the ball sobbed aloud. Honor alone stood tearless ; 
but she had brought her choicest roses to lay over the dead 
boy's feet, where no one could see them, and she had stooped 
and kissed his icy forehead in the darkened room before he 
was carried out : Stephen saw her do it. After the funeral, 
Brother Bethuel and Honor went away together ; Stephen returned to the inn. Adelaide had taken upon herself the task 
of answering the letters. Allison had no father or mother, 
but his other relatives and friends were writing. Royce, his 
one young burst of grief over, went about sternly, his whole 
soul set on revenge. Now troops came : an officer, of the 
United States army had been killed, and the Department was 
aroused at last. There were several officers at Ellerby now, 
older men than Allison and more experienced ; a new expe 
dition was to be sent into the mountains to route these ban 
ditti and make an end of them. Royce was going as guide ; 
he knew where the former attack had been made, and he 
knew, also, the detective's reasons for suspecting Eagle Knob, 
 
the detective himself being now out of the field, owing to 
brain-fever: the United States authorities had ordered him 
out of jail, and he was at the inn, having his fever comfor 
tably on the ground-floor. Honor was with Adelaide almost 
constantly now. The elder woman, who always received her 
caressingly, seemed puzzled by the girl's peculiar manner. 
She said little, but sat and listened to every word, turning her 
dark eyes slowly from one speaker to the next. Royce came 
and went, brought in his maps, talked, and every now and then 
made the vases on the table ring as he brought down his 
strong hand with an emphasis of defiance. 
" I can not study," Honor had said to Stephen when he 
made some allusion to their morning hours. She said it sim 
ply, without excuse or disguise ; he did not ask her again. 
The expedition was to start on Monday night. The whole 
village, in the mean time, had been carefully intrusted with 
the secret that it was to go on Tuesday. But on Sunday 
evening Honor discovered that before midnight the hounds 
were to be let slip. The very soldiers themselves did not 
know it. How did the girl learn it, then ? She divined it 
from some indefinable signs in Royce. Even Adelaide did 
not suspect it ; and Stephen saw only the girl's own restless 
ness. She slipped away like a ghost so like one that Stephen 
himself did not see her go. He followed her, however, almost 
immediately ; it was too late for her to go through the village 
alone. He was some distance behind her. To his surprise, 
she did not go homeward, but walked rapidly down toward 
the river-road. There was fickle moonlight now and then ; 
he dropped still farther behind, and followed her, full of con 
jecture, which was not so much curiosity as pain. It was 
still early in the evening, yet too late for her to be out there 
on the river-road alone. This innocent young girl this child 
where, where was she going ? He let her walk on for a 
mile, and then he made up his mind that he must stop her. 
They were far beyond the houses now, and the road was 
lonely and wild ; the roar of the river over its broad, rock- 
 
dotted, uneven bed, hid the sound of his footsteps as he 
climbed up the steep bank, ran forward, and came down into 
the road in advance of her. 
" Where are you going, Miss Honor ? " he said, showing 
himself, and speaking quietly. 
She started back, and gasped out his name. 
" Yes, it is I," he answered, " Stephen Wainwright. I am 
alone ; you need not be frightened." 
She came close up to him and took his hand. 
" Do not stop me," she said entreatingly. " I am on an 
errand of life and death ! " 
" I will go in your place, Honor." 
" You can not." 
" Yes, I can. Rutyou shall not." 
" Will you betray me, then ? " she said, in an agonized 
tone. 
" No ; but you will tell me what it is, and I will go for 
you." 
" I tell you, you can not go." 
" Why ? " 
"You do not know; and, besides you would not." 
" I will do anything you ask me to do," said Stephen. 
" Anything ? " 
" Anything." 
She hesitated, looking at him. 
" Do you give me your word ? " 
"I do." 
" But but it is an enormous thing you are doing for me." 
" I know it is." 
" Oh, let me go let me go myself ! " she cried suddenly, 
with a half sob ; " it is so much better." 
" I will never let you go," said Stephen. His voice was in 
flexible. She surveyed him tremulously, hopelessly ; then sank 
down upon her knees, praying, but not to him. Stephen took 
off his hat, and waited, bareheaded. It was but a moment ; 
then she rose. " My cousin, Richard Eliot, my uncle's eldest 
 
son, has been with these men, at one of their hiding-places, 
for some months. My uncle knows nothing of it ; but Brother 
Bethuel is in the secret, and keeps watch of him." 
" Your cousin is Masters, then ? " 
" He is. Ask no more questions, but hasten on ; take the 
first broad trail which leaves the road on the right, follow it 
until you come to Brother Bethuel's house ; you can not miss 
it ; it is the only one. He will guide you to the place where 
Richard is, and you must warn him that the troops are com 
ing." 
" Only one question, Honor. Come out into the moon- 
light ; give me both your hands. Do you love this man ? " 
He looked at her fixedly. She gave a quick, strong start, 
as though she must break away from him at all hazards, and 
turned darkly red, the deep, almost painful, blush of the 
brunette. Her hands shook in his grasp, tears of shame rose 
in her eyes ; it was as though some one had struck her in the 
face. 
"Do you love this Eliot?" repeated Stephen, compelling 
her still to meet his eyes. 
She drew in her breath suddenly, and answered, with a 
rush of quick words : " No, no, no ! Not in the way you 
mean. But he is my cousin. Go ! " 
He went. Nearly two miles farther down the road the 
trail turned off ; it climbed directly up a glen by the side of a 
brook w-hich ran downward to the river in a series of little 
waterfalls. It was wide enough for a horse, and showed the 
track of Marcher's hoofs. It came out on a flank of the 
mountain and turned westward, then northward, then straight 
up again through the thick woods to a house whose light 
shone down like a beacon, and guided him. 
Wainwright knocked ; Brother Bethuel opened, started 
slightly, then recovered himself, and welcomed his guest 
effusively. 
" Is there any one in the house besides ourselves ? " said 
Stephen, ignorant as to whether there was or was not a Mrs. 
Head. There was ; but she had gone, "with her five offspring, 
to visit her mother in Tennessee. 
" Then," said Stephen, " take me immediately to Richard 
Eliot." 
The little minister stared innocently at his guest. 
" Take you where ? " he repeated, with surprised face. 
" Come," said Stephen, " you need not conceal. Miss 
Dooris herself sent me. I am to warn this Eliot that the 
troops are on the way have probably already left Ellerby." 
The little man, convinced, sprang for his lantern, lighted 
it, and hurried out, followed by Wainwright. He ran more 
than he walked ; he climbed over the rocks ; he galloped 
clown the gullies and up the other side ; he said not a word, 
but hurried, closely followed by Stephen, who was beginning 
to feel spent, until he reached the foot of a wall of rock, the 
highest ledge of Eagle Knob. Here he stood still and whistled. 
Stephen sat down, and tried to recover his breath. After a 
moment or two a whistle answered from above, and the mis 
sionary imitated the cry of a night-bird, one, two, three times. 
He then sat down beside Wainwright, and wiped his fore 
head. " He will be here in a moment," he said. In a short 
time, coming up as if from the bowels of the mountain, a 
figure stood beside them. Brother Bethuel had closed the 
slide of his lantern, and Wainwright could not see the face. 
" Miss Dooris sent me," he began. " I am to warn you that 
the troops are on their way hither to-night, and that they have 
a clew to your hiding-place." 
" Who are you ? " said the man. 
" I am Miss Dooris's messenger ; that is enough." 
The man muttered an oath. 
Brother Bethuel lifted up his hands with a deprecating 
gesture. 
" You do not mean it, Richard ; you know you do not. 
Lord, forgive him ! " he murmured. 
" Well, what am I to do ?" said the man. " Did she send 
any word ? " 
 
" Only that you must escape." 
" Escape ! Easy enough to say. But where am I to go ? 
Did she send any money ? " 
" She will," said Stephen, improvising. 
"When?" 
" To-morrow." 
" How much ? " 
" Quite a sum ; as much as you need." 
" Is she so flush, then ? " 
" She is, as you say flush," replied Stephen. 
Brother Bethuel had listened breathlessly to this conversa 
tion ; and when Eliot said, fretfully, " But where am I to go 
now to-night ? " he answered : " Home with me, Dick. I 
can conceal you for one night ; nobody suspects me. The 
Lord will forgive ; it is an Eliot." 
" Wait until I warn the fellows, then," said the man, dis 
appearing suddenly in the same way he had appeared. Then 
Stephen, who had not risen from his seat, felt a pair of arms 
thrown around his neck; the little brother was embracing 
him fervently. 
" God bless you ! God bless you ! " he whispered. " We 
will get him safely out of the country this time, with your aid, 
Mr. Wainwright. An Eliot, mind you ; a real Eliot, poor 
fellow ! " 
But the real Eliot had returned, and Brother Bethuel led 
the way down the mountain. They walked in single file, and 
Stephen saw that the man in front of him was tall and power 
ful. They reached the house, and the minister took the fugi 
tive down into his cellar, supplying him with food, but no 
light. 
" Make no sound," he said. " Even if the house is full of 
soldiers, you are safe ; no one suspects me." He closed the 
horizontal door, and then turned to Wainwright. " What are 
you going to do ? " he asked, his small face wrinkled with 
anxiety. 
" I am going back to Ellerby." 
" And when will you return with the money ? " 
" Some time to-morrow." 
" I will go with you as far as the road," said Brother 
Bethuel ; " I want to see if the troops are near." 
" Who is this Eliot ? " asked Stephen, as they went down 
the glen. 
" The Colonel's eldest son, the only child by the first wife. 
His father has heard nothing of him for several years ; it is 
the grief of the old man's life." 
" What is he doing here ? " 
"Well, he is a wild boy always was," said Brother 
Bethuel reluctantly. " Lately he has been living with a gang 
of these whisky-men." 
" And Miss Dooris knows it ? " 
" Yes. He was always fond of Honor when she was a 
child, and latterly he has has fallen into a way of depending 
upon her." 
" Why does he not come out of the woods, go to work, 
and behave like a civilized man ? " said Wainwright, in a tone 
of disgust. " I have no patience with such fellows." 
" Oh, yes, you have," said Brother Bethuel earnestly. 
" You are going to help him, you know." 
" Well, we will send him far enough away this time to 
Australia, if he will go," said Stephen. " The country will be 
well rid of him." 
" You do not, perhaps, understand exactly," said Brother 
Bethuel timidly, after a moment's silence. " Eliot fought all 
through the war fought bravely, nobly. But, when peace 
came, there seemed to be no place for him. He was not 
adapted to to commerce ; he felt it a degradation. Hence 
his present position. But he did not choose it voluntarily; 
he he drifted into it." 
" Yes, as you say, drifted," said Stephen dryly. " Will the 
other men get away in time ? " 
" Oh, yes ; they are already gone. There is a cave, and a 
passage upward through clefts in the rocks to the glen where 
 
their still is ; it is a natural hiding-place. But they will not 
even stay there ; they will go to another of their haunts." 
" Where ? " 
" Thank the Lord, I do not know ! really and truly, I do 
not know," ejaculated the little minister fervently. " My only 
interest in them, the only charge upon my conscience, has 
been Eliot himself. You do not understand, and I may not 
be able to explain it to you, Mr. Wainwright, but I love the 
Eliots ! I have loved them all my life. I was born upon their 
land, I revered them in childhood, I honored them in youth, I 
love them in age. They bear one of our great State names ; 
they have been our rulers and our leaders for generations. I 
love them, every one." Wainwright made no answer; the 
little man went on : " This son has been a sad, wild boy al 
ways has nearly broken his father's heart. But he is an 
Eliot still ; the little I can do for him I will do gladly until I 
die." 
" Or until he does," suggested Stephen. " One of this 
gang shot Allison ; was this Eliot of yours the marksman ? " 
Brother Bethuel was silent. Stephen turned and saw by 
the lantern's gleam the trouble and agitation on his face. 
"He did it, I see," said Stephen, "and you know he did 
it. It was murder." 
" No, no war," said the missionary, with dry lips. They 
had reached the road and looked down it ; the moonlight was 
unclouded now. They could see nothing, but they thought 
they heard sounds. Brother Bethuel went back up the glen, 
and W T ainwright, turning into the woods, made his way along 
in the deep shadows above the road. He met the soldiers 
after a while, marching sturdily, and remained motionless be 
hind a tree-trunk until they had passed ; then, descending 
into the track, he walked rapidly back to the village. But, 
with all his haste and all his skill, he did not reach his room 
unobserved ; Adelaide saw him enter, and noted the hour. 
The troops came back at noon the next day, not having 
discovered the foe. Honor was with Adelaide, pretending to 
 
sew, but her mind was astray ; Adelaide watched her closely. 
Stephen was present, quiet and taciturn as usual. He had 
succeeded in conveying to the girl, unobserved, a slip of paper, 
on which was written : " Eliot is hidden in the cellar of Head's 
house. I am going out there this afternoon, and you may 
feel assured that, in a day or two more, he will be out of the 
mountains, and in permanent safety." But he had not been 
able to exchange any worde with her. 
Royce came in, foiled, tired, and out of temper. 
" If it had not been for the little minister, we should have 
had nothing at all for our pains," he said, when, the first an 
noyed heat over, he, having been left in the mean while un- 
vexed by questions owing to Adelaide's tact, began to feel 
himself like telling the story. " He heard us down in the road, 
came to meet us, and advised us what to do. It seems that 
he too has had his suspicions about Eagle Knob, and he took 
his lantern and guided us up there. We hunted about and 
found one of their hiding-places, showing traces, too, of recent occupation ; but we could not find the men or the still. 
The troops will take rations, however, next time, and make a 
regular campaign of it : we shall unearth the scoundrels yet." 
" But you will not think it necessary to go again, John ? " 
said Adelaide. 
" Not necessary, but agreeable, Cousin Adelaide. I will 
not leave these mountains until the murderer of Allison is 
caught I was going to say shot, but hanging is better," said 
Royce. 
Honor gazed at him with helpless, fascinated eyes. Mrs. 
Kellinger noted the expression. There was evidently another 
secret : she had already divined one. 
Soon afterward Honor went home, and Stephen did not 
accompany her. Adelaide noted that. She noted also that 
he sat longer than usual in her parlor after the early dinner, 
smoking cigarettes and becoming gradually more and more 
drowsy, until at last, newspaper in hand, he sauntered off to 
his own room, as if for a siesta. It was too well acted. She 
 
said to herself, with conviction, " He is going out ! " A wo 
man can deceive admirably in little things ; a man can not. 
He can keep the secret of an assassination, but not of a clam 
supper. The very cat discovers it. Adelaide went to her 
room, put on her trim little walking-boots and English round 
hat, and, slipping quietly out of the house, walked down the 
road to a wooded knoll she remembered, a little elevation that 
commanded the valley and the village ; here, under a tree, she 
sat waiting. She had a volume of Landor : it was one of 
Wainwright's ways to like Landor. After half an hour had 
passed, she heard, as she had expected to hear, footsteps ; she 
looked up. Wainwright was passing. " Why is it you ? " 
she called out. " I thought you would sleep for two hours at 
least. Sit down here awhile and breathe this delicious air 
with me." 
Wainwright, outwardly undisturbed, left the road, came 
up the knoll, and sat down by her side. Being in the shade, 
he took off his hat and threw himself back on the grass. But 
that did not make him look any larger. Only a broad- 
shouldered, big fellow can amount to anything when lying 
down in the open air : he must crush with his careless length 
a good wide space of grass and daisies, or he will inevitably 
be overcome by the preponderant weight of Nature the 
fathomless sky above, the stretch of earth on each side. 
Wainwright took up the volume, which Adelaide did not con 
ceal ; that he had found her reading his favorite author se 
cretly was another of the little facts with which she gemmed 
his life. " What do you discover to like ? " he asked. 
" His bugles on the Pyrenees dissolved the trance of Eu 
rope ; and, When the war is over, let u,s,sail among the isl 
ands of the ^Egean and be as young as ever ; and, We are 
poor indeed when we have no half-wishes left us, " said Ade 
laide, musically quoting. " Then there is the Artemidora. " 
" You noticed that ? " 
"Yes." 
Meanwhile, the man was thinking, " How can I get away 
 
unsuspected ? " and the woman, " How can I make him tell 
me? " 
They talked some time longer; then Adelaide made up 
her mind to go into action. 
Adelaide (quietly). " There is a change in you, Stephen; 
I want you to tell me the cause." 
Stephen. " We all change as time moves on." 
Adelaide. "But this is something different. I have no^ 
ticed " 
Stephen. "What?" 
Adelaide. " No one observes you so closely as I do, 
Stephen : my life is bound up in yours ; your interests are 
mine. Anything that is for your happiness engrosses me ; 
anything that threatens it disturbs me. Let us speak plainly, 
then : you are interested in Honor Dooris." 
Stephen. " I am." 
Adelaide. " More than that you love her." 
Stephen. " What is love, Adelaide ? " 
Adelaide (with emotion). " It was Ralph's feeling for me, 
Stephen. He is gone, but I have the warm memory in my 
heart. Somebody loved me once, and with all his soul." 
(Leaning forward with tears in her eyes :) " Take this young 
girl, Stephen ; yes, take her. She will give you what you have 
never had in your life, poor fellow ! real happiness." 
Wainwright was silent. 
Adelaide. " Ah ! I have known it a long time. You spent 
the whole of last summer here ; what did that mean ? You 
wrote to her at intervals all through the winter. You are 
here again. You love to study her girlish heart, to open the 
doors of her mind." (Rapidly :) " And have I not helped 
you ? I have, I have. Was I not the quiet listener to all 
those first guarded descriptions of yours ? Did I not com 
ment upon each and every word of those careful little letters 
of hers, and follow every possibility of their meaning out to its 
fullest extent ? All this to please you. But, when I came 
here and saw the child with my own eyes, did I not at once 
range myself really upon your side? Have I not had her 
here ? Did I not form a close acquaintance with her family ? 
Did I not give you those morning hours with her at the 
library ? And am I not here also to answer for her, to de 
scribe her to your friends, to uphold your choice, to bring out 
and develop her striking beauty ? " 
Stephen. " But she is not beautiful." 
Adelaide. " She is. Let me dress her once or twice, and 
New York shall rave over her. I have had your interests all 
the time at heart, Stephen. Was it not I who sent for John 
Royce ? And did you not see why I sent for him ? It was 
to try her. I have given her every chance to see him, to be 
with him, to admire him. He is near her own age, and he is 
a handsome fellow, full of life and spirit. But you see as well 
as I do that she has come out unscathed. Take her, then, 
Stephen ; you can do it safely, young as she is, for the man 
she first loves she will love always." 
As she spoke, an almost imperceptible tremor showed it 
self around the mouth of the small, plain, young-old man who 
was lying on the grass beside her ; he seemed to be conscious 
of it himself, and covered his mouth with his hand. 
Adelaide. " But there is something which you must tell 
me now, Stephen. You can not be in league with these out 
laws; is it Honor, then? You had better tell. Her uncle 
and aunt evidently know nothing of it, and the child should 
have a woman-friend by her side. You know I would cut 
myself up into small pieces for you, Stephen ; let me be your 
ally in this, too. Is it not best for Honor that I should know 
everything ? Shall I not be her true friend when she is your 
wife your sweet young wife, Stephen, in that old house of 
yours which we will fit up for her together, and where you will 
let me come and see you, will you not, your faithful, loving 
cousin ? " Her voice broke ; she turned her head away. Her 
emotion was real. The man by her side, urged at last out of 
his gray reticence by his own deep longing, which welled up 
irresistibly to meet her sympathy, turned over on his arm and 
 
told her all in a few words as regarded himself, with careful 
explanation as regarded Honor. 
" I have the money with me now," he said, " and Head, 
who was so anxious to guide me, the supposed detective, away 
from Eliot, now guides me to him, relies upon me to save 
him." 
" And Honor knows knows, too, that he shot Allison," 
said Adelaide musingly. " That was the reason why she was 
so pale, and why she brought all her roses, and kissed the 
poor boy's forehead." 
" She does not know, but fears." 
"Ah! we must help the child, Stephen; the burden of 
this is too heavy for such young shoulders. Go ; I will not 
keep you a moment longer ; I will go back to Honor. But, 
first God bless you ! Do not put yourself into any danger, 
for my sake. I have loved you long, and years hence, when 
we are old, I shall love you just the same." 
They were both standing now ; she came close to him, 
and laid her head upon his shoulder for an instant, tears shin 
ing on her cheeks. He put one arm around her, touched by 
her affection ; she raised her eyes, and let him look deep into 
them for one short moment. "He shall see the truth this 
once," she thought ; " though nothing to him now, it will 
come back to him." 
Adelaide Kellinger did that time a bold thing; she let 
Wainwright see that she loved him, relying upon the certainty 
that he would not think she knew he saw it, much less that 
she intended him to see it. She had the balance of reality on 
her side, too, because she really did love him in her way. 
In another moment he had left her, and was walking rap 
idly down the river-road. Adelaide went back to the village. 
Her first step was to find out whether Honor was at home ; 
she was not. At the library, then ? Not there. " Already 
gone to Brother Bethuel s," she thought. She next woke up 
Royce, laughed at his ill nature, flattered him a little, coaxed 
him into good temper, and finally told him plainly that she 
 
would not stand his bearishness any longer ; that he must go 
and dress himself anew, brush his hair, and come back and 
be agreeable. 
" You will turn into a mountain outlaw yourself, if I do 
not see to you," she said. 
" Oh, let me off for to-day," said Royce lazily. 
" This moment ! " 
She had her way : Royce took himself off, followed by the 
injunction to come back looking like an Apollo. Now, to 
make one's self look like an Apollo is an occupation which no 
young man is in his heart above ; and, when incited thereto 
by an expressed belief from feminine lips that he has only to 
try, he generally tries. Not long afterward Royce returned 
to the parlor looking his best, threw himself into a chair, and 
took up a book carelessly. He knew Adelaide would com 
ment. She did. She called him " a good boy," touched the 
crisp, curling ends of his yellow hair, and asked why he kept 
them so short; stroked his forehead, and said that, on the 
whole, he looked quite well. Her heart was beating rapidly 
as she chatted with him ; she listened intently ; everything de 
pended upon a chance. Ten minutes before, she had exe 
cuted a daringly bold action one of those things which a 
woman can do once in her life with perfect impunity, because 
no one suspects that she can. If she will do it alone, and 
only once, there is scarcely any deed she may not accomplish 
safely. A few more moments passed, Adelaide still listening ; 
then came a shuffling step through the passage, a knock at 
the door, and, without waiting for reply, the burly figure of 
the revenue detective appeared, wrapped in a dressing-gown, 
with head still bandaged, and eyes half closed, but mind suf 
ficiently clear to state his errand. 
" Beg pardon," he said ; " is Royce here ? I can't see 
very well. Is that you, Royce ? Look at this." 
He held out a crumpled piece of paper. 
" Seems to be something, but I can't quite make it out," 
he said. 
 
Roycc took it, glanced over it, cried, " By Jove ! " and was 
out of the room in a second. The detective went stumbling 
along after him ; he had to feel his way, being half blinded 
by his swollen eyelids. 
" Take your pistols ! " he called out, keeping his hand on 
the wall all the way down the passage. 
Royce had dropped the paper ; Adelaide had instantly de 
stroyed it, and then she followed the detective. 
" What was it ? " she asked anxiously. 
" Only a line or two, ma am from somebody in the town 
here, I suppose saying that one of them distillers, the one, 
too, that shot Allison, was hidden in the house of that rascal 
ly, deceiving little minister, up toward Eagle Knob. They're  
all in league with each other, ministers or no ministers." 
" Who wrote it ? How do you know it is true ? " 
" I dun know who wrote it, and I dun know as it's true. 
The paper was throwed into my room, through the winder, 
when there didn't happen to be anybody around. It was 
somebody as had a grudge against this man in particular, I 
suppose. Twas scrawly writing, and no spelling to speak of. 
I brought it to Royce myself, because I wouldn't trust any 
one to carry it to him, black or white, confound em all ! " 
The detective had now reached the end of the passage 
and his endurance ; his hand was covered with whitewash 
where he had drawn it along the wall, his head was aching 
furiously, and his slippers were coming off. " You had just 
better go back," he said, not menacingly, but with a dull des 
peration, as he sat down on the first step of the stairway 
which led down to his room, and held his forehead and the 
base of his brain together : they seemed to him two lobes as 
large as bushel-baskets, and just ready to split apart. 
" I will send some one to you," said Adelaide, departing. 
She went to her room, darkened it, and took a long, quiet 
siesta. 
Royce dropped his information, en route, at the little 
 
camp in the grove, where the trim companies of United States 
infantry led their regular orderly life, to the slow wonder of 
the passing mountaineers. Who would not be a soldier and 
have such mathematically square pieces of bread, such well- 
boiled meat on a tin plate, such an exactly measured mug of 
clear coffee ? Who would not wear the light-blue trousers 
with their sharp fold of newness making a straight line to the 
very boot ? Who would not have such well-parted, shining 
hair? So thought the mountain-boys, and rode homeward 
pondering. 
The officers in command, on principle disgusted for sev 
eral seasons with still-hunting, which they deemed police- 
duty, were now ready to catch at any straw to avenge the 
death of Allison. The mountaineers and the detectives might 
fire at each other as long as they enjoyed the pastime ; but 
let them not dare to aim at an army-officer let them not 
dare ! They were astir at once, and called to Royce to wait 
for them ; but he was already gone. 
Stephen had a start of not quite forty minutes ; but, un 
conscious of pursuit, he walked slowly, not caring to return 
before nightfall. His natural gait was slow ; his narrow chest 
did not take in breath widely, as some chests do, and, slight 
as his figure was, he labored if hurried. His step was short 
and rather careful, his ankles and feet being delicate and 
small. There was no produced development of muscle on 
him anywhere ; he had always known that he could not afford 
anything of that kind, and had let himself alone. As he now 
walked on, he dreamed. Adelaide's words rang in his ear ; 
he could not forget them. " A woman reads a woman," he 
said to himself. " Adelaide thinks that I can win her." Then 
he let his thoughts go : " At last my life will have an object ; 
this sweet young girl will love me, and love me for myself 
alone ; she is incapable of any other feeling." He was very 
human, after all ; he longed so to be loved ! His wealth and 
his insignificance had been two millstones around his neck all 
his life ; he had believed nobody. Under every feeling that 
 
had ever come to him lurked always, deepest of all, suspicion. 
Now, late in life, in this far-off wilderness, he had found some 
one in whom he believed. 
He pleased himself with the thought of the jewels he 
would give her ; he journeyed with her in fancy through the 
whole of the Old World. The moisture came to his eyes as 
he imagined how she would pray morning and night just the 
same, and that he would be there to see her ; he said to him 
self that he would never laugh at her, but would bring his 
unbelieving heart and lay it in her hand : if she could mold 
it, well and good, she might ; he would be glad. So he walked 
on, down the river-road, his long-repressed, stifled hope and 
love out of bonds at last. 
A sound fell on his dulled ear, and brought him back to 
reality ; it was a footstep. " I had better not be seen," he 
thought, and, climbing up the bank, he kept on through the 
thick hillside-forest. After a moment or two, around the 
curve came John Royce, walking as if for a wager ; two pis 
tols gleamed in the belt he had hastily buckled around his 
waist, and the wrinkle between his eyes had deepened into a 
frown. 
" It can not be possible ! " thought Wainwright. But 
rapid reflection convinced him that, impossible as it seemed, it 
might be true, and that, in any case, he had not a moment to 
lose. He was above Royce, he was nearer the trail to Brother 
Bethuel s, and, what was more, he was familiar with all its 
turnings. " Not to be able to save Eliot ! " he thought, as he 
hurried forward over the slippery, brown pine-needles. And 
then it came to him how much he had relied upon that to 
hold Honor, and he was ashamed. But almost immediately 
after rose to the surface, for the first time in his life, too, the 
blunt, give-and-take feeling of the man as a man, the thought 
" You are doing all this for her ; she ought to repay you." 
He hardly knew himself ; he was like Bothwell then, and other 
burly fellows in history ; and he was rather pleased to find 
himself so. He hastened across a plateau where the footing 
 
was better; he had turned farther up the mountain-side, so 
that Royce could not by any possibility hear him as he brushed 
hastily through the undergrowth, or stepped on crackling twigs 
or a rolling stone. The plateau soon ended, and the slanting 
hillside slanted still more steeply. He pushed on, keeping his 
breath as well as he was able, running wherever he could, 
climbing over rocks and fallen trees. He was so far above 
the road now that he could not see Royce at all, but he kept 
his efforts up to the task by imagining that the young man 
was abreast of him below which was true. He began to 
pant a little. The sleeve of his flannel coat had been held 
and torn by a branch ; he had tripped on a round stone, and 
grazed his knee. He was very tired ; he began to lope as the 
Indians do, making the swing of the joints tell ; but he was 
not long enough to gain any advantage from that gait. At 
last he met the trail, and turned up the mountain ; the ascent 
seemed steeper now that he was out of breath. His throat 
was dry; surely, he had time to drink from the brook. He 
knelt down, but before he could get a drop he heard a sound 
below, and hurried on. Alarmed, he sprang forward like a 
hare ; he climbed like a cat, he drew himself up by his hands ; 
he had but one thought to reach the house in time. His 
coat was torn now in more places than one ; a sharp edge of 
rock had cut his ankle so that his stocking was spotted with 
red above the low walking-shoe. The determination to save 
Eliot drove him on like a whip of flame : he did not know 
how much Royce knew, but feared everything. His face had 
a singular appearance : it was deeply flushed, the teeth were 
set, the wrinkles more visible than ever, and yet there was a 
look of the boy in the eyes which had not been there for 
years. He was in a burning heat, and breathed with a regu 
lar, panting sound ; he could hear the circulation of his own 
blood, and began to see everything crimson. The trail now 
turned straight up the mountain, and he went at it fiercely ; 
he was conscious of his condition, and knew that he might 
fall in a fit at the house-door : never mind, if he could only get 
there ! His eyes were glassy now, his lips dry. He reached 
the house, opened the door, and fell into a chair. Brother 
Bethuel, in alarm, sprang up and brought him a dipper full of 
water as quickly as hand could fill the tin. Brother Bethuel 
believed in water, and this time Wainwright agreed with him ; 
he swallowed every drop. 
" Where is he ? " he said then, already on his feet again, 
though staggering a little. Brother Bethuel pointed down 
ward, and Wainwright, with a signal toward the glen, as 
if of near danger, disappeared. The cellar was dimly light 
ed by two little windows a foot square, and the man 
who entered made out two figures : one was Eliot, the other 
Honor. 
" You ! " said Wainwright. 
" Did you not know that I would come? " said the girl. 
He had not known it, or thought of it. He turned his 
eyes toward the other figure ; everything still looked red. He 
held out a pocket-book. 
" Go ! " he said ; " Royce is on your track ! " 
He spoke in a whisper ; his voice had left him as he gained 
breath. Eliot, a dark-skinned, handsome, but cutthroat-look 
ing fellow, seized the money and sprang toward the door. 
But Honor sprang too, and held him back ; she had heard 
something. The next moment they all heard something 
Royce coming in above. 
When the youth entered, Brother Bethuel was quietly 
reading his Bible ; the table on which it lay was across the 
cellar-door. 
" Welcome," said the little missionary, rising. " I am 
happy to see you, Mr. Royce." 
The place looked so peaceful, with the Bible, the ticking 
clock, and the cat, that Royce began to think it must be all a 
mistake. He sat down for a moment to rest, irresolute, and 
not quite knowing what to say next. The three, close under 
the thin flooring down below, did not stir, hardly breathed. 
Stephen was thinking that, if Royce could know the truth, he 
 
too would let Eliot go. But there was not much time for 
thought. 
Brother Bethuel brought out some apples, and began to 
converse easily with his visitor. After a while he said, depre- 
catingly : 
" Will you not remove your pistols to the window-seat 
behind you, Mr. Royce ? From my youth, I could never 
abide the proximity of fire-arms of any kind. They distress 
me." 
Royce good-naturedly took them out of his belt, and 
placed them behind him, but within easy reach. The mis 
sionary was on the opposite side of the room. 
Not a sound below. Wainwright was breathing with his 
mouth wide open, so as not to pant. He was still much 
spent. 
But it could not last long ; Royce felt that he must search 
the house, even at the risk of offending the little mission 
ary. 
" Mr. Head," he said, awkwardly enough, " I am very 
sorry, but but a communication has been received stating 
that one of the outlaws, and the one, too, who shot poor 
Allison, is concealed here, in this house. I am very sorry, 
but but I must search ever)- part of it immediately." 
Brother Bethuel had risen ; his countenance expressed 
sorrow and surprise. 
" Young man," he said, " search where and as you please I 
but spare me your suspicions." 
There was a dignity in his bearing which Royce had not 
seen before ; he felt hot and ashamed. 
"Indeed, Mr. Head, I regret all this," he said; "and, of 
course, it is but a matter of form. Still, for my own satis 
faction, and yours, too, now I must go through the house." 
He rose and moved a step forward. Quick as lightning 
the little missionary had sprung behind him, and pushed the 
pistols over the sill, through the open window, down forty 
feet on the rocks below. 
" Traitor ! " cried Royce, grappling him. 
But it was too late ; the pistols were gone. Brother Beth- 
uel glowed openly with triumph ; he made no more resistance 
in Royce's strong arms than a rag. The young man soon 
dropped him, and, hearing a sound below, ran to the cellar- 
door. 
" He has no pistols ! " screamed Bethuel down the stair 
after him : " you can manage him ; he is alone." 
Then, setting all the doors wide open, so that escape 
would be easy, he ran out to saddle Marcher. 
Down below, in the cellar, Stephen had caught hold of 
Royce's arm. Royce, full in the narrow entranceway, stood 
glaring at Eliot, and minding Stephen's hold no more than 
the foot of a fly. The light from the horizontal door above 
streamed in and showed Eliot's dark face and Honor's dilated 
eyes. The girl stood near her cousin, but slightly behind him 
as though she feared his gaze. 
" You are the man I want," said Royce ; " I recognize 
you ! " His strong voice came in among their previous whis 
pers and bated breath, as his face came in among their three 
faces Honor's ivory-pallid cheeks, the outlaw's strained at 
tention, and Stephen's gray fatigue, more and more visible 
now as he gained breath and sight. "Yield yourself up. 
We are two to your one." 
" We are two to your one," answered Eliot : " that man 
beside you is for me." 
Royce looked down with surprise upon his cousin, who 
still held his arm. 
" No mistaken lenity now, Stephen," he said curtly, shak 
ing his arm free. " I must have this man ; he shot Allison." 
