


How could you be so wicked, so cruel ? What have 
I ever done to you? Why can't you leave me alone ? 
I was afraid you would spoil everything ; for you do 
spoil everything you touch ! I was afraid of you 
all the time we were abroad ; I had no rest when I 
thought that you were always talking to him." Cath- 
erine went on with growing vehemence, pouring out, 
in her bitterness and in the clairvoyance of her pas- 
sion (which suddenly, jumping all processes, made 
her judge her aunt finally and without appeal), the 
uneasiness which had lain for so many months upon 
her heart. 

Mrs. Pennirnan was scared and bewildered ; she 
saw no prospect of introducing her little account of 
the purity of Morris's motives. " You are a most 
ungrateful girl !" she cried. " Do you scold me for 
talking with him? I'm sure we never talked of 
anything but you !" 

" Yes ; and that was the way you worried him ; 
you made him tired of my very name ! I wish you 
had never spoken of me to him ; I never asked your 
help !" 

"I am sure if it hadn't been for me he would 
never have come to the house, and you would nev- 
er have known that he thought of you," Mrs. Pen- 
niman rejoined, with a good deal of justice. 

" I wish he never had come to the house, and that 
I never had known it ! That's better than this," said 
poor Catherine. 

" You are a very ungrateful girl," Aunt Lavinia 
repeated. 

Catherine's outbreak of anger and the sense of 
wrong gave her, while they lasted, the satisfaction 





that comes from all assertion of force ; they hurried 
her along, and there is always a sort of pleasure in 
cleaving the air. But at bottom she hated to be 
violent, and she was conscious of no aptitude for 
organized resentment. She calmed herself with a 
great effort, but with great rapidity, and walked 
about the room a few moments, trying to say 'to 
herself that her aunt had meant everything for the 
best. She did not succeed in saying it with much 
conviction, but after a little she was able to speak 
quietly enough. 

" I am not ungrateful, but I am very unhappy. 
It's hard to be grateful for that," she said. " Will 
you please tell me where he is ?" 

" I haven't the least idea; I arn not in secret corre- 
spondence with him !" And Mrs. Penniman wished, 
indeed, that she were, so that she might let him know 
how Catherine abused her, after all she had done. 

" Was it a plan of his, then, to break off ?" By 
this time Catherine had become completely quiet. 

Mrs. Penniman began again to have a glimpse of 
her chance for explaining. " He shrunk he shrunk," 
she said ; " he lacked courage, but it was the cour- 
age to injure you ! He couldn't bear to bring down 
on you your father's curse." 

Catherine listened to this with her eyes fixed upon 
her aunt, and continued to gaze at her for some time 
afterward. " Did he tell you to say that ?" 

" He told me to say many things all so delicate, 
so discriminating ; and he told rne to tell you he 
hoped you wouldn't despise him." 

" I don't," said Catherine ; and then she added, 
" And will he stay away forever ?" 





" Oh, forever is a long time. Your father, per- 
haps, won't live forever." 

" Perhaps not." 

"I am sure you appreciate you understand 
even though your heart bleeds," said Mrs. Penni- 
man. "You doubtless think him too scrupulous. 
So do I, but I respect his scruples. What he asks 
of you is that you should do the same." 

Catherine was still gazing at her aunt, but she 
spoke at last as if she had not heard or not under- 
stood her. " It has been a regular plan, then. He 
has broken it off deliberately ; he has given me up." 

" For the present, dear Catherine ; he has put it 
off, only." 

" He has left me alone," Catherine went on. 

" Haven't you me ?" asked Mrs. Penniman, with 
some solemnity. 

Catherine shook her head slowly. " I don't be- 
lieve it !" and she left the room. 



XXXI. 

THOUGH she had forced herself to be calm, she 
preferred practising this virtue in private, and she 
forbore to show herself at tea a repast which, on 
Sundays, at six o'clock, took the place of dinner. 
Doctor Sloper and his sister sat face to face, but Mrs. 
Penniman never met her brother's eye. Late in the 
evening she went with him, but without Catherine, 
to their sister Almond's, where, between the two 
ladies, Catherine's unhappy situation was discussed 
with a frankness that was conditioned by a good 





deal of mysterious reticence on Mrs. Penniman's 
part. 

"I am delighted he is not to marry her," said 
Mrs. Almond, " but he ought to be horsewhipped all 
the same." 

Mrs. Penniman, who was shocked at her sister's 
coarseness, replied that he had been actuated by the 
noblest of motives the desire not to impoverish 
Catherine. 

" I am very happy that Catherine is not to be im- 
poverished but I hope he may never have a pen- 
ny too much ! And what does the poor girl say to 
you ?" Mrs. Almond asked. 

" She says I have a genius for consolation," said 
Mrs. Penniman. 

This was the account of the matter that she gave 
to her sister, and it was perhaps with the conscious- 
ness of genius that, on her return that evening to 
Washington Square, she again presented herself for 
admittance at Catherine's door. Catherine came 
and opened it ; she was apparently very quiet. 

" I only want to give you a little word of advice," 
she said. " If your father asks you, say that every- 
thing is going on." 

Catherine stood there, with her hand on the knob, 
looking at her aunt, but not asking her to come in. 
" Do you think he will ask me ?" 

" I am sure he will. He asked me just now, on 
our way home from your aunt Elizabeth's. I ex- 
plained the whole thing to your aunt Elizabeth. I 
said to your father I knew nothing about it." 

" Do you think he will ask me, when he sees 
when he sees ?" But here Catherine stopped. 





" The more he sees, the more disagreeable he will 
be," said her aunt. 

" He shall see as little as possible !" Catherine de- 
clared. 

" Tell him you are to be married." 
v " So I am," said Catherine, softly ; and she closed 
the door upon her aunt. 

She could not have said this two days later for 
instance, on Tuesday, when she at last received a 
letter from Morris Townsend. It was an epistle of 
considerable length, measuring five large square 
pages, and written at Philadelphia. It was an ex- 
planatory document, and it explained a great many 
things, chief among which were the considerations 
that had led the writer to take advantage of an ur- 
gent " professional " absence to try and banish from 
his mind the image of one whose path he had cross- 
ed only to scatter it with ruins. He ventured to ex- 
pect but partial success in this attempt, but he could 
promise her that, whatever his failure, he would nev- 
er again interpose between her generous heart and 
her brilliant prospects and filial duties. He closed 
with an intimation that his professional pursuits 
might compel him to travel for some months, and 
with the hope that when they should each have ac- 
commodated themselves to what was sternly involved 
in their respective positions even should this re- 
sult not be reached for years they should meet as 
friends, as fellow - sufferers, as innocent but philo- 
sophic victims of a great social law. That her life 
should be peaceful and happy was the dearest wish 
of him who ventured still to subscribe himself her 
most obedient servant. The letter was beautifully 





written, and Catherine, who kept it for many years 
after this, was able, when her sense of the bitterness 
of its meaning and the hollowness of its tone had 
grown less acute, to admire its grace of expression. 
At present, for a long time after she received it, all 
she had to help her was the determination, daily 
more rigid, to make no appeal to the compassion of 
her father. 

He suffered a week to elapse, and then one day, in 
the morning, at an hour at which she rarely saw him, 
he strolled into the back parlor. He had watched 
his time, and he found her alone. She was sitting 
with some work, and he came and stood in front of 
her. He was going out ; he had on his hat, and was 
drawing on his gloves. 

" It doesn't seem to me that you are treating me 
just now with all the consideration I deserve," he 
said in a moment. 

" I don't know what I have done," Catherine an- 
swered, with her eyes on her work. 

"You have apparently quite banished from your 
mind the request I made you at Liverpool before we 
sailed the request that you would notify me in ad- 
vance before leaving my house." 

" I have not left your house," said Catherine. 

" But you intend to leave it, and, by what you gave 
me to understand, your departure must be impend- 
ing. In fact, though you are still here in body, you 
are already absent in spirit. Your mind has taken 
up its residence with your prospective husband, and 
you might quite as well be lodged under the conju- 
gal roof for all the benefit we get from your so- 
ciety." 





" I will try and be more cheerful," said Catherine. 

" You certainly ought to be cheerful ; you ask a 
great deal if you are not. To the pleasure of mar- 
rying a charming young man you add that of hav- 
ing your own way; you strike me as a very lucky 
young lady !" 

Catherine got up ; she was suffocating. But she 
folded her work deliberately and correctly, bending 
her burning face upon it. Her father stood where 
he had planted himself ; she hoped he would go, but 
he smoothed and buttoned his gloves, and then he 
rested his hands upon his hips. 

" It would be a convenience to me to know when 
I may expect to have an empty house," he went on. 
" When you go, your aunt marches." 

She looked at him at last, with a long, silent gaze, 
which, in spite of her pride and her resolution, ut- 
tered part of the appeal she had tried not to make. 
Her father's cold gray eye sounded her own, and he 
insisted on his point. 

" Is it to-morrow ? Is it next week, or the week 
after?" 

" I shall not go away !" said Catherine. 

The Doctor raised his eyebrows. " Has he backed 
out?" 

" I have broken off my engagement." 

"Broken it off?" 

" I have asked him to leave New York, and he 
has gone away for a long time." 

The Doctor was both puzzled and disappointed, 
but he solved his perplexity by saying to himself 
that his daughter simply misrepresented justifia- 
bly, if one would, but nevertheless, misrepresented 





the facts ; and he eased off his disappointment, which 
was that of a man losing a chance for a little tri- 
umph that he had rather counted on, by a few words 
that he uttered aloud. 

" How does he take his dismissal ?" 

" I don't know !" said Catherine, less ingeniously 
than she had hitherto spoken. 

" You mean you don't care ? You are rather 
cruel, after encouraging him and playing with him 
for so long !" 

The Doctor had his revenge, after all. 



XXXII. 

OUR story has hitherto moved with very short 
steps, but as it approaches its termination it must 
take a long stride. As time went on, it might have 
appeared to the Doctor that his daughter's account 
of her rupture with Morris Townsend, mere bravado 
as he had deemed it, was in some degree justified by 
the sequel. Morris remained as rigidly and unre- 
mittingly absent as if he had died of a broken heart, 
and Catherine had apparently buried the memory 
of this fruitless episode as deep as if it had ter- 
minated by her own choice. We know that she 
had been deeply and incurably wounded, but the 
Doctor had no means of knowing it. He was cer- 
tainly curious about it, and would have given a good 
deal to discover the exact truth ; but it was his pun- 
ishment that he never knew his punishment, I 
mean, for the abuse of sarcasm in his relations with 
his daughter. There was a good deal of effective 





sarcasm in her keeping him in the dark, and the rest 
of the world conspired with her, in this sense, to be 
sarcastic. Mrs. Penniman told him nothing, partly 
because he never questioned her he made too light 
of Mrs. Penniman for that and partly because she 
flattered herself that a tormenting reserve, and a 
serene profession of ignorance, would avenge her 
for his theory that she had meddled in the matter. 
He went two or three times to see Mrs. Montgom- 
ery, but Mrs. Montgomery had nothing to impart. 
She simply knew that her brother's engagement was 
broken off; and now that Miss Sloper was out of 
danger, she preferred not to bear witness in any 
way against Morris. She had done so before how- 
ever unwillingly because she was sorry for Miss 
Sloper ; but she was not sorry for Miss Sloper now 
not at all sorry. Morris had told her nothing 
about his relations with Miss Sloper at the time, 
and he had told her nothing since. He was always 
away, and he very seldom wrote to her ; she believed 
he had gone to California. Mrs. Almond had, in 
her sister's phrase, " taken up " Catherine violently 
since the recent catastrophe ; but, though the girl 
was very grateful to her for her kindness, she revealed no secrets, and the good lady could give the 
Doctor no satisfaction. Even, however, had she 
been able to narrate to him the private history of 
his daughter's unhappy love affair, it would have 
given her a certain comfort to leave him in ignorance ; for Mrs. Almond was at this time not alto- 
gether in sympathy with her brother. She had 
guessed for herself that Catherine had been cruelly 
jilted she knew nothing from Mrs. Penniman, for 





Mrs. Penniman had not ventured to lay the famous 
explanation of Morris's motives before Mrs. Almond, 
though she had thought it good enough for Catherine and she pronounced her brother too consistently indifferent to what the poor creature must have 
suffered and must still be suffering. Doctor Sloper 
had his theory, and he rarely altered his theories. 
The marriage would have been an abominable one, 
and the girl had had a blessed escape. She was not 
to be pitied for that, and to pretend to condole with 
her would have been to make concessions to the 
idea that she had ever had a right to think of 
Morris. 

" I put my foot on this idea from the first, and I 
keep it there now," said the Doctor. "I don't see 
anything cruel in that ; one can't keep it there too 
long." To this Mrs. Almond more than once replied that, if Catherine had got rid of her incongruous lover, she deserved the credit of it, and that to bring herself to her father's enlightened view of the 
matter must have cost her an effort that he was 
bound to appreciate. 

" I am by no means sure she has got rid of him," 
the Doctor said. " There is not the smallest proba- 
bility that, after having been as obstinate as a mule 
for two years, she suddenly became amenable to rea- 
son. It is infinitely more probable that he got rid 
of her." 

"All the more reason you should be gentle with 
her." 

"I am gentle with her. But I can't do the pa- 
thetic ; I can't pump up tears, to look graceful, over 
the most fortunate thing that ever happened to her." 





" You have no sympathy," said Mrs. Almond ; 
" that was never your strong point. You have only 
to look at her to see that, right or wrong, and whether the rupture came from herself or from him, her 
poor little heart is grievously bruised." 

"Handling bruises, and even dropping tears on 
them, doesn't make them any better! My busi- 
ness is to see she gets no more knocks, and that 
I shall carefully attend to. But I don't at all recognize your description of Catherine. She doesn't 
strike me in the least as a young woman going 
about in search of a moral poultice. In fact, she 
seems to me much better than while the fellow was 
hanging about. She is perfectly comfortable and 
blooming; she eats and sleeps, takes her usual exercise, and overloads herself, as usual, with finery. 
She is always knitting some purse or embroidering 
some handkerchief, and it seems to me she turns 
these articles out about as fast as ever. She hasn't 
much to say; but when had she anything to say? 
She had her little dance, and now she is sitting down 
to rest. I suspect that, on the whole, she enjoys it." 

" She enjoys it as people enjoy getting rid of a 
leg that has been crushed. The state of mind after 
amputation is doubtless one of comparative repose." 

" If your leg is a metaphor for young Townsend, 
I can assure you he has never been crushed. Crushed? Not he! He is alive and perfectly intact; 
and that's why I am not satisfied." 

" Should you have liked to kill him ?" asked Mrs. 
Almond. 

" Yes, very much. I think it is quite possible that 
it is all a blind." 







"A blind?" 

" An arrangement between them. II fait le mort, 
as they say in France ; but he is looking out of the 
corner of his eye. You can depend upon it, he has 
not burnt his ships ; he has kept one to come back 
in. When I am dead, he will set sail again, and then 
she will marry him." 

"It is interesting to know that you accuse your 
only daughter of being the vilest of hypocrites," 
said Mrs. Almond. 

"I don't see what difference her being my only 
daughter makes. It is better to accuse one than a 
dozen. But I don't accuse any one. There is not 
the smallest hypocrisy about Catherine, and I deny 
that she even pretends to be miserable." 

The Doctor's idea that the thing was a " blind " 
had its intermissions and revivals; but it may be 
said, on the whole, to have increased as he grew old- 
er ; together with his impressions of Catherine's 
blooming and comfortable condition. Naturally, if 
he had not found grounds for viewing her as a love- 
lorn maiden during the year or two that followed 
her great trouble, he found none at a time when she 
had completely recovered her self-possession. He 
was obliged to recognize the fact that, if the two 
young people were waiting for him to get out of 
the way, they were at least waiting very patiently. 
He had heard from time to time that Morris was in 
New York ; but he never remained there long, and, 
to the best of the Doctor's belief, had no communication with Catherine. He was sure they never met, and he had reason to suspect that Morris never 
wrote to her. After the letter that has been mentioned, she heard from him twice again, at consider- 
able intervals ; but on none of these occasions did 
she write herself. On the other hand, as the Doc- 
tor observed, she averted herself rigidly from the 
idea of marrying other people. Her opportunities 
for doing so were not numerous, but they occurred 
often enough to test her disposition. She refused a 
widower, a man with a genial temperament, a hand- 
some fortune, and three little girls (he had heard 
that she was very fond of children, and he pointed 
to his own with some confidence) ; and she turned a 
deaf ear to the solicitations of a clever young law- 
yer, who, with the prospect of a great practice, and 
the reputation of a most agreeable man, had had the 
shrewdness, when he came to look about him for a 
wife, to believe that she would suit him better than 
several younger and prettier girls. Mr. Macalister, 
the widower, had desired to make a marriage of rea- 
son, and had chosen Catherine for what he supposed 
to be her latent matronly qualities ; but John Lud- 
low, who was a year the girl's junior, and spoken of 
always as a young man who might have his " pick," 
was seriously in love with her. Catherine, how- 
ever, would never look at him ; she made it plain 
to him that she thought he came to see her too of- 
ten. He afterward consoled himself, and married a 
very different person, little Miss Sturtevant, whose 
attractions were obvious to the dullest comprehen- 
sion. Catherine, at the time of these events, had 
left her thirtieth year well behind her, and had quite 
taken her place as an old maid. Her father would 
have preferred she should marry, and he once told 
her that he hoped she would not be too fastidious. 





" I should like to see you an honest man's wife be- 
fore I die," he said. This was after John Ludlow 
had been compelled to give it up, though the Doc- 
tor had advised him to persevere. The Doctor ex- 
ercised no further pressure, and had the credit of 
not " worrying " at all over his daughter's single- 
ness; in fact, he worried rather more than appeared, 
and there were considerable periods during which 
he felt sure that Morris Townsend was hidden be- 
hind some door. " If he is not, why doesn't she 
marry?" he asked himself. "Limited as her intel- 
ligence may be, she must understand perfectly well 
that she is made to do the usual thing." Catherine, 
however, became an admirable old maid. She form- 
ed habits, regulated her days upon a system of her 
own, interested herself in charitable institutions, 
asylums, hospitals, and aid societies ; and went gen- 
erally, with an even and noiseless step, about the 
rigid business of her life. This life had, however, a 
secret history as well as a public one if I may talk 
of the public history of a mature and diffident spin- 
ster for whom publicity had always a combination 
of terrors. From her own point of view the great 
facts of her career were that Morris Townsend had 
trifled with her affection, and that her father had 
broken its spring. Nothing could ever alter these 
facts ; they were always there, like her name, her 
age, her plain face. Nothing could ever undo the 
wrong or cure the pain that Morris had inflicted on 
her, and nothing could ever make her feel toward 
her father as she felt in her younger years. There 
was something dead in her life, and her duty was 
to try and fill the void. Catherine recognized this 





duty to the utmost ; she had a great disapproval of 
brooding and moping. She had, of course, no fac- 
ulty for quenching memory in dissipation ; but she 
mingled freely in the usual gayeties of the town, 
and she became at last an inevitable figure at all 
respectable entertainments. She was greatly liked, 
and as time went on she grew to be a sort of kind- 
ly maiden -aunt to the younger portion of society. 
Young girls were apt to confide to her their love 
affairs (which they never did to Mrs. Penniman), 
and young men to be fond of her without knowing 
why. She developed a few harmless eccentricities ; 
her habits, once formed, were rather stiffly maintain- 
ed ; her opinions, on all moral and social matters, 
were extremely conservative; and before she was 
forty she was regarded as an old-fashioned person, 
and an authority on customs that had passed away. 
Mrs. Penniman, in comparison, was quite a girlish 
figure; she grew younger as she advanced in life. 
She lost none of her relish for beauty and mystery, 
but she had little opportunity to exercise it. With 
Catherine's later wooers she failed to establish rela- 
tions as intimate as those which had given her so 
many interesting hours in the society of Morris 
Townsend. These gentlemen had an indefinable 
mistrust of her good offices, and they never talked 
to her about Catherine's charms. Her ringlets, her 
buckles and bangles glistened more brightly with 
each succeeding year, and she remained quite the 
same officious and imaginative Mrs. Penniman, and 
the odd mixture of impetuosity and circumspection, 
that we have hitherto known. As regards one point, 
however, her circumspection prevailed, and she must 





be given due credit for it. For upward of seven- 
teen years she never mentioned Morris Townsend's 
name to her niece. Catherine was grateful to her, 
but this consistent silence, so little in accord with 
her aunt's character, gave her a certain alarm, and 
she could never wholly rid herself of a suspicion 
that Mrs. Peunirnan sometimes had news of him. 



XXXIII. 

LITTLE by little Doctor Sloper had retired from 
his profession ; he visited only those patients in 
whose symptoms he recognized a certain originality. 
He went again to Europe, and remained two years ; 
Catherine went with him, and on this occasion Mrs. 
Penniman was of the party. Europe apparently 
had few surprises for Mrs. Penniman, who frequent- 
ly remarked, in the most romantic sites, " You know 
I am very familiar with all this." It should be add- 
ed that such remarks were usually not addressed to 
her brother, or yet to her niece, but to fellow-tourists 
who happened to be at hand, or even to the cicerone 
or the goatherd in the foreground. 

One day, after his return from Europe, the Doc- 
tor said something to his daughter that made her 
start it seemed to come from so far out of the 
past. 

"I should like you to promise me something be- 
fore I die." 

" Why do you talk about your dying ?" she asked. 

" Because I am sixty-eight years old." 





" I hope you will live a long time," said Cathe- 
rine. 

" I hope I shall ! But some day I shall take a 
bad cold, and then it will not matter much what any 
one hopes. That will be the manner of my exit, 
and when it takes place, remember I told you so. 
Promise me not to marry Morris Townsend after 
I am gone." 

This was what made Catherine start, as I have 
said ; but her start was a silent one, and for some 
moments she said nothing. " Why do you speak of 
him ?" she asked at last. 

"You challenge everything I say. I speak of 
him because he's a topic, like any other. He's to be 
seen, like any one else, and he is still looking for a 
wife having had one and got rid of her, I don't 
know by what means. He has lately been in New 
York, and at your cousin Marian's house ; your aunt 
Elizabeth saw him there." 

u They neither of them told me," said Catherine. 

" That's their merit ; it's not yours. He has grown 
fat and bald, and he has not made his fortune. But 
I can't trust those facts alone to steel your heart 
against him, and that's why I ask you to promise." 

" Fat and bald ;" these words presented a strange 
image to Catherine's mind, out of which the mem- 
ory of the most beautiful young man in the world 
had never faded. " I don't think you understand," 
she said. " I very seldom think of Mr. Townsend." 

" It will be very easy for you to go on, then. 
Promise me, after my death, to do the same." 

Again, for some moments, Catherine was silent ; 
her father's request deeply amazed her ; it opened 





an old wound, and made it ache afresh. " I don't 
think I can promise that," she answered. 

" It would be a great satisfaction," said her father. 

" You don't understand. I can't promise that." 

The Doctor was silent a minute. " I ask you for a 
particular reason. I am altering my will." 

This reason failed to strike Catherine ; and indeed 
she scarcely understood it. All her feelings were 
merged in the sense that he was trying to treat her 
as he had treated her years before. She had suffered 
from it then ; and now all her experience, all her 
acquired tranquillity and rigidity protested. She 
had been so humble in her youth that she could 
now afford to have a little pride, and there was some- 
thing in this request, and in her father's thinking 
himself so free to make it, that seemed an injury to 
her dignity. Poor Catherine's dignity was not ag- 
gressive; it never sat in state; but if you pushed 
far enough you could find it. Her father had push- 
ed very far. 

" I can't promise," she simply repeated. 

" You are very obstinate," said the Doctor. 

" I don't think you understand." 

"Please explain, then." 

" I can't explain," said Catherine ; " and I can't 
promise." 

" Upon my word," her father exclaimed, " I had 
no idea how obstinate you are !" 

She knew herself that she was obstinate, and it 
gave her a certain joy. She was now a middle-aged 
woman. 

About a year after this, the accident that the Doc- 
tor had spoken of occurred : he took a violent cold. 





Driving out to Bloomingdale one April day to see 
a patient of unsound mind, who was confined in a 
private asylum for the insane, and whose family 
greatly desired a medical opinion from an eminent 
source, he was caught in a spring shower., and being 
in a buggy, without a hood, he found himself soaked 
to the skin. He came home with an ominous chill, 
and on the morrow he was seriously ill. " It is con- 
gestion of the lungs," he said to Catherine ; " I shall 
need very good nursing. It will make no differ- 
ence, for I shall not recover ; but I wish everything 
to be done, to the smallest detail, as if I should. I 
hate an ill-conducted sick-room, and you will be so 
good as to nurse me, on the hypothesis that I shall 
get well." He told her which of his fellow-physi- 
cians to send for, and gave her a multitude of mi- 
nute directions ; it was quite on the optimistic hy- 
pothesis that she nursed him. But he had never 
been wrong in his life, and he was not wrong now. 
He was touching his seventieth year, and though he 
had a very well-tempered constitution, his hold upon 
life had lost its firmness. He died after three weeks' 
illness, during which Mrs. Penniman, as well as his 
daughter, had been assiduous at his bedside. 

On his will being opened, after a decent interval, 
it was found to consist of two portions. The first 
of these dated from ten years back, and consisted of 
a series of dispositions by which he left the great 
mass of his property to his daughter, with becoming 
legacies to his two sisters. The second was a codicil, 
of recent origin, maintaining the annuities to Mrs. 
Penniman and .Mrs. Almond, but reducing Cathe- 
rine's share to a fifth of what he had first bequeathed 




