Christmas tells her story over more at length. An 
accident that blocked the road for several hours, too late 
for the connection, a train going only as far as Gatesburg, 
and a smouldering fire that filled the room with coal gas, 
but did not warm it Really, she can talk ; she is almost 
graphic ; but her voice is not well trained, though soft. 

"But what sent you away from Glen Ormiston in such 
a hurry ? Did the tenant turn you out ? " 

"Oh, no ! not now" ; and Christmas flushes painfully. 
"When they came I went to Mrs. Norcross, and should 
have stayed until after the holidays, but she had to go to a 
daughter who was very ill." 

" Well, I am glad to have you," says Dolly. " I shall 



be so much alone through all this dreary time" ; and she 
makes a ridicoloas little mtme. " Drink yonr coffee. See 
how nicely I can toast your beef." And taking it on the 
fork, she holds it near the glowing coals. " Shall I not 
ring for some fresh coffee ? " 

" No, thank you. It is very nice." Christmas watches 
her with wistful eyes. Her experience with girls has not 
been fortunate ; indeed, it seems as if she had always been 
an Ishmael, with every one's hand against her. 

"Is Glen Ormiston like this?" nodding toward the 
window. " It is such a romantic name ! " 

" Oh, no ! " with a faint half -smile. There is some color 
in her lips now, and her teeth are even and white. 
" There are acres of woodlands and a curious sort of 
ravine. It is quite out of the town and the mills — that 
is, Camley, you know. But I like its wildness and its 
being away from little houses. It is a great gray stone 
building with a tower, — a hundred years old I believe, at 
least part of it is. There are such curious chimney-pieces 
with rows of shelves, and odd furniture, and ceilings 
where all the rafters are painted for show. It is grander 
there ; prether here." 

" Did you like living there? " 

"Yes." Christmas raises her small head proudly. 
Really when you come to study her closely, she is not so 
bad. The head is well set, though the neck is small and 
the throat thin. The shoulders are almost too sloping, and 
need the filling out of womanhood. If it were not for 
the kind of nondescript grayness, the light brown, straight, 
unglossy hair, the eyes that have an almost furtive, fear- 
ful expression, and need something to brighten them, to 
make a deeper gray or a tenderer violet, she might 
answer. 

"But the Trevertons were very gay, were they not? 
What an awful shame they should have squandered every- 
thing I Don't you just hate them? " 



 



 





" I' at school two years yoa know. I began by 
liking her so much " ; and there comes a deep, desperate 
expression in the eyes, not pleasant to behead. " There 
had never been any one to care for me, any woman I 
mean, after Betty left. She was my mother's maid and 
my nnrse, and I was only seven when I lost her. Mrs. 
Treverton was very sweet and caressing. I shall always 
hate such ways," the girl declares with an ahnost vengeful 
resolution ; " they Are heartless, deceitful." 

"Then I shall not pretend to sweetness," says Dolly 
with an amused glint in her eye. 

" Don't pretend to anything," returns Christmas, 
" You need not even like me. Very few people have." 

She states it as one of the facts of life about which 
there need be no comment. 

" But to get on in society one must be liked," announces 
Dolly, impressively. 

 ' I do not expect to do much with society. Papa wants 
to educate me for the business after he was hurt, and it 
was his desire that I should carry it on." 

"But you could not. A lady cannot manage rough, 
insolent workmen. And it is not refined or womanly. 
Would you not be afraid ? " 

" Afraid of what?" A fine scorn lights up the face of 
the strange guest. 

" Well, I do not believe Mr. St. George will let you," 
remarks Dolly, decisively. "Oh I" enthusiastically, 
"don't you like him? " 

" I am afraid I do not, — to any great extent. But I 
know so little about him," appends Christmas, cautiously. 

" We just adore him. My papa and the elder Mr. 
St. Greorge were the dearest of friends. And Leighton 
used to be here so much before they went abroad, we 
.used to call him Helen's lover. I wonder if he feels dis- 
appointed because she is going to marry Mr. Stannard I 
I'd ever so much rather have Cousin Leigh. Maybe 



 



 



 

Luda yrVl manage to catch him ; but he will be too old f of 
me. How old are you ? " she asks suddenly. 

" I shall be eighteen on Christmas morning." 

"And I was seventeen about a month ago. I shall 
oome out next year, and I could n't, you know, if Helen 
was not married. Catch mamma taking three young 
women about with her ! But Helen is almost twenty-two. 
I mean to marry real young ; but I want lots of fun first." 

This is like Greek to Christmas Ormiston. A far-away 
expression comes into her eyes. Marrying seems such a 
strange thing to her, and she wonders how a woman can 
give herself away to a master. 

The door opens and Mrs. Allaire enters. She has pe- 
msed her letter with the utmost satisfaction. St. George 
explains very fully the reason of the changed arrange- 
ments, and regrets very much that he cannot bring Miss 
Ormiston himself, but will come early in the next week 
for a day or two, and then expects to be in New York 
for the next month and see a great deal of them all, 
and bother Mrs. Allaire for advice and counsel, as a son 
might. That tacit, friendly relationship is very pleasing 
to her; so she feels a little mollified. And Christmas, 
who has been warmed and fed and roused somewhat by 
Dolly, holds up her head. She is not to be a pensioner 
on these people, and for the rest, they can like her or not. 
She has not had enough love in her life to cause her to 
miss or long for it. 

Mrs. Allaire makes some inquudes, Still in her stately 
manner ; explains that they will have a houseful to-night, 
and that Dolly and she must share an impromptu bed 
here in the sewing-room ; that everybody will be much en- 
grossed ; but in a day or two they will be back to their 
usual state, when Miss Ormiston will have a room and the 
house will be quiet again. Then she bethinks herself and 
asks about the luggage. That was to be sent on from the 
junction by express. 



 



 





There could be no question, in any event, of asking 
tills stranger to sliare their festivities ; but even if her 
trunks were here, it ia hardly likely she has a party dress. 
Mrs. Allaire does not know how quick Miss Ormiston 
would be to repel any suggestion of joining, but deems 
it prudent to giye her no opportunity. Just what she 
will do with her, and just what her position will be, de- 
pend so much on the kind of word Mr. St. Greorge brings. 
Now that she has seen the girl, she smiles inwardly over 
a lithe trepidation she experienoed when her name was 
first mentioned. 

The day — is it an omen? — is not so bad after all. 
The gray sky lights up, thins out to a translucent white, 
and then deepens to a pale blue. A faint yellow sunshine 
appears, and shortiy after noon it grows warmer and 
brighter and the snow begins to melt. The house has 
been in a whirl of excitement and preparations. Beside 
the Stannards, there is a cousin, Bessie Palmer, and 
Lucia's bosom friend, the very unexceptionable Miss 
Mainwaring, who has a weak fancy for handsome, indo- 
lent Ward Allaire, and who, with her fortune, would be 
no bad match. They all troop in and out and have a 
voice in the arrangements. The sitting-room alone is 
undisturbed, and thither Mrs. Stannard betakes herself 
and holds a lithe court. She looks very old ; indeed, no 
one ventures to guess her age, but the elder people know 
she must have been near forty when she was married. 
Cornelia was her first-bom, and Brower, her son, is twenty- 
seven. She sits in a crimson high-backed chair, her hair, 
white as snow, in little curls around her thin, wrinkled, 
high-bred face, and her small, fragile hands look the fairer 
for the contact with gay wools, out of which she is always 
evolving some charitable work. She can count up the 
Brower genedlogj for two hundred years, and she detests 
the modem to that has crept into the name. It was a cross 
at first to resign her son to people quite so new as the 



 



 



 

Allaires, for their Hugaenot stock was a little tarnished 
with fortunes made by labor. 

Christmas hears the voices and the gay confusion. Two 
or three of the maids run in for something, and one young 
lady who gives her a careless nod, and whom she after- 
wards learns is Lucia. About mid-afternoon a gay party 
wrapped in furs and velvets go out to drive, and she in- 
stinctively recognizes Helen. SometMng in the fine car- 
riage and high-bred air stirs her, awakes in her a faint 
desire for a quality in womanhood that she has not yet 
known. 

Dolly has taken lunch with her, and gossiped about 
the dresses and the approaching wedding, which is to be 
in New York at five on Christmas eve, in church, with six 
ushers, and six handmaidens who are to precede the bride 
and form a half -circle on her side, while the ushers stand 
on the other. Her uncle, a clergyman himself, is to give 
away the bride ; it is to be very full dress, a regular car- 
riage wedding, and a hotel reception for the next two 
hours, when the happy couple will start for a tour among 
the Southern cities, and spend most of the winter in Wash- 
ington. Then there is an early tea, and afterwards guests 
from a distance begin to arrive. The house grows sum- 
mer-sweet with the fragrance of flowers ; and lights twinkle 
everywhere, making long quivering rays out on the snow. 
It is like a page out of a story book, and Christmas feels 
as she does in. reading, when her heart cries softly, de- 
spairingly, " What have I to do with these people ! " 

" Shall I light a lamp?" inquires Dolly. " We are all 
going into the hands of the hair-dresser and the tire- 
woman ; I 'll come and show you as soon as I am gor- 
geously arrayed." 

" No, do not light a lamp until then," beseeches Christ- 
mas. " The blaze of the fire is enough."



 



 

Chbistmas Orioston sits and thinks, lives over her old 
 life ; for it seems so long since yesterday morning that 

she is almost losing her identity. Of the events farther 

back, that made her father in some degree the man he 

was, she knows nothing; even Mrs. Allaire never 
; fully understood the passionate love Mark Ormiston had 

I for herself. He had grown up in her father's family, the 

orphaned son of a distant cousin, where there were three 
girls to whom he was simply a useful attendant. Two of 
them married, and he dared to aspire to the hand or the 
love of the fair Helen, for she did not allow him to go so 
far as to ask for her hand. 

With great bitterness of spirit he realized he was not of 
her kind. It roused him to dare something beside a mere 
competency. He would be a rich man and take a tertain 
standing in the world. Moreover, he would found a fam- 
ily, have brave sons and fair daughters that the world 
would delight to honor. 

The start was not of brilliant promise. The old mill at 
Camley went for a mere song, and he ix)ck it in hand. 
He set himself about new processes and fine goods, and 
presently he won his way. He was a hard master, but 
not unjust. He purchased a grand old estate from im- 
poverished heirs, and christened it Glen Ormiston. Then 
he took to himself a wife, a timid, quiet little body, with 
quite a fortune in her own right. Then he planned for 
his sons ; there were to be several at first. He used to 
dream of a new sign over the warehouse and on the head- 
ing of bills, — " Ormiston & Son.'' It should go down to 
 



 



 



 

the next generation. If Christmas conld have known 
what this dream was to him, she would have held the key 
to his almost morose character. 

One Christmas morning — the girl has been told this 
story so often, by simple-hearted Betty, who adored her 
mistress, that she seems to suffer with her own innocent 
share in it — the day was like spring. The windows were 
open and the sun golden. Violets were blooming in shel- 
tered nooks, and all the late chrysanthemums were not yet 
gone. Bells were ringing out their " peace and good- 
will." 

The doctor comes softly down the stairs. "Well/* 
says Ormiston, impatiently, " can I see my son? " 

" You will have to wait a little for the son " ; and the 
doctor smiles, consolingly. ''But you may give your 
daughter a Christmas greeting.'' 

Mark Ormiston turns on his heel and slams the door 
behind him. For almost five years he has been dreaming 
of his son. Girls are merely ornamental. 

The nurse and Betty hover about Mrs. Ormiston. She 
has been wan and thin for months ; but now she looks 
like a wraith. 

" Has Mr. Ormiston been told? " she asks, long after- 
ward. 

At the answer, she turns her face to her babe. "My 
poor, little, unwelcome Christmas gift I '' she says. 

The beautiful day drew to a dose. She was dreaming 
now, in the twilight. She was a girl again, assisting in 
the church decorations, and all about her softest voices 
were singing, " Unto us a child is bom." What was this 
strange peace, this soft darkness, that could almost be 
felt? 

When Mark Ormiston came home, his wife lay dying. 
She had shrunk to a shadow. He stood beside her and 
took her hand. She roused a little. 

" Mark," she said, " will you let me name the baby? 



 



 





I want to call her Christmas. I can find her more easOy 
m heaven by that name. Yon will marry again, — it ii 
right, — and sons will grow up around you. Give her 
my portion, and let the others take all the rest." 

"I promise," he said, deeply moved. 

She did not speak again, and at midnight floated ont to 
the great unknown. 

Mark Ormiston paid his wife all outward respect, and 
mourned decorously. The child was christened, and Betty 
cared for it, weeping bitter tears over its little head. 

Mark Ormiston really meant to marry again ; but several 
years slipped by, so immersed was he in business. Then 
there came a very charming widow to Camley, who sang 
in church and taught music at the academy to eke out a 
small income. He used to watch the bright, daring, spir- 
ited boys, who ran rather wild, but enjoyed the most 
robust health. He felt that he should come to hate them 
in time, if he married their mother ; but they could be sent 
away and trained to look out for themselves. Only his 
blood and name must rule at Ormiston. Tet he coveted 
two such sons. 

He began to think seriously of marrying Mrs. Carew. 
Christmas was now five years old. Betty cared for her 
like the fondest of mothers ; indeed, her own mother 
would hardly have dared to love her so well. She shrank 
from her father, and he seldom noticed her, though he 
provided her with all tMngs needful. 

One day he was thrown from his wagon, and for weeks 
hovered between life and death. The spine had been 
injured, and partial paralysis of the limbs would be per- 
manent ; but there came presently a prospect of life. His 
brain cleared and memory returned. After six months or 
so, he began to evince his olden interest in the world ; but 
he would never walk a step again. He could not believe 
it at first, and many experiments were tried, but all in 
vain. Then he settled to the awful fact, and resolved to 



 



 



 

retam to busineBS. A strong attendant was procured, 
wheeling-chairs and a comfortable carriage, and every 
day he was driven down to the mill. All the man's soul 
went into money making. Everything he touched was a 
success ; he bought and sold ; he had agents out extend- 
ing his business everywhere. Other industries in Camley 
came under his control, but the mill was his darling. 

Mrs. Carew was devotion itself ; she would have mar- 
ried him readily, but he did not care for a wife now, and 
no other person's sons should squander his money. Then 
he bethought himself of his daughter. Why might not a 
girl be trained to business? He might live years and 
could direct her. How much of her mother did she 
inherit? 

She certainly did not look like her mother ; her physical 
health was splendid ; she had run wild, waded in brooks, 
climbed trees, and raced with the great shepherd dog, her 
companion. 

At this juncture Betty died from an old complaint that 
had caused her more suffering than she had ever admitted. 
Christmas was past seven, and sorrowed passionately. 
The other loss was like a dream, but here began life for 
her. 

Mark Ormiston was a cold-natured man. He could 
have had his daughter's worship, but he only asked obedi- 
ence ; he studied her closely and fancied he discerned 
unusual capabilities. He began to direct her education ; 
she had a retentive memory, and application was no bur- 
den to her. He bought her a pony and she rode ; she 
still ran races ; she grew tall and thin, but supple and 
quick. He took her to the mill and explained various 
matters to her, and in spite of himself grew much inter- 
ested in his new pursuit. 

Mrs. Carew married Walter Treverton, the superintend- 
ent of the works and Ormiston's trusted agent. She was 
very kind to the child, but she held a curious grudge 



 



 





against the father for not making her Mrs. Ormiston. 
And so matters went on until Christmas was thirteen, 
when a new phase came to Mr. Ormiston's trouble. For 
weeks he could not endure the light, and any noise filled 
him with excruciating torment. He could no longer be 
taken to the mill. Indeed, now it came to be understood 
that even his life hung on a frail thread. 

Helen Allaire, who had never quite lost sight of him, 
hearing this, was moved to visit him. Her husband, the 
man of her choice, was dead ; but she possessed abundant 
means, and had a family of four children. Some motherly 
pity led her to offer her protection to the child if it should 
ever be needed ; but Mark Ormiston declined curtly. The 
old wound still rankled, and it seemed as if she had come 
merely to triumph over him. This, too, Christmas does not 
know. 

He made "Walter Treverton, conjointly with his old 
friend Archibald St. George, trustee and guardian. The 
business was to be held in trust for Christmas until she 
came of age. When she married, her husband was to 
take the name and carry on the business. Grandsons 
might rule, if sons had been denied him. For Glen 
Ormiston a separate deed of trust was made out. He 
had put his wife's fortune in the place, and it was to 
descend from her mother to her. He understood the 
value of good connections, though in his heart he scoffed 
at them. 

He closed his eyes at last, unwillingly, but bravely. 
The Trevertons came to Glen Ormiston to live. Mr. St. 
George saw that all matters were put in proper, lawful 
shape, and then went abroad for his health. Treverton 
was to send statements twice a year. 

And there now came the great change to Christmas. The 
rigid rule was lifted. She was a girl instead of an embryo 
business anomaly. There were music and French and 
drawing and pretty dressing, and for a while she revelled 



in it, and adored Mrs. Treverton. Her father's great 
mistake was in not really attaching the child to himself. 
He had been simply a master, not a father. 

The Trevertons grew gayer and gayer. Mark Ormis*> 
ton in all these years had never found "Walter Treverton 
derelict in the slightest degree. He would have gone on 
under a sharp-eyed master, but the temptation was too 
great for him. St. Greorge's health was failing, it was 
not deemed safe for him to return. There was no check, 
no watchful eye. Balls, dinners, private theatricals, 
wines and horses, guests without stint, weeks at stylish 
hotels, and both boys in college. Tired of Christmas, 
Mrs. Treverton packed her off to a second-rate boarding 
school. 

Mr. St. Greorge in his dying moments turned the trust 
over to his son with a misgiving that he had not looked as 
sharply after his ward's interests as he should have done, 
and implored Leighton to go to Camley as early as possi- 
ble. 

Leighton would not allow his father's last hours to be 
disturbed by any fears. The two had always been dearest 
friends, and more than that through this long illness. 
He brought the body home for interment, feeling that with 
it he was to lay away the richest enjoyment of his man- 
hood. The world looked blank and dreary. 

He advised Treverton of his father's wishes, and 
appointed a time for his coming. Before that day arrived 
the world was startled with the news that the Ormiston 
Mills were closed, notes protested to large amounts, and 
that the Trevertons had sailed for Europe. The crash 
must have come soon, but it had been accelerated by 
St. George's return. 

Matters were in the wildest confusion. Debts were 
piled up on every side. Everything that could be con- 
verted into money had disappeared. The case looked 
hopeless. But for his father's sake he must do his best. 



 

It was a qaestion of honor with hun, though the whols 
affair was most distasteful. That Mark Ormiston had 
trusted a yillain would not excuse remissness on his part. 

He might have thrown the tangled mass up in despair, 
but for meeting with a friend in whom his father had 
taken a warm interest, and who had been, to his early 
appreciation, &e pure and perfect knight. Philip Don- 
aldson had fallen on evil days. Financial storms had 
swept over him, drifting him to the farther shore, with a 
wife in delicate health, four small children, a widowed 
sister, and an aged mother. He was thankful for tem- 
porary employment until he saw his way clear to some- 
thing else. 

The two went at the discouraging task with very little 
hope. The last year Treverton had been reckless in the 
extreme. They unravelled a sickening amount of fraud 
and duplicity. Whether it was worth saving, Donaldson 
questioned. 

" Then I must make a new fortune for Miss Ormiston," 
was the steady answer. 

It had certidnly been a profitable business. Why might 
it not be built up again? 

" It would take a great deal of capital," said Donald- 
son. " And yet I do think we are once more on the eve of 
commercial prosperity. If I had money, I do believe I 
should risk it. Of course there is a large amount that 
must be a total loss ; but the business might be brought up 
to a handsome income again." 

" Then tmdertake it, my dear friend. I have thousands 
lying idle, and my conscience tells me that part of it is 
justly Miss Ormiston's I could not enjoy it, thinking 
that our neglect had brought her to poverty. And in my 
present state, I shall be glad to have an occupation. I do 
not desire to forget the happy past with my father ; still t 
must not brood over my loss. He would not wish me to. 
I soothed his last moments with a solemn promise that 




if anything had gone wrong I would surely make it 
right." 

After much consideration, Donaldson made his friend 
a proposal for one year, and the two succeeding years if 
the venture should prove successful. Glen Ormiston 
could be rented ; it was shut up and empty. Miss Ormis- 
ton had been returned to school. 

''It will be a providence to me," said Donaldson, grate- 
fully. "For more than a year the physicians have 
insisted upon country air for Mrs. Donaldson ; but it has 
not been within my means." 

They made a tour of inspection on a bright October 
day, and were charmed in spite of the disorder. Quanti- 
ties of old-fashioned furniture had been stored in out-of- 
the-way rooms to give place to Mrs. Treverton's more 
modem adomings. The grounds were neglected and 
weed-grown, but there were gardens and orchards, and a 
magnificent strip of woods bordered the ravine. 

''It is a handsome estate, certainly"; and an odd 
thought flitted across Donaldson's mind, as he watched 
his friend's slow survey that bespoke kindred admiration. 
" Is it jeopardized in any way?" 

" It could not be. Miss Ormiston inherited it from her 
mother, fortunately." 

' ' You can rent it ? " inquiringly. 

" Yes ; the estate could not afford to let it stand empty, 
or merely put a keeper in it. If you will take it, Donald- 
son — " And a rift of relief crossed his fine face. 

" That will exactly suit me. "We can move in at once, 
I suppose. The autumn will be lovely here. We have 
been pining all summer for green fields ; but brown and 
crimson will not be amiss." 

The bargain was made to include the house, as well. 
A man was sent to repair, and two women to clean, while 
the elder Mrs. Donaldson came up to look over the old 
furniture and settle the rooms. Before they were all in 



 



 





order, flie family came. Mrs. Fbilip was very poorly 
indeed. 

And now arose an anlooked-for complication. The 
proprietress of Richmond Hall had heard the disastroos 
tidings, and sent a note of inquiry concerning the plans 
for Miss Ormiston. The letter had been laid aside with 
some unimportant matters by the clerk, and, receiving no 
answer, the alarmed lady thought best to wash her hands 
of Miss Ormiston, who had never been a favorite. 
Christmas, stunned by the news and the sudden downfall, 
had no word to answer; but, accepting her shame in silenCe, 
went back with her one trunk of worldly possessions to 
the cottage of Ellen Norcross, who had been housekeeper 
at Glen Ormiston the year before Mrs. Treverton's reign. 

Mr. St. George was sent for, and faced this new diffi- 
culty in the shape of a curiously resolute young girl, who 
repelled rather than attracted. After hearing the story, 
his man's brain solved the difficulty briefly. 

" You will return to school," he said. " I will pay the 
bill for the term at once." 

" I shall not go back to Richmond Hall," and her words 
were cut off with a decision that startled him. " I hate 
the place, the teachers, the girls, and one learns noth- 
ing. 

" But — there may be some other school." 

"I will stay here. I am not afraid to live at Glen 
Ormiston. I can study and work. I can go into the busi- 
ness ; it was what my father intended." 

Leighton St. George looked aghast. 

" You could do nothing with tiie business " ; and a faint 
smile of contempt crossed his clear-cut features. "Even 
the utmost experience and ability may not be able to save 
it ; and the house I have rented to the friend who is to 
undertake it ; that will be your sole income at present." 

" It was my home," she cried, in a tone of deep, rather 
than noisy passion. " How dare you ! " 



 



 



 

St. Greorge gazed at her in astonishment. 

" They — she crowded me out of it. If my father ' 
not fond of me, he meant that it should be mine ; that I 
should have the right there. It is my home, and I lore 
it," she went on fiercely. "He, Mr. Treverton, has 
squandered everything, and now you come for the poor 
pitiful fragments. I am the outcast.'' 

''My poor child!—" 

'' I will not have your pily " ; and she stamped on the 
floor with a desperate emphasis. "I only ask what is 
truly mine, and you have leagued together to defraud me 
of it. Even Glen Ormiston, — do you know that was my 
mother's money? You take it from me and give it 
to strangers." 

" Glen Ormiston is rented for a certain amount, every 
penny of which is to be paid over to you, for your present 
maintenance. As for the mill and the rest — " Then he 
checked himself. It was silly to be angry with an igno- 
rant child. " We shall do our best to restore prosperity, 
but it will be a work of time," he continued, with a proud 
dignity that awed her. ''There would not have been 
enough to keep you at Glen Ormiston." 

"There is enough to keep everyone else, it seems." 
And she turned away with a swelling heart. 

There was no use in trying to reason with an unreason- 
able girl. St. George went straight down to the mill 
and detailed the interview to Donaldson, ending with, 
" Could you manage to take her in at Glen Ormiston ? " 

" Not that sort of a fury," returned Donaldson. " She 
would have my mother wild and my wife in her grave. 
Has the girl no relatives ? " 

" Not that I know of. I must make inquiries." 

The next day business took him to the city. Perplexed 
beyond measure with the cares that had so suddenly de- 
volved upon him, he hardly noted the passers-by imtil a 
light touch on his arm roused him. Then he turned and 


