
" Thank you," said Bartley, " my wife will be glad 
to have Mrs. Witherby call." 

" Oh !" cried Witherby. " I didn 't know you were 
married ! That 's good ! There 's nothing like mar 
riage, Mr. Hubbard, to keep a man going in the right 
direction. But you 've begun pretty young." 

" Nothing like taking a thing in time," answered 
Bartley. " But I haven 't been married a great while ; 
and I in not so young as I look. Well, good after 
noon, Mr. Witherby." 

" What did you say was your address ? " asked 
Witherby, taking out his note-book. " My wife will 
certainly call. She 's down at Nantasket now, but 
she 'll  be up the first part of September, and then 
she 'll  call. Good afternoon." 

They shook hands at last, and Bartley ran home to 
Marcia. He burst into the room with a glowing face. 
" Well, Marcia," he shouted, " I 've got my basis ! " 

" Hush ! No ! Don 't be so loud ! You haven 't ! " 
she answered, springing to her feet. " I don 't believe 
it ! How hot you are ! " 

" I 've been running almost all the way from the 
Events office. I 've got a place on the Events, as 
sistant managing- editor, thirty dollars a week," he 
panted. 

" I knew you would succeed yet, I knew you 
would, if I could only have a little patience. I 've 
been scolding myself ever since you went. I thought 
you were going to do something desperate, and I had 
driven you to it. But Bartley, Bartley ! It can 't be 
true, is it ? Here, here ! Do take this fan. Or no, I 'll  



 

fan you, if you 'll  let me sit on your knee ! poor 
thing, how hot you are ! But I thought you wouldn 't 
write for the Events ; I thought you hated that old 
Witherby, who acted so ugly to you when you first 
came." 

" Oh, Witherby is a pretty good old fellow," said 
Bartley, who Had begun to get his breath again. He 
gave her a full history of the affair, and they rejoiced 
together over it, and were as happy as if Bartley had 
been celebrating a high and honorable good fortune. 
She was too ignorant to feel the disgrace, if there were 
any, in the compact which Bartley had closed, and he 
had no principles, no traditions, by which to perceive 
it. To them it meant unlimited prosperity ; it meant 
provision for the future, which was to bring a new 
responsibility and a new care. 

" We will take the parlor with the alcove, now," 
said Bartley. " Don 't excite yourself," he added, with 
tender warning. 

" No, no," she said, pillowing her head on his 
shoulder, and shedding peaceful tears. 

" It doesn 't seem as if we should ever quarrel 
again, does it ? " 

" No, no ! We never shall," she murmured. " It 
has always come from my worrying you about the 
law, and I shall never do that any more. If you 
like journalism better, I shall not urge you any more 
to leave it, now you 've got your basis." 

" But I 'm going on with the law, now, for that 
very reason. I shall read law all my leisure time. 
I feel independent, and I shall not be anxious about 
the time I give, because I shall know that I can 
afford it." 

"Well, only you mustn 't overdo." She put her 
lips against his cheek. " You 're more to me than 
anything you can do for me." 

" Oh, Marcia ! " 



 



XIX. 

Now that Bartley had got his basis, and had no 
favors to ask of any one, he was curious to see his 
friend Halleck again ; but when, in the course of the 
Solid Men Series, he went to interview A Nestor of 
the Leather Interest, as he meant to call the elder 
Halleck, he resolved to let him make all the advances. 
On a legitimate business errand it should not matter 
to him whether Mr. Halleck welcomed him or not. 
The old man did not wait for Bartley to explain 
why he came ; he was so simply glad to see him 
that Bartley felt a little ashamed to confess that he 
had been eight months in Boston without making 
himself known. He answered all the personal ques 
tions with which Mr. Halleck plied him ; and in his 
turn he inquired after his college friend. 

" Ben is in Europe," said his father. " He has 
been there all summer ; but we expect him home 
about the middle of September. He 's been a good 
while settling down," continued the old man, with an 
unconscious sigh. " He talked of the law at first, and 
then he went into business with me; but he didn 't 
seem to find his calling in it ; and now he 's taken up 
the law again. He 's been in the Law School at Cam 
bridge, and he 's going back there for a year or two 
longer. I thought you used to talk of the law your 
self when you were with us, Mr. Hubbard." 

" Yes, I did," Bartley assented. " And I haven 't 
given up the notion yet. I 've read a good deal of law 
already ; but when I came up to Boston, I had to go 



 

into newspaper work till I could see my way out of 
the woods." 

" Well," said Mr. Halleck, " that 's right. And you 
say you like the arrangement you Ve made with Mr. 
Witherby ? " 

" It 's ideal for me," answered Bartley. 

" Well, that 's good," said the old man. " And 
you Ve corne to interview me. Well, that 's all right. 
I 'm not much used to being in print, but I shall be 
glad to tell you all I know about leather." 

" You may depend upon my not saying anything 
that will be disagreeable to you, Mr. Halleck," said 
Bartley, touched by the old man 's trusting friendli 
ness. When his inquisition ended, he slipped his 
notebook back into his pocket, and said with a smile, 
" We usually say something about the victim 's pri 
vate residence, but I guess I 'll  spare you that, Mr. 
Halleck." 

" Why, we live in the old place, and T don 't sup 
pose there is much to say. We are plain people, and 
we don 't like to change. When I built there thirty 
years ago, Rumford Street was one of the most desira 
ble streets in Boston. There was no Back Bay, then, 
you know, and we thought we were doing something 
very fashionable. But fashion has drifted away, and 
left us high and dry enough on Eumford Street ; 
though we don 't mind it. We keep the old house 
and the old garden pretty much as you saw them. 
You can say whatever you think best. There 's a 
good deal of talk about the intrusiveness of the news 
papers ; all I know is that they Ve never intruded 
upon me. We shall not be afraid that you will abuse 
our house, Mr. Hubbard, because we expect you to 
come there again. When shall it be ? Mrs. Halleck 
and I have been at home all summer ; we find it 
the most comfortable place; and we shall be very 
glad if you 'll  drop in any evening and take tea with 



 

us. We keep the old hours ; we Ve never taken 
kindly to the late dinners. The girls are off at 
the mountains, and you d see nobody but Mrs. Hal- 
leek. Come this evening ! " cried the old man, with 
mounting cordiality. 

His warmth as he put his hand on Hartley 's shoul 
der made the young man blush again for the reserve 
with which he had been treating his own affairs. He 
stammered out, hoping that the other would see the 
relevancy of the statement, " Why, the fact is, Mr. 
Halleck, I I in married." 

" Married ? " said Mr. Halleck. " Why didn 't you 
tell me before ? Of course we want Mrs. Hubbard, 
too. Where are you living ? We won 't stand upon 
ceremony among old friends. Mrs. Halleck will 
come with the carriage and fetch Mrs. Hubbard, and 
your wife must take that for a call. Why, you don 't 
know how glad we shall be to have you both ! I wish 
Den was married. You 'll  come ? " 

" Of course we will," said Hartley. " But you 
mustn 't let Mrs. Halleck send for us ; we can walk 
perfectly well." 

" You can walk if you want, but Mrs. Hubbard 
shall ride," said the old man. 

When Bartley reported this to Marcia, " Bartley ! " 
she cried. " In her carriage ? I 'm afraid ! " 

".Nonsense! She ll be a great deal more afraid 
than you are. She 's the bashfulest old lady you 
ever saw. All that I hope is that you won 't over 
power her." 

"Bartley, hush ! Shall I wear rny silk, or " 

" Oh, wear the silk, by all means. Crush them at 
a blow ! " 

Kumford Street is one of those old-fashioned 
thoroughfares at the West End of Boston, which 
are now almost wholly abandoned to boarding-houses 
of the poorer class. Yet they are charming streets, 



 

quiet, clean, and respectable, and worthy still to be 
the homes, as they once were, of solid citizens. The 
red brick houses, with their swell fronts, looking in 
perspective like a succession of round towers, are 
readied by broad granite steps, and their doors are 
deeply sunken within the wagon-roofs of white- 
painted Eornan arches. Over the door there is 
sometimes the bow of a fine transom, and the parlor 
windows on the first floor of the swell front have the 
same azure gleam as those of the beautiful old houses 
which front the Common on Beacon Street. 

When her husband bought his lot there, Mrs. Hal- 
leek could hardly believe that a house on Eumford 
Street was not too fine for her. They had come to 
the city simple and good young village people, and 
simple and good they had remained, through the ad 
vancing years which had so wonderfully Mrs. Hal- 
leek hoped, with a trembling heart, not wickedly 
prospered them. They were of faithful stock, and 
they had been true to their traditions in every way. 
One of these was constancy to the orthodox reli 
gious belief in which their young hearts had united, 
and which had blessed all their life ; though their 
charity now abounded perhaps more than their faith. 
They still believed that for themselves there was no 
spiritual safety except in their church ; but since 
their younger children had left it they were forced 
tacitly to own that this might not be so in all cases. 
Their last endeavor for the church in Ben 's case was 
to send him to the college where he and Bartley met ; 
and this was such a failure on the main point, that it 
left them remorsefully indulgent. He had submit 
ted, and had foregone his boyish dreams of Harvard, 
where all his mates were going ; but the sacrifice 
seemed to have put him at odds with life. The years 
which had proved the old people mistaken would not 
come back upon their recognition of their error. He 



 

returned to the associations from which they had 
exiled him too much estranged to resume them, and 
they saw, with the unavailing regrets which visit 
fathers and mothers in such cases, that the young 
know their own world better than their elders can 
know it, and have a right to be in it and of it, supe 
rior to any theory of their advantage which their 
elders can form. Ben was not the fellow to com 
plain ; in fact, after he came home from college, he 
was allowed to shape his life according to his own 
rather fitful liking. His father was glad now to con 
tent him in anything he could, it was so very little 
that Ben asked. If he had suffered it, perhaps his 
family would have spoiled him. 

The Halleck girls went early in July to the Profile 
House, where they had spent their summers for many 
years ; but the old people preferred to stay at home, 
and only left their large, comfortable house for short 
absences. Their ways of life had been fixed in other 
times, and Mrs. Halleck liked better than mountain 
or sea the high- walled garden that stretched bark 
of their house to the next street. They had bought 
through to this street when they built, but they had 
never sold the lot that fronted on it. They laid it 
out in box-bordered beds, and there were clumps of 
hollyhocks, sunflowers, lilies, and phlox, in different 
corners ; grapes covered the trellised walls ; there 
were some pear-trees that bore blossoms, and some 
times ripened their fruit beside the walk. Mrs. Hal 
leck used to work in the garden; her husband seldom 
descended into it, but he liked to sit on the iron-railed 
balcony overlooking it from the back parlor. 

As for the interior of the house, it had been fur 
nished, once for all, in the worst style of that most 
tasteless period of household art, which prevailed 
from 1840 to 1870 ; and it would be impossible to 
say which were most hideous, the carpets or the 



 

chandeliers, the curtains or the chairs and sofas ; crude 
colors, lumpish and meaningless forms, abounded in 
a rich and horrible discord. The old people thought 
it all beautiful, and those daughters who had come 
into the new house as little girls revered it ; but Ben 
and his youngest sister, who had been born in the 
house, used the right of children of their parents 
declining years to laugh at it. Yet they laughed with 
a sort of filial tenderness. 

" I suppose you know how frightful you have 
everything about you, Olive," said Clara Kingsbury, 
one day after the Eastlake movement began, as she 
took a comprehensive survey of the Halleok drawing- 
room through her pince-nez. 

" Certainly," answered the youngest Miss Halleck. 
"It 's a perfect chamber of horrors. But I like it, be 
cause everything 's so exquisitely in keeping." 

" lleally, I feel as if I had seen it all for the first 
time," said Miss Kingsbury. " I don 't believe I ever 
realized it before." 

She and Olive Halleck were great friends, though 
Clara was fashionable and Olive was not. 

" It would all have been different," Ben used to say, 
in whimsical sarcasm of what he had once believed, 
" if I had gone to Harvard. Then the fellows in iny 
class would have come to the house with me, and we 
should have got into the right set naturally. Now, 
we 're outside of everything, and it makes me mad, 
because we 've got money enough to be inside, and 
there 's nothing to prevent it. Of course, I 'm not 
going to say that leather is quite as blameless as 
cotton socially, but taken in the wholesale form it 
isn 't so very malodorous ; and it 's quite as good as 
other tilings that are accepted." 

"It 's not the leather, Ben," answered Olive, "and 
it 's not your not going to Harvard altogether, though 
that has something to do with it. The trouble 's in 



  

me. I was at school with all those girls Clara goes 
with, and I could have been in that set if I d wanted ; 
but I didn 't really want to. I saw, at a very tender 
age, that it was going to be more trouble than it was 
worth, and I just quietly kept out of it. Of course, 
I couldn 't have gone to Papanti 's without a fuss, but 
mother would have let me go if I had made the fuss ; 
and I could be hand and glove with those girls now, 
if I tried. They come here whenever I ask them; 
and when I meet them on charities, I in awfully 
popular. No, if I 'm not fashionable, it 's my own 
fault. But what difference does it make to you, Ben ? 
You don 't want to marry any of those girls as long as 
your heart 's set on that unknown charmer of yours." 
Ben had once seen his charmer in the street of a little 
Down East town, where he met her walking with 
some other boarding-school girls ; in a freak with his 
fellow-students, he had bribed the village photogra 
pher to let him have the picture of the young lady, 
which he had sent home to Olive, marked, " My Lost 
Love." 

" No, I don 't want to marry anybody," said Ben. 
" But I hate to live in a town where I 'm not first 
chop in everything." 

" Pshaw ! " cried his sister, " I guess it doesn 't 
trouble you much." 

" Well, I don 't know that it does," he admitted. 

Mrs. Halleck 's black coachman drove her to Mrs. 
Nash 's door on Canary Place, where she alighted and 
rang with as great perturbation as if it had been a 
palace, and these poor young people to whom she was 
going to be kind were princes. It was sufficient that 
they were strangers ; but Marcia 's anxiety, evident 
even to meekness like Mrs. Halleck s, restored her 
somewhat to her self-possession ; and the thought 
that Bartley, in spite of his personal splendor, was a 
friend of Ben s, was a help, and she got home with 



 

her guests without any great chasms in the conversa 
tion, though she never ceased to twist the window- 
tassel in her embarrassment. 

Mr. Halleck came to her rescue at her own door, 
and let them in. He shook hands with Bartley again, 
and viewed Marcia with a fatherly friendliness that 
took away half her awe of the ugly magnificence of 
the interior. But still she admired that Bartley could 
be so much at his ease. He pointed to a stick at the 
foot of the hat-rack, and said, " How much that looks 
like Halleck ! " which made the old man laugh, and 
clap him on the shoulder, and cry : " So it does ! so it 
does ! Recognized it, did you ? Well, we shall soon 
have him with us again, now. Seems a long time to 
us since he went." 

" Still limps a little ? " asked Bartley. 

" Yes, I guess he 'll  never quite get over that." 

" I don 't believe I should like him to," said Bart 
ley. " He wouldn 't seem natural without a cane in 
Ins hand, or hanging by the crook over his left elbow, 
while he stood and talked." 

The old man clapped Bartley on the shoulder again, 
and laughed again at the image suggested. " That 's 
so ! that 's so ! You 're right, I guess ! " 

As soon as Marcia could lay off her things in the 
gorgeous chamber to which Mrs. Halleck had shown 
her, they went out to tea in the dining-room over 
looking the garden. 

" Seems natural, don 't it ? " asked the old man, as 
Bartley turned to one of the windows. 

" Not changed a bit, except that I was here in win 
ter, and I hadn 't a chance to see how pretty your 
garden was." 

"It is pretty, isn 't it ? " said the old man. " Mother 
Mrs. Halleck, I mean looks after it. She keeps 
it about right. Here 's Cyrus ! " he said, as the serving- 
man came into the room with something from the 



 

kitchen in his hands. "You remember Cyrus, I 
guess, Mr. Hubbard ? " 

" Oh, yes ! " said Bartley, and when Cyrus had set 
down his dish, Bartley shook hands with the New 
Hampshire exemplar of freedom and equality; he 
was no longer so young as to wish to mark a social 
difference between himself and the inside-man who 
had served Mr. Halleck with unimpaired self-respect 
for twenty-five years. 

There was a vacant place at table, and Mr. Halleck 
said he hoped it would be taken by a friend of theirs. 
He explained that the possible guest was his lawyer, 
whose office Ben was going into after he left the Law 
School; and presently Mr. Atherton came. Bartley 
was prepared to be introduced anew, but he was 
flattered and the Hallecks were pleased to find that 
he and Mr. Atherton were already acquainted; the 
latter was so friendly, that Bartley was confirmed 
in his belief that you could not make an interview 
too strong, for he had celebrated Mr. Atherton among 
the other people present at the Indigent Surf-Bathing 
entertainment. 

He was put next to Marcia, and after a while he 
began to talk with her, feeling with a tacit skill for 
her highest note, and striking that with kindly per 
severance. It was not a very high note, and it was 
not always a certain sound. She could not be sure 
that he was really interested in the simple matters 
he had set her to talking about, and from time to time 
she was afraid that Bartley did not like it : she would 
not have liked him to talk so long or so freely with a 
lady. But she found herself talking on, about board 
ing, and her own preference for keeping house ; about 
Equity, and what sort of place it was, and how far 
from Crawford 's ; about Boston, and what she had seen 
and done there since she had come in the winter. 
Most of her remarks began or ended with Mr. Hub- 



 

bard ; many of her opinions, especially in matters of 
taste, were frank repetitions of what Mr. Hubbard 
thought ; her conversation had the charm and pa 
thos of that of the young wife who devotedly loves 
her husband, who lives in and for him, tests every 
thing by him, refers everything to him. She had a 
good mind, though it was as bare as it could well be 
of most of the things that the ladies of Mr. Atherton 's 
world put into their minds. 

Mrs. Halleck made from time to time a little mur 
mur of satisfaction in Marcia 's loyalty, and then sank 
back into the meek silence that she only emerged from 
to propose more tea to some one, or to direct Cyrus 
about offering this dish or that. 

After they rose she took Marcia about, to show her 
the house, ending with the room which Bartley had 
when he visited there. They sat down in this room 
and had a long chat, and when they came back to the 
parlor they found Mr. Atherton already gone. Marcia 
inferred the early habits of the household from the 
departure of this older friend, but Bartley was in no 
hurry ; he was enjoying himself, and he could not see 
that Mr. Halleck seemed at all sleepy. 

Mrs. Halleck wished to send them home in her car 
riage, but they would not hear of this ; they would far 
rather walk, and when they had been followed to the 
door, and bidden mind the steps as they went down, 
the wide open night did not seem too large for their 
content in themselves and each other. 

" Did you have a nice time ? " asked Bartley, though 
he knew he need not. 

" The best time I ever had in the world ! " cried 
Marcia. 

They discussed the whole affair ; the two old peo 
ple ; Mr. Atherton, and how pleasant he was ; the 
house and its splendors, which they did not know 



 

were hideous. " Bartley," said Marcia at last, " I 
told Mrs. Halleck." 

" Did you ? " he returned, in trepidation ; but after 
a while he laughed. " Well, all right, if you wanted 
to." 

" Yes, I did ; and you can 't think how kind she 
was. She says we must have a house of our own 
somewhere, and she 's going round with rue in her 
carriage to help me to find one." 

" Well," said Bartley, and he fetched a sigh, half 
of pride, half of dismay. 

" Yes, I long to go to housekeeping. We can afford 
it now. She says we can get a cheap little house, or 
half a house, up at the South End, and it won 't cost 
us "any more than to board, hardly; and that 's what I 
think, too." 

" Go ahead, if you can find the house. I don 't object 
to my own fireside. And I suppose we must." 

" Yes, we must. Ain 't you glad of it ? " 

They were in the shadow of a tall house, and he 
dropped his face toward the face she lifted to his, and 
gave her a silent kiss that made her heart leap toward 
him. 



 



XX. 



WITH the other news that Halleck 's mother gave 
him on his return, she told him of the chance that 
had brought his old college comrade to them again, 
and of how Bartley was now married, and was just 
settled in the little house she had helped his wife to 
find. " He has married a very pretty girl," she said. 

" Oh, I dare say ! " answered her son. " He isn 't 
the fellow to have married a plain girl." 

" Your father and I have been to call upon them in 
their new house, and they seem very happy together. 
Mr. Hubbard wants you should come to see them. 
He talks a great deal about you." 

"I ll look them up in good time," said the young 
man. " Hubbard 's ardor to see me will keep." 

That evening Mr. Atherton came to tea, and Hal- 
leek walked home with him to his lodgings, which 
were over the hill, and beyond the Public Garden. 
" Yes, it 's very pleasant, getting back," he said, as they 
sauntered down the Common side of Beacon Street, 
" and the old town is picturesque after the best they 
can do across the water." He halted his friend, and 
brought himself to a rest on his cane, for a look over 
the hollow of the Common and the level of the Garden 
where the late September dark was keenly spangled 
with lamps. " My heart leaps up and so forth, w T hen 
I see that. Now that Athens and Florence and Edin 
burgh are past, I don 't think there is any place quite 
so well worth being born in as Boston." He moved 
forward again, gently surging with his limp, in a way 

that had its charm for those that loved him. "It 's 
more authentic and individual, more municipal, after 
the old pattern, than any other modern city. It gives 
its stamp, it characterizes. The Boston Irishman, the 
Boston Jew, is a quite different Irishman or Jew from 
those of other places. Even Boston provinciality is 
a precious testimony to the authoritative personality 
of the city. Cosmopolitanism is a modern vice, and 
we 're antique, we 're classic, in the other thing. Yes, 
I d rather be a Bostonian, at odds with Boston, than 
one of the curled darlings of any other community." 

A friend knows how to allow for mere quantity in 
your talk, and only replies to the quality, separates 
your earnest from your whimsicality, and accounts for 
some whimsicality in your earnest. "I didn 't know 
but you might have got that bee out of your bonnet, 
on the other side," said Atherton. 

" No, sir ; we change our skies, but not our bees. 
What should I amount to without my grievance ? 
You wouldn 't have known me. This talk to-night 
about Hubbard has set my bee to buzzing with un 
common liveliness ; and the thought of the Law School 
next week does nothing to allay him. The Law 
School isn 't Harvard ; I realize that more and more, 
though I have tried to fancy that it was. No, sir, my 
wrongs are irreparable. I had the making of a real 
Harvard man in me, and of a Unitarian, nicely 
balanced between radicalism and amateur episcopacy. 
Now, I am an orthodox ruin, and the undutiful step 
son of a Down East alma mater. I belong nowhere ; 
I 'm at odds. Is Hubbard 's wife really handsome, or 
is she only country -pretty ? " 

" She 's beautiful, I assure you she 's beautiful," 
said Atherton with such earnestness that Halleck 
laughed. 

"Well, that 's right! as my father says. How 's 
she beautiful?" 



 

" That 's difficult to tell. It 's rather a superb sort 
of style ; and What did you really use to think 
of your friend ? " Atherton broke off to ask. 

" Who ? Hubbard ? " 

" Yes." 

" He was a poor, cheap sort of a creature. Deplor 
ably smart, and regrettably handsome. A fellow that 
assimilated everything to a certain extent, and nothing 
thoroughly. A fellow with no more moral nature 
than a base-ball. The sort of chap you d expect to 
find, the next time you met him, in Congress or the 
house of correction." 

" Yes, that accounts for it," said Atherton, thought- 
fully. 

" Accounts for what ? " 

" The sort of look she had. A look as if she were 
naturally above him, and had somehow fascinated 
herself with him, and were worshipping him in some 
sort of illusion." 

" Doesn 't that sound a little like refining upon the 
facts ? Kecollect : I 've never seen her, and I don 't 
say you 're wrong." 

" I'm not sure I 'm not, though. I talked with 
her, and found her nothing more than honest and 
sensible and good ; simple in her traditions, of course, 
and countrified yet, in her ideas, with a tendency to 
the intensely practical. I don 't see why she mightn 't 
very well be his wife. I suppose every woman hood 
winks herself about her husband in some degree." 

" Yes ; and we always like to fancy something 
pathetic in the fate of pretty girls that other fellows 
marry. I notice that we don 't sorrow much over the 
plain ones. How 's the divine Clara ? " 

" I believe she 's well," said Atherton. " I haven 't 
seen her, all summer. She 's been at Beverley." 

" Why, I should have supposed she would have 
come up and surf-bathed those indigent children with 



A MODERN INSTANCE. 

her own hand. She 's equal to it. What made her 
falter in well-doing ? " 

" I don 't know that we can properly call it falter 
ing. There was a deficit in the appropriation neces 
sary, and she made it up herself. After that, she 
consulted me seriously as to whether she ought not 
to stay in town and superintend the execution of the 
plan. But I told her she might fitly delegate that. 
She was all the more anxious to perform her whole 
duty, because she confessed that indigent children 
were personally unpleasant to her." 

Halleck burst out laughing. " That 's like Clara ! 
How charming women are ! They 're charming even 
in their goodness ! I wonder the novelists don 't take 
a hint from that fact, and stop giving us those scaly 
heroines they Ve been running lately. Why, a real 
woman can make righteousness delicious and virtue 
piquant. I like them for that ! " 

" Do you ? " asked Atherton, laughing in his turn 
at the single-minded confession. He was some years 
older than his friend. 

They had got down to Charles Street, and Halleck 
took out his watch at the corner lamp. " It isn 't 
at all late yet, only half-past eight. The days are 
getting shorter." 

" Well ? " 

" Suppose we go and call on Hubbard now ? He 's 
right up here on Clover Street ! " 

" I don 't know," said Atherton. " It would do for 
you ; you 're an old friend. But for me, wouldn 't 
it be rather unceremonious ? " 

"Oh, come along! They ll not be punctilious. 
They 'll  like our dropping in, and I shall have Hub- 
bard off my conscience. I must go to see him sooner 
or later, for decency 's sake." 

Atherton suffered himself to be led away. "I 
suppose you won 't stay long ? " 



 

" Oh, no ; I shall cut it very short, said Halleck ; 
and they climbed the narrow little street where 
Marcia had at last found a house, after searching the 
South End quite to the Highlands, and ransacking 
Charlestown and Cambridgeport. These points all 
seemed to her terribly remote from where Bartley 
must be at work during the day, and she must be 
alone without the sight of him from morning till 
night. The accessibility of Canary Place had spoiled 
her for distances ; she wanted Bartley at home for 
their one-o clock dinner; she wanted to have him 
within easy call at all times ; and she was glad when 
none of those far-off places yielded quite what they 
desired in a house. They took the house on Clover 
Street, though it was a little dearer than they ex 
pected, for two years, and they furnished it, as far as 
they could, out of the three or four hundred dollars 
they had saved, including the remaining hundred 
from the colt and cutter, kept sacredly intact by 
