king opened his mouth and was probably going to 
order: the good judge to be beheaded on the spot; 

but he caught a warning sign from Hendon, and 
succeeded in closing his mouth again before he lost 
anything out of it. Hendon took him by the hand, 
now made reverence to the justice, and the two 
departed in the wake of the constable toward the 
jail. The moment the street was reached, the 
inflamed monarch halted, snatched away his hand, and 
exclaimed: 

“Idiot, dost imagine I will enter a common jail 
alive.

Hendon bent down and said, somewhat sharply: 

‘Will you trust in me? Peace! and forbear to 
worsen our chances with dangerous speedi. What 
God wills, will happen; thou canst not hurry it, 
thou canst not alter it; therefore wait, and be 
patient — 'twill be time enow to rail or rejoice when 
what is to happen has happened.” 

THE ESCAPE 

The short winter day was nearly ended. The 
streets were deserted, save for a few random 
Stragglers, and these hurried straight along, with the 
intent look of people who were only anxious to 
accomplish their errands as quickly as possible and 
then snugly house themselves from the rising wind 
and the gathering twilight. They looked neither to 
the right nor to the left; they paid no attention to 
our party, they did not even seem to see them. 
Edward the Sixth wondered if the spectade of a 
king on his way to jail had ever encountered such 
naaxvelous indifference before. By and by the 
constable arrived at a deserted market-square and pro- 
ceeded to cross it. When he had reached the middle 
of it, Hendon laid his hand upon his arm, and said 
in a low voice; 

“Bide a moment, good sir, there is none in hearing, 
and I would say a word to thee.” 

“My duty forbids it, sir; prithee, hinder me not, 
the night comes on.” 

“Stay, nevertheless, for the matter concerns thee 
nearly. Turn thy back a moment and seem not to 
see; let this poor lad escape” 

“This to me, sir! I arrest thee in — ” 

“Nay, be not too basty. See thou be careful 
and commit no foolish error” — then he shut his voice 
down, to a whisper, and said in the man’s ear — 
“the pig thou hast purchased for eightpence may 
cost thee thy neck, man!” 

The poor constable, taken by surprise, was speech- 
less at first, then found his tongue and fell to bluster- 
ing and threatening; but Hendon was tranquil, and 
waited with patience till his breath was spent; then 
said: 

“I have a liking to thee, friend, and would not 
willingly see thee come to harm. Observe, I heard 
it all — every word. I will prove it to thee.” Then 
he repeated the conversation which the officer and 
the woman had had together in the hall, word for 
word, and ended with: 

“There — have I set it forth correctly? Should 
not I be able to set it forth correctly before the 
judge, if occasion required?” 

The man was dumb with fear and distress for 
a moment; then he rallied and said with forced 
lightness: 

‘ ‘ ’Tis making a mighty matter indeed, out of a jest ; 
I but plagued the woman for mine amusement.” 

“Kept you the woman’s pig for amusement?” 

The man answered sharply: 

“Naught else, good sir — I teH thee ’twas but a jest.” 

“I do begin to believe thee,” said Hendon, with 
a perplexing mixture of mockery and half-con'viction 
in his tone; “but tarry thou here a moment whilst I 
run and ask his worship — for nathless, he being a 
man experienced in law, in jests, in — ” 

He was moving away, still talking; ilae constable 
hesitated, fidgeted, spat out an oath or two, then 
cried out: 

“Hold, hold, good sir — prithee, wait a little— 
the judge! why man, he hath no more sympathy 
with a jest than hath a dead coipse! — come, and 
W'e will speak further, Ods body! I seem to be in 
evil case — and all for an innocent and thoughtless 
pleasantry. I am a man of family; and my wife 
and little ones — List to reason, good yotur wor- 
ship; what wouldst thou of me?” 

“Only that thou be blind and dumb and paralytic 
whilst one may count a hundred thousand — count- 
ing slowly,” said Hendon, with the expression of a 
man who asks but a reasonable favor, and that a 
very little one, 

“It is my destruction!” said the constable de- 
spairingly, “Ah, be reasonable, good sir; only 
look at this matter, on all its sides, and see how 
mere a jest it is — how manifestly and how plainly 
it is so. And even if one granted it were not a jest, 
it is a fault so small that e’en the grimmest penalty 
it could call forth would be but a rebuke and 
warning from the judge’s lips.” 

Hendon relied with a solemnity which chilled 
the air about him: 

“This jest of thine hath a name in law — wot you 
what it is?” 

“I knew it not! Peradventure I have been unwise.
I never dreamed it had a name — ah, sweet 
heaven, I thought it was original.” 

“Yes, it hath a name. In the law this crime is 
called Non compos mentis lex talionis sic transit 
gloria Mundi.” 

“Ah, my God!” 

“And the penalty is death!” 

“God be merciful to me, a sinner!” 

“By advantage taken of one in fault, in dire 
peril, and at thy mercy, thou hast seized goods 
worth above thirteen pence ha’penny, paying but a 
trifle for the same; and this, in the eye of the law, 
is constructive barratry, misprision of treason, 
malfeasance in office, ad hominem expurgatis in statu 
quo — and the penalty is death by the halter, 
without ransom, commutation, or benefit of clergy.” 

“Bear me up, bear me up, sweet sir, my legs do 
fail me! Be thou merciful — spare me this doom, 
and I will turn my back and see naught that shall 
happen.” 

“Good! now thou’rt wise and reasonable. And 
thou’lt restore the pig?” 

“I will, I will, indeed — nor ever touch another, 
though heaven send it and an archangel fetch it. 
Go — am blind for thy sake — see nothing. I 
will say thou didst break in and wrest the prisoner 
from my hands by force. It is but a crazy, and 
door — I will batter it down myself betwixt midnight 
and the morning.” 

“Do it, good soul, no harm will come of it; the 
judge hath a loving charity for this poor lad, and 
will shed no tears and break no jailer’s bones for his 
escape.” 



HENDON HALL 

As soon as Hendon and the king were out of sight 
 of the constable, his majesty was instructed to 
hurry to a certain place outside the town, and wait 
there, whilst Hendon should go to the inn and settle 
his account. Half an hour later the two friends 
were blithely jogging eastward on Hendon’s sorry 
steeds. The king was warm and comfortable now, 
for he had cast his rags and clothed himself in the 
second-hand suit which Hendon had bought on 
London Bridge. 

Hendon wished to guard against over-fatiguing 
the boy; he judged that hard journeys, irregular 
meals, and illiberal measures of sleep would be bad 
for his crazed mind; while rest, regularity, and 
moderate exercise would be pretty sure to hasten 
its cure; he longed to see the stricken intellect made 
well again and its diseased visions driven out of the 
tormented little head; therefore he resolved to move 
by easy stages toward the home whence he had so 
long been banished, instead of obeying the impulse 
of his impatience and hurrying along night and day. 

When he and the king had journeyed about ten 
mules, they reached a considerable village, and halted 
there for the night, at a good inn. The former 


relations were resumed; Hendon stood behind the 
Hug’s chair while he dined, and waited upon him; 
imdressed liim when he was ready for bed; then 
took the floor for his own quarters, and slept athwart 
the door, rolled up in a blanket. 

The next day, and the next day after, they jogged 
lazily along talking over the adventures they had 
met since their separation, and mightily enjoying 
each other’s narratives. Hendon detailed all his 
wide wanderings in search of the king, and described 
how the archangel had led him a fool’s journey all 
over the forest, and taken him back to the hut 
finally, when he found he could not get rid of him. 
Then — he said — the old man went into the bed- 
chamber and came staggering back looking broken- 
hearted, and saying he had expected to find that 
the boy had returned and lain down in there to rest, 
but it was not so. Hendon had waited at the hut 
all day; hope of the king’s return died out then, and 
he departed upon the quest again. 

“And old Sanctum Sanctorum was truly sorry 
your Highness came not back,” said Hendon; “I 
saw it in his face.” 

“Marry, I will never doubt that!” said the Hng — 
and then told his own story; after which Hendon 
was sorry he had not destroyed the archangel. 

During the last day of the trip, Hendon’s spirits 
were soaring. His tongue ran constantly. He 
talked about his old father, and his brother Arthur, 
and told of many things which illustrated their high 
and generous characters; he went into loving frensies 
over his Edith, and was so glad-hearted that he 

was’ even able to say some gentle and brothery 
things about Hugh. He dwelt a deal on the coming 
meeting at Hendon Hall; what a surprise it would 
be to everybody, and what an outburst of thanks- 
giving and delight there would be. 

It was a fair region, dotted with cottages and 
orchards, and the road led through broad pasture- 
lands whose receding expanses, marked with gentle 
elevations and depressions, suggested the swelling 
and subsiding undulations of the sea. In the 
afternoon the returning prodigal made constant 
deflections from his course to see if by ascending some 
hillock he might not pierce the distance and catch a 
glimpse of his home. At last he was successful, and 
cried out excitedly: 

“There is the village, my prince, and there is the 
Hall close by! You may see the towers from here; 
and that wood there — that is my father’s park. Ah, 
now thou’lt know what state and grandeur be! A 
house with seventy rooms — thiok of that! — and 
seven and twenty servants! A brave lodging for 
such as we, is it not so? Come, let us speed — my 
impatience will not brook further delay.” 

All possible hurry was made; still, it was after 
three o’clock before the village was reached. The 
travelers scampered through it, Hendon’s tongue 
going all the time. “Here is the church — covered 
with the same ivy — none gone, none added.” 
“Yonder is the inn, the old Red Lion — and yonder 
is the njarket-place.” “Here is the Maypole, and 
here the pump — nothing is altered; nothing but the 
people, at any rate; ten years make a change in 


people; some of these I seem to know, but none know 
me,” So his chat ran on. The end of the village 
was soon reached; then the travelers struck into a 
crooked, narrow road, walled in with tall hedges, 
and hurried briskly along it for a half-mile, then 
passed into a vast flower-garden through an im- 
posing gateway whose huge stone pillars bore 
sculptured armorial devices. A noble mansion was before 
them. 

“Welcome to Hendon Hall, my king!” exclaimed 
Miles. “Ah, ’tis a great day! My father and 
my brother and the Lady Edith will be so mad with 
joy that they will have eyes and tongue for none 
but me in the first transports of the meeting, and 
so thoult seem but coldly welcomed — but mind it 
not; 'twill soon seem otherwise; for when I say thou 
art my ward, and tell them how costly is my love 
for thee, thou’lt see them take thee to their breasts 
for Miles Hendon’s sake, and make their house and 
hearts thy home forever after!” 

The next moment Hendon sprang to the ground 
before the great door, helped the king down, then 
took him by the hand and rushed wdthin. A few 
steps brought him to a spacious apartment; he 
entered, seated the king with more hurry than 
ceremony, then ran toward a young man who sat at a 
writing-table in front of a generous fire of logs. 

“Embrace me, Hugh,” he cried, “and say thou’rt 
glad I am come again! and call our father, for home 
is not home till I shall touch his hand, and see his 
face, and hear his voice once more!” 

But Hugh only drew back, after betraying a 
momentary surprise, and bent a grave stare upon the 
intruder— a stare which indicated somewhat of 
offended dignity at first, then changed, in response 
to some inward thought or purpose, to an expression 
of marveling curiosity, mixed with a real or assumed 
compassion. Presently he said, in a mild voice: 

“Thy wits seem touched, poor stranger; doubtless 
thou hast suffered privations and rude buffetings 
at the world’s hands; thy looks and dress betoken 
it. Whom dost thou take me to be?” 

“Take thee? Prithee, for whom else than whom 
thou art? I take thee to be Hugh Hendon,” said 
Miles, sharply. 

The other continued, in the same soft tone: 

“And whom dost thou imagine thyself to be?” 

“Imagination hath naught to do with it! Dost 
thou pretend thou knowest me not for thy brother 
Miles Hendon?” 

An expression of pleased surprise Sitted across 
Hugh’s face, and he exclaimed: 

“What! thou art not jesting? can the dead come 
to life? God be praised if it be so! Our poor lost 
boy restored to our arms after all these cruel years! 
Ah, it seems too good to be true, it is too good to 
be true — I charge thee, have pity, do not trifle 
with me! Quick — come to the light — let me scan 
thee well!” 

He seized Miles by the arm, dragged him to the 
window, and began to devour him from head to foot 
with his eyes, ttiming him this way and that, and 
stepping briskly around hhn and about him to prove 
him from all points of view; whilst the returned 

prodigal, all aglow with gladness, smiled, laughed, 
and kept nodding his head and saying: 

“Go on, brother, go on, and fear not; thou’lt 
find nor limb nor feature that cannot bide the test. 
Scour and scan me to thy content, my dear old 
Hugh — I am indeed thy old Miles, thy same old 
Miles, thy lost brother, is’t not so? Ah, ’tis a great 
day — I said ’twas a great day! Give me thy hand, 
give me thy cheek — lord, I am like to die of very 
joy!” 

He was about to throw himself upon his brother; 
but Hugh put up his hand in dissent, then dropped 
his chin mournfully upon his breast, saying with 
emotion: 

“Ah, God of his mercy give me strength to bear 
this grievous disappointment!” 

Miles, amazed, could not speak for a moment; 
then he found his tongue, and cried out: 

“What disappointment? Am I not thy brother?” 

Hugh shook his head sadly, and said: 

“I pray heaven it may prove so, and that other 
eyes may find the resemblances that are hid from 
mine. Alack, I fear me the letter spoke but too 
truly.” 

“What letter?” 

“One that came from oversea, some six or seven 
years ago. It said my brother died in battle.” 

“It was a lie I Call thy father — he will know me.” 

“One may not call the dead.” 

“Dead?” Miles's voice was subdued, and his 
lips trembled. ‘ ‘ My father dead ! — oh, this is heavy 
news. Half my new joy is withered now. Prithee, 

let me see my brother Arthur — he will know me; he 
will know me and console me.” 

“He, also, is dead.” 

“God be merciful to me, a stricken man! Gone 
— both gone — the worthy taken and the worthless 
spared in me! Ah! I crave your mercy! — do not 
say the Lady Edith — ” 

“Is dead? No, she lives.” 

“Then, God be praised, my joy is whole again! 
Speed thee, brother — let her come to me! An she 
say I am not myself — but she will not; no, no, she 
will know me, I were a fool to doubt it. Bring her 
— bring the old servants; they, too, will know me.” 

“All are gone but five — Peter, Halsey, David, 
Bernard, and Margaret.” 

So saying, Hugh left the room. Miles stood 
musing awhile, then began to walk the floor, muttering: 

“The five arch villains have survived the two-and- 
twenty leal and honest — ’tis an odd thing.” 

He continued walking back and forth, muttering 
to himself; he had forgotten the king entirely. By 
and by his majesty said gravely, and with a touch of 
genuine compassion, though the words themselves 
were capable of being interpreted ironically: 

“Mind not thy mischance, good man; there be 
others in the world whose identity is denied, and 
whose claims are derided. Thou hast company.” 

“Ah, my king,” cried Hendon, coloring slightly, 
“do not thou condemn me — wait, and thou shalt 
see. I am no impostor — she will say it; you shall 
hear it from the sweetest lips in England, I an 
imposter? Why I know this old hall, these pictures 
of my ancestors, and all these things that are about 
us, as a child knoweth its own nursery. Here was I 
bom and bred, my lord; I speak the truth; I would 
not deceive thee; and should none else believe, I 
pray thee do not tho% doubt me — I could not bear it.” 

'T do not doubt thee,” said the king, with a 
childlike simplicity and faith. 

“I thank thee out of my heart!” exclaimed 
Hendon, with a fervency which showed that he was 
touched. The king added, with the same gentle 
simplicity : 

“Dost thou doubt me?” 

A guilty confusion seized upon Hendon, and he was 
grateful that the door opened to admit Hugh, at that 
moment, and saved him the necessity of replying. 

A beautiful lady, richly clothed, followed Hugh, 
and after her came several liveried servants. The 
lady walked slowly, with her head bowed and her 
eyes fixed upon the floor. The face was unspeakably 
sad. Miles Hendon sprang forward, crying out : 

“Oh, my Edith, my darling — ” 

But Hugh waved him back, gravely, and said to 
the lady: 

“Look upon him. Do you know him?” 

At the sound of Miles’s voice the woman had 
started slightly, and her cheeks had flushed; she 
was trembling now. She stood still, during an
impressive pause of several moments; then slowly 
lifted up her head and looked into Hendon’s eyes 
with a stony and frightened gaze; the blood sank 
out of her face, drop by drop, till nothing remained 
but the gray pallor of death; then she said, in a 
voice as dead as the face, “I know him not!” and 
turned, with a moan and a stifled sob, and tottered 
out of the room. 

Miles Hendon sank into a chair and covered his 
face with his hands. After a pause, his brother 
said to the servants: 

“You have observed him. Do you know him?” 

They shook their heads; then the master said: 

“The servants know you not, sir. I fear there is 
some mistake. You have seen that my wife knew 
you not.” 

“Thy wife!” In an instant Hugh was pinned 
to the wall, with an iron grip about his throat. 
“Oh, thou fox-hearted slave, I see it all! Thou’st 
writ the lying letter thyself, and my stolen bride and 
goods are its fruit. There — now get thee gone, lest 
I shame mine honorable soldiership with the slaying 
of so pitiful a manikin!” 

Hugh, red-faced and almost suffocated, reeled to 
the nearest chair, and commanded the servants to 
seize and bind the murderous stranger. They 
hesitated, and one of them said: 

“He is armed. Sir Hugh, and we are weaponless.” 

“Armed? What of it, and ye so many? Upon 
him, I say!” 

But Miles warned them to be careful what they 
did, and added : 

“Ye know me of old — I have not dianged; come 
on, an it like you.” 

This reminder did not hearten the servants much; 
they still held back. 

“Then go, ye paltry cowards, and arm yourselves 
and guard the doors, while I send one to fetch the 
watch,” said Hugh. He turned, at the threshold, 
and said to Miles, “You’ll find it to your advantage 
to offend not with useless endeavors at escape.” 

“Escape? Spare thyself discomfort, an that is 
all that troubles thee. For Miles Hendon is master 
of Hendon Hall and all its belongings. He will 
remain — doubt it not.” 


CHAPTER XXVI 


DISOWNED 

The king sat musing a few moments, then looked 
up and said: 

“’Tis strange — most strange. I cannot account 
for it.” 

“No, it is not strange, my liege. I know him, 
and this conduct is but natural. He was a rascal 
from his birth.” 

“Oh, I spake not of him. Sir Miles.” 

“Not of him? Then of what? What is it that 
is strange?” 

“That the king is not missed.” 

“How? Which? I doubt I do not understand.” 
“Indeed! Doth it not strike you as being passing 
strange that the land is not filled with couriers 
and proclamations describing my person and making 
.search for me? Is it no matter for commotion and 
distress that the head of the state is gone? — that I 
am vanished away and lost?” 

“Most true, my king, I had forgot.” Then 
Hendon sighed, and muttered to himself, “Poor 
ruined mind — still busy with its pathetic dream.” 

“But I have a plan that shall right us both. I 
will write a paper, in three tongues — Latin, Greek, 
and English — and thou shalt haste away with it to 
London in the morning. Give it to none but my 
uncle, the Lord Hertford; when he shall see it, he 
will know and say I wrote it. Then he will send 
for me.” 

“Might it not be best, my prince, that we wait 
here until I prove myself and make my rights secure 
to my domains? I should be so much the better 
able then to — ” 

The king interrupted him imperiously; 

“Peace! "What are thy paltry domains, thy trivial 
interests, contrasted with matters which concern 
the weal of a nation and the integrity of a 
throne!” Then he added, in a gentle voice, as if 
he were sorry for his severity, “Obey and have no 
fear; I will right thee, I will make thee whole — yes, 
more than whole. I shall remember, and requite.” 

So saying, he took the pen, and set himself to 
work. Hendon contemplated him lovingly awhile, 
then said to himself: 

“An it were dark, I should think it was a king 
that spoke; there’s no denjdng it, when the humor’s 
upon him he doth thimder and lighten like your 
true king — now where got he that trick? See him 
scribble and scratch away contentedly at his 
meaningless pot-hooks, fancying them to be Latin and 
Greek — and except my wit shall serve me with a 
lucky device for diverting him from his purpose, I 
shall be forced to pretend to post away to-morroW 
on this wild errand he hath invented for me.” 

The next moment Sir Miles’s thoughts had gone 
back to the recent episode. So absorbed was he in 
his muans, that when the king presently handed 
him the paper which he had been writing, he received 
it and pocketed it without being conscious of the 
act. “How marvelous strange she acted,” he mut- 
tered. “I think she knew me — and I think she did 
not know me. These opinions do conflict, I perceive 
it plainly; I cannot reconcile them, neither can I, 
by argument, dismiss either of the two, or even 
persuade one to outweigh the other. The matter 
standeth simply thus; she must have known my face, 
my figure, my voice, for how could it be otherwise? 
yet she said she knew me not, and that is proof 
perfect, for she cannot lie. But stop — I think I 
begin to see. Peradventure he hath influenced her 
— commanded her — compelled her to lie. That is 
the solution ! The riddle is unriddled. She seemed 
dead with fear — yes, she was under his compulsion. 
I will seek her; I will find her; now that he is away, 
she will speak her true mind. She will remember 
the old times when we were little playfellows together,
and this will soften her heart, and she will 
no more betray me, but will confess me. There is 
no treacherous blood in her — no, she was always 
honest and true. She has loved me in those old 
days — this is my security; for whom one has loved, 
one cannot betray.” 

He stepped eagerly toward the door; at that mo- 
ment it opened, and the Lady Edith entered. She 
was very pale, but she walked with a firm step, and 
her carriage was full of grace and gentle dignity. 
Her face was as sad as before. 

Miles sprang forward, with a happy confidence, 
to meet her, but she checked him with a hardly 
perceptible gesture, and he stopped where he was. 
She seated herself, and asked him to do likewise. 
Thus simply did she take the sense of old-comrade- 
ship out of him, and transform him into a stranger 
and a guest. The surprise of it, the bewildering 
unexpectedness of it, made him begin to question, 
for a moment, if he was the person he was pretending 
to be, after all. The Lady Edith said: 

“Sir, I have come to warn you. The mad can- 
not be persuaded out of their delusions, perchance; 
but doubtless they may be persuaded to avoid perils. 
I thiok this dream of yours hath the seeming of 
honest truth to you, and therefore is not criminal — 
but do not tarry here with it; for here it is dangerous.”
She looked steadily into Miles’s face a mo- 
ment, then added, impressively, “It is the more 
dangerous for that you are much like what our lost 
lad must have grown to be, if he had lived.” 

“Heavens, madam, but I am he!” 

“I truly think you think it, sir. I question not 
your honesty in that — but warn you, that is all. 
My husband is master in this region; his power 
hath hardly any limit; the people prosper or starve, 
as he wills. If you resembled not the man whom 
you profess to be, my husband might bid you 
pleasure yourself with your dream in peace; but 
trust me, I know him well, I know what he will do; 
he will say to all that you are but a mad impostor, 
and straightway all will echo him.” She bent upon 
Miles that same steady look once more, and added: 
“If you were Miles Hendon, and he knew it and all 
the region knew it — consider what I am saying, 

weigh it well — you would stand in the same peril, 
your punishment would be no less sure; he would 
deny you and denounce you, and none would be 
bold enough to give you countenance.” 

“Most truly I believe it,” said Miles, bitterly. 
“The power that can command one lifelong friend 
to betray and disown another, and be obeyed, may 
well look to be obeyed in quarters where bread and 
life are on the stake and no cobweb ties of loyalty 
and honor are concerned.” 

A faint tinge appeared for a moment in the lady’s 
cheek, and she dropped her eyes to the floor; but 
her voice betrayed no emotion when she proceeded: 

“I have warned you, I must still warn you, to go 
hence. This man will destroy you else. He is a 
tyrant who knows no pity. I, who am his fettered 
slave, know this. Poor Miles, and Arthur, and my 
dear guardian. Sir Richard, are free of him, and at 
rest — better that you were with them than that you 
bide here in the clutches of this miscreant. Your 
pretensions are a menace to his title and possessions; 
you have assaulted him in his own house — you are 
ruined if you stay. Go — do not hesitate. If you 
lack money, take this purse, I beg of you, and 
bribe the servants to let you pass. Oh, be warned, 
poor soul, and escape while you may.” 

Miles declined the purse with a gesture, and rose 
up and stood before her. 

“Grant me one thing,” he said. “Let your eyes 
rest upon mine, so that I may see if they be steady. 
There — now answer me. Am I Miles Hendon?” 

“No. I know you not.” 

“Swear it!” 

The answer was low, but distinct ; 

“I swear.” 

“Oh, this passes belief!” 

“Fly! Why will you waste the precious time? 
Fly and save yourself.” 

At that moment the oflScers burst into the room 
and a violent struggle began; but Hendon was soon 
overpowered and dragged away. The king was 
taken also, and both were bound and led to prison. 



IN PRISON 

The cells were all crowded; so the two friends 
were chained in a large room where persons 
charged with trifling offenses were commonly kept. 
They had company, for there were some twenty 
manacled or fettered prisoners here, of both sexes 
and of varying ages — an obscene and noisy gang. 
The king chafed bitterly over the stupendous 
indignity thus put upon his royalty, but Hendon was 
moody and tadtum. He was pretty thoroughly 
bewildered. He had come home, a jubilant prodigal, 
expecting to find everybody wild with joy over 
his return; and instead had got the cold shoulder 
and a jail. The promise and the fulfilment differed 
so widely, that the effect was sttmning; he could 
not decide whether it was most tragic or most 
grotesque. He felt much as a man might who had 
danced blithely out to enjoy a rainbow, and got 
struck by lightning. 

But gradually his confused and tormenting 
thoughts settled down into some sort of order, and 
then his mind centered itself upon Edith. He turned 
her conduct over, and examined it in all Hghts, but 
he could not make anything satisfactory out of it. 
Did she know him? — or didn’t she know him? It 



 

was a perplexing puzzle, and occupied him a long 
time; but he ended, finally, with the conviction that 
she did know him, and had repudiated him for 
interested reasons. He wanted to load her name 
with curses now; but this name had so long been 
sacred to him that he foimd he could not bring his 
tongue to profane it. 

Wrapped in prison blankets of a soiled and tat- 
tered condition, Hendon and the king passed a 
troubled night. For a bribe the jailer had furnished 
liquor to some of the prisoners; singing of ribald 
songs, fighting, shouting, and carousing, was the 
natural consequence. At last, awhile after midnight, 
a man attacked a woman and nearly killed 
her by beating her over the head with his manacles 
before the jailer could come to the rescue. The 
jailer restored peace by giving the man a sound 
clubbing about the head and shoulders — then the 
carousing ceased; and after that, all had an opportunity 
to sleep who did not mind the annoyance of the 
moanings and groanings of the two wounded people. 

During the ensuing week, the days and nights 
were of a monotonous sameness, as to events; men 
