" 1 quite believe that," said Isabel. Henrietta might be 
wanting in delicacy ; but it touched the girl, all the same, to 
hear this rich assertion made. 

"Ah, you do care for him," Henrietta murmured. 

" Whatever he does will be right," Isabel repeated. " When 
a man is of that supernatural mould, what does it matter to him 
whether one cares for him 1 " 

"It may not matter to him, but it matters to one's self." 

" Ah, what it matters to me, that is not what we are discuss- 
ing," said Isabel, smiling a little. 

This time her companion was grave. " Well, I don't care ; 
you have changed," she replied. " You are not the girl you 
were a few short weeks ago, and Mr. Goodwood will see it. I 
expect him here any day." 

" I hope he will hate me, then," said Isabel. 

" I believe that you hope it about as much as I believe that 
he is capable of it. " 

To this observation our heroine made no rejoinder she was 
absorbed in the feeling of alarm given her by Henrietta's intim- 
ation that Caspar Goodwood would present himself at Garden- 
court. Alarm is perhaps a violent term to apply to the uneasiness 
with which she regarded this contingency ; but her uneasiness 
was keen, and there were various good reasons for it. She 
pretended to herself that she thought the event impossible, and, 
later, she communicated her disbelief to her friend ; but for the 
next forty-eight hours, nevertheless, she stood prepared to hear 
the young man's name announced. The feeling was oppressive ; 



 

it made the air sultry, as if there were to be a change of 
weather ; and the weather, socially speaking, had been so agree- 
able during Isabel's stay at Gardencourt that any change would 
be for the worse. Her suspense, however, was dissipated on the 
second day. She had walked into the park, in company with 
the sociable Bunchie, and after strolling about for some time, in 
a manner at once listless and restless, had seated herself on a 
garden-bench, within sight of the house, beneath a spreading 
beech, where, in a white dress ornamented with black ribbons, 
she formed, among the nickering shadows, a very graceful and 
harmonious image. She entertained herself for some moments 
with talking to the little terrier, as to whom the proposal of an 
ownership divided with her cousin had been applied as impar- 
tially as possible as impartially as Bunchie's own somewhat 
fickle and inconstant sympathies would allow. But she was 
notified for the first time, on this occasion, of the finite character 
of Bunchie's intellect; hitherto she had been mainly struck with 
its extent. It seemed to her at last that she would do well to 
take a book ; formerly, when she felt heavy-hearted, she had 
been able, with the help of some well-chosen volume, to transfer 
the seat of consciousness to the organ of pure reason. Of late, 
however, it was not to be denied, literature had seemed a fading 
light, and even after she had reminded herself that her uncle's 
library was provided with a complete set of those authors which 
no gentleman's collection should be without, she sat motionless 
and empty-handed, with her eyes fixed upon the cool green turf 
of the lawn. Her meditations were presently interrupted by 
the arrival of a servant, who handed her a letter. The letter 
bore the London postmark, and was addressed in a hand that 
she knew that she seemed to know all the better, indeed, as 
the writer had been present to her mind when the letter was 
delivered. This document proved to be short, and I may give 
it entire. 

" MY DEAE Miss ARCHER I don't know whether you will 
have heard of my coming to England, but even if you have not, 
it will scarcely be a surprise to you. You will remember that 
when you gave me my dismissal at Albany three months ago, I 
did not accept it. I protested against it. You in fact appeared 
to accept my protest, and to admit that I had the right on my 
side. I had come to see you with the hope that you would let 
me bring you over to my conviction ; my reasons for entertaining 
this hope had been of the best. But you disappointed it ; I 
found you changed, and you were able to give me no reason for 



 

the change. You admitted that you were unreasonable, and it 
was the only concessi >n you would make ; but it was a very 
cheap one, because you are not unreasonable. No, you are not, 
and you never will be. Therefore it is that I believe you will 
let me see you again. You told me that I am not disagreeable 
to you, and I believe it ; for I don't see why that should be. I 
shall always think of you ; I shall never think of any one else. I 
came to England simply because you are here ; I couldn't stay at 
home after you had gone ; I hated the country because you were 
not in it. If I like this country at present, it is only because 
you are here. I have been to England before, but I have never 
enjoyed it much. May I not come and see you for half-an- 
hour 1 This at present is the dearest wish of, yours faithfully, 

" CASPAR GOODWOOD." 

Isabel read Mr. Goodwood's letter with such profound atten- 
tion that she had not perceived an approaching tread on the soft 
grass. Looking up, however, as she mechanically folded the 
paper, she saw Lord Warburton standing before her. 



XII. 

SHE put the letter into her pocket, and offered her visitor a 
smile of welcome, exhibiting no trace of discomposure, and half 
surprised at her self-possession. 

" They told me you were out here," said Lord Warburton ; 
" and as there was no one in the drawing-room, and it is really 
you that I wish to see, I came out with no more ado." 

Isabel had got up ; she felt a wish, for the moment, that he 
should not sit down beside her. " I was just going in-doors," 
she said. 

"Please don't do that; it is much pleasanter here; I have 
ridden over from Lockleigh ; it's a lovely day." His smile was 
peculiarly friendly and pleasing, and his whole person seemed to 
emit that radiance of good-feeling and good fare which had 
formed the charm of the girl's lirst impression of him. It 
surrounded him like a zone of fine June weather. 

" We will walk about a little, then," said Isabel, who could 
not divest herself of the sense of an intention on the part of her 
visitor, and who wished both to elude the intention and to satisfy 
hei curiosity regarding it. It had flashed upon her vision once 
before, and it had given her on that occasion, as we know, a 



 

certain alarm. This alarm was composed of several elements, not 
all of which were disagreeable ; she had indeed spent some days 
in analysing them, and had succeeded in separating the pleasant 
part of this idea of Lord's Warburton's making love to her from 
the painful. It may appear to some readers that the young lady 
AVRS both precipitate and unduly fastidious ; but the latter of 
these facts, if the charge be true, may serve to exonerate her from 
the discredit of the former. She was not eager to convince her- 
self that a territorial magnate, as she had heard Lord Warburton 
called, was smitten with her charms ; because a declaration from 
such a source would point to more questions than it would answer. 
She had received a strong impression of Lord Warburton's being 
a personage, and she had occupied herself in examining the idea. 
At the risk of making the reader smile, it must be said that there 
had been moments when the intimation that she was admired by 
a " personage " struck her as an aggression which she would 
rather have been spared. She had never known a personage 
before ; there were no personages in her native land. When she 
had thought of such matters as this, she had done so on the basis 
of character of what one likes in a gentleman's mind and in 
his talk. She herself was a character she could not help being 
aware of that ; and hitherto her visions of a completed life had 
concerned themselves largely with moral images things as to 
which the question would be whether. they pleased her soul. 
Lord Warburton loomed up before her, largely and brightly, as a 
collection of attributes and powers which were not to be measured 
by this simple rule, but which demanded a different sort of 
appreciation an appreciation which the girl, with her habit of 
judging quickly and freely, felt that she lacked the patience to 
bestow. Of course, there would be a short cut to it, and as Lord 
Warburton was evidently a very fine fellow, it would probably 
also be a safe cut. Isabel was able to say all this to herself, but 
she was unable to feel the force of it. What she felt was that a 
territorial, a political, a social magnate had conceived the design 
of drawing her into the system in which he lived and moved. A 
certain instinct, not imperious, but persuasive, told her to resist 
it murmured to her that virtually she had a system and an 
orbit of her own. It told her other things besides things which 
both contradicted and confirmed each other ; that a girl might 
lo much worse than trust herself to such a man as Lord War- 
burton, and that it would be very interesting to see something of 
his system from his own point of view ; that, on the other hand, 
however, there was evidently a great deal of it which she should 
regard only as an incumbrance, and that even in the whole there 



 

was something heavy and rigid which would make it unaccept- 
able. Furthermore, there was a young man lately come from 
America who had no system at all ; but who had a character of 
which it was useless for her to try to persuade herself that the 
impression on her mind had been light. The letter that she 
carried in her pocket sufficiently reminded her of the contrary. 
Smile not, however, I venture to repeat, at this simple young 
lady from Albany, who debated whether she should accept 
an English peer before he had offered himself, and who 
was disposed to believe that on the whole she could do better. 
She was a person of great good faith, and if there was a great 
deal of folly in her wisdom, those who judge her severely may 
have the satisfaction of finding that, later, she became consist- 
ently wise only at the cost of an amount of folly which will 
constitute almost a direct appeal to charity. 

Lord Warburton seemed quite ready to walk, to sit, or to do 
anything that Isabel should propose, and he gave her this assur- 
ance with his usual air of being particularly pleased to exercise a 
social virtue. But he was, nevertheless, not in command of lii.s 
emotions, and as he strolled beside her for a moment, in silence, 
looking at her without letting her know it, there was something 
embarrassed in his glance and his misdirected laughter. Yes, 
assuredly as we have touched on the point, we may return to 
it for a moment again -.the English are the most romantic people 
in the world, and Lord Warburton was about to give an example 
of it. He was about to take a step which would astonish all his 
friends and displease a great many of them, and which, superfici- 
ally, had nothing to recommend it. The young lady who trod 
the turf beside him had come from a queer country across the 
sea, which he knew a good deal about ; her antecedents, her 
associations, were very vague to his mind, except in so far as they 
were generic, and in this sense they revealed themselves with a 
certain vividness. Miss Archer had neither a fortune nor the sort 
of beauty that justifies a man to the multitude, and he calculated 
that he had spent about twenty-six hours in her company. He 
had summed up all this the perversity of the impulse, which 
had declined to avail itself of the most liberal opportunities to 
subside, and the judgment of mankind, as exemplified particularly 
in the more quickly-judging half of it; he had looked these 
things well in the face, and then he had dismissed them from his 
thoughts. He cared no more for them than for the rosebud in 
his button-hole. It is the good fortune of a man who for the 
greater part of a lifetime has abstained without effort from 
making himself disagreeable to his friends, that when the need 



 

comes for such a course it is not discredited by irritating 
associations. 

" I hope you had a pleasant ride," said Isabel, who observed 
her companion's hesitancy. 

" It would have been pleasant if for nothing else than that it 
brought me here," Lord Warburton answered. 

" Are you so fond of Gardencourt ? " the girl asked ; more 
and more sure that he meant to make some demand of her ; 
wishing not to challenge him if he hesitated, and yet to keep 
all the quietness of her reason if he proceeded. It suddenly 
came upon her that her situation was one which a few weeks 
ago she would have deemed deeply romantic ; the park of an 
old English country-house, with the foreground embellished by 
a local nobleman in the act of making love to a young lady 
who, on careful inspection, should be found to present remarkable 
analogies with herself. But if she were now the heroine of the 
situation, she succeeded scarcely the less in looking at it from 
the outside. 

" I care nothing for Gardencourt," said Lord Warburton; "I 
care only for you." 

" You have known me too short a time to have a right to 
say that, and I cannot believe you are serious." 

These words of IsabelVwere not perfectly sincere, for she 
had no doubt whatever that he was serious. They were simply 
a tribute to the fact, of which she was perfectly aware, that 
those he himself had just uttered would have excited surprise 
on the part of the public at large. And, moreover, if anything 
beside the sense she had already acquired that Lord Warburton 
was not a frivolous person had been needed to convince her, the 
tone in which he replied to her would quite Irave served the 
purpose. 

" One's right in such a matter is not measured by the time, 
Miss Archer ; it is measured by the feeling itself. If I were to 
wait three months, it would make no difference ; I shall not be 
more sure of what I mean than I am to-day. Of course I have 
seen you very little; but my impression dates from the very 
first hour we met. I lost no time ; I fell in love with you 
then. It was at first sight, as the novels say; I know now 
that is not a fancy-phrase, and I shall think better of novels 
for evermore. Those two days I spent here settled it ; I don't 
know whether you suspected I was doing so, but I paid 
mentally speaking, I mean the greatest possible attention to 
you. Nothing you said, nothing you did, was lost upon me. 
When you came to Gardencourt the other day or rather, when 



 

you went away I was perfectly sure. Nevertheless, I made 
up my mind to think it over, and to question myself narrowly. 
I have done so ; all these days I have thought of nothing else. 
I don't make mistakes about such things; I am a very 
judicious fellow. I don't go off easily, but when I am touched, 
it's for life. It's for life, Miss Archer, it's for life," Lord 
Warburton repeated in the kindest, tenderest, pleasantest voice 
Isabel had ever heard, and looking at her with eyes that shone 
with the light of a passion that had sifted itself clear of the 
baser parts of emotion the heat, the violence, the unreason 
and which burned as steadily as a lamp in a windless place. 

By tacit consent, as he talked, they had walked more and 
more slowly, and at last they stopped, and he took her hand. 

" Ah, Lord Warburton, how little you know me ! " Isabel said, 
very gently ; gently, too, she drew her hand away. 

" Don't taunt me with that ; that I don't know you better 
makes me unhappy enough already ; it's all my loss. But that 
is what I want, and it seems to me I am taking the best way. 
If you will be my wife, then I shall know you, and when I tell 
you all the good I think of you, you will not be able to say it 
is from ignorance." 

" If you know me little, I know you even less," said Isabel. 

"You mean that, unlike yourself, I may not improve on 
acquaintance ? Ah, of course, that is very possible. But 
think, to speak to you as I do, how determined I must be 
to try and give satisfaction ! You do like me rather, don't 
you?" 

" I like you very much, Lord "Warburton," the girl answered ; 
and at this moment she liked him immensely. 

" I thank you for saying that ; it shows you don't regard mo 
as a stranger. I really believe I have filled all the other 
relations of life very creditably, and I don't see why I should 
not fill this one in which I offer myself to you seeing that I 
care so much more about it. Ask the people who know me 
well ; I have friends who will speak for me." 

" I don't need the recommendation of your friends," said 
Isabel. 

"Ah now, that is delightful of you. You believe in me 
yourself." 

" Completely," Isabel declared ; and it was the truth. , 

The light in her companion's eyes turned into a smile, and he 
gave a long exhalation of joy. 

" If you are mistaken, Miss Archer, let me lose all I possess ! " 

She wondered whether he meant this for a reminder that he 



 

was rich, and, on the instant, felt sure that he did not. He 
was sinking that, as he would have said himself; and indeed 
he might safely leave it to the memory of any interlocutor, 
especially of one to whom he was offering his hand. Isabel 
had prayed that she might not be agitated, and her mind was 
tranquil enough, even while she listened and asked herself what 
it was best she should say, to indulge in this incidental 
criticism. What she should say, had she asked herself ? Her 
foremost wish was to say something as nearly as possible as 
kind as what he had said to her. His words had carried 
perfect conviction with them ; she felt that he loved her. 

" I thank you more than I can say for your offer," she 
rejoined at last; " it does me great honour." 

" Ah, don't say that ! " Lord Warburton broke out. " I was 
afraid you would say something like that. I don't see what 
you have to do with that sort of thing. I don't see why you 
should thank me it is I who ought to thank you, for listening 
to me ; a man whom you know so little, coming down on you 
with such a thumper ! Of course it's a great question ; I must 
tell you that I would rather ask it than have it to answer 
myself. But the way you have listened or at least your 
having listened at all gives me some hope." 

" Don't hope too much," Isabel said. 

" Oh, Miss Archer ! " her companion murmured, smiling 
again in his seriousness, as if such a warning might perhaps be 
taken but as the play of high spirits the coquetry of elation. 

" Should you be greatly surprised if I were to beg you not to 
hope at all ? " Isabel asked. 

" Surprised 1 I don't know what you mean by surprise. It 
wouldn't be that ; it would be a feeling very much worse." 

Isabel walked on again ; she was silent for some minutes. 

" I am very sure that, highly as I already think of you, my 
opinion of you, if I should know you well, would only rise. 
But I am by no means sure that you would not be disappointed. 
And I say that not in the least out of conventional modesty ; 
it is perfectly sincere." 

" I am willing to risk it, Miss Archer," her companion 
answered. 

" It's a great question, as you say ; it's a very difficult 
question." 

" I don't expect you, of course, to answer it outright. Think 
it over as long as may be necessary. If I can gain by waiting, 
I will gladly wait a long time. Only remember that in the end 
my dearest happiness depends upon your answer." 



 

" I should be very sorry to keep you in suspense!' said 
Isabel. 

" Oh, don't mind. I would much rather have a good answer 
six months hence than a bad one to-day." 

" But it is very probaHle that even six months hence I should 
not be able to give you one that you would think good." 

" Why not, since you really like me ? " 

" Ah, you must never doubt of that," said Isabel. 

" Well, then, I don't see what more you ask ! " 

" It is not what I ask ; it is what I can give. I don't think 
I should suit you ; I really don't think I should." 

" You needn't bother about that ; that's my affair. You 
needn't be a better royalist than the king." 

" It is not only that," said Isabel ; " but I am not sure I wish 
to marry any one." 

"Very likely you don't. I have no doubt a great many 
women begin that way," said his lordship, who, be it averred, 
did not in the least believe in the axiom he thus beguiled his 
anxiety by uttering. " But they are frequently persuaded." 

" Ah, that is because they want to be ! " 

And Isabel lightly laughed. 

Her suitor's countenance fell, and he looked at her for a 
while in silence. 

" I'm afraid it's my being an Englishman that makes you 
hesitate," he said, presently. " I know your uncle thinks you 
ought to marry in your own country." 

Isabel listened to this assertion with some interest; it had 
never occurred to her that Mr. Touchett was likely to discuss 
her matrimonial prospects with Lord Warburton. 

" Has he told you that 1 " she asked. 

" I remember his making the remark ; he spoke perhaps of 
Americans generally." 

" He appears himself to have found it very pleasant to live in 
England," said Isabel, in a manner that might have seemed .a 
little perverse, but which expressed both her constant perception 
of her uncle's pictorial circumstances arid her general dis- 
position to elude any obligation to take a restricted view. 

It gave her companion hope, and he immediately exclaimed, 
warmly 

" Ah, my dear Miss Archer, old England is a very good sort 
of country, you know ! And it will be still better when we 
have furbished it up a little." 

" Oh, don't furbish it, Lord Warburton ; leave it alone ; I 
like it this way." 



 

" Well, then, if you like it, I am more and more unable to 
see your objection to what I propose." 

" I am afraid I can't make you understand." 

" You ought at least to try ; I have got a fair intelligence. 
Are you afraid afraid of the climate'? We can easily live 
elsewhere, you know. You can pick out your climate, the 
whole world over." 

These words were uttered with a tender eagerness which 
went to Isabel's heart, and she would have given her little 
linger at that moment, to feel, strongly and simply, the 
impulse to answer, " Lord Warburton, it is impossible for 
a woman to do better in this world than to commit herself 
to your loyalty." But though she could conceive the impulse, 
she could not let it operate ; her imagination was charmed, 
but it was not led captive. What she finally bethought 
herself of saying was something very different something 
which altogether deferred the need of answering. "Don't 
think me unkind if I ask you to say no more about this 
to-day." 

" Certainly, certainly ! " cried Lord Warburton. " I wouldn't 
bore you for the world." 

" You have given me a great deal to think about, and 1 
promise you I will do it justice." 

"That's all I ask of you, of course and that you will 
remember that my happiness is in your hands." 

Isabel listened with extreme respect to this admonition, 
but she said after a minute " I must tell you that what 
I shall think about is some way of letting you know that what 
you ask is impossible, without making you miserable." 

" There is no way to do that, Miss Archer. I won't say that, 
if you refuse me, you will kill me ; I shall not die of it. But I 
shall do worse ; I shall live to no purpose." 

" You will live to marry a better woman than I." 

" Don't say that, please," said Lord Warburton, very gravely. 
" That is fair to neither of us." 

" To marry a worse one, then." 

" If there are better women than you, then I prefer the bad 
ones ; that's all I can say," he went on, with the same gravity. 
" There is no accounting for tastes." 

His gravity made her feel equally grave, and she showed it 
by again requesting him to drop the subject for the present. 
" I will speak to you myself, very soon," she said. " Perhaps 
I shall write to you." 

" At your convenience, yes," he answered. " Whatever time 



 

you take, it must seem to me long, and I suppose I must make 
the best of that." 

" I shall not keep you in suspense ; I only want to collect 
my mind a little." 

He gave a melancholy sigh and stood looking at her a 
moment, with his hands behind him, giving short nervous 
shakes to his hunting-whip. " Do you know I am very much 
afraid of it of that mind of yours  " 

Our heroine's biographer can scarcely tell why, but the 
question made her start and brought a conscious blush to her 
cheek. She returned his look a moment, and then, with a note 
in her voice that might almost have appealed to his compassion 
" So am I, my lord ! " she exclaimed. 

His compassion was not stirred, however ; all that he possessed 
of the faculty of pity was needed at home. " Ah ! be merciful, 
be merciful," he murmured. 

"I think you had better go," said Isabel. " I will write to you." 

" Very good ; but whatever you write, I will come and see 
you!' And then he stood reflecting, with his eyes fixed on the 
observant countenance of Bunchie, who had the air of having 
understood all that had been said, and of pretending to carry 
off the indiscretion by a simulated fit of curiosity as to the roots 
of an ancient beech. "There is one thing more," said Lord 
Warburton. "You know, if you don't like Lockleigh if you 
think it's damp, or anything of that sort you need never go 
within fifty miles of it. It is not damp, by the way; I have 
had the house thoroughly examined ; it is perfectly sanitary. 
But if you shouldn't fancy it, you needn't dream of living in it. 
There is no difficulty whatever about that ; there are plenty of 
houses. I thought I would just mention it; some people don't 
like a moat, you know. Good-bye." 

" I delight in a moat," said Isabel. " Good-bye." 

He held out his hand, and she gave him hers a moment a 
moment long enough for him to bend his head and kiss it. 
Then, shaking his hunting-whip with little quick strokes, he 
walked rapidly away. He was evidently very nervous. 

Isabel herself was nervous, but she was not affected as she 
would have imagined. What she felt was not a great responsi- 
bility, a great difficulty of choice ; for it appeared to her that 
there was no choice in the question. She could not marry Lord 
Warburton ; the idea failed to correspond to any vision of 
happiness that she had hitherto entertained, or was now capable 
of entertaining. She must write this to him, she must convince 
him, and this duty was comparatively simple. But what 



 

disturbed her, in the sense that it struck her with wonderment, 
was this very fact that it cost her so little to refuse a great 
opportunity. With whatever qualifications one would, Lord 
Warburton had offered her a great opportunity ; the situation 
might have discomforts, might contain elements that would 
displease her, but she did her sex no injustice in believing that 
nineteen women out of twenty would accommodate themselves 
to it with extreme zeal. Why then upon her also should it not 
impose itself 1 Who was she, what was she, that she should 
hold herself superior? What view of life, what design upon 
fate, what conception of happiness, had she that pretended to be 
larger than this large occasion 1 If she would not do this, then 
she must do great things, she must do something greater. Poor 
Isabel found occasion to remind herself from time to time that 
she must not be too proud, and nothing could be more sincere 
than her prayer to be delivered from such a danger; for the 
isolation and loneliness of pricfe had for her mind the horror 
of a desert place. If it were pride that interfered with her 
accepting Lord Warburton, it was singularly misplaced ; and she 
was so conscious of liking him that she ventured to assure 
herself it was not. She liked him too much to marry him, that 
was the point ; something told her that she should not be 
satisfied, and to inflict upon a man who offered so much a 
wife with a tendency to criticise would be a peculiarly discredit- 
able act. She had promised him that she would consider 
his proposal, and when, after he had left her, she wandered 
back to the bench where he had found her, and lost herself 
in meditation, it might have seemed that she was keeping her 
word. But this was not the case ; she was wondering whether 
she were not a cold, hard girl; and when at last she got up 
and rather quickly went back to the house, it was because, 
as she had said to Lord Warburton, she was really frightened 
at herself. 



XIII. 

IT was this feeling, and not the wish to ask advice she had 
no desire whatever for that that led her to speak to her uncle 
of what Lord Warburton had said to her. She wished to speak 
to some one ; she should feel more natural, more human, and her 
uncle, for this purpose, presented himself in a more attractive 
light than either her aunt or her friend Henrietta. Her cousin, 



 

of course, was a possible confidant; but it would have been 
disagreeable to her to confide this particular matter to Ealph. 
So, the next day, after breakfast, she sought her occasion. Her 
uncle never left his apartment till the afternoon ; but he received 
his cronies, as he said, in his dressing-room. Isabel had quite 
taken her place in the class so designated, which, for the rest, 
included the old man's son, his physician, his personal servant, 
and even Miss Stackpole. Mrs. Touchett did not figure in the 
list, and this was an obstacle the less to Isabel's finding her 
uncle alone. He sat in a complicated mechanical chair, at the 
open window of his room, looking westward over the park and 
the river, with his newspapers and letters piled up beside him, 
his toilet freshly and minutely made, and his smooth, speculative 
face composed to benevolent expectation. 

Isabel approached her point very directly. " I think I ought 
to let you know that Lord Warburton has asked me to marry 
him. I suppose I ought to tell my aunt ; but it seems best to 
tell you first." 

The old man expressed no surprise, but thanked ner for the 
confidence she showed him. " Do you mind telling me whether 
you accepted him ? " he added. 

"I have not answered him definitely yet; I have taken a 
little time to think of it, because that seems more respectful. 
But I shall not accept him." 

Mr. Touchett made no comment upon this ; he had the air of 
thinking that whatever interest he might take in the matter 
from the point of view of sociability, he had no active voice 
in it. "Well, I told you you would be a success over here. 
Americans are highly appreciated." 

"Very highly indeed," said Isabel. "But at the cost 
of seeming ungrateful, I don't think I can marry Lord 
Warburton." 

" Well," her uncle went on. " of course an old man can't 
judge for a young lady. I am glad  ou didn't ask me before 
you made up your mind. I suppose I ought to tell you," he 
added slowly, but as if it were not of much consequence, " that 
I have known all about it these three days." 

" About Lord Warburton's state of mind   " 

"About his intentions, as they say here. He wrote me a very 
pleasant letter, telling me all about them. Should you like to 
see it 1 " the old man asked, obligingly. 

"Thank you; I don't think I care about that. But I am 
glad he wrote to you ; it was right that he should, and he would 
be certain to do what was right." 



 

"Ah, well, I guess you do like him !" Mr. Touchett declared. 
{t You needn't pretend you don't." 

" I like him extremely ; I am very free to admit that. But I 
don't wish to marry any one just now." 

"You think some one may come along whom you may 
like better. Well, that's very likely," said Mr. Touchett, who 
appeared to wish to show his kindness to the girl by easing off 
her decision, as it were, and finding cheerful reasons for it. 

" I don't care if I don't meet any one else ; I like Lord 
Warburton quite well enough," said Isabel, with that appearance 
of a sudden change of point of view with which she sometimes 
startled and even displeased her interlocutors. 

Her uncle, however, seemed proof against either of these 
sensations. 

"He's a very fine man," he resumed, in a tone which might 
have passed for that of encouragement. " His letter was one of 
the pleasantest letters I have received for some weeks. I suppose 
one of the reasons I liked it was that it was all about you ; that 
is, all except the part which was about himself. I suppose he 
told you all that." 

" He would have told me everything I wished to ask him," 
Isabel said. 

" But you didn't feel curious 1 " 

" My curiosity would have been idle once I had determined 
to decline his offer." 

"You didn't find it sufficiently attractive ?" Mr. Touchett 
inquired. 

The girl was silent a moment. 

"I suppose it was that," she presently admitted. "But I 
don't know why." 

" Fortunately, ladies are not obliged to give reasons," said her 
uncle. "There's a great deal that's attractive about such an 
idea ; but I don't see why the English should want to entice us 
away from our native land. I know that we try to attract them 
over there ; but that's because our population is insufficient. 
Here, you know, they are rather crowded. However, I suppose 
there is room for charming young ladies everywhere." 

" There seems to have been room here for you," said Isabel, 
whose eyes had been wandering over the large pleasure-spaces of 
the park. 

Mr. Touchett gave a shrewd, conscious smile. 

" There is room everywhere, my dear, if you will pay for it. 
I sometimes think I have paid too much for this. Perhaps you 
also might have to pay too much." 


" Perhaps I might," the girl replied. 

This suggestion gave her something more definite to rest upon 
than she had found in her own thoughts, and the fact of her 
uncle's genial shrewdness being associated with her dilemma 
seemed to prove to her that she was concerned with the natural 
and reasonable emotions of life, and not altogether a victim to 
intellectual eagerness and vague ambitions ambitions reaching 
beyond Lord Warburton's handsome offer to something inde- 
finable and possibly not commendable. Tn so far as the 
indefinable had an influence upon Isabel's behaviour at this 
juncture, it was not the conception, however unformulated, of 
a union with Caspar Goodwood ; for however little she might 
have felt warranted in lending a receptive ear to her English 
suitor, she was at least as far removed from the disposition to 
. let the young man from Boston take complete possession of her. 
The sentiment in which she ultimately took refuge, after reading 
his letter, was a critical view of his having come abroad for 
it was part of the influence he had upon her that he seemed 
to take from her the sense of freedom. There was something 
too forcible, something oppressive and restrictive, in the manner 
in which he presented himself. She had been haunted at 
