little, so as to pierce the earnest speaker with a gleam from her dull
eye. “Have you accepted Walter Libby?” she asked.
“Louise!” cried Grace, with a blush that burned like fire.
“That’s the way I used to talk when I was first engaged. Wait till
you’re married a while. I want Bella to have on her pique, and her pink
sash,--not the cherry one. I should think you would have studied to be
a minister instead of a doctor. But you need n’t preach to me; I shall
know how to behave to George Maynard when he comes,--if he ever does
come. And now I should think you had made me talk enough!”
“Yes, Yes,” said Grace, recalled to her more immediate duty in alarm.
All her helpfulness was soon to be needed. The disease, which had
lingered more than usual in the early stages, suddenly approached a
crisis. That night Mrs. Maynard grew so much worse that Grace sent Libby
at daybreak for Dr. Mulbridge; and the young man, after leading out his
own mare to see if her lameness had abated, ruefully put her back in the
stable, and set off to Corbitant with the splay-foot at a rate of speed
unparalleled, probably, in the animal’s recollection of a long and
useful life. In the two anxious days that followed, Libby and Grace were
associated in the freedom of a common interest outside of themselves;
she went to him for help and suggestion, and he gave them, as if nothing
had passed to restrict or embarrass their relations. There was that, in
fact, in the awe of the time and an involuntary disoccupation of hers
that threw them together even more constantly than before. Dr. Mulbridge
remained with his patient well into the forenoon; in the afternoon he
came again, and that night he did not go away. He superseded Grace as
a nurse no less completely than he had displaced her as a physician. He
let her relieve him when he flung himself down for a few minutes’ sleep,
or when he went out for the huge meals which he devoured, preferring
the unwholesome things with a depravity shocking to the tender physical
consciences of the ladies who looked on; but when he returned to his
charge, he showed himself jealous of all that Grace had done involving
the exercise of more than a servile discretion. When she asked him once
if there were nothing else that she could do, he said, “fires, keep
those women and children quiet,” in a tone that classed her with both.
She longed to ask him what he thought of Mrs. May nard’s condition; but
she had not the courage to invoke the intelligence that ignored her
so completely, and she struggled in silence with such disheartening
auguries as her theoretical science enabled her to make.
The next day was a Sunday, and the Sabbath hush which always hung over
Jocelyn’s was intensified to the sense of those who ached between hope
and fear for the life that seemed to waver and flicker in that still
air. Dr. Mulbridge watched beside his patient, noting every change with
a wary intelligence which no fact escaped and no anxiety clouded; alert,
gentle, prompt; suffering no question, and absolutely silent as to all
impressions. He allowed Grace to remain with him when she liked, and
let her do his bidding in minor matters; but when from time to time she
escaped from the intolerable tension in which his reticence and her own
fear held her, he did not seem to see whether she went or came. Toward
nightfall she met him coming out of Mrs. Maynard’s room, as she drew
near in the narrow corridor.
“Where is your friend--the young man--the one who smokes?” he asked, as
if nothing unusual had occupied him. “I want him to give me a cigar.”
“Dr. Mulbridge,” she said, “I will not bear this any longer. I must know
the worst--you have no right to treat me in this way. Tell me now--tell
me instantly: will she live?”
He looked at her with an imaginable apprehension of hysterics, but as
she continued firm, and placed herself resolutely in his way, he relaxed
his scrutiny, and said, with a smile, “Oh, I think so. What made you
think she would n’t?”
She drew herself aside, and made way far him.
“Go!” she cried. She would have said more, but her indignation choked
her.
He did not pass at once, and he did not seem troubled at her anger.
“Dr. Breen,” he said, “I saw a good deal of pneumonia in the army, and
I don’t remember a single case that was saved by the anxiety of the
surgeon.”
He went now, as people do when they fancy themselves to have made a
good point; and she heard him asking Barlow for Libby, outside, and then
walking over the gravel toward the stable. At that moment she doubted
and hated him so much that she world have been glad to keep Libby from
talking or even smoking with him. But she relented a little toward him
afterwards, when he returned and resumed the charge of his patient with
the gentle, vigilant cheerfulness which she had admired in him from the
first, omitting no care and betraying none. He appeared to take it for
granted that Grace saw an improvement, but he recognized it by nothing
explicit till he rose and said, “I think I will leave Mrs. Maynard with
you to-night, Dr. Breen.”
The sick woman’s eyes turned to him imploringly from her pillow,
and Grace spoke the terror of both when she faltered in return, “Are
you--you are not going home?”
“I shall sleep in the house.”
“Oh, thank you!” she cried fervently.
“And you can call me if you wish. But there won’t be any occasion.
Mrs. Maynard is very much better.” He waited to give, in a sort of
absent-minded way, certain directions. Then he went out, and Grace sank
back into the chair from which she had started at his rising, and wept
long and silently with a hidden face. When she took away her hands and
dried her tears, she saw Mrs. Maynard beckoning to her. She went to the
bedside.
“What is it, dear?” she asked tenderly.
“Stoop down,” whispered the other; and as Grace bowed her ear Mrs.
Maynard touched her cheek with her dry lips. In this kiss doubtless
she forgave the wrong which she had hoarded in her heart, and there
perverted into a deadly injury. But they both knew upon what terms the
pardon was accorded, and that if Mrs. Maynard had died, she would have
died holding Grace answerable for her undoing.
IX.
In the morning Dr. Mulbridge drove back to Corbitant, and in the evening
Libby came over from New Leyden with Maynard, in a hired wagon. He was
a day later than his wife had computed, but as she appeared to have
reflected, she had left the intervening Sunday out of her calculation;
this was one of the few things she taxed herself to say. For the rest,
she seemed to be hoarding her strength against his coming.
Grace met him at a little distance from the house, whither she had
walked with Bella, for a breath of the fresh air after her long day in
the sick-room, and did not find him the boisterous and jovial Hoosier
she had imagined him. It was, in fact, hardly the moment for the
expression of Western humor. He arrived a sleep-broken, travel-creased
figure, with more than the Western man’s usual indifference to dress;
with sad, dull eyes, and an untrimmed beard that hung in points and
tags, and thinly hid the corners of a large mouth. He took her hand
laxly in his, and bowing over her from his lank height listened to her
report of his wife’s state, while he held his little girl on his left
arm, and the child fondly pressed her cheek against his bearded face,
to which he had quietly lifted her as soon as he alighted from Libby’s
buggy.
Libby introduced Grace as Dr. Breen, and drove on, and Maynard gave
her the title whenever he addressed her, with a perfect effect of
single-mindedness in his gravity, as if it were an every-day thing
with him to meet young ladies who were physicians. He had a certain
neighborly manner of having known her a long time, and of being on good
terms with her; and somewhere there resided in his loosely knit organism
a powerful energy. She had almost to run in keeping at his side, as
he walked on to the house, carrying his little girl on his arm, and
glancing about him; and she was not sure at last that she had succeeded
in making him understand how serious the case had been.
“I don’t know whether I ought to let you go in,” she said, “without
preparing her.”
“She’s been expecting me, has n’t she?” he asked.
“Yes, but”--
“And she’s awake?”
“Then I’ll just go in and prepare her myself. I’m a pretty good hand
at preparing people to meet me. You’ve a beautiful location here, Dr.
Breen; and your town has a chance to grow. I like to see a town have
some chance,” he added, with a sadness past tears in his melancholy
eyes. “Bella can show me the way to the room, I reckon,” he said,
setting the little one down on the piazza, and following her indoors;
and when Grace ventured, later, to knock at the door, Maynard’s voice
bade her come in.
He sat beside his wife’s pillow, with her hand in his left; on his right
arm perched the little girl, and rested her head on his shoulder. They
did not seem to have been talking, and they did not move when Grace
entered the room. But, apparently, Mrs. Maynard had known how to behave
to George Maynard, and peace was visibly between them.
“Now, you tell me about the medicines, Dr. Breen, and then you go and
get some rest,” said Maynard in his mild, soothing voice. “I used to
understand Mrs. Maynard’s ways pretty well, and I can take care of her.
Libby told me all about you and your doings, and I know you must feel as
pale as you look.”
“But you can’t have had any sleep on the way,” Grace began.
“Sleep?” Maynard repeated, looking wanly at her. “I never sleep. I’d as
soon think of digesting.”
After she had given him the needed instructions he rose from the
rocking-chair in-which he had been softly swinging to and fro, and
followed her out into the corridor, caressing with his large hand the
child that lay on his shoulder. “Of course,” she said, “Mrs. Maynard is
still very sick, and needs the greatest care and attention.”
“Yes, I understand that. But I reckon it will come out all right in the
end,” he said, with the optimistic fatalism which is the real religion
of our orientalizing West. “Good-night, doctor.”
She went away, feeling suddenly alone in this exclusion from the
cares that had absorbed her. There was no one on the piazza, which the
moonlight printed with the shadows of the posts and the fanciful jigsaw
work of the arches between them. She heard a step on the sandy walk
round the corner, and waited wistfully.
It was Barlow who came in sight, as she knew at once, but she asked,
“Mr. Barlow?”
“Yes’m,” said Barlow. “What can I do for you?”
“Nothing. I thought it might be Mr. Libby at first. Do you know where he
is?”
“Well, I know where he ain’t,” said Barlow; and having ineffectually
waited to be questioned further, he added, “He ain’t here, for one
place. He’s gone back to Leyden. He had to take that horse back.”
“Oh!” she said.
“N’ I guess he’s goin’ to stay.”
“To stay? Where?”
“Well, there you’ve got me again. All I know is I’ve got to drive that
mare of his’n over to-morrow, if I can git off, and next day if I can’t.
Did n’t you know he was goin’?” asked Barlow, willing to recompense
himself for the information he had given.
“Well!” he added sympathetically, at a little hesitation of hers:
Then she said, “I knew he must go. Good-night, Mr. Barlow,” and went
indoors. She remembered that he had said he would go as soon as Maynard
came, and that she had consented that this would be best. But his going
now seemed abrupt, though she approved it. She thought that she had
something more to say to him, which might console him or reconcile him;
she could not think what this was, but it left an indefinite longing,
an unsatisfied purpose in her heart; and there was somewhere a tremulous
sense of support withdrawn. Perhaps this was a mechanical effect of the
cessation of her anxiety for Mrs. Maynard, which had been a support as
well as a burden. The house was strangely quiet, as if some great noise
had just been hushed, and it seemed empty. She felt timid in her room,
but she dreaded the next day more than the dark. Her life was changed,
and the future, which she had once planned so clearly, and had felt
so strong to encounter, had fallen to a ruin, in which she vainly
endeavored to find some clew or motive of the past. She felt remanded
to the conditions of the girlhood that she fancied she had altogether
outlived; she turned her face upon her pillow in a grief of bewildered
aspiration and broken pride, and shed tears scarcely predicable of a
doctor of medicine.
But there is no lapse or aberration of character which can be half so
surprising to others as it is to one’s self. She had resented Libby’s
treating her upon a theory, but she treated herself upon a theory, and
we all treat ourselves upon a theory. We proceed each of us upon the
theory that he is very brave, or generous, or gentle, or liberal, or
truthful, or loyal, or just. We may have the defects of our virtues, but
nothing is more certain than that we have our virtues, till there comes
a fatal juncture, not at all like the juncture in which we had often
imagined ourselves triumphing against temptation. It passes, and the
hero finds, to his dismay and horror, that he has run away; the generous
man has been niggard; the gentleman has behaved like a ruffian, and the
liberal like a bigot; the champion of truth has foolishly and vainly
lied; the steadfast friend has betrayed his neighbor, the just person
has oppressed him. This is the fruitful moment, apparently so sterile,
in which character may spring and flower anew; but the mood of abject
humility in which the theorist of his own character is plunged and
struggles for his lost self-respect is full of deceit for others. It
cannot last: it may end in disowning and retrieving the error, or it may
end in justifying it, and building it into the reconstructed character,
as something upon the whole unexpectedly fine; but it must end, for
after all it is only a mood. In such a mood, in the anguish of her
disappointment at herself, a woman clings to whatever support offers,
and it is at his own risk that the man who chances to be this support
accepts the weight with which she casts herself upon him as the measure
of her dependence, though he may make himself necessary to her, if he
has the grace or strength to do it.
Without being able to understand fully the causes of the dejection
in which this girl seemed to appeal to him, Mulbridge might well
have believed himself the man to turn it in his favor. If he did not
sympathize with her distress, or even clearly divine it, still his bold
generalizations, he found, always had their effect with women, whose
natures are often to themselves such unknown territory that a man who
assumes to know them has gone far to master them. He saw that a rude
moral force alone seemed to have a charm with his lady patients,--women
who had been bred to ease and wealth, and who had cultivated, if not
very disciplined, minds. Their intellectual dissipation had apparently
made them a different race from the simpler-hearted womenkind of his
neighbors, apt to judge men in a sharp ignorance of what is fascinating
in heroes; and it would not be strange if he included Grace in the sort
of contemptuous amusement with which he regarded these-flatteringly
dependent and submissive invalids. He at least did not conceive of her
as she conceived of herself; but this may be impossible to any man with
regard to any woman.
With his experience of other women’s explicit and even eager obedience,
the resistance which he had at first encountered in Grace gave zest
to her final submission. Since he had demolished the position she had
attempted to hold against him, he liked her for having imagined she
could hold it; and she had continued to pique and interest him. He
relished all her scruples and misgivings, and the remorse she had tried
to confide to him; and if his enjoyment of these foibles of hers took
too little account of her pain, it was never his characteristic to be
tender of people in good health. He was, indeed, as alien to her Puritan
spirit as if he had been born in Naples instead of Corbitant. He came
of one of those families which one finds in nearly every New England
community, as thoroughly New England in race as the rest, but
flourishing in a hardy scepticism and contempt of the general sense.
Whatever relation such people held to the old Puritan commonwealth when
Puritanism was absolute, they must later have taken an active part in
its disintegration, and were probably always a destructive force at its
heart.
Mulbridge’s grandfather was one of the last captains who sailed a slaver
from Corbitant. When this commerce became precarious, he retired from
the seas, took a young wife in second marriage, and passed his declining
days in robust inebriety. He lived to cast a dying vote for General
Jackson, and his son, the first Dr. Mulbridge, survived to illustrate
the magnanimity of his fellow-townsmen during the first year of the
civil war, as a tolerated Copperhead. Then he died, and his son, who was
in the West, looking up a location for practice, was known to have gone
out as surgeon with one of the regiments there. It was not supposed that
he went from patriotism; but when he came back, a year before the end of
the struggle, and settled in his native place, his service in the army
was accepted among his old neighbors as evidence of a better disposition
of some sort than had hitherto been attributable to any of his name.
In fact, the lazy, good-natured boy, whom they chiefly remembered before
his college days, had always been well enough liked among those who had
since grown to be first mates and ship captains in the little port where
he was born and grew up. They had now all retired from the sea, and,
having survived its manifold perils, were patiently waiting to be
drowned in sail-boats on the bay. They were of the second generation of
ships’ captains still living in Corbitant; but they would be the last.
The commerce of the little port had changed into the whaling trade in
their time; this had ceased in turn, and the wharves had rotted away.
Dr. Mulbridge found little practice among them; while attending their
appointed fate, they were so thoroughly salted against decay as to
preserve even their families. But he gradually gathered into his hands,
from the clairvoyant and the Indian doctor, the business which they had
shared between them since his father’s death. There was here and there a
tragical case of consumption among the farming families along the coast,
and now and then a frightful accident among the fishermen; the spring
and autumn brought their typhoid; the city people who came down to the
neighboring hotels were mostly sick, or fell sick; and with the small
property his father had left, he and his mother contrived to live.
They dwelt very harmoniously together; for his mother, who had passed
more than a quarter of a century in strong resistance to her husband’s
will, had succumbed, as not uncommonly happens with such women, to the
authority of her son, whom she had no particular pleasure or advantage
in thwarting. In the phrase and belief of his neighbors, he took after
her, rather than his father; but there was something ironical and
baffling in him, which the local experts could not trace to either the
Mulbridges or the Gardiners. They had a quiet, indifferent faith in his
ability to make himself a position and name anywhere; but they were
not surprised that he had come back to live in Corbitant, which was so
manifestly the best place in the world, and which, if somewhat lacking
in opportunity, was ample in the leisure they believed more congenial to
him than success. Some of his lady patients at the hotels, who felt at
times that they could not live without him, would have carried him back
to the city with them by a gentle violence; but there was nothing in
anything he said or did that betrayed ambition on his part. He liked to
hear them talk, especially of their ideas of progress, as they called
them, at which, with the ready adaptability of their sex, they joined
him in laughing when they found that he could not take them seriously.
The social, the emotional expression of the new scientific civilization
struck him as droll, particularly in respect to the emancipation of
women; and he sometimes gave these ladies the impression that he did
not value woman’s intellect at its true worth. He was far from light
treatment of them, he was considerate of the distances that should be
guarded; but he conveyed the sense of his scepticism as to their fitness
for some things to which the boldest of them aspired.
His mother would have been willing to have him go to the city if he
wished, but she was too ignorant of the world outside of Corbitant to
guess at his possibilities in it, and such people as she had seen from
it had not pleased her with it. Those summer-boarding lady patients who
came to see him were sometimes suffered to wait with her till he came
in, and they used to tell her how happy she must be to keep such a
son with her, and twittered their patronage of her and her nice
old-fashioned parlor, and their praises of his skill in such wise
against her echoless silence that she conceived a strong repugnance
for all their tribe, in which she naturally included Grace when she
appeared. She had decided the girl to be particularly forth-putting,
from something prompt and self-reliant in her manner that day; and she
viewed with tacit disgust her son’s toleration of a handsome young woman
who had taken up a man’s profession. They were not people who gossiped
together, or confided in each other, and she would have known nothing
and asked nothing from him about her, further than she had seen for
herself. But Barlow had folks, as he called them, at Corbitant; and
without her own connivance she had heard from them of all that was
passing at Jocelyn’s.
It was her fashion to approach any subject upon which she wished her
son to talk as if they had already talked of it, and he accepted this
convention with a perfect understanding that she thus expressed at once
her deference to him and her resolution to speak whether he liked it or
not. She had not asked him about Mrs. Maynard’s sickness, or shown any
interest in it; but after she learned from the Barlows that she was no
longer in danger, she said to her son one morning, before he drove away
upon his daily visit, “Is her husband going to stay with her, or is he
going back?”
“I don’t know, really,” he answered, glancing at her where she sat erect
across the table from him, with her hand on the lid of the coffee-pot,
and her eyes downcast; it was the face of silent determination not to
be put off, which he knew. “I don’t suppose you care, mother,” he added
pleasantly.
“She’s nothing to me,” she assented. “What’s that friend of hers going
to do?”
“Which friend?”
“You know. The one that came after you.”
“Oh! Dr. Breen. Yes. What did you think of her?”
“I don’t see why you call her doctor.”
“Oh, I do it out of politeness. Besides, she is one sort of doctor.
Little pills,” he added, with an enjoyment of his mother’s grimness on
this point.
“I should like to see a daughter of mine pretending to be a doctor,”
 said Mrs. Mulbridge.
“Then you would n’t like Dr. Breen for a daughter,” returned her son, in
the same tone as before.
“She wouldn’t like me for a mother,” Mrs. Mulbridge retorted.
Her son laughed, and helped himself to more baked beans and a fresh
slice of rye-and-Indian. He had the homely tastes and the strong
digestion of the people from whom he sprung; and he handed his cup to be
filled with his mother’s strong coffee in easy defiance of consequences.
As he took it back from her he said, “I should like to see you and Mrs.
Breen together. You would make a strong team.” He buttered his bread,
with another laugh in appreciation of his conceit. “If you happened to
pull the same way. If you did n’t, something would break. Mrs. Breen is
a lady of powerful convictions. She thinks you ought to be good, and you
ought to be very sorry for it, but not so sorry as you ought to be for
being happy. I don’t think she has given her daughter any reason to
complain on the last score.” He broke into his laugh again, and watched
his mother’s frown with interest. “I suspect that she does n’t like me
very well. You could meet on common ground there: you don’t like her
daughter.”
“They must be a pair of them,” said Mrs. Mulbridge immovably. “Did her
mother like her studying for a doctor?”
“Yes, I understand so. Her mother is progressive she believes in the
advancement of women; she thinks the men would oppress them if they got
a chance.”
“If one half the bold things that are running about the country had
masters it would be the best thing,” said Mrs. Mulbridge, opening the
lid of the coffee-pot, and clapping it to with force, after a glance
inside.
“That’s where Mrs. Green wouldn’t agree with you. Perhaps because it
would make the bold things happy to have masters, though she does n’t
say so. Probably she wants the women to have women doctors so they won’t
be so well, and can have more time to think whether they have been good
or not. You ought to hear some of the ladies over there talk, mother.”
“I have heard enough of their talk.”
“Well, you ought to hear Miss Gleason. There are very few things that
Miss Gleason does n’t think can be done with cut flowers, from a wedding
to a funeral.”
Mrs. Mulbridge perceived that her son was speaking figuratively of Miss
Gleason’s sentimentality, but she was not very patient with the sketch
he, enjoyed giving of her. “Is she a friend of that Breen girl’s?” she
interrupted to ask.
“She’s an humble friend, an admirer, a worshipper. The Breen girl is her
ideal woman. She thinks the Breen girl is so superior to any man living
that she would like to make a match for her.” His mother glanced sharply
at him, but he went on in the tone of easy generalization, and with a
certain pleasure in the projection of these strange figures against
her distorting imagination: “You see, mother, that the most advanced
thinkers among those ladies are not so very different, after all, from
you old-fashioned people. When they try to think of the greatest good
fortune that can befall an ideal woman, it is to have her married. The
only trouble is to find a man good enough; and if they can’t find one,
they’re apt to invent one. They have strong imaginations.”
“I should think they would make you sick, amongst them,” said his
mother. “Are you going to have anything more to eat?” she asked, with a
housekeeper’s latent impatience to get her table cleared away.
“Yes,” said Dr. Mulbridge; “I have n’t finished yet. And I’m in no hurry
this morning. Sit still, mother; I want you to hear something more about
my lady friends at Jocelyn’s. Dr. Breen’s mother and Miss Gleason don’t
feel alike about her. Her mother thinks she was weak in giving up Mrs.
Maynard’s case to me; but Miss Gleason told me about their discussion,
and she thinks it is the great heroic act of Dr. Breen’s life.”
“It showed some sense, at least,” Mrs. Mulbridge replied. She had
tacitly offered to release her son from telling her anything when she
had made her motion to rise; if he chose to go on now, it was his own
affair. She handed him the plate of biscuit, and he took one.
“It showed inspiration, Miss Gleason says. The tears came into her eyes;
I understood her to say it was godlike. ‘And only to think, doctor,’” he
continued, with a clumsy, but unmistakable suggestion of Miss Gleason’s
perfervid manner, “‘that such a girl should be dragged down by her own
mother to the level of petty, every-day cares and duties, and should
be blamed for the most beautiful act of self-sacrifice! Is n’t it too
bad?’”
“Rufus, Rufus!” cried his mother, “I can’t stun’ it! Stop!”
“Oh, Dr. Breen is n’t so bad--not half so divine as Miss Gleason thinks
her. And Mrs. Maynard does n’t consider her surrendering the case an act
of self-sacrifice at all.”
“I should hope not!” said Mrs. Mulbridge. “I guess she would n’t have
been alive to tell the tale, if it had n’t been for you.”
“Oh, you can’t be sure of that. You must n’t believe too much in
doctors, mother. Mrs. Maynard is pretty tough. And she’s had wonderfully
good nursing. You’ve only heard the Barlow side of the matter,” said
her sun, betraying now for the first time that he had been aware of any
knowledge of it on her part. That was their way: though they seldom told
each other anything, and went on as if they knew nothing of each other’s
affairs, yet when they recognized this knowledge it was without surprise
on either side. “I could tell you a different story. She’s a very
fine girl, mother; cool and careful under instruction, and perfectly
tractable and intelligent. She’s as different from those other women
you’ve seen as you are. You would like her!” He had suddenly grown
earnest, and crushing the crust of a biscuit in the strong left hand
which he rested on the table, he gazed keenly at her undemonstrative
face. “She’s no baby, either. She’s got a will and a temper of her own.
She’s the only one of them I ever saw that was worth her salt.”
“I thought you did n’t like self-willed women,” said his mother
impassively.
“She knows when to give up,” he answered, with unrelaxed scrutiny.
His mother did not lift her eyes, yet. “How long shall you have to visit
over there?”
“I’ve made my last professional visit.”
“Where are you going this morning?”
“To Jocelyn’s.”
Mrs. Mulbridge now looked up, and met her son’s eye. “What makes you
think she’ll have you?”
He did not shrink at her coming straight to the point the moment the way
was clear. He had intended it, and he liked it. But he frowned a little
as he said, “Because I want her to have me, for one thing.” His jaw
closed heavily, but his face lost a certain brutal look almost as
quickly as it had assumed it. “I guess,” he said, with a smile, “that
it’s the only reason I’ve got.”
“You no need to say that,” said his mother, resenting the implication
that any woman would not have him.
“Oh, I’m not pretty to look at, mother, and I’m not particularly young;
and for a while I thought there might be some one, else.”
“Who?”
“The young fellow that came with her, that day.”
“That whipper-snapper?”
Dr. Mulbridge assented by his silence. “But I guess I was mistaken. I
guess he’s tried and missed it. The field is ‘clear, for all I can see.
And she’s made a failure in one way, and then you know a woman is in
the humor to try it in another. She wants a good excuse for giving up.
That’s what I think.”
“Well,” said his mother, “I presume you know what you’re about, Rufus!”
She took up the coffee-pot on the lid of which she had been keeping her
hand, and went into the kitchen with it. She removed the dishes, and
left him sitting before the empty table-cloth. When she came for that,
he took hold of her hand, and looked up into her face, over which a
scarcely discernible tremor passed. “Well, mother?”
“It’s what I always knew I had got to come to, first or last. And I
suppose I ought to feel glad enough I did n’t have to come to it at
first.”
“No!” said her son. “I’m not a stripling any longer.” He laughed,
keeping his mother’s hand.
She freed it and taking up the table-cloth folded it lengthwise and then
across, and laid it neatly away in the cupboard. “I sha’n’t interfere
with you, nor any woman that you bring here to be your wife. I’ve had my
day, and I’m not one of the old fools that think they’re going to have
and to hold forever. You’ve always been a good boy to me, and I guess
you hain’t ever had to complain’ of your mother stan’in’ in your way. I
sha’n’t now. But I did think--”
She stopped and shut her lips firmly. “Speak up, mother!” he cried.
“I guess I better not,” she answered, setting her chair back against the
wall.
“I know what you mean. You mean about my laughing at women that try
to take men’s places in the world. Well, I did laugh at them. They’re
ridiculous. I don’t want to marry this girl because she’s a doctor.
That was the principal drawback, in my mind. But it does n’t make any
difference, and wouldn’t now, if she was a dozen doctors.”
His mother let down the leaves of the table, and pushed it against the
wall, and he rose from the chair in which he was left sitting in the
middle of the room. “I presume,” she said, with her back toward him, as
she straightened the table accurately against the mopboard, “that you
can let me have the little house at Grant’s Corner.”
“Why, mother!” he cried. “You don’t suppose I should ever let you be
turned out of house and home? You can stay here as long as you live. But
it has n’t come to that, yet. I don’t know that she cares anything about
me. But there are chances, and there are signs. The chances are that
she won’t have the courage to take up her plan of life again, and that
she’ll consider any other that’s pressed home upon her. And I take it
for a good sign that she’s sent that fellow adrift. If her mind had n’t
been set on some one else, she’d have taken him, in this broken-up state
of hers. Besides, she has formed the habit of doing what I say, and
there’s a great deal in mere continuity of habit. It will be easier for
her to say yes than to say no; it would be very hard for her to say no.”
While he eagerly pressed these arguments his mother listened stonily,
without apparent interest or sympathy. But at the end she asked, “How
are you going to support a wife? Your practice here won’t do it. Has she
got anything?”
“She has property, I believe,” replied her son. “She seems to have been
brought up in that way.”
“She won’t want to come and live here, then. She’ll have notions of her
own. If she’s like the rest of them, she’ll never have you.”
“If she were like the rest of them, I’d never have her. But she is n’t.
As far as I’m concerned, it’s nothing against her that she’s studied
medicine. She did n’t do it from vanity, or ambition, or any abnormal
love of it. She did it, so far so I can find out, because she wished
to do good that way. She’s been a little notional, she’s had her head
addled by women’s talk, and she’s in a queer freak; but it’s only a
girl’s freak after all: you can’t say anything worse of her. She’s
a splendid woman, and her property’s neither here nor there. I could
support her.”
“I presume,” replied his mother, “that she’s been used to ways that
ain’t like our ways. I’ve always stuck up for you, Rufus, stiff enough,
I guess; but I ain’t agoin’ to deny that you’re country born and bred. I
can see that, and she can see it, too. It makes a great difference with
girls. I don’t know as she’d call you what they call a gentleman.”
Dr. Mulbridge flushed angrily. Every American, of whatever standing or
breeding, thinks of himself as a gentleman, and nothing can gall him
more than the insinuation that he is less. “What do you mean, mother?”
“You hain’t ever been in such ladies’ society as hers in the same way.
I know that they all think the world of you, and flatter you up, and
they’re as biddable as you please when you’re doctorin’ ‘em; but I guess
it would be different if you was to set up for one of their own kind
amongst ‘em.”
“There is n’t one of them,” he retorted, “that I don’t believe I could
have for the turn of my hand, especially if it was doubled into a fist.
They like force.”
“Oh, you’ve only seen the sick married ones. I guess you’ll find a well
girl is another thing.”
“They’re all alike. And I think I should be something of a relief if I
was n’t like what she’s been used to hearing called a gentleman;
she’d prefer me on that account. But if you come to blood, I guess
the Mulbridges and Gardiner, can hold up their heads with the best,
anywhere.”
“Yes, like the Camfers and Rafllins.” These were people of ancestral
consequence and local history, who had gone up to Boston from Corbitant,
and had succeeded severally as green-grocers and retail dry-goods men,
with the naturally attendant social distinction.
“Pshaw!” cried her son. “If she cares for me at all, she won’t care for
the cut of my clothes, or my table manners.”
“Yes, that’s so. ‘T ain’t on my account that I want you should make sure
she doos care.”
He looked hard at her immovable face, with its fallen eyes, and then
went out of the room. He never quarrelled with his mother, because
his anger, like her own, was dumb, and silenced him as it mounted. Her
misgivings had stung him deeply, and at the bottom of his indolence and
indifference was a fiery pride, not easily kindled, but unquenchable.
He flung the harness upon his old unkempt horse, and tackled him to the
mud-encrusted buggy, for whose shabbiness he had never cared before.
He was tempted to go back into the house, and change his uncouth Canada
homespun coat for the broadcloth frock which he wore when he went to
Boston; but he scornfully resisted it, and drove off in his accustomed
figure.
His mother’s last words repeated themselves to him, and in that
dialogue, in which he continued to dramatize their different feelings,
he kept replying, “Well, the way to find out whether she cares is to ask
her.”
X.
During her convalescence Mrs. Maynard had the time and inclination to
give Grace some good advice. She said that she had thought a great deal
about it throughout her sickness, and she had come to the conclusion
that Grace was throwing away her life.
“You’re not fit to be a doctor, Grace,” she said. “You’re too nervous,
and you’re too conscientious. It is n’t merely your want of experience.
No matter how much experience you had, if you saw a case going wrong in
your hands, you’d want to call in some one else to set it right. Do you
suppose Dr. Mulbridge would have given me up to another doctor because
he was afraid he couldn’t cure me? No, indeed! He’d have let me die
first, and I should n’t have blamed him. Of course I know what pressure
I brought to bear upon you, but you had no business to mind me. You
oughtn’t to have minded my talk any more than the buzzing of a mosquito,
and no real doctor would. If he wants to be a success, he must be
hard-hearted; as hard-hearted as”--she paused for a comparison, and
failing any other added--“as all possessed.” To the like large-minded
and impartial effect, she, ran on at great length. “No, Grace,” she
concluded, “what you want to do is to get married. You would be a good
wife, and you would be a good mother. The only trouble is that I don’t
know any man worthy of you, or half worthy. No, I don’t!”
Now that her recovery was assured, Mrs. Maynard was very forgiving and
sweet and kind with every one. The ladies who came in to talk with her
said that she was a changed creature; she gave them all the best advice,
and she had absolutely no shame whatever for the inconsistency involved
by her reconciliation with her husband. She rather flaunted the
happiness of her reunion in the face of the public, and she vouchsafed
an explanation to no one. There had never been anything definite in her
charges against him, even to Grace, and her tacit withdrawal of them
succeeded perfectly well. The ladies, after some cynical tittering,
forgot them, and rejoiced in the spectacle of conjugal harmony afforded
them: women are generous creatures, and there is hardly any offence
which they are not willing another woman should forgive her husband,
when once they have said that they do not see how she could ever forgive
him.
Mrs. Maynard’s silence seemed insufficient to none but Mrs. Breen and
her own husband. The former vigorously denounced its want of logic to
Grace as all but criminal, though she had no objection to Mr. Maynard.
He, in fact, treated her with a filial respect which went far to efface
her preconceptions; and he did what he could to retrieve himself from
the disgrace of a separation in Grace’s eyes. Perhaps he thought that
the late situation was known to her alone, when he casually suggested,
one day, that Mrs. Maynard was peculiar.
“Yes,” said Grace mercifully; “but she has been out of health so long.
That makes a great difference. She’s going to be better now.”
“Oh, it’s going to come out all right in the end,” he said, with his
unbuoyant hopefulness, “and I reckon I’ve got to help it along. Why, I
suppose every man’s a trial at times, doctor?”
“I dare say. I know that every woman is,” said the girl.
“Is that so? Well, may be you’re partly right. But you don’t suppose but
what a man generally begins it, do you? There was Adam, you know. He did
n’t pull the apple; but he fell off into that sleep, and woke up
with one of his ribs dislocated, and that’s what really commenced the
trouble. If it had n’t been for Adam, there would n’t have been any
woman, you know; and you could n’t blame her for what happened after she
got going?” There was no gleam of insinuation in his melancholy eye, and
Grace listened without quite knowing what to make of it all. “And then
I suppose he was n’t punctual at meals, and stood round talking politics
at night, when he ought to have been at home with his family?”
“Who?” asked Grace.
“Adam,” replied Mr. Maynard lifelessly. “Well, they got along pretty
well outside,” he continued. “Some of the children didn’t turn out just
what you might have expected; but raising children is mighty uncertain
business. Yes, they got along.” He ended his parable with a sort of
weary sigh, as if oppressed by experience. Grace looked at his slovenly
figure, his smoky complexion, and the shaggy outline made by his
untrimmed hair and beard, and she wondered how Louise could marry him;
but she liked him, and she was willing to accept for all reason the
cause of unhappiness at which he further hinted. “You see, doctor, an
incompatibility is a pretty hard thing to manage. You can’t forgive it
like a real grievance. You have to try other things, and find out that
there are worse things, and then you come back to it and stand it. We’re
talking Wyoming and cattle range, now, and Mrs. Maynard is all for the
new deal; it’s going to make us healthy, wealthy, and wise. Well, I
suppose the air will be good for her, out there. You doctors are sending
lots of your patients our way, now.” The gravity with which he always
assumed that Grace was a physician in full and regular practice would
have had its edge of satire, coming from another; but from him, if it
was ironical, it was also caressing, and she did not resent it. “I’ve
had some talk with your colleague, here, Dr. Mulbridge, and he seems to
think it will be the best thing for her. I suppose you agree with him?”
“Oh, yes,” said Grace, “his opinion would be of great value. It wouldn’t
be at all essential that I should agree with him:’
“Well, I don’t know about that,” said Maynard. “I reckon he thinks a
good deal of your agreeing with him. I’ve been talking with him about
settling out our way. We’ve got a magnificent country, and there’s bound
to be plenty of sickness there, sooner or later. Why, doctor, it would
be a good opening for you! It ‘s just the place for you. You ‘re off
here in a corner, in New England, and you have n’t got any sort of
scope; but at Cheyenne you’d have the whole field to yourself; there is
n’t another lady doctor in Cheyenne. Now, you come out with us. Bring
your mother with you, and grow up with the country. Your mother
would like it. There’s enough moral obliquity in Cheyenne to keep her
conscience in a state of healthful activity all the time. Yes, you’d get
along out there.”
Grace laughed, and shook her head. It was part of the joke which life
seemed to be with Mr. Maynard that the inhabitants of New England were
all eager to escape from their native section, and that they ought to be
pitied and abetted in this desire. As soon as his wife’s convalescence
released him from constant attendance upon her, he began an inspection
of the region from the compassionate point of view; the small, frugal
husbandry appealed to his commiseration, and he professed to have found
the use of canvas caps upon the haycocks intolerably pathetic. “Why,
I’m told,” he said, “that they have to blanket the apple-trees while the
fruit is setting; and they kill off our Colorado bugs by turning them
loose, one at a time, on the potato-patches: the bug starves to death
in forty-eight hours. But you’ve got plenty of schoolhouses, doctor; it
does beat all, about the schoolhouses. And it’s an awful pity that there
are no children to go to school in them. Why, of course the people go
West as fast as they can, but they ought to be helped; the Government
ought to do something. They’re good people; make first-rate citizens
when you get them waked up, out there. But they ought all to be got
away, and let somebody run New England’ as a summer resort. It’s pretty,
and it’s cool and pleasant, and the fishing is excellent; milk, eggs,
and all kinds of berries and historical associations on the premises;
and it could be made very attractive three months of the year; but my
goodness! you oughtn’t to ask anybody to live here. You come out with
us, doctor, and see that country, and you’ll know what I mean.”
His boasts were always uttered with a wan, lack-lustre irony, as if
he were burlesquing the conventional Western brag and enjoying the
mystifications of his listener, whose feeble sense of humor often failed
to seize his intention, and to whom any depreciation of New England was
naturally unintelligible. She had not come to her final liking for him
without a season of serious misgiving, but after that she rested
in peace upon what every one knowing him felt to be his essential
neighborliness. Her wonder had then come to be how he could marry
Louise, when they sat together on the seaward piazza, and he poured out
his easy talk, unwearied and unwearying, while, with one long, lank leg
crossed upon the other, he swung his unblacked, thin-soled boot to and
fro.
“Well, he was this kind of a fellow: When we were in Switzerland, he was
always climbing some mountain or other. They could n’t have hired me to
climb one of their mountains if they’d given me all their scenery, and
thrown their goitres in. I used to tell him that the side of a house was
good enough for me. But nothing but the tallest mountains would do him;
and one day when he was up there on the comb of the roof somewhere, tied
with a rope round his waist to the guide and a Frenchman, the guide’s
foot slipped, and he commenced going down. The Frenchman was just going
to cut the rope and let the guide play it alone; but he knocked the
knife out of his hand with his long-handled axe, and when the jerk came
he was on the other side of the comb, where he could brace himself, and
brought them both up standing. Well, he’s got muscles like bunches of
steel wire. Did n’t he ever tell you about it?”
“No,” said Grace sadly.
“Well, somebody ought to expose Libby. I don’t suppose I should ever
have known about it myself, if I hadn’t happened to see the guide’s
friends and relations crying over him next day as if he was the guide’s
funeral. Hello! There’s the doctor.” He unlimbered his lank legs, and
rose with an effect of opening his person like a pocket-knife. “As I
understand it, this is an unprofessional visit, and the doctor is
here among us as a guest. I don’t know exactly what to do under the
circumstances, whether we ought to talk about Mrs. Maynard’s health or
the opera; but I reckon if we show our good intentions it will come out
all right in the end.”
He went forward to meet the doctor, who came up to shake hands with
Grace, and then followed him in-doors to see Mrs. Maynard. Grace
remained in her place, and she was still sitting there when Dr.
Mulbridge returned without him. He came directly to her, and said, “I
want to speak with you, Miss Breen. Can I see you alone?”
“Is--is Mrs. Maynard worse?” she asked, rising in a little trepidation.
“No; it has nothing to do with her. She’s practically well now; I
can remand the case to you. I wish to see you--about yourself.” She
hesitated at this peculiar summons, but some pressure was upon her to
obey Dr. Mulbridge, as there was upon most people where he wished to
obey him. “I want to talk with you,” he added, “about what you are going
to do,--about your future. Will you come?”
“Oh, yes,” she answered; and she suffered him to lead the way down from
the piazza, and out upon one of the sandy avenues toward the woods, in
which it presently lost itself. “But there will be very little to talk
about,” she continued, as they moved away, “if you confine yourself to
my future. I have none.”
“I don’t see how you’ve got rid of it,” he rejoined. “You’ve got a
future as much as you have a past, and there’s this advantage,--that you
can do something with your future.”
“Do you think so?” she asked, with a little bitterness. “That has n’t
been my experience.”
“It’s been mine,” he said, “and you can make it yours. Come, I want
to talk with you about your future, because I have been thinking very
seriously about my own. I want to ask your advice and to give you mine.
I’ll commence by asking yours. What do you think of me as a physician? I
know you are able to judge.”
She was flattered, in spite of herself. There were long arrears of cool
indifference to her own claims in that direction, which she might very
well have resented; but she did not. There was that flattery in his
question which the junior in any vocation feels in the appeal of his
senior; and there was the flattery which any woman feels in a man’s
recourse to her judgment. Still, she contrived to parry it with a little
thrust. “I don’t suppose the opinion of a mere homoeopathist can be of
any value to a regular practitioner.”
He laughed. “You have been a regular practitioner yourself for the last
three weeks. What do you think of my management of the case?”
“I have never abandoned my principles,” she began.
“Oh, I know all about that? What do you think of me as a doctor?” he
persisted.
“Of course I admire you. Why do you ask me that?”
“Because I wished to know. And because I wished to ask you something
else. You have been brought up in a city, and I have always lived here
in the country, except the two years I was out with the army. Do you
think I should succeed if I pulled up here, and settled in Boston?”
“I have not lived in Boston,” she answered. “My opinion wouldn’t be
worth much on that point.”
“Yes, it would. You know city people, and what they are. I have seen a
good deal of them in my practice at the hotels about here, and some of
the ladies--when they happened to feel more comfortable--have advised
me to come to Boston.” His derision seemed to throw contempt on all
her sex; but he turned to her, and asked again earnestly, “What do you
think? Some of the profession know me there. When I left the school,
some of the faculty urged me to try my chance in the city.”
She waited a moment before she answered. “You know that I must respect
your skill, and I believe that you could succeed anywhere. I judge
your fitness by my own deficiency. The first time I saw you with Mrs.
Maynard, I saw that you had everything that I hadn’t. I saw that I was
a failure, and why, and that it would be foolish for me to keep up the
