if conscious that he had neglected his duty as a faithful skipper. He
had no idea of what time it was when he sprang to his feet. All was
still around him, and the Goldwing appeared to be in precisely the
position he had left her when he turned in.

He could no longer hear the roar of the big waves as they dashed against
the south side of the island. The violent wind had subsided, and the
lake seemed to be as calm as the dream of an infant.

He looked all about him in the darkness, but there was nothing to demand
his attention. His companions were all sleeping, and some of them were
snoring, on their hard beds. Dory began to gape when there proved to be
no grounds for excitement. He concluded that he could not do any better
than finish his night's rest. Taking the most comfortable position he
could find in the standing-room, he turned in again, and was soon fast
asleep.

When he woke in the morning, it was after sunrise. The rest of the club
were still fast asleep. The skipper felt like a new man after his long
rest. A gentle breeze was rippling the surface of the lake. It came from
the westward, and the promise was that the day would be fine. Without
calling his companions, he loosed the sails, and turned out the reefs
from the fore and main sails. He laced on the bonnet of the jib, and
shipped the short tiller, instead of the long one he had used the day
before.

So far he had not seen how the sails set when all spread, and he was
interested in his present operation. He hoisted the mainsail. It was not
so large but that he could handle the throat and peak halyards at the
same time. He was entirely satisfied with the set of this sail. The set
of the foresail pleased him equally well.

The anchor-rope was rove through a block made fast near the heel of the
bowsprit, so that the anchor could be weighed without any difficulty. He
succeeded in getting it up without waking his shipmates, though he took
no especial pains to avoid arousing them. They had got up at four
o'clock the morning before, and probably had not slept much lest they
should oversleep themselves, and lose the excursion to Plattsburgh.

Dory hoisted the jib. He was delighted with the appearance of the
Goldwing with all sail set. There was hardly a puff of air behind the
island, and it was some time before he got fairly under way. But he
enjoyed the sight of the boat so much, that he was in no haste to get
home. So far as he knew, his mother supposed that he was still waiting
on the table in the cabin of the steamer; and she could not be anxious
about him. He had not heard of the loss of the Au Sable, and he had no
suspicion that his father was not still piloting her up and down the
lake.

After a while he succeeded in getting to the southward of Providence
Island, so that he could catch the breeze from across the lake. He got
just enough to fill the sails; and this afforded him the opportunity to
test the working of the boat after he had shifted the ballast, and
changed the position of the foremast. There was hardly wind enough for
a fair test, but he was delighted to find that the boat carried a
weather helm.

As he went farther out from the land, he got more breeze; and the result
was entirely satisfactory. Indeed, he had been practically sure that he
could remedy the defect in the working of the Goldwing before he bought
her. If he failed to do so, he had thrown his money away; for parties
would not employ him if he had an unsafe boat. He intended to invite two
or three prominent boatmen to sail with him when he had put the boat in
first-rate condition, and get their opinion as to her safety and her
sailing qualities.

Dory was so much absorbed in the beautiful appearance of the Goldwing,
that he neglected to do what an old sailor is continually doing when
afloat. He had not looked about him to see what beside the Goldwing was
afloat on the lake. He had headed the boat to the south, so as to pass
to the west of Stave Island. He was looking ahead, and dreaming of the
future.

In the quiet of the still morning he heard a puffing sound at a
distance. He turned to see what it was, and discovered a small steamer
about a mile to the westward of him. He had seen a boat in that
direction when he came out from behind the island, but he took no notice
of her. He had forgotten all about the Missisquoi: he had not even
thought to look and see if she was still aground on the Garden Island
shoal.

The sight of the little steamer, like a dozen others on the lake,
reminded him of his pursuer of the day before. He looked with interest
in the direction of Garden Island. The Missisquoi was not there. She had
got out of that scrape. Then he noticed that the little steamer in the
middle of the lake was headed directly for the Goldwing. She looked just
like his late pursuer.

Dory was rather excited at the thought of a continuance of the chase;
for with the light breeze he had no chance at all, and he did not like
to come in collision with Pearl Hawlinshed. He looked the boat over very
carefully. He had often sailed in her, and steered her; but she was too
far off for him to be entirely sure in regard to her identity. But he
was confident that it was the Missisquoi.

Certainly Pearl Hawlinshed had some very strong motive for continuing
the chase a second day. What could he want of him? Dory concluded that
he either expected to recover the Goldwing, or that he connected him in
some manner with his father. Whatever his motive, Dory did not want to
see him.

He was confident that the steamer he saw was the Missisquoi, and that
Pearl was still in pursuit of him. He had led the steamer into a trap
the day before, and possibly he might do it again. He could at least run
into shoal-water, where the Missisquoi could not follow him. He was
familiar with the soundings in all parts of the lake, for his father had
instructed him in the navigation.

Dory was assured that the wind would freshen as the sun rose higher; but
it would make little difference to him how much wind there was by and
by, if the steamer overhauled him before it came. He thought he was
making about four miles an hour, but the steamer was good for at least
six. She had a mile to gain, and that would take her ten minutes.
Following out the calculation, Dory thought the steamer would overhaul
him in fifteen minutes. In that time he could make a mile.

"Hallo, Dory! You are up and dressed," exclaimed Thad Glovering,
thrusting his head out at the cabin-door.

"Dry up, Thad! I am busy now," replied Dory impatiently; for he was in
the midst of his calculation of what he should do to avoid the
Missisquoi.

"You don't seem to be doing any thing, Dory," added Thad, as his body
followed his head out at the door.

"Don't disturb me, please, but call the fellows. I want them in the
standing-room, so as to trim the boat, and make her sail better,"
answered the skipper, as he went on with his calculation.

He had time to make only a mile before the steamer would be down upon
him. He was about abreast of Stave Island now. Less than a mile south of
it were two ledges, on which the water was not more than six feet deep.
Going to the southward, vessels must keep Juniper Light open to the
westward of Colchester Reef Light, in order to avoid these reefs. There
were no buoys on them, for they lay outside of any usual course of
vessels bound up and down the lake.

The experience of the Missisquoi in getting aground the day before would
render her pilot wary about following the Goldwing. The two reefs were
half a mile apart; and the pursuer must either keep away from them, or
run the risk of getting aground on one of them. The Goldwing could go
over either of them in perfect safety, for she drew only three feet with
her board up.

Dory was satisfied with his calculation, and he was reasonably confident
that the Missisquoi would not get within a quarter of a mile of the
Goldwing; but, if this expedient failed, he had another to which he
intended to resort.

The other members of the club had come out into the standing-room, and
seated themselves as they had been required to do the day before. They
were all wide awake; but they had been cautioned by Thad not to disturb
the skipper, and they were silent till he spoke to them.

"You have come to life again, fellows," said he when he had fully
arranged his plan.

"So have you, Dory," replied Corny. "Thad said we were not to speak to
you, or we should bust your calculations. We all thought you had the
blues."

"I suppose you know the steamer that is following the Goldwing," replied
Dory. "It is the Missisquoi, and she is after us again to-day. I have
been thinking how we should keep out of her way."

"How are you going to do it?" asked Corny. "We may enjoy the fun if we
know something about it."

The skipper explained his plan in full, and his companions were quite
interested in it. There was no chance for a race while only a four-knot
breeze favored the Goldwing. With a good stiff breeze the skipper
believed he could beat the steamer; but, in the absence of such a wind,
he must resort to strategy. But strategy was quite as exciting to his
companions as a race. It afforded the opportunity for one craft to come
out better than the other.

The wind was sensibly freshening, but the Goldwing did not need any more
wind just then. She was almost up with Stave Island Ledge, and her
skipper was disposed to wait and see what his pursuer would do. As he
approached the dangerous reef,--dangerous to any craft drawing more than
five feet,--he started his sheets, and stood to the eastward of the
rocks.

The Missisquoi was within an eighth of a mile of the Goldwing, and the
skipper saw that Captain Vesey was at the wheel. He seemed to know about
the reef, and sheered off. Probably he had discovered by this time that
Pearl Hawlinshed knew even less than he did about the difficulties of
navigation in Lake Champlain.




CHAPTER XV.

THE STRATEGY OF THE CHASE.


Dory Dornwood had accomplished all that he intended by his plan. The
pilot of the Missisquoi would not dare to cross the ledges, and it would
be necessary for her to go nearly a mile to the southward to get around
them. Dory calculated that his manoeuvre had given him two miles the
start of the steamer.

Captain Vesey and Pearl Hawlinshed seemed to be holding a consultation.
Dory imagined that Pearl was trying to persuade the captain to venture
in among the rocks. If so, he was not successful; for the Missisquoi did
not come any nearer to the ledge.

"What is she going to do next, Dory?" asked Corny Minkfield, while the
boys were waiting for the next move of the steamer.

"That's more than I know," replied Dory, chuckling at the success of his
plan. "I think Captain Vesey had enough of getting aground yesterday,
and he don't want to spend the day laid up on one of these ledges. I
believe the steamer would go over Champion Rock all right; but her
captain is shy, and I don't think he will come any nearer than he is
now."

Dory had headed the Goldwing to the east. As he had predicted, the wind
was increasing, and the schooner carried quite a bone in her teeth. It
looked a little like a game of chess, where each player has to wait a
long time for the other to make his move. The captain and his passenger
appeared to be still engaged in the discussion in the bow of the boat.
Dory thought he could quicken their movements; and, hauling in his
sheets, he stood to the south.

"There she goes!" exclaimed Thad, as the steamer started her propeller
again.

"I think we can keep her moving," replied Dory. "She will go to the
southward as fast as we do, to head us off. We can play this game as
long as she can."

"But who wants to stay here all day fooling with that steamer?" said
Corny.

"I don't know that we have any thing better to do," added Dick Short.
"We have got enough to eat to last us all day."

"I think we shall have some variety in this thing. Captain Vesey has to
deliver the Missisquoi to her new owner to-night, and he can't stay here
much after noon," replied Dory.

In fifteen minutes the steamer was well to the southward of Champion
Rock, and began to turn to the eastward.

"She is coming around to pick us up on this side of the rocks," said
Thad.

"That's all right, but she won't pick us up," answered Dory. "I am
afraid it will get very monotonous before she overhauls us by her
present tactics."

Dory put the boat about, and stood to the north. He continued on this
tack until the Missisquoi was directly south of Stave Island, and of
both ledges, which were in a line with the island. She had gone half a
mile farther to the southward than was necessary to avoid Champion Rock;
but her pilots were not well posted, and they seemed to be determined to
keep on the safe side.

The skipper waited until the steamer was half a mile to the eastward of
the ledges, and then he proceeded to beat across the dangerous ground.
He took a southerly tack first, so as to bother the pilot of the steamer
as to his intentions. The Missisquoi kept on her course, and Pearl was
evidently bothered.

The pursuer had not thought there could be any difficulty in capturing
the owner of the Goldwing when he had a steamer to use in chasing her.
He had found out his mistake. The captain and engineer had not earned
their five dollars apiece yet, for they had not put the passenger on
board of the schooner. Doubtless they were continuing the chase for the
purpose of obtaining their money, for the boys were satisfied that
Captain Vesey had no other interest in the pursuit.

As the Missisquoi put her helm to starboard, in order to run to the
north, Dory tacked the schooner, and stood off to the north-east. This
course would carry him directly over Stave Island Ledge. The effect of
this move was soon apparent, for the steamer stopped her screw again.
Her pilots could see that it was useless to go any farther on her
present course. By the time she got a mile farther, the Goldwing would
be on the other side of the ledges. Another discussion seemed to be in
progress between the captain and the passenger. But it was not continued
long; for the Missisquoi put about, and stood to the westward.

"She has got enough of that," said Thad. "I don't believe she will keep
it up much longer."

"It is cool and comfortable here, and I think we can stand this sort of
thing as long as she can," added Dory.

"Of course we can; but the game is ended, and the Missisquoi is going
back to Plattsburgh," suggested Corny.

"The game is not ended yet," replied Dory: "in fact, it has but just
begun."

"What's the reason it isn't ended?" demanded Corny, who did not like to
have his conclusions disputed. "What is the steamer going off in that
direction for, if there is to be any more fun?"

"Is that the way to Plattsburgh, Corny?" asked Dory quietly.

"She has gone off and left us, whether she is bound to Plattsburgh or
not. If she means to catch us, why don't she stick to it?" continued
Corny.

"She is sticking to it. The way to catch a pigeon is to put salt on his
tail, you know," answered Dory, laughing. "She is beginning to play her
game now. If she had gone to the north-west, instead of to the west, I
might believe she had given it up; and I should be ready to head the
Goldwing for Burlington as soon as I saw her to the eastward of
Valcour's Island."

"What do you think she means to do, Dory?" asked Thad.

"I am very clear what she means to do. I wouldn't give anybody two cents
to write it down for me," replied the skipper confidently. "She has gone
to the west so that she can coax us out from these ledges. If she could
get us away from these dangers, where she could chase us, she would soon
be up with us."

"There are plenty of rocks and shoals south of us," suggested Thad.

"But there are buoys on them, and a hundred feet of water between them.
Very likely Captain Vesey knows his way among them. We can very soon see
whether she has given up the chase or not," said Dory, as he put the
boat about, and headed her to the south.

"Are you going to run for Burlington, Dory?" asked Corny.

"We are headed in that direction now," replied the skipper.

"But the steamer does not change her course," continued Corny.

"And she won't change her course until we have gone a couple of miles
farther to the southward. They are getting smart on board of the
Missisquoi," added Dory, like one who is driving a winning horse.

All hands watched the steamer very closely, and Corny would have given
something handsome to have it made out that Dory was mistaken in his
calculations. He was loyal to the skipper, but he did not like to have
statements of the latter prove true every time. The steamer did not
change her course, but she did not seem to get ahead very fast.

In half an hour the Goldwing was off Colchester Reef Light. The
Missisquoi was still headed to the west; and Corny was beginning to feel
triumphant, though he was not confident enough to say much. The steamer
was three miles distant; but Dory was satisfied by this time that she
had stopped her propeller, and was only waiting for the schooner to get
a little farther to the southward, where she could not dodge in among
the dangerous rocks.

"She is coming about!" shouted Thad.

"It is about time for her to do something," replied Dory. "But she is
not coming down this way."

"How do you know she isn't, Dory Dornwood?" demanded Corny, who was
rather indignant when the skipper made another prediction.

"I think I understand her little game," answered Dory mildly; for he
felt that he could afford to disregard the sharp tones of Corny.

"Where is she going?" asked Corny, wishing to make the skipper commit
himself fully.

"She is going to the eastward," replied Dory without any hesitation; for
it was all a plain case to him.

"How do you know she is, Dory?" demanded Corny. "She is still turning;
and she isn't headed any way yet."

"I think it is easy enough to see what she is about, Corny. Can't you
see it with your eyes shut?"

"No: I'm sure I can't; and I don't believe you can, Dory Dornwood,"
added Corny.

"She is now just as far west of Champion Rock as we are south of it. She
is going to the eastward, so as to cut us off if we try to reach the
ledges again. I think she has got her course now."

It was plain enough to all the members of the Goldwing Club, that, as
they could see the whole of the starboard side of the Missisquoi, she
was headed to the eastward. Corny gave it up when he saw that he could
hold out no longer. From the smoke that poured out of the smoke-stack of
the little steamer, it was plain that she was crowded to her best speed.

"She is in a hurry now," said the skipper, laughing.

"She is going to do a big thing now," added Thad. "She is going to catch
us, sure."

"But I think we had better be doing something," continued the skipper,
as he put the Goldwing before the wind.

"What are you going to do now, Dory?" asked Corny.

"That will depend upon circumstances," replied Dory, who suddenly
appeared to be disposed to keep his own counsel.

As soon as the schooner was up with the light-house, the skipper hauled
in his sheets again, and headed the Goldwing to the north-east. This
course seemed to bother the steamer, for it made it evident that the
boat did not intend to go near Champion Rock.

"She's after you again," said Corny a few minutes later. "She has
altered her course, and is coming down this way to head you off."

"All right! Let her come," replied Dory.

"But we are getting pretty close together," added Thad. "She is going to
catch us this time. At least, I am afraid she is."

"Don't worry about it, Thad. She isn't going to catch us on this tack."

The Missisquoi was coming in between Hog's Back Island and the reef of
the same name. She kept the red buoy on her starboard, and the black on
her port hand. She was hardly more than a quarter of a mile from the
Goldwing, and running for a point ahead of her. It began to be very
exciting for the boys, for they believed she would overtake the
schooner in a few minutes more.

But the Goldwing came out just a little ahead; and the steamer was
astern of the boat, but not more than a hundred yards. She gained on her
every minute, until suddenly the Missisquoi stopped.




CHAPTER XVI.

A GRAVE CHARGE AGAINST THE SKIPPER.


The Missisquoi was aground. This result was exactly what the skipper of
the Goldwing intended and expected, if the pilots of the steamer
followed the schooner. Colchester Light is about west of a point having
the same name. Extending north from Colchester Point is a shoal, on
which, at the present low stage of the water, there was a depth of from
two to eight feet. It was two miles and a half long from its northern
extremity to the point.

Dory struck the shoal not more than a quarter of a mile north of Law
Island, where the water was only about four feet deep. The Goldwing went
over it without any difficulty; but there was not water enough for the
steamer. Ordinarily a small steamer could have crossed any part of the
shoal, but the lake had not been so low before for years.

The skipper of the schooner had calculated upon using this shoal in the
same manner that he had used Champion Rock and Stave Island Ledge. If he
had not depended upon this shallow water, he would not have left the
ledges. But he did not expect that Captain Vesey would attempt to follow
him where there was not more than four feet of water. It was evident
enough that neither the captain nor Pearl was a competent pilot.

"Here we are," said Dory quietly, as he put the helm down, and came up
into the wind.

"What's the matter now?" asked Corny.

"Nothing the matter; but the Missisquoi has concluded not to come any
farther in this direction just now," replied Dory, as he headed the
schooner to the north-west.

"She has stopped!" exclaimed Thad.

"That is just what she has done," added the skipper.

"What has she stopped there for?" asked Corny.

"She couldn't very well help it, for she is hugging the bottom."

"Hugging the bottom! What do you mean by that?" demanded Corny.

"In plain English, she is aground." And the skipper proceeded to explain
the situation to his companions.

"Then, you knew what you were about all the time, Dory," said Thad, with
something of admiration in his tones and manner.

"I thought I did all the time; but I did not expect the Missisquoi would
try to go over a place where the bottom is so near the top as it is on
this shoal," answered Dory. "There is nearly seven miles of deep water
to the eastward of this shoal to the head of Mallett's Bay. The lake is
thirteen miles wide on just this line."

"Were you going up Mallett's Bay?"

"Not at all. I expected to run back and forth over this shoal until the
Missisquoi had enough of it, and then I was going to Burlington."

"Will the steamer get off the bottom?"

"She was running at her best speed when she struck the bottom; and I
don't believe she will get off in a hurry," replied Dory.

"All we have to do is to go to Burlington, then," added Corny.

"We won't be in a hurry about it," said Dory. "I want to see if she can
get off. They are backing her now, and there is Captain Vesey at work
with a pole. The steamer seems to stick hard. Her bow is about a foot
out of water, but I think she is afloat at the stern. They may work her
off if they manage it well."

"That other chap has gone to work with a pole too," said Dick Short.

"I hope they will have a good time," added Dory, as he put the schooner
about, and headed her across the bow of the Missisquoi.

The skipper wished to obtain a better view of the position of the
steamer, to enable him to decide whether it was safe for him to proceed
to Burlington. With the wind on the quarter, he ran within ten yards of
the stem of the Missisquoi. As he approached her, he saw that her
water-line was lifted at least a foot above the surface of the lake,
indicating that she was firmly fixed on the hard bottom.

"Hallo there, Dory Dornwood!" shouted Pearl Hawlinshed when the Goldwing
came within hail of the steamer. "Come alongside! I want to see you."

"What do you want of me?" asked the skipper.

"I want to see you about that money," added Pearl.

"What money?"

"You know what money as well as I do!" roared Pearl with a string of
oaths. "The money you stole at the hotel!"

"The money Dory stole!" ejaculated Corny Minkfield, with a look of
horror on his face.

"What hotel? I didn't steal any money at any hotel," returned Dory,
startled at the charge.

"Yes, you did! It's no use to deny it. The landlord sent me off after
you; and you'll have to pay for it, for the wild-goose chase you have
led me on," cried Pearl, who had evidently lost his patience and his
temper.

"I didn't know any money had been stolen from a hotel; and I didn't
steal it," cried Dory, as the Goldwing passed out of easy talking
distance from the steamer.

"You stole the money to buy that boat, and it's no sale!" yelled Pearl.

"Stole the money to buy the boat!" exclaimed Corny, looking at his
fellow-members of the Goldwing Club.

"I don't believe it!" ejaculated Thad Glovering. "Dory isn't that kind
of a fellow. He wouldn't do such a thing."

Nat Long and Dick Short said nothing. They seemed to be in doubt. All of
them wondered where Dory could have got the money to pay for the
Goldwing, and the charge of Pearl Hawlinshed appeared to explain the
whole matter. Certainly the astonishing statement of Pearl made it look
very bad for the skipper of the Goldwing. When they asked where he got
the forty-two dollars to pay for the boat, Dory had refused to explain,
and had insisted that no more questions should be asked about the
subject.

Nat had winked at Corny to intimate that this disposition of the matter
was not satisfactory; but, as they were expecting a fine sail in the
schooner, they had been politic enough to keep silence. Now they looked
from one to another, for they did not like to say just what they
thought.

Dory was silent also. His heart was swelling with emotion. He was
accused of stealing, and he could not help seeing that he was in a very
uncomfortable situation. Pearl's father had given him the money, and he
had promised not to say a word about it. There seemed to be some
terrible secret between Pearl and his father. The latter had given Dory
one hundred and five dollars for the service he had rendered him in the
woods, and wished him not to tell where he got the money lest it should
lead to the exposure of the secret.

Pearl evidently had something against him. It might be nothing more than
the fact that he had outbid him at the sale of the boat. But the son
plainly suspected that Dory had some relations with his father, for he
had intimated as much as this.

The skipper of the Goldwing was considering what he should do. He was
ready to meet the charge against him, though he could not explain where
he got the money to pay for the boat. Pearl was after him for stealing
the money at a hotel,--what hotel he did not know. Was Pearl a constable
or a police-officer?

If his pursuer was an officer of the law, he was ready to give himself
up. He was anxious to know in what manner he was connected with the
theft. But it might be all a trick on the part of Pearl to get the boat
away from him. He did not mean to put his head into any trap. While he
was considering the situation, Corny could hold in no longer.

"I want to know about this business," said Corny, after he and his
companions had been looking at each other in silence for full five
minutes.

"What do you want to know, Corny?" asked Dory.

"I want to know where you got the money to buy this boat," replied
Corny, rather more warmly than the occasion seemed to require.

"I shall not tell you," answered Dory firmly, but very quietly.

"You won't?"

"No, I won't," repeated Dory. "That is my secret. I have to keep it, not
on my own account, but for the sake of a person who was very kind to me,
and gave me a meal when I was hungry. That is all I can say about the
case. I didn't steal a dollar or a cent, and I am willing to face any
man that says I did."

"That fellow in the steamer says you did; and we have been running away
from him since yesterday morning," replied Corny.

"That man, whose name is Pearl Hawlinshed, has something against me;
and I don't care about putting myself into his hands," answered Dory.

"I suppose you don't," added Corny with a sneer. "I don't like this
thing a bit. We have been with you since yesterday morning, and they say
the receiver is as bad as the thief."

"Do you believe I am a thief, Corny?" said Dory, looking his accuser
squarely in the eye.

"I don't see how I can believe any thing else. I don't want to believe
such a thing of you, Dory. Fellows like you and me don't have forty-two
dollars in every pocket of their trousers; and you won't tell us where
you got the money," answered Corny a little more moderately.

"You talk and act just as though you did want to prove that I stole the
money I paid for the boat," added Dory. "All I ask of the fellows is to
believe that I am innocent until I am proved guilty."

"That's the talk! that's fair! I don't believe Dory did it!" exclaimed
Thad.

"Let him tell where he got the money, then," replied Corny.

"That's his business, if he don't choose to tell," argued Thad. "It
don't prove that Dory is a thief because that fellow says so. We don't
know any thing about that fellow."

"Do you believe that he would chase us for two days in a steamer if
there wasn't something serious the matter?" asked Corny.

"Yes, if he wanted to get this boat," replied Thad.

"Well, I have had enough of this thing. Here we are cruising all over
the lake with a thief, running away, and dodging a steamer sent after
him; and we are getting into it as deep as he is," blustered Corny.

"Shut up, Corn Minkfield, or I'll smash your head!" exclaimed Thad,
leaping to his feet, and moving towards the sceptic.

"None of that, Thad!" interposed Dory, putting his arm between the two
belligerent members. "I don't want any fight over it."

The skipper put the helm up, and gybed the boat.

"What are you going to do now?" demanded Corny when Thad had resumed his
seat. "I am not going to be carried all over the lake with one who is
running away from the officers."

Thad sprang to his feet again, but Dory quieted him.

"I am going back to Plattsburgh to face the music," said Dory.

Corny looked more disgusted than ever.




CHAPTER XVII.

DORY DORNWOOD DECIDES TO "FACE THE MUSIC."


"I'm not going back to Plattsburgh!" exclaimed Corny Minkfield. "My
mother will want to know what has become of me by this time."

"What are you going to do, Corny?" asked Dory in the gentlest of tones.

"I am going back to Burlington," answered Corny.

"All right! I don't object," added Dory, as he headed the boat for
Plattsburgh.

Thad laughed, and Nat and Dick smiled. Corny talked and acted as though
he "owned things;" and the others were rather pleased to see him taken
down a peg when he was in this mood.

"You promised to take us back to Burlington, Dory; and now you are going
to drag us back to Plattsburgh," growled Corny.

"But you don't want to sail all over the lake with a thief. If I go to
Burlington now, I shall be running away from the officers. I must go to
Plattsburgh, and face the music."

"Hurrah for Dory!" shouted Thad. "Is that the way a thief does it?"

"Hurrah for Dory!" added Dick Short. "That isn't the way a thief does
it."

"But I want to go home. I don't want my mother to worry about me," added
Corny.

"You called me a thief just now, and I can't run away from the place
where they accuse me. I will put you ashore at the light-house, or on
Colchester Point."

"You might as well put me ashore on Stave Island. I want to go back to
Burlington."

"We are bound to Plattsburgh now; and I shall not stop to rest until I
have seen the men that charge me with stealing that money," replied Dory
very decidedly.

"The man that charges you is in that steamer, and you run away from
him," retorted Corny.

"The Missisquoi is hard and fast aground. If I give myself up to him, I
shall only have to stay on board of her all day; for he may not get off.
I may be in Plattsburgh before he is."

Corny grumbled a while longer, but the skipper took no further notice of
him. The course of the Goldwing carried her within a short distance of
the stern of the Missisquoi. Captain Vesey and Pearl had tugged at the
poles until they saw that it was useless to attempt to get the steamer
off in that way.

Pearl was plainly disgusted with the situation. The bow of the boat was
as far out of water as when the schooner passed her before, and the
efforts with the poles had not started her a hair. When the enterprising
extra pilot of the steamer saw the Goldwing coming, he hastened to the
stern.

"Come alongside, Dory Dornwood! I will make it as easy as I can for you
when we get to Plattsburgh. Take me on board," shouted Pearl.

"I am going to Plattsburgh to face the music," replied Dory.

"Take me with you!" called Pearl.

"I don't want you," answered Dory.

"I can get you off, and make it all right with you."

"No, I thank you," added Dory; and he declined to take any further
notice of his persecutor.

For the present the excitement was ended. It was about seven in the
morning, as Dory judged by the height of the sun. Thad got out the
provisions; and, though there was not much variety to the repast, the
boys ate heartily. After the meal some of them went to sleep. Before ten
o'clock the Goldwing was alongside the wharf, in the position where Dory
had first seen her.

The skipper lowered the sails with the help of the rest of the club,
though Corny was still too much disgruntled to do any thing. Every thing
was put in order on board, and Dory locked the cabin. Before he had
finished, Corny went off alone. Just as the party were going to leave
the wharf, a couple of men came down. They walked directly to the boat,
as though they had seen her coming up the bay, and had business with
her.

"Is this the boat that went off from here yesterday morning?" asked one
of the men.

"Yes, sir: this is the boat," replied Dory, hoping that the men's
business related to the charge against him.

"Are you the boy that bought her?" continued the man who did the
talking.

"Yes, sir: I am the one that bought her and paid for her," answered
Dory. "Do you know of anybody in this town that wants to see me?"

"I can't say I do," said the man, looking at the other one, and
laughing.

"There was a little steamer here in the forenoon."

"That was the Missisquoi."

"A man went off in her to look up this boat. Have you seen any thing of
the steamer?" asked the man.

"Yes, sir: she is hard and fast aground on the Colchester shoal, near
Law Island. The man that went in her to look up this boat was Pearl
Hawlinshed. I don't believe in him, and I kept out of the way of him and
his steamer."

"How could you keep out of the way of a steamer in a sailboat?"

"I managed it. But I didn't know till he hailed me from the steamer that
I was charged with stealing some money from one of the hotels. Can you
tell me any thing about the matter, sir?"

