more ! I was his confidant ; I know everything. He 
used to beg my own forgiveness for Christina. What do 
you say to that ? I seized him once and kissed him, I 
did ! To find that and to find all the rest with it, and 
to believe that it was a gift straight from the pitying 
angels of Heaven, and then to see it dashed away before 
your eyes and to stand here helpless oh, it 's a fate I 
hope you may ever be spared ! " 

" It would seem, then, that in the interest of Prince 
Casamassima himself I ought to refuse to interfere," said 
Rowland. 

Mrs. Light looked at him hard, slowly diying her eyes. 
The intensity of her grief and anger gave her a kind of 
majesty, and Rowland for the moment felt ashamed of 
the somewhat grim humour of his observation. 

" Very good, sir," she said. " I am sorry your heart 
is not so tender as your conscience. My compliments 
to your conscience ! It must give you great happiness. 
Heaven help me ! Since you fail us we are indeed 
driven to the wall. But I have fought my own battles 
before and I have never lost courage ; and I don 't 
see why I should break down now. Cavaliere, come 
here !" 



 

Giacosa rose at her summons and advanced with his 
usual deferential alacrity. - He shook hands with Row 
land in silence. 

" Mr. Mallet refuses to say a word," Mrs. Light went 
on. " Time presses, every moment is precious. Heaven 
knows what that poor boy may be doing. If at this 
moment a clever woman should get hold of him she might 
be as ugly as she could ! It 's horrible to think of it." 

The Cavaliere fixed his eyes on Rowland, and his 
look, which the night before had been singular, was 
now most extraordinary in its mixture of fine anxiety 
an anxiety which seemed to plead against the young 
man 's reluctance and mocking exultation. 

Suddenly and vaguely Rowland felt the presence of a. 
new element in the drama that was going on before him. 
He looked from the Cavaliere to Mrs. Light, whose eyes 
were now quite dry and were fixed in stony hardness on 
the floor. 

"If you could bring yourself," the Cavaliere said, in 
a low, soft, tenderly - urgent voice, "to address a few 
words of solemn remonstrance to Miss Light, you would 
perhaps do more for us than you know. You would 
save several persons a great deal of pain. The dear 
signora first, and then Christina herself. Christina in 
particular. Me too, I might take the liberty to add !" 

There was to Rowland something acutely touching in 
this humble petition. He had always felt a sort of im 
aginative tenderness for poor little unexplained Giacosa, 
and these words seemed a supreme manifestation of the 
mysterious obliquity of his life. All of a sudden as he 
\vatched the Cavaliere something occurred to him ; it 
was something very odd, and it stayed his glance suddenly 
from again turning to Mrs. Light. His idea embarrassed 
him, and to carry off his embarrassment, he repeated 
that it was folly to suppose that his words would have 
any weight with Christina. 

The Cavaliere stepped forward and laid two fingers 



on Rowland 's breast. " Do you wish to know the truth ? 
You are the only man whose words she remembers." 

Rowland was going from surprise to surprise. " I 
will say what I can !" he said. By this time he had 
ventured to glance at Mrs. Light. She was looking at 
him askance, as if upon this she were suddenly mistrust 
ing his motives. 

"If you fail," she said, sharply, "we have something 
else ! But please to lose no time." 

She had hardly spoken when the sound of a short 
sharp growl caused the company to turn. Christina 's 
fleecy poodle stood in the middle of the great drawing- 
room with his muzzle lowered, in pompous defiance of 
the three conspirators against the comfort of his mistress. 
This young lady 's claims for him seemed justified ; he 
was an animal of amazing shrewdness. He had preceded 
Christina as a sort of vanguard of defence, and she now 
slowly advanced from a neighbouring room. 

"You will be so good as to listen to Mr. Mallet, "her 
mother said, in a terrible voice, " and to reflect carefully 
on what he says. I suppose you will admit that he is 
disinterested. In half an hour you shall hear from me 
again ! " And passing her hand through the Cavaliere 's 
arm she swept rapidly out of the room. 

Christina looked hard at Rowland, but offered him no 
greeting. She was very pale, and, strangely enough, it 
at first seemed to Rowland that her beauty was in eclipse. 
But he very soon perceived that it had only changed its 
character, and that if it was a trifle less brilliant than 
usual it was admirably touching and noble. The clouded 
light of her eyes, the magnificent gravity of her features, 
the conscious erectness of her head, might have belonged 
to a deposed sovereign or a condemned martyr. Why 
have you come here at this time?" she asked. 

"Your mother sent for me in pressing terms, and I 
was very glad to have an opportunity to speak to you." 

" Have you come to help me or to persecute me?" 



 

" I have as little power to do one as I have desire to 
do the other. I came in great part to ask you a ques 
tion. First, is your decision irrevocable?" 

Christina 's two hands had been hanging clasped in 
front of her ; she separated them and flung them apart 
by an admirable gesture. 

" Would you have done this if you had not seen Mary 
Garland ?" 

She looked at him with quickened attention ; then 
suddenly, "This is interesting!" she cried. "Let us 
have it out." And she flung herself into a chair and 
pointed to another. 

"You don 't answer my question," Rowland said. 

" You have no right that I know of to ask it. But 
it 's a very clever one ; so clever that it deserves an 
answer. Very likely I should not." 

" Last night when I said that to myself I was extremely 
angry." 

" Oh dear, and you are not angry now ?" 

"I am less angry." 

" How very tiresome ! But you can say something at 
least." 

If I were to say what is uppermost in my mind, I 
should say that face to face with you it is never possible 
to condemn you." 

"Perchel" 

"You know yourself! But I can at least say now 
what I felt last night. It seemed to me that you had 
consciously cruelly dealt a blow at that poor girl. Do 
you understand?" 

" Wait a moment !" And with her eyes fixed on him 
she inclined her head on one side meditatively. Then a 
cold brilliant smile covered her face, and she made a 
gesture of negation. " I see your train of reasoning, but 
it 's quite wrong. I meant no harm to Miss Garland ; 
I should be extremely sorry to make her suffer. Tell 
me you believe that." 



ioo   xx. 

This was said with ineffable candour. Rowland 
heard himself answering, " I believe it !" 

"And yet in a sense your supposition was true," 
Christina continued. " I took into my head, as I told 
you, to be* greatly struck with the fiancee, and I frankly 
confess I was jealous of her. What I envied her was 
simply her character ! I said to myself, She in my 
place wouldn 't marry Casamassima. I could not help 
saying it, and I said it so often that I found a kind of 
inspiration in it. I hated the idea of being worse than 
she of doing something that she would not do. I 
might be bad by nature, but I needn 't be by intention. 
The end of it all was that I found it impossible not to 
tell the Prince that I was his very humble servant, but 
that decidedly I could not marry him." 

Are you sure it was only of Miss Garland 's character 
that you were jealous, not of not of " 

* Speak out, I beg you. We are talking philosophy ! " 

" Not of her affection for her cousin ?" 

"Sure is a good deal to ask. Still, I think I may 
say it ! There are two reasons ; one, at least, I can tell 
you : her affection has not a shadow 's weight with Mr. 
Hudson ! Why, then, should one feel it?" 

"And what is the other reason?" 

f Excuse me ; that is my own affair." 

Rowland was puzzled, baffled, charmed, inspired. 
" I have promised your mother," he presently went on, 
" to say something in favour of Prince Casamassima. " 

She shook her head sadly. " Prince Casamassima 
needs nothing that you can say for him. He is a 
magnificent parti. I know it perfectly." 

" You know also of the extreme affliction of your 
mother?" 

" Her affliction is demonstrative. She has been 
abusing me for the last twenty-four hours as if I were 
the vilest of the vile." To see Christina sit there in the 
purity of her beauty and say this might have made one 



 

bow one 's head with a kind of awe. I have failed of 
respect to her at other times, but I have not done so 
now. Since we are talking philosophy," she pursued, 
with a gentle smile, "I may say it 's a simple matter ! 
I don 't love that excellent Prince. It 's very true, how 
ever, that making up one 's mind that one doesn 't love a 
Prince is rather a complicated operation ! I spoke just 
now of inspiration. The inspiration has been great, but 
I frankly confess it the decision has been hard. 
Shall I tell you?" she demanded, with sudden ardour ; 
" will you understand me? It was on the one side the 
world, the splendid, beautiful, powerful, interesting 
world. I know what that is ; I have tasted of the cup, 
I know its sweetness. Ah, if I chose, if I should let 
myself go, if I should fling everything to the winds, 
the world and I would be famous friends ! I know its 
merits, and I think without vanity it would see mine. 
You should see some fine things ! I should like to be 
a princess, and I think I should be a very good one ; I 
would play my part well. I am fond of luxury, I am 
fond of a great society, I am fond of being looked at. 
I am corrupt, corrupting, corruption ! Ah, what a pity 
that couldn 't be too ! Mercy of Heaven !" There was 
a passionate tremor in her voice ; she covered her face 
with her hands and sat motionless. Rowland saw that 
an intense agitation, hitherto successfully repressed, 
underlay the exquisite archness of her manner, and he 
could easily believe that her battle had been fierce. She 
rose quickly and turned away, walked a few paces and 
stopped. In a moment she was facing him again with 
tears in her eyes and a flush in her cheeks. " But you 
needn 't think I am afraid !" she said. " I have chosen, 
and I shall hold to it. I have something here, here, 
here!" and she patted her heart. " It 's my own. I 
shall not part with it. Is it what you call an ideal ? I 
don 't know ; I don 't care ! It is brighter than the 
Casamassima diamonds !" 



 

"You say that certain things are your own affair," 
Rowland presently rejoined; "but I must nevertheless 
make an attempt to learn what all this means what it pro 
mises for my friend Hudson. Is there any hope for him ?" 

This is a point I can't discuss with you minutely. 
I like him very much." 

" Would you marry him if he were to ask you ?" 

" He has asked me." 

"And if he asks again?" 

" I shall marry no one just now." 

" Roderick," said Rowland, " has great hopes." 

" Does he know of my rupture with the Prince ?" 

" He is making a great holiday of it." 

Christina pulled her poodle towards her and began to 
smooth his silky fleece. "I like him very much," she 
repeated ; " much more than I used to. Since you told 
me all that about him at St. Cecilia 's I have felt a great 
friendship for him. There is something very fine about 
him ; he is not afraid of anything. He is not afraid of 
failure ; he is not afraid of ruin or death. " 

"Poor fellow!" said Rowland, bitterly; "he is 
inconveniently picturesque." 

" Picturesque, yes ; that 's what he is. I am very 
sorry for him." 

" Your mother told me just now that you had said 
that you didn 't care a button for him." 

" Very likely ! I meant as a lover. One doesn 't want 
a lover one pities, and one doesn 't want of all things 
in the world a picturesque husband ! I should like 
Mr. Hudson as something else. I wish he were my 
brother, so that he could never talk to me of marriage. 
Then I could adore him. I would nurse him, I would 
wait on him and save him all disagreeable rubs and 
shocks. I am much stronger than he, and I would 
stand between him and the world. Indeed, with Mr. 
Hudson for my brother I should be willing to live and 
die an old maid !" 



 

" Have you ever told him all this ?" 

" I suppose so ; I have told him five hundred things! 
If it will please you I will tell him again." 

"Oh, Heaven forbid !" cried poor Rowland with a 
groan. 

He was lingering there, weighing his sympathy against 
his irritation and feeling it sink in the scale, when the 
curtain of a distant doorway was lifted and Mrs. Light 
passed across the room. She stopped half-way and gave 
our interlocutors a flushed and menacing look. It found 
apparently little to reassure her, and she moved away 
with a passionate toss of her drapery. Rowland thought 
with horror of the sinister compulsion to which the young 
girl was apparently still to be subjected. In this ethereal 
flight of her moral nature there was a certain painful 
effort and tension of wing ; but it was none the less 
piteous to imagine her being rudely jerked down to the 
base earth. She would need all her magnanimity for 
her own contest, and it seemed gross to make farther 
demands upon it on Roderick 's behalf. 

Rowland took up his hat. "You asked a while ago 
if I had come to help you," he said. "If I knew how 
I might help you I should be particularly glad." 

She stood silent a moment, reflecting. Then at last 
looking up, " You remember your promising six months 
ago to tell me what you should finally think of me? I 
should like you to tell me now." 

He could hardly help smiling. Madame Grandoni 
had insisted on the fact that Christina was an actress, 
and this little speech seemed a glimpse of the cothurnus. 
She had played her great scene, she had made her point, 
and now she had her eye at the hole in the curtain and 
she was watching the house ! But she blushed as she 
perceived his smile, and her blush, which was beautiful, 
made her fault venial. 

You are an excellent girl ! " he said, very positively ; 
and then gave her his hand in farewell. 



 

There was a great chain of rooms in Mrs. Light 's 
apartment, the pride and joy of the hostess on festal 
evenings, through which the departing visitor passed 
before reaching the door. In one of the first of these 
Rowland found .himself waylaid and arrested by the 
distracted mistress of the house. 

" Well, well ?" she cried, seizing his arm. " Has she 
listened to you have you moved her?" 

"In Heaven 's name, dear madam," Rowland begged, 
leave the poor girl alone ! She is behaving very well ! " 

"Behaving very well? Is that all you have to tell 
me? I don 't believe you said a proper word to her. 
You are conspiring together to kill me ! " 

Rowland tried to soothe her, to remonstrate, to per 
suade her that it was equally cruel and unwise to try to 
force matters. But she answered him only with harsh 
lamentations and imprecations, and ended by telling him 
that her daughter was her own property, and that his 
interference was insolent and scandalous. Her dis 
appointment seemed really to have blighted her wits, 
and his only possible rejoinder was to take a summary 
departure. 

A moment later he came upon the Cavaliere, who 
was sitting with his elbows on his knees, and his head 
in his hands, so buried in thought that Rowland had to 
call him before he roused himself. Giacosa looked at 
him a moment keenly, and then gave an interrogative 
shake of the head. 

Rowland gave a shake negative, to which the Cavaliere 
responded by a long melancholy sigh. " But her mother 
is determined to put on the screw," said Rowland. 

" It seems that it must be ! " 
Do you consider that it must be ? " 

" I don 't differ with Mrs. Light ! " 

" It will be a great cruelty ! " 

The Cavaliere gave a tragic shrug. "Eh ! it isn 't an 
easy world." 

" You should do nothing to make it harder, then." 

" What will you have ? It 's a magnificent marriage." 

"You disappoint me, Cavaliere," said Rowland. "I 
imagined you appreciated the great elevation of Chris 
tina 's attitude. She doesn 't love the Prince ; she has 
let the matter stand or fall by that. " 

The old man grasped him by the hand, and stood a 
moment with averted eyes. At last, looking at him, 
he held up two fingers. 

"I have two hearts," he said ; " one for myself, one 
for the world. This one is furious with the blessed 
ragazza the other is enchanted with her . One suffers 
horribly at what the other does." 

"I don 't understand double people, Cavaliere," Row 
land said, " and I don 't pretend to understand you. But 
I have guessed you are going to play some secret 
card." 

"That card is Mrs. Light s, not mine," said the 
Cavaliere. 

It 's a menace, at any rate ? " 

"The sword of Damocles! It hangs by a hair. 
Christina is to be given ten minutes to recant, under 
penalty of feeling it fall. On the blade there is some 
thing written in strange characters. Don 't scratch your 
head ; you will not make it out." 

"I think I have guessed it," said Rowland, after a 
comprehensive silence. The Cavaliere looked at him 
blankly, but intently, and Rowland added, "Though 
there are some signs, indeed, I don 't understand." 

" Puzzle them out at your leisure," said the Cavaliere, 
shaking his hand. " I hear Mrs. Light ; I must go to 
my post. I wish you were a Catholic ; I would beg you 
to step into the first church you come to, and pray for 
us the next half-hour." 

" For us ? For whom ? " 

" For all of us. At any rate remember this I delight 
in the Christina ! " 




Rowland heard the rustle of Mrs. Light 's dress ; he 
turned away, and the Cavaliere went, as he said, to his 
post. Rowland for the next couple of days kept think 
ing of the sword of Damocles. 



XXI. 

OF Roderick meanwhile he saw nothing; but he im 
mediately went to Mrs. Hudson, and assured her that 
her son was in even exceptionally good health and spirits. 
After this he called again on the two ladies from North 
ampton, but as Roderick 's absence continued, he was able 
to be neither comforting nor comforted. Mary 's appre 
hensive face seemed to him an image of his own state of 
mind. He was deeply depressed, he felt that there was 
a storm in the air, and he wished it would come and 
wash away their troubles. On the afternoon of the third 
day he went into Saint Peter s, his frequent resort when- 
ever the outer world was disagreeable. From a heart 
ache to a Roman rain there were few contrarieties the 
great church did not help him to forget. He had 
wandered there for half an hour, when he came upon a 
short figure lurking in the shadow of one of the piers. 
He saw it was that of an artist hastily transferring to his 
sketch-book a memento of some fleeting variation in the 
scenery of the basilica ; and in a moment he perceived 
that the artist was little Sam Singleton. 

Singleton pocketed his sketch-book with a guilty air, 
as if it cost his modesty a pang to be detected in this 
greedy culture of opportunity. Rowland always enjoyed 
meeting him ; talking with him in these days was as good 
as a wayside gush of clear cold water on a long hot walk. 
There was perhaps no drinking- vessel, and you had to 
apply your lips to some informal conduit ; but the result 



 

was always a sense of extreme moral refreshment. On 
this occasion he mentally blessed the ingenuous little 
artist, and heard presently with regret that he was to 
leave Rome on the morrow. Singleton had come to bid 
farewell to Saint Peter s, and he was gathering a few last 
impressions. He had earned a pocketful of money, and 
he was meaning to take a summer 's holiday ; going to 
Switzerland, to Germany, to Paris. In the autumn he 
was to return home ; his family composed, as Rowland 
knew, of a father, who was cashier in a bank, and five 
unmarried sisters, one of whom gave lyceum lectures on 
woman 's rights, the whole resident at Buffalo, New York 
had been writing him peremptory letters, and appealing 
to him as a son, brother, and fellow-citizen. He would 
have been grateful for another year in Rome, but he 
submitted to destiny the more patiently that he had laid 
up treasure, which in Buffalo would seem infinite. They 
talked some time ; Rowland hoped they might meet in 
Switzerland, and take a walk or two together. Singleton 
seemed to feel that Buffalo had marked him for her own ; 
he was afraid he should not see Rome again for many a 
year. 

" So you expect to live at Buffalo?" Rowland inquired, 
looking down the splendid avenue of the nave. 

"Well, it will depend upon the views upon the atti 
tude of my family," Singleton replied. "Oh, I think 
I shall get on ; I think it can be done. If I find it can 
be done, I shall really be quite proud of it ; as an artist, 
of course, I mean, you know. Do you know I have some 
nine hundred sketches? I shall live in my portfolio. 
And so long as one is not in Rome, pray what does it 
matter where one is? But how I shall envy all you 
Romans you and Mr. Gloriani and Mr. Hudson 
especially." 

" Don 't envy Hudson ; he has nothing to envy." 

Singleton chuckled at what he considered a harmless 
jest. "Yes, he 's going to be the great man of our time ! 




And I say, Mr. Mallet, isn 't it a mighty comfort that it 's 
we who have turned him out ?" 

" Between ourselves," murmured Rowland, "he has 
disappointed me." 

Singleton stared open-mouthed. "Dear me, what 
did you expect ?" 

"Verily," said Rowland to himself, "what did I 
expect?" 

"I confess," cried Singleton, "I can't judge him 
rationally. He fascinates me ; he 's the sort of man one 
makes one 's hero of." 

"Strictly speaking, he is not a hero," Rowland re 
marked. 

Singleton looked intensely grave, and with almost tear 
ful eyes, "Is there anything amiss anything out of the 
way about him ?" he timidly asked. Then as Rowland 
hesitated to reply he quickly added, "Please, if there is, 
don 't tell me ! I want to know no evil of him, and I 
think I should hardly believe it. In my memories of this 
Roman artist life he will be the central figure. He will 
stand there in radiant relief, as beautiful and unspotted 
as one of his own statues ! " 

"Amen!" said Rowland, gravely. He remembered 
afresh that the sea is inhabited by big fishes and little, 
and that the latter often find their way down the throats 
of the former. Singleton was going to spend the after 
noon in taking last looks at certain other places, and 
Rowland offered to join him on his sentimental circuit. 
But as they were preparing to leave the church he heard 
himself suddenly addressed from behind. Turning, he 
beheld a young woman, whom he immediately recognised 
as Madame Grandoni 's maid. Her mistress was present, 
she said, and begged to confer with him before he de 
parted. 

This summons obliged Rowland to separate from 
Singleton, to whom he bade farewell. He followed 
the messenger, and presently found Madame Grandoni 



 

occupying a liberal area on the steps of the tribune, 
behind the great altar, where, spreading a shawl on the 
polished red marble, she had comfortably seated herself. 
He suspected that she had something especial to impart, 
and she lost no time in bringing forth her treasure. 

"Don 't shout very loud," she said, "remember that 
we are in church ; there 's a limit to the noise one may 
make even in Saint Peter 's. Christina Light was married 
this morning to Prince Casamassima." 

Rowland did not shout at all ; he gave a deep, short 
murmur. "Married this morning?" 

"Married this morning, at seven o clock, le phts tran- 
quillement du monde, before three or four persons. The 
young couple left Rome an hour afterwards." 

For some moments this seemed to him really terrible ; 
the dark little drama of which he had caught a glimpse 
had played itself out. He had believed that Christina 
would resist ; that she had succumbed was a proof that 
the pressure had been cruel. Rowland 's imagination 
followed her forth with an irresistible tremor into the 
world towards which she was rolling away with her un 
appreciated husband and her stifled ideal ; but it must be 
confessed that if the first impulse of his compassion was 
for Christina, the second was for Prince Casamassima. 
Madame Grandoni acknowledged an extreme curiosity as 
to the secret springs of these strange doings Casamas- 
sima 's sudden dismissal, his still more sudden recall, the 
hurried private marriage. " Listen," said Rowland, pre 
sently, "and I will tell you something." And he related 
in detail his last visit to Mrs. Light, and his talk with this 
lady, with Christina, and with the Cavaliere. 

"Good," she said ; " it 's all very curious. But it 's a 
riddle, and I only half guess it." 

"Well," said Rowland, "I desire to harm no one; 
but certain suppositions have taken shape in my mind 
which serve as the answers to two or three riddles." 

"It is very true," Madame Grandoni replied, "that 



no   xxi. 

the Cavaliere, as he stands, has always needed to be 
explained." 

" He is explained by the hypothesis that three-and- 
twenty years ago, at Ancona, Mrs. Light had a lover." 

" I see. Ancona was dull, Mrs. Light was lively, and 
three-and-twenty years ago, perhaps the Cavaliere 
was fascinating. Doubtless it would be fairer to say 
that he was fascinated. Poor Giacosa ! " 

" He has had his compensation," Rowland said. " He 
has been passionately fond of Christina." 

" Naturally. But has Christina never wondered why?" 
- "If she had been near guessing, her mother 's shabby 
treatment of him would have put her off the scent. Mrs. 
Light 's conscience has apparently told her that she could 
expiate an hour 's too great kindness by twenty years 
contempt. So she kept her secret. But what is the 
profit of having a secret unless you can make some use of 
it ? The day at last came when she could turn hers to 
account ; she could let the skeleton out of the closet and 
create a panic." 
. "I don 't understand." 

" Neither do I, morally," said Rowland. "I only 
conceive that there was a horrible fabulous scene. The 
poor Cavaliere stood outside, at the door, white as a 
corpse and as dumb. The mother and daughter had it 
out together. Mrs. Light burned her ships. When she 
came out she had three lines of writing in her daughter 's 
hand, which the Cavaliere was despatched with to the 
Prince. They overtook the young man in time, and 
when he reappeared he was delighted to dispense with 
farther waiting. I don 't know what he thought of the 
look in his bride 's face ; but that is how I roughly recon 
struct history." 

" Christina was forced to decide, then, that she could 
not afford not to be a princess?" 

" Sh,e had to knock under to a revelation to humilia 
tion. She was assured that it was not for her to make 



xxi.   in 

conditions, but to thank her stars that there were none 
made for her. If she persisted, she might find it coming to 
pass that there would be conditions, and the formal rupture 
- the rupture that the world would hear of and pry into 
would then proceed from the Prince and not from her." 

That 's all nonsense ! " said Madame Grandoni. 
"What would the world. care?" 

"It is nonsense to us, yes; but not to the proudest 
girl in the world, deeply wounded in her pride and not 
stopping to calculate probabilities, but muffling her shame 
with an almost sensuous relief in a splendour that stood 
within her grasp and would cover everything. Is it not 
possible that the late Mr. Light had made an outbreak 
before witnesses who are still living? that the child 's 
coming into the world was in itself a scandal ? Say Light 
had quarrelled with his wife and was virtually separated 
from her." 

" Certainly her marriage now," said Madame Grandoni, 
less analytically, "has the advantage that it takes her 
away from her dear parents !" 

This lady 's farther comments upon the event are not 
immediately pertinent to our history ; there were some 
other comments of which Rowland had a deeply oppres 
sive foreboding. He called on the evening of the morrow 
upon Mrs. Hudson, and found Roderick with the two 
kdies. Their companion had apparently but lately 
entered, and Rowland afterwards learned that it was his 
first appearance since the writing of the note which had 
so distressed his mother. He had flung himself upon a 
sofa, where he sat with his chin upon his breast, staring 
before him with a sinister spark in his eye. He fixed 
his gaze on Rowland, but gave him no greeting. He 
had evidently been saying something to startle his com 
panions ; Mrs. Hudson had gone and seated herself, 
timidly and imploringly, on the edge of the sofa, trying 
to take his hand. Mary was applying herself to a piece 
of needlework with conscious intentness. 




Mrs. Hudson gave Rowland on his entrance a touching 
look of gratitude. " Oh, we have such blessed news !" 
she said. " Roderick is ready to leave Rome." 

"It 's not blessed news; it 's cursed news!" cried 
Roderick. 

"Oh, but we are very glad, my son, and I am sure 
you will be when you get away. You are looking most 
dreadfully thin ; isn 't he, Mr. Mallet ? It 's plain enough 
you need a change. I am sure we will go wherever you 
like. Where should you like to go ?" 

Roderick turned his head slowly and looked at her. 
He had let her take his hand, which she pressed ten 
derly between her own. He gazed at her for some time 
in silence. " Poor mother !" he said at last, very in 
conclusively. 

" My own dear son ! " murmured Mrs. Hudson, in all 
the innocence of her trust. 

"I don 't care a straw where you go ! I don 't care a 
straw for anything ! " 

" Oh, my dear boy, you must not say that before all 
of us here before Mary, before Mr. Mallet ! " 

"Mary Mr. Mallet?" Roderick repeated, almost 
savagely. He released himself from the clasp of his 
mother 's hand and turned away, leaning his elbows on 
his knees and holding his head in his hands. There was 
a silence ; Rowland said nothing, because he was watch 
ing the girl. "Why should I stand on ceremony with 
Mary and Mr. Mallet?" Roderick presently added. 
Mary pretends to believe I am a fine fellow, and if 
she believes it as she ought, nothing I can say will alter 
her opinion. Mallet knows I am a hopeless humbug ; 
so I needn 't mince my words with him." 
