manifested as he felt it his sense of the honour Rowland 
had done him. 

"I am always on service with these ladies, you see," 
he explained, "and that is a duty to which one would 
not willingly be faithless for an instant." 

"Evidently," said Rowland, "you are a very devoted 
friend. Mrs. Light, in her situation, is very happy in 
having you." 

"We are old friends," said the Cavaliere, gravely. 
"Old friends. I knew the signora many years ago, 
when she was the prettiest woman in Rome or rather 
in Ancona, which is even better. The beautiful Chris 
tina now is perhaps the most beautiful young girl in 
Europe !" 

" Very likely," said Rowland. 

"Very well, sir, I taught her to read; I guided her 
little hands to touch the piano." And at these faded 
memories the Cavaliere 's eyes glittered more brightly. 
Rowland half expected him to proceed with a little flash 
of long-repressed passion, "And now and now, sir, they 
treat me as you observed the other day !" But the 
Cavaliere only looked out at him keenly from among his 
wrinkles, and seemed to say with all the vividness of the 
Italian glance, " Oh, I say nothing more. I am not so 
shallow as to complain !" 

Evidently the Cavaliere was not shallow, and Rowland 
repeated respectfully, "You are a devoted friend." 

"That 's very true. lama devoted friend. A man 
may do himself justice after twenty years !" 

Rowland after a pause made some remark about the 
beauty of the ball. It was very brilliant. 

" Stupendous !" said the Cavaliere, solemnly, " It is a 
great day. We have four Roman princes, to say nothing 
of others." And he counted them over on his ringers and 
held up his hand triumphantly. " And there she stands, 
the girl to whom I I, Giuseppe Giacosa taught her 
alphabet and her piano scales ; there she stands in her 



 

incomparable beauty, and Roman princes come and bow 
to her ! Here, in his quiet corner, her old master per 
mits himself to be proud. " 

" It is very friendly of him," said Rowland, smiling. 

The Cavaliere contracted his lids a little more and 
gave another keen glance. "It is very natural, signore. 
The Christina is a good girl ; she remembers my little 
services. But here comes," he added in a moment, 
" the young Prince of the Fine Arts. I am sure he has 
bowed lowest of all." 

Rowland looked round and saw Roderick moving 
slowly across the room and casting about him his usual 
luminous, unshrinking looks. He presently joined them, 
nodded familiarly to the Cavaliere, and immediately 
demanded of Rowland, " Have you seen her?" 

"I have seen Miss Light," said Rowland. " She 's 
magnificent." 

"I m intoxicated with her beauty !" cried Roderick; 
so loud that several persons turned round. 

Rowland saw that he was flushed, and laid his hand 
on his arm. Roderick was trembling. " If you will go 
away," Rowland said, instantly, " I will go with you." 

"Go away?" cried Roderick, almost angrily. "I 
intend to dance with her ! " 

The Cavaliere had been watching him attentively ; he 
gently laid his hand on his other arm. " Softly, softly, 
dear young man," he said. " Let me speak to you as a 
friend. " 

"Oh, speak even as an enemy and I shall not mind 
it," Roderick answered, frowning. 

Be very reasonable then, and go away." 
Why the devil should I go away?" 
Because you are in love," said the Cavaliere. 
I might as well be in love here as in the streets. " 
Carry your love as far as possible from Christina. 
She will not listen to you she can t." 

"She can't ?" demanded Roderick. "She is not 



 

a person of whom you may say that. She can if she 
will ; she does as she chooses." 

"Up to a certain point. It would take too long to 
explain ; I only beg you to believe that if you continue 
to love Miss Light you will be very unhappy. Have you 
a princely title? have you a princely fortune? Otherwise 
you can never have her." 

And the Cavaliere folded his arms again, like a man 
who has done his duty. Roderick wiped his forehead 
and looked askance at Rowland ; he seemed to be guess 
ing his thoughts, and they made him blush a little. But 
he smiled blandly, and addressing the Cavaliere, "I am 
much obliged to you for the information," he said. 
" Now that I have obtained it, let me tell you that I am 
no more in love with Miss Light than you are. My 
friend here knows that. I admire her yes, immensely. 
But that 's no one 's business but my own, and though I 
have, as you say, neither a princely title nor a princely 
fortune, I mean to suffer neither those advantages nor 
those who possess them to diminish my right." 

"If you are not in love, my dear young man," said 
the Cavaliere, with his hand on his heart and an apolo 
getic smile, "so much the better! But let me entreat 
you as an affectionate friend to keep a watch on your 
emotions. You are young, you are handsome, you have 
a brilliant genius and a generous heart, but I may say 
it almost with authority Christina is not for you ! " 

Whether Roderick were in love or not, he was nettled 
by what apparently seemed to him an obtrusive negation 
of an inspiring possibility. "You speak as if she had 
made her choice!" he cried. "Without pretending to 
confidential information on the subject, I am sure she 
has not." 

" No, but she must make it soon," said the Cavaliere. 
And raising his forefinger, he laid it against his under 
lip. " She must choose a name and a fortune and she 
will!" 



 

" She will do exactly as her inclination prompts ! She 
will marry the man who pleases her, if he hasn't a dollar! 
I know her better than you." 

The Cavaliere turned a little paler than usual, and 
smiled more urbanely. " No, no, my dear young man, 
you do not know her better than I. You have not 
watched her day by day for twenty years. I too have 
admired her. She is a good girl ; she has never said 
an unkind word to me ; the blessed Virgin be thanked ! 
But she must have a brilliant destiny ; it has been marked 
out for her and she will submit. You had better believe 
me; it may save you much suffering." 

" We shall see! " said Roderick, with an excited laugh. 

Certainly we shall see. But I retire from the dis 
cussion," the Cavaliere added. " I have no wish to 
provoke you to attempt to prove to me that I am wrong. 
You are already excited." 

No more than is natural to a man who in an hour 
or so is to dance a cotillon with a divinity." 

"A cotillon? has she promised?" 

Roderick patted the air with a grand confidence. 
"You ll see!" His gesture might almost have been 
taken to mean that the state of his relations with the 
"divinity" was such that they quite dispensed with vain 
preliminaries. 

The Cavaliere gave an exaggerated shrug. " You 
will make a great many mourners! " 

"He has made a mourner already!" Rowland mur 
mured to himself. This was evidently not the first time 
that reference had been made between Roderick and the 
Cavaliere to the young man 's possible passion, and 
Roderick had failed to consider it the simplest and most 
natural course to say in three words to the vigilant little 
gentleman that there was no cause for alarm his affec 
tions were preoccupied. Rowland hoped silently with 
some dryness that his motives for reticence were of a 
finer kind than they seemed to be. He turned away ; 



 

it was irritating to look at Roderick 's radiant unscrupu 
lous eagerness. The tide was setting towards the supper 
room, and he drifted with it to the door. The crowd at 
this point was dense, and he was obliged to wait for some 
minutes before he could advance. At last he felt his 
neighbours dividing behind him, and turning he saw 
Christina pressing her way forward alone. She was 
looking at no one, and save for the fact of her being 
alone you would not have supposed she was in her 
mother 's house. As she recognised Rowland she 
beckoned to him, took his arm, and motioned him to 
lead her into the supper room. She said nothing until 
he had forced a passage and they stood somewhat 
isolated. 

"Take me into the most out-of-the-way corner you 
can find," she then said, "and then go and get me a 
piece of bread." 

"Nothing more? There seems to be everything con 
ceivable." 

"A simple roll. Nothing more, on your peril. Only 
bring something for yourself." 

It seemed to Rowland that the embrasure of a window 
(embrasures in Roman palaces are deep) was a retreat 
sufficiently obscure for Christina to execute whatever 
design she might have contrived against his equanimity. 
A roll, after he had found her a seat, was easily pro 
cured. As he presented it, he remarked that, frankly 
speaking, he was at a loss to understand why she should 
have selected for the honour of a tele-a-tete an individual 
for whom she had so little taste. 

" Ah yes, I dislike you!" said Christina. "To tell 
the truth, I had forgotten it. There are so many people 
here whom I dislike more, that when I espied you just 
now you seemed like an intimate friend. But I have 
not come into this corner to talk nonsense, " she went on. 
"You must not think I always do, eh?" 

" I have never heard you do anything else," said 



  

Rowland, deliberately, having decided that he owed her 
no compliments. 

" Very good. I like your frankness. It 's quite true. 
You see I am a strange girl. To begin with, I am fright 
fully egotistical. Don't flatter yourself you have said 
anything very clever if you ever take it into your head 
to tell me so. I know it much better than you. So it 
is, I can't help it. I am tired to death of myself; I 
would give all I possess to get out of myself; but some 
how at the end I find myself so vastly more interesting 
than nine-tenths of the people I meet. If a person 
wished to do me a favour I would say to him, I beg 
you with tears in my eyes to interest me. Be strong, 
be positive, be imperious, if you will ; only be something 
something that in looking at I can forget my detest 
able self! Perhaps that is nonsense too. If it is, I 
can't help it. I can only apologise for the nonsense 
that I know to be such, and that I talk oh, for more 
reasons than I can tell you ! I wonder whether if I 
were to try you would understand me." 

" I am afraid I should never understand," said Row 
land, "why a person should willingly talk nonsense." 

"That proves how little you know about women. 
But I like your frankness. When I told you the other 
day that you displeased me, I had an idea you were more 
formal how do you say it ? more guinde. I am very 
capricious. To-night I like you better." 

"Oh, I am not guinde r ," said Rowland, gravely. 

" I beg your pardon, then, for thinking so. Now I 
have an idea that you would make a useful friend an 
intimate friend a friend to whom one could tell every 
thing. For such a friend what wouldn't I give !" 

Rowland looked at her in some perplexity. Was 
this touching sincerity or unfathomable coquetry ? Her 
beautiful eyes looked divinely candid ; but then, if can 
dour was beautiful, beauty was apt to be subtle. "I 
hesitate to recommend myself out and out for the office," 



 

he said, "but I believe that if you were to depend upon 
me for anything that a friend may do I should not be 
found wanting." 

"Very good. One of the first things one asks of a 
friend is to judge one not by isolated acts, but by one 's 
whole conduct. I care for your opinion I don't know 
why." 

" Nor do I, I confess !" said Rowland, with a laugh. 

"What do you think of this affair?" she continued, 
without heeding his laugh. 

" Of your ball ? Why, it 's a very grand affair." 

" It 's horrible that 's what it is ! It 's a mere rabble ! 
There are people here whom I never saw before, people 
who were never asked. Mamma went about inviting 
every one, asking other people to invite any one they 
knew, doing anything to have a crowd. I hope she is 
satisfied ! It is not my doing. I feel weary, I feel 
angry, I feel like crying. I have twenty minds to escape 
into my room and lock the door, and let mamma go on 
with it as she can. By the way," she added, in a moment, 
without a visible reason for the transition, "can you tell 
me something to read?" 

Rowland stared at the disconnectedness of the question. 

"Can you recommend me some books ?" she repeated. 
" I know you are a great reader. I have no one else to 
ask. We can buy no books. We can make debts for 
jewellery and bonnets and ten-button gloves, but we can't 
spend a sou for ideas. And yet, though you may not 
believe it, I like ideas quite as well." 

"I shall be most happy to lend you some books," 
Rowland said. " I will pick some out to-morrow and 
send them to you." 

"No novels, please! I am tired of novels. I can 
imagine better stories for myself than any I read. Some 
good poetry, if there is such a thing nowadays, and some 
memoirs and histories and books of facts." 

You shall be served. Your taste agrees with my own. " 



 

She was silent a moment, looking at him. Then 
suddenly "Tell me something about Mr. Hudson," 
she exclaimed. "You are great friends !" 

" Oh yes," said Rowland ; " we are great friends." 

" Tell me about him. Come, begin !" 

" Where shall I begin ? You know him for yourself." 

" No, I don't know him ; I don't find him so easy to 
know. Since he has finished my bust and begun to 
come here disinterestedly, he has become a great talker. 
He says very fine things ; but does he mean all he says ?" 

" Few of us do that." 

"You do, I imagine. You ought to know, for he 
tells me you discovered him." Rowland was silent, and 
Christina continued, " Do you consider him very clever ?" 

" Unquestionably." 

" His talent is really something out of the common 
way?" 

" So it seems to me." 

" In short, he is a man of genius ?" 

"Yes, call it genius." 

" And you found him vegetating in a little village, 
and took him by the hand and set him on his feet in 
Rome?" 

"Is that the popular legend ?" asked Rowland. 

"Oh, you needn't be modest. There was no great 
merit in it ; there would have been none at least on my 
part in the same circumstances. Real geniuses are not 
so common, and if I had discovered one in the wilder 
ness, I should have brought him out in the market-place 
to see how he would behave. It would be excessively 
amusing. You must find it so to watch Mr. Hudson, 
eh ? Tell me this : do you think he is going to be a 
great man become famous, have his life written, and all 
that?" 

" I don't prophesy, but I have good hopes." 

Christina was silent. She stretched out her bare arm 
and looked at it a moment absently, turning it so as to 



 

see or almost to see the dimple in her elbow. This 
was apparently a frequent gesture with her ; Rowland 
had already observed it. It was as coolly and naturally 
done as if she had been alone before her toilet-table. 
"So he is a man of genius," she suddenly resumed. 
" Don't you think I ought to be extremely flattered to 
have a man of genius perpetually hanging about ? He 
is the first I ever saw, but I should have known he was 
not a common mortal. There is something strange 
about him. To begin with, he has no manners. You 
may say that it 's not for me to blame him, for I have 
none myself. That 's very true, but the difference is that 
I can have them when I wish to (and very charming 
ones too ; I will show you some day) ; whereas Mr. 
Hudson will never have them. And yet somehow one 
sees he is a gentleman. He seems to have something 
urging, driving, pushing him, making him restless and 
defiant. You see it in his eyes. They are the finest, 
by the way, I ever saw. When a person has such eyes 
as that, you can forgive him his bad manners. I suppose 
that is what they call the sacred fire." 

Rowland made no answer except to ask her in a mo 
ment if she would have another roll. She merely shook 
her head and went on 

Tell me how you found him. Where was he how 
was he ?" 

"He was in a place called Northampton. Did you 
ever hear of it ? He was studying law but not learning 
it." 

"It appears it was something horrible, eh?" 

" Something horrible ?" 

"This little village. No society, no pleasures, no 
beauty, no life." 

" You have received a false impression. Northampton 
is not so gay as Rome, but Roderick had some charming 
friends. " 

" Tell me about them. Who were they?" 



 

"Well, there was my cousin, through whom I made 
his acquaintance a delightful woman." 

"Young pretty?" 

" Yes, a good deal of both. And very clever." 

" Did he make love to her ?" 

" Not in the least." 

"Well, who else?" 

"He lived with his mother. She is the best of 
women." 

" Ah yes, I know all that one 's mother is. But she 
does not count as society. And who else?" 

Rowland hesitated. He wondered whether Christina 's 
insistence were the result of a general interest in Roderick 's 
antecedents or of a particular suspicion. He looked at 
her ; she was looking at him a little askance, waiting for 
his answer. As Roderick had said nothing about his 
engagement to the Cavaliere, it was probable that with 
this beautiful girl he had not been more explicit. And 
yet the thing was announced, it was public ; that other 
girl was happy in it, proud of it. Rowland felt- a kind 
of dumb anger rising in his heart. He deliberated a 
moment intently. 

" What are you frowning at ?" Christina asked. 

"There was another person," he answered, "the 
most important of all the young girl to whom he is 
engaged." 

Christina stared a moment, raising her eyebrows. 
"Ah, Mr. Hudson is engaged?" she said, very simply. 
"Is she pretty?" 

"She is not called a beauty." Rowland meant to 
practise great brevity, but in a moment he added, " I 
have seen beauties, however, who pleased me less." 

Ah, she pleases you too ? Why don't they marry ?" 

" Roderick is waiting till he can afford to marry." 

Christina slowly put out her arm again and looked at 
the dimple in her elbow. "Ah, he 's engaged?" she 
repeated in the same tone. " He never told me." 



 

Rowland perceived at this moment that the people 
about them were beginning to return to the dancing 
room, and immediately afterwards he saw Roderick 
making his way towards themselves. Roderick pre 
sented himself before Miss Light. 

" I don't claim that you have promised me the cotillon," 
he said, "but I consider that you have given me hopes 
which warrant the confidence that you will dance with 
me." 

Christina looked at him a moment. " Certainly I 
have made no promises," she said. "It seemed to me 
that, as the daughter of the house, I should keep myself 
free, and let it depend on circumstances." 

"I beseech you to dance with me " said Roderick, 
with vehemence. 

Christina rose and began to laugh. "You say that 
very well, but the Italians do it better." 

This assertion seemed likely to be put to the proof. 
Mrs. Light hastily approached, leading, rather than led 
by, a tall slim young man, of an unmistakably Southern 
physiognomy. " My precious love," she cried, "what 
a place to hide in ! We have been looking for you for 
twenty minutes ; I have chosen a cavalier for you and 
chosen well ! " 

The young man disengaged himself, made a ceremoni 
ous bow, joined his two hands, and murmured with an 
ecstatic smile, "May I venture to hope, dear signorina, 
for the honour of your hand ? " 

"Of course you may!" said Mrs. Light. "The 
honour is for us ! " 

Christina hesitated but for a moment, then swept the 
young man a curtsey as profound as his own salutation. 
"You are very kind, but you are too late. I have just 
accepted !" 

"Ah, my own darling!" murmured almost moaned 
Mrs. Light. 

Christina and Roderick exchanged a single glance 



a glance brilliant on each side. She passed her hand 
into his arm ; he tossed his clustering locks and led her 
away. 

A short time afterwards Rowland saw the young man 
she had rejected leaning against a doorway. He was 
ugly, but what is called distinguished-looking. He had 
a heavy black eye, a sallow complexion, a long thin 
neck ; his hair was cropped en brosse. He looked very 
young, yet extremely bored. He was staring at the ceil 
ing, and stroking an imperceptible moustache. Rowland 
espied the Cavaliere Giacosa hard by, and having joined 
him asked him the young man 's name. 

" Oh," said the Cavaliere, "he is a pezzo grosso ! A 
Neapolitan. Prince Casamassima." 



XI. 

ONE day on entering Roderick 's lodging (not the modest 
rooms on the Ripetta which he had first occupied, but 
a much more sumptuous apartment on the Corso) Row 
land found a letter on the table addressed to himself. 
It was from Roderick, and consisted of but three lines. 
" I am gone to Frascati for meditation. If I am not 
at home on Friday you had better join me. " On Friday 
he was still absent, and Rowland went out to Frascati. 
Here he found his friend living at the inn and spending 
his days, according to his own account, lying under the 
trees of the Villa Mondragone and reading Ariosto. He 
was in a sombre mood ; "meditation" seemed not to 
have been fruitful. Nothing especially pertinent to our 
narrative had passed between the two young men since 
Mrs. Light 's ball save a few words bearing on an incident 
of that entertainment. Rowland informed Roderick the 
next day that he had told Miss Light of his engagement. 




"I don't know whether you will thank me," he had 
said, " but it is my duty to let you know it. Miss 
Light perhaps has already done so." 

Roderick looked at him a moment intently, with his 
colour slowly rising. " Why should I not thank you ?" 
he asked. " I am not ashamed of my engagement." 

"As you had not spoken of it yourself, I thought you 
might have a reason for not having it known." 

"A man doesn't gossip about such a matter with 
strangers," Roderick rejoined, with the ring of irritation 
in his voice. 

"With strangers no !" said Rowland, smiling. 

Roderick continued his work ; but, after a moment, 
turning round with a frown " If you supposed I had 
a reason for being silent, pray why should you have 
spoken?" 

" I did not speak idly, my dear Roderick. I weighed 
the matter before I spoke, and promised myself to let 
you know immediately afterwards. It seemed to me 
that Miss Light had better know that your affections are 
pledged." 

" The Cavaliere, then, has put it into your head that I 
am making love to her?" 

"No ; in that case I should not have spoken to her 
first " 

" Do you mean, then, that she is making love to me?" 

"This is what I mean," said Rowland, after a pause. 
" That girl finds you interesting, and she is pleased, even 
though she may feign indifference, at your finding her so. 
I said to myself that it might save her some sentimental 
disappointment to know without delay that you are not at 
liberty to become indefinitely interested in other women." 

"You seem to have taken the measure of my liberty 
with extraordinary minuteness !" cried Roderick. 

"You must do me justice. I am the cause of your 
separation from Miss Garland, the cause of your being 
exposed to temptations which she hardly even suspects. 



How could I ever meet her again," Rowland demanded, 
with much warmth of tone, " if at the end of it all she 
should be unhappy?" 

" I had no idea that she had made such an impression 
on you ! You are too zealous. I take it she didn't 
charge you to look after her interests." 

If anything happens to you I am accountable. You 
must understand that." 

"That 's a view of the situation I can't accept in 
your own interest no less than in mine ! It can only 
make us both very uncomfortable. I know all I owe 
you ; I feel it ; you know that ! But I am not a small 
boy nor an amiable simpleton any longer, and whatever 
I do I do with my eyes open. When I do well the 
merit 's my own ; if I do ill the fault 's my own ! The 
idea that I make you nervous is ridiculous. . Dedicate 
your nerves to some better cause, and believe that if Miss 
Garland and I have a quarrel we shall settle it between 
ourselves. " 

Rowland had found himself wondering shortly before 
whether possibly his brilliant young friend were without 
a conscience ; now it dimly occurred to him that he was 
without a heart. Rowland, as we have already intimated, 
was a man with a moral passion, and no small part of it 
had gone forth into this adventure. There had been 
from the first no protestations of friendship on either 
side, but Rowland had implicitly offered everything that 
belongs to friendship, and Roderick had apparently as 
deliberately accepted it. Rowland indeed had taken an 
exquisite satisfaction in his companion 's easy inexpressive 
assent to his interest in him. " Here is an uncommonly 
fine thing," he said to himself; " a nature unconsciously 
grateful, a man in whom friendship does the thing that 
love alone generally has the credit of knocks the 
bottom out of pride !" His reflective judgment of 
Roderick, as time went on, had indulged in a great 
many irrepressible vagaries ; but his affection, his sense 



 

of something in his companion 's whole personality that 
appealed to his tenderness and charmed his imagination, 
had never for an instant faltered. He listened to 
Roderick 's last words, and then he smiled as he rarely 
smiled with bitterness. 

" I don't at all like your telling me I am too zealous," 
he said. " If I had not been zealous I should never 
have cared a fig for you !" 

Roderick flushed deeply and thrust his modelling tool 
up to the handle into the clay. " Say it outright ! You 
have been a great fool to believe in me." 

"I don't desire to say it, and you don't honestly 
believe I do!" said Rowland. "It seems to me I 
am really very good-natured even to reply to such 
nonsense." 

Roderick sat down, crossed his arms, and fixed his 
eyes on the floor. Rowland looked at him for some 
moments ; it seemed to him that he had never so 
clearly perceived his strangely commingled character 
his strength and his weakness, his picturesque personal 
attractiveness and his urgent egotism, his exalted ardour 
and his puerile petulance. It would have made him 
almost sick, however, to think that, on the whole, Roderick 
was not a generous fellow, and he was so far from having 
ceased to believe in him that he felt just now more than 
ever that all this was but the painful complexity of 
genius. Rowland, who had not a grain of genius either 
to make one say he was an interested reasoner or to 
enable one to feel that he could afford a dangerous theory 
or two, adhered to his conviction of the essential salubrity 
of genius. Suddenly he felt an irresistible pity for his 
companion ; it seemed to him that his beautiful faculty 
of production was a double-edged instrument, susceptible 
of being dealt in back -handed blows at its possessor. 
Genius was priceless, inspired, divine ; but it was also 
at its hours capricious, sinister, cruel ; and men of genius 
accordingly were alternately very enviable and very help - 




less. It was not the first time he had had a sense of 
Roderick 's standing passive in the clutch of his tempera 
ment. It had shaken him as yet but with a half good- 
humoured wantonness ; but henceforth possibly it meant 
to handle him more roughly. These were not times, 
therefore, for a friend to have a short patience. 

"When you err you say the fault 's your own," he 
said at last. "It is because your faults are your own 
that I heed them." 

Rowland 's voice, when he spoke with feeling, had an 
extraordinary amenity. Roderick sat staring a moment 
longer at the floor, then he sprang up and laid his hand 
affectionately on his friend 's shoulder. "You are the 
best man in the world," he said, " and I am a vile brute. 
Only," he added, in a moment, "you don't understand 
me!" And he looked at him with eyes of such pure 
expressiveness that one might have said (and Rowland 
did almost say so himself) that it was the fault of one 's 
own grossness if one failed to read to the bottom of that 
beautiful soul. 

Rowland smiled sadly. "What is it now? Explain." 
"Oh, I can't explain!" cried Roderick, impatiently, 
returning to his work. " I have only one way of ex 
pressing my deepest feelings it 's this." And he swung 
his tool. He stood looking at the half-wrought clay for 
a moment, and then flung the instrument down. " And 
even this half the time plays me false !" 

Rowland felt that his irritation had not subsided, and 
he himself had no taste for saying disagreeable things. 
Nevertheless he saw no sufficient reason to forbear 
uttering the words he had had on his conscience from 
the beginning. "We must do what we can and be 
thankful," he said. "And let me assure you of this 
that it won't help you to become entangled with Miss 
Light." 

Roderick pressed his hand to his forehead with 
vehemence, and then shook it in the air despairingly ; a 


gesture that had become frequent with him since he came 
to Italy. "No, no, it 's no use; you don't understand 
me ! But I don't blame you. You can't !" 

"You think it will help you, then?" said Rowland, 
wondering. 

