and beaded the long, dark lashes. " That makes it seem 
so much worse. I want to be true and honest. You 
would not have me give a half-promise that I could not 
keep?" 
Fay mentally berated herself for being so poor a cham- 
pion. She was not trying at all. It was a miserable, 
hopeless case; and yet Kathie was so sweet. She did 
covet her for Eugene, for them all. 
Kathie wanted to fling her arms around Fay's neok and 
C]y r , but she steadied her voice with a great effort 
" Since I have given the offence," she said, " you must 
decide the rest. I should be sorry to make any change, 
but I know this hurts you as well as Eugene, and if you 
would like me to keep quite away " 
" No, don't let it make any trouble or break between 
us"; and Fay seized Kathie's hand. "They would all 
know something had happened. I think Eugene will get 
over it, and realize that if you could not love him it was 
more honorable to say so at first, only it must be very 
hard, when you love any one." And Fay's Madonna face 
was pitifully sympathetic. 
"It is very hard to refuse, as well. If it could be un- 
said ; and if we were only on the safe ground of friend- 
ship, since I care so much for you all." 
Fay began to realize that the pain had not all been on 
Eugene's side. Kathie had a tender, generous heart ; she 
could even imagine her giving the best of herself to 
save another pain. With her utmost endeavor she must 
still be impartial, understand intuitively that a space of 
this kind could not be bridged over. 
" Let us go on as before," she made answer. " I 
cannot give up my friend, and the explanation would be 
extremely awkward. No one will understand just what 
has occurred except Eugene and you and I." 
" Thank you," Kathie made answer gratefully. 
" Wen, young ladies, have you settled the merits and 
demerits?'* asked Mrs. Adams, in her bright, friendly 
tone. " I think it quite a beginning. Miss Fay, you 
ought to send one of your flower pieces ; and Miss Kathie 
does a little in that line. We can afford to encourage 
native artists, as we have no picture galleries or bric-a- 
brac shops. And your audiences will be rather plain, un- 
critical people, who will delight in a rose if it looks like its 
sister rose in our gardens. Kathie, we have just had a 
letter from Mr. Langdon. They are in Rome again, but 
rather homesick. We shall see them back presently." And 
there was a bit of humorous triumph in her tone. 
This monologue gave the girls a chance to recover their 
equanimity, and the conversation merged into a general 
talk as they continued their inspection. There were other 
subjects as well, the picnic, the Orphans' Home, and 
finally Mrs. Adams declared she had spent a most pleas- 
ant morning, and must go, begging the girls to come over, 
as Georgie was complaining of them. 
Mrs. Collamore had a little shopping to do, but said 
Fay might remain if she chose. 
Fay preferred to accompany her mother, and remem- 
bered an errand or two. They parted cordially, Mrs. 
Collamore begging that Kathie would not neglect them. 
Mr. Conover bowed graciously. 
"A rather fortunate rencontre," said he. " The sooner 
one gets over the awkwardness of such an episode the bet- 
ter. You and Fay had an explanation, I fancied. I hope 
the young man has not made it a family matter." 
" Oh, no ! I am not sure but Fay has suspected for some 
time, and it would have pleased her so," with a bright 
blush. "But I am very sorry. It is so hard to justify 
one's self." 
'' Do not discuss it any more than you can possibly 
help. I hope Eugene will use a little common-sense in the 
matter." 
" But it is very hard for him." 
" Be careful of too much pity, my little girl, if you do 
not intend to love." 
It seemed to Kathie that the sky, heretofore so sunny 
and enchanting, was being dimmed by shadows. 
CHAPTER XI. 
EUGENE COLLAMORE was too manly to cany bis heart on 
his sleeve. He knew that would not be the way to win 
Kathie's respect, and win her he meant to do. In spite 
of Fay's gentle admonition, he would not admit discourage- 
ment, only delay ; and, though both were rather em- 
barrassed at their first meeting, they were too well-bred to 
suggest by any marked conduct that a secret was in their 
keeping. 
As the season went on, gayeties increased. Georgie 
Halford took the lead in pleasures and was quite a belle. 
Then the word came that Mrs. Meredith had a little 
daughter. Charlie was very enthusiastic, and Kathie took 
a trip to the city to shop a little, and be present at the 
christening. They had so many plans to settle. Every- 
body was coming home, Brookside always stood for that, 
Gen. Mackenzie and Aunt Ruth ; and Bruce had ap- 
plied for leave of absence ; and the Langdons. 
"And if we could have Rob, and Fred Lauriston," said 
Charlie, " the circle would be complete." 
" We shall try hard for Rob," declared Kathie. 
Some curious change had come over Charlie Darrell. 
The outer garment of boyishness had dropped off, and he 
was a man, gentle, deferent, and protecting, but with a 
strength that seemed to raise him to a finer height. At 
first it gave Kathie a little feeling of awe, then a touch of 
fascination. 
One evening, as they were sitting together, she spoke of 
it. He smiled, while a bright tenderness irradiated his 
face. 
" The old evolution, Kathie, that St Paul experienced 
among his many transitions. ' When I became a man, I put 
away ' or slipped out of childish things, the unreasoning 
faiths, hopes, beliefs. Something stronger and higher comes 
to take their place. And when a man has chosen from all 
the great aims of the world that of a work for God and his 
fellow- men it does bring with it a more reverent seriousness. 
A true life of faith and service must make itself felt : the 
sincere desire to help, even if it be only in one little corner, 
cannot but ennoble any soul ; and I must try to do my 
part, not merely taking up what comes to me, but going 
out to find it." 
" It troubles me sometimes" ; and Kathie glanced up in 
perplexity. " There is so much living without any direct 
aim, any appearance of being in earnest. How can we 
always remember? And how much is to go to daily mat- 
ters and pleasures ? " 
His pulses stirred at the sight of the sweet, questioning 
eyes. Would it be his delight as the years went on to 
direct them ? 
' ' There are so many phases of spiritual and material life 
that seem to clash, that full to accord with our best thought 
of it ; and yet God is working through it all ; and as he sifts 
and winnows it, the golden grains shine out. Even when 
we do not stop to gather them, they are there, and God 
builds slowly with them. If we could remember that rcli 
gion was the complete whole, the sum of life, instead of 
detached fragments, not to be garnered up in one season. 
We can give always without any lack ; and he accepts the 
least, the cup of cold water, in his name." 
' ' You will bring great comfort," she said slowly, won- 
dering how much she might take to herself. " Good tid- 
ings of great joy." 
" As if all religion is not this, a great joy here amid 
all the sorrows and perplexities, but the greatest of all in 
the other country, where all the mistakes are set straight, 
all the tangles smoothed out. I think T like best St. John's 
portion, the religion of peace and comfort, and it shall be 
my highest endeavor to bring it to the worn and weary." 
" I wish you and Sarah Strong knew each other real 
well," said Kathie : "you are both so in earnest; you 
both see so many things to do. It will be ' living in the 
midst.' " 
" And you are not to be crowded out," he replied, with a 
sudden heart beat. 
She sighed softly, yet it had no wider meaning than the 
very words : she was not searching for possibilities. 
But to him it seemed very certain. While she waited 
all unknowingly the future was shaping itself about her. 
There was the stir and unrest of the transition period, 
like the quickening breezes of spring that shake wildly 
about all the early fragrances and leave them to settle 
later in summer sweetness. When she understood she 
would take it up reverently, gladly, just as she had ac- 
cepted the truths of childhood and translated them into 
larger language. 
He remembered with a thrill one thing she had said, 
that he had changed. The few words uttered by his mother 
in that brief visit home, though with no direct reference to 
this result, had lain and brooded in his soul until crystal- 
lized into definite shape. Every day he was corning nearer 
the measure of a man, the self-knowledge of needs and 
capacities. He had never lived any part of life alone, but 
grown up in the centre of a family, with all the assistance 
and comfort of tenderest home life broadened by the most 
generous outlook. It was natural to imagine the years 
going on to the new centre, dearest of all with the other 
soul in it. He was too refined and too reserved to give it 
any new name at present, but he lingered over it with the 
luxury of a gardener tending some strange and choice 
plant. It had absolutely nothing to do with passion ; and 
there was no touch of jealousy, no fear of loss, and no 
unrest. 
By this new knowledge of himself he judged her. He 
put away the sweet, frank unconsciousness of boy-and-girl 
friendship, when a caress counts for nothing but the out- 
come of youthful gladness. She, too, was putting away 
unknowingly many little things. He had seen it all 
through the visit, the fine sense of self-appropriation 
that dawns with womanhood ; the intangible reserve of 
one's self, holding the sweetness folded instead of scatter- 
ing it about. He had never remarked these fine and rare 
delicacies in her before, and took it for a sure sign. Not 
knowing the other episode, he interpreted the subtle change 
to mean what was simplest and most easily understood by 
his own soul. 
" It was such a restful visit," Kathie said afterward to 
her mother. tk There was no company and little going out, 
except delightful walks with Charlie ; and he is so serene. 
Carlyle, you know, bids people be thankful who have found 
their work ; and he has truly. It seems such a grand thing 
to have such aims constantly before one. As Grandma 
Darrell says, he does appear * set apart/" 
"Yes." 
There was a soft, motherly sigh as Mrs. Alston studied 
her daughter. This tranquil young life had always touched 
her with a jealous nearness, a kind of coveting, as if she 
longed to take it in with her own rather turbulent boy. 
It might come in another way, a sonship and kinship, 
dear almost as that of birth. 
" I think it the noblest of all callings ; and he is pecul- 
iarly fitted for it. Being in the fold is the very heart and 
centre of the work for God and man ; and if one is heav- 
enly minded there can be no conflicts. It is an every-day 
preparation for the other world," she continued. 
A rift of softened light fluttered over Kathie 's face like 
a cloud at daybreak. 
" I can't imagine Charlie anything else, unless he were 
an artist like the old ones whose memory is kept sacred 
 
abroad, who painted Christs and Madonnas because their 
faith and fervor were so real : they never thought of money 
or fame." 
" A letter for you " ; and Uncle Robert entered the room. 
It was from Sarah. She and Kathie were frequent 
correspondents in these days. The engagement was not 
declared as yet, though the marriage was to be early in 
September. 
" It doesn't seem quite true and honest to shelter myself 
under Cousin Ellen's wing," wrote Sarah; "but it does 
spare us both the comments and gossip of this small place. 
It is true that among the women here some one might be 
better fitted for the position ; but after seeing and know- 
ing them, he has chosen me. And why then should I 
shrink from accepting his love and his life, if I do it rev- 
erently, resolving with God's help to do the best lean? 
But it is the old, old story, the pulling down instead of 
building up, the thrusting out instead of gathering in. I 
realize that Mr. Truesdell will be pitied for not looking 
higher, and that I shall be treated with a distant toleration, 
as if I had climbed a social fence and entered a field 
in which I had no right. There will be plenty of work to do 
in the church as well as out. I wonder why religion must 
put on the garb of ungraciousness, for many of these peo- 
ple are really striving to do right in most things. I am 
afraid too often we make our own religion, instead of tak- 
ing that of our Saviour. Can I live down the little stings, 
keep patient and serene, for his sake, and let my life show 
the manner of soul that is in me ? 
'' This train of thought came from a disagreeable com- 
ment that was made about Mr. Truesdell marrying Cousin 
Ellen. And he asked me then if I would rather go to 
some other place and begin my life with him among 
strangers. It was very kind in him to give me a choice, 
was it not? What would you have answered? 
" I thought of the time so long ago when the girls 
laughed at mother, and you stood by your colors. If you 
had not taken me in hand I should not have been fit for 
this place, and no voice might ever have said, ' Friend, 
come up higher.' Perhaps there was some pride in it, and 
a touch of belligerency that took away the sense of being 
hurt and made me brave. 
" ' We will stay here,' I answered, ' until yon consider 
your work done. Since you want me in your life we will 
not worry about what other people think ought to be in it.' 
" He smiled, and I think he was greatly pleased. ' A 
man of my habit and temperament,' said he, ' seldom takes 
a step like this without consideration, though I believe 
ministers' marriages always provoke criticism. I want 
your freshness and vigor and strength ; and the comfort of 
your love is like a late blossoming to my shady life. Yet 
even you might do better. When you are in the prime of 
life I shall be an elderly man. Never think there has 
been any sacrifice on my part. For myself, I believe what 
God has equalized in heart and soul and brain can never 
be subject to petty social distinctions ; but I want you to 
be happy.' 
" And I am happy. There must always be a between 
and a higher round. But it seems so narrow and cruel to 
desire to crowd out your neighbors. O Kathie, are people 
always fighting their way up ? When will they be made wel- 
come to a broad and generous level ? Do we not truly be- 
long to the heights we can reach? If so, no one has a right 
to pull us down. 
"I think all this has brought us nearer. There must 
always be a solemn awe to a great and unexpected love ; 
but I am learning of how much service I can really be to 
Mr, Truesdell. I am so thankful for my health and energy, 
and the many things I have learned ; and I shall stand on 
one of the ' betweens ' with him and stretch out my hands 
to any one who will come. I have learned this one lesson 
never to forget." 
Kathie read most of the letter aloud. 
" I think it quite too bad and foolish ! " cried Kathie 
indignantly. u Sarah is really well educated, and a good 
musician. In many places she would be a noticeable girl ; 
and I do not believe many women in Middleville are better 
fitted for a clergyman's wife. It seems very unjust to be 
compelled to make a fight for respect when one is so worthy 
of it." 
Mrs. Alston smiled a little. " No doubt there is some 
jealousy among those who do account themselves worthy 
of the position," said she. " A minister choosing out of 
his own congregation seldom fails to stir up strife and 
envy." 
" Mamma, do you not think it very unworthy of women? 
Could they thrust another out and put themselves in? 
What would become of the preference of love ? And Sarah 
is liked ever so much. You would be surprised at the nice 
invitations she receives. And the Strongs do live pictu- 
resquely pretty. The children are growing up quiet, and 
have nice manners, and Mrs. Strong's odd phrases and 
disregard of grammar have a quaint sound. She tries to 
please Sarah, too, only she never will be able to under- 
stand the harmony of colors " And a mirthful smile crossed 
Kathie's face. 
" I think Sarah will conquer all opposition as time goes 
on. Mr. Truesdell is a brave man to take what he wants, 
deliberately, and let others see the suitableness at their 
pleasure. I am glad they have decided to remain and live 
down silly prejudices, though it seems to me he might 
have a more congenial place. Uncle Robert thinks him a 
very earnest and scholarly man. I almost wonder at his 
settling in such a little country village." 
" His wife had just died, and I suppose he was full of 
trouble and grief. Then, mamma, the parsonage is a 
pretty old house, almost like an English picture, with a 
garden full of roses, and a great oak-tree right at the gate. 
Sarah will make lovely living there, I know. I really long 
to see her its mistress.'* 
Indeed, Ratine was so interested in the new phase of 
affairs that she drove up to school one afternoon and took 
Sarah out for a regular girl's confidence. Middle ville was 
at its best estate. Farm and meadow lands were filled 
with promising crops, belts of woodland stood up straight 
and tall in their mingled shades of green, and the distant 
range of hills told of suggestive hollows and nooks of 
dreamy glory. The faded houses and barns were mel- 
lowed by shadowy lines and changing reflections, and oc- 
casionally through an open doorway one saw a bit of in- 
terior with the homely charm artists love. 
Sarah was bright and joyous, though the day's teaching 
had not been all smooth sailing ; but her vitality had the 
force of perfect health, and her employment that of satis- 
faction. 
" How delightful of you to come ! " she cried. " I am 
nearly always thinking of you, but I try to remember your 
many claims, knowing that you cannot divide and subdi- 
vide yourself, so the farthest must be content with an oc- 
casional ray." 
Kathie studied the uplifted face with its clear, blue eyes, 
the masses of hair framing it in like an aureola, soft, shin- 
ing, waving in loose, irregular lines upon the white fore- 
head. Not a common face, even if it lacked the elements 
of beauty ; for it had been glorified by the secret of true 
living, the companionship of broad and generous resolve, 
taking each day in a firm grasp and extracting whatever 
sweetness it held, with no fear that there would be a lack 
to-morrow. 
" How happy you are ! " Kathie exclaimed, impulsively. 
" Yes, I am," with a confident and grateful ring to her 
voice. u And yet," smilingly, "didn't I write you a lu- 
gubrious letter? I was afraid afterward that you might 
think me weak to cry out at the first thorn that pricked." 
"It is a pity, it is unjust, that there should be thorns 
of that kind," was the firm rejoinder. 
" Yet the thorns may be set as a sign to make one go 
more carefully. I used to think at first that his life and 
happiness," with a tender inflection in her tone, " were the 
great things I had to consider. You see it seemed wonder- 
ful that he should want me, that he thought me fit for the 
great highway where he was to walk. When you stand on 
the top of one peak and look over to the next, the glory 
touches you, kindles your love and fervor, and you realize 
that it is going down and coming up again ; and there are 
so many things to take hold of as you go, blossoms and 
leaves and gems, maybe, to gather up, and stumbles, and 
a little roughness, thorns perhaps, but all the time it is 
going on ; and you never do lose sight of the other great 
glory, towards which you are pressing. If there were no 
valleys, there would be no mountain-tops ; and could we 
always endure the level of the plain ? " 
"You are not afraid of the thorns now?" Kathie 
asked quickly. 
" I shall be careful of them, but I am trying not to be 
afraid, nor to run into them heedlessly. We all know Mr. 
Truesdell might have paid more deference to position. I 
was born here, and ran about an ignorant country girl ; but 
when one fits one's self for something better, and it comes, 
why should one refuse it? Why should others seek to 
thrust you out of what you have won ? " and her face 
flushed with emotion. " When he first asked me, I was 
surprised and overwhelmed with a strange humility ; and 
then I think some one might have pushed me aside for 
very fear. Then he showed me what I had to give, 
health, energy, and spirit, help everywhere, at home, with, 
the children, keeping a comfortable and restful place. 
That was partly your teaching. All the days will not be 
Sundays, even if we are doing God's work. He put the 
six days between, the six days of trying and the one of 
rest." 
''O Sarah, you have gone far beyond anything I ever 
taught you ! " cried Kathie in all humility. 
'' With two such teachers I ought to come to compre- 
hensive knowledge " ; and she smiled with rare sweetness. 
" At first I felt quite inclined to glorify my Mr. Truesdell. 
I had never counted on marriage, or speculated about love 
so it was very new and strange. It is odd to be asked to 
stop and rest when one has mapped out one's life as a con- 
tinual march ; not that we shall loiter very much," smil- 
ingly, " but we shall be among the wells of water and the 
trees of palm ; and we have come to this freedom between 
us, he is to tell me when I go wrong, when I do little 
things that might hurt or jar, and I am not to be troubled 
about what others say. I shall have his great love and the 
comfort he will take for my reward. I shall not go out 
to meet cares or phantoms, but stay in safe paths with 
him." 
That was the entire faith of love. How could one be 
sure of the safe paths ? 
There was a slight bend in the road, and they came out 
by the parsonage. The little girls were playing tea under 
a great rose-bush. 
" O Kathie," Sarah began, u I wonder if I shall always 
be just to the children and not try to crowd them out of 
their father's heart : they were there before I was." 
" But you do love children, and you have been with them 
all your life." 
" Yes, I could not teach if I did not love them, for chil- 
dren are often very trying ; and some really good women 
fail of being good step-mothers. I wonder why? If we 
take anything else on conditional terms we try to respect 
the terms. So you see there will be many things to study, 
and claims to balance within as well as without. They are 
shy little things, and have never been to school. Their 
mother was delicate and refined, and I fancy rather proud 
of position, and all that. It is a pretty old house, is it not? 
and yet it has always seemed a sad place to me, perhaps 
because I have always connected it with two motherless 
children. O Kathie, I wonder if I can win them to love 
me : step-mothers are always looked upon with disfavor ; 
and they are old enough to know." 
tk Love you? They could not help it," cried Kathie, 
eagerly ; and as she looked at the earnest, glowing face, 
she felt if she ever needed some one strong and comforting 
in any great perplexity Sarah would be that friend. 
" You are so generous: do you think me weak with 
the weakest? " and she gave a bright little laugh. kt I shall 
tire you of myself and love ; but one comfort is that it is 
new to every one, just as is the dawn, though we see it 
every day." 
' ' You could not tire me with anything you might s&y ; 
and I am so glad to have you happy. Yet when it comes 
to one's own self, what a solemn thing it seems, to say 
what can never be unsaid. If one should make a mistake." 
She let her thoughts revert a moment to Eugene Colla-r 
more. No ; centuries of waiting could not make love on 
her part. 
''I suppose one who realizes all the solemnity must 
have some fear and questioning at first ; but soul answers 
to soul. You could not receive an unwelcome or inhar- 
monious guest. It is the peace and the satisfaction that 
determines whether it rightly belongs to you. And when 
it comes to you I think you will know. You have been 
the dearest of friends and confidantes." 
They talked a little of other matters and then lapsed 
into contented silence, just glancing and smiling at some 
lovely view, or a bit of bird song that broke the stillness. 
And all this had come from one small deed of kindliness : 
the drawing in instead of the crowding out. Why was 
she not doing something now, instead of idling away her 
days in pleasure ? Then she thought of Charlie, and longed 
for him with that curious sense of loneliness that sometimes 
pervades the soul. 
They said good by at length, and Kathie turned home- 
ward. For days afterward she was haunted by a tender 
gravity, far removed from sadness, yet it seemed to bring 
her nearer to all who came in contact with her. 
CHAPTER XII. 
THE lovely summer day was on the wane. Lengthening 
shadows, a waft of cooler air, the long-cadenced song of a 
homeward bird, the tremulous, infrequent chirp of a hidden 
insect muffled in turfy fragrance were suggestions of com- 
ing evening. A perfect day, Charlie Darrell had said a 
dozen times. 
He and Kathie had been spending it together. In the 
morning there had been a lovely drive ; then after dinner 
she had swung in a hammock in a shady place, while he, 
stretched on the grass, recounted the last days of study, 
the examinations, parting with friends, and the sanguine 
plans of youth. 
" I always tell you everything," he declared laughingly. 
' ' I wonder how I managed to exist while you were away ! 
My remembrance of it is as a long, lonesome time." 
" Thank you," gayly. 
Kathie had been letting herself be quite free and joyous 
this day. For several weeks she had been on guard every 
moment, for she saw that, although Eugene Collamore 
held himself bravely, the fire still burned. He tried to be 
the same to others and chaffed gayly with Georgie Halford ; 
but when his eyes turned to her, waiting and hoping were 
written in them. 
A few days before he had started for Canada on some 
business for his father, accompanied Fay. Louise had 
taken a new whim, archaeological studies with Mr. HULIS- 
don. Jessie and the children had come down for the two 
summer months. Mr. and Mrs. Langdon would be home 
in August, and Aunt Ruth also. 
" We will not plan to go anywhere," said Kathie to her 
mother. " I want a lovely old-time summer at home." 
" We must write for Rob," Charlie had declared. 
" What is he about? It is always business when he vouch- 
safes a brief note to me." 
" Poor Rob ! " Kathie had answered with a sigh, though 
why, she could not have told, as the accounts were all to 
his credit. 
The letter was sent, and this day the work seemed all 
done. They had ended their afternoon with a row on the 
shady side of the lake, that dropped presently into a leis- 
urely floating. They sang old songs, said over half- for- 
gotten poems, and drifted into a subtle, mysterious sympathy.
Kathie let herself rest in pure enjoyment : it was so 
good to be at peace. 
And now they sauntered up the lawn, she carrying her 
hat full of fragrant pond lilies, and Charlie holding her 
blue-lined parasol over her, that seemed to make a bit of 
azure sky. Mrs. Alston watched them, so young, so 
pure, and sweet, and a vague desire ended in a soft sigh. 
Charlie waved his hand gallantly. 
" Come, truants," she said tenderly : " supper is waiting, 
and I am all alone." 
" Where are Uncle Rob and Freddy?" 
"They have driven over to Deerfield, and will not be 
home to tea ; and I have heard from Rob, he is almost 
sure to be here early in August." 
"Oh, how delightful!" and Kathie's eyes sparkled. 
" It will be quite like the old summer. Now if we can 
hear from Aunt Ruth and Bruce." 
"History repeating itself," rejoined Charlie; and yet 
would there be any days as perfect as this ? 
"Run up to Fred's room, for of course we cannot dis- 
pense with you," said Mrs. Alston laughingly. 
He was so much at home here, and " over at the Dar- 
rells' " was a second home to Kathie. 
She soon returned, looking cool and sweet in her fresh, 
white dress. 
'* Come down here," said Mrs. Alston to Charlie ; " \et 
us be sociable, if we are few." 
"How queer it seems to have such a small f amily ! I 
shall be all impatience until the rest come. I suppose 
Bruce has changed." 
"I am not to be crowded out of my place," interrupted 
Charlie ; " mine is the oldest right." 
" As if we could forget that ! " Eathie turned her soft, 
clear eyes full upon him, and he felt a rift of color mount 
his brow. 
Afterward they went out on the wide porch, while the 
summer twilight faded, and the moon came up amid her 
golden host. They sang two or three old hymns ; they 
touched upon past memories, from whose simple begin- 
nings so much had grown, drawing them nearer in the 
touches of sympathy and tender joy. 
Somewhere along that mysterious kinship Mrs. Alston 
said his son." AL boys were dear to her through her own ; 
but Charlie Darrell especially. 
It was not the first time she had called him that, but it 
came with a new and deep meaning. All day the soft 
light had moved and stirred his soul, until creation, new 
living, manifested itself to his thought a tender presence. 
He reached over and caught her hand. 
"Mother," in the full, deep tone of a great emotion, 
'' why should it not be ? Will you give me the real right 
in the days to come ? I have always loved Kathie ; she 
is the other part of my new life, its completeness. I had 
not meant to ask so soon ; but now, now I cannot wait. 
I want to feel certain of my place in your midst. Kathie ! 
Kathie ! " 
She sat as one in a dream. " The other part of his life, 
its completeness." She felt it in some mysterious way, as 
one may have visions of second sight. 
" Kathie ! " He drew her gently to his heart, and she 
felt it beat ; his pure, ardent lips kissed the consciousness 
of his love into her soul. Was this what the happy day 
had presaged ? She did not shrink from his tenderness : 
it seemed natural, right. 
" She loves me ; do you not, my darling? I think we 
have always loved each other ; so there is no strange sud- 
denness to make us doubt or question. You will keep her 
for me, mother, safe and sweet, like a cloistered nun, until 
we can begin our own life together. God knows how ten- 
der and careful I shall be of her, how we shall go on our 
way doing his work all the better that he has given us so 
much ; and, as he trusts us first of all with the best and 
choicest of human gifts, love, so we must work to win on 
every side love for him." 
All the tenderness of Kathie Alston's soul seemed to 
culminate in the high tide that drifted her toward him. 
She was not thinking of time nor place. That there was 
anything singular in this confidence before her mother, first 
of all, never occurred to her. This was not a miser's 
treasure to gloat over in her secret soul, but something to 
be shared ; something she could share, and was glad so to 
do. 
'' You give her to me ? " 
He took Kathie' s hand in his and laid both, clasped, 
in Mrs. Alston's lap. 
" She must give herself, Charlie ; I can only ratify with 
a mother's love. There is no one with wjiom I would 
sooner trust her. Kathie, my darling?" in a soft, persua- 
sive tone. 
Did she love him? Honestly she thought so. There 
was no shrinking or reluctance. The life by his side 
looked so safe, so useful. There would be no perplexing 
questions of duty, how much for God ; how much for the 
world. She was in a curious state of exaltation, the 
emotion that makes one heroic in deed ; and yet she felt 
exceedingly humble, it was so great and sacred a thing 
to her. 
" O mamma, if I could be good enough ! " 
" The little violet!" Charlie laughed in that happy, 
incredulous gladness. "You are good, Kathie ; you 
always were, better than the lot of us, way back at 
school. I think no one could ever be quite good enough 
for you, when it comes to that, but I shall always try, God 
helping me, to be grateful for this, his choicest gift. Let 
this be our betrothal, under the solemn stars." And his 
reverent tone was tremulous with happiness. 
There was a silence of many moments, the three hands 
clasped softly together. Presently he said, 
" I am glad it has come about in just this way. I have 
been thinking of it for some time, but I had not meant 
to speak so soon. I have another year before ordination, 
and then I must find a home for my bonnie birdie ; so it 
must be quite a long engagement. But you know it all, 
mother : we have no secrets from you." 
" I could not give up my darling on a sudden notice," 
replied Mrs. Alston, kissing Kathie with all the fervor 
of a mother's love. " I am glad to have it a long engage- 
ment : you are both so young ; and time will bring you 
wisdom to make the life what it should be. I think it 
best " And she hesitated a moment. 
' ' Whatever you think best we shall do," Charlie said 
with tender deference. 
" I think it would be better for both of you not to make 
any public announcement before another year : you have 
your studies, Kathie has her home duties and young friends ; 
and the tendency nowadays is to leave lovers very much 
to themselves. Let me have her yet this year." 
" We will lock our secret in your safe keeping," he an- 
swered with a trustful inflection of tone ; ' ' and we will go 
on just the same as before. We have always b'jen such 
friends that no one will question. And as I shall be away 
another year, I should not want my darling embarrassed 
by the teasing of careless tongues. It serves to make it 
more sacred : just our own blessed knowledge." 
The sound of wheels came crunching up the garden 
walk. Fred's soft voice sounded in a gay little laugh. 
Mrs. Alston rose. They all came back from that 
enchanting love-land, and the summer night was the more 
beautiful for their sojourn. 
" Have you had supper?" 
""What! at this time of night, mother mine? Why, I 
should have been brought home a victim in my youth and 
bloom if I had not been duly fed. What a small con- 
clave ! Why are not the neighbors sitting round ? The 
porch looks lonesome, melancholy." 
" If they came you would run away," said Kathie, 
brightly. " But you don't know the most joyful of ah  , 
Rob will be home in August." 
" Have you heard? " There was such a sense of relief in 
Uncle Robert's tone. 
From this bit of news they dropped into general conver- 
sation. Charlie was in no mood for ordinary talk. A 
sweet, sacred spell enveloped him as a cloud ; he wanted 
to dream* over his great happiness in solitude. He rose 
presently and wished them a quiet good-night. Kathie 
rose too ; was it the beginning of a new influence ? She 
had often walked down to the gate with the boys, but now 
every pulse quivered with unwonted emotion. 
' ' O my darling ! Can I ever thank God sufficiently for 
this great happiness ? " 
'' You are quite sure I shall make you happy ? ' ' 
She could not consider herself in this rush of tumultuous 
emotion. Indeed, when she came to think of it long after- 
ward, she learned that she had not considered herself at all. 
"Sure! O Kathie!" 
The gentle reproach pained her and settled her faith, 
She would never doubt again. 
"We may not always desire what is best for us, but in 
this matter I think a man understands the blessedness of 
getting what he does want. There is nothing more for me 
to ask. Good night. God and his angels have you in 
their keeping." 
When she entered the library, whither her mother and 
Uncle Eobert had gone, there was a blessed content in her 
face. 
" She is very happy," thought the mother, and was for 
herself entirely satisfied. Doubt and anxiety ;were over, 
and she would keep her darling a while longer. 
Kathie could not sleep ; yet it was no nervous restless- 
ness that haunted her pillow. She lay quiet and serene, 
wondering that so great a question should be so simply 
decided. So brief a while ago she had shrunk from Eu- 
gene Collamore's pleading and declared that she wanted 
no change, and now for her the current of life had turned, 
still without any positive desire on her part. It must be 
the right thing, or God would not have allowed it to come 
in this way. A noble and serious life lay before her, with 
companion, friend, and guide, in the heavenly walk. 
But she slept soundly and late the next morning as the 
result of her unwonted vigil. After breakfast, when they 
were alone, Mrs. Alston informed her brother of the engage- 
ment. 
He was glancing idly out of the window, and for the 
moment felt strangely disconcerted. 
' ' You surely do not disapprove ? " rendered a trifle 
uneasy by his silence. 
"I am surprised: Kathie appeared so utterly ignorant 
of love a few weeks ago." 
"But it seems to me the most natural thing in the 
world," replied the mother, with some warmth : " they 
have always loved each other." 
" And yet engagements rarely grow out of that kind of 
love." 
"It is best and safest, much to be preferred to these 
hot-headed, imperious, exhaustive passions, that spend 
themselves in courtship, and make a barren waste of after- 
life. They have grown into it ; and when the full time 
came it declared itself. O Robert, it is such a comfort 
to give her to some one you can trust thoroughly, our 
dear, darling child ! To see Kathie unhappy would break 
my heart." 
" My dear Dora, Kathie's happiness is all I ask; and 
the lover is suitable in every way ; but it seems sudden.'' 
" It is hardly to be called an engagement this year. I 
could not have Kathie exposed to foolish girl-gossip ; and 
Charlie quite agreed with me. Another year, when he is 
ordained, there will be a regular engagement ; but I am to 
have her two years longer. 
" I really could not think of her marrying just yet." 
" We shall not have to think about it, or to worry over 
possible lovers. She will be of suitable age, and will have 
had a pleasant, happy girlhood ; and, although I am not 
mercenary I am glad Charlie will never be entirely depend- 
ent on his salary. Grandmother Darrell's will is made in 
his favor." And she paused with a slight flush. 
" Yes, I think it is hard to accustom a girl to all the 
comforts and refinements of one station and then plunge 
her into a life of poverty and hardship ; still, it has 
always been my intention to make some provision for 
Kathie, if it was needed. She should have had an unbi- 
assed choice." 
" You are so good and generous, Robert," she an- 
swered, deeply moved. " But I want you to feel quite sat- 
isfied " ; lingering on the last word. 
" I hate to think any one has a claim on my little girl. 
I am a selfish old fellow after all," he made answer, with 
a half-petulant shrug of the shoulders. 
''It would come some time: marriage and a home is a 
woman's best and highest destiny, her most satisfying life ; 
and we do keep her a while. Could we trust any stranger 
as unhesitatingly as Charlie Darrell ? " 
" So that she is happy, my prayer will be answered," 
he replied gravely. 
" There is every prospect of it." 
He turned to leave the room, then paused. 
" If you are writing to Ruth to-day, just mention it," 
he said abruptly; "but with that exception we will not 
let it go beyond family walls." 
Was he annoyed? Mrs. Alston wondered. Men often 
hated to give up their daughters, and Kathie was like a 
daughter to Uncle Robert. It might be that feeling of 
tender love that held him from welcoming any new tie. 
And yet she wanted him to rejoice in it as she did. 
When Kathie came down-stairs eager and smiling, the 
faint misgivings she had been nursing vanished ; so she 
poured out her full heart in the letter to Aunt Ruth, and 
felt in some degree satisfied. Surely no one could have 
Kathie's welfare more at heart, or dread a mistake more 
deeply than her mother. 
Certainly the lover proved himself no laggard. Uncle 
Robert bethought himself of an errand as he walked out 
to the stable, and resolved to set about it instantty. He 
could not meet Kathie just yet, with her new happiness 
shining in her sweet face, so ho ordered the horses and 
drove away to settle his mind to the fact. 
He had not gone far when a pleasant voice called to 
him, and Charlie Darrell stood in his very path. 
" Good morning " ; and there was a flush of conscious 
pride on the fair young face. " I was coming over to see 
you. May I get in? I have something important to say." 
He could not run away from it. Charlie DarreLl's 
eager, pleading eyes would have disarmed a harder heart. 
"Yes." And the young man sprang in, too happy to 
notice if the invitation lacked its usual fine cordiality. 
But he was very much in earnest, and stated his case 
in a manner at once manly and generous. He would not 
even ask for an engagement at present, but he could not 
go on a day without confessing his desire and resolve ; 
his entire assurance that they loved each other. 
What was there to do but consent? He made a few 
stipulations, feeling in his heart that Charlie's fine sense 
of honor would have led him to observe them, without any 
promise being exacted. 
