and get the board to make these brackets of. We want six pairs of
them, and we are to get out six pieces six inches square.”

The boys soon returned with a board about twenty inches long and a
little over a foot wide. It was sawed into six pieces, planed and
squared to the exact size required. While the boys were thus employed,
the carpenter made a pattern of a single bracket out of a piece of
quarter-inch board. As soon as one of the square boards was ready, he
applied the pattern to it, and marked the ogee line with a
sharp-pointed pencil.

The instructor then distributed the keyhole-saws, and explained how to
use them. The square boards were put into the vises, after they had
been marked from the pattern. The saws were narrowest near the points.
If the pupils found any difficulty in turning the saw, they were
required to take short strokes, using the tip end, until they got over
the difficulty. The narrower the saw, the more easily it could be
turned from a straight line.

“Turn the bottom piece up-side-down, and it will exactly correspond
with the upper piece, if you have sawed all the way on the line,” said
the carpenter, when some of the boys had finished the first piece.

“Mine don’t,” added Lick Milton. “I kept close to the line all the
way.”

“Another blunder of mine!” exclaimed Mr. Brookbine, “for which I
tender my apology. I told you to saw on the right of the mark. This
is always to be done when practicable; but I neglected to say that it
is not always convenient, or even possible, to do it in that way. In
this instance the line ought to have been sawed out, and then the cut
would have been precisely in the middle of the piece. Sometimes, too,
when you cannot shift the work end to end, it becomes necessary to saw
on the left of the line. In cutting the next one, saw out the line,
and see how it comes out then.”

The result verified the statement of the teacher, for the two pieces
almost coincided. The workmen were directed to apply the spokeshave to
the curves on the bracket, and they were soon ready.

“Now we will proceed to put the shelves up,” continued Mr. Brookbine.

“Not this afternoon,” interposed Captain Gildrock. “It is four o’clock
now, and we must be as punctual in closing the sessions of the school
as in beginning them. I must say, my lads, that I have been very much
pleased with your attention and general good conduct on the first day
of the Beech-Hill Industrial School.”

“For one, I should like to go on with the work until supper-time,”
said Ben Ludlow.

“So would I!” shouted about all the rest of them.

“I think not, boys,” replied the captain. “I am glad to find you so
much interested in your work, but we must not overdo it. We shall keep
to our regular hours. The rest of the day, and the morning until nine
o’clock, belongs to you; but you must not forget the lessons assigned
to you for to-morrow. You may use the boats for a couple of hours now,
if you choose. There are enough of the small craft to accommodate the
whole school.”

The boys put on their coats, and left the shop. Some of them were
curious to know what had become of Dick Short, and they walked to the
maple-tree. But Mr. Brookbine ordered them off, saying that they were
to have no communication with Dick. Tom still kept his position at the
foot of the tree.

“Mr. Brookbine,” called Dick, when he saw the instructor come out of
the shop.

“Well, my lad, what is it?” asked the carpenter. “Do you want to jump
on another board, and kill a couple more boys?”

“I haven’t killed any boys,” replied Dick.

“If you haven’t, it isn’t your fault. You went to work in the right
way to do it, or, at least, to hurt them badly. What do you want now?”

“Don’t you think I have been up this tree about long enough, Mr.
Brookbine?” continued Dick in the meekest of tones.

“I don’t know: you know better than I do. If you haven’t been up there
long enough to keep you from skylarking in school-hours, you had
better stay there a week or two longer; and Tom will see that you
don’t come down.”

“I will be as sober as a judge in school-hours after this. I didn’t
think what I was about when I jumped on that board, and I am sorry I
did it,” pleaded Dick, who was heartily disgusted with being watched
by the big dog.

“Very well: I am satisfied; but I don’t know whether Phil Gawner is,
or not,” added the instructor.

“I will beg his pardon, or let him thrash me, just as he chooses,”
suggested Dick.

The instructor called Phil as he was going down to the lake. As soon
as Phil came within hailing-distance of the tree, Dick made his
apology, which was promptly accepted; and the culprit was permitted to
descend the tree. His punishment was so odd that it puzzled him. He
had often been whipped in school for his pranks; but to be imprisoned
over two hours up in a tree, with a dog to keep guard over him, was
more than he could stand.

Most of the students were at the lake by this time. Dory had already
invited Oscar Chester to take a sail in the Goldwing, and he had
accepted. The four members of the Goldwing Club had been in the
schooner so much that they preferred to take a four-oar boat that was
moored on the lake.

In fifteen minutes the Goldwing was out on Lake Champlain. The wind
was fresh from the south-west, and the lake is not the best place in
the world for a sailboat. Puffs of wind, and even pretty smart
squalls, sometimes come from the hills that surround this beautiful
sheet of water, so that the skipper has to be on the alert.

“I should be very glad to have you steer her now, Oscar, if you wish,”
said Dory to his passenger as soon as the boat was well out in the
lake.

“Thank you, Dory,” replied Oscar. “I think we shall be the best of
friends, after all.”

“It will not be my fault if we are not,” added Dory.

Just then the Monkey, which Sim Green had brought up from Burlington
on Saturday, came out off the river in charge of Bolingbroke Millweed.




CHAPTER XXVII.

OSCAR CHESTER TAKES A LESSON IN BOATING.


“I don’t know why it is, but every fellow I ever knew took to boats,”
said Oscar Chester, who had just gone to the helm of the Goldwing.
“The fellows here are just like all the rest of them, and about every
one of them is in the boats. There come three rowboats out of the
river.”

“In Burlington all the boys were anxious to get out on the lake. I was
like all the rest of them; and, as my father was a pilot on a steamer,
I had a better chance than most of them. There is the Goldwing Club,”
added Dory, as the four-oar boat came out of the river.

“What’s the Goldwing Club?” asked Oscar.

“We used to have a flat-bottom boat in Burlington, and we formed a
club. The craft was smashed; and, after I bought the Goldwing, we used
to sail in her. We learned to row, but the club are not doing very
well with their oars,” added Dory, as one of the party “caught a crab.”

“Who is managing that sailboat, Dory?” asked Oscar, as he pointed at
the Monkey.

“Bolly Millweed; but he don’t know how to do it, and he ought not to
come out on the lake without a skipper.”

“That’s just my case, but I am very anxious to learn how to do it.”

“You will soon learn. One sails a boat as he drives a horse: it is
done more by the feeling than by the sight. All you need is practice,
for the science is very simple. But I think we had better come about,
for I am afraid some of those fellows will get into trouble. Bolly has
trimmed his sail in a very careless manner; and, if a puff of wind
should come upon him, he don’t know what to do any more than a baby.
His sheet is made fast too.”

“I don’t know any better than he does what to do.”

“Bolly has the wind on the beam, but he has his sail trimmed to go as
close to the wind as his boat will lie. Now put the helm down, if you
please, and we will come about.”

“Which way is ‘down’?” asked Oscar blankly. “Do you mean down the
lake?”

“It happens to be so in this instance, but that is not what we mean by
‘down.’ ‘Down’ is to leeward. ‘Up’ is the way from which the wind
comes, and ‘down’ the way towards which it blows.”

“Nothing was said about ‘up’ and ‘down’ on the steamer the other day.”

“In a steamer it makes no difference which way the wind blows, and the
terms don’t mean any thing in particular. But, in a sailboat, we
manage her altogether by the wind. Now put the helm down,” added Dory,
as he stood by the sheets.

Oscar did as he was directed; and, as soon as he shifted the tiller,
all the sails began to shake.

“There is some mistake about that,” said Oscar, as he began to restore
the tiller to its former position. “That knocks all the wind out of
the sails.”

“You did just right! keep the helm down!” exclaimed Dory with energy.
“She is doing just as she should.”

“But I don’t see how you are going to sail with the canvas flapping
like this,” added Oscar, as he put the helm hard down again.

“She is in stays now. Wait a moment, and you will see what she does,”
replied Dory.

At that instant the wind caught the jib, and the schooner began to
swing very rapidly. The other sails filled at the same time.

“Now right the helm and meet her,” continued Dory. “Be lively about
it. Carry the tiller over till you feel a strong resistance. Over with
it, before she falls off too far.”

Oscar obeyed, but he had been hardly prompt enough in his movements.
The sails were brought too nearly at right angles with the wind, which
caused her to careen till the new skipper’s nerves were badly shaken.
A bucket of water poured in over the wash-board.

“Down with the helm, Oscar!” said Dory sharply. “The other way!” he
added, springing to the tiller, and putting it hard down.

“You said ‘down’ was the other way,” retorted Oscar in a tone that
indicated anger on his part.

“Now we are all right,” said Dory, laughing, as the boat came up so
that the pressure was eased off the sails.

“‘Down’ can’t be both ways,” growled Oscar.

“But sometimes it is one side of the boat, and sometimes the other,”
replied Dory very gently, for he saw that a storm was gathering in the
breast of his companion. “Sometimes it is port, and sometimes it is
starboard.”

“I don’t see how any one is to know which way is ‘down,’” muttered
Oscar.

“I can tell which is ‘down’ every time, and without fail; and so can
you, after you have sailed a boat a little longer. ‘Up’ is the way the
wind comes from, and ‘down’ is the other way. Before you tacked, you
had the wind on the port side of you, and ‘down’ was to starboard. Now
you have the wind on the starboard, and ‘down’ is on the port side.”

“I don’t think I understand it very well, and you had better take the
helm. I am afraid I shall upset her,” said Oscar, somewhat disgusted
with his experience so far.

“I think the wind is rather too fresh for a first lesson to-day,”
replied Dory, as he took the tiller. “It would be better for you to
try it when there isn’t wind enough to upset her if you make a
mistake. You must excuse me if I spoke too quick to you just now, for
the Goldwing would have gone over in another second if she had had
her own way.”

“I was just beginning to get a little mad,” replied Oscar. “It don’t
take much of a breeze to put me into a passion. But it is all right
now, and I won’t get mad if I can help it. It comes upon me before I
know it. Do you think I shall ever be able to sail a boat?”

“I know you will. I will tack the boat several times, so that you can
see just how it is done. I suppose you know how to drive a horse,
Oscar?”

“Of course I do.”

“If you let your horse run off a steep bank, you will upset the
carriage. A boat won’t do it a bit better. If you let the wind blow
square against the sails, she won’t go ahead; and there is nothing
under the canopy to prevent her from going over, even with less wind
than there is to-day. You should never let her get into such a pickle,
any more than you would drive your horse off a precipice.”

“I can see what you mean. There is nothing to prevent her from tipping
over.”

“On the wind, as the Goldwing is now, we keep her so that the sails
will fill. Just a little movement of the tiller will spill them all:
see if it don’t,” continued Dory, as he put the helm down a very
little. “All the sails are shaking. I keep her so that she bears on
the helm all the time. When the pressure is too little, I know that
she is coming up into the wind, and I shift the tiller.”

“I begin to see through it.”

When he had a good full, Dory put the helm down, explaining his
action. When the jib began to draw, he began to right the helm. Oscar
got the idea; and, after a few more tacks, he understood it perfectly,
and was permitted to do it himself.

“Suppose you get caught with the wind blowing square against the
sails, and are in danger of going, over, what do you do--put the helm
down?” asked Oscar.

“If the wind was fresh I should not wait for her to come up, for she
might go over before she came up to a safe position. Let me take the
helm again, and I will show you.”

The skipper put the helm up, and in a moment the water began to pour
in over the wash-board. Oscar thought she was going over, and he
convulsively grasped the seat with both hands. Dory gave the end of
the fore and main sheets a twitch, in the twinkling of an eye, which
cast them off. The two principal sails ran out instantly, the pressure
was removed, and the boat came up to an even keel.

“That is the way to save yourself when you get into a tight place,
Oscar; but you ought never to get into such a tight place as that. A
boat can’t possibly upset unless she is in that position. But, before
she falls off enough to put you into chancery in that style, she will
bear very hard on the tiller, which will give you warning enough. If
you let go the tiller, she will come into the wind herself. The
Goldwing, or any boat properly rigged and ballasted, would never get
you into such a scrape: you must force her into the dangerous
position. Now you may take the helm.”

In half an hour Oscar could beat to windward as well as an old salt,
though his education as a boatman was by no means completed. The
Monkey, which had been moving at the rate of less than a mile an hour,
had by this time got out into the middle of the lake, where she felt
the full force of the wind.

Like all monkeys, the sloop was behaving very badly indeed; but it was
solely because she was badly handled. Dory was confident she would
meet with an accident; and he required Oscar to come about off Scotch
Bonnet, about three miles below the mouth of the river. After some
manœuvring, he got the foresail on the port side, with the mainsail on
the starboard; and the Goldwing began to fly, wing-and-wing, before
the wind.

The wind had a reach of several miles from the head of North-west Bay,
and there was considerable sea. The schooner rolled, pitched, plunged,
and yawed about at a fearful rate. Oscar found that he had his hands
more than full. He wanted to give it up, but the skipper assured him
he was doing as well as any one could; that all vessels knocked about
like that when running exactly before a fresh wind.

“But isn’t there any danger in staving along like this, Dory?” asked
Oscar.

“None at all if the boat is well handled. If you vary your present
course too much, one or the other of the sails would bang over to the
other side. It would do no harm even then, unless it was the mainsail,
and the boom hit you on the head.

“Then, if you should let her come a quarter way around, you would have
her in that ugly position with the wind at right angles with the
sails, and she would upset. With as much wind as there is to-day, she
will go over every time you put her into chancery; and it won’t be her
fault either.”

Oscar soon got used to the motion and the erratic gyrations of the
boat, and then he enjoyed it. He had been told to steer for a tree on
a hill, and he kept the course remarkably well for a beginner. The
Goldwing had gone two miles in a little over ten minutes, and the
shoal-water of Field’s Bay was ahead of her.

“We must haul up a little, or we shall get aground,” said Dory. “As we
are going squarely before the wind, there is no up or down about it;
and you must put the helm to starboard. But we will do it without
making any sensation,” he added, as he cast off the main-sheet. “The
foresail will pop over to the other side, and do it with a rush. Now,
starboard, very slowly.”

Dory let out the main-sheet, so that the sail did not draw full. Over
went the foresail with a rush.

“Steady! That is, keep her as she is.” Relieved of a portion of the
pressure on the mainsail, she did not heel over much under the shock.
Dory was about to ask Oscar how he would come about, when a tremendous
yell came up the lake from the other students.




CHAPTER XXVIII.

THE UPSETTING OF THE MONKEY, AND ITS LESSON.


“The Monkey has upset!” exclaimed Dory, considerably excited by the
catastrophe.

“You had better take the helm, Dory, for we can’t wait to make any
mistakes,” added Oscar, as he gave the tiller to the skipper.

“Bolly is determined to drown himself, and he will do it if he keeps
on trying. I did not think he had pluck enough to go out in a sailboat
again without a skipper.”

“But the rowboats are all around him, and they are all pulling towards
the Monkey,” continued Oscar. “But that sailboat don’t sink, as you
say the other did.”

“Perhaps she has not ballast enough to carry her down. She is lying
flat on her side, and the fellows that were in her are clinging to
her. They are safe for a while if they will only hold on,” said the
skipper of the Goldwing when he had taken in the situation.

The Goldwing was within five hundred feet of the Monkey when the
latter went over; and, before any of the rowboats reached the wreck,
the schooner was alongside of her. The skipper had taken in the
foresail; and, as she rounded-to, Oscar let go the jib-halyard, and
Dory lowered the mainsail. With the boat-hook Oscar got hold of the
wreck, and the schooner was hauled alongside.

Bolly, Steve Baxter, and Phil Gawner were helped into the Goldwing.
All three of them were thoroughly frightened, but were not otherwise
damaged.

“Who was the skipper of this boat?” asked Dory.

“Bolly; and he said he knew how to sail a boat, or we should not have
come out with him,” replied Phil.

“Can you skipper a boat, Bolly?” said Dory, turning to Bolly.

“I thought I could,” answered Bolly sheepishly.

“You thought so last Friday, when you let that steam-launch run into
you.”

“But since that I have watched you, and I was sure I could do it,”
pleaded Bolly.

“I don’t think you know any more about it now than you did then. I
told Oscar you would upset the boat when I first saw her come out of
the river. I don’t believe you will ever be hanged. If you are going
to keep doing this thing, you had better learn to swim,” added the
skipper of the Goldwing.

“I won’t try it again: there is something about sailing a boat that I
don’t understand,” replied Bolly.

“A good deal that you don’t understand; and, if you want to commit
suicide, you had better keep on sailing a boat. You will finish the
job one of these days. It is lucky this boat did not sink, like the
other. If she had, some of you might have been drowned. As it is, we
must get her up, and bail her out.”

“If you will tell us how, we will do all the work,” added Bolly.

By this time the four-oar boat came up. Corny Minkfield was acting as
coxswain, in the absence of Dory. Dick Short was not in the boat, and
Dave Windsor and John Brattle pulled the two after-oars.

“Where is Dick Short?” asked Dory.

“Mr. Brookbine would not let him come. He said he must learn the lesson
he lost while he was up a tree,” replied Corny. “We have got two
greenhorns in the boat, and we can’t row worth a cent.”

“No need of telling of it, for any one could see it a mile off,”
laughed Dory.

“Corny wants to do all the ordering while we do all the work,” added
Dave Windsor. “When he is appointed boss we will mind him.”

“Just as you like. There is Captain Gildrock on the point watching us,
and I don’t believe he will let any of you fellows out in a boat again
till you learn how to handle one. But we must put the Monkey in shape,
and take her up the river: Sim Green don’t want to lose another boat
just yet.”

Dory fastened a line to the mast-head of the Monkey. As the boat had
gone over on the port side, he moved the Goldwing to the opposite
side. But pulling on this line would only move the boat in the water
without righting her.

Making another line fast to the middle of the inside of the wreck, he
passed it over the side out of the water, and then drew it under the
keel, carrying the rope out beyond the mast-head. The end of the line
was then made fast to the stern of Corny’s boat, whose crew were
directed to pull with all their might when the word was given.

Dory then climbed to the foremast-head of the Goldwing, with the other
line tied around his body. From this elevated position he could pull
up from the fallen mast of the Monkey. He gave the word to Corny to
pull, and the boat yanked away at the line; but the crew pulled so
badly that they did not exert any great force.

The skipper passed his line over the spring-stay of the schooner, so
that Oscar could keep what he got. When he pulled at the rope, greatly
to his delight, and somewhat to his astonishment, the mast of the
wreck began to rise, and the hull began to right. After it had been
elevated a few feet, it was easy work; and the Monkey was soon right
side up. The rowers gave a smart cheer when the work was accomplished.

Bolly and his companions timidly returned to the Monkey. All the
buckets and dippers that both boats contained were in demand, and she
was soon free of water. The lines were cast off, and both sailboats
were ready to return to Beech Lake. Phil and John Brattle positively
refused to sail with Bolly again, and the late skipper of the Monkey
had his doubts about attempting to get the boat into the river without
upsetting her.

“I can do it,” suggested Oscar.

“I have no doubt you can, Oscar, and you may do it,” replied Dory.
“You will have the wind fair all the way.”

Oscar took his place in the Monkey, which he soon found was not such a
craft as the Goldwing. He trimmed the sail, and got under way without
making any mistakes. He had the wind on the beam, and he let out the
sheet of the sloop until the sail would just draw full. The craft made
double the speed she had attained at any time since she came out with
her incompetent skipper.

Dory followed her in the Goldwing when he got his sails up. He watched
the work of his pupil with close attention as he passed the Monkey,
and shouted his approval to Oscar. When he reached the point, Captain
Gildrock made a signal that he would like to be taken on board the
schooner; and Dory made a landing.

“No more boating for these boys at present,” said the principal, as he
stepped into the Goldwing. “They can neither sail a boat nor row one.
Who is sailing that boat now, Dory? He is doing better than has been
done with her before this afternoon.”

“Oscar Chester is in charge of her. He has been sailing with me in the
schooner; and, as far as he has gone, he knows how to do it,” replied
Dory.

“It will be impossible to keep them out of the boats; and the pupils
must be taught at once how to row, and how to handle a sailboat,”
continued the captain, as he glanced at the rowing of the party in the
four-oar boat. “When I saw that sloop-boat go over, I thought that the
first day of our school was to end in a disaster. I am thankful that
no one lost his life. But no one shall go out of Beech Lake again in a
sailboat unless there is a skipper on board.”

Dick Short welcomed the boys back to the school-grounds. He had made
up the lost lesson, and was as good-natured as though he had not been
punished. Before breakfast the next morning, the boys all walked over
to the beach in the little lake, and went into the water. In the
evening a great deal had been said about learning to swim. It was
found that only eight boys out of the twenty-two could swim a stroke.
Dory and Harry Franklin were appointed instructors in this department;
and they were to have a lesson every day, when the weather was
suitable.

Some pieces of plank were obtained at the lumber-shed, and conveyed to
the beach. Holding these floats with their hands, some of the boys
ventured out into deep water. The first thing was to obtain the
necessary confidence. They were told how to move their feet in the
operation, and the first trials were very satisfactory.

The schoolroom exercises of the forenoon were about the same as the
day before. The boys all felt that their learning was to be of the
most practical kind, such as would help them in the business of life.
All education does this, but all boys cannot realize it.

The first business of the afternoon with the second class was to put
up the shelves they had made the day before. Of course, the boys had
to go through a great many forms that were useless to experienced
workmen.

“Now, my lads, we are to nail the shelves to the brackets,” said Mr.
Brookbine. “To do this correctly will be a nicer job than you have yet
done; but you must work carefully, and give strict attention to the
directions. With the larger try-square draw a light line eight inches
from each end of the shelf, and on the top.”

“Which is the top?” asked Dick Short, as he looked on both sides of
the board in the hands of Phil Gawner, who was his bench-partner.

“Either side will answer for the top, but you should take the best
side--the one with no rough places in it--if there is any choice.
Always put the best side out: there is no cheat in it in carpentering.
It is not like putting all the poorest apples at the bottom of the
barrel.”

The students selected a side for the top, and ruled the lines.

“Now draw another line on the other side, seven inches and a half from
the end,--a more decided line than the other. Good! Now put one of the
brackets in the bench-vise, and screw it up tight. Put the wide end of
the bracket up, and about two inches above the top of the bench.--Tom
Ridley, you have got it four inches.--Ben, you are not more than one
inch.--You must learn to measure distances with the eye. That will do.

“Here are several kegs of nails, which I opened this forenoon. We
have spikes, tenpenny, eightpenny, sixpenny, shingle, and lath nails.
There are two kinds of the same length, as a tenpenny or an eightpenny
board-nail, or a finish-nail. Board-nails have a broader head, and are
stouter than a finish-nail. Which kind shall we use for the shelves?”

“Finish-nails,” shouted half a dozen boys at a venture.

“Eightpenny finish will be about right. No. 1 will nail to the first
bracket, and No. 2 to the second. No. 2 will take the board, and lay
the end on the bracket, and No. 1 will nail it. Fix the shelf exactly
against the mark on the under side. Hold the board very still; and,
when the nailer gets it exactly right, he should put his left hand
against the bracket, grasping the board at the same time.”

The instructor did it himself, and all the nailers observed how he did
it.

“The light line on the top is to show you where the nails are to be
driven. Now go ahead. Strike so as to hit the nail squarely with the
face of the hammer, so that it will not bend the nail, or slip off and
mar the board.”

He had to stop half of them, and give them a little outside practice
with the hammer. But the boards were nailed on. They were tried with
the square, and then nailed against the wall, between the windows. The
planes were put upon them, and the boys were proud of their first job.




CHAPTER XXIX.

AN AFTERNOON IN THE MACHINE-SHOP.


The first class of the Beech-Hill Industrial School were most of them
older than the members of the second class. All of them had attended
high-schools or academies, and made more or less progress in the
studies to be pursued. But they had no better knowledge of practical
mechanics and the use of tools.

Mr. Jepson, the instructor in the metal department, had served his
time for seven years as a machinist in England, and had worked at his
trade a great many years in America. He was competent to build a
steam-engine or to run one, and had learned his trade with more
thoroughness than most American mechanics.

One of his specialties was drawing; and he was to teach this branch,
which is the foundation and corner-stone of all practical mechanics.
In his opening speech to the class, he said that the first thing in
doing a job of any kind was to make a plan or picture of whatever was
to be constructed.

Unlike the carpenter, he did not begin by giving the names and uses of
the various tools on his bench, and on the walls near it. He told the
boys what could be done in brass, iron, and steel. He pointed out in
what manner chemistry and geometry, as well as natural philosophy, if
not absolutely essential, were exceedingly valuable, to the machinist.

“I don’t believe half the machinists know any thing about these
branches,” said Bob Swanton.

“I don’t believe a quarter part of them learned any thing about these
sciences, or even drawing, in school; but they have had to learn them
in working at their trade,” replied Mr. Jepson. “In forging iron, in
casting any metal, in brazing, soldering, and many other operations,
one must learn the effect of heat upon metals, and the effect of
various substances upon them.

“Do you think an old-fashioned blacksmith don’t know some of the uses
of borax? Why does the tinman use resin, or some chemical preparation,
in preparing and soldering his wares? Why does the blacksmith cool one
piece of iron by putting it in water, and let another piece cool off
on the floor, if he don’t know any thing about the science of
chemistry?”

“I meant book science,” added Bob Swanton.

“All science is the same, whether it be in a book or in a man’s head,”
added the instructor. “You must get it into the head to have it of any
use to you, and it matters not where it come from. All I mean to say
is, that a theoretical knowledge of science, such as you get in
school, will be of very great advantage to you in the mechanic arts.”

“We are willing to admit that,” said Lew Shoreham rather impatiently;
for he was in a hurry to get hold of the tools, as the second class
were.

“Here is a bar of brass, half an inch square,” said the machinist,
taking the piece of metal from his bench. “We can do almost any thing
with it that we can with wood.”

“You can’t saw it, and plane it as you can a piece of wood,” said Will
Orwell, who had probably never been in a machine-shop in his life.

“Certainly we can: why not?” demanded the teacher.

“Saw brass!” exclaimed Will. “I never saw any such thing done.”

“Did you ever see a watch made?”

“I never did; but”--

“Then, you ought to believe that a watch can’t be made,” interposed
the machinist.

“It looks absurd to me to talk of sawing brass, and I don’t believe it
can be done,” persisted Will.

“Possibly I may be able to convince you that it can be done: in fact,
I know I can, if you are not very unreasonable,” added Mr. Jepson, as
he put the bar of brass into one of his iron vises, and screwed it up
tight. “Now, stand by me, and see that I don’t deceive you.”

The machinist took a hack-saw from a hook in front of him.

“There is the brass in the vise, and here is the saw,” continued the
instructor. “I shall saw the brass bar into two pieces, and I shall do
it about as quick as an amateur would saw a piece of hard wood of the
same size.”

“That thing don’t look like a saw,” Will objected.

The instructor took from a drawer a package of hack-saws, on which
there was a label.

“What does that say, my lad?” asked Mr. Jepson, handing the package to
the sceptical student.

“One dozen hack-saws,” Will read on the label.

“Here is one from the package, and you will see that it is just like
the one in the frame. It is a saw without a particle of doubt.”

“It looks more like a file.”

“It is not at all like a file.”

“Dry up, Will! Admit that it is a saw, and don’t argue the question
all day,” interposed Lew.

“I will give it up: it is a saw,” added Will.

The machinist applied the saw to the brass bar, started it carefully
so that it need not jump about, and then worked quite lively for a few
moments. The end of the bar soon dropped on the floor, and Will picked
it up.

“I grant that you have sawed brass, but I don’t see how you can plane
it,” said Will.

“In order to plane it, I should have to put it into a planer; but I
can take off shavings as long as the bar itself. I must convince you,
Will, or you will never believe it.”

All the boys were curious to see this operation. The bar was put into
the machine, and the interested observers picked up the long and
tightly curled shavings of brass. Of course, Will was convinced. Mr.
Jepson then took a rod of brass an inch in diameter, and held it up
before the class.

“This rod is also of brass: it is not made of cheese, though you will
think it can be cut about as easily as though it were cheese,”
continued he, as he fixed the rod in a turning-lathe. Running on the
belt with the lever in front of him, the rod began to turn with
tremendous rapidity.

The boys gathered around the lathe, and the machinist took up a tool
made of an old file. He applied it to the brass, and the metal
shavings began to drop rapidly upon the frame of the lathe. In a few
moments the end of the rod became a shining ball. The metal could
hardly have given less apparent resistance if it had been cheese.

With various tools the machinist soon had a cup next to the ball. Then
he made an ogee form, and a dozen other shapes, until the boys were
utterly astonished at the results. It seemed incredible to them that
brass could be cut as easily as soft pine.

“I suppose that can only be done with brass,” said Oscar Chester.

“It can be done with iron just as well, though the operation will be
slower; or with steel, and then it is still slower,” replied the
machinist, as he adjusted a rod of iron in the lathe.

With no more difficulty than before, though not so rapidly, he cut the
same form as in brass. With another lathe, he cut a screw on an iron
rod. Taking a blank nut, he put it into the vise, and applied the
proper tap to it, cut the female screw, and then put it on the rod.
Then he cut a screw with a stock and die on a piece of brass wire, and
tapped a nut to fit it.

He went to the forge, and welded a couple of pieces of iron together,
and had something to say about tempering metals. Taking an old brass
candlestick, he sawed the pedestal into two pieces, which he held up
before the boys, and then allowed them to examine the parts. He then
brazed them together so nicely that the boys could hardly see the
place where it had been sawed.

“Are we to learn to do all these things, Mr. Jepson?” asked Pemberton
Millweed.

“That is what you are here for,” replied the instructor. “But you will
not begin with the lathe and the plane; and there is a great deal of
hard work to be done at this trade.”

“What is the first thing we are to learn?” inquired Bob Swanton.

“Filing.”

“Filing! We can do that now!” exclaimed Lew Shoreham.

“Not one of you can do it properly. Any one thinks he can do it, but a
nice piece of filing is one of the most artistic things in the trade.
It cultivates the eye and the hands, and you could spend months at it
without exhausting the subject. But I dare say we are not to go into
the extreme niceties of the art. I can tell you this, my lads: if you
should work at the trade of a machinist for fifty years, there would
still be something to be learned, and greater skill to be obtained.”

