in waterproofs and hoods and things for her poor people--she enjoyed it
all.

As for Claudius, he knew that if he went to Newport he must of necessity
stay with the Barkers, but as he had not yet learned to look at Mr.
Barker in the light of a rival, he thought this would be rather
convenient than otherwise. The fact that he would be within easy reach
of Margaret was uppermost in his mind.

During the last two days his relations with her had been of the
happiest. There was an understanding between them, which took the place
of a great deal of conversation. Claudius felt that his error in
speaking too boldly had been retrieved, if not atoned for, and that
henceforward his position was assured. He was only to be a friend, it
was true, but he still felt that from friendship to love was but a step,
and that the time would come. He thought of the mighty wooings of the
heroes of his Northern home, and he felt in him their strength and their
constancy. What were other men that he should think of them? He was her
accepted friend of all others. She had said she hoped to find in him
what she had never found before; and were not her words "always,
always!" still ringing in his ears? She had found it then in him, this
rare quality of friendship; she had found more,--a man who was a friend
and yet a lover, but who could curb the strong passion to the semblance
and docility of the gentler feeling. And when at last she should give
the long-desired sign, the single glance that bids love speak, she would
find such a lover as was not even dreamt of among the gods of the
Greeks, nor yet among berserk heroes of ice and storm and battle. He
felt to-day that he could endure to the end, for the end was worthy all
endurance.

And now he sat by her side and looked down into her face when she spoke,
and they laughed together. Verily was Claudius the proudest man in all
earth's quarters, and his blue eyes flashed a deep fire, and his
nostrils expanded with the breath of a victory won. Mr. Bellingham, on
the other side of the table, sparkled with a wit and grace that were to
modern table-talk what a rare flagon of old madeira, crusted with years,
but brimming with the imperishable strength and perfume of eternal
youth, might be to a gaudily-ticketed bottle of California champagne,
effervescent, machine-made, cheap, and nasty. And his glance
comprehended the pair, and loved them. He thought they were like a
picture of the North and of the South; and the thought called up
memories in his brave old breast of a struggle that shook the earth to
her foundations, and made him think of problems yet unsolved. He sat in
his place silent for some minutes, and the broad brown hand stroked the
snowy beard in deep thought, so that the conversation flagged, and the
Duke began to talk about the voyage. But Mr. Bellingham took his
brimming glass, filled with the wine that ripened in the sun when he
himself was but a little boy, and he held it a moment to the light; the
juice was clearer now than it had been that day sixty years, and the
hand that held the goblet was as a hand of iron for strength and
steadiness, though the dark fingers might have plucked the grapes on the
day they were pressed. And with an old-time motion he carried it to his
lips, then paused one instant, then drank it slowly, slowly to the last
drop. It was a toast, but the speech was unspoken, and none knew to whom
or to what he drained the measure. In a little time he began to speak
again; the conversation turned upon mutual friends in England, and the
dinner was at an end.

But all through the evening Claudius never left Margaret's side. He
felt that he was bridging over the difference between life at sea and
life on land--that he was asserting his right to maintain in a
drawing-room the privileges he had gained on the deck of the Streak.
And Margaret, moreover, was especially friendly to-night, for she too
felt the difference, and recognised that, after all, life on shore is
the freer. There are certain conventionalities of a drawing-room that a
man is less likely to break through, more certain to remember, than the
unwritten rules of cruising etiquette. Most men who have led a free life
are a little less likely to make love under the restraint of a white tie
than they are when untrammelled by restraints of dress, which always
imply some restraint of freedom.

At least Margaret thought so. And Claudius felt it, even though he would
not acknowledge it. They talked about the voyage; about what they had
said and done, about the accident, and a hundred other things. There is
a moment in acquaintance, in friendship, and in love, when two people
become suddenly aware that they have a common past. Days, weeks, or
months have been spent in conversation, in reading, perhaps in toil and
danger, and they have not thought much about it. But one day they wake
up to the fact that these little or great things bind them, as forming
the portion of their lives that have touched; and as they talk over the
incidents they remember they feel unaccountably drawn to each other by
the past. Margaret and Claudius knew this on the first evening they
spent together on shore. The confusion of landing, the custom-house, the
strange quarters in the great hotel--all composed a drop-curtain
shutting off the ocean scene, and ending thus an episode of their
life-drama. A new act was beginning for them, and they both knew how
much might depend on the way in which it was begun, and neither dared
plan how it should end. At all events, they were not to be separated
yet, and neither anticipated such a thing.

Little by little their voices dropped as they talked, and they recked
little of the others, as the dark cheek of the woman flushed with
interest, and the blue light shone in the man's eyes. Their companions
on the voyage were well used to seeing them thus together, and hardly
noticed them, but Mr. Bellingham's bright eyes stole a glance from time
to time at the beautiful pair in their corner, and the stories of youth
and daring and love, that he seemed so full of this evening, flashed
with an unwonted brilliancy. He made up his mind that the two were
desperately, hopelessly, in love, and he had taken a fancy to Claudius
from the first. There was no reason why they should not be, and he loved
to build up romances, always ending happily, in his fertile imagination.

But at last it was "good-night." Mr. Bellingham was not the man to spend
the entire evening in one house, and he moved towards Margaret, hating
to disturb the couple, but yet determined to do it. He rose, therefore,
still talking, and, as the Duke rose also, cleverly led him round the
chairs until within speaking distance of Margaret, who was still
absorbed in her conversation. Then, having finished the one thread, he
turned round.

"By the by, Countess," he said, "I remember once--" and he told a
graceful anecdote of Margaret's grandmother, which delighted every one,
after which he bowed, like a young lover of twenty, to each of the three
ladies, and departed.

The party dispersed, the Duke and Claudius for half an hour's chat and
a cigar, and the ladies to their rooms. But Claudius and Margaret
lingered one moment in their corner, standing.

"Has it been a happy day for you?" he asked, as she gave her hand.

"Yes, it has been happy. May there be many like it!" she answered.

"There shall be," said Claudius; "good-night, Countess."

"Good-night--good-night, Claudius."

The Duke waited fully ten minutes for the Doctor. It was the second time
she had spoken his name without the formality of a prefix, and Claudius
stood where she left him, thinking. There was nothing so very
extraordinary in it, after all, he thought. Foreign women, especially
Russians, are accustomed to omit any title or prefix, and to call their
intimate friends by their simple names, and it means nothing. But her
voice was so wonderful. He never knew his name sounded so sweet
before--the consonants and vowels, like the swing and fall of a deep
silver bell in perfect cadence. "A little longer," thought Claudius,
"and it shall be hers as well as mine." He took a book from the table
absently, and had opened it when he suddenly recollected the Duke, put
it down and left the room.

Soon a noiseless individual in a white waistcoat and a dress-coat put
his head in at the door, advanced, straightened the chairs, closed the
book the Doctor had opened, put the gas out and went away, shutting the
door for the night, and leaving the room to its recollections. What
sleepless nights the chairs and heavy-gilt glasses and gorgeous carpets
of a hotel must pass, puzzling over the fragments of history that are
enacted in their presence!




CHAPTER XI.


Mr. Barker's urgent engagement up town that evening must have been to
meet some one; but considering that the individual he might be supposed
to be awaiting did not come, he showed a remarkable degree of patience.
He went to a certain quiet club and ordered, with the utmost care, a
meal after his own heart--for one; and though several members hailed him
and greeted him on his return, he did not seem particularly interested
in what they had to say, but sat solitary at his small square table with
its exquisite service; and when he had eaten, and had finished his
modest pint of Pommery Sec, he drank his coffee and smoked his own
cigars in undisturbed contemplation of the soft-tinted wall-paper, and
in calm, though apparently melancholy, enjoyment of the gentle light
that pervaded the room, and of the sweet evening breeze that blew in
from the trees of Madison Square, so restful after the dust and
discomfort of the hot September day.

Whoever it was that he awaited did not come, and yet Mr. Barker
exhibited no sign of annoyance. He went to another room, and sat in a
deep arm-chair with a newspaper which he did not read, and once he took
a scrap of paper from his pocket and made a short note upon it with a
patent gold pencil. It was a very quiet club, and Mr. Barker seemed to
be its quietest member. And well he might be, for he had made up his
mind on a grave point. He had determined to marry.

He had long known it must come, and had said to himself more than once
that "to every man upon this earth death cometh, soon or late;" but
being human, he had put off the evil day, having always thought that it
must, of necessity, be evil. But now it was different. What he had said
to the Duke, and what the Duke had said to him, that evening on the
yacht when they were talking about marriage, was exactly what he had
always expected to occur. The day, he said, must come when the
enterprising mamma will get the better of Silas B. Barker junior. The
girl of the season, with her cartload of bouquets slung all over her,
her neat figure, her pink-and-white complexion and her matchless staying
powers in a ballroom, will descend upon the devoted victim Barker, beak
and talons, like the fish-hawk on the poor, simple minnow innocently
disporting itself in the crystal waters of happiness. There will be
wedding presents, and a breakfast, and a journey, and a prospect of
everlasting misery. All these things, thought he, must come to every man
in time, unless he is a saint, or an author, or has no money, and
therefore they must come to me; but now it was different. If there is to
be any fishing, he thought, I will be the hawk, and the minnow may take
its chance of happiness. Why should the minnow not be happy? I am a
hawk; well--but I am a very good hawk.

But these reflections were not what occupied his mind as he sat with his
second cigar in the reading-room of his quiet club. These things he had
elaborated in his brain at least three days ago, and they had now taken
the form of a decision, against which there could be no appeal, because
it was pleasant to the ego of Mr Barker. Judgments of that sort he
never reversed. He had fully determined to be the hawk, he had picked
out his minnow, and he was meditating the capture of his prey. A great
many people do as much as that, and discover too late that what they
have taken for a minnow is an alligator, or a tartar, or a salamander,
or some evil beast that is too much for their powers. This was what Mr.
Barker was afraid of, and this was what he wished to guard against.
Unfortunately he was a little late in the selection of his victim, and
he knew it. He had determined to marry the Countess Margaret.

He knew perfectly well that Claudius had determined upon the very same
thing, and he knew that Claudius was intimate, to say the least of it,
with the woman he loved. But Barker had made up his mind that Claudius
had been refused, and had accepted the Platonic position offered him by
the Countess, merely because he had not the strength to leave her. "Just
like the vanity of a fellow like that," he argued, "not to be willing to
believe himself beaten." He had drawn the whole situation in his mind
entirely to his own satisfaction. If Claudius could only be removed, any
other man would have as good a chance. The other man is
Barker--therefore, remove Claudius at once. Remove him! Away with him!
Let his place know him no more!

Mr. Barker sat unmoved in his chair; but he contemplated the nail on the
middle finger of his left hand with absorbed interest, even bringing it
nearer the light in order to obtain a better view.

He was one of those men who are seldom altogether unprepared. His mind
was of the Napoleonic order, on a very small scale; with him to think of
the end was to plan the means, and in the days that had followed the
memorable night wherein the idea had struck him that he might marry the
Countess in the teeth of Dr. Claudius, a project had grown up in his
mind whereby he hoped now to effect his purpose. Perhaps the scheme had
developed unconsciously, as often happens with persons whose lives are
spent in planning. Perhaps he fondly hoped--for he was not without
vanity--that he might yet win the Countess fairly, and had only
contemplated his plot as a possibility. Be that as it may, from the
moment he realised that a plan of action was necessary he also realised
that the plan was ready, and he determined to put it into execution. It
was an unfair plan he meditated, bad from the root up, and he knew it;
but he did not hesitate on that account. Silas B. Barker junior had not
enough conscience to make it an object for him to deceive himself as to
the morality of his actions. A year or two since he would perhaps have
defended himself in a general way by saying it was arrogance for a man
to set himself up as any better than his surroundings. But between a
year or two ago and this September evening there was set a gulf,
represented by a couple of transactions in the "street," over which
there was small joy in heaven and very little on earth.

Fair or unfair, it would be so much easier if Claudius were out of the
way. It would simplify Mr. Barker's campaign so much; and, besides, it
was so easy a matter to remove him, for a time at least. How? Why,
simply by asserting that Claudius was not Claudius, that he was not the
late Mr. Lindstrand's nephew, that he had no right to the fortune, and
that if he wished to save himself trouble he had better return
immediately to Heidelberg and resume his duties as a private lecturer in
the University. It was easy enough! Who was there to show that Claudius
was Claudius? There was nothing but the attestation of a wretched
Heidelberg notary, who might easily have been persuaded to swear a
little in consideration of a large bribe.

Besides, reflected Mr. Barker, the real Dr. Claudius was dead. He died
about eight months ago; no doubt it was in the newspapers at the time,
and a newspaper could certainly be found which should contain a notice
of his death. Therefore, if the real Dr. Claudius were dead this Dr.
Claudius was a sham, an impostor, a man obtaining money by personating
the dead--in short, a criminal. However, it might not be necessary to
proceed with all the rigour of the law, and he might be quietly sent
back to Germany.

Of course Mr. Barker was responsible in some measure for having
introduced this villain to the Countess and to the Duke. But how could
Mr. Barker, a creature of sunny, lamb-like innocence, be expected to
know an impostor at first sight? Claudius had acted his part so very
well, you know, and Barker had been deceived by his apparent frankness;
he had not even made any inquiries in Heidelberg, but had simply gone to
the address his father had given him. Of course, also, the pretender had
adopted the obvious expedient of taking the dead man's lodgings; had
installed himself there, and called himself "Dr. Claudius." Nobody in
America had ever seen the real Dr. Claudius; none of the yachting party
had any means of knowing whether he were what he pretended to be or
not; the only person who vouched for him was Silas B. Barker junior. And
if Silas B. Barker junior would not vouch for him any longer, who would,
pray? Obviously, no one.

"Dukes are very pretty things," said Mr. Barker; "and to know them
intimately is a special grace. But they cannot swear to what they do not
know anything about, any more than other people." And he lit another
cigar, and looked at the clock, an old-fashioned black-marble timepiece
with gilded hands. It wanted half an hour of midnight, and Mr. Barker's
solitude had lasted since seven or thereabouts. Some one entered the
room, bidding good-night to some one else at the door. Mr. Barker turned
his eyes, and, recognising a friend, he smiled a wrinkled smile.

"Well, Mr. Screw, how goes it?" he said. "It is some time since we met."

"Happy to meet you, sir; glad to see you," replied the lawyer, putting
out a long hand towards the part of the room where Mr. Barker was
standing.

Mr. Screw was Mr. Scratch's partner. Mr. Screw was very tall, very thin,
and exceedingly yellow. He had thick yellow hair, streaked with gray.
His face seemed bound in old parchment, and his eyes were like brass
nails driven very deep, but bright and fixed when he spoke. He had a
great abundance of teeth of all sizes and shapes; his face was clean
shaven; and he wore a stand-up collar, with a narrow black tie neatly
adjusted in a bow. His feet and hands were of immense size. He was in
evening-dress. He doubled up a few of his joints and deposited himself
in a deep arm-chair--the twin of Barker's--on the other side of the
fireplace.

"I thought very likely you would be here before the evening was out,"
said Mr. Barker. "Yes," he continued after a pause, "that is the reason
I came here. I wanted to see you on business, and I missed you to-day
down town."

"Oh! business, did you say?" inquired the other, rubbing his bony nose
and looking at the empty grate.

"Yes, rather important to you--more than to myself, though it concerns
me too. You have a new client, I believe; the nephew of our old partner
Mr. Lindstrand."

"Dr. Claudius?" asked the lawyer, looking up.

"He calls himself so, at any rate," said Barker.

"What do you mean?" asked Mr. Screw quickly, shifting his position.

"Do you think you have taken all the necessary steps towards
ascertaining that he is the heir--the right man--the real Dr. Claudius?"

"Great heavens!" exclaimed the lawyer, surprised and terribly frightened
by Barker's insinuation, "you don't mean to say there is any doubt about
it, do you?"

"I am inclined to think there is doubt--yes, decidedly. It is a very
serious matter, and I thought it best to speak to you about it before
talking to my father. You see, though the loss might fall on us,
indirectly, the moral responsibility is yours, since you are the lawyers
in the case."

"But your father is one of the executors, Mr. Barker," said Mr. Screw,
who felt obliged to say something, and wanted to gain time.

"My father--yes," and Barker smiled disagreeably. "Yes, he is one of the
executors. But you yourself are the other, Mr. Screw. And as far as any
intelligence in the matter is concerned, you might be alone." Barker
was willing to flatter the lawyer at the expense of his fond parent.
Screw would be of more use to him than many fathers in this matter. Mr.
Screw relapsed into silence, and sat for some minutes, hooking one leg
behind the other, and thrusting as much of his hands into his pockets as
those receptacles would contain. After a time he changed his position,
heaved a species of sigh that sounded like the sudden collapse of a set
of organ-bellows, and ran his fingers through his thick hair.

Barker thought he was going to speak. But he was mistaken; Mr. Screw was
too much taken aback to speak yet. Then Barker spoke for him.

"Well," said he, caressing his foot and looking at the ceiling, "what
are you going to do about it?"

"I shall do what is proper in such cases. I will stop his drawing any
more money, and investigate the matter. If this is not the real
Claudius, the real Claudius must be somewhere, and can be found."

"Perhaps he is dead," suggested Barker.

"It is about as easy to find a dead man as a live man," said Screw. "It
is a surer thing, on the whole. A dead man can't change his clothes, and
get his beard shaved off, and cavoort around the corner."

"Not generally speaking," said the other, "no well-regulated corpse
would do it, anyhow. Besides, if he is dead, there must have been some
notice of it in the Heidelberg papers. He belonged to the University,
and they always put those things in the local sheet in Germany."

"That's so," said the lawyer. "Do you know anybody in Heidelberg who
would look the matter up, Mr. Barker?"

Mr. Barker did know some one in Heidelberg--the very man, in fact. He
would write immediately, and set the inquiry on foot. Meanwhile there
were other things to be settled. After the first shock the lawyer was
not inclined to let Barker off so easily for having indorsed a man he
suspected of being a humbug. Barker retorted that he had found Claudius
in possession of the documents transmitted by Messrs. Screw and Scratch,
and that it was not his fault if he supposed that those astute gentlemen
had taken proper precautions to ascertain the identity of their client.
He went into many details, explaining how his suspicions had been
aroused by degrees in the course of many conversations. He was expecting
a question from Mr. Screw. At last it came.

"Mr. Barker," said Screw, fixing his brass-headed eyes intently on his
companion--for Mr. Screw was no fool--"Mr. Barker, you brought this man
over here, and you know him better than any one else. Now, what I want
to know is this. He may be the right man, after all. What we are going
to do is entirely precautionary. Do you want to appear or not?" Barker
had not expected the question to be put so directly, but he was
perfectly prepared for it.

"I am sure I do not care," he said, with a fine indifference. "I have no
objection. It is a mere question of expediency; do not consider me in
the matter. Do what you think is right," he added, emphasising the last
word, and meeting Screw's glance boldly enough. Screw looked at him for
a moment or two in silence, and then turned his eyes away. There was the
faintest reflection of a smile on his yellow face, and the expression
became him well. Screw was astute, sharp as a ferret, relentless as a
steel-corkscrew, crushing its cruel way through the creaking cork; but
Screw was an honest man, as the times go. That was the difference
between him and Barker. Screw's smile was his best expression, Barker's
smile was of the devil, and very wily. Screw smiled because he was
amused. Barker smiled when he was successful.

"I think for the present," said Mr. Screw, "that unless you positively
wish to appear, it would be as well that you should not. If we are
mistaken, and the Doctor is really what he pretends to be, it will be
very unpleasant for you afterwards to have been concerned in an inquiry
into the validity of his rights."

"Do you think so?" asked Barker, looking languidly across at Mr. Screw.
"Very well, in that case you may conduct the inquiry, and I will not
appear. I shall meet him just as if nothing had happened, and let him
tell me what you have done. Of course he will tell me, the first thing.
Besides, as you say, he may be the right man, after all."

"Exactly," said Mr. Screw. He knew perfectly well that Barker would not
want Claudius to know the part he had played, in case all turned out to
be right, though he did not know that Barker was deceiving him. He
supposed that Barker really had serious doubts about Claudius, and as
there was no one else to vouch for the latter, he was very honestly
frightened. He reviewed the situation in his own mind, and he came to
the conclusion that he had really been remiss in the performance of his
duties as executor. It had not seemed in the least probable that any
deception could be practised, and yet, when all was said, there was only
the Heidelberg notary's attestation of the signature to support the
claimant of Mr. Lindstrand's fortune. This reflection comforted Mr.
Screw a little. At all events, he would be perfectly justified in
calling on Claudius and stating his difficulty, requesting him to give
what assistance was in his power towards a speedy identification of
himself. In the meantime he set himself to cross-examine Mr. Barker,
endeavouring to extract all the information he could. But extracting
information from Mr. Barker was no easy task, as he very soon found, and
as the hands of the clock pointed to one, he rose slowly, as by stages,
from the depths of his arm-chair, and made up his mind that Barker did
not know very much about the matter, though he knew more than any one
else, and that the only thing to be done was to go straight to Claudius
and state the case. No honest man ever had much difficulty in proving
who he was, thought Mr. Screw, and if he is an impostor, he will very
likely not show fight at all, but make off to parts unknown, where he
can very easily be caught.

Barker rose from his seat too, and took leave of the lawyer, well
pleased with the result of his evening's work. It was very satisfactory.
He had produced exactly the impression on Mr. Screw's mind which he had
intended to produce; and having set that engine of the law in motion, he
knew that he could fold his hands and proceed to enjoy himself after his
manner. He knew that everything would be done which could contribute to
annoy and mortify Claudius, and that it would be done in such a way,
with such paraphernalia of legal courtesy and mercantile formality, that
the unhappy Doctor could not complain. Barker had shrewdly calculated
the difficulties Claudius would have to surmount in identifying himself
in a strange country, without friends, and against the prejudices of Mr.
Screw, his uncle's executor. Moreover, if, after countless efforts and
endless trouble, Claudius succeeded, as he probably would, in obtaining
his fortune, Barker would be no worse off than before. He would have
done nothing assailable, and he would have gained all the advantages of
the time Claudius lost, not to mention the cloud of suspicion which must
inevitably rest on the Doctor, until he should succeed in clearing
himself before the world. With skill, courage, and money, there was no
telling what progress Barker might make in his suit for the Countess,
before Claudius was himself again. With such an advantage, if he could
not outdo the Swede, he did not deserve to.

So saying, Mr. Barker, left once more alone in the sitting-room, paced
slowly twice round the table, looked at himself in the glass, twisted
his heavy moustache into shape, and smoothed his hair. Then he took his
hat and went out. There was a cab at the door of the club, and in a
minute more he was spinning along Fifth Avenue, in the direction of his
father's house.

The machinery was wound up, and he had nothing more to do. To-morrow
morning Claudius would pass a bad quarter of an hour with Mr. Screw, and
in the afternoon Barker would call upon him and offer such consolation
as was in his power; and when he had called on Claudius, he would call
on the Countess Margaret and tell her what sad sceptics these legal
people were, everlastingly pestering peaceable citizens in the hope of
extracting from them a few miserable dollars. And he would tell her how
sorry he was that Claudius should be annoyed, and how he, Barker, would
see him through--that is, he hoped so; for, he would add, of course,
such men as Mr. Screw and his own father would not make so much trouble
if they did not at least think they had some cause for anxiety; and so
forth, and so on. And he would leave the Countess with a most decided
impression that there was something wrong about Claudius. Oh yes!
something not quite clear about his antecedents, you know. Of course
it would come right in the end--no doubt of that; oh dear, no.

It was a happy night for Mr. Barker; but Claudius slept ill. He had an
evil dream.




CHAPTER XII


When Mr. Screw called at Claudius's hotel the next day, the Doctor had
gone out. Mr. Screw said he would wait, and sat down with a book to pass
the time, for he was fond of reading in his leisure moments, few as they
were. Claudius had left the house early in the morning, and had gone to
find the spot where his uncle had been buried--no easy matter, in the
vast cemetery where the dead men lie in hundreds of thousands, in
stately avenues and imposing squares, in houses grand and humble, high
and low, but all closed and silent with the grandeur of a great waiting.
Claudius was not sentimental in this pilgrimage; it was with him a
matter of course, a duty which he performed naturally for the
satisfaction of his conscience. He could not have told any other reason,
though, if he had been called upon to analyse the feeling which impels
most men to do the same thing, under the same circumstances, he would
have replied that a scientific explanation of the fact could only be
found in the ancient practices of "ancestor worship," of which some
trace remains unto this day. But he would have added that it was a
proper mark of reverence and respect for the dead, and that man
naturally inclines to fulfil such obligations, unless deterred by
indolence or the fear of ridicule. At any rate, he went alone; and it
was late in the afternoon before he came back.

When at last he returned, he was not surprised to find Mr. Screw
awaiting him. He had not found that gentleman on his first visit to Pine
Street; and it seemed very natural that his uncle's executor should call
upon him. He was cordial and courteous to his visitor, who took the
Doctor's measure, and looked into his honest eyes, and realised that
this claimant to Lindstrand's money was undoubtedly a very fine fellow
indeed. Mr. Screw felt that it would be hard to tell such a man to his
face that he was not altogether satisfied of his identity. But then, as
the lawyer reflected, swindlers are generally fine fellows; indeed,
their imposing appearance is often their whole capital and
stock-in-trade. Mr. Screw had a profound knowledge of mankind, and he
immediately determined upon his course of action, which should be
cautious, but at the same time honest and straightforward. After a
preliminary exchange of civilities, he opened fire.

"I have come on very delicate business, Dr. Claudius," said he; and he
hooked one leg behind the other as he sat and ran his hands through his
hair. Claudius settled himself in his chair and waited, not having any
idea what the business might be.

"You will readily understand," continued Mr. Screw, "that in my position
I feel obliged to take every conceivable precaution in administering the
estate of the late Mr. Lindstrand. You will, therefore, not be offended
at what I am going to say. My personality has nothing to do with it, nor
can any personal impression you produce upon me, no matter how
favourable, be considered in the light of evidence. I have never seen
you before, and I am bound to say that the little I know of you,
although perfectly satisfactory as far as it goes, is not sufficient to
prove in a court that you are really the person indicated in Mr.
Lindstrand's will." Here Mr. Screw paused to see how Claudius would take
the hint that more evidence was required.

But Claudius, the embodiment of calm strength, intellectual and
physical, was not to be moved by such trifles. He showed not the
slightest emotion, nor did he betray any especial interest in what the
lawyer was saying. His attitude was that of attention to a matter which
it was his duty to understand and to elucidate. But that was all. He
wished Mr. Screw would talk a little faster, and say what he required
and go; but he was too courteous to hurry him.

"My dear sir," he answered, "I fully understand your position, and any
apology from you would be out of place. Pray proceed."

"I have nothing more to say," said Mr. Screw, astonished at so much
indifference where a great fortune was concerned. "I like to be brief in
such matters. I have nothing more to say, sir, excepting that I would be
greatly obliged if you would put into my hands such documents as you may
think proper for the full establishing of your rights."

"Very well," said Claudius. "If you will tell me what evidence you
require I will procure it immediately." With that he rose, and lighted
a cigarette.

"A properly-attested certificate of your birth would be all-sufficient,"
said Mr. Screw, who began to feel relieved by the conduct of the Doctor.
The latter, however, suddenly stood still with the match in his fingers,
and looked at the lawyer with a curious scrutiny.

"I would prefer," he said, "to give some other evidence of my identity
than that, if it is the same to you."

"If you prefer it, of course," said the lawyer coldly. His suspicions
were immediately roused, for he had named the simplest description of
document he could think of, and it seemed odd that the Doctor should be
so evidently disinclined to produce it.

"I suppose," said the Doctor, "that the formal attestation of my
identity by the authorities of the University of Heidelberg would be
sufficient?"

"Yes, I should think so," said Screw cautiously. "But will it not take
some time to procure that?"

"Well? If it does, what then?"

"Only that--you will understand that until this matter is settled I
should not feel justified in authorising you to draw upon the estate."

Claudius's sense of logic was offended.

"My dear sir," he replied, "have I drawn upon the estate for a single
dollar yet?"

"No, sir, I am bound to say you have not, although you might have
considered it natural to do so, and we should have put no obstacle--"
Mr. Screw stopped short. He had betrayed himself, and felt extremely
embarrassed. But he said enough to give Claudius an idea of the
situation. Something had occurred, some one had spoken, to cast a doubt
on his identity; and Mr. Screw was the chosen emissary of that "some
one."

"Then, Mr. Screw," said the Doctor in measured tones, "I would admonish
you to be more careful how you insinuate that I might do anything of the
kind. You have inconvenienced me quite enough already. You had better
not inconvenience me any more. I consider your conduct a piece of
unparalleled clumsiness, and your language little short of impertinent.
What you have said now you should have said in the letter which
announced my uncle's death. Or you should have instructed Mr. Barker,
who was abroad at the time and found me in Heidelberg, to make the
necessary investigations. The evidence shall be forthcoming in proper
season, and until then I do not desire the advantage of your company."

Mr. Screw was so much astonished with this mode of address from a man
whom he had foolishly imagined to be good-natured that he stood a moment
by the table hesitating what he should say. Claudius took up a book and
began to read.

"Well," said he, perceiving that Mr. Screw was still in the room, "why
don't you go?"

"Really, Dr. Claudius, I am not accustomed--" he began.

"Go," said Claudius, interrupting him; "it is not of the smallest
interest to me to know what you are accustomed to. There is the door."

"Sir--"

"Do you prefer the window?" asked the Doctor, rising in great wrath and
striding towards the unhappy lawyer. Mr. Screw instantly made up his
mind that the door was preferable, and disappeared. When he was gone
Claudius sat down again. He was very angry; but, in his own view, his
anger was just. It was very clear to him, from the words Mr. Screw had
inadvertently let fall, that some one had, for reasons unknown,
undertaken to cause him a great deal of unpleasantness. What he had said
to Screw was not to be denied. If there was any question as to his
identity, full proof should have been required from the first. But his
autograph letter from Heidelberg, attested by a notary, had been
accepted as sufficient; and "Screw and Scratch" had answered the
letter, and Claudius had received their answer in Baden. It had never
entered his head that anything more would be required. So long as Screw
had confined himself to stating his position, merely asking for further
evidence, the Doctor had nothing to say. But at the suggestion that
Claudius might want to draw money from the estate before his claims were
fully established, he lost his temper. It was an imputation on his
honour; and, however slight it might seem to Mr. Screw, Claudius was not
the man to bear it.

Ten minutes later Mr. Barker walked in unannounced. It was natural
enough that he should call, but Claudius did not want him. The Doctor
had not had time to think over the situation, but he had, a vague
impression that Barker had something to do with this sudden cloud of
annoyance that had risen to darken his path. Barker, on his side, was
prepared for storms, but he intended to play the part of confidential
friend and consoler. Claudius, however, wanted neither friends nor
consolation, and he was in the worst of tempers. Nevertheless, he rose
and offered his guest a chair, and asked him how he did. Barker took the
chair and said he was fairly well, on the way to recovery from the
voyage.

"What have you been doing all day, Claudius?" he asked.

"I have been to a place called Greenwood, to see where they had buried
my uncle," answered Claudius, and relapsed into silence.

"No wonder you look so gloomy. Whatever induced you to do such a thing?"

"I was not induced," said Claudius. "He was my last relation in the
world, and I did the only thing I could to honour his memory, which was
to go and see his grave."

"Yes, very proper, I am sure," replied Barker. "If my relations would
begin and die, right away, I would trot around and see their graves fast
enough!"

Claudius was silent.

"What on earth is the matter with you, Claudius? Have you got a
headache, or are you going to be married?"

Claudius roused himself, and offered Barker a cigar.

"There is nothing the matter," he said; "I suppose my excursion has made
me a little gloomy; but I shall soon get over that. There are matches on
the mantelpiece."

"Thanks. Why did you not come down town to-day? Oh! of course you were
away. It was very good fun. We had a regular bear garden."

"It looked like something of that sort yesterday when I was there."

"Yesterday? Oh! you had never been there before. Yes, it is always like
that. I say, come and take a drive in the park before dinner."

"No, thanks. I am very sorry, but I have an appointment in a few
minutes. I would like to go very much; you are very kind."

"Business?" asked the inquisitive Mr. Barker.

"Well--yes, if you like, business."

"Oh!" said Barker. "By the by, have you seen any of your lawyer people
to-day?" Barker had expected that Claudius would confide to him the
trouble Screw was raising. But as Claudius did not begin, Barker asked
the question.

"Yes," answered the Doctor, "Screw has been here. In fact he is just
gone."

"Anything wrong?" inquired the tormentor.

"No, nothing wrong that I know of," said Claudius. Then he suddenly
turned sharply on Barker, and looked straight at him. "Did you expect to
hear that there was anything wrong?" he asked quickly. Claudius had a
very unpleasant way of turning upon his antagonist just a minute before
the enemy was ready for him. Barker had found this out before, and,
being now directly interrogated, he winced perceptibly.

"Oh dear, no," he hastened to say. "But lawyers are great bores
sometimes, especially where wills are concerned. And I thought perhaps
Screw might be wearying you with his formalities."

"No," said Claudius indifferently, "nothing to--" he was interrupted by
a knock at the door. It was the Duke's servant, a quiet man in gray
clothes and gray whiskers. He had a bald head and bright eyes.

"His Grace's compliments, sir, and can you see him now, sir?"

"Yes, I will come in a moment," said Claudius.

"I think, sir," said the man, "that his Grace is coming to your rooms."

"Very good. My compliments, and I shall be glad to see him." The gray
servant vanished.

Barker rose to go; but Claudius was begging him not to hurry, when there
was another knock, and the Duke entered. He shook hands with Claudius,
and spoke rather coldly to Barker. The latter was uneasy, and felt that
he was in the way. He was. Barker had fallen into a singular error of
judgment in regard to the relations existing between the Duke and
Claudius. He had imagined it in his power to influence the Duke's
opinion, whereas in trying to effect that object he had roused the
Englishman's animosity. Besides, Mr. Barker was to the Duke a caprice.
He found the quick-thinking man of business amusing and even useful, but
for steady companionship he did not want him. A passage across the
Atlantic was more than enough to satisfy his desire for Mr. Barker's
society, even if Barker had not managed to excite his indignation. But
Claudius was different. The honest nobleman could not tell why it was,
but it was true, nevertheless. He looked upon the Doctor more as an
equal than Barker. The Duke was a very great man in his own country, and
it was singular indeed that he should find a man to his liking, a man
who seemed of his own caste and calibre, in the simple privat-docent
of a German university. Perhaps Barker felt it too. At all events, when
the Duke sat himself down in Claudius's room, after begging permission
to ring for lights, and made himself most evidently at home, Mr. Barker
felt that he was in the way; and so, promising to call on Claudius again
in the morning, he departed. Claudius stood by the mantelpiece while the
servant lit the gas.

"I am very glad to see you," he said, when the man had gone.

"I am glad of that, for I want your society. The Countess Margaret has a
headache, and Lady Victoria has gone to dine in her rooms, and to spend
the evening with her."

"I am very sorry to hear that the Countess is not well," said Claudius,
"but I am very glad of anything that brings you here to-night. I am in
trouble--that is, I have been very much annoyed."

"Ah, very sorry," said the Duke.

"It so happens that you are the only person in America, as far as I
know, who can help me."

"I?" The Duke opened his eyes wide. Then he reflected that it might be
something concerning the Countess, and waited.

"You are a gentleman," said Claudius reflectively, and hardly addressing
his visitor as he said it.

"Quite so," said the Duke. "It's a very fine word that."

"And a man of honour," continued Claudius in a meditative tone.

