Nino relaxed his hold, and stood off, still grasping the knife. The old count breathed, shook him 
self and passed his handkerchief over his face before 
he spoke. The baroness stood as though she were 
petrified. 

" Thunder-weather, you are a devilish young man ! " 
said Von Lira, still panting. Then he suddenly recovered his dignity. " You have caused me to assault 
this young man, by what you told me," he said, struggling to his feet. " He defended himself, and might 
have killed me, had he chosen. Be good enough to 
tell me whether he has spoken the truth, or you." 

"He has spoken the truth," answered the baron 
ess, staring vacantly about her. Her fright had 
taken from her even the faculty of lying. Her voice 
was low, but she articulated the words distinctly. 
Then, suddenly, she threw up her hands, with a 
short, quick scream, and fell forward, senseless, on 



 

the floor. Nino looked at the count, and dropped 
his knife on a table. The count looked at Nino. 

"Sir," said the old gentleman, "I forgive you for 
resisting my assault. I do not forgive you for presuming to love my daughter, and I will find means 
to remind you of the scandal you have brought on 
my house." He drew himself up to his full height. 
Nino handed him his crutch-stick civilly. 

"Signor Conte," he said, simply, but with all his 
natural courtesy, " I am sorry for this affair, to which 
you forced me, or rather the Signora Baronessa 
forced us both. I have acted foolishly, perhaps, but 
I am in love. And permit me to assure you, sir, that 
I will yet marry the Signorina di Lira, if she consents to marry me." 

"By the name of Heaven," swore the old count, 
"if she wants to marry a singer, she shall." 

He limped to the door in sullen anger, and went 
out. Nino turned to the prostrate figure of the poor 
baroness. The continued strain on her nerves had 
broken her down, and she lay on the floor in a dead 
faint. Nino put a cushion from the lounge under 
her head, and rang the bell. The servant appeared 
instantly. 

"Bring water quickly! " he cried. "The signora 
has fainted." He stood looking at the senseless figure 
of the woman, as she lay across the rich Persian rugs 
that covered the floor. 

" Why did you not bring salts, cologne, her maid 
run, I tell you! " he said to the man, who brought 
the glass of water on a gilded tray. 

He had forgotten that the fellow could not be expected to have any sense. When her people came at 
last, he had sprinkled her face, and she had unconsciously swallowed enough of the water to have some 
effect in reviving her. She began to open her eyes, 
and her fingers moved nervously. Nino found his 
hat, and, casting one glance round the room that had 
just witnessed such strange doings, passed through 
the door and went out. The baroness was left with 
her servants. Poor woman! She did very wrong, 
perhaps, but anybody would have loved her except 
Nino. She must have been terribly shaken, one 
would have thought, and she ought to have gone to 
lie down, and should have sent for the doctor to bleed 
her. But she did nothing of the kind. 

She came to see me. I was alone in the house, 
late in the afternoon, when the sun was just gilding 
the tops of the houses. I heard the doorbell ring, 
and I went to answer it myself. There stood the 
beautiful baroness, alone, with all her dark soft things 
around her, as pale as death, and her eyes swollen 
sadly with weeping. Nino had come home and told 
me something about the scene in the morning, and I 
can tell you I gave him a piece of my mind about his 
follies. 

" Does Professor Cornelio Grandi live here ? " she 
asked, in a low voice. 

" I am he, signora," I answered. " Will you please 
to come in ? " 

And so she came into our little sitting-room, and 
sat over there in the old green arm-chair. I shall 
never forget it as long as I livo. 

I cannot tell you all she said in that brief half- 



 

hour, for it pains me to think of it. She spoke as 
though I were her confessor, so humbly and quietly, 
as though it had all happened ten years ago. There 
is no stubbornness in those tiger women when once 
they break down. 

She said she was going away; that she had done 
my boy a great wrong, and wished to make such reparation as she could by telling me, at least, the truth. 
She did not scruple to say that she had loved him, nor 
that she had done everything in her power to keep 
him ; though he had never so much as looked at her, 
she added pathetically. She wished to have me 
know exactly how it had happened, no matter what I 
might think of her. 

"You are a nobleman, count," she said to me at 
last, " and I can trust you as one of my own people, 
I am sure. Yes, I know : you have been unfortunate, 
and are now a professor. But that does not change 
the blood. I can trust you. You need not tell him 
I came, unless you wish it. I shall never see him 
again. I am glad to have been here, to see where he 
lives." 

She rose, and moved to go. I confess that the 
tears were in my eyes. There was a pile of music 
on the old piano. There was a loose leaf on the top, 
with his name written on it. She took it in her 
hand, and looked inquiringly at me out of her sad 
eyes. I knew she wanted to take it, and I nodded. 

"I shall never see him again, you know." Her 
voice was gentle and weak, and she hastened to the 
door; so that almost before I knew it she was gone. 

The sun had left the red-tiled roofs opposite, and 



 

the goldfinch was silent in his cage. So I sat down 
in the chair where she had rested, and folded my 
hands, and thought, as I am always thinking ever 
since, how I could have loved such a woman as that; 
so passionate, so beautiful, so piteously sorry for 
what she had done that was wrong. Ah me, for the 
years that are gone away so cruelly, for the days so 
desperately dead! Give me but one of those golden 
days, and I would make the pomp of emperors ridiculous. A greater man than I said that, a man 
over the seas, with a great soul, who wrote in a 
foreign tongue, but spoke a language germain to all 
human speech. But even he cannot bring back one 
of those dear days. I would give much to have that 
one day back, when she came and told me all her 
woes. But that is impossible. 

When they came to wake her in the morning the 
very morning after that she was dead in her bed; 
the colour gone for ever from those velvet cheeks, the 
fire quenched out of those passionate eyes, past power 
of love or hate to rekindle. Requiescat in pace, and 
may God give her eternal rest and forgiveness for all 
her sins. Poor, beautiful, erring woman! 



 



CHAPTER IX. 

AT nine o clock on the morning of the baroness's 
death, as Nino was busy singing scales, there was a 
ring at the door, and presently Mariuccia came run 
ning in as fast as her poor old legs could carry her, 
and whiter than a pillow-case, to say that there was 
a man at the door with two gendarmes, asking for 
Nino ; and before I could question her, the three men 
walked unbidden into the room, demanding which 
was Giovanni Cardegna, the singer. Nino started, 
and then said quietly that he was the man. I have 
had dealings with these people, and I know what is 
best to be done. They were inclined to be rough and 
very peremptory. I confess I was frightened; but I 
think I am more cunning when I am a little afraid. 

"Mariuccia," I said, as she stood trembling in the 
doorway, waiting to see what should happen, " fetch 
a flask of that old wine, and serve these gentlemen, 
and a few chestnuts, if you have some. Be seated, 
signori," I said to them, "and take one of these 
cigars. My boy is a singer, and you would not hurt 
his voice by taking him out so early on this raw 
morning. Sit down, Nino, and ask these gentlemen 
what they desire." 

They all sat down, somewhat sullenly, and the 
gendarmes sabres clanked on the brick floor. 



 

" What do you wish from me ? " asked Nino, who 
was not much moved after the first surprise. 

"We regret to say," answered the man in plain 
clothes, "that we are here to arrest you." 

" May I inquire on what charge ? " I asked. " But 
first let me fill your glasses. Dry throats make 
surly answers, as the proverb says." They drank. 
It chanced that the wine was good, being from my 
own vineyard, my little vineyard that I bought 
outside of Porta Salara, and the men were cold and 
wet, for it was raining. 

"Well," said the man who had spoken before, he 
was clean-shaved and fat, and he smacked his lips 
over the wine, " it is not our way to answer ques 
tions. But since you are so civil, I will tell you 
that you are arrested on suspicion of having poisoned 
that Russian baroness, with the long name, at whose 
house you have been so intimate." 

"Poisoned? The baroness poisoned? Is she very 
ill, then ? " asked Nino, in great alarm. 

"She is dead," said the fat man, wiping his mouth, 
and twisting the empty glass in his hand. 

"Dead! " cried Nino and I together. 

" Dead yes ; as dead as St. Peter, " he answered 
irreverently. "Your wine is good, Signor Professore. Yes, I will take another glass and my men, 
too. Yes, she was found dead this morning, lying 
in her bed. You were there yesterday, Signor Cardegna, and her servant says he saw you giving her 
something in a glass of water." He drank a long 
draught. " You would have done better to give her 
some of this wine, my friend. She would certainly 



 

be alive to-day." But Nino was dark and thought 
ful. He must have been pained and terribly shocked 
at the sudden news, of course, but he did not admire 
her as I did. 

"Of course this thing will soon be over," he said 
at last. "I am very much grieved to hear of the 
lady's death, but it is absurd to suppose that I was 
concerned in it, however it happened. She fainted 
suddenly in the morning when I was there, and I 
gave her some water to drink, but there was nothing 
in it." He clasped his hands on his knee, and looked 
much distressed. 

"It is quite possible that you poisoned her," remarked the fat man, with annoying indifference. 
" The servant says he overheard high words between 
you"

"He overheard?" cried Nino, springing to his 
feet. "Cursed beast, to listen at the door!" He 
began to walk about excitedly. " How long is this 
affair to keep me ? " he asked suddenly. " I have to 
sing to-night and that poor lady lying there dead 
oh, I cannot! " 

"Perhaps you will not be detained more than a 
couple of hours," said the fat man. "And perhaps 
you will be detained until the Day of Judgment," 
he added, with a sly wink at the gendarmes, who 
laughed obsequiously. " By this afternoon, the doctors will know of what she died ; and if there was no 
poison, and she died a natural death, you can go to 
the theatre and sing, if you have the stomach. I 
would, I am sure. You see, she is a great lady, and 
the people of her embassy are causing everything to 



 

be done very quickly. If you had poisoned that old 
lady who brought us this famous wine a minute ago, 
you might have had to wait till next year, innocent 
or guilty." It struck me that the wine was producing its effect. 

"Very well," said Nino, resolutely; "let us go. 
You shall see that I am perfectly ready, although the 
news has shaken me much ; and so you will permit 
me to walk quietly with you, without attracting any 
attention ? " 

"Oh, we would not think of incommoding you," 
said the fat man. "The orders were expressly to 
give you every convenience, and we have a private 
carriage below. Signer Grandi, we thank you for 
your civility. Good-morning a thousand excuses. " 

He bowed, and the gendarmes rose to their feet, 
refreshed and ruddy with the good wine. Of course 
I knew I could not accompany them, and I was too 
much frightened to have been of any use. Poor 
Mariuccia was crying in the kitchen. 

" Send word to Jacovacci, the manager, if you do 
not hear by twelve o clock," Nino called back from 
the landing, and the door closed behind them all. 
I was left alone, sad and frightened, and I felt very 
old, much older than I am. 

It was tragic. Mechanically I sank into the old 
green arm-chair, where she had sat but yesterday 
evening, she whom I had seen but twice, once in 
the theatre and once here, but of whom I had heard 
so much. And she was dead, so soon. If Nino 
could only have heard her last words and seen her 
last look, he would have been more hurt when he 



 

heard of her sudden death. But he is of stone, that 
man, save for his love and his art. He seems to 
have no room left for sympathy with human ills, nor 
even for fear on his own account. Fear! how I 
hate the word ! Nino did not seem frightened at all, 
when they took him away. But as for me well, it 
was not for myself this time, at least. That is some 
comfort. I think one may be afraid for other people. 
Mariuccia was so much disturbed that I was obliged 
to go myself to get De Pretis, who gave up all his 
lessons that day and came to give me his advice. He 
looked grave and spoke very little, but he is a broad- 
shouldered, genial man, and very comforting. He 
insisted on going himself at once to see Nino, to give 
him all the help he could. He would not hear of my 
going, for he said I ought to be bled and have some 
tea of mallows to calm me. And when I offered him 
a cigar from the box of good ones Nino had given me, 
he took six or seven, and put them into his pocket 
without saying a word. But I did not grudge them 
of him ; for though he is very ridiculous, with his 
skull-cap and his snuff-box, he is a leal man, as we 
say, who stands by his friends and snaps his fingers 
at the devil. 

I cannot describe to you the anxiety I felt through 
all that day. I could not eat, nor drink, nor write. 
I could not smoke, and when I tried to go to sleep 
that cat an apoplexy on her ! climbed up on my 
shoulder and clawed my hair. Mariuccia sat moan 
ing in the kitchen, and could not cook at all, so that 
I was half starved. 

At three o clock De Pretis came back. 



 

"Courage, conte mio!" he cried; and I knew it 
was all right. " Courage ! Nino is at liberty again, 
and says he will sing to-night to show them he is not 
a clay doll, to be broken by a little knocking about. 
Ah, what a glorious boy Nino is ! " 

"But where is he?" I asked, when I could find 
voice to speak, for I was all trembling. 

" He is gone for a good walk, to freshen his nerves, 
poverino. I wonder he has any strength left. For 
Heaven's sake, give me a match that I may light my 
cigar, and then I will tell you all about it. Thank 
you. And I will sit down, comfortably so. Now 
you must know that the baroness requiescat ! 
was not poisoned by Nino, nor by anyone else." 

" Of course not! Go on." 

"Piano, slow and sure. They had a terrific 
scene yesterday. You know ? Yes. Then she went 
out and tired herself, poor soul, so that when she 
got home she had an attack of the nerves. Now 
these foreigners, who are a pack of silly people, do 
not have themselves bled and drink malva water as 
we do when we get a fit of anger. But they take 
opium; that is, a thing they call chloral. God 
knows what it is made of, but it puts them to sleep, 
like opium. When the doctors came to look at the 
poor lady, they saw at once what was the matter, and 
called the maid. The maid said her mistress certainly had some queer stuff in a little bottle, which 
she often used to take; and when they inquired 
further they heard that the baroness had poured out 
much more than usual the night before, while the 
maid was combing her hair, for she seemed terribly 



 

excited and restless. So they got the bottle and 
found it nearly empty. Then the doctors said, At 
what time was this young man who is now arrested 
seen to give her the glass of water ? The man-servant said it was about two in the afternoon. So the 
doctors knew that if Nino had given her the chloral 
she could not have gone out afterwards, and have 
been awake at eleven in the evening when her maid 
was with her, and yet have been hurt by what he 
gave her. And so, as Jacovacci was raising a thousand devils in every corner of Rome because they 
had arrested his principal singer on false pretences, 
and was threatening to bring suits against everybody, 
including the Russian embassy, the doctors, and the 
government, if Nino did not appear in Faust to 
night, according to his agreement, the result was 
that, half an hour ago, Nino was conducted out of the 
police precincts with ten thousand apologies, and put 
into the arms of Jacovacci, who wept for joy, and 
carried him off to a late breakfast at Morteo's. And 
then I came here. But I made Nino promise to take 
a good walk for his digestion, since the weather has 
changed. For a breakfast at three in the afternoon 
may be called late, even in Rome. And that reminds 
me to ask you for a drop of wine ; for I am still fasting, and this talking is worse for the throat than a 
dozen high masses." 

Mariuccia had been listening at the door, as usual, 
and she immediately began crying for joy; for she is 
a weak-minded old thing, and dotes on Nino. I was 
very glad myself, I can tell you ; but I could not understand how Nino could have the heart to sing, or 



 

should lack heart so much as to be fit for it. Before 
the evening he came home, silent and thoughtful. I 
asked him whether he were not glad to be free so 
easily. 

" That is not a very intelligent question for a philosopher like you to ask," he answered. "Of course 
I am glad of my liberty ; any man would be. But I 
feel that I am as much the cause of that poor lady's 
death as though I had killed her with my own hands. 
I shall never forgive myself." 

"Diana! " I cried, "it is a horrible tragedy; but it 
seems to me that you could not help it if she chose to 
love you." 

"Hush!" said he, so sternly that he frightened 
me. " She is dead. God give her soul rest. Let us 
not talk of what she did." 

"But," I objected, "if you feel so strongly about 
it, how can you sing at the opera to-night? " 

" There are plenty of reasons why I should sing. 
In the first place, I owe it to my engagement with 
Jacovacci. He has taken endless trouble to have me cleared at once, and I will not disappoint him. Besides, I have not lost my voice, and might be half 
ruined by breaking contract so early. Then, the 
afternoon papers are full of the whole affair, some 
right and some wrong, and I am bound to show the 
Contessina di Lira that this unfortunate accident 
does not touch my heart, however sorry I may be. 
If I did not appear, all Rome would say it was 
because I was heart-broken. If she does not go to the 
theatre, she will at least hear of it. Therefore I will 
sing." It was very reasonable of him to think so. 



 

" Have any of the papers got hold of the story of 
your giving lessons ? " 

" No, I think not ; and there is no mention of the 
Lira family." 

"So much the better." 

Hedwig did not go to the opera. Of course she 
was quite right. However she might feel about the 
baroness, it would have been in the worst possible 
taste to go to the opera the very day after her death. 
That is the way society puts it. It is bad taste ; they 
never say it is heartless, or unkind, or brutal. It is 
simply bad taste. Nino sang, on the whole, better 
than if she had been there, for he put his whole soul 
in his art, and won fresh laurels. When it was over 
he was besieged by the agent of the London manager 
to come to some agreement. 

"I cannot tell yet," he said. "I will tell you 
soon." He was not willing to leave Rome, that 
was the truth of the matter. He thought of nothing, 
day or night, but of how he might see Hedwig, and 
his heart writhed in his breast when it seemed more 
and more impossible. He dared not risk compromising her by another serenade, as he felt sure that it 
had been some servant of the count who had betrayed 
him to the baroness. At last he hit upon a plan. 
The funeral of the baroness was to take place on the 
afternoon of the next day. He felt sure that the 
Graf von Lira would go to it, and he was equally 
certain that Hedwig would not. It chanced to be 
the hour at which De Pretis went to the Palazzo to 
give her the singing lesson. 

"I suppose it is a barbarous thing for me to do," 



 

he said to himself, " but I cannot help it. Love first, 
and tragedy afterwards." 

In the afternoon, therefore, he sallied out, and 
went boldly to the Palazzo Carmandola. He inquired 
of the porter whether the Signer Conte had gone out, 
and just as he had expected, so he found it. Old 
Lira had left the house ten minutes earlier, to go to 
the funeral. Nino ran up the stairs and rang the 
bell. The footman opened the door, and Nino quickly 
slipped a five-franc note into his hand, which he had 
no difficulty in finding. On being asked if the signo-rina were at home, the footman nodded, and added 
that Professor De Pretis was with her, but she would 
doubtless see Professor Cardegna as well. And so 
it turned out. He was ushered into the great drawing-room, where the piano was. Hedwig came for 
ward a few steps from where she had been standing 
beside De Pretis, and Nino bowed low before her. 
She had on a long dark dress, and no ornament what 
ever, save her beautiful bright hair, so that her face 
was like a jewel set in gold and velvet. But, when 
I think of it, such a combination would seem absurdly 
vulgar by the side of Hedwig von Lira. She was so 
pale and exquisite and sad that Nino could hardly 
look at her. He remembered that there were violets, 
rarest of flowers in Rome in January, in her belt. 

To tell the truth, Nino had expected to find her 
stern and cold, whereas she was only very quiet and 
sorrowful. 

"Will you forgive me, signorina, for this rash 
ness?" he asked in a low voice. 

"In that I receive you I forgive you, sir," she said. 



 

He glanced toward De Pretis, who seemed absorbed 
in some music at the piano and was playing over bits 
of an accompaniment. She understood, and moved 
slowly to a window at the other end of the great room, 
standing among the curtains. He placed himself in 
the embrasure. She looked at him long and ear 
nestly, as if finally reconciling the singer with the 
man she had known so long. She found him 
changed, as I had, in a short time. His face was 
sterner and thinner and whiter than before, and there 
were traces of thought in the deep shadows beneath 
his eyes. Quietly observing him, she saw how perfectly simple and exquisitely careful was his dress, 
and how his hands bespoke that attention which only 
a gentleman gives to the details of his person. She 
saw that, if he were not handsome, he was in the last 
degree striking to the eye, in spite of all his simplicity, and that he would not lose by being compared 
with all the dandies and courtiers in Rome. As she 
looked, she saw his lip quiver slightly, the only sign 
of emotion he ever gives, unless he loses his head 
altogether, and storms, as he sometimes does. 

"Signorina," he began, "I have come to tell you a 
story; will you listen to it?" 

"Tell it me," said she, still looking in his face. 

"There was once a solitary castle in the moun 
tains, with battlement and moat both high and broad. 
Far up in a lonely turret dwelt a rare maiden, of such 
surpassing beauty and fairness that the peasants 
thought she was not mortal, but an angel from heaven, 
resting in that tower from the doing of good deeds. 
She had flowers up there in her chamber, and the 



 

seeds of flowers ; and as the seasons passed by, she 
took from her store the dry germs, and planted them 
one after another in a little earth on the window-sill. 
And the sun shone on them and they grew, and she 
breathed upon them and they were sweet. But they 
withered and bore no offspring, and fell away, so that 
year by year her store was diminished. At last there 
was but one little paper bag of seed left, and upon 
the cover was written in a strange character, ' This 
is the Seed of the Thorn of the World. But the 
beautiful maiden was sad when she saw this, for she 
said, All my flowers have been sweet, and now I 
have but this thing left, which is a thorn ! And 
she opened the paper and looked inside, and saw 
one poor little seed, all black and shriveled. Through 
that day she pondered what to do with it, and was 
very unhappy. At night she said to herself, I will 
not plant this one; I will throw it away, rather than 
plant it. And she went to the window, and tore 
the paper, and threw out the little seed into the 
darkness." 

"Poor little thing!" said Hedwig. She was lis 
tening intently. 

" She threw it out, and, as it fell, all the air was 
full of music, sad and sweet, so that she wondered 
greatly. The next day she looked out of the window, and saw, between the moat and the castle wall, 
a new plant growing. It looked black and uninvit 
ing, but it had come up so fast that it had already 
laid hold on the rough grey stones. At the falling 
of the night it reached far up towards the turret, a 
great sharp-pointed vine, with only here and there a 



 

miserable leaf on it.  I am sorry I threw it out, 
said the maiden. It is the Thorn of the World, 
and the people who pass will think it defaces my 
castle. But when it was dark again the air was full 
of music. The maiden went to the window, for she 
could not sleep, and she called out, asking who it 
was that sang. Then a sweet, low voice came up to 
her from the moat. I am the Thorn, it said, I sing 
in the dark, for I am growing. Sing on, Thorn, 
said she, and grow if you will. .But in the morn 
ing, when she awoke, her window was darkened, for 
the Thorn had grown to be a mighty tree, and its 
topmost shoots were black against the sky. She 
wondered whether this uncouth plant would bear any 
thing but music. So she spoke to it. 

" Thorn, she said, why have you no flowers? 

" I am the Thorn of the World, it answered, and 
I can bear no flowers until the hand that planted me 
has tended me, and pruned me, and shaped me to be 
its own. If you had planted me like the rest, it 
would have been easy for you. But you planted me 
unwillingly, down below you by the moat, and I 
have had far to climb. 

" But my hands are so delicate, said the maiden. 
You will hurt me, I am sure. 

" Yours is the only hand in the world that I will 
not hurt, said the voice, so tenderly and softly and 
sadly that the gentle fingers went out to touch the 
plant and see if it were real. And touching it they 
clung there, for they had no harm of it. Would you 
know, my lady, what happened then ? " 

" Yes, yes tell me ! " cried Hedwig, whose imag 
ination was fascinated by the tale. 



 

"As her hands rested on the spiked branches, a 
gentle trembling went through the Thorn, and in a 
moment there burst out such a blooming and blos 
soming as the maiden had never seen. Every prick 
became a rose, and they were so many that the light 
of the day was tinged with them, and their sweetness 
was like the breath of paradise. But below her window the Thorn was as black and forbidding as ever, 
for only the maiden's presence could make its flowers 
bloom. But she smelled the flowers, and pressed 
many of them to her cheek. 

"  I thought you were only a Thorn, she said 
softly. 

" Nay, fairest maiden, answered the glorious 
voice of the bursting blossom, I am the Rose of the 
World for ever, since you have touched me. 

"That is my story, signorina. Have I wearied 
you?" 

Hedwig had unconsciously moved nearer to him as 
he was speaking, for he never raised his voice, and 
she hung on his words. There was colour in her 
face, and her breath came quickly through her parted 
lips. She had never looked so beautiful. 

" Wearied me, signore ? Ah no ; it is a gentle tale 
of yours." 

"It is a true tale in part," said he. 

" In part ? I do not understand " But the colour 
was warmer in her cheek, and she turned her face 
half away, as though looking out. 

"I will tell you," he replied, coming closer, on the 
side from which she turned. " Here is the window. 
You are the maiden. The thorn it is my love for 



 

you;" he dropped his voice to a whisper. "You 
planted it carelessly, far below you in the dark. In 
the dark it has grown and sung to you, and grown 
again, until now it stands in your own castle window. Will you not touch it and make its flowers 
bloom for you?" He spoke fervently. She had 
turned her face quite from him now, and was resting 
her forehead against one hand that leaned upon the 
heavy frame of the casement. The other hand hung 
down by her side toward him, fair as a lily against 
her dark gown. Nino touched it, then took it. He 
could see the blush spread to her white throat, and 
fade again. Between the half-falling curtain and 
the great window he bent his knee and pressed her 
fingers to his lips. She made as though she would 
withdraw her hand, and then left it in his. Her 
glance stole to him as he kneeled there, and he felt it 
on him, so that he looked up. She seemed to raise 
him with her fingers, and her eyes held his and drew 
them; he stood up, and, still holding her hand, his 
face was near to hers. Closer and closer yet, as by 
a spell, each gazing searchingly into the other's 
glance, till their eyes could see no more for closeness, and their lips met in life's first virgin kiss, 
in the glory and strength of a twofold purity, each to 
each. 

Far off at the other end of the room De Pretis 
struck a chord on the piano. They started at the 
sound. 

" When ? " whispered Nino, hurriedly. 

"At midnight, under my window," she answered 
quickly, not thinking of anything better in her haste. 



 

"I will tell you then. You must go; my father will 
soon be here. No, not again," she protested. But 
he drew her to him, and said good-bye in his own 
manner. She lingered an instant, and tore herself 
away. De Pretis was playing loudly. Nino had to 
pass near him to go away, and the maestro nodded 
carelessly as he went by. 

"Excuse me, maestro," said Hedwig, as Nino 
bowed himself out; "it was a question of arranging 
certain lessons." 

"Do not mention it," said he indifferently; "my 
time is yours, signorina. Shall we go through with 
this solfeggio once more ? " 

The good maestro did not seem greatly disturbed 
by the interruption. Hedwig wondered, dreamily, 
whether he had understood. It all seemed like a 
dream. The notes were upside down in her sight, 
and her voice sought strange minor keys unconsciously, as she vainly tried to concentrate her attention upon what she was doing. 

"Signorina," said Ercole at last, "what you sing 
is very pretty, but it is not exactly what is written 
here. I fear you are tired." 

"Perhaps so," said she. "Let us not sing any 
more to-day." Ercole shut up the music and rose. 
She gave him her hand, a thing she had never done 
before; and it was unconscious now, as everything 
she did seemed to be. There is a point when dream 
ing gets the mastery, and appears infinitely more real 
than the things we touch. 

Nino, meanwhile, had descended the steps, expect 
ing every moment to meet the count. As he went 



 

