guess," said Mrs. Lapham, with a hopeless sigh. " I 
presume we didn't go to work just the right way 
about their schooling. We ought to have got them 
into some school where they 'd have got acquainted 
with city girls girls who could help them along. 
 
Nearly everybody at Miss Smillie's was from some 
where else." 
" Well, it 's pretty late to think about that now," 
grumbled Lapham. 
" And we Ve always gone our own way, and not 
looked out for the future. We ought to have gone 
out more, and had people come to the house. No 
body comes." 
" Well, is that my fault ? I guess nobody ever 
makes people welcomer." 
" We ought to have invited company more." 
"Why don't you do it now? If it's for the 
girls, I don't care if you have the house full all the 
while." 
Mrs. Lapham was forced to a confession full of 
humiliation. " I don't know who to ask." 
" Well, you can't expect me to tell you." 
" No ; we 're both country people, and we Ve kept 
our country ways, and we don't, either of us, know 
what to do. You 've had to work so hard, and your 
luck was so long coming, and then it came with 
such a rush, that we haven't had any chance to learn 
what to do with it. It 's just the same with Irene's 
looks ; I didn't expect she was ever going to have 
any, she was such a plain child, and, all at once, 
she 's blazed out this way. As long as it was Pen 
that didn't seem to care for society, I didn't give 
much mind to it. But I can see it's going to be 
different with Irene. I don't believe but what 
we 're in the wrong neighbourhood." 
" Well," said the Colonel, " there ain't a prettier 
 
lot on the Back Bay than mine. It 's ^on the water 
side of Beacon, and it 's twenty-eight feet wide and 
a hundred and fifty deep. Let's build on it." 
Mrs. Lapham was silent a while. " No," she said 
finally ; " we Ve always got along well enough here, 
and I guess we better stay." 
At breakfast she said casually: "Girls, how 
would you like to have your father build on the 
New Land ?" 
The girls said they did not know. It was more 
convenient to the horse-cars where they were. 
Mrs. Lapham stole a look of relief at her husband, 
and nothing more was said of the matter. 
The mother of the family who had called upon 
Mrs. Lapham brought her husband's cards, and 
when Mrs. Lapham returned the visit she was in 
some trouble about the proper form of acknowledg 
ing the civility. The Colonel had no card but a 
business card, which advertised the principal depot 
and the several agencies of the mineral paint ; and 
Mrs. Lapham doubted, till she wished to goodness 
that she had never seen nor heard of those people, 
whether to ignore her husband in the transaction 
altogether, or to write his name on her own card. 
She decided finally upon this measure, and she Had 
the relief of not finding the family at home. As 
far as she could judge, Irene seemed to suffer a little 
disappointment from the fact. 
For several months there was no communication 
between the families. Then there came to Nankeen 
Square a lithographed circular from the people on 
 
the Hill, signed in ink by the mother, and afford 
ing Mrs. Lapham an opportunity to subscribe for a 
charity of undeniable merit and acceptability. She 
submitted it to her husband, who promptly drew a 
cheque for five hundred dollars. 
She tore it in two. " I will take a cheque for a 
hundred, Silas," she said. 
" Why ?" he asked, looking up guiltily at her. 
" Because a hundred is enough ; and I don't want 
to show off before them." 
" Oh, I thought may be you did. Well, Pert," 
he added, having satisfied human nature by the 
preliminary thrust, " I guess you 're about right. 
When do you want I should begin to build on 
Beacon Street ) " He handed her the new cheque, 
where she stood over him, and then leaned back in 
his chair and looked up at her. 
" I don't want you should begin at all. What do 
you mean, Silas ?" She rested against the side of 
his desk. 
" Well, I don't know as I mean anything. But 
shouldn't you like to build ? Everybody builds, at 
least once in a lifetime." 
" Where is your lot ? They say it 's unhealthy, 
over there." 
Up to a certain point in their prosperity Mrs. 
Lapham had kept strict account of all her husband's 
affairs ; but as they expanded, and ceased to be of 
the retail nature with which women successfully 
grapple, the intimate knowledge of them made her 
nervous. There was a period in which she felt that 
 
they were being ruined, but the crash had not come ; 
and, since his great success, she had abandoned 
herself to a blind confidence in her husband's judg 
ment, which she had hitherto felt needed her 
revision. He came and went, day by day, unques 
tioned. He bought and sold and got gain. She 
knew that he would tell her if ever things went 
wrong, and he knew that she would ask him 
whenever she was anxious. 
"It ain't unhealthy where I've bought," said 
Lapham, rather enjoying her insinuation. " I 
looked after that when I was trading ; and I guess 
it 's about as healthy on the Back Bay as it is 
here, anyway. I got that lot for you, Pert; I 
thought you 'd want to build on the Back Bay some 
day." 
"Pshaw!" said Mrs. Lapham, deeply pleased 
inwardly, but not going to show it, as she would 
have said. " I guess you want to build there your 
self." She insensibly got a little nearer to her 
husband. They liked to talk to each other in that 
blunt way ; it is the New England way of expressing 
perfect confidence and tenderness. 
" Well, I guess I do," said Lapham, not insisting 
upon the unselfish view of the matter. "I always 
did like the water side of Beacon. There ain't a 
sightlier place in the world for a house. And some 
day there's bound to be a drive- way all along behind 
them houses, between them and the water, and then 
a lot there is going to be worth the gold that will 
cover it coin. I've had offers for that lot, Pert, 
 
twice over what I give for it. Yes, I have. Don't 
you want to ride over there some afternoon with me 
and see it  ?" 
" I 'm satisfied where we be, Si," said Mrs. 
Lapham, recurring to the parlance of her youth in 
her pathos at her husband's kindness. She sighed 
anxiously, for she felt the trouble a woman knows 
in view of any great change. They had often talked 
of altering over the house in which they lived, but 
they had never come to it; and they had often 
talked of building, but it had always been a house 
in the country that they had thought of. "I wish 
you had sold that lot." 
" I hain't," said the Colonel briefly. 
" I don't know as I feel much like changing our 
way of living." 
"Guess we could live there pretty much as we 
live here. There 's all kinds of people on Beacon 
Street ; you mustn't think they 're all big-bugs. I 
know one party that lives in a house he built to sell, 
and his wife don't keep any girl. You can have just 
as much style there as you want, or just as little. 
I guess we live as well as most of 'em now, and set 
as good a table. And if you come to style, I don't 
know as anybody has got more of a right to put it 
on than what we have." 
" Well, I don't want to build on Beacon Street, 
Si," said Mrs. Lapham gently. 
" Just as you please, Persis. I ain't in any hurry 
to leave. ' 
Mrs. Lapham stood flapping the cheque which she 
 
held in her right hand against the edge of her 
left. 
The Colonel still sat looking up at her face, and 
watching the effect of the poison of ambition which 
he had artfully instilled into her mind. 
She sighed again a yielding sigh. " What are 
you going to do this afternoon ? " 
" I 'm going to take a turn on the Brighton road," 
said the Colonel. 
" I don't believe but what I should like to go 
along," said his wife. 
" All right. You hain't ever rode behind that 
mare yet, Pert, and I want you should see me let 
her out once. They say the snow 's all packed down 
already, and the going is A ?." 
At four o'clock in the afternoon, with a cold, red 
winter sunset before them, the Colonel and his wife 
were driving slowly down Beacon Street in the light, 
high-seated cutter, where, as he said, they were a 
pretty tight fit. He was holding the mare in till 
the time came to speed her, and the mare was 
springily jolting over the snow, looking intelligently 
from side to side, and cocking this ear and that, 
while from her nostrils, her head tossing easily, she 
blew quick, irregular whiffs of steam. 
"Gay, ain't she ?" proudly suggested the Colonel. 
" She is gay," assented his wife. 
They met swiftly dashing sleighs, and let them 
pass on either hand, down the beautiful avenue 
narrowing with an admirably even sky-line in the 
perspective. They were not in a hurry. The mare 
 
jounced easily along, and they talked of the differ 
ent houses on either side of the way. They had a 
crude taste in architecture, and they admired the 
worst. There were women's faces at many of the 
handsome windows, and once in a while a young 
man on the pavement caught his hat suddenly from 
his head, and bowed in response to some salutation 
from within. 
" I don't think our girls would look very bad 
behind one of those big panes," said the Colonel. 
" No," said his wife dreamily. 
" Where 'a the young man ? Did he come with 
them?" 
" No ; he was to spend the winter with a friend 
of his that has a ranch in Texas. I guess he 's got 
to do something." 
"Yes; gentlemaning as a profession has got to 
play out in a generation or two." 
Neither of them spoke of the lot, though Lapham 
knew perfectly well what his wife had come with 
him for, and she was aware that he knew it. The 
time came when he brought the mare down to a 
walk, and then slowed up almost to a stop, while 
they both turned their heads to the right and looked 
at the vacant lot, through which showed the frozen 
stretch of the Back Bay, a section of the Long 
Bridge, and the roofs and smoke-stacks of Charles- 
town. 
" Yes, it 's sightly," said Mrs. Lapham, lifting her 
hand from the reins, on which she had unconsciously 
laid it. 
 
Lapham said nothing, but he let the mare out a 
little. 
The sleighs and cutters were thickening round 
them. On the Milldam it became difficult to restrict 
the mare to the long, slow trot into which he let her 
break. The beautiful landscape widened to right 
and left of them, with the sunset redder and redder, 
over the low, irregular hills before them. They 
crossed the Milldam into Longwood ; and here, from 
the crest of the first upland, stretched two endless 
lines, in which thousands of cutters went and came. 
Some of the drivers were already speeding their 
horses, and these shot to and fro on inner lines, 
between the slowly moving vehicles on either side of 
the road. Here and there a burly mounted police 
man, bulging over the pommel of his M'Clellan 
saddle, jolted by, silently gesturing and directing 
the course, and keeping it all under the eye of the 
law. It was what Bartley Hubbard called " a carni 
val of fashion and gaiety on the Brighton road," in 
his account of it. But most of the people in those 
elegant sleighs and cutters had so little the air of 
the great world that one knowing it at all must 
have wondered where they and their money came 
from ; and the gaiety of the men, at least, was ex 
pressed, like that of Colonel Lapham, in a grim 
almost fierce, alertness ; the women wore an air of 
courageous apprehension. At a certain point the 
Colonel said, " I 'm going to let her out, Pert," and 
he lifted and then dropped the reins lightly on the 
mare's back. 
 
She understood the signal, and, as an admirer 
said, " she laid down to her work." Nothing in the 
immutable iron of Lapham's face betrayed his sense 
of triumph as the mare left everything behind her 
on the road. Mrs. Lapham, if she felt fear, was too 
busy holding her flying wraps about her, and shield 
ing her face from the scud of ice flung from the mare's 
heels, to betray it ; except for the rush of her feet, 
the mare was as silent as the people behind her ; the 
muscles of her back and thighs worked more and 
more swiftly, like some mechanism responding to an 
alien force, and she shot to the end of the course, graz 
ing a hundred encountered and rival sledges in her 
passage, but unmolested by the policemen, who pro 
bably saw that the mare and the Colonel knew what 
they were about, and, at any rate, were not the sort 
of men to interfere with trotting like that. At the 
end of the heat Lapham drew her in, and turned off 
on a side street into Brookline. 
" Tell you what, Pert," he said, as if they had been 
quietly jogging along, with time for uninterrupted 
thought since he last spoke, "I've about made up 
my mind to build on that lot." 
" All right, Silas," said Mrs. Lapham ; " I suppose 
you know what you 're about. Don't build on it for 
me, that's all." 
When she stood in the hall at home, taking off her 
things, she said to the girls, who were helping her, 
" Some day your father will get killed with that 
mare." 
"Did he speed her?" asked Penelope, the elder. 
 
She was named after her grandmother, who had in 
her turn inherited from another ancestress the name 
of the Homeric matron whose peculiar merits won 
her a place even among the Puritan Faiths, Hopes, 
Temperances, and Prudences. Penelope was the 
girl whose odd serious face had struck Bartley 
Hubbard in the photograph of the family group 
Lapham showed him on the day of the interview. 
Her large eyes, like her hair, were brown ; they had 
the peculiar look of near-sighted eyes which is called 
mooning ; her complexion was of a dark pallor. 
Her mother did not reply to a question which 
might be considered already answered. " He says 
he's going to build on that lot of his," she next 
remarked, unwinding the long veil which she had 
tied round her neck to hold her bonnet on. She put 
her hat and cloak on the hall table, to be carried 
upstairs later, and they all went in to tea : creamed 
oysters, birds, hot biscuit, two kinds of cake, and 
dishes of stewed and canned fruit and honey. The 
women dined alone at one, and the Colonel at the 
same hour down-town. But he liked a good hot 
meal when he got home in the evening. The house 
flared with gas ; and the Colonel, before he sat down, 
went about shutting the registers, through which a 
welding heat came voluming up from the furnace. 
"I'll be the death of that darkey yet" he said, 
' if he don't stop making on such a fire. The only 
way to get any comfort out of your furnace is to 
take care of it yourself." 
" Well," answered his wife from behind the tea- 
pot, as he sat down at table with this threat, " there's 
nothing to prevent you, Si. And you can shovel the 
snow too, if you want to till you get over to 
Beacon Street, anyway." 
" I guess I can keep my own sidewalk on Beacon 
Street clean, if I take the notion." 
" I should like to see you at it," retorted his wife. 
" Well, you keep a sharp lookout, and may be 
you will." 
Their taunts were really expressions of affection 
ate pride in each other. They liked to have it, give 
and take, that way, as they would have said, right 
along. 
" A man can be a man on Beacon Street as well as 
anywhere, I guess." 
" Well, I 'll do the wash, as I used to in Lumber- 
ville," said Mrs. Lapham. " I presume you 'll let me 
have set tubs, Si. You know I ain't so young any 
more." She passed Irene a cup of Oolong tea, none 
of them had a sufficiently cultivated palate for Sou 
chong, and the girl handed it to her father. 
" Papa," she asked, " you don't really mean that 
you 're going to build over there ?" 
" Don't ! You wait and see," said the Colonel, 
stirring his tea. 
" I don't believe' you do," pursued the girl. 
" Is that so ? I presume you 'd hate to have me. 
Your mother does." He said doos, of course. 
Penelope took the word. " I go in for it. I don't 
see any use in not enjoying money, if you 've got it 
to enjoy. That's what it's for, I suppose; though 
 
you mightn't always think so." Sne had a slow, 
quaint way of talking, that seemed a pleasant per 
sonal modification of some ancestral Yankee drawl, 
and her voice was low and cozy, and so far from 
being nasal that it was a little hoarse. 
" I guess the ayes has it, Pen," said her father. 
" How would it do to let Irene and your mother 
stick in the old place here, and us go into the new 
house ?" At times the Colonel's grammar failed 
him. 
The matter dropped, and the Laphams lived on 
as before, with joking recurrences to the house on 
the water side of Beacon. The Colonel seemed less 
in earnest than any of them about it ; but that was 
his way, his girls said ; you never could tell when 
he really meant a thing. 
III. 
TOWARD the end of the winter there came a news 
paper, addressed to Miss Irene Lapham ; it proved 
to be a Texas newspaper, with a complimentary 
account of the ranch of the Hon. Loring G. Stanton, 
which the representative of the journal had visited. 
"It must be his friend," said Mrs. Lapham, to 
whom her daughter brought the paper ; " the one 
he 's staying with." 
The girl did not say anything, but she carried the 
paper to her room, where she scanned every line of 
it for another name. She did not find it, but she 
cut the notice out and stuck it into the side of her 
mirror, where she could read it every morning when 
she brushed her hair, and the last thing at night 
when she looked at herself in the glass just before 
turning off the gas. Her sister often read it aloud, 
standing behind her and rendering it with elocu 
tionary effects. 
" The first time I ever heard of a love-letter in the 
form of a puff to a cattle-ranch. But perhaps that 's 
the style on the Hill." 
Mrs. Lapham told her husband of the arrival of 
  
the paper, treating the fact with an importance that 
he refused to see in it 
" How do you know the fellow sent it, anyway ?' 
he demanded. 
" Oh, I know he did." 
" I don't see why he couldn't write to 'Rene, if he 
really meant anything." 
" Well, I guess that wouldn't be their way," said 
Mrs. Lapham ; she did not at all know what their 
way would be. 
When the spring opened Colonel Lapham showed 
that he had been in earnest about building on the 
New Land. His idea of a house was a brown-stone 
front, four stories high, and a French roof with an 
air-chamber above. Inside, there was to be a re 
ception-room on the street and a dining-room back. 
The parlours were be on the second floor, and 
finished in black walnut or party-coloured paint. 
The chambers were to be on the three floors above, 
front and rear, with side-rooms over the front door. 
Black walnut was to be used everywhere except in 
the attic, which was to be painted and grained to 
look like black walnut. The whole was to be very 
high-studded, and there were to be handsome cornices 
and elaborate centre-pieces throughout, except, again, 
in the attic. 
These ideas he had formed from the inspection of 
many new buildings which he had seen going up, 
and which he had a passion for looking into. He 
was confirmed in his ideas by a master builder who 
had put up a great many houses on the Back Bay 
 
as a speculation, and who told him that if he wanted 
to have a house in the style, that was the way to 
have it. 
The beginnings of the process by which Lapham 
escaped from the master builder and ended in the 
hands of an architect are so obscure that it would 
be almost impossible to trace them. But it all 
happened, and Lapham promptly developed his 
ideas of black walnut finish, high studding, and 
cornices. The architect was able to conceal the 
shudder which they must have sent through him. 
He was skilful, as nearly all architects are, in play 
ing upon that simple instrument Man. He began 
to touch Colonel Lapham's stops. 
"Oh, certainly, have the parlours high-studded. 
But you 've seen some of those pretty old-fashioned 
country-houses, haven't you, where the entrance-story 
is very low-studded?" 
" Yes," Lapham assented. 
" Well, don't you think something of that kind 
would have a very nice effect ? Have the entrance- 
story low-studded, and your parlours on the next 
floor as high as you please. Put your little recep 
tion-room here beside the door, and get the whole 
width of your house frontage for a square hall, and 
an easy low-tread staircase running up three sides 
of it. I'm sure Mrs. Lapham would find it much 
pleasanter." The architect caught toward him a 
scrap of paper lying on the table at which they were 
sitting and sketched his idea. " Then have your 
dining-room behind the hall, looking on the water." 
 
He glanced at Mrs. Lapham, who said, " Of course," 
and the architect went on 
" That gets you rid of one of those long, straight, 
ugly staircases," until that moment Lapham had 
thought a long, straight staircase the chief ornament 
of a house, " and gives you an effect of amplitude 
and space." 
"That's so!" said Mrs. Lapham. Her husband 
merely made a noise in his throat. 
" Then, were you thinking of having your par 
lours together, connected by folding doors ? " asked 
the architect deferentially. 
" Yes, of course," said Lapham. "They're always 
so, ain't they ? " 
" Well, nearly," said the architect. " I was 
wondering how would it do to make one large 
square room at the front, taking the whole breadth 
of the house, and, with this hall-space between, have 
a music-room back for the young ladies ?" 
Lapham looked helplessly at his wife, whose 
quicker apprehension had followed the architect's 
pencil with instant sympathy. " First-rate ! " she 
cried. 
The Colonel gave way. " I guess that would do. 
It 'll be kind of odd, won't it ? " 
" Well, I don't know," said the architect. " Not 
so odd, I hope, as the other thing will be a few 
years from now." He went on to plan the rest of 
the house, and he showed himself such a master in 
regard to all the practical details that Mrs. Lapham 
began to feel a motherly affection for the young 
 
man, and her husband could not deny in his heart 
that the fellow seemed to understand his business. 
He stopped walking about the room, as he had 
begun to do when the architect and Mrs. Lapham 
entered into the particulars of closets, drainage, 
kitchen arrangements, and all that, and came back 
to the table. "I presume," he said, "you'll have 
the drawing-room finished in black walnut ? " 
" Well, yes," replied the architect, " if you like. 
But some less expensive wood can be made just as 
effective with paint. Of course you can paint black 
walnut too." 
" Paint it ? " gasped the Colonel. 
" Yes," said the architect quietly. " White, or a 
little off white." 
Lapham dropped the plan he had picked up from 
the table. His wife made a little move toward him 
of consolation or support 
" Of course," resumed the architect, I know 
there has been a great craze for black walnut. But 
it 's an ugly wood ; and for a drawing-room there is 
really nothing like white paint. We should want to 
introduce a little gold here and there. Perhaps we 
might run a painted frieze round under the cornice 
garlands of roses on a gold ground ; it would tell 
wonderfully in a white room." 
The Colonel returned less courageously to the 
charge. " I presume you 'll want Eastlake mantel 
shelves and tiles ? " He meant this for a sarcastic 
thrust at a prevailing foible of the profession. 
"Well, no," gently answered the architect. "I 
 
was thinking perhaps a white marble chimney-piece, 
treated in the refined Empire style, would be the 
thing for that room." 
" White marble ! " exclaimed the Colonel. " I 
thought that had gone out long ago." 
" Eeally beautiful things can't go out. They may 
disappear for a little while, but they must come 
back. It 's only the ugly things that stay out after 
they've had their day." 
Lapham could only venture very modestly, 
" Hard-wood floors ? " 
"In the music-room, of course," consented the 
architect. 
" And in the drawing-room ? " 
" Carpet. Some sort of moquette, I should say. 
But I should prefer to consult Mrs. Lapham's taste 
in that matter." 
" And in the other rooms ? " 
" Oh, carpets, of course." 
" And- what about the stairs ? " 
" Carpet. And I should have the rail and banis 
ters white banisters turned or twisted." 
The Colonel said under his breath, " Well, I 'm 
dumned ! " but he gave no utterance to his astonish 
ment in the architect's presence. When he went at 
last, the session did not end till eleven o'clock, 
Lapham said, "Well, Pert, I guess that f ellow 's fifty 
years behind, or ten years ahead. I wonder what 
the Ongpeer style is ? " 
" I don't know. I hated to ask. But he seemed 
to understand what he was talking about. I de- 
 
clare, he knows what a woman wants in a house 
better than she does herself." 
" And a man 's simply nowhere in comparison," 
said Lapham. But he respected a fellow who could 
beat him at every point, and have a reason ready, as 
this architect had ; and when he recovered from the 
daze into which the complete upheaval of all his 
preconceived notions had left him, he was in a fit 
state to swear by the architect. It seemed to him 
that he had discovered the fellow (as he always 
called him) and owned him now, and the fellow did 
nothing to disturb this impression. He entered into 
that brief but intense intimacy with the Laphams 
which the sympathetic architect holds with his 
clients. He was privy to all their differences of 
opinion and all their disputes about the house. He 
knew just where to insist upon his own ideas, and 
where to yield. He was really building several 
other houses, but he gave the Laphams the impres 
sion that he was doing none but theirs. 
The work was not begun till the frost was 
thoroughly out of the ground, which that year was 
not before the end of April. Even then it did not 
proceed very rapidly. Lapham said they might as 
well take their time to it ; if they got the walls up 
and the thing closed in before the snow flew, they 
could be working at it all winter. It was found 
necessary to dig for the kitchen ; at that point the 
original salt-marsh lay near the surface, and before 
they began to put in the piles for the foundation 
they had to pump. The neighbourhood smelt like 
 
the hold of a ship after a three years' voyage. 
People who had cast their fortunes with the New 
Land went by professing not to notice it; people 
who still " hung on to the Hill " put their handker 
chiefs to their noses, and told each other the old 
terrible stories of the material used in filling up the 
Back Bay. 
Nothing gave Lapham so much satisfaction in the 
whole construction of his house as the pile-driving. 
When this began, early in the summer, he took Mrs. 
Lapham every day in his buggy and drove round to 
look at it ; stopping the mare in front of the lot, and 
watching the operation with even keener interest 
than the little loafing Irish boys who superintended 
it in force. It pleased him to hear the portable 
engine chuckle out a hundred thin whiffs of steam in 
carrying the big iron weight to the top of the frame 
work above the pile, then seem to hesitate, and cough 
once or twice in pressing the weight against the 
detaching apparatus. There was a moment in which 
the weight had the effect of poising before it fell ; 
then it dropped with a mighty whack on the iron- 
bound head of the pile, and drove it a foot into the 
earth. 
"By gracious!" he would say, "there ain't any 
thing like that in this world for business, Persis !" 
Mrs. Lapham suffered him to enjoy the sight 
twenty or thirty times before she said, " Well, now 
drive on, Si." 
By the time the foundation was in and the brick 
walls had begun to go up, there were so few people 
 
left in the neighbourhood that she might indulge 
with impunity her husband's passion for having her 
clamber over the floor-timbers and the skeleton stair 
cases with him. Many of the householders had 
boarded up their front doors before the buds had 
begun to swell and the assessor to appear in early 
May ; others had followed soon ; and Mrs. Lapham 
was as safe from remark as if she had been in the 
depth of the country. Ordinarily she and her girls 
left town early in July, going to one of the hotels at 
Nantasket, where it was convenient for the Colonel 
to get to and from his business by the boat. But 
this summer they were all lingering a few weeks 
later, under the novel fascination of the new house, 
as they called it, as if there were no other in the 
world. 
Lap'ham drove there with his wife after he had set 
Bartley Hubbard down at the Events office, but on 
this day something happened that interfered with 
the solid pleasure they usually took in going over 
the house. As the Colonel turned from casting 
anchor at the mare's head with the hitching-weight, 
after helping his wife to alight, he encountered a 
man to whom he could not help speaking, though 
the man seemed to share his hesitation if not his 
reluctance at the necessity. He was a tallish, thin 
man, with a dust-coloured face, and a dead, clerical 
air, which somehow suggested at once feebleness and 
tenacity. 
Mrs. Lapham held out her hand to him. 
"Why, Mr. Rogers!" she exclaimed; and then. 
 
turning toward her husband, seemed to refer the two 
men to each other. They shook hands, but Lapham 
did not speak. " I didn't know you were in Boston," 
pursued Mrs. Lapham. " Is Mrs. Eogers with you?" 
" No," said Mr. Eogers, with a voice which had 
the flat, succinct sound of two pieces of wood clapped 
together. " Mrs. Rogers is still in Chicago." 
A little silence followed, and then Mrs. Lapham 
said 
" I presume you are quite settled out there." 
" No ; we have left Chicago. Mrs. Rogers has 
merely remained to finish up a little packing." 
" Oh, indeed ! Are you coming back to Boston ?" 
" I cannot say as yet. We some think of so 
doing." 
Lapham turned away and looked up at the build 
ing. His wife pulled a little at her glove, as if 
embarrassed, or even pained. She tried to make a 
diversion. 
" We are building a house," she said, with a 
meaningless laugh. 
" Oh, indeed," said Mr. Rogers, looking up at it. 
Then no one spoke again, and she said helplessly 
" If you come to Boston, I hope I shall see Mrs. 
Rogers." 
" She will be happy to have you call," said Mr. 
Rogers. 
He touched his hat-brim, and made a bow forward 
rather than in Mrs. Lapham's direction. 
She mounted the planking that led into the shelter 
of the bare brick walls, and her husband slowly 
 
followed. When she turned her face toward him 
her cheeks were burning, and tears that looked hot 
stood in her eyes. 
" You left it all to me ! " she cried. " Why couldn't 
you speak a word ?" 
"I hadn't anything to say to him," replied Lapham 
sullenly. 
They stood a while, without looking at the work 
which they had come to enjoy, and without speaking 
to each other. 
" I suppose we might as well go on," said Mrs. 
Lapham at last, as they returned to the buggy. The 
Colonel drove recklessly toward the Milldam. His 
wife kept her veil down and her face turned from 
him. After a time she put her handkerchief up 
under her veil and wiped her eyes, and he set his 
teeth and squared his jaw. 
" I don't see how he always manages to appear 
just at the moment when he seems to have gone 
fairly out of our lives, and blight everything," she 
whimpered. 
" I supposed he was dead," said Lapham. 
" Oh, don't say such a thing ! It sounds as if you 
wished it." 
" Why do you mind it ? What do you let him 
blight everything for ? " 
" I can't help it, and I don't believe I ever shall. 
I don't know as his being dead would help it any. 
I can't ever see him without feeling just as I did at 
first." 
" I tell you," said Lapham, " it was a perfectly 
 
square thing. And I wish, once for all, you would 
quit bothering about it. My conscience is easy as 
far as he 's concerned, and it always was." 
" And I can't look at him without feeling as if 
you 'd ruined him, Silas." 
" Don't look at him, then," said her husband, with 
a scowl. " I want you should recollect in the first 
place, Persis, that I never wanted a partner." 
" If he hadn't put his money in when he did, 
ou'd 'a' broken down." 
" Well, he got his money out again, and more, 
too," said the Colonel, with a sulky weariness. 
" He didn't want to take it out." 
" I gave him his choice : buy out or go out." 
" You know he couldn't buy out then. It was no 
choice at all." 
" It was a business chance." 
"No; you had better face the truth, Silas. It 
was no chance at all. You crowded him out. A 
man that had saved you ! No, you had got greedy, 
Silas. You had made your paint your god, and you 
couldn't bear to let anybody else share in its bless 
ings." 
" I tell you he was a drag and a brake on me 
from the word go. You say he saved me. Well, if 
I hadn't got him out he 'd 'a' ruined me sooner or 
later. So it's an even thing, as far forth as that 
goes." 
" No, it ain't an even thing, and you know it, 
Silas. Oh, if I could only get you once to acknow 
ledge that you did wrong about it, then I should 
 
have some hope. I don't say you meant wrong , 
exactly, but you took an advantage. Yes, you took 
an advantage ! You had him where he couldn't help 
himself, and then you wouldn't show him any 
mercy." 
" I 'm sick of this,'' said Lapham. " If you 'll 
'tend to the house, I 'll manage my business without 
your help." 
" You were very glad of my help once." 
" Well, I 'm tired of it now. Don't meddle." 
" I will meddle. When I see you hardening 
yourself in a wrong thing, it 's time for me to 
meddle, as you call it, and I will. I can't ever get 
you to own up the least bit about Rogers, and I feel 
as if it was hurting you all the while." 
" What do you want I should own up about a 
thing for when I don't feel wrong ? I tell you 
Rogers hain't got anything to complain of, and that 's 
what I told you from the start. It 's a thing that 's 
done every day. I was loaded up with a partner 
that didn't know anything, and couldn't do anything, 
and I unloaded; that's all." 
" You unloaded just at the time when you knew 
that your paint was going to be worth about twice 
what it ever had been ; and you wanted all the 
advantage for yourself." 
" I had a right to it. I made the success." 
"Yes, you made it with Rogers's money; and 
when you'd made it you took his share of it. I 
guess you thought of that when you saw him, and 
that's why you couldn't look him in the face." 
 
At these words Lapham lost his temper. 
" I guess you don't want to ride with me any 
more to-day," he said, turning the mare abruptly 
round. 
" I 'm as ready to go back as what you are," re 
plied his wife. " And don't you ask me to go to 
that house with you any more. You can sell it, for 
all me. I sha'n't live in it. There 's blood on it." 
THE silken texture of the marriage tie bears a 
daily strain of wrong and insult to which no other 
human relation can be subjected without lesion ; and 
sometimes the strength that knits society together 
might appear to the eye of faltering faith the curse 
of those immediately bound by it. Two people by 
no means reckless of each other's rights and feelings, 
but even tender of them for the most part, may tear 
at each other's heart-strings in this sacred bond with 
perfect impunity; though if they were any other 
two they would not speak or look at each other 
