were you? And 'comfortable'--I sitting here wet and exhausted, and you
walking up and down, white as a sheet, eating your heart out with
anxiety! 'And home,' did you say? I like that! Pretty place it was to
bring you to--hideous barrack miles from every living thing. Of course
you've made it better, you would make a cave better; he knew you would
do it when he brought you here!"

He changed his bitter tone into a laugh, "Instead of abusing him, I
ought rather to admire him--admire him for his success--he has always
done so entirely as he pleased! If one wishes to be virtuous or heroic,
I don't know that it is the best way; but if one wishes simply to be
comfortable, it most certainly is. You can't philosophize?" he went on,
turning his head to look at her as she continued her walk.

"No, no. Would you mind telling me what you have done?"

"I have three parties out; one has gone up the shore, and one down; the
third is across the river."

"You are very good. For I know you don't believe he is here."

"No, I don't."

"But where, then, can he be?"

"You have asked me that before. This time I will answer that he is
probably where he intended to be when he left here early yesterday
morning--after ridding himself of Eliot and Dodd."

"You think he planned it. But why should he have been so secret about
it? No one could have prevented him from taking a journey if he wished
to take one."

"You would have prevented it; you wouldn't have thought him strong
enough."

"That would not have deterred him."

"You're right, it wouldn't. Probably he didn't care even to explain that
he did not intend to be deterred, Lanse was never fond of explanations."

"I am not at all convinced."

"I didn't expect to convince you. You asked me, and I had to say
something."

After breakfast--she could eat nothing--he said, "I have sent for a
little steamer; it is to take me to all the landings within ten miles of
here. I shall not be back until late, probably; don't sit up." He left
the room.

Fifteen minutes later, he appeared again.

"I was waiting for the steamer down by the water, when I saw the boy who
brings the mail going away; you have had a letter?"

She did not answer. Her hands were empty.

"You heard me coming and concealed it."

"I have nothing to conceal." She rose. "Yes, I have had a letter, Lanse
is on his way to New York; he is taking a journey--for a change."

"You will let me see the letter?"

"Impossible." She was trembling a little, but she faced him inflexibly.

"Margaret, I beg you to let me see it. Show me that you trust me; you
seem never to do that--yet I deserve--Tell me, then, of your own accord,
what he says. If he has left you again, who should help you, care for
you, if not I?"

"You last of all!" She walked away. "Of course now that I know, I am no
longer anxious,--I was foolish to be so anxious. We are very much
obliged to you for all you have done."

"Very well, if you take that tone, let me tell you that I too have had
a letter--Primus has just brought it from East Angels--it was sent
there."

She glanced at him over her shoulder with eyes that looked full of
fear--a fear which he did not stop to analyze.

"It is possible that Lanse has written to me even more plainly than he
has to you," he went on. "At any rate, he tells me that he is going to
Italy--it is the old affair revived--and that he has no present
intention of returning. What he has said in his letter to you, of course
I don't know; but it can hardly be the whole, because he asks me to
'break' it to you. 'Break' it,--he has chosen his messenger well!"

"O my God," said Margaret Harold.

Her words were a prayer. She sank down on her knees beside the sofa, and
buried her face in her clasped arms.




CHAPTER XXIX.


Evert Winthrop had felt that her words were a prayer, that she was
praying still.

Against what especial danger she was thus invoking aid, he did not know;
before he could speak, old Rose had opened the door, and Margaret,
springing up, was going forward to meet the Rev. Mr. Moore, who with his
usual equable expression entered, hat in hand, to pay Mrs. Harold a
short visit; he had been obliged to come over to the river that morning
on business, and had thought that he would take the occasion for a
little social pleasure as well.

Margaret put out her hands eagerly; "It's wonderful--your coming now!
You will stay with me, won't you?--I am in great trouble."

Mr. Moore took her hand; all the goodness of his nature came into his
long narrow face, making it lovely in its sympathy as he heard her
appeal. She was clinging to him--she had put her other hand on his arm.
"You will stay?" she repeated urgently.

"If I can be of any use to you, most certainly I will stay."

Upon hearing this, she made an effort to recover herself, to speak more
coherently. "I shall need your advice--there are so many things I must
decide about. Mr. Winthrop will tell you--but why should I leave it to
him? I will tell you myself. My husband has gone north, he is going
abroad again. You will understand--it was so sudden. I did not know--"
She made another effort to steady her voice. "If you will stay with me
for a day or two, I will send over to Gracias for anything you may
need."

"I will stay gladly, Mrs. Harold."

"Oh, you are good! But I always knew you were. And now for a few
minutes--if you will excuse me--I have only just heard it--I will come
back soon." And with swift step she hastened from the room.

Mr. Moore, his face full of sympathy, turned to Winthrop.

But Evert Winthrop's expression showed only anger; he walked off, with
his back turned, and made no reply.

"Is it true, then?" said Mr. Moore, infinite regret in his mild tones.

Winthrop was standing at the window, he bit his lips with impatience; he
was in no mood for what he would have called "the usual platitudes," and
especially platitudes about Lansing Harold.

It could not be denied that Mr. Moore's conversation often contained
sentences that were very usual.

"Perhaps he will return," pursued the clergyman, hopefully. "Influences
might be brought to bear. We may be able to reach him?" And again he
looked at Winthrop inquiringly.

But Winthrop had now forgotten his presence, at this very moment he was
leaving the room; he was determined to see Margaret and speak to her, if
but for a second. He found Rose, and sent her with a message; he himself
followed the old woman up the stairs, and stood waiting in the upper
hall as she knocked at Margaret's closed door.

But the door did not open; in answer to Rose's message delivered shrilly
outside the door, Margaret replied from within, "I can see no one at
present."

Rose came back. "She can't see nobody nohow jess dis minute, marse,"
she answered, in an apologetic tone. Then, imaginatively, "Spec she's
tired."

"Go back and tell her that I'm waiting here--in the hall, and that I
will keep her but a moment. There is something important I must say."

Rose returned to the door. But the answer was the same. "She done got
mighty tired, marse, sho," said the old servant, again trying to
clothe the refusal in polite terms, though unable to think of a new
apology.

"Her door is locked, I suppose?" Winthrop asked. Then he felt that this
was going too far; he turned and went down the stairs, but with a
momentary revival in his breast all the same of the old despotic
feeling, the masculine feeling, that a woman should not be allowed to
dictate to a man what he should say or not say, do or not do; in
refusing to see him even for one moment, Margaret was dictating.

He walked down the lower hall, and then back again. Happening to glance
up, he saw that old Rose was still standing at the top of the stairs;
she dropped one of her straight courtesies as he looked up--a quick
ducking down of her narrow skirt; she was much disturbed by the direct
refusal which she had had to give him.

"I can't stay here, if they are going to watch me," he thought,
impatiently. He turned and re-entered the sitting-room.

Mr. Moore was putting more wood on the fire. His mind was full of
Margaret and her troubles; but the fire certainly needed replenishing,
it would do no one any good to come back to a cold room, Mrs. Harold
least of all; Winthrop therefore found him engaged with the coals.

Mr. Moore went on with his engineering feats. He cherished no resentment
because Winthrop had left him so suddenly. Still, he had observed that
such sudden exits were sometimes an indication of temper; in such cases
there was nothing better than an unnoticing, and if possible an
occupied, silence; so he went on with his fire.

"It's most unfortunate that there's no one who has any real authority
over her," Winthrop began, still smarting under the refusal. Margaret
had chosen the clergyman as her counsellor; it would be as well, then,
to indicate to that gentleman what course should be pursued.

"You have some plan to recommend to her?" said Mr. Moore, putting the
tongs away and seating himself. He held out his long hands as if to
warm them a little by the flame, and looked at Winthrop inquiringly.

"No, I don't know that I have. But she is sure to be obstinate in any
case." He too sat down, and stared moodily at the flame.

"You think it will be a great grief to her," observed the clergyman,
after a while. "No doubt--no doubt."

"No grief at all, as far as that goes. Lanse has always treated her
abominably." He paused. Then continued, as if there were now good
reasons for telling the whole tale. "Before he had been married a year,
he left her, she did not leave him, as my aunt supposes; he went abroad,
and would not allow her to come to him. There had never been the least
fault on her side; there hasn't been up to this day."

"I cannot understand such fickleness, such dark tendencies towards
change," said Mr. Moore, in rebuking wonder.

"As far as regards change, I ought to say, perhaps, that there hasn't
been much of that," Winthrop answered. "What took him abroad was an old
interest--something he had felt long before his marriage, and felt
strongly; he has never changed in that respect."

"Do you allude--is it possible that you are alluding to an interest in a
person?" asked Mr. Moore, in a lowered tone.

"It certainly wasn't a thing; I hardly think you would call a beautiful
French woman of rank that, would you?"

Mr. Moore looked at him with a stricken face. "A beautiful French woman
of rank!" he murmured.

"That's what is taking him abroad now, this second time. She threw him
over once, but she has evidently called him back; in fact, he admits it
in his letter to me."

"Oh, sin! sin!" said Middleton Moore, with the deepest sadness in his
voice. He leaned his head upon his hand and covered his eyes.

"I suppose so," answered Winthrop. "All the same, she is the only person
Lanse has ever cared for; for her and her alone he could be, and would
be if he had the chance, perhaps, unselfish; I almost think he could be
heroic. But, you see, he won't have the chance, because there's the
husband in the bush."

"Do you mean to say that this wretched creature is a married woman?"
demanded the clergyman, aghast.

"Oh yes; it was her marriage, her leaving him in the lurch, that made
Lanse himself marry in the first place--marry Margaret Cruger."

"This is most horrible. This man, then, this Lansing Harold, is an
incarnation of evil?"

"I don't know whether he is or not," Winthrop answered, irritably. "Yes,
he is, I suppose; we all are. Not you, of course," he added, glancing at
his companion, and realizing as he did so that here was a man who was an
incarnation of good. Then the opposing feeling swept over him again,
namely, that this man was good simply because he could not be evil; it
was not that he had resisted temptation so much as that he had no
capacity for being tempted. "An old woman," he thought.

He himself was very different from that, he knew well what temptation
meant! A flush crossed his face. "Perhaps Lanse can't help loving her,"
he said, flinging it out obstinately.

"A man can always help a shameful feeling of that sort," the clergyman
answered, with sternness. He drew up his tall figure, his face took on
dignity. "We are not the beasts that perish."

"We may not be altogether beasts, and yet we may not be able to help
it," Winthrop answered, getting up and walking across the room.
Margaret's little work-table stood there, gay with ribbons and fringes;
mechanically he fingered the spools and bright wools it held.

"At least we can control its manifestations," replied Middleton Moore,
still with a deep severity of voice and eyes.

"You would like to have all sinners of that disposition (which doesn't
happen to be yours) consumed immediately, wouldn't you? for fear of
their influencing others," said Winthrop, leaving the work-table and
walking about the room. "In the days of the burnings, now, when it was
for strictly wicked persons of that tendency, I suspect you would have
brought a few fagots yourself--wouldn't you?--even if you hadn't taken a
turn at the bellows."

Mr. Moore turned and surveyed him in unfeigned astonishment.

"I beg your pardon," said the younger man, "I don't know what I'm
saying. I'll go out for a while, and try the fresh air."

When he came back half an hour later, Margaret had returned.

"Ah! you have had a walk? The air is probably pleasant," said the
clergyman, welcoming him kindly. He wished to show that he had forgotten
the bellows. "I was on the point of saying to Mrs. Harold, as you came
in, that in case she should be thinking of leaving this house, I will
hope most warmly that she will find it consistent with her plans to
return to us at Gracias."

"I should much rather stay here," responded Margaret. "I could have
Dinah's son Abram to sleep in the house, if necessary."

"You could never stay here alone, you ought not to think of it," said
Winthrop. "We know better than you do about that." He had seated himself
at some distance from her. Mr. Moore still kept his place before the
fire, and Margaret was beside him; she held a little fan-shaped screen
in her hand to shade her face from the glow.

"I am sure Mr. Moore will say that it is safe," she answered.

"I included him; I said 'we,'" said Winthrop, challengingly.

Mr. Moore extended his long legs with a slightly uneasy movement. "I
regret to say that I fear Mr. Winthrop is right; it would not be safe at
present, even with Abram in the house. The river is no longer what it
was" (he refrained from saying "your northern steamers have made the
change;") "the people who live in the neighborhood are respectable, but
the increased facilities for traffic have brought us dangerous
characters."

"Of course you will go back to East Angels," Winthrop began.

"I think not. If I cannot stay here, I shall go north."

"North? Where?"

"There are plenty of places. There is my grandmother's old house in the
country, where I lived when I was a child; it is closed now, but I could
open it; I should like to see the old rooms once more." She spoke
quietly, her manner was that she was taking it for granted that the
clergyman knew everything, that Winthrop had told him all. She was a
deserted wife, there was no need for any of them to go through the form
of covering that up.

"That would be a perfectly crazy idea," began Winthrop. Then he stopped.

"We should be exceedingly sorry to lose you, Mrs. Harold--Penelope would
be exceedingly sorry," said Mr. Moore, in his amiable voice. "I can
understand that it would afford you much pleasure to revisit your
childhood's home. But East Angels, too--after so long a stay there, may
we not hope that it presents to you a friendly aspect?"

"I prefer to go north," Margaret answered.

Mr. Moore did not combat this decision; he did not, in truth, know quite
what to advise just at present; it required thought. Here was a woman
who had been cruelly outraged by the scandalous, by the incredibly
abandoned conduct of the worst of husbands. She had no mother to go to
(the clergyman felt this to be an unspeakable misfortune), but she was
not a child; they could not dictate to her, she was a free agent. But
women--women of refinement--were generally timid (he glanced at
Margaret, and decided that she was timid also); she might talk a little
about her house at the north, but probably it would end in her returning
to East Angels after all.

"If I find that I don't care for the country-house, the life there, I
can go abroad," Margaret continued. She rose and went out.

This was not much like returning to East Angels!

"Is she thinking, do you suppose, of going to him?" asked the clergyman,
in a cautious voice, when the door was closed.

"I don't know what she is thinking of. She is capable of the most
mistaken ideas!" Winthrop answered.

"She is possessed of a wonderful sense of duty, if she does go; I mean,
in case she is acquainted with the cause of his departure?"

"She is acquainted with everything."

Margaret came back and sat down again. "You decidedly think, then, that
I cannot stay here?" she said to the clergyman.

"Do you wish to stay so very ranch?" he asked, kindly.

"Yes, I should much rather stay, much rather make no change; this is my
home."

"How can you talk in that way?" said Winthrop. He had risen again, and
begun to walk up and down the room; as he spoke, he stopped his walk and
stood before her. "You came here against your will; you disliked the
place intensely; you said so of your own accord, I heard you." "I know I
have said so. Many times. Still, I should like to stay now."

"You cannot. Even Mr. Moore tells you that."

"Yes," said the clergyman, conscientiously, "I must say it though I do
not wish to; the place is unusually lonely, it stands quite by itself;
it would be unwise to remain."

"I must give it up, I see," Margaret answered; "I am sorry. But at least
I can retain the house; I should like to keep it open, too; the servants
could stay here, I suppose."

Winthrop turned and looked at her, a quick surprised suspicion in his
glance.

"I could do that, couldn't I?" she repeated, addressing Mr. Moore.

Again the clergyman looked uncomfortable. He crossed his legs, and
extending the pendent foot a little in its long, thin-soled boot, he
looked at it and moved it to and fro slightly, as if he had been called
upon to give an opinion upon the leather. "I fear," he said, as the
result of his meditation, "that it might not be altogether prudent. The
negroes have much hospitality; with a large house at their command, and
nobody near, I fear they might be tempted to invite their friends to
visit them."

"The place would swarm with them," said Winthrop.

"At any rate, I shall keep the house even if I close it," said Margaret.
"It must be ready for occupancy at any time."

"Then you are thinking of coming back?" Winthrop asked. His face still
showed an angry mistrust.

"I may come back. At present, however, I shall go north; and as I prefer
to go immediately, I shall set about arranging the rooms here so that I
can leave them. It will not take long, two days, or three at most; it
would be a great kindness, Mr. Moore, if you would stay with me until I
leave--by next Saturday's steamer, probably."

"I hardly think you will be able to accomplish so much in so short a
time," answered the clergyman, a good deal bewildered by this display of
energy. To Mr. Moore's idea, a woman who had been deserted by her
husband, even though that husband had been proved to be abnormally
vicious, could not well be in the mood for the necessary counting of
chairs, for the proper distribution of gum-camphor among carpets and
curtains, all so important.

Then, reading again the deep trouble in Margaret's face, under all the
calmness of her manner, he dismissed his objections, and said, heartily,
"In any case, I will stay with you as long as you wish."

"Possibly one of your difficulties is that I am here," said Winthrop to
Margaret. "You cannot expect me to leave you entirely, as long as you
are still in this house, I am, after all, your nearest relative; but of
course I could stay at the hotel." He spoke with extreme coldness.

Margaret, however, did not try to dissipate it by asking him to remain.

He showed that he felt this, for he said, "Perhaps I had better go up at
once and see to getting quarters there."

She did not answer. He walked about aimlessly for a moment or two, and
then left the room.

"Will you go over the house with me now, Mr. Moore--I mean this
afternoon?"

"Certainly. It would be better, I think, to make a list," Mr. Moore
answered, in an interested voice. Mr. Moore enjoyed lists; to him an
index was an exciting object; in devising catalogues, or new
alphabetical arrangements, he had sometimes felt a sense of pleasure
that was almost dissipation.

"You will have three enemies to encounter," he began with much
seriousness. "They are, first, the Mildew. Second, the Moth. Third, the
Damp; the Mouse, so destructive in other climates, will trouble you
little in this. We shall need red pepper."




CHAPTER XXX.


A week later, Margaret was still in the house on the point, she had not
been able to complete as rapidly as she had hoped the arrangements
necessary for leaving it in safe condition behind her. This was not
owing to any lingering on her own part, or to any hesitation of purpose;
it was owing simply to the constitutional inability of anybody in that
latitude, black or white, to work steadily, to be in the least hurried.
The poorest negro engaged to shake carpets could not bring himself,
though with the offer of double wages before him, to the point of going
without a long "res'" under the trees after each (short) "stent." Mr.
Moore, with his lists, made no haste--Mr. Moore had never been in a
hurry in his life.

But now at last all was completed; the house was to be closed on the
morrow. No one but the clergyman was to sleep there on this last night;
the negroes, generously paid and rejoicing in their riches, were going
to their own homes; in the morning one of them was to return to
dismantle Mr. Moore's room, and then the clergyman himself was to bar
the windows, lock the doors, and carry the keys to the hotel, where they
were to be kept, in accordance with Margaret's orders. She herself was
to sleep at the hotel, in order to be in readiness to take the sea-going
steamer, which would touch at that pier at an early hour the next
morning.

Evert Winthrop had returned to East Angels. Five days he had stayed at
the hotel, coming down every morning to the house on the point; not once
had he been able to see Margaret alone. Mr. Moore was always with her,
or if by rare chance he happened to be absent, she was surrounded by the
chattering blacks, who with the jolliest good-humor and aimless
wandering errands to and fro, were carrying out, or pretending to, the
orders of "Mis' Horrel."

Winthrop chafed against this constant presence of others. But he would
not allow himself to speak of it, pride prevented him. Why should he be
kept at a distance, and a comparative stranger like Mr. Moore consulted
about everything? Mr. Moore! He looked on with impatience while the
clergyman gave explanations of Penelope's excellent methods of
vanquishing the Mildew, the Damp, the Moth; with impatience grown to
contempt he heard him read aloud to Margaret and check off carefully the
various items of his lists. Mr. Moore had even made a list of the
inhabitants of the poultry-yard, though Margaret intended to present
them in a body to Dinah and Rose.

"One brown hen spotted with white," he read; "one yellow hen, spotted
with brown. A black hen. A duck."

He had never seemed to Winthrop so narrow, so given up to little
details, as now.

On the fourth day Winthrop (perhaps having found pride, in spite of the
dignity it carried with it, rather unfruitful) suddenly resolved to
overpower the dumb opposition, make himself master of this ridiculous
situation--"ridiculous" was his own term for it. Margaret was evidently
determined not to see him alone; after their long acquaintance, and
their relationship (he insisted a good deal upon this rather uncertain
tie), she should not be allowed to treat him in that way; he would not
allow it. Of what, then, was she afraid?

It came across him strongly that he should like to ask her that question
face to face.

He rode down to the house on the point. He found her in the
sitting-room, the blacks coming and going as usual.

"Go away, all of you," he said, authoritatively. "Find some work to do
in another room for half an hour; I wish to speak to your mistress."

Margaret looked up as she heard this imperative command. She did not
contradict it, she could not come to an open conflict with him before
her own servants. He knew this.

Closing the door after the negroes, who, in obedience to the thorough
master's voice which had fallen upon their ears, had shuffled hurriedly
out in a body, Winthrop came over to the writing-table where she was
seated. She had kept on with her writing.

"You don't care any more about that list, about any of these trifling
things, than I do," he began; "why do you pretend to care? And why do
you make it so impossible for me to speak to you? What are you afraid
of?"

She did not answer. And he did not get the satisfaction he had
anticipated from his question, because her face was bent over her paper.

"Why are you going north?" he went on, abruptly.

"I need a change."

"You cannot live all alone in New York."

"I shall not be in New York. And I could easily have a companion."

"Your best companion is Aunt Katrina. I admit that she is selfish; but
she is growing old, and she is ill. Who, after all, is nearer to you?"

"No one is nearer. I have always been alone."

"That is cynical--and it is not true." He paused. "Every one likes you."

"Well they may! When have I been--permitted myself to be disagreeable?
When have I ever failed to be kind? I have always repressed myself.
What is the result? I have been at everybody's beck and call, I have
been expected to bear everything in silence; to listen, always to
listen, and never to reply." She spoke with bitterness, keeping on with
her writing meanwhile.

"It is perfectly true--what you say, and I think you have done too much
of it. Are you getting tired of the rôle?"

"I am tired at least of East Angels; I cannot go back there."

"You think Aunt Katrina will talk about Lanse in her usual style--about
this second going away of his? I myself will tell her the whole
story--it is time she knew it! She will talk about him no more."

"It isn't that." She threw down her pen and rose. "I need a complete
change, I must have it. But I shall arrange it myself. The only thing
you can do for me is to leave me free; I should like it if you would
go back to East Angels--if you would go to-day; you only trouble me by
staying here, and you trouble me greatly."

"Margaret, it's outrageous the way you treat me. What have I done that I
should be thrust off in this way? And it's a very sudden change, too;
you were not so that night in the swamp."

"It's kind to bring that up. I was tired--nervous; I wasn't myself--"

"You're yourself now, never fear," he interpolated, angrily.

--"Will you do what I ask?"

"You really wish me to go?" His voice softened. "You don't want me to
see you off? It's very little to do--see you off."

"I should be grateful if you would go now."

"You are throwing us overboard together, I see--all Lanse's relatives;
you think we are all alike," he commented, in a savage tone. "And you,
well rid of us, free, and determined to do as you please, are going
north alone--you do not even say where?"

"There will be no secret about that; I will write. You talk about
freedom," she said, breaking off suddenly, "what do you know of
slavery? That is what I have been for years--a slave. Oh, to be
somewhere!"--and she threw up her arms with an eloquent gesture of
longing,--"anywhere where I can breathe and think as I please--as I
really am! Do you want me to die without ever having been myself--my
real self--even for one day? I have come to the end of my strength; I
can endure no longer."

Winthrop had been thrilled through by this almost violent cry and
gesture. Coming from Margaret, they gave him a great surprise. "Yes, I
know," he began; "it has been a hard life." Then he stopped, for he felt
that he had not known, he had not comprehended; he did not fully
comprehend even now. "I am only harsh on account of the way you treat
me," he said; "it galls me to be so completely set aside."

"You can help me only by leaving me, I have told you that."

"But where is the sense--"

"I cannot argue. There may be no sense, but your presence oppresses me."

"You shall not be troubled with it long." He went towards the door. But
he came back. "Give me one reason."

"I have no reason; it is instinct."

He still stood there.

She waited a moment, looking at him. "If you do not leave me, I shall
leave you," she said, "I shall refuse to see you again. You are the best
judge of whether you believe me or not."

"Women are absurd," exclaimed Winthrop; "they must always have vows,
renunciations, eternal partings--nothing less contents them. Oh, I
believe you! you would keep a vow or die for it, no matter how utterly
senseless it might be. Of course I want to see you again; so I will go
now--that is, for a while; I will go back to East Angels."

He took her hand, though she did not extend it. "You have been extremely
unreasonable," he said. Though he obeyed, she should feel that he had
the mastery still.

He left her, and rode back to the hotel. Mr. Moore learned a few hours
later, that he had returned to East Angels.

This had happened three days before. It was now late in the afternoon of
the third day, and the house was prepared for "Mis' Horrel's" departure.
Mr. Moore, standing on the low bank, waved his hand in farewell as the
boat, rowed by two old negroes, carried her down the river.

The five miles seemed short. When the men turned in towards the hotel,
twilight had fallen, the river had a veil of mist. Margaret's eyes
rested vaguely on the shore; suddenly, in a low voice, she said, "Stop!"

The men obeyed. She strained her eyes to see more clearly a figure under
the trees near the landing; it was a man, dressed in gray clothes, he
was walking up and down; they could see him as he moved to and fro, but
he could not see their low boat, pausing out there in the fog.

Margaret appeared to have satisfied herself. "Row out now into the
stream," she said, briefly.

And in a few minutes the shore, left behind them, was but a dark line.

"I have changed my mind, I shall not sleep at the hotel, after all. You
can take me back home--to the house on the point. Then, to-morrow
morning, you can be there again at dawn, and bring me up in time for the
steamer; it will do quite as well."

The old men, without comment either of mind or tongue, patiently rowed
her back down the river.

When they reached the point, Margaret, after charging them to be
punctual, dismissed them, and walked up the path alone towards the
house. No lights were visible anywhere. There was a young moon, and she
looked at her watch, it was not yet nine o'clock; Mr. Moore had
apparently gone to bed at a very early hour.

The truth was that during all this visit of his on the river Mr. Moore
had kept much later hours than he was in the habit of keeping at home.
At home Penelope, who believed that he needed a great deal of sleep, was
in the habit of saying, about ten o'clock, "Now, Middleton--" And
Middleton, as Dr. Kirby once expressed it, always "now'd."

On the present occasion, after partaking of the supper which Dinah had
prepared for him, he had sent the old woman to her home; then,
remembering that he had a week of arrears to make up, he had gone to his
room, though there was still a gleam of sunset in the west.

Margaret understood what had happened, she determined that she would not
disturb him; probably it would not be difficult to find a way into the
house. As she had expected, among the numerous windows on the
ground-floor she found one which she could raise; light and lithe, she
easily effected an entrance, and stole on tiptoe to a room up-stairs in
the south wing, where she knew there was a lounge whose pillows had been
left in place. She had her travelling-bag with her, but she did not
intend to undress; she would take what sleep she could on the lounge
until dawn, covered by her travelling shawl. But she was more weary than
she knew, and nature was kind that night at least; very soon she fell
asleep.

The figure she had seen on the shore, was, as she had thought, that of
Evert Winthrop. He had come back.

It might have been that he did not consider a return to the river
prohibited, so long as he did not go down to the house on the point;
there was no law, certainly, against a man's travelling where he
pleased. He had not been down to the house on the point, he had stayed
at the hotel all day. He had seen her trunks when they arrived, and he
knew from their being there that she must be expecting to take the next
morning's steamer, northward-bound; was she coming herself to the hotel
to sleep? After a while he made the inquiry; his tone was careless, he
asked at what hour they expected her.

"I will be surprised if she is not here by supper-time," was the answer
he received.

At sunset he went down to the shore and strolled to and fro. But though
he thus kept watch, he did not see the boat that stole up in the fog,
floated off-shore for a moment, and then disappeared.

That night, at three o'clock Middleton Moore woke with the feeling that
he had been attacked by asthma, and that Penelope was trying to relieve
him with long smoking wisps of thick brown paper, her accustomed remedy.
Then consciousness became clearer, and he perceived that there was no
Penelope and no candle; but that there was smoke. He sprang up and
opened the door, there was smoke in the hall also. "The house is on
fire," was his thought; "how fortunate that there is no one here!" He
threw on his clothes, drew on his boots, and seizing his coat and hat,
ran down the hall. His room was on the ground-floor, he looked into the
other rooms as he passed; there was smoke, but no flame; yet he could
distinctly perceive the odor of burning wood. "It must be up-stairs," he
said to himself. He unlocked the house door, and ran across the lawn in
order to see the upper story.

Yes, there were the flames. At present only little tongues, small and
blue, creeping along under the cornice; they told him that the fire had
a strong hold within, since it had made its way outward through the main
wall. It would be useless for him to attempt to fight it, with the water
at a distance and no one to assist. The old mansion was three stories
high. "It will go like tinder," he thought.

His next idea was to save for Margaret all he could; jamming his
clerical hat tightly down on his forehead, he began to carry out
articles from the lower rooms, and pile them together at the end of the
lawn. He worked hard; he ran, he carried, he piled up; then he ran
again. He lifted and dragged ponderous weights, the perspiration stood
in drops on his face. But even then he made a mental list of the
articles he was saving: "Six parlor chairs. One centre table of
mahogany. A work-table with fringe. A secretary with inlaid top. A
sofa." In the lower rooms the smoke was blinding now. Outside, the
tongues of flame had grown into a broad yellow band.

Presently the fire burst through the roof in half a dozen places, and,
freed, rose with a leap high in the air; heretofore there had been but
little noise, now there was the sound of crackling and burning, and the
roar of flames under headway; the sky was tinged with the red glow, the
garden took on a festal air, with all its vines and flowers lighted up.

Mr. Moore did not stop to look at this, nor to call the flames "grand."
In the first place, he did not think them grand, eating up as they were
a good house and a large quantity of most excellent furniture. In the
second, he had not time for adjectives, he was bent upon saving a
certain low bookcase he remembered, which stood in the upper hall. He
had always admired that bookcase, he had never seen one before that was
unconnected with associations of step-ladders, or an equally insecure
stepping upon chairs.

He jammed his hat hard down upon his forehead again (he should certainly
be obliged to have a new one), and ran back into the house. But the
flames had now reached the lower hall, they had burned down as well as
up; he was obliged to content himself with a hat-stand near the door. As
he was dragging this out he heard shouts, and recognized the voices as
those of negro women; when he had reached the lawn, there they were,
Dinah and Rose and four other women; they had seen the light, and had
come running from their cabins, half a mile down the shore. They were
greatly excited; one young girl, black as coal, jumped up and down,
bounding high like a ball each time; she was unconscious of what she was
doing, her eyes were on the roaring flames, every now and then she gave
