before she died. It was a cancer. When she found 
there was no help for it she told Victoria, and they 
talked it over and made up their minds what must be 
done after she was gone, as if it was well, a trip across 
the water. Victoria behaved like a woman of fifty, 
after it, and kept right on with her studying. Now, 
do you know, I don't believe her mother would have 
done just as she did, if she'd been into society any. 
They just shut themselves up, and lost track of the 
wickedness in the world. Or, rather, I guess they 
never knew whether 'twas wicked or not, coming from 
Ridgeway here. Now you and I would see it wouldn't 
do for a girl like her to live alone in lodgings ; but she 
almost snapped my head off when I advised her to 
board, or get an elderly woman to stay with her." 

: You surprise me, Rose. This is America, man, 
and women are supporting themselves and living alone, 
scores of them." 

Yes, I know all that, but you see I know Victoria, 
too. She's been brought up with extravagant ideas of 
the calling. I really believe the girl thinks she ought 
to thank the Lord every day, for letting her go on the 
stage, if she starves there. Now you know, to keep 
on carrying her head just as high as she does now, she 
hadn't ought to run the risk of suspicion, any where. 
That's why I wish she could be fenced in, so that even 
you young swells could see she is as much of a lady as 
your sisters. You didn't think much of her acting, 
now, did you ? " 



' Well, I shouldn't go so far as to condemn her. 
She has possibilities, but so have dozens of people. It 
all depends on how they pan out. But her physique 
is splendid and so is her voice. I can't explain what 
I think she lacks. It seems to be that she doesn't 
move you. She isn't magnetic." 

That's what I tell myself," nodded Rose, approv- 
ingly. ' I should like to introduce you to her. Come 
round any night and I will." 

It was not long before Oswald found his way behind 
the scenes, but he delayed it until the curtain went 
down, and then looked in vain for Rose. Victoria 
went past him to her dressing-room, coming out pres- 
ently with her cloak on. Rose appeared suddenly, 
performed the introduction, and hurried off with his 
hat under his arm to give some directions. 

'' Mr. Rose says you have come to criticise me," 
said Victoria, looking at him frankly, as far from bold- 
ness as embarrassment. " Please do it." 

' I don't want to," closing his eyes a little to scan 
her, and speaking with a coolness that was half im- 
pertinence. 

' But I wish you would," she said, earnestly, throwing 
a piece of lace over her head which she might 
easily have done from a coquettish impulse. Her hair 
proved to be blonde, and was very bright through the 
black meshes. But this was not even an artistic suggestion. 
She was afraid of taking cold. "I don't 
mean to care for criticism usually. I'm not even read- 
ing the newspapers, because I always thought their 
critics hadn't much notion of art, and perhaps their 
little opinions would paralyze me as much as if they 

were greater. Mr. Rose says you are more of a dra- 
matic critic than all the newspaper men put together. 
Tell me how I affect an audience." 

"You will certainly have to ask the newspapers ; 
that is, for your effect on the majority of people," said 
Oswald, rather cruelly, watching her, "for you don't 
move me at all." 

" Really ?" said the girl, looking at him with the 
utmost gravity and intentness. : 'Oh, I'm so sorry ! I 
don't believe I am conceited, but I'm surprised, 
too." 

' It wasn't a gallant speech, but I thought you wanted 
the truth. Why, your eyes are actually wet ? How 
rude I must have been, and how sensitive you are ! ' 

" No, not very, but I am anxious," she said, not 
minding her eyes in the least. ' I feel doubtful 
whether I'm going to be a success, and though I ex- 
pect to work hard for years and years, I want to set 
Mr. Rose's mind at ease now. He's been very good to 
me, and has expectations of my deserving it. Can you 
tell me what I lack ? " 

' No, not without thought. I think you do some 
things admirably ; a good many stiffly. I should like 
to talk with you and ask your reasons for some points. 
If you would let me call to see you, with Rose, we 
might understand each other better." 

' Yes, please do," she said, with frank pleasure. ' I 
shall be glad to see you. And perhaps you'll bear me 
out against him in some ideas he sets down to my 
ignorance. Good-night." She nodded and smiled, and 
was half way down the steps before he could follow 
her. When he came out at the stage-door her carriage 



 

was just driving away. Oswald was amused. He was 
used to various styles of Bohemian the girl who accepted 
an invitation to supper from a stranger, and 
drank her champagne like a man ; the one so severely 
proper as to need a chaperon on all occasions, except 
that of fainting in her lover's arms on the stage ; and 
the genuine lady but he had never seen such a mixture 
of self-possession and childishness as this. The simple 
straightforwardness with which she assumed that he 
knew something which would help her, and therefore 
depended on him to impart it, touched his self-love. 
It tempered the admiration he could not help feeling 
for her beauty by a half-patronizing flavor which added 
to his kindliness. Elizabeth was waiting for him at 
home. She had not known how long he would be 
gone ; there had been a dinner at the club, and drop- 
ping into the theater was an after impulse. He was 
running up stairs when she opened the library door 
and called him With a sudden thought of her, he 
wanted to see her. It was a great addition to his 
present pleasure not to have thought of her all the 
afternoon. She looked a little tired, but her face 
brightened too quickly for him to guess she had wor- 
ried about his delay. 

'Are you glad ? " holding her at arm's length, and 
waiting for a smile. " And you've had a supper brought 
in here. I smell it. Elizabeth, if your forethought 
goes as far as that, you'll be the comfort of my declin- 
ing years." Elizabeth tried in vain to bring her face 
down to a demure seriousness. 

' Come in. Perhaps I can find you a crust, at least. 
Now, lie down there, and have the crimson pillows. 





I know you like this better than a chair. Now, you're 
not to say a word, but watch and see what I do." 

Oswald had a genius for accepting petting. He sank 
back on the sofa, with a sigh of delight, and looked 
hungrily at the table. It was a tiny table, covered with 
a clolh, and bearing delicious bread and butter, with 
a picturesque salad. Elizabeth took a napkin and 
lifted a small pot of chocolate from beside the grate. 

'It was made half an hour ago," she said, pouring a 
cup. ' I thought you would be home then, if you 
were at the theater. But it's hot, Oswald ; so you wont 
mind?" 

' It's delicious," said Oswald, sipping and adding 
sugar till it was a nectar of sweetness. 'Elsie," as she 
drew up the table so that he need not leave his lounging 
position, even to use his fork, ' you know exactly how 
to make me comfortable." 

His wife laughed happily, sitting down on a hassock 
near him with her own cup. It was enough pay for 
this whole evening's anticipation of his comfort to see 
him pleased with the result. 

' I've been talking to your wonder of an actress," he 
said, throwing his head back on the pillows, while she 
filled his cup again. ' Rose introduced me." 

' You have ? Tell me about her. How I wish I 
could see her, too ! But no, I shouldn't know what to 
say." 

' There really isn't any thing to tell," beginning a 
second deliberate raid on the sugar-bowl. ' Except 
that she's a beautiful creature and doesn't need much 
making up. She has a combination of features you 
seldom see in an American woman, full, very red lips, 



 

white teeth and a clear complexion, added to a fine pro- 
file. She walks like an Indian. I should say that 
what you would remark first in her, is her splendid 
physical health." 

" What did she say to you ? ' 

" Asked me to criticise her, which there wasn't time 
to do. Elsie, it's no end of comfort to find you here 
when I come in." 

Elizabeth brought her hassock closer and put her lips 
to his hand. ' Are you sure I shall make you happy ? ' 

: Yes, on the whole, very sure," said Oswald, lightly. 
' You haven't an obtrusive way about you ; consequent- 
ly, you please me. If you insisted on a frantic interest 
in every breath and coming and going of mine, we 
might get tired of each other. But you philosophically 
don't." 

Elizabeth was not conscious of having deserved 
praise of just this nature. She had felt vaguely disturbed 
in his absence, and now longed to draw nearer, to be 
soothed and indulged, but his very tone good-naturedly 
warned her to wait for an invitation. 





CHAPTER XIX. 



IT was somewhat confusing to Elizabeth not to have 
become, with marriage, a busier woman. She 
found her husband's household in running order, as it 
had been for the past five years, and could suggest 
no improvements. Being a woman of good sense, 
she did not attempt innovations for the purpose of 
claiming her rights, but .remained aloof from the field, 
penetrated with a sense of awe at Ward's generalship. 
Ward was the head of the establishment, an English 
man-servant, with the inherited tendencies of generations 
of service. American air had, as it unfortunately 
has a way of doing, given him a deep regard for his 
own personal importance, but that never became offensive. 
Ward had too nice a sense of the fitness of 
things to spoil a good servant, even if that servant 
chanced to be himself. 

Life hurried its action with Oswald. His love for 
his wife had been an absorbing emotion. It had not 
yet spent itself, but he had reached a point where her 
presence in the room did not rouse him to mental 
ecstasy. 

One night, Jack Perham came in, and, after a pleas- 
ant hour, went into the library with Oswald, to smoke. 
Thereupon Philip grew sleepy, and possibly a little 
cross, at not having been invited to witness that manly 
pastime, and grumbled up to his own room at ten. 



 

Elizabeth made herself somnolently comfortable in 
a chair by the fire and settled down to thought. That 
was made up, nowadays, of two threads a tender longing 
for her mother's comfort and rather an humble 
recognition of her own happiness. Soon she was only 
conscious that, healthfully tired after a long drive in 
the wind, she was sinking into a delicious doze. An 
hour after, she waked to wonder dreamily if she could 
have been asleep, and if her husband would be in 
soon, changed her position, and slept again. When she 
waked for the second time, the clock was striking nine 
ten it could not possibly be twelve ! But the strokes 
declared it, and she sat up hastily, winking sleep away. 
There was an eerie sense that she must be alone in 
the house, and, though by no means given to trouble- 
some fears, she crossed the hall quickly and pushed 
open the library door. Oswald sat by the table read- 
ing, with that peculiarly alert, concentrated look which 
sometimes indicates the person intellectually alive at 
midnight as he never is before sunset. He held him- 
self erect, as if too intently fixed on a train of thought 
to lounge at his ease. Jack had sunk forward, his 
head on the table, a deplorable caricature of his usual 
presence, and, unmerciful witness, a half -filled wine 
glass stood close to the helpless right hand. Elizabeth 
sickened at her first glance, though she would not con- 
fess to herself how well she understood. Oswald 
looked up : perhaps her glance drew him. 

c You there, Elizabeth ? I'm sorry you waited up," 
he said, slightly annoyed. A pale, frightened woman 
breaking in on his train of thought was an unexpected 
apparition. ; ' I shall be up-stairs, presently. Don't 



 

wait for me." He rose and put down his book, running 
his hand through his hair and glancing at Jack 
incidentally. But Elizabeth did not go. 

' What is it ? Is he ," she asked, in a whisper of 

suppressed excitement. 

"I'm afraid he is," said her husband, carelessly, 
touching the bell and looking at his watch in the second 
of waiting for the sleepy servant. ' Get a carriage and 
take Mr. Perham home. You know the number 19. 
Now come, Elizabeth." With a polite decision she 
could not resist, he led her to the stairs and went up with 
her. She was only alive to a sense of sudden and awful 
calamity. Drunkenness was one of the vices, and not 
among those most tolerated in Stratford. The few 
people addicted to it were sweepingly, and therefore 
Pharisaically, condemned to a social region below 
notice. This had happened in her husband's pres- 
ence. Consequently there must be some way of ex- 
plaining it. She sat down, leaning her arms on the 
table, without a thought for her white, shocked face, 
visible in the glass. 

"Oswald, come here, please," she called, unable to 
wait longer for having her mind set at rest. " How 
did it happen ? " 

' What ? Jack, do you mean ? Why, he's fond of 
wine and he took too much, that's all." 

' Was he ever so before with you ? ' 

' Scores of times. What have I to do with his drink- 
ing?" 

" Oh, it is dreadful ! " 

' Elizabeth, don't do that. Don't fall into extreme, 
vulgar notions. Nothing annoys me more." 



 

And nothing baffles like that sense of having at 
heart a principle which, in the mind of another, represents 
nothing more serious than a whim. Elizabeth 
began taking down her hair, without a word. For the 
first time, she put her husband far enough away to 
judge him by her own standards. But, in the morning, 
few things seemed of more importance than making 
sure there was not the slightest shadow of difference 
between them. 

" I am sorry if you thought I interfered last night," 
she said, touching his hand penitently, as they were 
going down to breakfast. " I didn't mean to ; but it 
seemed so wrong." 

It was a proud humility ; her erect young conscience 
would not yield a jot of protest against the deed, 
though, in sweet loyalty, she repented of judgment. 

" All right, dear," said Oswald, carelessly, putting 
discussion by to kiss her hand. " Don't let us make 
each other uncomfortable. That's morality enough for 
the present." 

And as Elizabeth said no more, the question was 
dropped. Nevertheless, little consideration as he 
allowed himself to give it, her evident opinion left a 
bad taste in his mouth. It roused no uneasiness of 
conscience, for, if brought to the point of thinking 
about it at all, he would have seen no reason for not 
helping Jack to wine, to the last point of hospitality. 
The possible moral involved acted as an irritant to the 
comfortably disposed mind ; for where is there not 
latitude for such questions ? One might make it a point 
of conscience to abstain from butter. 

The morning was fine, and Oswald took his way along 




the street, reaching a corner just as Victoria Landor 
rounded it. They recognized each other, and were, as 
it proved, going the same way. So it was the most 
natural thing to walk on together. Victoria had an 
almost audacious bloom of health. Some of you pale, 
women might have slightly disapproved of her, because 
she was so brilliantly colored in hair and complexion, 
and because her teeth flashed so white. 

'You are not walking for pleasure," said Oswald. 
" You don't dawdle." 

' Yes, I am, but my pleasure is not to dawdle ; I can't 
mince " with an excellent accompaniment of six little 
bridling steps, holding her hands primly clasped in 
front and her mouth pursed. Oswald laughed, whereat 
her eyes did also, without the aid of her mouth. 

"You ought to carry a muff." 

' I had one, twenty years ago or more, but I took 
it for a cap when I wanted to be drum-major. Then 
it fell into the gutter and Tike worried it." 

"Who was Tike?" 

" My little dog. She died of dropsy." 

;< I am inclined to think you were making game of 
me the other night when you asked my advice so 
seriously," said Oswald. 

Though the remark was intended chiefly to keep the 
conversation running, he had more than half a suspicion 
that it might be true. Her face instantly dismissed its 
childish gravity for one of real earnestness. 

' Nothing is of more importance to me than help in 
my profession," she said, in a peculiarly full tone. ' I 
want it so much that I haven't the least hesitation in 
asking for it" 



 

'You talk as if I might have a treatise in my pocket, 
any time, 'The Full-fledged Actress, Ho\v to make 
Her.'" 

' Not at all ; but you said I had no effect on yon. I 
want to know why. I should ask the man, of all others, 
who says I fail, how I fail." 

'Well, as I advised you before, read the news- 
papers." 

' When they are wiser ! I will cross here, I think. 
Good-morning." And Oswald had lost his chance of 
finishing a conversation which opened well. He did 
not suspect Victoria's quick guess at the truth, that he 
was answering indirectly while she questioned honestly. 
He thought of her with keen pleasure. The day had 
begun with his wife's pallor and approach at explana- 
tion. Of two people, one would naturally muse over 
the more attractive, and Victoria looked like a beautiful 
animal with a joyful, healthy soul. 

You could not conceive of such a complexion's going 
with too troublesome a conscience. 



CHAPTER XX. 

ONE day Elizabeth chanced to go into the room 
where Philip was reciting history, and, caught by 
a sentence, asked permission to stay. Then she dropped 
in again, and fell into the habit of doing it. Occasionally 
she did a little private tutoring of herself in Latin 
translation, in order to work with Philip when his 
master was not there. Their history reading interested 
her chiefly, for she had the kind of memory which is 
able to retain dates and relations of events, gaining a 
delight from its own accuracy which is as real as the 
pleasure of generalizing. Felix had very little to say 
to her beyond the commonplaces incident on coming 
and going ; he was too anxious about the success of his 
work to filch minutes from it. Still, he was glad to 
have her there and a little disappointed if she failed to 
appear. 

She always brought sewing, and never interrupted, 
except by laying it down sometimes, forgetting that 
she was not a pupil, too. He discovered it to be a 
pleasure to tempt her to this. She was so studiously 
resolved against it, that her voluntarily expressed inter- 
est was a voucher for the success of his teaching. 

"I think Caesar was just like Napoleon," said Philip, 
one morning, breaking off his fluent account of Roman 
history. 

u And why, if you please ? " asked Elizabeth, biting 



 

A 

her lip and blushing at having answered, while Felix 
turned to her .with a smile that excused the liberty. 
Just then, a card was brought in, announcing Mrs. Tyr- 
rell. Elizabeth had no idea who Mrs. Tyrrell was, 
but was struck at once by her beauty and ease of 
manner. 

: ' I have known your husband so long that I wanted 
to know you, too," she said, in a soft contralto, which 
meant nothing in any of its tones, but had the power 
of inspiring a great deal. ' I know you sent me cards 
to your Wednesdays, but I like to be informal." 

' I am very glad to see you, I'm sure," said Eliza- 
beth, and then thought how commonplace her own re- 
mark sounded. 

; ' And I knew I should feel out of place on your 
Wednesdays," said Mrs. Tyrrell, going on with the 
train she had already laid, and placidly ignoring inter- 
ruption, " because Mr. Craig knows so many celebrated 
people queer people, too I hardly know how to talk 
with them." 

! They have so much to say themselves that it's 

very easy to get on with them," said Elizabeth, quite 

unconscious of any possible sarcasm in her words. 

' I find it all interesting, even when it gets beyond 



me.' 



Mrs. Tyrrell made a few more equally important re- 
marks which, couched in exactly the right language, 
seemed the only perfect things to say. Then she 
gracefully added an ornamental flourish which she had 
not previously prepared. 

' How fine your husband's taste is, in flowers particularly ! 
He used to keep my little library I like the 




name, though there are no books there filled with 
very fragrant, heavy ones." 

" Did he ? " 

' Yes, he said they suited me. I never see tube- 
roses without thinking of him." 

She took her leave almost immediately, but Elizabeth 
did not return to the history. She felt slightly uneasy, 
as if life in general were more complicated than she 
had supposed. 

"Your friend Mrs. Tyrrell called to-day, Oswald," 
she said, when they were alone at night. With no idea 
that there was any thing to conceal in his acquaintance 
with her, she felt that it would not be a delicate thing 
to remind him, in the presence of any one else, of a 
woman who had received his gifts, and to whom a 
flower could recall him. 

' Did she ? I wonder why." 

' She spoke as if she knew you very well," said Eliz- 
abeth, her heart beating faster. 

' I dare say. Most women overrate an acquaintance. 
You don't ; you would know to a mathematical cer- 
tainty, exactly how many times you'd seen a man and 
what he said. You're a clear-headed, cool, little piece," 
dropping a kiss on her hair. This was one reason for 
his satisfaction in her. Independent complications of 
emotions, in others, tired him ; if they must exist, he 
wished to excite them himself and clear the sky when 
he pleased. Elizabeth was beginning to learn that her 
husband was absolutely inscrutable where that was 
concerned which he did not care to explain. She was 
never suspicious of him ; her faith was quite as abso- 
lute as before she had any reason for caring about his 
past ; but mysterious, non-committal innocence may be 
as exasperating as the secrecy of guilt. What placidly 
evades, gives one an irritated sense of being baffled. 
Perhaps one has never undertaken the solution in 
question, but he has the consciousness that some time 
he may wish to do it, and what then ? 



CHAPTER XXI. 

TO run forward some weeks from Victoria's en- 
gagement at the World will bring to light the 
fact that Oswald had seen her in her own home al- 
most immediately after she began playing. He went 
into the theater at rehearsal one day, ostensibly to see 
Rose, and walked away with her when it was over. 
The large mold in which her thoughts were cast com- 
manded his admiration. Evidently, he personally held 
no place in her consciousness, except as he was a man 
of trained intellect, and one who was liable to say 
something worth hearing of her profession. The sim- 
ple frankness with which she asked him to talk em- 
barrassed even him. This superb creature had the air 
of seating herself at your feet and saying, " I hear you 
have a theory of the way Rosalind should move and 
speak. Please tell me about it ! ' 

On that particular day, they walked to Tremont 
street, where, at the top of a building, were her two 
rooms. When they reached the entrance, he was say- 
ing : " I have the more faith in your talent because 
Rose tells me it is inherited." 

'Ah, then you know about Estelle ? " she said, turn- 
ing to him with an expression of frank pleasure. ' I 
am glad, because I want every body to be interested 
in her, and sometimes I can't drag her into the con- 



 

versation, though they say jsjtfj -was^but a slight body. 
Would you like to see her portrait ? ' 

"Very much." 

' Come now, if you will, and be inroduced. I am 
proud of Estelle." 

Up the various stairs, lined on either side with of- 
fices, to the very top, and there Victoria unlocked a 
door and led the way into a peculiarly furnished room. 
There were no little ornaments made by the fingers 
in womanly leisure, though an abundance of homely 
articles scattered about, here and there, gave evidence 
of housewifely use. A piano was in one corner, and 
over it the head of the one Apollo, in marble. On an 
easel in another corner stood the portrait of the great- 
est living actor, and beneath it lay a pile of books in 
careless order, all, as far as Oswald could see from a 
title page here and there, Shakespeare commentaries 
and dramatic criticism. A case, filled with books above 
and below, held a middle shelf of odd china and 
glasses. Victoria had excused herself and now reap- 
peared, without her hat. " I hoped you would make 
her acquaintance while I was gone," she said, turning 
merrily to a picture behind him, which Oswald had 
not noticed. 'Why didn't you introduce yourself, 
Estelle ? It would have been less embarrassing for the 
gentleman." 

Oswald turned, with a start which made her laugh ; 
the genuineness of her tone had made him expect to 
see the portrait flesh and blood. ' Lady Estelle Mr. 
Craig," said Victoria, with an air. The picture looked 
at him graciously. A young woman in a short-waisted 
black dress ; with its dark background, the picture de- 




Dended on her brilliant tints of face and hair for its 



only light. From the dusky shadows the face shone 
out victoriously ; not.a'handsome face, but one hold- 
ing a certain indomitable quality. The brown hair 
was in great soft curls over the head, surmounted by a 
piquant white muslin turban. The eyes were brown 
and laughing, and the full red lips satirical. 

" The Lady Estelle isn't easily deceived. She must 
be an excellent friend and adviser," said Oswald, 
gravely. 

"Yes, I talk to her a great deal. We are very in- 
timate. That is the reason she allows me to use her 
Christian name, in spite of her being my great-grand- 
mother. She led her husband's family a life of it, 
I've been told. Didn't you, Estelle ? " 

Oswald fancied the lips curved a little more. ' Will 
you tell me about her ? What did she do to shock 
them ? " 

' Nothing in the world ! ' said Victoria, laughing ; 
' only they were afraid she would. To be French 
was to be radically bad and to have drawn in with the 
very air the sins of court and people. So, whenever 
she took her walks abroad, they felt obliged to watch 
her and gossip about her. I like to think she looked 
at them with those great brown eyes and made them 
shiver for fear of what she might do next. But her 
husband loved her." 

' That probably added zest to her diablerie. She 
knew she couldn't go too far." 

[ Yes, but there was one difference between them. 
It was her great wish to go on the stage, and he 
wouldn't let her. She might have done it in spite of 




him ; she had daring enough, but unfortunately she 
loved him." 

When Oswald went away, he asked leave to bring in 
a collection of photographs, and Victoria gave a hearty 
assent. 

The American girl abroad, obtuse to social usage, is 
a type we are forced to acknowledge. The American 
girl not only unaccustomed to protection, but never 
needing it, is quite another person. She may make 
mistakes, and, in her frank dealing with the world, 
accept some very soiled cunning for truth equal to her 
own, but it will be done purely. Victoria liked and 
admired Oswald more than he guessed. Why should 
she not see him ? His social relations never caused 
her an instant's thought, partly because she was busy ; 
furthermore, because she had a theory that a friend's 
relations to other people did not affect those he bore 
to one's self. Inquisitiveness was a sort of indelicacy. 
Oswald made himself a part of the enjoyment of her 
little leisure. He was his brightest, most whimsical, 
and most intellectually earnest self all in one. He had 
no plan of action ; his mind had fixed on no definite 
result. As usual, the moment was all, and the moment 
favored him. Her only friend, the manager; was busy 
and preoccupied. He was about carrying out a project 
conceived years ago that of building up the best 
stock company to be had for money, and putting on a 
succession of Shakespeare's plays. If it should prove 
a losing investment, there were, to balance it, the pro- 
ceeds of the traveling companies, who were constantly 
on the road, giving some taking society dramas. 

Victoria was steadily drawing larger and larger 




houses. With the uncritical part of her audience she 
was immensely popular. They yielded to her beauty 
without a struggle, and thought they were in love with 
her art. The few men whose opinion was really worth 
hearing, paid her the compliment of consideration. 
She had such evident possibilities, said they, that it 
would be worth while to wait a couple of years before 
giving a verdict. If she could but gain the fire which 
it seemed she lacked, there would be no question of 
her greatness. 

Seeing her every day at the theater, Rose never 
came to her home now. Perhaps the absence of her 
mother, whom he had adored for years from a social 
distance, affected him too strongly. 

Oswald occasionally took Elizabeth and Philip to 
see Victoria play, always excusing himself under pre- 
tense of an engagement, and returning for them after 
the curtain was down. For, however indefinite his in- 
tentions might be, he preferred that the woman he 
admired most should not see him with any other, and 
draw inconvenient conclusions which might shake her 
interest in him. Philip continued his adoration and 
his sonnets, though none of the later verses found 
their way into print. But his star-worship was ideal, 
and easily satisfied. He only asked the privilege of 
making his lady the Helen of his tragedy and dream- 
ing of her, in the intervals of study. 

When Oswald gave a light reason for absence from 
home, Elizabeth schooled herself to accept it without 
a question. Having once said to her that a curious 
calling people to account was one of the forms of vul- 
garity, she was genuinely ashamed whenever such 



 

curiosity cropped out in her own mind, and made 
haste to kill it as if it were the rankest weed. She had 
