
CHAPTER VII.

AN EXPEDITION BY MOONLIGHT.


The Sylph lay at the new wharf, and as soon as the students had put on
their uniforms they went on board of her. Chief-engineer Minkfield was
directed to get up steam at once. Captain Dornwood ordered one of the
quarter boats to be lowered into the water and manned. Taking Thad
Glovering, the first officer, with him, he embarked.

At the order of the coxswain the bowman shoved off, and the oars were
dropped into the water. The boat was pulled up the little lake to the
stone quarries. Mr. Miker, the lessee of the quarries, had made good use
of some of the ideas of Bolly Millweed, the architect of the boat-house.
The caisson, on which the stone posts for the foundations of the
structure had been transported, had suggested to him the building of a
huge raft, or scow.

He called the craft a "gundalow," which appears to be a corruption of
gondola, though the affair bore but little resemblance to the airy boat
of the Venetians. It was fifty feet long and sixteen feet wide. It was
decked over and caulked, so that it was as tight as a ship on the ocean.
It had a stow-hole at each end; but these compartments were perfectly
tight, so that if any water flowed into them it could not get into the
large middle chamber upon which the craft depended for its power of
flotation.

When heavily loaded with stone, the deck was only a few inches above the
level of the water outside. Mr. Miker's principal market for the
production of the quarries was at Genverres, though he had sold a large
quantity of stone to be delivered in Burlington. In the centre of the
deck was a derrick, which was used as a mast when the gundalow went out
upon Lake Champlain. She was provided with a large, square sail, but it
could be used only when the wind was fair.

On her trips to Genverres she was poled by four or six men, and made
very slow progress. But Captain Gildrock had offered Mr. Miker the use
of the Sylph to tow her when he wished, for this was nothing but fun to
the ship's company, and, as it looked like business to them, they
enjoyed it more than mere sailing without a purpose.

The principal made no charge for the use of the steamer, and Mr. Miker
was grateful for the service rendered by the yacht and the students. The
gundalow was just the thing Captain Dornwood wanted for the operations
of the night. When the boat reached the quarry, the captain went on
board and measured it. But the derrick was in the way, and unless it
could be removed, the craft would be useless to him.

Returning to the boat, he proceeded farther up the creek, to a point
near Mr. Miker's house. Landing again, he found the quarryman in his
garden. He stated his business. Of course he could have the use of the
gundalow, and the derrick could be taken out of her. The man of stone
was enthusiastic to serve the students, and he did not even ask to what
use the craft was to be applied, though Dory volunteered the information
that the plan he was to carry out was approved by the principal.

Mr. Miker hastened to summon all his men, who lived near the quarries,
and by eight o'clock they were on the deck of the gundalow. But it was
no small undertaking to remove the derrick, for the mast was a very
heavy spar, and was stepped in the bottom of the scow.

The rigging and the long arm were taken from it, and then one of the
movable derricks used in the quarries was brought on deck, and guyed up
for work. With the aid of this machinery the mast was taken out, and
deposited on the shore. The mast-hole was covered with a tight scuttle
made for the purpose, and the gundalow was adapted to the business for
which she was to be used in the expedition to Sandy Point.

By this time it was nine o'clock, and the moon was just beginning to
cast its silvery light upon the still waters of the little lake. Captain
Dornwood promised to return the scow to the quarries before morning; but
Mr. Miker said he should not use her for a week, and the captain could
keep her as long as he wished.

"We shall want a lot of blocks, planks, and timbers, but we have plenty
of them on the school grounds, though we shall have to lug them a
considerable distance to put them on board of the gundalow," said
Captain Dornwood, as he was about to step into the boat.

"Hold on then, Dory! I have everything you can possibly want in that
line," interposed Mr. Miker. "The students have saved my men a vast deal
of hard work in towing the gundalow, and they will be glad to put all
the lumber you need on board of the scow."

"That we will!" exclaimed several of the men in the same breath.

"I don't want to give you and your men, who have been at work all day,
any unnecessary trouble," added Dory.

"No trouble at all!" protested the men, as they began to put the timbers
on board.

Dory was very grateful to them, and pointed out the kind of stuff he
wanted, including a large pile of rollers used in moving heavy blocks of
stone. In half an hour the gundalow was loaded with the materials Dory
had indicated. In the little time at his disposal, the energetic leader
of the enterprise had made a list of the material he was likely to
require. He had been at work, while the men were loading the blocks and
planks, with his pencil and paper, and had thought of several things
that were of prime importance.

"I am very much obliged to you, Mr. Miker, and I shall be still more so,
if you will lend us eight jack-screws, for we have not enough of them at
the shops," continued Dory.

"Are you going to move a meeting-house, Dory?" asked the quarryman,
laughing.

"We are going to do something of that sort," replied the leader of the
enterprise. "But I don't let on just yet."

"All right; you know what you are about every time, and it is best to
keep your mouth shut, in ease you should not succeed as well as you
expect. I have a dozen rather small jack-screws, and I will have all of
them put on the deck of the gundalow," added Mr. Miker, as he ordered
his men to bring them from a shanty where they were kept under lock and
key.

"I will see that everything is brought back again before morning," said
Dory, as he stepped into his boat, and gave the order to return to the
Sylph.

It was now nearly ten o'clock on as beautiful an evening as ever
gladdened the heart of any night wanderers. The full moon gave an
abundance of light, and the operations of the students could be as
readily conducted as in the day-time. Everything that would be needed,
with the exception of a few coils of rope, was on board of the gundalow.
A party was sent to the shops for them; and when these necessary
articles were obtained, the fasts were cast off, and the steamer stood
up to the quarries.

The gundalow had been so often towed by the Sylph, that the business was
perfectly understood. In a few moments more she was made fast to the
steamer by the double tow-lines, so that the awkward craft could be
steered even around a corner without any difficulty. Will Orwell, the
second officer, was detailed to take charge of a party of six on board
of the tow. But before the steamer got under way again, Captain Dornwood
called all hands together on the forward deck.

"Now we shall know what sort of a racket this is going to be," said Dick
Halifax, as they hastened to the place of meeting.

"No, you won't," replied Dick Short, to whom the remark was addressed.
"You won't know anything at all about it until we come to the work to be
done."

"Why don't he tell us what we are to do?" asked Dick. "I should like to
know something about it."

"It was a trick of Captain Gildrock to keep his business to himself, and
Dory takes after him. The principal thinks the fellows can obey orders
better when they don't know what is coming than they can when they
understand all about it. Every fellow thinks he knows best how to do
almost anything."

"I don't know but he is right. I never saw a horse tumble down in the
street, but every one of the crowd around him wanted to boss the job of
getting him on his feet again," added Dick.

"I have called you together, fellows, to say that it will be necessary
to keep as still as possible on the expedition of to-night;" said
Captain Dornwood, when the ship's company had all gathered on the
forward deck. "I don't know that a noise would defeat our plans, but I
am very much afraid it would cause us some trouble. I don't believe in
any yelling when we are on duty, but I fear it would make mischief
to-night. Please to observe this request in the strictest possible
manner."

"Where are we going, Captain Dornwood?" asked Bark Duxbury, one of the
new students.

"Going to work now," replied the captain with a smile. "All hands to
their stations."

The ship's company separated, and all the officers and seamen went to
the places where they belonged. Though no meals were to be served during
the night, so far as was known, the cooks went to the galley, and the
stewards to the forward cabin. The second officer, with his gang, went
on board of the gundalow, and at the order from the captain the pilot on
duty rang the bell to back her. By this movement the scow was hauled out
from the wharf, and the bell to go ahead was given.

Mr. Miker and some of his men stood on the shore watching the departure
of the expedition, and wondering what sort of a mission the students
were going upon at that time in the evening. But the Sylph and her tow
soon disappeared beyond the trees at the lower end of Beechwater. Dory
was on the hurricane deck, keeping a sharp lookout upon everything that
was done.

At the V-point the pilot slowed down without any order from the captain,
and the scow was switched around it without touching the mud. There was
now nothing to do outside of the engine-room and pilot-house; and the
crew gathered into companies in various parts of the deck to speculate
upon the nature of the expedition in which they were engaged. They
guessed a hundred things. The crew of the Goldwing were pretty sure they
were going to Sandy Point.

The Sylph was approaching the mouth of the river, and it would soon be
necessary for Captain Dornwood to say something. For, if the expedition
was bound to the northward, she would take that course as soon as she
came up with the point on that side of the river; if she was going to
the southward, she would have to keep her present course half a mile
farther out into the lake to avoid the shoals off Field's Bay.

Oscar Chester and Dick Short, the latter of whom had been promoted from
a deck-hand to the position of second pilot, were in the pilot-house. No
order came to alter the course at the north point, but a few minutes
later the captain entered the pilot-house.

"We are bound to Sandy Point," said he; and the head of the steamer was
turned to the southwest.

In less than half an hour, the Sylph was close in to the end of the
point, and Dory discovered Paul on the shore. The steamer was headed
into the bay, and the gundalow brought up to a point directly in front
of the cottage.




CHAPTER VIII.

A CHANGE OF LOCATION.


Both of the quarter boats of the Sylph were lowered into the water, and
a shore party landed with Captain Dornwood. The steamer was then left in
charge of the first pilot. The hands on board of the gundalow had poled
her up to the beach where she had grounded.

"I am glad to see you, Dory," said Paul Bristol, when the captain went
on shore. "It was so late that I was afraid you were not coming."

"We have plenty of time to do the job, for I don't think it will take us
a great while. Have you seen anything of the Chesterfields this
evening?"

"Not one of them has been near the point, so far as I know, and I don't
expect to see any of them. I suppose they are dreaming of the fun they
will have in pitching the cottage into the lake to-morrow afternoon,"
added Paul, with a cheerful smile. "But I don't see how you are going to
move the building, Dory."

"If you keep your eye on us sharp for an hour or so you will see,"
replied the leader of the enterprise, as he turned his attention to the
business before him.

After half an hour's hard work, the lumber, blocks, and rigging on the
deck of the scow were landed on the beach. With thirty pairs of hands
the work was not very hard, and they tossed the large sticks about as
though they had been nothing but chips. By this time they understood
what was to be done, and the students were full of enthusiasm. They were
required to work in silence; for though the Chesterfield school was all
of half a mile from Sandy Point, Dory was very anxious lest their
operations should be disturbed by the institute people.

Two heavy timbers were placed under the cottage; the jack-screws were
put in position under them, and the building raised from the posts which
supported it. A plankway was laid on the smooth sand, the posts were
removed, and the cottage set on rollers. The plankway was continued to
the water.

There was a considerable descent from the site of the cottage to the
water. Two heavy ropes were attached to the building, and passed around
a couple of large trees in the rear of it. The plankway was an inclined
plane, and it required but little force to start the cottage on its
journey. With a couple of turns around the trees, the hands stationed at
the check-lines easily controlled its movements, and slacked off only as
the captain gave the word.

In a few minutes the building was rolled down almost to the water. The
gundalow was aground on the shore end. Two heavy timbers were extended
from the deck to the beach and supported by blocks so that they would
bear the weight of the structure. These beams lay nearly level when they
were in position, and just reached the end of the plankway on shore. The
check-lines were eased off again when smooth bearings for the rollers
had been prepared.

When the cottage was about half on the timber-ways the force of gravity
was no longer available, and the building refused to budge another inch.
While Captain Dornwood was on the front of the structure, some twenty of
the students in the rear tried to push it toward the gundalow; but they
could not start it.

"Enough of that!" called Dory, as soon as he saw what they were doing.
"You are acting without orders, and wasting your strength for nothing."

"But the building sticks fast where it is," said Ben Ludlow.

"If you think you can push it ahead you are mistaken," added the
captain. "It has gone as far as I expected it to go of itself."

The two check-lines were then carried on board of the scow, and the
Sylph was backed up to her. The lines were made fast at the quarters of
the steamer. Dory stood on the after end of the gundalow, and, with a
boatswain's whistle, made a signal agreed upon with the pilot to go
ahead.

The lines stiffened and strained, and then the cottage began to move
again. The timber ways had been continued on the deck of the scow, and
the building moved very slowly until the captain gave a second signal
with the whistle.

The rollers were instantly blocked by hands under the direction of the
first officer. But the rear of the cottage just reached the stern of the
gundalow. At least half of the weight of the building rested upon the
sand at the bottom. The water deepened very rapidly near the shore on
the outside of the point, and it became necessary to handle the heavy
burden with the greatest care, for the forward end of the craft would
settle down as soon as the structure was moved any further, forming an
inclined plane, on which the cottage might roll overboard.

There were four iron rings at the stern of the scow, and check-lines
were extended from them to the structure. A double turn was taken in
each over a cleat, and hands placed at these ropes. The signal was again
given for the steamer to go ahead. The building moved a few feet
further, and the rollers were promptly chocked when the captain gave the
whistle to "stop her."

The cottage was not yet exactly in the middle of the deck, and another
movement was necessary. The bow of the scow settled down, but the
check-lines held the house firmly in position. The second move was so
well timed that it placed the building in exactly the right place.

The check-lines were belayed under the direction of the first officer,
while the second officer proceeded to fasten the cottage to the rings in
the bow of the scow. It was to remain on the rollers during the trip to
its destination, and Captain Dornwood made sure that it was secured
beyond the possibility of any accident.

All the spare hands were then ordered to the shore, Dory leading the
way. The lumber, jack-screws, blocks, and other material were put on the
scow, for there was still abundance of space forward and abaft the
house. Everything connected with the cottage was put on board.

"By the big wooden spoon!" exclaimed Paul, when the burden of the work
was done. "I didn't believe you could do it with a hundred men."

"We haven't finished the job yet," replied Dory, laughing.

"But I believe you can do all the rest of it," added Paul, filled with
admiration. "These students are good for something besides keeping bread
and meat from spoiling."

"They are good fellows," answered Dory, "but we have not quite finished
over here yet."

"You fellows might come over here some night and carry off the building
of the Chesterfield Collegiate Institute if you felt like it. I don't
see what more there is to do."

A lot of shovels, hoes, and iron rakes had been brought over on the
steamer, and these were now carried on shore. The post-holes under the
cottage were filled up, every particle of rubbish was removed, and the
ground raked over until every thing was as smooth as though no human
being had ever resided within a mile of the spot.

"By the big wooden spoon!" shouted Paul. "It looks just as it did when
we first came here."

"We will leave everything in good order and condition so that Major
Billcord shall have nothing to complain of," replied Dory. "Now make the
Dragon fast to the stern of the gundalow, and we will get under way. I
think you had better stay in the house to see that everything goes right
there."

"All right, Dory, I will do just as you say; but I don't believe you
have started a joint in the cottage. I went up to look at the chimney
with a lantern while you were shifting it, and there is not a crack in
it."

The chimney reached only from a beam to the ridge pole, and a couple of
feet above it, so that the brickwork had required no special
consideration. But the building had been subjected to no hard usage, and
no damage had been done to it. All the furniture remained just as it had
been for two years, and Mrs. Bristol might have kept house in it as well
as when it was stationary.

As soon as the ship's company were all on board of the steamer, or the
scow, the captain gave the word to go ahead. The tow-lines had been
adjusted before. The end of the gundalow, which was aground, grated a
little on the sand, but it came off without difficulty, and the Sylph
with her tow headed down the lake.

The officers of the steamer were so well accustomed to handling the
gundalow that no difficulty was experienced in getting the cottage to
its destination, which was to be at Hornet Point, near the outlet of the
creek into Beechwater. The location had been suggested by Dory, and
agreed to by Captain Gildrock. It was quite as pleasant a spot as the
former site of the cottage, and was but a short distance from the new
boat-house.

The plank and timber ways were laid down as they had been on the other
side of the lake, and the building was moved to the shore as readily as
it had been put on board of the gundalow. By two o'clock in the morning
it was in position on the posts upon which it had rested at Sandy Point.
The materials were all conveyed to the quarry, and the gundalow was left
at its usual moorings.

By this time most of the students were gaping fearfully, and were very
tired. Paul remained at the cottage and went to bed after the departure
of the Sylph. The ship's company were dismissed at the wharf, and before
half past two they were all asleep in the dormitory. Mrs. Bristol and
Lily were up early in the morning, and went out to walk by six o'clock.

After the departure of the students the night before in the steamer,
they had not heard a word about the cottage. They walked over to the
boat-house, where they found the principal, who was an early riser. The
cottage could not be seen from the boat-house, though it could from the
wharf. Bates was bringing up a boat in which the captain was going out
to inspect the operations of the night.

"Good morning, Mrs. Bristol; good morning, Miss Lily. You are up early,"
said the principal.

"But I don't see anything of the cottage," replied Mrs. Bristol, after
they had returned the pleasant salutations of the captain. "I did not
hear a sound in the night, and I suppose Dory was not able to carry out
the plans we talked about."

"They certainly did not make any noise about it; but if you and Miss
Lily will take a seat in this boat, we shall soon ascertain what has
been done," said the captain, as Bates brought one of the four-oar boats
to the landing steps.

The ladies seated themselves in the stern-sheets of the boat, and the
boatman pulled out into the lake. But he kept near the shore, and the
overhanging trees obstructed the view of Hornet Point. In a few
minutes, however, the boat was out far enough to afford its occupants a
view of the mouth of the creek.

"Why, there's the cottage!" exclaimed Lily. "It looks as though it had
stood there since it was built."

"The boys have done their work very well," added Captain Gildrock.

The party landed and walked up to the cottage. Not a particle of rubbish
had been left on the premises; not a plank or a block. Where the sand on
the beach had been disturbed it had been raked over, and everything
looked as neat as though the family had lived there for a year. They
went to the front door and the back door, but both were locked. Paul was
still fast asleep in his chamber, and they did not disturb him.




CHAPTER IX.

THE JANITOR OF THE BOAT-HOUSE.


Captain Gildrock was delighted with the skill and the industry which the
students had displayed in the removal of the cottage. It was not the
difficulty of the feat they had accomplished so much as the neat and
orderly as well as quiet manner in which the work had been done. Usually
boys cannot do anything without a great noise and not a little bluster.
But the Beach Hillers had not disturbed any one on either side of the
lake.

With the machinery at their command it was not a great achievement to
move a building no larger than the home of the Bristols across the lake.
The principal had as yet no report of the work, but, taking the
appearance of the cottage at Hornet Point as a specimen of the labor
done, nothing could be better.

"Everything seems to be in good order here, Mrs. Bristol," said Captain
Gildrock, when he had examined the cottage and its surroundings.

"I can't see for the life of me how the students brought the cottage
over here and put it on the posts just as it was before, and in the
night, too," added Mrs. Bristol.

"And everything is just as neat as wax-work," said Lily.

"Just beyond the quarries is what we call the lake road, which is the
boundary of my land on the east side. There is a driveway from it
through the quarries, near the shore of the creek. I shall continue this
road to Beechwater, which will carry it by the end of the cottage,"
continued Captain Gildrock, pointing out the locality. "By this road you
can go to the town without passing through the school-grounds, though
you are entirely welcome to use the latter."

"You are very kind, sir," replied Mrs. Bristol. "I am sure I have not
the slightest claim upon you for anything, and you have done more for me
already than all others. We shall be grateful to you as long as we
live."

"I think you are a very worthy woman, and I am very glad to be able to
serve you," replied the captain. "But I have come to the conclusion that
my mission in the world is to help others to help themselves. You have a
son and a daughter."

"And they are both able and willing to work," added the woman.

"So I have heard from my nephew; and I expect to put you in the way of
earning your living. In the first place what is to be done with your
son?"

"He will do any kind of work he can get to do--work in a store or on a
farm."

"If he goes into a store, he has about one chance in ten of becoming
something more than a counter-jumper on five dollars a week. But he
ought to learn a trade."

"I should be very glad to have him do so, but we are dependent upon him
just now for the means of living. When Lily had a place in Westport, she
received only a dollar a week besides her board; and sometimes Paul
could not make any more than that."

"I have a place for Paul. I want a janitor for the boat-house, for Bates
is getting rather too old to do such work. I will give your son a salary
of twenty dollars a month for the service."

"You are very kind, sir; that is more than we ever had to live on,"
replied Mrs. Bristol.

"But I think he had better join the school at the same time. We can make
a carpenter or a machinist of him; and if he prefers some other trade,
what he learns here will not come amiss. He can do his work in the
boat-house and be a member of the school at the same time, though he
will have to work some part of the day while the students are at play."

"Paul will be very glad to work and never play, for he has always been a
very good boy," added the devoted mother.

"Your daughter, you said, had worked at the millinery business, and
perhaps a place can be found for her in Genverres," continued the
captain, as he led the way back to the boat. "We will go to breakfast
now."

The family took their morning meal at the usual hour; but not a single
student had yet appeared on the grounds. The principal would not allow
them to be disturbed until nine o'clock, when the bell was rung in the
dormitory, though a few of the boys had turned out at this hour. At
half-past nine breakfast was served to them; and they all appeared to be
in as good condition as usual.

Paul was invited to join them, though he was to board at home as soon as
his mother was established in the cottage. By this time he was pretty
well acquainted with the students, and was very popular among them. The
story of his fight with Walk Billcord and his father had been told on
board of the Sylph on the passage to Sandy Point, and his prowess made
him a hero among the boys.

"Paul, did you take the tin box from the hollow of the tree?" asked Mrs.
Bristol, as her son was leaving the mansion with the rest of the
students, for Fatima Millweed had already entered his name on the roll.

"I never thought a word about it, mother," replied Paul, not a little
mortified at the neglect. "I was so busy and so anxious that it never
came into my head. But I will go over in the Dragon and get it right
off."

"But Captain Gildrock has a place for you as janitor of the boat-house,
and perhaps he cannot spare you," added Mrs. Bristol.

"Janitor of the boat-house!" exclaimed Paul, opening his eyes very wide.

"And your salary is to be twenty dollars a month," continued Mrs.
Bristol. "The captain says his mission is to help those who are willing
to help themselves. Besides this, you are to be one of the students, and
learn to be a carpenter or a machinist."

"One of the students!" almost screamed Paul.

"But you will have to work while the other students play, my son."

"By the big wooden spoon! I shall be willing to work all night if I can
learn what the other fellows learn," replied Paul.

His mother explained to him more fully the intentions of the principal,
and the son of toil was more delighted than if a fortune had suddenly
dropped into his lap. He knew all about the course of study at Beech
Hill, and thought it was the finest school in the world. He had long
wished that he might learn a trade, and he would have sought a place
with a carpenter before, but he would have to work for nothing at first,
and his mother needed the dollar or two a week he could earn.

"When will Paul begin his work as janitor?" asked Mrs. Bristol, as the
principal was passing them in the hall.

"At once, Mrs. Bristol. His wages shall begin to-day," replied Captain
Gildrock. "But if you want him at the cottage till you get settled we
can spare him, though he had better join his class to-day."

"I wanted him to go over to Sandy Point," continued Mrs. Bristol, who
then explained the errand upon which she proposed to send Paul. "The
tin box contains my wedding ring, my mother's gold ring, and a
two-dollar bill. I was afraid to keep them in the house, for rough
characters sometimes land at the point. I didn't think of the box till I
wanted the money to buy some provisions."

"But Paul would have to row ten miles to get the box," added the
principal. "This is a broken day, and we shall not do much in the school
or the shops, and he can go over in the Goldwing after the students are
dismissed. I will pay Paul's first month's wages in advance, for I am
sure you will want some money."

The good woman took the money under protest, though it was true that she
needed it. The gold rings were of more value to her than any sum of
money, and she hoped they would not be lost.

At ten o'clock the bell rung for the forenoon studies. Paul took a desk
assigned to him, and no other boy was ever more interested in a circus
than he was in the exercises of the school-room. As soon as the school
was assembled, Captain Gildrock took the platform and called upon the
leader of the moonlight expedition to report upon the action he had
taken.

Dory modestly related all the particulars of the trip to Sandy Point,
and the removal of the cottage, and warmly commended the ship's company
for the good order they had maintained, the promptness with which his
orders had been obeyed, and the quietness with which all had done their
duty.

The principal believed in giving reasonable commendation when it was
deserved, and he bestowed handsome praise upon them on this occasion.

When the boys came into the school-room, they noticed upon the wall in
the rear of the platform a large drawing which they had never seen
before. It consisted of three plans of a vessel. On a table was a model
of the hull of a craft of some sort, resting in a cradle. The students
had kept their eyes fixed on the drawings and the model most of the time
while they listened to the commendation of the principal and the report
of their leader.

They manifested a very strong interest in these things, and they were
likely soon to forget the operations of the night before. For six months
there had been a great deal of talk among them about building a boat,
and the project was a very attractive one to them. But up to the present
time nothing had officially been said or done about it. As soon as the
spring opened, they had been required to erect a sort of shop on the
very bank of the little lake, near the old wharf of the steamer.

This structure was seventy-five feet long, with plenty of windows, and
was entirely open on the water side. In accordance with the general
policy of the principal, its use had not been explained; but all the
students believed it was to contain the ways on which the boat was to be
built. It looked now as though the desired information in regard to the
building of the boat was to be communicated to them.

"I need not ask you if you have noticed these drawings, and this model
of a vessel," said Captain Gildrock, after he had finished what he had
to say about the moving of the cottage; "for you have been looking at
these things most of the time since you came into the school-room."

"Are we to begin on the boat to-day?" Lon Dorset asked; and he was one
of the new students, not yet thoroughly broken in with the customs of
the school.

"When I set you at work you will begin; not before. It always affords me
very great pleasure to answer sensible questions, boys, and I shall do
everything I can to encourage you to ask them; but I don't believe in
foolish questions. Such is the character of all questions relating to
what we are going to do. You are never required to do anything until an
order is given. Foolish questions take up as much time as sensible
ones."

Lon Dorset was somewhat abashed at the manner in which his inquiry had
been treated; but the principal knew that some of the boys would talk
all day about nothing, if permitted to do so; and the questions he
tolerated and encouraged were those which brought out real information,
and revealed the condition of the inquirer's mind.

"The building of the boat has been somewhat delayed on account of the
difficulty of obtaining suitable lumber," continued the principal. "A
load which came from Boston yesterday will enable us to make a
beginning."

Some of the new pupils were disposed to give three cheers.




CHAPTER X.

A LECTURE ON SHIP-BUILDING.


"We are not ship-builders, boys; in fact, there is not a ship-builder
connected with the school, and I do not intend to engage one even as an
instructor," said the principal, continuing his remarks on the platform.
"In the present depressed state of this important industry, perhaps it
is not advisable to devote much time to the study of scientific
construction in ship-building. It looks now as though the ships of the
future were to be of iron; and many vessels of this material are built
in this country at the present time.

"But perhaps ship-building is rather too ambitious a term to apply to
our intended operations. We shall build a boat of considerable size, and
while we are doing the work we shall learn what we can about
ship-building. Many years ago I built a ship for myself, and
superintended its construction from the keel to the trucks. In building
our boat we shall not put in every stick used in a ship.

"Did any of you ever tow a log in the water?" asked the principal,
pausing for a reply.

"I have," answered Leo Pownall, whose father owned a saw-mill. "I have
towed lots of them on the mill-pond."

"To which end of the log did you make fast?" inquired the captain.

"To either end; just as it came handy," replied the student.

"Then you sometimes did more work than was necessary with your oars. A
log tows easier when you make fast to the big end," continued the
principal, waiting for the pupils to digest the idea.

"I don't see what difference it can make," added Leo. "If anything, I
should say that the small end would open a passage through the water
more readily than the big end."

"I suppose none of you ever saw a whale, but most of you have caught
horn-pouts, or bullheads."

"I have seen a whale on exhibition in New York," interposed Luke
Bennington.

"What was the shape of his head?"

"The one I saw was round; but I have seen pictures of whales in which
the head was nearly square."

"How is it with the pout!"

"His mouth is about the widest part of him," laughed Alick Hartford.

"Take fishes in general, in what part of the body do you find the
greatest girt?" asked the principal.

"Just astern of the head," replied Kit Burlington.

"In some fishes, about one third of the length from the mouth," added
Bark Duxbury.

"Very good; you are about right, though some fishes vary from the
general rule. Now don't you think Nature made a mistake, Leo Pownall,
and that fishes ought to swim tail first instead of head first, as you
would tow a log?"

"I suppose God made the fishes all right; but He gave some of them very
sharp noses," returned the saw-mill owner's son.

"Corresponding to the shape of the butt of a log after it has been
felled; but the greatest girt is still near the head. This is the
general shape of the hull of a vessel."

"But the head of a sperm whale is almost square; and no other fish is
like him," added Phil Gawner.

"The whale is not a fish, Gawner. I have seen a school of porpoises
alongside an ocean steamer. Their greatest girt is one third of the
length from the head end; but they will swim past a fast steamer, and
make something like twenty knots an hour," said Captain Gildrock.

"I was trying to find the porpoise in Wood's Natural History the other
day; but there is no such fish in the book," added Sol Guilford.

"Where did you look?"

"In the volume about fishes."

"The porpoise is not a fish, and you would have found it in the volume
marked 'Mammalia,'" replied the principal with a smile.

"But isn't the porpoise a fish? He lives in the water."

"So do hippopotami; but they are not fishes. Whales, porpoises,
dolphins, seals, and some others, are mammals; that is, they suckle
their young as a cow does a calf. Properly they are not fishes, though
they are very often called so."

These were the kind of questions the captain believed in encouraging,
though they sometimes led the conversation out of the legitimate
channel. They elicited useful information; and he was careful not to let
the students wander too wide of the subject under discussion.

"I don't know now why a log or a fish goes best with the big end
ahead," said Leo Pownall.

"After the passage for a moving body in the water is opened, this fluid
follows its own laws, and seeks an equilibrium. As it moves back to its
natural level, it crowds in upon the after part of the body, whether it
be a log, a fish, or a ship, and thus pushes it ahead. Under the stern
of a vessel, the hull is curved, or hollowed out, just as the size of a
fish diminishes at the tail, which is the fish's rudder.

"But the shape of the hull is varied according to the use to which the
vessel is to be put; but the rule will hold good in the main. In
building a ship the beginning of the work is done on paper. As in
erecting a house, the first thing is to obtain the plans, which are made
by the naval architect. In fact, the entire shape of the vessel is laid
down on the drawing-board. From these the builder gets his dimensions,
all the curves, and the form of every timber and piece of wood used.

"On the drawing on the wall," continued the principal, taking the
