

  

vegetables she is preparing for domestic consumption. 
Beside the barrel is a large caldron lined with copper, 
with a rim of brass. The way these things are painted 
brings tears to the eyes; but they give the measure of 
the Musee Fabre, where two specimens of Teniers and 
a Gerard Dow are the jewels. The Italian pictures are 
of small value; but there is a work by Sir Joshua Rey 
nolds, said to be the only one in France, an infant 
Samuel in prayer, apparently a repetition of the pic 
ture in England which inspired the little plaster im 
age, disseminated in Protestant lands, that we used to 
admire in our childhood. Sir Joshua, somehow, was 
an eminently Protestant painter; no one can forget 
that, who in the National Gallery in London has looked 
at the picture in which he represents several young 
ladies as nymphs, voluminously draped, hanging gar 
lands over a statue, a picture suffused indefinably 
with the Anglican spirit, and exasperating to a mem 
ber of one of the Latin races. It is an odd chance, 
therefore, that has led him into that part of France 
where Protestants have been least bien vus. This is the 
country of the dragonnades of Louis XTV. and of the 
pastors of the desert. From the garden of the Peyrou, 
at Montpellier, you may see the hills of the Cevennes, 
to which they of the religion fled for safety, and out 
of which they were hunted and harried. 

I have only to add, in regard to the Musee Fabre, 
that it contains the portrait of its founder, a little, 
pursy, fat-faced, elderly man, whose countenance contains few indications of the power that makes distinguished victims. He is, however, just such a personage 
as the mind 's eye sees walking on the terrace of the 
Peyrou of an October afternoon in the early years of 
the century; a plump figure in a chocolate-colored coat 
and a culotte that exhibits a good leg, a culotte pro 
vided with a watch-fob from which a heavy seal is 
suspended. This Peyrou (to come to it at last) is a 
wonderful place, especially to be found in a little pro 
vincial city. France is certainly the country of towns 
that aim at completeness; more than in other lands, 
they contain stately features as a matter of course. We 
should never have ceased to hear about the Peyrou, if 
fortune had placed it at a Shrewsbury or a Buffalo. It 
is true that the place enjoys a certain celebrity at 
home, which it amply deserves, moreover; for nothing 
could be more impressive and monumental. It consists 
of an "elevated platform," as Murray says, an im 
mense terrace, laid out, in the highest part of the town, 
as a garden, and commanding in all directions a view 
which in clear weather must be of the finest. I strolled 
there in the intervals of showers, and saw only the 
nearer beauties, a great pompous arch of triumph in 
honor of Louis XIV. (which is not, properly speaking, 
in the garden, but faces it, straddling across the place 
by which you approach it from the town), an equestrian 
statue of that monarch set aloft in the middle of the 
terrace, and a very exalted and complicated fountain, 
which forms a background to the picture. This foun 
tain gushes from a kind of hydraulic temple, or cha 
teau d eau, to which you ascend by broad flights of 



  

steps, and which is fed by a splendid aqueduct, 
stretched in the most ornamental and unexpected 
manner across the neighboring valley. All this work 
dates from the middle of the last century. The com 
bination of features the triumphal arch, or gate; the 
wide, fair terrace, with its beautiful view; the statue 
of the grand monarch; the big architectural fountain, 
which would not surprise one at Rome, but does sur 
prise one at Montpellier; and to complete the effect, 
the extraordinary aqueduct, charmingly fore-shortened, 
all this is worthy of a capital, of a little court-city. 
The whole place, with its repeated steps, its balus 
trades, its massive and plentiful stone-work, is full of 
the air of the last century, sent lien son dix-huittime 
stick; none the less so, I am afraid, that, as I read in 
my faithful Murray, after the revocation of the Edict 
of Nantes, the block, the stake, the wheel, had been 
erected here for the benefit of the desperate Camisards. 



XXVI. 

IT was a pleasure to feel one 's self in Provence 
again, the land where the silver-gray earth is im 
pregnated with the light of the sky. To celebrate 
the event, as soon as I arrived at Nimes I engaged 
a caleche to convey me to the Pont du Gard. The 
day was yet young, and it was perfectly fair; it ap 
peared well, for a longish drive, to take advantage, 
without delay, of such security. After I had left the 



town I became more intimate with that Provencal 
charm which I had already enjoyed from the window 
of the train, and which glowed in the sweet sunshine 
and the white rocks, and lurked in the smoke-puffs 
of the little olives. The olive-trees in Provence are 
half the landscape. They are neither so tall, so stout, 
nor so richly contorted as I have seen them beyond 
the Alps; but this mild colorless bloom seems the 
very texture of the country. The road from Nimes, 
for a distance of fifteen miles, is superb; broad enough 
for an army, and as white and firm as a dinner-table. 
It stretches away over undulations which suggest a 
kind of harmony; and in the curves it makes through 
the wide, free country, where there is never a hedge 
or a wall, and the detail is always exquisite, there is 
something majestic, almost processional. Some twenty 
minutes before I reached the little inn that marks the 
termination of the drive, my vehicle met with an ac 
cident which just missed being serious, and which 
engaged the attention of a gentleman, who, followed 
by his groom and mounted on a strikingly ha*ndsome 
horse happened to ride up at the moment. This young 
man, who, with his good looks and charming manner, 
might have stepped out of a novel of Octave Feuillet, 
gave me some very intelligent advice in reference to 
one of my horses that had been injured , and was so 
good as to accompany me to the inn, with the re 
sources of which he was acquainted, to see that his 
recommendations were carried out. The result of our 
interview was that he invited me to come and look at 



  

a small but ancient chateau in the neighborhood, 
which he had the happiness not the greatest in the 
world, he intimated to inhabit, and at which I en 
gaged to present myself after I should have spent an 
hour at the Pont du Gard. For the moment, when 
we separated, I gave all my attention to that great 
structure. You are very near it before you see it; the 
ravine it spans suddenly opens and exhibits the 
picture. The scene at this point grows extremely 
beautiful, The ravine is the valley of the Gardon, 
which the road from Nlmes has followed some time 
without taking account of it, but which, exactly at the 
right distance from the aqueduct, deepens and ex 
pands, and puts on those characteristics which are best 
suited to give it effect. The gorge becomes romantic, 
still, and solitary, and, with its white rocks and wild 
shrubbery, hangs over the clear, colored river, in whose 
slow course there is here and there a deeper pool. 
Over the valley, from side to side, and ever so high 
in the air, stretch the three tiers of the tremendous 
bridge. They are unspeakably imposing, and nothing 
could well be more Roman. The hugeness, the soli 
dity, the unexpectedness, the monumental rectitude of 
the whole thing leave you nothing to say at the time 
and make you stand gazing. You simply feel that 
it is noble and perfect, that it has the quality of 
greatness. A road, branching from the highway, de 
scends to the level of the river and passes under one 
of the arches. This road has a wide margin of grass 
and loose stones, which slopes upward into the bank 



of the ravine. You may sit here as long as you please, 
staring up at the light, strong piers; the spot is ex 
tremely natural, though two or three stone benches 
have been erected on it. I remained there an hour 
and got a complete impression; the place was per 
fectly soundless, and for the time, at least, lonely; 
the splendid afternoon had begun to fade, and there 
was a fascination in the object I had come to see. It 
came to pass that at the same time I discovered in it 
a certain stupidity, a vague brutality. That element 
is rarely absent from great Roman work, which is 
wanting in the nice adaptation of the means to the 
end. The means are always exaggerated; the end is 
so much more than attained. The Roman rigidity 
was apt to overshoot the mark, and I suppose a race 
which could do nothing small is as defective as a race 
that can do nothing great. Of this Roman rigidity 
the Pont du Card is an admirable example. It would 
be a great injustice, however, not to insist upon its 
beauty, a kind of manly beauty, that of an object 
constructed not to please but to serve, and impressive 
simply from the scale on which it carries out this 
intention. The number of arches in each tier is dif 
ferent; they are smaller and more numerous as they 
ascend. The preservation of the thing is extra 
ordinary; nothing has crumbled or collapsed; every 
feature remains; and the huge blocks of stone, of a 
brownish-yellow (as if they had been baked by the 
Proven gal sun for eighteen centuries), pile themselves, 
without mortar or cement, as evenly as the day they 



were laid together. All this to carry the water of a 
couple of springs to a little provincial city! The con 
duit on the top has retained its shape and traces of 
the cement with which it was lined. When the vague 
twilight began to gather, the lonely valley seemed to 
fill itself with the shadow of the Roman name, as if 
the mighty empire were still as erect as the supports 
of the aqueduct; and it was open to a solitary tourist, 
sitting there sentimental, to believe that no people has 
ever been, or will ever be, as great as that, measured, 
as we measure the greatness of an individual, by the 
push they gave to what they undertook. The Pont du 
Gard is one of the three or four deepest impressions 
they have left; it speaks of them in a manner with 
which they might have been satisfied. 

I feel as if it were scarcely discreet to indicate the 
whereabouts of the chateau of the obliging young 
man I had met on the way from Nimes; I must con 
tent myself with saying that it nestled in an en 
chanting valley, dans le fond, as they say in France, 
and that I took my course thither on foot, after 
leaving the Pont du Gard. I find it noted in my 
journal as "an adorable little corner." The principal 
feature of the place is a couple of very ancient towers, 
brownish-yellow in hue, and mantled in scarlet Vir 
ginia-creeper. One of these towers, reputed to be 
of Saracenic origin, is isolated, and is only the more 
effective; the other is incorporated in the house, 
which is delightfully fragmentary and irregular. It 
had got to be late by this time, and the lonely cast el 



I QO   

looked crepuscular and mysterious. An old house 
keeper was sent for, who showed me the rambling 
interior; and then the young man took me into a 
dim old drawing-room, which had no less than four 
chimney-pieces, all unlighted, and gave me a refec 
tion of fruit and sweet wine. When I praised the 
wine and asked him what it was, he said simply, 
"C est du vin de ma mere!" Throughout my little 
journey I had never yet felt myself so far from Paris; 
and this was a sensation I enjoyed more than my 
host, who was an involuntary exile, consoling him 
self with laying out a manege, which he showed me 
as I walked away. His civility was great, and I was 
greatly touched by it. On my way back to the little 
inn where I had left my vehicle, I passed the Pont 
du Gard, and took another look at it. Its great arches 
made windows for the evening sky, and the rocky 
ravine, with its dusky cedars and shining river, was 
lonelier than before. At the inn I swallowed, or tried 
to swallow, a glass of horrible wine with my coach 
man; after which, with my reconstructed team, I drove 
back to Nimes in the moonlight. It only added a 
more solitary whiteness to the constant sheen of the 
Provencal landscape. 



XXVII. 

THE weather the next day was equally fair, so that 
it seemed an imprudence not to make sure of Aigues- 



 IQI 

Mortes. Nimes itself could wait; at a pinch, I could 
attend to Nimes in the rain. It was my belief that 
Aigues-Mortes was a little gem, and it is natural to 
desire that gems should have an opportunity to sparkle. 
This is an excursion of but a few hours, and there is 
a little friendly, familiar, dawdling train that will con 
vey you, in time for a noonday breakfast, to the small 
dead town where the blessed Saint-Louis twice em 
barked for the crusades. You may get back to Nimes 
for dinner; the run or rather the walk, for the train 
doesn 't run is of about an hour. I found the little 
journey charming, and looked out of the carriage win 
dow, on my right, at the distant Cevennes, covered 
with tones of amber and blue, and, all around, at 
vineyards red with the touch of October. The grapes 
were gone, but the plants had a color of their own. 
Within a certain distance of Aigues-Mortes they give 
place to wide salt-marshes, traversed by two canals; 
and over this expanse the train rumbles slowly upon 
a narrow causeway, failing for some time, though you 
know you are near the object of your curiosity, to 
bring you to sight of anything but the horizon. Sud 
denly it appears, the towered and embattled mass, 
lying so low that the crest of its defences seems to 
rise straight out of the ground; and it is not till the 
train stops, close before them, that you are able to 
take the full measure of its walls. 

Aigues-Mortes stands on the edge of a wide Mang, 
or shallow inlet of the sea, the further side of which 
is divided by a narrow band of coast from the Gulf 


of Lyons. Next after Carcassonne, to which it forms 
an admirable pendant, it is the most perfect thing of 
the kind in France. It has a rival in the person of 
Avignon, but the ramparts of Avignon are much less 
effective. Like Carcassonne, it is completely sur 
rounded with its old fortifications; and if they are far 
simpler in character (there is but one circle), they are 
quite as well preserved. The moat has been filled 
up, and the site of the town might be figured by a 
billiard-table without pockets. On this absolute level, 
covered with coarse grass, Aigues-Mortes presents quite 
the appearance of the walled town that a school-boy 
draws upon his slate, or that we see in the background 
of early Flemish pictures, a simple parallelogram, of 
a contour almost absurdly bare, broken at intervals by 
angular towers and square holes. Such, literally speak 
ing, is this delightful little city, which needs to be seen 
to tell its full story. It is extraordinarily pictorial, 
and if it is a very small sister of Carcassonne, it has 
at least the essential features of the family. Indeed, 
it is even more like an image and less like a- reality 
than Carcassonne; for by position and prospect it 
seems even more detached from the life of the present 
day. It is true that Aigues-Mortes does a little busi 
ness; it sees certain bags of salt piled into barges 
which stand in a canal beside it, and which carry their 
cargo into actual places. But nothing could well be 
more drowsy and desultory than this industry as I 
saw it practised, with the aid of two or three brown 
peasants and under the eye of a solitary douanier, 




who strolled on the little quay beneath the western 
wall. "C est bien plaisant, c est bien paisible," said 
this worthy man, with whom I had some conversa 
tion; and pleasant and peaceful is the place indeed, 
though the former of these epithets may suggest an 
element of gayety in which Aigues-Mortes is deficient. 
The sand, the salt, the dull sea-view, surround it with 
a bright, quiet melancholy. There are fifteen towers 
and nine gates, five of which are on the southern side, 
overlooking the water. I walked all round the place 
three times (it doesn 't take long), but lingered most 
under the southern wall, where the afternoon light 
slept in the dreamiest, sweetest way. I sat down on 
an old stone, and looked away to the desolate salt- 
marshes and the still, shining surface of the ttang; 
and, as I did so, reflected that this was a queer little 
out-of-the-world corner to have been chosen, in the 
great dominions of either monarch, for that pompous 
interview which took place, in 1538, between Francis I. 
and Charles V. It was also not easy to perceive how 
Louis IX., when in 1248 and 1270 he started for the 
Holy Land, set his army afloat in such very undeveloped 
channels. An hour later I purchased in the town a 
little pamphlet by M. Marius Topin, who undertakes 
to explain this latter anomaly, and to show that there 
is water enough in the port, as we may call it by 
courtesy, to have sustained a fleet of crusaders. I was 
unable to trace the channel that he points out, but 
was glad to believe that, as he contends, the sea has 
not retreated from the town since the thirteenth century, 

 

It was comfortable to think that things are not so 
changed as that. M. Topin indicates that the other 
French ports of the Mediterranean were not then dis- 
ponibles, and that Aigues-Mortes was the most eligible 
spot for an embarkation. 

Behind the straight walls and the quiet gates the 
little town has not crumbled, like the Cite of Carcas 
sonne. It can hardly be said to be alive; but if it is 
dead it has been very neatly embalmed. The hand 
of the restorer rests on it constantly; but this artist 
has not, as at Carcassonne, had miracles to accomplish. 
The interior is very still and empty, with small stony, 
whitewashed streets, tenanted by a stray dog, a stray 
cat, a stray old woman. In the middle is a little place, 
with two or three cafes decorated by wide awnings, 
a little place of which the principal feature is a very 
bad bronze statue of Saint Louis by Pradier. It is 
almost as bad as the breakfast I had at the inn that 
bears the name of that pious monarch. You may walk 
round the enceinte of Aigues-Mortes, both outside and 
in; but you may not, as at Carcassonne, make a por 
tion of this circuit on the chemin de ronde, the little 
projecting footway attached to the inner face of the 
battlements. This footway, wide enough only for a 
single pedestrian, is in the best order, and near each 
of the gates a flight of steps leads up to it; but a 
locked gate, at the top of the steps, makes access im 
possible, or at least unlawful. Aigues-Mortes, however, 
has its citadel, an immense tower, larger than any of 
the others, a little detached, and standing at the north- 



west angle of the town. I called upon the casernier, 
the custodian of the walls, and in his absence I was 
conducted through this big Tour de Constance by his 
wife, a very mild, meek woman, yellow with the traces 
of fever and ague, a scourge which, as might be ex 
pected in a town whose name denotes "dead waters," 
enters freely at the nine gates. The Tour de Con 
stance is of extraordinary girth and solidity, divided 
into three superposed circular chambers, with very fine 
vaults, which are lighted by embrasures of prodigious 
depth, converging to windows little larger than loop 
holes. The place served for years as a prison to many 
of the Protestants of the south whom the revocation 
of the Edict of Nantes had exposed to atrocious 
penalties, and the annals of these dreadful chambers 
during the first half of the last century were written 
in tears and blood. Some of the recorded cases of 
long confinement there make one marvel afresh at 
what man has inflicted and endured. In a country in 
which a policy of extermination was to be put into 
practice this horrible tower was an obvious resource. 
From the battlements at the top, which is surmounted 
by an old disused light-house, you see the little com 
pact rectangular town, which looks hardly bigger than 
a garden-patch, mapped out beneath you, and follow 
the plain configuration of its defences. You take 
possession of it, and you feel that you will remember 
it always. 




XXVIII. 

AFTER this I was free to look about me at Nimes, 
and I did so with such attention as the place appeared 
to require. At the risk of seeming too easily and too 
frequently disappointed, I will say that it required 
rather less than I had been prepared to give. It is a 
town of three or four fine features, rather than a town 
with, as I may say, a general figure. In general, 
Nimes is poor; its only treasures are its Roman re 
mains, which are of the first order. The new French 
fashions prevail in many of its streets; the old houses 
are paltry, and the good houses are new; while beside 
my hotel rose a big spick-and-span church, which 
had the oddest air of having been intended for 
Brooklyn or Cleveland. It is true that this church 
looked out on a square completely French, a square 
of a fine modern disposition, flanked on one side by a 
classical palais de justice embellished with trees and 
parapets, and occupied in the centre with a group of 
allegorical statues, such as one encounters only in the 
cities of France, the chief of these being a colossal 
figure by Pradier, representing Nimes. An English, 
an American, town which should have such a monu 
ment, such a square, as this, would be a place of 
great pretensions; but like so many little villes de 
province in the country of which I write, Nimes is 
easily ornamental. What nobler ornament can there 
be than the Roman baths at the foot of Mont Cavalier, 




and the delightful old garden that surrounds them? 
All that quarter of Nimes has every reason to be 
proud of itself; it has been revealed to the world at 
large by copious photography. A clear, abundant 
stream gushes from the foot of a high hill (covered 
with trees and laid out in paths), and is distributed 
into basins which sufficiently refer themselves to the 
period that gave them birth, the period that has 
left its stamp on that pompous Peyrou which we ad 
mired at Montpellier. Here are the same terraces and 
steps and balustrades, and a system of water-works 
less impressive, perhaps, but very ingenious and charm 
ing. The whole place is a mixture of old Rome and 
of the French eighteenth century; for the remains of 
the antique baths are in a measure incorporated in 
the modern fountains. In a corner of this umbrageous 
precinct stands a small Roman ruin, which is known 
as a temple of Diana, but was more apparently a 
nymphceum, and appears to have had a graceful con 
nection with the adjacent baths. I learn from Murray 
that this little temple, of the period of Augustus, 
"was reduced to its present state of ruin in 1577;" 
the moment at which the townspeople, threatened 
with a siege by the troops of the crown, partly 
demolished it, lest it should serve as a cover to the 
enemy. The remains are very fragmentary, but they 
serve to show that the place was lovely. I spent half 
an hour in it on a perfect Sunday morning (it is en 
closed by a high grille, carefully tended, and has a 
warden of its own), and with the help of my imagina- 





tion tried to reconstruct a little the aspect of things 
in the Gallo-Roman days. I do wrong, perhaps, to 
say that I tried; from a flight so deliberate I should 
have shrunk. But there was a certain contagion of 
antiquity in the air; and among the ruins of baths 
and temples, in the very spot where the aqueduct that 
crosses the Gardon in the wondrous manner I had 
seen discharged itself, the picture of a splendid 
paganism seemed vaguely to glow. Roman baths, 
Roman baths; those words alone were a scene. Every 
thing was changed: I was strolling in & jardin fran ais ; 
the bosky slope of the Mont Cavalier (a very modest 
mountain), hanging over the place, is crowned with a 
shapeless tower, which is as likely to be of mediaeval 
as of antique origin; and yet, as I leaned on the 
parapet of one of the fountains, where a flight of 
curved steps (a hemicycle, as the French say) descended 
into a basin full of dark, cool recesses, where the slabs 
of the Roman foundations gleam through the clear 
green water, as in this attitude I surrendered myself 
to contemplation and reverie, it seemed to me that I 
touched for a moment the ancient world. Such mo 
ments are illuminating, and the light of this one mingles, 
in my memory, with the dusky greenness of the Jardin 
de la Fontaine. 

The fountain proper the source of all these dis 
tributed waters is the prettiest thing in the world, a 
reduced copy of Vaucluse. It gushes up at the foot 
of the Mont Cavalier, at a point where that eminence 
rises with a certain cliff-like effect, and, like other 



  IQQ 

springs in the same circumstances, appears to issue 
from the rock with a sort of quivering stillness. I 
trudged up the Mont Cavalier, it is a matter of five 
minutes, and having committed this cockneyism en 
hanced it presently by another. I ascended the stupid 
Tour Magne, the mysterious structure I mentioned a 
moment ago. The only feature of this dateless tube, 
except the inevitable collection of photographs to 
which you are introduced by the door-keeper, is the 
view you enjoy from its summit. This view is, of 
course, remarkably fine, but I am ashamed to say I 
have not the smallest recollection of it; for while I 
looked into the brilliant spaces of the air I seemed 
still to see only what I saw in the depths of the Roman 
baths, the image, disastrously confused and vague, of 
a vanished world. This world, however, has left at 
Nimes a far more considerable memento than a few 
old stones covered with water-moss. The Roman arena 
is the rival of those of Verona and of Aries; at a 
respectful distance it emulates the Colosseum. It is a 
small Colosseum, if I may be allowed the expression, 
and is in a much better preservation than the great 
circus at Rome. This is especially true of the external 
walls, with their arches, pillars, cornices. I must add 
that one should not speak of preservation, in regard 
to the arena at Nimes, without speaking also of repair. 
After the great ruin ceased to be despoiled, it began 
to be protected, and most of its wounds have been 
dressed with new material. These matters concern 
the archaeologist; and I felt here, as I felt afterwards 





at Aries, that one of the profane, in the presence of 
such a monument, can only admire and hold his 
tongue. The great impression, on the whole, is an 
impression of wonder that so much should have sur 
vived. What remains at Nimes, after all dilapidation 
is estimated, is astounding. I spent an hour in the 
Arenes on that same sweet Sunday morning, as I 
came back from the Roman baths, and saw that the 
corridors, the vaults, the staircases, the external casing, 
are still virtually there. Many of these parts are 
wanting in the Colosseum, whose sublimity of size, 
however, can afford to dispense with detail. The seats 
at Nimes, like those at Verona, have been largely 
renewed; not that this mattered much, as I lounged 
on the cool surface of one of them, and admired the 
mighty concavity of the place and the elliptical sky 
line, broken by uneven blocks and forming the rim of 
the monstrous cup, a cup that had been filled with 
horrors. And yet I made my reflections; I said to 
myself that though a Roman arena is one of the most 
impressive of the works of man, it has a touch- of that 
same stupidity which I ventured to discover in the 
Pont du Card. It is brutal; it is monotonous; it is 
not at all exquisite. The Arenes at Nimes were ar 
ranged for a bull-fight, a form of recreation that, as 
I was informed, is much dans les habitudes Ntmoises, 
and very common throughout Provence, where (still 
according to my information) it is the usual pastime 
of a Sunday afternoon. At Aries and Nimes it has a 
characteristic setting, but in the villages the patrons 



  

of the game make a circle of carts and barrels, on 
which the spectators perch themselves. I was sur 
prised at the prevalence, in mild Provence, of the 
Iberian vice, and hardly know whether it makes the 
custom more respectable that at Nimes and Aries the 
thing is shabbily and imperfectly done. The bulls 
are rarely killed, and indeed often are bulls only in 
the Irish sense of the term, being domestic and 
motherly cows. Such an entertainment of course does 
not supply to the arena that element of the exquisite 
which I spoke of as wanting. The exquisite at Nimes 
is mainly represented by the famous Maison Carree. 
The first impression you receive from this delicate 
little building, as you stand before it, is that you have 
already seen it many times. Photographs, engravings, 
models, medals, have placed it definitely in your eye, 
so that from the sentiment with which you regard it 
curiosity and surprise are almost completely, and per 
haps deplorably, absent. Admiration remains, how 
ever, admiration of a familiar and even slightly 
patronizing kind. The Maison Carree does not over 
whelm you; you can conceive it. It is not one of the 
great sensations of the antique art; but it is perfectly 
felicitous, and, in spite of having been put to all sorts 
of incongruous uses, marvellously preserved. Its slender 
columns, its delicate proportions, its charming com 
pactness, seemed to bring one nearer to the century 
that built it than the great superpositions of arenas 
and bridges, and give it the interest that vibrates from 
one age to another when the note of taste is struck. 





If anything were needed to make this little toy-temple 
a happy production, the service would be rendered by 
the second-rate boulevard that conducts to it, adorned 
with inferior cafes and tobacco-shops. Here, in a 
respectable recess, surrounded by vulgar habitations, 
and with the theatre, of a classic pretension, opposite, 
stands the small "square house," so called because it 
is much longer than it is broad. I saw it first in the 
evening, in the vague moonlight, which made it look 
as if it were cast in bronze. Stendhal says, justly, 
that it has the shape of a playing-card, and he ex 
presses his admiration for it by the singular wish 
that an "exact copy" of it should be erected in Paris. 
He even goes so far as to say that in the year 1880 
this tribute will have been rendered to its charms; 
nothing would be more simple, to his mind, than to 
"have" in that city "le Pantheon de Rome, quelques 
temples de Grece." Stendhal found it amusing to 
write in the character of a commis-voyageur, and some 
times it occurs to his reader that he really was one. 



XXIX. 

ON my way from Nimes to Aries, I spent three 
hours at Tarascon; chiefly for the love of Alphonse 
Daudet, who has written nothing more genial than 
"Les Aventures Prodigieuses de Tartarin," and the 
story of the "siege" of the bright, dead little town 
(a mythic siege by the Prussians) in the "Contes du 



  

Lundi." In the introduction which, for the new 
edition of his works, he has lately supplied to "Tar- 
tarin," the author of this extravagant but kindly 
satire gives some account of the displeasure with 
which he has been visited by the ticklish Tarascon- 
nais. Daudet relates that in his attempt to shed a 
humorous light upon some of the more erratic phases 
of the Provencal character, he selected Tarascon at a 
venture; not because the temperament of its natives 
is more vainglorious than that of their neighbors, or 
their rebellion against the "despotism of fact" more 
marked, but simply because he had to name a par 
ticular Provencal city. Tartarin is a hunter of lions 
and charmer of women, a true "produit du midi  as 
Daudet says, who has the most fantastic and fabulous 
adventures. He is a minimized Don Quixote, with 
much less dignity, but with equal good faith; and the 
story of his exploits is a little masterpiece of the 
light comical. The Tarasconnais, however, declined to 
take the joke, and opened the vials of their wrath 
upon the mocking child of Nimes, who would have 
been better employed, they doubtless thought, in show 
ing up the infirmities of his own family. I am bound 
to add that when I passed through Tarascon they did 
not appear to be in the least out of humor. Nothing 
could have been brighter, softer, more suggestive of 
amiable indifference, than the picture it presented to 
my mind. It lies quietly beside the Rhone, looking 
across at Beaucaire, which seems very distant and in 
dependent, and tacitly consenting to let the castle of 





the good King Rene of Anjou, which projects very 
boldly into the river, pass for its most interesting feature. 
The other features are, primarily, a sort of vivid sleepi 
ness in the aspect of the place, as if the September 
noon (it had lingered on into October) lasted longer 
there than elsewhere; certain low arcades, which make 
the streets look gray and exhibit empty vistas; and a 
very curious and beautiful walk beside the Rhone, 
denominated the Chaussee, a long and narrow cause 
way, densely shaded by two rows of magnificent old 
trees, planted in its embankment, and rendered doubly 
effective, at the moment I passed over it, by a little 
train of collegians, who had been taken out for mild 
exercise by a pair of young priests. Lastly, one may 
say that a striking element of Tarascon, as of any town 
that lies on the Rhone, is simply the Rhone itself: the 
big brown flood, of uncertain temper, which has never 
taken time to forget that it is a child of the mountain 
and the glacier, and that such an origin carries with it 
great privileges. Later, at Avignon, I observed it in 
the exercise of these privileges, chief among which was 
that of frightening the good people of the old papal 
city half out of their wits. 

The chateau of King Rene serves to-day as the 
prison of a district, and the traveller who wishes to 
look into it must obtain his permission at the Mairie 
of Tarascon. If he have had a certain experience of 
French manners, his application will be accompanied 
with the forms of a considerable obsequiosity, and in 
this case his request will be granted as civilly as it 



  

has been made. The castle has more of the air of a 
severely feudal fortress than I should suppose the 
period of its construction (the first half of the fifteenth 
century) would have warranted; being tremendously 
bare and perpendicular, and constructed for comfort 
only in the sense that it was arranged for defence. It 
is a square and simple mass, composed of small yellow 
stones, and perched on a pedestal of rock which easily 
commands the river. The building has the usual cir 
cular towers at the corners, and a heavy cornice at 
the top, and immense stretches of sun-scorched wall, 
relieved at wide intervals by small windows, heavily 
cross-ban ed. It has, above all, an extreme steepness 
of aspect; I cannot express it otherwise. The walls 
are as sheer and inhospitable as precipices. The castle 
has kept its large moat, which is now a hollow filled 
with wild plants. To this tall fortress the good Rene 
retired in the middle of the fifteenth century, finding 
it apparently the most substantial thing left him in a 
dominion which had included Naples and Sicily, 
Lorraine and Anjou. He had been a much-tried 
monarch and the sport of a various fortune, fighting 
half his life for thrones he didn 't care for, and exalted 
only to be quickly cast down. Provence was the 
country of his affection, and the memory of his troubles 
did not prevent him from holding a joyous court at 
Tarascon and at Aix. He finished the castle at 
Tarascon, which had been begun earlier in the century, 
finished it, I suppose, for consistency 's sake, in the 
manner in which it had originally been designed rather 





than in accordance with the artistic tastes that formed 
the consolation of his old age. He was a painter, a 
writer, a dramatist, a modern dilettante, addicted to 
private theatricals. There is something very attractive 
in the image that he has imprinted on the page of 
history. He was both clever and kind, and many 
reverses and much suffering had not imbittered him 
nor quenched his faculty of enjoyment. He was fond 
