back, in his armour, at the foot of the great staircase. 
The blazing noonday light shone upon his polished 



 

helmet and on the golden wings that stood out on 
either side of it, and the hot rays were sent flashing 
back from his gilded harness, and from the broad 
scales of his horse's armour. 

The slaves of the palace stood in long ranks before 
the columns of the portico and upon the broad stairs 
on each side, and Zoroaster stood on the lowest step, 
attended by a score of his priests, to receive the king's 
last instructions. 

" I go forth, and in two months I will return in 
triumph," said Darius. '' Meanwhile keep thou the 
government in thy hand, and let not the laws be 
relaxed because the king is not here. Let the sacrifice be performed daily in the temple, and let all 
things proceed as though I myself were present. I 
will not that petty strifes arise because I am away. 
There shall be peace — peace — peace for ever throughout my kingdom, though I shed much blood to obtain 
it. And all the people who are evildoers and makers 
of strife and sedition shall tremble at the name of 
Darius, the king of kings, and of Zoroaster, the high 
priest of the All-Wise. In peace I leave you, to cause 
peace whither I go ; and in peace I will come again 
to you. Farewell, Zoroaster, truest friend and wisest 
counsellor ; in thy keeping I leave all things. Take 
thou the signet and bear it wisely till I come." 

Zoroaster received the royal ring and bowed a low 
obeisance. Then Darius pressed his knees to his 
horse's sides and the noble steed sprang forward upon 
the straight, broad road, like an arrow from a bow. 
The mounted guards grasped their spears and gath- 
ered their bridles in their hands and followed swiftly, 



 

four and four, shoulder to shoulder, and knee to knee, 
their bronze cuirasses and polished helmets blazing 
in the noonday sun and clashing as they galloped on ; 
and in a moment there was nothing seen of the royal 
guard but a tossing wave of light far up the valley ; 
and the white dust, that had risen as they plunged 
forward, settled slowly in the still, hot air upon the 
roses and shrubs that hung over the enclosure of the 
garden at the foot of the broad staircase. 

Zoroaster gazed for a moment on the track of the 
swift warriors ; then went up the steps, followed by 
his priests, and entered the palace. 

Atossa and Nehushta had watched the departure of 
the king from their upper windows, at the opposite 
ends of the building, from behind the gilded lattices. 
Atossa had recovered somewhat from the astonish- 
ment and fear that had taken possession of her when 
she had found herself under Zoroaster's strange 
influence, and as she saw Darius ride away, while 
Zoroaster remained standing upon the steps, her 
courage rose. She resolved that nothing should 
induce her again to expose herself to the chief 
priest's unearthly power, and she laughed to herself 
as she thought that she might yet destroy him, and 
free herself from him for ever. She wondered how 
she could ever have given a thought of love to such 
a man, and she summoned her black slave, and sent 
him upon his last errand, by which he was to obtain 
his freedom. 

But Nehushta gazed sadly after the galloping guards, 
and her eye strove to distinguish the king's crest 
before the others, till all was mingled in the distance, 



 

in an indiscriminate reflection of moving light, and 
then lost to view altogether in the rising dust. Whether
she loved him truly, or loved him not, he had been 
true and kind to her, and had rested his dark head 
upon her shoulder that very morning before he went, 
and had told her that, of all living women, he loved 
her best. But she had felt a quick sting of pain in 
her heart, because she knew that she would give her 
life to lie for one short hour on Zoroaster's breast and 
sob out all her sorrow and die. 



 



CHAPTER XIX. 

Four days after the king's departure, Nehushta was 
wandering in the gardens as the sun was going down, 
according to her daily custom. There was a place 
she loved well — a spot where the path widened to a 
circle, round which the roses grew, thick and fragrant 
with the breath of the coming summer, and soft green 
shrubs and climbing things that twisted their tender 
arms about the myrtle trees. The hedge was so high 
that it cut off all view of the gardens beyond, and 
only the black north-western hills could just be seen 
above the mass of shrubbery ; beyond the mountains 
and all over the sky, the glow of the setting sun 
spread like a rosy veil ; and the light tinged the crests 
of the dark hills and turned the myrtle leaves to a 
strange colour, and gilded the highest roses to a deep 
red gold. 

The birds were all singing their evening song in 
loud, happy chorus, as only Eastern birds can sing ; 
the air was warm and still, and the tiny gnats chased 
each other with lightning quickness in hazy swarms 
overhead, in the reflected glow. 

Nehushta loved the little open space, for it was 
there that, a year ago, she had sent for Zoroaster to 
come to her that she might tell him she knew the truth 
at last. She stood still and listened to the singing of 
the birds, gazing upwards at the glowing sky, where 



 

the red was fast turning to purple ; she breathed in 
the warm air and sighed softly ; wishing, as she wished 
every night, that the sunset might fade to darkness, 
and there might be no morning for her any more. 

She had lived almost entirely alone since Darius 
had gone to Shushan ; she avoided Atossa, and she 
made no effort to see Zoroaster, who was entirely ab- 
sorbed by the management of the affairs of the state. 
In the king's absence there were no banquets, as 
there used to be when he was in the palace, and the 
two queens were free to lead whatever life seemed 
best to them, independently of each other and of^ the 
courtiers. Atossa had chosen to shut herself up in 
the seclusion of her own apartments, and Nehushta 
rarely left her own part of the palace until the even- 
ing. But when the sun was low, she loved to linger 
among the roses in the garden, till the bright shield 
of the moon was high in the east, or till the faint 
stars burned in their full splendour, and the nightin- 
gales began to call and trill their melancholy song 
from end to end of the sweet valley. 

So she stood on this evening, looking up into the 
sky, and her slaves waited her pleasure at a little 
distance. But while she gazed, she heard quick steps 
along the walk, and the slave-AVomen sprang aside to 
let some one pass. Nehushta turned and found her- 
self face to face with Atossa, who stood before her, 
wrapped in a dark mantle, a white veil of Indian 
gauze wound about her head, and half-concealing her 
face. It was a year since they had met in private, 
and Nehushta drew herself suddenly to her height, 
and the old look of scorn came over her dark fea- 



 

tures. She would have asked haughtily what brought 
Atossa there, but the fair queen was first in her 
speech. There was hardly even the affectation of 
friendliness in her tones, as she stood there alone and 
unattended, facing her enemy. 

" I came to ask if you wished to go with me," said 
Atossa. 

" Where ? Why should I go with you ? " 

" I am weary of the palace. I think I will go to 
Shushan to be nearer the king. To-night I will rest 
at the fortress." 

Nehushta stared coldly at the fair woman, muf&ed 
in her cloak and veil. 

" What is it to me whether you go to the ends of 
the earth, or whether you remain here ? " she asked. 

" I wished to know whether you desired to accom- 
pany me, else I should not have asked you the ques- 
tion. I feared that you might be lonely here in Stak- 
har — will you not come ? " 

" Again I say, why do you ask me ? What have I 
to do with you?" returned Nehushta, drawing her 
mantle about her as though to leave Atossa. 

" If the king were here, he would bid you go," said 
Atossa, looking intently upon her enemy. 

" It is for me to j udge what the king would wish 
me to do — not for you. Leave me in peace. Go 
your way if you will — it is nothing to me." 

"You will not come?" Atossa's voice softened 
and she smiled serenely. Nehushta turned fiercely 
upon her. 

" No ! If you are going — go ! I want you not ! " 

"You are glad I am going, are you not?" asked 
Atossa, gently. 



 

" I am glad — with a gladness only you can know. 
I would you were already gone 1 " 

"You rejoice that I leave you alone with your 
lover. It is very natural " 

" My lover ! " cried Nehushta, her wrath rising and 
blazing in her eyes. 

"Ay, your lover! the thin, white-haired priest, 
that once was Zoroaster — your old lover — your 
poor old lover ! " 

Nehushta steadied herself for a moment. She felt 
as though she must tear this woman in pieces. But 
she controlled her anger by a great effort, though she 
was nearly choking as she drew herself up and 
answered. 

" I would that the powers of evil, of whom you are, 
might strangle the thrice-accursed lie in your false 
throat!" she said, in low fierce tones, and turned 
away. 

Still Atossa stood there, smiling as ever. Nehushta 
looked back as she reached the opposite end of the 
little plot. 

"Are you not yet gone? Shall I bid my slaves 
take you by the throat and force you from me?" 
But, as she spoke, she looked beyond Atossa, and 
saw that a body of dark men and women stood in the 
path. Atossa had not come unprotected. 

" I see you are the same foolish woman you ever 
were," answered the older queen. Just then, a 
strange sound echoed far off among the hills above, 
strange and far as the scream of a distant vulture 
calling its mate to the carrion feast — an unearthly 
cry that rang high in the air from side to side of the 



 

valley, and struck the dark crags and doubled in the 
echo, and died away in short, faint pulsations of 
sound upon the startled air. 

Nehushta started slightly. It might have been the 
cry of a wolf, or of some wild beast prowling upon 
the heights, but she had never heard such a sound 
before. But Atossa showed no surprise, and her smile 
returned to her lips more sweetly than ever — those 
lips that had kissed three kings, and that had never 
spoken truly a kind or a merciful word to living man, 
or child, or woman. 

" Farewell, Nehushta," she said, " if you will not 
come, I will leave you to yourself — and to your lover. 
I daresay he can protect you from harm. Heard you 
that sound ? It is the cry of your fate. Farewell, 
foolish girl, and may every undreamed-of quality of 
evil attend you to your dying day " 

" Go ! " cried Nehushta, turning and pointing to 
the path with a gesture of terrible anger. Atossa 
moved back a little. 

" It is no wonder I linger awhile — I thought you 
were past suffering. If I had time, I might yet 
find some way of tormenting you — you are very 
foolish " 

Nehushta walked rapidly forward upon her, as 
thou2fh to do her some violence with her own hands. 
But Atossa, as she gave way before the angry Hebrew 
woman, drew from beneath her mantle the Indian 
knife she had once taken from her. Nehushta stopped 
short, as she saw the bright blade thrust out against 
her bosom. But Atossa held it up one moment, and 
then threw it down upon the grass at her feet. 



 

" Take it ! " she cried, and in her voice, that had 
been so sweet and gentle a moment before, there sud- 
denly rang out a strange defiance and a bitter wrath. 
" Take what is yours — I loathe it, for it smells of 
you — and you, and all that is yours, I loathe and 
hate and scorn ! " 

She turned with a quick movement and disappeared 
amongst her slaves, who closed in their ranks behind 
her, and followed her rapidly down the path, Nehushta remained standing upon the grass, peering 
after her retreating enemy through the gloom; for 
the glow had faded from the western sk}y while they 
had been speaking, and it was now dusk. 

Suddenly, as she stood, almost transfixed with the 
horror of her fearful anger, that strange cry rang 
again through the lofty crags and crests of the moun- 
tains, and echoed and died aw^ay. 

Nehushta's slave- women, who had hung back in 
fear and trembling during the altercation between 
the two queens, came forward and gathered about 
her. 

" What is it ? " asked the queen in a low voice, for 
her own heart beat with the anticipation of a sudden 
danger. "It is the cry of your fate," Atossa had 
said — verily it sounded like the scream of a coming 
death. 

" It is the Druksh of the mountains ! " said one. 

" It is the howling of wolves," said another, a Me- 
dian woman from the Zagros mountains. 

" The war-cry of the children of Anak is like that," 
said a little Syrian maid, and her teeth chattered with 
fear. 



 

As they listened, crouching and pressing about their 
royal mistress in their terror, they heard below in the 
road, the sound of horses and men moving quickly 
past the foot of the gardens. It was Atossa and her 
train, hurrying along the highway in the direction of 
the fortress. 

Nehushta suddenly pushed the slaves aside, and 
fled down the path towards the palace, and the dark 
women hurried after. One of them stooped and 
picked up the Indian knife and hid it in her bosom 
as she ran. 

The whole truth had flashed across Nehushta's mind 
in an instant. Some armed force was collecting upon 
the hills to descend in a body upon the palace, to 
accomplish her destruction. Atossa had fled to a 
place of safety, after enjoying the pleasure of tormenting her doomed enemy to the last moment, well 
knowing that no power would induce Nehushta to 
accompany her. But one thought filled Nehushta's 
mind in her instantaneous comprehension of the 
truth ; she must find Zoroaster, and warn him of the 
danger. They would have time to fly together, yet. 
Atossa must have known how to time her flight, since 
the plot v/as hers, and she had not yet been many 
minutes upon the road. 

Through the garden she ran, and up the broad 
steps to the portico. Slaves were moving about 
under the colonnade, leisurely lighting the great 
torches that burned there all night. They had not 
heard the strange cries from the hills; or, hearing 
only a faint echo, had paid no attention to the 
sound. 





 

Nehushta paused, breathless with running. As 
she realised the quiet that reigned in the palace, 
where the slaves went about their duties as though 
nothing had occurred, or were likely to occur, it 
seemed to her as though she must have been dream- 
ing. It was impossible that if there were any real 
danger, it should not have become known at least to 
some one of the hundreds of slaves who thronged the 
outer halls and corridors. Moreover there were 
numerous scribes and officers connected with the 
government; some few nobles whom Darius had left 
behind when he went to Shushan ; there were their 
wives and families residing in various parts of the 
palace and in the buildings below it, and there was a 
strong detachment of Persian guards. If there were 
danger, some one must have known it. 

She did not know that at that moment the inhabi- 
tants of the lower palace were already alarmed, while 
some were flying, leaving everything behind, in their 
haste to reach the fortress higher up the valley. 
Everything seemed quiet where she was, and she de- 
termined to go alone in search of Zoroaster, without 
raising any alarm. Just as she entered the doorway 
of the great hall, she heard the cry again echoing 
behind her through the valley. It was as much as 
she could do to control the terror that again took 
hold of her at the dreaded sound, as she passed the 
files of bowing slaves, and went in between the two 
tall spearmen who guarded the inner entrance, and 
grounded their spears with military precision as she 
went by. 

She had one slave whom she trusted more than the 



 

rest. It was the little Syrian maid, who was half a 
Hebrew. 

" Go," she said quickly, in her own tongue. " Go 
in one direction and 1 will go in another, and search 
out Zoroaster, the high priest, and bring him to my 
chamber. I also will search, but if I find him not, I 
will wait for thee there." 

The dark girl turned and ran through the halls, 
swift as a startled fawn, to fulfil her errand, and 
Nehushta went another way upon her search. She 
was ashamed to ask for Zoroaster. The words of her 
enemy were still ringing in her ears — " alone with 
your lover ; " it might be the common talk of the 
court for all she knew. She went silently on her 
way. She knew where Zoroaster dwelt. The curtain 
of his simple chamber was thrown aside and a faint 
light burned in the room. It was empty ; a scroll 
lay open upon the floor beside a purple cushion, as 
he had left it, and his long white mantle lay tossed 
upon the couch which served him for a bed. 

She gazed lovingly for one moment into the open 
chamber, and then went on through the broad corri- 
dor, dimly lighted everywhere with small oil lamps. 
She looked into the council chamber and it was 
deserted. The long rows of double seats were empty, 
and gleamed faintly in the light. High upon the 
dais at the end, a lamp burned above the carved chair 
of ivory and gold, whereon the king sat when the 
council was assembled. There was no one there. 
Farther on, the low entrance to the treasury was 
guarded by four spearmen, whose arms clanged upon 
the floor as the queen passed. But she saw that the 



 

massive bolts and the huge square locks upon them 
were in their places. There was no one within. In 
the colomiade beyond, a few nobles stood talking 
carelessly together, waiting for their evening meal to 
be served them in a brightly illuminated hall, of 
which the doors stood wide open to admit the cool 
air of the coming night. The magnificently-arrayed 
courtiers made a low obeisance and then stood in 
astonishment as the queen went by. She held up her 
head and nodded to them, trying to look as though 
nothing disturbed her. 

On and on she went through the whole wing, till 
she came to her own apartment. Not so much as 
one white-robed priest had she seen upon all her long 
search. Zoroaster was certainly not in the portion of 
the palace through which she had come. Entering 
her own chambers, she looked round for the little 
Syrian maid, but she had not returned. 

Unable to bear the suspense any longer, she hastily 
despatched a second slave in search of the chief priest 
— a Median woman, who had been with her in 
Ecbatana. 

It seemed as though the minutes were lengthened 
to hours. Nehushta sat with her hands pressed to 
her temples, that throbbed as though the fever would 
burst her brain, and the black fan-girl plied the palm- 
leaf with all her might, thinking that her mistress 
suffered from the heat. The other women she dismissed ; and she sat waiting beneath the soft light of 
the perfumed lamp, the very figure and incarnation 
of anxiety. 

Something within her told her that she was in 



 

great and imminent danger, and the calm she had 
seen in the palace could not allay in her mind the 
terror of that unearthly cry she had heard three times 
from the hills. As she thought of it, she shuddered, 
and the icy fear seemed to run through all her limbs, 
chilling the marrow in her bones, and freezing her 
blood suddenly in its mad course. 

'' Left alone with your lover " — " it is the cry of 
your fate " — Atossa's words kept ringing in her ears 
like a knell — the knell of a shameful death ; and as 
she went over the bitter taunts of her enemy, her 
chilled pulses beat again more feverishly than before. 
She could not bear to sit still, but rose and paced the 
room in intense agitation. Would they never come 
back, those dallying slave-women ? 

The fan-girl tried to follow her mistress, and her 
small red eyes watched cautiously every one of Ne- 
hushta's movements. But the queen waved her off 
and the slave went and stood beside the chair where 
she had sat, her fan hanging idly in her hand. At 
that moment, the Median woman entered the cham- 
ber. 

"Where is he?" asked Nehushta, turning suddenly 
upon her. 

The woman made a low obeisance and answered 
in trembling tones : 

" They say that the high priest left the palace two 
hours ago, with the queen Atossa. They say " 

" Thou liest ! " cried Nehushta vehemently, and her 
face turned white, as she stamped her foot upon the 
black marble pavement. The Avoman sprang back 
with a cry of terror, and ran towards the door. She 



 

had never seen her mistress so angry. But Nehushta 
called her back. 

"Come hither — what else do they say?" she 
asked, controlling herself as best she could. 

" They say that the wild riders of the eastern desert 
are descending from the hills," answered the slave 
hurriedly and almost under her breath. " Every one 
is flying — everything is in confusion — I hear them 
even now, hurrying to and fro in the courts, the 
soldiers " 

But, even as she spoke, an echo of distant voices 
and discordant cries came through the curtains of the 
door from without, the rapid, uneven tread of people 
running hither and thither in confusion, the loud 
voices of startled men and the screams of frightened 
women — all blending together in a wild roar that 
grew every moment louder. 

Just then, the little Syrian maid came running in, 
almost tearing the curtains from their brazen rods as 
she thrust the hangings aside. She came and fell 
breathless at Nehushta's feet and clasped her knees. 

" Fly, fly, beloved mistress," she cried, " the devils 
of the mountains are upon us — they cover the hills 
— they are closing every entrance — the people in 
the lower palace are all slain " 

"Where is Zoroaster?" In the moment of su- 
preme danger, Nehushta grew calm, and her senses 
were restored to her again. 

" He is in the temple with the priests — by this 
time he is surely slain — he could know of nothing 
that is going on — fly, fly!" cried the poor Syrian 
girl in an agony of terror. 



 

Nehushta laid her hand Idndly upon the head of 
the little maid, and turning in the pride of her courage, 
now that she knew the worst, she spoke calmly to the 
other slaves who thronged in from the outer hall, some 
breathless with fear, others screaming in an agony of 
acute dread. 

" On which side are they coming?" she asked. 

" From the hills, from the hills they are descending 
in thousands," cried half a dozen of the frightened 
women at once, the rest huddled together like sheep, 
moaning in their fear. 

" Go you all to the farther window," cried Nehushta, 
in commanding tones. " Leap down upon the balcony 
— it is scarce a man's height — follow it to the end 
and past the corner where it joins the main wall of 
the garden. Run along upon the wall till you find a 
place where you can descend. Through the gardens 
you can easily reach the road by the northern gate. 
Fly and save yourselves in the darkness. You will 
reach the fortress before dawn if you hasten. You 
will hasten," she added with something of disdain in 
her voice, for before she had half uttered her direc- 
tions, the last of the slave-women, mad with terror, 
disappeared through the open window, and she could 
hear them drop, one after the other, in quick suc- 
cession upon the marble balcony below. She was 
alone. 

But, looking down, she saw at her feet the little 
Syrian maid, looking with imploring eyes to her face. 

'' Why do you not go with the rest ? " asked 
Nehushta, stooping down and laying one hand upon 
the girl's shoulder. 



 

" I have eaten tliy bread — shall I leave thee in the 
hour of death ? " asked the little slave, humbly. 

" Go, child," replied Nehushta, very kindly. " I 
have seen thy devotion and truth — thou must not 
perish." 

But the Syrian leaped to her feet, and there was 
pride in her small face, as she answered : 

" I am a bondwoman, but I am a daughter of Israel, 
even as thou art. Though all the others leave thee, 
I will not. It may be I can help thee." 

" Thou art a brave child," said Nehushta ; and 
she drew the girl to her and pressed her kindly " I 
must go to Zoroaster — stay thou here, hide thyself 
among the curtains — escape by the window, if any 
come to harm thee." She turned and went rapidly 
out between the curtains, as calm and as pale as 
death. 

The din in the palace had partially subsided, and 
new and strange cries re-echoed through the vast halls 
and corridors. An occasional wild scream — a momen- 
tary distant crash as of a door breaking down and 
thundering upon the marble pavement; and then 
again, the long, strange cries, mingled with a dull, 
low sound as of a great moaning — all came up to- 
gether, and seemed to meet Nehushta as she lifted 
the curtains and went out. 

But the little Syrian maid grasped the Indian knife 
in her girdle, and stole stealthily upon her mistress's 
steps. 



 



CHAPTER XX. 

Nehushta glided like a ghost along the corridors 
and dimly-lighted halls. As yet, the confusion 
seemed to be all in the lower story of the palace, 
but the roaring din rose louder every moment — 
the shrieks of wounded women with the moaning of 
wounded men, the clash of swords and arms, and, 
occasionally, a quick, loud rattle, as half a dozen 
arrows that had missed their mark struck the wall 
together. 

Onward she flew, not pausing to listen, lest in a 
moment more the tide of fight should be forced up 
the stairs and overtake her. She shuddered as she 
passed the head of the great staircase and heard, as 
though but a few steps from her, a wild shriek that 
died suddenly into a gurgling death hiss. 

She passed the treasury, whence the guards had 
fled, and in a moment more she was above the stair- 
case that led down to the temple behind the palace. 
There was no one there as yet, as far as she could see 
in the starlight. The doors were shut, and the mas- 
sive square building frowned through the gloom, 
blacker than its own black shadow. 

Nehushta paused as she reached the door, and lis- 
tened. Very faintly through the thick walls she 
could hear the sound of the evening chant. The 
priests were all within with Zoroaster, unconscious 



 

of their danger and of all that was going on in the 
palace, singing the hymns of the sacrifice before the 
sacred fire, — chanting, as it were, a dirge for themselves. Nehushta tried the door. The great bronze 
gates were locked together, and though she pushed 
with her whole strength, they would not move a 
hair's breadth. 

" Press the nail nearest the middle," said a small 
voice behind her. Nehushta started and looked 
round. It was the little Syrian slave, who had followed her out of the palace, and stood watching her 
in the dark. Nehushta put her hand upon the round 
head of the nail and pressed, as the slave told her to 
do. The door opened, turning slowly and noiselessly 
upon its hinges. Both women entered; the Syrian 
girl looked cautiously back and pushed the heavy 
bronze back to its place. The Egyptian artisan who 
had made the lock, had told one of the queen's 
women whom he loved the secret by wliich it was 
opened, and the Syrian had heard it repeated and 
remembered it. 

Once inside, Nehushta ran quickly through the 
corridor between the walls and rushing into the inner 
temple, found herself behind the screen and in a 
moment more she stood before all the priests and 
before Zoroaster himself. But even as she entered, 
the Syrian slave, who had lingered to close the gates, 
heard the rushing of many feet outside, and the 
yelling of hoarse voices, mixed with the clang of 
arms. 

Solemnly the chant rose around the sacred fire that 
seemed to burn by unearthly means upon the black 



 

stone altar. Zoroaster stood before it, his hands 
lifted in prayer, and his waxen face and snow-white 
beard illuminated by the dazzling effulgence. 

The seventy priests, in even rank, stood around 
the walls, their hands raised in like manner as their 
chief priest's ; their voices going up in a rich chorus, 
strong and tuneful, in the grand plain-chant. But 
Nehushta broke upon their melody, with a sudden 
cry, as she rushed before them. 

" Zoroaster — fly — there is yet time. The enemy 
are come in thousands — they are in the palace. 
There is barely time ! " As she cried to him and to 
them all, she rushed forward and laid one hand upon 
his shoulder. 

But the high priest turned calmly upon her, his 
face unmoved, although all the priests ceased their 
chanting and gathered about their chief in sudden 
fear. As their voices ceased, a low roar was heard 
from without, as though the ocean were beating at 
the gates. 

Zoroaster gently took Nehushta's hand from his 
shoulder. 

" Go thou, and save thyself," he said kindly. "I 
will not go. If it be the will of the All- Wise that I 
perish, I will perish before this altar. Go thou 
quickly, and save thyself while there is yet time." 

But Nehushta took his hand in hers, that trembled 
with the great emotion, and gazed into his calm 
eyes as he spoke — her look was very loving and very 
sad. 

" Knowest thou not, Zoroaster, that I would rather 
die with thee than live with any other ? I swear to 
