place of your mother, to advise you and look after 
you in every way ? " 

" Why, yes, Mrs. Bowen," cried the girl, in sur- 
prise. 



 

"It's a position of great responsibility in regard 
to a young lady. I can't have anything to reproach 
myself with afterward.'' 

" No." 

" Have I always been kind to you, and considerate 
of your rights and your freedom ? Have I ever 
interfered with you in any way that you think I 
oughtn't ? " 

" What an idea ! You 've been loveliness itself, 
Mrs. Bowen ! " 

" Then I want you to listen to me, and answer me 
frankly, and not suspect my motives." 

" Why, how could I do that ? " 

" Never mind ! " cried Mrs. Bowen impatiently, 
almost angrily. " People can't help their suspicions ! 
Do you think Mr. Morton cares for you ? " 

The girl hung her head. 

•' Imogene, answer me ! " 

" I don't know," answered Imogene coldly; "but 
if you're troubled about that, Mrs. Bowen, you 
needn't be ; I don't care anything for Mr. Morton." 

" If I thought you were becoming interested in 
any one, it would be my duty to write to your 
mother and tell her." 

" Of course ; I should expect you to do it." 

"And if I saw you becoming interested in any 
one in a way that I thought would make you un- 
happy, it would be my duty to warn you.'' 

"Yes." 

" Of course, I don't mean that any one would 
knowingly try to make you unhappy ? " 



 

"No." 

"Men don't go about nowadays trying to break 
girls' hearts. But very good men can be thought- 
less and selfish." 

"Yes; I understand that," said Imogen e, in a 
falling accent. 

" I don't wish to prejudice you against any one. 
I should consider it very wrong and wicked. Be- 
sides, I don't care to interfere with you to that 
degree. You are old enough to see and judge for 
yourself." 

Imogene sat silent, passing her hand across the 
front of her dress. The clock ticked audibly from 
the mantel. 

"I will not have it left to me!" cried Mrs. 
Bowen. " It is hard enough, at any rate. Do you 
think I like to speak to you ? " 

"No." 

"Of course it makes me seem inhospitable, and 
distrustful, and detestable." 

" I never thought of accusing you," said the girl, 
slowly lifting her eyes. 

" I will never, never speak to you of it again," 
said Mrs. Bowen, "and from this time forth I insist 
upon your feeling just as free as if I hadn't spoken." 
She trembled upon the verge of a sob, from which 
she repelled herself. 

Imogene sat still, with a sort of serious, bewildered 
look. 

" You shall have every proper opportunity of 
meeting any one you like." 




"Oh yes." 

"And I shall be only too gl-glad to take back 
everything ! " 

Imogene sat motionless and silent. Mrs. Bowen 
broke out again with a sort of violence ; the years 
teach us something of self-control, perhaps, but they 
weaken and unstring the nerves. IT's this opposition 
of silence to silence, the woman of the world was no 
match for the inexperienced girl. 

" Have you nothing to say, Imogene ?" 

" I never thought of him iu that way at all. I 
don't know what to say yet. It — confuses me. I 
— I can't imagine it. But if you think that he is 
trying to amuse himself " 

" I never said that ! " 

"No, I know it." 

" He likes to make you talk, and to talk with you. 
But he is perfectly idle here, and — there is too much 
difference, every way. The very good in him makes 
it the worse. I suppose that after talking with him 
every one else seems insipid." 

"Yes." 

Mrs. Bowen rose and ran suddenly from the 
room. 

Imogene remained sitting cold and still. 

No one had been named since they spoke of Mr. 
Morton. 



XI. 



COLVILLE had not done what he meant in going to 
Mrs. Bowen's ; in fact, he had done just what he had 
not meant to do, as he distinctly perceived in coming 
away. It was then that in a luminous retrospect he 
discovered his motive to have been a wish to atone 
to her for behaviour that must have distressed her, 
or at least to explain it to her. She had not let him 
do this at once ; an instant willingness to hear and 
to condone was not in a woman's nature ; she had to 
make him feel, by the infliction of a degree of punish- 
ment, that she had suff'ered. But before she ended 
she had made it clear that she was ready to grant 
him a tacit pardon, and he had answered with a silly 
Narcasm the question that was to have led to peace. 
He co uld not help seeing that throughout the whole 
Carnival adventure she had yielded her cherished 
reluctan ces to please him, to show him that she was 
no t stiff or prudish, to conv ince him'ffi St she would 
not be a killjoy through her devotion to convention- 
aJrtiesjwinchjheJhoughLhe despis edr Tie could not 
help seeing that he had abused her delicate gene- 
rosity, insulted, her „su]itle xoncess ronsI~ H e strolled 



 

along down the Arno, feeling flat and mean, as a 
man always does after a contest with a woman in 
which he has got the victory ; our sex can preserve 
its selfif espect only through defeat in such a case. It 
gave him no pleasure to remember that the glamour 
of the night before seemed still to rest on Imogene 
unbroken ; that, indeed, was rather an added pain. 
He surprised himself in the midst of his poignant 
reflections by a yawn. Clearly the time was past 
when these ideal troubles could keep him awake, and 
there was, after all, a sort of brutal consolation in the 
fact. He was forty-one years old, and he was sleepy, 
whatever capacity for suffering remained to him. 
He went to his hotel to catch a little nap before 
lunch. When he woke it was dinner-time. The 
mists of slumber still hung about him, and the 
events of the last forty-eight hours showed vast and 
shapelessly threatening through them. 

When the drama of the table d'hote reached its 
climax of roast chestnuts and butter, he determined 
to walk over to San Marco and pay a visit to Mr. 
Waters. He found the old minister from Haddam 
East Village, Massachusetts, Italianate outwardly in 
almost ludicrous degree. He wore a fur-lined over- 
coat indoors ; his feet, cased in thick woollen shoes, 
rested on a strip of carpet laid before his table ; a 
man who had lived for forty years in the pungent 
atmosphere of an air-tight stove, succeeding a quarter 
of a century of roaring hearth fires, contented him- 
self with the spare heat of a scaldino, which he held 
his clasped hands over in the very Italian manner ; 



 

the lamp that cast its light on the book open before 
him was the classic lucerna, with three beaks, fed with 
olive oil. He looked up at his visitor over his spec- 
tacles, without recognising him, till Colville spoke. 
Then, after their greeting, " Is it snowing heavily ? " 
he asked. 

" It isn't snowing at all. What made you think 
that ? " 

" Perhaps I was drowsing over my book and 
dreamed it. We become very strange and interesting 
studies to ourselves as we live along." 

He took uj) the metaphysical consideration with 
, the promptness of a man who has no small-talk, and 
who speaks of the mind and soul as if they were the 
gossip of the neighbourhood. 

" At times the forty winters that I passed in 
Haddam East Village seem like an alien experience, 
and I find myself pitying the life I lived there quite 
as if it were the life of some one else. It seems incred- 
ible that men should still inhabit such climates." 

" Then you 're not homesick for Haddam East 
Village ? " 

" Ah ! for the good and striving souls there, yes ; 
especially the souls of some women there. 'They 
used to think that it was I who gave them consola- 
tion and spiritual purpose, but it was they who really 
imparted it. Women souls— how beau tiful they some- 
times are ! They seem truly like angelic essences. 
I trust that I shall meet them somewhere some time, 
but it will never be in Haddam East Village. Yes, 
I must have been dreaming when you came in. I 



 

thought that I was by my fire there, and all round 
over the hills and in the streets the snow was deep 
and falling still. How distinctly," he said, closing his 
eyes, as artists do in looking at a picture, '' I can see 
the black wavering lines of the walls in the fields 
sinking into the drifts ! the snow billowed over the 
graves by the church where I preached ! the banks 
of snow around the houses ! the white desolation 
everywhere ! I ask myself at times if the people 
are still there. Yes, I feel as blessedly remote 
from that terrible winter as if I had died away 
from it, and were in the weather of heaven." 

" Th§n you have no reproach for feeble-spirited 
fellow-citizens who abandon their native climate and 
come to live in Italy ?" " 

The old man drew his fur coat closer about him and 
shrugged his shoulders in true Florentine fashion. 
" There may be something to say against those who 
do so in the heyday of life, but I shall not be the 
one to say it. The race must yet revert in its de- 
crepitude, as I have in mine, to the climates of the 
South. Since I have been in Italy I have realised 
what used to occur to me dimly at home — the cruel 
disproportion between the end gained and the means 
expended in reclaiming the savage North. Half the 
human endeavour, half the human suffering, would 
have made the whole South Protestant and the 
whole East Christian, and our civilisation would 
now be there. No, I shall never go back to New 
England. New England ? New Ireland — New 
Canada ! Half the farms in Haddam are in the 



 

hands of our Irish friends, and the labour on the 
rest is half done by French Canadians. That is 
all right and well. New England must come to 
me here, by way of the great middle West and the 
Pacific coast," 

Colville smiled at the Emersonian touch, but he 
said gravely, "I can never quite reconcile myself 
to the thought of dying out of my own country." 

" Why not ? It is very unimportant where one 
dies. A moment after your breath is gone you are 
in exile for ever — or at home for ever." 

Colville sat musing upon this phase of American- 
ism, as he had upon many others. At last he broke 
the silence they had both let fall, far away from the 
topic they had touched. 

"Well," he asked, "how did you enjoy the 
veglione ? " 

" Oh, I 'm too old to go to such places for pleasure," 
said the minister simply. "But it was very in- 
teresting, and certainly very striking : especially 
when I went back, toward daylight, after seeing 
Mrs. Bowen home." 

"Did you go back ?" demanded Colville, in some 
amaze. 

" Oh yes. I felt that my experience was incom- 
plete without some knowledge of how the Carnival 
ended at such a place.'' 

" Oh ! And do you still feel that Savonarola was 
mistaken ? " 

"There seemed to be rather more boisterousness 
toward the close, and, if I might judge, the excite- 



 

ment grew a little unwholesome. But I really don't 
feel myself very well qualified to decide. My own 
life has been passed in circumstances so widely dif- 
ferent that I am at a certain disadvantage." 

" Yes," said Colville, with a smile ; " I dare say 
the Carnival at Haddam East Village was quite 
another thing." 

The old man smiled responsively. " I suppose 
that some of my former parishioners might have been 
scandalised at my presence at a Carnival ball, had 
they known the fact merely in the abstract ; but in 
my letters home I shall try to set it before them in 
an instructive light. I should say that the worst 
thing about such a scene of revelry would be that 
it took us too much out of our inner quiet. But I 
suppose the same remark might apply to almost any 
form of social entertainment." 

"Yes." 

" But human nature is so constituted that some\ 
means of expansion must be provided, or a violent i 
explosion takes place. The only question is what 
means are most innocent. I have been looking 
about," added the old man quietly, " at the theatres 
lately." 

" Have you ? " asked Colville, opening his eyes, 
in suppressed surprise. 

" Yes ; with a view to determining the degree of 
harmless amusement that may be derived from 
them. It's rather a difl&cult question. I should 
be inclined to say, however, that I don't think the 
ballet can ever be instrumental for good." 

Colville could not deny himself the pleasure of 
saying, " Well, not the highest, I suppose." 

" No," said Mr. Waters, in apparent unconscious- 
ness of the irony. "But I think the Church has 
made a mistake in condemning the theatre in Mo. 
It appears to me that it might always have coun- 
tenanced a certain order of comedy, in which the 
motive and plot are unobjectionable. Though I don't 
deny that there are moods "when all laughter seems 
low and unworthy and incompatible with the most 
advanced state of being. And I confess," he went 
on, with a dreamy thoughtfulness, " that I have 
very great misgivings in regard to tragedy. The 
glare that it throws upon the play of the passions — 
jealousy in its anguish, revenge glutting itself, envy 
eating its heart, hopeless love — their nakedness is 
terrible. The terror may be salutary ; it may be 
very mischievous. I am afraid that I have left some 
of my inquiries till it is too late. I seem to have no 
longer the materials of judgment left in me. If I 
were still a young man like you " 

" Am I still a young man ? " interrupted Colville 
sadly. 

"You are young enough to respond to the appeals 
that sometimes find me silent. If I were of your 
age I should certainly investigate some of these 
interesting problems." 

"Ah, but if you become personally interested in 
the problems, it 's as bad as if you hadn't the mate- 
rials of judgment left ; you 're prejudiced. Besides, 
I doubt my youthfulness very much." 




" You are fifty, I presume ? " suggested Mr. 
Waters, in a leading way. 

" Not very near — only too near," laughed Colville. 
" I 'm forty-one." 

" You are younger than I supposed. But I re- 
member now that at your age I had the same feeling 
which you intimate. It seemed to me then that I 
had really passed the bound which separates us from 
the further possibility of youth. But I 've lived long 
enough since to know that I was mistaken. At 
forty, one has still a great part of youth before him 
— perhaps the ric hest and sweetest part. By that 
time the turmoil of ideas and sensa tionsis over ; we 
see clearly and feel c onsciously. We are in a sort of 
quiet in which w e peacefully enj o y: Wg have en- 
larged our perspective sufficiently to perceive things 
i n their true proportio n ami relaLioii ; we are no 
l onger tormented with the lurking ~lea r of death, 
which darkens and embitters our earlier years ; we 
have got into the habit oTlite ; we have often been 
ailing and we have not died. Then we have time 
enoug h beh ind us to supi)ly us with the materials of 
. reverie and reminisc ence ; the terrible "iblitude of 
inexpe rience is broken; we have learned to smile at 
many things besides the fear of death._ We ought 
also to have learned pity and patience. Yes," the 
old man concluded, in cheerful self- corroboration, 
" it is a jeautiful age." 

" But it doesn't look so beautiful as it is," Colville 
protested. " People in that rosy prime don 't pro- 
duce the effect of garlanded striplings upon the 




world at large. The women laugh at us; they 
think we are fat old fellows ; they don't recognise 
the slender and elegant youth that resides in our 
unwieldy bulk." 

" You take my meaning a little awry. Besides, I 
doubt if even the ground you assume is tenable. If 
a woman has lived long enough to be truly young 
herself, she won't find a man at forty either decrepit 
or grotesque. He can even make himself youthful 
to a girl of thought and imagination." 

" Yes," Colville assented, with a certain discomfort. 

" But to be truly young at forty," resumed Mr. 
Waters, "a man should be already married." 

"Yes?" 

" I sometimes feel," continued the old man, " that 
I made a mistake in yielding to a disappointment 
that I met with early in life, and in not permitting 
myself the chance of retrieval. I have missed a 
beautiful and consoling experience in my devotion 
to a barren regret." 

Colville said nothing, but he experienced a mixed 
feeling of amusement, of repulsion, and of curiosity 
at this. 

" We are put into the world to be of it. I am 
more and more convinced of that. We have scarcely 
a right to separate ourselves from the common lot in 
any way. I justify myself for having lived alone 
only as a widower might. I — lost her. It was a 
great while ago." 

" Yes," said Colville, after the pause which 
ensued ; " I agre e with you that one has no right to 




ii?( ?ate liimap.lf, tn rp.fnsp. his p nrh'nn of the common 
lot; but t he effects of even a r ebuff may last so long 
that one has no heart to put out his hand a second 
time — for a second rap over the knuckles. Oh, I 
know how trivial it is in the retrospect, and how 
what is called a disappointment is something to be 
humbly grateful for in most cases ; but for a while 
it certainly makes you doubtful whether you were 
ever really intended to share the common lot." He 
was aware of an insincerity in his words ; he hoped 
that it might not be perceptible, but he did not 
greatly care. 

Mr. Waters took no notice of what he had been 
saying. He resumed from another point. " But I 
should say that it would be unwise for a man of 
mature life to seek his happiness with one much 
younger than himself. I don't deny that there are 
cases in which the disparity of years counts for little 
or nothing, but generally speaking, people ought to 
be as equally mated in age as possible. They ought 
to start with the same advantages of ignorance. A 
young girl can only live her life through a com- 
munity of feeling, an equality of inexperience in the 
man she gives her heart to. If he is tired of things 
that still delight her, the chances of unhappiness are 
increased." 

"Yes, that's true," answered Colville gravely. 
" It 's apt to be a mistake and a wrong." 

" Oh, not always — not always," said the old 
minister. "We mustn't look at it in that way 
quite. Wrongs are of the will." He seemed to 



 

lapse into a greater iutimacy of feeling with Colville. 
" Have you seen Mrs. Bowen to-day ? Or — ah ! 
true ! I think you told me." 

" No," said Colville. " Have we spoken of her ? 
But I have seen her." 

" And was the little one well ?" 

" Very much better." 

" Pretty creatures, both of them," said the minis- 
ter, with as fresh a pleasure in his recognition of 
the fact as if he had not said nearly the same thing 
once before. " You 've noticed the very remark- 
able resemblance between mother and daughter?" 

" Oh yes." 

" There is a gentleness in Mrs. Bowen which 
seems to me the last refinement of a gracious spirit," 
suggested Mr. Waters. " I have never met any lady 
who reconciled more exquisitely what is charming in 
society with what is lovely in nature." 

" Yes," said Colville. " Mrs. Bowen always had 
that gentle manner. I used to know her here as a 
girl a great while ago." 

" Did you ? I wonder you allowed her to become 
Mrs. Bowen." 

This sprightliness of Mr. Waters amused Colville 
greatly. " At that time I was preoccupied with my 
great mistake, and I had no eyes for Mrs. Bowen." 

"It isn't too late yet," said Mr. Waters, with open 
insinuation. 

A bachelor of forty is always flattered by any sug- 
gestion of marriage ; the suggestion that a beautiful 
and charming woman would marry him is too much 



 

for whatever reserves of modesty and wisdom he 
may have stored up. Colville took leave of the old 
minister in better humour with himself than he had 
been for forty-eight hours, or than he had any very 
good reason for being now. 

Mr. Waters came with him to the head of the 
stairs and held up the lamp for him to see. The 
light fell upon the white locks thinly straggling 
from beneath his velvet skull-cap, and he looked 
like some mediaeval scholar of those who lived and 
died for learning in Florence when letters were a 
passion there almost as strong as love. 

The next day Colville would have liked to go at 
once and ask about Efiie, but upon the whole he 
thought he would not go till after he had been at 
the reception where he was going in the afternoon. 
It was an artist who was giving the reception ; he 
had a number of pictures to show, and there was to 
be tea. There are artists and artists. This painter 
was one who had a distinct social importance. It 
was felt to be rather a nice thing to be asked to his 
reception ; one was sure at least to meet the nicest 
people. 

This reason prevailed with Colville so far as it 
related to Mrs. Bowen, whom he felt that he would 
like to tell he had been there. He would speak 
to her of this person and tiiat — very respected and 
recognised social figures, — so that she might see he 
was not the outlaw, the Bohemian, he must some- 
times have appeared to her. It would not be going 
too far to say that something like an obscure inten- 



 

tion to show himself the next Sunday at the English 
chapel, where Mrs. Bowen went, was not forming 
itself in his mind. As he went along it began to 
seem not impossible that she would be at the recep- 
tion. If EflBe's indisposition was no more serious 
than it appeared yesterday, very probably Mrs. 
Bowen would be there. He even believed that he 
recognised her carriage among those which were 
drawn up in front of the old palace, under the 
painter's studio windows. 

There were a great number of people of the four 
nationalities that mostly consort in Italy. There 
were English and Americans and Russians and the 
sort of Italians resulting from the native inter- 
marriages with them ; here and there were Italians 
of pure blood, borderers upon the foreign life through 
a literary interest, or an artistic relation, or a matri- 
monial intention ; here and there, also, the large 
stomach of a German advanced the bounds of the 
new empire and the new ideal of duty. There were 
no Frenchmen ; one may meet them in more strictly 
Italian assemblages, but it is as if the sorrows and 
uncertainties of France in these times discouraged 
them from the international society in which they 
were always an infrequent element. It is not, of 
course, imaginable that as Frenchmen they have 
doubts of their merits, but that they have their 
misgivings as to the intelligence of others. The 
language that prevailed was English — in fact, one 
heard no other, — and the tea which our civilisation 
carries everywhere with it steamed from the cups 



 

in all hands. TJiis beverage, in fact, becomes a for- 
midable factor in the life of a Florentine winter. 
One finds it at all houses, and more or less mechani- 
cally drinks it. 

" I am turning out a terrible tea toper,'' said Col- 
ville, stirring his cup in front of the old lady whom 
his relations to the ladies at Palazzo Pinti had 
interested so much. " I don't think I drink less 
than ten cups a day ; seventy cups a week is a low 
average for me. I 'm really beginning to look down 
at my boots a little anxiously." 

Mrs. Amsden laughed. She had not been in 
America for forty years, but she liked the American 
way of talking better than any other. " Oh, didn't 
you hear about Inglehart when he was here ? He 
was so good-natured that he used to drink all the 
tea people offered him, and then the young ladies 
made tea for him in his studio when they went to 
look at his pictures. It almost killed him. By the 
time spring came he trembled so that the brush flew 
out of his hands when he took it up. He had to 
hurry off to Venice to save his life. It 's just as 
bad at the Italian houses; they've learned to like 
tea." 

"When I was  here before, they never offered 
you anything but coffee," said Colville. "They 
took tea for medicine, and there was an old joke 
that I thought I should die of, I heard it so often 
about the Italian that said to the English woman 
when she offered him tea, ' Grazie ; sto bene.' " 

" Oh, that 's all changed now." 



 

" Yes ; I 've seen the tea, and I haven't heard the 
joke." 

The flavour of Colville's talk apparently encouraged 
his companion to believe that he would like to make 
fun of their host's paintings with her ; but whether 
he liked them, or whether he was principled against 
that sort of return for hospitality, he chose to reply 
seriously to some ironical lures she threw out. 

" Oh, if you 're going to be good," she exclaimed, 
" I shall have nothing more to say to you. Here 
comes Mr. Thurston ; I can make him abuse the 
pictures. There ! You had better go away to a 
young lady I see alone over yonder, though I don't 
know what you will do with one alone." She 
laughed and shook her head in a way that had once 
been arch and lively, but that was now puckery and 
infirm — it is affecting to sec these things in women — 
and welcomed the old gentleman who came up and 
superseded Colville. 

The latter turned, with his cup still in his hand, 
and wandered about through the company, hoping 
he might see Mrs. Bowen among the groups peering 
at the pictures or solidly blocking the view in front 
of them. He did not find her, but he found 
Imogene Graham standing somewhat apart near a 
window. He saw her face light up at sight of him, 
and then darken again as he approached. 

" Isn't this rather an unnatural state of things ? " 
he asked when he had come up. "I ought to be 
obliged to fight my way to you through successive 
phalanxes of young men crowding round with cups of 



 

tea outstretched in their imploring hands. Have 
you had some tea ? " 

"Thank you, no; I don't wish any," said the 
young girl, so coldly that he could not help noticing, 
though commonly he was man enough to notice 
very few things. 

" How is Effie to-day ? " he asked quickly. 

" Oh, quite well," said Imogene. 

"I don't see Mrs. Bowen," he ventured further. 

" No," answered the girl, still very lifelessly ; " I 
came with Mrs. Fleming." She looked about the 
room as if not to look at him. 

He now perceived a distinct intention to snub him. 
He smiled. " Have you seen the pictures ? There 
are two or three really lovely ones." 

" Mrs. Fleming will be here in a moment, I sup- 
pose," said Imogene evasively, but not with all her 
first coldness. 

" Let us steal a march on her," said Colville 
briskly. " When she comes you can tell her that I 
showed you the pictures. " 

"I don't know," faltered the girl. 

" Perhaps it isn't necessary you should," he sug- 
gested. 

She glanced at him with questioning trepidation. 

" The respective duties of chaperone and protigie 
are rather undefined. Where the chaperone isn't 
there to command, the piviige isn't there to obey. 
I suppose you 'd know if you were at home ?" 

"Oh yes!" 

" Let me imagine myself at a loan exhibition in 



 

Buffalo. Ah ! that appeal is irresistible. You 'll 
come, I see." 

She hesitated ; she looked at the nearest picture, 
then followed him to another. He now did what 
he had refused to do for the old lady who tempted 
him to it ; he made fun of the pictures a little, but 
so amiably and with so much justice to their good 
points that the painter himself would not have 
minded his jesting. From time to time he made 
