whom she had associated before embracing the ascetic life. 
They had not knocked at her present door hitherto in any 
great numbers, for more reasons than one ; they were out 
of town, and she had taken pains to diffuse the belief that 
she had left England. If the impression prevailed, it was 





exactly the impression she had desired ; she forgot this fact 
whenever she felt a certain surprise, even, it may be, a cer- 
tain irritation, in perceiving that people were not taking the 
way to Madeira Crescent. She was making the discovery, 
in which she had had many predecessors, that in London 
it is only too possible to hide one's self. It was very much 
in that fashion that Godfrey Sholto was in the habit of 
announcing himself, when he reappeared after the intervals 
she explictly imposed upon him ; there was a kind of art- 
lessness, for so world-worn a personage, in the point he 
made of showing that he knocked with confidence, that he 
had as good a right as any other. This afternoon she was 
ready to accept a visit from him : she was perfectly detached 
from the shallow, frivolous world in which he lived, but 
there was still a freshness in her renunciation which coveted 
reminders and enjoyed comparisons ; he would prove to her 
how right she had been to do exactly what she was doing. 
It did not occur to her that Hyacinth Robinson might be 
at her door, for it was understood between them that, 
except by special appointment, he was to come to see 
her only in the evening. She heard in the hall, when the 
servant arrived, a voice that she failed to recognise ; but in 
a moment the door of the room was thrown open and 
the name of Mr. Muniment was pronounced. It may be 
said at once that she felt great pleasure in hearing it, for 
she had both wished to see more of Hyacinth's extraordi- 
nary friend and had given him up, so little likely had it 
begun to appear that he would put himself out for her. 
She had been glad he wouldn't come, as she had told Hya- 
cinth three months before ; but now that he had come she 
was still more glad. 



 

Presently he was sitting opposite to her, on the other 
side of the fire, with his big foot crossed over his big knee, 
his large, gloved hands fumbling with each other, drawing 
and smoothing the gloves (of very red, new-looking dog- 
skin) in places, as if they hurt him. So far as the size of 
his extremities, and even his attitude and movement, went, 
he might have belonged to her former circle. With the 
details of his dress remaining vague in the lamp -light, 
which threw into relief mainly his powerful, important 
head, he might have been one of the most consider- 
able men she had ever known. The first thing she 
said to him was that she wondered extremely what had 
brought him at last to come to see her : the idea, 
when she proposed it, evidently had so little attraction 
for him. She had only seen him once since then the 
day she met him coming into Audley Court as she 
was leaving it, after a visit to his sister and, as he 
probably remembered, she had not on that occasion 
repeated her invitation. 

' It wouldn't have done any good, at the time, if you 
had,' Muniment rejoined, with his natural laugh. 

' Oh, I felt that ; my silence wasn't accidental ! ' the 
Princess exclaimed, joining in his merriment. 

' I have only come now since you have asked me the 
reason because my sister hammered at me, week after 
week, dinning it into me that I ought to. Oh, I've been 
under the lash ! If she had left me alone I wouldn't have 
come.' 

The Princess blushed on hearing these words, but not 
with shame or with pain ; rather with the happy excitement 
of being spoken to in a manner so fresh and original. She 





had never before had a visitor who practised so racy a 
frankness, or who, indeed, had so curious a story to tell. 
She had never before so completely failed, and her failure 
greatly interested her, especially as it seemed now to be 
turning a little to success. She had succeeded promptly 
with every one, and the sign of it was that every one had 
rendered her a monotony of homage. Even poor little 
Hyacinth had tried, in the beginning, to say sweet things 
to her. This very different type of man appeared to have 
his thoughts fixed on anything but sweetness ; she felt the 
liveliest hope that he would move further and further away 
from it. ' I remember what you asked me what good it 
would do you. I couldn't tell you then ; and though I now 
have had a long time to turn it over, I haven't thought of 
it yet.' 

'Oh, but I hope it will do me some,' said Paul. 'A 
fellow wants a reward, when he has made a great effort.' 

' It does me some,' the Princess remarked, gaily. 

' Naturally, the awkward things I say amuse you. But 
I don't say them for that, but just to give you an 
idea. 3 

' You give me a great many ideas. Besides, I know you 
already a good deal.' 

' From little Robinson, I suppose,' said Muniment. 

The Princess hesitated. ' More particularly from Lady 
Aurora.' 

' Oh, she doesn't know much about me ! ' the young man 
exclaimed. 

' It's a pity you say that, because she likes you.' 

( Yes, she likes me,' Muniment replied, serenely. 

Again the Princess hesitated. ' And I hope you like her.' 



  4? 



' Ay, she's a dear old girl ! ' 

The Princess reflected that her visitor was not a gentle- 
man, like Hyacinth ; but this made no difference in her 
present attitude. The expectation that he would be a 
gentleman had had nothing to do with her interest in 
him ; that, in fact, had rested largely on the supposition 
that he had a rich plebeian strain. 'I don't know that 
there is any one in the world I envy so much,' she 
remarked; an observation which her visitor received in 
silence. ' Better than any one I have ever met she has 
solved the problem which, if we are wise, we all try 
to solve, don't we? of getting out of herself. She has 
got out of herself more perfectly than any one I have 
ever known. She has merged herself in the passion of 
doing something for others. That's why I envy her,' 
said the Princess, with an explanatory smile, as if per- 
haps he didn't understand her. ' 

'It's an amusement, like any other,' said Paul Muni- 
ment. 

' Ah, not like any other ! It carries light into dark 
places ; it makes a great many wretched people con- 
siderably less wretched.' 

'How many, eh?' asked the young man, not exactly 
as if he wished to dispute, but as if it were always in 
him to enjoy an argument. 

The Princess wondered why he should desire to argue 
at Lady Aurora's expense. ' Well, one who is very near 
to you, to begin with.' 

' Oh, she's kind, most kind ; it's altogether wonderful. 
But Rosy makes her considerably less wretched,' Paul 
Muniment rejoined. 





' Very likely, of course ; and so she does me.' 
' May I inquire what you are wretched about ? ' Muni- 
ment went on. 

'About nothing at all. That's the worst of it. But 
I am much happier now than I have ever been.' 
' Is that also about nothing ?' 

' No, about a sort of change that has taken place in 
my life. I have been able to do some little things.' 

' For the poor, I suppose you mean. Do you refer 
to the presents you have made to Rosy ? ' the young man 
inquired. 

' The presents ? ' The Princess appeared not to re- 
member. ' Oh, those are trifles. It isn't anything one 
has been able to give ; it's some talks one has had, some 
convictions one has arrived at.' 

'Convictions are a source of very innocent pleasure,' 
said the young man, smiling at his interlocutress with his 
bold, pleasant eyes, which seemed to project their glance 
further than any she had seen. 

'Having them is nothing. It's the acting on them,' 
the Princess replied. 

' Yes ; that doubtless, too, is good.' He continued to 
look at her peacefully, as if he liked to consider that this 
might be what she had asked him to come for. He said 
nothing more, and she went on : 

' It's far better, of course, when one is a man.' 
' I don't know. Women do pretty well what they like. 
My sister and you have managed, between you, to bring me 
to this.' 

'It's more your sister, I suspect, than I. But why, 
after all, should you have disliked so much to come ? ' 






 

' Well, since you ask me,' said Paul Muniment, ' I will 
tell you frankly, though I don't mean it uncivilly, that 
I don't know what to make of you.' 

' Most people don't,' returned the Princess. ' But they 
usually take the risk.' 

' Ah, well, I'm the most prudent of men.' 

' I was sure of it ; that is one of the reasons why I 
wanted to know you. I know what some of your ideas are 
Hyacinth Robinson has told me ; and the source of my 
interest in them is partly the fact that you consider very 
carefully what you attempt.' 

' That I do I do,' said Muniment, simply. 

The tone in which he said this would have been almost 
ignoble, as regards a kind of northern canniness which it 
expressed, had it not been corrected by the character of his 
face, his youth and strength, and his military eye. The 
Princess recognised both the shrewdness and the latent 
audacity as she rejoined, ' To do anything with you would 
be very safe. It would be sure to succeed.' 

' That's what poor Hyacinth thinks,' said Paul Muni- 
ment. 

The Princess wondered a little that he could allude in 
that light tone to the faith their young friend had placed in 
him, considering the consequences such a trustfulness 
might yet have ; but this curious mixture of qualities could 
only make her visitor, as a tribune of the people, more 
interesting to her. She abstained for the moment from 
touching on the subject of Hyacinth's peculiar position, and 
only said, 'Hasn't he told you about me? Hasn't he 
explained me a little ? ' 

' Oh, his explanations are grand ! ' Muniment ex- 


claimed, hilariously. ' He's fine sport when he talks 
about you.' 

'Don't betray him,' said the Princess, gently. 

' There's nothing to betray. You would be the first to 
admire it if you were there. Besides, I don't betray,' the 
young man added. 

' I love him very much,' said the Princess ; and it would 
have been impossible for the most impudent cynic to smile 
at the manner in which she made the declaration. 

Paul accepted it respectfully. ' He's a sweet little lad, 
and, putting her ladyship aside, quite the light of our 
home.' 

There was a short pause after this exchange of amenities, 
which the Princess terminated by inquiring, ' Wouldn't some 
one else do his work quite as well ? ' 

' His work ? Why, I'm told he's a master-hand.' 

'Oh, I don't mean his bookbinding.' Then the Princess 
added, ' I don't know whether you know it, but I am in 
correspondence with Hoffendahl. I am acquainted with 
many of our most important men.' 

' Yes, I know it. Hyacinth has told me. Do you 
mention it as a guarantee, so that I may know you are 
genuine ? ' 

'Not exactly; that would be weak, wouldn't it?' the 
Princess asked. ' My genuineness must be in myself a 
matter for you to appreciate as you know me better ; not in 
my references and vouchers.' 

' I shall never know you better. What business is it of 
mine ? ' 

' I want to help you,' said the Princess, and as she made 
this earnest appeal her face became transfigured ; it wore 






 

an expression of the most passionate yet the purest longing. 
' I want to do something for the cause you represent ; for 
the millions that are rotting under our feet the millions 
whose whole life is passed on the brink of starvation, so 
that the smallest accident pushes them over. Try me, test 
me ; ask me to put my hand to something, to prove that I 
am as deeply in earnest as those who have already given 
proof. I know what I am talking about what one must 
meet and face and count with, the nature and the immensity 
of your organisation. I am not playing. No, I am not 
playing.' 

Paul Muniment watched her with his steady smile until 
this sudden outbreak had spent itself. ' I was afraid you 
would be like this that you would turn on the fountains 
and let off the fireworks.' 

' Permit me to believe you thought nothing about it. 
There is no reason my fireworks should disturb you.' 

' I have always had a fear of women.' 

' I see that's a part of your prudence,' said the Prin- 
cess, reflectively. l But you are the sort of man who ought 
to know how to use them.' 

Muniment said nothing, immediately, in answer to this ; 
the way he appeared to consider the Princess suggested that 
he was not following closely what she said, so much as 
losing himself in certain matters which were beside that 
question her beauty, for instance, her grace, her fragrance, 
the spectacle of a manner and quality so new to him. After 
a little, however, he remarked, irrelevantly, ' I'm afraid I'm 
very rude.' 

'Of course you are, but it doesn't signify. What I 
mainly object to is that you don't answer my questions. 





Would not some one else do Hyacinth Robinson's work 
quite as well ? Is it necessary to take a nature so delicate, 
so intellectual ? Oughtn't we to keep him for something 
finer ?' 

' Finer than what ? ' 

' Than what Hoffendahl will call upon him to do.' 

'And pray what is that?' the young man demanded. 
'You know nothing about it; no more do I,' he added in 
a moment. ' It will require whatever it will. Besides, if 
some one else might have done it, no one else volunteered. 
It happened that Robinson did.' 

' Yes, and you nipped him up ! ' the Princess exclaimed. 

At this expression Muniment burst out laughing. 'I 
have no doubt you can easily keep him, if you want him.' 

' I should like to do it in his place that's what I should 
like,' said the Princess. 

' As I say, you don't even know what it is.' 

' It may be nothing,' she went on, with her grave eyes 
fixed on her visitor. ' I dare say you think that what I 
wanted to see you for was to beg you to let him off. But 
it wasn't. Of course it's his own affair, and you can do 
nothing. But oughtn't it to make some difference, when 
his opinions have changed ? ' 

'His opinions? He never had any opinions,' Muni- 
ment replied. ' He is not like you and me.' 

'Well, then, his feelings, his attachments. He hasn't 
the passion for democracy he had when I first knew him. 
He's much more tepid.' 

'Ah, well, he's quite right.' 

The Princess stared. ' Do you mean that jw are giving 
up ?' 



 

' A fine stiff conservative is a thing I perfectly under- 
stand.' said Paul Muniment. ' If I were on the top, I'd 
stick there.' 

' I see, you are not narrow,' the Princess murmured, 
appreciatively. 

' I beg your pardon, I am. I don't call that wide. One 
must be narrow to penetrate.' 

' Whatever you are, you'll succeed,' said the Princess. 
' Hyacinth won't, but you will.' 

' It depends upon what you call success ! ' the young 
man exclaimed. And in a moment, before she replied, he 
added, looking about the room, ' You've got a very lovely 
dwelling.' 

' Lovely? My dear sir, it's hideous. That's what I 
like it for,' the Princess added. 

' Well, I like it ; but perhaps I don't know the reason. 
I thought you had given up everything pitched your 
goods out of window, for a grand scramble. 

4 Well, so I have. You should have seen me before.' 

'I should have liked that,' said ( Muniment, smiling. 'I 
like to see solid wealth.' 

'Ah, you're as bad as Hyacinth. I am the only con- 
sistent one ! ' the Princess sighed. 

' You have a great deal left, for a person who has given 
everything away.' 

' These are not mine these abominations or I would 
give them, too ! ' Paul's hostess rejoined, artlessly. 

Muniment got up from his chair, still looking about the 
room. ' I would give my nose for such a place as this. 
At any rate, you are not yet reduced to poverty.' 

' I have a little left to help you.' 





' I dare say you've a great deal,' said Paul, with his north- 
country accent. 

' I could get money I could get money,' the Princess 
continued, gravely. She had also risen, and was standing 
before him. 

These two remarkable persons faced each other, their 
eyes met again, and they exchanged a long,' deep glance of 
mutual scrutiny. Each seemed to drop a plummet into 
the other's mind. Then a strange and, to the Princess, 
unexpected expression passed over the countenance of the 
young man ; his lips compressed themselves, as if he were 
making a strong effort, his colour rose, and in a moment he 
stood there blushing like a boy. He dropped his eyes and 
stared at the carpet, while he observed, ' I don't trust 
women I don't trust women ! ' 

' I am sorry, but, after all, I can understand it,' said the 
Princess ; ' therefore I won't insist on the question of your 
allowing me to work with you. But this appeal I will make 
to you : help me a little yourself help me ! ' 

I How do you mean, help you ? ' Muniment demanded, 
raising his eyes, which had a new, conscious look. 

' Advise me ; you will know how. I am in trouble I 
have gone very far.' 

'I have no doubt of that ! ' said Paul, laughing. 

' I mean with some of those people abroad. I'm not 
frightened, but I'm perplexed ; I want to know what 
to do.' 

' No, you are not frightened,' Muniment rejoined, after 
a moment. 

'I am, however, in a sad entanglement. I think you 
can straighten it out. I will give you the facts, but not 



 

now, for we shall be interrupted ; I hear my old lady on 
the stairs. For this, you must come to see me again.' 

At this point the door opened, and Madame Grandoni 
appeared, cautiously, creepingly, as if she didn't know what 
might be going on in the parlour. ' Yes, I will come again,' 
said Paul Muniment, in a low but distinct tone ; and he 
walked away, passing Madame Grandoni on the threshold, 
without having exchanged the hand-shake of farewell with 
his hostess. In the hall he paused an instant, feeling she 
was behind him ; and he learned that she had not come to 
exact from him this omitted observance, but to say once 
more, dropping her voice, so that her companion, through 
the open door, might not hear 

' I could get money I could ! ' 

Muniment passed his hand through his hair, and, as if 
he had not heard her, remarked, ' I have not given you, 
after all, half Rosy's messages.' 

' Oh, that doesn't matter !' the Princess answered, turning 
back into the parlour. 

Madame Grandoni was in the middle of the room, 
wrapped in her old shawl, looking vaguely around her, and 
the two ladies heard the house -door close. 'And pray, 
who may that be ? Isn't it a new face ? ' the elder one 
inquired. 

' He's the brother of the little person I took you to see 
over the river the chattering cripple with the wonderful 
manners.' 

'Ah, she had a brother! That, then, was why you 
went ? ' 

It was striking, the good-humour with which the Princess 
received this rather coarse thrust, which could have been 





drawn from Madame Grandoni only by the petulance and 
weariness of increasing age, and the antipathy she now felt 
to Madeira Crescent and everything it produced. Christina 
bent a calm, charitable smile upon her ancient companion, 
and replied 

' There could have been no question of our seeing him. 
He was, of course, at his work.' 

'Ah, how do I know, my dear? And is he a suc- 
cessor ? ' 

' A successor ? ' 

' To the little bookbinder.' 

' My darling,' said the Princess, 'you will see how absurd 
that question is when I tell you he's his greatest friend ! ' 



XXXVII 

HALF an hour after Paul Muniment's departure the Princess 
heard another rat-tat-tat at her door ; but this was a briefer, 
discreeter peal, and was accompanied by a faint tintinnabu- 
lation. The person who had produced it was presently 
ushered in, without, however, causing Madame Grandoni to 
look round, or rather to look up, from an arm-chair as low 
as a sitz-bath, and of very much the shape of such a 
receptacle, in which, near the fire, she had been immersed. 
She left this care to the Princess, who rose on hearing the 
name of the visitor pronounced, inadequately, by her maid. 
' Mr. Fetch,' Assunta called it ; but the Princess recognised 
without difficulty the little fat, ' reduced ' fiddler of whom 
Hyacinth had talked to her, who, as Pinnie's most intimate 
friend, had been so mixed up with his existence, and whom 
she herself had always had a curiosity to see. Hyacinth 
had not told her he was coming, and the unexpectedness 
of the apparition added to its interest. Much as she 
liked seeing queer types and exploring out-of-the-way social 
corners, she never engaged in a fresh encounter, nor formed 
a new relation of this kind, without a fit of nervousness, a 
fear that she might be awkward and fail to hit the right 
tone. She perceived in a moment, however, that Mr. Vetch 
would take her as she was and require no special adjust- 





ments ; he was a gentleman and a man of experience, and 
she would only have to leave the tone to him. He stood 
there with his large, polished hat in his two hands, a hat of 
the fashion of ten years before, with a rusty sheen and an 
undulating brim stood there without a salutation or a 
speech, but with a little fixed, acute, tentative smile, which 
seemed half to inquire and half to explain. What he 
explained was that he was clever enough to be trusted, and 
that if he had come to see her that way, abruptly, without 
an invitation, he had a reason which she would be sure to 
think good enough when she should hear it. There was 
even a certain jauntiness in this confidence an insinuation 
that he knew how to present himself to a lady ; and though 
it quickly appeared that he really did, that was the only 
thing about him that was inferior it suggested a long 
experience of actresses at rehearsal, with whom he had 
formed habits of advice and compliment. 

' I know who you are I know who you are,' said the 
Princess, though she could easily see that he knew she did. 

' I wonder whether you also know why I have come to 
see you,' Mr. Vetch replied, presenting the top of his hat to 
her as if it were a looking-glass. 

' No, but it doesn't matter. I am very glad ; you might 
even have come before.' Then the Princess added, with 
her characteristic honesty, ' Don't you know of the great 
interest I have taken in your nephew ? ' 

' In my nephew ? Yes, my young friend Robinson. It 
is in regard to him that I have ventured to intrude upon 
you.' 

The Princess had been on the point of pushing a chair 
toward him, but she stopped in the act, staring, with a 



 

smile. ' Ah, I hope you haven't come to ask me to give 
him up ! ' 

' On the contrary on the contrary ! ' the old man 
rejoined, lifting his hand expressively, and with his head on 
one side, as if he were holding his violin. 

' How do you mean, on the contrary ? ' the Princess 
demanded, after he had seated himself and she had sunk 
into her former place. As if that might sound contradictious, 
she went on : ' Surely he hasn't any fear that I shall cease 
to be a good friend to him ? ' 

' I don't know what he fears ; I don't know what he 
hopes,' said Mr. Vetch, looking at her now with a face in 
which she could see there was something more tonic than 
old-fashioned politeness. ' It will be difficult to tell you, 
but at least I must try. Properly speaking, I suppose, it's 
no business of mine, as I am not a blood-relation to the 
boy ; but I have known him since he was an urchin, and I 
can't help saying that I thank you for your great kindness 
to him.' 

' All the same, I don't think you like it,' the Princess 
remarked. 'To me it oughtn't to be difficult to say any- 
thing.' 

' He has told me very little about you ; he doesn't know 
I have taken this step,' the fiddler said, turning his eyes 
about the room, and letting them rest on Madame Gran- 
doni. 

'Why do you call it a "step"?' the Princess asked. 
' That's what people say when they have to do something 
disagreeable. ' 

' I call very seldom on ladies. It's a long time since I 
have been in the house of a person like the Princess 





Casamassima. I remember the last time,' said the old man. 
' It was to get some money from a lady at whose party I 
had been playing for a dance.' 

' You must bring your fiddle, sometime, and play to us. 
Of course I don't mean for money,' the Princess rejoined. 

' I will do it with pleasure, or anything else that will 
gratify you. But my ability is very small. I only know 
vulgar music things that are played at theatres.' 

' I don't believe that ; there must be things you play for 
yourself, in your room, alone.' 

For a moment the old man made no reply; then he 
said, ' Now that I see you, that I hear you, it helps me to 
understand.' 

' I don't think you do see me ! ' cried the Princess, 
kindly, laughing ; while the fiddler went on to ask whether 
there were any danger of Hyacinth's coming in while he was 
there. The Princess replied that he only came, unless by 
prearrangement, in the evening, and Mr. Vetch made a 
request that she would not let their young friend know that 
he himself had been with her. ' It doesn't matter ; he will 
guess it, he will know it by instinct, as soon as he comes in. 
He is terribly subtle,' said the Princess ; and she added 
that she had never been able to hide anything from him. 
Perhaps it served her right, for attempting to make a mystery 
of things that were not worth it. 

' How well you know him ! ' Mr. Vetch murmured, with 
his eyes wandering again to Madame Grandoni, who paid 
no attention to him as she sat staring at the fire. He 
delayed, visibly, to say what he had come for, and his 
hesitation could only be connected with the presence of the 
old lady. He said to himself that the Princess might have 



 

divined this from his manner ; he had an idea that he could 
trust himself to convey such an intimation with clearness and 
yet with delicacy. But the most she appeared to apprehend 
was that he desired to be presented to her companion. 

' You must know the most delightful of women. She 
also takes a particular interest in Mr. Robinson : of a 
different kind from mine much more sentimental ! ' And 
then she explained to the old lady, who seemed absorbed 
in other ideas, that Mr. Vetch was a distinguished musician, 
a person whom she, who had known so many in her day, 
and was so fond of that kind of thing, would like to talk 
with. The Princess spoke of ' that kind of thing ' quite as 
if she herself had given it up, though Madame Grandoni 
heard her by the hour together improvising on the piano 
revolutionary battle-songs and paeans. 

' I think you are laughing at me,' Mr. Vetch said to the 
Princess, while Madame Grandoni twisted herself slowly 
round in her chair and considered him. She looked at 
him leisurely, up and down, and then she observed, with a 
sigh 

' Strange people strange people ! ' 

'It is indeed a strange world, madam,' the fiddler 
replied ; after which he inquired of the Princess whether he 
might have a little conversation with her in private. 

She looked about her, embarrassed and smiling. ' My 
dear sir, I have only this one room to receive in. We live 
in a very small way.' 

'Yes, your excellency is laughing at me. Your ideas 
are very large, too. However, I would gladly come at any 
other time that might suit you.' 

' You impute to me higher spirits than I possess. Why 





should I be so gay ? ' the Princess asked. ' I should be 
delighted to see you again. I am extremely curious as to 
what you may have to say to me. I would even meet you 
anywhere in Kensington Gardens or the British Museum.' 

The fiddler looked at her a moment before replying; 
then, with his white old face flushing a little, he exclaimed, 
' Poor dear little Hyacinth ! ' 

Madame Grandoni made an effort to rise from her chair, 
but she had sunk so low that at first it was not successful. 
Mr. Vetch gave her his hand, to help her, and she slowly 
erected herself, keeping hold of him for a moment after she 
stood there. 'What did she tell me? That you are a 
great musician? Isn't that enough for any man? You 
ought to be content, my dear gentleman. It has sufficed 
for people whom I don't believe you surpass.' 

'I don't surpass any one.' said poor Mr. Vetch. 'I 
don't know what you take me for.' 

' You are not a conspirator, then ? You are not an 
assassin? It surprises me, but so much the better. In 
this house one can never know. It is not a good house, 
and if you are a respectable person it is a pity you should 
come here. Yes, she is very gay, and I am very sad. I 
don't know how it will end After me, I hope. The 
world is not good, certainly ; but God alone can make it 
better.' And as the fiddler expressed the hope that he was 
not the cause of her leaving the room, she went on, 'Dock, 
dock, you are the cause; but why not you as well as another? 
I am always leaving it for some one or for some thing, and 
I would sooner do so for an honest man, if you are one 
but, as I say, who can tell? than for a destroyer. I 
wander about. I have no rest. I have, however, a very 


