child," yet he refrains. 

" It is not that " Mrs. Gilbert has been in many straits 



 



 



 

in her life, and a door of extrication has always been 
opened. Perhaps she has aided somewhat to open it 
herself. "With the last effort of desperation, she con- 
tinues : " It is a humiliating confession, but Mr. Gilbert 
has been extremely unfortunate in some business transac- 
tions, — he does a little for one or two American houses 
in a confidential way. I think he was not quite pleased 
that I should so readily accept the care of my niece. 
Girls study so much for artists and doctors and every- 
thing. If he had been prosperous, you see he would not 
have thought of it. So now he feels that he can do no 
better than to keep us in this cheap little place all sum- 
mer ; but it will be so dreary for Doris." 

Mrs. Gilbert has not posed before the world for years 
not to know the most effective manner of telling a story. 
She goes to her point with dramatic rapidity, and when it 
does not need softening touches, she leaves it in its almost 
crude force. Now her face flushes ; her eyes are full of 
tears. 

" My dear Mrs. Gilbert ! " "Wentworth paces the room 
softly, down and up, then stops before her, and begins, 
in a pleading, persuasive manner : " Let me be like a son 
to you. Let me ask this as a favor to myself. Accept 
of me as a banker for the present. Take it as a loan, 
and don't worry about repayment. You can make that 
any time, at your leisure ; but you would please me better 
by not making it at all. I 've been studying what gift I 
could proffer, what kindness I could do." 

" But your own people — your — " 

" Let me tell you a little about myself." Wentworth is 
very much in earnest, and takes his seat on the sofa again. 
'' There is a large family fortune; it should have been 
divided, but it all came to me. My father was the favorite 
son, and my grandfather entailed it as far as American 
laws allow. My uncle died without heirs ; my aunt has 
quite a large family, but I have planned to make it aU 



 



 



 

right when I go. I do not begin to spend the income ; 
in fact, a certain part is set aside for my cousin to man- 
age the estate with. I shall need it only a brief while 
longer," and he sighs a little. " So, no one can be 
harmed by any extravagance of mine ; and they want 
me to take all the enjoyment I can. I wish you would 
consider me a son, with a son's rights, for the next month 
or two. Think how much pleasanter it will be for me ! " 

He smiles in a very winning manner. Ah, Lloyd Went- 
worth ! the wisdom of your less than a quarter of a cen- 
tury is not to be compared with what one gains in the 
next two or three decades, especially if one has had to 
depend largely upon one's wits. He is very much in earnest, 
and a good deal afraid there may be some hitch of im- 
propriety. But, then, who need know? 

'' It would be ever so much nicer for you to take it now 
than for me to add a bequest to my will ; and, of course, 
I should remember your goodness ; you couldn't prevent 
that. Dear Mrs. Gilbert, do be indulgent. It is only 
such a little while that I can enjoy all these delights." 

She is not silent so much from consideration, as amaze- 
ment that she should have been so simple as not to have 
questioned before concerning his prospects. He has in a 
manner signed his own warrant for the future. Hardly 
will she let him out of her sight now. 

But she allows herself to need considerable persuasion. 
She makes some faint objections, which are, of course, 
overruled ; and then she promises to take the matter into 
consideration, explicitly stipulating that it shall be a loan, 
and she allowed to repay it without the first demur on his 
part. Then Doris returns, and nothing more is said. 

In the evening they look up routes. Mrs. Gilbert is an 
old traveller, and makes many useful suggestions. Went- 
worth considers himself extremely lucky. Doris is puz- 
zled at her aunt's high spurits and tender demeanor toward 
herself. 



 

'' I have decided to make a change," she says to Doris, 
as they are about retiring. " I have had a little bit of good 
fortune to-day, and your uncle will send me some money 
shortly. So we may as well go on and see something of 
the world. We shall have Mr. Wentworth's man to look 
after us, and altogether it will be much pleasanter than 
travelling alone." 

Doris is glad with a child's delight, and she is really 
gratified that they are not to part from Lloyd Wentworth. 

'' You must make yourself as companionable as possi- 
ble, Doris," she suggests. " You must read up, — I wish 
I had a copy of Shakespeare for you. Everybody knows 
all about the plays." 

'' Mr. Wentworth promised to bring in his," she 
answers, quietly. 

To any other girl she would give advice ; but there is 
nothing that will meet the level of Doris's innocence, or is 
it obtuseness? Well, she will be right behind her in any 
emergency. And perhaps, if Doris thought of such a 
thing, she might turn cold and disagreeable, and show 
Wentworth how far matrimony was from her mind. No ; 
let them Just drift. But Mrs. Gilbert does so love talking 
over plans, and the best moves and probabilities of suc- 
cess. Lovers are to her what chess is to many people. 

Madame Cirrella is truly sorry to part with her guests. 
She brings out a small pearl brooch for Doris's accept- 
ance, and that last evening the two young people sing an 
''Ave Maria" without any accompaniment. It brings 
tears to madame's eyes. 

Mrs. Gilbert explains that they are to journey to Milan 
together. She feels her way cautiously with Doris, admit- 
ting to herself that, gentle as the girl is, she is difficult to 
manage. Indeed, Doris is much better without manage- 
ment. Her delicacy and unselfishness lead her invariably 
to do what others will prefer when it is any question of 
personal ease, desire, or pleasure. She finds enjoyment 




largely in making others happy ; but as yet Doris has not 
gone through the high experiences that make this a prin- 
ciple or an underlying strand in character. She does it 
as the bird sings, or the butterfly flits from flower to 
flower. It is one of the unconscious graces of her nature. 
But touch her on any fine moral point, and she could resist 
clearly and invincibly. 

So Mrs. Gilbert feels that she can only stand behind 
and pull the wires cautiously. Half the pleasure is gone ; 
but what she considers duty remains. She would never 
forgive herself if she let this prospect of a fortune for 
Doris slip through her fingers. She can even look forward 
complacently to the interesting widowhood of Doris Went- 
worth, who will still need a chaperon and companion. 

To Mr. Gilbert she writes briefly that she is going on to 
Milan. It will be less dull for Doris, who, like all young 
girls, is fond of change and pleasure ; and of course now 
is Doris's harvest time, when she is young and full of 
interest. 

The journey is not tiresome, and to Doris very delight- 
ful, with a companion like Lloyd Wentworth. She is 
beginning to discriminate ; she finds herself balancing and 
adjusting, evolving the many complexities of human souls, 
and comparing them. She does not say this to herself ; 
indeed, she does not understand the change going on so 
subtly within ; only she feels down to the depths of her 
honest nature that there is something in Aunt Gilbert that 
does not ring true, while in Mr. Wentworth it gives back 
the clear, decisive sound. It may be the difference be- 
tween men and women ; there may be an essential large- 
ness and nobleness in a man's nature. Then she shall copy 
that, she says to herself. More than once she has heard 
her aunt embellish some little incident very much for Lloyd 
Wentworth's hearing. 

When they reach their journey's end, Martin is 
despatched in search of apartments, and he finds them 



 



 



 

lodgings in a stately old sixteenth-century palace. The 
court-yard has a weed-grown, neglected look, and the gen- 
eral appearance is gloomy ; but it is so curious, with its 
high ceilings and carvings, its tapestries faded and worn, 
and its antique furniture. The sun shines brightly in 
Wentworth's room, and in the morning they will have it. 
Martin soon makes arrangements for meals. Mrs. Gilbert 
sighs a little as she thinks of the golden key that unlocks 
every store, and how most of her keys have turned out to 
be lead. But she accepts the goods the gods provide ; she 
will not refuse the richness of summer, because there may 
be a dreary winter. 

These two young people have fallen into an enchanted 
realm. It seems at first to Doris as if it must be wrong 
to plunge into the field of romance interdicted at school ; 
nay, to become a very part of it herself. Such wonderful 
lore as is poured out to her in extravagant measure ! Bits 
of history more thrilling than any story of the imagina- 
tion, men and women moving through incidents like veri- 
table characters of to-day, so strongly have they impressed 
their individuality at every step. Lives that wring tears 
from one's very soul, so deeply, bitterly sad are they; 
others that stalk on golden crowned, women who loved, 
suffered, and died, men who were alike villains and heroes. 

If she is absorbingly interested in them, Wentworth is 
fascinated by her. No travelling companion could be 
more delightful. Her freshness has a sparkle ; it is not 
the tame wonder of ignorance. She is so anxious to 
learn ; she feels that she has acquired next to nothing at 
school. 

There is the grand cathedral, the churches, the pic- 
tures, the palaces, and points o^ interest. They bore Mrs. 
Gilbert, but she falls in with some Florentine people who 
open to her the door of society in a small way. Doris, of 
course, would care nothing for a card party or a gossip- 
ing evening reception, and she is tired when night comes, 



 



 



 

glad to go to bed at the earliest moment. Wentworth 
makes no attempt at evening pleasures, for through the 
day he uses all his strength, and the nights are hardly 
long enough for recuperation. 

They journey on by easy stages. It is the perfection 
of summer weather. They pause awhile at the lovely, 
romantic lakes ; and in the quiet, with less to distract 
them, Wentworth brings out Shakespeare, whose magical 
hand has strung these places on a golden cord. The 
" Two Gentlemen of Verona" brings back Milan, and in 
imagination takes them farther on. They peruse the hates 
and rivalries of the Capulets and the Montagues, and 
Doris's sweet eyes grow enchanting in their tears, and her 
rose-hued lips quiver as she murmurs Juliet's name. 

Like two children they wander about Verona, lost in 
the faded glories of the place, and the romance the poet 
has cast around it. Was it at this high window Juliet 
said her lingering good-night, and summoned her lover 
back by girlish wiles? Did Romeo linger here in the 
sweet peril of her eyes? Were the stolen visits here and 
here ? They can almost see Friar Laurence in the cowled 
monk who passed them with downcast eyes. They find 
a ruinous old apothecary's shop ; they make a pilgrimage 
to the far-famed burial-place, and listen to old legends 
until their hearts are torn by woes as fresh to-day as the 
flowers about them. , Did the broken-hearted fathers, when 
their enmity was dashed to pieces by this cruel stroke, 
clasp hands here, and promise the " statue of pure gold," 
a poor sacrifice for the doom of two young souls ? 

'' It is too heart-breaking," Doris declares. " Oh ! why 
must it have ended thus ? Can people so hate each other ? " 

" Come," Wentworth says, huskily, and leads her 
away. Is there a sweet peril in her tender eyes when the 
lashes are threaded with pearls ? Ah ! was Romeo's the 
only unblessed lot? 



 



 



CHAPTER IV. 

THE CITY OF THE SEA. 

Lloyd "Wentworth has been so deeply moved that he 
lies awake a long while that night. He has accepted 
manfully the destiny an inscrutable Providence has dealt 
out to him. There has been in it one bright spot; his 
death will repair the wrong his grandfather's injustice 
committed. It is Basil Wentworth, and not himself, who 
should be master at Westwater, Basil whose sons and 
daughters should grow up there. He will not be for- 
gotten when his brief life is ended. He and Basil have 
been '' more than brothers." Basil is so much wiser and 
higher and grander, his splendid physique holds a strong 
and manly soul ; while his, Lloyd's, puny body, with its 
innumerable ills, it would be little short of a crime to 
perpetuate. No ; in the brief while that remains, let him 
emulate Sir Galahad rather. 

And certainly it would be a sin to lay so deep a sorrow 
on a bright young life like that of Doris Hawthorne's. 
She will marry some one young and strong, and together 
they will spend pleasant years. Perhaps some time, in 
her pretty serious fashion, she will tell him of her rambles 
about Verona, and of the young man who died years 
ago. '' I liked him so much," she will say, with no heat 
on her cheek, no shadow under her drooping lids. Yes, 
it is better. Love and marriage are not for him ; let him be 
brave to the end. 

He has a dull headache the next morning, and does not 
come down until the ladies are at luncheon. They have 
been to drive with the Florentine friend, and Doris's clear 
fijirrs face is full of sympathy, nothing more. She does 



 



 



 

not turn a shade warmer ; but there is the friendly interest 
in every feature, in the soft glance of the eye that does not 
shrink abashed. She has nothing to hide ; no secret of 
which she is dimly conscious. 

"Yes," he says, "I must pause in my mad career. I 
began to think I was quite like other people ; but I am 
only a poor libel on human strength, good for only a 
very little." 

" But we walked a great deal yesterday," returns Doris, 
excusingly. "And you know we lived over again Juliet's 
sorrows and Romeo's anguish." 

" After all, it is only a story, a play," says Mrs. Gil- 
bert, studying the faces of both. 

" Oh ! " returns Doris, " we hunted up all the places, 
only we didn't go to Mantua. And if they were not 
quite right, our interest made them so." 

" We will not take the next play as hard. That will be 
Shylock." 

'' I have heard them very effectively rendered," says 
Mrs. Gilbert. Then she goes on with a vivid description 
of the various stars she has seen in the leading parts, 
some of them dead now. Wentworth listens with a good 
deal of interest. 

Meanwhile two or three thoughts are being settled in 
his mind. One is, that Mrs. Gilbert is a capital friend for 
young people, though she does not reach the immaculate 
standard of his own aunt. There is a certain free-and- 
easiness among Americans abroad that is charming when 
it does not degenerate into loudness. She has this in an 
eminent degree. And he cannot help thinking now that 
some women — and are not all women credited with a fond- 
ness for match-making? — would have tried a little in the 
time they have been together. But after all, she may not 
think him worth angling for. 

He dismisses the subject, and resolves to enjoy the 
delights of the time and place. The conversation branches 



 



 



 

out into various discussions, and ends with where they shall 
go next, and how. Mantua, of course ; then Padua and 
Venice. There is no hurry. Let them take it leisurely. 

Sometimes this very ease half angers Mrs. Gilbert. It 
is money, and money only. Every day she becomes more 
conscious of the fact that the Wentworth fortune is large, 
and that the young man is so used to it, a few hundred 
dollars more or less is nothing. She has hung over him 
at night in anxiety, and literally fanned the breath of life 
back into his body ; she has done her earnest utmost to 
keep him alive ; and yet she coolly looks forward to the 
money, and the position his widow will have. Common 
gratitude will lead Doris to offer her a home, and a haven 
of refuge looks so inviting now. She is forty-five, and her 
sole worldly possessions are a dozen diamonds all told, 
none of any immense value, some elegant laces, great bar- 
gains, and a few choice gowns and wraps ; but the latter 
do grow passe J and it is not a comfortable thing to be 
recognized by your half-a-dozen-year-old dresses. As for 
Mr. Gilbert, the future will be the same as the past. 
So she must build her own nest, and if she can feather 
it with down, so much the better. 

They stay at home and talk and read all the afternoon, 
at least the young people do. It is books and dead-and- 
gone people. Wentworth dresses up his school-day 
heroes, his Latin and Greek poets, his philosophers and 
sculptors, tells her where they lived and what they did. 
She has learned a little about some of them ; she listens, 
eager and wide-eyed. There is so much in the great 
world, and she knows only such a very small part of it, 
that she is quite ashamed . 

After a rest of a day or two, they go on to Padua, where 
antiquity flavors everything. The odd dresses, the bare- 
footed children, the priests and mendicants are still in 
force. Here are the old universities. They laugh again 
at the learned young doctor from Padua. 



 



 



 

They go to the little theatre, which is shabhy in the 
extreme, and the shams of the properties are everywhere 
visible. The play is " Pyramus and Thisbe," and it is acted 
with such wonderful sweetness and reality, that Doris sits 
enchanted, though Mrs. Gilbert votes it a bore, and not 
worth going to see. 

And now they reach the Queen of the Adriatic, fair 
Venice. Doris would recognize it at once by Wentworth's 
description if she had not read at all. The sun is shining 
on the magnificent palaces, the innumerable bridges, the 
spires, the arches ; and the sky and sea seem one glitter- 
ing, throbbing world of mysterious fire, that looks as if 
it could never burn out. 

After some slight difficulty they get domiciled, as has 
happened before, in an old palace. Martin is invaluable, 
and finds a housekeeper, a pleasant-faced woman, with 
cheeks like a brown-red winter apple, and bright dark 
eyes. Their rooms are old, and have a sad, weird look of 
desertion, but the sun shines goldenly in them, and in this 
glorious weather they can well take a little discomfort. 

Indeed, the drawbacks are nothing compared to the 
delights, the bewildering succession of surprises. They 
do not fiud it all canals, but there are streets, narrow, 
crooked, broken by courts that beguile them into dim 
recesses and carven ruins, that even now seem priceless. 
Or, up some flight of marble steps, they find a pillared 
gallery where sculptor's dream has been wrought into 
marble, and is now left to sad and lonely decay. 

Or there are the public gardens and the piazza, with 
the Austrian band playing, and many strangers promenad- 
ing in the summer sunset. 

After, in the golden twilight, the Venetians take their 
turn, — grave, sombre, haughty, but happy among them- 
selves, floating in their open gondolas, and the shadowy, 
veiled women flitting in and out with attendant servant, as 
if shrouded in supremest mystery. Everything seems to 



 



 



 

tell a story, in this old land of romance too often turned 
to tragedy. The hush of the soft darkness, the silvery 
plash of the oar, the melody of a voice, touch Doris with 
an indefinable sense of tenderness akin to sorrow. The 
Austrians and the Venetians are living over again the race 
hatred that history has so often embodied. Is she in 
some far land of witchery and fascination ? Is she the 
same girl who, six months ago, was moping at school 
over dull text-books? Oh, this is living indeed ! 

They stroll about the coffee-houses on the Riva dei 
Schiavoni, and watch the tourists of almost every country 
drinking coffee or sipping ices. Mrs. Gilbert meets some 
acquaintances, and they glance curiously at the pretty, 
innocent-looting girl — for Doris's face has come to light 
up exquisitely — and the tall young man with his pallid face 
and sunken eyes. They, too, study other young people, 
but lovers remind them of Shakespeare's fascinating men 
and women, and they amuse themselves by trying on 
names. 

The days are all a delight. There are several Ameri- 
cans in the house ; two young ladies in one party, who 
soon get interested in watching Doris, whose ways have 
a pretty foreign touch, though her pronunciation is perfect 
enough. She had timidly talked a little French with 
Wentworth, who admits that she reads well. He is an 
excellent French scholar. During these weeks he has 
been persuading, and teaching her Italian, for she has 
known not much of it, save a few songs. It is now quite 
familiar to her ear, and she begins to read in a rather 
halting fashion, but she has acquired several sentences 
that drop like softest music from her tongue. 

In the grand salon is a piano ; and sometimes, when it 
is quite deserted of a morning, Wentworth plays for 
a while, or they both sing. He has a soft, rather pathetic 
touch, and an abhorrence of noisy music. Doris smiles 
to herself as she thinks of the show pieces at school. 



 



 



 

They are here one morning, while Mrs. Gilbert is gos- 
siping with a neighbor, on a little balcony hung out l)e- 
tween two jutting points. She is not so far but that she 
can make a pretence at playing duenna, but she has 
learned by this time, to her chagrin, that they rarely talk 
about themselves. How they are ever to reach any self- 
consciousness, she cannot divine. 

Doris has made some remark about his playing. She 
could listen forever to this beautiful ''Traumerei" of 
Schumann's. 

" I wish you could hear my cousin Basil play that," he 
answers, slowly, dreamily. " At one time I had a great 
deal of pain to suffer, and nothing soothed me like music. 
He was so good ; he would play hours at a time. Every- 
body is good to me." And he glances up with a little 
smile full of gratitude. 

She does not make any reply. 

'' What occupies you so intently? " he asks. 

She flushes delicately. " I was thinking," she makes 
answer, ^'that Basil was an unusual name, but proud 
and sweet." 

'' You have it exactly ; kingly, royal, is, I believe, 
the meaning of it, but I like your adjectives better. He 
is very proud ; not vain, you know, nor arrogant, but 
that fine, high pride, and he carries it off so well. He 
is just an inch taller than I, but he looks as if the differ- 
ence was a whole head. I bend a little, you notice. He 
i« straight as a reed, with magnificent chest and shoulders. 
The Wentworths are a fine-looking race. My cousin 
Olive and I are the only blots ; but I try not to have the 
temper of a fiend." 

"Are they Wentworths, too?" she asks, a little ab- 
sently. 

"Yes. My Aunt Helen married a distant connection, 
— a sort of cousin. He was very wealthy at the time of 
his marriage, and they travelled about a good deal with a 



 



 



 

retinue of servants. There were some bad investments, 
• and he died suddenly. Grandfather had tied the fortune 
upon me, but after his death I insisted they should come 
and live at the great house, as my guardians were willing, 
I expected then to be something myself ; but when I 
came of age, I would have Basil made trustee, and I 
mean for him to have the home, with legacies to all the 
rest. Judge Minturn is the other trustee. Oddly enough, 
I do not come into full possession until I am twenty-five, 
and I still lack four months of that." 

" Tell me about them," she says. 

He is picking out a dreamy little tune with one hand, 
that seems an accompaniment to his low talking. 

" Basil is three years older than I ; Olive is just a few 
months older. When she was about eighteen, she was 
thrown from her horse, and her shoulder dislocated, as 
well as some injury done to her spine. It has injured her 
figure a good deal, and quite ruined her health." 

" Poor thing ! " Doris sighs, softly. 

'' Agatha comes next. She is quite regal, — a perfect 
queen in our little world. She would be admired any- 
where. She has a lover, and will be married when she 
can resolve to share his lot, or he can get richer. That 
is one of the things I shall help a little. Then there is 
Graham, handsomer than Basil, perhaps, but not so fine 
and grand ; and Louise, the belle, the spoiled darling." 

"And they were just like brothers and sisters to you. 
How pleasant it must be to have some one — " 

There is an inflection in her voice that touches him, — 
an unconscious hint of solitariness. What will be her fate, 
he wonders. He wishes he could transport her to that 
family group — no, to be welcome, she must have been 
born there. No one would understand her but Basil. 
Suddenly he thinks these two are the complement of each 
other. Basil is just the kind of man she can admire and 
appreciate in the years to come, when her soul has its full 


growth, and her delicacy, her unworldlincss, her pure, 
sweet nature. If he coukl bring these two together I When 
tley had grown into each other, abst)rbed each personaHty, 
they would be a complete couple. Ah ! what leagues and 
(lidieulties lie between. Money cannot bridge over this. 

'' Are you quite sure," she says presently, '' that you 
can never be well ? " 

" I suppose it is true." 

Then he strikes into a gondellied. The subject is not 
a pleasant one, though he has faced the worst and believed 
himself resigned. Every day desire grows stronger. If 
he had died back there at Kovara ! What is it makes life 
so sweet? 

She is thinking that if she had everything money com- 
prehends, and she has learned that it is a great good if 
not the chief, she could not so tranquilly face death. In 
her eyes, Lloyd Wentworth is one of the fine, spiritualized 
heroes. Something floats through her mind. " The last 
enemy is death." After all the warfare, all the con- 
quests, comes this formidable foe. She would not be 
afraid to die, she thinks, but could she look the event so 
unflinchingly in the face ? He has some courage of which 
she is not as yet possessed. 

Then they sing a little. When Mrs. Gilbert retmns, 
she finds them serene and calm, not flushed and tumul- 
tuous. Are they both icebergs ? And the time is going 
on, though she is considering how she can keep him in her 
party. He is very generous. It is really a delight for 
him to be lavish, though he is not foolish or ostentatious. 

Mr. Gilbert proposes soon to rejoin them. Good for- 
tune has given him a kind of capricious, Marchy smile, 
but he does not disdain small favors. He has sent his 
wife a remittance that she has made much of, and pre- 
tended to an earnest desire to pay back part of the loan ; 
but Wentworth has put her off laughingly. 

That afternoon Doris goes out with the Miss Living- 



 



 



 

stones to a sort of musicale and an evening of pleasure. 
She has not eared much about it, but Mrs. Gilbert has 
rather overpersuaded her. That lady means to arrive at 
some kind of an explanation with the tardy lover, and 
force him to declare intentions. All the afternoon she 
finds no opportunity. 

It is evening now, and he is lying on a couch by the 
window in her reception-room. He cannot trust hhnself 
much to the night air without. It is such a night as 
Jessica and Lorenzo tossed back and forth in pretty 
speech and aflLxed to it deeds of love and romance. The 
moon floats softly through seas of dim stars, and makes of 
Venice a magical land ; gondolas go by, — soft song, sweet 
laughter, and such music of voices that one need hardly 
envy operas in heated halls. 

It is curious how hard it sometimes is to touch at a 
given point. Wind and tide seem against Mrs. Gilbert. 
If Wentworth was fortified on all sides with suspicion, he 
could not parry her endeavors more skilfully, but in truth 
he has not the slightest misgiving. When she speaks of 
Doris he makes no comment, because he is thinking of 
her like a strain of music, and hates to have a discord in 
the harmony. 

Suddenly, as she always believes afterward. Providence 
interferes directly in her behalf, and stamps her endeavors 
with the seal of right. We are very generous in our 
acknowledgments to Providence when our desires come 
to pass. ''The stars in their courses" often fight for 
modern Siseras without swerving a hair's-breadth from 
their orbits. 

It is very still. The subtile plashing of the waters, 
the song and music, have drifted away. From the 
balcony below or beside them there is a sudden sound 
that the wandering wind brings distinctly to them : — 

'' Oh, he must be the fiance of that pretty young girl. 
she is English, I know, by her marvellous golden hair and 



 



 



 

perfect complexion. But it seems so sad ! I wonder if 
they will ever be married ? He looks in the last stages of 
consumption. I am not sure I would wish a daughter of 
mine to do it." 

"Well, it would be the proper thing, after all this 
travelling about together. Then the girl whose lover dies 
always occupies a kind of equivocal position. She is not 
a widow, but she has been engaged and loved, and mourns 
