dispense with such'  a preliminary was not in her career an 
accident frequent enough to have taught her equanimity. 
She thought Mr. Pardon's visit a liberty; but, if she ex- 
pected to convey this idea to him by withholding any sug- 
gestion that he should sit down, she was greatly mistaken, 
inasmuch as he cut the ground from under her feet by 
himself offering her a chair. His manner represented 
hospitality enough for both of them, and she was obliged to 
listen, on the edge of her sofa (she could at least seat her- 
self where she liked), to his extraordinary inquiry. Of 
course she was not obliged to answer it, and indeed she 
scarcely understood it He explained that it was prompted 
by the intense interest he felt in Miss Verena ; but that 



 

scarcely made it more comprehensible, such a sentiment 
(on his part) being such a curious mixture. He had a sort 
of enamel of good humour which showed that his indelicacy 
was his profession ; and he asked for revelations of the vie 
intime of his victims with the bland confidence of a fashion- 
able physician inquiring about symptoms. He wanted to 
know what Miss Chancellor meant to do, because if she 
didn't mean to do anything, he had an idea which he 
wouldn't conceal from her of going into the enterprise 
himself. ' You see, what I should like to know is this : do 
you consider that she belongs to you, or that she belongs 
to the people ? If she belongs to you, why don't you bring 
her out?' 

He had no purpose and no consciousness of being 
impertinent ; he only wished to talk over the matter soci- 
ably with Miss Chancellor. He knew, of course, that there 
was a presumption she would not be sociable, but no 
presumption had yet deterred him from presenting a surface 
which he believed to be polished till it shone ; there was 
always a larger one in favour of his power to penetrate and 
of the majesty of the 'great dailies.' Indeed, he took so 
many things for granted that Olive remained dumb while 
she regarded them ; and he availed himself of what he 
considered as a fortunate opening to be really very frank. 
He reminded her that he had known Miss Verena a good 
deal longer than she ; he had travelled out to Cambridge 
the other winter (when he could get an off-night), with the 
thermometer at ten below zero. He had always thought 
her attractive, but it wasn't till this season that his eyes had 
been fully opened. Her talent had matured, and now he 
had no hesitation in calling her brilliant. Miss Chancellor 
could imagine whether, as an old friend, he could watch 
such a beautiful unfolding with indifference. She would 
fascinate the people, just as she had fascinated her (Miss 
Chancellor), and, he might be permitted to add, himself. 
The fact was, she was a great card, and some one ought to 
play it. There never had been a more attractive female 
speaker before the American public ; she would walk right 
past Mrs. Farrinder, and Mrs. Farrinder knew it. There 
was room for both, no doubt, they had such a different 



 

style ; anyhow, what he wanted to show was that there was 
room for Miss Verena. She didn't want any more tuning- 
up, she wanted to break right out. Moreover, he felt that 
any gentleman who should lead her to success would win 
her esteem ; he might even attract her more powerfully 
who could tell ? If Miss Chancellor wanted to attach her 
permanently, she ought to push her right forward. He 
gathered from what Miss Verena had told him that she 
wanted to make her study up the subject a while longer 
follow some kind of course. Well, now, he could assure 
her that there was no preparation so good as just seeing a 
couple of thousand people down there before you who have 
paid their money to have you tell them something. Miss 
Verena was a natural genius, and he hoped very much she 
wasn't going to take the nature out of her. She could 
study up as she went along ; she had got the great thing 
that you couldn't learn, a kind of divine afflatus, as the 
ancients used to say, and she had better just begin on that. 
He wouldn't deny what was the matter with him; he was quite 
under the spell, and his admiration made him want to see 
her where she belonged. He shouldn't care so much how 
she got there, but it would certainly add to his pleasure if 
he could show her up to her place. Therefore, would Miss 
Chancellor just tell him this : How long did she expect to 
hold her back how long did she expect a humble admirer 
to wait ? Of course he hadn't come there to cross-question 
her ; there was one thing he trusted he always kept clear 
of; when he was indiscreet he wanted to know it. He 
had come with a proposal of his own, and he hoped it 
would seem a sufficient warrant for his visit. Would Miss 
Chancellor be willing to divide a the well, he might call 
it the responsibilities? Couldn't they run Miss Verena 
together ? In this case, every one would be satisfied. She 
could travel round with her as her companion, and he would 
see that the American people walked up. If Miss Chan- 
cellor would just let her go a little, he would look after the 
rest. He wanted no odds ; he only wanted her for about 
an hour and a half three or four evenings a week. 

Olive had time, in the course of this appeal, to make 
her faculties converge, to ask herself what she could say to 



 

this prodigious young man that would make him feel as 
how base a thing she held his proposal that they should 
constitute themselves into a company for drawing profit 
from Verena. Unfortunately, the most sarcastic inquiry 
that could occur to her as a response was also the most 
obvious one, so that he hesitated but a moment with his 
rejoinder after she had asked him how many thousands of 
dollars he expected to make. 

' For Miss Verena ? It depends upon the time. She'd 
run for ten years, at least. I can't figure it up till all the 
States have been heard from,' he said, smiling. 

f I don't mean for Miss Tarrant, I mean for you/ Olive 
returned, with the impression that she was looking him 
straight in the eye. 

' Oh, as many as you'll leave me !' Matthias Pardon 
answered, with a laugh that contained all, and more than 
all, the jocularity of the American press. 'To speak 
seriously,' he added, ' I don't want to make money out 
of it' 

'What do you want to make, then ?' 

' Well, I want to make history ! I want to help the 
ladies.' 

'The ladies?' Olive murmured. 'What do you know 
about ladies?' she was on the point of adding, when his 
promptness checked her. 

' All over the world. I want to work for their eman- 
cipation. I regard it as the great modern question.' 

Miss Chancellor got up now ; this was rather too strong. 
Whether, eventually, she was successful in what she 
attempted, the reader of her history will judge ; but at this 
moment she had not that promise of success which resides 
in a willingness to make use of every aid that offers. Such 
is the penalty of being of a fastidious, exclusive, uncompro- 
mising nature ; of seeing things not simply and sharply, but 
in perverse relations, in intertwisted strands. It seemed to 
our young lady that nothing could be less attractive than to 
owe her emancipation to such a one as Matthias Pardon ; 
and it is curious that those qualities which he had in 
common with Verena, and which in her seemed to Olive 
romantic and touching her having sprung from the 



 

' people,' had an acquaintance with poverty, a hand-to- 
mouth development, and an experience of the seamy side 
of life availed in no degree to conciliate Miss Chancellor. 
I suppose it was because he was a man. She told him that 
she was much obliged to him for his offer, but that he 
evidently didn't understand Verena and herself. No, not 
even Miss Tarrant, in spite of his long acquaintance with 
her. They had no desire to be notorious ; they only 
wanted to be useful. They had no wish to make money ; 
there would always be plenty of money for Miss Tarrant. 
Certainly, she should come before the public, and the 
world would acclaim her and hang upon her words ; but 
crude, precipitate action was what both of them least 
desired. The change in the dreadful position of women 
was not a question for to-day simply, or for to-morrow, but 
for many years to come ; and there would be a great deal 
to think of, to map out. One thing they were determined 
upon that men shouldn't taunt them with being superficial. 
When Verena should appear it would be armed at all 
points, like Joan of Arc (this analogy had lodged itself in 
Olive's imagination); she should have facts and figures; 
she should meet men on their own ground. 'What we 
mean to do, we mean to do well,' Miss Chancellor said to 
her visitor, with considerable sternness ; leaving "him to 
make such an application to himself as his fancy might 
suggest. 

This announcement had little comfort for him ; he felt 
baffled and disheartened indeed, quite sick. Was it not 
sickening to hear her talk of this dreary process of prepara- 
tion? as if any one cared about that, and would know 
whether Verena were prepared or not ! Had Miss Chan- 
cellor no faith in her girlhood ? didn't she know what a 
card that would be? This was the last inquiry Olive 
allowed him the opportunity of making. She remarked to 
him that they might talk for ever without coming to an 
agreement their points of view were so far apart. Besides, 
it was a woman's question; what they wanted was for 
women, and it should be by women. It had happened to 
the young Matthias more than once to be shown the way to 
the door, but the path of retreat had never yet seemed to 



 

him so unpleasant. He was naturally amiable, but it had 
not hitherto befallen him to be made to feel that he was 
not and could not be a factor in contemporary history : 
here was a rapacious woman who proposed to keep that 
tavourable setting for herself. He let her know that she 
was right-down selfish, and that if she chose to sacrifice a 
beautiful nature to her antediluvian theories and love of 
power, a vigilant daily press whose business it was to 
expose wrong-doing would demand an account from her. 
She replied that, if the newspapers chose to insult her, that 
was their own affair ; one outrage the more to the sex in 
her person was of little account. And after he had left her 
she seemed to see the glow of dawning success ; the battle 
had begun, and something of the ecstasy of the martyr. 



XVIII. 

VERENA told her, a week after this, that Mr. Pardon wanted 
so much she should say she would marry him ; and she 
added, with evident pleasure at being able to give her so 
agreeable a piece of news, that she had declined to say 
anything of the sort. She thought that now, at least, Olive 
must believe in her ; for the proposal was more attractive 
than Miss Chancellor seemed able to understand. 'He 
does place things in a very seductive light,' Verena said ; 
' he says that if I become his wife I shall be carried straight 
along by a force of excitement of which at present I have 
no idea. I shall wake up famous, if I marry him ; I have 
only got to give out my feelings, and he will take care of 
the rest. He says every hour of my youth is precious to 
me, and that we should have a lovely time travelling round 
the country. I think you ought to allow that all that is 
rather dazzling for I am not naturally concentrated, like 
you !' 

' He promises you success. What do you call success?' 
Olive inquired, looking at her friend with a kind of salutary 
coldness a suspension of sympathy with which Verena 
was now familiar (though she liked it no better than at 
first), and which made approbation more gracious when 
approbation came. 

Verena reflected a moment, and then answered, smiling, 
but with confidence : ' Producing a pressure that shall be 
irresistible. Causing certain laws to be repealed by Con- 
gress and by the State legislatures, and others to be enacted.' 
She repeated the words as if they had been part of a 
catechism committed to memory, while Olive saw that this 
mechanical tone was in the nature of a joke that she could 
not deny herself; they had had that definition so often 



 

before, and Miss Chancellor had had occasion so often to 
remind her what success really was. Of course it was easy 
to prove to her now that Mr. Pardon's glittering bait was a 
very different thing ; was a mere trap and lure, a bribe to 
vanity and impatience, a device for making her give herself 
away let alone fill his pockets while she did so. Olive 
was conscious enough of the girl's want of continuity ; she 
had seen before how she could be passionately serious at 
times, and then perversely, even if innocently, trivial as 
just now, when she seemed to wish to convert one of their 
most sacred formulas into a pleasantry. She had already 
quite recognised, however, that it was not of importance 
that Verena should be just like herself; she was all of one 
piece, and Verena was of many pieces, which had, where 
they fitted together, little capricious chinks, through which 
mocking inner lights seemed sometimes to gleam. It was 
a part of Verena's being unlike her that she should feel Mr. 
Pardon's promise of eternal excitement to be a brilliant 
thing, should indeed consider Mr. Pardon with any toler- 
ance at all. But Olive tried afresh to allow for such 
aberrations, as a phase of youth and suburban culture ; 
the more so that, even when she tried most, Verena 
reproached her so far as Verena's incurable softness could 
reproach with not allowing enough. Olive didn't appear 
to understand that, while Matthias Pardon drew that 
picture and tried to hold her hand (this image was unfor- 
tunate), she had given one long, fixed, wistful look, through 
the door he opened, at the bright tumult of the world, and 
then had turned away, solely for her friend's sake, to an 
austerer probation and a purer effort; solely for her friend's, 
that is, and that of the whole enslaved sisterhood. The 
fact remained, at any rate, that Verena had made a 
sacrifice; and this thought, after a while, gave Olive a 
greater sense of security. It seemed almost to seal the 
future ; for Olive knew that the young interviewer would 
not easily be shaken off, and yet she was sure that Verena 
would never yield to him. 

It was true that at present Mr. Burrage came a great 
deal to the little house at Cambridge; Verena told her 
about that, told her so much that it was almost as good as 



 

if she had told her all. He came without Mr. Grade now; 
he could find his way alone, and he seemed to wish that 
there should be no one else. He had made himself so 
pleasant to her mother that she almost always went out of 
the room ; that was the highest proof Mrs. Tarrant could 
give of her appreciation of a ' gentleman -caller.' They 
knew everything about him by this time ; that his father 
was dead, his mother very fashionable and prominent, and 
he himself in possession of a handsome patrimony. They 
thought ever so much of him in New York. He collected 
beautiful things, pictures and antiques and objects that he 
sent for to Europe on purpose, many of which were 
arranged in his rooms at Cambridge. He had intaglios 
and Spanish altar-cloths and drawings by the old masters. 
He was different from most others ; he seemed to want so 
much to enjoy life, and to think you easily could if you 
would only let yourself go. Of course judging by what 
he had he appeared to think you required a great many 
things to keep you up. And then Verena told Olive she 
could see it was after a little delay that he wanted her to 
come round to his place and see his treasures. He wanted 
to show them to her, he was so sure she would admire 
them. Verena was sure also, but she wouldn't go alone, 
and she wanted Olive to go with her. They would have 
tea, and there would be other ladies, and Olive would tell 
her what she thought of a life that was so crowded with 
beauty. Miss Chancellor made her reflections on all this, 
and the first of them was that it was happy for her that she 
had determined for the present to accept these accidents, 
for otherwise might she not now have had a deeper alarm ? 
She wished to heaven that conceited young men with time 
on their hands would leave Verena alone; but evidently 
they wouldn't, and her best safety was in seeing as many as 
should turn up. If the type should become frequent, she 
would very soon judge it. If Olive had not been so grim, 
she would have had a smile to spare for the frankness with 
which the girl herself adopted this theory. She was eager 
to explain that Mr. Burrage didn't seem at all to want what 
poor Mr. Pardon had wanted ; he made her talk about her 
views far more than that gentleman, but gave no sign of 



 

offering himself either as a husband or as a lecture-agent. 
The furthest he had gone as yet was to tell her that he 
liked her for the same reason that he liked old enamels and 
old embroideries ; and when she said that she didn't see 
how she resembled such things, he had replied that it was 
because she was so peculiar and so delicate. She might be 
peculiar, but she had protested against the idea that she 
was delicate ; it was the last thing that she wanted to be 
thought ; and Olive could see from this how far she was 
from falling in with everything he said. When Miss Chan 
cellor asked if she respected Mr. Burrage (and how solemn 
Olive could make that word she by this time knew), she 
answered, with her sweet, vain laugh, but apparently with 
perfect good faith, that it didn't matter whether she did or 
not, for what was the whole thing but simply a phase the 
very one they had talked about? The sooner she got 
through it the better, was it not? and she seemed to 
think that her transit would be materially quickened by 
a visit to Mr. Burrage's rooms. As I say, Verena was 
pleased to regard the phase as quite inevitable, and she 
had said more than once to Olive that if their struggle was 
to be with men, the more they knew about them the better. 
Miss Chancellor asked her why her mother should not go 
with her to see the curiosities, since she mentioned that 
their possessor had not neglected to invite Mrs. Tarrant; 
and Verena said that this, of course, would be very simple 
only her mother wouldn't be able to tell her so well as 
Olive whether she ought to respect Mr. Burrage. This 
decision as to whether Mr. Burrage should be respected 
assumed in the life of these two remarkable young women, 
pitched in so high a moral key, the proportions of a 
momentous event. Olive shrank at first from facing it 
not, indeed, the decision for we know that her own mind 
had long since been made up in regard to the quantity of 
esteem due to almost any member of the other sex but 
the incident itself, which, if Mr. Burrage should exasperate 
her further, might expose her to the danger of appearing to 
Verena to be unfair to him. It was her belief that he was 
playing a deeper game than the young Matthias, and she 
was very willing to watch him ; but she thought it prudent 



 

not to attempt to cut short the phase (she adopted that 
classification) prematurely an imputation she should incur 
if, without more delay, she were to ' shut down,' as Verena 
said, on the young connoisseur. 

It was settled, therefore, that Mrs. Tarrant should, with 
her daughter, accept Mr. Burrage's invitation j and in a 
few days these ladies paid a visit to his apartments. 
Verena subsequently, of course, had much to say about it, 
but she dilated even more upon her mother's impressions 
than upon her own. Mrs. Tarrant had carried away a supply 
which would last her all winter ; there had been some New 
York ladies present who were ' on ' at that moment, and 
with whom her intercourse was rich in emotions. She had 
told them all that she should be happy to see them in her 
home, but they had not yet picked their way along the little 
planks of the front yard. Mr. Burrage, at all events, had 
been quite lovely, and had talked about his collections, 
which were wonderful, in the most interesting manner. 
Verena inclined to think he was to be respected. He 
admitted that he was not really studying law at all ; he had 
only come to Cambridge for the form ; but she didn't see 
why it wasn't enough when you made yourself as pleasant 
as that. She went so far as to ask Olive whether taste and 
art were not something, and her friend could see that she 
was certainly very much involved in the phase. Miss 
Chancellor, of course, had her answer ready. Taste and 
art were good when they enlarged the mind, not when they 
narrowed it. Verena assented to this, and said it remained 
to be seen what effect they had had upon Mr. Burrage a 
remark which led Olive to fear that at such a rate much 
would remain, especially when Verena told her, later, that 
another visit to the young man's rooms was projected, and 
that this time she must come, he having expressed the 
greatest desire for the honour, and her own wish being 
greater still that they should look at some of his beautiful 
things together. 

A day or two after this, Mr. Henry Burrage left a card 
at Miss Chancellor's door, with a note in which he expressed 
the hope that she would take tea with him on a certain 
day on which he expected the company of his mother. 



ISO   xvm. 

Olive responded to this invitation, in conjunction with 
Verena ; but in doing so she was in the position, singular 
for her, of not quite understanding what she was about. 
It seemed to her strange that Verena should urge her to 
take such a step when she was free to go without her, and 
it proved two things : first, that she was much interested 
in Mr. Henry Burrage, and second, that her nature was 
extraordinarily beautiful. Could anything, in effect, be 
less underhand than such an indifference to what she sup- 
posed to be the best opportunities for carrying on a flirta- 
tion ? Verena wanted to know the truth, and it was clear 
that by this time she believed Olive Chancellor to have it, 
for the most part, in her keeping. Her insistence, there- 
fore, proved, above all, that she cared more for her friend's 
opinion of Henry Burrage than for her own a reminder, 
certainly, of the responsibility that Olive had incurred in 
undertaking to form this generous young mind, and of the 
exalted place that she now occupied in it. Such revela- 
tions ought to have been satisfactory ; if they failed to be 
completely so, it was only on account of the elder girl's 
regret that the subject as to which her judgment was wanted 
should be a young man destitute of the worst vices. Henry 
Burrage had contributed to throw Miss Chancellor into a 
' state,' as these young ladies called it, the night she met 
him at Mrs. Tarrant's ; but it had none the. less been con- 
veyed to Olive by the voices of the air that he was a gentle- 
man and a good fellow. 

This was painfully obvious when the visit to his rooms 
took place ; he was so good-humoured, so amusing, so 
friendly and considerate, so attentive to Miss Chancellor, 
he did the honours of his bachelor-nest with so easy a 
grace, that Olive, part of the time, sat dumbly shaking her 
conscience, like a watch that wouldn't go, to make it tell 
her some better reason why she shouldn't like him. She 
saw' that there would be no difficulty in disliking his 
mother ; but that, unfortunately, would not serve her 
purpose nearly so well. Mrs. Burrage had come to spend 
a few days near her son ; she was staying at an hotel in 
Boston. It presented itself to Olive that after this enter- 
tainment it would be an act of courtesy to call upon her ; 



 

but here, at least, was the comfort that she could cover 
herself with the general absolution extended to the Boston 
temperament and leave her alone. It was slightly provoking, 
indeed, that Mrs. Burrage should have so much the air of 
a New Yorker who didn't particularly notice whether a 
Bostonian called or not but there is ever an imperfection, 
I suppose, in even the sweetest revenge. She was a woman 
of society, large and voluminous, fair (in complexion) and 
regularly ugly, looking as if she ought to be slow and rather 
heavy, but disappointing this expectation by a quick, 
amused utterance, a short, bright, summary laugh, with 
which she appeared to dispose of the joke (whatever it was) 
for ever, and an air of recognising on the instant everything 
she saw and heard. She was evidently accustomed to talk, 
and even to listen, if not kept waiting too long for details 
and parentheses ; she was not continuous, but frequent, as 
it were, and you could see that she hated explanations, 
though it was not to be supposed that she had anything to 
fear from them. Her favours were general, not particular ; 
she was civil enough to every one, but not in any case en- 
dearing, and perfectly genial without being confiding, as 
people were in Boston when (in moments of exaltation) 
they wished to mark that they were not suspicious. There 
was something in her whole manner which seemed to say 
to Olive that she belonged to a larger world than hers ; 
and our young lady was vexed at not hearing that she had 
lived for a good many years in Europe, as this would have 
made it easy to classify her as one of the corrupt. She 
learned, almost with a sense of injury, that neither the 
mother nor the son had been longer beyond the seas than 
she herself ; and if they were to be judged as triflers they 
must be dealt with individually. Was it an aid to such a 
judgment to see that Mrs. Burrage was very much pleased 
with Boston, with Harvard College, with her son's interior, 
with her cup of tea (it was old Sevres), which was not half 
so bad as she had expected, with the company he had 
asked to meet her (there were three or four gentlemen, one 
of whom was Mr. Grade), and, last, not least, with Verena 
Tarrant, whom she addressed as a celebrity, kindly, cleverly, 
but without maternal tenderness or anything to mark the 



 

difference in their age ? She spoke to her as if they were 
equals in that respect, as if Verena's genius and fame would 
make up the disparity, and the girl had no need of encour- 
agement and patronage. She made no direct allusion, 
however, to her particular views, and asked her no question 
about her 'gift' an omission which Verena thought 
strange, and, with the most speculative candour, spoke of 
to Olive afterwards. Mrs. Burrage seemed to imply that 
every one present had some distinction and some talent, 
that they were all good company together. There was 
nothing in her manner to indicate that she was afraid of 
Verena on her son's account ; she didn't resemble a person 
who would like him to marry the daughter of a mesmeric 
healer, and yet she appeared to think it charming that he 
should have such a young woman there to give gusto to 
her hour at Cambridge. Poor Olive was, in the nature of 
things, entangled in contradictions ; she had a horror of the 
idea of Verena's marrying Mr. Burrage, and yet she was 
angry when his mother demeaned herself as if the little girl 
with red hair, whose freshness she enjoyed, could not be a 
serious danger. She saw all this through the blur of her 
shyness, the conscious, anxious silence to which she was so 
much of the time condemned. It may therefore be ima- 
gined how sharp her vision would have been could she only 
have taken the situation more simply ; for she was intelli- 
gent enough not to have needed to be morbid, even for 
purposes of self-defence. 

I must add, however, that there was a moment when 
she came near being happy or, at any rate, reflected that 
it was a pity she could not be so. Mrs. Burrage asked her 
son to play 'some little thing,' and he sat down to his 
piano and revealed a talent that might well have gratified 
that lady's pride. Olive was extremely susceptible to 
music, and it was impossible to her not to be soothed and 
beguiled by the young man's charming art. One 'little 
thing' succeeded another; his selections were all very 
happy. His guests sat scattered in the red firelight, listen- 
ing, silent, in comfortable attitudes; there was a faint 
fragrance from the burning logs, which mingled with the 
perfume of Schubert and Mendelssohn ; the covered lamps 



 

made a glow here and there, and the cabinets and brackets 
produced brown shadows, out of which some precious 
object gleamed some ivory carving or cinque-cento cup. 
It was given to Olive, under these circumstances, for half 
an hour, to surrender herself, to enjoy the music, to admit 
that Mr. Burrage played with exquisite taste, to feel as if 
the situation were a kind of truce. Her nerves were 
calmed, her problems for the time subsided. Civilisa- 
tion, under such an influence, in such a setting, appeared 
to have done its work ; harmony ruled the scene ; human 
life ceased to be a battle. She went so far as to ask herself 
why one should have a quarrel with it ; the relations of men 
and women, in that picturesque grouping, had not the air of 
being internecine. In short, she had an interval of un- 
expected rest, during which she kept her eyes mainly on 
Verena, who sat near Mrs. Burrage, letting herself go, 
evidently, more completely than Olive. To her, too, music 
was a delight, and her listening face turned itself to different 
parts of the room, unconsciously, while her eyes vaguely 
rested on the bibelots that emerged into the firelight At 
moments Mrs. Burrage bent her countenance upon her and 
smiled, at random, kindly ; and then Verena smiled back, 
while her expression seemed to say that, oh yes, she was 
giving up everything, all principles, all projects. Even 
before it was time to go, Olive felt that they were both 
(Verena and she) quite demoralised, and she only sum- 
moned energy to take her companion away when she heard 
Mrs. Burrage propose to her to come and spend a fortnight 
in New York. Then Olive exclaimed to herself, ' Is it a 
plot? Why in the world can't they let her alone?' and 
prepared to throw a fold of her mantle, as she had done 
before, over her young friend. Verena answered, somewhat 
impetuously, that she should be delighted to visit Mrs. 
Burrage; then checked her impetuosity, after a glance 
from Olive, by adding that perhaps this lady wouldn't ask 
her if she knew what strong ground she took on the 
emancipation of women. Mrs. Burrage looked at her son 
and laughed ; she said she was perfectly aware of Verena's 
views, and that it was impossible to be more in sympathy 
with them than she herself. She took the greatest interest 



 

in the emancipation of women ; she thought there was so 
much to be done. These were the only remarks that 
passed in reference to the great subject ; and nothing more 
was said to Verena, either by Henry Burrage or by his 
friend Gracie, about her addressing the Harvard students. 
Verena had told her father that Olive had put her veto 
upon that, and Tarrant had said to the young men that it 
seemed as if Miss Chancellor was going to put the thing 
through in her own way. We know that he thought this 
way very circuitous; but Miss Chancellor made him feel 
that she was in earnest, and that idea frightened the resist- 
ance out of him it had such terrible associations. The 
people he had ever seen who were most in earnest were a 
committee of gentlemen who had investigated the pheno- 
mena of the 'materialisation' of spirits, some ten years 
before, and had bent the fierce light of the scientific 
method upon him. To Olive it appeared that Mr. Burrage 
and Mr. Gracie had ceased to be jocular ; but that did not 
make them any less cynical. Henry Burrage said to 
Verena, as she was going, that he hoped she would think 
seriously of his mother's invitation ; and she replied that 
she didn't know whether she should have much time in the 
future to give to people who already approved of her views : 
she expected to have her hands full with the others, who 
didn't. 

' Does your scheme of work exclude all distraction, all 
recreation, then ?' the young man inquired ; and his look 
expressed real suspense. 

Verena referred the matter, as usual, with her air of 
bright, ungrudging deference, to her companion. '  Does it, 
should you say our scheme of work ?' 

' I am afraid the distraction we have had this afternoon 
must last us for a long time/ Olive said, without harshness, 
but with considerable majesty. 

'  Well, now, is he to be respected ?' Verena demanded, 
as the two young women took their way through the early 
darkness, pacing quietly side by side, in their winter-robes, 
like women consecrated to some holy office. 

Olive turned it over a moment. ' Yes, very much as 
a pianist !' 



 

Verena went into town with her in the horse-car she 
was staying in Charles Street for a few days and that 
evening she startled Olive by breaking out into a reflec- 
tion very similar to the whimsical falterings of which she 
herself had been conscious while they sat in Mr. Burrage's 
pretty rooms, but against which she had now violently 
reacted. 

' It would be very nice to do that always just to take 
men as they are, and not to have to think about their bad- 
ness. It would be very nice not to have so many questions, 
but to think they were all comfortably answered, so that one 
could sit there on an old Spanish leather chair, with the 
curtains drawn and keeping out the cold, the darkness, all 
the big, terrible, cruel world sit there and listen for ever to 
Schubert and Mendelssohn. They didn't care anything 
about female suffrage ! And I didn't feel the want of a 
vote to-day at all, did you?' Verena inquired, ending, as 
she always ended in these few speculations, with an appeal 
to Olive. 

This young lady thought it necessary to give her a very 
firm answer. 'I always feel it everywhere night and 
day. I feel it here /' and Olive laid her hand solemnly on 
her heart. ' I feel it as a deep, unforgetable wrong ; I feel 
it as one feels a stain that is on one's honour.' 

Verena gave a clear laugh, and after that a soft sigh, 
and then said, ' Do you know, Olive, I sometimes wonder 
whether, if it wasn't for you, I should feel it so very 
much !' 

'My own friend,' Olive replied, 'you have never yet 
said anything to me which expressed so clearly the close- 
ness and sanctity of our union.' 

' You do keep me up,' Verena went on. ' You are my 
conscience.' 

' I should like to be able to say that you are my form 
my envelope. But you are too beautiful for that !' So 
Olive returned her friend's compliment ; and later she said 
that, of course, it would be far easier to give up everything 
and draw the curtains to and pass one's life in an artificial 
atmosphere, with rose-coloured lamps. It would be far 
easier to abandon the struggle, to leave all the unhappy 



 

women of the world to their immemorial misery, to lay 
down one's burden, close one's eyes to the whole dark 
picture, and, in short, simply expire. To this Verena 
objected that it would not be easy for her to expire at all ; 
that such an idea was darker than anything the world 
contained ; that she had not done with life yet, and that 
she didn't mean to allow her responsibilities to crush her. 
And then the two young women concluded, as they had 
concluded before, by rinding themselves completely, inspir- 
ingly in agreement, full of the purpose to live indeed, and 
with high success ; to become great, in order not to be 
obscure, and powerful, in order not to be useless. Olive 
had often declared before that her conception of life was as 
something sublime or as nothing at all. The world was 
full of evil, but she was glad to have been born before it 
had been swept away, while it was still there to face, to 
give one a task and a reward. When the great reforms 
should be consummated, when the day of justice should 
have dawned, would not life perhaps be rather poor and 
pale ? She had never pretended to deny that the hope of 
fame, of the very highest distinction, was one of her 
strongest incitements ; and she held that the most effective 
way of protesting against the state of bondage of women 
was for an individual member of the sex to become illustri- 
ous. A person who might have overheard some of the 
talk of this possibly infatuated pair would have been 
touched by their extreme familiarity with the idea of 
earthly glory. Verena had not invented it, but she had 
taken it eagerly from her friend, and she returned it with 
interest. To Olive it appeared that just this partnership of 
their two minds each of them, by itself, lacking an im- 
portant group of facets made an organic whole which, for 
the work in hand, could not fail to be brilliantly effective. 
Verena was often far more irresponsive than she liked to 
see her ; but the happy thing in her composition was that, 
after a short contact with the divine idea Olive was always 
trying to flash it at her, like a jewel in an uncovered case 
she kindled, flamed up, took the words from her friend's 
less persuasive lips, resolved herself into a magical voice, 
became again the pure young sibyl. Then Olive perceived 



 

how fatally, without Verena's tender notes, her crusade 
would lack sweetness, what the Catholics call unction ; and, 
on the other hand, how weak Verena would be on the 
statistical and logical side if she herself should not bring up 
the rear. Together, in short, they would be complete, 
they would have everything, and together they would 
triumph. 



XIX. 

THIS idea of their triumph, a triumph as yet ultimate and 
remote, but preceded by the solemn vista of an effort so 
religious as never to be wanting in ecstasy, became tre- 
mendously familiar to the two friends, but especially to 
Olive, during the winter of 187, a season which ushered 
in the most momentous period of Miss Chancellor's life. 
About Christmas a step was taken which advanced her 
affairs immensely, and put them, to her apprehension, on 
a regular footing. This consisted in Verena's coming in 
to Charles Street to stay with her, in pursuance of an 
arrangement on Olive's part with Selah Tarrant and his 
