Mrs. Brinkley. He felt himself grow pale and inattentive to his pretty
Virginian. That accent of Mrs. Brinkley’s recalled him to his history.
He hoped that she would not see him; but in another moment he was
greeting her with a warmth which Bostonians seldom show in meeting at
Boston.
“When did you come to Washington?” she asked, trying to keep her
consciousness out of her eyes, which she let dwell kindly upon him.
“Day before yesterday--no, yesterday. It seems a month, I’ve seen and
done so much,” he said, with his laugh. “Miss Anderson’s been showing me
the whole of Washington society. Have you been here long?”
“Since morning,” said Mrs. Brinkley. And she added, “Miss Anderson?”
“Yes--Campobello, don’t you know?”
“Oh yes. Is she here to-night?”
“I came with her and her aunt.”
“Oh yes.”
“How is all Boston?” asked Dan boldly.
“I don’t know; I’m just going down to Old Point Comfort to ask. Every
other house on the Back Bay has been abandoned for the Hygeia.” Mrs.
Brinkley stopped, and then she asked. “Are you just up from there?”
“No; but I don’t know but I shall go.”
“Hello, Mavering!” said Mr. Brinkley, coming up and taking his hand into
his fat grasp. “On your way to Fortress Monroe? Better come with us.
Why; Munt!”
He turned to greet this other Bostonian, who had hardly expressed his
joy at meeting with his fellow-townsmen when the hostess rustled softly
up, and said, with the irony more or less friendly, which everybody uses
in speaking of Boston, or recognising the intellectual pre-eminence of
its people, “I’m not going to let you keep this feast of reason all
to your selves. I want you to leaven the whole lump,” and she began to
disperse them, and to introduce them about right and left.
Dan tried to find his Virginian again, but she was gone. He found Miss
Anderson; she was with her aunt. “Shall we be tearing you away?” she
asked.
“Oh no. I’m quite ready to go.”
His nerves were in a tremble. Those Boston faces and voices had brought
it all back again; it seemed as if he had met Alice. He was silent and
incoherent as they drove home, but Miss Anderson apparently did not want
to talk much, and apparently did not notice his reticence.
He fell asleep with the pang in his heart which had been there so often.
When Dan came down to breakfast he found the Brinkleys at a pleasant
place by one of the windows, and after they had exchanged a pleased
surprise with him that they should all happen to be in the same hotel,
they asked him to sit at their table.
There was a bright sun shining, and the ache was gone out of Dan’s
heart. He began to chatter gaily with Mrs. Brinkley about Washington.
“Oh, better come on to Fortress Monroe,” said her husband. “Better come
on with us.”
“No, I can’t just yet,” said Dan. “I’ve got some business here that will
keep me for awhile. Perhaps I may run down there a little later.”
“Miss Anderson seems to have a good deal of business in Washington too,”
 observed Brinkley, with some hazy notion of saying a pleasant rallying
thing to the young man. He wondered at the glare his wife gave him. With
those panned oysters before him he had forgotten all about Dan’s love
affair with Miss Pasmer.
Mrs. Brinkley hastened to make the mention of Miss Anderson as
impersonal as possible.
“It was so nice to meet her again. She is such an honest, wholesome
creature, and so bright and full of sense. She always made me think of
the broad daylight. I always liked that girl.”
“Yes; isn’t she jolly?” said Dan joyously. “She seems to know everybody
here. It’s a great piece of luck for me. They’re going to take a house
in Washington next winter.”
“Yes; I know that stage,” said Mrs. Brinkley. “Her aunt’s an amusingly
New-York respectability. I don’t think you’d find just such Miss Mitford
curls as hers in all Boston.”
“Yes, they are like the portraits, aren’t they?” said Dan; delighted.
“She’s very nice, don’t you think?”
“Very. But Miss Anderson is more than that. I was disposed to be
critical of her at Campobello for a while, but she wore extremely well.
All at once you found yourself admiring her uncommon common-sense.
“Yes. That’s just it,” cried Dan. “She is so sensible!”
“I think she’s very pretty,” said Mrs. Brinkley.
“Well, her nose,” suggested Dan. “It seems a little capricious.”
“It’s a trifle bizarre, I suppose. But what beautiful eyes! And her
figure! I declare that girl’s carriage is something superb.”
“Yes, she has a magnificent walk.”
“Walks with her carriage,” mused Brinkley aloud.
His wife did not regard him. “I don’t know what Miss Anderson’s
principles are, but her practices are perfect. I never knew her do an
unkind or shabby thing. She seems very good and very wise. And that
deep voice of hers has such a charm. It’s so restful. You feel as if
you could repose upon it for a thousand years. Well! You will get down
before we leave?”
“Yes, I will,” said Dan. “I’m here after a man who’s after a patent,
and as soon as I can finish up my business with him I believe I will run
down to Fortress Monroe.”
“This eleven-o’clock train will get you there at six,” said Brinkley.
“Better telegraph for your rooms.”
“Or, let us know,” said Mrs. Brinkley, “and we’ll secure them for you.”
“Oh, thank you,” said Dan.
He went away, feeling that Mrs. Brinkley was the pleasantest woman he
ever met. He knew that she had talked Miss Anderson so fully in order
to take away the implication of her husband’s joke, and he admired her
tact. He thought of this as he loitered along the street from Wormley’s
to the Arlington, where he was going to find Miss Anderson, by an
appointment of the night before, and take a walk with her; and thinking
of tact made him think of Mrs. Pasmer. Mrs. Pasmer was full of tact; and
how kind she had always been to him! She had really been like a mother
to him; he was sure she had understood him; he believed she had defended
him; with a futility of which he felt the pathos, he made her defend him
now to Alice. Alice was very hard and cold, as when he saw her last; her
mother’s words fell upon her as upon a stone; even Mrs. Pasmer’s tears,
which Dan made her shed, had no effect upon the haughty girl. Not that
he cared now.
The blizzard of the previous days had whirled away; the sunshine lay
still, with a warm glisten and sparkle, on the asphalt which seemed to
bask in it, and which it softened to the foot. He loitered by the gate
of the little park or plantation where the statue of General Jackson
is riding a cock-horse to Banbury Cross, and looked over at the
French-Italian classicism of the White House architecture with a pensive
joy at finding pleasure in it, and then he went on to the Arlington.
Miss Anderson was waiting for him in the parlour, and they went a long
walk up the avenues and across half the alphabet in the streets, and
through the pretty squares and circles, where the statues were sometimes
beautiful and always picturesque; and the sparrows made a vernal
chirping in the naked trees and on the green grass. In two or three they
sat down on the iron benches and rested.
They talked and talked--about the people they knew, and of whom they
found that they thought surprisingly alike, and about themselves,
whom they found surprisingly alike in a great many things, and then
surprisingly unlike. Dan brought forward some points of identity which
he, and Alice had found in themselves; it was just the same with Miss
Anderson. She found herself rather warm with the seal-skin sacque she
had put on; she let him carry it on his arm while they walked, and
then lay it over her shoulders when they sat down. He felt a pang of
self-reproach, as if he had been inconstant to Alice. This was an old
habit of feeling, formed during the months of their engagement, when, at
her inspiration, he was always bringing himself to book about something.
He replied to her bitterly, in the colloquy which began to hold itself
in his mind, and told her that she had no claim upon him now; that
if his thoughts wandered from her it was her fault, not his; that she
herself had set them free. But in fact he was like all young men, with
a thousand, potentialities of loving. There was no aspect of beauty that
did not tenderly move him; he could not help a soft thrill at the sight
of any pretty shape, the sound of any piquant voice; and Alice had
merely been the synthesis of all that was most charming to this
fancy. This is a truth which it is the convention of the poets and the
novelists to deny; but it is also true that she might have remained the
sum of all that was loveliest if she would; or if she could.
It was chiefly because she would not or could not that his glance
recognised the charm of Miss Anderson’s back hair, both in its straying
gossamer and in the loose mass in which it was caught up under her hat,
when he laid her sacque on her shoulders. They met that afternoon at a
Senator’s, and in the house of a distinguished citizen, to whose wife
Dan had been presented at Mrs. Whittington’s, and who had somehow got
his address, and sent him a card for her evening. They encountered
here with a jocose old friendliness, and a profession of being tired of
always meeting Miss Anderson and Mr. Mavering. He brought her salad and
ice, and they made an appointment for another walk in the morning, if it
was fine.
He carried her some flowers. A succession of fine days followed, and
they walked every morning. Sometimes Dan was late, and explained that
it was his patent-right man had kept him. She was interested in the
patent-right man, whom Dan began to find not quite so simple as at
first, but she was not exacting with him about his want of punctuality;
she was very easy-going; she was not always ready herself. When he began
to beat about the bush, to talk insincerities, and to lose himself in
intentionless plausibilities, she waited with serene patience for him to
have done, and met him on their habitual ground of frankness and reality
as if he had not left it. He got to telling her all his steps with his
patent-right man, who seemed to be growing mote and more slippery, and
who presently developed a demand for funds. Then she gave him some very
shrewd, practical advice, and told him to go right into the hotel office
and telegraph to his father while she was putting on her bonnet.
“Yes,” he said, “that’s what I thought of doing.” But he admired her for
advising him; he said to himself that Miss Anderson was the kind of girl
his father would admire. She was good, and she was of the world too;
that was what his father meant. He imagined himself arriving home and
saying, “Well father, you know that despatch I sent you, about Lafflin’s
wanting money?” and telling him about Miss Anderson. Then he fancied her
acquainted with his sisters and visiting them, and his father more and
more fond of her, and perhaps in declining health, and eager to see his
son settled in life; and he pictured himself telling her that he had
done with love for ever, but if she could accept respect, fidelity,
gratitude, he was ready to devote his life to her. She refused him, but
they always remained good friends and comrades; she married another,
perhaps Boardman, while Dan was writing out his telegram, and he broke
into whispered maledictions on his folly, which attracted the notice of
the operator.
One morning when he sent up his name to Miss Anderson, whom he did not
find in the hotel parlour, the servant came back with word that Miss
Van Hook would like to have him come up to their rooms. But it was Miss
Anderson who met him at the door.
“It seemed rather formal to send you word that Miss Van Hook was
indisposed, and Miss Anderson would be unable to walk this morning, and
I thought perhaps you’d rather come up and get my regrets in person. And
I wanted you to see our view.”
She led the way to the window for it, but they did not look at it,
though they sat down there apparently for the purpose. Dan put his hat
beside his chair, and observed some inattentive civilities in inquiring
after Miss Van Hook’s health, and in hearing that it was merely a bad
headache, one of a sort in which her niece hated to leave her to serve
herself with the wet compresses which Miss Van Hook always bore on her
forehead for it.
“One thing: it’s decided us to be off for Fortress Monroe at last. We
shall go by the boat to-morrow, if my aunt’s better.”
“To-morrow?” said Dan. “What’s to become of me when you’re gone?”
“Oh, we shall not take the whole population with us,” suggested Miss
Anderson.
“I wish you would take me. I told Mrs. Brinkley I would come while she
was there, but I’m afraid I can’t get off. Lafflin is developing into
all sorts of strange propositions.”
“I think you’d better look out for that man,” said Miss Anderson.
“Oh, I do nothing without consulting my father. But I shall miss you.”
“Thank you,” said the girl gravely.
“I don’t mean in a business capacity only.”
They both laughed, and Dan looked about the room, which he found was a
private hotel parlour, softened to a more domestic effect by the signs
of its prolonged occupation by two refined women. On a table stood a
leather photograph envelope with three cabinet pictures in it. Along the
top lay a spray of withered forceythia. Dan’s wandering eyes rested on
it. Miss Anderson went and softly closed the door opening into the next
room.
“I was afraid our talking might disturb my aunt,” she said, and on her
way back to him she picked up the photograph case and brought it to the
light. “These are my father and mother. We live at Yonkers; but I’m with
my aunt a good deal of the time in town--even when I’m at home.” She
laughed at her own contradictory statement, and put the case back
without explaining the third figure--a figure in uniform. Dan
conjectured a military brother, or from her indifference perhaps a
militia brother, and then forgot about him. But the partial Yonkers
residence accounted for traits of unconventionality in Miss Anderson
which he had not been able to reconcile with the notion of an
exclusively New York breeding. He felt the relief, the sympathy, the
certainty of intelligence which every person whose life has been partly
spent in the country feels at finding that a suspected cockney has also
had the outlook into nature and simplicity.
On the Yonkers basis they became more intimate, more personal, and Dan
told her about Ponkwasset Falls and his mother and sisters; he told her
about his father, and she said she should like to see his father; she
thought he must be like her father.
All at once, and for no reason that he could think of afterward, except,
perhaps, the desire to see the case with her eyes, he began to tell her
of his affair with Alice, and how and why it was broken off; he told the
whole truth in regard to that, and did not spare himself.
She listened without once speaking, but without apparent surprise at the
confidence, though she may have felt surprised. At times she looked as
if her thoughts were away from what he was saying.
He ended with, “I’m sure I don’t know why I’ve told you all this. But I
wanted you to know about me. The worst.”
Miss Anderson said, looking down, “I always thought she was a very
conscientious giyl.” Then after a pause, in which she seemed to be
overcoming an embarrassment in being obliged to speak of another in such
a conviction, “I think she was very moybid. She was like ever so many
New England giyls that I’ve met. They seem to want some excuse for
suffering; and they must suffer even if it’s through somebody else. I
don’t know; they’re romantic, New England giyls are; they have too many
ideals.”
Dan felt a balm in this; he too had noticed a superfluity of ideals
in Alice, he had borne the burden of realising some of them; they all
seemed to relate in objectionable degree to his perfectionation. So he
said gloomily, “She was very good. And I was to blame.”
“Oh yes!” said Miss Anderson, catching her breath in a queer way; “she
seyved you right.”
She rose abruptly, as if she heard her aunt speak, and Dan perceived
that he had been making a long call.
He went away dazed and dissatisfied; he knew now that he ought not to
have told Miss Anderson about his affair, unless he meant more by his
confidence than he really did--unless he meant to follow it up.
He took leave of her, and asked her to make his adieux to her aunt; but
the next day he came down to the boat to see them off. It seemed to him
that their interview had ended too hastily; he felt sore and restless
over it; he hoped that something more conclusive might happen. But at
the boat Miss Anderson and her aunt were inseparable. Miss Van Hook said
she hoped they should soon see him at the Hygeia, and he replied that he
was not sure that he should be able to come after all.
Miss Anderson called something after him as he turned from them to go
ashore. He ran back eagerly to know what it was. “Better lookout for
that Mr. Lafflin of yours,” she repeated.
“Oh! oh yes,” he said, indefinitely disappointed. “I shall keep a sharp
eye on him.” He was disappointed, but he could not have said what he had
hoped or expected her to say. He was humbled before himself for having
told Miss Anderson about his affair with Alice, and had wished she would
say something that he might scramble back to his self-esteem upon. He
had told her all that partly from mere weakness, from his longing for
the sympathy which he was always so ready to give, and partly from the
willingness to pose before her as a broken heart, to dazzle her by the
irony and persiflage with which he could treat such a tragical matter;
but he could not feel that he had succeeded. The sum of her comment had
been that Alice had served him right. He did not know whether she really
believed that or merely said it to punish him for some reason; but he
could never let it be the last word. He tingled as he turned to wave
his handkerchief to her on the boat, with the suspicion that she was
laughing at him; and he could not console himself with any hero of
a novel who had got himself into just such a box. There were always
circumstances, incidents, mitigations, that kept the hero still a hero,
and ennobled the box into an unjust prison cell.
L.
On the long sunny piazza of the Hygeia Mrs. Brinkley and Miss Van Hook
sat and talked in a community of interest which they had not discovered
during the summer before at Campobello, and with an equality of hearing
which the sound of the waves washing almost at their feet established
between them. In this pleasant noise Miss Van Hook heard as well as any
one, and Mrs. Brinkley gradually realised that it was the trouble of
having to lift her voice that had kept her from cultivating a very
agreeable acquaintance before. The ladies sat in a secluded corner,
wearing light wraps that they had often found comfortable at Campobello
in August, and from time to time attested to each other their
astonishment that they needed no more at Old Point in early April.
They did this not only as a just tribute to the amiable climate, but as
a relief from the topic which had been absorbing them, and to which they
constantly returned.
“No,” said Mrs. Brinkley, with a sort of finality, “I think it is the
best thing that could possibly have happened to him. He is bearing it in
a very manly way, but I fancy he has felt it deeply, poor fellow. He’s
never been in Boston since, and I don’t believe he’d come here if he’d
any idea how many Boston people there were in the hotel--we swarm! It
would be very painful to him.”
“Yes,” said Miss Van Hook, “young people seem to feel those things.”
“Of course he’s going to get over it. That’s what young people do too.
At his age he can’t help being caught with every pretty face and every
pretty figure, even in the midst of his woe, and it’s only a question
of time till he seizes some pretty hand and gets drawn out of it
altogether.”
“I think that would be the case with my niece, too,” said Miss Van Hook,
“if she wasn’t kept in it by a sense of loyalty. I don’t believe she
really dares much for Lieutenant Willing any more; but he sees no
society where he’s stationed, of course, and his constancy is a--a
rebuke and a--a--an incentive to her. They were engaged a long time ago
just after he left West Point--and we’ve always been in hopes that
he would be removed to some post where he could meet other ladies and
become interested in some one else. But he never has, and so the affair
remains. It’s most undesirable they should marry, and in the meantime
she won’t break it off, and it’s spoiling her chances in life.”
“It is too bad,” sighed Mrs. Brinkley, “but of course you can do
nothing. I see that.”
“No, we can do nothing. We have tried everything. I used to think it was
because she was so dull there at Yonkers with her family, and brooded
upon the one idea all the time, that she could not get over it; and at
first it did seem when she came to me that she would get over it. She
is very fond of gaiety--of young men’s society, and she’s had plenty
of little flirtations that didn’t mean anything, and never amounted to
anything. Every now and then a letter would come from the wilds where he
was stationed, and spoil it all. She seemed to feel a sort of chivalrous
obligation because he was so far off and helpless and lonely.”
“Yes, I understand,” said Mrs. Brinkley. “What a pity she couldn’t be
made to feel that that didn’t deepen the obligation at all.”
“I’ve tried to make her,” said Miss Van Hook, “and I’ve been everywhere
with her. One winter we were up the Nile, and another in Nice, and last
winter we were in Rome. She met young men everywhere, and had offers
upon offers; but it was of no use. She remained just the same, and till
she met Mr. Mavering in Washington I don’t believe--”
Miss Van Hook stopped, and Mrs. Brinkley said, “And yet she always
seemed to me particularly practical and level-headed--as the men say.”
“So she is. But she is really very romantic about some things; and when
it comes to a matter of that kind, girls are about all alike, don’t you
think?”
“Oh yes,” said Mrs. Brinkley hopelessly, and both ladies looked out over
the water, where the waves came rolling in one after another to waste
themselves on the shore as futilely as if they had been lives.
In the evening Miss Anderson got two letters from the clerk, at the hour
when the ladies all flocked to his desk with the eagerness for letters
which is so engaging in them. One she pulled open and glanced at with
a sort of impassioned indifference; the other she read in one intense
moment, and then ran it into her pocket, and with her hand still on it
hurried vividly flushing to her room, and read and read it again with
constantly mounting emotion.
“WORMLEY’s HOTEL, Washington, April 7, 188-.
“DEAR MISS ANDERSON,--I have been acting on your parting advice to look
out for that Mr. Lafflin of mine, and I have discovered that he is an
unmitigated scamp. Consequently there is nothing more to keep me in
Washington, and I should now like your advice about coming to Fortress
Monroe. Do you find it malarial? On the boat your aunt asked me to come,
but you said nothing about it, and I was left to suppose that you did
not think it would agree with me. Do you still think so? or what do you
think? I know you think it was uncalled for and in extremely bad taste
for me to tell you what I did the other day; and I have thought so too.
There is only one thing that could justify it--that is, I think it might
justify it--if you thought so. But I do not feel sure that you would
like to know it, or, if you knew it, would like it. I’ve been rather
slow coming to the conclusion myself, and perhaps it’s only the
beginning of the end; and not the conclusion--if there is such a
difference. But the question now is whether I may come and tell you what
I think it is--justify myself, or make things worse than they are now.
I don’t know that they can be worse, but I think I should like to try. I
think your presence would inspire me.
“Washington is a wilderness since Miss--Van Hook left. It is not a
howling wilderness simply because it has not enough left in it to howl;
but it has all the other merits of a wilderness.
“Yours sincerely,
“D. F. MAVERING.”
After a second perusal of this note, Miss Anderson recurred to the other
letter which she had neglected for it, and read it with eyes from which
the tears slowly fell upon it. Then she sat a long time at her table
with both letters before her, and did not move, except to take her
handkerchief out of her pocket and dry her eyes, from which the tears
began at once to drip again. At last she started forward, and caught pen
and paper toward her, biting her lip and frowning as if to keep herself
firm, and she said to the central figure in the photograph case which
stood at the back of the table, “I will, I will! You are a man, anyway.”
She sat down, and by a series of impulses she wrote a letter, with which
she gave herself no pause till she put it in the clerk’s hands, to whom
she ran downstairs with it, kicking her skirt into wild whirls as she
ran, and catching her foot in it and stumbling.
“Will it go--go to-night?” she demanded tragically.
“Just in time,” said the clerk, without looking up, and apparently not
thinking that her tone betrayed any unusual amount of emotion in a lady
posting a letter; he was used to intensity on such occasions.
The letter ran--
“DEAR MR. MAVERING,--We shall now be here so short a time that I do not
think it advisable for you to come.
“Your letter was rather enigmatical, and I do not know whether I
understood it exactly. I suppose you told me what you did for good
reasons of your own, and I did not think much about it. I believe the
question of taste did not come up in my mind.
“My aunt joins me in kindest regards.
“Yours very sincerely,
“JULIA V. H. ANDERSON.
“P.S.--I think that I ought to return your letter. I know that you would
not object to my keeping it, but it does not seem right. I wish to
ask your congratulations. I have been engaged for several years to
Lieutenant Willing, of the Army. He has been transferred from his post
in Montana to Fort Hamilton at New York, and we are to be married in
June.”
The next morning Mrs. Brinkley came up from breakfast in a sort of
duplex excitement, which she tried to impart to her husband; he stood
with his back toward the door, bending forward to the glass for a more
accurate view of his face, from which he had scraped half the lather in
shaving.
She had two cards in her hand: “Miss Van Hook and Miss Anderson have
gone. They went this morning. I found their P. P. C.’s by my plate.”
Mr. Brinkley made an inarticulate noise for comment, and assumed the
contemptuous sneer which some men find convenient for shaving the lower
lip.
“And guess who’s come, of all people in the world?”
“I don’t know,” said Brinkley, seizing his chance to speak.
“The Pasmers!--Alice and her mother! Isn’t it awful?”
Mr. Brinkley had entered upon a very difficult spot at the corner of
his left jaw. He finished it before he said, “I don’t see anything awful
about it, so long as Pasmer hasn’t come too.”
“But Dan Mavering! He’s in Washington, and he may come down here any
day. Just think how shocking that would be!”
“Isn’t that rather a theory?” asked Mr. Brinkley, finding such
opportunities for conversation as he could. “I dare say Mrs. Pasmer
would be very glad to see him.”
“I’ve no doubt she would,” said Mrs. Brinkley. “But it’s the worst
thing that could happen--for him. And I feel like writing him not to
come--telegraphing him.”
“You know how the man made a fortune in Chicago,” said her husband,
drying his razor tenderly on a towel before beginning to strop it. “I
advise you to let the whole thing alone. It doesn’t concern us in any
way whatever.”
“Then,” said Mrs. Brinkley, “there ought to be a committee to take it in
hand and warn him.”
“I dare say you could make one up among the ladies. But don’t be the
first to move in the matter.”
“I really believe,” said his wife, with her mind taken off the point by
the attractiveness of a surmise which had just occurred to her, “that
Mrs. Pasmer would be capable of following him down if she knew he was in
Washington.”
“Yes, if she know. But she probably doesn’t.”
“Yes,” said Mrs. Brinkley disappointedly. “I think the sudden departure
of the Van Hooks must have had something to do with Dan Mavering.”
“Seems a very influential young man,” said her husband. “He attracts and
repels people right and left. Did you speak to the Pasmers?”
“No; you’d better, when you go down. They’ve just come into the
dining-room. The girl looks like death.”
“Well, I’ll talk to her about Mavering. That’ll cheer her up.”
Mrs. Brinkley looked at him for an instant as if she really thought him
capable of it. Then she joined him in his laugh.
Mrs. Brinkley had theorised Alice Pasmer as simply and primitively
selfish, like the rest of the Pasmers in whom the family traits
prevailed.
When Mavering stopped coming to her house after his engagement she
justly suspected that it was because Alice had forbidden him, and she
had rejoiced at the broken engagement as an escape for Dan; she had
frankly said so, and she had received him back into full favour at the
first moment in Washington. She liked Miss Anderson, and she had hoped,
with the interest which women feel in every such affair, that her
flirtation with him might become serious. But now this had apparently
not happened. Julia Anderson was gone with mystifying precipitation,
and Alice Pasmer had come with an unexpectedness which had the aspect of
fatality.
Mrs. Brinkley felt bound, of course, since there was no open enmity
between them, to meet the Pasmers on the neutral ground of the Hygeia
with conventional amiability. She was really touched by the absent
wanness of the girls look, and by the later-coming recognition which
shaped her mouth into a pathetic snide. Alice did not look like death
quite, as Mrs. Brinkley had told her husband, with the necessity her sex
has for putting its superlatives before its positives; but she was pale
and thin, and she moved with a languid step when they all met at night
after Mrs. Brinkley had kept out of the Pasmers’ way during the day.
“She has been ill all the latter part of the winter,” said Mrs. Pasmer
to Mrs. Brinkley that night in the corner of the spreading hotel
parlours, where they found themselves. Mrs. Pasmer did not look well
herself; she spoke with her eyes fixed anxiously on the door Alice had
just passed out of. “She is going to bed, but I know I shall find her
awake whenever I go.”
“Perhaps,” suggested Mrs. Brinkley, “this soft, heavy sea air will put
her to sleep.” She tried to speak drily and indifferently, but she could
not; she was, in fact, very much interested by the situation, and she
was touched, in spite of her distaste for them both, by the evident
unhappiness of mother and daughter. She knew what it came from, and
she said to herself that they deserved it; but this did not altogether
fortify her against their pathos. “I can hardly keep awake myself,” she
added gruffly.
“I hope it may help her,” said Mrs. Pasmer; “the doctor strongly urged
our coming.”
“Mr. Pasmer isn’t with you,” said Mrs. Brinkley, feeling that it was
decent to say something about him.
“No; he was detained.” Mrs. Pasmer did not explain the cause of his
detention, and the two ladies slowly waved their fans a moment in
silence. “Are there many Boston People in the house?” Mrs. Pasmer asked.
“It’s full of them,” cried Mrs. Brinkley.
“I had scarcely noticed,” sighed Mrs. Pasmer; and Mrs. Brinkley knew
that this was not true. “Alice takes up all my thoughts,” she added; and
this might be true enough. She leaned a little forward and asked, in a
low, entreating voice over her fan, “Mrs. Brinkley, have you seen Mr.
Mavering lately?”
Mrs. Brinkley considered this a little too bold, a little too brazen.
Had they actually come South in pursuit of him? It was shameless, and
she let Mrs. Pasmer know something of her feeling in the shortness
with which she answered, “I saw him in Washington the other day--for a
moment.” She shortened the time she had spent in Dan’s company so as to
cut Mrs. Pasmer off from as much comfort as possible, and she stared at
her in open astonishment.
Mrs. Pasmer dropped her eyes and fingered the edge of her fan with a
submissiveness that seemed to Mrs. Brinkley the perfection of duplicity;
she wanted to shake her. “I knew,” sighed Mrs. Pasmer, “that you had
always been such a friend of his.”
It is the last straw which breaks the camel’s back; Mrs. Brinkley felt
her moral vertebrae give way; she almost heard them crack; but if there
was really a detonation, the drowned the noise with a harsh laugh.
“Oh, he had other friends in Washington. I met him everywhere with
Miss Anderson.” This statement conflicted with the theory of her single
instant with Dan, but she felt that in such a cause, in the cause of
giving pain to a woman like Mrs. Pasmer, the deflection from exact truth
was justifiable. She hurried on: “I rather expected he might run
down here, but now that they’re gone, I don’t suppose he’ll come. You
remember Miss Anderson’s aunt, Miss Van Hook?”
“Oh yes,” said Mrs. Pasmer.
“She was here with her.”
“Miss Van Hook was such a New York type--of a certain kind,” said Mrs.
Pasmer. She rose, with a smile at once so conventional, so heroic, and
so pitiful that Mrs. Brinkley felt the remorse of a generous victor.
She went to her room, hardening her heart, and she burst in with a flood
of voluble exasperation that threatened all the neighbouring rooms with
overflow.
“Well,” she cried, “they have shown their hands completely. They have
come here to hound Dan Mavering down, and get him into their toils
again. Why, the woman actually said as much! But I fancy I have given
her a fit of insomnia that will enable her to share her daughter’s
vigils. Really such impudence I never heard of!”
“Do you want everybody in the corridor to hear of it?” asked Brinkley,
from behind a newspaper.
“I know one thing,” continued Mrs. Brinkley, dropping her voice a couple
of octaves. “They will never get him here if I can help it. He won’t
come, anyway, now Miss Anderson is gone; but I’ll make assurance doubly
sure by writing him not to come; I’ll tell him they’ve gone; and than we
are going too.”
“You had better remember the man in Chicago,” said her husband.
“Well, this is my business--or I’ll make it my business!” cried Mrs.
Brinkley. She went on talking rapidly, rising with great excitement in
her voice at times, and then remembering to speak lower; and her husband
apparently read on through most of her talk, though now and then he made
some comment that seemed of almost inspired aptness.
“The way they both made up to me was disgusting. But I know the girl is
just a tool in her mother’s hands. Her mother seemed actually passive
in comparison. For skilful wheedling I could fall down and worship that
woman; I really admire her. As long as the girl was with us she kept
herself in the background and put the girl at me. It was simply a
masterpiece.”
“How do you know she put her at you?” asked Brinkley.
“How? By the way she seemed not to do it! And because from what I know
of that stupid Pasmer pride it would be perfectly impossible for any one
who was a Pasmer to take her deprecatory manner toward me of herself.
You ought to have seen it! It was simply perfect.”
“Perhaps,” said Brinkley, with a remote dreaminess, “she was truly
sorry.”
“Truly stuff! No, indeed; she hates me as much as ever--more!”
“Well, then, may be she’s doing it because she hates you--doing it for
her soul’s good--sort of penance, sort of atonement to Mavering.”
Mrs. Brinkley turned round from her dressing-table to see what her
husband meant, but the newspaper hid him. We all know that our own
natures are mixed and contradictory, but we each attribute to others a
logical consistency which we never find in any one out of the novels.
Alice Pasmer was cold and reticent, and Mrs. Brinkley, who had lived
half a century in a world full of paradoxes, could not imagine her
subject to gusts of passionate frankness; she knew the girl to be
proud and distant, and she could not conceive of an abject humility
and longing for sympathy in her heart. If Alice felt, when she saw Mrs.
Brinkley, that she had a providential opportunity to punish herself
for her injustice to Dan, the fact could not be established upon Mrs.
Brinkley’s theory of her. If the ascetic impulse is the most purely
selfish impulse in human nature, Mrs. Brinkley might not have been
mistaken in suspecting her of an ignoble motive, though it might have
had for the girl the last sublimity of self-sacrifice. The woman who
disliked her and pitied her knew that she had no arts, and rather than
adopt so simple a theory of her behaviour as her husband had advanced
she held all the more strenuously to her own theory that Alice was
practising her mother’s arts. This was inevitable, partly from the sense
of Mrs. Pasmer’s artfulness which everybody had, and partly from the
allegiance which we pay--and women especially like to pay--to the
tradition of the playwrights and the novelists, that social results of
all kinds are the work of deep, and more or less darkling, design on the
part of other women--such other women as Mrs. Pasmer.
Mrs. Brinkley continued to talk, but the god spoke no more from behind
the newspaper; and afterward Mrs. Brinkley lay a long time awake;
hardening her heart. But she was haunted to the verge of her dreams by
that girl’s sick look, by her languid walk, and by the effect which she
had seen her own words take upon Mrs. Pasmer--an effect so admirably
disowned, so perfectly obvious. Before she could get to sleep she was
obliged to make a compromise with her heart, in pursuance of which, when
she found Mrs. Pasmer at breakfast alone in the morning, she went up to
her, and said, holding her hand a moment, “I hope your daughter slept
well last night.”
“No,” said Mrs. Pasmer, slipping her hand away, “I can’t say that she
did.” There was probably no resentment expressed in the way she withdrew
her hand, but the other thought there was.
“I wish I could do something for her,” she cried.
“Oh, thank you,” said Mrs. Pasmer. “It’s very good of you.” And Mrs.
Brinkley fancied she smiled rather bitterly.
Mrs. Brinkley went out upon the seaward verandah of the hotel with this
bitterness of Mrs. Pasmer’s smile in her thoughts; and it disposed her
to feel more keenly the quality of Miss Pasmer’s smile. She found the
girl standing there at a remote point of that long stretch of planking,
and looking out over the water; she held with both hands across her
breast the soft chuddah shawl which the wind caught and fluttered away
from her waist. She was alone, said as Mrs. Brinkley’s compunctions
goaded her nearer, she fancied that the saw Alice master a primary
dislike in her face, and put on a look of pathetic propitiation. She did
not come forward to meet Mrs. Brinkley, who liked better her waiting to
be approached; but she smiled gratefully when Mrs. Brinkley put out her
hand, and she took it with a very cold one.
“You must find it chilly here,” said the elder woman.
“I had better be out in the air all I could, the doctor said,” answered
Alice.
“Well, then, come with me round the corner; there’s a sort of recess
there, and you won’t be blown to pierces,” said Mrs. Brinkley, with
authority. They sat down together in the recess, and she added: “I used
to sit here with Miss Van Hook; she could hear better in the noise the
waves made. I hope it isn’t too much for you.”
“Oh no,” said Alice. “Mamma said you told her they were here.” Mrs.
Brinkley reassured herself from this; Miss Van Hook’s name had rather
slipped out; but of course Mrs. Pasmer had not repeated what she had
said about Dan in this connection. “I wish I could have seen Julia,”
 Alice went on. “It would have been quite like Campobello again.”
“Oh, quite,” said Mrs. Brinkley, with a short breath, and not knowing
whither this tended. Alice did not leave her in doubt.
“I should like to have seen her, and begged her for the way I treated
her the last part of the time there. I feel as if I could make my whole
life a reparation,” she added passionately.
Mrs. Brinkley believed that this was the mere frenzy of sentimentality,
the exaltation of a selfish asceticism; but at the break in the girl’s
voice and the aversion of her face she could not help a thrill
of motherly tenderness for her. She wanted to tell her she was an
unconscious humbug, bent now as always on her own advantage, and really
indifferent to others she also wanted to comfort her, and tell her that
she exaggerated, and was not to blame. She did neither, but when Alice
turned her face back she seemed encouraged by Mrs. Brinkley’s look to
go on: “I didn’t appreciate her then; she was very generous and
high-minded--too high-minded for me to understand, even. But we don’t
seem to know how good others are till we wrong them.”
“Yes, that is very true,” said Mrs. Brinkley. She knew that Alice was
obviously referring to the breach between herself and Miss Anderson
following the night of the Trevor theatricals, and the dislike for
her that she had shown with a frankness some of the ladies had thought
brutal. Mrs. Brinkley also believed that her words had a tacit meaning,
and she would have liked to have the hardness to say she had seen an
unnamed victim of Alice doing his best to console the other she had
specified. But she merely said drily, “Yes, perhaps that’s the reason
why we’re allowed to injure people.”
“It must be,” said Alice simply. “Did Miss Anderson ever speak of me?”
“No; I can’t remember that she ever did.” Mrs. Brinkley did not feel
bound to say that she and Miss Van Hook had discussed her at large, and
agreed perfectly about her.
“I should like to see her; I should like to write to her.”
Mrs. Brinkley felt that she ought not to suffer this intimate tendency
in the talk:
“You must find a great many other acquaintances in the hotel, Miss
Pasmer.”
“Some of the Frankland girds are here, and the two Bellinghams. I have
hardly spoken to them yet. Do you think that where you have even been
in the right, if you have been harsh, if you have been hasty, if you
haven’t made allowances, you ought to offer some atonement?”
“Really, I can’t say,” said Mrs. Brinkley, with a smile of distaste.
“I’m afraid your question isn’t quite in my line of thinking; it’s more
in Miss Cotton’s way. You’d better ask her some time.”
“No,” said Alice sadly; “she would flatter me.”
“Ah! I always supposed she was very conscientious.”
“She’s conscientious, but she likes me too well.”
“Oh!” commented Mrs. Brinkley to herself, “then you know I don’t like
you, and you’ll use me in one way, if you can’t in another. Very
well!” But she found the girl’s trust touching somehow, though the
sentimentality of her appeal seemed as tawdry as ever.
“I knew you would be just,” added Alice wistfully.
“Oh, I don’t know about atonements!” said Mrs. Brinkley, with an effect
of carelessness. “It seems to me that we usually make them for our own
sake.”
“I have thought of that,” said Alice, with a look of expectation.
“And we usually astonish other people when we offer them.”
“Either they don’t like it, or else they don’t feel so much injured as
we had supposed.”
“Oh, but there’s no question--”
“If Miss Anderson--”
“Miss Anderson? Oh--oh yes!”
“If Miss Anderson for example,” pursued Mrs. Brinkley, “felt aggrieved
with you. But really I’ve no right to enter into your affairs, Miss
Pasmer.”
“Oh Yes, yes!--do! I asked you to,” the girl implored.
“I doubt if it will help matters for her to know that you regret
anything; and if she shouldn’t happen to have thought that you were
unjust to her, it would make her uncomfortable for nothing.”
“Do you think so?” asked the girl, with a disappointment that betrayed
itself in her voice and eyes.
“I never feel I myself competent to advise,” said Mrs. Brinkley. “I can
criticise--anybody can--and I do, pretty freely; but advice is a more
serious matter. Each of us must act from herself--from what she thinks
is right.”
“Yes, I see. Thank you so much, Mrs. Brinkley.”
“After all, we have a right to do ourselves good, even when we pretend
that it’s good to others, if we don’t do them any harm.”
“Yes, I see.” Alice looked away, and then seemed about to speak again;
but one of Mrs. Brinkley’s acquaintance came up, and the girl rose with
a frightened air and went away.
“Alice’s talk with you this morning did her so much good!” said Mrs.
Pasmer, later. “She has always felt so badly about Miss Anderson!”
Mrs. Brinkley saw that Mrs. Pasmer wished to confine the meaning of
their talk to Miss Anderson, and she assented, with a penetration of
which she saw that Mrs. Pasmer was gratefully aware.
She grew more tolerant of both the Pasmers as the danger of greater
intimacy from them, which seemed to threaten at first seemed to pass
away. She had not responded to their advances, but there was no reason
why she should not be civil to them; there had never been any open
quarrel with them. She often found herself in talk with them, and was
amused to note that she was the only Bostonian whom they did not keep
aloof from.
It could not be said that she came to like either of them better. She
still suspected Mrs. Pasmer of design, though she developed none beyond
manoeuvring Alice out of the way of people whom she wished to avoid; and
she still found the girl, as she always thought her, as egotist, whose
best impulses toward others had a final aim in herself. She thought her
very crude in her ideas--cruder than she had seemed at Campobello, where
she had perhaps been softened by her affinition with the gentler and
kindlier nature of Dan Mavering. Mrs. Brinkley was never tired of saying
that he had made the most fortunate escape in the world, and though
Brinkley owned he was tired of hearing it, she continued to say it with
a great variety of speculation. She recognised that in most girls of
Alice’s age many traits are in solution, waiting their precipitation
into character by the chemical contact which time and chances must
bring, and that it was not fair to judge her by the present ferment of
hereditary tendencies; but she rejoiced all the same that it was not Dan
Mavering’s character which was to give fixity to hers. The more she saw
of the girl the more she was convinced that two such people could only
make each other unhappy; from day to day, almost from hour to hour, she
resolved to write to Mavering and tell him not to come.
She was sure that the Pasmers wished to have the affair on again, and
part of her fascination with a girl whom she neither liked nor approved
was her belief that Alice’s health had broken under the strain of her
regrets and her despair. She did not get better from the change of
air; she grew more listless and languid, and more dependent upon Mrs.
Brinkley’s chary sympathy. The older woman asked herself again and again
what made the girl cling to her? Was she going to ask her finally to
intercede with Dan? or was it really a despairing atonement to him,
the most disagreeable sacrifice she could offer, as Mr. Brinkley had
stupidly suggested? She believed that Alice’s selfishness and morbid
sentiment were equal to either.
Brinkley generally took the girl’s part against his wife, and in a heavy
jocose way tried to cheer her up. He did little things for her; fetched
and carried chairs and cushions and rugs, and gave his attentions the
air of pleasantries. One of his offices was to get the ladies’ letters
for them in the evening, and one night he came in beaming with a letter
for each of them where they sat together in the parlour. He distributed
them into their laps.
“Hello! I’ve made a mistake,” he said, putting down his head to take
back the letter he had dropped in Miss Pasmer’s lap. “I’ve given you my
wife’s letter.”
The girl glanced at it, gave a moaning kind of cry, and fell beak in her
chair, hiding her face in her hands.
Mrs. Brinkley, possessed herself of the other letter, and, though past
the age when ladies wish to kill their husbands for their stupidity,
she gave Brinkley a look of massacre which mystified even more than
it murdered his innocence. He had to learn later from his wife’s more
elicit fury what the women had all known instantly.
He showed his usefulness in gathering Alice up and getting her to her
mother’s room.
“Oh, Mrs. Brinkley,” implored Mrs. Pasmer, following her to the door,
“is Mr. Mavering coming here?”
“I don’t know--I can’t say--I haven’t read the letter yet.”
“Oh, do let me know when you’ve read it, won’t you? I don’t know what we
shall do.”
Mrs. Brinkley read the letter in her own room. “You go down,” she said
to her husband, with unabated ferocity; “and telegraph Dan Mavering at
Wormley’s not to came. Say we’re going away at once.”
Then she sent Mrs. Pasmer a slip of paper on which she had written, “Not
coming.”
It has been the experience of every one to have some alien concern come
into his life and torment him with more anxiety than any affair of his
own. This is, perhaps, a hint from the infinite sympathy which feels
for us all that none of us can hope to free himself from the troubles of
others, that we are each bound to each by ties which, for the most part,
we cannot perceive, but which, at the moment their stress comes, we
cannot break.
Mrs. Brinkley lay awake and raged impotently against her complicity with
the unhappiness of that distasteful girl and her more than distasteful
mother. In her revolt against it she renounced the interest she had
felt in that silly boy, and his ridiculous love business, so really
unimportant to her whatever turn it took. She asked herself what it
mattered to her whether those children marred their lives one way or
another way. There was a lurid moment before she slept when she wished
