that I was frightened, and called the nurse, and went away. I never told
anybody, because it seemed so foolish of me, and I thought I had been
unkind, and had hurt her feelings. But after that she did not seem to
want to see me when I came, and so I have thought a great deal about it.
Do you see? Perhaps there is not much connection."

"I think you ought to have told some one; your father, for instance," I
said. "It is very interesting."

"I have told you, though it is so long since it happened," she answered;
and then she added, quickly, "Shall you tell Professor Cutter?"

"No," I replied, after a moment's hesitation. "I do not think I shall.
Should you like me to tell him?"

"Oh, no," she exclaimed quickly, "I should much rather you would not."

"Why?" I inquired. "I agree with you, but I should like to know your
reason."

"I think Professor Cutter knows more already than he will tell you or
me"---- She checked herself, and then continued in a lower voice: "It is
prejudice, of course, but I do not like him. I positively cannot bear
the sight of him."

"I fancy he knows that you do not like him," I remarked.

"Tell me, Miss Carvel, do you know anything of the reason why Madame
Patoff became insane? If you do know, you must not tell me what it was,
because your father does not wish me to hear it. But I should like to be
sure whether you know all about it or not; whether you and I judge her
from the same point of view, or whether you are better instructed than I
am."

"I know nothing about it," said Hermione, quietly.

She sat gazing into the great fire, one small hand supporting her chin,
and the other resting upon the sharp white head of Fang, who never moved
from her knee. There was a pause, during which we were both wondering
what strange circumstance could have brought the unhappy woman to her
present condition, whether it were that of real or of assumed insanity.

"I do not know," she repeated, at last. "I wish I did; but I suppose it
was something too dreadful to be told. There are such dreadful things in
the world, you know."

"Yes, I know there are," I answered, gravely; and in truth I was
persuaded that the prime cause must have been extraordinary indeed,
since even John Carvel had said that he could not tell me.

"There are such dreadful things," Hermione said again. "Just think how
horrible it would be if"---- She stopped short, and blushed crimson in
the ruddy firelight.

"What?" I asked. But she did not answer, and I saw that the idea had
pained her, whatever it might be. Presently she turned the phrase so as
to make it appear natural enough.

"What a horrible thing it would be if we found that poor aunt Annie only
let us believe she was mad, because she had done something she was sorry
for, and would not own it!"

"Dreadful indeed," I replied. Hermione rose from her deep chair.

"Good-night, Mr. Griggs," she said. "I hope we may all understand
everything some day."

"Good-night, Miss Carvel."

"How careful you are of the formalities!" she said, laughing. "How two
years change everything! It used to be 'Good-night, Hermy,' so short a
time ago!"

"Good-night, Hermy," I said, laughing too, as she took my hand. "If you
are old enough to be called Miss Carvel, I am old enough to call you
Hermy still."

"Oh, I did not mean that," she said, and went away.

I sat a few minutes by the fire after she had gone, and then, fearing
lest I should be disturbed by the professor or John Carvel, I too left
the hall, and went to my own room, to think over the events of the day.
I had learned so much that I was confused, and needed rest and leisure
to reflect. That morning I had waked with a sensation of unsatisfied
curiosity. All I had wanted to discover had been told me before
bed-time, and more also; and now I was unpleasantly aware that this very
curiosity was redoubled, and that, having been promoted from knowing
nothing to knowing something, I felt I had only begun to guess how much
there was to be known.

Oh, this interest in other people's business! How grand and beautiful
and simple a thing it is to mind one's own affairs, and leave other
people to mind what concerns them! And yet I defy the most indifferent
man alive to let himself be put in my position, and not to feel
curiosity; to be taken into a half confidence of the most intense
interest, and not to desire exceedingly to be trusted with the
remainder; to be asked to consider and give an opinion upon certain
effects, and to be deliberately informed that he may never know the
causes which led to the results he sees.

On mature reflection, what had struck me as most remarkable in
connection with the whole matter was Hermione's simple, almost childlike
guess,--that Madame Patoff was ashamed of something, and was willing to
be considered insane, rather than let it be thought she was in
possession of her faculties at the time when she did the deed, whatever
it might be. That this was a conceivable hypothesis there was no manner
of doubt, only I could hardly imagine what action, apart from the poor
woman's attempt at suicide, could have been so serious as to persuade
her to act insanity for the rest of her life. Surely John Carvel, with
his great, kind heart, would not be unforgiving. But John Carvel might
not have been concerned in the matter at all. He spoke of knowing the
details and being unable to tell them to me, but he never said they
concerned any one but Madame Patoff.

Strange that Hermione should not know, either. Whatever the details
were, they were not fit for her young ears. It was strange, too, that
she should have conceived an antipathy for the professor. He was a man
who was generally popular, or who at least had the faculty of making
himself acceptable when he chose; but it was perfectly evident that the
scientist and the young girl disliked each other. There was more in it
than appeared upon the surface. Innocent young girls do not suddenly
contract violent prejudices against elderly and inoffensive men who do
not weary them or annoy them in some way; still less do men of large
intellect and experience take unreasoning and foolish dislikes to young
and beautiful maidens. We know little of the hidden sympathies and
antipathies of the human heart, but we know enough to say with certainty
that in broad cases the average human being will not, without cause, act
wholly in contradiction to the dictates of reason and the probabilities
of human nature.

I lay awake long that night, and for many nights afterwards, trying to
explain to myself these problems, and planning ways and means for
discovering whether or not the beautiful old lady down-stairs was in her
right mind, or was playing a shameful and wicked trick upon the man who
sheltered her. But though other events followed each other with
rapidity, it was long before I got at the truth and settled the
question. Whether or not I was right in wishing to pursue the secret to
its ultimate source and explanation, I leave you to judge. I will only
say that, although I was at first impelled by what seems now a wretched
and worthless curiosity, I found, as time went on, that there was such a
multiplicity of interests at stake, that the complications were so
singular and unexpected and the passions aroused so masterful and
desperate, that, being in the fight, I had no choice but to fight it to
the end. So I did my very best in helping those to whom I owed
allegiance by all the laws of hospitality and gratitude, and in
concentrating my whole strength and intelligence and activity in the
discovery of an evil which I suspected from the first to be very great,
but of which I was far from realizing the magnitude and extent.

You will forgive my thus speaking of myself, and this apology for my
doings at this stage of my story; but I am aware that my motives
hitherto may have appeared contemptible, and I am anxious to have you
understand that when I found myself suddenly placed in what I regard as
one of the most extraordinary situations of my life, I honestly put my
hand out, and strove to become an agent for good in that strange series
of events into which my poor curiosity had originally brought me. And
having thus explained and expressed myself in concluding what I may
regard as the first part of my story, I promise that I will not trouble
you again, dear lady, with any unnecessary asseverations of my good
faith, nor with any useless defense of my actions; conceiving that
although I am responsible to you for the telling of this tale, I am
answerable to many for the part I played in the circumstances here
related; and that, on the other hand, though no one can find much fault
with me for my doings, none but you will have occasion to criticise my
mode of telling them.

Henceforth, therefore, and to the end, I will speak of events which
happened from an historical point of view, frequently detailing
conversations in which I took no part and scenes of which I had not at
the time any knowledge, and only introducing myself in the first person
when the nature of the story requires it.




XI.


One might perhaps define the difference between Professor Cutter and
Paul Patoff by saying that the Russian endeavored to make a favorable
impression upon people about him, and then to lead them on by means of
the impression he had created, whereas the scientist enjoyed feeling
that he had a hidden power over his surroundings, while he allowed
people to think that he was only blunt and outspoken. Essentially, there
was between the two men the difference that exists between a diplomatist
and a conspirator. Patoff loved to appear brilliant, to talk well, to be
liked by everybody, and to accomplish everything by persuasion; he
seemed to enjoy the world and his position in it, and it was part of his
plan of life to acknowledge his little vanities, and to make others feel
that they need only take a sufficient pride in themselves to become as
shining lights in the social world as Paul Patoff. At a small cost to
himself, he favored the general opinion in regard to his eccentricity,
because the reputation of it gave him a certain amount of freedom he
would not otherwise have enjoyed. He undertook many obligations, in his
constant readiness to be agreeable to all men, and perhaps, if he had
not reserved to himself the liberty of some occasional repose, he would
have found the burden of his responsibilities intolerable. It was his
maxim that one should never appear to refuse anything to any one, and it
is no easy matter to do that, especially when it is necessary never to
neglect an opportunity of gaining an advantage for one's self. For the
whole aim of Patoff's policy at that time was selfish. He believed that
he possessed the secret of power in his own indomitable will, and he
cultivated the science of persuasion, until he acquired an infinite art
in adapting the means to the end. Every kind of knowledge served him,
and though his mind was perhaps not really profound, it was far from
being superficial, and the surface of it which he presented when he
chose was vast. It was impossible to speak of any question of history,
science, ethics, or æsthetics of which Patoff was ignorant, and his
information on most points was more than sufficient to help him in
artfully indorsing the opinions of those about him. He was full of tact.
It was impossible to make him disagree with any one, and yet he was so
skillful in his conversation that he was generally thought to have a
very sound judgment. His system was substantially one of harmless
flattery, and he never departed from it. He reckoned on the unfathomable
vanity of man, and he rarely was out in his reckoning; he counted upon
woman's admiration of dominating characters, and was not disappointed,
for women respected him, and were proportionately delighted when he
asked their opinion.

In this, as in all other things, the professor was the precise opposite
of the diplomatist. Cutter affected an air of sublime simplicity, and
cultivated a straightforward bluntness of expression which was not
without weight. He prided himself on saying at once that he either had
an opinion upon a subject, or had none; and if he chanced to have formed
any judgment he was hot in its support. His intellect was really
profound within the limits he had chosen for his activity, and his
experience of mankind was varied and singular. He was a man who cared
little for detail, except when details tended to elucidate the whole,
for his first impressions were accurate and large. With his strong and
sanguine nature he exhibited a rough frankness appropriate to his
character. He was strong-handed, strong-minded, and strong-tongued; a
man who loved to rule others, and who made no secret of it; impatient of
contradiction when he stated his views, but sure never to assume a
position in argument or in affairs which he did not believe himself
able to maintain against all comers.

But with this appearance of hearty honesty the scientist possessed the
remarkable quality of discretion, not often found in sanguine
temperaments. He loved to understand the secrets of men's lives, and to
feel that if need be he could govern people by main force and wholly
against their will. He could conceal anything, any knowledge he
possessed, any strong passion he felt, with amazing skill. At the very
time when he seemed to be most frankly speaking his mind, when he made
his honest strength appear as open as the day, as though scorning all
concealment and courting inquiry into his motives, he was capable of
completely hiding his real intentions, of professing ignorance in
matters in which he was profoundly versed, of appearing to be as cold as
stone when his heart was as hot as fire. He was a man of violent
passions in love and hate, unforgetting and unforgiving, who never
relented in the pursuit of an object, nor weighed the cruelty of the
means in comparison with the importance of the end. He had by nature a
temperament fitted for conspiracy and planned to disarm suspicion. He
was incomparably superior to Paul Patoff in powers of mind and in the
art of concealment, he was equal to him in the unchanging determination
of his will, but he was by far inferior to him in those external gifts
which charm the world and command social success.

These two remarkable men had met before they found themselves together
under John Carvel's roof, but they did not appear to have been intimate.
It was, indeed, very difficult to imagine what their relations could
have been, for they occasionally seemed to understand each other
perfectly upon matters not understood by the rest of us, whereas they
sometimes betrayed a surprising ignorance in regard to each other's
affairs.

From the time when the professor arrived it was apparent that Hermione
did not like him; and that Cutter was aware of the fact. It had not
needed the young girl's own assurance to inform me of the antipathy she
felt for the man of science. He had seen her before, but Hermione had
suddenly grown into a young lady since his last visit, and the
consequence was that she was thrown far more often into the society of
the man she disliked than had been the case when she was still in the
schoolroom. John Carvel never liked governesses, and as soon as
practicable the last one had been discharged, so that Hermione was left
to the society of her mother and aunt and of such visitors as chanced to
be staying in the house. She was fond of her brother, but had seen
little of him, and stood rather in awe of his superior genius; for
Macaulay was a young man who possessed in a very high degree what we
call the advantages of modern education. She loved him and looked up to
him, but did not understand him in the least, because people who have a
great deal of heart do not easily comprehend the nature of people who
have little; and Macaulay Carvel's manner of talking about men, and even
nations, as though they were mere wooden pawns, or sets of pawns,
puzzled his sister's simpler views of humanity. Her mother did not
always interest her, either; she was devotedly attached to her, but Mrs.
Carvel, as she grew older, became more and more absolved in the strange
sort of inner religious life which she had created for herself as a kind
of stronghold in the midst of her surroundings, and when alone with her
daughter was apt to talk too much upon serious subjects. To a young and
beautiful girl, who felt herself entering the vestibule of the world in
the glow of a wondrous dawn, the somewhat mournful contemplation of the
spiritual future could not possibly have the charm such meditation
possessed for a woman in middle age, who had passed through the halls of
the palace of life without seeing many of its beauties, and who already,
in the dim distance, caught sight of the shadowy gate whereby we must
all descend from this world's sumptuous dwelling, to tread the silent
labyrinths of the unknown future.

Such society as Mrs. Carvel's was not good for Hermione. It is not good
for any girl. It is before all things important that youth should be
young, lest it should not know how to be old when age comes upon it. Nor
is there anything that should be further removed from youth than the
contemplation of death, which to old age is but a haven of rest to be
desired, whereas to those who are still young it is an abyss to be
abhorred. It is well to say, "Memento, homo, quia pulvis es," but not
to say it too often, lest the dust of individual human existence make
cobwebs in the existence of humanity.

As for her aunt Chrysophrasia, Hermione liked to talk to her, because
Miss Dabstreak was amusing, with her everlasting paradoxes upon
everything; and because, not being by nature of an evil heart, and
desiring to be eccentric beyond her fellows, she was not altogether
averse to the mild martyrdom of being thought ridiculous by those who
held contrary opinions. Nevertheless, her aunt's company did not satisfy
all Hermione's want of society, and the advent of strangers, even of
myself, was hailed by her with delight. The fact of her conceiving a
particular antipathy for the professor was therefore all the more
remarkable, because she rarely shunned the society of any one with whom
she had an opportunity of exchanging ideas. But Cutter did not like to
be disliked, and he sought an occasion of making her change her mind in
regard to him. A few days after my visit to Madame Patoff, the professor
found his chance. Macaulay Carvel, Paul Patoff, and I left the house
early to ride to a distant meet, for Patoff had expressed his desire to
follow the hounds, and, as usual, everybody was anxious to oblige him.

After breakfast the professor watched until he saw Hermione enter the
conservatory, where she usually spent a part of the morning alone among
the flowers; sometimes making an elaborate inspection of the plants she
loved best, sometimes sitting for an hour or two with a book in some
remote corner, among the giant tropical leaves and the bright-colored
blossoms. She loved not only the flowers, but the warmth of the place,
in the bitter winter weather.

Cutter entered with a supremely unconscious air, as though he believed
there was no one in the conservatory. There was nothing professorial
about his appearance, except his great spectacles, through which he
gazed benignly at the luxuriant growth of plants, as he advanced, his
hands in the pockets of his plaid shooting-coat. He was dressed as any
other man might be in the country; he had selected an unostentatious
plaid for the material of his clothes, and he wore a colored tie, which
just showed beneath the wave of his thick beard. He trod slowly but
firmly, putting his feet down as though prepared to prove his right to
the ground he trod on.

"Oh! Are you here, Miss Carvel?" he exclaimed, as he caught sight of
Hermione installed in a cane chair behind some plants. She was not much
pleased at being disturbed, but she looked up with a slight smile,
willing to be civil.

"Since you ask me, I am," she replied.

"Whereas if I had not asked you, you would have affected not to be here,
you mean? How odd it is that just when one sees a person one should
always ask them if one sees them or not! In this case, I suppose the
pleasure of seeing you was so great that I doubted the evidence of my
senses. Is that the way to turn a speech?"

"It is a way of turning one, certainly," answered Hermione. "There may
be other ways. I have not much experience of people who turn speeches."

"I have had great experience of them," said the professor, "and I
confess to you that I consider the practice of turning everything into
compliment as a disagreeable and tiresome humbug."

"I was just thinking the same thing," said Hermione.

"Then we shall agree."

"Provided you practice what you preach, we shall."

"Did you ever know me to preach what I did not practice?" asked Cutter,
with a smile of honest amusement.

"I have not known much of you, either in preaching or in practicing, as
yet. We shall see."

"Shall I begin now?"

"If you like," answered the young girl.

"Which shall it be, preaching or practicing?"

"I should say that, as you have me entirely at your mercy, the
opportunity is favorable for preaching."

"I would not make such an unfair use of my advantage," said the
professor. "I detest preaching. In practice I never preach"----

"You are making too much conversation out of those two words,"
interrupted Hermione. "If I let you go on, you will be making puns upon
them."

"You do not like puns?"

"I think nothing is more contemptible."

"Merely because that way of being funny is grown old-fashioned," said
Cutter. "Fifty or sixty years ago, a hundred years ago, when a man
wanted to be very bitingly sarcastic, he would compose a criticism upon
his enemy which was only a long string of abominable puns; each pun was
printed in italics. That was thought to be very funny."

"You would not imitate that sort of fun, would you?" asked Hermione.

"No. You would think it no joke if I did," answered Cutter, gravely.

"I am not going to laugh," said Hermione. But she laughed, nevertheless.

"Pray do not laugh if you do not want to," said Cutter. "I am used to
being thought dull. Your gravity would not wound me though I were chief
clown to the whole universe, and yours were the only grave face in the
world. By the by, you are laughing, I see. I am much obliged for the
appreciation. Shall I go on being funny?"

"Not if you can help it," said Hermione.

"Do you insinuate that I am naturally an object for laughter?" asked
Cutter, smiling. "Do you mean that 'I am not only witty in myself, but
the cause that wit is in other men'? If so, I may yet make you spend a
pleasant hour in despite of yourself, without any great effort on my own
part. I will sit here, and you shall laugh at me. The morning will pass
very agreeably."

"I should think you might find something better to do," returned
Hermione. "But they say that small things amuse great minds."

"If I had a great mind, do you think I should look upon it as a small
thing to be laughed at by you, Miss Carvel?" inquired Cutter, quietly.

"You offer yourself so readily to be my laughing-stock that I am forced
to consider what you offer a small thing," returned his companion.

"You are exceedingly sarcastic. In that case, I have not a great mind,
as you supposed."

"You are fishing for a compliment, I presume."

"Perhaps. I wish you would pay me compliments--in earnest. I am vain. I
like to be appreciated. You do not like me,--I should like to be liked
by you."

"You are talking nonsense, Professor Cutter," said the young girl,
raising her eyebrows a little. "If I did not like you, it would be
uncivil of you to say you had found it out, unless I treated you
rudely."

"It may be nonsense, Miss Carvel. I speak according to my lights."

"Then I should say that for a luminary of science your light is very
limited," returned Hermione.

"In future I will hide my light under a bushel, since it displeases
you."

"Something smaller than a bushel would serve the purpose. But it does
not please me that you should be in the dark; I would rather you had
more light."

"You have only to look at me," said the scientist, with a laugh.

"I thought you professed not to make silly compliments. My mother tells
me that the true light should come from within," added Hermione, with a
little scorn.

"Religious enthusiasts, who make those phrases, spend their lives in
studying themselves," retorted Cutter. "They think they see light where
they most wish to find it. I spend my time in studying other people."

"I should think you would find it vastly more interesting."

"I do; especially when you are one of the people I am permitted to
study."

"If you think I will permit it long, you are mistaken," said Hermione,
who was beginning to lose her temper, without precisely knowing why. She
took up her book and a piece of embroidery she had brought with her, as
though she would go.

"You cannot help my making a study of you," returned the professor,
calmly. "If you leave me now, I regard it as an interesting feature in
your case."

"I will afford you that much interest, at all events," answered
Hermione, rising to her feet. She was annoyed, and the blood rose to her
delicate cheeks, while her downcast lashes hid the anger in her eyes.
But she did not know the man, if she thought he would let himself be
treated so lightly. She knew neither him nor his weapons.

"Miss Carvel, permit me to ask your forgiveness," he said. "I am so fond
of hearing myself talk that my tongue runs away with me."

"Why do you tease me so?" asked Hermione, suddenly raising her eyes and
facing Cutter. But before he could answer her she laid down her work and
her book, and walked slowly away from him. She reached the opposite side
of the broad conservatory, and turned back.

Cutter's whole manner had changed the moment he saw that she was
seriously annoyed. He knew well enough that he had said nothing for
which the girl could be legitimately angry, but he understood her
antipathy to him too well not to know that it could easily be excited at
any moment to an open expression of dislike. On the present occasion,
however, he had resolved to fathom, if possible, the secret cause of the
feeling the beautiful Hermione entertained against him.

"Miss Carvel," he said, very gently, as she advanced again towards him,
"I like to talk to you, of all people, but you do not like me,--forgive
my saying it, for I am in earnest,--and I lose my temper because I
cannot find out why."

Hermione stood still for a moment, and looked straight into the
professor's eyes; she saw that they met hers with such an honest
expression of regret that her heart was touched. She stooped and picked
a flower, and held it in her hand some seconds before she answered.

"It was I who was wrong," she said, presently. "Let us be friends. It is
not that I do not like you,--really I believe it is not that. It is
that, somehow, you do manage to--to tease me, I suppose." She blushed.
"I am sure you do not mean it. It is very foolish of me, I know."

"If you could only tell me exactly where my fault lies," said Cutter,
earnestly, "I am sure I would never commit it again. You do not
seriously believe that I ever intend to annoy you?"

"N--no," hesitated Hermione. "No, you do not intend to annoy me, and yet
I think it amuses you sometimes to see that I am angry about nothing."

"It does not amuse me," said Cutter. "My tongue gets the better of me,
and then I am very sorry afterwards. Let us be friends, as you say. We
have more serious things to think of than quarreling in our
conversation. Say you forgive me, as freely as I say that it has been my
fault."

There was something so natural and humble in the way the man spoke that
Hermione had no choice but to put out her hand and agree to the truce.
Professor Cutter was as old as her father, though he looked ten years
younger, or more; he had a world-wide reputation in more than one branch
of science; he was altogether what is called a celebrated man; and he
stood before her asking to "make friends," as simply as a schoolboy.
Hermione had no choice.

"Of course," she answered, and then added with a smile, "only you must
really not tease me any more."

"I won't," said Cutter, emphatically.

They sat down again, side by side, and were silent for some moments. It
seemed to Hermione as though she had made an important compact, and she
did not feel altogether certain of the result. She could have laughed at
the idea that her making up her differences with the professor was of
any real importance in her life, but nevertheless she felt that it was
so, and she was inclined to think over what she had done. Her hands lay
folded upon her lap, and she idly gazed at them, and thought how small
and white they looked upon the dark blue serge. Cutter spoke first.

"I suppose," he began, "that when we are not concerned with our own
immediate affairs, we are all of us thinking of the same thing. Indeed,
though we live very much as though nothing were the matter, we are
constantly aware that one subject occupies us all alike."

To tell the truth, Hermione was not at that moment thinking of poor
Madame Patoff. She raised her eyes with an inquiring glance.

"I am very much preoccupied," continued the professor. "I have not the
least idea whether we have done wisely in allowing Paul to see his
mother."

"If she knew him, I imagine it was a good thing," answered Hermione.
"How long is it since they met?"

"Eighteen months, or more. They met last in very painful circumstances,
I believe. You see the impression was strong enough to outlive her
insanity. She was not glad to see him."

"Why will they not tell me what drove her mad?" asked Hermione.

"It is not a very nice story," answered the professor. "It is probably
on account of Paul." There was a short pause.

"Do you mean that she went mad on account of something Paul did?" asked
Hermione presently.

"I am not sure I can tell you that. I wish you could know the whole
story, but your father would never consent to it, I am sure."

"If it is not nice, I do not wish to hear it," said Hermione, quietly.
"I only wanted to know about Paul. You gave me the impression that it
was in some way his fault."

"In some way it was," replied Cutter. "Poor lady,--I am not sure we
should have let her see him."

"Does she suffer much, do you think?"

"No. If she suffered much, she would fall ill and probably die. I do not
think she has any consciousness of her situation. I have known people
like that who were mad only three or four days in the week. She never
has a lucid moment. I am beginning to think it is hopeless, and we might
as well advise your father to have her taken to a private asylum. The
experiment would be interesting."

"Why?" asked Hermione. "She gives nobody any trouble here. It would be
unkind. She is not violent, nor anything of that sort. We should all
feel dreadfully if anything happened to her in the asylum. Besides, I
thought it was a great thing that she should have known Paul yesterday."

"Not so great as one might fancy. I think that if there were much chance
of her recovery, the recognition of her son ought to have brought back a
long train of memories, amounting almost to a lucid interval."

"I understood that you had spoken more hopefully last night," said
Hermione, doubtfully. "You seem discouraged to-day."

"With most people it is necessary to appear hopeful at any price,"
answered Cutter. "I feel that with you I am perfectly safe in saying
precisely what I think. You will not misinterpret what I say, nor repeat
it to every other member of the household."

"No, indeed. I am glad you tell me the truth, but I had hoped it was not
as bad as you say."

"Your aunt is very mad indeed, Miss Carvel," said the professor.

I may observe, in passing, that what the professor said to me differed
very materially from what he said to Hermione, a circumstance we did not
discover until a later date. For Hermione, having given her promise not
to repeat what Cutter told her about her aunt, kept it faithfully, and
did not even assume an air of superiority when speaking about the case
to others. She believed exactly what the professor said, namely, that he
trusted her, and no one else, with his true views of the matter; and
that, to all others, he assumed an air of hopefulness very far removed
from his actual state of mind.

Singularly,--or naturally, as you look at it,--the result of the
conversation between Hermione and the professor was the complete
disappearance, for some time, of all their differences. Cutter ceased to
annoy her with his sharp answers to all she said, and she showed a
growing interest in him and in his conversation. They were frequently
seen talking together, apparently taking pleasure in each other's
society, a fact which I alone noticed as interesting, for Patoff had not
been long enough at Carvel Place to discover that there had ever been
any antipathy between the two. On looking back, I ascribe the change to
the influence Cutter obtained over Hermione by suddenly affecting a
great earnestness and a sincere regret for the annoyance he had given in
the past, and by admitting her, as he gave her to understand that he
did, to his confidence in the matter of Madame Patoff's insanity. Be
that as it may, the result was obtained very easily by the professor;
and when Hermione left him, before lunch, it is probable that in the
solitude of the conservatory the man of science rubbed his gigantic
hands together, and beamed upon the orchids with unusual benignity.

But while this new alliance was being formed in the conservatory,
another conversation was taking place in a distant part of the house,
not less interesting, perhaps, but not destined to reach so peaceable a
conclusion. The scene of this other meeting was Miss Chrysophrasia
Dabstreak's especial boudoir, an apartment so singular in its furniture
and adornment that I will leave out all description of it, and ask you
merely to imagine, at will, the most æsthetic retreat of the most
æsthetic old maid in existence.

After breakfast, that morning, Chrysophrasia had sent word to Mrs.
Carvel that she should be glad to see her, if she could come up to her
boudoir. Chrysophrasia never came down to breakfast. She regarded that
meal as a barbarism, forgetting that the mediæval persons she admired
began their days by taking to themselves a goodly supply of food. She
never appeared before lunch, but spent her mornings in the solitude of
her own apartment, probably in the composition of verses which have
remained hitherto unpublished. Mrs. Carvel at once acceded to the
request conveyed in her sister's message, and went to answer the
summons. She was not greatly pleased at the idea of spending the morning
with her sister, for she devoted the early hours to religious reading
whenever she was able; but she was the most obliging woman in the world,
and so she quietly put aside her own wishes, and mounted the stairs to
Miss Dabstreak's boudoir. She found the latter clad in loose garments of
strange cut and hue, and a green silk handkerchief was tied about her
forehead, presumably out of respect for certain concealed curl papers
rather than for any direct purpose of adornment. Chrysophrasia looked
very faded in the morning. As Mrs. Carvel entered the room, her sister
pointed languidly to a chair, and then paused a moment, as though to
recover from the exertion.

"Mary," said she at last, and even from the first tone of her voice Mrs.
Carvel felt that a severe lecture was imminent,--"Mary, this thing is a
hollow sham. It cannot be allowed to go on any longer."

Mrs. Carvel's face assumed a sweet and sad expression, and folding her
hands upon her knees, she leaned slightly forward from the chair upon
which she sat, and prepared to soothe her sister's views upon hollow
shams in general.

"My dear," said she, "you must endeavor to be charitable."

"I do not see the use of being charitable," returned Chrysophrasia, with
more energy than she was wont to display. "Dear me, Mary, what in the
world has charity to do with the matter? Can you look at me and say that
it has anything to do with it?"

No. Mary could not look at her and say so, for a very good reason. She
had not the most distant idea what Chrysophrasia was talking about. On
general principles, she had made a remark about being charitable, and
was now held to account for it. She smiled timidly, as though to
deprecate her sister's vengeance.

"Mary," said Chrysophrasia, in a tone of sorrowful rebuke, "I am afraid
you are not listening to me."

"Indeed I am," said Mrs. Carvel, patiently.

"Well, then, Mary, I say it is a hollow sham, and that it cannot go on
any longer."

"Yes, my dear," assented her sister. "I have no doubt you are right; but
what were you referring to as a hollow sham?"

"You are hopeless, Mary,--you have no intuitions. Of course I mean
Paul."

Even this was not perfectly clear, and Mrs. Carvel looked inquiringly at
her sister.

"Is it possible you do not understand?" asked Chrysophrasia. "Do you
propose to allow my niece--my niece, Mary, and your daughter," she
repeated with awful emphasis--"to fall in love with her own cousin?"

"I am sure the dear child would never think of such a thing," answered
Mary Carvel, very gently, and as though not wishing to contradict her
sister. "He has not been here twenty-four hours."

"The dear child is thinking of it at this very moment," said
Chrysophrasia. "And what is more, Paul has come here with the deliberate
intention of marrying her. I have seen it from the first moment he
entered the house. I can see it in his eyes."

"Well, my dear, you may be right. But I have not noticed anything of the
sort, and I think you go too far. You will jump at conclusions,
Chrysophrasia."

"If I went at them at all, Mary, I would glide,--I certainly would not
jump," replied the æsthetic lady, with a languid smile. Mrs. Carvel
looked wearily out of the window. "Besides," continued Chrysophrasia,
"the thing is quite impossible. Paul is not at all a match. Hermy will
be very rich, some day. John will not leave everything to Macaulay: I
have heard him say so."

"Why do you discuss the matter, Chrysophrasia?" objected Mrs. Carvel,
with a little shade of very mild impatience. "There is no question of
Hermy marrying Paul."

"Then Paul ought to go away at once."

"We cannot send him away. Besides, I think he is a very good fellow. You
forget that poor Annie is in the house, and he has a right to see her,
at least for a week."

"It seems to me that Annie might go and live with him."

"He has no home, poor fellow,--he is in the diplomatic service. He is
made to fly from Constantinople to Persia, and from Persia to St.
Petersburg; how could he take poor Annie with him?"

"If poor Annie chose," said Chrysophrasia, sniffing the air with a
disagreeable expression, "poor Annie could go. If she has sense enough
to dress herself gorgeously and to read dry books all day, she has sense
enough to travel."

"Oh, Chrysophrasia! How dreadfully unkind you are! You know how--ill she
is."

Mrs. Carvel did not like to pronounce the word "insane." She always
spoke of Madame Patoff's "illness."

"I do not believe it," returned Miss Dabstreak. "She is no more crazy
than I am. I believe Professor Cutter knows it, too. Only he has been
used to saying that she is mad for so long that he will not believe his
senses, for fear of contradicting himself."

"In any case I would rather trust to him than to my own judgment."

"I would not. I am utterly sick of this perpetual disturbance about
Annie's state of mind. It destroys the charm of a peaceful existence. If
I had the strength, I would go to her and tell her that I know she is
perfectly sane, and that she must leave the house. John is so silly
about her. He turns the place into an asylum, just because she chooses
to hold her tongue."

Mrs. Carvel rose with great dignity.

"I will leave you, Chrysophrasia," she said. "I cannot bear to hear you
talk in this way. You really ought to be more charitable."

"You are angry, Mary," replied her sister. "Good-by. I cannot bear the
strain of arguing with you. When you are calmer you will remember what I
have said."

Poor Mrs. Carvel certainly exhibited none of the ordinary symptoms of
anger, as she quietly left the room, with an expression of pain upon her
gentle face. When Chrysophrasia was very unreasonable her only course
was to go away; for she was wholly unable to give a rough answer, or to
defend herself against her sister's attacks. Mary went in search of her
husband, and was glad to find him in the library, among his books.

