success." He straightened himself, the awkwardness had left him, and he
seemed taller than when he entered the room. "Yes," he continued, "the
door to success is very low, and the greater is he that bends the most.
Let a man succeed in any one thing, and whatever may be the factors with
which that success is achieved, Envy will call a host of enemies into
being as swiftly as Cadmus summoned his soldiery. And these enemies will
come not alone from the outer world, but from the ranks of his nearest
friends. Ruin a man's home, he may forget it. But excel him, do him a
favor, show yourself in any light his superior, then indeed is the
affront great. Mediocrity is unforgiving. We pretend to admire
greatness, but we isolate it and call that isolation Fame. It is above
us; we cannot touch it; but mud is plentiful and that we can throw. And
if no mud be at hand, we can loose that active abstraction, malice,
which subsists on men and things. No; had I an enemy I could wish him no
greater penance than success--success prompt, vertiginous, immense! To
the world, as I have found it, success is a crime, and its atonement,
not death, but torture. Truly, Miss Menemon, humanity is not admirable.
Men mean well enough, no doubt; but nature is against them. Libel is the
tribute that failure pays to success. If I am slandered, it is because I
have succeeded. But what is said of my father is wholly true. He did
make shoes, God bless him! and very good shoes they were. Pardon me for
not having said so before."

Eden listened as were she assisting at the soliloquy of an engastrimuth.
The words he uttered seemed to come less from him than from one unknown
yet not undevined. And now, as he paused for encouragement or rebuke, he
saw that her eyes were in his.

"Miss Menemon," he continued, "forget my outer envelope; if you could
read in my heart, you would find it full of love for you."

"Perhaps," she said, and smiled as at a vista visible only to herself. "I
will tell my father what you say," she added demurely.

With that answer Mr. Usselex was fain to be content. And presently, when
he had gone, she wondered how it was that she had ever cared for Dugald
Maule.

A week later the engagement of Miss Menemon to John Usselex was
announced. Much comment was excited, and the rumors alluded to were
industriously circulated. But comment and rumors notwithstanding, the
marriage took place, and after it the bride left her father's dingy
little house on Second Avenue for a newer and larger one on Fifth. Many
people had envied Usselex his wealth; on that day they envied him his
bride.




II.


It was late in November before Eden found herself in full possession of
her new home. Shortly after the ceremony she had gone to Newport, and
when summer departed she made for Lennox, which she deserted for
Tuxedo. It was therefore not until the beginning of winter that the
brown hollands were removed from her town residence.

During the intervening months she had been wholly content. She had not
led the existence of which at sixteen she had dreamed in the recesses of
her father's library, nor yet such an one as Dugald Maule had had the
ability to suggest. On the other hand, she had for her husband something
that was more than love. She regarded him as one of the coefficients of
the age. Among the rumors which her engagement created was one to the
effect that she was to be used as Open Sesame to doors hitherto closed
to him; and this rumor, like the others, some fair little demon of a
friend had whispered in her ear. But the possibility of such a quid pro
quo had left her undisturbed. If a privilege paltry as that were hers
to bestow, there was indeed no reason why she should begrudge it.

It so happened, however, that she was not called upon to make the
slightest effort in that direction. Everybody discussed the marriage,
and at the wedding, as is usually the case, the front seats were
occupied by those who had said the most in its disfavor. At Newport
there was a fleeting hesitation. But the exclusion of the bride from
entertainments being practically impossible, and moreover, as it is not
considered seemly to invite a wife and overlook a husband, both were
bidden; and to the surprise of many it was discovered that Usselex had
not only as fine an air as many of the foreign noblemen that passed that
way, but that he even possessed a keener appreciation of
conventionalities. Added to this his wealth was reported to be fabulous.
What more could Newport ask? If his origin was more or less dubious,
were there not many whose origins were worse than dubious, whose origins
were known? Indeed, not everyone was qualified to throw a stone, and
gradually any thought of stone-throwing was dismissed. His opponents
became his supporters, and after the villegiatura at Lennox and at
Tuxedo no further question was raised.

In returning to town therefore, Eden was wholly content. She had married
a man of whom she was proud, a man who, while subservient to her
slightest wish, had taught her what love might be. Altogether, the world
seemed larger, and she felt fully prepared to do her duty in that sphere
of life to which God had called her.

That sphere of life, she presently discovered, was to be co-tenanted by
her husband's secretary. Usselex had mentioned his existence on more
than one incidental occasion, but after each mention the actuality of
that existence had escaped her; and a week or so after her return to
town she found herself mediocrally pleased at learning that he would
probably be a frequent guest at her dinner-table.

In answer to the query which her eyebrows took on at this intelligence,
Usselex explained that now and then, through stress of business, he was
in Wall Street unable to provide the individual in question with his
fullest instructions, and for that reason it was expedient for him to
have the man of an evening at the house. Immediately Eden's fancy evoked
the confidential clerk of the London stage, a withered bookkeeper, shiny
of garment, awkward of manner, round of shoulder, square of nail,
explosive with figures, and covered with warts, and on the evening in
which the secretary was to make his initial appearance she weaponed
herself with a vinaigrette.

But of the vinaigrette she had no need whatever. The secretary entered
the drawing-room with the unembarrassed step of a somnambulist. His
manner was that of one aware that the best manner consists in the
absence of any at all. His coat might have come from Piccadilly, and
when he found a seat Eden noticed that the soles of his shoes were
veneered in black. In brief, he looked well-bred and well-groomed. He
was young, twenty-three or twenty-four at most. His head was massive,
and his features were pagan in their correctness. The jaw was a
masterpiece; it gave the impression of reservoirs of interior strength,
an impression which was tempered when he spoke, for his voice was low
and unsonorous as a muffled bell. His eyes were of that green-gray which
is caught in an icicle held over grass. And in them and about his mouth
something there was that suggested that he could never be brutal and
seldom tender.

At table he made no remark worthy of record. He seemed better content to
watch Eden than to speak. He ate little and drank less, and when the
meal was done and Eden left him to her husband and the presumable cigar,
she made up her mind that he was stupid.

"He is a German," she reflected; "with such a name as Adrian Arnswald he
must be. H'm. The only German I ever liked was a Frenchman, the author
of the Reisebilder. Well, there seems to be no bilder of any kind in
him." She picked up the Post and promptly lost herself in a review of
the opera. "There," she mused, "I forgot Wagner. After all, as some one
said of the Scotch, you can do a good deal with a German if you catch
him young. Mr. Arnswald does not appear to have been caught in time."
She threw the paper from her and seated herself at the piano. For a
moment her fingers strayed over the keys, and then, in answer to some
evoking chord, she attacked the Ernani involami, than which few
melodies are richer in appeal. Her voice was not of the bravura quality,
the lower register was not full, and the staccati notes were beyond her
range; a professor from a conservatory would have disapproved of her
method as he would have disapproved of that of the ruiceñor. But then
the ruiceñor sings out of sheer wantonness, because it cannot help it;
and so did she.

And as she sang, anyone who had chanced that way would have accounted
her fair to see. Her gown was black, glittered with jet, about her
throat was a string of pearls, her arms were bare, the wrists
unbraceleted, and in her face that beauty of youth and of fragility
which refinement heightens and which eclipses the ruddier
characteristics of the buxom models of the past. An artist might not
have given her a second glance, a poet would have adored her at the
first. And as she still sang, Arnswald entered the room and approached
the piano at which she sat.

She heard his steps and turned at once expectant of Usselex. Then,
seeing that he was alone, "What have you done with my husband?" she
asked.

"Nothing," the young man answered. "Nothing at all. A gentleman, a
customer, I fancy, sent in his card, and I left him to him." He found a
seat and eyed her gravely. "If I disturb you--"

"Oh, you don't disturb me in the least. What makes you look as though
you came from another planet?"

"What makes you look as though you were going to one?"

Mr. Arnswald is passably impertinent, thought Eden; but the expression
of his face was so reassuringly devoid of any non-conventional symptom
that she laughed outright at the compliment. "Do you care for music?"
she asked.

"Surely, Mrs. Usselex."

"Yes, of course. I forgot. All Germans do. Tell me, how long have you
been in this country? How do you come to speak German without an
accent?"

"I was born here, Mrs. Usselex."

"You were born here! I thought you were a German. Why didn't you tell
me?"

"You did not do me the honor to ask."

"But your father was, wasn't he?"

"No, my father was a Russian, I think."

"You think? Why do you say you think? Don't you know? I never knew
anyone so absurd."

"My father died when I was very young, Mrs. Usselex. I do not remember
him."

"But your mother could have told you--"

"If she didn't, Mrs. Usselex, it was because she had a good excuse."

"What was that?"

"She died also."

"Mr. Arnswald, I am sorry. I had no right to ask such thoughtless
questions. My mother died too. I do not remember her either. Truly you
must forgive me." And as she spoke she rose from the piano and reseated
herself at the lounge which she had previously vacated. "Tell me about
yourself," she added. "I am not asking out of idle curiosity."

"You are very good to express any interest, Mrs. Usselex. But really
there is little to tell. I used to live in Massachusetts, in Salem, with
my grand-parents and my sister. You can see Salem from here, and you can
understand what a boy's life in such a place must be. Afterwards I was
sent to school, and later I went abroad. When I returned Mr. Usselex
took me in his office. I have been there ever since. He has been very
kind to me, Mr. Usselex has."

"He says--how is it he puts it?--oh, he says you have the genius of
finance."

"I can only repeat that he is very kind."

To this Eden assented. "Yes, he is that," she said, and hesitated for a
moment. "Tell me," she added. "You said you were fond of music. Will you
go with us on Monday to the opera?"

This invitation was accepted with the same readiness as that with which
it was made. And presently the young man took his leave. When the
portière fell behind him, Eden felt a momentary uneasiness at the
unpremeditated invitation which she had just extended. One doesn't need
to be a German to be stupid, she mused, and felt sure that her husband
would disapprove. But when she told him he expressed himself as well
pleased.

The next day happened to be Sunday, and on that afternoon Mr. Arnswald
came to pay his dinner-call. Meanwhile Eden's imagination had been at
work. Now imagination is a force of which the action is as varied as
that of volition. There are organizations which it affects like a
dissolvent, there are others which it affects like wine. In some it
needs a spur, in others a curb. Give it an incident for incubator, and
according to the nature of the individual it will soar full-feathered
into space or addle in its own inaction. In Eden its gestation was
always abrupt. With a fact for matrix it developed as rapidly as a spark
mounts into flame. The fact in this instance was Arnswald.

When he left her the night before, she had gone again to the piano, her
fingers had fluttered like butterflies over the keys, then in answer to
some strain, an aria from the Regina di Golconda had visited her--the
Bel paese, ciel ridente, which she had hummed softly to herself,
unconscious of any significance in the words. But presently she fell to
wondering about the fair land, the fairer sky which the song recalled.
Something there was that kept telling her that she had met Adrian
before. In his voice she had caught an inflection that was not
unfamiliar to her. In the polar-light of his eyes was a suggestion of
earlier acquaintance. His infrequent gestures brought her the shadow of
a reminiscence. And in his face there was an expression that haunted
her. For a while she struggled with memory. But memory is a magician
that declines to be coerced. Now and then it will pull its victim by the
sleeve, as it had pulled at Eden, yet turn to interrogate and a dream is
not more evanescent. But still she struggled with it. A silence, an
attitude, a combination purely atmospheric had evoked a charm, and
though memory declined to return and undo the spell, still she labored
until at last, conscious of the futility of the effort, or else wearied
by the endeavor, she consoled herself as in similar circumstances we all
of us have done with the mirage of anterior life.

The possibility of recognition she then put behind her, but the man
remained. There was a magnificence about him which disconcerted her, an
air that appealed. In some way his evening dress had seemed an
incongruity. She told herself that he would look better in a silken
pourpoint, and better still in the chlamys-robe of state. She decided
that he needed a dash of color, some swirling plume of red, and fell to
wondering what his life had been. It was evident to her that he had been
gently bred. About him the feminine influence was discernible, one no
doubt which begun at the cradle had continued ever since. In the absence
of a mother there had been someone else, a sister, perhaps, and a
procession of sweethearts to whom he had been swain. But the latter
possibility she presently dismissed. Love-making is the occupation of
those that have none, and Arnswald's hours were seemingly well-filled.
In Salem he might have left a combustible maiden, he might even have
found one in New York, but in that case Eden felt tolerably sure that he
had little time in which to apply the match. And then at once her fancy
took a tangential flight; a little romance unrolled before her--the
mating of Arnswald to some charming girl whom she would herself
discover, and the life-long friendship that would ensue.

On the following afternoon therefore, when the young man put in an
appearance, he was received with unaffected cordiality.

"I have been thinking about you," Eden announced, when he found a seat.
"I am glad you came, I want you to tell me more of yourself."

"I reproached myself for having exhausted your patience last evening,"
he answered.

"Then you deserve to be punished. You go with us to the opera to-morrow,
do you not? Very good, you must dine with us first. There is a friend of
mine whom you will meet there. I want you to like her."

"If she resembles you in any way that will not be difficult."

"He begins well," mused Eden, and a layer of cordiality dropped from
her. But presently she recovered it. Arnswald had been looking in her
face, and the change in its expression had not passed unobserved.

"I mean," he continued, "that there are people that make you like them
at first sight and you, Mrs. Usselex, are one of those people. When I
left you last evening I told myself that you exhaled a sympathy which is
as rare as it is delightful. I have met few such as you. As a rule the
people I have been brought in contact with have been hard and
self-engrossed. You are among the exceptions, and it is the
exception----"

Eden interrupted him. "Now that is nonsense," she said severely. "The
people whom we can like are not as infrequent as all that. Do you mean
to tell me that there is no one for whom you really care?"

Arnswald shook his head and smiled. "No, Mrs. Usselex," he answered, "I
don't mean to say that. There are some for whom I care very much. There
is even one for whom were it necessary I would lay down life itself."

At this Eden experienced a mental start. The possibility of mating him
to some charming girl whom she was herself to discover had suddenly
become remote. But she nodded encouragingly to the confidence.

"Yes," he continued, and into his polar-eyes came a sudden flicker.
"Yes, there is one whom I have recently come to know and who is to me as
a prayer fulfilled. Were I called upon to make a sacrifice for her, no
matter what the nature of that sacrifice might be, the mere doing of it
would constitute a well-spring of delight."

Eden smiled at the dithyramb as were she listening to some fay she did
not see. Arnswald had been looking at her, but now, as though ashamed of
the outburst, he affected a little laugh and dropped back into the
conventional. Presently he rose and took his polar-eyes away. When he
had gone Eden smiled again. "He may have the genius of finance," she
mused, "but he has the genius of love as well."




III.


Eden had but recently returned to town and the claims of mantua-makers
and milliners were oppressive. They took her time, they came to her in
the morning, and she, with the courtesy of kings, returned the visit in
the afternoon. But to little purpose. They were vexatious people, she
discovered. They deceived her wantonly. They promised and did not
fulfill. The live-long day they had irritated her, they had obtained her
confidence by false pretences, and now, after a round of interviews each
more profitless than the last, on reaching her house the dust of shops
was on her mantle, and she could have gone in a corner and sworn.

Moreover it was late, dinner would presently be served. Arnswald, she
learned, had already arrived, he was in the parlor with her husband, and
as she hurried to her room she told herself that she would have to dress
in haste, an operation which to her was always fertile in annoyance. An
entire hour was never too much. But her maid was agile, dexterous of
hand, and before the clock marked seven she was fully equipped, arrayed
for dinner and the opera as well.

On leaving the room, Eden left her vexation behind her. It had been
fleeting and inoffensive as the anger of a canary. And now, on
descending the stairs, she was in great good spirits again, the crimes
of mantua-makers and milliners were forgotten, and she prepared to meet
her husband and her guest. Half-way on her journey to the drawing-room,
however, she discovered that she was empty-handed; she had omitted to
take a fan and she called to her maid to bring her one. And as she
called the front door-bell rang. She hesitated a second, and called
again. But presumably the maid did not hear. Thereupon Eden re-ascended
the stairs and went back to her room.

The maid was busying herself in a closet and the fan was on the table;
Eden picked it up, and as she did so she noticed that one of the sticks
was broken. It took several minutes to find another which suited her
gown, and when she again descended the stair some little time had
intervened.

On reaching the parlor she drew the portière aside and peered into the
room. At the furthermost end stood Arnswald, his back turned to her, and
near him in a low arm-chair was her husband. He seemed to be reading
something, and it was evident that her entrance had been unobserved
either by him or by his guest.

For a second's space Eden stood very still. There was much of the child
in her nature, and during that second she meditated on the feasibility
of giving them both some little surprise. Then at once, as though
impelled by invisible springs, she crossed the room very swiftly, very
noiselessly, her fan and the fold of her dress in one hand, the other
free for mischief, and just when she reached the chair in which her
husband sat, she bent over him, from his unwarned fingers she snatched a
note, and with a rippling laugh that was like the shiver of sound on the
strings of a guitar, she waved it exultingly in the air.

Mr. Usselex looked up at once, but he had looked too late; the note had
gone from him. He started, he made a movement to repossess himself of
it, but Eden, with the ripple still in her voice, stepped back, laughed
again, and nodded to Arnswald, who had turned and bowed. "What is it?"
she cried; "what have you two been concocting? No, you don't," she
continued. Her voice was unsteady with merriment, her eyes wickedly
jubilant. Usselex had made another attempt to recapture the letter, and
flaunting it, Tantalus-fashion, above her head, she defied and eluded
him, gliding backwards, her head held like a swan's, a trifle to one
side. "No, you don't," she repeated, and still the laughter rippled from
her.

"Eden!" her husband expostulated, "Eden--"

"You shall not have it, sir; you shall not." And with a pirouette she
fluttered yet further away, the bit of paper held daintily and aloft
between forefinger and thumb. "Tell me this instant what you have been
doing all day. There, you needn't look at Mr. Arnswald. He won't help
you. Will you, Mr. Arnswald? Of course you won't."

Usselex, conscious of the futility of pursuit, made no further effort.
In his face was an anxiety which his fair tormentor did not see. Once he
turned to Arnswald, and Arnswald gave him an answering glance, and once
his lips moved, but whatever he may have intended to say the words must
have stuck in his throat. And Eden, woman-like, seeing that she was no
longer pursued, advanced to a spot just beyond his reach, where she
hovered tauntingly, yet wary of his slightest movement and prepared at
the first suspicion of reprisal to spread her wings in flight.

"And who do you suppose was here at lunch to-day? You must guess or you
shan't have your letter back. I'll give you just one minute. Oh! I saw
Laura Manhattan at Fantasia's. Don't forget that we are to dine with her
to-morrow. She came in to row about a dress. I was rowing, too. You have
no idea what a day I have had. You will have to give Fantasia a talking
to. Look at the frippery I have on. And she promised that I should have
something for to-night. There ought to be some punishment for such
people. Don't you think so, Mr. Arnswald? When people in Wall Street
don't keep their promises, they are put in jail, aren't they? Well, jail
is too good for that horrid old French-woman of a dressmaker, she ought
to have the thumb-screws, the rack, and the hot side of the fagot. I
will never believe her again, no, not even when I know she is telling
the truth. She is the most ornamental liar I ever encountered. It is my
opinion she would rather lie than not. Laura told me--but here, the
minute's up--you must guess, you must guess rightly, and you can only
guess once."

And Eden waved the letter again and laughed in her husband's beard.

The gown which she wore, and which she had characterized as frippery,
was an artful combination of tulle and of silk; it was colorless, yet
silvery, and in it Eden, bare of arm and of neck, looked a water nymph
garmented in sheen and foam. From her hair came an odor of distant
oases. In her eyes were evocations of summer, and beneath them, on her
cheeks and on the lobes of her ears, health had placed its token in
pink. The corners of her mouth were upraised like the ends of the Greek
bow, and now that she was laughing her lips suggested a red fruit cut
in twain. She was the personification of caprice, adorably constructed,
and constructed to be adored. Arnswald evidently found her appearance
alluring, for his eyes followed her every movement.

"Hurry up," she continued, as merrily as before; "the minute's gone."

Usselex may have been annoyed, but he affected to enter into the jest.
"Your father--" he hazarded, and stretched his hand for the note.

But Eden again retreated. "You have lost," she cried; "no one was here."
And finding herself at a safe distance, "I am a better guesser than
you," she added, "I can tell what is in this letter without reading it.
Now answer me, what will you give me if I do? What ought he to give me,
Mr. Arnswald? Prompt him, can't you? I have never seen anyone so
stupid."

"Give it to me, Eden; you shall make your own terms----"

"Ah! you capitulate, do you? It's too late! It's too late!" she repeated
in ringing crescendo. "You ought to have guessed;" and for greater
safety she held the letter behind her. "It's about stocks, Kansas-back
bonds, seven sights offered and nothing bid--I have guessed right, have
I not?"

"Eden--"

"Answer me; I have guessed right, I know I have." And laughing still,
she whisked the letter from behind her and held it to her eyes. "Why,
it's from a woman," she cried. "What is this? 'You have filled my life
with living springs.' Whose life have you filled?"

The merriment had deserted her lips, the color had gone from her cheeks.
The hand which held the letter fell with it to her side. In her face was
the contraction of pain. She looked at her husband. "Whose life is it
that you have filled?" she asked, and her voice, that had rippled with
laughter a moment before, became suddenly chill and subdued.

In the doorway before her the butler appeared in silent announcement
that dinner was served.

Arnswald made a step forward. "The letter is mine, Mrs. Usselex," he
said, "I--"

"Oh," she murmured, with a sigh that might have been accounted one of
relief. "Oh, it is yours, is it?" And eying him inquisitorially for a
second's space, she placed the letter in his hand.

"We may as well go in to dinner," she added at once, and with a glance
at her husband she led the way.




IV.


In Dogian days there was a Libro d'Oro in which the First Families of
Venice were inscribed in illuminated script. In New York there is also a
Golden Book, unwritten, yet voiced, and whoso's name appears thereon has
earned the cataloguing not from the idlesse of imbecile forefathers, but
from shrewdness in coping with the public, forethought in the Stock
Exchange, and prescience in the values of land and grain.

At the opera that night the aristocrats of the New World were in full
force. Among them were men who could not alone have wedded the Adriatic
but have dowered her as well. Venice in her greatest splendor had never
dreamed such wealth as theirs. There was Jabez Robinson, his wife and
children, familiarly known as the Swiss Family Robinson, the founder of
their dynasty having emigrated from some Helvetian vale. A lightning
calculator might have passed a week in the summing up of their
possessions. There was old Jerolomon, who through the manipulation of
monopolies exhaled an odor of Sing-Sing, the which had been so
attractive to the nostrils of an English peer that he had taken his
daughter as wife. There was Madden, who controlled an entire state.
There was Bucholz, who declared himself Above the Law, and who had
erupted in New York three decades before with the seven sins for sole
capital. There was Bleecker Bleecker, who each year gave away a pope's
ransom to charity and pursued his debtors to the grave. There was
Dunwoodie, whose coat smelled of benzine and whose signature was potent
as a king's. There was Forbush, who lunched furtively on an apple and
had given a private establishment to each one of his twelve children.
There was Gwathmeys, who had twice ruined himself for his enemies and
made a fortune from his friends. There was Attersol, who could have
bought the White House and whose sole pleasures were window-gardening
and the accord of violins.

On the grand-tier was Mrs. Besalul, on whom society had shut its door
because she had omitted to close her own. In an adjoining box was Mrs.
Smithwick, the bride of a month, fairer than that queen whose face was
worth the world to kiss, and who the previous winter had written a novel
of such impropriety that when it was published her mother forbade her to
read it. There was Miss Pickett, a débutante, who possessed the
disquieting ugliness of a monkey and who had announced that there was
nothing so immoral as ennui. There was Mrs. Bouvery, who claimed
connection with every one whose name began with Van. Mrs. Hackensack,
one of the few surviving Knickerbockers. The Coenties twins, known as
Dry and Extra Mumm. And there were others less interesting. Mrs.
Ponder, for instance, famous for her musicales, which no one could be
bribed to attend. Mrs. Skolfield, who was so icy in her manner that a
poet who had once ventured her way, had caught a cold in his head which
lasted a week. Mrs. Nevers, mailed in diamonds; Mrs. Goodloe, mailed in
pearls; and a senator's wife in a bonnet.

The only empty box in the house was owned by Mr. Incoul, then abroad on
his honeymoon.

And in and out through these boxes sauntered a contingent of men,
well-groomed, white of glove, and flowered as to their button-holes.
Among them was Harry Tandem, who had inaugurated silver studs. Brewster,
who had invented a new figure for the cotillion, and with him Harrison
Felton, the maëstro of that decadent dance. There was George Rerick, who
stuttered to the débutantes as he had stuttered to their mothers before
them. Furman Fellowes, who told fairy tales to impressionable young
girls, and who would presently get drunk in Sixth Avenue. Jack Rodney,
M. F. H., and Alphabet Jones, the novelist, in search of points.

As Eden entered the vestibule of her box the curtain had parted on the
second act. A Miss Bolten and her mother whom she had invited had
already arrived, and Arnswald, she noticed, went immediately forward to
salute them; then returning, he assisted her with her wrap. In a moment
the vestibule was invaded by Jones; and Eden, after a word or two to her
guests, settled herself in the front of the box and promenaded her
opera-glass about the house. The promenade completed, she lowered it to
the stalls. Near the orchestra a woman sat gazing fixedly at her. There
was nothing remarkable about the woman. She was as well dressed, as
young, and as pretty as were the majority of those present; it was the
singularity of her attitude that arrested Eden's attention. But that
attention she was not permitted to prolong. The adjoining box, the
occupants of which she had not yet noticed, was tenanted by Mrs.
Manhattan, who now claimed her recognition with some little feminine
word of greeting. On one side of Mrs. Manhattan was an elderly man whom
Eden did not remember to have seen before, and behind her stood Dugald
Maule.

"Eden," whispered Mrs. Manhattan, "I want you to know Mr. Maule's uncle;
he has been minister abroad you know;" and so saying, with a motion of
her head, she designated the elderly man at her side. "He says," she
added, "that you are the most appetizing thing he has seen."

At the brusqueness of the remark Eden started as from a sting. The old
gentleman leaned forward.

"Don't be annoyed, my dear," he mumbled; "I was in love with your
mother."

Then with an amiable commonplace the old beau bowed and moved back.

Maule bowed also, and presently, taking advantage of a recitative, he
left Mrs. Manhattan and entered Eden's box. He seemed at home at once.
He shook Mr. Usselex by the hand, saluted Miss Bolten and her mother,
ignored Jones, and dislodging Arnswald, took his seat.

"The season promises well," he whispered confidentially to Eden.

Jones, who had not accorded the slightest attention to Maule, was
discoursing in an animated fashion with Miss Bolten. On the stage in a
canvas forest a man stood, open-mouthed, raising and lowering his right
arm at regular intervals; and next to her Eden caught the motion of Mrs.
Manhattan's fan.

"No," she heard Jones say, "I have every reason to doubt that Shakspere
was the author of Hamlet. In the first place--"

"Ah!" murmured Miss Bolten. She did not appear particularly interested
in Jones or in the man on the stage. She was occupied in scrutinizing
the occupants of the different boxes. "And whom do you suspect?" she
asked, her eyes foraging an opposite baignoire.

"Another man with the same name," Jones answered, and laughed a little
to himself.

Eden tapped him on the sleeve. "Mr. Jones."

"Yes, Mrs. Usselex."

"Look in the orchestra, in the third row, the aisle seat on the left."

"Yes, Mrs. Usselex."

"There is a woman looking up here. She has just turned her head. Do you
see her?"

"That woman with the blonde hair?"

"Yes; do you know her?"

"No, I can't say I know her. But I know who she is--"

"Who is she?"

"She has an apartment at the Ranleigh. Her name is Mrs. Feverill. She is
a grass widow; rather fly, I fancy----"

"H'm;" said Eden, "I am sure I don't know what you mean by 'fly.' There,
it isn't necessary to explain----" She turned her head--"Mr. Arnswald,
would you mind getting me my cloak, there seems to be a draught."

Arnswald, who had been loitering in the rear of the box, went back into
the vestibule in search of the garment.

On the stage the tenor in green and gold was still gesticulating,
open-mouthed as before, and presently there came a blare of trumpets, a
shudder of brass, dominated by the cry of violins, and abruptly the
curtain fell.

Arnswald advanced with the cloak, and Jones stood up. The latter said
some parting word to Miss Bolten and to her mother, bent over Eden's
hand and left the box. Arnswald dropped in the seat which he had
vacated. It was evident at once that he and Miss Bolten had met before.
He had leaned forward, and was whispering in her ear.

"Eden," Maule began, "do you remember that ring you gave me?"

"Mr. Maule, you forget many things----"

"Why do you call me Mr. Maule? there was a time----"

"Yes, there was a time, as you say; but that time is no longer."

"You have something against me."

"I? Nothing in the world."

"Ah, but Eden, you have, though; that is evident: when I last saw
you----"

"The next day I learned your reputation. It is deplorable."

"When I last saw you you gave me a ring. A serpent with its tail in its
mouth. You said it meant eternity."

"Yes, I know I did; but----"

"Did it mean nothing as well?"

"A circle represents zero, does it not?"

"Eden, Eden, how cruel you can be! Will you not let me see you?"

"Certainly, I am at home on Saturdays."

"Yes, I know--Saturday is Fifth Avenue day. Eden, tell me, do you
remember Second Avenue?"

From the orchestra came a murmur, a consonance of harps and of flutes.
The curtain had parted again.

"No," she answered; "I have forgotten."

"Surely----"

"Yes, I have forgotten. It is good to forget. This is the last act, is
it not?"

"No, it is the prologue."

The speech was as significant as her own. For a second he was silent,
and bit his under lip. Then, as Jones had done before, he stood up.

"I will come," he muttered in her ear, "but not on Saturday."

"Good-night, Mr. Maule."

"Good-night, Mrs. Usselex."

With a circular salute to the other occupants, Maule left the box.
Presently it was invaded by other visitors of whom no particular
mention is necessary. At last there was a wail and final crash in the
orchestra. The opera was done.

On the way home Usselex questioned his wife. "Who is that man Maule?" he
asked.

"Miss Bolten is interested in him, I believe."

"I hope not," Usselex returned; "he has a bad face."




V.


The next morning Eden awoke in her great room that overlooked Fifth
Avenue. The night had been constellated with dreams, and now as they
faded from her there was one that lingered behind. Through a rift of
consciousness she had seen herself talking with feverish animation to
Arnswald, on some subject of vital importance, the which, however, she
was unable to recall; it had gone with the night, leaving on the camera
of memory only the tableau behind. For a little space she groped after
it unavailingly, and then dismissed it from her. But still the tableau
lingered until it became obscured by her own vexation. She felt annoyed
as at an impertinence. What right had Arnswald to trespass in her
dreams?

She rang the bell, and when in answer to the summons her maid appeared,
she gave herself up to the woman's ministrations. The annoyance faded as
the dream had done, and she fell to thinking of the day and of her
husband. At one there was a luncheon at which she was expected, and in
the evening there was a dinner at Mrs. Manhattan's. Her husband, she
knew, had gone to his office hours ago and would not return until late.
It had occurred to her before that he worked harder than his clerks;
even Arnswald seemed to have more leisure than he. But on this
particular forenoon, when her equipment was completed, but one idea
channeled her ruminations, and that was that if her husband worked
harder than his clerks, it was because of her.

She smiled a little at the thought, and then at herself in the mirror.
Truly the guests at the luncheon might have been recruited from the four
quarters of the globe, and few could be fairer than she. She was
contented with her appearance, not in any sense because it might
eclipse that of other women, but because he was proud of it, and because
his pride and laborious days were all in all for her. She gave to her
gown and to the arrangement of her hair that coup de maître which no
maid, however expert, is able to administer, and presently had herself
driven up the avenue to the house at which she was to be entertained.

The luncheon, as the phrase is, went off very well. Made up of fresh
gossip and new dishes, it was stupid yet agreeable, as women's luncheons
are apt to be. But on leaving it Eden felt depressed. It was the first
of the kind which in her quality of married woman she had attended, and
as her carriage rolled down the avenue again, she wondered were it
possible that such things as she heard could be true, the story that had
been told about Viola Raritan, for instance, and the general agreement
following it that married men were the worst[1]. Surely, she told
herself, they might be, all of them indeed save one, who was above
reproach. As for her recent companions, they discredited virtue in
seeming to possess it. At the memory of things they had implied, the
color mounted to her cheeks.

[Footnote 1: The reader is referred to The truth about Tristrem
Varick.]

On the opposite sidewalk a girl was loitering. For a second, Eden,
through the open window, eyed her gown. She raised some flowers to her
face, and when she put them down again her face was white. Through the
window she had seen a cab pass, and in the cab her husband and a woman.

In a conflict of emotions such as visit those who learn the dishonor and
the death of one they cherished most, Eden reached her door. She left
the carriage before the groom had descended from the box, and hurried
into the house. There she entered the drawing-room and sought for a
moment to collect her thoughts. It was impossible, she kept telling
herself, that such a thing could be. She had been mistaken; it was not
