' I did not know there was such a case I don't know the 
people,' you answer. 

' Oh ! I thought, of course, you knew all about it,' Lady 
Smyth-Tompkins replies, and her features turn to stone as 
she realises that you do not know everybody, and leaves you 
to your own reflections. 

Thackeray, snobissme maxime ! How well you knew 
them! 

There are no snobs among the Latin races, but there is a 
worse animal, the sycophant, descended directly from the 
dinner-tables of ancient Rome. In old-fashioned houses there 
are often several of them, headed invariably by the ' giornale 
ambulante,' the walking newspaper, whose business it is to 
pick up items of news during the day in order to detail them 
to the family in the evening. There is a certain old princess 
who sits every evening with her needlework at the head of a 
long table in the dismal drawing-room of a gigantic palace. 
On each side of the board are seated the old parasites, the 
family doctor, the family chaplain, the family lawyer, the 
family librarian, the peripatetic news-sheet and the rest. 

' I have been out to-day,' says her excellency. 

' Oh ! Ah ! Dear me ! In this weather !' Hear what 
the princess says ! The princess has been out ! ' The chorus 
comes up the table, all the answers reaching her ears at 
once. 

' And I saw, as I drove by, the new monument ! What 
a ridiculous thing it is.' 

'Ho! ho ! ho ! Hah ! hah ! hah ! Dear me ! What a 
monument ! What fine taste the princess has ! Hear what 
the princess thinks of the monument ! ' 

' If you will believe it, the bronze horse has a crooked 
leg.' 



'He! he! he! Hi! hi! hi! Dear me ! A crooked leg ! 
How the princess understands horses ! The princess saw 
that he had a crooked leg ! ' 

And so on, for a couple of hours, in the cold, dimly-lighted 
room until her excellency has had enough of it and rises to 
go to bed, when the parasites all scuttle away and quarrel 
with each other in the street as they walk home. Night 
after night, to decades of years, the old lady recounts the 
little journal of her day to the admiring listeners, whose 
chorus of approval is performed daily with the same unvary 
ing regularity. The times are changing now ; the prince is 
not so easily amused, and the sycophant has accordingly 
acquired the art of amusing, but there still survive some 
wonderful monuments of the old school. 

Anastase Gouache was a man of great talent and of rising 
fame, but like other men of his stamp he preferred to believe 
that he was received on a friendly footing for his own sake 
rather than on account of his reputation. In his own eyes, 
he was, as a man, as good as those with whom he associated, 
and had as much right to make love to Faustina Montevarchi 
as the young Frangipani, for whom her father destined her. 
Faustina, on her part, was too young to appreciate the real 
strength of the prejudices by which she was surrounded. 
She could not understand that, although the man she loved 
was a gentleman, young, good-looking, successful, and not 
without prospects of acquiring a fortune, he was yet wholly 
ineligible as a husband. Had she seen this ever so clearly 
it might have made but very little difference in her feelings ; 
but she did not see it, and the disparaging remarks about 
Anastase, which she occasionally heard in her own family, 
seemed to her utterly unjust as well as quite unfounded. 
The result was that the two young people were preparing for 
themselves one of those terrible disappointments of which 
the consequences are sometimes felt during a score of years. 
Both, however, were too much in love to bear suspense very 
long without doing something to precipitate the course of 
events, and whenever they had the chance they talked the 
matter over and built wonderful castles in the air. 

About a fortnight after the marriage of San Giacinto 



they were seated together in a room full of people, late in 
the afternoon. They had been talking for some time upon 
indifferent subjects. When two persons meet, who are very 
much in love with each other, and waste their time in dis 
cussing topics of little importance, it may be safely predicted 
that something unusual is about to occur. 

' I cannot endure this suspense any longer,' said Gouache 
at last. 

' Nor I,' answered Faustina. 

' It is of no use to wait any more. Either your father 
will consent or he will not. I will ask him and know the 
worst.' 

' And if it is the worst what then ? ' The young girl 
turned her eyes towards Anastase with a frightened look. 

' Then we must manage without his consent.' 
' How is that possible ? ' 

' It must be possible,' replied Gouache. ' If you love me 
it shall be possible. It is only a question of a little courage 
and goodwill But, after all, your father may consent 
Why should he not ? ' 

' Because ' she hesitated a little. 

' Because I am not a Roman prince, you mean.' Anastase 
glanced quickly at her. 

' No. He wants me to marry Frangipani.' 

' Why did you never tell me that ? ' 

' I did not know it when we last met. My mother told 
me of it last night.' 

" Is the match settled ? ' asked Gouache. He was very 
pale. 

' I think it has been spoken of,' answered Faustina in a 
low voice. She shivered a little and pressed her hands 
together. There was a short silence, during which Anas 
tase did not take his eyes from her, while she looked down, 
avoiding his look. 

' Then there is no time to be lost,' said Gouache at last. 
'I will go to your father to-morrow morning.' 

' Oh don't, don't ! ' cried Faustina, suddenly, with an 
expression of intense anxiety. 

' Why not ? ' The artist seemed very much surprised 





' You do not know him ! You do not know what he will 
say to you ! You will be angry and will lose your temper 
he will be cruel and will insult you, and you will resent 
it then I shall never see you again. You do not know ' 

' This is something new,' said Gouache. ' How can you 
be sure that he will receive me so badly ? Have your people 
talked about me  ? After all, I am an honest man, and 
though I live by my profession I am not poor. It is true, 
I am not such a match for you as Frangipani. Tell me, do 
they abuse me at your house ? ' 

'No what can they say, except that you are an artist  ? 
That is not abuse, nor calumny.' 

' It depends upon how it is said. I suppose it is San 
Giacinto who says it.' Gouache's face darkened. 

' San Giacinto has guessed the truth,' answered Faustina, 
shaking her head. ' He knows that we love each other, and 
just now he is very powerful with my father. It will be 
worse if he wins the suit and is Prince Saracinesca.' 

' Then that is another reason for acting at once. Faus 
tina you followed me once will you not go with me, 
away, out of this cursed city ? I will ask for you first. I 
will behave honourably. But if he will not consent, what 
is there left for us to do ? Can we live apart ? Can you 
marry Frangipani ? Have not many people done before 
what we think of doing ? Is it wrong ? Heaven knows, 
I make no pretence to sanctity. But I would not have you 
do anything what shall I say? Anything against your 
conscience.' There was a shade of bitterness in the laugh 
that accompanied the last words. 

'You do not know what things he will say,' repeated 
Faustina, in despairing tones. 

' This is absurd,' said Gouache. ' I can bear anything he 
can say well enough. He is an old man and I am a young 
one, and have no intention of taking offence. He may say 
what he pleases, call me a villain, a brigand- that is your 
favourite Italian expression a thief, a liar, anything he 
pleases. I will not be angry. There shall be no violence. 
But I cannot endure this state of things any longer. I must 
try my luck.' 




' Wait a little longer,' answered Faustina, in an imploring 
tone. 'Wait until the suit is decided.' 

'In order to let San Giacinto get even more influence 
than he has now ? It would be a mistake you almost said 
so yourself a moment ago. Besides, the suit may last for 
years.' 

' It will not last a fortnight.' 

' Poor Sant' Ilario ! ' exclaimed Gouache. ' Does every 
body know about it ? ' 

' I suppose so. But nobody speaks of it. We all feel 
dreadfully about it, except my father and San Giacinto and 
Flavia.' 

' If he is in a good humour, this is the very time to go to 
him.' 

' Please, please do not insist ! ' Faustina was evidently 
very much in earnest. With the instinct of a very young 
woman, she clung to the half happiness of the present which 
was so much greater than anything she had known before 
in her life. But Gouache would not be satisfied. 

' I must know the worst,' he said again, as they parted. 

' But this is so much better than the worst,' answered 
Faustina, sadly. 

' Who risks nothing, wins nothing,' retorted the young 
man with a bright smile. 

In spite of his hopefulness, however, he had received a 
severe shock on hearing the news of the intended match with 
young Frangipani. He had certainly never expected to find 
himself the rival of such a suitor, and his sense of possibility, 
if man may be said to possess such a faculty, was staggered 
by the idea. He suddenly awakened to a true understand 
ing of his position in Roman society, and when he contem 
plated his discovery in all its bearings, his nerve almost 
forsook him. When he remembered his childhood, his 
youth, and the circumstances in which he had lived up to a 
recent time, he found it hard to realise that he was trying to 
marry such a girl, in spite of her family and in opposition 
to such a man as was now brought forward as a match for 
her. It was not in his nature, however, to be discouraged in 
the face of difficulties. He was like a brave man who has 





received a stunning blow, but who continues to fight until he 
has gradually regained his position. Gouache could no more 
have relinquished Faustina than he could have abandoned 
a half-finished picture in which he believed, any more than 
he had given up the attempt to break away the stones at 
the Yigna Santucci after he had received the bullet in his 
shoulder. He had acquired his position in life by indomi 
table perseverance and hopefulness, and those qualities 
would not now fail him, in one of the most critical situations 
through which he had ever passed. In spite of Faustina's 
warning and, to some extent, in spite of his own better judg 
ment, he determined to face the old prince at once and to ask 
him boldly for his daughter. 

He had spoken confidently to Faustina of being married 
against the will of her father, but when he thought over this 
alternative he recollected a fact he had almost completely 
forgotten in considering his matrimonial projects. He was 
a soldier and had enlisted in the Zouaves for a term of 
years. It was true that by using the influence he possessed 
he might hope to be released from his engagement, but such 
a course was most repugnant to him. Before Mentana it 
would have been wholly impossible, for it would have seemed 
cowardly. Now that he had distinguished himself and had 
been wounded in the cause, the thing might be done without 
dishonour, but it would involve a species of self-abasement 
to which he was not prepared to submit. On the other 
hand, to wait until his term of service should have expired 
was to risk losing Faustina altogether. He knew that she 
loved him, but he was experienced enough to know that a 
young girl is not always able to bear the pressure exercised 
upon her when marriage is concerned. In Eome, and 
especially at that time, it was in the power of parents to use 
the most despotic means for subduing the will of their 
children. There was even a law by which a disobedient 
son or daughter could be imprisoned for a considerable 
length of time, provided that the father could prove that his 
child had rebelled against his just will. Though Gouache 
was not aware of this, the fact that a similar institution 
existed in his own country made him suspect that it was to 



xviii 



 279 



be found in Borne also. Supposing that Montevarchi re 
fused to accept him for a son-in-law, and that Faustina, on 
the other hand, refused to marry young Frangipani, it was 
only too probable that she might be locked up in a luxuri 
ously furnished cell of course to reflect upon the error of 
her ways. It was by no means certain that in the face of 
such humiliation and suffering Faustina would continue her 
resistance ; indeed, she could hardly be blamed if she yielded 
in the end. Gouache believed in the sincerity of her love 
because the case was his own ; had he heard of it in the life 
of another man he would have laughed at the idea that a girl 
of eighteen could be capable of a serious passion. 

It is not necessary, however, to enter into an analysis of 
the motives and feelings of either Faustina or Anastase. 
Their connection with the history of the Saracinesca arose 
from what they did, and not from the thoughts which 
prompted their actions. It is sufficient to say that Gouache 
conceived the mad idea of asking Montevarchi's consent to 
his marriage and to explain the immediate consequences of 
the step he took. 

Matters were rapidly approaching a climax. San Gia- 
cinto had seen the lawyers at Frascati, and he had brought 
his wife back to Rome very soon in order to be on the spot 
while the case was being prepared. The men of the law 
declared that the matter was a very simple one and that no 
court could withhold its decision a single day after seeing 
the documents which constituted the claim. The only point 
about which any argument could arise related to the identity 
of San Giacinto himself, and no difficulty was found in 
establishing substantial proof that he was Giovanni Sara 
cinesca and not an impostor. His father and grandfather 
had jealously kept all the records of themselves which were 
necessary, from the marriage certificate of the original Don 
Leone, who had signed the deed, to the register of San Gia- 
cinto's own birth. Copies were obtained, properly drawn up 
and certified, of the parish books and of the few government 
documents which were officially preserved in the kingdom of 
Naples before 1860, and the lawyers declared themselves 
ready to open the case. Up to this time the strictest 



 

secrecy was preserved, at the request of San Giacinto himself, 
He said that in such an important matter he wished nothing 
to transpire until he was ready to act ; more especially as 
the Saracinesca themselves could not he ignorant of the true 
state of the case and had no right to receive notice of the 
action "beforehand. As Corona had foreseen, San Giacinto 
intended to ohtain the decision hy means of a perfectly legal 
trial, and was honestly ready to court enquiry into the rights 
he was ahout to assert. When the moment came and all 
was ready, he went to the Palazzo Saracinesca and asked for 
the prince, who received him in the same room in which the 
two had met when the ex-innkeeper had made his appear 
ance in Rome nearly three months earlier. As San Giacinto 
entered he felt that he had not wasted his time during that 
short interval. 

'I have come to' talk with you upon a business which 
must be unpleasant to you,' he began. l Unfortunately it 
cannot be avoided. I beg you to believe that it is my wish 
to act loyally and fairly.' 

'I hope so,' said Saiacinesca, bending his bushy gray 
eyebrows and fixing his keen old eyes upon his visitor. 

'You need not doubt it,' replied San Giacinto rather 
proudly. ' You are doubtless acquainted with the nature of 
the deed by which our great-grandfathers agreed to transfer the 
titles and property to the younger of the two. When we 
first spoke of the matter I was not aware of the existence of 
a saving clause. I cannot suppose you ignorant of it. 
That clause provided that if Leone Saracinesca married and 
had a lawful heir, the deed should be null and void. He 
did marry, as you know. I am his direct descendant, and 
have children of my own by my first marriage. I cannot 
therefore allow the clause in question to remain in abeyance 
any longer. With all due respect to you, I am obliged to 
tell you quite frankly that, in law, I am Prince Saracinesca.' 

Having thus stated his position as plainly as possible, 
San Giacinto folded his great hands upon his knee and 
leaned against the back of his chair. Saracinesca looked as 
though he were about to make some hasty answer, but he con 
trolled his intention and rose to his feet. After walking 






twice np and down the room, he came and stood in front ol 
his cousin. 

' Let us be plain in what we say,' he began. ' I give you 
my word that, until Montevarchi sent back those papers the 
other day, I did not know what they contained. I had not 
read them for thirty years, and at that time the clause 
escaped me. I do not remember to have noticed it. This 
may have been due to the fact that I had never heard that 
Leone had any living descendants, and should therefore 
have attached no importance to the words if I had seen 
them.' 

' I believe you,' said San Giacinto, calmly. The old man's 
eyes flashed. 

' I always take it for granted that I am believed,' he an 
swered. ' Will you give me your word that you are what 
you assert yourself to be, Giovanni Saracinesca, the great- 
grandson and lawful heir of Leone ? ' 

' Certainly. I pledge my honour that I am ; and I, too, 
expect to be believed by you.' 

There was something in the tone of the answer that 
struck a sympathetic cord in Saracinesca's nature. San 
Giacinto had risen to his feet, and there was something in 
the huge, lean strength of him, in the bold look of his eyes, 
in the ring of his deep voice, that inspired respect. Rough 
he was, and not over refined or carefully trained in the ways 
of the world, cruel perhaps, and overbearing too ; but he was 
every inch a Saracinesca, and the old man felt it. 

' I believe you,' answered the prince. ' You may take 
possession when you please. I am Don Leone, and you are 
the head of the house.' 

He made a gesture full of dignity, as though resigning 
then and there his name and the house in which he lived, 
to him who was lawfully entitled to both. The action was 
magnificent and worthy of the man. There was a superb 
disregard of consequences in his readiness to give up every 
thing rather than keep for a moment what was not his, which 
affected San Giacinto strangely. In justice to the latter it 
must be remembered that he had not the faintest idea that 
he was the instrument of a pipantic fraud from which he 








was to derive the chief advantage. He instinctively bowed 
in acknowledgment of his cousin's generous conduct. 

' I shall not take advantage of your magnanimity,' he said, 
' until the law has sanctioned my doing so.' 

' As you please,' answered the other. ' I have nothing to 
conceal from the law, but I am prejudiced against lawyers. 
Do as you think best. A family council can settle the 
matter as well as the courts.' 

' Your confidence in me is generous and noble. I prefer, 
however, that the tribunal should examine the matter.' 

' As you please,' repeated Saracinesca. There was no 
reason for prolonging an interview which could not be 
agreeable to either party. The old man remained standing. 
' No opposition will be made to the suit,' he said. ' You 
will simply produce your papers in proper form, and I will 
declare myself satisfied.' He held out his hand. 

' I trust you will bear me no ill-will,' said San Giacinto 
rather awkwardly. 

' For taking what is yours and not mine ? Not in the 
least. Good-evening.' 

San Giacinto left the room. When he was gone, Sara 
cinesca stood still for a moment, and then sank into a chair. 
His strong nature had sustained him through the meeting 
and would sustain him to the end, but he was terribly shaken, 
and felt a strange sensation of numbness in the back of his 
head, which was quite new to him. For some minutes he 
sat still as though dazed and only half conscious. Then he 
rose again, shook himself as though to get rid of a bad dream 
and rang the bell. He sent for Giovanni, who appeared 
immediately. 

' San Giacinto has been here,' he said quickly. ' He is 
the man. You had better tell your wife, as she will want 
to collect her things before we leave the house.' 

Giovanni was staggered by his father's impetuosity. He 
had realised that the danger existed, but it had always seemed 
indefinitely far removed, 

' I suppose there will be some legal proceedings before 
everything is settled,' he said with more calmness than he 
felt. 



' What is that to us ? We must go, sooner or later.' 
' And if the courts do not decide in his favour, what then ? ' 
' There is no doubt about it,' answered the prince, pacing 
the room as his excitement returned. 'You and I are 
nobody. We had better go and live in an inn. That man 
is honest. I hate him, but he is honest. Why do you 
stand there staring at me ? Were you not the first to say 
that if we are impostors we should give up everything of our 
own free-will? And now you seem to think that I will 
fight the suit ! That is your logic ! That is all the con 
sistency you have acquired in your travels ! Go and tell 
your wife that you are nobody, that I am nobody ! Go and 
tell her to give you a title, a name for men to call you by ! 
Go into the market and see whether you can find a name 
for your father ! Go and hire a house for us to live in, 
when that Neapolitan devil has brought Flavia Montevarchi 
to live in the palace where your mother died, where you 
were born poor Giovanni ? Not that I pity you any more 
than I pity myself Why should I ? You are young and 
have done this house the honour to spend most of your life 
out of it. But after all poor Giovanni ! ' 

Saracinesca seized his son's hand and looked into his 
eyes. The young man's face was perfectly calm, almost 
serene in its expression of indifference to misfortune. His 
whole soul was preoccupied by greater and nobler emotions 
than any which could be caused by worldly loss. He had 
been with Corona again, had talked with her and had seen 
that look in her face which he had learned to dread more 
than he had ever dreaded anything in his life. What was 
life itself without that which her eyes refused ? 



CHAPTER XIX 

PRINCE MONTEVARCHI was very much surprised when he was 
told that Anastase Gouache wished to see him, and as he 
was very much occupied with the details of the suit his first 
impulse was to decline the visit. Although he had no idea 
that matters had already gone so far between the Zouave and 



 

Faustina, he was not, however, so blind as the young girl 
had supposed him to be. He was naturally observant, like 
most men who devote their lives to the pursuit of their own 
interests, and it had not escaped him that Faustina and 
Gouache were very often to be seen talking together in 
the world. Had he possessed a sense of humour he might 
possibly have thought that it would be inexpressibly comical 
if Gouache should take it into his head to fall in love with 
the girl ; but the Italians are not a humorous people, and 
the idea did not suggest itself to the old gentleman. He 
consented to receive Gouache because he thought the oppor 
tunity would be a good one for reading the young man 
a lecture upon the humility of his station, and upon the 
arrogance he displayed in devoting himself thus openly to 
the daughter of Casa Montevarchi. 

' Good-day, Monsieur Gouache,' he said solemnly, as 
Anastase entered. ' Pray be seated. To what do I owe the 
honour of your visit ? ' 

Anastase had put on a perfectly new uniform for the 
interview, and his movements were more than usually alert 
and his manners a shade more elaborate and formal than on 
ordinary occasions. He felt and behaved as young men of 
good birth do who are serving their year in the army, and 
who, having put on their smartest tunic, hope that in a half 
light they may be taken for officers. 

' Will you allow me to explain my position in the first 
place?' he asked, seating himself and twisting his cap slowly 
in his hands. 

' Your position ? By all means, if you desire to do so. 
It is an excellent rule in all discourses to put the definition 
before the argument. Nevertheless, if you would inform me 
of the nature of the affair, it might help me to understand 
you. better.' 

' It is very delicate but I will try to be plain. What 
I am, I think you know already. I am a painter and I have 
been successful For the present, I am a Zouave, but my 
military service does not greatly interfere with my profession. 
We have a good deal of time upon our hands. My pictures 
bring me a larger income than I can spend.' 





' I congratulate you,' observed Montevarchi, opening his 
small eyes in some astonishment. ' The pursuit of the fine 
arts is not generally very lucrative. For myself, I confess 
that I am satisfied with those treasures which my father has 
left me. I am very fond of pictures, it is true ; but you 
will understand that, when a gallery is filled, it is full You 
comprehend, I am sure? Much as I might wish to own 
some of the works of the modern French school, the double 
disadvantage of possessing already so many canvases, and 
the still stronger consideration of my limited fortune yes, 
limited, I assure you ' 

' Pardon me,' interrupted Gouache, whose face reddened 
suddenly, 'I had no intention of proposing to sell you a 
picture. I am not in the habit of advertising myself nor of 
soliciting orders for my work.' 

'My dear sir !' exclaimed the prince, seeing that he was 
on a wrong tack, ' have I suggested such a thing ? If my 
words conveyed the idea, pray accept all my excuses. Since 
you had mentioned the subject of art, my thoughts naturally 
were directed to my gallery of pictures. I am delighted to 
hear of your success, for you know how much interest we 
all feel in him who was the victim of such an unfortunate 
accident, due doubtless to the carelessness of my men.' 

' Pray do not recall that ! Your hospitality more than 
repaid me for the little I suffered. The matter concerning 
which I wish to speak to you is a very serious one, and I 
hope you will believe that I have considered it well before 
taking a step which may at first surprise you. To be plain, 
I come to ask you to confer upon me the honour of Donna 
Faustina Montevarchi's hand.' 

Montevarchi leaned back in his chair, speechless with 
amazement. He seemed to gasp for breath as his long fingers 
pressed the green table-cover before him. His small eyes 
were wide open, and his toothless jaw dropped. Gouache 
feared that he was going to be taken ill 

' You ! ' cried the old man in a cracked voice, when he 
had recovered himself enough to be able to speak. 

' Yes,' answered Anastase, who was beginning to feel very 
nervous as he observed the first results of his proposal. He 




had never before quite realised how utterly absurd the match 
would seem to Montevarchi. ' Yes,' he repeated. ' Is the 
idea so surprising ? Is it inconceivable to you that I should 
love your daughter ? Can you not understand ' 

' I understand that you are wholly mad ! ' exclaimed the 
prince, still staring at his visitor in blank astonishment. 

' No, I am not mad. I love Donna Faustina ' 

' You ! You dare to love Faustina ! You, a painter, a 
man with a profession and with nothing but what you earn ! 
You, a Zouave, a man without a name, without ' 

' You are an old man, prince, but the fact of my having 
made you an honourable proposition does not give you the 
right to insult me.' The words were spoken in a sharp, 
determined voice, and brought Montevarchi to his senses. 
He was a terrible coward and would rather go to a consider 
able expense than face an angry man. 

' Insult you, my dear sir ? I would not think of it ! ' he 
answered in a very different tone. ' But my dear Monsieur 
Gouache, I fear that this is quite impossible ! In the first 
place, my daughter's marriage is already arranged. The 
negotiations have been proceeding for some time she is to 
marry Frangipani you must have heard it. And, moreover, 
with all due respect for the position you have gained by 
your immense talent immense, my dear friend, I am the 
first to say it the instability of human affairs obliges me 
to seek for her a fortune, which depends upon the vulgar 
possession of wealth rather than upon those divine gifts of 
genius with which you are so richly endowed.' 

The change from anger to flattery was so sudden that 
Gouache was confounded and could not find words in which 
to answer what was said to him. Montevarchi's eyes had 
lost their expression of astonishment, and a bland smile 
played about the corners of his sour mouth, while he rubbed 
his bony hands slowly together, nodding his head at every 
comma of his elaborate speech. Anastase saw,' however, 
that there was not the slightest hope that his proposal would 
ever be entertained, and by his own sensations he knew that 
he had always expected this result. He felt no disappoint 
ment, and it seemed to him that he was in the same position 



xix SANT' ILAHIO 287 

in which he had been before he had spoken. On the other 
hand he was outraged by the words that had fallen from 
Montevarchi's lips in the first moments of anger and astonish 
ment. A painter, a man with a profession, without a name ! 
Gouache was too human not to feel the sting of each truth 
as it was uttered. He would have denned himself in very 
much the same way without the least false pride ; but to 
hear his own estimate of himself, given by another person 
as the true one, was hard to bear. A painter, yes he was 
proud of it A man with a profession, yes was it not 
far nobler to earn money by good work than to inherit what 
others had stolen in former times ? A man without a name 
was not his own beginning to be famous, and was it not 
better to make the name Gouache glorious by his own efforts 
than to be called Orsini because one's ancestors had been 
fierce and lawless as bears, or Sciarra because one's progenitor 
had slapped the face of a pope ? Doubtless it was a finer 
thing to be great by one's own efforts in the pursuit of a 
noble art than to inherit a greatness originally founded upon 
a superior rapacity, and a greater physical strength than had 
characterised the ordinary men of the period. Nevertheless, 
Gouache knew with shame that at that moment he wished 
that his name could be changed to Frangipani, and the fabric 
of his independence, of which he had so long been proud, was 
shaken to its foundations as he realised that in spite of all 
fame, all glory, all genius, he could never be what the miserly, 
cowardly, lying old man before him was by birth a Roman 
prince. The conclusion was at once inexpressibly humiliat 
ing and supremely ludicrous. He felt himself laughable in 
his own eyes, and was conscious that a smile was on his 
face, which Montevarchi would not understand. The old 
gentleman was still talking. 

' I cannot tell you,' he was saying, ' how much I regret 
my total inability to comply with a request which evidently 
proceeds from the best motives, I might almost say from the 
heart itself. Alas ! my dear friend, we are not all masters 
of our actions. The cares of a household like mine require 
A foresight, an hourly attention, an unselfish devotion which 
we can only hope to obtain by constant ' 




course, it will take several months to make the division, as 
the Signer -Marchese will only receive the direct inheritance 
of his great-grandfather, while the Saracinesca retain all that 
has come to them by their marriages during the last four 
generations.' 

' Of course. Who will be employed to make the 
division ? ' 

' Half Rome, I fancy. It will be an endless business.' 

' But San Giacinto is prince. He will do homage for his 
titles next Epiphany.' 

'Yes. He must present his ten pounds of wax and a 
silver bowl cheap ! ' observed Meschini with a grin. 

It may be explained here that the families of the Roman 
nobility were all subject to a yearly tribute of merely nominal 
value, which they presented to the Pope at the Feast of the 
Epiphany. The custom was feudal, the Pope having been 
the feudal lord of all the nobles until 1870. The tribute 
generally consisted of a certain weight of pure wax, or of a 
piece of silver of a specified value, or sometimes of both. 
As an instance of the survival of such customs in other 
countries, I may mention the case of one great Irish family 
which to this day receives from another a yearly tribute, 
paid alternately in the shape of a golden rose and a golden 
spur. 

' So we have won everything ! ' exclaimed Montevarchi 
after a pause, looking hard at the librarian, as though trying 
to read his thoughts. ' We have won everything, and the 
thanks are due to you, my good friend, to you, the faithful 
and devoted companion who has helped me to accomplish 
this act of true justice. Ah, how can I ever express to you 
my gratitude ! ' 

' The means of expression were mentioned in our agree 
ment,' answered Meschini with a servile inclination. ' I 
agreed to do the work for your Excellency at a certain fixed 
price, as your Excellency may remember. Beyond that I 
ask nothing. I am too humble an individual to enjoy the 
honour of Prince Monte varchi's personal gratitude.' 

' Yes, of course, but that is mere money I ' said the old 
gentleman somewhat hastily, but contemptuously withal. 




' Gratitude proceeds from the heart, not from the purse. 
When I think of all the work you have done, of the unselfish 
way in which you have devoted yourself to this object, I feel 
that money can never repay you. Money is sordid trash, 
Meschini, sordid trash ! Let us not talk about it. Are we 
not friends ? The most delicate sensibilities of my soul rejoice 
when I consider what we have accomplished together. There 
