"You'd better take passage by the next steamer. This is a freight boat."

"There ain't anybody but you aboard, is there?"

"Yes; I have two companions."

The stranger seemed surprised and incredulous.

"Where are they?" he asked.

"Gone into the village."

The visitor seemed thoughtful. He supposed the two companions were
full-grown men, and this would not tally with his plans. This illusion,
however, was soon dissipated, for Sam and Clip at this point crossed the
gang-plank and came aboard.

"Are them your two companions?" asked the stranger, appearing relieved.

"Yes."

Sam and Clip eyed him curiously, expecting Bob to explain who he was,
but our hero was only anxious to get rid of him.

"Then you can't accommodate me?" asked the man.

"No, sir; but if you'll give me your name and address, I can perhaps
sell your crop for you, and leave you to deliver it."

"Never mind, young feller! I reckon I'll go to the city myself next
week."

"Just as you like, sir."

He re-crossed the plank, and when he reached the shore took up his post
again beside the tree, and resumed his scrutiny of the boat.

"What does that man want?" asked Sam.

"I don't know. He asked me to give him passage to St. Louis."

"You might make money by carrying passengers," suggested Sam.

"I wouldn't carry a man like him at any price," said Bob. "I haven't any
faith in his honesty or respectability, though he tells me that he owns
a ranch two miles back of the town. He came on the boat to spy out what
he could steal, in my opinion."

"How many days do you think we shall need for the trip, Bob?" asked Sam.

"It may take us a week; but it depends on the current, and whether we
meet with any obstructions. Are you in a hurry to get back to your
uncle?"

"No," said Sam, his face wearing a troubled look. "The fact is, Bob, I
don't mean to go back at all."

"You mean dat, Massa Sam?" asked Clip, his eyes expanding in his
excitement.

"Yes, I mean it. If I go back I shall have to return to my uncle, and
you know what kind of a reception I shall get. He will treat me worse
than ever."

"I am sure, Sam, my mother will be willing to let you live with us."

"I should like nothing better, but my uncle would come and take me
away."

"Would he have the right?"

"I think he would. He has always told me that my poor father left me to
his charge."

"Do you think he left any property?"

"Yes; I feel sure he did; for on his deathbed he called me to him, and
said: 'I leave you something, Sam; I wish it were more; but, at any
rate, you are not a pauper.'"

"Did you ever mention this to your uncle, Sam?"

"Yes."

"What did he say?"

"It seemed to make him very angry. He said that my father was delirious
or he would never have said such absurd things. But I know he was in his
right mind. He was never more calm and sensible than when he told me
about the property."

"I am afraid Sam, your uncle has swindled you out of your inheritance."

"I think so, too, but I can't prove anything, and it won't do to say
anything, for it makes him furious."

"What does your aunt say?"

"Oh, she sides with Uncle Aaron; she always does that."

"Then I can't say I advise you to return to Carver, although Clip and I
are sure to miss you."

"'Deed I shall, Massa Sam," said Clip.

"I think I can pick up a living somehow in St. Louis. I would rather
black boots than go back to Uncle Aaron."

"I am sure you can. Perhaps some gentleman will feel an interest in you,
and take you into his service."

"I want to tell you, Bob, that Uncle Aaron hates you, and will try to
injure you. You will need to be careful."

"That's no news, Sam. He has shown his dislike for me in many ways; but
I am not afraid of him," the boy added, proudly.

At nine o'clock the boys went to bed. They were all tired, and all slept
well. It was not till seven o'clock that Bob awoke. His two companions
were asleep. He roused them, and they prepared for the second day's
trip.




CHAPTER XXIV.

CLIP MAKES A LITTLE MONEY FOR HIMSELF.


About noon the next day, while Clip was at the helm, there was a sudden
jolt that jarred the boat from stem to stern, if I may so speak of a
double-ender ferry-boat.

Bob and Sam, who had been occupied with re-arranging some of the cargo,
rushed up to the colored pilot.

"What on earth is the matter, Clip asked Bob.

"'Clare to gracious, I dunno, Massa Bob," asseverated Clip.

Bob didn't need to repeat the question. Clip had steered in shore, and
the boat had run against a tree of large size which had fallen over into
the river, extending a distance of a hundred feet into the stream. Of
course the boat came to a standstill.

"What made you do this, Clip?" said Bob, sternly.

"Didn't do it, Massa Bob. Ol' boat run into the tree himself."

"That won't do, Clip. If you had steered right, there would have been no
trouble."

"I steered just as you told me to, Massa Bob."

"No, you didn't. You should have kept the boat at least a hundred and
fifty feet from the shore."

"Didn't I, Massa Bob?" asked Clip, innocently.

"No. Don't you see we are not more than fifty feet away now?"

"I didn't get out and measure, Massa Bob," said Clip, with a grin.

"Now, own up, Clip, were you not looking at something on the bank, so
that you didn't notice where you were steering?"

"Who told you, Massa Bob?" asked Clip, wondering.

"I know it must be so. Do you know you have got us into trouble? How am
I going to get the boat back into the stream?"

Clip scratched his head hopelessly. The problem was too intricate for
him to solve.

"I think, Clip, I shall have to leave you over at the next place we come
to. You are more bother than you are worth."

"Oh, don't, Massa Bob. I won't do so again. 'Deed I won't."

Bob didn't relent for some time. He felt that it was necessary to
impress Clip with the heinousness of his conduct. At length he agreed to
give him one more chance. He had to secure the services of two stout
backwoodsmen to remove the tree, and this occasioned a delay of at least
two hours. Finally the boat got started again, and for the remainder of
the day there was no trouble.

Towards the close of the afternoon they reached a place which we will
call Riverton. It was a smart Western village of about two thousand
inhabitants. Bob and Sam went on shore to get some supper, leaving Clip
in charge.

"Now, Clip, you must keep your eyes open, and take good care of
everything while we are gone," said Bob.

"All right, Massa Bob."

About ten minutes after the boys went away Clip was sitting on a barrel
whistling a plantation melody, when a slender, florid-complexioned young
man stepped aboard.

"Good-evening, sir," he said, removing his hat.

"Evenin'," answered Clip, with a grin. He was flattered by being
addressed as "sir."

"Are you in charge of this boat?"

"Yes; while Massa Bob and Sam are gone ashore."

"Are they boys like yourself?"

"Yes, sir."

"Are you three all that are on board--I mean all that man the boat?"

"Yes, massa."

"Where are you bound?"

"To St. Louis."

"Do you think they would take me as passenger?"

Clip shook his head.

"They won't take no passengers," he answered. "An ol' woman wanted to go
as passenger, and another man" (Clip was unconscious of the bull), "but
Massa Bob he said no."

"Suppose I make a bargain with you," said the man, insinuatingly.

"What you mean, massa?" asked Clip, rolling his eyes in wonderment.

"Can't you hide me somewhere without their knowing I am on board?"

"What for I do dat?" asked Clip.

"I'll make it worth your while."

"What's dat?"

"I'll give you five dollars."

"For my own self?"

"Yes; for yourself."

"And I won't have to give it to Massa Bob?"

"No; you can spend it for yourself."

"But Massa Bob would find out to-morrer."

"If he finds out to-morrow I shan't mind."

"And you won't take back the money?"

"No; you can keep the money at any rate."

"Where's the money?" asked Clip, cautiously.

The stranger took out a five-dollar gold piece, and showed it to Clip.
Clip had seen gold coins before, and he understood the value of what was
offered him.

"Where can I put you?" he said.

"We'll go round the boat together, and see if we can find a place."

The round was taken, and the stranger selected a dark corner behind a
bin of wheat.

"Will Massa Bob, as you call him; be likely to look here?"

"No; I reckon not."

"Have you got anything to eat on board which you can bring me by and
by?"

"I'm goin' on shore soon as Massa Bob gets back. I'll buy something."

"That will do."

The stranger ensconced himself in his hiding-place, and soon after Bob
and Sam returned.

"Has anybody been here, Clip?" asked Bob.

"No, Massa Bob," answered Clip, solemnly.

Poor Clip's moral convictions were rather obtuse, and a lie did not
impress him as seriously wrong.

"What have you been doing while we were away?"

"Nothin', Massa Bob."

"That's what you like best to do, Clip, isn't it?"

"Dat's where you're right, Massa Bob. Yah, yah!"

"Well, you can go to your supper, Clip. Here's some money."

"All right, Massa Bob."

Clip did not seem in any great hurry to go. He was rather afraid that
Bob and Sam would explore the boat while he was away. Finally he walked
away with slow steps, looking back from time to time.

"What's got into Clip?" said Bob, wonderingly.

"I guess he isn't hungry," answered Sam, with a laugh.

Ten minutes later Bob's attention was drawn to a crowd of men and boys
who were approaching the boat. He naturally wondered what was the object
of the assemblage.

The leader called out to Bob, when he had approached sufficiently near:

"I say, boy, have you seen anything of a man with dark hair, florid
complexion, wearing a light suit, running along the bank?"

"No, sir. Why?"

"A man of that description has stolen a sum of money from a dry-goods
store in the town. He was seen running in this direction. We thought you
might have seen him."

"No, sir; I have seen nothing of such a man."

Bob little dreamed that the thief in question was concealed at that
moment within twenty-five feet of where he was sitting.




CHAPTER XXV.

CLIP'S SECRET MISSION.


The man who had addressed Bob eyed him sharply on receiving his negative
answer.

"It is a pretty serious thing to connive at the escape of a criminal,"
he said.

"That remark does not affect me, sir. I know nothing of any criminal. If
I had seen him I would tell you."

Bob talked so frankly and honestly that it seemed impossible to doubt
his word. The leader of the pursuing party turned to consult with a
friend.

"The boy seems straightforward," he said. "What do you think?"

"I agree with you. Still, the man was seen to run in this direction."

The first questioner was the one most concerned in the capture of the
guilty party, for it was his store that had been robbed.

"Have you been here all the time?" he asked, turning once more to Bob.

"No, sir; my friend and I have been to the village to get supper."

"Did you leave no one on board?"

"Yes, sir; a colored boy in my service--a boy named Clip."

"Did he mention having seen any suspicious party, or any man who seemed
to be running away?"

"No, sir."

"Where is he? I would like to speak with him."

"He has gone to the village to get his supper."

If Clip had been present he would no doubt have been questioned, but as
he was absent the party of investigation did not think it worth while to
wait.

"That's rather curious, Sam," said Bob, when they were again alone. "We
were suspected of screening a criminal."

"I wouldn't give much for the fellow's chance of escape. They are
evidently determined to catch him."

These words were all distinctly heard by the man in hiding.

"I was lucky to fall in with the little nigger," he reflected. "Them
boys would have refused to help me. They would give me up now if they
knew I was on board. I must be careful."

Clip came back at the end of half an hour. If Bob had taken notice of
him, he would have noticed that the boy's pockets bulged out as if
crowded with articles. But he had no especial reason for suspecting Clip
of any underhand proceeding, and sat with Sam talking about home
matters, leaving his young colored servant to his own devices.

Clip was faithful to his trust. He had agreed to take care of his
concealed passenger, and he was determined to do so.

As soon as he could do so without observation, he went to the man's
hiding-place and poured out the contents of his pockets. There were some
buns and small rolls and a few round cakes.

"Will they do you, mister?" he asked, in a low voice.

"Yes; but I'm terribly thirsty. Have you got any whisky aboard?"

Clip shook his head.

"We ain't got no 'toxicating liquors," he answered.

"Can you bring me a glass of water?"

"I'll try. If you'd let me tell Massa Bob you were on board, I guess
he'd give you some milk."

"Milk be--hanged! No, I'll make it do with water. Don't you tell this
Bob, on any account, that I am here!"

"All right, massa!" answered Clip; but he was getting more and more
puzzled. "Are you goin' to stay in dat place all night?"

"Yes."

"You'll find it mighty uncomfor'ble. If Massa Bob knew you was here--"

"He is not to know, do you hear?" said the other, impatiently.

"All right, massa! You know best."

"Of course I know best."

By this time Clip was missed.

"Where are you, Clip?" asked Bob.

"I'm jist loafin' around, Massa Bob," said Clip, a little startled.

"There's something strange about you to-night, Clip; I don't understand
it."

"I'm thinkin' of old times down in Arkansaw, Massa Bob."

"Would you like to be there now, Clip?"

"No, Massa Bob, I'd rather live with you and your mudder. My ol' massa
use to give me plenty of lickin's. I don't want to go back, never no
more."

Clip still continued to be restless and uneasy. He knew he had no
authority for taking a passenger on board, and feared that Bob would
take away the five dollars if he learned that Clip had accepted so large
a sum. To do Clip justice, he had no idea that the man whom he had
hidden was an offender against the laws, and that the police were in
search of him. Even if he had known this, however, it is not certain
that Clip would have been prejudiced against the offender. In truth, his
prejudices were against the agents of the law rather than against those
who had offended.

Bob and Sam usually retired early; but to-night, to Clip's discontent,
they remained up later than usual, talking about matters at home.

"Isn't you ever goin' to bed, Massa Bob?" asked Clip, at last.

"What is your hurry, Clip? Are you sleepy?"

"Awful sleepy, Massa Bob," answered Clip; "can't hardly keep my eyes
open."

"Then you can go to bed any time. Sam and I will soon follow."

This was not altogether satisfactory, for Clip meant to get up as soon
as Bob and Sam were asleep and visit his passenger, who had expressed a
wish to have him do so. However, there was nothing to be said, and Clip
withdrew to his bunk and lay down; but, as may readily be guessed, his
mind was too active for sleep.

There was some one else who was anxious to have Bob and Sam retire. This
was the hidden passenger, who found his quarters contracted and
uncomfortable.

"What's the matter with those confounded boys?" he growled to himself.
"They seem determined to sit up on purpose to vex me. When they are
once asleep I can get up and stretch my limbs."

In about twenty minutes the boys, judging from their deep and regular
breathing, had fallen asleep.

Clip, who had been waiting anxiously, raised himself on his elbow and
eyed them closely.

Feeling that it was now safe for him to do so, he slipped out of bed
cautiously and began to feel his way toward the hiding-place of his new
acquaintance.

"They're asleep," he whispered. "Now, what you want, massa?"

"It's high time they were," growled the man. "I thought they were going
to sit up all night."

"So did I," returned Clip.

"Are you sure there is no whisky on board?"

"No, massa."

"I suppose you could get some for me on shore. There's a saloon only
three minutes' walk from this place."

Clip was reluctant to go on shore on such an errand; but finally the
offer of fifty cents for himself induced him to do so. He took a tin cup
which Bob had brought with him from home, and started on his errand.

At the saloon he was asked, "Do you want this for yourself? We don't
sell to boys."

"No, massa; it's for a sick man."

"Where's the sick man?"

"On board a boat."

Upon this representation the whisky was obtained, and Clip started on
his return. His curiosity led him to take a swallow of the whisky he was
carrying, but it did not commend itself to Clip's palate.

"It's nasty stuff!" he said with a grimace; "I don't see what fo' people
drink it."

He carried the drink safely to the passenger, who drank it and smacked
his lips over it. "It goes to the right spot," he said.

"Do those boys sleep sound?" he asked.

"Yes, massa."

"Then I'll get out of this beastly hole and take a turn on deck."

"Be keerful, massa!" said Clip anxiously.

"Oh, yes; I won't make any noise."

Clip crept back to bed and succeeded in resuming his place without
disturbing or arousing Bob or Sam.




CHAPTER XXVI.

WAS IT THE CAT?


Usually Bob Burton slept all night; but to-night, unfortunately for
Clip, he awakened about two o'clock in the morning. By an equally
perverse chance, just as he awoke, the concealed passenger, now enjoying
the freedom of the deck, broke out into a stentorian sneeze. Bob heard
it, and so did Clip, whose uneasiness made him sleep more lightly than
usual, and both were startled.

"I hope Massa Bob won't hear dat," thought Clip.

But Bob did hear it.

"What's that?" he asked, half rising in bed.

"It's me!" answered Clip, preferring to admit the sneeze rather than
have Bob suspect that there was any one else on the boat.

"Do you mean to say you sneezed, Clip?" asked Bob, in amazement.

"Yes, Massa Bob."

"You must be dreaming. The sneeze came from another part of the boat."

"Are you sure?" asked Clip.

"Yes. What made you tell me that it was you who sneezed?"

"I t'ought I did, Massa Bob."

"When did you wake up?"

"Just now."

"The sneeze must have waked you up."

"I dunno," answered Clip, dubiously.

"There must be some one on board, unless we both dreamed about the
sneeze."

"Mebbe it's a cat!" remarked Clip, ingenuously.

Bob laughed. "It must be a very remarkable cat that would sneeze like
that," he said.

"Jus' so, Massa Bob," assented Clip, meekly, hoping that Bob would drop
the subject.

"I think, Clip, I shall get up and search for that cat."

"Don't you do it, Massa Bob. He--he might bite you."

"I hope I am not such a coward as to be afraid of a cat."

Bob rose and lighted a candle which he had with him. Then, followed by
Clip, he advanced to the other end of the deck. But the passenger had
warning, having heard the conversation which had taken place between Bob
and Clip, and had hurriedly retreated to his former hiding-place. It did
not occur to Bob to look there, and he returned from his fruitless
search more mystified than ever.

But, Clip being close beside him, he caught the aroma of the single
swallow of whisky which Clip had taken, and he immediately began to
suspect poor Clip of having indulged in much deeper potations than he
was guilty of.

"Clip," he said, suddenly, "I smell whisky."

"Does you, Massa Bob?" asked Clip, feeling that he was getting into a
scrape.

"Yes, I do, Clip; and where do you think it comes from?"

"Don't know, Massa Bob; 'deed I don't."

"It comes from your mouth, Clip. You've been drinking!"

Drops of perspiration stood on Clip's forehead. He could not excuse
himself, or explain matters, without betraying his secret. Not thinking
of anything to say, he said nothing.

"Tell me the truth, Clip; have you been drinking?"

"I jes' took a little swaller."

"Where did you take it?"

"On sho'."

"What made you do such a thing? I didn't dream that you were getting
intemperate, Clip."

"You see, Massa Bob, a gen'leman asked me to bring him a drink of
whisky, and I t'ought I'd jest see how it tasted."

"Who asked you to bring him some whisky?" asked Bob, who believed this
to be a pure fiction on the part of his young companion.

"A gen'leman."

"What gentleman?"

"He didn't tell me his name."

"I think you are telling me a lie, Clip."

"No I ain't, Massa Bob; it's as true as de Bible."

"I don't think you know much about the Bible, Clip."

"It's all true what I told you, Massa Bob. If I find de gen'leman, I'll
bring him here to tell you."

The witness referred to smiled to himself grimly when he heard this
statement.

"That little nigger's a brick!" he said to himself. "As to that other
boy, I'd like to throw him overboard. He's too fond of meddling with
other people's business."

It may occur to the reader that this was hardly a fair way of stating
the case. As the boat belonged to Bob, and he was the commander, it
might safely be assumed that he had a right to inquire into anything
that excited his suspicion.

"Are you goin' back to bed, Massa Bob?" asked Clip, uneasily.

"Wait a minute, Clip; I want to get a drink of water."

Again poor Clip was in bad luck. The tin dipper had been used to procure
the whisky, and of course it still smelled strongly of that liquor.

"Clip," said Bob, as soon as he had raised it to his lips, "you got some
whisky in this cup."

"Ye'es," admitted Clip.

"And you drank it yourself instead of giving it to any gentleman."

"No, I didn't, Massa Bob," stoutly, and as we know truly, asserted Clip.

"I'm ashamed of you, Clip. If you are going to act in this way, I shall
have to send you home. You have been acting very queerly this evening.
Sam and I both noticed it, but I didn't think you had formed a taste for
whisky."

"I don't love it, Massa Bob. I hate it. It's awful nasty stuff."

"And you didn't drink this dipper full, then?"

"No, I didn't."

"What did you do with it?"

"Throwed it away, Massa Bob. I only took one swaller. I couldn't drink
it if you gave me half a dollar; 'deed I couldn't."

"I hope this is true, Clip. I shouldn't like to tell my mother that you
had become intemperate."

"What's the matter?" was heard from Sam's bed at this juncture. "Where
are you, Bob?"

"Here I am, Sam."

"What made you get up?"

"I thought I heard a noise on deck; so Clip and I got up."

"What was it like?"

"A sneeze. Clip thought it might be a cat."

Bob and Sam laughed at the ludicrous idea, and Clip joined in, glad that
Bob's embarrassing cross-examination was over.

"You'd better come to bed, both of you. Very likely you dreamed it."

At that moment, and before Bob had put out the candle, there was a most
unlooked-for corroboration of Clip's singular theory.

An immense tom-cat ran swiftly between Bob's legs, from some place of
concealment. Both he and Clip saw it, and the latter was quick to take
advantage of the opportune appearance of the animal.

"Dare's de cat, Massa Bob," he shouted, triumphantly. "Didn't I tell you
it was a cat?"

Bob was temporarily nonplussed. Clip seemed to have the best of the
argument.

"All I can say is, it is a remarkable cat," he said. "I wish it would
sneeze again."

The rest of the night passed without anything remarkable happening. All
three boys slept soundly. Indeed, it was later than usual, probably on
account of their sleep being interrupted during the night, that they
awoke.

According to custom, the boys took turns in going out to breakfast.

"Clip, you and Sam can go out together," said Bob. "I will take my turn
afterwards."

"I ain't in no hurry, Massa Bob," said Clip. "You an' Sam go first, and
I'll go afterwards."

Bob thought this a little strange, but did not object.

When Clip was left alone he went at once to see his charge.

"Hope you pass de night good," said Clip, politely.

"I'm awfully cramped up," groaned the other. "But you're a trump, Clip.
You stood by me like a Trojan."

"Thank you, massa. I'm afraid Massa Bob'll find you out. How long you
goin' to stay?"

"Till I get a few miles from this town. Then he may find me and
welcome."

Clip felt that it would be a great relief to him when there was no
further need of concealment.




CHAPTER XXVII.

THE MYSTERIOUS PASSENGER IS DISCOVERED.


Bob Burton started on his trip down the river quite unaware that he
carried a passenger; Clip's peculiar nervousness attracted his
attention, and he wondered at it, but finally was led to attribute it to
the whisky, of which he credited Clip with having drunk a considerable
amount. We know that he was mistaken in this, but those who practice
deception are apt to be misjudged, and have no right to complain.

One more discovery puzzled Bob. Clip happened to have a hole in the
pocket in which he carried the money given him by the mysterious
passenger. At first it was not large enough to imperil the safety of the
