embodiment gave him no uneasiness at the 
moment. Sooner or later the imprisoned song 
would force its way through the solid masonry 
in which it was walled up — He gave a short laugh 
and came down to earth; his fancy was running 
away with him. 
He folded the poem compactly and put it in his 
breast pocket, determined that it should never 
leave him again until a copy was in the hands of the 
printer. It should be sent forth from Constan- 
tinople. The poem must be the apparent off- 
spring of his present incarnation; and as he had 
never been in Constantinople he must go there 
and remain for several months before publica- 
tion. 
He went into the library and sat down before 
the fire. He closed his eyes and let his head fall 
back on the soft cushion, a pleasant languor and 
warmth stealing through his frame. What a 
future ! Power, honor, adoration — the proudest 
pedestal a man can stand upon. And, as if this 
were not enough, an unquestioned happiness with 
the woman he loved with his whole heart. To 
her advent into his life he owed his complete and 
final severance from the petty but infinite distrac- 
tions and temptations of the world. His present 
without flaw, and his future assured, what was to 
prevent his gifts from flowering thickly and un- 
ceasingly in their peaceful soil and atmosphere 
of calm ? He remembered that his first 
irresistible impulse to write had come on the night he 
had met her. Would he owe to her his final 
 
power to speak, as he had owed to that other — 
He sat suddenly erect, then leaned forward, 
gazing at the fire with eyes from which all
languor had vanished. He felt as if a flash of 
lightning had been projected into his brain. That 
other? Who was that other ? — why was she so 
marvellously like Weir ? Her grandmother ? 
Yes, but why had he felt for Weir that sense of 
recognition and spiritual kinship the moment he 
had seen her ? 
He sprang to his feet and strode to the middle 
of the room. Great God ! Was Weir reem- 
bodied as well as himself ? Lady Sioned Pen- 
rhyn was indisputably the woman he had loved 
in his former existence — that was proved once 
for all by the scene in the gallery at Rhyd- Alwyn 
and by the letters he had found addressed to 
her. He recalled Weir's childhood experience. 
Had she really died, and the desperate, 
determined spirit of Sioned Penrhyn taken possession 
of her body ? Otherwise, why that sense of 
affinity, and her strange empire over him the 
night of their mutual vision ? There was 
something more than racial resemblance in form and 
feature between Sioned and Weir Penrhyn; there 
was absolute identity of soul and mind. 
He strode rapidly from one end of the room 
to the other. Every nerve in his body seemed 
vibrating, but his mind acted rapidly and
sequentially. He put the links together one by 
 
one, until, from the moment of his last 
meeting with Sioned Penrhyn at Constantinople to 
the climax of his vision in his study, the chain 
was complete. Love, then, as well as genius, 
had triumphed over the vengeance of Dafyd 
Penrhyn and Catherine Dartmouth. In that 
moment he felt no affection for his grandmother. 
She had worshipped and spoilt him, and had 
shown him only her better side; but the weakness 
and evil of her nature had done him incalculable 
injury, and he was not prepared to forgive her at 
once. 
He returned to his seat. Truly they all were 
the victims of inexorable law, but the law was 
just, and if it took to-day it gave to-morrow. If 
he and Sioned Penhryn had been destined to 
short-lived happmess and tragic death in that 
other existence, there was not an obstacle or 
barrier between them in the present. And if — He 
pushed his chair suddenly back and brought his 
brows together. A thought had struck him 
which he did not like. He got up and put 
another log on the fire. . Then he went over to 
the table and took up a book — a volume of Fig- 
uier. He sat down and read a few pages, then 
threw down the book, and drawing writing 
materials toward him, wrote a half-dozen business 
letters When they were finished, together with 
a few lines to Weir, and no other correspondence 
suggested itself, he got up and walked the 
length of the room several times. Suddenly he 
brought his fist violently down on the table. 
" I am a fool," he exclaimed. " The idea of a 
man with my experience with women — " And 
then his voice died away and his hand relaxed, 
an expression of disgust crossing his face. He 
sank into a chair by the table and leaned his 
head on his hand. It was true that he was a 
man of the world, and that for conventional 
morality he had felt the contempt it deserved. 
Nevertheless, in loving this girl the finest and 
highest instincts of his nature had been aroused. 
He had felt for her even more of sentiment than 
of passion. When a man loves a girl whose 
mental purity is as absolute as her physical, there 
is, intermingled with his love, a leavening quality 
of reverence, and the result is a certain purification 
of his own nature. That Dartmouth had 
found himself capable of such a love had been a 
source of keenest gratification to him. He had 
been lifted to a spiritual level which he had never 
touched before, and there he had determined to 
remain. 
And to have this pure and exquisite love 
smirched with the memory of sin and vulgar 
crime! To take, into his arms as his wife the 
woman on whose soul was written the record of 
temptation and of sin! It was like marrying 
one's mistress: as a matter of fact, what else was 
it? But "Weir Penrhyn! To connect sin with 
her was monstrous. And yet, the vital spark 
called life — or soul, or intelligence, or personal 
force; whatever name science or ignorance might 
give it — was unchanged in its elements, as his 
own chapter of memories had taught him. Every 
instinct in Sioned's nature was unaltered. If 
these instincts were undeveloped in her present 
existence, it was because of Weir's sheltered 
life, and because she had met him this time 
before it was too late. 
He sprang to his feet, almost overturning the 
chair. " I can think no more to-night," he 
exclaimed. " My head feels as if it would burst." 
He went into his bedroom and poured out a 
dose of laudanum. When he was in bed he 
drank it, and he did not awake until late the next 
day. 
XL 
In the life of every man there comes a time 
when he is brought face to face with the great 
problem of morality. The murderer undoubtedly
comprehends the problem in all its 
significance when he is about to mount the scaffold , 
the faithless wife when she is dragged through 
the divorce court, and her family and friends are 
humbled to the dust. 
Dartmouth worked it out the next night as he 
sat by his library fire. He had given the 
afternoon to his business affairs, but when night 
 
threw him back into the sole companionship of 
his thoughts, he doggedly faced the question 
which he had avoided all day. 
What was sin ? Could anyone tell, with the 
uneven standard set up by morality and 
religion ? The world smiled upon a loveless 
marriage. What more degrading ? It frowned upon 
a love perfect in all but the sanction of the 
Church, if the two had the courage to proclaim 
their love. It discreetly looked another way 
when the harlot of " Society " tripped by with 
her husband on one hand and her lover on the 
other. A man enriched himself at the expense 
of others by what he was pleased to call his 
business sharpness, and died revered as a 
philanthropist; the common thief was sent to jail. 
Dartmouth threw back his head and clasped 
his hands behind it. Of what use rehearsing 
platitudes? The laws of morality were 
concocted to ensure the coherence and homogeneity 
of society; therefore, whatever deleteriously 
affected society was crime of less or greater 
magnitude. He and Sioned Penrhyn had ruined the 
lives and happiness of two people, had made a 
murderer of the one, and irrevocably hardened the 
nature of the other: Catherine Dartmouth had 
lived to fourscore, and had died with unexpiated 
wrong on her conscience. They had left two 
children half-orphaned, and they had run the 
risk of disgracing two of the proudest families in 
 
Great Britain. Nothing, doubtless, but the 
cleverness and promptitude of Sir Dafyd Penrhyn, 
the secretive nature of Catherine Dartmouth, the 
absence of rapid-news transit, and the 
semi-civilization of Constantinople at that time, 
had prevented the affair from becoming public scandal. 
Poor Weir! how that haughty head of hers would 
bend if she knew of her grandmother's sin, even 
did she learn nothing of her own and that sin's 
kinship! 
Dartmouth got up and walked slowly down the 
long room, his hands clasped behind him, his 
head bent. Heaven knew his " sins " had been 
many; and if disaster had never ensued, it had 
been more by good luck than good management. 
And yet — he could trace a certain 
punishment in every case; the woman punished by 
the hardening of her nature and the probability 
of complete moral dementia; the man by satiety 
and an absolute loss of power to value what he 
possessed. Therefore, for the woman a sullen 
despair and its consequences; for the man a 
feverish striving for that which he could never 
find, or, if found, would have the gall in the 
nectar of having let slip the ability to unreservedly 
and innocently enjoy. , 
And if sin be measured by its punishment ! 
He recalled those years in eternity, with their 
hell of impotence and inaction. He recalled the 
torment of spirit, the uncertainty worse than 
 
death. And Weir? Surely no two erring mortals
had ever more terribly reaped the reward of 
their wrong-doing. 
What did it signify ? That he was to give her up ? 
that a love which had begun in sin must not 
end in happiness ? But his love had the strength 
of its generations; and the impatient, virile, 
control-disdaining nature of the man rebelled. Surely 
their punishment had been severe enough and 
long enough. Had they not been sent back to 
earth and almost thrown into each other's arms 
in token that guilt was expiated and vengeance 
satisfied ? Dartmouth stopped suddenly as this 
solution presented itself, then impatiently thrust 
a chair out of his way and resumed his walk. 
The consciousness that their affection was the 
perpetuation of a lustful love disheartened and 
revolted him. Until that memory disappeared 
his punishment would not be over. 
He stopped and leaned his hand on the 
table. " I thought I was a big enough man to 
rise above conventional morality," he said. "But 
I doubt if any man is when circumstances have 
combined to make him seriously face the question. 
He might, if born a red Indian, but not 
if saturated in his plastic days with the codes 
and dogmas of the world. They cling, they 
cling, and reason cannot oust them. The society 
in whose enveloping, penetrating atmos- 
phere he has lived his life decrees that it is a 
  
sin to seduce another man's wife or to live with 
a woman outside the pale of the Church. Therefore
sin, down in the roots of his consciousness, 
he believes it; therefore, to perpetuate a sinful 
love — I am becoming a petty moralist," he 
broke off impatiently;" but I can't help it. I am 
a triumph of civilization." 
He stood up and threw back his shoulders. 
" Let it go for the present," he said. "At another 
time I may look at it differently or reason myself 
out of it. Now I will try " 
He looked towards his study door with a flash 
in his eyes. He half turned away, then went 
quickly into the little room and sat down before 
the desk. Every day he would make the attempt 
to write, and finally that obstinate wedge in his 
brain would give way and his soul be set free. 
He drew paper before him and took up a pen. 
For an hour he sat motionless, bending all his 
power of intellect, all the artistic instincts of his 
nature to the luring of his song-children from 
that closed wing in his brain. But he could not 
even hear their peremptory knocks as on the 
nights when he had turned from those^summonses 
in agony and terror. He would have welcomed 
them now and dragged the visitants into the sun- 
light of his intelligence and forced the song from 
their throats. 
He took the poem from his pocket and read it 
. over. But it gave him no inspiration, it dulled 
his brain, rather, and made him feel baffled and 
helpless. But he would not give up; and dawn 
found him still with his pen in his hand. Then 
he went to bed and slept for a few hours. That day 
he gave little attention to his affairs. His melancholy, 
held at bay by the extraordinary experience 
through which he had passed, returned 
and claimed him. He shut himself up in his 
library until the following morning, and alternated 
the hours with fruitless attempts to write and 
equally fruitless attempts to solve the problem in 
regard to Weir. The next day and night, with 
the exception of a few hours' restless sleep, were 
spent in the same way. 
At the end of the third day not a word had 
flowed from his pen, not a step nearer had he 
drawn to Weir. A dull despair took possession 
of him. Had those song-children fled, discouraged, 
and was he to be withheld from the one 
consolation of earthly happiness ? He pushed 
back the chair in which he had been sitting 
before his desk and went into the library. He 
opened one of the windows and looked out. 
How quiet it was! He could hear the rising 
wind sighing through the yews, but all nature 
was elsewise asleep. What was she doing down 
at Rhyd-Alwyn ? Sleeping calmly, or blindly 
striving to link the past with the present ? He 
had heard from her but once since he left.
Perhaps she too had had a revelation. He wondered 
if it were as quiet there as here, or if the waves at 
the foot of the castle still thundered unceasingly 
on. He wondered if she would shrink from him 
when the truth came to her. Doubtless, for she 
had been reared in the most rigid of moral 
conventions, and naturally catholic-minded as she 
was, right, to her, was right, and wrong was wrong. 
He closed the window and, throwing himself 
on a sofa, fell asleep. But his dreams were 
worse than his waking thoughts. He was wan- 
dering in eternal darkness looking for someone 
lost ages ago, and a voice beside him was mur- 
muring that he would never find her, but must 
goon — on — forever; that the curse of some crime 
committed centuries ago was upon him, and that 
he must expiate it in countless existences and
eternal torment. And far off, on the very confines 
of space, floated a wraith-like thing with the lithe 
grace of a woman whom he had loved on earth. 
And she was searching for him, but they de- 
scribed always the same circle and never met. 
And then, finally, after millions of years, an
invisible hand clutched him and bore him upward 
onto a plane, hitherto unexplored, then left him 
to grope his way as he could. All was blackness 
and chaos. Around him, as he passed them, he 
saw that dark suns were burning, but there was 
nothing to conduct their light, and they shed no 
radiance on the horrors of their world. Below 
him was an abyss in which countless souls were 
 
struggling, blindly, helplessly, until they should 
again be called to duty in some sphere of material 
existence. The stillness at first was deathlike, 
oppressive; but soon he became aware of a 
dull, hissing noise, such as is produced on 
earth by the fusion of metals. The invisible 
furnaces were lost in the impenetrable darkness, 
but the heat was terrific; the internal fires of 
earth or those of the Bible's hell must be sickly 
and pale in comparison with this awful, invisible 
atmosphere of flame. Now and then a planet, 
which, obeying Nature's laws even here, revolved 
around its mockery of a sun, fell at his feet a 
river of fire. There was stillness no longer. 
The roaring and the exploding of the fusing 
metals, or whatever it might be, filled the vast 
region like the hoarse cries of wild beasts and 
the hissing of angry serpents. It was deafening, 
maddening. And there was no relief but to 
plunge into that abyss and drown individuality. 
He flew downward, and as he paused a moment 
on the brink, he looked across to the opposite 
bank and saw a figure about to take the leap 
like himself. It was a dim, shadowy shape, but 
even in the blackness he knew its waving grace. 
And she pointed dowh into the abyss of blind, 
helpless, unintelligent torment, and then — 
 
XII. 
Dartmouth suddenly found himself standing 
upright, his shoulders clutched in a pair of strong 
hands, and Hollington's anxious face a few 
inches from his own. 
"What the devil is the matter with you, Hal ? " 
exclaimed Hollington. " Have you set up a 
private lunatic asylum, or is it but prosaic 
dyspepsia? " 
" Becky ! " exclaimed Dartmouth, as he grasped 
the situation. " I am so glad to see you. Where 
did you come from ?" 
"You frightened your devoted Jones to death 
with one of your starvation moods, and he tele- 
graphed for me. The idea of a man having the 
blues in the second month of his engagement to 
the most charming girl in Christendom ! " 
" Don't speak to me of her," exclaimed Dart- 
moute, throwing himself into a chair and cover- 
ing his face with his hands. 
"Whew! What's up? You haven't quarrelled 
already ? Or won't the governor give his consent?" 
" No," said Dartmouth, "that's not it." 
" Then what the devil is the matter ? Is — is 
she dead ?" 
"No." 
" Was she married to some other man be- 
fore ? " 
"No!" 
 
" I beg your pardon ; I was merely exhausting 
the field of conjecture. Will you kindly
enlighten me?" 
" If I did, you would say I was a lunatic." 
" I have been inclined to say so occasionally 
before — " 
" Becky, Weir Penrhyn is my — " And then he 
stopped. The ludicrous side of the matter had 
never appealed to him, but he was none the less 
conscious of how ridiculous the thing would 
appear to another. 
" Your what ? Your wife ? Are you married 
to her already, and do you want me to break it to 
the old gentleman ? What kind of a character is 
he ? Shall I go armed ? " 
" She is not my wife, thank God ! If she 
were—" 
" For heaven's sake, Harold, explain yourself. 
Can it be possible that Miss Penrhyn is like too 
many other women ? " 
Dartmouth sprang to his feet, his face white 
to the lips. 
"How dare you say such a thing?" he ex- 
claimed. " If it were any other man but you, 
I'd blow out his brains." 
Hollington got up from the chair he had taken 
and, grasping Dartmouth by the shoulders, threw 
him back into his chair. 
"Now look here, Harold," he said; "let us 
have no more damned nonsense. If you will 
indulge in lugubrious hints which have but one 
meaning, you must expect the consequences. I 
refuse to listen to another word unless you come 
out and speak plain English." 
He resumed his seat, and Dartmouth clasped 
his hands behind his head and stared moodily at 
the fire. In a few moments he turned his eyes 
and fixed them on Hollington. 
"Very well," he said, "I will tell you the 
whole story from beginning to end. Heaven 
knows it is a relief to speak; but if you laugh, I 
believe I shall kill you." 
"I will not laugh," said Hollington. "What- 
ever it is, I see it has gone hard with you." 
Dartmouth began with the night of the first 
attempt of his suppressed poetical genius to 
manifest itself, and gave Hollington a comprehensive 
account of each detail of his subsequent 
experiences, down to the reading of the letters and 
the spiritual retrospect they had induced. He 
did not tell the story dramatically; he had no fire 
left in him; he stated it in a matter-of-fact way, 
which was impressive because of the speaker's 
indisputable belief in his own words. Hollington 
felt no desire to laugh; on the contrary, he 
was seriously alarmed, and he determined to 
knock this insane freak of Harold's brain to 
atoms, if mortal power could do it, and regardless
of consequences to himself. 
When Dartmouth Iftd finished, Hollington lit 
a cigar and puffed at it for a moment,
meditatively regarding his friend meanwhile. Then he 
remarked, in a matter-of-fact tone : 
" So you are your own grandfather, and Miss 
Penrhyn is her own grandmother." 
Dartmouth moved uneasily. "It sounds ridiculous 
— but — don't chaff." 
" My dear boy, I was never more serious in 
my life. I merely wanted to be sure that I had 
got it straight. It is A. B. C. by this time to 
you, but it has exploded in my face like a keg 
of gunpowder, and I am a trifle dazed. But, to 
come down to deadly earnest, will you allow me 
to speak to you from the medical point of view ? 
You know I had some idea at one time of afflict- 
ing the community with one more physician, until 
we stumbled on those coal mines, and my pros- 
pective patients were spared premature acquaint- 
ance with the golden stairs. May I speak as an 
unfledged doctor, but still as one burdened with 
unused knowledge ? " 
"You can say what you like." 
" Very well, then. You may or may not be 
aware that what you are pleased to call the blues, 
or moods, are, in your case, nothing more or less 
than melancholia. When they are at their worst 
they are the form known as melancholia attonita. 
In other words, you are not only steeped in
melancholy, but your brain is in. a state of stupor: 
you are all but comatose. These attacks are 
 
not frequent, and are generally the result of a 
powerful mental shock or strain. I remember 
you had one once after you had crammed for two 
months for an examination and couldn't pull 
through. You scared the life out of the tutors 
and the boys, and it was not until I threatened 
to put you under the pump that you came to. 
Your ordinary attacks are not so alarming to 
your friends, but when indulged in too 
frequently, they are a good deal more dangerous." 
He paused a moment, but Dartmouth made no 
reply, and he went on. 
"Any man who yields habitually to melancholia 
may expect his brain, sooner or later, to 
degenerate from its original strength, and relax the 
toughness and compactness of its' fibre. Absolute 
dementia may not be the result for some 
years, but there will be occasional and painful 
indications of the end for a long space before it 
arrives. The indications, as a rule, will assume 
the form of visions and dreams and wild imagin- 
ings of various sorts. Now do you understand 
me?" 
" You mean," said Dartmouth, wheeling about 
and looking him directly in the eyes, " you mean 
that I am going mad ? " 
" I mean, my dear boy, that you will be a 
raving maniac inside of a month, unless you 
dislodge from your brain this horrible, unnatural, 
and ridiculous idea." 
" Do I look like a madman ? " demanded 
Dartmouth. 
" Not at the present moment, no. You look 
remarkably sane. A man with as good a brain 
as yours does not let it go all at once. It will 
slide from you imperceptibly, bit by bit, until 
one day there will be a climax." 
"lam not mad," said Dartmouth; "and if 
I were, my madness would be an effect, not a 
cause. What is more, I know enough about 
melancholia to know that it does not drift into 
dementia until middle age at least. Moreover, 
my brain is not relaxed in my ordinary attacks; 
my spirits are prostrate, and my disgust for life is 
absolute, but my brain — except when it has been 
over-exerted, as in one or two climaxes of this 
experience of mine — is as clear as a bell. I have 
done some of my best thinking with my hand on 
the butt of a pistol. But to return to the question
we are discussing. You have left one or 
two of the main facts unexplained. What caused 
Weir's vision ? She never had an attack of melancholia
in her life." 
" Telepathy, induction, but in the reverse 
order of your solution of the matter. Your calling 
her by her grandmother's name was natural 
enough in your condition — you have acknowledged 
that your melancholia had already taken 
possession of you. Miss Penrhyn had, for some 
reason best known to her sleeping self, got
herself up to look like her grandmother, and, she 
being young and pretty, her semi-lunatic 
observer addressed her as Sioned instead of heaven 
knows what jaw-breaking Welsh title. Then 
you went ahead and had the vision, which was 
quite in keeping with your general lunar condition.
I believe you said there was a moon." 
Dartmouth frowned. " I asked you not to 
chaff," he said. " What is more, I have had 
melancholia all my life, but delusion never before. 
But let that pass. The impulse to write — what 
do you say to that ? " 
"The impulse was due to the genius which 
you have undoubtedly inherited from your 
grandfather. The inability to put your ideas 
into verbal form is due to amnesic aphasia. The 
portion of your brain through which your genius 
should find speech is either temporarily paralyzed 
or else deficient in composition. You had 
better go up and see Jackson. He can cure you 
if anyone can." 
" Do you believe I can be cured ? " 
" You can certainly make the attempt.'' 
Dartmouth threw back his head and covered 
his face with his hands. "O God!" he
exclaimed, " if you knew the agony of the 
longing to feel the ecstasy of spiritual intoxication, 
and yet to feel as if your brain were a 
cloud-bank — of knowing that you are divinely 
gifted, that the world should be ringing with 
your name, and yet of being as mute as if 
screwed within a coffin!" 
" My dear boy, it will all come out right in the 
end. Science and your own will can do much, 
and as for the rest, perhaps Miss Penrhyn will 
do for you what those letters intimate Sioned 
did for your grandfather." 
Dartmouth got up and leaned his elbow on the 
mantelpiece. 
" I do not know that I shall marry Weir Pen- 
rhyn," he said. 
"Why not? Because your grandfather had 
an intrigue with her grandmother ? — which, by 
the way, is by no means clearly proved. That 
there was a plan on foot to that end the letters 
pretty well show, but — " 
"I don't care a hang about the sins of my 
ancestors, or of Weir's either — if that were all 
If I do not marry her it will be because I do not 
care to shatter an ideal into still smaller bits. I 
loved her with what little good was left in me. 
I placed her on a pedestal and rejoiced that I 
was able so to do. Now she is the woman whose 
guilty love sent us both to our death. I could 
never forget it. There would always be a spot 
on the sun." 
"My God, Harold," exclaimed Hollington, 
"you are mad. Of all the insane, ridiculous, 
idiotic speeches that ever came from man's lips, 
that is the worst." 
 
" I can't help it, Becky. The idea, the 
knowledge, is my very life and soul; and when you 
think it all over you will see that there are many 
things that cannot be explained — Weir's words 
in the gallery, for instance. They coincide 
exactly with the vision I had four nights later. 
And a dozen other things — you can think them 
out for yourself. When you do, you will 
understand that there is but one light in which to look 
at the question: Weir Penrhyn and I are Lionel 
Dartmouth and Sioned Penrhyn reborn, and that 
is the end of the matter." 
Hollington groaned, and threw himself back in 
his chair with an impatient gesture. 
"Well," he said, after a few moments' silence, 
"accepting your remarkable premisses for the 
sake of argument, will you kindly enlighten me 
as to since when you became so beautifully 
complete and altogether puerile a moralist ? Sup- 
pose you did sin with her some three-quarters of 
a century ago, have not time and suffering 
purified you both — or rather her ? I suppose it does 
not make so much difference about you." 
" It is not that. It is the idea that is revolting 
— that this girl should have been my mistress at 
any time — " 
"But, great heaven! Harold, such a sin is a 
thing of the fiesh, not of the spirit, and the 
physical part of Sioned Penrhyn has enriched 
the soil of Constantinople these sixty years. 
She has committed no sin in her present embodi- 
ment." 
"Sin is an impulse, a prompting, of the spirit," 
said Dartmouth. 
Hollington threw one leg over the arm of the 
chair, half turning his back upon Dartmouth. 
' Rot!" he said. 
" Not at all. Otherwise, the dead could sin." 
" I am gratified to perceive that you are still 
able to have the last word. All I can say is, that 
you have done what I thought no living man 
could do. I once read a novel by a famous 
American author in which one of the characters 
would not ask the heroine to marry him after 
her husband's death because he had been guilty 
of the indelicacy of loving her (although mutely, 
and by her unsuspected) while she was a married 
woman. I thought then that moral senility 
could go no further, but you have got ahead of 
the American. Allow me to congratulate you." 
" You can jibe all you like. I may be a fool, 
but I can't help it. I have got to that point 
where I am dominated by instinct, not by reason. 
The instincts may be wrong, because the out- 
growth of a false civilization, but there they are, 
nevertheless, and of them I am the product. 
So are you, and some day you will find it out. 
I do not say positively that I will not marry 
Weir Penrhyn. I will talk it over with her, and 
then we can decide." 
 
"A charming subject to discuss with a young 
girl. It would be kinder, and wiser, and more 
decent of you never to mention the matter to 
her. Of what use to make the poor girl miserable?" 
" She half suspects now, and it would come 
out sooner or later." 
" Then for heaven's sake do it at once, and 
have it over. Don't stay here by yourself any 
longer, whatever you do. Go to-morrow." 
"Yes," said Dartmouth, " I will go to-morrow." 
XIII. 
When Dartmouth entered the drawing-room 
at Rhyd-Alwyn the next evening, a half hour 
after his arrival, he found Sir Iltyd alone, and 
received a warm greeting. 
" My dear boy," the old gentleman exclaimed, 
" I am delighted to see you. It seems an age 
since you left, and your brief reports of your ill- 
health have worried me. As for poor Weir, she 
has been ill herself. She looks so wretched that 
I would have sent for a physician had she not, in 
her usual tyrannical fashion, forbidden me. I 
did not tell her you were expected to-night; I 
wanted to give her a pleasant surprise. Here 
she is now." 
The door was pushed open and Weir entered 
the room. Dartmouth checked an involuntary 
exclamation and went forward to meet her. She 
had on a long white gown hke that she had worn 
the morning he had asked her to marry him, but 
the similarity of dress only served to accentuate 
the change the intervening time had wrought. 
It was not merely that she had lost her color and 
that her face was haggard; it was an indefinable 
revolution in her personality, which made her 
look ten years older, and left her without a 
suggestion of girlishness. She still carried her head 
with her customary hauteur, but there was 
something in its poise which suggested defiance as 
well, and which was quite new. And the 
lanterns in her eyes had gone out; the storms had 
been too heavy for them. All she needed was 
the costume of the First Empire to look as if she 
had stepped out of the locket he had brought 
from Crumford Hall. 
As she saw Dartmouth, the blood rushed over 
her face, dyeing it to the roots of her hair, then 
receded, leaving it whiter than her gown. When 
he reached her side she drew back a little, but he 
made no attempt to kiss her; he merely raised 
her hand to his lips. As he did so he could 
have sworn he saw the sun flashing on the domes 
beneath the window; and over his senses stole 
the perfume of jasmine. The roar without was 
not that of the ocean, but of a vast city, and — 
hark ! — the cry of the muezzin. How weird the 
tapestry looked in the firelight, and how the 
figures danced! And he had always liked her to 
  
wear white, better even than yellow. He roused 
himself suddenly and offered her his arm. The 
butler was announcing dmner. 
They went into the dining-room, and Dart- 
mouth and Sir Iltyd talked about the change of 
ministry and the Gladstone attitude on the Irish 
question for an hour and a quarter. Weir 
neither talked nor ate, but sat with her hands 
clasped tightly in her lap. Dartmouth understood 
and sympathized. He felt as if his own 
nerves were on the rack, as if his brain had been 
rolled into a cord whose tension was so strained 
that it might snap at any moment. But Sir 
Iltyd was considerate. He excused himself as 
soon as dessert was removed, on the plea of 
finishing an important historical work just issued, 
and the young people went directly to the 
drawing-room. As Dartmouth closed the door Weir 
turned to him, the color springing into her face. 
"Tell me," she said, peremptorily; "have you 
discovered what it meant ? " 
He took her hand and led her over to the sofa. 
She sat down, but stood up again at once. " I 
cannot sit quietly," she said, " until I know. The 
enforced repression of the past week, the having 
no one to speak to, and the mystery of that 
dream have driven me nearly mad. It was cruel 
of you to stay away so long — but let that pass. 
There is only one thing I can think of now — do 
you know anything more than when you left ?" 
I 
He folded his arms and looked down. " Why 
should you think I could have learned anything 
at Crumford Hall?" he demanded, with 
apparent evasion. 
" Because of the restraint and sometimes 
incoherence of your letters. I knew that something 
had happened to you; you seemed hardly the 
same man. You seemed like— Oh, I do not 
know. For heaven's sake, tell me what it is." 
" Weir," he said, raising his head and looking 
at her, " what do you think it is ? " 
She put up her hands and covered her face. " I 
do not know," she said, uncertainly. -'If there 
is to be any explanation it must come from you. 
With me there is only the indefinable but 
persistent feeling that I am not Weir Penrhyn but 
the woman of that dream; that I have no right 
here in my father's castle, and no right to the 
position I hold in the world. To me sin has 
always seemed a horrible thing, and yet I feel 
as if my own soul were saturated with it; and 
what is worse, I feel no repentance. It is as if I 
were being punished by some external power, not 
by my own conscience. As if — Oh, it is all too 
vague to put into words — Harold, what is it ? " 
"Let us sit down," he said, " and talk it 
over." 
She allowed him to draw her down onto the 
sofa, and he looked at her for a moment. Then, 
suddenly, the purely human love triumphed. He 
 
forgot regret and disgust. He forgot the teach- 
ings of the world, and the ideal whose shattering 
he had mourned. He remembered nothing but 
that this woman so close to him was dearer than 
life or genius or ambition; that he loved her 
with all the strength and passion of which a 
man is capable. The past was gone, the future 
a blank; nothing remained but the glorious pres- 
ent, with its impulses which sprang straight from 
the heart of nature and which no creed could 
