found to have lived for three months on bread 
and water, to the all too real " little Joe " of 
Dickens, or the " abused child " in any of 
our Christian cities, habituated to sufferings 
which it would blot this page to repeat ; from 
the poor woman who told Octavia Hill that 
she chose her deadly cellar because " it lay 
between ninepence and the sun " to the six 
hundred and twenty-three descendants of an 
ignorant girl, now famous and infamous to 
social science as u Pauper Margaret ; " from 
the great causes of the English corn-law resistance, 
or the Reign of Terror, to the Nihilist 
passion fermenting beneath the Winter Palace, 
or the New York tenement house (sinister 
forerunner of revolution !), where four fam- 
ilies occupy one room, and wherein, by math- 
ematical estimate, there belongs to each living 
being under the roof a space on the floor's surface 
measuring eight feet by four, — there is 
a margin for simple human endurance, upon 
which it is not agreeable, either with or 
without its obverse relief, to dwell. 

On this obverse, it were uncandid not to 
remember, are pale and pleasant compensations 
to benignant thought. Beyond a certain point, 
deprivation unquestionably dulls susceptibility, 
denial teaches endurance, obscurity preserves 
from responsibility, the transient pleasure is more emphatic, the finer foreboding 
perhaps less acute, aspiration cools into 
acceptance, and ignorance stratifies into repose. 

It is not a grateful task to remind people 
how unfortunate they are. One who seems 
to undertake it must expect to be accused of 
pessimism (chiefly by those persons who cannot 
be said, even for politeness' sake, to 
know what a pessimist is), and of " morbidness," 
— a word which apparently has been 
made to cover whatever form of viewing fact 
differs from one's own. " Of course," said a 
great writer of his own sad, honest look at 
life, — " of course it is exaggerated to those 
who feel feebly." " Let no man counsel me," 
said Sophocles, " but who has felt sorrow like 
mine." Nevertheless, it must be repeated that 
no consistent philosophy, no trained 
imagination, no instructed memory, no sensitive 
sympathy, and no intelligent religious trust can 
deny this to be a state of manifold, mysterious, 
and unmeasured suffering. It is a doctrine 
no newer than Plato that all our pleasure
consists in an escape from pain. 

The very failure of the pen in a space so 
small, before a subject so enormous, writes 
deeper and darker than its fluency could 
mark. The very sinking of the heart before 
a strain so tense upon its nerve ; the very 
impulse which leads two kinds of people, the 
dull and the fortunate — or, we might acid a 
third, the cold — into their clamor about the 
beauty and haj)piness of the world, itself 
accentuates the great onrolling sound of the 
truth, like the voices of children on the shore, 
which increase while they defy the roar of the 
breaker. 

It will be remembered that we have touched 
with a reticent and sparing finger upon what 
might be called three key-notes in the great 
discords of life : the cruelty of nature, the 
mystery of sex, and the misery of the poor. 
It will be seen that these present but a 
portion of the lost harmonies around which the 
chords of human suffering clash. It will be 
observed that of the great facts of heredity we 
have said nothing at all ; that to the immense 
influence of physical disease on happiness we 
have scarcely alluded ; that we have passed 
by all those finer phases of our question which 
have led metaphysicians to maintain that life 
is a continual vacillation between displeasure 
and ennui ; that we have omitted the acute 
historical illustrations of human woe ; that we 
have avoided the whole train of thought suggested 
by institutions of charity, penalty, and 
mental healing ; that we have not dwelt upon 
the obstinate argument of suicide ; that we 
have not considered the terrible phenomena of 
remorse ; that we have not brooded upon the 
pitiless and inexorable sentence of death which 
has gone out against every breathing creature 
on the earth. It will be acknowledged that we 
have spared ourselves in the task of " looking 
the worst in the face." 

The most irrecoverable " blue " in philosophy 
could not venture to overlook the sum of 
the world's enjoyment, if only for the mathematical 
reason that a given amount of it repre- 
sents so much less weight than the same amount 
of misery. The colors of lakes, the scents of 
blush roses, — who could forget ? — are ever 
with us. The radiance of lovers' eyes and the 
laughter of children we may not miss. The 
comforts of ease and the vagaries of wealth 
are present to us, and though the invalid poor 
die for lack of beef tea, it is a fixed fact that a 
velvet suit for a doll can be purchased to-day 
for fifteen dollars. But it should not be forgotten 
that, so far as we are able judicially to 
estimate questions affecting our emotions, pain 




" goes farther," as our idiom has it, in this 
world than pleasure. This the great inductive 
philosopher, experience, teaches, at least to the 
more sensitive of the species, early in life. 

Up to a certain degree, pain passes over 
the suffering cells of the brain without dis- 
integrating them ; but there comes a limit, as 
clear to the individual consciousness as it is 
difficult to make over to that of another, be- 
yond which the best that fate could offer could 
not atone for the worst she has inflicted. Wise 
men may dispute this nice point to the world's 
end. It would be possible to select one be- 
reaved mother, who might call them all as 
scholars to her feet. A great sufferer knoivs 
that he can set single hours of his life against 
the accumulated happiness of its years. He 
knows that the one, considered in its cold, intellectual 
character as a fact of consciousness, 
outweighs the other, sinking as far below it as 
the sod is from the stars. This knowledge is 
no more to be taken from him than his soul. 
He would go to the bar of God with it. 

There is yet another thing, which the gayest 
optimist of us all would do well, in a 
discussion like this, to bear in mind. The charm of 


nature, the glory of love, and the pride of life 
are facts of which a Creator, presumably not 
kindly inclined towards his creatures, would 
be presumptively sure to avail himself. He 
would not be a very shrewd Deity who, with 
malevolent intentions, should create a world of 
ugliness, hate, and unmitigated deprivation. 

Such a God would be too wise to construct 
a system of unrelieved woe. He would 
exultantly deepen pain by a background of plea- 
sure. He would fiendishly emphasize loss by 
experience of possession. He would create 
hope as a foil against despair. The color of 
the lily, the kiss of a child, the delirium of 
love, it might be his horrible ingenuity to hold 
as what artists call " values" against the
tornado, and the tooth of famine and the grave. 

Conceptions like these, almost enough to 
congest imagination, might be true, though 
not in the same measure, of the moral nature 
of man. It is conceivable that up to a cer- 
tain extent, at least, good impulses might have 
been created for evil ends. There is a large 
border-land of moral conflict, wherein our 
worst assaults seem to come on the wings 
of angels of light. It is conceivable that a 



maleficent God would bestow upon us aspiration 
to create in us remorse, and allow us to 
strive for purity that he might the more 
exquisitely gloat over our surrender to guilt. 

It is not easy for a reverent mind to glance 
into this pit, even to heighten by contrast the 
dazzle of the ether up to which the devout 
heart looks. 

But it seems to me that if there is any be- 
ing of whom we need to know the worst that 
could be said, our Creator is that Being. A 
faith that will not bear for once firmly to 
regard the blackest possibilities of our destiny 
does not deserve their brightest. 

For the reasons given, as well as for those 
which must be omitted from a study of this 
kind, the reader will follow me in saying that 
the miseries and mysteries of human life being 
what they are, and our conceptions of the Creator 
being, as they must be, drawn to so large an 
extent through misery and mystery, the simple 
fact of the faith of mankind in his fair intentions 
is in and of itself as powerful a proof of 
his goodwill as we are likely to obtain, — a far 
more powerful one than all the limp religious 
impulse that could be wrung out of a system in 
which ease and pleasure predominated. It 
does not seem to me that we are in the habit of 
giving to this aspect of the question anything 
like the dignity or the force which, as an argument,
it deserves. 

I do not refer to what is known as the intuitive 
argument for God, which lies quite behind 
us in the discussion. Let us call this rather 
the argument of acquired trust. It would 
seem to be the consequence of experience 
rather than its prelude. The child, in the 
first blow from a father's hand, perceives 
nothing but an evidence of cruelty. Youth, hot- 
headed and quick-hearted, upon the first
important occasion when its wishes are crossed, 
flashes out its protest against Providence. 
Maturity only builds up confidence, and old 
age alone knows peace. 

We find it to be the law of divine denial 
that it not only does not obliterate, it creates, 
the phenomenon of human belief. The final 
test of love is trust under apparent desertion. 
This absolute trial it has been God's
mysterious purpose to impose upon man. Man has 
stood the test. Deep as he wades in the tide 
of error, wide as he gropes in the gloom of 

doubt, low as he sinks in the mud of sin, 
nevertheless, man has stood the test. 

There are lives of which we say, in the 
unconscious bitterness of common speech, that 
they are " pursued by Providence." The 
religious resignation of such lives partakes of 
the nature of miracle. Our wildest outcry 
against fate goes down before the patience of 
the deaf-mute or the cheerfulness of the blind, 
or the trust of an invalid, buried alive for forty 
years in a " mattress grave," in the tenderness 
of the Power that fixed him there. 

When life selects a sensitive and silent and 
untaught woman, whose whole being beyond 
its affectional side is rudimentary, of whom we 
should say that it were a severity to expect her 
to breast a snow-storm alone, — when fate
selects such a woman, and bruises her stroke by 
stroke, leaving her widowed, leaving her child- 
less, dragging her through the extremes of 
poverty, adding sickness, inventing 
friendlessness, threatening insanity, and denying death, 
and we find her peacefully and affectionately 
on her knees before a Being whom she never 
saw, whom she never heard, whom she never 
touched, but to whom alone she can attribute 

the inquisition of her life, — let us drop upon 
our own, beside her ; there is no higher place 
that our nicest logic is fit for, before the 
argument of such a fact as she. 

Life presents too many illustrations of this 
miracle of human trust for us to be able to set 
them aside as exceptions. They form a serried 
rank, advancing upon our doubts like the 
armed angels whom the prophet saw in the 
golden air. It is not to our purpose now to 
dwell upon the extent to which Christianity 
has cultivated this trust. It is enough at 
present that, from whatever origin and by 
whatever support, it exists. The fact that one 
sane mind, under the extremity of fate, 
developed the habit of joyous confidence known 
to the higher forms of religious culture were 
something before which a doubter with a fine 
eye must ponder long. 

It would seem that the fact that life abounds, 
has always abounded, with this confidence, 
rises, as I have said, to the region of the 
supernatural. It is less human than divine. It 
assures us of the divine in our Maker by 
the divine in ourselves. It is the fire of 
heaven — Prometheus never knew it — given 
at last to man. 


What merely human friendship (I ask it 
reverently) could stand the strain which God 
has seen fit to put upon our friendship for 
himself ? 

What human affection increases under the 
infliction by its object of unexplained and life- 
long pain ? 

True, we know instances in which our little 
loves for one another seem to have survived 
every attack upon them, — that of the wife 
for a brutal husband, that of a mother for a 
heartless child ; but such is not the law of our 
natures. 

Faith requires faith. Tenderness demands 
the tender. Truth claims the true ; and ought 
to claim it, and will. Even in the rarest 
forms of self-abnegation known to human 
fondness, repeated signs of coldness or 
unkindness wear out trust. Trust is the last and 
highest manifestation of the divine. Even our 
conceivable malignant Deity would pause
before the creation of a state of character in 
which trust — trust in purity, trust in beauty, 
trust in love, trust in himself as the essence of 
these holy things — had become the all-pervading
and the all - powerful element ; immediate as 
the light, and strong as the wind, 
and tender as tears, and firm as the eternal 
rock. He would have created a character 
mightier than himself. He would have created 
his own God. The hells, whether of time 
or eternity, could work no death upon such a 
character. It would pass out of them like the 
three men in the old story from the furnace of 
living fire. 

The ultimate religious tenderness of man 
towards God is a thing too high, too pure, 
too reasonable, to have sprung from any source 
less than himself. It must not be forgotten 
that this trust involves a state of feeling in 
man which puts the fact that he has hurt God 
to the front of his consciousness that God 
has hurt him. Even supposing it to be true 
that mere human longing for happiness, in 
itself considered, should not philosophically 
offer the promise of satisfaction, it is not 
rational that the panting human thirst for 
holiness, implied in the whole scheme by which 
the confidence of mankind in the mercy of its 
Creator has been developed, should be the off- 
shoot of anything other than a God who de- 
served it. 


Is it not conceivable that the creation of 
precisely such a type of character as this exact 
kind of trust signifies were worth the cost at 
which it has been built up ? 

Is it not altogether possible that the rounded 
development of such a character demands a 
far more straightforward look at the painful 
facts of life than we are taught to give them 
by that pseudo-philosophy which substitutes 
superficial cheerfulness for searching truthfulness ? 
We are not asked to writhe ourselves 
into the belief that this is a happy world. We 
are asked peacefully to admit that it was not 
meant to be a happy one. We are not lured, 
like girls, to love our Creator because he treats 
us indulgently. We are expected, like soldiers, 
to love him, although he treats us 
sternly. We are required to discover the 
characteristics of a loving and faithful parent 
in the appearance of a severe and mysterious 
ruler. 

It is the human task 

To find the father's smile 

Behind the monarch's mask. 

Regarded carefully, this is a fine tribute of 
respect to the race. 



It must not be forgotten that the scientific 
basis of human trust in the Creator is one of 
belief in a life to succeed this. 

This is as much as to say that pain is more 
formative than pleasure of spiritual character, 
and of faith which is the distinct resultant 
of such character. 

On the whole, for most of us this is practically
true. They are rare people who can 
bear great good-fortune. Sustained happiness, 
as our phrase goes, spoils us ; only the select 
natures sweeten, strengthen, and mature under 
it. There seems to be a law, not unlike certain 
analogies in nature, by which the human 
plant requires a winter. 

Philosophically, too, it is easy to see that 
pain rather than joy leads to that desire for 
another life which might underlie the capacity 
for one. " A soul sodden with pleasures " 
does not soar. A continuance of limited hap- 
piness is no spur towards the attainment of 
the unlimited. All social history proves this. 
Man unstung by deprivation saunters through 
his little possibility. The ascetic conqueror 
succumbs to the luxurious vices of the conquered. 
He who lives under a bread-fruit 



tree invents no grain-elevators. Very near the 
surface lies at least one sound reason why the 
race finds itself in what Kant called a " never- 
ceasing pain." This opens close upon all the 
ancient and great discussions clustering about 
the value of force and activity. It is enough 
for our purposes to say that it is natural to 
accept pleasure ; it is natural to escape pain. 
If this world had been made for the many 
what it is for the few, given to the deprived 
as it is to the fortunate ; if life for any of us 
had been what its ideals are, what but a miracle 
could have given us a compelling interest 
in a world beyond ? In short, if we had been 
provided with the materials of content, where 
should we have found the materials of aspiration ? 

Modern science has itself unwittingly invented 
one of the best of testimonies to the 
benevolence, if not the beneficence, of the
Creator, in acknowledging the compulsion which 
it has found laid upon itself of evolving 
human happiness out of human suffering. 
Somewhere, keen eyes have perceived, a keen 
intellect must meet this demand. Somehow, 
it must be done. Whatever this globe was 

put here for, it was not for failure. 
Whatever the unit was made for, the race was not 
made for hopelessness. However black the 
past, however blind the present, a bright 
future is a philosophical necessity. 

The individual, we are told, withers and 
dies. The type roots and renews. The 
blood-red pages of history, closed, sealed, 
and forgotten, give way to the fair hieroglyphs of 
prophecy, cold, golden, and calm. Let us be 
content to suffer, that our posterity may 
enjoy. Let us be satisfied with our dulled 
capacity, our imperfect faculty, our little knowledge,
our lost ideal, our pitiful hope, our puny 
achievement, since they who come after us 
shall grow like grass from our decay. Let us 
endure, enjoy, strive, sing, bleed, smile, and 
go to our graves gratefully. Over our dumb 
and witless ashes a select and proud race, with 
the beauty of pagan gods, shall walk haughtily, 
and with the scorn of the gods shall remember 
us as we remember the savage, whose war- 
shouts assisted in developing the fine, human 
larynx, to contribute to the modulations in the 
voice of Malibran. 

It is significant that temperaments easily 
appeased by the best that unbelieving science 
has to offer have been compelled to devise 
what, for want of a better term, we may call 
a humane purpose in the creation of this 
world. Clumsily as they have succeeded, it is 
not we who should overlook the fact that they 
have tried. It is memorable that they have 
been forced to tender even this pitiful substitute
for personal immortality ; nay, they have 
added the " invention of immortality," whatever 
that may mean, to the list of attractions 
held out to the disciples of their meagre faith. 
It is important that even so awkward a 
contrivance is presented to us in place of the
perfect mechanism of eternal hope. Natural
selection has not yet eliminated the quiver from 
the human lip, which makes it hard to frame 
the imaginary answer that Strauss makes to 
Frederick the Great : " Pardon, sire, but I 
have no desire to go to heaven at all." 

Human trust, we observed, in divine mercy 
is postulated on belief in a life to come.  This 
is also to say that the disadvantages of this life 
are so many arguments for the evolution from 
it of another ; properly presented, an unassail- 
able position, which this is no place to elabo- 
rate. 



The mourner smiles, because she looks 
forward to comfort. The sufferer endures, 
because he expects relief. The imperfectly 
happy yearns for the maturity of joy. The 
guilty hopes, because he anticipates purity. 
Each confides in a Being who is both able and 
willing to bestow these sequels on pleasure, 
pain, and sin. 

It is the aim of the believer to cultivate this 
confidence as the most important fact of his 
life. It is more real to him than his sorrow ; 
it is more near to him than his remorse. Fa- 
miliarity cannot wrest it from him. Unlooked- 
for anguish cannot shock it out of him. The 
hurling of temptation upon temptation cannot 
weaken it in him. Death cannot bury it with 
him. Eternity shall justify it for him. 

Is God good ? If this sublime trust, itself 
a marvel only less than himself, be the fond 
and fatal delusion of a pitiful ignorance, a 
phantasm of the emotions, a movement of the 
blood, a secretion of the brain, no. iVo, if the 
bravest delights this earth can muster are all 
that men can confidently call their own. iVb, 
if the sum of our misery is the sum of our 
days. iVo, if the tale of earth's error is " the 
end of the song." 




If joy has no permanence, if anguish no 
comfort, if sin no cure, no, and a thousand 
times no ! 

If aspiration has no perfect blossom, if 
power no mellow fruit, if hope no sound 
justification ; if denial never becomes delight ; if 
despair never turns to ecstasy ; if love knows 
no resurrection, and purity no assured vitality, 
and faith no throne, no, — to the last breath, 
no ! 

Is there Love at the heart of the world ? Is 
there law in this Love ? Is there joy in this 
law? Yes, if the blighted seed of our experience 
be sown to the blessed harvest of another. 
Yes, if time be a cipher to which eternity 
gives the key. Yes, if the virile hope of a life 
without an end be the measure of the mystery 
of the splendor of the truth. Yes, if he who 
permitted this world has promised the other. 
Yes, at the strain of extremity, in the blackness
of darkness, to the last outcry of endurance 
and the last throb of belief, — yes ! 

O you who have given us a counterfeit of human 
hope, who have stuffed an effigy of human 
happiness, who have composed a parody on 
human dignity, we suffer you, without fear, to 




set these against the gold, the heart-beat, and 
the song ! What is the best your first can 
offer, beside the least our lowest can command ? 
What has the king, the priest, or the 
prophet of your dreary creed to look to, compared 
with the promise open to the obscurest 
human soul that knows itself a deathless thing ? 
"A cripple in the right way," Bacon has reminded us, 
"may beat a racer in the wrong." 
A believing pauper would be insane to change 
places with him who may be your " advanced " 
Herbert Spencer of two thousand years to 
come, though that highly developed being were 
to be all that you expect, if he is to cease 
where you anticipate. A slave with a heaven 
were happier than Shakespeare without. 

We suffer you, without disturbance, to explain 
to us how the physiology of the future is 
to extend the realm of matter, till it is coextensive
with knowledge, with feeling, and with 
action ; to tell us of the prospect of that
heavenly commune, "in which men will reserve 
for themselves not even a hope, not even the 
shadow of a joy," — in which " all is at an end 
for the speck of flesh and blood with the little 
spark of instinct which it calls mind ; " to 


call our attention to the growth of the " great 
unit," man, the sacrifice of generation for 
generation, of the species for the type, of the
fraction for the whole. One hour's hope of the 
believer's Paradise is worth it all. 

It is a well-mannered comfort that you offer 
us, like the smile of a woman in evening dress 
on a man who has an appointment with the 
surgeon. We recognize your courtesy, but 
we choose the warm clasp of a living human 
hand. 

Your cold voices have a hollow echo. They 
sound afar off, to us, and thin. Their clamor 
faints about our imperious human need. Who 
would exchange even the delusion of eternal 
life for the apotheosis of death ? 

If to expectance we add assurance, how can 
we pause for your bleak interruption ? 

Hope is not proof, but it is argument. Conviction 
is not demonstration, but it is enlightenment. 
" He had learned," it is said of 
Goethe, " that faith goes farther than knowledge." 

How naturally the compass swings on its 
pivot to the pole ! How joyously the heart 
which has cultivated the spiritual faculty of 



faith turns, from the obstacles thrust between 
the love of God and the love of man, to the 
region where these two elemental facts of the 
universe become one mighty current ! 

Astronomy tells us of systems lighted by 
colored suns, — green, sapphire, and ruby. 
From the lurid airs of a crimson world we 
seem to ourselves to return to the peace and 
the power of absolute and homelike light. 

" The love of God," said Ecclesiasticus, in a 
profound moment, " passeth all things for 
illumination." We recall, with a stir at the heart 
which transforms the severe philosophical language, 
what a great thinker has told us of "the 
absurdity of the passions and the littleness of 
all that is not God." We can understand 
Spinoza, of whom it is said that he was " intox- 
icated with God." The whole being bounds 
like the cripple at the Gate Beautiful, whom 
the apostle healed. Our eternal liberty draws 
its value from the prospect of acquaintance 
with him who is behind our mutilated life. 
Here is the secret of the high reticence of 
knowledge, never to be conquered, always to be 
sought. Here is the essence of all the solemn 
ideals of love, never overtaken, never possessed, 



forever to be won. Here is the source of the 
white waters of purity, an eternal thirst for 
which demands, deserves, and shall receive an 
eternal supply. 

If everlasting hope be the possibility and the 
promise to the race, anything that the maker 
of an ephemeral system chooses to insert in 
it cannot philosophically be made a ground 
of complaint. " There can no evil befall a 
good man either in life or death," said
Socrates, going to the root of the matter. " If I 
believed as you do," cried a doubter, looking 
at me with the uncomforted eyes of her class, 
"nothing would daunt me!" She was right, 
if only as a matter of pure algebra. " Omit 
eternity in your estimate of area," urged 
a mathematician, " and your conclusion is 
wrong." No equation can be constructed out 
of this and the eternal life. Limited pain 
cannot be set against illimitable happiness, 
nor transient stain against permanent purity. 
If heaven follows earth, man is dumb before 
God. 

How gentle thought grows in the climate of 
hope ! Seen in the atmosphere of trust, the 
countenance of life is changed. Re-read in the 

light of love, the story of the world flashes into 
an illuminated text. 

The imagination learns to stir reticently 
about the details of the dreariest fate. The 
sympathy yearns more and more peacefully 
towards the woe which it cannot forget or
relieve. The heart surrenders to mystery, and 
cultivates content. We wrest the habit of 
cheer from the teeth of denial. We educate 
the impulse of happiness, and fling challenges 
to grief. We dwell upon the little joys of life. 
We count the forgotten ease. We seek the 
" hid treasure." We remember the temperaments 
that grief passes by upon the other side, 
the lives which acute temptation shuns,
memories that naturally do not absorb the unplea- 
sant, hearts that are easily light. We recall 
the grave delights of a consciously forming 
character, the strength and fineness of the 
military quality that conflict only cultivates, the 
stern beauty of endurance, the high glow of 
self-sacrifice, the peace and power of prayer, 
the grandeur of hardly acquired holiness. We 
find ourselves unable to think of these things 
apart from their embryonic character. We 
remember that they develop deathless forces. 



We remember that they go to constitute 
undying spirits. Pain viewed in the loftiness 
of its purpose does not seem to be the worst 
thing in the world. Idealized by heaven, earth 
stands transfigured. Life becomes a privilege, 
glorious in proportion as it is a test of 
trust-capacity and enduring power. That mysterious 
quality which in its physical form physicians 
call vitality, and for which they cherish an 
almost religious respect, has a spiritual 
counter-part, which we learn to recognize as the
proudest possession that a man can own. AH that 
he hath though he give for it, he will not count 
the cost. It is like one of those Chinese crys- 
tals, rounded by attrition with grains of sand, 
of which we are told that it takes the life-time 
of one workman to make a perfect specimen. 

An eye-witness of a peculiarly heart-rend- 
ing shipwreck once stood depicting to a circle 
of friends, with vitriolic vividness, the strug- 
gles of men who clung, in an icy sea, on a mid- 
winter day, five hours and a half to a glazed 
rock, at which the surf was tearing like the 
teeth of hate. A listener, lifting the 
half-melancholy, half-scornful look of one who has 
weighed life and found it wanting, interrupted, 


" Fools to cling ! Fools to cling ! " " No ! " 
flashed another, turning upon him with a 
movement which I know not how to describe 
as other than radiant ; it was like the sweep 
of light on darkness. " No ; while there was 
hope of life, philosophers to cling ! " 

Fools, then, or philosophers, — we are 
content to leave the choice of terms to the great 
heart and sound sense of humanity, — we cling 
to the sane, strong, reasonable hope of
everlasting life. 

The wave will have its roar. The breaker 
will overwhelm the sinking face. The hands 
may slip, bleed, freeze ; but they will cling. 

It is human to cling; it is divine to cling; it 
is instinct ; it is reason ; it is the blind brute 
motion of nature ; it is the last fine finish of 
knowledge. 

If there is a rock, though all but sunk be- 
neath the surf, a drowning hand will find it. 
Before the argument of life the negation of 
death sweeps on and seethes away, like a 
thwarted wave. 

Upon this rock, at the ebb of the tide, in 
the calm of the day, we leave the exigencies of 
fate. To it we bring the worst of dread, the 



dreariest of doubt, the climax of pain, the 
fever of sin. To it we take the promise of our 
imperfect joys, the blight of our unripe 
content, the recoil of our rebuffed aspiration, the 
disturbance of our broken repose. From it we 
regard the unknown Author of mystery with 
the high beat of trustful hearts. Earth is a 
student in what the great Frenchwoman called 
" the science of God." Life is like the Tamil 
grammar, which reached the ideal of scholar- 
ship in its solemn preface : " To God, the eternal, 
almighty Jehovah, and author of speech, 
