yellow frame, carry a shrunken remnant of that pliable organ called the
heart? His brother’s widow did not add this problem to the others of her
vexed existence—she had done with problems forever—but in his little
world the legend was whispered that, many years before, the last
fragment had dried and crumbled to dust. It must be either dust or a
fossil; and, if the latter, it would surely play a merry clack and
rattle with its housing skeleton every time the old man drew a long
breath or hobbled across the room.

John Suydam’s age was another problem. His neighbors said that the
little yellow old man was their parents’ contemporary. That he had ever
had any youth those parents denied. He was many years older than Crosby
Suydam, however, and the world had blamed him sharply for his treatment
of his younger brother. Crosby had been wealthy when he married, and a
great favorite. Some resentment was felt when he chose a New England
girl for his wife; but Mrs. Suydam entertained so charmingly that
society quickly forgave both, and filled their drawing-rooms whenever
bidden. For ten years these two young people were illuminating stars in
the firmament of New York society; then they swept down the horizon like
meteors on a summer’s night. Crosby had withdrawn his fortune from the
securities in which his father had left it, and blown bubbles up and
down Wall street for a year or so. At the end of that time he possessed
neither bubbles nor suds. He drifted to Brooklyn, and for ten years
more, struggled along, at one clerkship or another, his brother never
lending him a dollar, nor offering him the shelter of his roof. He
dropped out of life as he had dropped out of the world, which had long
since forgotten both him and his unhappy young wife.

But, if John Suydam had no heart, he had pride. New York, in his
opinion, should have been called Suydam, and the thought of one of his
name in the poor-house aroused a passion stronger than avarice. He told
his sister-in-law that she could stay, that he would give her food and
shelter and a hundred dollars a year on condition that she would take
care of her own rooms—he could not afford another servant.

It was a strange household. Mrs. Suydam sat up in her room all day with
her two little girls and in her passive, mechanical way, heard their
lessons, or helped them make their clothes. Her brother she met only at
the table. At those awful meals not a word was ever spoken. John, who
had atrocious table manners, crunched his food audibly for a half-hour
at breakfast, an hour and a half at dinner, and an hour at supper. Mrs.
Suydam, whose one desire was to die, accepted the hint he unconsciously
gave, and swallowed her food whole; if longevity and mastication were
correlatives, it was a poor rule that would not work both ways. She died
before the year was out; not of indigestion, however, but of relaxation
from the terrible strain to which her delicate constitution had been
subjected during the ten preceding years.

John Suydam had her put in the family vault, under St. Mark’s, as
economically as possible, then groaned in spirit as he thought of the
two children left on his hands. He soon discovered that they would give
him no trouble. Bessie Suydam was a motherly child, and adversity had
filled many of the little store-rooms in her brain with a fund of
common-sense, which, in happier conditions, might have been carried by.
She was sixteen and Hermia was nine. The day after the funeral she
slipped into her mother’s place, and her little sister never missed the
maternal care. Their life was monotonous. Bessie did not know her
neighbors, although her grandparents and theirs had played together.
When Mrs. Suydam had come to live under her brother-in-law’s roof, the
neighborhood had put its dislike of John Suydam aside and called at
once. It neither saw Mrs. Suydam, nor did its kindness ever receive the
slightest notice; and, with a sigh of relief, it forgot both her and her
children.

A few months after Mrs. Suydam’s death another slight change occurred in
the household. A fourth mendicant relative appeared and asked for help.
He was a distant cousin, and had been a schoolmate of John Suydam in
that boyhood in which no one but himself believed. He had spent his life
in the thankless treadmill of the teacher. Several years before, he had
been pushed out of the mill by younger propounders of more fashionable
methods, and after his savings were spent he had no resource but John
Suydam.

Suydam treated him better than might have been expected. These two
girls, whom a malignant fate had flung upon his protection, must be
educated, and he was unwilling to incur the expenses of a school or
governess. The advent of William Crosby laid the question at rest. John
told him that he would give him a home and a hundred dollars a year if
he would educate his nieces, and the old man was glad to consent.

The professor taught the girls conscientiously, and threw some sunshine
into their lives. He took them for a long walk every day, and showed
them all the libraries, the picture galleries, and the shops. In spite
of the meanness of her garb, Bessie attracted some attention during
these ramblings; she had the pretty American face, and the freshness of
morning was in it. Poor Hermia, who obediently trotted behind, passed
unnoticed. Nature, who had endowed the rest of her family so kindly—her
father and mother had been two of the old dame’s proudest works—had
passed her by in a fit of abstraction. Under her high, melancholy
forehead and black, heavy brows, stared solemnly a pair of unmistakably
green eyes—even that hypocrite Politeness would never name them gray.
Her dull, uninteresting hair was brushed severely back and braided in a
tight pig-tail; and her sallow cheeks were in painful contrast to the
pink and white of her sister’s delicate skin. Her eyelashes were thick
and black, and she had the small, admirably shaped hands and feet of the
Suydams, but the general effect was unattractive. She was a cold,
reserved child, and few people liked her.

The professor took the girls to the theater one night, and it was a
memorable night in their lives. Each was in a fever of excitement, and
each manifested it characteristically. Bessie’s cheeks were flushed to
her eyelashes, and she jerked the buttons off both gloves. Her gray eyes
shone and her pink lips were parted. People stared at her as she passed
and wondered who she was. But for once in her life she was blind to
admiration; she was going to see a play! Hermia was paler than ever and
almost rigid. Her lips were firmly compressed, but her hands, in her
little woolen gloves, were burning, and her eyes shone like a cat’s in
the dark. They sat in the gallery, but they were in the front row, and
as content as any jeweled dame in box or parquette.

The play was Monte Cristo, and what more was needed to perfect the
delight of two girls confronted with stage illusion for the first time?
Bessie laughed and wept, and rent her gloves to shreds with the
vehemence of her applause. Hermia sat on the extreme edge of the seat,
and neither laughed, wept, nor applauded. Her eyes, which never left the
stage, grew bigger and bigger, her face paler, and her nostrils more
tense.

After the play was over she did not utter a word until she got home; but
the moment she reached the bedroom which the sisters shared in common
she flung herself on the floor and shrieked for an hour. Bessie, who was
much alarmed, dashed water over her, shook her, and finally picked her
up and rocked her to sleep. The next morning Hermia was as calm as
usual, but she developed, soon after, a habit of dreaming over her books
which much perplexed her sister. Bessie dreamed a little too, but she
always heard when she was spoken to, and Hermia did not.

One night, about three months after the visit to the theater, the girls
were in their room preparing for bed. Hermia was sitting on the
hearth-rug taking off her shoes, and Bessie was brushing her long hair
before the glass and admiring the reflection of her pretty face.

“Bessie,” said Hermia, leaning back and clasping her hands about her
knee, “what is your ambition in life?”

Bessie turned and stared down at the child, then blushed rosily. “I
should like to have a nice, handsome husband and five beautiful
children, all dressed in white with blue sashes. And I should like to
have a pretty house on Fifth Avenue, and a carriage, and lots of novels.
And I should like to go to Europe and see all the picture-galleries and
churches.” She had been addressing herself in the glass, but she
suddenly turned and looked down at Hermia.

“What is your ambition?” she asked.

“To be the most beautiful woman in the world!” exclaimed the child
passionately.

Bessie sat down on a hassock. She felt but did not comprehend that
agonized longing for the gift which nature had denied, and which woman
holds most dear. She had always been pretty and was somewhat vain, but
she had known little of the power of beauty, and power and uncomeliness
alone teach a woman beauty’s value. But she was sympathetic, and she
felt a vague pity for her sister. She thought it better, however, to
improve the occasion.

“Beauty is nothing in itself,” she said, gently; “you must be good and
clever, and then people will think——”

“Bessie,” interrupted Hermia, as if she had not heard, “do you think I
will ever be pretty?”

Bessie hesitated. She was very conscientious, but she was also very
tender-hearted. For a moment there was a private battle, then conscience
triumphed. “No,” she said, regretfully, “I am afraid you never will be,
dear.”

She was looking unusually lovely herself as she spoke. Her shoulders
were bare and her chemise had dropped low on her white bosom. Her eyes
looked black in the lamp’s narrow light, and her soft, heavy hair
tumbled about her flushed face and slender, shapely figure. Hermia gazed
at her for a moment, and then with a suppressed cry sprang forward and
tore her sharp nails across her sister’s cheek.

Bessie gave a shriek of pain and anger, and, catching the panting,
struggling child, slapped her until her arm ached. “There!” she
exclaimed, finally, shaking her sister until the child’s teeth clacked
together, “you little tiger cat! You sha’n’t have any supper for a
week.” Then she dropped Hermia suddenly and burst into tears. “Oh, it is
dreadfully wicked to lose one’s temper like that; but my poor face!” She
rubbed the tears from her eyes and, standing up, carefully examined her
wounds in the glass. She heaved a sigh of relief; they were not very
deep. She went to the washstand and bathed her face, then returned to
her sister. Hermia stood on the hearth-rug. She had not moved since
Bessie dropped her hands from her shoulders.

Bessie folded her arms magisterially and looked down upon the culprit,
her delicate brows drawn together, her eyes as severe as those of an
angel whose train has been stepped on. “Are you not sorry?” she demanded
sternly.

Hermia gazed at her steadily for a moment. “Yes,” she said, finally, “I
am sorry, and I’ll never get outside-mad again as long as I live. I’ve
made a fool of myself.” Then she marched to the other side of the room
and went to bed.

                 




                              CHAPTER II.


                    JOHN SUYDAM GIVES HIS BLESSING.

One day a bank clerk came up to the quiet house with a message to John
Suydam. As he was leaving he met Bessie in the hall. Each did what wiser
heads had done before—they fell wildly and uncompromisingly in love at
first sight. How Frank Mordaunt managed to find an excuse for speaking
to her he never remembered, nor how he had been transported from the
hall into the dingy old drawing-room. At the end of an hour he was still
there, seated on a sofa of faded brocade, and looking into the softest
eyes in the world.

After that he came every evening. John Suydam knew nothing of it.
Bessie, from the parlor window, watched Mordaunt come down the street
and opened the front door herself; the old man, crouching over his
library fire, heard not an echo of the whispers on the other side of the
wall.

Poor Bessie! Frank Mordaunt was the first young man with whom she had
ever exchanged a half-dozen consecutive sentences. No wonder her heart
beat responsively to the first love and the first spoken admiration.
Mordaunt, as it chanced, was not a villain, and the rôle of victim was
not offered to Bessie. She was used to economy, he had a fair salary,
and they decided to be married at once. When they had agreed upon the
date, Bessie summoned up her courage and informed her uncle of her
plans. He made no objection; he was probably delighted to get rid of
her; and as a wedding-gift he presented her with—Hermia.

“I like her better than I do you,” he said, “for she has more brains in
her little finger than you have in your whole head; and she will never
be contented with a bank clerk. But I cannot be bothered with children.
I will pay you thirty dollars a quarter for her board, and William
Crosby can continue to teach her. I hope you will be happy, Elizabeth;
but marriage is always a failure. You can send Hermia to me every
Christmas morning, and I will give her twenty-five dollars with which to
clothe herself during the year. I shall not go to the wedding. I dislike
weddings and funerals. There should be no periods in life, only commas.
When a man dies he doesn’t mind the period; he can’t see it. But he need
not remind himself of it. You can go.”

Bessie was married in a pretty white gown, made from an old one of her
mother’s, and St. Mark’s had never held a daintier bride. No one was
present but Mordaunt’s parents, the professor, who was radiant, and
Hermia, who was the only bridesmaid. But it was a fair spring morning,
the birds were singing in an eager choir, and the altar had been
decorated with a few greens and flowers by the professor and Hermia. At
the conclusion of the service the clergyman patted Bessie on the head
and told her he was sure she would be happy, and the girl forgot her
uncle’s benediction.

“Bessie,” said Hermia an hour later, as they were walking toward their
new home, “I will never be married until I can have a dress covered with
stars like those Hans Andersen’s princesses carried about in a nutshell
when they were disguised as beggar-maids, and until I can be married in
a grand cathedral and have a great organ just pealing about me, and a
white-robed choir singing like seraphs, and roses to walk on——”

“Hermia,” said Bessie dreamily, “I wish you would not talk so much, and
you shouldn’t wish for things you can never have.”

“I will have them,” exclaimed the child under her breath. “I will! I
will!”

                 




                              CHAPTER III.


                         BROOKLYN AND BABYLON.

Thirteen years passed. Bessie had three of her desired children and a
nice little flat in Brooklyn. Reverses and trials had come, but on the
whole Mordaunt was fairly prosperous, and they were happy. The children
did not wear white dresses and blue sashes; they were generally to be
seen in stout ginghams and woolen plaids, but they were chubby, healthy,
pretty things, and their mother was as proud of them as if they had
realized every detail of her youthful and ambitious dreams.

Bessie’s prettiness had gone with her first baby, as American prettiness
is apt to do, but the sweetness of her nature remained and shone through
her calm eyes and the lines of care about her mouth. She had long since
forgotten to sigh over the loss of her beauty, she had so little time;
but she still remembered to give a deft coil to her hair, and her plain
little gowns were never dowdy. She knew nothing about modern decorative
art, and had no interest in hard-wood floors or dados; but her house was
pretty and tasteful in the old-fashioned way, and in her odd moments she
worked at cross-stitch.

And Hermia? Poor girl! She had not found the beauty her sister had lost.
Her hair was still the same muddy blonde-brown, although with a latent
suggestion of color, and she still brushed it back with the severity of
her childhood. Nothing, she had long since concluded, could beautify
her, and she would waste no time in the attempt. She was a trifle above
medium height, and her thin figure bent a little from the waist. Her
skin was as sallow as of yore, and her eyes were dull. She had none of
Bessie’s sweetness of expression; her cold, intellectual face just
escaped being sullen. Her health was what might be expected of a girl
who exercised little and preferred thought to sleep. She had kept the
promise made the night she had scratched her sister’s face; during the
past fifteen years no one had seen her lose her self-control for a
moment. She was as cold as a polar night, and as impassive as an
Anglo-American. She was very kind to her sister, and did what she could
to help her. She taught the children; and, though with much private
rebellion, she frequently made their clothes and did the marketing.
Frank and Bessie regarded her with awe and distant admiration, but the
children liked her. The professor had taught her until he could teach
her no more, and then had earned his subsistence by reading aloud to
John Suydam. A year or two before, he had departed for less material
duties, with few regrets.

But, if Hermia no longer studied, she belonged to several free libraries
and read with unflagging vigor. Of late she had taken a deep interest in
art, and she spent many hours in the picture galleries of New York.
Moreover, she grasped any excuse which took her across the river. With
all the fervor of her silent soul she loved New York and hated Brooklyn.

She was sitting in the dining-room one evening, helping Lizzie, the
oldest child, with her lessons. Lizzie was sleepy, and was droning
through her multiplication table, when she happened to glance at her
aunt. “You are not paying attention,” she exclaimed, triumphantly; “I
don’t believe you’ve heard a word of that old table, and I’m not going
to say it over again.”

Hermia, whose eyes had been fixed vacantly on the fire, started and took
the book from Lizzie’s lap. “Go to bed,” she said; “you are tired, and
you know your tables very well.”

Lizzie, who was guiltily conscious that she had never known her tables
less well, accepted her release with alacrity, kissed her aunt
good-night, and ran out of the room.

Hermia went to the window and opened it. It looked upon walls and
fences, but lineaments were blotted out to-night under a heavy fall of
snow. Beyond the lower roofs loomed the tall walls of houses on the
neighboring street, momentarily discernible through the wind-parted
storm.

Hermia pushed the snow from the sill, then closed the window with a
sigh. The snow and the night were the two things in her life that she
loved. They were projected into her little circle from the grand whole
of which they were parts, and were in no way a result of her
environment.

She went into the sitting-room and sat down by the table. She took up a
book and stared at its unturned pages for a quarter of an hour. Then she
raised her eyes and looked about her. Mordaunt was sitting in an
easy-chair by the fire, smoking a pipe and reading a magazine story
aloud to his wife, who sat near him, sewing. Lizzie had climbed on his
lap, and with her head against his shoulder was fast asleep.

Hermia took up a pencil and made a calculation on the fly-leaf of her
book. It did not take long, but the result was a respectable sum—4,620.
Allowing for her sister’s brief illnesses and for several minor
interruptions, she had looked upon that same scene, varied in trifling
details, just about 4,620 times in the past thirteen years. She rose
suddenly and closed her book.

“Good-night,” she said, “I am tired. I am going to bed.”

Mordaunt muttered “good-night” without raising his eyes; but Bessie
turned her head with an anxious smile.

“Good-night,” she said; “I think you need a tonic. And would you mind
putting Lizzie to bed? I am so interested in this story. Frank, carry
her into the nursery.”

Hermia hesitated a moment, as if she were about to refuse, but she
turned and followed Frank into the next room.

She undressed the inert, protesting child and tucked her in bed. Then
she went to her room and locked the door. She lit the gas mechanically
and stood still for a moment. Then she threw herself on the bed, and
flung herself wildly about. After a time she clasped her hands tightly
about the top of her head and gazed fixedly at the ceiling. Her family
would not have recognized her in that moment. Her disheveled hair clung
about her flushed face, and through its tangle her eyes glittered like
those of a snake. For a few moments her limbs were as rigid as if the
life had gone out of them. Then she threw herself over on her face and
burst into a wild passion of weeping. The hard, inward sobs shook her
slender body as the screw shakes the steamer.

“How I hate it! How I hate it! How I hate it!” she reiterated, between
her paroxysms. “O God! is there nothing—nothing—nothing in life but
this? Nothing but hideous monotony—and endless days—and thousands and
thousands of hours that are as alike as grains of sand?”

She got up suddenly and filling a basin with water thrust her head into
it. The water was as cold as melting ice, and when she had dried her
hair she no longer felt as if her brain were trying to force its way
through the top of her skull.

Hermia, like many other women, lived a double life. On the night when,
under the dramatic illusion of Monte Cristo, her imagination had
awakened with a shock which rent the film of childhood from her brain,
she had found a dream-world of her own. The prosaic never suspected its
existence; the earth’s millions who dwelt in the same world cared
nothing for any kingdom in it but their own; she was sovereign of a vast
domain wrapped in the twilight mystery of dreamland, but peopled with
obedient subjects conceived and molded in her waking brain. She walked
stoically through the monotonous round of her daily life; she took a
grim and bitter pleasure in fulfilling every duty it developed, and she
never neglected the higher duty she owed her intellect; but when night
came, and the key was turned in her door, she sprang from the life she
abhorred into the world of her delight. She would fight sleep off for
hours, for sleep meant temporary death, and the morning a return to
material existence. A ray of light from the street-lamp struggled
through the window, and, fighting with the shadows, filled the ugly,
common little room with glamour and illusion. The walls swept afar and
rolled themselves into marble pillars that towered vaporously in the
gloom. Beyond, rooms of state and rooms of pleasure ceaselessly
multiplied. On the pictured floors lay rugs so deep that the echo of a
lover’s footfall would never go out into eternity. From the enameled
walls sprang a vaulted ceiling painted with forgotten art. Veils of
purple stuffs, gold-wrought, jewel-fringed, so dense that the roar of a
cannon could not have forced its way into the stillness of that room,
masked windows and doors. From beyond those pillars, from the far
perspective of those ever-doubling chambers came the plash of waters,
faint and sweet as the music of the bulbul. The bed, aloft on its dais,
was muffled in lace which might have fringed a mist. Hidden in the
curving leaves of pale-tinted lotus flowers were tiny flames of light,
and in an urn of agate burned perfumed woods. * * *

For this girl within her unseductive frame had all the instincts of a
beautiful woman, for the touch of whose lips men would dig the grave of
their life’s ambitions. That kiss it was the passionate cry of her heart
to give to lips as warm and imploring as her own. She would thrust
handfuls of violets between her blankets, and imagine herself lying by
the sea in a nest of fragrance. Her body longed for the softness of
cambric and for silk attire; her eye for all the beauty that the hand of
man had ever wrought.

When wandering among those brain-born shadows of hers, she was
beautiful, of course; and, equally inferable, those dreams had a hero.
This lover’s personality grew with her growth and changed with every
evolution of the mind that had given it birth; but, strangely enough,
the lover himself had retained his proportions and lineaments from the
day of his creation. Is it to be supposed that Hermia was wedded
peacefully to her ideal, and that together they reigned over a vast
dominion of loving and respectful subjects? Not at all. If there was one
word in the civilized vocabulary that Hermia hated it was that word
“marriage.” To her it was correlative with all that was commonplace;
with a prosaic grind that ate and corroded away life and soul and
imagination; with a dreary and infinite monotony. Bessie Mordaunt’s
peaceful married life was hideous to her sister. Year after
year,—neither change nor excitement, neither rapture nor anguish, nor
romance nor poetry, neither ambition nor achievement, nor recognition
nor power! Nothing of mystery, nothing of adventure; neither palpitation
of daring nor quiver of secrecy; nothing but kisses of calm affection,
babies, and tidies! 4,620 evenings of calm, domestic bliss; 4,620 days
of placid, housewifely duties! To Hermia such an existence was a tragedy
more appalling than relentless immortality. Bessie had her circle of
friends, and in each household the tragedy was repeated; unless, mayhap,
the couple were ill-mated, when the tragedy became a comedy, and a
vulgar one at that.

Hermia’s hatred of marriage sprang not from innate immorality, but from
a strongly romantic nature stimulated to abnormal extreme by the
constant, small-beer wave-beats of a humdrum, uniform, ever-persisting,
abhorred environment. If no marriage-bells rang over her cliffs and
waters and through her castle halls, her life was more ideally perfect
than any life within her ken which drowsed beneath the canopy of law and
church. Regarding the subject from the point of view to which her nature
and conditions had focused her mental vision, love needed the
exhilarating influence of liberty, the stimulation of danger, and the
enchantment of mystery.

Of men practically she knew little. There were young men in her sister’s
circle, and Mordaunt occasionally brought home his fellow clerks; but
Hermia had never given one of them a thought. They were limited and
commonplace, and her reputation for intellectuality had the effect of
making them appear at their worst upon those occasions when
circumstances compelled them to talk to her. And she had not the beauty
to win forgiveness for her brains. She appreciated this fact and it
embittered her, little as she cared for her brother’s uninteresting
friends, and sent her to the depths of her populous soul.

The books she read had their influence upon that soul-population. The
American novel had much the same effect upon her as the married life of
her sister and her sister’s friends. She cared for but little of the
literature of France, and the best of it deified love and scorned the
conventions. She reveled in mediæval and ancient history and loved the
English poets, and both poets and history held aloft, on pillars of
fragrant and indestructible wood, her own sad ideality.

                 




                              CHAPTER IV.


                    IN THE GREEN ROOM OF LITERATURE.

Hermia’s imagination in its turn demanded a safety-valve; she found it
necessary, occasionally, to put her dreams into substance and sequence.
In other words she wrote. Not prose. She had neither the patience nor
the desire. Nor did she write poetry. She believed that no woman, save
perhaps time-enveloped Sappho, ever did, and she had no idea of adding
her pseudonym to the list of failures. When her brain became
overcharged, she dashed off verses, wildly romantic, and with a pen
heated white. There was a wail and an hysterical passion in what she
wrote that took the hearts of a large class of readers by storm, and her
verses found prompt acceptance by the daily and weekly papers. She had
as yet aspired to nothing higher. She was distinctly aware that her
versification was crude and her methods faulty. To get her verses into
the magazines they must be fairly correct and almost proper, and both
attainments demanded an amount of labor distasteful to her impatient
nature. Of late, scarcely a week had passed without the appearance of
several metrical contributions over the signature “Quirus;” and the wail
and the passion were growing more piercing and tumultuous. The readers
were moved, interested, or amused, according to their respective
natures.

The morning after the little arithmetical problem, Hermia arose early
and sat down at her desk. She drew out a package of MS. and read it over
twice, then determined to have a flirtation with the magazines. These
verses were more skillful from a literary point of view than any of her
previous work, because, for the sake of variety, she had plagiarized
some good work of an English poet. The story was a charming one,
dramatic, somewhat fragmentary, and a trifle less caloric than her other
effusions. She revised it carefully, and mailed it, later in the day, to
one of the leading New York magazines.

Two weeks passed and no answer came. Then, snatching at anything which
offered its minimum of distraction, she determined to call on the
editor. She had never presented herself to an editor before, fearing his
betrayal of her identity; so well had she managed that not even Bessie
knew she wrote; but she regarded the magazine editor from afar as an
exalted being, and was willing to put her trust in him. She felt shy
about acknowledging herself the apostle of beauty and the priestess of
passion, but ennui conquered diffidence, and one morning she presented
herself at the door of her editor’s den.

The editor, who was glancing over proofs, raised his eyes as she
entered, and did not look overjoyed to see her. Nevertheless, he
politely asked her to be seated. Poor Hermia by this time was cold with
fright; her knees were shaking. She was used to self-control, however,
and in a moment managed to remark that she had come to inquire about the
fate of her poem. The editor bowed, extracted a MS. from a pigeon-hole
behind him, and handed it to her.

“I cannot use it,” he said, “but I am greatly obliged to you,
nevertheless. We are always grateful for contributions.”

He had a pleasant way of looking upon the matter as settled, but an
ounce or two of Hermia’s courage had returned, and she was determined to
get something more out of the interview than a glimpse of an editor.

“I am sorry,” she said, “but of course I expected it. Would you mind
telling me what is the matter with it?”

Editors will not take the trouble to write a criticism of a returned
manuscript, but they are more willing to air their views verbally than
people imagine. It gives them an opportunity to lecture and generalize,
and they enjoy doing both.

“Certainly not,” said the editor in question. “Your principal fault is
that you are too highly emotional. Your verses would be unhealthy
reading for my patrons. This is a family magazine, and has always borne
the reputation of incorruptible morality. It would not do for us to
print matter which a father might not wish his daughter to read. The
American young girl should be the conscientious American editor’s first
consideration.”

This interview was among the anguished memories of Hermia’s life. After
her return home she thought of so many good things she might have said.
This was one which she uttered in the seclusion of her bed-chamber that
evening:

(“You are perfectly right,” with imperturbability. “‘Protect the
American young girl lest she protect not herself’ should be the motto
and the mission of the American editor!”)

When she was at one with the opportunity, she asked: “And my other
faults?”

“Your other faults?” replied the unconscious victim of lagging wit.
“There is a strain of philosophy in your mind which unfits you for
magazine work. A magazine should be light and not too original. People
pick it up after the work of the day; they want to be amused and
entertained, they do not want to think. Anything new, anything out of
the beaten track, anything which does not suggest old and familiar
favorites, anything which requires a mental effort to grasp, annoys them
and affects the popularity of the magazine. Of course we like
originality and imagination—do not misunderstand me; what we do not
want is the complex, the radically original, or the deep. We have
catered to a large circle of readers for a great many years; we know
exactly what they want, and they know exactly what to expect. When they
see the name of a new writer in our pages they feel sure that whatever
may be the freshness and breeziness of the newcomer, he (or she) will
not call upon them to witness the tunneling of unhewn rock—so to speak.
Do you grasp my meaning?”

(Hermia at home in her bed-chamber: “I see. Your distinctions are
admirable. You want originality with the sting extracted, soup instead
of blood, an exquisite etching rather than the bold sweep and color of
brush and oils. Your contributors must say an old thing in a new way, or
a new thing in so old a way that the shock will be broken, that the
reader will never know he has harbored a new-born babe. Your little
lecture has been of infinite value to me. I shall ponder over it until I
evolve something worthy of the wary parent and the American Young
Girl.”)

Hermia in the editor’s den: “Oh, yes; thank you very much. But I am
afraid I shall never do anything you will care for. Good-morning.”

The next day she sent the manuscript to another magazine, and, before
she could reasonably expect a reply, again invaded the sanctity of
editorial seclusion. The genus editor amused her; she resolved to keep
her courage by the throat and study the arbiters of literary destinies.
It is probable that, if her second editor had not been young and very
gracious, her courage would again have flown off on deriding wings; as
it was, it did not even threaten desertion.

She found the editor engaged in nothing more depressing than the perusal
of a letter. He smiled most promisingly when she announced herself as
the mysterious “Quirus,” but folded his hands deprecatingly.

“I am sorry I cannot use that poem,” he said, “but I am afraid it is
impossible. It has decided merit, and, in view of the awful stuff we are
obliged to publish, it would be a welcome addition to our pages. I don’t
mind the strength of the poem or the plot; you have made your meaning
artistically obscure. But there is one word in it which would make it
too strong meat for the readers of this magazine. I refer to the word
‘naked.’ It is quite true that the adjective ‘naked’ is used in
conjunction with the noun ‘skies;’ but the word itself is highly
objectionable. I have been trying to find a way out of the difficulty. I
substituted the word ‘nude,’ but that spoils the meter, you see. Then I
sought the dictionary.” He opened a dictionary that stood on a revolving
stand beside him, and read aloud: “‘Naked—uncovered; unclothed; nude;
bare; open; defenseless; plain; mere.’ None of these will answer the
purpose, you see. They are either too short or too long; and ‘open’ does
not convey the idea. I am really afraid that nothing can be done.
Suppose you try something else and be more careful with your vocabulary.
I trust you catch my idea, because I am really quite interested in your
work. It is like the fresh breeze of spring when it is not”—here he
laughed—“the torrid breath of the simoon. I have read some of your
other verse, you see.”

“I think I understand you,” said Hermia, leaning forward and gazing
reflectively at him. “Manner is everything. Matter is a creature whose
limbs may be of wood, whose joints may be sapless; so long as he is
covered by a first-class tailor he is a being to strut proudly down to
posterity. Or, for the sake of variety, which has its value, the
creature may change his sex and become a pink-cheeked, flax-haired,
blue-eyed doll. Hang upon her garments cut by an unconventional hand,
looped eccentrically and draped artistically, and the poor little doll
knows not herself from her clothes. Have I gazed understandingly upon
the works of the literary clock?”

The editor threw back his head and laughed aloud. “You are very clever,”
he exclaimed, “but I am afraid your estimate of us is as correct as it
is flattering. We are a set of cowards, but we should be bankrupt if we
were not.”

Hermia took the manuscript he had extracted from a drawer, and rose. “At
all events you were charitable to read my verses,” she said, “and more
than good to attempt their re-form.”

The editor stood up also. “Oh, do not mention it,” he said, “and write
me something else—something equally impassioned but quite
irreproachable. Aside from the defect I mentioned, there were one or two
verses which I should have been obliged to omit.”

Hermia shrugged her shoulders. She might repeatedly work the lovers up
to the verge of disaster, then, just before the fatal moment, wrench
them apart and substitute asterisks for curses. The school-girls would
palpitate, the old maids thrill, the married women smile, and the men
grin. No harm would be done, maidens and maids would lay it down with a
long-drawn sigh—of relief?—or regret?

Hermia kept these reflections to herself and departed, thinking her
editor a charming man.

When she reached the sidewalk she stood irresolute for a moment, then
walked rapidly for many blocks. The Mecca of her pilgrimage was another
publishing-house. She stepped briskly upstairs and asked for the editor
with a confidence born of excitement and encouragement. After a short
delay she was shown into his office, and began the attack without
preliminary.

“I have brought you some verses,” she said, “which have been declined by
two of your esteemed contemporaries on the ground of
unconventionality—of being too highly seasoned for the gentle palates
to which they cater. I bring them to you because I believe you have more
courage than the majority of your tribe. You wrote two books in which
you broke out wildly once or twice. Now I want you to read this while I
am here. It will take but a few moments.”

The editor, who had a highly non-committal air, smiled slightly, and
held out his hand for the verses. He read them through, then looked up.

“I rather like them,” he said. “They have a certain virility, although I
do not mistake the strength of passion for creative force. But they are
pretty tropical, and the versification is crude. I—am
afraid—they—will hardly—do.”

He looked out of the window, then smiled outright. It rather pleased him
to dare that before which his brethren faltered. He made a number of
marks on the manuscript.

“That rectifies the crudeness a little,” he said, “and the poem
certainly has intellectuality and merit. You can leave it. I will let
you know in a day or two. Your address is on the copy, I suppose. I
think you may count upon the availability of your verses.”

Hermia accepted her dismissal and went home much elated. The verses were
printed in the next issue of the magazine, and there was a mild storm on
the literary lake. The course of the magazine, in sending up a stream of
red-hot lava in place of the usual shower-bath of lemonade and
claret-cup, was severely criticised, but there were those who said that
this deliberately audacious editor enjoyed the little cyclone he had
provoked.

This was the most exciting episode Hermia could recall since Bessie’s
marriage.

                 




                               CHAPTER V.


                        THE SWEETS OF SOLITUDE.

A few weeks later Frank made an announcement which gave Hermia a genuine
thrill of delight. A fellow bank-clerk was obliged to spend some months
in California, and had offered Mordaunt his house in Jersey for the
summer. Hermia would not consent to go with them, in spite of their
entreaties. As far back as she could remember, way down through the long
perspective of her childhood, she had never been quite alone except at
night, nor could she remember the time when she had not longed for
solitude. And now! To be alone for four months! No more evenings of
domestic bliss, no more piles of stockings to darn, no more dinners to
concoct, no more discussions upon economy, no more daily tasks carefully
planned by Bessie’s methodical mind, no more lessons to teach, no more
anything which had been her daily portion for the last thirteen years.
Bridget would go with the family. She would do her own cooking, and not
eat at all if she did not wish. Her clothes could fall into rags, and
her hands look through every finger of her gloves. She would read and
dream and forget that the material world existed.

It was a beautiful spring morning when Hermia found herself alone. She
had gone with the family to Jersey, and had remained until they were
settled. Now the world was her own. When she returned to the flat, she
threw her things on the floor, pushed the parlor furniture awry, turned
the framed photographs to the wall, and hid the worsted tidies under the
sofa.

For two months she was well content. She reveled in her loneliness, in
the voiceless rooms, the deserted table, the aimless hours, the
forgotten past, the will-painted present. She regarded the post-man as
her natural enemy, and gave him orders not to ring her bell. Once a week
she took her letters from the box and devoted a half-hour to
correspondence. She had a hammock swung in one of the rooms, and dreamed
half the night through that she was in the hanging gardens of Semiramis.
The darkness alone was between her and the heavens thick with starry
gods; and below was the heavy perfume of oranges and lotus flowers.
There was music—soft—crashing—wooing her to a scene of bewildering
light and mad carousal. There was rapture of power and ecstasy of love.
She had but to fling aside the curtains—to fly down the corridor—

It is not to be supposed that Hermia’s imagination was faithful to the
Orient. Her nature had great sensuous breadth and wells of passion which
penetrated far down into the deep, hard substratum of New England rock;
but her dreams were apt to be inspired by what she had read last. She
loved the barbarous, sensuous, Oriental past, but she equally loved the
lore which told of the rugged strength and brutal sincerity of mediæval
days, when man turned his thoughts to love and war and naught besides;
when the strongest won the woman he wanted by murder and force, and the
woman loved him the better for doing it. Hermia would have gloried in
the breathless uncertainty of those days, when death and love went
hand-in-hand, and every kiss was bought with the swing of a battle-axe.
She would have liked to be locked in her tower by her feudal father, and
to have thrown down a rope-ladder to her lover at night. Other periods
of history at times demanded her, and she had a great many famous
lovers: Bolingbroke and Mirabeau, Napoleon and Aaron Burr, Skobeleff and
Cavour, a motley throng who bore a strong racial resemblance to one
another when roasting in the furnace of her super-heated imagination.

Again, there were times when love played but a small part in her
visions. She was one of the queens of that world to which she had been
born, a world whose mountains were of cold brown stone, and in whose few
and narrow currents drifted stately maidens in stiff, white collars and
tailor-made gowns. She should be one of that select band. It was her
birthright; and each instinct of power and fastidiousness, caste and
exclusiveness, flourished as greenly within her as if those currents had
swept their roots during every year of her life’s twenty-four. When
ambition sank down, gasping for breath, love would come forward eager
and warm, a halo enveloped the brown-stone front, and through the
plate-glass and silken curtains shone the sun of paradise.
