" No, Tom. You and Bella have decided me 
against it. Your perspective shows the affair in 
its true proportions. I had an offer to go to New 
York, but I 've refused it." 



IV. 



March's irony fell harmless from the children's 
preoccupation witli their own affairs, but he knew 
that his wife felt it, and this added to the bitterness 
which prompted it. He blamed her for letting her 
provincial narrowness prevent his accepting Fulker- 
son's offer rpiitc as much as if he had otherwise 
entirely wished to accept it. His world, like most 
worlds, had been superficially a disappointment. He 
was no richer than at the beginning, though in 
niarr'ing he had given up some tastes, some prefer- 
ences, some aspirations, in the hope of indulging 
them later, with larger means and larger leisure. 
His wife had not urged him to do it; in fact, her 
pride, as she said, was in his fitness for the life ho 
had renounced ; but she had acquiesced, and they 
had been very happy together. That is to say, they 
made up their quarrels or ignored them. 

They often accused each other of being selfish 
and indifferent, but she knew that he would always 
sacrifice himself for her and the children ; and he, 
on his part, with many gibes and mockeries, wholly 
trusted in her. They had grown practically tolerant 
of each other's disagreeable traits ; and the danger 




 

that really threatened them was that they should 
grow too -well satisfied with themselves, if not with 
each other. They were not sentimental, they were 
rather matter-of-fact in their motives ; but they 
had both a sort of humorous fondness for senti- 
mentality. They liked to play with the romantic, 
from the safe vantage-ground of their real practi- 
cality, and to divine the poetry of the commonplace. 
Their peculiar point of view separated them from 
most other people, with whom their means of self- 
comparison were not so good since their marriage as 
before. Then they had travelled and seen much of 
the world, and they had formed tastes which they 
had not always been able to indulge, but of which 
they felt that the possession reflected distinction on 
them. It enabled them to look down upon those 
who were without such tastes ; but they were not 
ill-natured, and so they did not look down so much 
with contempt as with amusement. In their un- 
fashionable neighbourhood they had the fame of 
being not exclusive precisely, but very much wrapt 
up in themselves and their children. 

Mrs. March was reputed to be very cultivated, 
and Mr. March even more so, among the simpler 
folk around them. Their house had some good 
pictures, which her aunt had brought home from 
Europe in more affluent days, and it abounded in 
books on which he spent more than he ought. 
They had Ijeautified it in every way, and had un- 
consciously taken credit to themselves for it. They 
felt, with a glow almost of virtue, how perfectly it 



 

fitted their lives and their children's, and they 
believed that somebody it expressed their characters 
— that it was like them. They went out very little ; 
she remained shut up in its refinement, working the 
good of her own ; and he went to his business, and 
hurried back to forget it, and dream his dream of 
intellectual achievement in the flattering atmosphere 
of her sympathy. He could not conceal from him- 
self that his divided life was somewhat like Charles 
Lamb's, and there were times when, as he had cx- 
l>resscd to Fulkerson, he believed that its division 
was favourable to the freshness of his interest in 
literature. It certainly kept it a high jirivilege, a 
sacred refuge. Noav and then he wrote something, 
and got it printed after long delays, and when they 
met on the St. Lawrence, Fulkerson had some of 
March's verses in his pocket-book, which he had 
cut out of a stray newspaper and carried about for 
years, because they jleased his fancy so much ; they 
formed an immediate bond of union between the 
men when their authorship was traced and owned, 
and this gave a jiretty colour of romance to their 
acquaintance. But for the most part, !March was 
satisfied to read. He was proud of reading criti- 
cally, and he kept in the current of literary interests 
and controversies. It all seemed to him, and to his 
wife at second-hand, very meritorious ; he could not 
help contrasting his life and its inner elegance with 
that of other men who had no such resources. He 
thought that he was not arrogant about it, because 
he did full justice to the good qualities of those 



 

other people ; he congratulated himself upon the 
democratic instincts which enabled him to do this ; 
and neither he nor his wife supposed that they were 
selfish persons. On the contrary, they -were A'ery 
sympathetic  there was no good cause that they did 
not wish well ; they had a generous scorn of all 
kinds of narrow-heartedness ; if it had ever come 
into their way to sacrifice themselves for others, 
they thought they would have done so, but they 
never asked why it had not come in their waj-. 
They were very gentle and kind, even when most 
elusive ; and they taught their children to loathe all 
manner of social cruelty. March was of so watchful 
a conscience in some respects that he denied liimself 
the pensive pleasure of lapsing into the melancholy 
of unfulfilled aspirations ; but he did not see that if 
he had abandoned them, it had been for what he 
held dearer; generally he felt as if he had turned 
from them with a high altruistic aim. The practical 
expression of his life was that it was enough to 
provide well for his family ;   to have cultivated 
tastes, and to gratify them to the extent of his 
means ; to be rather distinguished, even in the 
simplification of his desires. He believed, and his 
wife believed, that if the time ever came when he 
really wished to make a sacrifice to the fulfilment of 
the aspirations so long postponed, she would be 
ready to join with lieart and hand. 

When he went to her room from his library, 
where she left him the whole evening with the 
children, he found her before the glass thoughtfully 



 

removing the first dismantling pin from Iicr Lack 
hair. 

" I can't lielp feeling," she grieved into the mirror, 
" that it 's I who keep you from accepting that oiTer. 
I know it is ! I could go West with you, or into a 
new country — anywhere ; but New York terrifies 
me. I don't like New York, I never did ; it dis- 
heartens and distracts me ; I can't find myself in it ; 
I shouldn't know how to shop, I know I 'm foolish 
and naxTOW and provincial, ' she went on ; " but I 
could never have any inner quiet in New Yoik ; I 
couldn't live in the spirit there. I suppose people 
do. It can't be that all those millions " 

"Oh, not so bad as that!" March interposed, 
laughing. " There aren't quite two." 

"I thought there were faur or five. Well, no 
matter. You see what I am, Basil. I 'm terribly 
limited. I couldn't make my sympathies go round 
two million people ; I should be wretched. I sup- 
pose I 'm standing in the way of your highest 
interest, but I can't help it. We took each other 
for better or worse, and you must try to bear with 
me " She broke off and began to cry. 

''Sbjyitl" shouted March. "I tell you I never 
cared anything for Fulkerson's scheme or enter- 
tained it seriously, and I shouldn't, if he 'd pro- 
posed to carry it out in Boston." This was not 
quite true ; but in the retrospect it seemed suffi- 
ciently so for the purposes of argument. "Don't 
say another word about it. The thing 's over now, 
and I don't want to think of it any more. We 



 

couldn't change its nature if we talked all night. 
But I want you to understand that it isn't your 
limitations that are in the way. It 's mine. I 
shouldn't have the courage to take such a place ; 
I don't think I'm fit for it; and that's the long 
and short of it." 

"Oh, you don't know how it hurts me to have you 
say that, Basil." 

The next morning, as they sat together at break- 
fast, without the children, whom they let lie late on 
Sunday, Mrs. March said to her husband, silent over 
his fish-balls and baked beans : " We will go to New 
York. I 've decided it." 

" Well, it takes two to decide that," March re- 
torted. '  We are not going to New York." 

" Yes, we are. I 've thought it out. Now, listen." 

" Oh, I 'm willing to listen," he consented airily. 

" You 've always wanted to get out of the insur- 
ance business, and now with that fear of being 
turned out which you have, you mustn't neglect 
this offer, I suppose it has its risks, but it's a, 
risk keeping on as we are ; and perhaps you will 
make a great success of it. I do want j-ou to trj', 
Basil. If I could once feel that you had fairly seen 
what you could do in literature, I should die happy." 

" Not immediately after, I hope," he suggested, 
taking the second cup of coffee she had been pour- 
ing out for him. "And Boston ] " 

"we needn't make a complete break. We can 
keep this place for the present, anyway ; we could 



 

let it for the winter, and come back in the summer 
next year. It would Le change enough from New 
York." 

" Fulkerson and I hadn't got as far as to talk of a 
vacation." 

" No matter. The children and I could come. 
And if you didn't like New York, or the enterprise 
failed, you could get into something in Boston 
again ; and we have enough to live on till you did. 
Yes, Basil, I 'm going." 

" I can see by the way your chin trembles that 
nothing could stop you. You may go to New York 
if you wish, Isabel, but I shall stay here." 

" Be serious, Basil. I 'm in earnest." 

" Serious ? If I were any more serious I should 
shed tears. Come, my dear, I know what you mean, 
and if I had my heart set on this thing — Fulkerson 
always calls it ' this thing ' — I would cheerfully 
accept any sacrifice you could make to it. But I 'd 
rather not offer you up on a shrine I don't feel any 
particular faith in. I 'm very comfortable where I 
am ; that is, I know just where the pinch comes, and 
if it comes harder, wh)', I 've got used to bearing that 
kind of pinch. I 'm too old to change pinches." 

"Now, that does decide me." 

"It decides me, too." 

"I will take all the responsibility, Basil," she 
pleaded. 

" Oh yes ; but you 'll hand it back to me as soon 
as you've carried your point with it. There's 
nothing mean about you, Isabel, whcre responsibility 



 

is concerned. No ; if I do tliis tiling — Fulkerson 
again ! I can't get away from ' tin's thing ' ; it 's 
ominons — I must do it because I want to do it, and 
not because you wish that you wanted me to do it. 
I understand your position, Isabel, and that you 're 
really acting from a generous imjiulso, but there's 
nothing so precarious at our time of life as a generous 
iini)ulse. When ve wcre younger we could stand 
it ; we could give way to it and take the consequences. 
But now we can't bear it. We must act from cold 
reason even in the ardour of self-sacrifice." 

''Oh, as if you did that ! " his wife retorted. 

"Is that any cause why you shouldn't'?" She 
could not say that it was, and he went on trium- 
phantly : "No, I won't take you away from the 
only safe place on the planet, and plunge you into 
the most perilous, and then have you say in your 
revulsion of feeling that you were all against it from 
the first, and you gave way because you saw I had 
my heart set on it." He supposed he "was treating 
the matter humorously, but in this sort of banter 
between husband and wife there is always much 
more than the joking. March had seen some pretty 
feminine inconsistencies and trepidations which once 
charmed him in his wife hardenhig into traits of 
middle-age, which were very like those of less 
interesting older women. The sight moved him 
with a kind of pathos, but he felt the result hinder- 
ing and vexatious. 

She now retorted that if he did not choose to take 
her at her word he need not, but that whatever he 



 

did she should have nothing to reproach herself with ; 
and, at least, he could not say that she had trapped 
him into anything. 

" What do you mean by trapping ? " he demanded. 

" I don't know what you call it," she answered ; 
"but when you get me to commit myself to a thing 
by leaving out the most essential point, I call it 
trapping." 

"I wonder you stop at trapping, if you think I 
got you to favour Fulkerson's scheme, and then 
sprung New York on you. I don't suppose you 
do, though. But I guess we won't talk about it 
any more." 

He went out for a long walk, and she went to 
her room. They lunched silently together in the 
presence of their children, who knew that they 
had been quarrelling, but were easily indifferent 
to the fact, as children get to be in such cases ; 
nature defends their youth, and the unhappiness 
which they behold does not infect them. In the 
evening, after the boy and girl had gone to bed, 
the father and mother resumed their talk. He 
would have liked to take it up at the point from 
which it wandered into hostilities, for he felt it 
lamentable that a matter whicli so seriously con- 
cerned them should be confused in the fumes of 
senseless anger ; and he was willing to make a tacit 
acknowledgment of his own error by recurring to 
the question, but she would not be content with 
this, and lie had to concede explicitly to her weak- 
ness that she really meant it when she had asked 


him to accept Fulkerson's offer. He said he knew 
that ; and he began soberly to talk over their pro- 
spects in the event of their going to New York. 

" Oh, I see you are going ! " she twitted. 

" I 'm going to stay," he answered, " and let tlu'm 
turn me out of my agency here ! " and in this bitter- 
ness their talk ended. 



V. 



His wife made no attempt to renew their talk 
before March went to his business in the morning, 
and they parted in dry offence. Their experience 
was that these things alwaj's came right of them- 
selves at last, and they usually let them. He knew 
that she had really tried to consent to a thing that 
was repugnant to her, and in his heart he gave her 
more credit for the effort than he had allowed her 
openly. She knew that she had made it with the 
reservation he accused her of, and that he had a 
right to feel sore at what she could not help. But 
,he left her to brood over his ingratitude, and she 
suffered him to go heavy and unfriended to meet 
the chances of the day. He said to himself that 
if she had assented cordially to the conditions of 
Fulkerson's offer, he would have had the courage to 
take all the other risks himself, and would have had 
the satisfaction of resigning his place. As it was, 
he must wait till he was removed ; and he figured 
with bitter pleasure the pain she would feel when ho 
came home some day and told her he had been sup- 
planted, after it was too late to close with Fulkerson. 

He found a letter on his desk from the secretary, 



 

" Dictated," in type-writing, wliicli briefly informed 
liim tliat j\Ir. Ilubbell, the Inspector of Agencies, 
would be in Boston on Wednesday, and would call 
at his ofTice during the forenoon. The letter was 
not different in tone from many that he had formerly 
received ; but the visit announced was out of. the 
usual order, and March believed he read his fate in 
it. During the eighteen years of his connection 
with it — first as a subordinate in the Boston office, 
and finally as its general agent there— he had seen 
a good many changes in the Reciprocit}' ; presidents, 
vice-presidents, actuaries, and general agents had 
come and gone, but there had always seemed to be 
a recognition of his efficiency, or at least sufficiency, 
and there had never been any manner of trouble, no 
question of accounts, no apparent dissatisfaction 
with his management, until latterly, when there had 
begun to come from headquarters some suggestions 
of enterprise in certain ways, which gave him his 
first suspicions of his clerk Watkins's willingness to< 
succeed him ; they embodied some of Watkins's 
ideas. The things proposed seemed to March un- 
dignified, and even vulgar ; he had never thought 
himself wanting in energy, though probably he had 
left the business to take its own course in the old 
lines more than he realised. Things had always 
gone so smoothly that he had sometimes fancied a 
peculiar regard for him in the management, which 
lie had the weakness to attribute to an appreciation 
of what he occasionally did in literature, though in 
saner moments he felt how impossible this was. 



 

Beyond a reference from Mr. Hubbell to some piece 
of March's, \vhicli had happened to meet his eye, no 
one in the management ever gave a sign of con- 
sciousness that their service was adorned by an 
obscure literary man ; and Mr. Hubbell himself lind 
the effect of regarding the excursions of March's pen 
as a sort of joke, and of winking at them, as lie 
might have winked if once in a way he had found 
him a little the gayer for dining. 

March wore through the day gloomily, but he had 
it on his conscience not to show any resentment 
toward AYatkins, whom he suspected of wishing to 
supplant him, and even of working to do so. 
Through this self-denial he reached a better mind 
concerning his wife. He determined not to make 
her suffer needlessly, if the worst came to the worst ; 
she woidd suffer enough, at the best, and till the 
worst came he would spare her, and not say any- 
thing about the letter he had got. 

But when they met, her first glance divined that 
something had happened, and her first question 
frustrated his generous intention. He had to tell 
her about the lettier. She would not allow that it 
had any significance ; but she wished him to make 
an end of his anxieties, and forestall whatever it 
might portend by resigning his place at once. She 
said she was quite ready to go to New York ; she 
had been thinking it all over, and now she really 
wanted to go. He answered, soberly, that he had 
thought it over, too ; and he did not wish to leave 
Boston, where he had lived so long, or try a new 



 

way of life if he could help it. He insisted that he 
was quite selfish in this ; in their concessions their 
quarrel vanished ; they agreed that whatever hap- 
pened would be for the best ; and the next day he 
went to his office fortified for any event. 

His destiny, if tragical, presented itself with an 
aspect which he might have found comic if it had 
been another's destiny. Mr. Hubbell brought 
March's removal, softened in the guise of a promo- 
tion. The management at New York, it appeared, 
had acted upon a suggestion of Mr. Hubbell's, and 
now authorised him to offer March the editorship 
of the monthly paper published in the interest of 
the company; his office would include the author- 
ship of circulars and leaflets, in behalf of life insur- 
ance, and would give play to the literary talent 
which Mr, Hubbell had brought to the attention of 
the management ; his salary would be nearly as 
much as at present, but the work would not take 
his whole time, and in a place like New York ho 
could get a great deal of outside writing, which they 
would not object to his doing. 

Mr. Hubbell seemed so sure of his acceptance of 
a place in every way congenial to a man of literary 
tastes, that March was afterward sorry he dismissed 
the proposition with obvious irony, and had need- 
lessly hurt Hubbell's feelings ; but Mrs, March had 
no such regrets. She was only afraid that he had 
not made his rejection contemptuous enough, "And 
now," she said, " telegraph Mr, Fulkerson, and we 
will Ko at once." 



 

"I suppose I could still get Watkins's former 
place," March suggested. 

" Never ! " she retorted. " Telegraph instantly ! " 

They were only afraid now that Fulkerson might 
have changed his mind, and they had a wretched 
day in which they heard nothing from him. It 
ended with his answering March's teleo;ram in 
person. They were so glad of his coming, and so 
touched by his satisfaction with his bargain, that 
they laid all the facts of the case before him. He 
entered fully into March's sense of the joke latent 
in Mr. Hubbell's proposition ; and he tried to make 
Mrs. March believe that he shared her resentment 
of the indignity offered her husband. 

March made a show of willingness to release him 
in view of the changed situation, saying that he 
held him to nothing. Fulkerson laughed, and 
asked him how soon he thought he could come 
on to New York. He refused to reopen the ques- 
tion of March's fitness with him ; he said they had 
gone into that thoroughly, but he recurred to it 
with Mrs. March, and confirmed her belief in his 
good-sense on all points. She had been from the 
first moment defiantly confident of her husband's 
ability, but till she had talked the matter over 
with Fulkerson, she was secretly not sure of it ; 
or, at least, she was not sure that March was not 
right in distrusting himself. "When she clearly un- 
derstood, now, what Fulkerson intended, she had no 
longer a doubt. He explained how the enterprise 
differed from others, and how he needed for its 


direction a man who combined general business 
experience and business ideas with a love for the 
tliingj and a natural aptness for it. He did not 
Nvant a young man, and yet he wanted youth — its 
freshness, its zest — such as March would feel in a 
tiling he could put his whole heart into. He would 
not run in ruts, like an old fellow who had got hack- 
neyed ; he would not have any hobbies ; he would 
not have any friends nor any enemies. Besides, he 
would have to meet people, and March was a man 
that people took to ; she knew that herself ; he had 
a kind of charm. The editorial management was 
going to be kept in the background, as far as the 
public was concerned; the public was to suppose that 
the thing ran itself. Fulkerson did not care for a 
great literary reputation in his editor — he implied 
that March had a very pretty little one. At the 
same time the relations between the contributors 
and the management were to bo much more inti- 
mate than usual. Fulkerson felt his personal dis- 
qualification for working the thing socially, and he 
counted upon Mr. March for that ; that was to say, 
he counted upon Mrs. March. 

She protested lie must not count upon her ; but it 
by no means disabled Fulkerson's judgment in her 
view that March really seemed more than anything 
else a fancy of his. He had been a fancy of hers ; 
and the sort of affectionate respect with which Ful- 
kerson spoke of him laid for ever some doubt she had 
of the fineness of Fulkerson's manners, and recon- 
ciled her to the graphic slanginess of his speech. 



 

The afliiir was now irretrievable, but she gave 
her approval to it as superbly as if it were submitted 
in its inception. Only, Mr. Fulkerson must not sup- 
pose she should ever like New York. She would 
not deceive him on that point. She never should 
like it. She did not conceal, either, that she did 
not like taking the children out of the Friday even- 
ing class ; and she did not believe that Tom would 
ever be reconciled to going to Columbia. She took 
courage from Fulkcrson's suggestion that it was pos- 
sible for Tom to come to Harvard even from New 
York ; and she heaped him with questions concern- 
ing the domiciliation of the family in that city. He 
tried to know something about the matter, and he 
succeeded in seeming interested in points necessarily 
indifferent to him. 



VL 



In the uprooting and transplanting of their home 
that followed, Mrs. March often trembled before 
distant problems and possible contingencies, but she 
was never troubled by present difficulties. She kept 
up with tireless energy ; and in the moments of de- 
jection and misgiving which harassed her husband 
she remained dauntless, and put heart into him when 
he had lost it altogether. 

She arranged to leave the children in the house 
with the servants, while she went on with INIarch to 
look up a dwelling of some sort in New York. It 
made him sick to think of it ; and when it came to 
the point, he would rather have given up the whole 
enterprise. She had to nerve him to it, to repre- 
sent more than once that now they had no choice 
but to make this experiment. Every detail of part- 
ing was anguish to him. He got consolation out of 
the notion of letting the house furnished for the 
winter ; that implied their return to it ; but it cost 
him pangs of the keenest misery to advertise it ; and 
when a tenant was actually found, it was all he 
could do to give him the lease. He tried his wife's 
love and patience aS a man must to whom the future 



 

is easy in the mass, but terrible as it translates itself 
piecemeal into the present. He experienced remorse 
in the presence of inanimate things he was going to 
leave as if they had sensibly reproached him, and an 
anticipative homesickness that seemed to stop his 
heart. Again and again his wife had to make him 
reflect that his depression was not prophetic. She 
convinced him of what he already knew ; and per- 
suaded him against his knowledge that he could be 
keeping an eye out for something to take hold of in 
Boston if they could not stand New York. She 
ended by telling him that it was too bad to make 
her comfort him in a trial that was really so much 
more a trial to her. She had to support him in a 
last access of despair on their way to the Albany 
depot the morning they started to New York ; but 
when the final details had been dealt with, the 
tickets bought, the trunks checked, and the hand- 
bags hung up in their car, and the future had massed 
itself again at a safe distance and was seven hours 
and two hundred miles away, his spirits began to 
rise and hers to sink. He would have been willing 
to celebrate the taste, the domestic refinement of the 
ladies' waiting-room in the depot, where they had 
spent a quarter of an hour before the train started. 
He said he did not believe there was another station 
in the \vorld where mahogany rocking-chairs were jiro- 
vided ; that the dull red warmth of the walls -was as 
cosey as an evening-lamp, and that he always hoped 
to see a fire kindled on that vast hearth, and under 
that resthctic mantel, but he supposed now he never 



 

should. He said it was all vciy difTercnt from tnat 
tunnel, the old Albany depot, where they had vraited 
the morning they went to New York when they 
were starting on their wedding journey. 

" The morning, Basil ! " cried his wife. " "We went 
at night; and we were going to take the boat, but 
it stormed so ! " She gave him a glance of such 
reproach that he could not answer anything, and 
now she asked him whether he supposed their cook 
and second girl would be contented with one of those 
dark holes where they put girls to sleep in New 
York flats, and what she should do if Margaret, 
especially, left her. He ventured to suggest that 
Margaret would probably like the city ; but if she 
left, there were plenty of other girls to be had in 
New York. She replied that there were none she 
could trust, and that she kncw Margaret would not 
stay. He asked her why she took her, then ; why 
she did not give her up at once ; and she ansAA'ered 
that it would he inhuman to give her up just in the 
edge of the winter. She had promised to keep her ; 
and Margaret was jileascd with the notion of going to 
Ncw York, where she had a cousin. 

'' Then perhaps she 'll be pleased with the notion 
of staying," he said. 

" Oh, much you know about it ! " she retorted ; 
and in view of the hypothetical difficulty and his 
want of sympathy, she fell into a gloom, from which 
she roused herself at last by declaring that if there 
was nothing else in the flat they took, there should 
be a light kitchen and a bright sunny bedroom for 



 

Margarct. Ho expressed the belief that they coukl 
easily find such a flat as that, and she denounced his 
fatal optimism, which buoyed him up in the absence 
of an undertaking, and let him drop into the depths 
of desjiair in its presence. 

He owned this defect of temperament, but he said 
that it compensated the opposite in her character. 
" I suppose that 's one of the chief uses of marriage ; 
people supplement each other, and form a pretty 
fair sort of human being together. The only draw- 
back to the theory is that unmarried people seem 
each as complete and whole as a married pair." 

She refused to be amused ; she turned her face to 
the window and put her handkercliicf up under her 
veil. 

It was not till the dining-car was attached to their 
train that they were both able to escape for an hour 
into the carc-frce mood of their earlier travels, when 
they were so easily taken out of themselves. The 
time had been when they could have found enough 
in the conjectural fortunes and characters of their 
fellow-passengers to occupy them. This phase of 
their youth had lasted long, and the world was still 
full of novelty and interest for them ; but it re- 
quired all the charm of the dining-car now to lay 
the anxieties that beset them. It was so potent for 
the moment, however, that they could take an objec- 
tive view at their sitting cosily down there together, 
as if they had only themselves in the world. They 
wondered what the children were doing, the chil- 
dren who possessed them so intensely when present, 



 

and now, by a fantastic operation of absence, seemed 
almost non-existent. They tried to be homesick for 
them, but failed ; they recognised with comfortable 
self-abhorrence that this was terrible, but owned a 
fascination in being alone ; at the same time they 
could not imagine how people felt who never had 
any children. They contrasted the luxury of din- 
ing that way, with every advantage except a band 
of music, and the old way of rushing out to snatch 
a fearful joy at the lunch-counters of the "Worcester 
and Springfield and New Haven stations. They 
had not gone often to New York since their wcd- 
ding journey, but they had gone often enough to 
have noted the change from the lunch-counter to 
the lunch-basket brought in the train, from which 
you could subsist with more case and dignity, but 
seemed destined to a superabundance of pickles, 
whatever you ordered. 

They thought well of themselves now that they 
could be both critical and tolerant of flavours not 
very sharply distinguished from one another in 
their dinner, and they lingered over their coffee 
and watched the autumn landscape through the 
windows. 

"Not quite so loud a pattern of calico this year," 
he said, with patronising forbearance toward the 
painted woodlands whirling by. "Do you see how 
the foreground next the train rushes from us 
and the background keeps ahead of us, while the 
middle distance seems stationary ? I don't think I 
ever noticed that effect before. There ought to be 



 

something literary in it : retreating past and advanc- 
ing future, and deceitfully permanent present : 
something like that ? " 

His wife brushed some crumbs from her lap 
before rising. "Yes. You mustn't waste any of 
these ideas now." 

" Oh no ; it would be money out of Fulkerson's 
pocket." 

