no chains. They went back to Boston with the 


heroic will to do what was most distasteful ; they 
would have returned to their own liousc if  the y 
had not rented it again ; but, any rate, Mrs. ISIarch 
helped out by taking boarders, or perhaps only 
letting rooms to lodgers. They had some hard 
struggles, but they succeeded. 

" The great thing," she said, " is to be right. I 'm 
ten times as happy as if you had come home and 
told me that you had consented to do wliat Dryfoos 
asked, and he had doubled j-our salary." 

" I don't think that would have happened in any 
event," said March dryly. 

" Well, no matter. I just used it for an example." 

They both experienced a buoyant relief, such as 
seems to come to people who begin life anew on 
whatever terms. " I hope we are young enough yet, 
Basil," she said, and she would not have it when he 
said they had once been younger. 

They heard the children's knock on the door ; 
they knocked when they came home from school so 
that their mother might let them in. "Shall we 
tell them at once ? " she asked, and ran to open for 
them before March could answer. 

They were not alone. Fulkerson, smiling from 
ear to car, was with them. " Is March in ? " he 
asked. 

" Mr. March is at home, yes," she said very 
haughtily. " He 's in his study," and she led the 
way there, while the children went to their rooms. 

" Well, March," Fulkenson called out at sight of 
him, "it's all right! The old man has come down." 



  

" I suppose if you gentlemen are going to talk 
business " Mrs. March began. 

" Oh, we don't want you to go away," said Ful- 
kerson. " I reckon March has told you, anyway." 

"Yes, I've told her," said March. "Don't go, 
Isabel. What do you mean, Fulkerson ? " 

" He 's just gone on up home, and he sent me 
round with his apologies. He sees now that he had 
no business to speak to you as he did, and he with- 
draws everything. He 'd 'a' come round himself if 
I 'd said so, but I told him I could make it all right." 

Fulkerson looked so happy in having the whole 
aflfair put right, and the Marches knew him to be 
so kindly aflfected toward them that they could not 
refuse for the moment to share liis mood. They 
felt themselves slipping down from the moral height 
which they had gained, and March made a clutch to 
stay himself with the question, "And Lindau? " 

"Well," said Fulkerson, "he's going to leave 
Lindau to me. You won't have anything to do 
with it. I 'll let the old fellow down easy." 

"Do you mean," asked March, " that Mr. Dryfoos 
insists on his being dismissed ? " 

" Why, there isn't any dismissing about it," Ful- 
kerson argued. " If you don't send him any more 
work, he won't do any more, that's all. Or if he 
comes round you can He 's to be referred to me." 

March .shook his head, and his wife, with a sigh, 
felt herself plucked up from the soft circumstance of 
their lives, which she had sunk back into so quickly, 
and set beside him on that cold peak of principle 



  

again. " It wou't do, Fulkcrson. It 's very gootl of 
you and all that, but it comes to the same tiling in 
the end. I could have gone on without any apology 
from Mr. Dryfoos ; he transcended liis authoritj-, 
but that's a minor matter. I could have excused it 
to liis ignorance of life among gentlemen ; but I 
can't consent to Lindau's dismissal — it comes to that, 
 whether you do it or I do it, and whether it's a 
positive or a negative thing — because he holds this 
opinion or that." 

"But don't you see," said Fulkerson, "that it's 
just Lindau's opinions the old man can't stand ! Ho 
hasn't got anything against him jjcrsonally. I don't 
suppose there 's anybody that appreciates Lindau in 
some ways more than the old man does." 

" I understand. He wants to punish him for his 
opinions. Well, I can't consent to that, directly or 
indirectly. "We don't print his opinions, and he has 
a i)erfect right to hold them, whether Mr. Dryfoos 
agrees with them or not." 

Mrs. March had judged it decorous for her to say 
nothing, but she now went and sat down in the 
chair next her husband. 

" Ah, dog on it ! " cried Fulkerson, rumpling his 
hair with both his hands. " What am I to do ? 
The old man says he 's got to go. ' 

" And I don't consent to his going," said March. 

" And you won't stay if he goes ? " 

" I won't stay if he goes." 

Fulkerson rose. " Well, well ! I 've got to see 
about it. I 'm afraid the old man won't stand it, 



  

March ; I am, indeed. I wish you 'd reconsider. I 
— I 'd take it as a personal favour if you would. It 
leaves me in a fix. You sec I 've got to side with 
one or the other." 

March made no reply to this, except to say, " Yes, 
you must stand by him, or you must stand by me." 

" Well, well ! Hold on a while ! I 'll see you in 
the morning. Don't take any steps " 

" Oh, there are no steps to take," said March, with 
a melancholy smile. " The steps are stopped ; 
that 's all." He sank back into his chair when Ful- 
kerson was gone, and drew a long bi-eath. "This 
is pretty rough. I thought we had got through it." 

"No," said his wifc. '"It seems as if I had to 
make the fight all over again." 

" Well, it 's a good thing it 's a holy war." 

" I can't bear the suspense. Why didn't you tell 
him outright you wouldn't go back on any terms ? " 

" I might as well, and got the glory. He 'll never 
move Dryfoos. I suppose we lK)th would like to go 
back, if we could." 

" Oh, I suppose so." 

They could not regain their lost exaltation, their 
lost dignity. At dinner Mrs. March asked the 
children how they would like to go back to Hoston 
to live. 

" Why, we 're not going, are we ? " asked Tom 
without enthusiasm. 

"I was just wondering how you felt about it, 
now," she said, with an underlook at her husband. 

"Well, if we go back," said Bella, "I want to 



  

live on the Hack Bay. It 's awfully IMiclcy at tlis 
South EikI." 

'' I suppose I should go to Harvard," said Tom, 
" and I 'd room out at Cambridge. It  would be 
easier to get at you on the Back Bay." 

The parents smiled ruefully at each other, and in 
view of these grand expectations of his children, 
March resolved to go as far as he could in meeting 
Dryfoos's wishes. He proposed the theatre as a 
distraction from the anxieties that he knew were 
pressing equally on his wife. " We might go to the 
Old Homestead," he suggested, with a sad irony, 
which only his wife felt. 

"Oh yes, let's!" cried Bella. 

"While they were getting ready, some one rang, 
and Bella went to the door, and then came to tell 
her father that it was Mr. Lindau. "He says he 
wants to see you just a moment. He's in the 
parlour, and he won't sit down, or anything." 

"What can he wanf?" groaneil Mrs. March, 
from their common dismay. 

!March apprehended a storm in the old man's face. 
But he only stood in the middle of the room, looking 
very sad and grave. " You are coing oudt," lie 
said. " I won't geep you long. I haf gome to pring 
pack dose macassines, and dis mawney. I can't do 
any more voark for you ; and I can't geep the 
mawney you haf baid me a'ready. It iss not hawncst 
mawney — that hass been earned py voark; it iss 
rnawney that hass pecn mate py sbeculation, and the 
obbressiou off lapour, and the necessity of the boor, 



  

py a man . Here it is, efcry tollar, efcry zcnt. 

Dake it ; I feel as if dere vas ploodt on it." 

"Why Lindau," March began, but the old man 
interrupted him. 

" Ton't dalk to me, Passil ! I could not haf 
believedt it of you. When you know how I feel 
about dose tings, why tidn't you dell me tchose 
mawney you bay oudt to me ? Ach, I ton't plame 
you — I ton't rebroach you. You haf nefer thought 
of it ; boat I — I have thought, and I should be 
cuilty, I must share that man's cuilt, if I gept hiss 
mawney. If you hat toldt me at the peginning — if 
you hat peen frank with me — boat it iss all righdt ; 
you can go on ; you ton't see dese tings as I sec 
them; and you haf cot a family, and I am a free 
man. I voark to myself, and when I don't voark, 
I sdarfe to myself. But I geep my handts glean, 
voark or sdarfe. Gif him hiss mawney pack ! I am 
sawry for him ; I would not hoart hiss feelings, boat 
I could not pear to douch him, and hiss mawney iss 
like boison ! " 

March tried to reason- with Lindau, to show him 
the folly, the injustice, the absurdity of his course ; 
it ended in their both getting angry, and in Lindau's 
going away in a whirl of German that included Basil 
in the guilt of the man whom Lindau called his 
master. 

"Well," said Mrs. March. "He is a crank, and 
I think you 're well rid of him. Now you have no 
quarrel with that horrid old Dryfoos, and you can 
keep right on." 



  

"Yes," said March, "I wish it didn't make me 
feel so sneaking. What a long day it's been! It 
seems like a century since I got up." 

" Yes, a thousand years. Is there anything else 
left to happen ? " 

"I hope not. I 'd like to go to bed." 

"Why, aren't yon going to the theatre?" wailed 
Bella, coming in upon her fatlicr's desperate ex- 
pression. 

"The theatre? Oh yes, certainly! I meant 
after we got home," and March amused himself at 
the puzzled countenance of the child. " Come on ! 
Is Tom ready ? " 



VIII. 

FuLKERSON parted with the Marches in such 
trouble of mind that he did not feel able to meet 
that night the people whom he usually kept so gay 
at Mrs. Leighton's table. He went to Maroni's for 
his dinner, for this reason, and for others more 
obscure. He could not expect to do anything more 
with Dryfoos at once ; he knew that Dryfoos must 
feel that he had already made an extreme concession 
to March, and he believed that if he was to get anj'- 
thing more from him it must be after Dryfoos had 
dined. But he was not without the hope, Aaguo 
and indefinite as it might be, that he should find 
Lindau at Maroni's, and perhaps should get some 
concession from him, some word of regret or apology 
which he could report to Dryfoos, and at least make 
the means of reopening the afi'air with him ; perhaps 
Lindau, when he knew how matters stood, would 
back down altogether, and for March's sake would 
withdraw from all connection with Every Other Week 
himself, and so leave everything serene. Fulkerson 
felt capable, in his desperation, of delicately suggest- 
ing such a course to Lindau, or even of plainly 
advising it : he did not care for Lindau a great 



  

(leal, and lie did care a great deal for the 
maiiWellazino. 

Diit lie did not find Lindau at Maroni's ; lie only 
found Bi'aton. He sat looking at the doorway as 
I'ulkerson entered, and Fulkerson naturally came 
and took a place at his table. Something in 
Beaton's large-eyed solemnity of aspect invited Ful- 
kerson to confidence, and he said, as he pulled his 
napkin open and strung it, still a little damp (as the 
scanty, often-wa.shed linen at Maroni's was ai)t to 
be), across his knees, " I was looking for you this 
morning, to talk "with you about the Christmas 
number, and I was a good deal worked up because I 
couldn't find you; but I guess I might as well have 
spared myself my emotions." 

"Why V asked Beaton briefly. 

" Well, I don't know as there 's going to be any 
Christmas number." 

"Why ? " Beaton asked again. 

" Eow between the financial angel and the literary 
editor about the chief translator and polyglot smeller." 

" Lindau ? " 

"Lindau is his name." 

" What does the literary editor expect after 
Lindau's expression of his views last night ? " 

" I don't know what he expected, but the; ground 
he took with the old man was that as Lindau's 
opinions didn't characterise his work on the maga- 
zine he would not be made the instrument of 
punishing him for them : the old man wanted him 
turned oil', as he calls it," 



  

"Seems to be pretty good ground," said Beaton 
impartially, while he speculated, with a dull trouble 
at lieart, on the effect the row would have on his 
own fortunes. His late visit home had made him 
feel that the claim of his family upon him for some 
repayment of help given could not be much longer 
delayed ; with his mother sick and his father grow- 
ing old, he must begin to do something for them, 
but up to this time he had spent his salary even 
faster than he had earned it : when Fulkerson came 
in he was wondering whether ho could get him to 
increase it, if he threatened to give up his work, 
and he wished that he was enough in love with 
Margaret Vance, or even Christine Dryfoos, to 
marry her, only to end in the sorrowful conviction 
that he was really in love with Alma Leighton, who 
had no money, and who had apparently no wish to 
be married for love, even. "And what are you 
going to do about it ] " he asked listlessly. 

"Be dogged if I know what I 'm going to do about 
it," said Fulkerson. " I 've been round all day, trying 
to pick up the pieces — row began right after break- 
fast this morning — and one time I thought I 'd got 
the thing all put together again. I got the old man 
to say that he had spoken to March a little too 
authoritatively about Lindau ; that in fact he ought 
to have communicated his wishcs through me ; and 
that he was willing to have me get rid of Lindau, 
and March needn't have anything to do with it. 
I thought that was pretty white, but March says the 
apologies and regrets are all avcII enough in their 



way, but they leave the main question where tlicy 
found it." 

" What is the main question ? " Beaton asked, 
liouring himself out some Chianti ; as ho set the 
flask down he made the reflection that if he would 
drink water instead of Chianti he could send liis 
father tlirce dollars a week, on his back debts, and 
he r(?solvcd to do it. 

"The main question, as March looks at it, is the 
question of punishing Lindau for his private 
opinions ; he says that if he consents to nvj bounc- 
ing the old fellow it *s the same as if he bounced him." 

" It might have that complexion in some lights," 
said Beaton. He drank ofl" his Chianti, and thought 
he would have it twice a week, or make Maroni 
keep the half-bottles over for him, and send his father 
two dollars. " And what are you going to do now ? " 

"That's what I don't know," said Fulkerson 
ruefully. After a moment he said desperately, 
"Beaton, you've got a pretty good head; why 
don't you suggest something ? " 

"Why don't you let March go ?" Beaton suggested. 

"Ah, I couldn't," said Fulkerson. "I got him to 
break-up in Boston and come here ; I like him ; 
nobody else could get the hang of the thing like he 
has; he 's — a friend." Fulkerson said this with the 
nearest approach he could make to seriousness, 
which was a kind of unhappiness. 

Beaton shrugged. " Oh, if you can afi'ord to have 
deals, I congratulate you. They 're too expensive for 
jne. Then, suppose you get rid of Dryfoos ?" 



  

Fulkerson laughed forlornly. " Go on, Bildad. 
Like to sprinkle a few ashes over nay boils ? Don't 
mind vie ! " 

They both sat silent a little while, and then 
Beaton said, "I suppose you haven't seen Dryfoos 
the second time ?" 

" No. I came in here to gird up my loins with 
a little dinner before I tackled him. But something 
seems to be the matter with Maroni's cook. I don't 
want anything to eat." 

"The cooking's about as bad as usual," said 
Beaton. After a moment, he added ironically, for 
he found Fulkerson's misery a kind of relief from 
his "WTi, and was willing to protract it as long as it 
was amusing : " Why not try an envoy extraordinary 
and minister plenipotentiary ? " 

" What do you mean ? " 

" Get that other old fool to go to Dryfoos for you !" 

"Which other old fool? The old fools seem to 
be as thick as flies." 

"That Southern one." 

"Colonel Woodburn?" 

" Mrammm." 

" He did seem to rather take to the colonel ! " 
Fulkerson mused aloud. 

" Of course he did. Woodburn, with his idiotic 
talk about patriarchal slavery, is the man on horse- 
back to Dryfoos's muddy imagination. He 'd listen 
to him abjectly, and he 'd do whatever Woodburn 
told him to do." Beaton smiled cynically. 

Fulkerson got up and reached for his coat and 




hat. "You've struck it, old man." The waiter 
came up to help him on with his coat ; Fulkerson 
slipped a dollar in his hand. " Never mind the 
coat; you can give the rest of my dinner to the 
poor, Paolo. Beaton, shake ! You 've saved my 
life, little hoy, though I don't think you meant it." 
lie took Beaton's hand and solemnly pressed it, and 
then almost ran out of the door. 

They had just reached coffee at Mrs. Leighton's 
when he arrived, and sat down with them, and 
began to put some of the life of his new hope into 
them. His appetite revived, and after protesting 
that he would not take anything but coffee, he went 
back and ate some of the earlier courses. But with 
the pressure of his purpose driving him forward, he 
did not conceal from Miss Woodburn, at least, that 
he was eager to get her apart from the rest for 
some reason. When he accomplished this, it seemed 
as if he liad contrived it all himself, but perhaps he 
had not wholly contrived it. 

'•I'm so glad to get a chance to speak to you 
alone," he said at once ; and while she waited for 
the next word he made a pause, and then said 
desperately, " I want you to help me ; and if you 
can't help me, there 's no help for me." 

" Mah goodness," she said, " is the case so bad as 
that ? What in the woald is the trouble ? " 

" Yes, it 's a bad case," said Fulkerson. " I want 
your father to help me." 

" Oh, I thoat you said me ! " 

" Yes ; I want you to help me with your father. 



  

I suppose I ought to go to him at once, but I 'm a 
little afraid of him." 

"And you awe not afraid of mel I don't think 
that 's very flattering, Mr. Fulkerson. You ought 
to think Ah 'm twahce as awful as papa." 

" Oh, I do ! You see, I 'm quite paralysed Lc- 
fore you, and so I don't feel anything." 

" Well, it 's a pretty lahvely kyand of paralysis. 
But — go on." 

" I will — I will. If I can only begin." 

" Pohaps Ah maght begin fo' you." 

" No, you can't. Lord knows, I 'd like to let you. 
Well, it 's like this." 

Fulkerson made a clutch at his hair, and then, 
after another hesitation, he abruptly laid the whole 
affair before her. He did not think it necessary to 
state the exact nature of the offence Lindau had 
given Dryfoos, for he doubted if she could grasp it, 
and he was profuse of his excuses for troubling her 
with the matter, and of wonder at himself for having 
done so. In the rapture of his concern at having 
perhaps made a fool of himself, he forgot why he 
had told her ; but she seemed to like having been 
confided in, and she said, " Well, Ah don't see what 
you can do with you' ahdeals of friendship, except 
stand bah' Mr. Maweh." 

" My ideals of friendship ? What do you mean ? " 

" Oh, don't you suppose we know ? Mr. Beaton 
said you we' a pofect Bahyard in friendship, and 
you wovdd sacrifice anything to it." 

"Is that so V said Fulkerson, thinking how easily 



  

he could sacrifice Liiulau in this case. lie had never 
supposed before that he was so cliivah-ous in such 
matters, but he now began to see it in that light, 
and he  wondered that he could ever have entertained 
for a moment the idea of throwing March over. 

" But, Ah most sat," Miss "Woodburn went on, 
" Ah don't envy you you' next interview with Mr. 
Dryfoos. Ah suppose you'll have to sec liirn at 
once aboat it." 

The conjecture recalled Fulkerson to the object 
of his confidences. "Ah, there's M'here your help 
comes in. I 've exhausted all the influence I have 
with Dryfoos " 

" Good gracious, you dou't expect ylh could have 
any!" 

They both laughed at the comic dismay with 
which she conveyed the preposterous notion ; and 
Fulkerson said, " If I judged from myself, I should 
expect you to bring him round instantly." 

" Oh, ihanh you, Mr. Fulkerson," she said, with 
mock-meekness. 

" Not at all. But it isn't Dryfoos I want you to 
help me with ; it 's your father. I want your father 
to intervicw Dryfoos for me, and I — I 'm afraid to 
ask him." 

" Poo' Mr. Fulkerson ! " she said, and she in- 
sinuated something through her burlesque compas- 
sion that lifted him to the skies. He swore in his 
heart that the woman never lived who was so witty, 
so wise, so beautiful, and so good. " Come raght 
with me this minute, if the cyoast's clea'." She 



  

went to the door of the dining-room and looked in 
across its gloom to the little gallery where her father 
sat beside a lamp reading his evening paper ; Mrs. 
Leighton could be heard in colloquy with the cook 
below, and Alma had gone to her room. She bec- 
koned Fulkerson with the hand outstretched behind 
her, and said, " Go and ask him." 

" Alone ! " he palpitated. 

"Oh, what a cyowahd !" she cried, and went with 
him. " Ah suppose you 'll want me to tell him 
aboat it." 

"Well, I wish you'd begin, Miss "Woodburn," he 
said. " The fact is, you know, I 've been over it so 
much I 'm kind of sick of the thing." 

Miss Woodburn advanced, and put her hand on 
her father's shoulder. " Look heah, papa ! Mr. 
Fulkerson wants to ask you something, and he 
wants me to do it fo' him." 

The colonel looked up through his glasses with 
the sort of ferocity elderly men sometimes have to 
put on in order to keep their glasses from falling off. 
His daughter continued : — 

" lie 's got into an awful difficulty with his edito' 
and his proprieto', and he wants you to pacify them." 

" I do not know whethah I understand the case 
exactly," said the colonel, " but Mr. Fulkerson may 
command me to the extent of my ability." 

" You don't understand it aftah what Ah 've said ?" 
cried the girl. " Then Ah don't see but what 
you 'll have to explain it you'self, Mr. Fulkerson." 

"Well, Miss Woodburn has been so luminous 


 

about it, colonel," said Fulkerson, glad of the joking 
shape she had given the affair, "that I can only 
throw in a little side light here and there." 

The colonel listened, as Fidkerson went on, with 
a grave diplomatic satisfaction. He felt gratified, 
honoured, even, he said, by Mr. Fulkerson's appeal 
to him ; and probably it gave him something of the 
high joy that an affair of honour would have 
brought him in the days wlien he had arranged for 
meetings between gentlemen. Next to bearing a 
challenge, this work of composing a difficulty must 
have been grateful. But he gave no outward sign 
of his satisfaction in making a rhum of the case 
so as to get the points clearly in his mind. 

" I was afraid, sir," he said, with the state due to 
the serious nature of the facts, " that Mr. Lindau 
had given Mr. Dryfoos offence by some of his 
questions at the dinner-table last night." 

" Perfect red rag to a bull," Fulkerson put in ; 
and then he wanted to withdraw his words at 
 the  colonel's look of displeasure. 

"I have no reflections to make upon Mr. Lindau," 
Colonel AYoodburn continued, and Fulkerson felt 
grateful to him for going on ; "I do not agree with 
Mr. Lindau ; I totally disagree with him on socio- 
logical points ; but the course of the conversation 
had invited him to the expression of his convictions, 
and he had a right to express them, so far as they 
had no personal bearing." 

"Of course," said Fulkerson, while Miss Wood- 
burn perched on the arm of her father's chair. 



"At the same time, sir, I think that if Mr. 
Dryfoos felt a personal censure in Mr. Lindau's 
questions concerning his suppression of the strike 
among his workmen, he had a right to resent it." 

" Exactly," Fulkerson assented. 

"But it must be evident to you, sir, that a high- 
spirited gentleman like Mr. March — I confess that 
my feelings are with him very warmly in the matter 
— could not submit to dictation of the nature you 
describe." 

" Yes, I see," said Fulkerson ; and with that 
strange duplex action of the human mind, he wished 
that it was his hair, and not her father's, that Miss 
Woudburn was poking apart with the corner of her 
fan. 

"Mr. Lindau," the colonel concluded, "was riglit 
from his point of view, and Mr, Dryfoos was equally 
right. The position of Mr. March is perfectly 
correct " 

His daughter dropped to her feet from his chair 
arm. " Mali goodness ! If nobody 's in the wrong, 
ho' awe you evah going to get the mattah straight ? " 

" Yes, you see," Fulkerson added, " nobody can 
give in." 

"Pardon me," said the colonel, "the case is one 
in which all can give in." 

" I don't know which 'll begin," said Fulkerson. 

The colonel rose. "Mr. Lindau must begin, sir. 
JFe must begin by seeing Mr. Lindau, and securing 
from him the assurance that in the expression of his 
peculiar views he liad no intention of offering any 




personal offence to Mr. Dryfoos. If I have formed a 
correct estimate of Mr. Lindau, this will be perfectly 
simple." 

Fulkerson shook his head. "But it wouldn't 
help. Dryfoos don't care a rap whether Lindau 
meant any personal offence or not. As far as that 
is concerned, he 's got a hide like a hippopotamus. 
But what he liates is Lindau's opinions, and what 
he says is that no man who holds such opinions 
shall have any work from him. And what March 
says is that no man shall be punished through him 
for his oijinions, he don't care what they are." 

The colonel stood a moment in silence. "And 
what do you expect me to do under the circum- 
stances ? " 

" I came to you for advice — I thought you might 



" Do you wish me to see Mr. Dryfoos ? " 
"Well, that's about the size of it," Fulkerson 
admitted. "You see, colonel," he hastened on, "I 
know that you have a great deal of influence with 
him ; that article of yours is about the only thing 
he 's ever read in Every Other week, and he 's proud 
of your acquaintance. "Well, you know," and here 
Fulkerson brought in the figure that struck him so 
much in Beaton's phrase, and had been on his tongue 
ever since, ''you're the man on horseback to him; 
and he 'd be more a])t to do "what you say than if 
anybody else said it." 

" You are very good, sir," said the colonel, trying 
to be proof against the flattery, " but I am afraid 



  

you overrate my influence." Fulkerson let him 
ponder it silently, and his daughter governed her 
impatience by holding her fan against her lips. 
Whatever the process was in the colonel's mind, he 
said at last : "I see no good reason for declining to 
act for you, Mr. Fulkerson, and I shall be very 
happy if I can be of service to you. But" — ho 
stopped Fulkerson from cutting in with precipitate 
thanks — "I think I have a right, sir, to ask what 
your course will be in the event of failure ] " 

" Failure ? " Fulkerson repeated, in dismay. 

" Yes, sir. I will not conceal from you that this 
