Manuel could hope to penetrate the thickly woven thicket 
and escape the savage beasts that might lay concealed 
 
therein, I could not conceive, and I told him so, with pres. 
sing entreaties to think of it no more ; but he insisted that 
he must succeed if he covered his face and hands with 
cloths, leaving only a little opening for his eyes ; as for the 
wild beasts — as he brought all this upon us, it was but fair, 
he said, that he should have the largest share of the dan- 
ger. I yielded, but only upon the condition that if he 
found the undertaking more difficult than he had imagined, 
or met with any unexpected danger, he should immedi- 
ately return. 
After he had taken a heavy draugh|; from the brandy 
flask, he commenced his perilous descent through the 
horrible thicket, upon his hands and knees, while I stood 
above aud clashed our copper basins together, and from 
time to time, threw heavy stones into the abyss to scare 
away the poisonous snakes and reptiles that might be con- 
cealed there. He refused to allow me to fasten one end 
of our rope around his waist, that I. might hastily draw 
him back in case of urgent need, for he feared that it 
might become so entangled as to impede his progress. 
It was sometime before he could even penetrate so far 
into the thicket as to conceal himself from my view, but 
when at last I lost sight of him I sat down on the edge 
of the abyss and passed a quarter of an hour in such dis- 
tress that I could hear my heart beat against my ribs, 
while my eyes remained immovably fixed upon the spot 
where he was to appear upon the other side. Suddenly I 
observed in the midst of the thicket, a strange commotion, 
and instantly a loud piercing shriek of agony from my 
poor companion, fell upon my ear. "What could I in my 
 
Treakuess do bat return shriek for shriek. There was no 
doubt of his danger and I could give him no help. I do 
not know myself what I attempted in my despair. I dis- 
charged my pistols, clashed the copper basins, and ran 
hither and thither, like one possessed, then plunged into 
the opening where he had disappeared, and hstened with 
breathless attention. In vain ! A deathless silence reigned 
in the abyss, and only*my loud wailing filled the air. 
VIII. 
Almost unconscious, with sensations that cannot be 
described, I at last seated myself upon the spot where I 
had taken leave of my unhappy friend, and gazed down 
fixedly into the abyss, where he had paid so terribly for 
his and my folly. Every thing that I had hitherto suffered 
shrimk into nothing before the woe of this hour. Sunk 
in despondency no thoughts of guarding my miserable 
existence remained in my mind, and at this moment I 
should have been an easy prey to any savage animal that 
might have been lurking near. 
But the love of life at last gained the mastery ; I con- 
sidered how useless and dangerous it was to remain any 
longer on this unhappy spot, and determined to seek the 
shortest path out of this wilderness. But whither should 
I turn. I could not dream of returning to Chilaw, through 
the perilous thickets which our united exertions had so 
hardly penetrated ; that would have been ofiering myself 
up to destruction. 
Still less was it advisable to follow the abyss to the 
north, for I should only arrive among the mountains. 
 
where certain death awaited me ; I had no choice but tc 
follow the horrible abyss to the south, and trust my deliv- 
ery to some happy accident. 
Slowly I set out, oppressed with the weight of woe, and 
almost loaded down with the various necessary utensils, 
whose weight had hitherto been shared by my unfortunate 
companion. Beside my weapons, I carried a copper kettle, 
about ten pounds of rice, and a brandy llask. I also took 
with me my poor companion's sword, whio-h he had laid 
aside, and which must in future serve me instead of the 
axe, which he had taken with him. Tlit bank, along 
which  I slowly wandered, was very monotonous, and as 
evening approached I determined to take up my abode for 
the night in a tree. 
But sleep fled my eyelids, and if fatigue sometimes 
closed them, the howling of the tiger and jackal immedi- 
ately roused me. Horrible fancies oppressed my spirit in 
my half-awake state, and I seemed to see my companion 
standing at the foot of a tree, gazing upon me with hollow 
eyes, and beckoning me to follow him. I started up, my 
hair stood on end, and I should certainly have fallen from 
the tree had I not bound myself firmly to a bough. At 
last, towards day-break, I fell asleep, and the sun was 
wandering in the heavens before I again awaked. Its 
burning rays scorched me, a violent thirst consumed me, 
and I experienced severe pains in my back and side, the 
consequences of my forced position on my airy couch. 
As soon as I had quenched my thirst by a draught from 
the brandy flask, the contents of which I had diluted with 
water the day before, I collected my baggage and wandered 
on, but the violent pain in my head and limbs 
increjised by the heat of the sun, agjinst which I had no 
protection, and the dust raised by my footsteps which in- 
flamed my eyes, and covered my parched lips, made my 
lonely progress more difficult than ever. After a weary 
march of a few hours, I sat down on the bank of a small 
pool of water to drink and to fill my flask — my dinner I 
resolved not to prepare until I had accomplished several 
hours more of my journey. As I was about to rise I saw 
with horror close beside me one of those hateful insects, 
the mere description of which had so often made me shud- 
der and which I now saw for the first time, it was the 
homed spider. Spite of my horror I -could not resist the 
temptation of examining it more closely. Imagine its 
brown hairy body about six inches in circumference, its 
legs as thick as a qmll pen, with which it had clutched a 
lizard and was stripping the flesh from the bones of the 
poor creature, and its eyes which seemed to glow with 
savage rage. I took a little rice and held it out to it, but it 
sprang at it with such lightaing rapidity, that I let it fall 
and took to flight to escape from its poisonous fangs. 
The heat of the day was so intense that it was impossi- 
ble to quench the thirst in my dry throat, I continued, 
however, to walk on, as, from various signs, I apprehended 
a storm. Black clouds, with copper-colored edges col- 
lected threateningly around the horizon, and brooded with 
a leaden weight upon the dark forest, soon concealing the 
sun behind their black veil. I hastened my steps in order 
to reach a tree with heavy foliage that I saw before me 
in my path. As soon as I arrived beneath its shade  I 
 
commenced kindling my fire, that I might cook my me* 
gre meal before the approach of the storm. While my 
rice was boiling, I ascended the tree, wove some of the 
branches together and covered them with leaves that I 
might have a more comfortable couch than I had enjoyed 
on the previous night. I then eat my supper, and as the 
clouds still remained far off on the horizon, I hoped to get 
off this time with nothing but the anticipation of a storm, 
and crept into my nest somewhat comforted to resign my- 
self to sleep ; sleep came, but scarcely had I closed my 
eyes when I was again haunted by the most horrible 
dreams. I seemed to stand in the midst of a raging storm 
upon the summit of a rock in the boiling ocean which 
broke in gigantic waves at my feet, and drenched me 
with foaming spray. 
Suddenly I awoke, and found with horror that my 
dream was at least half reaJity. The heavens above and 
around me seemed one vast sheet of flame, varied each 
second by pitchy darkness. My eyes were blinded by the 
incessant lightning which darted through the heated air 
all around me. Peal upon peal of thunder burst over me, 
and was echoed from the distant mountains ; all nature 
seemed seething and fermenting around me in an universal 
insurrection of its mighty forces. In the midst of the din 
there rolled directly over my head, as it seemed, such- a 
peal of thunder that transcended every thing I have ever 
heard before or since, and language fails me even now 
when I attempt to describe it. It sounded in my ears like 
the springing of a mine — the earth trembled, and a sti- 
fling smt'li of sulphur almost suffocated me. This crash 
appeared to be the signal for the commencement of one of 
those tremendous tropical storms, which sometimes pros- 
trate whole forests, and in which my tree waved and 
bent so that I was obliged to hold on to its branches with 
all my strength to avoid being dashed to the ground. I 
was enveloped in a perfect cloud of sand and dust ; niy 
fire flew about in every direction, and was utterly extin- 
guished when the hitherto imprisoned rain poured down 
like a second flood. Three hours its infernal fury con- 
tinued, but I retain only a cOnfused recollection of this war 
of the elements, for I sat with closed eyes, my head sup- 
ported on my knees, in a kind of unconsciousness. If 
startled by some frightful peal of thunder, I roused myself 
for a moment, but quickly closed my eyes again, for the 
sharp blue lightning revealed too distinctly the desolation 
around me. I could not endure the sight. As the storm 
subsided I thought for the first time of my dangerous 
situation in the high tree, surrounded by my metal weap- 
ons. To be struck dead by the lightning would not be 
such a horrible fate as, crippled and disabled, to fall an 
easy prey to the first savage beast who might find m at 
the foot of the tree ; this thought was anguish to me. But 
this time my fears were vain; the storm ceased at last, 
and I awaited anxiously the break of day. 
At the first streak of dawn I descended, dripping with 
rain and shivering with cold, from my tree, and continued 
my journey, hoping to warm myself by exercise. After 
some time the abyss, which had hitherto extended directly 
towards the south, took another direction, and I began to 
hope that I should soon reach an inhabited part of the 
 
country ; but my hopes did not last long, for I caiue sud- 
denly upon a huge steep rock, which towered up far to the 
right and left, in one unbroken mass, about fifty feet high, 
like a great wall. I stood immovable, and gazed around 
me for some passage, some cleft or projection, which might 
make it possible for me to climb over it. I found myself 
cut off from every hope of deliverance. This cruel dis- 
appointment extinguished the last spark of hope in my 
bosom. In despair I threw myself upon the ground, tore 
my hair, and beait my breast, until I fell into a kind of 
stupor, and a death-like chill pervaded my limbs. This 
lasted about a quarter of an hour, and when I came to 
myself I filled the air with lamentations and curses upon 
the Portuguese whose folly had caused all this grief and 
woe. My state of mind was too unnatural to last long, 
and the instinct of self-preservation impelled me to search 
around still more narrowly for some mode of egress from 
this horrible place. To the left was the frightful abyss 
whose sides, before sloping, now descended sheer below me, 
and forbade any attempt to descend from above ; and before 
the huge rock, which hung over the precipice and was lost 
in the dense thicket on my right. Only where the rock 
overhung the abyss could I observe a few clefts and holes 
in its smooth surface, by which an ape, or some otlier 
animal used to climbing, might have reached its summit; 
but the thought of hanging over that dreadful abyss, where 
the least slip would be fatal, was frightful to me ; should I 
undertake the ascent, I must leave my gun and bag of pro 
visions behind, and what could I do without them. 
There was nothing left for me but to go round the rock 
 
through the thicket, and yet to ascend the rock would be 
as easy as to penetrate that mass of roots, boughs, and 
briars. I skirted the edge of the wood for a few steps to 
find some less tangled spot, and to my great joy discovered 
an opening in the thicket, into which I immediately 
plunged, only, however, to retreat in the greatest terror; 
for a horrible breathing sounded in my ears, and I noticed 
a rustling in the boughs above me, which boded no good. 
In my despair I determined to retrace my steps to the 
spot where I had lost my companion, and then strike into 
the path by which we had come from Chilaw. I was 
about to seize my gun and baggage, which I had thrown 
upon the ground, when I heard again the hissing sound 
that had terrified me just before, and turning round, I saw 
not many steps from me, a serpent of gigantic size. 
IX. 
It emerged slowly from the opening which I had per- 
ceived so joyfully, a few moments before, in hopes that it 
would prove a path through the thicket for me. Ring after 
ring unfolded itself, and hemmed in by the abyss, rock, and 
thicket, every means of escape was denied me. I was a 
dead man. The monster glared at me with his flashing 
eyes, his neck swollen with rage. I uttered a shriek of 
horixtr ; for a moment I was motionless with fear ; every 
thing seemed to spin around me, and a sudden faintness 
almost overcome me. How long this lasted I do not know, 
but I was not quite stupified; I hesitated whether to 
plunge head over heels from the precipice or attempt to 
 
climb the rock where it overhung the abyss. I deter- 
mined upon the last ; fear lent wings to my feet. I was 
obliged to jump about five feet before I CDuld fijid a cleft 
for my hands, and I succeeded in reaching it. For some 
seconds I hung over the abyss, vainly trying to find some 
foothold, expecting momentarily, to be seized by the mon 
ster behind me. Most fervently did I pray for strength, 
and at last I managed to find a little ledge for my feet, I 
climbed still higher, until at last my hands grasped the 
summit of the rock and I swung myself upon it. 
Safe, but trembling in every limb, I sank upon the 
ground, for my strength was entirely exhausted by my 
superhuman exertions. My breath failed me ; my heart 
beat violently ; a thick jnist came before my eyes ; I hardly 
recollected where I was or what I had been doing. The 
past seemed to me like a dream, and I should really 
have believed it so, if my eyes had not convinced me that 
I was fifty feet higher than I had been a few momenta 
before, and if my gaze had not fallen upon the gigantic 
serpent so far below me, who was busied in swallowing my 
rice in its goat-skin bag. As soon as he had accomplished 
this, he coiled himself up with a loud hiss, and commenced 
beating up the dust and sand with his tail. 
Secure on the summit of the rock, I considered the 
enormous size of this monster, who was encased in yellow 
and black scales. He must certainly have measured seveaty 
feet in length, and his body was twice as large round as 
mine. From time to time he raised his head as if in 
search of some new prey, but as none was at hf-ud, he 
contracted and lengthened his shining rings, slipped slowly 
 
over trie sand and disappeared in the wood through the 
Bame opening from which he had emerged. 
This horrible, disgusting creature had been the uncon; 
Bcious means of my delivery, for without the excitement 
of the terror which he had caused me, I should never have 
attempted the perilous ascent of the rock. I looked sor- 
rowfully and wistfully at my weapons, which I had left 
behind me, for how was I, deprived of them and my pro- 
visions, and almost naked, to sustain my wretched exist- 
ence. The point which I had now reached was not calca 
lated to relieve my anxiety. The rock that I had just 
ascended was one of this smallest of a circle of steep cliffs 
heaped around, which surrounded a fearful abyss, upon 
whose brink the path that I had been following, appeared 
the only thread of hope left to me. 
As it was already past noon, I continued my journey as 
well as I coxild through the steep cliffs which were piled up 
all around me. When night set in, I chose my resting 
place under an overhanging rock that formed a kind of 
grDtto, kindled my fire, although there was small fear of 
wild beasts among these rocks, and laid my weary head 
upon a broad flat stone that served me for a pillow. But 
spite of my fatigue, I could not sleep, and my thoughts 
busied themselves with painfully analysing my misery. 
It might have been about midnight when I heard a distant 
sound as of the barking of dogs, mingled with faint, hollow 
voices ; they grew louder and louder, and I thought I could 
distinguish the voices of several men talking and laughing 
loudly. I sprang up and felt my heart beat quicker, and 
a cold chili ran up and down my back. I listened ; every 
thing was still around me, when suddenly mocking voices 
again sounded through the air and were answered by the 
echoes from the mountain. 
I listened more attentively, and just behind the cliff 
under which I was, there burst forth a yelling scream that 
almost froze my blood in my veins ; I seized a stone in my 
hand and rushed forward to contend with the Kobolds who 
were teazing me. Then it seemed as if a hundred dis- 
cordant, strange voices were calling all around me, that 
deprived me of the last particle of composure; I thrust 
my fingers into my ears, shut my eyes, and sprang back 
again into the grotto. In my hasty retreat I struck my 
forehead severely against a sharp-pointed rock, and the 
blood which flowed from the wound and mortification at 
my rashness brought me to my senses, of which I never 
stood so much in need as at this moment. These strange 
noises are still inexplicable to me ; they might well have 
shaken the courage of a bolder man than I, and reminded 
me afterwards of the European legends of the Wild Hunts- 
man. Men of weight and understanding in India, to whom 
I have related this adventure, have assured me that such 
wonderful" voices are frequently heard in the mountains 
and forests of Ceylon, and are ascribed by the natives to 
evil spirits. 
After this fatiguing night, in which I did not enjoy one 
moment of refreshing sleep, the day at last broke forth 
frcui the east, and with it I commenced again my hopeless 
journey. I was obliged still to work my way over steep 
rocKS and sharp stones, and was besides, tormented with 
the most violent thirst After a lona search. I rHspn-pprod 
a little water in the hollow of a rock, and this dirty water 
tasted more deliciously to me than any drink that I had 
ever before enjoyed. 
My thirst once quenched, hunger tormented me, and I 
looked in vain for something wherewith to satisfy it, until 
I observed -a, snake about three feet long and as thick as 
my fist, giving chase to a poor little lizard. I seized a 
stone and killed the snake, cut off its head, which I knew 
contained all its venom, stripped off its skin, and roasted 
my prey at a little fire which I had managed, with great 
difficulty, to kindle. 
Whilst I was enjoying this delicious meal, thick clouds 
collected above and around me, enyeloping" me in such a 
mist that I could distinguish nothing around me. I knew 
that these mists sometunes surrounded the mountain-peaks 
for days at a time, and were not unfrequently the precur- 
sors of dreadful storms ; fear of being detained by them 
upon this bare rock, where I should surely perish with 
hunger, determined me to descend, or rather to sBp down 
the mountain in the midst of the mist. After being several 
times almost precipitated from the precipice, I arrived 
safely at the bottom, and found myself again on the bank 
of the old abyss and between two rows of cliffs, where 
I threw myself down utterly exhausted, and did not 
awake from the deep slumber into which I fell, until 
the Bun was tolerably high in the heavens on the follow- 
ing day. 
My limbs felt as if they had been broken on the wheel, 
I shivered with pain and cold, as in the beginning of a 
fever, and jny tormenting thirst and increasing weakness 
 
warned me only too plainly that, unless I was speedily 
delivererJ, I should be beyond all sensation of pain and 
terror in a few days. With these sad forebodings I arose 
from my hard bed, took a few drops of water, and con- 
tinued my way along the edge of the abyss. Evening 
again approached, and filled with despair, I was about to 
throw myself under a tree, to await my death calmly, 
when I perceived at a Httle distance, a spot where the 
brink of the abyss seemed much less fearful, and a path 
across it almost possible. Strengthened anew by the sight, 
I looked around me for some nourishmfent, and succeeded 
in catching by the tail a little alligator that was just slip- 
ping into a hole. I killed it, and prepared a delicious 
meal ; then, protected by a large fire, I lay down to rest. 
On the following morning I began my dangerous journey 
through the thicket, and reached in safety the other bank 
of the abyss, which had been the cause of all my suflFering' 
and misfortunes. A few steps further, and there — a loud 
shout of joy burst from me, my senses forsook me, and I 
Bank fainting on the ground. 
When I came to myself, and stood up, I found myself 
in a broad frequented path, where I discovered quite 
recent footprints. I followed it as quickly as my fatigue 
would allow me to, and soon" encountered a troop of trav- 
elling natives, who were proceeding slowly with their 
mules. They were not a little terrified to behold in this 
wilderness a man wandering towards them, travel-stained 
and hollow-eyed, but received me most kindly when I had 
told them my story,- strengthened me with a most refresh- 
ing Boup, and brought me safely to the coast in three 
 
days. In a short time I found an opportunity to embark, 
and returned safely to my friends and dear ones, who 
were mourning most bitterly my disappearance and proba- 
ble death, and who regarded me almost like one risen 
firom the dead. 
After a short delay on the eastern coast of Madagascar, 
where we had laid in fresh water and provisions, we 
weighed anchor, and with a favourable wind, steered firf 
Java, the place of our destination. It was a beautiful 
November day. I stood on deck enjoying the prospect of 
the quiet sea, congratulating myself that the most tedious 
as well as the most dangerous part of our voyage from 
Holland was accomplished, for the Cape of Good Hope lay 
far behind us, and counting over the profits that our rich 
cargo must ensure us, when all at once the terrible cry of 
fire ! fire ! was heard. I hastened down into the hold, 
whence the cry proceeded, but saw nothing ; to my inquiry 
as to what was burning, one of the sailors replied, " in 
that cask there." I thrust my hand into it, but as I pe 
ceived no fire, I ascended again to the deck to ascertaia 
the cause of the noise. 
The steward had gone down into the hold in the after- 
noon, as usual, to fill a bucket with the spirits which were 
to be distributed to the crew the following day, when after 
accomplishing his task, he took up the candlestick which 
held the tallow candle, and which he had set down upon a 
cask near that from which he had filled his bucket, a spark 
fell into the open bung-hole and the flames burst forth from 
the cask; immediately the top and bottom fell out, aud 
the burning spirit flowed down into the coal hole beneath. 
The careless fellow had, as he told me, poured upon the 
flames several buckets of water that stood near, and entirely 
extinguished them. To make all sure, I gave orders to 
have all the coals damped, and then went my way, think- 
ing no more of the matter. 
Half an hour afterwards some sailors again shouted fire, 
which terrified me greatly ; when I went below the flames 
were already blazing up from the lowest part of the hold ; 
the half extinguished fire had spread fearfully among the 
coals, and unfortunately several rows of brandy casks were 
piled up just above this spot. We hoped now to check 
the rapidly increasing flames, and the greater part of the 
crew brought water in leather buckets and poured it down 
into the hold in torrents. But this led to new and dan- 
gerous consequences ; the water falling upon the glowing 
coals caused such a thick sulphurous smoke that we were 
in danger of stifling, and it was almost impossible to remain 
any longer in the hold. I, however, continued to do so, 
that I might give the necessary orders, desiring my crew 
to work by turns, that they might have every now and 
then a whiflf of fresh air, for I feared that several who 
could not reach the port holes, were already suffocated; 
indeed, I was myself several times so confused that I 
scarcely knew what I was doing, and was obliged to lean 
my head upon a cask and turn my face towards a port-hole 
to get fresh air. 
When, at last, I was forced to go on deck, I wenl. to the 
supercargo, Hein Rol, and told him that I thought it advi- 
sable to throw the powder overboard, but he could not 
 
make up his mind to it. " If we throw our powder into 
the sea," said he, " we may, it is true, tope to extinguish 
the fire, but how, without powder, shall we defend our- 
selves against the enemies who- infest these seas, and how 
shall we justify ourselves if our ship should be taken ?" 
In the meantime the fire was rapidly gaining ground, and 
as no one could any longer endure the sufibcating smoke 
that filled the hold, we seized axes and cut holes in the 
lower deck, through which we poured floods of water 
upon the flames, but with no success in extinguishing 
them. 
Three weeks before our long boat had been fitted for 
sea, and fastened to the stem of the ship ; now we let 
down the boat from the upper deck, as it was in the way 
of the sailors who were bringing water. The confusion 
became greater every moment, we saw ourselves expose 
to the double danger of fire and water, and the sure prey 
of one or the other. We could not hope for help, for there 
was neither land nor ship in sight. The sailors now began 
one by one to slip away ; they let themselves down into 
the water and swam to the long boat, where they concealed 
themselves under the benches, to wait until their number 
should be sufficient to enable them to cut loose from the 
burning vessel. Hein Rol, who was standing on the quar- 
ter deck, was not a little surprised to see the boats so full 
of men ; they cried out to him that they were about to put 
to sea, and that if he wanted to go with them he must 
come quickly. He was easily persuaded, as he was greatly 
terrified, but as he was getting into the long boat, " Wait 
friends," he exclaimed, " till the captain comes." Of course 
 
they listened neither to request nor sommand, but quickly 
cut the rope and pushed off from the ship. 
Whilst I was still issuing orders, and hoping to subdue 
the flames, some of the sailors rushed up to me, exclaim- 
ing in the greatest terror, " Oh, captain, whg,t shall we do ; 
.the boats have both cut loose, and are making off as rap- 
idly as possible." 
'* If that is the case,'\I answered, " things look badly 
enough ; they have determined to leave us to our fate." 
I hastened upon deck, and was soon satisfied of the 
shameful purpose of the cowardly sailors. " Let us bear 
down upon them,"  I cried ; " if they refuse to take us with 
them, they must be taught their duty; we will Jrun them 
down." 
And we had already approached them within three 
ship's lengths, wheii they took the wind of us, and were 
soon out of our reach. " Friends," I said to the remnant 
of my crew, " there is now no help for us save in the mercy 
of God and our own exertions, which we must redouble, 
and once more attempt to stifle the flames. Eun to the 
magazine, and throijv the powder overboard before the fire 
reaches it." I took the carpenters with me, and ordered 
them to bore holes in the ship's side, so as to let a couple 
of fathoms of water into the hold ; but their tools made 
no impression, as the vessel was lined with iron. 
The failure of this last attempt occasioned an indes- 
, cribable panic, and a piercing shriek of terror filled the 
air. At my command they began again to pcur water 
upon the flames, which really began to subside, when sud- 
denly the oil casks caught, and blazed up fearfully. We 
 
now gave ourselves up for lost, for the flames appeared t« 
eain strength from every bucket of water poured upon 
them, and the burning oil ran every where, kindling every 
thing that it touched. In this extremity the crew, who 
had now lost all courage, raised such a horrible scream of 
agony and despair, that my hair stood on end, and the cold, 
sweat started from every pore. 
In their despair, however, they still worked on, pouring 
water into the hold and throwing the powder into the sea. 
Already, of more than three hundred, only sixty casks 
were overboard, when suddenly what remained caught on 
fire, and the ship, in which there were one hundred and 
nineteen souls, was shivered into a thousand fragments. I 
was standing just behind the mainmast, with about thirty 
men near me busy with the water buckets ; in one mo- 
ment of time they had vanished none could say whither; 
the rest shared a like fate. 
As for myself. Captain Wilhem Isbrand Bontekoe, I 
awaited my destruction with the others, stretching my 
arms towards heaven, and exclaiming, " Lord have 
mercy on me !" 
II. 
Although I distinctly felt myself lifted into the air, and 
thought that all was most certainly over with me, I 
retained my perfect consciousness, and a spark of hope still 
glimmered within me. I fell into the sea in the midst of 
the ruins of my shattered vessel. When I found myself in 
the water, my courage revived wonderfully. I seemed quite 
a different man. I looked around me and perceived the 
 
mainmast upon one side of me ; clinging to this, I began 
to consider the sad destruction around m-?, " heaven," 
I sighed, " has then my beautiful ship sunk forever !" 
Wherever I turned I saw no living soul ; bait after a few 
moments, a young man emerged from the water not very 
far from me, and swam hastily. He soon reached the bro- 
ken bowsprit, which was floating near him, placed him- 
self upon it, and said to himself, "I am at least alive!" 
When I heard his voice I looked around and exclaimed, 
" God, does any one beside myself survive !" At the 
same time I recognized in him,Harman Van Kniphausen, 
a young man from Eyden. I saw near him, a stout spar, 
and as I retained my hold, only with the greatest difficulty, 
upon the main-mast, which was continually rolling over, I 
cried out to Harman: "Push that spar towards me; I will 
swim to you upon it, and we will then both seat ourselves 
upon the bowsprit." The attempt succeeded, most fortu- 
tunately, for I should not have been able to reach him 
without the spar, as I felt myself much bruised in the 
back, and had received two wounds upon the head. 
All these injuries, which I had hot felt at first, now be- 
gan to be so painfiil that I could scarcely hear or see, and 
the words broke from me, " heaven if this suffering 
increases I shall die." We swam together, both clinging 
to the bowsprit; from time to time we gazed around in 
hopes of seeing one of the boats; at last we discovered 
them, but at such a distance that we could not tell whether 
they were approaching us or sailing in a different direction. 
The sun was already near its sitting, and I said to my com- 
panion : " Friend, there is no hope for us ; we cannot pos- 
 
sibly keep our hold all night ; we must raise our souls to 
God and pray for a speedy rescue, or for perfect submis- 
sion to his will." We began to pray and our prayers were 
answered, for when we again looked around, we perceived 
the boats quite near to us, to our great joy, for we had cer- 
tainly given ourselves up for lost. 
" Save the captain !" I cried now as loudly as possible, 
and I heard shouted back from the boat, " The captain is 
still living!" They now sailed towards us as fast as pos- 
sible, but were afraid to come close to us, lest the heavy 
bowsprit should injure their boats. Harman, who had been 
very little injured by being blown up, felt strong enough 
to swim, and so was saved. " 
"If you would save me," I cried, "you must come for 
me, for I am so badly wounded that I cannot swim. The 
boatswain, a stout youth, sprang immediately into the 
water and handed me the end of a rope, which I wound 
around my body, and by the mercy of God, at last reached 
the long boat, where all wondered not a little to see me 
again. 
I lay down in the stern to recover myself a little for I 
felt so miserably that I thought my end must be fast ap- 
proaching ; my back was very painful, as were also, the 
wounds in my head. Yet, I recovered myself somewhat,' 
and said to Hein Eol and the others : " We shall do well 
to reniain near the wreck all night long, for when the day 
breaks we can certainly recover something to eat, and per- 
haps we can find a compass, which we must have, if we 
ever hope to reach land." 
Among many almost indispensable things, we wanted 
 
a compass charts, and quadrant ; our provisions, too, were 
very scanty, so great had been the haste to get away from 
the vessel. Hein Kol did not heed my advice, and con- 
tinued to sail on through the night in hopes of seeing land 
in the morning ; but when he saw this hope disappointed, 
and found the next morning that we were still far from 
the land, he remembered my advice, and the men, finding 
me yet alive, cried out to me : " Captain, what will become 
of us ? we are far from the wreck, and can discover no 
land ; we have nothing to eat or drink, and no compass or 
charts, what shall we do ?" 
" My friends," I replied, " you should have followed my 
advice, and remained all night near the wreck, for whilst  I 
was clinging to the mast I saw such quantities of things 
floating about me, that they hindered me from swimming, 
and were quite dangerous." 
With their assistance I crawled upon deck ; and when I 
saw that they were still rowing on, I asked them, " My 
friends, how much food have you ?" They pointed to a 
cask which might hold at most seven or eight pounds of 
biscuit." 
" Stop rowing," I continued, " for you will exhaust 
yourselves, and then have nothing to eat wherewith to 
recruit your strength." 
" But what shall we do ?" they asked. 
I advised them to take off" their shirts and make sails 
of them. As we had no thread, I bade them untwist 
some ends of rope that were lying about, and with these 
they sewed together, as well as they could, some small 
sails. We found that we numbered forty-eLs. in the long- 
 
boat, and twenty-six in the other. A sailor's blue jacket, 
and a cushion, which we found in the boat, were, by com- 
mon consent, accorded to me, in consideration of my 
suffering condition. The ship's surgeon was among us, 
but he had no medicines; chewed biscuit was the only 
thing that he could apply to my wounds, and in the mercy 
of God it healed them. I wished to give my shirt, like 
the others, for the sails, but they would not consent, and I 
most gratefully acknowledged the consideration with which 
I was treated. 
We rested all day long, that we might not weary our- 
eelves with rowing ; but we finished the sails, which were 
up before night. All this happened on the day after the 
shipwreck. 
We directed our course by the stars, whose rising and 
setting we observed carefully; and I drew, as well as I 
could, upon one of the planks of the deck, a chart repre- 
senting the islands of Sumatra and Java, with the straits 
between them, through which we hoped to steer. On the 
day when the ship was blown up, we were, by the most 
exact calculation, five and a half degrees south of the line 
and twenty miles from land. The nights were now so cold 
that in the mornings we were perfectly stiff, while in the 
day time we suffered from the most intense heat, for the 
sun was directly above our heads. 
The few pounds| of biscuit, which was all our store, I 
divided into rations and distributed daily among the men ; 
but we were very near the end of them, althrugh the 
piece that each one had for the whole day, was scarcely 
half a finger in size. Our supply of fresh water had failed 
 
entirely, so the first time that it rained we spresui out the 
Bail and caught the water, with which we filled two small 
casks. to serve us on days when we had no rain. But we 
were soon obliged to break into this last supply, and I 
dipped up the water in the end of a shoe ; each man came 
to me, drank his portion, and then went quickly back to 
his place. But in the midst of their thirst, the men all 
said to me, " Drink yourself, captain, as much as you 
want, for we all depend upon your Although their kind- 
ness touched me, I could not bring myself to take more 
than my share. 
Up to this time the two boats had always ket in sight 
of each other, but as the long boat sailed much faster than 
the other, the men in the latter exerted themselves to get 
nearer to us ; and, as they knew almost nothing of the 
management of a boat, entreated us to take them up into 
ours, lest they should be separated from us during the 
night. But our crew refused their request, and cried out 
to me, " Captain, if we take them in, we shall all go to 
the bottom, for the boat will not be able to sail" I could 
not prevail with them, and we were obliged to leave them 
to their fate. 
We were now miserable in the extreme. Our biscuit 
was all consumed, and we could see no land. I used all 
my powers of eloquence to convince the men that we could 
not be far from the coast of Java, and prayed them to 
hiive patience, but their patience did not last long ; they 
soon ceased to listen to me, and began to murmur and 
whisper among themselves, "Let the captain sav wliatie 
will, we are just as likely to be sailing abcut on the open 
sea as approaching the coast of Java." 
After we had fasted for a long time, and starvation 
seemed inevitable, a few sea-mews chanced to fly so near 
to us that we caught them in our hands, stripped off the 
feathers, and cut them up into little pieces, which we divi- 
ded most conscientiously; each man devoured the share 
that fell to him with the greatest avidity. As for myself, 
I thought it better than any delicacy I had evdr tasted ; 
honey had never been half so sweet to me, and we lamen- 
ted that there was no chance of our again enjoying such a 
treat. There was still no sign of land, and the men lost 
all courage, and silently awaited their fate, when the other 
boat again approached us, and the men in it renewed their 
entreaties to be taken in. As death seemed inevitable, we 
consented at least to die all together, and they left their 
boat to the mercy of the waves, bringing with them their 
thirty oars, which I arranged upon the benches, so as to 
form a kind of deck under which our seventy-two men, 
divided into two parties, alternately rested. 
In spite of all this, we were, as can easily be imagined, 
huddled very closely together, and gazed upon each other 
with the despairing expression of men who had nothing to 
"eat, no water to drink, and who could not see a bird upon 
the sea, nor a cloud in the air which might bring them 
relief. When we had given up all hope and had begun to 
prepare ouselves for death, it pleased God to reanimate our 
sinking courage once more, for a great number of flying 
Qsh sprung out of the waves and fell into the Voat ; we 
seized them eagerly, and devoured them raw, with as much 
 
enjoyment as formerly in the case of the searmews. But 
now our thirst increased fearfully, and in their despair, 
Bome of the men began to drink the water from the sea, 
although I cried out, " friends, forbear to drink the salt 
water, it will not quench your thirst and will kill you." 
Others sought refuge in the little pieces of lead and rusty 
nails that they could find in the vessel, which they chewed 
for a temporary relief. 
Our misery increased every day, and despair took pos- 
session of us, for the men cast upon each other angry, 
greedy looks, as though they longed to fall upon and 
devour one another; indeedj they soon began to speak 
openly of it, declaring that they would begin with the 
cabin-boy. Such horror seized me at this dreadful ide 
that I almost lost my courage and presence of mind. In 
this extremity I turned to God, and begged him as fer- 
vently as I could, not to permit such a horrible crime ; I 
then addressed my men, who were actually preparing to 
kill the cabin-boy, with all the earnestness, and with the 
most touching words at my command : 
"Friends, what are you about to do ? Do you not recoil 
from such a crime? Turn your thoughts to God; he 
will look in mercy upon you, and deliver you from this 
dreadful temptation, for we cannot be far from land." 
Then I showed them on the chart which I had cut on 
the deck, the spot where I believed we were, but they 
replied that I had said the same thing for many days, and 
deceived them with hopes that were never realized ; they 
could not tell whether I was deceived myself, or was only 
bent upon deceiving them. Spite of these threatening 
 
speeclies, they consentedj at my entreaty, to wait for three 
days, but swore to carry out their cruel determination if 
help did not appear at the end of that time. This decis- 
ion almost broke my heart. I redoubled my prayers, and 
implored God to have pity upon us and prevent the com- 
mission of such a crime. In the meanwhile the time flew 
by, and our hunger and thirst were so intense that they 
could scarcely be endured. 
" Ail," cried some, " if we were only on land, we could 
at least eat grass like the cattle." 
From this, one can form some idea of our fierce hunger; 
I tried to cheer up the men with the most encouraging 
words that I could think of Hope, which was decreasing 
rapidly in my breast, still sustained me, and although my 
wounds had weakened me much, and still pained me, I 
was among the strongest, and could still walk from one 
end to the other of the boat, while many could not stir 
from the spot where they were lying. 
Thirteen days had passed since the shipwreck, and our 
hope of reaching the coast of Sumatra, which I had not 
thought far distant, grew every hour more indistinct. All 
declared that our thirst was no longer to be borne, when 
the weather grew cloudy and rain began to fall; we imme- 
diately spread out the sail and laid down upon the deck 
to catch every drop that we could in our mouths, while we 
filled our casks as before. 
I was steering the vessel at this time, and according to 
my calculations, we were very near land ; I hoped that the 
weather would clear up, but it continued to rain so vio- 
lently, and I was so cold and wet that I could hold out no 
 
longer. I called to one of the sailors to relieve me, and 
crept under the deck to warm me. 
IV. 
