her to leave poor Dashwood with his supper on his hands. 
Perhaps she would bring Dashwood with her to time her ; she 
was capable of playing him that is playing Sherringham 
or even playing them both, that trick. Perhaps the little 
wretch in buttons (Peter remembered now the omitted 
shilling) had only pretended to go round with his card, had 
come back with an invented answer. But how could he know, 
since presumably he couldn't read Italian, that his answer 
would fit the message ? Peter was sorry now that he himself 
had not gone round, not snatched Miriam bodily away, made 
sure of her and of what he wanted of her. 

When half an hour had elapsed he regarded it as proved 
that she wouldn't come, and, asking himself what he should do, 
determined to drive off again and seize her at Basil Dash- 





wood's feast. Then he remembered Nick had mentioned that 
this entertainment was not to be held at the young actor's 
lodgings, but at some tavern or restaurant, the name of which 
he had not heeded. Suddenly however Sherringham became 
aware with joy that this name didn't matter, for there was 
something at the garden-door at last. He rushed out before 
Miriam had had time to ring, and saw as she stepped out of 
the carriage that she was alone. Now that she was there, 
that he had this evidence she had listened to him and trusted 
him, all his impatience and exasperation melted away and a 
flood of pleading tenderness came out in the first words he 
spoke to her. It was far "dearer" of her than he had any 
right to dream, but she was the best and kindest creature 
this showed it as well as the most wonderful. He was really 
not off his head with his contradictory ways ; no, before 
heaven, he wasn't, -and he would explain, he would make 
everything clear. Everything was changed. 

Miriam stopped short, in the little dusky garden, looking at 
him in the light of the open window. Then she called back 
to the coachman they had left the garden-door open : " Wait 
for me, mind; I shall want you again." 

" "What's the matter won't you stay ] " Peter asked. 
" Are you going out again at this absurd hour ? I won't hurt 
you," he urged gently. And he went back and closed the 
garden-door. He wanted to say to the coachman : "It's no 
matter ; please drive away." At the same time he wouldn't 
for the world have done anything offensive to Miriam. 

" I've come because I thought it better to-night, as things 
have turned out, to do the thing you ask me, whatever it may 
be. That's probably what you calculated I would think, eh ? 
What this evening has been you've seen, and I must allow 
that your hand's in it. That you know for yourself that 
you doubtless felt as you sat there. But I confess I don't 
imagine what you want of me here, now," Miriam added. 
She had remained standing in the path. 

Peter felt the irony of her " now," and how it made a fool 
of him, but he had been prepared for it and for much worse. 
He had begged her not to think him a fool, but in truth at 
present he cared little if she did. Yery likely he was, in 
spite of his plea that everything was changed he cared little 
even himself. However, he spoke in the tone of intense 
reason and of the fullest disposition to satisfy her. This 
lucidity only took still more from the dignity of his tergivers- 
ation : his separation from her the day before had had such 




pretensions to being lucid. But the explanation, the justifi- 
cation, were in the very fact, and the fact had complete 
possession of him. He named it when he replied to Miriam : 
" I've simply overrated my strength." 

" Oh, I knew I knew ! That's why I entreated you not 
to come ! " she groaned. She turned away impatiently, and 
for a moment he thought she would retreat to her carriage. 
But he passed his hand into her arm, to draw her forward, 
and after an instant he felt her yield. 

" The fact is we must have this thing out," he said. Then 
he added, as he made her go into the house, bending over her : 
" The failure of my strength that was just the reason of my 
coming." 

She burst out laughing at these words, as she entered the 
drawing-room, and her laugh made them sound pompous in 
their false wisdom. She flung off, as a good-natured tribute 
to the image of their having the thing out, a white shawl that 
had been wrapped round her. She was still painted and 
bedizened, in the splendid dress of her fifth act, so that she 
seemed protected and alienated by the character she had been 
representing. " Whatever it is you want (when I under- 
stand), you'll be very brief, won't you ? Do you know I've 
given up a charming supper for you ? Mamma has gone 
there. I've promised to go back to them." 

" You're an angel not to have let her come with you. I'm 
sure she wanted to," said Sherringham. 

" Oh, she's all right, but she's nervous," Miriam rejoined. 
Then she added quickly : " Couldn't she keep you away after 
all?" 

" Whom are you talking about ? " Biddy Dormer was as 
absent from Sherringham' s mind as if she had never existed. 

" The charming girl you were with this morning. Is she so 
afraid of obliging me? Oh, she'd be so good for you ! " 

" Don't speak of that," said Peter, gravely. " I was in 
perfect good faith yesterday when I took leave of you. I was 
I was. But I can't I can't : you are too unutterably dear 
to me." 

" Oh, don't please don't," moaned Miriam. She stood 
before the fireless chimney-piece with one of her hands upon 
it. " If it's only to say that, don't you know, what's the 
use ? " 

" It isn't only to say that. I've a plan, a perfect plan : the 
whole thing lies clear before me." 

" And what is the whole thing ? " 





He hesitated a moment. " You say your mother's nervous. 
Ah, if you knew how nervous I am ! " 

" Well, I'm not. Go on." 

" Give it up give it up ! " stammered Sherringham. 

" Give it up ? " Miriam fixed him like a mild Medusa. 

"I'll marry you to-morrow if you'll renounce; and in return 
for the sacrifice you make for me I'll do more for you than 
ever was done for a woman before." 

" Renounce, after to-night ? Do you call that a plan ? " 
asked Miriam. " Those are old words and very foolish ones : 
you wanted something of the sort a year ago." 

" Oh, I fluttered round the idea then ; we were talking in 
the air. I didn't really believe I could make you see it then, 
and certainly you didn't see it. My own future moreover 
wasn't definite to me. I didn't know what I could offer you. 
But these last months have made a difference, and I do know 
now. Now what I say is deliberate, it's deeply meditated. I 
simply can't live without you, and I hold that together we may 
do great things." 

" What sort of things ? " Miriam inquired. 

" The things of my profession of my life the things one 
does for one's country, the responsibility and the honour of 
great affairs ; deeply fascinating when one's immersed in 
them, and more exciting than the excitements of the theatre. 
Care for me only a little and you'll see what they are, they'll 
take hold of you. Believe me, believe me," Sherringham 
pleaded, "every fibre of my being trembles in what I say 
to you." 

"You admitted yesterday it wouldn't do," said Miriam. 
"Where were the fibres of your being then?" 

"They trembled even more than now, and I was trying, like 
an ass, not to feel them. Where was this evening, yesterday 
where were the maddening hours I've just spent? Ah, 
you're the perfection of perfections, and as I sat there to-night 
you taught me what I really want." 

"The perfection of perfections?" the girl repeated inter- 
rogatively, with the strangest smile. 

" I needn't try to tell you : you must have felt to-night, 
with such rapture, what you are, what you can do. How can 
I give that up?" Sherringham asked. 

" How can , my poor friend ? I like your plans and your 
responsibilities and your great affairs, as you call them. 
Voyons, they're infantile. I've just shown that I'm a per- 
fection of perfections : therefore it's just the moment to 





renounce, as you gracefully say ? Oh, I was sure, I was 
sure ! " And Miriam paused, resting solicitous, pitying eyes 
upon her visitor, as if she were trying to think of some 
arrangement that would help him out of his absurdity. " I 
was sure, I mean, that if you did come your poor dear doating 
brain would be quite addled," she presently went on. "I can't 
be a muff in public just for you, poiwtant. Dear me, why do 
you like xis so much ? " 

" Like you ? I loathe you ! " 

" Je le vois parbleu bien ! I mean, why do you feel us, judge 
us, understand us so well  ? I please you because you see, 
because you know ; and because I please you, you must adapt 
me to your convenience, you must take me over, as they say. 
You admire me as an artist and therefore you wish to put me 
into a box in which the artist will breathe her last. Ah, be 
reasonable ; you must let her live ! " 

" Let her live ! As if I could prevent her living ! " Peter 
cried, with unmistakable conviction. " Even if I wanted, how 
could I prevent a spirit like yours from expressing itself ? 
Don't talk about my putting you in a box, for, dearest child, 
I'm taking you out of one. The artist is irrepressible, eternal ; 
she'll be in everything you are and in everything you do, and 
you'll go about with her triumphantly, exerting your powers, 
charming the world, carrying everything before you." 

Miriam's colour rose, through her paint, at this vivid 
picture, and she asked whimsically : " Shall you like that ? " 

" Like my wife to be the most brilliant woman in Europe ? 
I think I can do with it." 

"Aren't you afraid of me?" 

"Not a bit." 

" Bravely said. How little you know me after all ! " sighed 
the girl. 

"I tell the truth," Peter went on; ''and you must do me 
the justice to admit that I have taken the time to dig deep 
into my feelings. I'm not an infatuated boy ; I've lived, I've 
had experience, I've observed ; in short I know what I'm 
about. It isn't a thing to reason about ; it's simply a need 
that consumes me. I've put it on starvation diet, but it's no 
use really it's no use, Miriam," poor Sherringham pursued, 
with a soft quaver that betrayed all his sincerity. " It isn't a 
question of my trusting you ; it's simply a question of your 
trusting me. You're all right, as I've heard you say yourself ; 
you're frank, spontaneous, generous ; you're a magnificent 
creature. Just quietly marry me, and I'll manage you," 





"Manage me?" The girl's inflection was droll; it made 
Sherringham change colour. 

" I mean I'll give you a larger life than the largest you can 
get in any other way. The stage is great, no doubt, but the 
world is greater. It's a bigger theatre than any of those 
places in the Strand. We'll go in for realities instead of 
fables, and you'll do them far better than you do the fables." 

Miriam had listened to him attentively, but her face showed 
her despair at his perverted ingenuity. " Excuse me for 
saying so, after your delightful tributes to my worth," she 
returned in a moment, "but I've never listened to such a 
flood of determined sophistry. You think so well of me that 
humility itself ought to keep me silent ; nevertheless I must 
utter a few shabby words of sense. I'm a magnificent 
creature on the stage well and good ; it's what I want to be 
and it's charming to see such evidence that I succeed. .But 
off the stage come, come : I should lose all my advantages. 
The fact is so patent that it seems to me I'm very good-natured 
even to discuss it with you." 

" Are you on the stage now, pray ? Ah, Miriam, if it were 
not for the respect I owe you ! " her companion murmured. 

" If it were not for that I shoxildn't have come here to meet 
you. My talent is the thing that takes you : could there 
be a better proof than that it's to-night's exhibition of it that 
has settled you? It's indeed a misfortune that you're so 
sensitive to this particular kind of talent, since it plays such 
tricks with your power to see things as they are. Without it 
I should be a dull, ignorant, third-rate woman, and yet that's 
the fate you ask me to face and insanely pretend you are 
ready to face yourself." 

"Without it without it?" Sherringham cried. "Your 
own sophistry is infinitely worse than mine. I should like to 
see you without it for the fiftieth part of a second. What I 
ask you to give up is the dusty boards of the playhouse and 
the flaring footlights, but not the very essence of your being. 
Your talent is yourself, and it's because it's yourself that I 
yearn for you. If it had been a thing you could leave behind 
by the easy dodge of stepping off the stage I would never have 
looked at you a second time. Don't talk to me as if I were 
a simpleton, with your false simplifications ! You were made 
to charm and console, to represent beauty and harmony and 
variety to miserable human beings ; and the daily life of man 
is the theatre for that not a vulgar shop with a turnstile, 
that's open only once in the twenty-four hours. Without it, 





verily ?" Sherringham went on, with rising scorn and 
exasperated passion. " Please let me know the first time 
you're without your face, without your voice, your step, your 
exquisite spirit, the turn of your head and the wonder of 
your eye ! " 

Miriam, at this, moved away from him with a port that 
resembled what she sometimes showed on the stage when she 
turned her young back upon the footlights and then, after 
a few steps, grandly swept round again. This evolution she 
performed (it was over in an instant) on the present occasion ; 
even to stopping short with her eyes upon him and her head 
erect. " Surely it's strange," she said, " the way the other 
solution never occurs to you." 
" The other solution ? " 
" That you should stay on the stage." 
" I don't understand you," Sherringham confessed. 
" Stay on my stage ; come off your own." 
Sherringham hesitated a moment. " You mean that if I'll 
do that you'll have me ? " 

" I mean that if it were to occur to you to offer me a little 
sacrifice on your own side, it might place the matter in a 
slightly more attractive light." 

"Continue to let you act as my wife  ?" Sherringham 
demanded. " Is it a real condition ? Am I to understand 
that those are your terms ? " 

"I may say so without fear, because you'll never accept 
them." 

" Would you accept them, from me accept the sacrifice, 
see me throw up my work, my prospects (of course I should 
have to do that), and simply become your appendage ? " 

" My dear fellow, you invite me with the best conscience in 
the world to become yours." 

"The cases are not equal. You would make of me the 
husband of an actress. I should make of you the wife of an 
ambassador." 

"The husband of an actress, c'est bientot dit, in that tone of 
scorn ! If you're consistent," said Miriam, " it ought to be 
a proud position for you." 

"What do you mean, if I'm consistent?" 
" Haven't you always insisted on the beauty and interest 
of our art and the greatness of our mission? Haven't you 
almost come to blows with poor Gabriel Nash about it? 
What did all that mean if you won't face the first consequences 
of your theory ? Either it was an enlightened conviction or 




it was an empty pretence. If it was heartless humbug I'm 
glad to know it," Miriam rolled out, with a darkening eye. 
" The better the cause, it seems to me, the better the deed ; 
and if the theatre is important to the ' human spirit,' as you 
used to say so charmingly, and if into the bargain you have 
the pull of being so fond of me, I don't see why it should be 
monstrous to give us your services in an intelligent indirect 
way. Of course if you're not serious we needn't talk at all ; 
but if you are, with your conception of what the actor can do, 
why is it so base to come to the actor's aid, taking one devotion 
with another? If I'm so fine I'm worth looking after a bit, 
and the place where I'm finest is the place to look after me ! " 

" You were never finer than at this minute, in the deepest 
domesticity of private life," Sherringham returned. " I have 
no conception whatever of what the actor can do, and no 
theory whatever about the importance of the theatre. Any 
infatuation of that sort has completely quitted me, and for 
all I care the theatre may go to the dogs." 

" You're dishonest, you're ungrateful, you're false ! " Miriam 
flashed. " It was the theatre that brought you here ; if it 
hadn't been for the theatre I never would have looked at you. 
It was in the name of the theatre you first made love to me ; 
it is to the theatre that you owe every advantage that, so far 
as I'm concerned, you possess.'' 

" I seem to possess a great many ! " groaned Sherringham. 

" You might certainly make more of those you have ! You 
make me angry, but I want to be fair," said the glowing girl, 
" and I can't be unless you will. You are not fair, nor 
candid, nor honourable, when you swallow your words and 
abjure your faith, when you throw over old friends and old 
memories for a selfish purpose." 

" ' Selfish purpose ' is in your own convenient idiom, bientot 
dit," Sherringham answered. "I suppose you consider that 
if I truly esteemed you I should be ashamed to deprive the 
world of the light of your genius. Perhaps my esteem isn't 
of the right quality : there are different kinds, aren't there ? 
At any rate I've explained that I propose to deprive the world 
of nothing at all. You shall be celebrated, allez" 

" Rubbish rubbish ! " Miriam mocked, turning away again. 
" I know of course," she added quickly, "that to befool your- 
self with such platitudes you must be pretty bad." 

"Yes, I'm pretty bad," Sherringham admitted, looking at 
her dismally. " What do you do with the declaration you 
made me the other day the day I found my cousin here 





that you'd take me if I should come to you as one who had 
risen high?" 

Miriam reflected a moment. "I remember the chaff 
about the orders, the stars and garters. My poor dear friend, 
don't be so painfully literal. Don't you know a joke when 
you see it ? It was to worry your cousin, wasn't it ? But it 
didn't in the least succeed." 

"Why should you wish to worry my cousin? " 

"Because he's so provoking. And surely I had my freedom 
no less than I have it now. Pray, what explanations should 
I have owed you and in what fear of you should I have gone ? 
However, that has nothing to do with it. Say I did tell you 
that we might arrange it on the day that you should come to 
me covered with glory in the shape of little tinkling medals : 
why should you anticipate that transaction by so many years 
and knock me down such a long time in advance ? Where is 
the glory, please, and where are the medals ? " 

" Dearest girl, am I not going to America (a capital pro- 
motion) next month," Sherringham argued, "and can't you 
trust me enough to believe that I speak with a real appreci- 
ation of the facts that I'm not lying to you, in short when 
I tell you that I've my foot in the stirrup? The glory's 
dawning. I'm all right too." 

" What you propose to me then is to accompany you tout 
bonnement to your new post." 

" You put it in a nutshell," smiled Sherringham. 

" You're touching ; it has its charm. But you can't get 
anything in America, you know. I'm assured there are no 
medals to be picked up there. That's why the diplomatic 
body hate it." 

" It's on the way it's on the way," Sherringham hammered, 
feverishly. " They don't keep us long in disagreeable places 
unless we want to stay. There's one thing you can get 
anywhere if you're clever, and nowhere if you're not, and in 
the disagreeable places generally more than in the others : 
and that (since it's the element of the question we're dis- 
cussing) is simply success. It's odious to be put on one's 
swagger, but I protest against being treated as if I had 
nothing to offer to offer to a person who has such glories 
of her own. I'm not a little presumptuous ass ; I'm a man 
accomplished and determined, and the omens are on my side." 
Peter faltered a moment, and then with a queer expression 
he went on : " Remember, after all, that, strictly speaking, 
your glories are also still in the future." An exclamation, at 





these words, burst from Miriam's lips, but her companion 
resumed quickly : " Ask my official superiors, ask any of my 
colleagues if they consider that I've nothing to offer." 

Peter Sherringham had an idea, as he ceased speaking, that 
Miriam was on the point of breaking out with some strong 
word of resentment at his allusion to the contingent nature 
of her prospects. But it only twisted the weapon in his 
wound to hear her saying with extraordinary mildness : " It's 
perfectly true that my glories are still to come, that I may 
fizzle out and that my little success of to-day is perhaps a 
mere flash in the pan. Stranger things have been something 
of that sort happens every day. But don't we talk too much 
of that part of it ? " she asked, with a weary tolerance that 
was noble in its effect. " Surely it's vulgar to consider only 
the noise one's going to make ; especially when one remembers 
how unintelligent nine-tenths of it will be. It isn't to my 
glories that I cling ; it's simply to my idea, even if it's 
destined to sink me into obscurity. I like it better than 
anything else a thousand times better (I'm sorry to have to 
put it in such a way) than tossing up my head as the fine 
lady of a little coterie." 

" A little coterie ? I don't know what you're talking 
about ! " Peter retorted, with considerable heat. 

" A big coterie, then ! It's only that, at the best. A 
nasty, prim ' official ' woman, who is perched on her little 
local pedestal and thinks she's a queen for ever because she's 
ridiculous for an hour ! Oh, you needn't tell me. I've seen 
them abroad, I could imitate them here. I could do one for 
you on the spot if I were not so tired. It's scarcely worth 
mentioning perhaps, but I'm ready to drop." Miriam picked 
up the white mantle she had tossed off, flinging it round her 
with her usual amplitude of gesture. "They're waiting for 
me, and I confess I'm hungry. If I don't hurry they'll eat 
up all the nice things. Don't say I haven't been obliging, 
and come back when you're better. Good-night." 

"I quite agree with you that we've talked too much about 
the vulgar side of our question," Peter responded, walking 
round to get between her and the French window, by which 
she apparently had a view of- leaving the room. "That's 
because I've wanted to bribe you. Bribery is almost always 
vulgar." 

" Yes, you should do better. Herd! There's a cab ; some 
of them have come for me. I must go," Miriam added, 
listening for a sound that reached her from the road. 
 

Sherringham listened too, making out no cab. " Believe 
me, it isn't wise to turn your back on such an affection as 
mine and on such a confidence," he went on, speaking almost 
in a warning tone (there was a touch of superior sternness in 
it, as of a rebuke for real folly, but it was meant to be tender), 
and stopping her within a few feet of the window. " Such 
things are the most precious that life has to give us," he 
added, all but didactically. 

Miriam had listened again for a moment ; then she appeared 
to give up the idea of the cab. The reader need hardly be 
told, at this stage of her youthful history, that the right way 
for her lover to soothe her was not to represent himself as 
acting for her highest good. "I like your calling it con- 
fidence," she presently said ; and the deep note of the few 
words had something of the distant mutter of thunder. 

"What is it, then, when I offer you everything I am, 
everything I have, everything I shall achieve?" 

She seemed to measure him for a moment, as if she were 
thinking whether she should try to pass him. But she 
remained where she was and she returned : " I'm sorry for 
you, yes, but I'm also rather ashamed of you." 

" Ashamed of me ? " 

" A brave offer to see me through that's what I should 
call confidence. You say to-day that you hate the theatre; 
and do you know what has made you do it ? The fact that 
it has too large a place in your mind to let you repudiate it 
and throw it over with a good conscience. It has a deep 
fascination for you, and yet you're not strong enough to make 
the concession of taking up with it publicly, in my person. 
You're ashamed of yourself for that, as all your constant high 
claims for it are on record ; so you blaspheme against it, to 
try and cover your retreat and your treachery and straighten 
out your personal situation. But it won't do, my dear fellow 
it won't do at all," Miriam proceeded, with a triumphant, 
almost judicial lucidity which made her companion stare ; 
"you haven't the smallest excuse of stupidity, and your 
perversity is no excuse at all. Leave her alone altogether 
a poor girl who's making her way or else come frankly to 
help her, to give her the benefit of your wisdom. Don't lock 
her up for life under the pretence of doing her good. What 
does one most good is to see a little honesty. You're the 
best judge, the best critic, the best observer, the best believer, 
that I've ever come across ; you're committed to it by every- 
thing you've said to me for a twelvemonth, by the whole turn 





of your mind, by the way you've followed up this business of 
ours. If an art is noble and beneficent, one shouldn't be 
afraid to offer it one's arm. Your cousin isn't : he can make 
sacrifices." 

" My cousin ? " shouted Peter. " Why, wasn't it only the 
other day that you were throwing his sacrifices in his 
teeth?" 

Under this imputation upon her consistency Miriam flinched 
but for an instant. " I did that to worry you," she smiled. 

" Why should you wish to worry me if you care so little 
about me?" 

''Care little about you? Haven't I told you often, didn't 
I tell you yesterday, how much I care? Ain't I showing it 
now by spending half the night here with you (giving myself 
away to all those cynics), taking all this trouble to persuade 
you to hold up your head and have the courage of your 
opinions ? " 

" You invent my opinions for your convenience," said Peter. 
" As long ago as the night I introduced you, in Paris, to 
Mademoiselle Yoisin, you accused me of looking down on 
those who practise your art. I remember you almost scratched 
my eyes out because I didn't kootoo enough to your friend 
Dashwood. Perhaps I didn't; but if already at that time 
I was so wide of the mark you can scarcely accuse me of 
treachery now." 

" I don't remember, but I dare say you're right," Miriam 
meditated. " What I accused you of then was probably 
simply what I reproach you with now : the germ at least of 
your deplorable weakness. You consider that we do awfully 
valuable work, and yet you wouldn't for the world let people 
suppose that you really take our side. If your position was 
even at that time so false, so much the worse for you, that's 
all. Oh, it's refreshing," the girl exclaimed, after a pause 
during which Sherringham seemed to himself to taste the full 
bitterness of despair, so baffled and derided he felt ' : oh, it's 
refreshing to see a man burn his ships in a cause that appeals 
to him, give up something for it and break with hideous 
timidities and snobberies ! It's the most beautiful sight in 
the world." 

Sherringham, sore as he was and angry and exasperated, 
nevertheless burst out laughing at this. " You're magnificent, 
you give me at this moment the finest possible illustration of 
what you mean by burning one's ships. Verily, verily, there's 
no one like yeu : talk of timidity, talk of refreshment ! If I 
had any talent for it I'd go on the stage to-morrow, to spend 
my life with you the better." 

" If you'll do that I'll be your wife the day after your first 
appearance. That would be really respectable," said Miriam. 

"Unfortunately I've no talent." 

" That would only make it the more respectable." 

" You're just like Nick," Peter rejoined : "you've taken to 
imitating Gabriel Nash. Don't you see that it's only if it 
were a question of my going on the stage myself that there 
would be a certain fitness in your contrasting me invidiously 
with Nick Dormer and in my giving up one career for another ? 
But simply to stand in the wing and hold your shawl and 
your smelling-bottle ! " Peter concluded mournfully, as if he 
had ceased to debate. 

" Holding my shawl and my smelling-bottle is a mere 
detail, representing a very small part of the various precious 
services, the protection and encouragement for which a woman 
in my position might be indebted to a man interested in her 
work and accomplished and determined, as you very justly 
describe yourself." 

" And would it be your idea that such a man should live on 
the money earned by an exhibition of the person of his still 
more accomplished and still more determined wife?" 

" Why not, if they work together if there's something of 
his spirit and his support in everything she does?" Miriam 
demanded. " Je vous attendais, with the famous 'person;' 
of course that's the great stick they beat us with. Yes, we 
show it for money, those of us who have anything to show, 
and some no doubt who haven't, which is the real scandal. 
What will you have? It's only the envelope of the idea, it's 
only our machinery, which ought to be conceded to us ; and 
in proportion as the idea takes hold of us do we become 
unconscious of the clumsy body. Poor old ' person ' if you 
knew what we think of it ! If you don't forget it, that's 
your own affair : it shows that you're dense before the idea." 

"That I'm dense?" 

" I mean the public is the public who pays us. After all, 
they expect us to look at them too, who are not half so well 
worth it. If you should see some of the creatures who have 
the face to plant themselves there in the stalls, before one, 
for three mortal hours ! I dare say it would be simpler to 
have no bodies, but we're all in the same box, and it would be 
a great injustice to the idea, and we're all showing ourselves 
all the while ; only some of us are not worth paying." 





"You're extraordinarily droll, but somehow I can't laugh 
at you," said Peter, his handsome face lengthened to a point 
that sufficiently attested the fact. " Do you remember the 
second time I ever saw you the day you recited at my 
place?" he abruptly inquired, a good deal as if he were 
drawing from his quiver an arrow which, if it was the last, 
was also one of the most pointed. 

"Perfectly, and what an idiot I was, though it was only 
yesterday ! " 

" You expressed to me then a deep detestation of the sort 
of self-exposure to which the profession you were seeking 
to enter would commit you. If you compared yourself to 
a contortionist at a country fair I'm only taking my cue 
from you." 

" I don't know what I may have said then," replied Miriam, 
whose steady flight was not arrested by this ineffectual bolt ; 
" I was, no doubt, already wonderful for talking of things I 
know nothing about. I was only on the brink of the stream 
and I perhaps thought the water colder than it is. One 
warms it a bit one's self, when once one is in. Of course I'm 
a contortionist and of course there's a hateful side ; but don't 
you see how that very fact puts a price on every compens- 
ation, on the help of those who are ready to insist on the 
other side, the grand one, and especially on the sympathy of 
the person who is ready to insist most and to keep before us 
the great thing, the element that makes up for everything?" 

"The element?" Peter questioned, with a vagueness which 
was pardonably exaggerated. " Do you mean your success ? " 

" I mean what you've so often been eloquent about," the 
girl returned, with an indulgent shrug " the way we simply 
stir people's souls. Ah, there's where life can help us," she 
broke out, with a change of tone, " there's where human 
relations and affections can help us ; love and faith and joy 
and suffering and experience I don't know what to call 'em ! 
They suggest things, they light them up and sanctify them, as 
you may say ; they make them appear worth doing." She 
became radiant for a moment, as if with a splendid vision ; 
then melting into still another accent, which seemed all nature 
and harmony, she proceeded : " I must tell you that in the 
matter of what we can do for each other I have a tremendously 
high ideal. I go in for closeness of union, for identity of 
interest. A true marriage, as they call it, must do one a lot 
of good ! " 

Sherringham stood there looking at her a minute, during 





which her eyes sustained the rummage of his gaze without a 
relenting gleam of the sense of cruelty or of paradox. With 
a passionate but inarticulate ejaculation he turned away from 
her and remained, on the edge of the window, his hands in 
his pockets, gazing defeatedly, doggedly, into the featureless 
night, into the little black garden which had nothing to give 
him but a familiar smell of damp. The warm darkness had 
no relief for him, and Miriam's histrionic hardness flung him 
back against a fifth-rate world, against a bedimmed, star- 
punctured nature which had no consolation the bleared, irre- 
sponsive eyes of the London heaven. For the brief space that 
he glared at these things he dumbly and helplessly raged. 
What he wanted was something that was not in that thick 
prospect. What was the meaning of this sudden offensive 
importunity of " art," this senseless mocking catch, like some 
irritating chorus of conspirators in a bad opera, in which 
Miriam's voice was so incongruously conjoined with Nick's 
and in which Biddy's sweet little pipe had not scrupled still 
more bewilderingly to mingle ? Art be damned : what com- 
mission, after all, had he ever given it to better him or bother 
him ? If the pointless groan in which Peter exhaled a part of 
his humiliation had been translated into words, these words 
would have been as heavily charged with the genuine British 
mistrust of the bothersome principle as if the poor fellow 
speaking them had never quitted his island. Several acquired 
perceptions had struck a deep root in him, but there was an 
immemorial compact formation which lay deeper still. He 
tried at the present hour to rest upon it spiritually, but found 
it inelastic ; and at the very moment when he was most con- 
scious of this absence of the rebound or of any tolerable ease 
his vision was solicited by an object which, as he immediately 
guessed, could only add to the complication of things. 

An undefined shape hovered before him in the garden, half- 
way between the gate and the house ; it remained outside of 
the broad shaft of lamplight projected from the window. It 
wavered for a moment after it had become aware of Peter's 
observation, and then whisked round the corner of the little 
villa. This characteristic movement so effectually dispelled 
the mystery (it could only be Mrs. Rooth who resorted to such 
conspicuous secrecies) that, to feel that the game was up and 
his interview over, Sherringham had no need of seeing the 
figure reappear on second thoughts and dodge about in the 
dusk with a vexatious sportive imbecility. Evidently Miriam's 
warning of a few minutes before had been founded : a cab had 





deposited her anxious mother at the garden-door. Mrs. Rooth 
had entered with precautions ; she had approached the house 
and retreated ; she had effaced herself had peered and waited 
and listened. Maternal solicitude and muddled calculations 
had drawn her away from a festival as yet only imperfectly 
