The greatest profit, the cherries, and one good orchard belongs to
Rachel, so she is well to do. However, I want my dear mother with me,
and by mid-summer I may return."
"I have been thinking somewhat about thee. There will be great changes
in the town. Trade already is stirring up, and commerce will begin again
when the restrictions are removed. But it is in the very heart of things
where we may look for the greatest changes. There have been many years
of doubt and hesitation, but now there is a great expanding of
enterprise. James Logan and Mr. Chew were discussing it not many
mornings since. The city must almost be made over, as one may say. I own
a great deal of waste property, and plantations in Maryland. There is
also considerable belonging to Primrose."
"But there is her brother, madam. The more I see of Philemon Henry the
better I like him. He hath had a hard year, a year of great
disappointment and mortification, and he comes out of it with more
bravery than I supposed possible for one whose opinions have been so
strongly the other way. Why not give him a helping hand?"
"You are very honorable, Friend Henry, and I respect you for it. Then,"
laughingly, "do you think you two could ever come to an agreement and be
friendly as brothers if your interests were identical?"
"I could answer for myself," he said with respectful gravity.
"For many years the old house of Henry & Co. had an excellent standing.
Mr. Northfield was much the elder and it seemed as if he might go years
the first, but he did not. Now he wishes to be relieved of all the
affairs of our dear Primrose. And I have thought, with some assistance
and a good deal of energy on the part of two young people if they should
agree, there might be a new house of Henry & Co., with its reputation
half made to begin with. I know Philemon will agree. He hath already
proposed to take a position under Mr. Morris, and seems only anxious now
to earn a living in some respectable way. But I wanted to consult thee
first."
"I thank thee a thousand times, dear madam. Am I losing Quaker
simplicity?" and he smiled gravely. "I am afraid I have acquired a good
many worldly ways."
"A little worldliness will not hurt thee. In sooth my plan would call
for a large share of it, but I want the old-fashioned trustiness and
integrity. When times change men and women, too, must change with them.
I should like to see thee a solid and respected citizen of the town--of
the new town that is to be."
"Thou dost honor me greatly. And I must confess to thee, since seeing
larger men and larger issues, a higher ambition has stirred within me.
If it had so fallen out that I had gone back to the farm, I could not
have been content with the old plodding round. And when it was taken
from me it seemed in some degree the work of Providence that I should
have been pushed out of the old nest and made to think on new lines."
"Then wilt thou carry my idea with thee and consider it well? There need
be no haste. Thy return will do."
Much moved, he pressed her hand warmly. Then he carried it to his lips
with the grace of a courtier.
CHAPTER XXII.
POLLY AND PHIL.
The city seemed quite dull when the Commander-in-Chief and his staff had
departed for Newburgh. The feeling of peace grew stronger every day. The
country mansions along the Schuylkill began to take on new life, and the
town to bestir itself. True, finances were in the worst possible shape
from the over issue of paper money, and in many instances people went
back to simple barter.
The Randolphs were very much at home on the farm. Betty's two babies
were cunning little midgets, the elder a boy, the younger a girl.
Primrose fell very much in love with them. Here was something she need
not be afraid of loving with all her might.
"Only I wish I had not been seventeen," she cried pettishly. "I can't
see how Polly gets along with so many admirers. I do not want any. There
is something in their eyes when they look at you that sends a shiver
over me."
"Has Polly so many?" asked madam, rather amused.
"Why, yes. Just a few evenings ago young Mr. Norris came in and then Mr.
Ridgway. I thought they quite glowered at each other. And what one said
the other sniffed about as if it was hardly worth saying. And Mr.
Ridgway thought cards stupid, and Phil grew quite cross and said we
would come home. It is very pleasant when there is no one there, we
four can agree so well."
"At card-playing?" in a rather diverted manner.
"Not always, not often indeed. We sing and talk and say over verses.
There are so many in that old ballad book. But lovers seem always to
break one's heart and to love the wrong one. I shall never have a lover.
I shall never marry," and her sweet voice has a delightful severity.
Madam Wetherill really laughs then.
"Oh, I am in earnest. You shall see. For when I called on Anabella
yesterday she flung her arms around my neck and cried out--'Oh,
Primrose, never, never marry! I wish I could undo my marriage. Men are
so selfish and care so little for one after they get them. And they all
say the same thing as lovers. Captain Decker was going to die if he
could not have me, and he marched off, never writing a word afterward.
And so said Mr. Parker, and now he thinks of nothing but his dinner and
his pipe afterward, and his nap, and having his clothes all laid out in
the morning and brushed, and does not want to go out anywhere, nor have
company at home. And the two hateful children brawl all the time, and
their father scolds because I cannot keep them in order. 'Tis a wretched
life and I hate it!' What think you of that, dear madam?"
"It was not a wise marriage, but I am sorry Anabella is so unhappy.
There is plenty of time yet for thee to have lovers, so do not trouble
thy golden head."
"Phil has grown so good to take me out everywhere. And we are all going
up to the farm some day to get Betty, and then on up the Schuylkill.
There are so many beautiful places, and now that May has brought
everything out in bloom, all the roads and by-ways are like pictures.
And Betty wants to see Valley Forge; so, for that matter, do I. But Phil
is worrying about some work Mr. Morris promised him."
"Yes. There are some other things to see to. Mr. Northfield wants to
instruct him about the estate, for he is very poorly."
"It seems a shame for me to have so much and Phil nothing," she said
tentatively.
"Perhaps there will not be so very much when things come to be settled.
Do not be disturbed about Phil. A true man would scorn to take from a
woman."
There were many delightful rides in the country about, many historical
places on both sides of the river, queer interests at Germantown, where
people had gone back to their old employments, and were spinning and
weaving and making furniture and carving. There were no lack of
reminders of the great battle in some ruins that had never been rebuilt,
and men still working cheerfully who had lost an arm or a leg. There was
the brave old Chew house that had proved indestructible.
And there was another old house, quite dilapidated now and in charge of
an old couple, who, for any trifle people chose to give, would exhibit a
curious arrangement of cogs and wheels and mysterious wires that a great
many years before a man, named Redhefer, claimed possessed the secret of
perpetual motion. It always went day and night, as the neighbors could
testify. Men of curious or scientific leanings paid to see the wonderful
machine. And one day the secret was found out. There was a curious crank
in the loft connected by wires in the wall, and a kind of clock
arrangement, that kept it going. This part of the loft being roughly
boarded up, and the loft itself kept for mere rubbish, no one suspected
it.
There were School Lane, and the Schuylkill falls, really beautiful then,
and the lovely Wissahickon, famous for its abundant supply of fish, and
places one could ramble about forever. Betty Mason was a charming
companion. Philemon often had them all, for Allin was busy with his
studies and some plans he nursed in secret, now that Andrew Henry and
Vane were both away.
Penn Morgan and Clarissa Lane stood up in meeting one evening and
plighted their marriage vows. Rather unwillingly Rachel offered them
accommodation in her house, but Penn had fixed up a room in the barn
that would do very well until two rooms in the new house were finished,
and Clarissa was very happy, and was also very respectful to Aunt Lois.
But the great interest had gone out of the old house, and she did not
feel at home any more. However, she rested serenely in Andrew's promise
that before very long he would have a home to take her to.
Rachel had hoped and despaired alternately. She had a strong, stubborn
will under her plain exterior and quiet manner. And she hated not to
succeed in anything she undertook. It seemed to her one of the most
natural and most reasonable things in the world that Andrew should marry
her when his parents strongly desired it. In her estimation it was an
absolute sin for him to go against the opinion of the brethren and
become a soldier. Yet she was willing to forgive it all and help lead
him back in the right way.
It was but justice that Penn should be rewarded for his care and
patience. She had not expected so much, but Aunt Lois, left to her
charge, would surely have some influence over him, and now that peace
was likely to be declared he would return, and his old home might be
dear to him. So she would not give up hope, but she did give up her
foolish jealousy of Primrose. She had the girl's solemn promise, but
what comforted her more than all was the rumor of young Wharton being
quite devoted to the girl.
What a summer it was to Primrose! They were out at the farm, but matters
were much more quiet. The young women who had been so gay and
entertaining were mostly married, and Madam Wetherill was very much
engrossed with business matters. She found Philemon Henry very
clear-headed. And as he came to know more about the Colonies, and the
causes that led to the rebellion, he found there was more injustice on
the side of England, but that even there they had not all been of one
mind.
So he was being gradually Americanized, though he and Primrose still had
disputes. But Polly had such a fascinating fashion of sometimes turning
an argument against Primrose, or picking a weak place in hers until one
could not help seeing it. And then Primrose would fly into a pretty
ruffle of temper with both of them, and presently suffer herself to be
coaxed around.
"I suppose I am like April," she said ruefully one morning, when she and
Polly had had a disagreement. They were staying at the farm, and the day
before they had all been up to Valley Forge, and climbed up the hill and
down again. In the early morning both of the young men had gone down to
the city.
"Do you think it really can influence anyone?" she inquires with
charming gravity. "Then I should suppose a person born in July, under
scorching suns, would be fiery-tempered."
"Do you know of anyone born in July?"
"Why, yes," laughing in a dainty fashion. "Betty for one, and she is
sweet and good-humored; and there is Cousin Andrew."
"Then the sign does not hold good."
"I don't know where I could have gotten all my temper from. Mamma was
lovely, Phil says, and Aunt Wetherill gives her credit for all the
virtues."
"I do not think it is real temper. It is love of tormenting--poor Phil."
"And, Polly, you always take his part."
"Yes." Polly's face turned scarlet to the very tips of her ears. Even
her fingers showed pink against the white ruffle she was hemming.
"Oh, you don't mean--Polly, I never thought of that!" in great
surprise.
"You may think of it now," in a soft, quivering tone. "Though it is
almost--nothing."
Primrose threw herself down beside Polly and clasped her knees.
"And he never so much as suggested it to me. He might have----" in a
plaintively aggrieved tone.
"Don't be angry. It was just a word, this morning. But I think we both
knew. And I loved him long ago, when he was a King's man, and you
flouted him so and delighted in being untender, when he loved you so."
"And you would have--do you mean to marry him? and would you have
married a--a----"
"No, I shouldn't have married anyone who was fighting against my
country. But you really did not do him any justice." Now that Polly was
started she rushed along like a torrent in a storm. "He was brought up
to think England right, and he knew nothing about the Colonies or the
temper and the courage of the people. If you were taken to Russia when
you were very little, and everybody was charming to you, you might think
what they did was right and nice, and we know they are awfully
barbarous! And I thought it real fine and manly in him to prefer the
hardships of war to the pleasures in New York. And he never raised his
hand but once, and wasn't it queer that he and Allin and Andrew should
have been in the mêlée, and now be such good friends? But when he saw
that it was Andrew, he was quite horrified. And I think it is very manly
of him just to renounce the King for good and all, while there are ever
so many Tories right around us sighing again for his rule, and making
all sorts of evil predictions. The broadest and finest man I know is
Andrew Henry."
"And why did you not fall in love with him?" asked Primrose in great
amaze.
"Because, silly child, my heart went out to the other when you tormented
him so and gave him such little credit, and could not see the earnest
side to him. I should hate a man that could be lightly won over. I like
him to look on both sides."
"Was I very cruel?" Primrose was appalled by the charges. "But truly,
Polly, when he first came and the British were so lordly, thinking they
owned the whole earth, I could not bear to have him claim me and talk of
taking me to England and have me go to court and all that;" and Primrose
shook her shining curly head defiantly, while her oval cheeks bloomed.
"Surely, Primrose, thou didst not have a Quaker temper either," rejoined
Polly laughingly. "I doubt if thou wouldst turn the other cheek even
for a kiss, much less a blow."
"The man would get the blow back in short order."
The beautiful blue eyes turned almost black with indignation at the
thought, and sent out rays that might have blinded an unfortunate
culprit.
The girls looked at each other as fiercely as two hearts brimming over
with love, and eyes in an April shower could look, and then they fell on
each other's neck and cried in honest girl-fashion for just nothing at
all, as girls did a hundred or so years ago.
"And you are quite sure you will never quarrel with me?" besought
Primrose. "It must be lovely to have a sister, though Rachel and Faith
were not happy. Poor Faith! She hath grown strangely loving, and I know
not what she would do if it were not for Aunt Lois."
"Thou art the dearest and sweetest little thing in all the world, and
though I may sometimes scold thee for thy naughtiness, I shall always
love thee. And now I must sew, for my mother declares I never do
anything out here at the farm. And Betty is so industrious, making
clothes for the babies."
Then they were still a moment or two while the sunshine rippled all
about, for they were sitting out under a tree, and the wind made a
pretty dance in the tall grass, and seemed to whisper among the boughs,
and push the heads of the shrubs toward each other as if they might be
kissing. Overhead the birds sang with wild bursts of melody or went
dazzling through the air, cleaving the sunshine with swift wings.
"Perhaps I ought not have told you so soon," said Polly with a sigh. "It
was just a word, the sweetest word a man can say, but then I had half
guessed it before, and I knew he was waiting to have something to offer
me. Mr. Norris does not seem very ready in finding him a place, and old
Mr. Northfield takes so much of his time and has to tell him what a fine
business man your father was, and how he did this and that, and people
entrusted him with their estates and money to buy and sell, and no one
ever lost a penny by him. So I suppose we will not be really promised
until something is settled, and thou must keep my secret, little
Primrose. For I know now that my father would look askance at it.
Strange that people years ago could marry without thinking of money, but
they are not willing their children shall. And there are men like the
great Mr. Franklin, who sometimes hardly knew where to turn for bread,
and come up to very luxurious living. But I am young, and Phil is not
very old."
"It all seems very strange and sweet," and Primrose threw herself down
on the grass and leaned her arms on Polly's knee, while the wind tossed
her pretty shining hair about. There was always so much short around the
edge of her forehead, and such dainty, mischievous little curls on her
white neck when she did it up high on her head. And whatever she did
made a picture, she was so full of grace. When Gilbert Stuart painted
her as a lovely matron with her baby beside her knee, he said: "What a
pity there is no picture of you in your girlhood." He would have been
justly proud if he could have painted her in all that grace and
loveliness.
"And how can one tell?" she went on dreamily when Polly made no answer.
"There are so many things in different ones to like, and you cannot put
them all in one man. I love Andrew dearly. He was so good and tender
when I first went out to his father's farm, and I was so frightened of
Uncle James, and Aunt Lois was so grave and particular. But then Andrew
will never dance--fancy the tall soldier! though the great generals do.
And he is not over fond of pleasure."
She threw up her pretty head, while a stray sunbeam through the trees
danced over it in golden ripples, and her eyes laughed as well as her
rosy, dimpled mouth.
There was a sudden start through Polly's nerves, but the gay, light,
merry voice went on:
"And he will always be a Quaker, though he went to Christ Church with
madam and me. But--don't you know, you can tell with some people, Polly,
that things do not quite suit. And he is too grave to frolic, and oh, I
do love dancing and frolicking and saucy speeches. A grave life would
never suit me. And there is Mr. Hunter with his pink-and-white skin and
his ruffles and his velvet clothes, and his clocked silk stockings and
shoe buckles that he has polished with a peculiar kind of powder that
comes over from France--he told me so," laughing with dainty mirth and
mischief. "When he comes to spend the evening I feel as if I should like
to tear his finery to pieces as the old strutting cock sometimes gets
torn when the others can no longer endure his overbearing ways. And
there is Mr. Rittenhouse, who does nothing but talk of the Junta and the
learned men of the Philadelphia Society, and the grand new hall they
mean to build, and chemistry, as if one was so anxious to know what was
in one's body and one's food and the air one breathed. Why, it would
make life a burthen. To be sure, Betty says Mr. Franklin's stove is a
most excellent thing, ever so much better than a fireplace, and that she
will take one to Virginia with her. She had better take Mr. Rittenhouse
as well!" and Primrose sent a host of delighted ripples on the sunny
air. "Oh, there is Tot!"
Tot was Betty Mason's three-year-old baby boy, and the next instant
Primrose had forgotten her admirers and was tumbling in the grass with
him.
There were two she had not mentioned: Allin Wharton and Gilbert Vane.
But Polly said to her brother shortly after--growing very wise, as young
women in love are apt to:
"Be careful not to go too fast, Allin, or you will stumble over a
decided no. Primrose has no more idea of love than a two-year-old baby
who answers everybody that smiles at him."
"But they haunt Madam Wetherill's in droves," flung out the over anxious
young man.
"With the droves one has nothing to fear," counsels the wise young
woman. "It is when there are only one or two, and much sitting around in
corners and behind curtains and whispering that plots are hatched. And
Primrose is fond of having ever so many enjoy her good time and
mirthfulness. And, Allin, there is a great deal for you to do before
lovemaking begins."
"I'm not so much worse off than Phil Henry."
"But Phil Henry is not dreaming of marrying," returned Allin's sister
with dignified composure.
Meanwhile affairs dragged slowly on, but it was evident there were many
things to discuss before a treaty of peace would be signed. There were
various apprehensions of coming internal trouble. The public treasury
was empty, officers and soldiers were clamoring for pay. There were
endless discussions as to whether a republican form of government would
be best and strongest. Of these Philadelphia had her full share, but
there was a strong undercurrent. Had not the famous Declaration of
Independence been born here and the State House bell pealed out the
first tocsin of freedom? And here Congress had met year after year.
Many of the soldiers had been discharged for wounds and ill health, and
on their own earnest appeal. Some officers resigned; among them Andrew
Henry, much to the regret of several of the generals.
"If the country needs me again I am hers to command," he said with much
earnestness. "But I feel that I am needed at home and there are others
who will be glad to fill my place. There are many brave privates who
would be made happy by the reward of promotion."
"He is a brave man," said Mrs. Washington, "which is sometimes better
than being a brave soldier. If the country had hundreds of such citizens
her prosperity would be assured. I am sorry to part with many of them,
but we shall all be glad of peaceful times and our own homes."
And so in the early autumn Andrew Henry came home and went back to his
Quaker costume.
"Really," declared Mr. Logan, "one might think the elder Philemon Henry
had come back to life. The nephew is more like him than the son, though
the son is a fine intelligent man and will make an excellent citizen.
Then he is a great favorite with Madam Wetherill, who has much in her
hands."
CHAPTER XXIII.
PRIMROSE.
With all the disquiet it had been an unusually gay summer for
Philadelphia, even after the General and Mrs. Washington had bidden it
adieu. For in June there had been a great fête given by the French
minister in honor of the birth of the Dauphin, the heir to the throne of
France. M. de Luzerne's residence was brilliantly illuminated, and a
great open-air pavilion, with arches and colonnades, bowers, and halls
with nymphs and statues, even Mars leaning on his shield, and Hebe
holding Jove's cup. It was seldom indeed that the old Carpenter mansion
had seen such a sight.
There were elegant women and brave men, though the Mischianza crowd had
been widely scattered. The girls had danced, and chatted in French as
far as they knew how, and enjoyed themselves to the full, and the elders
had sat down to an almost royal banquet. Polly and Primrose had been
among the belles.
Then there had been a grand Fourth of July celebration. A civic banquet,
with Morris, Dickinson, Mifflin, and many another. Bells were rung and
cannons fired, the Schuylkill was gay with pleasure parties and
fluttering flags and picnic dinners along its winding and pleasant
banks. And then in August they had most loyally kept the French King's
birthday with banquets and balls. And though financial ruin was largely
talked of, a writer of the times declares "No other city was so rich, so
extravagant, and so fashionable."
And yet withal there was a serious and sensible element. There had
before the war been many years of unexampled prosperity; and though
there might be a whirl, people soon came back to reasonable living.
Truth to tell, Philemon Henry was becoming quite captivated with the
city of his birth and his later adoption. And as he began to understand
Madam Wetherill's views for his own future as well as that of his
cousin, he was amazed at her generosity. "Nay, it is not simple
generosity," she declared with great vigor. "There is no reason why you
two should not make a place for yourselves in the new city, such as your
father held in the old. Perhaps wider, for your father would have
nothing to do with government, and a man ought to take some interest in
the civic prosperity of his city as well as money-getting. Mr.
Wetherill, whether wisely or not, put much money in property, and it has
been a dead weight mostly. But now the time has come to improve it, and
with peace there will be many changes and much work to do. I have grown
too old, and a woman cannot well attend to it. Younger blood and
strength must take it up. Then--if we make some mistakes, there is no
one to suffer, though I did not expect to give even two well-trained
colts their heads altogether."
He smiled, but there was a soft mistiness in his eyes.
"I can never thank you," he said unsteadily.
"I must trust someone, you see. Mr. Northfield is too old, Mr. Morris
has his hands full; indeed, I can think of no one better. I have some of
the Wardour willfulness, and take my own way about things. I do not
often make mistakes. This is no sudden notion of mine."
"There is one thing, madam, I must explain before we go farther. I am--I
have"--he paused and flushed in embarrassment--"there is an
understanding between myself and Miss Polly Wharton, not an engagement,
for as yet I have had no certainty to offer. But we care very much for
each other."
Madam Wetherill gave a quick nod or two and there was a smile in her
bright eyes.
"Polly will make a good wife. Thou couldst hardly have chosen better. I
would speak to Mr. Wharton and have the matter settled now. If he had
not been of a consenting mind, thou wouldst hardly have found a welcome
entrance for so long in his home."
"Madam--I never dreamed of being so happy."
"Oh, no doubt thou wilt be much happier on thy wedding day," and she
laughed with a bright sparkle of amusement. "I am fond of young people,
though they do many foolish things."
"But my sister?" he said suddenly. "We have forgotten about her. All
these years of thy kind care----"
"Well--what of her? I loved her mother. I never had a child of my own,
though a hen rarely runs after another hen's chicks. The little moppet
stole into my heart, and by just raising her eyes inveigled me into
fighting for her. Miss Primrose Henry has all the fortune it is good for
a girl to have, and she is a gay butterfly to go dancing about for the
next few years. Indeed, I believe she has quite made up her mind to stay
single, to have many admirers, but no husband. It may not be a good
plan, but there have been some famous old maids,--Queen Elizabeth, for
instance,--while poor Marie Stuart began with husbands early and lost
her head. We can dismiss Miss Primrose to her pleasures."
Then they talked long and earnestly. Andrew Henry was coming home, and
the matter would be settled.
And settled it was speedily. Andrew, having been consulted before, was
not so much taken by surprise, but his gratitude was none the less
fervent. And one Sunday morning Polly walked very proudly up the aisle
in Christ Church, with her brother on one side, and her lover on the
other, right behind her parents, and when they were seated in Mr.
Wharton's pew, Polly was in the middle with her lover beside her, and he
found the places in her prayer book and made responses with her and sang
joyfully in the hymns. Coming out she took his arm, and blushed a good
deal as people smiled at her. It was a fashion then, and everybody knew
it was a sign of engagement.
"The young Englishman is very good-looking," said Miss Morris, "but I
shall set my cap for the Quaker cousin. What a pity he gives up war and
discards soldier clothes, for there is scarcely such a fine-appearing
general!"
The young Quaker, mature and manly for his years, took hold of business
as if it had been his birthright. Perhaps it had come to him with the
resemblance to his uncle. And when Philemon Nevitt decided to take back
his father's name, Polly and Primrose rejoiced wildly.
Primrose threw her arms around his neck and gave him many of the kisses
she had used to be so chary about.
"Now you are my own dear brother!" she exclaimed, and the satisfaction
rang through her voice like a bell. "No king can ever claim you again."
"Unless we have a king."
"But we are not going to have a king. We are all born free and equal."
"Julius and Joe and the old Pepper Pot woman, and the Calamus boys?"
with a mischievous smile.
"The slaves are all going to be free. We cannot do everything in a
moment. And the equality----" Primrose was rather nonplused.
"Yes, the equality," with a triumphant lifting of the brows.
"I think the equality means this: that everyone shall have a right to
try for the best places, and no one shall push him down. To try for
education and happiness, and if he is full up to the brim and content,
even if he has not as much as the other, isn't there a certain
equalization?"
"Primrose, I fear thou wilt be a sophist before thy hundred years are
ended," said her brother with a soft pinch of her rosy cheek.
The Randolphs had considered the feasibility of returning south, but
Madam Wetherill begged them not to try homelessness with winter coming
on. And at Cherry Farm there was one supremely happy woman, Lois Henry.
"Madam Wetherill is more than good to thee," she said to her son with a
thankfulness that trembled in her voice. "How one can be mistaken in
souls under gay garbs. Indeed it is as the child used to say, 'God made
all beautiful things, and nothing is to be called common or unclean, or
high and lofty and wasteful.' I am more glad than I can say that thou
hast returned to the fashion of the Friends again, but thou art a man
to look well in nice attire, and truly one serveth God with the heart
and not with the clothes, except that neatness should be observed. The
Lord hath given Madam Wetherill a large heart, and she holds no rancor."
"She is one in a thousand," was the fervent reply.
And then Andrew described one of several cottages on Chestnut Street
that belonged to the estate of Miss Primrose Henry, and was to rent.
There was a small court in front, a grassy space at the side with a
cherry tree and a pear tree, and a garden at the back for vegetables.
"For I must have thee in the city near by," he said, "so I can come in
to dinner at noon, and spend most of my evenings with thee. Mr.
Franklin's old paper, the Gazette, is to be brought out again, and we
shall know what is going on. And we will find a meeting house near by,
and take great comfort with each other after our seasons of sorrow and
separation."
"My son, my dear son! I bless the Lord for thee every day. He hath given
me the oil of joy for mourning."
Andrew had greeted Rachel with great cordiality. He was grateful that
she had cared so kindly for his mother, though Faith had been the more
tender. Penn was settled in part of his new house and very content.
Indeed his love for Clarissa was something of a thorn in Rachel's side,
but she paid small attention to it outwardly. When Andrew laid his plan
before her, however, her very heart sank within her.
"She is to have her living here. I am sure, Andrew, as God is my
witness, that I have been like a daughter to her. She hath said so
herself. My own mother is dead, let her remain in the place. And
thou--thou wilt marry sometime----"
"A long while yet. I am her son and want her, and she is ready and
pleased to come. It is but right and natural. As for the living, make no
account of that. When we want a holiday it may be pleasant to come out
to the farm."
That was a straw and she caught quickly at it. But in any event she saw
that she could not help nor hinder.
Primrose took Polly with her to see what should be put in the cottage.
"There are many new things to make work handy, and comforts. Andrew must
have a settle here in the living room and it shall be my pleasure to
make cushions for it. And oh, Polly, he has learned to smoke while he
was soldiering! Of course Aunt Lois will want some of the old things,
and she has chests of bed and table linen. But we can buy some plates
and cups. Aunt Lois had some pretty Delft ware that I used to dry on
nice soft towels when I was a little girl. We will hunt the city over to
find Delft."
They were delightfully engrossed with shopping. The stores were
displaying tempting aspects again and merchants were considering foreign
trade. But it was quite ridiculous, though no one saw it in just that
light then, that one should take with them a thousand or so dollars to
do a morning's buying. But when a frying pan cost sixty dollars and
three cups and saucers one hundred and fifty, and a table two hundred,
money soon went. There was plenty of it, to be sure. Congress ordered
new issues when it fell short.
People still watched out for Quaker sales: that is, Quakers who refused
to pay certain taxes had their belongings seized and sold, and women
were as ready for bargains then as now.
Faith took counsel of the trustees who had been appointed for her, and
found that she could get away from her sister's home. So she begged Aunt
Lois to take her, as they would need some help. Andrew opposed this at
first, fearing it would lead to trouble, and Rachel was very angry. But
on second thought she decided it would be wiser. For by this means she
would still have some hold over them all. On condition that Faith would
come home every fortnight for a little visit she consented, and though
Faith, trained long in repression, said but little, her heart beat with
great joy. Rachel had kept a Swedish woman nearly all summer for
out-of-door work, and now engaged her for the winter. By spring,
certainly, she would know what lay before her.
William Frost, who had once been in the habit of walking home with her,
was married. A well-to-do farmer living up the Wissahickon had called a
number of times, but he had four children, and Rachel had no mind to
give up her home for hard work and little thanks. She was still young,
and with her good marriage portion would not go begging. But the choice
of her heart, the best love of her heart all her life, would be Andrew
Henry, and she felt the child and the girl, Primrose, had always stood
in her way. If she would only marry!
But Primrose was having a lovely winter. True, there were times when
Allin Wharton grew a little too tender, and she would tease him in her
willful fashion, or be very cool to him, or sometimes treat him in an
indifferent and sisterly fashion, so difficult to surmount. There were
so many others, though Primrose adroitly evaded steady admirers. When
they grew too urgent she fled out to the farm and Betty.
There was great fun, too, in planning for wedding gear. Polly's sister,
Margaret, was grown up now, and Polly was to be married in the late
spring, and go out to the farm all summer, as the Randolphs had fully
decided to return to Virginia in April. Mr. Randolph would go a month or
two earlier to see about a home to shelter them. For although the treaty
of peace had not been signed it was an accepted fact, and everybody
settled to it.
Old Philadelphia woke up to the fact that she must make herself nearly
all over. Low places were drained, bridges built, new docks constructed,
and rows of houses went up. The wildernesses about, that had grown to
brushwood, were cleared away. Hills were to be lowered, and there was a
famous one in Arch Street.
"Nay, I should not know the place without it," declared Madam Wetherill.
"It will answer for my time, and after that do as you like."
But she was to go out of Arch Street years before her death, though she
did not live to be one hundred and two.
The taverns made themselves more decorous and respectable, the coffee
houses were really attractive, the theater ventured to offer quite a
variety of plays, and the assemblies began in a very select fashion.
There was also a more general desire for intelligence, and the days of
"avoiding Papishers and learning to knit" as the whole duty of women
were at an end.
There were grace and ease and refinement and wit, and a peaceable sort
of air since Congress had gone to Princeton.
Midwinter brought out-of-door amusements, though the season seemed
short, for spring came early, and in March parties were out hunting for
trailing arbutus and hardy spring flowers, exchanging tulip bulbs and
dividing rose bushes, as well as putting out trees and fine shrubbery
that was to make the city a garden for many a long year.
Primrose danced and was merry, and skated with Allin Wharton when Polly
and Phil could go, but she was very wary of confining herself to one.
She dropped in and cheered Aunt Lois and fascinated Faith with her
bright talk and her bright gowns and the great bow under her chin, for
even if it was gray it seemed the softest and most bewildering color
that ever was worn. Then she rode out and spent two or three days
frolicking with Betty's babies, and came home more utterly fascinating
than before.
"Oh, Primrose!" said Madam Wetherill, "I cannot think what to do with
thee. Thou wilt presently be the talk of the town."
"Oh, I think I will go to Virginia with Betty and bury myself in a great
southern forest where no one can find me. And I will take along pounds
of silk and knit some long Quaker stockings for Andrew, with beautiful
clocks in them. Hast thou not remarked, dear aunt, that he betrays a
tendency toward worldliness?"
"Thou art too naughty, Primrose."
It was fortunate for women's purses that one did not need so many gowns
as at the present day, even if they did take out with them marvelous
sums. But thinking men were beginning to see the evil of the old
Continental money and trying to devise something better, with that able
financier, Robert Morris, at their head.
The wedding finery was bought, and the looms at Germantown supplied webs
of cloth to be made up in table napery and bedding. There were old laces
handed down, and some brocade petticoats, and two trained gowns that had
come from England long before. Primrose and Margaret Wharton were
bridesmaids, and, oddly enough, Captain Vane, for he had arrived at that
dignity, came from Newburgh on a furlough and stood with Margaret, so
the foes and the friends were all together. It was a very fine wedding,
and at three in the afternoon Mr. and Mrs. Philemon Nevitt Henry were
put in a coach, a great luxury then, and went off in splendid state,
with a supply of old slippers thrown after them for good luck.
Captain Vane had lost his estate, that was a foregone conclusion. The
next of kin had acted and proved the estates forfeited.
"And now I am a true buff-and-blue American," he said proudly to Madam
Wetherill. "I shall remain a military man, for the spirit and stir of
the life inspire me, and there seems nothing else for me to do. Phil, I
think, was only a half-hearted soldier, and business suits him much
better. After all, one can see that he is at home among his kinsfolk.
Perhaps there was a little of the old Quaker leaven in him that England
could not quite work out. He has a charming wife, and a friend such as
few men find;" bowing low and kissing the lady's hand.
A party of guests went out to the farm to have a gay time with the young
couple. It was Primrose's birthday, but it never rained a drop. And it
would have been hard to tell which was the heroine of the occasion,
Primrose or Polly. And, oh, the verses that were made! some halting and
some having altogether too many feet. There were dancing and jollity and
every room was crowded. They had coaxed Betty to stay and she was very
charming; quite too young, everybody said, to be a widow with two
babies.
Philemon Henry held his pretty sister to his heart and gave her eighteen
kisses for her birthday.
"Dear, thou hast so many gifts on all occasions," he said, "that a
brother's best love is all I can bestow upon thee now. When I am a rich
man it may be otherwise. Polly and thee will always be the dearest of
sisters, and I hope to be a faithful son to Madam Wetherill."
Primrose wiped some tears from her lovely eyes.
"That is the best any man can be," she made answer.
It was a very gay fortnight, and Allin Wharton was so angry and so
wretched that he scarce knew how to live. Captain Vane was handsome and
fascinating, and a hero from having lost his estates, and there were a
full hundred reasons why he should be attractive to a woman. He believed
Andrew Henry was no sort of rival beside him. Of course Primrose
would--what a fool he had been to take Polly's advice and wait!
But Primrose had been very wise and very careful for such a pretty,
pleasure-loving girl. There had been something in Gilbert Vane's eyes
that told the story, and she understood now what it was: the sweetest
and noblest story a man can tell a woman, but a woman may not always be
ready to hear it, and now some curious knowledge had come to
Primrose--she would never be ready to hear this.
She had threaded her way skillfully through every turning, she had
jested and parried until she was amazed at her own resources. The last
morning Madam Wetherill was suddenly called down to the office about the
transfer of some property, and she had not been gone ten minutes when
Captain Vane was announced.
He was very disappointed not to see madam--of course. Primrose was shy
and looked like a bird about to fly somewhere, but so utterly bewitching
that his whole heart went out to her.
"Oh, you sweetest, dearest Primrose!" he cried, and caught her hand in
such a clasp that she could not pull it away. "I love you, love you! and
yet I have no business to say it, a soldier of fortune, who has nothing
now but his sword, and his patriotism for the country of his
adoption--all his fortune yet to make. But it will not hurt you, dear,
to know that a man loves you with his whole soul and hopes
for--nothing."
But his wistful eyes told another story.
"Oh, why did you say it?" she cried, full of regret.
"Because I could not help it. Oh, I know it is useless, and yet I would
give half a lifetime--nay, all of it--for a year or two of such bliss as
Phil is having, to hold you in my arms, to call you my wife, my dear
wife," and his tone thrilled her with exquisite pain, but something akin
to pleasure as well. "Primrose, you are the sweetest flower of the
world, but it could never be--never; tell me so, darling. Much as it
pains you, say 'no.' For if you do not I shall always dream. And I am a
soldier and can meet my fate."
He dropped her hand and stood before her straight, strong, and proud;
entreaty written in every line of his face. She covered hers with her
hands to shut out the sight and tried vainly to find her voice.
"Nay, dear," he took the hands down tenderly and saw tears and blushes,
but not the look he wanted. "That was cruel, unmanly. If it were 'yes'
there would be no tears, and so I am answered. It is not your fault. You
have a grander, nobler lover than I. But it has been sweet to love you.
From almost the first I have loved you, when you were a little girl and
I longed to have you for my sister. It will not hurt you, as the years
go on, to know you won a soldier for your country and a lifelong
patriot. And I know Andrew Henry will not grudge me one kiss. God give
thee all happiness. Good-by."
He pressed his lips to her forehead and turned.
"God bless thee," she said, and he bowed reverently as he went out of
the room.
She stood quite still, never heeding the tears that dropped on the front
of her gown. Andrew Henry! Her dear, dear cousin, who was like a
brother. Did he love her that way? Did she love him? And if she did
there was her solemn promise to Rachel.
She ran upstairs and had a good cry.
"Whatever is the matter?" asked Patty. "You are fuller of whims than an
egg is of meat, for the egg has a breathing space if the chick wants it.
Not an hour ago you were laughing like a mocking bird. You had better
have a pitcher of sweet balm for your nerves. You have dissipated too
much, but thank Heaven there are no more weddings near by."
Primrose dried her eyes and laughed again presently. It was noon when
Madam Wetherill returned. Attorney Chew had been in with some new plans
that were quite wonderful.
"And Captain Vane to say good-by. What friends he and Phil are! But he
is a soldier born, if ever there was one. And he looked so fine and
spirited. He said he had been here."
"For a few minutes, yes. And now, dear madam, when you are rested, can
we have a better afternoon to ride out to the Pembertons'? I have
promised some books to Julia, and that new sleeve pattern, and to-morrow
Polly comes in."
"Well, child--yes, after my nap. 'Tis a lovely day, and every day is so
busy. Yes, we will go."
She hath escaped that danger, Madam Wetherill thought. And in her heart
she honored the brave soldier; how brave, she was never quite to know.
Was there ever a summer without diversions? There was a new interest in
plants and flowers. Parties went out to John Bartram's, the quaint old
house with its wide doorway and the great vines that had climbed over it
for years, until they had grown thick as a man's wrist, almost hiding
the names cut in the stone long ago, of John and Elizabeth Bartram. The
old garden of flowers and the ferns were worth some study. And there
were rambles in the lanes, going after wild strawberries, and even the
venturesome ones went on the sly to Dunk's Ferry and had their fortune
told by Old Alice. There were many little shrieks and giggles, and
joyous or protesting confidences afterward.
And now Primrose thought, as she had years before, that she was quite
torn in two. Did she love Andrew Henry with an absorbing love, such as
Polly had for her brother? Another face and another voice haunted her.
She dreamed of Allin Wharton. This night they were sailing up the lovely
Schuylkill and pausing under the overhanging trees to hear the birds
who were saying, "Sweet, sweet, I love you," and then Allin would look
up at her.
Then they were at the farm. Betty and the babies were gone now, and she
missed them sorely. But Allin came out with Phil, and Phil walked off
with Polly. Would they never get talked out? Then Allin would draw her
out in some fragrant nook and look at her with upbraiding eyes. Or, it
was vivacious Peggy who would drag her in to tea, and then some girl
would come and she and Allin be left alone again.
Then, by day and in real life, she was cross and tormenting to him.
Desperately sorry afterward, for now she had no ambition to be
bad-tempered. Everything had come out to her satisfaction. Phil was the
dearest of brothers, and prospering, and Madam Wetherill was elated with
her successful firm. The prestige of the elder Henry dropped its mantle
over them. And as for Polly, there could not be a wiser, sweeter wife.
Then Aunt Lois was so tranquilly happy, and Faith growing brighter, yes,
prettier, and buying grays with a peachy or lavender tint instead of
that snuffy yellow, or dismally cold stone color, and coaxing Andrew,
sometimes, to go to Christ Church to hear the singing or the tender
prayers where the people could all say "Amen."
Oh, what was the matter that she was not happy and satisfied!
Allin was studying hard and well, and growing more manly every day. And
at last he made up his mind there should be no more shilly-shallying.
For when Primrose was tender and sweet he knew she loved him. She
was--yes, a little bit jealous when he wandered too far in a half
angry, half desperate moment.
So one evening he came upon her all alone. Miss Jeffries had begged
madam so to come in to a little card party, for now her father was quite
lame and could not get out much, and rather deaf, and altogether
disheartened about England conquering America. Therefore it was a
charity to visit him.
"And lose my money now," she said with a good-natured laugh.
Now Primrose could not shelter herself behind Polly nor Phil. She was
sweet and startled, and a dozen things that made her lovelier than ever,
with a betraying color coming and going in her charming face. And the
lover took sudden heart. How many times he had planned the scene. There
was a lover in an old novel that won an obdurate lady, and he had
rehearsed the arguments numberless times, they were so fine and
convincing. Oh, how did they begin?
He reached over suddenly and took her in his arms and kissed the
fragrant lips again and again.
"Primrose," just above his breath, "you know I love you. You must have
seen it ages ago, that morning you came,--do you remember,--when I had
been wounded, and how we talked and talked, and you sung. I couldn't
bear to have you go. You were the sweetest and dearest and most lovely
thing in the whole wide world. Polly had talked so much about you. And
ever since that you have been a part of my very life. I've been jealous,
and angry when you smiled on others, and you do it so much, Primrose;
and when that handsome young Vane was here I remembered how you loved
soldiers and was--well I could have waylaid him and done anything to
him, but that wouldn't have won you. I've waited so long. And now,
Primrose, you must give me a little hope. Just say you will love me
sometime. Oh, no! I can't wait, either. Primrose, my darling, the
sweetness and glory of my life, love me now, now."
The words came out like a torrent and carried her along. The kisses had
gone down to her very soul. The clasp of his hands thrilled her.
"Primrose, my sweetest darling----"
It seemed as if she was under a spell. She tried to free herself, but
she had no strength. Other men had said silly things, but this was like
a swift rush of music, and she was sure no one had ever uttered Primrose
in such an exquisitely delicious tone before.
"Oh, Allin!" in a half sigh.
All the answer was kisses.
"Allin, Allin! Oh, let me--yes, let me free. I must tell you----"
"You must tell me nothing, save that you love me. I will listen to
nothing else. Primrose, sweetest, dearest----"
"Oh, hush, Allin, let me think----"
If she did not mean to love him he would know it by some sure sign. The
