for these pi-etty girls in whom he takes a fatherly pride. 
Tliey are great favorites at his house, and llegina is quite 
a young queen among Beverly people, with her beauty and 
her grand air. 

He walks down with the girls. Mrs. Halford is wait- 
ing on the platform. Regina has -turned the pony, and 
sits in her cloud of twilight gray, nodding a gracious 
farewell; 

Winterburne seats himself beside Mrs. Halford, and listens 
to her cheerful gossip of home affairs, delightful to him be- 
cause Kegina said this or thought that. The brief journey 
is rather pretty, most of it in sight of the river. At his 
own station he manages to find a decentj tWo-seated wagoii, 
though it is only a short distance to the mills. They are 
just in time to see the iron cast in its first stage, the rough 
pigs. The stream of fiery liquid runs slowly about the 
ground in its moulds, fascinatjng the small audience. They 
have a glimpse of the great furnace, they listen to the pro- 
cesses, inspect the piles of ore, the brusher, and watch the 
workmen with the eagerly curious eyes of youth. 

Afterward he drives them over to his new home. Mrs. 
Prall, at his request, sends them in a plate of delicious bread 
and butter and some of her best company cake, brews a 
cup of tea for Mrs. Halford, while the girls have a glass of 
milk. It is quite like a picnic. They inspect the rooms 
that look really habitable. 

" I don't see how you could have' chosen and arranged 
everything so prettily, and without a woman's help," says 
Mrs. Halford. 

"When he might have had our united wisdom," an- 
nounces Cynthia upbraidingly. 

"I never thought of that," he answers regretfully. 
"You see, I am a slow, stupid fellow at the best." 

" You are not stupid," declares Perdita; rather resent- 
fully. His strength and gentleness, his evident love for 
his sister, have touched her. "And you may have a large 
proportion of sureness to the slowness which makes an 





excellent adjustment. You know the tortoise won the 
race." 

It is a tender, attractive face that smiles up into his. 
He is wondering if he really cares so much about winning 
the race he has set for himself. The alluring vision is 
smouldering in dull grayish tints, just as he has seen clouds 
settle after a glowing sunset. They are all so happy 
among themselves, he seems far off outside of it all. Yet 
a few hours ago he was so content with what fate had 
brought him. Can he take this lesser pleasure held out to 
him so cordially ? Can he see her and not love her, not 
suffer from the icy barrier she has reared between them ? 

Mrs. Halford suggests that it must be train-time. 
She is most cordial. There is a motherliness in. it that 
touches him, and the pretty manner in which they have 
included him and his sister in their summer pleasures 
would make it quite' impossible for him to stand out. He 
promises some things with that uncertain pulsation at his 
heart that puts a tremor in his voice. It has been a charm- 
ing bit, like something out of a play, but he is glad to be 
alone. He watches the workmen filing out of the yardj 
talking in little groups and going their ways. . He bids 
Dale a good-evening, and walks a short distance with 
Graniss. 

" Well," says the latter, " there can be no question. The 
process is a success. You are a lucky chap, Winterburne, 
and we are in luck to have snapped you up in this fasliion. 
It is all right, I suppose, about your property ? " 

" Oh, yes, all right." 

" They're fortunate to get rid of it." 

Winterburne gives the conventional little sound that is 
sometimes a short laugh, — now, mere -assent. 

" When does your sister come ? " 

" Soon. I shall hear to-morrow." 

Graniss gives him a sharp, sidelong glance. He certainly 
is not in his usual buoyant mood. 

He tramps out to his new home, trying to disentangle 
the confusion of thought, to certify to himself just where 



 

he stands. Is her world something higher tlian his ? has 
it forms and graces and idealisms in which he is deficient ? 
Oh, he would try so hard to reach it! There are men who 
liave come up out of the depths and won the respect of the 
whole world. He has never been iu them. There has 
been no real want in his life, it has lain along the lines of 
the upper middle class ; he could have worked his way 
through college if he had chosen: he is not an ignorant 
boor : he realizes with a thrill of exultation that there are 
men who would trade their money for his brains. By the 
side of her grace and pretty refinements he may seem a 
little rude and clumsy — is it possible Jasper Bradley may 
be nearer her ideal ? Let him go carefully over the past. 
Has he not presumed with very little encouragement ? 
At first they were so friendly — he can recall the little 
room with its worn carpet, its rather crowded belongings, 
its cheerful aspect, and a certain jollity that made one feel 
at ease, though this was generally due to the gayety of 
the two younger girls, who are being toned down, — he can 
see that. Was the seeming recession on Regina's part a 
suggestion that he should have noted with a finer atten- 
tion ? Had he misread it ? He cannot imagine a woman 
dragging out her pure, white soul for a man's inspection, 
until he has made a bridge of his own for her to cross 
over to him. He has let himself , be borne along the inagic 
current of his own wishes without noting wliether the 
frailer bark was drifting in the beguiling current. Per- 
haps — yes, it is certain, that he has made a great, a pitiful 
mistake. And even in his dream of the fortune to be won 
for her he has gone astray. Even if she were poor, she 
could not be bought by money — as little tempted; he is 
proud of that, though he has not exactly dreamed of tempt- 
ing her, only setting her in that garden of delight wliere 
she naturally belonged. But it is all ended. She has 
shown him to-day, in that fine way he has heard of women 
using, that there can be nothing between them ; she has 
swept away the rapturous faith of the past, and left him 
to grope about until he can find some sure footing else- 





where. He is ignorant of ' such experiences ; he hardly 
knows where to turn for strength, or how to fight off that 
dumb nervelessness creeping over him. He is like a child 
in his first great disappointment. 

After a while he rouses himself. He has been going 
about mechanically, putting touclies here and there in a 
dazed way. Mrs. Prall has tapped at his door and begged 
him to come' in and have a cup of tea ; but he feels that 
he could not swallow food nor drink. He stands for some 
time nearly in the centre of the roomy his eyes wandering 
about, seeing nothing. 

"It is not her fault," he cries with repressed passion, 
as if some one had accused her ; " not her fault. She 
told me — yes — and I went on dreaming. I thought 
time and my own ardent wishes must work the miracle ; 
I fancied myself superhuman," and he laughs with a sad 
bitterness, " but the old world has no niiracle-workers 
to-day. She is innocent of it all — it has been my own 
heedless folly, so I must gather up myself and go on ; I 
am not the first man who has had his lamp blown out by 
an adverse blast, and I shall find my way "- it is there I 
know; I have only myself to blame." 

Then he tries to put it out of his mind. He will show 
her that he can take up the friendly basis this relationship 
gives them all, for he cannot go away His lot and his 
work are here. 

Past midnight he throws himself down on the Turkish 
lounge he selected only a few days ago with such pleasure. 
In a vague way he wonders whether anything will ever 
delight him again. His sleep is fragmentary and unre- 
freshing, but he is up in the early dawn of the summer 
morning, for there are some touches to be put to the flower- 
beds in front of the window w.liere Alice will sit and look 
out. Will it always be Alice now ? 

Two days later he goes to the station for her. When 
the train comes in he watches the two passenger coaclies, 
— the local trains are seldom long. Ah — and he hurries 
down to one end, smiling up into a familiar. face and pushes 
the brakeman aside, lifting her gently down himself; 



 

" You do not know how strong I have grown," she says 
smilingly. "I had half a mind to discard my old coin- 
panion," and she gives her ci-utch a pat ; " but it seemed 
ungrateful when he haa given me his cheerful support so 
many times. Dr. Graham has been studying up climates 
and altitudes and what not, and is quite sure the change 
will prove beneficial. So you are not to worry about the" 
ugliitess or the tone of society or any earthly thing; and 
I am so glad to get back to you, Norman — so glad. Do 
you believe it ? " 

He presses her hand. "You can hardly guess how glad 
I am to have you." He is not so utterly adrift after all. 
There is a sudden briglitening to life, so much joy can one 
generous, large-hearted wouian infuse. 

They have been walking down the platform. 

" Oh ! " she begins, " I have some boxes with me, 
'traps,' in a man's parlance; here are ray checks. And 
the others" — 

"May not be here until night." He goes to see after 
the traps. She steadies herself on her crutch and glances 
around J not a very inviting prospect truly. But over the 
river — ah! how much of comfort and beauty there often 
is over the river. She is thankful she has turned her eyes 
that way ; she is still gazing at the everlasting hills in their 
purple splendor, when Winterburne returns. His wagon 
is waiting for her, and he helps her in it with a satchel 
of reasonable size, and the rest are left for the express. 

" Do you remember," she says, " that it is two years since 
we have really lived together ? I could hardly believe it 
at first. Why, I would have been content to go out in a 
howling wilderness with you," and she gives a soft, glad 
laugh. 

They are very little alike in looks, but there are certain 
expressions and the peculiar soft tenderness of the laugh, 
that are wonderfully similar. 

"You have come to the wilderness, or perhaps it is 
nearer the desert ; but I found one oasis and pitched our 
tent there." 





" It looks very little like our neat, thrifty towns. There 
may be a good opportunity for missionary work, begiuuiug 
with cleanliness and order." 

" I had not thought of that." He glances about criti- 
 cally, quite as if he had hardly noted the disorder and 
evidences of unthrift before. " Most of the men get toler- 
ably good wages, too, and living is cheap. There is our 
mill." 

"I am so glad, so thankful that your experiment suc- 
ceeded ; and, Norman, one of my greatest sources of grati- 
tude is that it was won before this fortune came to you : 
you doii't owe it to that. I am half jealous, you see. You 
won it by your good right liand and' your clear brain, as so 
many of the great things of life have been won." 

He was so proud of it a month ago, he cares so little 
about it now. 

" And these people — these new cousins ? " she says 
inquiringly. • 

" They are anxious to see you ; you will like them, I am 
sure. There is quite an *odd story connected with them : 
I have not told you, it was so long to put in letters. I 
had met them before — the winter I was in New York — I 
boarded with a friend of theirs. We might never have met 
again " — is that quite the truth ? — " yet it is singular," 
he adds by way of compromise, " how often you do run across 
the sanje people. Of course I was more than surprised 
when I found who they were ; so we had a bit of acquaint- 
anceship to begin with. Mrs. Halford is such a delight- 
fully motherly woman. The two younger girls will amuse 
you : one is the niece. Miss Cope. Miss Halford is " — 
what shall he say about the woman he still loves? — "rather 
stately and cold, but handsome in a certain way." 

" And you liked them when they were poor ? " 

" Oh, immensely ! " 

" And the young man, the real Bradley among them ? " 

" I must not prejudice you. I don't believe I am very 
good at judging people, except for business purposes. He 
is rather peculiar, and very handsome." 



 

"Then the handsome young man and the handsome 
young woman ought to join liauds." 

He is glad she is looking straight ahead. 

" You certainly have not deceived me in regard to War- 
wick," she says with an abrupt change. "It is rather dis- 
mal. There is one redeeming feature in the landscape" — 

" We are going thither," and he makes a turn. " But 
we are not compelled to live here after all," he exclaims 
brightly. " I could come up and down on the train. Bev- 
erly is beautiful. Most of the little towns are, save in the 
iron districts." 

" I am not difficult to entertain, you know. And since I 
shall have you — and all your cousins," laughingly. " Were 
they glad to come into fortunes — but what a question ! 
Were they very poor, I mean ? " 

" Mrs. Halford was in some financial difficulty just then, 
' I believe, owing to bad times, but she had a small portion 
of her own. And Miss Cope as well," he explains briefly. 

"It really was nice to know something about them be- 
fore," Miss Hilliard says after a little pause. "And the 
young man was well known." 

"No, it was his father. He had spent his youth here, 
but that was long ago. For twenty or so years he had not 
been heard of. As I told you, it was a rather puzzling 
search." 

"Qh, this is quaint and pretty," she exclaims as they 
drive up the short lane. " Yes, I know I shall like it, 
since you are to be here." 

He smiles. They have come to the boy and girl plans : 
he was to have the home and she was to be the house- 
keeper. He lifts her out and stands her on the porch. 
There is one straggling rose in bloom here, and a great 
tangle of honeysuckle. All the air is fragrant with it. 

" I suppose," she says slowly, " that Bradley House is a 
grand old place ?  I almost wish you had been the Bradley, 
so that the first choice could have been yours." 

He takes her within and explains that he has left many 
little touches to her taste and pleasure, and that presently, 





when they get to real livihg, they will feel at home. And 
when Lois comes everything will move smoothly. Until 
then they are to Cake their meals with their landlady. 

Lois is a distant connection of the Hilliards, who came 
to nurse Alice in her misfortune, and has never left her 
save now and then for a brief visit. She has chosen this 
hiatus for a journey, and is to rejoin them in a day or two. 

"I shall inspect it with the eye of faith," says Alice, 
glancing about. " But you have done wonders. I always 
said you were as good as a woman," and she turns her eyes 
gratefully on him. " Hut you have fagged yourself all out. 
Wliy, I hardly noted it before. You are heavy-eyed, and 
— you look as if you had been studying late o' nights. 
Have you some new project in view ? There is a fascina- 
tion about inventing, I suppose, for most people never stop, 
whether they are successful or not." 

VVinterburne laughs gently. " It is simply a -process," 
he says. " I cannot aspire to the rank of an inventor at 
present." 

" I do not see any difference in.it. But you shall not 
wear yourself out. I have come just in time to take care 
of you." 

" Yes," he makes answer in a tone that gives her a quick 
thrill of pleasure. He is very glad to have her. Life 
seems brighter than it did yesterday. 

After she is a little rested and has gone around her new 
habitation, Mrs. Prajl is called in. She is a plain-featured 
country woman whose girlish softness vanished long ago. 
Her grayish gown is njade severely plain, and hangs rather 
than fits her lank figure. One shoulder is a trifle higher 
and larger than the other, and one hand has grown notice- 
ably larger with the continual using. They are very long, 
with dull bluish veins like small rivulets running in every 
direction. Her face has the weather-beaten look of women 
who are much out of doors. Her eyes are light but shrewd 
and kindly, and though her lips are thin, there is a faint 
shadow of a smile hovering about them, a remnant of 
earlier days when joyousness was a more frequent guest. 



 

Her thin hair, one of those nondescript tints, is drawn 
tightly back and twisted in a little knob. 

" I'm proper glad to see you," she says with a cordial 
clasp of the hand. " And no doubt you're all tuckered out 
with such a long trip. I ain't been to York in years and 
years, but my man, he goes once't in a while, and he says 
he's clean wore out with the crowds of people. Where 
they all come from is one of the seven mysteries. And 
you had a long journey before you reached there. Sakes 
alive ! but you had a good deal of courage. How could you 
find your way, and a stranger too ! " 

"I did not come alone." Miss Hilliard smiles with a 
tender grace that ciiaruis Mrs. Prall. " Or, at least, only 
irom Jersey City, where I was put on the train." 

" You don't look a mite like him," nodding toward Win- 
terburne, " only jest as you smiled. And he's got a smile 
like a woman, some of the sweet religious kind: I've been 
sayin' to Mr. Prall ever since he come here. And I do 
hope you'll like the house and the garden. I ain't much of 
a hand for the new-fangled flowers that you've got to take 
in-doors soon as frost comes. I've got pinks and sweet 
Williams and hollyhocks and marigolds and such. There 
use ter be lots of roses, but somehow they've died out. 
Worms eat 'em up, and Jason, he thought they wasn't 
worth keepin'. But I fcold Mr. Winterburne he could get 
whatever he liked. We shouldn't grumble, we ain't that 
kind ; " and she ends with a short laugh more like a chuckle. 

"Oh, I shall soon be quite at home," replies Miss Hil- 
liard. " And flowers are my dear delight. Are there many 
wild ones about ? " 

"Not around here," says Winterburne. "An iron and 
limestone soil doesn't help them to materialize." 

" There's rhodydendrons up the mountain a ways. Curis 
how city folks are alwers goin' after wild flowers, when you 
can have/em sweet and tame to home. And them queer 
things of ferns unrollin' out of a brown kind of hood — 
people go sarchin' after 'em 's if they were cracked. I 
alwers gather sweet fern,- it's so good to make tea when one's 





blood ain't jest right ; but I never knew any special use for' 
the others. City folks that come boardin' in the summer 
don't know what to do with their time. I never was at a 
loss. And when do you like to have your dinner ? I've 
alwers cooked at noon, aiid I told Mr. Winterburne you'd 
be good and hungry after such a trip," and she nods in a 
satisfied manner. 

" Yes,' dt noon," returns Miss Hilliard. "And you must, 
not change any of your ways for this little while until our 
own housekeeper comes." 

Mrs. Prall gathers up the corner of her checked apron 
and goes out to the kitchen where there is a savory smell. 

" I am afraid you will not find much in the way of com- 
panionship," Winterburne begins as if he had just realized 
the fact. " But there were not many places to choose from, 
and this had so much sunshine and was quiet. You could 
not live amid the clatter of machinery and the dirt and 
confusion, and /wanted something different when the day 
was done." 

" We shall be very comfortable, I know. And I could 
be content anywhere with you, remember that, always," 
she says with exquisite tenderness. 

There is something left — it has been there for him since 
his boyhood. Let him be thankful and content. 



 



CHAPTER X 

MISS hilliard's guests 



"Miss Hilliard has come," announces Mrs. Halford, un- 
consciously twisting the end of the note she holds in her 
hand, and summoning up the resolution that braces one for 
an effort. " We must call on her. We must invite her to 
Bradley House, even if she is not one of the real relatives." 

" Oh, do ! " cries Cynthia. " I have made up my mind to 
fall quite in love with her." 

They both glance at Eegina, as if this might be a some- 
what overt declaration. For, in a rather odd fashion, the 
eldest daughter has fallen or risen into the position of 
arbiter of their own household." Mrs. Halford at times 
makes faint little protests, Cynthia mutinies outright, but 
Kegina keeps her authority without any apparent effort. 

" Yes," she makes answer with delicate approval in her 
tones. 

" Well, let us go to-day. Perdita will be out of school 
at one. There is a train at two." 

" Go without any warning ? And she may not be at 
home. You are so hasty, Cynthia." 

" I don't want to spend forever considering. And to- 
morrow I must be in school all day with those tiresome 
examinations. I couldn't go then. And I'll just run down 
in town and telegraph. Miss Hilliard won't have made 
enough friends this early to be out visiting, it isn't at all 
likely," says Cynthia with a laugh. 

No one offers any protest. Cynthia dons a broad sua 
hat and is off. 





" I hope we shall like her," says Mrs. Halford with her 
gentle little sigh. -'•' 

" If we shouldn't, we are not compelled to go on with the 
acquaintance," returns Regina. 

" We have always liked him — Mr. Winterburne — so. 
much." 

" Yes," comments Regiua indifEerently. 

" Will you go ? " 

" Of course, unless you should prefer not to have me." 

"What an idea! But I thought — the other day" — 
The elder pauses in an embarrassed fashion. 

" Why, it would hardly have been worth while to give 
up my music and my French. And since Warwick had so 
small an attraction, as you all admitted " — 

It was not simply the remaining at home. Even now 
Mrs. Halford can see Eegina's stately coldness, the more 
difficult to disapprove because it had no element of anger 
or disdain. She cannot remember that there ever was any 
tenderness between them. He used to talk a good deal to 
Cynthia — if he ever had any fancy it could hardly have 
been for Regina, the mother thinks, and she feels a soft 
flush rising in her cheeks that she should even suspect him 
of lover-like fancies. There could never be anything be- 
tween him and Regina, they are too radically different. 
But she loves an atmosphere of friendliness. She can feel 
the little strains in the social environment without under- 
standing just what they mean, and they are not agreeable. 
Yet she is very proud of her tall, stylish daughter, who has 
already become such a favorite in Beverly society. 

There is a refined and exclusive air about the " best " 
people. They are in a large majority, to be sure. The 
middle class is apt to be small in a town where there is so 
little manual employment. They have a serene air. No 
one jostles or crowds them, so they are never bristling up 
with dozens of fine defences. 

Regina has been made most wfelcome among them. She 
has not had to knock at any door ; they have opMied to her 
with a gracious courtesy. This is not the mere world of 



 

pretence and rivalry, of ejivy and hatred and tearing down ; 
it is. a sort of ideal society, such as she used to imagine in 
the past days, to sigh for. The fine shades of manner, the 
repose, the savoir vivre, the little touches of tone and accent, 
are indications of a correct standard. The people of 
Beverly are in a certain way intellectual. True, there is 
no library, but a very excellent book-club, and not a few 
fine private collections. The ladies have several societies. 
They meet one afternoon in each week, when a paper is 
read on some of the higher range of subjects, a magazine 
article gone over, and discussions on the new story-writers 
of the day, the new poems. There is a Shakespeare Club 
that meets fortnightly, including both sexes, who read plays, 
analyze the characters, pick out particularly fine passages. 
Through the winter they have private theatricals occasion- 
ally, a musicale now and then. Regina discovers that she 
has a rather superior contralto voice, and Madame Varney 
is cultivating it to the utmost. She is a very fair reader 
also. 

There are some outside entertainments that find their 
way to Beverly, notably concerts of the higher order, and 
some of the best-known lecturers. Music Hall is a very 
pretty place that would not discredit a larger town. The 
amateurs give concerts for charitable purposes, often some 
object at a distance. They keep a bed in two hospitals in 
different cities. They make up several niissioiiary boxes 
in the course of the year. Then there are church suppers 
and fairs, in which the young ladies make themselves as 
attractive as possible. Social enjoyments also, pretty din- 
ners and delightful dances, just enough to give touches of 
interest but not savoring of dissipation. Some one has a 
houseful of guests, and plans entertainments in what might 
be considered quite an English fashion, only it is an old 
custom of their own. Or th'Cy go off to some city and 
come home with new ideas of pleasure. They are very 
well satisfied with themselves, these Beverly people, and 
they not infrequently disdain the throngs of summer 
tourists that invade the remarkable places about them. 





even their own Mount Sardis where they go for a day, or 
even a week, when they have friends staying there. The 
" Hops " at Mount Sardis are one of the great delights of 
the summer for the young people, -who go up in great car- 
riage loads. 

Regiiiaj as T said, has been made welcome in a fine appre- 
ciative manner. She fits into this life : she has a dainty con- 
servativeness, the quality that has kept her from making 
friends or equals from among the rank and file of the 
people with whom her lot has been cast. She has a quick, 
intuitive adaptiveness : she loves all the little forms and 
fine-drawn distinctions with a fervor that amounts to a 
passion. She has a theory that these are all subtle indica- 
tions of a fineness of nature that is born with one, has been 
born with her, that no mere outside culture can give. She 
Would like to believe that it comes from the long line of 
ancestors, but here her reasoning seems rather at fault. 
Silas Bradley was honest and upright, but the ambitious 
desires could hardly have descended from him or his sister 
Joanna. True, the other Bradley ladies may have been 
different. At all events, ancestry is a good thing. 

Cynthia has grumbled not a little about the hardships of 
her school training and her studies, but she would indeed 
be amazed if she knew the hours Eegina devoted to books 
with no compulsion at all. Still, she has always had an 
ardent love for such pursuits. She has taken her part in 
social life is well, and they have almost come to think 
themselves the last of the Bradleys when Jasper and his 
father startle them by their appearance, and later on Win-, 
terburne. 

In spite of Jasper Bradley's fascinating manner and a 
charm Regina cannot reduce to any of her theories, there 
is a little feeling that he must stand on his own merits, and 
not shelter himself behind any approbation she may have 
won. There is at first a sort of delicate curiosity that in 
conservative training is not allowed to descend to vulgar 
gossip. His handsome appearance, his air of elegance 
with the quaint foreign touches, his trained voice, the ease 



 

that occasionally warms into iniperiousness, the vague 
softness that is akin to some latent, well-concealed sorrow, 
proves an almost instant source of interest. During the 
last twenty-five years no one had known any absolute fact 
concerning his father's life, and whatever had gone before 
was half forgotten, half surmised. The son's devotion to 
him was beautiful to see. He came to church with him on 
Sunday, was as attentive to "him as any daughter could be, 
took him to drive, and on tine days they would sit in the 
park together, or take a short walk through the principal 
streets. Some of the older men remembered the gay young 
fellow, who now seemed so niuch older than his years war- 
ranted, with bis bowed figure, his snowy hair, and his 
wrinkled face. 

Eegina found that, he was soon accepted on his own 
appearance, if not his own merits. He was charmingly- 
companionable. The little strain soon wore oif, and, though 
she kept a curious impression about the elder Bradley, it 
could in no respect be connected with Jasper. There were 
allowances to be made for one whose life had been shat- 
tered by a great sorrow. All of them were sympathetic. 
And he added a peculiar brightness to the old house. 

But Winterburne belonged to quite another sphere. 
She understood at once that his aims were different, that 
he would be out of harmony with the little world where 
she had been something of a queen She might have 
admired the sturdy pluck and industry, if it had not been 
connected with the days she desired to forget utterly, and 
the fact that even then the man had proposed to bring her to 
that common, evej,-y-day level she so hated ! She wanted him 
to realize the distance between them, — not any outward, 
tangible distance made by money or even station, she could 
not claim this now ; it had all been swept away ; but that 
fine, subtle, integral difference of natures. She would keep 
on the higher plane. He would not really care to attain 
to it. He must feel out of place : there could be small 
interest for him. So she had simply ignored the past, had 
impressed him with the consciousness, at least, so she 





thought, that those few years were an accidental happening, 
as they were, she tells herself continually. 

Having laid this sure foundation, she can go her way 
without a misgiving. She really does not want to stand 
aside and have the others manage even this friendship 
without her. She wants to know for herself what Miss 
Hilliard is like — she is in some respects answerable for 
the young man's training. For at this period of her life 
Kegina has a great faith in the influence of one person 
over another in the shaping of character. There are times 
when the vague longing crosses her mind to have some 
greater work to do, but she tells herself that will come 
presently. And Mr. Winterburne is not of the kind she 
would desire to undertake. She does not admit that the 
fact lies in his having been her lover; it is in some vital 
lack that renders him less attractive to her. 

The Bradleys have gone away for a week or so on a lit- 
tle tour to various places. On the whole Mr. Bradley's 
physical health improve*, his mind is less vague and abrupti 
There are times when he is wonderfully companionable; 
when he has a fascination that startles Regina, as if a 
hidden fire blazed out, throwing long, brilliant rays of 
flame, that quiver and sparkle and leap, until one shrinks 
back with a half fear. Then there are moments when he 
is curiously tender, but it hardly seems affection. 

At Warwick Station, Vinterburne comes for them. He 
is pleased with tliis attention so speedily paid to his sister. 
When his eyes catch a glimpse of Regina, and this is while 
the train is slowing up, a sudden glow lights his face* 
None of them can tell liow limoli it has transfigured it. 

Mrs. Halford and Cynthia coine out first. He gives the 
elder lady his hand, and leads her a step or two away, 
listening to her greeting. He bows to Regina with a digni- 
fied pleasure. He looks so strong, so manly, she has to 
admit, not mere brawn and muscle after all. His light 
cloth suit' that serves to throw up the fair, rather ruddy 
face, toned with the dark eyes and the narrow line of 
mustache that leaves the red of the lips visible, is a part 



 

of himself, though it is not his working attire. His hands 
are ungloved, but they are clean, and the nails well trimmed. 
As he takes her arm with a gentle touch and lifts her up 
the rather high carriage step a sudden consciousness of 
great strength comes over her, rouses a sort of resistance 
within her, though she makes no outward sign. 

It iis very hot here in the dusty road, with no trees at 
hand. The air is dingy with motes of iron and coal and 
dust, and a trifle smoky. But he skirts round the edge, 
and brings them a little in the shade of the hills where 
the driving is much pleasanter. And before Mrs. Prall's 
door is a row of immense hemlock-trees, that tone the air 
to a cooling softness, and keep up a murmurous sound not 
unlike distant waves. The porch looks social, with chairs 
and a hammock slung across the end. And as they stop, a 
tall figure rises, intensified with the train's billowy softness 
that supplements her gown. She always wears them in the 
house, admitting frankly to Lois that it is a foolish thing 
and a,n extravagance, but she likes it. It gives her the 
appearance of slimness, though she is of medium size. 
Her rather small head adds to this effect. Round it is 
wound a mass of dull, light hair, that here and there in 
some peculiar conjunctions takes on a silvery gleam. But 
it suits the face, the large, well-opened clear eyes that may 
sometimes be a pale blue, but of tener that translucent gray, 
with the fathomless well back of them. The face is good, 
kindly, with a certain degree of spirit and animation, an 
interesting rather than beautiful face, though there may be 
moments when it rises to inspiration. The smile is the 
only quality that brings out any likeness to Winterburne, 
and in that subtle, elusive glimpse you see they resemble 
one another. 

"This is my sister, Miss Hilliard," he says, as he 
marshals them up the two steps and presents them in the 
